-- JPMorgan Profit Rises, Beating Estimates
-- Dawn Kopecki
-- 2010-07-15T20:10:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-15/jpmorgan-profit-rises-76-beating-estimates-as-bad-loan-provisions-drop.html

          
          
             JPMorgan Chase & Co. , the second-
biggest U.S. bank by assets, said profit rose 76 percent, buoyed
by a $6.3 billion reduction in provisions for soured mortgages
and credit-card loans from last year.  
 Second-quarter  net income  climbed to $4.8 billion, or $1.09
a share, even as revenue fell 7.6 percent, the New York-based
company said today in a statement. The bank earned $2.72
billion, or 28 cents, in the same period a year earlier and
$3.33 billion in the first quarter.  
 Chief Executive Officer  Jamie Dimon , 54, said he isn’t
satisfied with the results, even though they surpassed the most
optimistic analyst’s estimate, because consumer lending charge-
offs and late payments remain high. A 7.6 percent decline in
revenue prompted  Shannon Stemm , an analyst for Edward Jones &
Co. in St. Louis, to question whether the profit report masked
weakness in JPMorgan’s main businesses.  
 “The results beat estimates by so much because of the
large reserve release,” Stemm said. “Revenue fell quarter over
quarter and year over year, largely driven by weaker investment-
banking and fixed-income trading results, which were down
because of the volatile trading environment.”  
 JPMorgan  rose 11 cents, or 0.3 percent, to $40.46 in
composite trading on the New York Stock Exchange at 4 p.m. The
stock lost 3.2 percent this year through yesterday.  
 Fixed Income  
 Revenue declined to $25.6 billion in the second quarter
from $27.7 billion in the same period last year and from $28.2
billion in the first three months of 2010.  
 Net income in investment banking dropped 6.1 percent from a
year earlier, to $1.39 billion, even after benefitting from the
release of $325 million in reserves, compared with an $871
million expense the prior year. Fixed-income revenue was $3.6
billion, compared with $4.9 billion a year earlier and $5.46
billion in the first quarter.  
 JPMorgan also recorded a $600 million gain in investment
banking as the value of its own outstanding debt decreased due
to market volatility, according to  Keith Horowitz , an analyst at
Citigroup Inc.  
 The investment bank contributed $1.38 billion of JPMorgan’s
net income, or 29 percent. That compares with 74 percent in the
first quarter and 54 percent in the second quarter of 2009.  
 Bond and equity issuance fell in the second quarter as weak
economic data and the European debt crisis damped investor
demand. U.S. bond underwriting volume fell by $193.1 billion, or
36 percent, to $336.1 billion while global equity offerings
plunged by $30.3 billion, or 21 percent, to $117.2 billion from
the first quarter to the second quarter, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  
 Capital Markets  
 Matt O’Connor , an analyst with Deutsche Bank AG in New
York, said it was encouraging that investment-banking earnings
fell only slightly, “because last quarter was really, really
strong for capital markets.” Trading volumes were down across
the board while spreads on bonds, the difference between what a
bank pays to issue debt and pays investors to buy it, have
widened, he said.  
 Richard Staite  at Atlantic Equities said the results were
“OK,” and that he remains concerned about future revenue
growth.  
 The bank boosted earnings, in part, by reducing its total
provisions for credit losses in all divisions to $3.36 billion,
compared with $7 billion in the previous quarter and $9.7
billion the year before. The company cut provisions for bad
loans in the retail-banking business by $2 billion in the second
quarter.  
 ‘Normal’ Earnings  
 Dimon said the gain from reclaiming reserves doesn’t
represent “normal ongoing  earnings .” They were partially
offset by a $550 million charge to cover the bonus tax on
executive compensation in the United Kingdom.  
 The per-share earnings compared with an average estimate
for adjusted earnings of 71 cents projected by 22 analysts
surveyed by  Bloomberg .  
 Retail banking earned $1.04 billion, compared with a $131
million net loss during the first quarter and a $15 million gain
a year earlier. The division benefited from a reduction in
provisions to $1.7 billion from $3.73 billion the prior year,
JPMorgan said.  
 Credit-card services earned $343 million, compared with a
net loss of $303 million in the prior three months and a $672
million loss a year earlier. JPMorgan reduced provisions against
future losses by $2.4 billion.  
 Problem Assets  
 “People can debate whether that is artificially inflating
the quality of earnings,” said  Christopher Wolfe , a bank debt
analyst at Fitch Ratings in New York. “If you think banks have
identified their problem assets, then that’s valid. If you think
banks have problem loans that they haven’t come clean about,
then that would be a concern.”  
 He said the industry is generally well-reserved given the
amount of non-performing loans on bank books.  
 Dimon said in the statement that it’s “too early to say”
how much credit trends will improve.  
 JPMorgan is the first of the largest U.S. banks to report
earnings.  Bank of America Corp.  and  Citigroup , the first-and
third-largest U.S. lenders, respectively, may report earnings of
$2.6 billion and $1.46 billion when they release results
tomorrow, the Bloomberg survey shows.  
 Analysts including  Paul Miller , a former examiner for the
Philadelphia Federal Reserve Bank who is now at FBR Capital
Markets, said they want to see how much new bank regulations
cost the bank. The Senate today approved the legislation and
sent the bill to the White House for President  Barack Obama ’s
signature.  
 Derivatives Plans  
 Dimon has previously estimated that the changes to
derivatives regulation alone may cost JPMorgan “$700 million to
a couple of billion dollars.” He told analysts on a call today
that it’s too early to quantify the legislation’s impact and
that “over time, it will all be repriced into the business.”  
 Investors welcomed the company’s renewed stock repurchase
program. Former Chief Financial Officer  Mike Cavanagh  said
JPMorgan bought back $500 million in shares through yesterday
after receiving approval from regulators to return some capital
to shareholders.  
 The company bought back $135 million through the end of the
second quarter and the rest of the shares this month, said
Cavanagh, who is now the company’s chief executive officer for
Treasury and Security Services.  
 “You can assume that we don’t do that without consulting
with our regulators,” Cavanagh told reporters on a  conference
call  today. “It’s a small amount of buyback activity and I
wouldn’t draw too many conclusions from that other than yes, in
fact, it’s been a while and we’re back with some degree of
activity.”  
 U.S. banks, which were directed to raise capital and
restrict dividends following the worst economic crisis since the
Great Depression, have hesitated to return that money to
shareholders. Dimon said last month that it may be “too
ambitious” to expect a  dividend  increase by the end of the
year. Share repurchases may come first because they don’t have
to be sustained like a dividend boost, he said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Dawn Kopecki  in New York at 
 dkopecki@bloomberg.com .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Second-quarter net income climbed to $4.8 billion  
                       
                         
                           Tony Avelar/Bloomberg 
                         
                         JPMorgan Chase & Co. chairman, president and chief executive officer Jamie Dimon. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     JPMorgan Chase & Co. chairman, president and chief executive officer Jamie Dimon. Photographer: Tony Avelar/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 15 (Bloomberg) -- Jes Staley, head of investment banking at JPMorgan Chase & Co., talks about the company's decision to release reserves.
     Staley, talking with Carol Massar on Bloomberg Television's "In the Loop," also discusses JPMorgan's dividend, regulatory overhaul and the outlook for the U.S. economy. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 15 (Bloomberg) -- Gary Townsend, president and co-founder of Hill-Townsend Capital LLC, discusses JPMorgan Chase & Co.'s second-quarter earnings report today and outlook for the banking industry.
     JPMorgan, the second-biggest U.S. bank by assets, said net income rose 76 percent to $4.8 billion, or $1.09 a share. Townsend talks with Deirdre Bolton on Bloomberg Television's "InsideTrack."  (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 15 (Bloomberg) -- David George, an analyst at Robert W. Baird & Co., talks about JPMorgan Chase & Co.'s second-quarter profit released today.
     The second-biggest U.S. banks by assets said net income rose 76 percent to $4.8 billion, or $1.09 a share, exceeding analyst estimates. George speaks with Betty Liu on Bloomberg Television's "In the Loop." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 15 (Bloomberg) -- Moshe Orenbuch, an analyst at Credit Suisse Group AG, discusses JPMorgan Chase & Co.'s second-quarter profit reported today.
     The second-biggest U.S. bank by assets said net income rose 76 percent to $4.8 billion, or $1.09 a share, as a reduction in provisions for soured mortgages and credit-card loans buoyed results. Orenbuch talks with Deirdre Bolton and Erik Schatzker on Bloomberg Television's "InsideTrack." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 15 (Bloomberg) -- Jason Goldberg, senior analyst at Barclays Capital, discusses JPMorgan Chase & Co.'s second-quarter profit released today and the outlook for earnings by Bank of America Corp. and Citigroup Inc.      
     JPMorgan, the second-biggest U.S. bank by assets, said net income rose 76 percent to $4.8 billion, or $1.09 a share. Goldberg talks with Deirdre Bolton on Bloomberg Television’s “InBusiness." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
