-- JPMorgan Wins Dismissal of Madoff Victim's Lawsuit
-- Bob Van Voris
-- 2010-07-15T17:54:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-15/jpmorgan-wins-dismissal-of-madoff-victim-s-claim-that-bank-knew-of-fraud.html

          
          
             JPMorgan Chase & Co. , the second-
largest U.S. bank by assets, won dismissal of a lawsuit by a
victim of  Bernard L. Madoff ’s Ponzi scheme, claiming the bank
knowingly participated in the fraud.  
 U.S. District Judge  Barbara S. Jones  in New York threw out
the suit filed by MLSMK Investments Co., which said the New
York-based bank in September 2008 investigated Madoff,
determined he was a fraud and liquidated its $250 million
investment in a Madoff-linked fund.  
 “While it might have been possible for defendants to
determine that Madoff was committing fraud from the ‘red flags’
that plaintiff points out, plaintiff alleges no facts to
demonstrate that defendants actually did make such a
discovery,” Jones wrote in an opinion released today.  
 MLSMK, a Palm Beach, Florida, partnership, claimed it lost
$12.8 million to Madoff from October to December 2008, the month
he was arrested and charged in history’s biggest Ponzi scheme.
The case alleged civil racketeering, negligence and bad faith.  
 “We thought we laid out enough of a factual basis, at the
pleading stage, to show that Chase knew at least by September
2008 that Madoff was committing fraud, but continued providing
services that enabled him to continue the fraud,” said  Howard Kleinhendler , a lawyer for MLSMK.  
 Kleinhendler said his client is considering an appeal.  
 Stolen Money  
 The suit, filed in April 2009, claimed MLSMK deposited the
$12.8 million in Madoff’s Chase account, expecting that the
money would be used to buy and sell securities for its benefit.
Madoff never invested the money and instead stole it.  
 MLSMK claimed that in 2008, when most investors in stocks
were losing money, JPMorgan became suspicious of Madoff’s
consistently high returns. JPMorgan employees met with Madoff
and did their own investigation of Bernard L. Madoff Investment
Services LLC, MLSMK said.  
 JPMorgan “unequivocally concluded that Madoff’s reported
returns were false and illegitimate” and “quietly liquidated”
its $250 million position in a Madoff-linked fund, MLSMK said.
JPMorgan then decided to “partner with him in the fleecing of
his victims,” the firm claimed.  
 JPMorgan helped Madoff perpetuate his fraud by continuing
to provide banking services and trade with Madoff’s market-
making business after learning of the fraud, MLSMK claimed.  
 Madoff, 72, pleaded guilty to fraud and other crimes on
March 12, 2009, and is serving a 150-year prison term.  
 The case is: MLSMK Investments Co. v. JPMorgan Chase & Co.,
09-CV-4049, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bob Van Voris  in New York
at   rvanvoris@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        