-- JPMorgan Should Return More Capital to Investors, Peabody Says: Tom Keene
-- Tom Keene
-- 2010-07-15T17:33:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-15/jpmorgan-should-return-more-capital-to-investors-peabody-says-tom-keene.html

          
          
             JPMorgan Chase & Co. should return
more capital to investors after buying back $500 million in
shares, according to  Charles Peabody , a partner and research
analyst at Portales Partners LLC.  
 “If they have this fortress-type balance sheet with excess
capital and excess loan loss reserves, they should start
returning that to shareholders in various forms,” Peabody said
today during a radio interview with  Tom Keene  on Bloomberg
Surveillance.  
 The bank bought back $135 million of the shares through the
end of the second quarter and the rest this month,  Michael Cavanagh , the New York-based company’s chief executive officer
for Treasury and security services, told journalists on a
conference call today.  
 “It’s a start,” said Peabody, who recommended JPMorgan
buy back more shares or pursue an acquisition.  
 JPMorgan, the second-biggest U.S. bank, said it had $108.2
billion, or 9.6 percent of assets, in Tier 1 regulatory capital,
a core measure of solvency demanded by regulators that includes
common stock and disclosed reserves.  
 Quarterly net income increased 76 percent to $4.8 billion,
or $1.09 a share, beating an average estimate in a Bloomberg
survey of analysts for adjusted earnings of 71 cents. Profit
grew even as revenue fell 7.6 percent.  
 U.S. banks have been hesitant to return capital to
shareholders following the worst economic crisis since the Great
Depression.  
 Dimon on Dividends  
 Chief Executive Officer  Jamie Dimon  said today in a
conference call that his preference is to buy back stock rather
than raise the dividend. He said last month that it may be “too
ambitious” to expect a dividend increase by the year-end.  
 Pushing a dividend increase back until 2011 is “probably
too long a time to wait,” Peabody said.  
 JPMorgan is the first of the largest U.S. banks to report
earnings.  Bank of America Corp.  and  Citigroup Inc. , the first-
and third-largest U.S. lenders, respectively, may report
earnings of $2.6 billion and $1.46 billion when they release
results tomorrow, Bloomberg surveys show.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Alex Kowalski  in New York at 
 Akowalski13@bloomberg.net ;
 Tom Keene  in New York at 
 tkeene@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        