-- Kenya's Religious Tensions Worsen Before Constitutional Vote, Group Says
-- Sarah McGregor
-- 2010-07-15T13:51:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-15/kenya-s-religious-tensions-worsen-before-constitutional-vote-group-says.html

          
          
             Tensions between Kenya’s Muslims and
Christians are growing over the East African nation’s proposed
constitution before an Aug. 4 plebiscite, the Truth, Justice and
Reconciliation Commission said.  
 “Polarization and resentment are in the midst of us,” the
commission’s chairman,  Bethuel Kiplagat , said at a conference
today in the capital, Nairobi. “This should be a worry and great
concern for all of us.”  
 Religious tensions are a “new ingredient” to the mix of
regional and ethnic divisions that sparked violence after
disputed elections in December 2007, killing as many as 1,500
people and forcing 300,000 from their homes, he said.  
 Some Kenyan Christians, influenced by outside groups such
as American evangelists, oppose provisions in the draft
constitution that permit abortion for women whose lives are
endangered and another, already in the current charter, that
allows Muslim courts to rule on inheritance and divorce,
Kiplagat said today in an interview.  
 At least five people were killed on June 13 in a triple
grenade attack and a subsequent stampede during a prayer rally
opposing the draft constitution in a park in downtown Nairobi.  
 That same week, three lawmakers, including Assistant Roads
Minister  Wilfred Machage , were charged with making inflammatory
statements while campaigning against the constitution, the Daily
Nation newspaper said on June 17.  
 Hate Speech  
 Kenya has created a dedicated mobile-phone text-message
line for citizens to report incidents of intimidation, hate
speech and violence and help diffuse tensions around the vote,
Mzalendo Kibunjia, chairman of Kenya’s National Cohesion and
Integration Commission, said at the same conference.  
 “Instead of threatening each other, insulting each other,
let’s come together,” Kibunjia said.  
 The post-election violence in 2008 subsided after President
 Mwai Kibaki , a Kikuyu by tribe, and his main challenger,  Raila Odinga , an ethnic Luo, agreed to form a coalition government.  
 A key part of the agreement was to adopt a new constitution
that reduces presidential powers and abuses of authority to
replace the charter that dates from Kenya’s independence from
the U.K. in 1964.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sarah McGregor  in Nairobi at 
 smcgregor5@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        