-- Kimberly Process Will Travel to Zimbabwe to Certify Diamonds for Export
-- Anna Shiryaevskaya
-- 2010-07-15T17:52:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-15/kimberly-process-will-travel-to-zimbabwe-to-certify-diamonds-for-export.html

          
          
             Kimberly Process officials will make
two trips to Zimbabwe in the coming months to certify diamonds
mined at the disputed Marange deposits as the country seeks to
resume exports of the gems.  
 The World Diamond Council authorized the trips in August
and September by the  Kimberley Process , the body created to end
the trade in diamonds used to fund conflict and war. Officials
will use the first visit to assess diamonds produced May 28 to
Aug. 1, and the second to study gems mined in August, Kimberley
Process Chairman Boaz Hirsch said in St. Petersburg today.  
 The certification of diamonds from Marange would enable
Zimbabwe to resume sales that were halted in May because
Kimberley Process rules prohibit the trade of diamonds that it
hasn’t certified. Zimbabwe has 6 million carats of diamond
stockpiles “waiting to get into the market,” Mines Minister
 Obert Mpofu  said July 14. That compares with the 18 million
carats mined annually by Botswana, the world’s biggest producer.  
 Kimberley Process officials met members of the World
Diamond Council in St. Petersburg today and discussed Zimbabwe’s
efforts to comply with conditions set out by the Jerusalem-based
assessor.  
 The southern African country is accused of abuses at
Marange by New York-based  Human Rights Watch , which claims the
military may have killed as many as 200 informal miners working
at the site. The campaign group called for a ban on Marange
diamonds unless Zimbabwe adheres to Kimberley Process standards.  
 Conflict Diamonds  
 The Kimberley Process, an initiative by governments,
industry and civil-society groups, runs a program to certify
diamonds as “conflict-free,” according to its website.
Conflict diamonds are the rough gems that have been traded by
rebel movements to finance wars against governments, including
those in Angola, Ivory Coast, the Democratic Republic of Congo
and Sierra Leone, it said.  
 The Zimbabwean government seized the Marange mine from
U.K.-based  African Consolidated Resources Plc  in 2006, without
giving reasons. African Consolidated is challenging the seizure
in Zimbabwe’s courts.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Anastasia Ustinova  in St. Petersburg at 
 austinova@bloomberg.net ;
 Anna Shiryaevskaya  in Moscow at 
 ashiryaevska@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        