-- KKR Joins Blackstone in Stock Market Disillusioned With Buyouts
-- Cristina Alesci
-- 2010-07-15T22:45:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-15/kkr-joins-blackstone-in-public-market-disillusioned-with-private-equity.html

          
          
             KKR & Co. fell on its first day of
trading in New York as rival Blackstone Group LP gained, capping
a three-year journey by the buyout firm to gain a listing in its
home town.  
 KKR dropped 30 cents, or 2.9 percent, to $10.20, after
gaining as much as 5.5 percent earlier in the day. Blackstone,
which beat it to the New York listing by three years, rose 28
cents, or 2.7 percent, to $10.56.  
 The decline translates into a loss of about $51 million for
founders  Henry Kravis  and  George Roberts , who hold a combined 25
percent stake, and may make it harder for the firm to sell new
shares. Investors have shunned private-equity stocks since
Blackstone, the largest buyout firm, sold shares three years
ago, just as the credit crisis ended a three-year boom with $1.6
trillion in announced deals, many of which have yet to turn a
profit.  
 “The wheels of the model need to start turning because,
from an investor’s perspective, private equity is sitting idle
again,” said  Roger Freeman , an analyst with Barclays Capital in
New York.  
 KKR, which depends on private equity investments for 62
percent of fee-related  income , was valued at about six times
estimated earnings in Amsterdam, where it traded until yesterday
after combining last year with its listed fund.  Blackstone Group
LP,  which has cut dependence on buyouts to 29 percent of fee
income, has a price-to-earnings ratio of 10.  
 KKR’s Journey  
 Both firms are trading at less than half their price when
they first went public, with valuations that are trailing those
of more traditional asset managers such as  Legg Mason Inc. ,
whose multiple is about 19. KKR’s European fund hasn’t risen
above its $25 IPO price. Blackstone’s all-time high of $35.06
came on June 22, the day after its initial offering.  
 KKR initially filed to sell shares weeks before the credit
crisis crippled equity and debt markets in 2007. The firm
scrapped that plan, opting to merge with its publicly traded
European fund, a combination that was completed last year. A
U.S. listing clears the way for KKR to issue additional stock
and enables firm insiders to eventually cash out their stakes if
they so choose.  
 Unlike Blackstone, KKR’s founders have currently no plans
to sell their shares. Blackstone founders Stephen Schwarzman and
Peter G. Peterson pocketed a combined $2.6 billion in the New
York-based firm’s initial public offering.  
 Fee Income  
 KKR has filed to sell $500 million in new shares once its
listing in New York is completed, to fund expansion and
potential acquisitions. The firm said July 6 that such a move
will be “subject to market conditions.”  
 Shareholders in publicly traded private-equity companies
are entitled to earnings from fees that the firms charge for
managing funds, and from so-called performance fees that depend
on the funds’ profits.  
 Analysts  tracking  Blackstone and KKR base their estimates
on a measure called economic net income, which doesn’t conform
to generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP. In
Blackstone’s case, the firm uses ENI in part because it will
post net losses for several years related to non-cash costs tied
to its initial public offering.  
 KKR, which has $42.5 billion in fee-paying assets under
management, said in May that it had economic net income of
$674.8 million in the first quarter. Blackstone, with $98.1
billion in fee-earning assets, has reported economic net income
of $360 million for the period.  
 Fund Losses  
 Both firms have posted paper losses on buyout funds raised
since the beginning of the LBO boom in 2005, hurting performance
fees. KKR’s funds are down $708 million and Blackstone’s have
lost $861 million, according to regulatory filings.  
 KKR earned no performance fees from its private-equity
funds during the first quarter, with all of the $12.5 million in
incentive fees from its public markets unit, where it makes
fixed-income investments. Blackstone said it had $54 million in
realized performance fees and $131.8 million in unrealized
performance fees in the first quarter across all of its
businesses.  
 Blackstone and KKR have responded to the buyout drought by
 diversifying . KKR, which pushed buyouts into the mainstream with
the $30 billion purchase of RJR Nabisco Inc. in 1989 and led the
record buyout of energy producer TXU Corp. for $43.2 billion in
2007, has more recently expanded into areas such as capital
markets, underwriting equity and debt offerings for its
portfolio companies. The capital markets and principal
activities business had fee-related earnings of $18.5 million,
or about 20 percent of the total.  
 Branching Out  
 KKR, created in 1976, is also diversifying geographically
to boost assets and diminish its reliance on large U.S.-focused
investment funds. The firm is currently marketing a fund that
will make investments in China and hopes to secure $800 million
in commitments for it. KKR is also targeting $1 billion for a
pool that will buy traditional oil and gas businesses.  
 The private markets segment that includes private equity
accounted for 62 percent of KKR’s total fee-related earnings in
the first quarter. Blackstone relies on private equity for 29
percent. Most fee-related earnings come from its fund-of-hedge-
funds, which contribute 35 percent of the total.  
 Blackstone may report a profit of 17 cents when it
published second-quarter results on July 22, based on a survey
of nine analysts by Bloomberg. That would be the firm’s fifth-
straight profit, after losses from the third quarter of 2008
until the first quarter of 2009, during the peak of the credit
crisis.  
 ‘Sensitive’  
 “Blackstone’s revenues and earnings are highly sensitive
to the investment performance of the company’s underlying
investment products,” Keefe, Bruyette & Woods analyst  Robert Lee  wrote in a July 13 note to clients previewing Blackstone and
other managers’ earnings. “The sharp selloff in the stocks of
alternative managers in the second quarter was way overdone and
there is good value in the group.”  
 Lee, who rates the stock “outperform,” has a price target
of $17 a share.  
 KKR may post a loss of $1.27 a share for the second
quarter, on an economic net income basis,  Michael Kim , an
analyst at Sandler O’Neill & Partners in New York, told clients
in a July 6 note. KKR will probably mark down the value of some
of its private-equity investments, he said in the note.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jason Kelly  in New York at 
 jkelly14@bloomberg.net ;
 Cristina Alesci  in New York at 
 Calesci2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Henry Kravis, co-founder of KKR & Co. LP, walks outside the Sun Valley Inn during lunch at the 28th annual Allen & Co. Media and Technology Conference in Sun Valley, Idaho. Photographer: Matthew Staver/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 15 (Bloomberg) -- Bloomberg's Iyan Adewuya discusses Carlyle Group's agreement to buy NBTY Inc. in a transaction valued at $3.8 billion, and the outlook for KKR & Co., whose shares will start trading on the New York Stock Exchange today.
     Adewuya talks with Deirdre Bolton on Bloomberg Television's "InsideTrack." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 15 (Bloomberg) -- Ed Butowsky, managing director at Chapwood Capital Investment Management talks about public offerings for RealD Inc., Smart Technologies Inc., Qlik Technologies Inc. and KKR & Co.
     Butowsky also discusses the outlook for the IPO market in 2011. He speaks with Deirdre Bolton on Bloomberg Television's "InBusiness With Margaret Brennan". (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
