-- Korean Won Pares Loss After China's Second-Quarter Growth Remains `Robust'
-- Frances Yoon
-- 2010-07-15T03:53:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-15/korean-won-pares-losses-after-china-s-economy-grows-11-1-in-first-half.html

          
          
             South Korea’s won pared losses after
China’s economic growth remained above 10 percent for a third
quarter, boding well for regional exports.  
 Expansion in China cooled to 10.3 percent in the April-
June-period from 11.9 percent in the first quarter, the
statistics bureau reported in Beijing today. Analysts in a
Bloomberg survey forecast a 10.5 percent pace.  Inflation  slowed
to 2.9 percent in June from 3.1 percent a month earlier,
tempering concern China may tighten monetary policy to rein in
prices that would crimp demand for Asian goods.  
 “The numbers are not that great but the market’s knee-jerk
reaction was all positive,” said  Charles Han , Hong Kong-based
head of foreign-exchange trading at Newedge Financial HK Ltd.
“The consumer price index was lower than expected, and I think
that was a catalyst, plus economic growth showed it’s still
robust.”  
 The currency pared a loss of as much as 0.5 percent to
trade 0.1 percent lower at 1,203.54 per dollar as of 12:38 p.m.
in Seoul, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It has fallen
3.1 percent so far this year, Asia’s worst performance.  
 “Strong growth in China is good news for Asia and
particularly where there is a relatively high dependence on
China demand like Korea,” said  Craig Chan , an Asian strategist
at Nomura Singapore Ltd.  
 Bank of Korea Governor Kim Choong Soo said on July 13 that
some Asian countries face difficulties due to their dependence
on external trade, which usually brings about volatility in
capital markets. Exports are equivalent to more than half of
South Korea’s gross domestic product.  
 South Korea’s government bonds rose on speculation
investors switched to debt as stocks snapped a five-day gain.  
 The yield on the 3.75 percent note due June 2013 fell four
basis points to 3.95 percent, retreating from yesterday’s four-
month high. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  
 The Kospi index of shares lost 0.3 percent, after rising
4.8 percent in the last five days.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Frances Yoon  in Seoul at 
 fyoon2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        