-- MTN Says Deal Prospects Are Limited, Shifts Focus of Company to Dividends
-- Nicky Smith
-- 2010-07-15T15:20:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-15/mtn-says-deal-prospects-are-limited-shifts-focus-of-company-to-dividends.html

          
          
             MTN Group Ltd ., Africa’s largest
mobile-phone operator, will focus on investor payouts rather
than big acquisitions, a “paradigm shift” in strategy after
four failed deals, Chief Executive Officer  Phuthuma Nhleko  said.
The stock rose to the  highest price  in more than three weeks.  
 “There are a limited number of value-accretive
consolidation opportunities left within emerging market
telecoms,” Nhleko said today at the annual shareholders
meeting. “We will position ourselves somewhat differently to
how we have done over the past 8 to 10 years. One of the things
we will do is to increase the  dividend  payout ratio.”  
 MTN has been stymied in attempts to buy competitors in the
last two years. The Johannesburg-based company ended talks in
June with Weather Investments SpA on buying as much as $10
billion in assets of Egyptian operator Orascom Telecom Holding
SAE. MTN and India’s Bharti Airtel Ltd. failed in 2009 to reach
agreement for the second time in as many years, while talks with
Mumbai-based  Reliance Communications Ltd.  collapsed in 2008.  
 “They are sobering up to the fact that growth
opportunities in emerging markets are not as lucrative as they
used to be, and that cash in the hands of shareholders is of
more value,”  Jan Louw , an analyst with Afrifocus Securities
Ltd., said in a phone interview from Johannesburg.  
 Acquisition Pricing  
 Pricing of acquisitions “is tough,” Nhleko said in an
interview at the meeting in Johannesburg. “Assets are not
cheap,” and “the kind of opportunities that meet our criteria
are limited.”  
 MTN  gained  3.05 rand, or 2.8 percent, to 113.05 rand in
Johannesburg trading, the highest price since June 22. That
pared the stock’s decline this year to 4.1 percent.  
 The company’s  dividend  on 2009 earnings was 1.92 rand a
share. Net income last year amounted to 14.7 billion rand
($1.9 billion).  
 The board will want any future payouts to be
“sustainable,” Nhleko said, declining to give details.  
 While  MTN  will continue to evaluate opportunities, future
growth will come from existing operations, expanded in part by
smaller acquisitions, Nhleko said. The company plans to focus
more on cutting costs by standardizing systems, processes and
technologies, MTN said in a statement.  
 Capital expenditure will also slow and management will look
for ways “to meaningfully improve cash returns to
shareholders,” the company said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nicky Smith  in Johannesburg at 
 nsmith38@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        