-- Nakheel Bonds Show Confidence in Dubai Debt Restructuring: Islamic Finance
-- Arif Sharif
-- 2010-07-15T08:34:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-15/nakheel-bonds-show-confidence-in-dubai-debt-restructuring-islamic-finance.html

          
          
             The Islamic bond market is showing
that Dubai is regaining investor confidence after a group of
creditors agreed to restructure Nakheel PJSC’s debt.  
 The average yield on sukuk sold by Gulf Cooperation Council
borrowers fell eight basis points yesterday to 7.23 percent,
according to the  HSBC/NASDAQ Dubai GCC US Dollar Sukuk Index . It
reached 8.76 percent on Dec. 11 after Dubai investment companies
announced plans to restructure debt in November. The yield on
Nakheel’s 2.75 percent $750 million Islamic notes due in January
2011 fell one basis point to 15.29 percent today, its lowest
level this year, according to prices compiled by Bloomberg.  
 Creditor banks “unanimously supported” a proposal on
altering the terms on $10.5 billion of loans and unpaid bills,
Nakheel, the Dubai World-owned property developer, said
yesterday. The  yield difference  on GCC sukuk and the London
interbank offered rate narrowed six basis points yesterday to
535 basis points from as wide as 647 at the end of November.  
 “Positive news building on positive news rapidly gets
discounted,” said  Michael Roche , an emerging-market strategist
at MF Global Holdings Ltd., a New York-based broker. “The way
that’s been discounted is the sukuk bond sector having its
spread narrowed, some of the risk premium taken out of the
bonds.”  
 The price of sukuk issued by Nakheel, which is building
palm tree-shaped islands off Dubai’s coast, has risen to 108.11
from 107.50 at the end of last month and as low as 37.5 on Dec.
9. The yield has dropped from a record 140 percent. The GCC
countries are Bahrain, Kuwait, Oman, Qatar, Saudi Arabia and the
United Arab Emirates.  
 ‘Reduces Uncertainty’  
 Islamic bonds in the GCC may extend gains if Nakheel and
Dubai World resolve their debt problem, said  Zeid Ayer , who
helps oversee $1.6 billion as chief investment officer at CIMB-
Principal Islamic Asset Management Sdn., a joint venture between
Principal Global Investors LLC of the U.S. and Malaysia’s CIMB
Group Holdings Bhd.  
 Nakheel plans to offer creditor banks interest of 4
percentage points more than benchmark rates on new loans as part
of the debt restructuring, two bankers with knowledge of the
plan said yesterday. In return, lenders would agree to extend
the life of the loans by five years, said the people.  
 “It shows that a restructuring can be successful,” Zeid
said in an interview in Kuala Lumpur yesterday. “It’s a sign of
a market maturing and it reduces uncertainty regarding how
events might play out should something like this happen again.”  
 Nakheel and Dubai World, one of the emirate’s three main
state-owned holding companies, are seeking to renegotiate terms
on their debt after the deepest financial crisis since the 1930s
roiled the emirate’s real-estate market and left companies
unable to raise new funding. Dubai property prices have slumped
more than 50 percent from their peak in August 2008 as mortgages
dried up, according to estimates from Colliers International.  
 Narrowing Yields  
 Dubai World and its seven-biggest lenders will present a
restructuring plan to almost 70 creditors on July 22, a person
familiar with the matter said on July 11, declining to be
identified. The company said on May 20 it had reached an
agreement to restructure $23.5 billion of liabilities, offering
creditors 1 percent interest on loans and additional interest on
maturity ranging from 1 percent to as much as 2.5 percent.  
 DP World Ltd.’s  6.25 percent dollar-denominated Islamic
bonds due in July 2017 have rallied since the end of May,
pushing yields down by 56 basis points to 8.4 percent, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. The yield fell five basis points
today.  
 No ‘Final Default’  
 The yield gap between the Dubai Department of Finance’s
6.396 percent sukuk maturing in November 2014 and the Malaysian
government’s 3.928 percent Islamic note due June 2015 has
widened 34 basis points since May 28 to 415 basis points,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Dubai’s notes yielded
7.40 percent today, down five basis points from yesterday.  
 “The Nakheel experience produced a lot of volatility and
trading losses without a final default,” said Zurich-based
 Tobias Bettkober , a convertible bond manager overseeing $400
million at Holinger Asset Management. “It will still be a long
way and substantial changes in issuance conditions before they
can come back to the market because they harmed themselves and
Dubai with this execution track record.” Holinger previously
owned Nakheel debt.  
 Gulf issuers sold $2.5 billion of Islamic notes so far in
2010, down 13 percent from a year earlier, Bloomberg data show.
Islamic securities  returned  6.9 percent this year, according to
the HSBC/NASDAQ Dubai US Dollar Sukuk Index. Debt in developing
markets gained 7.4 percent over the same period, according to JP
Morgan Chase & Co.’s  EMBI Global Diversify Index .  
 ‘In Principle’ Support  
 Nakheel said in a statement yesterday the terms of its
restructuring are supported “in principle” by the coordinating
committee of its creditor banks and it expects to complete the
restructuring over the “coming months.” Banks were asked to
respond by Aug. 31, said a company spokesman, who declined to
give further details.  
 Nakheel said March 25 that its secured bank creditors will
receive 100 percent of their principal and accrued interest
under an agreement to extend the loan maturities. The developer
has one dollar loan outstanding, a $1.85 billion facility that
was signed in August 2007 and maturing in 2012, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 “If in the future they can show that they can handle it
better, then the additional cost for future issuance might well
be limited” for Nakheel, Bettkober said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Soraya Permatasari  in Kuala Lumpur at 
 soraya@bloomberg.net ;
 David Yong  in Singapore at 
 dyong@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     A construction worker crosses the temporary sand bridge joining the islands of Germany and Monte Carlo on the "The Heart of Europe" resort, part of the The World development. Photographer: Gabriela Maj/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
