-- National Spot Exchange to Attract Individuals With Mini Copper Contracts
-- Thomas Kutty Abraham
-- 2010-07-15T13:18:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-15/national-spot-exchange-to-attract-individuals-with-mini-copper-contracts.html

          
          
             India’s  National Spot Exchange Ltd .,
the nation’s biggest bourse for trading physical gold, plans to
offer contracts in small denominations in copper and nickel to
lure individual investors, a company official said.  
 The bourse will list contracts of 1 kilogram (2.2 pounds)
each starting mid-August, adding to mini-sized contracts in gold
and silver, Managing Director  Anjani Sinha  said today. The new
products may generate a turnover of at least 150 million rupees
($3.2 million) a day, he said.  
 The  Multi Commodity Exchange of India Ltd.  and the National
Commodity & Derivatives Exchange Ltd., the nation’s biggest such
bourses, only trade futures in non-ferrous metals such as copper,
nickel and zinc, precluding individual investors from buying and
selling the commodities in the physical form.  
 “Retail investors have thus far not been able to
participate in the non-ferrous metals market,” Sinha said at a
conference in Mumbai. “We are focusing on the most volatile
metals and will expand the list in the future.”  
 The exchange will partner  Vedanta Resources Plc  for supply
of copper that may be delivered to investors who seek delivery,
and nickel will be imported and stored as collateral for the
metal sold, Sinha said.  
 The National Spot Exchange is 99 percent owned by  Financial
Technologies India Ltd. , founder of the Multi Commodity Exchange,
the world’s second-biggest bullion bourse. The exchange may add
15 commodities, including zinc, to the 24 offered now, he said.  
 The value of trade on the exchange may more than double to
around 2 billion rupees a day by March next year from about 600
million rupees now, Sinha said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Thomas Kutty Abraham  in Mumbai at 
 tabraham4@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        