-- New Zealand Reports That Second-Quarter Consumer Prices Increased by 0.3%
-- Tracy Withers
-- 2010-07-16T02:53:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-15/new-zealand-s-consumer-prices-rise-less-than-expected-0-3-currency-falls.html

          
          
             New Zealand consumer prices rose
less than economists expected in the three months through June,
driving down the currency and providing scope for central bank
Governor  Alan Bollard  to raise interest rates at a gradual pace.  
 Consumer  prices  increased 0.3 percent from the first
quarter, Statistics New Zealand said in Wellington today. The
median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of 15 economists was
for a 0.4 percent gain.  Annual inflation  was 1.8 percent.  
 Bollard last month boosted the official  cash rate  for the
first time in three years and said he expected to remove
stimulus in a measured way as inflation pressures start to
emerge. New Zealand’s dollar fell for the first time in two
weeks as prices increased by less than the governor’s 0.5
percent forecast, following reports that retail spending and the
housing market have slackened.  
 “The softer tone of recent local and global data argues
for a pause in the bank’s tightening cycle later this year,”
said  Darren Gibbs , chief New Zealand economist at Deutsche Bank
AG in Auckland. “We now think the cash rate will be unchanged
at the two meetings in the final quarter.”  
 New Zealand’s dollar dropped to 72.16 U.S. cents at 2:30
p.m. in Wellington from 72.75 cents immediately before the
report. Swaps traders trimmed bets on rate increases over the
next 12 months to 1.24 percentage points from 1.30 on July 12, a
Credit Suisse AG  index  showed.  
 Rate Forecasts  
 All 15 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News last week said
Bollard will raise the official cash rate to 3 percent on July
29. Eleven analysts expect increases at the remaining meetings
in September, October and December. Four forecast a pause at
some point.  
 Bollard expects inflation will accelerate to 1.3 percent in
the third quarter and 2.2 percent in the fourth quarter as a
series of government charges take effect.  
 Tobacco prices rose on April 29 after Prime Minister  John Key ’s government increased excise taxes. Gasoline and power
prices climbed from July 1 after it introduced carbon charges
affecting generators and fuel companies.  
 The nation’s sales tax will increase to 15 percent from
12.5 percent on Oct. 1, which will deliver a one-time jump in
the price index of about 2 percent in the fourth quarter.  
 The central bank forecasts annual inflation will peak at
5.3 percent by June next year, the highest in 21 years, and slow
to 2.8 percent a year later. Excluding government policy changes,
inflation will accelerate to 2.6 percent by June next year, it
said last month.  
 Inflation Outlook  
 The central bank may be “undercooking the extent to which
inflation will rise over the next year,” said  Nick Tuffley ,
chief economist at ASB Bank Ltd. in Auckland. “The underlying
inflation pressures are running closely in line with the Reserve
Bank’s expectations.”  
 In contrast, the  New Zealand Institute of Economic Research
Inc . said July 6 that inflation pressures are subdued. Its gauge
of capacity utilization, or spare capacity in the economy, was
little changed in the second quarter and just 13 percent of
companies were able to raise prices because demand was weak.  
 In the second quarter, gains in tobacco, fuel and used car
price stoked inflation, the  statistics agency  said today. Food
and computer costs led the declines.  
 Tobacco and cigarette prices surged 8.7 percent from the
first quarter. Two-thirds of the impact of the excise increases
was measured in the quarter and the balance will show up in the
third-quarter report, the agency said.  
 Excluding tobacco and cigarettes, consumer prices rose 0.1
percent in the quarter, it said.  
 Non-Tradable Prices  
 Bollard’s primary focus is on non-tradable inflation, a
core measure of prices that aren’t influenced by currency
fluctuations and fuel.  
 Non-tradable prices rose 0.6 percent from the first quarter,
today’s report showed. The measure gained 2.2 percent from a
year earlier.  
 Non-tradable inflation was stoked by the tobacco excise
increase. Excluding tobacco, non-tradable prices rose about 0.4
percent, statistics officials said. Power prices, rents and the
cost of purchasing a new house, which reflects construction
expenses, also gained.  
 Tradable prices fell 0.1 percent from the first quarter, as
the cost of imported computers and food declined. The extent of
the drop was limited by higher fuel and car prices. Curbing
prices, New Zealand’s  trade-weighted currency  rose 0.9 in the
quarter.  
 From a year earlier, tradable prices gained 1.1 percent.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tracy Withers  in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Alan Bollard, governor of the Reserve Bank of New Zealand  
                       
                         
                           Mark Coote/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Alan Bollard, governor of the Reserve Bank of New Zealand, speaks during a news conference at the central bank in Wellington. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Alan Bollard, governor of the Reserve Bank of New Zealand, speaks during a news conference at the central bank in Wellington. Photographer: Mark Coote/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
