-- Next Life: Scouring the Forest for the Trees
-- 
-- 2010-07-15T21:02:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-15/next-life-scouring-the-forest-for-the-trees.html

          
          
                  July 15 (Bloomberg Businessweek) -- When Harald Orneberg
sold his private equity fund, ORN Capital, to British insurance
giant Aviva in 2006, he became an indentured servant of sorts. As
part of the deal, Orneberg was contracted to work for Aviva for a
year, which turned out to be the longest year of his life.
"Working for a large company," he says, "was like wading in
molasses."  
 After fulfilling his contractual obligations, Orneberg, 47,
decided to return to the business he had grown up around as a boy
in Sweden: forestry. It was a decision facilitated by the rise of
the Chinese paper industry, which was boosting pulp prices. Much
more important, it was a field that had nothing to do with his
previous career. "The rate of tree growing is independent of the
financial markets," he says. "The tree doesn't know what is
written in The Wall Street Journal. It doesn't even know that one
day it may become The Wall Street Journal."  
 After hiring a consulting firm to find out which country had
the best forests available for industrial use, Orneberg settled
on Brazil, which had the highest tree growth rate and the most
available land. In 2007 he formed The Forest Co. and, the next
year, purchased two farms 560 miles north of São Paulo. Orneberg
started planting pine and eucalyptus to supply the pig iron
industry. The trees are used to make wood-based charcoal and are
also sold as raw material to China, Russia, and the Middle East.  
 By spring of 2009, Orneberg had raised $50 million in
investments—including $8 million of his own money—mainly from
Nordic insurance companies and pension funds. This spring he
closed on the next round: $126 million from European investors
and church foundations.  
 Despite having only six employees, Orneberg is preparing for
a $500 million initial public offering in Stockholm. In the
meantime he's developing a resort community near one of his
farms. After three years of almost constant travel, he's finally
taking up residence in São Paulo. Although his life has hardly
slowed down. "Things are so intense in São Paulo that I have to
go to New York to chill out," he says.  
 THE PAPER CHASE  
 • Cost of buying farmland and raw materials: $50 million .
$8 million came out of Orneberg's own pocket  
 • Cost of planting an acre of pine and eucalyptus trees on
Orneberg's two farms: $1,100  
 • The total number of acres of trees planted every year by
The Forest Co.: 25,000  
 • Number of full-time employees, including Orneberg, at The
Forest Co.: 7  
 Data: The Forest Co. 
 
          
          


  


        