-- Noda Hails China Buying Japan Government Debt as Domestic Demand to Ease
-- Kyoko Shimodoi
-- 2010-07-15T08:29:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-15/noda-hails-china-s-record-purchase-of-japan-debt-as-domestic-demand-eases.html

          
          
             Japan’s finance minister hailed
China’s record purchases of his nation’s government bonds as
policy makers seek to sustain confidence in the world’s largest
public  debt .  
 “Domestic holdings are very high so we have been trying
diversify” our investor base,  Yoshihiko Noda  said in an
interview in his office in Tokyo today. It’s a welcome move
“given our objective,” he said.  
 China is heading for the biggest annual increase in its
purchases of Japanese  government bonds  since at least 2005,
Noda’s ministry reported this month. Japan’s officials are
aiming to lure more foreign investors to their debt as a
shrinking domestic population threatens to erode the pool of
savings that has sustained demand for so-called JGBs.  
 About 95 percent of Japan’s debt is held domestically,
which sovereign-debt agencies have said supports the country’s
creditworthiness even as debt approaches 200 percent of gross
domestic product. In a sign that the domestic base is waning,
Japan’s public pension fund, a holder of 12 percent of
outstanding debt, sold more government bonds than it bought for
the first time in nine years.  
 The government estimates that Japan’s debt mountain will
swell to 973 trillion by March 31. Even so, domestic appetite
for debt has kept bond yields low: benchmark 10-year government
debt yielded 1.08 percent today. They dropped to 1.055 percent
on July 1, the lowest since August 2003.  
 ‘Low and Stable’  
 “It’s very low and stable,” Noda said. “I’m basically
happy with the current level but we shouldn’t let our guard
down.”  
 When asked if increased demand for bonds could drive the
yen higher, Noda declined to speculate on how diversification
would affect the currency. He has refrained from commenting on
the yen since taking office, and today said excessive movements
in foreign-exchange markets are undesirable.  
 China’s purchases of Japanese debt have exceeded sales by
1.28 trillion yen since January, after net sales of 78.7 billion
yen in 2009, Japan government data show. This year’s purchases
are nearly five times as much as for all of 2005, which was the
biggest year for Chinese buying of JGBs between 2005 and 2009.  
 China, set to overtake Japan as the world’s second-largest
economy as soon as this year, is bolstering its purchases of the
debt because it has reduced its exposure to European assets amid
the region’s sovereign-debt crisis, according to  Liu Yuhui , an
economist in Beijing at the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences,
a government-backed research body.  
 DPJ Pledge  
 The Democratic Party of Japan-led government last month
pledged to balance its primary budget by fiscal 2020 to contain
the debt. The government aims to avoid increasing spending for
the next three years while keeping bond sales at a record 44.3
trillion yen annually.  
 Noda, a DPJ lawmaker serving his fifth term in the more
powerful lower house chamber of parliament, is a native of Chiba
prefecture outside of Tokyo. He was appointed finance chief last
month after Naoto Kan became prime minister.  
 Broadening the investor base may help contain borrowing
costs and make it easier for Kan’s administration to restore
fiscal health.  
 Kan’s government lost its upper-house majority in a July 11
election, a defeat he attributed to his discussion of raising
consumption tax. Noda said the government still has to change
the sales levy despite the poll outcome.  
 Negative for Rating  
 Standard & Poor’s, Moody’s Investors Service and Fitch
Ratings all said Kan’s defeat may be negative for Japan’s credit
ratings as it could make it difficult to pass laws to mend
public finances.  
 The International Monetary Fund yesterday recommended a
“modest” increase in Japan’s sales tax to help restore fiscal
health, also noting the government’s plans to balance the budget
in 10 years would be more credible if it gave specifics on how
to boost revenue.  
 Noda reiterated that Japan’s economy is recovering and the
government and central bank are committed to stamping out
deflation. He said they share the same view on the economy and
he didn’t think the central bank was too optimistic about growth
prospects even after it raised its gross domestic product
forecasts today.  
 We are “closely cooperating with the BOJ to end
deflation,” Noda said. “The central bank is responsible for
monetary policies and it has been making various efforts by
steadily keeping extremely accommodative financial conditions.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Kyoko Shimodoi  in Tokyo at 
 kshimodoi@bloomberg.net ;
 Toru Fujioka  in Tokyo at 
 tfujioka1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Yoshihiko Noda, Japan's finance minister  
                       
                         
                           Tomohiro Ohsumi/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Yoshihiko Noda, Japan's finance minister. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Yoshihiko Noda, Japan's finance minister. Photographer: Tomohiro Ohsumi/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
