-- Nokia Board Faces Call for Change on $77 Billion Lost Value
-- Diana ben-Aaron
-- 2010-07-15T21:37:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-15/nokia-board-faces-calls-for-management-change-after-77-billion-lost-value.html

          
          
             Nokia Oyj’s  board has stayed in the
background as the company’s shares plummeted 67 percent in the
three years since  Apple Inc.  started selling the iPhone.
Pressure has been building on directors to act.  
 “For me, the board needs to act yesterday,” said  Vlad Cara , who helps manage 150 billion Swiss francs ($144 billion)
in investments including Nokia shares at Pictet Asset Management
Ltd. “In order to get maximum response in the shortest period
of time, you have to start changing everywhere.”  
 Nokia, the world’s largest phone maker, has lost almost 60
billion euros ($77 billion) in market value since the iPhone’s
2007 debut, with the stock falling 25 percent this year alone.
The Espoo, Finland-based company has lowered profit forecasts
twice in three months, as new high-end smartphones were delayed.  
 Chairman  Jorma Ollila  has stood by CEO  Olli-Pekka Kallasvuo 
and his management team in the four years since Nokia’s last big
hit, the N95, helped boost the operating margin in the devices
unit to more than 21 percent. Since then, Apple and Research in
Motion Ltd. have eaten away at Nokia’s customers and profit,
pushing the handset margin to 12.1 percent in the first quarter.  
 A new CEO is the first order of business, said  James Kelleher , an analyst at Argus Research Corp. in New York. Since
taking over from Ollila in June 2006, Kallasvuo, 57, has
overseen Nokia’s push into software and services, and its
failure to combine them into a lucrative rival to the iPhone and
online media store iTunes. Nokia has tumbled to 6.83 euros from
20.81 euros on June 29, 2007, when the iPhone went on sale.  
 New Blood  
 Rival  Motorola Inc.  hired  Sanjay Jha  two years ago from
chipmaker  Qualcomm Inc.  as co-CEO to turn around its phone
business and was pushed by activist shareholder  Carl Icahn  to
appoint two of his board nominees. Sony Ericsson got a new CEO,
 Bert Nordberg , in October when  Dick Komiyama  retired.  
 While both companies face a struggle to rebuild value, they
have gained support from carriers and analysts as the new chiefs
committed to making phones for Google Inc.’s Android platform,
which is growing even faster than the iPhone.  
 The Finnish company has split its smartphone energies
between two platforms, Symbian and MeeGo, confusing developers
and customers. It still hasn’t introduced a credible competitor
to iPhone and Android on either of them.  
 “I keep expecting Olli-Pekka Kallasvuo to get dumped,”
said Kelleher, who has a “hold” rating on Nokia shares.
“Instead they’re changing everyone under him.”  
 New Finance Chief  
 So far, Nokia’s biggest moves have been naming  Timo Ihamuotila  as chief financial officer late last year -- his
predecessor  Rick Simonson  will retire at the end of this year --
and reshuffling the other executive vice presidents in May.  
 Members of the board of directors did not respond to
requests for interviews and company spokeswoman  Arja Suominen 
also declined to comment.  
 “One suggestion would be to move Kallasvuo to chairman if
Ollila chooses to retire,” says Helena Nordman-Knutson, an
analyst with Oehman in Stockholm. “It would be excellent to
take influences from the new Internet way of thinking, perhaps
hire somebody from a competitor.”  
 The board, which includes no activist investors, needs new
members to bring in fresh ideas and perspectives, Cara said.
Ollila runs the 10-member board, half of whose members are Finns.  
 The other three are MIT economics professor  Bengt Holmstroem , software company  F-Secure Oyj ’s founder  Risto Siilasmaa  and  Keijo Suila , the retired CEO of Finnair Oyj. Suila
is chairman of Solidium Oy, the Finnish government’s equity
investment arm, which owns stakes in “nationally important”
companies such as phone company TeliaSonera AB.  
 Turnaround Experience  
 Nokia hasn’t had a board member from a company in the U.S.,
where it is struggling to gain traction, since  Dan Hesse , the
CEO of  Sprint Nextel Corp.,  resigned in Dec. 2007. About 38
percent of shares are held in the U.S. It also doesn’t have a
board member from China, its  biggest market . Board member  Lalita Dileep Gupte  is the non-executive chairwoman of the venture arm
of  ICICI Bank Ltd.  in India, Nokia’s second-biggest market.  
 “I’d like to see someone who has experience turning around
companies,” said  Hakim Kriout , a portfolio manager at Grigsby &
Associates in New York who owns Nokia stock. “Someone with an
understanding of what it takes to bring a company back from the
brink -- not that Nokia is on the brink -- and sharpen things up
a bit.”  
 The board’s vice chairwoman is Arizona-born  Marjorie Scardino , CEO of London-based publisher  Pearson Plc . Other
members are  Per Karlsson , a Stockholm-based consultant and
former M&A director at SEB AB;  Henning Kagermann , the retired
CEO of SAP AG; and  Isabel Marey-Semper , a L’Oreal SA research
executive.  
 ‘Atomistic’ Shareholding  
 “Nokia’s shareholdings are atomistic so there’s no one
clear owner, which makes it quite different from many European
companies where there’s one family or some other anchor
shareholder,” says  Vesa Puttonen , a finance professor at the
Helsinki School of Economics.  
 When Nokia reshuffled its managers in May, marketing chief
 Anssi Vanjoki  became head of the smartphone unit. Since then,
he’s made appearances talking up Symbian, the last decade’s
best-selling smartphone platform, and MeeGo, the more computer-
like platform that is Nokia’s future hope. Investors say it’s
not enough.  
 “Normally these same guys should be able to solve the
problems, but they have to be open to the reaction of the
market,” said  Boris Boehm , who helps manage more than 1 billion
euros ($1.3 billion) at Aramea Asset Management in Hamburg
including Nokia shares. “I feel they’re a little bit stubborn
and they need another kick.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Diana ben-Aaron  in Helsinki at 
 dbenaaron1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Olli-Pekka Kallasvuo, chief executive officer of Nokia OYJ, during a news conference in New York. Photographer: Daniel Acker/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     The Nokia N8 smartphone. Source: Nokia via Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
