-- Novartis Second-Quarter Profit Rises to $2.42 Billion on New Product Sales
-- Dermot Doherty
-- 2010-07-15T16:29:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-15/novartis-second-quarter-profit-rises-to-2-42-billion-on-new-product-sales.html

          
          
             Novartis AG  raised its sales
forecast for the year after second-quarter profit climbed 19
percent, helped by demand for new drugs to treat eye disease and
high blood pressure.  
 Net income  rose to $2.42 billion from $2.04 billion a year
earlier, the Basel, Switzerland-based company said today.
Analysts expected profit of $2.43 billion, according to the
average of 14 estimates compiled by Bloomberg over the past
month. Sales increased 11 percent to $11.7 billion.  
 Novartis said sales will probably increase at a mid-to-high
single-digit pace this year, compared with previous guidance of
a mid-single-digit percentage rate. Recently introduced products
such as the Lucentis eye medicine and  Exforge  high blood-
pressure drug are fuelling growth, needed to bolster revenue
when the company’s top-selling products, the Diovan hypertension
pill and the Gleevec leukemia drug, start to lose patent
protection in the U.S. in 2012. Sales also increased in all of
the company’s divisions during the quarter.  
 “I was surprised by the performance of the non-pharma
divisions, particularly Sandoz and the vaccines/diagnostics
businesses,”  Birgit Kulhoff , an analyst at Rahn & Bodmer in
Zurich, said in a telephone interview. “They also had very good
sales growth in pharma. The stock looks very, very attractive.”  
 The shares lost 55 centimes, or 1 percent, to 53.2 Swiss
francs in Zurich trading.  
 Rising Sales  
 Novartis sales are expected to rise faster than those at
any other large drugmaker through 2015, according to London-
based Datamonitor Plc.  
 “It is not just the pharma business that is driving the
increase,” Novartis’s Chief Executive Officer  Joe Jimenez  said
today on a conference call. “This is really across-the-board
strength where we are seeing good sales growth.”  
 Prescription drug sales increased 8 percent during the
second quarter to $7.67 billion. Diovan generated $1.55 billion
in revenue, a gain of 1 percent and above analyst estimates of
$1.5 billion. The drug faces competition from Teva
Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd.’s generic version of Merck &
Co.’s Cozaar hypertension pill, which won U.S. regulatory
approval in April.  
 Sales of Gleevec rose 9 percent to $1.08 billion, beating
estimates of $1.06 billion. Novartis said last month patients
are switching from the treatment for chronic myeloid leukemia to
its successor, Tasigna, which has been shown to more effectively
reduce levels of a protein linked to the disease.  
 ‘More Than Offset’  
 New products accounted for about 21 percent of total sales,
Novartis said. Revenue from Exforge gained 35 percent to $227
million, while Lucentis sales climbed 28 percent to $377
million. New products will “more than offset” the decline in
sales expected when Diovan and Gleevec start to lose patent
protection in the U.S. in 2012, Jimenez said.  
 The company is seeking to expand its share of the
ophthalmology market and to diversify beyond medicines through
its purchase of Alcon Inc., the world’s largest eye-care
company. Novartis said it is making “progress” with the
regulatory approvals needed for the acquisition.  
 Novartis, which already holds a 25 percent stake, said it
expects to complete a purchase of  Nestle  SA’s 52 percent stake
in Alcon for $28.1 billion late in the third or in the fourth
quarter. The Swiss drugmaker has also offered to pay 2.8 of its
own shares for each remaining Alcon share held by the public. A
committee of independent Alcon directors has said that offer is
too low and that Novartis is using “coercive tactics” to force
the deal on shareholders.  
 ‘On Our Side’  
 Alcon’s independent directors said yesterday that the
Novartis offer to minority shareholders is still “grossly
inadequate.” The committee said July 8 they had set up a $50
million trust to protect the interests of minority shareholders.  
 “I believe that Swiss law is on our side and as long as we
follow Swiss law, even if there is litigation, we will prevail
in the end,” Jimenez said on the conference call.  
 Jimenez replaced  Daniel Vasella  in January after serving as
head of the company’s pharmaceuticals division. Vasella, who had
been CEO for 14 years, remains chairman.  
 Total sales of vaccines and diagnostics rose to $564
million. The company said in April it doesn’t expect significant
pandemic-related revenue over the course of this year.  
 Novartis’s consumer-health unit, which includes the Ciba
Vision contact lens business, had revenue of $1.51 billion, a
gain of 7 percent. Revenue from the  Sandoz  generic-drug business
gained 11 percent to $1.97 billion. Novartis in April agreed to
buy closely held Oriel Therapeutics of the U.S., gaining generic
medicines for asthma and smoker’s cough. The Swiss drugmaker is
seeking to expand its portfolio of compounds by buying products
from other companies.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Dermot Doherty  in Geneva at 
 ddoherty9@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        