-- NTT to Buy Dimension Data for $3.2 Billion
-- Nicky Smith
-- 2010-07-15T13:30:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-15/ntt-agrees-to-purchase-of-south-africa-s-dimension-data-for-3-2-billion.html

          
          
             Nippon Telegraph & Telephone Corp. ,
Japan’s largest phone company, agreed to buy South Africa’s
 Dimension Data Plc  for 2.1 billion pounds ($3.2 billion) to
expand in the faster-growing computer-services market.  
 NTT offered to buy all of Dimension’s stock at 120 pence
apiece, or 18 percent more than the Johannesburg-based company’s
last closing price, the companies said in a statement today. The
management of Africa’s largest computer-services company and a
majority of its  shareholders  endorse the offer and the deal’s
scheduled for completion in October, according to the statement.  
 Dimension would give NTT, flush with almost $10 billion in
 cash , a company with more than 6,000 customers across 49 markets
as the Tokyo-based carrier seeks to reverse three years of sales
declines. Worldwide information-technology spending will grow
9.3 percent this year from an estimated $1.4 trillion in 2009,
according to Forrester Research Inc. estimates.  
 “NTT’s competitiveness isn’t so high outside Japan, so
this purchase is positive,” said  Iichiro Yamaguchi , an analyst
at Daiwa Securities Capital Markets in Tokyo. “Dimension Data’s
client base in Asia, the Middle East and Africa will also
help.”  
 NTT  fell 1.6 percent to close at 3,705 yen in Tokyo trading
before the announcement. Dimension, listed on the London Stock
Exchange and on the Johannesburg Securities Exchange, rose as
much as 22 percent in South Africa.  
 Second-Largest Bid  
 The offer, Japan’s second-largest bid for an overseas asset
this year,  values  the company known as Didata at about 20 times
earnings projected for the year ending September, according to
analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg. That compares with an
average multiple of 24 for 16 European software and computer-
services companies tracked by Bloomberg.  
 Dimension  offers information-technology services from
outsourcing to supplying computer equipment such as routers. The
company owns Internet Solutions, which provides Internet, data
and telecommunications services to corporate clients across
Africa. It also controls Plessey, one of the largest builders of
network equipment in Africa, and Datacraft, Singapore’s largest
builder of computer networks.  
 “It’s probably on the back of the emerging-markets growth
that they attracted the attention of NTT,” said Charl de
Villiers, an analyst at Sanlam Investment Management, which
holds Dimension stock. “It’s a fair offer. Didata wasn’t cheap
by any stretch of imagination.”  
 Record Profit  
 Dimension is projected to post record  profit  and sales this
year amid a recovery in technology investments, according to
analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Strengthening corporate
spending led Intel Corp., the world’s largest chipmaker, to
report record revenue this week.  
 NTT President  Satoshi Miura  said the purchase may double
the company’s annual overseas sales to $7 billion, building on
an acquisition spree that’s led to investments in India’s Tata
Teleservices Ltd., Philippine Long Distance Telephone Co. and
South Korea’s KT Corp. NTT had shied away from overseas
purchases after its wireless unit, NTT DoCoMo Inc., wrote off
1.5 trillion yen ($17 billion) from 2000 to 2004 from failed
investments in companies including AT&T Wireless Services Inc.  
 “We were not able to build up sufficient geographical
reach covering Africa, the Middle East, Oceania and Latin
American countries,”  Miura  said in an interview.  
 Still, NTT can’t rule out an acquisition on a similar scale
or a larger one in the future, the president said. “We need to
keep open all available options.”  
 Dimension’s management will stay at the company “for the
foreseeable future,” Miura said. “They have indicated that at
a minimum they will be staying for a couple of years.”
Dimension will be managed in an “autonomous way,” he said.  
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. advised Dimension Data, while Morgan
Stanley advised NTT. Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group Inc. will
help finance the deal.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Pavel Alpeyev  in Tokyo at 
 palpeyev@bloomberg.net ;
 Nicky Smith  in Johannesburg at 
 nsmith38@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     A man walks past a Nippon Telegraph & Telephone Corp.'s logo in Tokyo. Photographer: Haruyoshi Yamaguchi/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
