-- Nuclear Weapons Laboratories Say `Fiscal Realities' Weigh on U.S. Arsenal
-- Viola Gienger
-- 2010-07-15T19:25:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-15/nuclear-weapons-laboratories-say-fiscal-realities-weigh-on-u-s-arsenal.html

          
          
             Directors of the three U.S. nuclear
weapons laboratories said today they are worried the nation’s
fiscal troubles and a lack of political consensus may threaten
their ability to maintain the stockpile of warheads.  
 While President  Barack Obama ’s proposed budget increase of
more than $600 million for the fiscal year starting Oct. 1 will
help restore cuts of recent years, Los Alamos National
Laboratory Director  Michael Anastasio  said he is concerned
“that program expectations may already be out of line with the
fiscal realities faced by the country.”  
 Anastasio and his counterparts at the two other labs
testified to the Senate Armed Services Committee in Washington
as lawmakers consider ratification of a new treaty with Russia
to reduce the number of nuclear weapons held by each country.
Republicans have criticized as insufficient Obama’s plans to
spend $80 billion over 10 years to maintain and modernize the
existing weapons.  
 “How we design, manufacture, field and evaluate the
nuclear arsenal becomes increasingly important as we reduce the
size of our stockpile,” said Arizona Senator  John McCain , the
top Republican on the panel.  
 The Department of Energy oversees the labs with the aim of
ensuring a safe and reliable stockpile of nuclear weapons
without the need for testing. The U.S. hasn’t built a nuclear
weapon from scratch since the W88 in the late 1980s and early
1990s, said George Miller, director of Lawrence Livermore
National Laboratory in California. The government hasn’t
conducted an atomic test since 1992.  
 1960s’ Components  
 Sandia National Laboratories, operated by Bethesda,
Maryland-based  Lockheed Martin Corp. , develops non-nuclear
components of the arms and is working to extend the life of B61
bombs. Some have components dating to the 1960s, Paul Hommert,
president and director of the Sandia facility, told the
committee. Also, almost half of the lab’s staff experienced with
major weapons programs is over the age of 55, he said.  
 “This puts a premium, going forward, on stable, multiyear
program direction and resources to provide opportunities for new
technical staff to work with experienced designers,” said
Hommert, whose lab is based in Albuquerque, New Mexico.  
 Los Alamos in New Mexico faces pension shortfalls of almost
$200 million in two years, Anastasio said. Livermore, one of two
nuclear design labs, has cut about 2,000 jobs since 2007, about
a third of them “highly trained scientists and engineers,”
Miller said.  
 The fiscal 2011 budget “does not include all of the things
that we will need over the long term, but it is an
extraordinarily good first step,” Miller said.  
 The directors discounted concerns by Republicans who cited
a letter earlier this year from a group of former lab directors
that said Obama’s nuclear strategy limits the methods that can
be used to properly sustain the stockpile.  
 Anastasio said the restrictions provide an “adequate level
of technical flexibility to carry out our mission,” while
Miller said the guidelines are “workable.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Viola Gienger  in Washington at 
 vgienger@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        