-- Nufarm Slumps Most in 16 Years in Sydney Trading After Profit Forecast Cut
-- Wendy Pugh
-- 2010-07-15T07:52:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-15/nufarm-shares-tumble-after-cut-to-earnings-forecast-and-lending-comments.html

          
          
             Nufarm Ltd. , Australia’s largest
supplier of farm chemicals, slumped the most in 16 years in
Sydney after the company cut its full-year  profit forecast  and
said it won’t meet one of its loan conditions.  
 The shares fell 28 percent to A$3.75 at the 4:10 p.m.
Sydney time close on the Australian stock exchange. That’s the
biggest drop  since  Nov. 19, 1993. They were halted yesterday.
Standard & Poor’s Ratings Services cut its credit rating on the
Melbourne-based company’s long-term debt by two notches to junk.  
 Nufarm reduced its forecast range for net operating profit
after adverse weather in Australia, Europe and North America
reduced demand for crop protection products amid pressure on
prices, Managing Director  Doug Rathbone  said yesterday. The
reduction was the fifth consecutive downgrade by the company
over the past 18 months, Credit Suisse Group AG said in a report.  
 “Management and operating credibility are significantly
impaired in our view,” Sydney-based Credit Suisse analysts
 Rohan Gallagher  and  Andrew Peros  said today in a report. The
bank cut its recommendation on the company to “underperform”
from “neutral.”  
 Net operating profit is forecast at A$55 million ($49
million) to A$65 million for the 12 months ending July 31, the
company said yesterday in a statement. That compared with its
March forecast of A$110 million to A$130 million. Net debt was
estimated to be A$450 million at fiscal year-end, compared with
the A$350 million previously expected, it said.  
 Interest Covenant  
 The company will not achieve its interest cover covenant
“by a small margin” on July 31 and had started talks with
lenders to seek a temporary adjustment to the ratio, Nufarm said
today in a statement. It remained in compliance with covenants
for net debt to equity and net debt to earnings before interest,
tax, depreciation and amortization, it said.  
 A covenant is a legally binding agreement in which the
borrower agrees to certain stipulations over the life of an
issue or loan.  
 Standard & Poor’s today lowered its  rating  on Nufarm to BB
from BBB- with a negative outlook, citing the deterioration of
the company’s business profile. “The company’s liquidity
continues to be exposed to a significant refinancing challenge
as the group rolls over its seasonal debt facilities,” Standard
& Poor’s credit analyst Richard Creed said in the statement.  
 Nufarm, 20 percent owned by Sumitomo Chemical Co., in March
posted a first-half loss of A$40 million amid lower prices and
less favorable cropping weather. The company said then it
expected a recovery in earnings during its second half.  
 “Our previous guidance assumed at least average seasonal
conditions in major markets and it is unusual to have those
conditions turn against us to the extent that they have,”
Rathbone said in a statement yesterday.  
 Crop Prices  
 In North America and Europe,  sales  were reduced by long,
cold winter conditions, while economic pressures and lower crop
prices significantly affected sales in France, the company said.  
 In Australia, the cropping season started strongly in the
eastern states while in Western Australia a late start to
planting had pushed back demand for herbicides and insecticides,
it said. Pricing increases on products had been “well below”
assumptions, it said.  
 The size of the earnings forecast downgrade was “far
greater than we and the market had expected,” Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc analysts  Belinda Moore  and  Todd Scott  wrote
in a report. The bank cut its recommendation on Nufarm to
“sell” from “hold.”  
 The company in December rejected a A$2.6 billion bid from
Sinochem Corp. after China’s largest chemicals trader dropped
the offer price to A$12 a share from A$13 a share in September.  
 Nufarm was a “complicated company operating in a
challenging environment,” Sinochem said in a Chinese-language
statement on Dec. 1, when the companies advised they would miss
a Dec. 3 deadline to complete an initial deal.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Wendy Pugh  in Melbourne 
 wpugh@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        