-- Obama Says Economy Has Added Private-Sector Jobs for 6 Months
-- Roger Runningen
-- 2010-07-15T18:45:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-15/obama-says-economy-has-added-private-sector-jobs-for-6-months.html

          
          
             President  Barack Obama  said his
economic stimulus program is gradually pulling the U.S. out of
its deepest recession in decades and laying a foundation for a
better future.  
 “We were bleeding jobs at a rate of 750,000 per month the
January I was sworn in,” Obama said in Holland, Michigan. “Now
the economy is adding private-sector jobs, and has been for six
straight months.”  
 The president spoke at a groundbreaking of a factory for
Compact Power Inc., a unit of South Korea’s  LG Chem Ltd.  that
got a $151 million stimulus grant to make electric-vehicle
batteries.  
 Obama is defending his economic stimulus program as polls
show the U.S. public isn’t convinced of its success and is wary
of a growing  deficit .  
 Michigan has lost about 94,000 jobs since Obama took
office. The state unemployment rate climbed to  13.6 percent  in
May from 11.3 percent in January 2009, Labor Department figures
show.  
 Michigan has collected more than $13.5 billion in stimulus
money of which more than half, about $8.7 billion, has been
spent. An estimated 102,000 jobs in the state have been saved or
created, the White House said in a fact sheet.  
 Chevrolet Volt, Ford Focus  
 The Holland, Michigan, area has received $472 million in
stimulus money, most of it to promote clean-energy
manufacturing, the White House said.  
 The president said the new plant will employ more than 300
workers who will produce batteries for General Motors Co.’s
Chevrolet Volt and  Ford Motor Co. ’s Focus Electric vehicles.  
 “That means that by 2012, the batteries will be
manufactured in Holland, Michigan,” Obama said. “So when you
buy one of these vehicles, the battery could be stamped ‘Made in
America’ -- just like the car.”  
 “This is about more than just building a new factory; it’s
about building a better future,” he said. “It’s going to take
time to reverse the toll of the deepest downturn in a
generation.” Still, “we are headed in the right direction.”  
 Obama and other administration officials have stepped up
their defense of the stimulus measure, which was passed shortly
after the president took office. The president spent a two-day
trip to Missouri and Nevada last week talking about government
spending on battery-driven trucks and tax credits that encourage
clean-energy manufacturing.  
 $280 Billion  
 An administration report released yesterday said the
stimulus package will help encourage $280 billion of investment
by private industry and local governments that leads to job
creation. About 3 million jobs have been “saved or created” by
the legislation so far, the report said.  
 Republicans have said the stimulus is wasteful, hasn’t
reduced unemployment and has added to the record budget  deficit .  
 House Republican leader  John Boehner  of Ohio, writing in
the Detroit News today, said the jobless rate in Holland is 11.8
percent, higher than the 9.5 percent U.S. average, and that
Michigan is one of 48 states that lost jobs since the stimulus
package was enacted in February 2009.  
 “This isn’t the picture of recovery; it’s the epitome of
failure,” Boehner wrote in the opinion piece.  
 ‘Political Calculation’  
 Obama today ridiculed the opposition, saying “there are
some who want to go back -- who think we should return to the
policies that actually led to the recession.  
 “And some of them have made the political calculation that
it’s better to obstruct than lend a hand,” he said. “They said
no to the tax cuts, to the small business loans, to the clean
energy projects.  
 “Of course, it hasn’t stopped many of these same people
from turning up at ribbon cuttings and groundbreakings just like
this one,” he said.  
 Peter Morici , a business professor at the University of
Maryland in College Park, said Obama shouldn’t boast about
600,000 jobs created in the past six months.  
 “We need to create 150,000 jobs a month just to stay
even,” Morici said in an interview. “To make a dent in the
unemployment rate, you need to go over 150,000,” in new jobs
per month.  
 “We’re not growing anywhere near the pace to do that,” he
said.  
 Public Opinion  
 The White House hasn’t made much progress in selling the
stimulus spending to voters. Asked how their opinion of the
stimulus has changed in recent months, respondents to a
Bloomberg National Poll split almost evenly among those who say
they had become more supportive, those who are less supportive
and those who haven’t changed their opinion.  
 Since the legislation was approved in February 2009, the
U.S.  unemployment  rate has climbed to 9.5 percent in June from
8.2 percent.  
 In his appearance today, Obama highlighted $2.4 billion in
stimulus spending aimed at encouraging development of new
battery and electric-vehicle technology.  
 According to a Department of Energy report, the spending
will raise the U.S.’s manufacturing capacity for advanced-
vehicle batteries from 2 percent of the world market to 40
percent by 2015.  
 “We can’t succeed in the 21st century relying on 20th
century technology,” said  David Sandalow , the Energy
Department’s assistant secretary for policy and international
affairs.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nicholas Johnston  in Holland, Michigan at 
 njohnston3@bloomberg.net ;
 Roger Runningen  in Washington at 
 rrunningen@bloomoberg.net   
          
          


  


        