-- Obama Defends Stimulus Grants to Electric-Car Battery Plants
-- Nicholas Johnston
-- 2010-07-15T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-15/obama-defends-stimulus-grants-to-electric-car-battery-plants.html

          
          
             President  Barack Obama  travels today
to the construction site for a battery factory to defend his
economic stimulus program, as polls show the U.S. public isn’t
convinced of its success and is wary of a growing  deficit .  
 Obama will attend the groundbreaking in Holland, Michigan,
of a factory for Compact Power Inc., a unit of South Korea’s  LG
Chem Ltd.  that got a $151 million stimulus grant to make
electric-vehicle batteries.  
 The completed factory will employ more than 300 workers to
produce batteries for General Motors Co.’s Chevrolet Volt and
 Ford Motor Co. ’s Focus Electric vehicles.  
 “None of this would have been possible without the
Recovery Act,” White House communications director  Dan Pfeiffer 
told reporters on a conference call yesterday. He criticized
Republican opposition to the $862 billion stimulus.  
 “If they had their way we would not be breaking ground,”
he said. “These industries would not be created here.”  
 Obama and other administration officials have stepped up
their defense of the stimulus measure which was passed shortly
after the president took office. The president spent a two-day
trip to Missouri and Nevada last week talking about government
spending on battery-driven trucks and tax credits that encourage
clean-energy manufacturing.  
 An administration report released yesterday said the
stimulus package will help encourage $280 billion of investment
by private industry and local governments that leads to job
creation. About 3 million jobs have been “saved or created” by
the legislation so far, the report said.  
 Republicans have said the stimulus is wasteful, hasn’t
reduced unemployment and has added to the record budget  deficit .  
 ‘Fuzzy Math’  
 “No amount of Washington spin or fuzzy math can change the
fact that the trillion-dollar stimulus is failing by the Obama
administration’s own standards,” House Republican Leader  John Boehner  of Ohio said in a statement. “The American people have
had enough of Washington Democrats’ job-killing spending
spree.”  
 The White House hasn’t made much progress in selling the
stimulus spending to voters. Asked how their opinion of the
stimulus has changed in recent months, respondents to a
Bloomberg National Poll were divided almost evenly among those
who say they had become more supportive, those who are less
supportive and those who haven’t changed their opinion.  
 Since the legislation was approved in February of 2009, the
U.S.  unemployment  rate has climbed to 9.5 percent in June from
8.2 percent.  
 In his appearance today, Obama is to highlight $2.4 billion
in stimulus spending aimed at encouraging development of new
battery and electric-vehicle technology.  
 According to a Department of Energy report, the spending
will raise the U.S.’s manufacturing capacity for advanced-
vehicle batteries from 2 percent of the world market to 40
percent by 2015.  
 “We can’t succeed in the 21st century relying on 20th
century technology,” said  David Sandalow , the Energy
Department’s assistant secretary for policy and international
affairs.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nicholas Johnston  in Washington at 
 njohnston3@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       United States President Barack Obama  
                       
                         
                           Ron Sachs/Pool via Bloomberg 
                         
                         President Barack Obama speaks during a meeting in Washington. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     President Barack Obama speaks during a meeting in Washington. Photographer: Ron Sachs/Pool via Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
