-- China Oil Refining Rises at Slowest Pace in Eight Months as Economy Cools
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-07-15T05:29:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-15/oil-refining-in-china-rises-at-slowest-pace-in-8-months-as-economy-slows.html

          
          
             China’s June crude-oil processing
rose at the most gradual pace in eight months as the world’s
fastest-expanding economy slowed, cutting demand for fuel.  
 Refining climbed 11 percent from a year earlier to
35.3 million metric tons in June, or about 8.64 million barrels
a day, according to China Mainland Marketing Research Co. That’s
the slowest since the 10 percent increase in October, according
to the research company, which compiles data for the government.  
 Economic growth eased to 10.3 percent in the second quarter
from 11.9 percent in the first, the National Bureau of
Statistics said today, after the government took steps to
prevent overheating. Chinese crude imports may decline as waning
energy demand reduces refining profits, said  Wang Aochao , head
of China energy research at UOB-Kay Hian Ltd.  
 “June oil processing will be the peak,” Shanghai-based
Wang said by telephone. “We’ll see a fall in processing rates
and fuel demand from July because margins and consumption are
going down.”  
 Industrial production, which affects diesel use by trucks
that transport goods, gained a less-than-estimated 13.7 percent
in June, the statistics bureau said. Sales of gasoline-powered
passenger cars in China rose at the slowest pace in 15 months in
June, official data showed.  
 Diesel output in June increased 11 percent to 13.3 million
tons and gasoline production gained 3.7 percent to 6.48 million
tons, according to Mainland Marketing.  
 Record Volumes  
 Crude processing reached a daily record last month,
surpassing the previous all-time high in May, today’s data show.
Refiners may turn to exports should domestic demand fall,  Qiu Xiaofeng , chief oil analyst with China Merchants Securities Ltd.,
said by telephone from Shanghai.  
 Fuel oil output climbed 15 percent to 1.82 million tons
last month, while kerosene production rose 12.2 percent to 1.46
million tons, Mainland Marketing said.  
 Natural gas output in June rose 5.8 percent to 7.1 billion
cubic meters, according to the research company. First-half
production gained 11 percent to 45.9 billion cubic meters.  
 Mainland Marketing didn’t provide coal output figures in
today’s release.  
 For Related News and Information:
Top Energy Stories: ETOP &lt;GO&gt;  
 -- Chua Baizhen . Editors:  Ryan Woo ,  John Viljoen .  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Baizhen Chua in Beijing at 
 bchua14@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        