-- Olympus Capital to Invest $566 Million in Japan Firms Expanding in Asia
-- Takahiko Hyuga
-- 2010-07-15T05:06:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-15/olympus-capital-to-invest-566-million-in-japan-firms-expanding-in-asia.html

          
          
             Olympus Capital Holdings Asia , a
Hong Kong private-equity firm, aims to invest about 50 billion
yen ($566 million) in Japanese companies with Asian expansion
plans over the next three years.  
 Olympus Capital is targeting consumer, health-care and
equipment manufacturing firms that are adding operations in
China and other Asian countries, said  Shunji Katayama , a former
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  banker who last month joined Olympus
Capital as managing director in Tokyo. Environmental businesses
are also of interest, he said.  
 The firm plans to do two or three deals in Japan valued at
40 billion yen to 50 billion yen over three years, Katayama said.
The World Bank last month forecast developing nations in East
Asia will grow over three times faster than Japan this year as
the population in the world’s second-biggest economy shrinks.  
 “Japanese companies are looking to operations in Asia as
their home market matures,” Katayama, 48, said in an interview
yesterday. “We can provide risk money and know-how, supporting
them as they operate in China and other countries.”  
 Developing nations in East Asia may grow 8.7 percent this
year and 7.8 percent in 2011, compared with Japan’s likely 2.5
percent growth in 2010 and 2.1 percent expansion next year,
according to the World Bank.  
 Japan Investments  
 Olympus Capital has invested in five companies in Japan,
including farm-chemicals maker  Arysta LifeScience Corp.  and
 Kyoto Kimono Yuzen Co. , a Japanese kimono retailer. The firm has
about 30 employees in Tokyo, Hong Kong, Seoul, Shanghai, Beijing,
New Delhi and New York, and has invested about $1.3 billion.  
 Katayama was previously managing director at  Nomura
Holdings Inc.  He had been co-head of investment banking coverage
at Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., whose operations in Asia and
Europe were acquired by the Japanese firm, after spending eight
years as a senior banker in the general industry group at
Goldman Sachs.  
 Private-equity firms worldwide in 2009 raised $246 billion,
a five-year low, and investors are reluctant to make new
commitments even as financial markets recover, according to a
report by researcher Preqin Ltd. Investors are re-evaluating
their approach to private equity after managers spent a record
$1.6 trillion on leveraged buyouts from 2005 to 2007 before the
boom collapsed, Preqin said.  
 Olympus Capital aims to make more than one investment a
year, Katayama said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Takahiko Hyuga  in Tokyo at 
 thyuga@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        