-- Hong Kong's Stocks Fall as Chinese Growth Slows; Henderson Land Declines
-- Ronnie Koo
-- 2010-07-15T08:47:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-15/hong-kong-s-stocks-fall-as-chinese-growth-slows-henderson-land-declines.html

          
          
             Hong Kong stocks  declined, dragging
the benchmark index to a one-week low, as slowing economic
growth in China raised earnings concerns.  
 Cnooc Ltd. , China’s biggest offshore oil explorer, declined
2.7 percent as China said its economic growth slowed in the
second quarter and as crude oil prices fell.  Industrial &
Commercial Bank of China , the world’s largest bank by market
value, fell 2.4 percent. TCL Multimedia Technology Holdings Ltd.,
a Chinese maker of television sets, slumped 16 percent after
Credit Suisse Group AG cut its rating on the stock to
“neutral.”  
 The  Hang Seng Index  fell 1.5 percent to 20,255.62, its
lowest close since July 8. All but five stocks declined among
the gauge’s 43 constituents.  
 China’s data “could be a signal for a slowdown in economic
growth and corporate earnings for the second half of the year,”
said  Peter So , head of research at CCB International Securities
Ltd. Still, “this data is lower than market expectation and
forms a case for credit easing and for holding interest rates.”  
 The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index  of so-called H shares
of Chinese companies lost 2 percent to 11,427.94.  
 The Hang Seng Index has slid 7.4 percent this year as
China’s efforts to cool its property market and Europe’s debt
crises dented confidence in a global economic recovery. Stocks
on the gauge trade at  13.4 times  estimated earnings, Bloomberg
data show. Futures on the index slipped 1.8 percent to 20,181.  
 China Growth Slows  
 Cnooc lost 2.7 percent to HK$12.40. China Unicom (Hong
Kong) Ltd., the nation’s second-biggest wireless carrier,
declined 3.1 percent to HK$10.08.  
 China’s economic growth eased to 11.1 percent in the first
half after the government succeeded in tempering credit
expansion, investment spending and property speculation. The
pace compares with an 11.9 percent gain in January-March from a
year earlier.  
 ICBC , the world’s largest bank by market value, fell 2.4
percent to HK$5.74.  China Construction Bank Corp. , the nation’s
second-largest lender, lost 2.3 percent to HK$6.36. Bank of
China Ltd., the nation’s third-largest lender, slipped 2.4
percent to HK$4.04.  
 Chinese banks also declined today ahead of the Agricultural
Bank of China Ltd.’s listing in Hong Kong tomorrow.  
 Agricultural Bank  
 Agricultural Bank of China , China’s largest bank by
customers, began trading in Shanghai today, and will list H-
shares in Hong Kong tomorrow.  
 “I have already reduced holdings of ICBC and China
Construction Bank because of this IPO,”  Alex Au , managing
director of Richland Capital Management Ltd. which oversees $300
million of assets said yesterday.  
 TCL Multimedia slumped 16 percent to HK$3.48. Credit Suisse,
which previously rated the stock “outperform,” lowered its
recommendation on the stock after the company warned of a loss
in the first half.  
 China ITS Holdings Co. , part-owned by Singapore’s Temasek
Holdings Pte, rallied as much as 9.7 percent in its Hong Kong
debut today. The shares were unchanged to close at HK$3.49.  
 China ITS, which provides information technology for
transportation infrastructure projects, intends to use the IPO
proceeds for acquisitions, to replenish its working capital and
for research and development, according to the term sheet for
the sale obtained by Bloomberg News.  
 Henderson, Zijin Mining  
 Henderson Land Development Co., the Hong Kong builder
controlled by billionaire Lee Shau-kee, declined 2.1 percent to
HK$46.70 after local police said they seized documents from the
developer as part of an investigation into collapsed apartment
sales at a luxury residential project. Henderson is at the
center of a government probe after 20 luxury apartment sales
worth HK$2.67 billion ($343 million) fell through.  
 Zijin Mining Group Co. , China’s largest gold producer,
dropped 3.4 percent to HK$4.82 after the company said the China
Securities Regulatory Commission will investigate its release of
information about a leak of waste water from a mine in Fujian
province that polluted a local river, according to a statement
to Shanghai’s stock exchange.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Anna Kitanaka  in Tokyo at 
 akitanaka@bloomberg.net ;
 Ronnie Koo  in Hong Kong at   rkoo4@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        