-- Hong Kong Aviation Seeks $4 Billion to Double Leasing Fleet
-- Wing-Gar Cheng
-- 2010-07-16T05:09:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-15/hong-kong-aviation-seeks-4-billion-to-double-fleet-on-china-travel-growth.html

          
          
             Hong Kong Aviation Capital Co.  plans
to raise as much as $4 billion to buy planes as Chinese state-
backed lessors tap surging domestic travel and challenge U.S.
rivals in overseas markets.  
 The company may make “one good acquisition,” as it works
on doubling its fleet from 68 planes within 18 months, Chief
Executive Officer  Mathis Shinnick  told reporters yesterday in
Hong Kong. It will raise money through sources including debt
and private equity, he said.  
 The lessor, controlled by Hainan province’s HNA Group Co.,
and Bank of China Ltd.’s BOC Aviation has expanded as rising
wages and economic growth stoke travel in China. The value of
the nation’s leased fleet could surpass $130 billion by 2025 as
airlines add planes and make more use of leasing, according to
Lung Cheong International Holdings Ltd., which is taking over
Hong Kong Aviation.  
 “The Chinese have the biggest orders in the world for
aircraft,”  Peter Harbison , chairman of the Sydney-based Centre
for Asia-Pacific Aviation, said by telephone today. “It’s
logical that they would be looking at the funding side of things
too because there’s a lot of money to be made there.”  
 Boeing, Airbus  
 Hong Kong Aviation, which is also backed by  Bravia Capital
Partners , is mainly considering single-aisle planes such as
Airbus SAS A320s and Boeing Co. 737s, as well as larger models
including A330s, 777s and 787s, Shinnick said. The return on
equity is typically between 13 and 15 percent, he said.  
 The company is aiming to become one of the five biggest
lessors worldwide, Shinnick said, without providing a timeframe.  
 HNA Group earlier this week agreed to inject two leasing
units into Lung Cheong to widen access to capital markets. The
HK$6 billion ($772 million) deal is undergoing due diligence and
may be completed in four months, Shinnick said.  
 Lung Cheong  jumped as much as 25 percent, the most since
October, to 49.50 HK cents in Hong Kong trading today.  
 Rebounding global air travel and the easing of the credit
crunch is reviving investment in aircraft-leasing. Air Lease
Corp., a new entrant formed by  Steven Udvar-Hazy , said yesterday
it had secured $3.3 billion in financing and plans to have more
than 100 planes by early next year.  
 ILFC Orders  
 International Lease Finance Corp., which Udvar-Hazy founded
and later sold to American International Group Inc., is also
considering its first plane purchases since 2007, Chief
Executive Officer  Henri Courpron  said earlier this month. The
lessor hasn’t ordered any planes since the U.S. government took
over AIG in 2008 to save the insurance company from bankruptcy.  
 ILFC has a fleet of about 1,000 planes, according to its
 website . General Electric Co.’s leasing arm owns and manages
more than 1,800 aircraft.  
 BOC Aviation , Asia’s largest aircraft leasing company, owns
131 planes, manages 25 and has another 41 on order, according to
its  website . The company last year boosted profit 28 percent to
$137 million. Bank of China injected an additional $100 million
of equity into the unit last year. It bought the company for
$965 million in 2006.  
 Hong Kong Aviation on July 12 announced a deal to buy three
A320s that will be delivered to Indian carrier IndiGo from 2011.
The planes, worth $200 million at list prices, were purchased
with support from Chinese lenders, according to a  statement .  
 The lessor earlier this year completed the acquisition of
68 planes from the collapsed Australian company Allco Finance
Group Ltd. The planes are leased to carriers including Qantas
Airways Ltd., Emirates Airline and  British Airways Plc.   
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Wing-Gar Cheng  in Hong Kong at 
 wgcheng@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        