-- Top-Down Fun Offers Jeep, $2 Million Bugatti: Jason H. Harper
-- Jason H. Harper
-- 2010-07-15T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-15/top-down-fun-ranges-from-cheap-jeep-to-2-million-bugatti-jason-h-harper.html

          
          
             School’s out. Too bad we can’t say
the same for work.  
 To my mind, the best shot at recapturing that piquant sense
of summertime escape is found in a convertible.  
 Last week four of us jumped in a 2011  Mercedes-Benz  E-Class
Cabriolet ($56,850), with the ostensible goal of an afternoon
hike and picnic. Dreamy grins settled on my passengers’ faces as
soon as the top swept down.  
 Gliding through the vibrant-green tunnels formed by
overhanging trees, we thrust our hands into the overhead
airstream like a carnival ride. It was a perfect, humidity-free
day, and marital bickering and work worries sloughed away as the
wind whipped our hair.  
 Looking for your own open-air time machine to the fun days
when you first got your license? Here’s a cheat sheet to picking
the right convertible, depending on price, needs and desires.  
 Two or Four? Have to bring along the spouse and the
parents? Then you’re pushed to slightly bigger, more staid
vehicles that actually fit four humans. The aforementioned, new-
for-2011 E350 convertible is kind of homely, but the front seats
slide up electronically and an air foil and rear-wind deflector
help minimize hair tangles. It has a soft top, which saves
weight and adds cargo room in the trunk.
      Volkswagen ’s Eos, starting at $32,400, is the rare purpose-
built convertible with four seats. A handsome hunk, it has a
retractable hardtop that even includes a sunroof. Powered by a
turbocharged four-cylinder with 200 hp, the Eos could make an
all-year daily driver.  
 If you’re looking for maximum room and comfort, and price
isn’t an issue, Bentley’s Continental GTC ($231,000) and Azure
($225,000) are sized for LeBron. Despite massive engines, they
aren’t Ferrari fast, but they are flush with low-end torque and
outsized flash.  
 Topless Muscle  
 Domestic or foreign? Convertibles made in the U.S. are rare
these days. If you want to buy American, you pretty much have
the choice of topless muscle cars or the apple-pie classic, the
Jeep Wrangler ($21,915), available with four doors, an al fresco
rarity. (Somehow the dismal, $28,600 Chrysler Sebring continues
to stumble on, zombie-like, infecting rental-car fleets.)  
 I recently made a run across the searing Nevada desert in a
Corvette Grand Sport convertible ($58,580), a 430-hp speed
warrior. It’s fast and tough, if a bit butch.  
 GM’s other mullet-sporting throwback, the Chevy Camaro, has
a roof so low it feels as if you’re crouching in a bunker. The
convertible should finally be released in early 2011, and will
surely be a more livable, neck-stretching option. Lastly, the
all-new, all-excellent  Ford  Mustang comes in topless versions
(from $27,145 for the V-6).  
 Pixie-Like Smart  
 City or Highway? Urbanites deserve their sun, too. Nothing
fits in a tight parking spot as easily as the Smart ForTwo
Cabriolet, with a roof that accordions to the rear ($17,000).
Pedestrians tower over the pixie-like car, and you’ll find that
half of the population will approach and strike up a
conversation. It will get an updated engine, interior and
exterior in 2011. What it really needs is a better, less herky-
jerky transmission.  
 While the  Mini  Convertible is the other obvious choice to
blitz the city ($25,000), Chrysler recently announced that the
super-cute Fiat 500C will finally come our way next year and
will be sold exclusively at Fiat dealerships. It has a soft top
that slides along the roof rails and will give Mini a run for
the subcompact with the most European panache.  
 Dumbo-Like Flap  
 Regular or Super-Fast? If you want to make your ears flap
like Dumbo, the exotic car world has many answers.  
 For beauty and the beast,  Porsche  offers a host of options
from the sprightly mid-engine Boxster (255 hp, $47,600) to the
overkill of the 911 Turbo S Cabriolet (530 hp, $170,200). For
Bimmer boys, the BMW M3 is an overcompensating perennial -- a
buy-in of $67,000 produces a rush to 60 mph in 4.9 seconds.  
 If you dream of Italy,  Ferrari ’s $192,000 hardtop
California is much prettier in real life than photos suggest,
and the warble of the V-8 is glorious. Stablemate Maserati makes
a convertible version of its GranTurismo. It easily seats four,
and aficionados will think it costs far more than the suggested
price of $135,800.  
 If you simply must be the fastest on the road, the braggart
to end all bragging is the Bugatti Veyron Grand Sport. I’ve
never driven a quicker car; it sent my head crashing into the
seatback. You can’t take the removable glass top with you, so be
prepared that when you park and walk away, you’re leaving your
$2-million-something car open to the elements and curious
passersby.  
 Now or Tomorrow? More exciting stuff is on its way, from
the Audi R8 Spyder to, probably, a convertible Porsche Panamera.  
 Of course, that might mean another summer of all work and
no play. I wouldn’t wish that on anybody.  
 ( Jason H. Harper  writes about autos for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  
 To contact the writer of this column:
Jason H. Harper at  Jason@JasonHharper.com  or
follow on Twitter @JasonHarperSpin.  
 To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Daimler AG's 2011 Mercedes-Benz E550 Cabriolet. The new-for-2011 E350 Cabriolet, $56,850, has a soft-folding top, which minimizes weight and maximizes trunk space. Photographer: Mark Elias/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     The Fiat 500C Lounge. Americans will finally get a chance to buy the subcompact Fiat 500C, which will compete with the Mini. Photographer: Hannelore Foerster/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     The Bugatti Veyron Grand Sport. Volkswagen Group resurrected the storied Bugatti marquee in the late 1990s, and this is the second model to be released.  Photographer: Charlie Magee/Bugatti via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Audi R8 Spyder 5.2 FSI supercar is this year's best convertible. Photographer: Daniel Acker/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
