-- Mortgage-Bond Trade Failure Solutions Proposed by Market Practices Group
-- Caroline Salas
-- 2010-07-15T17:56:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-15/mortgage-bond-trade-failure-solutions-proposed-by-market-practices-group.html

          
          
             An industry group that advises on
transactions in U.S.  securities  recommended measures to cut
uncompleted agreements across the Treasury, agency and
government-backed mortgage bond markets after failed home-loan
securities trades reached a record.  
 The Treasury  Market  Practices Group, which the Federal
Reserve Bank of New York helped form in 2007, said broker-
dealers should “avoid trading strategies that hinder market
clearance” and those that “cause or exacerbate settlement
fails,” according to a  statement  released today.  
 The industry group expanded its role to include debt such
as the corporate bonds of  Fannie Mae  and  Freddie Mac  and their
mortgage-backed securities in March after a Fed program to buy
$1.25 trillion of home-loan bonds sapped supply from the $5.2
trillion market and made some securities hard to find. The group
stopped short of recommending a fee on uncompleted trades, even
though a 3 percentage point penalty imposed in May 2009 on
Treasury transactions led failures in that market to plunge.  
 “The TMPG strongly believes that widespread implementation
of best practice recommendations will support the integrity and
efficiency of these important markets,”  Thomas Wipf , chairman
of the group and the New York-based head of institutional
securities group financing at Morgan Stanley, said in the
statement.  
 Record Reached  
 Failed mortgage-bond trades reached a record $1.99 trillion
on May 19, according to  data  compiled by the Fed based on the 18
dealers that transact directly with the central bank.  
 The group is asking for comment on the “best practices”
document, which also contains guidelines meant to “buttress
overall market integrity” on issues unrelated to trade
failures, through July 29.  
 The document may not be enough to change practices or
address trading failure in the mortgage bond market, based on a
similar recent episode in the Treasury market and announcement
yesterday by the Securities Industry and Financial Markets
Association that certain dealers had been violating the industry
group’s guidelines in the market for mortgage bonds “over a
number of years.”  
 Failures in the Treasury market soared to a record in
October 2008 after the bankruptcy of Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc. led to a surge in demand for government securities as a
refuge from market turmoil.  
 Failed-Trade Penalty  
 Delivery failures in that market reached $2.68 trillion
that month and remained elevated even after the industry group
offered similar recommendations for Treasury trading the next
month. They declined to $14.1 billion in May 2009 after a
penalty on failed trades the group created went into effect.  
 While the settlement failures in the mortgage-bond market
have been partly related to dealers’ difficulty finding certain
bonds after purchases of about $1.5 trillion by the Fed and
Treasury Department under programs meant to bolster housing and
financial markets, some may also be avoidable.  
 The cost of failing to deliver bonds is lower with short-
term  interest rates  near zero, which reduces the amount of money
forgone when trades aren’t completed.  
 The difference between dealers’ failures to deliver
securities and to receive them “is a pretty good measure of
intentional fails,”  Alexander Yavorsky , a senior analyst at
Moody’s Investors Service in New York, said in an interview last
week.  
 Bankruptcy Risk  
 That figure was $58.9 billion in the week ended June 30,
after climbing as  high  as $155 billion earlier this year. Failed
trades totaled $1.08 trillion in the week, according to the
latest available data.  
 The collapse of a party in the middle of a chain of failed
trades “could set off a wave of uncertainty and credit
concerns,” JPMorgan Chase & Co. analysts said in a February
report.  
 Market participants should manage large positions with
“heightened vigilance” and avoid strategies intended to profit
from settlement failures, the TMPG said. They should also enter
transaction details “promptly” into trading systems and make
sure settlement and clearing staff are managed independently
from trading desks, according to the statement.  
 Yesterday, New York-based Sifma said that trades involving
mortgage bonds guaranteed by Ginnie Mae had been violating its
guidelines for the so-called To Be Announced market.  
 Inappropriate Trades  
 Some dealers have in recent months inappropriately traded
securities created from pools of other Ginnie Mae bonds filled
with less valuable debt, said  Andrew Kowalczyk , chief executive
officer at broker AK Capital LLC. New York-based Morgan Stanley
was among “depositors” for some bonds at issue, according to
Ginnie Mae’s website. Mark Lake, a Morgan Stanley spokesman,
declined to comment.  
 Among the guidelines proposed today is one that “each
market participant should maintain a strong internal control
environment sufficient to ensure that each of its business areas
acts in accordance with applicable law and best market
practices.”  
 The group also said that “market participants should avoid
conduct that deliberately seeks to evade regulatory reporting
requirements or impedes market transparency efforts.”  
 In March, the Regional Bond Dealers Association said some
companies that traded agency debt had shifted the business to
their banking units from securities arms to avoid a requirement
that transaction information begin to be publicly reported on
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority’s Trade Compliance and
Reporting Engine. Finra said it doesn’t have authority over
banking units.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Caroline Salas  in New York at 
 csalas1@bloomberg.net ;
 Jody Shenn  in New York at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        