-- PBG, Werth-Holz Shares May Be Active: Central Europe Stock Market Preview
-- Dorota Bartyzel
-- 2010-07-15T06:29:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-15/pbg-werth-holz-shares-may-be-active-central-europe-stock-market-preview.html

          
          
             The following is a list of companies
whose shares may have unusual price changes in central European
markets. Stock symbols are in parentheses after company names.
Share prices are from the last close.  
 Poland’s  WIG20 Index  gained 0.3 percent, the Czech  PX Index 
rose 0.2 percent and Hungary’s  BUX Index  rose 1.1 percent.  
 AmRest Holding SE  (EAT PW): The operator of Pizza Hut and
KFC restaurants in central and eastern Europe said that second-
quarter sales fell 2.5 percent to 500.9 million zloty ($157
million) from a year earlier. AmRest declined 0.4 percent to
70.7 zloty.  
 Grupa Lotos SA  (LTS PW): Poland will call for investors to
place initial bids for the government’s majority stake in the
country’s second-largest oil refiner in late August or early
September, Treasury Minister  Aleksander Grad  told Dziennik
Gazeta Prawna. Lotos increased 2.6 percent to 30.4 zloty.  
 PBG SA  (PBG PW): A group including Poland’s biggest
construction group by market value will sign a deal to build the
country’s first liquefied natural gas import terminal on the
Baltic Sea. PBG shares gained 1.6 percent to 218.5 zloty.  
 Tauron Polska Energia SA  (TPE PW): Poland’s second-largest
utility is seeking bids from contractors to build and operate
its first wind park. Tauron fell 0.6 percent to 5.09 zloty.  
 Werth-Holz SA  (WHH PW): The Polish producer of wooden
garden decorations will start trading on the Warsaw Stock
Exchange’s NewConnect market for smaller companies, the bourse
said in an e-mail on July 14.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Pawel Kozlowski  in Warsaw 
 pkozlowski@bloomberg.net ;
 Dorota Bartyzel  in Warsaw at 
 dbartyzel@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        