-- Penthouse Owner Bids Higher Than Hefner for Playboy
-- Brett Pulley
-- 2010-07-15T20:11:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-15/penthouse-owner-offers-210-million-for-playboy-topping-hugh-hefner-s-bid.html

          
          
             FriendFinder Networks Inc. , the
owner of Penthouse magazine, said it will offer $210 million to
acquire  Playboy Enterprises Inc. , challenging a bid from  Hugh Hefner  to take the company private.  
 The bid pits FriendFinder Chief Executive Officer  Marc Bell 
against  Hefner , Playboy’s 84-year-old founder, who offered $123
million to acquire all shares he doesn’t already own. Hefner’s
bid values all Playboy shares at about $185 million, making the
FriendFinder bid a 14 percent premium to Hefner’s offer.  
 “We are excited about the prospect for the combination of
Playboy Enterprises and FriendFinder Networks,” Bell said in a
letter to Playboy’s board.  
 Bell, whose closely held Boca Raton, Florida-based company
operates adult-themed websites such as AdultFriendFinder.com and
Cams.com, proposed partnering with Hefner in running Playboy.  
 “We envision that following the completion of the proposed
transaction, Mr. Hefner would retain editorial control of
Playboy Magazine and would be entitled to reside in the Playboy
Mansion,” the letter stated.  
 Playboy Class B shares rose 1 cent to $5.52 at 4:03 p.m. in
New York Stock Exchange  trading . They have increased 73 percent
this year.  
 Hefner’s Offer  
 Playboy, the Chicago-based publisher of the namesake adult
magazine, produces television and video content, and licenses
its trademark bunny logo on merchandise and entertainment
venues. Magazine circulation has dropped and revenue has
declined in recent years. Playboy lost more than $200 million
the past two years, and decreased the magazine’s rate base, the
total of newsstand and subscription sales guaranteed to
advertisers, to 1.5 million from 2.6 million.  
 Playboy confirmed it received FriendFinder’s proposal.
Playboy’s board “will give it appropriate consideration,” the
company said in a statement.  
 Hefner, with partner Rizvi Traverse Management LLC, plans
to offer $5.50 apiece for Playboy’s Class A and Class B shares,
Playboy disclosed July 12. The offer represents a premium of
more than 30 percent to where both classes of stock traded
before the offer was made. A spokeswoman for Rizvi Traverse,
 Cindy Leggett-Flynn , declined to comment.  
 Hefner owns 70 percent of the Class A voting stock and 28
percent of the Class B non-voting stock. In a posting on Twitter
this week, Hefner addressed the potential for a competing bid
from FriendFinder.  
 “Penthouse really isn’t in the picture,” Hefner said.
“I’m buying, not selling.”  
 Hefner couldn’t be reached for comment after FriendFinder
submitted its proposal. His latest posting on Twitter read,
“Playing gin rummy with the guys tonight and then cuddling with
Crystal.”  
 Shareholder Lawsuits  
 Playboy shareholders have taken action in response to
Hefner’s buyout proposal. A shareholder lawsuit, filed in
Chicago this week, called Hefner’s bid “inadequate.” A
complaint filed this week in Delaware Chancery Court in
Wilmington, Delaware, called Hefner’s plan a “flawed process,”
and said that Playboy’s directors have a duty to get the best
price for shareholders.  
 In his letter to the Playboy board, Bell said that
FriendFinder had contacted lenders regarding financing for the
acquisition.  
 “We are confident that ample financial resources will be
available to complete this transaction,” Bell wrote.  
 FriendFinder this year postponed an initial public offering
that was planned to raise as much as $240 million, according to
a U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission regulatory filing. The
company was selling a 49 percent stake and said it would use the
proceeds to pay down debt.  
 The company lost money in 2006, 2007, 2008 and for the
first nine months of 2009, according to the SEC filings. It had
$409.5 million in long-term debt as of Sept. 30, 2009, the most
recent figures available because the offering was delayed.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Brett Pulley  in New York at 
 bpulley@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Playboy owner Hugh Hefner. Photographer: Gabriel Bouys/AFP/Getty Images  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 12 (Bloomberg) -- Todd Harrison, chief executive officer of Minyanville Media Inc., speaks about the proposal to take Playboy Enterprises Inc. private by founder Hugh Hefner.
     FriendFinder Networks Inc., owner of Penthouse adult magazine, plans to submit a bid for Playboy following the $123 million offer from Hefner. Harrison talks with Pimm Fox on Bloomberg Television's "Taking Stock." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
