-- People's United Targets Smithtown, LSB for Takeovers, Posts Lower Profit
-- Laura Keeley
-- 2010-07-15T22:10:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-15/people-s-united-targets-smithtown-lsb-for-takeovers-posts-lower-profit.html

          
          
             People’s United Financial Inc. , the
Connecticut lender that replaced its leader after a hunt for
acquisitions stalled, posted a lower profit and said it’s paying
$156 million to buy banks in New York and Massachusetts.  
 The two are  Smithtown Bancorp Inc. , the struggling lender
based on Long Island east of New York City, and LSB Corp., based
in North Andover near Boston, according to a  statement  today.
The banks valued the deal for Smithtown, the larger of the two
targets, at $60 million in cash and stock, or about $4 a share,
and LSB at $96 million in cash, or $21 a share.  
 People’s United, this year’s worst performer among
24 companies in the  KBW Bank Index , gains about $2.4 billion in
deposits and 37 branches in areas adjacent to its current
markets. That may help rebuild earnings, which dropped 37
percent in the second quarter. The Bridgeport-based bank’s
primary markets include Fairfield County, home to some of Wall
Street’s biggest firms and wealthiest executives.  
 “Both banks will be valuable additions to the People’s
United franchise,” said  Jack Barnes , the interim chief
executive officer, in the statement.  
 Second-quarter profit dropped to $16 million, or 4 cents a
share, from $25.3 million, or 8 cents a share, in the same
period a year earlier, the bank said. That compares with the
9-cent average estimate of 15 analysts  surveyed  by Bloomberg.
Results include one-time merger expenses of $46.6 million.  
 New Boss  
 People’s is looking for a permanent CEO after  Philip R. Sherringham  resigned in April. At the time, Chairman  George P. Carter  said the lender will continue to hunt for acquisitions
after amassing a $2.5 billion war chest last year. The bank had
pressed Sherringham to find more takeover targets as lenders
failed at the fastest pace in a decade.  
 Smithtown Bancorp has been posting losses, including
$29.2 million for the second quarter, and is under orders from
regulators to bolster capital and stop paying dividends. It’s
based in Hauppauge. The stock closed at $3.79 in Nasdaq Stock
Market trading, down 36 percent this year. LSB, which runs
RiverBank, closed at $14.12, a 45 percent gain.  
 People’s closed up 6 cents at $14.15, before the results
and takeovers were announced, and was little changed in extended
trading.  
 In April, People’s agreed to buy Butler Bank in a Federal
Deposit Insurance Corp.-assisted deal after the Lowell,
Massachusetts-based lender was closed by the state’s Division of
Banks. In November, People’s agreed to acquire New York-based
Financial Federal Corp. for $738 million to expand in equipment
financing.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Laura Keeley  in New York at 
 lkeeley@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        