-- Peru Economy Grew More-Than-Forecast 9.2% in May, Led by Direct Investment
-- John Quigley
-- 2010-07-15T20:02:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-15/peru-economy-grew-more-than-forecast-9-2-in-may-led-by-direct-investment.html

          
          
             Peru’s  economy  expanded at the
second-fastest pace in 19 months in May as a recovery in private
investment fuels demand.  
 Output surged 9.2 percent in May from the same month a year
earlier, the government’s statistics agency said in a report
today, slowing from 9.3 percent year-on-year growth in April.
Economists forecast 9 percent growth for May, according to the
median estimate of 15 analysts  surveyed  by Bloomberg.  
 Private investment in Peru is rebounding from a 15 percent
contraction last year, fueling internal demand for goods and
services. Increased spending by companies will allow the
government to limit outlays in the second half of 2010 and help
curb the fiscal deficit, said  Vicente Tuesta , head of research
at Lima-based pension fund Prima AFP.  
 “The pace of growth will be very solid in the second
half,” Tuesta said in a phone interview from Lima. “Growth
will be slower than in the first half because of the removal of
monetary stimulus and a slowdown in public spending.”  
 The central bank last week raised its reference rate by a
quarter point to 2 percent, the third straight increase, to
prevent the economy from overheating, the central bank’s
research director  Adrian Armas  said July 9.  
 Annual inflation  accelerated to 1.64 percent in June, the
fastest pace since August 2009, on higher food costs. Prices
rose 0.25 percent last month from May.  
 Investment Outlook  
 Peru may post economic growth of more than 8 percent in the
second quarter, compared with 6 percent in the first quarter,
Armas said. The bank projects 6.6 percent growth for this year,
led by an 8.8 percent surge in internal demand.  
 Investment projects totaling $35 billion may be undertaken
by 2012,  Ricardo Briceno , president of Peru’s largest business
group Confiep, said in a July 6 interview.  
 Imports  jumped 41 percent in May from the same month a year
ago, the national statistics institute reported July 9, fuelled
by the recovery in private demand.  
 “Public spending is being replaced by private investment,
which will rise to record levels next year,”  Gonzalo Camargo ,
investment manager at pension fund AFP Horizonte, told reporters
today in Lima.  
 The sol weakened 0.1 percent to 2.8225 per dollar at 3:16
p.m. New York time. It has gained 2.3 percent against the dollar
in 2010, the seventh-best performance among 26 emerging market
currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  
 Growth, Jobs, Rates  
 Economic indicators for June suggest current growth may be
sustained.  
 The Andean country posted a 13 percent increase in
electricity production from the same month a year ago while
cement demand grew 22 percent and employment rose 4.2 percent,
said  Renan Quispe , director of the statistics institute.  
 Those figures beat the growth levels registered in May,
Quispe told reporters.  
 “The 4.2 percent rise in employment last month is a very
substantial figure,” Quispe said. “If employment grows, there
could be an impact on production.”  
 Sustained output at the current levels may require the
central bank to accelerate its tightening policy to head off a
buildup of inflationary pressures, said  Hugo Perea , chief
economist at BBVA Banco Continental, in an e-mailed statement.  
 The central bank may also boost reserve requirements as
interest rate increases could quicken the sol’s appreciation,
Perea said.  
 The central bank bought $151 million in the foreign
exchange market today, following yesterday’s record $493.5
million purchase, to ease gains in the sol.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 John Quigley  in Lima at 
 jquigley8@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        