-- Philippines Keeps Main Interest Rate at Record-Low 4% as Inflation Slows
-- Max Estayo
-- 2010-07-15T10:09:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-15/philippines-keeps-main-interest-rate-at-record-low-4-as-inflation-slows.html

          
          
             The Philippine central bank kept its
benchmark interest rate at a record low as easing inflation
gives it room to protect the economy from Europe’s debt crisis.  
 Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas left the  rate  it pays lenders
for overnight deposits at 4 percent for a ninth meeting, it said
in a  statement  in Manila today. That’s the lowest level since
central bank data started in 1990. The decision was expected by
13 of 14 economists  surveyed  by Bloomberg News.  
 The Philippines has refrained from joining Malaysia, India,
Thailand and South Korea in raising interest rates as Asia’s
policy makers balance the need to sustain growth against the
threats of inflation and asset bubbles. While the country’s
 inflation  rate fell to 3.9 percent last month, the central bank
said today “upward” pressure on prices has appeared and it
“stands ready” to adjust monetary policy as needed.  
 “Clearly, inflation remains very benign and has given the
central bank the flexibility to keep rates low longer,” said
 Prakriti Sofat , a Singapore-based economist at Barclays Plc.
“Given the global uncertainties, they are on the side of
caution. There is a need for normalization, but it is not an
urgent need.”  
 Benchmark six-year local-currency bond yields fell to a
record low today on speculation the central bank would hold off
on increasing rates. The main  stock index  was little changed at
the close before the rate decision and the Philippine  peso  fell.  
 Favorable Inflation  
 Thailand raised its key interest rate this week for the
first time in almost two years. The Bank of Korea unexpectedly
increased its benchmark rate last week, and Malaysia raised its
overnight policy rate for the third time this year. Policy
makers in Indonesia have kept rates unchanged.  
 “Current monetary policy settings continue to be
appropriate given the favorable inflation outlook,” the
Philippine central bank said. “The uncertainty over the
strength and pace of the global economic recovery warranted
maintaining” the policy stance, it said.  
 Governments in Europe are embarking on austerity programs
to cut budget deficits and households in some of the world’s
largest economies are holding back spending, clouding the
outlook for the global rebound from last year’s slump.  
 Risks Emerging  
 Bangko Sentral  cut its inflation forecasts for this year
and next, predicting consumer price gains will average 4 percent
this year from a previous estimate of 4.7 percent. The central
bank will target an inflation average of 3 percent to 5 percent
from 2012 to 2014, it said today.  
 Still, risks that may spur inflation include stronger-than-
anticipated economic growth, rising liquidity and lending,
higher commodity and power prices, and declines in farm output
due to adverse weather, the central bank said. Growth in
 remittances  sent home by Philippine nationals overseas
accelerated to 6.5 percent in May.  
 “Liquidity and credit conditions suggest that demand-pull
inflation is now at the risk of emerging, so the central bank
will have to be vigilant,” said  Vishnu Varathan , an economist
at Forecast Pte in Singapore. “Monetary conditions must be
calibrated to coincide with the change in economic conditions,
which have picked up.”  
 Varathan expects the central bank to raise its key interest
rate to as much as 4.5 percent by the end of the year. Sofat, at
Barclays, forecasts a quarter-point increase in the benchmark in
the fourth quarter.  
 Record Sales  
 Philippine  export growth  accelerated to 37.3 percent in
May, a report showed this week. The $167 billion  economy 
expanded 7.3 percent in the first quarter from a year earlier,
the fastest pace in almost three years, boosting demand for
Banco de Oro Unibank Inc.’s loans and  JG Summit Holdings Inc. ’s
airline services.  
 BDO Unibank ’s second-quarter profit was better than a year
earlier and the lender is on track to meet its 8.1 billion-peso
($175 million) full-year profit goal, President  Nestor Tan  said
last week.  JG Summit  expects record sales and profit at its
food, property and airline units this year, President  Lance Gokongwei  said in June.  
 Philippine President  Benigno Aquino , who took office June
30, plans to boost growth to as much as 8 percent in 2011 to
reduce poverty in a nation where the World Bank estimates one in
four people live on less than $1.25 a day.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Karl Lester M. Yap  in Manila at 
 kyap5@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        