-- Philadelphia-Area Manufacturing Grows at Slower Pace as Index Falls to 5.1
-- Bob Willis
-- 2010-07-15T14:23:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-15/philadelphia-area-manufacturing-grows-at-slower-pace-as-index-falls-to-5-1.html

          
          
             Manufacturing in the Philadelphia
region cooled in July as orders fell for the first time in a
year, signaling the expansion is slowing.  
 The Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia’s general economic
 index  fell to 5.1 this month, the lowest level since August
2009, from 8 in June. Readings above zero signal growth in the
regional gauge, which covers eastern Pennsylvania, southern New
Jersey and Delaware. The bank’s orders gauge turned negative for
the first time in 12 months.  
 Manufacturing may moderate as companies are less pressed to
rebuild inventories and the recovery shows signs of slackening.
The results corroborate the New York Fed survey released earlier
today that showed factories in that region expanded at the
slowest pace this year.  
 “Manufacturing has peaked and factory output will moderate
over the next few months,”  Ryan Sweet , a senior economist at
Moody’s Economy.com in West Chester, Pennsylvania, said before
the report. “With the biggest boost from the inventory
adjustment now behind us, a downshift in factory output was
unavoidable, particularly considering domestic demand has failed
to improve appreciably over the past few months.”  
 Economists forecast the measure would rise to 10, according
to the median projection in a Bloomberg News survey. Estimates
of 52 economists polled ranged from 4.1 to 18.  
 Empire State  
 The figures follow a report from the Fed Bank of New York
that showed its general economic index fell to 5.1 in July, the
lowest level this year, from 19.6 the prior month.  
 Another report from the Fed showed industrial production
rose 0.1 percent in June, boosted by utility output, while
 manufacturing  declined 0.4 percent.  
 Stocks extended earlier losses after the Philadelphia
report confirmed manufacturing was cooling. The Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index fell 1.3 percent to 1,081.13 at 10:21 a.m. in
New York. Treasury securities climbed, sending the yield on the
benchmark 10-year note down to 2.99 percent from 3.04 percent
late yesterday.  
 The Philadelphia Fed bank’s shipments gauge fell to 4 from
14.2 in June. The new orders measure dropped to minus 4.3 from
9.  
 The employment index climbed to 4 from minus 1.5. Factories
nationally have added 136,000 workers to their payrolls this
year, according to Labor Department data.  
 Prices Diverge  
 The Philadelphia Fed’s index of prices paid increased to
13.1 from 10 in June. Prices received declined to minus 8.4 from
minus 6.5.  
 The inventory index was little changed at 4.5 compared with
4.6, signaling factories are adding to stockpiles.  
 The overall Philadelphia Fed index isn’t composed of the
individual measures, so some economists consider it a gauge of
sentiment among manufacturers.  
 Economists monitor the New York and Philadelphia Fed
factory reports for clues about the  Institute for Supply 
Management figures on U.S. manufacturing during the month. The
July data will be released August 2.  
 The ISM’s manufacturing gauge fell in June for a second
month after reaching in April the highest level in almost six
years.  
 Trade is helping spearhead the factory rebound. U.S.
exports have risen 11 of the 13 months through May, boosted by
surging growth in emerging Asian and Latin American countries,
according to figures from the Commerce Department.  
 Honeywell International Inc . last week won a
contract valued at more than $3 billion to supply brakes and
other parts for China’s first narrow-body passenger jet, the
company’s second award for the aircraft program.  
 Morris Township, New Jersey-based Honeywell, which
describes China as the “third pillar” of the global aviation
market, is competing for two more contracts for the C919,  Karen Crabtree , a spokeswoman for Honeywell’s aerospace division, said
by phone.  
 To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
 Bob Willis  in Washington 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Jody Bechdel, a bag machine operator, moves a roll of plastic film before being processsed into plastic bags at Hilex Poly Co.'s manufacturing plant in Milesburg, Pennsylvania. Photographer: Mike Mergen/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
