-- Piraeus Offers $897 Million for State Stakes in ATEbank, Hellenic Postbank
-- Natalie Weeks
-- 2010-07-15T16:03:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-15/piraeus-proposes-buying-stakes-in-atebank-hellenic-from-greek-government.html

          
          
             Piraeus Bank SA , Greece’s fourth-
biggest bank, offered to buy government stakes in two lenders
for 701 million euros ($897 million) after Finance Minister
 George Papaconstantinou  urged the country’s banks to merge.  
 Piraeus said it would acquire 77 percent of  Agricultural
Bank of Greece SA  for 372 million euros in cash and 33 percent
of  Hellenic Postbank SA  for 329 million euros, the bank said in
a statement. The Finance Ministry said it would study the bid.  
 The merged lender would be Greece’s biggest by deposits and
loans, and would have 105 billion euros of assets, Piraeus Chief
Executive Officer  Michalis Sallas  told reporters in Athens
today. The company would add Agricultural Bank’s 505 branches,
the second-biggest network in the country, to its 876 outlets in
Greece and overseas. It would also add Hellenic Postbank’s
outlets in the country’s post offices.  
 “Given the current conditions in Greece, the banks will be
looking to consolidate and strengthen their balance sheets,”
said  Daragh Quinn , an analyst at Nomura Holdings Inc. in London.
“It is going to be a tough couple of years.”  
 Papaconstantinou has urged lenders to “ensure their
competitiveness” after the sovereign debt crisis forced Greece
to seek 110 billion euros of aid from the European Union and
International Monetary Fund. The country, struggling through its
first recession since 1993, is implementing austerity measures
designed to bring the EU’s second-biggest budget shortfall under
control. A sale would help the government reach its target of
raising 1 billion euros a year from selling assets.  
 ‘More Solid’  
 “Everyone stands to benefit from moves and initiatives
which will make the banking system stronger, more effective and
more solid,” Papaconstantinou told parliament yesterday,
according to an e-mailed transcript from the Finance Ministry.  
 Piraeus is offering 53 cents a share for Agricultural bank,
50 percent less than yesterday’s closing price, and 3.50 euros a
share for Hellenic Bank, 30 percent more than yesterday’s close.  
 The offer is based on the net asset value of the banks,
Managing Director  Alexandros Manos  told reporters in Athens,
adding that valuations of Greek banks were “ridiculously” low.  
 Shares of all three banks jumped after a trading halt was
lifted today. Piraeus gained 13 percent to close at 4.54 euros
in Athens, Hellenic Postbank climbed 21 percent to 3.28 euros
and Agricultural Bank, also known as ATEbank, rose 6.5 percent
to 1.14 euros.  
 ECB Funding  
 Greece’s 12 banks have fallen 37 percent this year on
concern they may have to write down the value of their holdings
of government bonds. Before today, Agricultural Bank had dropped
45 percent in Athens trading for a market value of about 969
million euros. Hellenic Postbank had tumbled 39 percent to value
the lender at about 768 million euros. Piraeus has fallen  50
percent  this year, making it the worst performer of the 20
largest Greek companies.  
 Manos said the government found the plan “interesting.”
The transaction would boost the new bank’s deposits, reducing
its reliance on funding from the European Central Bank. The bank
has “excess” liquidity and capital to finance the deal.  
 “I have always said National Bank of Greece’s competitive
advantage is through its deposit structure,” he said. “My
dependence on the ECB post-deal will decline.” National Bank is
the country’s biggest bank by assets.  
 Profit Drops  
 Hellenic Postbank’s employee union has called a 24-hour
strike for tomorrow to protest the Piraeus offer.  
 Piraeus reported an 87 percent decline in first-quarter
profit as loan provisions climbed and it posted a trading loss
on Greek government bonds. Hellenic Postbank and Agricultural
Bank both swung into losses in the period.  
 EU regulators are stress-testing 91 of the region’s banks
in an effort to alleviate concerns about their ability to absorb
losses. The results are scheduled to be released on July 23.  
 Greece’s improving public finances and a series of
structural reforms “are now creating the right environment for
initiatives not just in the banking sector but the economy as a
whole,” Sallas said today.  
 The combined lenders would have a capital adequacy ratio of
about 9 percent, Sallas said. The new group would make about 300
million euros of cost savings annually, and no employee will
lose their job, he said.  
 “We are optimistic that the state has already given its
agreement,” said  Vassilios Vlastarakis , an analyst at Beta
Securities Ltd. in Athens. The combined bank would have “a
major role in the south eastern European area.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Maria Petrakis  in Athens at 
 mpetrakis@bloomberg.net ;
 Natalie Weeks  in Athens at 
 nweeks2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Greece's finance minister George Papaconstantinou. Photographer: Hannelore Foerster/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       All three banks were suspended from trading today  
                       
                         
                           Yannis Kontos/Bloomberg 
                         
                         A pedestrian leaves a branch of Piraeus Bank in Athens. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     A pedestrian leaves a branch of Piraeus Bank in Athens.  Photographer: Yannis Kontos/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
