-- Premier Plans to More Than Double Output With U.K. Field, Other Projects
-- Eduard Gismatullin
-- 2010-07-15T14:16:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-15/premier-oil-plans-to-double-crude-gas-output-boosted-by-north-sea-field.html

          
          
             Premier Oil Plc , a U.K. crude and
natural gas explorer, is examining plans to more than double
production beyond 2012 on projects including the development of
the Catcher field in the U.K. North Sea.  
 Output may rise to about 100,000 barrels a day after 2012,
Chief Financial Officer  Tony Durrant  said today in a telephone
interview. The company, based in London, plans to pump about
44,000 barrels of oil equivalent a day this year and has a
target to produce 75,000 barrels a day in 2012.  
 “We are adding new projects, but they will probably be on
stream in 2013, 2014,” Durrant said. “We are getting
increasingly comfortable with the growth beyond 75,000 barrels a
day towards a new target.”  
 Premier this year increased planned investments by about 10
percent to $600 million with a well slated at the U.K. Balmoral
field in the second half of the year. It plans three wells at
Catcher and has moved forward developments of the Pelikan and
Naga projects in Indonesia on increased natural gas demand in
Singapore.  
 “Projects are all going well in Asia,” Durrant said. “We
are increasingly comfortable that we are up to schedule.”  
 Indonesia is set to become a key driver for Premier’s
production growth next year with Vietnam offering the second
driver,  Oswald Clint , a London-based analyst at Sanford C.
Bernstein & Co., wrote in a report today. “All these
developments will undoubtedly shift the balance of production
towards Southeast Asia.”  
 The company’s shares fell 14 pence, or 1 percent, to 1,448
pence as of 3:04 p.m. in London.  
 North Sea Resources  
 The company estimates the Catcher area holds 60 million to
100 million barrels of recoverable oil reserves and expects to
find an additional 165 million barrels of potential resources
through exploration, Durrant said.  
 Premier is working on a plan for the development of the
Solan field west of the Shetland Islands, which may hold 45
million barrels of oil equivalent resources. The company may get
an option from Chrysaor Ltd. to buy 40 percent stake in the
project, according to a statement today.  
 “The work that we are doing will earn us the option,” the
CFO said. “First oil would probably be in 2013, which nicely
adds on to the developments we already have in the pipeline.”  
 The Norwegian authorities declined Premier’s request to
move forward drilling of the Gardrofa well in the North Sea from
the initially planned start in the third quarter. The government
asked for additional well documentation, Durrant said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Eduard Gismatullin  in London at 
 egismatullin@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        