-- Producer Prices in U.S. Fall More Than Forecast on Fuel, Food
-- Timothy R. Homan
-- 2010-07-15T13:19:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-15/producer-prices-in-u-s-fall-more-than-forecast-on-fuel-food.html

          
          
             Wholesale prices in the U.S. fell in
June more than forecast, pulled down by lower energy and food
costs, a sign the recovery isn’t spawning inflation.  
 The 0.5 percent decline in prices paid to factories,
farmers and other producers compared with a 0.1 percent median
drop projected in a Bloomberg survey of economists and followed
a 0.3 percent decline in May, figures from the Labor Department
showed today in Washington. Excluding food and fuel, so-called
 core prices  climbed 0.1 percent, matching the median estimate.  
 Europe’s credit crisis is prompting economists and policy
makers to trim inflation forecasts on increased prospects for
weaker global growth and a stronger U.S. dollar. Companies have
little ability to raise prices with about 25 percent of plant
space unused and  unemployment  at 9.5 percent, leaving the
Federal Reserve scope to hold its benchmark interest rate near
zero in coming months.  
 “We’re going to flirt with deflation, but we don’t think
it’s going to be a lasting period of deflation,” said Russell
 Price , a senior economist at Ameriprise Financial Inc. in
Detroit. “For now, it’s appropriately a wait-and-see attitude
for the Fed.”  
 A separate report from the Labor Department today showed
fewer Americans than projected filed applications for
unemployment benefits last week, reflecting a smaller number of
factory closings for this time of year.  
 New York Factories  
 Manufacturing in the New York region expanded in July at
the slowest pace this year as measures of orders and sales
cooled, another report showed today. The Federal Reserve Bank of
New York said its general economic index dropped to 5.1, lower
than economists estimated, from 19.6 the month before.  
 Stock futures trimmed gains after the manufacturing report.
Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 0.2 percent to
1,092.8 at 9:14 a.m. in New York after rallying as much as 0.7
percent.  
 Initial jobless  claims  dropped by 29,000 to 429,000 in the
week ended July 10, the fewest since August 2008. The government
anticipates an increase in temporary factory layoffs in early
July that did not occur this year, leading to the decrease in
applications, a Labor Department spokesman said.  
 The median forecast for producer prices was based on
estimates of 73 economists in a Bloomberg News survey.
Projections ranged from a drop of 0.8 percent to a 0.3 percent
increase.  
 Goods Prices  
 Compared with a year earlier, companies paid 2.8 percent
more for goods in June after rising 5.3 percent in the 12 months
ended in May.  
 Excluding food and energy, wholesale prices rose 1.1
percent in the 12 months ended in June after a 1.3 percent year-
over-year increase a month earlier.  
 The cost of food decreased 2.2 percent in June, the biggest
drop since April 2002, as the cost of fruits and vegetables
declined. Energy prices fell 0.5 percent last month on cheaper
heating oil and diesel fuel.  
 The European debt crisis may limit the cost of imported
goods by pushing up the value of the dollar against the euro,
making goods from the European Union cheaper.  
 Producer prices are one of three monthly inflation gauges
reported by the Labor Department. Figures yesterday showed
prices of goods imported into the U.S. fell 1.3 percent in June
after a 0.5 percent decline a month earlier.  
 The government is scheduled to release its consumer price
index tomorrow. The median estimate of economists surveyed calls
for a 0.1 percent decrease compared with May.  
 Fed Minutes  
 Fed officials last month were concerned about lingering
high unemployment and risks that inflation could decelerate
further, minutes of their June meeting showed. If the outlook
worsened, the committee would need to consider whether
additional stimulus was appropriate, according to minutes
released yesterday in Washington.  
 Prices of intermediate goods fell 0.9 percent in June and
were up 6.4 percent compared with a year earlier, today’s report
showed. Prices of crude goods dropped 2.4 percent last month and
were up 13 percent from a year ago.  
 The cost of steel mill products decreased 1.3 percent last
month.  Dan DiMicco , chief executive officer of  Nucor Corp. , is
among company leaders projecting the economic recovery will be
slow to develop. The largest U.S. steelmaker last month forecast
second-quarter earnings that trailed analysts estimates amid
weak demand from the construction industry.  
 “The economy is going to be struggling along here for a
little bit in the third quarter,” DiMicco said in a June 23
interview. He said the U.S. faces “a long road back” unless
government works with the private sector to reduce unemployment.  
 Some commodity prices are translating into higher sales for
American companies. Alcoa Inc., the largest U.S. aluminum
producer, this week reported second-quarter profit that topped
analysts’ projections as higher metal prices boosted revenue.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Timothy R. Homan  in Washington at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 15 (Bloomberg) -- U.S. initial jobless claims dropped by 29,000 to 429,000 in the week ended July 10, the fewest since August 2008, Labor Department figures showed today, reflecting a smaller number of factory closings for this time of year. Wholesale prices in the U.S. fell 0.5 percent in June, more than forecast. Bloomberg's Michael McKee reports. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 14 (Bloomberg) -- Lakshman Achuthan, managing director of the Economic Cycle Research Institute, talks with Bloomberg's Lori Rothman about Federal Reserve monetary policy and the outlook for the U.S. economy. 
     Fed officials, in their minutes released today, saw no need to boost stimulus to the economy while trimming their forecasts for growth and noting that risks to the recovery had increased, minutes of the June Federal Open Market Committee meeting showed. Bloomberg's Michael McKee and Richard Yamarone also speak. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
