-- Pruksa's Sales May Jump Fivefold on India, Vietnam Projects, Thongma Says
-- Anuchit Nguyen
-- 2010-07-15T10:03:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-15/pruksa-s-sales-may-jump-fivefold-on-india-vietnam-projects-thongma-says.html

          
          
             Pruksa Real Estate Pcl , Thailand’s
biggest publicly traded property developer, expects revenue to
jump fivefold over the next eight years as the company starts
selling homes in countries including India and Vietnam.  
 Revenue  from sales of condominiums and houses will increase
to 100 billion baht ($3.1 billion) in 2017 from 19 billion baht
last year, Chief Executive Officer  Thongma Vijitpongpun  said.
Overseas projects will provide 40 percent of total revenue by
2017, from less than 5 percent now, he said in an interview.  
 Pruksa more than doubled annual revenue in the past three
years, replacing Land & Houses Plc as the nation’s biggest
residential developer as record-low  loan costs  boosted home
sales. The company is building condominiums and houses in India,
Vietnam and Maldives, where demand is growing faster than in its
home market, Thongma said.  
 “Pruksa aims to become among the biggest property
developers in Asia,” Thongma said yesterday in Bangkok. “To
achieve that, the company will have to expand overseas because
Thailand has limited growth potential.”  
 Thongma, 53, owns a 61 percent  stake  in Pruksa valued at
25.6 billion baht, the largest holding of any individual
investor on the Stock Exchange of Thailand, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The shares climbed 2.6 percent to a
record 19.5 baht today in Bangkok.  
 ‘Cautious Approach’  
 “There’s a risk in entering overseas markets because it
lacks the knowledge and familiarity of those countries,” said
 Chanpen Sirithanarattanakul , head of research at DBS Vickers
Securities (Thailand) Co. “Still, its cautious approach with
small scale in the initial stage should help minimize risk.”  
 Pruksa’s revenue rose to a record 19 billion baht last year,
from 9.05 billion baht in 2007, as it focused on selling
residential properties to middle-income earners.  Land & Houses ’
 sales  of luxury homes and other properties fell 6.3 percent to
17.7 billion baht in 2009.  
 Pruksa’s  shares  have surged 127 percent in the past year,
compared with a 40 percent advance in the benchmark  SET Index .
Land & Houses, whose president  Anant Asavabhokhin  has  holdings 
in the company valued at 13.7 billion baht, has gained 20
percent in the same period.  
 Pruksa this week sold 180 units in a condominium project
in the Maldives for a total of 560 million baht, Chief Operating
Officer  Prasert Taedullayasatit  said. The company plans to sell
1,000 units in the country over the next four years, he said.  
 India, Vietnam Expansion  
 Pruksa will start construction of a 1.6 billion baht villa-
and town-house project in Bangalore, India, this month. It will
also introduce a 3 billion baht condominium project in Hai Phong,
Vietnam, Prasert said.  
 “The research indicated huge demand for residential
properties among middle-income people in the three countries,”
he said. “More projects will come after these pilot projects
are successful.”  
 Pruksa is also studying plans for new projects in Chennai
and Mumbai in India and Jakarta in Indonesia.  
 Sales in 2011 may rise to 30 billion baht because of the
new projects, Prasert said.  
 The company targets Thai customers earning about 35,000
baht a month for its residential  projects , he said.  
 Pruksa plans to start selling 68 new projects in Bangkok
and nearby provinces this year, up from 48 announced in May,
Prasert said.  
 “Its target of middle-income earners in Thailand and
overseas markets should give the company huge market
potential,” DBS’s Chanpen said. “There is vast untapped demand
for this market in Thailand and the region.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Anuchit Nguyen  in Bangkok at 
 anguyen@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Thongma Vijitpongpun, chief executive officer of Pruksa Real Estate, speaks during an interview in Bangkok. Photographer: Udo Weitz/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       The IVY Thonglor condominium building  
                       
                         
                           Udo Weitz/Bloomberg 
                         
                         A worker closes the gate to the construction site of the IVY Thonglor condominium building, being built by Pruksa Real Estate Pcl in Bangkok. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     A worker closes the gate to the construction site of the IVY Thonglor condominium building, being built by Pruksa Real Estate Pcl in Bangkok. Photographer: Udo Weitz/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
