-- Rand Weakens on Recovery Concern; NTT's Dimension Data Offer Caps Decline
-- Garth Theunissen
-- 2010-07-15T15:06:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-15/rand-reverses-losses-japan-s-ntt-to-buy-dimension-data-for-3-2-billion.html

          
          
             The rand snapped a two-day gain
versus the dollar on concern the global recovery may stall.
Declines were capped after Japan’s largest phone company agreed
to buy South Africa’s  Dimension Data Plc  for $3.2 billion.  
 The rand weakened 0.4 percent to 7.5612 per dollar by 5:02
p.m. in Johannesburg, from a previous close of 7.5310. Earlier,
the rand declined as much as 0.7 percent to 7.5841.  
 Emerging-market stocks slumped after the Federal Reserve
cut its growth forecast and China’s economic expansion slowed,
reducing investors’ appetite for risk. About half of  Nippon
Telegraph & Telephone Corp. ’s offer for  Dimension Data Plc  will
flow to South Africa when the deal concludes in October,  Brett Dawson , chief executive officer of Didata, said on a conference
call with reporters today.  
 “People still aren’t convinced about strength of the
global recovery so risk is coming off the table,” said  Ian Martin , a currency strategist at Rand Merchant Bank in
Johannesburg. The Didata deal “is generally rand-positive but
the market is waiting for more detail on exactly how the deal is
structured,” he said. “If the inflows are smoothed out over
time it could have a limited impact on the currency.”  
 Fed officials trimmed their forecasts for growth and noted
that risks to the recovery had increased though they see no need
to boost stimulus to the economy, minutes of their June meeting
showed late yesterday. Economic growth in China, the world’s
fastest-growing major economy, slowed to 10.3 percent in the
second quarter, from 11.9 percent in the first three months of
the year, signaling a deeper second-half slowdown.  
 A report today also showed New York manufacturing trailed
economists’ estimates, overshadowing a bigger-than-forecast
decrease in jobless claims.  
 Bonds, Money-Market  
 The rand slipped versus all bar two of the 16 most-actively
traded currencies monitored by Bloomberg, losing most against
the Swiss franc. Against the euro, the rand depreciated 1.5
percent to 9.7518 while it weakened 1.3 percent versus the pound
to 11.6422.  
 Government bonds fell in South Africa for a second day,
with the benchmark 13.5 percent security due September 2015
falling 20 cents to 123.93 rand. The yield on the bond rose 4
basis points to 7.76 percent.  
 Investors raised bets that South Africa’s central bank may
lower its 6.5 percent benchmark interest rate when it next meets
on July 22, forward-rate agreements show. The cost of  three-
month contracts for cash in one month  fell 2 basis points to
6.42 percent.  
 South Africa’s National Treasury bought an estimated $2.2
billion of foreign currency this year to boost reserves,
limiting gains in the rand during the nation’s hosting of the
soccer World Cup, Citigroup Inc. said in a research note. The
foreign-exchange purchases included $700 million in June,
according to the note, which was based on data published by the
 central bank .  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Garth Theunissen  in Johannesburg 
 gtheunissen@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        