-- Sugar May Rise 12% in Fourth Quarter Before Drop, Producers Say
-- Supunnabul Suwannakij
-- 2010-07-15T01:34:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-15/raw-sugar-may-advance-12-in-fourth-quarter-before-dropping-producers-say.html

          
          
             Sugar may gain as much as 12 percent
in the fourth quarter from current prices, supported by “strong
demand” in  Asia , before likely declining next year as output
from  Brazil  and India expands, producers and analysts said.  
 “We may see sugar trade in a range of 15 to 19 cents a
pound over the next four months, driven by demand in Asia,”
said Parin Amatyakul, vice president of Mitr Phol Sugar Corp.,
the largest miller in  Thailand , the second-biggest exporter.  
 Prices of raw sugar have surged 32 percent from a one-year
low of 13 cents a pound on May 7 on speculation that demand will
increase in  Indonesia  and  China , the world’s second-biggest
consumer. Raw sugar for October delivery on ICE Futures in New
York dropped 1.2 percent to 16.97 cents a pound yesterday.  
 Prices more than doubled last year as crop damage in Brazil
and  India , the biggest producers, crimped supplies. Refined
sweetener peaked at $767 a metric ton in January and raw sugar
touched a 29-year high of 30.4 cents a pound the following month,
before tumbling on speculation that farmers in the two nations
would increase plantings, raising output.  
 “Strong demand coming out of Asia and the Middle East
supports prices,”  Peter McGuire , managing director at CWA
Global Markets Pty., said by phone from Sydney. “We’re bullish
on the sugar outlook and will not be surprised to see it at 17.5
to 18.5 cents at the start of the fourth quarter,” he said
before the 16th Asia International Sugar Conference, which
begins today in Bali, Indonesia.  
 The Philippines will buy 150,000 tons of sugar for delivery
by September to cover requirements after milling was delayed,
Agriculture Secretary Proceso Alcala said July 9. The  Philippines  plans to “fast track” sugar imports, Alcala said.  
 Tumbling Prices  
 “Demand in Asia will support sugar prices in the range of
16-17 cents a pound in the fourth quarter,” Prasert Tapaneeyangkul, secretary-general of the Office of the Cane and
Sugar Board, said from Bangkok on July 13. “Although Brazil’s
output will increase, its distance is quite far to supply hefty
demand in the region, while Indian crops are still uncertain.”  
 Thai sugar output in the season starting November may
plunge by as much as 13 percent from the previous year to about
6 million tons as delayed rain and subsequent floods will likely
damage cane crops, Prasert said.  
 Still, raw-sugar prices may tumble in the fourth quarter as
bigger harvests from India and Brazil, the two largest producers,
swell supplies and the global market shifts to a surplus,
according to researcher F.O. Licht.  
 Futures in  New York  may decline to between 13 cents and 15
cents a pound between October and December,  Stefan Uhlenbrock ,
an analyst at the Ratzeburg, Germany-based researcher, said in
an interview on July 12.  
 Indian Crops  
 “The price is unlikely to fall below 14 cents in the first
quarter of 2011 as buyers are likely to accumulate sugar near
that level,” Mitr Phol’s Parin said from Bangkok.  
 Indian crop prospects are “quite good,” Uhlenbrock said.
“Output may be as much as 26 million tons of white-sugar
value,” he said, referring to the refined product. “If
production comes in at this level, there could be a case for
India to export as much as 1 million tons next year.”  
 India may have enough sugar to ship at least 1 million tons
in the year from Oct. 1, entering the export market for the
first time in two years,  Narendra Murkumbi , managing director of  Shree Renuka Sugars Ltd ., said on July 9.  
 India may produce 25 million tons in the 2010-2011 year, up
from an estimated 18.7 million tons this season, according to
the  Indian Sugar Mills Association . That may swell a global
surplus forecast at 5.64 million tons by  Fortis Bank Nederland 
and VM Group. The  International Sugar Organization  said in May
the surplus for the year from October may total 2.5 million tons.  
 Brazil is expected to harvest a record sugar-cane crop of
about 41 million tons in the coming season,  Peter Baron , the
organization’s executive director, said in an interview
yesterday. The country is forecast to produce 36 million tons in
the current season.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Supunnabul Suwannakij in Bangkok at 
 ssuwannakij@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        