-- RBS Africa Notes Offer Impala, MTN, Sasol Risk to International Investors
-- Sarfraz Thind
-- 2010-07-15T11:11:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-15/rbs-s-africa-notes-offer-impala-sasol-mtn-risk-to-international-buyers.html

          
          
             Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc
issued its first listed-structured notes linked to Africa’s
largest companies including Impala Platinum Holdings Ltd., oil
producer Sasol Ltd. and phone operator MTN Group Ltd.  
 The securities track  Standard & Poor’s Africa 40 Index , a
benchmark of 40 African stocks that’s risen 16 percent this
year, compared with declines in U.S. and European indexes. The
euro-denominated notes are listed on the Frankfurt and Stuttgart
stock exchanges, according to RBS.  
 “Africa wasn’t hit as badly by the financial crisis as
other markets and is seen to offer uncorrelated returns from
U.S. and European equities,” said  Kemal Bagci , a Frankfurt-
based director in RBS’s equity derivatives unit that helped
create the notes. “The continent has also been in strong focus
during the World Cup.”  
 RBS issued 24 notes in so-called discount and bonus format.
Discount certificates allow investors to buy assets below market
prices, but cap gains at a pre-set level. The bank’s 18 discount
notes were issued with purchase values ranging from index levels
of 183.8 to 273, and caps ranging from 200 to 300. The S&P
Africa 40 stood at 282.24 at 12:03 p.m. in London.  
 The bank also issued six bonus certificates, which pay a
premium as long as the underlying index doesn’t drop below a
pre-set level. If the index falls below the barrier, the
investor only receives money equal to the market value of the
index, which may be more or less than the initial investment.  
 RBS’s certificates pay bonuses ranging from 10.1 percent,
with a barrier of 65 percent of the issue price, to 17 percent,
with a 77 percent barrier. The notes have maturities of one to
three years.  
 The initial target issuance size of each bonus and discount
note series is 1 million euros ($1.3 million), which includes
annual management fees of 0.75 percent, according to RBS.
Investors can buy a minimum of one certificate at its prevailing
trading price.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sarfraz Thind  in London at 
 Sthind3@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        