-- Treasury Two-Year Yield Near Record Low as Industrial Output Probably Fell
-- Wes Goodman
-- 2010-07-15T09:25:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-15/treasuries-rise-after-asian-stocks-decline-on-concerns-u-s-growth-slowing.html

          
          
             U.S. Treasury two-year yields held
within three basis points of a record low before reports today
that may show U.S. industrial production and wholesale prices
fell in June.  
 Ten-year yields were little changed as Treasury Inflation
Protected Notes showed investors lowered their expectations of
future consumer-price gains for a second day, after policy
makers trimmed economic growth forecasts in minutes of the
Federal Reserve’s June meeting. Futures contracts show traders
cut bets the Fed will raise its benchmark interest rate by April
to 46 percent, from 52 percent a week ago, based on trades on
the CME Group Inc. exchange in Chicago.  
 “A weak industrial production headline will reinforce
fears in the market that the global economic recovery is
faltering,” said  Kornelius Purps , a fixed-income strategist at
UniCredit SpA in Munich. “People are paring back expectations
on rate hikes by the Fed. Treasuries will remain well-supported
in this environment.”  
 The yield on the 10-year Treasury note fell one basis point
to 3.04 percent at 10:11 a.m. in London, according to BGCantor
Market Data. The two-year Treasury note yielded 0.61 percent.
The 0.625 percent security due in June 2012 traded at a price of
100 1/32. Yields fell to a  record  0.5856 percent on June 30.  
 The  difference  between yields on 10-year  notes  and TIPS, a
gauge of trader expectations for consumer prices, narrowed to
1.84 percentage points, from this year’s high of 2.49 percentage
points in January.  
 U.S. and German bonds pared gains after Spain auctioned the
maximum amount of debt it targeted at an offering this morning,
garnering increased demand. Investors seeking the safest assets
had bid up Treasuries and bunds this year amid concern about
budget deficits in European nations including Spain.  
 Industrial Production  
 U.S. industrial production fell 0.1 percent in June from
the prior month, the first decline in a year, according to the
median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey of 76 economists
before the Fed report. The Labor Department will probably say
prices paid to factories, farmers and other producers slid for a
third month, a separate survey showed.  
 Fukoku Mutual Life Insurance Co. shifted funds to
Treasuries, German bonds and French securities this month,
seeking higher yields as rates in Japan tumbled, according to
 Satoshi Okumoto , general manager in Tokyo. Japan’s 10-year rate
fell to 1.055 percent on July 1, a level not seen since 2003.  
 Ten-year Treasuries offer 1.9 percentage points of extra
 yield  compared with similar-maturity Japanese notes, with the
spread narrowing from a high for this year of 2.61 percentage
points, reached in April.  
 Increased Risks  
 Ten-year  yields  may decline to 2.75 percent by year-end,
said  Mitsuo Masuda , manager of fixed-income investments at
Japan’s third-largest life insurer by policy holders.  
 “Concerns about slowing growth will cap any spikes in bond
yields and create the basis for declines in yields toward the
end of this year,” Tokyo-based Masuda said in an interview.  
 Treasuries gained yesterday after minutes of the Fed’s June
meeting showed policy makers noted that risks to the economic
recovery were increasing. U.S. central bankers lowered their
forecast for 2010 growth to 3 percent to 3.5 percent, from 3.2
percent to 3.7 percent in April.  
 “The economic outlook had softened somewhat and a number
of members saw the risks to the outlook as having shifted to the
downside,” according to the Fed’s minutes. “A few participants
cited some risk of deflation” at the meeting, policy makers
wrote.  
 The risk of prices falling in the U.S. is “overrated,”
analysts at Deutsche Bank AG, one of the 18 primary dealers that
trade directly with the Fed, said in a report yesterday.  
 Inflation Recovery  
 “So long as the economy continues to recover, even at a
sluggish pace, inflation could soon bottom and begin moving
higher,” according to the report by analysts including Deutsche
Bank’s chief economist  Peter Hooper . “This means the Fed’s ‘low
for long’ policy could well be abbreviated.”  
 Bank of America Merrill Lynch, another primary dealer, said
investors should be “overweight” stocks and “underweight”
bonds.  
 “We recommend selectively adding to risk,” strategists
 Michael Hartnett  and  Joseph Zidle  wrote in a report July 13.
There’s “no apocalypse” in the economy, they wrote.  
 Government securities also rose yesterday after the U.S.
sold $13 billion of 30-year bonds at a lower-than-forecast yield
and data showed  retail sales  dropped for a second month in June.  
 The auction drew a yield of 4.08 percent, the lowest since
October, compared with an average forecast of 4.108 percent in a
Bloomberg News survey of eight primary dealers. Thirty-year
bonds benefit from slowing inflation more than shorter-dated
securities.  
 Deflation Concern  
 “The Fed is on record talking about deflation, which they
haven’t in some time,” said  Thomas Tucci , head of U.S.
government bond trading in New York at primary dealer Royal Bank
of Canada. “When the Fed starts to identify things by name,
that means it is seriously on their minds, and this is helping
the market.”  
 The U.S. consumer-price index fell 0.1 percent in June, a
third monthly decline, according to a Bloomberg survey before
the Labor Department reports the figure tomorrow. Excluding food
and energy, prices increased 0.9 percent from a year earlier,
matching the smallest annual gain since 1966, economists
predicted.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Anchalee Worrachate  in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net ;
 Wes Goodman  in Singapore at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        