-- Treasury Two-Year Yield Drops to Record Low on Economic Slowdown Concern
-- Susanne Walker
-- 2010-07-15T19:25:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-15/treasury-two-year-yield-drops-to-record-low-on-economic-slowdown-concern.html

          
          
             Treasuries rose, pushing two-year
note yields to a record low, after Federal Reserve reports
showing that manufacturing cooled in the Philadelphia and New
York regions raised concern the economic recovery is faltering.  
 Yields on  two-year notes , the most sensitive to changes in
 central bank  policy, touched 0.5767 percent, the lowest since
regular sales of the securities began in 1975. Bank of America
Merrill Lynch Index data show Treasuries gained 1.3 percent in
the past month, versus a 2.5 percent drop in the  Standard &
Poor’s 500  Index, as investors sought the relative safety of
U.S. government debt.  
 “We’ve had weak manufacturing data and a drop in equities
that are weighing on the Treasury market,” said  Michael Cloherty , head of interest-rate strategy in New York at Royal
Bank of Canada, one of the 18 primary dealers that trade
directly with the Fed. “The fundamental low-growth economic
picture hasn’t changed. Still, yields this low require constant
bad news to hold.”  
 The  yield  on the 10-year Treasury note dropped 7 basis
points, or 0.07 percentage point, to 2.97 percent at 3:23 p.m.
in New York, according to BGCantor Market Data. It touched 2.96
percent, the lowest level since July 7. The 3.5 percent security
maturing in May 2020 rose 5/8, or $6.25 per $1,000 face amount,
to 104 15/32.  
 Thirty-year  yields fell 7 basis points to a one-week low of
3.96 percent. The two-year yield’s previous record low, 0.5856
percent, was reached on June 30.  
 Yield Curve  
 The extra yield that investors demand to hold Treasury 10-
year notes over 2-year securities, known as the yield curve,
narrowed 6 basis points, the most in more than two weeks, to 238
basis points. It touched 294 basis points on Feb. 18, the
steepest ever.  
 “The perception is that there is an economic slowdown,”
said  Andy Richman , who oversees $10 billion as a strategist in
Palm Beach, Florida for SunTrust Bank’s private wealth
management division. “The Fed is in no hurry to raise rates.”  
 Traders reduced bets policy makers will raise the benchmark
interest rate by their January meeting, futures on the CME Group
Inc. exchange showed. The probability fell to 23 percent, from
43 percent a month ago. The rate has been at a record low range
of zero to 0.25 percent since December 2008.  
 A gauge of  trader expectations  for prices, the gap between
yields on U.S. 10-year notes and Treasury Inflation Protected
Securities, narrowed to 1.81 percentage points today from this
year’s high of 2.49 percentage points in January.  
 Consumer Price Report  
 A Labor Department report tomorrow will show the consumer
price index fell 0.1 percent in June, a third monthly decline,
according to the median forecast in a Bloomberg survey.  
 The S&P 500 Index fell as much as 1.3 percent before paring
losses to 0.8 percent  
 Minutes released yesterday of the Federal Open Market
Committee’s June meeting showed officials noted that risks to
the recovery increased. The Fed trimmed its outlook for
inflation this year to a range of 1 percent to 1.1 percent, down
from 1.2 percent to 1.5 percent in April.  
 U.S. securities extended gains after data showed
 manufacturing in the Philadelphia region  cooled in July as
orders fell for the first time in a year. The Fed Bank of
Philadelphia’s general economic index fell to 5.1, the lowest
level since August 2009, from 8 in June. Readings above zero
signal growth.  
 ‘Poor Data’  
 “There has been a continuing string of poor data, which is
at odds with the positive earnings season,” said  George Goncalves , head of interest-rate strategy at primary dealer
Nomura Holdings Inc. “The data is telling you things are
slowing down.”  
 The New York Fed’s general economic gauge, known as the
 Empire State Index , dropped to 5.1, lower than the median
forecast of 18 in a Bloomberg News survey of economists, data
showed today.  
 U.S. manufacturing output moved down 0.4 percent in June
after three months of gains at or near 1 percent, a Fed report
on industrial production showed.  
 The Fed lowered its central tendency forecast for 2010
growth to a range of 3 percent to 3.5 percent versus 3.2 percent
to 3.7 percent in April, the bank’s June meeting minutes showed.  
 “The economic outlook had softened somewhat, and a number
of members saw the risks to the outlook as having shifted to the
downside,” the Fed’s. “A few participants cited some risk of
deflation,” the minutes said.  
 Budget Deficit  
 The Fed and U.S. agencies have lent, spent or guaranteed
about $8.2 trillion to lift the economy from the worst slump
since the Great Depression, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The White House budget office projects the  federal
deficit  this year will exceed $1.5 trillion, or 10.6 percent of
gross domestic product, and anticipates the deficit five years
into the future will remain as high as $751 billion.  
 Former Fed Chairman  Alan Greenspan  said reducing the
deficit is “going to be far more difficult than anybody
imagines” after “a decade of major increases in federal
spending and major tax cuts.”  
 “Unless we start to come to grips with this long-term
outlook, we are going to have major problems,” said Greenspan,
who led the U.S. central bank from 1987 to 2006.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Cordell Eddings  in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net ;
 Susanne Walker  in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        