-- Treasuries, Japanese Bonds to Rise as Profit Optimism Wanes, Sumitomo Says
-- Nobuyuki Akama
-- 2010-07-15T03:35:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-15/treasuries-japanese-bonds-to-rise-as-profit-optimism-wanes-sumitomo-says.html

          
          
             Government bonds are poised to rally
around the world as optimism company earnings will accelerate in
the U.S. tapers off, according to Sumitomo Life Insurance Co.  
 Ten-year Treasury  yields  may decline to 2.75 percent and
similar-maturity Japanese yields drop toward 1 percent by year-
end as concern over the global economic slowdown resurfaces,
said  Mitsuo Masuda , manager of fixed-income investment in Tokyo
at Japan’s third-largest life insurer by policy holders.  
 “The latest round of rising bond yields, driven by
encouraging profit reports from companies like Alcoa, will not
last long,” Masuda said in an interview. As governments around
the globe withdraw stimulus measures, “concern over the
deceleration of economic growth will strengthen,” he said.  
 The 10-year Treasury note yielded 3.04 percent as of 12:19
p.m. in Tokyo, according to BGCantor Market Data, and Japan’s
10-year  bond  yielded 1.105 percent at Japan Bond Trading Co.  
 The Treasury yield has climbed 16 basis points and Japan’s
has risen 5 basis points from this year’s lows on July 1 as
speculation U.S. corporate earnings will quicken this quarter
damped demand for the relative safety of government debt.  
 Alcoa Inc. , the largest U.S. aluminum producer, reported
second-quarter sales and profit that beat estimates on July 12,
and  Intel Corp.  the following day topped analyst estimates with
its sales forecast.  
 Profit Forecasts  
 Earnings  for companies in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
companies are projected to have increased 34 percent in the
second quarter and rise by the same amount in 2010, according to
analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  
 The euphoria about U.S. earnings isn’t sustainable as the
economy is hostage to a range of downside risks, Masuda said.  
 “Concerns about slowing growth will cap any spikes in bond
yields and create the basis for declines in yields toward the
end of this year,” he said  
 Federal Reserve officials said in minutes of their June 23
meeting released yesterday that they were concerned about
lingering high unemployment and the risk inflation may
decelerate further.  
 “The economic outlook had softened somewhat and a number
of members saw the risks to the outlook as having shifted to the
downside,” the minutes showed. “The changes to the outlook
were viewed as relatively modest and as not warranting policy
accommodation beyond that already in place.”  
 Given emerging downside risks to the economy, “the Fed may
not be able to hike interest rates at least until the middle of
next year,” Masuda said.  
 Rate Outlook  
 Futures on the Chicago Mercantile Exchange show a 14
percent chance the Fed will raise its  benchmark rate  from
between zero and 0.25 percent by its December meeting, compared
with 27 percent likelihood a month earlier.  
 Given the declining risk of higher global interest rates,
low hedging costs and the possibility of a stronger yen, buying
Treasuries with money borrowed at the London interbank offered
rate for dollars “offers an attractive investment
opportunity,” Masuda said.  
 Three-month dollar Libor was 52.6 basis points yesterday,
rising from 0.251 percent at the start of the year.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Yasuhiko Seki  in Tokyo at 
 Yseki5@bloomberg.net ;
 Nobuyuki Akama  in Tokyo at 
 akam@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 13 (Bloomberg) -- Greg Peters, global head of fixed-income research at Morgan Stanley, talks about the outlook for the U.S. economic recovery and the state of global sovereign debt markets.
     Peters speaks with Margaret Brennan on Bloomberg Television's "InBusiness." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
