-- Record Build America Risk Premium Boosts Cost for Los Angeles College Debt
-- Brendan A. McGrail
-- 2010-07-15T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-15/record-build-america-risk-premium-boosts-cost-for-los-angeles-college-debt.html

          
          
             Los Angeles Community College
District , the largest two-year system in the U.S., plans to sell
$900 million in Build America Bonds as the yield premium that
investors demand on the debt rose to a record.  
 The taxable offering include maturities of 32 and 39 years
that may be priced to yield 255 and 270 basis points
respectively above the  benchmark  30-year Treasury, according to
a person with direct knowledge of the sale. A basis point is
0.01 percentage point.  
 The so-called  spread  rose to 207 basis points on average
yesterday from about 150 three months ago, according to a Wells
Fargo index that began last August. The reading comes as
 Treasury yields  have fallen about 50 basis points since May 3
amid signs of a slowing economy.  
 “Of all the ‘L.A.’ names, the community college district
is the best name right now,” said  Bud Byrnes , chief executive
officer of Encino, California-based RH Investment Corp., which
specializes in the state’s securities. “It’s really well
regarded and trades well, but it’s getting tainted by the fact
it has ‘L.A.’ in it.”  
 The City of Los Angeles had its debt rating cut one level
to Aa3, fourth-highest, by Moody’s Investors Service and one
step lower, to A+, by Fitch Ratings in April on difficulties in
balancing the budget of the nation’s second-largest city by
population.  
 The  district , with 141,000 enrolled students on nine
campuses, plans to use today’s federally subsidized issue for
construction and renovation, including a so-called green-
technology student union at  Los Angeles City College  and a
performing-arts center at  Los Angeles Valley College .  
 Additional Sales  
 The district is also scheduled to issue $175 million in
tax-exempts today, according to data compiled by Bloomberg, and
is “contemplating” the sale of $125 million in other taxable
bonds, Chief Financial Officer Jeanette Gordon said in an e-
mail, without providing details.  
 Moody’s rated today’s issuance at Aa1 or second-highest.
The last time the college district came to market, it ranked a
step lower, at Aa2, prior to a recalibration to make
classification of municipal debt comparable with corporates.  
 The 2008 issue of $621 million in tax-exempts sold at a
premium with investors paying more than 102 cents on the dollar
for 25-year maturities, according to Bloomberg data. The yield
of 4.69 percent was  11 basis points below  top-rated 25-year
general obligations, according to Municipal Market Advisors.  
 Those bonds traded July 7 at a 4.83 percent average yield,
62 basis points  above benchmark  AAA debt due in 2033.  
 Illinois Spreads  
 Yield spreads shrank on $900 million in Build America Bonds
offered yesterday by Illinois, which investors may see again
today, said  Alan Schankel , director of fixed-income research at
Janney Montgomery Scott LLC in Philadelphia.  
 “When it started out, the talk was like 360, and it ended
up at 325” basis points above Treasuries, Schankel said of
Illinois’ offering. After the Philadelphia area’s Delaware River
Port Authority decided against issuing BABs last week, that
created additional demand for Illinois, he said.  
 “Municipal credit concerns” as states struggle to close
deficits amid declining revenue helped push Build America
spreads wider, Janney analysts wrote in a monthly report
released yesterday. Anticipation of the Illinois sale also
“has had a negative impact on all BAB levels,” they wrote.  
 “We believe that BAB spreads will again narrow, as credit
concerns begin to recede and the market presence of BABs
increases,” the report said.  
 Yields on top-rated, tax-exempt general obligations fell 2
basis points yesterday to an average of  2.91 percent , the
lowest in at least nine-and-a-half years, according to MMA data
dating to January 2001.  
 Build America issuers have sold about $120 billion of the
securities since their creation last year as part of the federal
economic stimulus.  
 Following are descriptions of pending sales of municipal
debt in the U.S.:  
 MIAMI-DADE COUNTY, whose Miami International Airport is the
largest U.S. gateway to Latin America, plans to offer about $524
million in aviation-revenue bonds as early as next week. The
securities, rated the fourth-lowest investment grade at A- by
S&P, and fifth-lowest by both Moody’s, at A2, and Fitch, at A,
will be used for capital improvements and to refinance debt. The
bonds will be marketed by a group led by JPMorgan Chase & Co.
(Added July 13)  
 NEW YORK CITY, the third-largest municipal borrower in the
U.S., plans to sell $800 million in general-obligation bonds the
week of July 26 to refinance debt. The bonds, rated Aa2 by
Moody’s and AA by S&P and Fitch, all third-highest, will be
marketed by a group led by Barclay’s Plc. (Added July 15)  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Justin Doom  in New York at 
 jdoom@bloomberg.net ;
 Brendan A. McGrail  in New York at 
 bmcgrail@bloomberg.net ;  
          
          


  


        