-- Renesas May Quadruple Modem Chip Sales After Buying Nokia Unit
-- Mikako Nakajima
-- 2010-07-15T03:24:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-15/renesas-aims-to-quadruple-sales-of-modem-chips-after-buying-nokia-s-unit.html

          
          
             Renesas Electronics Corp. , the
Japanese chipmaker that’s buying  Nokia Oyj ’s wireless modem
business, plans to quadruple its sales of chips used to connect
wireless devices to phone networks and the Internet by 2015.  
 The $200 million purchase of Nokia’s wireless modem
business announced July 6 will help the company’s wireless
division boost sales fourfold to $4.5 billion in five years,
Senior Vice President Hideaki Chaki said in a July 13 interview
in Tokyo. The acquisition will pay for itself by 2013, he said.  
 Renesas is challenging industry leaders ST-Ericsson and
 Qualcomm Inc.  to tap a modem market that is growing as portable
devices such as smartphones and car-navigation systems
proliferate. The acquisition of Nokia’s business, to be finished
by the end of the year, gives Renesas 1,100 of the Espoo,
Finland-based company’s engineers and at least 35 percent of the
market, Chaki said.  
 “If we had tried to build those markets from zero it would
have taken years and the investment would have been huge,” he
said. “We’re getting it overnight.”  
 Renesas  fell 2.7 percent to 843 yen on the Tokyo Stock
Exchange as of the 11 a.m. trading break, while the benchmark
 Nikkei 225 Stock Average  dropped 1 percent. The company, a
merger of chipmakers NEC Electronics Corp. and  Renesas
Technologies Corp.  that started on April 1, has risen 11 percent
since the Nokia unit acquisition was announced.  
 Renesas, which specializes in making semiconductors that
control products ranging from air bags to DVD players, will be
profitable on an operating basis in the 12 months ending March
31, and post net income the following year, the company said May
11. Combining the two Japanese chipmakers would help them raise
overseas sales to 60 percent of the total, compared with 44
percent last fiscal year, helped by demand from emerging markets,
it said.  
 “If you’re doing business globally, you need more than
Japanese engineers,” Chaki said. “You have to branch out.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jason Clenfield  in Tokyo at 
 jclenfield@bloomberg.net ;
 Mikako Nakajima  in Tokyo at 
 mikako@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        