-- Renesas Aims to Quadruple Sales of Modem Chips After Buying Nokia's Unit
-- Mikako Nakajima
-- 2010-07-15T07:26:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-15/renesas-aims-to-quadruple-sales-of-modem-chips-after-buying-nokia-unit.html

          
          
             Renesas Electronics Corp. , the
Japanese chipmaker that’s buying  Nokia Oyj ’s wireless modem
business, plans to quadruple sales of chips used to connect
wireless devices to phone networks and the Internet by 2015.  
 The $200 million purchase of Nokia’s wireless modem
business announced on July 6 will help the company’s wireless
division boost sales fourfold to $4.5 billion in five years,
Senior Vice President Hideaki Chaki said in a July 13 interview
in Tokyo. The acquisition will pay for itself by 2013, he said.  
 Renesas is challenging industry leader  Qualcomm Inc.  to tap
a modem market that is growing as portable devices such as
smartphones and car-navigation systems proliferate. The
acquisition of Nokia’s business, to be finished by the end of
the year, gives Renesas 1,100 of the Espoo, Finland-based
company’s engineers and at least 35 percent of the market, Chaki
said.  
 “If we had tried to build those markets from zero it would
have taken years and the investment would have been huge,” he
said. “We’re getting it overnight.”  
 Renesas  fell 3.6 percent to close at 835 yen on the Tokyo
Stock Exchange, while the benchmark  Nikkei 225 Stock Average 
dropped 1.1 percent.  
 The company, which came from a merger of chipmakers NEC
Electronics Corp. and  Renesas Technologies Corp.  and started
business on April 1, has risen 10 percent since the Nokia unit
acquisition was announced.  
 Supplying Chips  
 Nokia in 2009 supplied almost 29 percent of the modem chip-
sets used inside so-called 3G handsets, phones and other
wireless devices that allow users to access the internet, a 5
percentage point decline from a year earlier, according to
Tokyo-based  Techno Systems Research Co.   
 San Diego, California  Qualcomm  supplied 36 percent of the
market, up from 27.4 percent from the previous year, the
research firm said.  
 Renesas, which specializes in making semiconductors that
control products ranging from air bags to DVD players, will be
profitable on an operating basis in the 12 months ending March
31, and post net income the following year, the company said on
May 11.  
 Combining the two Japanese chipmakers would help them raise
overseas sales to 60 percent of the total, compared with 44
percent last fiscal year, helped by demand from emerging
markets, the company said.  
 “If you’re doing business globally, you need more than
Japanese engineers,” Chaki said. “You have to branch out.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jason Clenfield  in Tokyo at 
 jclenfield@bloomberg.net ;
 Mikako Nakajima  in Tokyo at 
 mikako@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        