-- Rice Production Forecast Pared by UN's Food Agency After Dry Spell in Asia
-- Luzi Ann Javier
-- 2010-07-15T02:24:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-15/rice-production-forecast-pared-by-un-s-food-agency-after-dry-spell-in-asia.html

          
          
             Global production of rough rice, the
staple for half the world’s population, may be less than
estimated earlier this year after prolonged dry weather in the
Mekong River region hurt crops, the United Nations said.  
 Output may be 704.4 million metric tons this year, or 470
million tons of milled grain, the U.N.’s Food and Agriculture
Organization said in a report yesterday after paring estimates
for harvests in Asia, including Thailand. That compares with
April’s forecast for record output of 710 million tons. Global
demand was projected at 461 million tons of milled grain,
yesterday’s report said, up from April’s forecast of 454 million.  
 Dry weather pushed water levels in the Mekong to their
lowest level in 30 years near Thailand’s border with Laos, the
Thai government said in March. The river also runs through China,
Myanmar, Cambodia and Vietnam and the areas that rely on it for
irrigation grow  enough rice  to feed 300 million people,
according to the Mekong River Commission website.  
 “The pattern of the monsoon rains over Asia will hold
particular sway” for prices, the e-mailed report said. Rainfall
will determine India’s potential return to the global market as
a rice supplier or lower the availability of exports from
countries including Thailand and Pakistan, it said.  
 India’s monsoon, the main source of irrigation for the
nation’s 235 million farmers, was 13 percent below normal as of
yesterday, the India Meteorological Department said on its
website. The monsoon was 16 percent below normal in June.  
 The FAO’s  Rice Price Index , a gauge of 16 prices from
around the world, fell 15 percent between January and June on
better-than-expected output in India, the world’s second-largest
grower and consumer of the grain.  
 Rice futures in Chicago, which peaked last December at
$16.27 per 100 pounds on concern that India may become a net
importer for the first time in more than two decades, traded
today at $9.84 per 100 pounds.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
s Luzi Ann Javier  in Singapore at 
 ljavier@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        