-- Throw the Bums Out as Long as My Bum Stays Put: Caroline Baum
-- Caroline Baum
-- 2010-07-15T01:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-15/throw-the-bums-out-as-long-as-my-bum-stays-put-caroline-baum.html

          
          
             Everywhere you turn, anti-incumbent
sentiment is on the rise.  
 You can see it in opinion polls, where six in 10 Americans,
the highest ever, say most members of Congress don’t deserve to
be re-elected, according to a June 11-13  Gallup  survey.  
 You can see it in primary ballots, where long-serving
lawmakers are being booted in favor of Tea Party candidates and
other outsiders.  
 And you can see it at town meetings, at social gatherings
and on talk radio, where ordinary Americans are eager to voice
their discontent with the culture in Washington.  
 In fact, the only place you probably won’t see it is at the
bi-annual congressional elections. Incumbency, it turns out, is
the best credential for winning an election.  
 Maybe this time is different (I didn’t really write that,
did I?), and come November, voters will throw the bums out once
and for all. Anti-incumbent sentiment seems to be a staple of
American politics, even as voters return almost anyone who asks
to office.  
 In the House of Representatives, the  incumbency rate  has
averaged 93.3 percent since 1964, according to the Center for
Responsive Politics, a non-partisan independent research group
tracking money in politics. It dipped below 90 percent only five
times in the last 23 elections. The low was 85 percent in 1970.  
 Devil I Know  
 Even revolutions don’t produce a dramatic shake-up in the
 composition  of the House of Representatives. The Reagan
Revolution of 1980 returned 91 percent of House incumbents to
their seats. The Republican Revolution of 1994 saw the GOP pick
up 54 seats and take control of both houses of Congress for the
first time in 40 years. Even then 90 percent of House incumbents
were re-elected.  
 What happens to all that angst when Americans walk into the
voting booth on alternate Novembers and pull the lever for 16-
term Congressman Peter Porkbarrel instead of Ida Unknown? In
some cases, people never make it to the polls.  Voter turnout  in
the U.S. since 1960 has averaged 55 percent at presidential
elections and 40 percent in off-year elections, well below the
75 percent to 80 percent typical of most democracies.  
 Those who make it to their polling place often have limited
options. Many incumbents run unopposed. And if there is somebody
challenging the incumbent, “that somebody is invisible, lacks
credentials and isn’t an appealing alternative,” says  Stuart Rothenberg , editor and publisher of the  Rothenberg Political
Report . “It’s not really a choice.”  
 Differentiation Among Bums  
 Finally, polls suggest that voters differentiate between
members of Congress and their own member, according to  Frank Newport , Gallup’s editor-in-chief. “It’s a common sociological
phenomenon,” he says. “People rate things on a global or
national basis worse than on a local one.”  
 For example, when Gallup asks people about the quality of
education or health care, respondents tend to say that, (fill-
in-the-issue) “is in a crisis, but mine is good,” Newport
says.  
 In an April Gallup  poll , 28 percent of registered voters,
the lowest on record, said members of Congress deserved to be
re-elected. Forty-nine percent said their own member was worthy.
(Translation: Throw the bums out, but spare my bum, at least
until he brings home the funds for that civic center.) By a 2-
to-1 margin, those surveyed said they would rather vote for
someone who’s never been in Congress.  
 Seat Separation Device  
 It’s no surprise to see public  trust in government  fall
during hard economic times. Right now, following a long and deep
recession and a  jobless recovery , that trust is near its lowest
level in half a century, according to the Pew Research Center in
Washington. Consumer and small business surveys suggest
 confidence  is still depressed.  
 Bad economic times translate to a loss of seats for the
president’s party. Since the Democrats control the White House
and both houses of Congress, it should be a shoo-in for the GOP.  
 “The Democrats are going to lose because they are
Democrats, not because they are incumbents,” Rothenberg says.
“It’s the only way for voters to make a statement.”  
 He expects the Republicans to pick up 25-30 House seats,
with a “chance of considerably larger gains, even in excess of
40 seats.”  
 Even if the GOP were to win the 40 seats they need to
retake the House, it would still translate to a rate of return
for incumbents in line with recent history.  
 Neither war (two of them) nor revolution nor a new high in
anti-incumbent sentiment can separate a member from his seat.
What’s the solution if Americans mean what they tell pollsters?  
 Term limits. It’s time to pressure lawmakers to enact a
constitutional amendment providing for limited terms in office.  
 We can’t seem to vote them out of office. Maybe they can do
it for us.  
 ( Caroline Baum , author of “Just What I Said,” is a
Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions expressed are her own.)  
 To contact the writer of this column:
Caroline Baum in New York at 
 cabaum@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        