-- U.K. Inflation Bond Sale Has Worst Demand Since 2008 After Pension Change
-- Paul Dobson
-- 2010-07-15T11:38:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-15/rpi-linked-gilt-sale-may-suffer-from-pension-policy-change-on-cpi-measure.html

          
          
             The U.K.’s auction of inflation-
linked bonds garnered the lowest demand for the security since
October 2008 as the government’s planned changes to pension
indexing reduced interest from fund managers.  
 The Debt Management Office sold 1.2 billion pounds ($1.8
billion) of 1.875 percent securities maturing in 2022 today at a
yield of 0.947 percent, compared with a yield of 0.765 percent
at a similar sale on May 13. Investors submitted 1.76 pounds in
bids for every pound of debt offered, down from a so-called bid-
to-cover ratio of 2.49 at the May auction.  
 It’s the first offering since the nation’s two-month-old
governing coalition last week said state employees’ pensions
will be linked to the consumer price index of inflation rather
than the retail price index. U.K. inflation-linked bonds are
based on RPI, which unlike CPI includes such items as mortgage-
interest payments and local taxes, potentially creating a
mismatch for pension-fund managers who buy inflation-linked debt
to finance long-term liabilities.  
 “This is a game change in the index-linked market, and it
certainly introduces an element of uncertainty,” said  Stuart Thomson , who helps manage about $100 billion, including
inflation-linked debt, at Ignis Asset Management in Glasgow.
“It will take a while before more clarity emerges. I expect to
see underperformance of inflation bonds in the near term.” He
declined to say whether he bought debt in the auction.  
 The bid-to cover ratio is the lowest for the 2022
inflation-linked bond since a sale on Oct. 7, 2008, weeks after
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. collapsed.  
 Budget Savings  
 Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s government may save money as
CPI has shown inflation to be an average 0.7 percentage point
lower than RPI over the past 20 years,  Jasper Falk , JPMorgan
Chase & Co.’s London-based global head of inflation trading,
said before the auction.  
 “The CPI provides a more appropriate measure of pension
recipients’ inflation experiences, and is also consistent with
the measure of inflation used by the Bank of England,” Pensions
Minister  Steve Webb  said on July 8.  
 The Conservative-Liberal Democrat coalition, which took
power after the May 6 election, is raising taxes and cutting
spending to tackle the record budget deficit, which reached 11
percent of gross domestic product in the last fiscal year.  
 Index-Linked Returns  
 Britain became the first industrialized nation to issue
index-linked securities in 1981. The 2022 inflation-linked bonds
attracted average bids of 2.33 times the amount of securities
offered in the previous three auctions.  
 U.K. index-linked bonds returned 3.2 percent this year,
compared with a gain of 5.9 percent from regular bonds,
according to data compiled by Bank of America’s Merrill Lynch
unit. The yield on the inflation-protected security maturing in
2022 stayed higher at 0.966 percent after the sale. That
compares with this year’s peak of 1.28 percent in February.  
 The 10-year breakeven  rate , a gauge of inflation
expectations derived from the yield difference between regular
and index-linked bonds, is 2.74 percentage points today,
compared with 2.92 percentage points at the start of the year.  
 The sale today is part of 165 billion pounds of bonds the
Treasury plans to issue in the fiscal year that will end in
March. Of the total, 33.8 billion pounds will be in inflation-
protected securities, DMO data shows.  
 Syndication ‘Real Test’  
 Britain will offer inflation-linked bonds with maturities
of 20 to 30 years through banks in the second half of July, the
DMO said on July 8. It hired Deutsche Bank AG, Goldman Sachs
Group Inc., HSBC Holdings Plc and Royal Bank of Scotland Group
Plc to sell the securities.  
 “The real test will be the syndicated sale, and that’s the
area where we have the biggest uncertainty,” said  Shahid Ladha ,
an interest-rate strategist at BNP Paribas SA in London. “We
have some concern that the move toward CPI indexation will have
further fallout for the inflation market, and over the coming
months we could see some weakness.”  
 “Over the last 20 years, the accrued inflation effect of
CPI has been roughly between 15 to 20 percent lower than that of
RPI,” JPMorgan’s Falk said. “The switch to CPI from RPI for
public-pension linkages is clearly a move to reduce unfunded
government liabilities.” Implications for private companies’
pension plans are uncertain, he said.  
 U.K. Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne ’s
emergency budget, released June 22, included plans to link most
welfare payments to consumer prices instead of retail prices.
Combined with cuts to housing benefits, the Treasury said that
will save 5.8 billion pounds a year by April 2015.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Anchalee Worrachate  in London 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Results likely published by 11 a.m. in London  
                       
                         
                           Jock Fistick/Bloomberg 
                         
                         U.K. prime minister David Cameron. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     U.K. prime minister David Cameron. Photographer: Jock Fistick/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
