-- Rubber Declines as Asian Stocks Drop on China's Slower Economic Growth
-- Aya Takada
-- 2010-07-15T07:40:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-15/rubber-declines-as-oil-s-drop-cuts-appeal-supply-increases-from-malaysia.html

          
          
             Rubber futures declined for a fourth
time in five days as Asian  stocks  dropped after data showed
China’s economy expanded at a slower pace, raising concern that
global economic recovery may stall.  
 Futures in Tokyo decreased by as much as 1.3 percent,
nearing a one-month low reached yesterday. The price pared
losses as Shanghai’s rubber market extended gains.  
 The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index  lost 0.8 percent to 116.79 at
3:15 p.m. in Tokyo after data showed  economic growth  in China
slowed to 10.3 percent in the second quarter from 11.9 percent
in January-March. Crude oil declined, cutting the cost of making
synthetic rubber, after the Federal Reserve’s assessment that
the economic outlook has “softened” added to recovery concerns.  
 “Rubber was curbed by uncertainty about the economic
outlook and a seasonal increase in output,”  Hisaaki Tasaka , an
analyst at broker ACE Koeki Co. in Tokyo, said today by phone.  
 December-delivery rubber fell as much as 3.4 yen to 260.8
yen per kilogram ($2,959 a metric ton) before settling at 262.4
yen on the Tokyo Commodity Exchange.  
 November-delivery rubber on the Shanghai Futures Exchange
advanced by as much as 1.7 percent to 21,550 yuan ($3,181) a ton
before settling at 21,345 yuan.  
 China Eases  
 China’s  economic growth  eased in the second quarter after
the government tempered credit expansion, investment spending
and property speculation.  Inflation  cooled to 2.9 percent in
June, and  industrial output  rose a less-than-estimated 13.7
percent, the statistics bureau also reported today.  
 “There’s no more tightening happening in China” given the
slowing expansion, said  Stephen Green , head of China research
for Standard Chartered Bank in Shanghai. Policy makers may
loosen some real-estate curbs and approve more infrastructure
and investment projects in the fourth quarter as growth slows
toward 7 percent before picking up into 2011, he said.  
 The Federal Reserve cut its central forecast for growth
this year to a range of 3 to 3.5 percent from 3.2 to 3.7 percent,
and sales at U.S. retailers dropped for a second month, falling
more than economists estimated.  
 Federal Reserve officials saw no need to boost stimulus to
the economy while trimming their forecasts for growth and noting
that risks to the recovery had increased, minutes of their June
meeting showed.  
 Rubber futures were also capped by speculation supply from
Southeast Asia will climb, Tasaka at ACE Koeki said. Malaysia’s
natural rubber output reached 65,254 tons in May, rising 20
percent from April, data from the nation’s Department of
Statistics showed yesterday.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Aya Takada  in Tokyo at 
 atakada2@bloomberg.net ;  
          
          


  


        