-- Rupee Rises a Second Day as Euro Gains May Lure Funds; Gets Graphic Symbol
-- Anil Varma
-- 2010-07-15T13:02:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-15/rupee-falls-for-third-day-on-speculation-importers-raised-dollar-purchases.html

          
          
             India’s rupee rose for a second day
as the euro headed for a third weekly advance, spurring optimism
the economic impact of Europe’s debt crisis will be contained
and investors will return to emerging markets.  
 The rupee climbed as exchange data showed foreign holdings
of local stocks and bonds touched all-time highs of  $81 billion 
and  $14.95 billion , respectively, this week. The euro extended
gains this month against the dollar to 4.7 percent after reports
last week showed Germany’s factory output increased 2.6 percent
in May, more than twice the pace economists had estimated, while
unemployment declined for a 12th month in June.  
 “The rupee is tracking the strength of other currencies
against the dollar, particularly the euro,” said  Sudarshan Bhatt , chief currency trader at state-owned Corporation Bank.
“We can expect some modest appreciation in the short term.”  
 The rupee strengthened 0.2 percent to 46.61 per dollar as
of the 5 p.m. close in Mumbai, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. It is the worst performer this month among Asian
currencies, with a 0.3 percent loss. The currency may rise as
high as 46.20 in the coming days, Bhatt predicted.  
 Offshore forward contracts indicated the rupee will trade
at 47.14 to the dollar in three months, compared with
expectations for a rate of 47.26 yesterday. Forwards are
agreements to buy or sell assets at a set price and date. Non
deliverable contracts are settled in dollars.  
 The rupee declined earlier on speculation importers
increased purchases of dollars to pay for oil.  
 Rising Imports  
 Crude reached $78.15 per barrel yesterday, the highest
level in more than two weeks, raising costs for the nation’s oil
refiners. India’s  imports  rose an average 50 percent during the
first five months of 2010, after contracting 29 percent during
the year-ago period, government data show.  
 “The rupee opened weaker because dollar demand is stronger
in the local market as well as in offshore forwards,” said
 Jaiprakash Israni , a currency trader in Mumbai at state-owned
Andhra Bank. “Importers are buying dollars.”  
 India’s current-account  deficit  widened to a record $13
billion in the quarter ended March 31 as growth in imports
outpaced exports. Barclays Plc predicts the annual shortfall
will widen 15 percent in the financial year that began April 1
to $44 billion.  
 Rupee Symbol  
 India today adopted a graphic symbol for the rupee, joining
the U.S., the U.K., Europe and Japan, in a bid to project its
currency as an icon of the economy’s growing importance in the
world.  
 The South Asian nation’s cabinet today approved the sign,
selected from applications received at a competition held by the
government, Information & Broadcasting Minister  Ambika Soni  told
reporters in New Delhi. The  symbol  will also help distinguish
the Indian rupee from the similarly-named currencies of Pakistan,
Nepal, Sri Lanka and Indonesia, she said.  
 “India’s role on the global stage is increasing and its
financial markets are growing bigger and deeper,” said  Rahul Bajoria , a Singapore-based economist at Barclays Plc, the
world’s third-largest currency trader. “The rupee symbol is
recognition of the ever-increasing economic linkages between
India and the world.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Anil Varma  in Mumbai at 
 avarma3@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        