-- Russia Eurobonds Rebounding to Profit After Worst Slump on Global Recovery
-- Jack Jordan
-- 2010-07-16T11:44:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-15/russia-eurobonds-rebounding-to-profit-after-worst-slump-on-global-recovery.html

          
          
             Russia’s first Eurobonds since 1998
are rebounding from the worst loss among developing government
securities sold this year, approaching their issue price as
confidence in the global economic recovery builds.  
 The dollar bonds due 2020 rose 6.7 percent from a May 25
low to 98.335 cents today, the highest level since the April 22
sale at 99.363. In their first month, the notes fell 7.3
percent, the biggest decline among 22 dollar securities offered
by emerging nations in 2010, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  
 Russian debt jumped this month as the International
Monetary Fund raised its forecast for global growth and reports
showed a recovery in industrial output, employment and retail
sales in the former Soviet nation. The country had returned to
international markets for the first time since defaulting to
raise $5.5 billion just before the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index 
began a 16 percent slump and oil, Russia’s biggest export
earner, sank on concern that the global expansion would slow.  
 “If we see this positive sentiment continue I can easily
imagine over the next two or three weeks that this bond trades
above the 100 line,” said  Bernhard Obenhuber , an emerging-
market sovereign debt analyst at  Credit Suisse Group AG’s 
private banking unit in Zurich. “This sovereign issuer has such
a good credit quality, such a clean balance sheet compared to
other emerging markets and of course compared to the western
countries.”  
 Lower Debt  
 Obenhuber said he’s been recommending for at least two
weeks that clients buy Russia’s 3.625 percent bond due 2015,
sold at the same time as the 5 percent 10-year note at 99.475
cents. The 2015 bonds, which gained 5.2 percent to 98.241 since
May 25, rose for a fourth day today, advancing 0.1 percent. The
2020 bonds rose 0.3 percent and are up 1.1 percent this week,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 Russia’s economy is set to expand 4.3 percent this year,
according to the IMF, as oil recovers, climbing to $76.67 a
barrel today from the year low of $68.01 in May. Industrial
production rose for an eighth month in June, and real retail
sales growth accelerated to 2.1 percent in May from 0.4 percent
the month before. The unemployment rate dropped to 7.3 percent
in May from 8.2 percent the previous month.  
 Russia, rated Baa1 by Moody’s Investors Service, the third-
lowest investment grade, and BBB by Standard & Poor’s, the
second-lowest, has public debt equivalent to 7.7 percent of
gross domestic product. The debt level compares with the average
of 106.7 percent for advanced nations in the Group of 20 and
39.6 percent for the G-20’s emerging market countries including
China, India and Brazil, according data compiled by the
Washington-based  IMF .  
 World’s Creditors  
 “Emerging markets are now the world’s creditors,” said
 Tim McCarthy , who helps manage $1 billion in emerging-market
assets at Valartis Group Asset Management in Geneva, including
Russia’s 2020 bonds. He expects the price to rise above 100
cents and the cost of Russia credit default swaps to drop to
levels last seen before the global credit crisis began in late
2008.  
 A deterioration in global risk sentiment or decline in oil
prices could send Russian bond prices lower again, said  Anton Hauser , fund manager in Vienna for Erste Sparinvest KAG.  
 “On a short-term basis, it’s mainly driven by global risk
appetite,” Hauser said. “And oil prices are an obvious
subject.”  
 Crude headed for a second weekly gain today as rising
equity markets reinforced expectations demand for oil will grow.
While crude was up 0.7 percent at 10:33 a.m. in London, it fell
as low as $76.27 earlier in the session in reaction to a drop in
manufacturing in New York and Pensylvania.  
 LTCM Crisis  
 The extra yield investors demand to hold Russian debt
rather than U.S. Treasuries rose 1 basis points to 255, more
than the spread of 176 for debt of similarly rated Mexico and
226 for Brazil, which is rated two steps lower at Baa3 by
Moody’s, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI+ Indexes. The
 yield  gap for Russian bonds is 57 basis points below the average
for emerging markets, according to JPMorgan.  
 The ruble gained 0.2 percent to 30.4100 per dollar in
Moscow today, extending a five-day winning streak, the longest
in a month. Non-deliverable forwards, or NDFs, which provide a
guide to expectations of currency movements as they allow
foreign investors and companies to fix the exchange rate at a
specific level in the future, show the ruble at 30.6150 per
dollar in three months.  
 Default Swaps  
 The cost of protecting Russian debt against non-payment for
five years with credit-default swaps was 169.54 basis points on
July 14, near the lowest since May 18. The price is double the
84 basis points in June 2008.  
 Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange
for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a
government or company fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  
 Russia stayed out of international debt markets for more
than a decade after its default and ruble devaluation in 1998
triggered a global markets selloff and the failure of the hedge
fund Long Term Capital Management LLP. Rising oil revenue
allowed the government to finance itself without borrowing
overseas.  
 Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin ’s government raised funds
from international investors after Russia suffered its worst
economic slump since the 1991 collapse of the Soviet Union last
year, creating a fiscal deficit the government forecasts will
reach 5.4 percent of GDP in 2010.  
 Corporate Benchmark  
 Finance Minister  Alexei Kudrin  said the offering would help
set a benchmark for Russian companies to sell debt by
establishing benchmark yields. State-controlled lenders OAO
Sberbank and Vnesheconombank are among companies that raised
$4.6 billion from foreign currency bonds since the government’s
sale.  
 The improved performance of the government’s bonds and
global risk sentiment increase the likelihood of more
international borrowing by Russia’s government this year, said
 Jerome Booth , who helps manage $32 billion in emerging market
assets as head of research at Ashmore Investment Management Ltd.
in London.  
 “What’s important to them is to enhance their credibility
through their issuance program” and “keep the yield curve
functional,” said Booth.  
 While Russia is considering selling its first ruble-
denominated Eurobonds, it doesn’t plan another foreign currency
sale, Deputy Finance Minister  Dmitry Pankin  said on July 9.
Ruble-denominated bonds are less attractive to foreign investors
because of a lack of liquidity in the local currency debt
market, Booth said.  
 ‘Over-Optimism’  
 Finance Ministry spokesman Andrei Matveev in Moscow
declined to comment.  
 Russian bonds are likely to gain, according to  Ronald Schneider , who helps manage 700 million euros ($903 million) in
fixed-income emerging-market assets at Raiffeisen Kapitalanlage
GmbH in Vienna.  
 “To a large extent I would attribute the fall after the
sale in April to over-optimism beforehand,” said Schneider.
“There is a risk that Russia would be more exposed to a global
slowdown than elsewhere, but apart from that I’m quite positive
about their outlook.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story
 Jason Webb  in London at 
 jwebb25@bloomberg.net ;
 Jack Jordan  at 
 jjordan22@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        