-- Russian Industrial Production Expanded for Eighth Month in June on Metals
-- Paul Abelsky
-- 2010-07-15T14:13:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-15/russian-industrial-production-expanded-for-eighth-month-in-june-on-metals.html

          
          
             Russian  industrial production 
climbed for an eighth month in June, signaling manufacturing
output may continue outpacing gains in consumer spending and
employment.  
 Production at factories, mines and utilities rose an annual
9.7 percent after a 12.6 percent increase in May, the  Federal
Statistics Service  in Moscow said in an e-mail today. Non-
seasonally adjusted output fell 0.4 percent from the previous
month. The median  estimate  of 14 economists in a Bloomberg
survey was for an annual increase of 11.7 percent.  
 Manufacturers and commodity producers have led the  economy 
out of its steepest contraction on record. Companies including
 OAO AvtoVAZ  are spearheading the rebound. Russia’s largest
automaker posted net income of 1 billion rubles ($32.7 million)
in the second quarter after losing about 40 billion rubles last
year as sales plunged, Chief Executive Officer  Igor Komarov   told 
Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin  on July 13.  
 Manufacturing  growth jumped in June to the highest level in
more than two years, according to VTB Capital. The government
may raise its 4 percent forecast for economic growth this year
as the outlook continues to improve, Economy Minister  Elvira Nabiullina  said on July 15.  
 Gross domestic product slumped 7.9 percent in 2009. The
economy grew 4 percent in the first five months of the year,
according to the Economy Ministry. The government is spending 11
billion rubles this year on incentives for its cash-for-clunkers
program, which helped car sales surge 46 percent in June.  
 “The main positive growth drivers appear to be related to
a direct impact of the government’s efforts to reinvigorate the
economy,” Renaissance Capital economists led by  Alexei Moisseev 
said in a report.  
 The recovery in output is continuing to outperform gains in
consumer spending and employment. Growth in industrial
production averaged more than 10 percent in the first five
months, while  retail sales  averaged below 3 percent in the same
period. Factories may face less pressure to boost production to
rebuild inventories if domestic demand cools.  
 “Consumer spending is on the rise, but recovery of
consumption does not look so stable,” analysts at Moscow-based
 TKB Capital  said in a July 12 report.  
 Manufacturing rose an annual 14 percent in June, according
to today’s report. Electricity, gas and water output rose 2.3
percent, while mining and quarrying added 4.4 percent.  
 Industrial  output  shrank 10.8 percent in 2009 and capital
investment fell 17 percent,  statistics service  data show.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Paul Abelsky  in Moscow at 
 pabelsky@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        