-- Ryanair, O'Leary Settle Lawsuit by EasyJet's Founder Stelios Haji-Ioannou
-- James Lumley
-- 2010-07-15T10:55:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-15/ryanair-o-leary-settle-easyjet-founder-s-suit-over-performance-statistics.html

          
          
             Ryanair Holdings Plc  and  Michael O’Leary , its chief executive officer, apologized to the founder
of rival  EasyJet Plc  and agreed to pay about 50,000 pounds
($77,000) to settle a lawsuit over an advertisement that likened
him to  Pinocchio .  
 At a hearing today at the High Court in London, lawyers for
O’Leary withdrew allegations made against  Stelios Haji-Ioannou ,
who prefers to go by Stelios, in a series of advertisements.  
 In a half-page advertisement in the Daily Telegraph today,
O’Leary and Ryanair apologized “unreservedly” for tagging a
photograph of Stelios as “Easyjet’s-Mr. Late Again” in a prior
advertisement carried in the newspaper.  
 “It is not very often that someone as arrogant and as
powerful as O’Leary is forced to apologize to someone else in
public,” Stelios said in an e-mailed statement. “I took this
legal action to protect my reputation. I am not a liar and that
statement was libelous.”  
 The contested ads, published in January and February, said
EasyJet hadn’t published its on-time flight statistics for 37
weeks and showed a picture of Stelios with his nose elongated
like the character Pinocchio, Stelios’s lawyer Chris Scott said
at the hearing today.  
 When Stelios asked for an apology Ryanair refused and said
the dispute should be settled with a sumo wrestling contest or a
race around London’s Trafalgar Square, Scott said, reading a
joint statement signed by both Stelios’s and Ryanair’s lawyers.  
 Weekly Statistics  
 At the time of the ad’s publication, Stelios was a non-
executive director of EasyJet, Scott said. The apology relates
to the personal allegations made against Stelios in the
advertisements, he said.  
 “Both Michael O’Leary and Ryanair accept that Sir Stelios
is not in any way responsible for  EasyJet’s management ’s
continuing failure to publish weekly details of their on-time
stats,” Scott said.  
 Stelios said the money will be donated to charity.  
 “I would like to dedicate this little victory to all those
members of the travelling public who have suffered verbal abuse
and hidden extras at the hands of O’Leary,” Stelios said.  
 Ryanair said in its own statement the settlement with
Stelios won’t stop it from pushing EasyJet to publish
 performance statistics .  
 “Ryanair believes they have been hiding these details
since May 2009 because they know they can’t compete with
Ryanair’s punctuality, just the same way EasyJet can’t compete
with our pricing,” the airline said.  
 The case is: Haji-Ioannou v. O’Leary, High Court of Justice
Queens Bench Division, No. HQ10X00565.  
 To contact the reporters responsible for this story:
 James Lumley  in London at 
 jlumley1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        