-- Safran Said to Be in Talks to Purchase Most of L-1 Identity Solutions Inc.
-- Jacqueline Simmons
-- 2010-07-15T22:24:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-15/safran-is-said-to-be-in-talks-to-acquire-most-of-l-1-identity-solutions.html

          
          
             Safran SA , the defense-electronics
maker, is in talks to purchase most of  L-1 Identity Solutions
Inc ., according to two people with knowledge of the matter. L-1
shares surged the most in more than four years.  
 Safran is among the bidders pursuing a deal to buy L-1’s
businesses that help customers track biometric data, said the
people, who declined to be identified because the talks are
private. U.S.-based L-1 is likely to be split up, with another
buyer acquiring a separate unit that sells consulting services
to U.S. intelligence agencies, said one of the people. No deal
is likely to be reached for several weeks, the person said.  
 A deal would be Safran Chief Executive Officer  Jean-Paul Herteman ’s latest effort to boost revenue from biometric
technology, used for fingerprint, palm, iris and facial
recognition. Paris-based Safran has said it expects the
biometrics market to grow 15 percent a year over the next five
years.  
 L-1 had a stock market value of about $670 million as of
yesterday. The company, based in Stamford, Connecticut, said in
March it would explore “strategic alternatives” including a
sale.  
 “There are multiple companies interested, in the whole or
in parts,” said  Doni Fordyce , an L-1 spokeswoman. Potential
buyers are currently looking at L-1’s books, she said. Fordyce
declined to identify the interested companies.  Catherine Malek ,
a Safran spokeswoman, declined to comment.  
 L-1 rose $1.40, or 19 percent, to $8.65 at 4:15 p.m. in New
York Stock Exchange  composite trading , their biggest one-day
gain since October 2005.  
 Zodiac Talks  
 Safran’s talks with L-1 have recently slowed, said one of
the people with knowledge of the matter, as the French company
focuses on Zodiac Aerospace. Safran on July 11 confirmed it
offered to buy the French aviation-equipment maker.  
 Zodiac , which had a stock market value of 2.4 billion euros
($3.2 billion) as of yesterday, has rejected the approach.  
 Safran lost a bidding contest in 2008 to buy an
identification unit of Beaverton, Oregon-based  Digimarc Corp. 
when the business was sold to L-1 for $310 million.  
 L-1’s Chief Executive Officer,  Robert LaPenta , formed the
company after serving as president and chief financial officer
of L-3 Communications Holdings Inc. from 1997 to 2005. LaPenta
helped start L-3 with co-founder  Frank Lanza  after both men left
Lockheed Martin Corp.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Zachary R. Mider  in New York at 
 zmider1@bloomberg.net ;
 Andrea Rothman  in Toulouse, France, at 
 aerothman@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        