-- Salus Alpha Bets on Zinc, Sugar, Cattle as Demand Strengthens, Prock Says
-- Kim Kyoungwha
-- 2010-07-15T04:36:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-15/salus-alpha-bets-on-zinc-sugar-cattle-as-demand-strengthens-prock-says.html

          
          
             Salus Alpha Commodity Arbitrage
Strategy  is placing bets on zinc, sugar and live cattle on
expectations that strengthening demand will outstrip supply, the
fund’s chief executive officer  Oliver Prock  said.  
 Prices of zinc and sugar, ranked the worst and second-worst
performers in the S&P GSCI Commodity Index of 24 futures this
year, will rebound by early 2011, said Prock, founder of the
fund managed by Salus Alpha Capital Ltd. which has $1.3 billion
in assets. The fund is buying February futures for zinc and
March delivery for sugar, he said.  
 “Demand is clearly coming from Asia and China,”
Liechtenstein-based Prock, 43, said in an e-mail interview
yesterday. “After the financial meltdown and recession, the
global economy is showing the traces of recovery. There’s enough
life in the economy to keep it out of new trouble.”  
 Signs of improvement are mixed as the Federal Reserve has
trimmed forecasts for economic growth, while a rebound in Asia
has prompted South Korea, Malaysia, Taiwan and India to raise
interest rates. Singapore’s economy grew a record 18.1 percent
in the first half and China reported an 11.1 percent expansion.  
 Salus Alpha’s commodity fund, started in 2009 and with $150
million in assets now, trades futures only, said Prock who has
spent 15 years in banks and investment companies including  Erste
Group Bank AG , Austria’s biggest publicly traded lender,
managing the bank’s proprietary alternative investments.  
 “We’re seeing a bit easing of the recovery pace in the
U.S., Japan and China,” said  Jerry Yoshikoshi , Singapore-based
senior economist with Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corp. “There’s no
double dip but no doubt there’s some slowdown ahead. Commodities
prices will stay relatively sluggish well into next year.”  
 Larger Positions  
 Zinc for three-month delivery slumped 25 percent in the
second quarter, the most since the final three months of 2008.
The metal extended this year’s drop to 28 percent and traded at
$1,845 a ton in London. Raw sugar slid 40 percent in the first
six months, the most since 1985, and traded at 16.97 cents a
pound in New York yesterday. Live cattle futures fell 3.8
percent in the second quarter.  
 The gap between forward months and front months, a price
structure called contango, will widen for those commodities,
Prock said. His fund will take advantage of the spread by buying
longer-term contracts and shorting nearer ones, he added.  
 “In July 2010, we see larger-sized positions in live
cattle, sugar and zinc where we expect the contango to
steepen,” Prock said. The fund increased its allocation of
funds for the commodities, he said, declining to disclose it.  
 Salus Alpha, which returned 0.64 percent in the first half,
targets a maximum return of 12 percent in 2010, Prock said.
Commodity hedge funds lost  4.9 percent  in the first five months
on average, after declining about 3 percent in 2009, according
to Chicago-based Hedge Fund Research Inc. The  S&P GSCI Total
Return Index  fell 11 percent from January to June.  
 ‘Greater Importance’  
 Growth in demand for commodities including metals in Asia
is surging as nations ramp up infrastructure spending, head of
the London Metal Exchange Martin Abbott said July 9. His view
echoes that of commodity bulls such as investor Jim Rogers, who
has said that economic growth in Asia is powering demand.  
 “Investors are looking to commodities with greater
importance than ever to ride out the market,” Prock said.
“Institutions in Asia are definitely looking at this asset
class more closely.”  
 The International Monetary Fund last week raised its
forecast for global growth to 4.6 percent this year, reflecting
a stronger-than-expected first half. The lender increased the
2010 growth forecasts for China to 10.5 percent and for India to
9.4 percent for the year to March.  
 “China is one of the main drivers of demand growth for
many industrial commodities,” Prock said. In spite of the
nation’s move to moderate growth, “we think demand will stay
robust and relatively high in the second half.”  
 -- Editor:  James Poole   
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kyoungwha Kim  in Singapore at 
 Kkim19@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        