-- Serbia Has Limited Scope for Further Interest-Rate Reductions, IMF Says
-- Gordana Filipovic
-- 2010-07-15T14:50:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-15/serbia-has-limited-scope-for-further-interest-rate-reductions-imf-says.html

          
          
             Serbia’s central bank has limited
room for further interest rate cuts and should keep a close eye
on inflation risks stemming from declines in the currency and
higher food prices, the  International Monetary Fund  said.  
 Some rate reductions may be appropriate in the short term
as long as inflation risks remain under control, while a managed
float for the dinar remains the appropriate foreign exchange
regime, the Washington D.C.-based lender said in a report
published July 13 and posted on its website.  
 “The room for further cuts in the key policy rate will
likely be restricted, not least in view of the dinar’s breach of
the 100 dinar/euro level,” the IMF said.  
 The  National Bank of Serbia  has cut its two-week repurchase
rate at a record low 8 percent this year as inflation slowed.
The dinar has dropped 8 percent since Jan. 1 on lower rates and
investor concern about the global financial crisis. The Serbian
currency traded at 104.57 per euro at 2:25 p.m. in Belgrade.  
 “The authorities noted that the recent depreciation
reflects a region-wide reassessment of domestic currency assets,
and that it will not endanger meeting the inflation targets,”
the IMF said.  
 The IMF granted Serbia a 3 billion-euro ($3.86 billion)
loan program last year. The aid is designed to support the
Balkan nation’s balance of payments and support changes that
would help it shift to an export-led recovery rather than
relying on foreign investment and borrowing.  
 Serbia’s annual inflation rate rose to 4.2 percent in June
from 3.7 percent the previous month, according to the statistics
office in Belgrade. The central bank’s target band for this year
is 4 percent to 8 percent.  
 ‘Inflation Expectations’  
 “Inflation expectations have started to converge toward
the NBS target range, but remain still uncomfortably high and
not well anchored,” the IMF said. “Therefore, upside inflation
risks from dinar depreciation, a rebound in food prices, and a
possibly faster-than-expected pick-up in economic activity need
to be monitored closely.”  
 Serbia’s economy grew 0.6 percent in the first quarter. The
IMF forecasts growth at 1.5 percent in 2010 and 3 percent in
2011, when private investments and exports are “projected to
gain momentum.”  
 The government should be able to manage concern about the
debt crisis in Greece, whose banks control about 15 percent of
the Serbian market through subsidiaries, the IMF said.  
 While “adverse spillovers from Greece are the main
downside risk, the Greek subsidiaries are highly capitalized and
liquid, and should be able to withstand even challenging adverse
scenarios,” according to the IMF.  
 Assuming four spillover scenarios, the IMF said solvency
problems and deposit runs are unlikely, while the National Bank
of Serbia would act immediately if Greek parent banks were to
attempt to extract liquidity from their subsidiaries.  
 The fourth scenario, assuming a sale of Greek subsidiaries,
could be complicated by “large contingent liabilities of
subsidiaries to parent banks arising from cross-border loans.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Gordana Filipovic  in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        