-- Shrinking Swiss Army Shows Training Ackermann Succumbs to Budget Austerity
-- Antonio Ligi
-- 2010-07-15T22:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-15/shrinking-swiss-army-shows-training-ackermann-succumbs-to-budget-austerity.html

          
          
             The  Swiss Army , known for iconic
pocketknives, grooming Papal guards and an accidental invasion
of Liechtenstein, faces budget cuts that may eliminate more 
than 20 percent of the country’s 120,000 troops.  
 Hans Fehr , a lawmaker in Defense Minister  Ueli Maurer ’s
Swiss People’s Party, said in a July 13 interview that proposals
may shrink the army’s annual budget by more than 50 percent to 2
billion Swiss francs ($1.9 billion) and turn the force into an
“auxiliary police” group.  
 The austerity measures would be the most severe in history
for the military, which last fought an armed conflict during the
1847 Sonderbund civil war. The reductions would curtail Alpine
exercises that trained generations of bankers, including  Josef Ackermann ,  Deutsche Bank AG ’s Swiss-born chief executive
officer, and former UBS AG CEO  Peter Wuffli .  
 “There was a saying a while back that Switzerland doesn’t
have an army, it is one,” Major General Staff Simon Jungo said
during live-fire drills earlier this month in fields above
Lucerne in central Switzerland. “That isn’t a fact anymore.”  
 Military service is compulsory in Switzerland for
physically fit men after their 19th birthday. They must work for
a total of 300 days, or opt for civilian community service on
ethical grounds, which lasts 50 percent longer.  
 Conscripts earn at least 62 francs a day, while the annual
salaries of the army’s 4,000 professionals start at 76,924
francs. The highest-paid professional soldier is a three-star
lieutenant general, who makes about 320,000 francs a year, said
land forces spokesman  Daniel Reist .  
 Draft Report  
 The government is considering scaling back the air force
and invasion defenses, according to a draft report obtained by
Bloomberg News that lays out four options, including increasing
spending to maintain the status quo. A proposal for deeper cuts
would see the military’s role narrow to peacekeeping and
disaster relief duties overseas, and policing conferences and
sporting events at home.  
 “We aren’t an island in Europe fighting against foreign
powers more or less alone,” said Swiss Social Democratic Party
lawmaker  Daniel Jositsch , adding that the tank war he trained
for as an army major is no longer relevant. “A professional
army needs far less troops.”  
 Lawmakers will review the proposals when they are disclosed
in September by Maurer, who said he planned “to build the best
army in the world” when he became defense minister in 2008.
 Christoph Brunner , a spokesman for the Swiss armed forces,
declined to comment on any cutbacks.  
 Promotion to Colonel  
 The army has lost much of its cachet as military training
and promotions are no longer passports to success in the banking
industry, Jungo said. Ackermann, 62, who has been CEO of
Frankfurt-based  Deutsche Bank  since 2002, rose to the rank of
colonel in the Swiss army.  
 Switzerland risks losing respect without a “real army,”
said Fehr, a lieutenant colonel, who suggests that 200,000
troops are about right for the military to fulfill its
obligations.  
 “We don’t need an army for foreign missions, to build
bridges, to prepare ski slopes, to hunt pirates nor to free
hostages in Libya, but just exclusively for defense,” he said.  
 The Swiss army had about 650,000 men under the age of 50
when the Cold War ended in 1989, meaning almost 10 percent of
the population was enlisted as part-time soldiers with guns and
bullets at home.  
 “You can learn a lot in your young years” from the army,
said  Ivo Furrer , CEO of  Swiss Life Holding AG ’s domestic unit,
who as a 28-year-old captain led 150 soldiers out of a forest at
night in pouring rain after getting lost. “These skills are
adaptable to professional life as well.”  
 Doerig to Voser  
 Other Swiss managers with military backgrounds include
Adecco SA Chairman  Rolf Doerig , 53, and  Hans-Ulrich Meister , 51,
head of Credit Suisse Group AG’s domestic unit.  
 Royal Dutch Shell Plc  CEO  Peter Voser , 51, who served over
a period of eight years in the army, said international
companies aren’t impressed by a Swiss military record.  
 “I was a tank driver, and finished my military career at a
low rank,” he said. “Military leadership training was not seen
as so important.”  
 Swiss companies are increasingly reluctant to lose staff to
three weeks of annual military duty, while support for
abolishing compulsory service has almost tripled to 45 percent
since 1983, according to a  study  by the Center for Securities
Studies at the Federal Institute of Technology in Zurich.  
 “If you are highly ranked in the military, it’s just a
waste of time,” said Marc Pieren, 30, a former human-resources
manager at Zurich-based UBS who now works at  Klinger Consultants
AG . “How’s an airplane going to help you against a suicide
bomber? Nowadays, you don’t imagine an army invading your
country.”  
 Liechtenstein Mishap  
 Some want “a conservative defense army in the old style”
and others support a smaller, professional group that cooperates
with Switzerland’s neighbors, said  Felix Gutzwiller , a member of
the Radical Democrats in the upper house of Parliament and a
colonel. “I am rather in the second camp.”  
 For all of its focus on precision, the Swiss army has
blundered. In March 2007, 170 soldiers crossed the border into
Liechtenstein after losing their way at night.  
 “The best thing would be to have a balance between a
small, but adequately armed and financed army,” Gutzwiller
said.  
 While the army has closed about 90 percent of its 20,000
secret Alpine bunkers, part-time officers such as Valentin
Jungi, an information technology specialist from Zurich, still
rehearse to repel invaders.  
 “It’s training to make hard decisions quickly,” said
Jungi, 21, whose mother pushed him to train to be an officer.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Naomi Kresge  in Zurich at 
 nkresge@bloomberg.net ;
 Antonio Ligi  in Zurich at   aligi@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        