-- Shun Forint on Risk Hungary May Fail Its IMF Review, SocGen Analysts Say
-- Krystof Chamonikolas
-- 2010-07-15T14:50:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-15/shun-forint-on-rising-risk-hungary-imf-talks-may-break-down-socgen-says.html

          
          
             The forint is unlikely to extend
gains against the euro and will underperform the Polish zloty as
risk increases Hungary’s bailout-loan negotiations with the
International Monetary Fund will fail,  Societe Generale SA  said.  
 The French bank sold the forint against the euro this
morning as it sees “little” potential for forint appreciation,
its London-based analysts wrote in a report to clients. The
forint is also likely to weaken to more than 69 per zloty in the
“near term” from 68.6 per zloty yesterday, the bank said.  
 The IMF, which last week started a quarterly review of
Hungary’s progress under a 2008 bailout accord, and the European
Union have urged Hungary to commit to narrowing the budget
deficit to less than 3 percent of economic output next year, HVG
magazine reported yesterday, citing people it didn’t name.  
 “There is indeed a rising risk of breakdown of
negotiations with the IMF, which would represent a serious blow
to investor confidence,” the analysts wrote.  
 Investors are looking for IMF approval of Prime Minister
 Viktor Orban ’s economic program after June 3 remarks by a
ruling-party official comparing Hungarian public finances to
those of Greece, which was granted a 110 billion-euro ($142
billion) aid package by the fund and European Union in May.  
 The forint weakened 0.7 percent to 280.29 per euro as of
4:38 p.m. in Budapest, a second day of losses. The world’s
worst-performing currency in the second quarter rallied 2.4
percent this month through July 13 as confidence in the global
recovery increased, boosting demand for riskier assets.  
 Koruna Gains  
 The zloty slid 0.5 percent to 4.0776 per euro, ending a
nine-day rally. The forint and zloty extended losses against the
euro after a report showed manufacturing in the Philadelphia
region cooled in July as orders fell for the first time in a
year, indicating the U.S. and global recoveries may be slowing.  
 The Czech koruna was the only gainer among more than 20
developing-nation currencies tracked by Bloomberg, advancing 0.2
percent to 25.444 per euro.  
 Hungary, which has the highest level of public debt among
the EU’s eastern members, was the first nation in the bloc to
ask for an international bailout during the 2008 credit crisis.
The country will be able to narrow its budget deficit within the
IMF-approved target of 3.8 percent of gross domestic product,
Economy and Finance Minister Gyorgy Matolcsy said on June 30.  
 Hungary is seeking a new, “precautionary” loan from the
IMF in 2011 to boost market confidence and cut government
borrowing costs, Orban’s economic adviser Gyorgy Szapary said in
an interview with FN.hu on June 30. The country doesn’t plan to
draw funds from the bailout obtained in 2008 and expiring in
October, nor from the new loan, Szapary told the news site.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Krystof Chamonikolas  in Prague at 
 kchamonikola@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        