-- Slashed Budgets Risk Making U.K. a Backwater, Say Arts Chiefs
-- Farah Nayeri
-- 2010-07-15T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-15/slashed-budgets-risk-making-u-k-a-backwater-say-arts-chiefs.html

          
          
             The heads of U.K. arts bodies
begged the government to “cut us but don’t kill us,” warning
that if belt-tightening was drastic and immediate, museums
would cancel blockbuster shows, theaters would go dark, and
200 of 850 state-funded bodies would lose their subsidy.  
 Prime Minister  David Cameron , who took over in May, plans
spending cuts and tax rises totaling 113 billion pounds ($174
billion) to rein in a deficit that has widened to 11 percent
of economic output. In May, the arts got a 61 million pound
trim. Bigger scalebacks will be announced in October, with
most departments facing inflation-adjusted cuts of 25 percent
by 2015.  
 “Our concern is not that there will be cuts,” said  Tate 
Director  Nicholas Serota , one of six speakers making the
appeal today at Tate Britain in London. “It’s to do with the
scale and impact of those cuts.”  
 “One can maintain the character of what we do, albeit in
reduced form, if cuts are not frontloaded and of a reasonable
size,” he said. Pressed for specifics, Serota warned that his
museum could no longer afford major traveling shows, such as
one being planned with New York’s  Museum of Modern Art  for
2013-14. “They will simply pass London by,” he said.  
 Cultural Manifesto  
 Serota was flanked at a boardroom table by managers of
the  Southbank Centre , the Serpentine Gallery, the  National
Theatre ,  Sadler’s Wells  Theatre and the Royal Shakespeare
Company. On behalf of the nation’s art bodies, they put out a
manifesto titled: “You can cut us but don’t kill us, say the
U.K.’s cultural leaders.”  
 Total cultural spending represents 1 percent of the
National Health Service budget, according to the manifesto.
Eight of the country’s top 10 visitor attractions are museums,
and creative and cultural industries accounted for 2 million
jobs in 2007, it said.  
 Speakers at the morning briefing gave indications of the
damage that would come if cuts were hefty and sudden.  
 “We would be mounting fewer productions,” said the
RSC’s executive director Vikki Heywood, who also evoked
ticket-price increases and limited touring. At smaller
organizations, “things will go dark,” she warned.  
 Sadler’s Wells Chief Executive Alistair Spalding said
programming would change at the cutting-edge London dance
venue: “We would do more commercial productions.” There
would be no money for new work at the theater, which already
raises 89 percent of its income from non-government sources,
and private donors would be tapped even more, as they are in
the U.S., he said.  
 Taking Risks  
 “Subsidy helps to take chances,” said Spalding. “When
was the last time you saw new work from America on the
Sadler’s Wells stage?”  
 Present at the briefing, though not a panelist, was Alan
Davey, chief executive of  Arts Council England , which
distributes government grants to 850 groups. With a 25 percent
cut, “we would have 200 less organizations in our
portfolio,” he said -- meaning regular subsidy recipients.  
 Earlier this month, Culture Secretary  Jeremy Hunt  wrote
to the Arts Council and to national museums asking them to
illustrate, via models, what cuts of 25 percent and 30 percent
would mean, according to several recipients of the letter.  
 Hunt has said the government wants philanthropy to give
more to the arts, and seeks to loosen tax rules so people are
encouraged to give in their lifetime and not just after death.  
 ‘A Gift’  
 Today’s panelists said philanthropists were no
substitute. “Their contribution cannot be relied on, because
it is a gift,” said Director  Julia Peyton-Jones . “A gift can
be given freely, but it can also be taken away.”  
 “To remove a significant percentage of funding and then
expect philanthropy to take up the battle seems unrealistic,”
she said.  
 Her view was supported by a group of donors who, between
them, have given tens of millions of pounds to the arts. In a
letter to Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne ,
signatories including British Land Co. Honorary President  John Ritblat  and former art dealer Anthony d’Offay said
philanthropy could not replace government funding. They said
they would welcome improved tax incentives. The contents of
the letter were made public at the briefing by publicist Erica
Bolton of Bolton & Quinn.  
 To contact the writer on the story:
Farah Nayeri in London  at
 Farahn@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       George Osborne  
                       
                         
                           Rupert Hartley/Bloomberg 
                         
                         George Osborne, U.K. Chancellor of the Exchequer. Osborne has received letters from major British museums and galleries requesting continued government support. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     George Osborne, U.K. Chancellor of the Exchequer. Osborne has received letters from major British museums and galleries requesting continued government support. Photographer: Rupert Hartley/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     The Serpentine Pavillion 2007, outside the Serpentine Gallery in London. The Serpentine Gallery, like many other British institutions, is concerned that the government may cut its funding. Photographer: Suzanne Plunkett/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     The Tate Modern in London. The museum, along with other British institutions, is worried that the government may cut its funding. Source: Tate Press Office via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Nicholas Serota  
                       
                         
                           Suzanne Plunkett/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Nicholas Serota, director of the Tate Britain in London. Serota is concerned that there will be cuts to government art funding that can't be replaced by philanthropic donations. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Nicholas Serota, director of the Tate Britain in London. Serota is concerned that there will be cuts to government art funding that can't be replaced by philanthropic donations. Photographer: Suzanne Plunkett/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
