-- Billionaire Slim Digs for Gold in Mexico as Metal's Price Gains
-- Crayton Harrison
-- 2010-07-15T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-15/slim-mines-for-gold-as-bullion-s-gain-outpaces-economic-rebound-in-mexico.html

          
          
             Billionaire  Carlos Slim  is digging
for gold in Mexico, taking advantage of bullion prices that
touched a record last month while awaiting a broader economic
rebound.  
 Slim’s mining outfit Grupo Frisco, a division of holding
company  Grupo Carso SAB , plans to open more mines this year and
acquired one this month after ramping up gold production more
than ninefold in 2009. That increase helped boost Carso’s
profits as gold spot prices leaped 24 percent for the year.  
 Slim, who has been in the mining business for more than two
decades, is leaning on commodities for growth as Carso’s other
units await improvements in Mexican  construction  and consumer
spending.  
 The mining division’s sales rose 58 percent last year to
4.5 billion pesos ($351.8 million), a larger increase than the
companywide gains at any of Slim’s publicly traded holdings
except the financial services business, Grupo Financiero Inbursa
SAB. Mexico’s  economy  shrank 6.5 percent in the same period.  
 “His portfolio is set up so he can shift to a sector
that’s performing well cyclically,” said  Gaspar Quijano , an
analyst at Vector Casa de Bolsa in Mexico City. “It’s all part
of diversification.”  
 While Carso always looks for attractive mining projects,
it’s not currently in talks for purchases, said an executive
with Grupo Condumex, the unit that includes Frisco mining. The
company doesn’t disclose its production targets, said the
executive, who declined to be named, citing company policy.  
 World’s Wealthiest  
 Slim, 70, has been in mining for almost 24 years, since the
December 1986 purchase of Frisco, according to his  website . That
was before his 1990 takeover of  Telefonos de Mexico SAB  in a
government privatization sale and his move this year to the top
of Forbes magazine’s ranking of the world’s wealthiest
individuals.  
 Carso’s larger divisions include a retail group, which
operates the  Sanborns  department-store chain and Sears and Saks
locations in Mexico, and units that make auto parts and cables
for phone networks.  
 Slim has a 79 percent stake in Carso, which makes up about
$6.52 billion of his $56 billion in holdings of publicly traded
companies, according to Bloomberg data.  Carso  has climbed about
14 percent this year in Mexico City trading, making it the
third-best performer of the six publicly traded Mexican
companies that Slim controls.  
 Developing Economies  
 Investing in commodities such as minerals and oil will
yield growth because people in developing nations are gaining
economic power and will be in a position to purchase more
products made from those materials, Slim said at a summit of
business leaders last month in New York.  
 “As hundreds of millions move from poverty, from auto-
consumption, to the new society, they are demanding goods,”
Slim said at the June 23 event. “Primary production is very
important.”  
 While Grupo Frisco trails rivals including  Goldcorp Inc. 
and  Fresnillo Plc  in gold production, the Carso unit is growing.
After two years of declines, the company mined 97,492 ounces of
gold in 2009, compared with 10,496 ounces in 2008.  
 The company’s projects in development include the San
Felipe and Concheno mines, which Carso estimated in April would
be able to produce a combined 68,000 daily tons of ore
containing gold and silver.  
 Carso’s Acquisitions  
 Carso bought the El Porvenir gold-mining project in
Aguascalientes, Mexico, for $25 million from Goldgroup Mining
Inc., the Vancouver-based company said July 12. Goldgroup said
last year that it expected Porvenir to yield as much as 50,000
ounces of gold a year.  
 The mining business helped Carso weather Mexico’s worst
economic  slump  since the 1930s. The company’s overall revenue
rose less than 1 percent last year to 66 billion pesos ($5.15
billion). The purchase of a real-estate portfolio from another
Slim company helped the retail unit’s sales climb 4 percent in
that period while revenue from the division that makes auto
parts and construction materials slid 24 percent.  
 While increases in gold and silver prices helped Carso in
2009, the company decreased its output of copper even as the
base metal’s price was climbing.  
 Gold, which peaked in 2009 at a spot price of $1,226.56 an
ounce, was considered a safe haven for investors concerned that
their assets would lose value in the global economic crisis.
Copper benefited from inventory shortages and expectations that
demand for construction materials would rise, said  Rodrigo Heredia , an analyst at Ixe Grupo Financiero in Mexico City.  
 It’s difficult for any company to time the market for price
shifts, since mines take years to develop and exploit, Heredia
said.  
 Precious Metal Prices  
 Gold and silver spot prices have extended their gains this
year, with bullion touching a record $1,265.30 an ounce on June
21, and silver climbing more than 8 percent through yesterday,
as copper prices dropped. While Frisco is shifting to more gold
and silver production, gains in any of the metal prices help
Slim, and declines hurt, since Carso produces all types of
metals.  
 While such prices last, the mining business will be good,
the Condumex executive said.  
 Frisco’s gold mines may be less profitable than competitors
because its production is spread out, Heredia said. Slim’s
largest-producing mines last year were in three Mexican states:
Zacatecas, Chihuahua and Aguascalientes.  
 Gold production last year at the La Herradura mine alone,
in which Fresnillo holds a 56 percent stake, was about 259,000
ounces, more than double the output at all of Frisco’s mines,
according to Fresnillo data. Frisco’s operating profit across
all mines and metals was 42 percent of sales in the same period,
trailing Fresnillo’s  50 percent margin .  
 “As long as you have bigger production in your mines, your
profitability margins are bigger,” Heredia said. With bigger
mines, companies don’t have to spread equipment across several
locations to get the same production volume, he said.
For Related News and Information:
Grupo Carso events: GCARSOA1 MM &lt;Equity&gt; EVT &lt;GO&gt;
Stories on Mexican mining: TNI MNG MEX &lt;GO&gt;
Stories on Carso: GCARSOA1 MM &lt;Equity&gt; CN &lt;GO&gt;
Mexican stock market news: MEXBOL &lt;Index&gt; CN &lt;GO&gt;
Fresnillo financial statements: FRES LN &lt;Equity&gt; FA &lt;GO&gt;
Grupo Carso segments: GCARSOA1 MM &lt;Equity&gt; PGEO &lt;GO&gt;  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Crayton Harrison  in Mexico City at 
 tharrison5@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Mexican billionaire Carlos Slim. Photographer: Daniel Acker/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
