-- Soco, Inpex Drill the First Exploration Well on Land in Congo For 30 Years
-- Eduard Gismatullin
-- 2010-07-15T09:48:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-15/soco-inpex-drill-the-first-exploration-well-on-land-in-congo-for-30-years.html

          
          
             Soco International Plc , a U.K. oil
and gas explorer, and Japan’s Inpex Corp. said they started
drilling the first exploration well on land in the Democratic
Republic of Congo in at least 30 years.  
 Soco sold a 20 percent stake to Inpex, Japan’s biggest
energy explorer, in the Nganzi block in western DR Congo, the
London-based company said today in a statement. The partners
started drilling today and are targeting about 600 million
barrels of estimated oil resources, said Chief Financial Officer
 Roger Cagle .  
 “Until about two years ago, they were in conflict in the
DRC, that certainly had something to do” with absence of
onshore development, Cagle said today in a phone interview.  
 The country is recovering from almost a decade of war that
officially ended in 2003 and claimed the lives of millions. More
than 20,000 civilians fled fighting this month between the
national army and rebels, the Allied Democratic Forces-National
Army for the Liberation of Uganda, in Congo’s North Kivu
province, according to the United Nations.  
 The Nganzi partners, including state-owned La Congolaise
des Hydrocarbures, may link the field with a 60-kilometer (37-
mile) pipeline to an offshore export terminal run by Chevron
Corp., Perenco SA and Inpex, Cagle said. “We need to find oil
first,” he said.  
 DR Congo on June 18 issued a presidential decree awarding
Soco and  Dominion Petroleum Ltd.  block 5 along Lake Edward in
the eastern part of the country. It also made awards to  SacOil
Holding Ltd.  of South Africa, and to two companies owned by
South African President  Jacob Zuma’s  nephew, Khulubuse Zuma,
which were held by  Tullow Oil Plc  and Heritage Oil Plc.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Eduard Gismatullin  in London at 
 egismatullin@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        