-- Somalian Militia Says Attack in Uganda Marks Start of Retaliatory Campaign
-- Fred Ojambo
-- 2010-07-15T07:43:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-15/somali-militia-leader-says-ugandan-bomb-attacks-avenge-civilian-killings.html

          
          
             Al-Shabaab , the Somali Islamist
group that claimed responsibility for two bomb blasts in Uganda
on July 11, said the attack marked the start of a campaign of
retaliation, as Uganda’s leader vowed to eliminate the militia.  
 The bombings, in which 74 people died, were to avenge the
killing of civilians by African Union peacekeepers in Somalia,
al-Shabaab leader Sheikh Mukhtar Abdirahman Abu-Zubeyr said in
an audio recording distributed to the media in Mogadishu late
yesterday. Uganda contributed troops to the AU Mission in
Somalia, a peacekeeping force known as  Amisom .  
 “Amisom soldiers have carried out the worst massacres in
Mogadishu,” Abu-Zubeyr said, citing “indiscriminate” shelling in
residential areas and the destruction of civilian homes. “The
Kampala bombing is the start of upcoming retaliatory attacks.”  
 Al-Shabaab, which the U.S. has designated as a terrorist
organization with links to al-Qaeda, has been trying to oust
Somalia’s Western-backed government since 2007. The militia,
along with the rebel Hisb-ul-Islam group, controls most of
southern and central Somalia, while the government holds only
parts of Mogadishu.  
 Major Barigye Ba-Hoku , a spokesman for Amisom, wasn’t
immediately able to comment on Abu-Zubeyr’s statement when
contacted today on his mobile phone.  
 The attack in Uganda marked the first step al-Shabaab has
taken toward becoming a transnational terrorist organization,
according to  Stratfor , the Austin, Texas-based intelligence
group. Two separate venues were targeted in the blasts, which
occurred while patrons were watching the soccer World Cup final.  
 ‘Martyr Brigade’  
 The bombings were carried out by a “martyr brigade” known
as Saleh Ali Saleh Nabhan, Abu-Zubeyr said. Saleh Ali Saleh
Nabhan, who was a suspect in attacks eight years ago on a hotel
and an airliner in  Kenya , was killed by U.S. special forces in a
raid in Somalia on Sept. 15.  
 Ugandan police said on July 13 that ball bearings found in
an unexploded suicide vest in a nightclub in Kampala were
similar to fragments found at the bomb sites.  
 Ugandan President  Yoweri Museveni  said yesterday he was
“extremely angry” about the attacks and vowed to hunt down the
perpetrators, according to  New Vision , a Kampala-based
newspaper.  
 “We shall eliminate them,” Museveni was quoted as saying.
“We are going to go on the offensive and get these terrorists.”  
 Ugandan police have arrested an unspecified number of
unidentified suspects in connection with the attacks, Kale
Kayihura, the inspector general of police, told reporters on
July 13. He didn’t provide further information.  
 Rebel Links  
 Uganda’s security agencies are also probing possible links
between al-Shabaab and the rebel Allied Democratic Forces,
government spokesman Fred Opolot said yesterday.  
 The ADF is made up of Ugandan opposition forces and
supported by the government of Sudan, according to the website
of  GlobalSecurity.org , an Alexandria, Virginia-based research
company. The group, whose members include “fundamentalist”
Tabliq Muslim rebels and parts of the renegade National Army for
the Liberation of Uganda, is based in the Ruwenzori Mountains of
western Uganda, it said.  
 The ADF began an insurgency in Uganda in 1996 and was
responsible for bomb blasts in Kampala in 1997 and 1998,
according to the Ugandan national army.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Hamsa Omar  in Mogadishu via Johannesburg at
   pmrichardson@bloomberg.net ;
 Fred Ojambo  in Kampala via Johannesburg at
   pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        