-- Sony Names Phil Molyneux New U.S. Electronics Chief
-- Cliff Edwards
-- 2010-07-15T21:44:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-15/sony-names-phil-molyneux-new-president-of-u-s-consumer-electronics-unit.html

          
          
             Sony Corp.  promoted  Phil Molyneux  to
president and chief operating officer of the U.S. consumer-
electronics division as it faces competition in the market for
Web-connected TVs, digital-book readers and mobile devices.  
 Molyneux, 48, succeeds  Stan Glasgow , who was appointed to
the newly created position of senior adviser for innovation for
Sony Corp. of America, the Tokyo-based company said today in a
statement. Glasgow, 59, has overseen Sony Electronics Inc., or
SEL, as president and COO since March 2006. He will now serve as
its chairman. The appointments are effective Sept. 1.  
 Sony Chief Executive Officer  Howard Stringer  has been
shaking up the company’s executive ranks since last year. The
goal, he said, is to remain profitable while winning market
share from rivals such as Samsung Electronics Inc., the South
Korean producer of flat-panel televisions, and Amazon.com Inc.,
the Seattle-based maker of the Kindle e-reader.  
 Since March 2006, the U.S. division has been declining as a
percent of annual revenue. It accounted for 22.1 percent of the
company’s $7.2 billion in sales for the fiscal year ended in
March, as against 26.1 percent of $7.5 billion in sales in
fiscal 2006.  
 Company spokesman  John Dolak  said Sony typically rotates
executives into new positions. He declined to comment further on
reasons for appointments.  
 ‘Proven Skills’  
 Molyneux was managing director of Sony Central and South-
East Europe since 2007. He led business management and
development for both consumer and professional products across
the 20 countries in that region.  
 “He knows how to lead, to win, and I am very pleased that
he will bring his considerable, proven skills to SEL and also
further our mission to expand our global management team,”
Stringer said in the statement.  
 Sony  dropped 62 yen to 2,530 yen yesterday in Tokyo. Its
stock has fallen 5.2 percent this year.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Cliff Edwards  in San Francisco at 
 cedwards28@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        