-- South Africa Buys $2.2 Billion of Foreign Currency in 2010, Citigroup Says
-- Garth Theunissen
-- 2010-07-15T09:52:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-15/south-africa-bought-2-2-billion-of-forex-so-far-this-year-citigroup-says.html

          
          
             South Africa’s National Treasury
bought an estimated $2.2 billion of foreign currency this year
to boost reserves, limiting gains in the rand during the
nation’s hosting of the soccer World Cup, said Citigroup Inc.  
 The foreign-exchange purchases included $700 million in
June,  Leon Myburgh , Citigroup’s sub-Saharan Africa analyst,
wrote in a research note today. Citigroup’s estimates are based
on data published by the  South African Reserve Bank , according
to the note.  
 “This reflects a new dynamic in the foreign-exchange
market and helps explain why the rand did not appreciate in the
face of World Cup-related inflows,” Myburgh said. “The
accumulation of foreign exchange by the National Treasury must
be seen in the light of a commitment by the monetary and fiscal
authorities to build foreign-exchange reserves.”  
 Organized labor groups including the  Congress of South
African Trade Unions  have lobbied the nation’s central bank to
aggressively step up dollar purchases to weaken the rand and
boost exports. Deputy Governor  Daniel Mminele  said May 20 that
while policy makers would seek to build foreign-currency
reserves, they would not target a specific level for the rand.  
 “Aggressive intervention” in the foreign-currency market
or pegging the rand to the dollar “would be a very costly
exercise,” Mminele said June 3.  
 The rand appreciated 1.1 percent against the dollar during
the soccer World Cup, which ran from June 11 to July 11. The
tournament attracted as many as 500,000 foreign visitors to
South Africa and added about 0.4 percentage point to gross
domestic product, Finance Minister  Pravin Gordhan  said July 2.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Garth Theunissen  in Johannesburg 
 gtheunissen@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        