-- South Korea's Won Weakens on Concern Slowing U.S. Recovery to Hurt Exports
-- Frances Yoon
-- 2010-07-15T01:05:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-15/south-korea-s-won-weakens-on-concern-slowing-u-s-recovery-to-hurt-exports.html

          
          
             South Korea’s won fell after the U.S.
reported a second monthly drop in retail sales and Federal
Reserve officials trimmed their economic growth forecasts,
dimming the outlook for exports.  
 The won is Asia’s worst-performing currency this year,
having lost 3.5 percent amid concern a global recovery was
losing momentum. The economic outlook has “softened” and some
members saw risks to the recovery had increased, according to
minutes from the Fed’s June meeting released yesterday.
Economists predict China, the biggest buyer of Korean exports,
will today report  economic growth  slowed in the last quarter.  
 “The won is reflective of the more somber tone from the
Fed’s downgrade of its growth forecast,” said  Sean Callow , a
senior currency strategist at Westpac Banking Corp. in Sydney.
“We’re also getting headlines from China this morning. Korean
won traders will not be too worried if we see a soft landing
from China’s rapid growth, but will be very upset if we see a
steeper slowdown.”  
 The won dropped 0.4 percent to 1,206.65 per dollar as of
9:49 a.m. in Seoul, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
It’s lost 0.9 percent this week. The  Kospi  share index fell 0.4
percent, retreating from a two-year high.  
 China’s gross domestic product increased 10.5 percent in
the second quarter from a year earlier, following an 11.9
percent gain in the previous three months, according to the
median estimate of economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  Retail
sales  in the U.S., the world’s biggest economy, declined 0.5
percent in June from the previous month, following a 1.1 percent
slide in May, the Commerce Department reported yesterday.  
 Export Dependent  
 Bank of Korea Governor Kim Choong Soo said July 13 some
Asian countries face difficulties due to their dependence on
external trade, which usually brings about volatility in capital
markets. Exports are equivalent to more than half of South
Korea’s GDP.  
 Government bonds rose as investors favored the safest
assets. The yield on the 3.75 percent note due June 2013 fell
six basis points to 3.93 percent, slipping from a four-month
high. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Frances Yoon  in Seoul at 
 fyoon2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        