-- Southern African Leaders Hold Summit to Rescue 100-Year-Old Customs Union
-- Mike Cohen
-- 2010-07-15T05:28:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-15/southern-african-leaders-hold-summit-to-rescue-100-year-old-customs-union.html

          
          
             Southern African leaders begin
meeting today to discuss the possible enlargement of the world’s
oldest customs union, even as a rift over trade accords
threatens the five-nation group’s existence.  
 Talks being held in Pretoria today and tomorrow will
discuss the possibility of Mozambique and other countries
joining the group and renegotiating the terms under which SACU’s
five members share revenue. SACU’s income accounts for more than
half of Lesotho’s and Swaziland’s budget revenue and more than
20 percent of Namibia’s and Botswana’s.  
 Economic partnership agreements, or EPAs, signed
unilaterally by Botswana,  Lesotho  and Swaziland with the
European Union last year, contravening the union’s rules and
casting doubt over its viability, will also be discussed.  
 “It’s currently quite plausible that SACU may disintegrate,
particularly if they don’t solve the EPAs puzzle,” said Peter
Draper, an analyst at the South African Institute for
International Affairs in Pretoria. “Since SACU is in such deep
trouble, it’s very unattractive for other outside member states
to want join. Why would you want to join something that may
break apart tomorrow?”  
 South Africa and Namibia objected to the EPAs, saying they
undermined regional integration plans and that provisions
requiring the African countries to open up their markets would
adversely affect their economies. Botswana, Lesotho and
Swaziland said they had to sign the pacts, or they would forfeit
their preferential access to key markets and aid.  
 Bigger Challenges  
 Renegotiating how to distribute the customs union’s revenue
may pose even bigger challenges than synchronizing its members’
trade policies or enlisting new members.  
 A single tariff is imposed on imports into the region and
revenue is shared according to a pre-determined formula dating
back to 2002, with more than half the funds transferred to
Botswana, Lesotho and Swaziland.  
 South Africa, the continent’s biggest  economy , historically
subsidized other member states in return for the right to steer
regional trade and industrial policies and set tariffs.  
 The global economic crisis slashed the region’s imports and
customs revenue. In the Feb. 17 budget, South Africa’s National
Treasury said it would transfer about 15 billion rand ($2
billion) to other SACU members in the year through March 2010,
4.5 billion rand less than estimated. Transfers in the current
fiscal year are expected to slump to 11.2 billion rand.  
 Even so, South Africa’s government says its neighbors get a
disproportionate share of tariff income. Proposals to review the
revenue-sharing formula will be raised this week, Ayanda
Ntsaluba, the director-general of South Africa’s international
relations department, told reporters in Pretoria on July 1.  
 “Lesotho and Swaziland in particular have taken, and are
going to take, big hits,” Draper said. “They are in serious
trouble. What is clear is that the total transfer is too big and
not sustainable.”  
 SACU celebrated its centenary this year.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mike Cohen  in Cape Town at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        