-- Spanish Bond Sale Eases Funding Concern
-- Emma Ross-Thomas
-- 2010-07-15T09:55:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-15/spain-sells-all-bonds-on-offer-at-auction-before-largest-debt-redemption.html

          
          
             Investors bought all 3 billion euros
($3.8 billion) of 15-year bonds offered by Spain, with demand
strong enough to ease concern the nation would struggle to cover
debt payments after Greece’s bailout.  
 “The Spanish auction went well,” said  Chiara Cremonesi , a
strategist at UniCredit Research in London. “Appetite for
Spanish paper is alive.”  
 Spain, which has to repay 24.7 billion euros of debt this
month, has the third-largest deficit in the euro region and its
banks are dependent on the European Central Bank for funds.
Prime Minister  Jose Luis Rodriquez Zapatero  risks losing power
as he pushes through austerity measures, including cutting
workers’ wages, freezing pensions and reducing severance pay.  
 Today’s auction raised the maximum offered at an average
yield of 5.116 percent, compared with 4.434 percent at a sale of
the same securities on April 22, the Bank of Spain said. Demand
was 2.57 times the amount sold, compared with the bid-to-cover
ratio of 1.79 in April. Spanish  bonds  rose and the euro
strengthened.  
 The government is hoping the publication of stress tests
next week will allow its financial institutions to access
capital markets. Spanish lenders borrowed a record 126.3 billion
euros from the ECB in June, up 48 percent from the previous
month, according to data compiled by the Bank of Spain. That
compares with a drop of 4 percent to 496.6 billion euros for
euro-area lenders as a whole.  
 Bonds Gain  
 The yield  premium  investors demand to hold Spain’s 10-year
debt over comparable German bonds fell to 199.6 basis points
after the auction, from 211 basis points earlier. The euro
gained 0.4 percent to 1.2792 against the dollar.  
 “People who expected the end of the world in July because
of the redemptions have been proved wrong,” said  Gianluca Salford , a fixed-income strategist at JPMorgan Chase &amp; Co. in
London.  
 Spain’s auction follows Greece’s sale of Treasury bills on
July 13, its first since the country accepted a three-year
bailout plan from the European Union in May after its borrowing
costs surged. Greece secured an interest rate at that sale below
the 5 percent charged on the emergency European loans.  
 July Redemptions  
 Portugal sold more debt than targeted in an auction
yesterday, a day after Moody’s Investors Service cut the
country’s credit rating, and Italy also sold 6.8 billion euros
of bonds yesterday.  
 The Spanish government has said it will have no trouble
paying the July redemptions, particularly as repayment coincides
with a period of increased tax revenue.  
 “The markets know perfectly well that we have been
executing our funding strategy beyond our needs with no
particular concern,” Deputy Finance Minister  Jose Manuel Campa 
said in an interview on June 22. As an example of the Treasury’s
strategy, he said Spain didn’t have to go to the market to raise
its portion of the emergency loan extended to Greece in May.  
 Fitch Ratings cut Spain’s credit rating to AA+ on May 28,
citing concerns about the economy’s ability to grow. Standard &amp;
Poor’s Ratings Services ranks Spain AA, while Moody’s Investors
Service put the country’s rating on review for a possible
downgrade on June 30, citing deteriorating growth prospects and
the risk the government won’t meet its fiscal targets.  
 As a result of austerity measures including public wage
cuts, a reduction in investment and a pension freeze, the
government revised its growth forecast for next year to 1.3
percent from 1.8 percent. That’s still more than double the
International Monetary Fund’s 0.6 percent forecast.  
 Even with Spain’s budget deficit at 11.2 percent of gross
domestic product, more than three times the EU limit, its debt
amounted to 53 percent of GDP last year, lower than in Germany
and less than the euro-region average of 79 percent.  
 For Related News and Information:
News on the Spanish economy: TNI SPAIN ECO &lt;GO&gt;
ECB news: NI ECB &lt;GO&gt;
Top Spain and Portugal stories: TOP IBERIA &lt;GO&gt;
Top Europe stories: TOP EUR &lt;GO&gt;  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Emma Ross-Thomas  in Madrid at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Spain probably will pay more than at the last auction  
                       
                         
                           Daniel Acker/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Spain's deputy finance minister Jose Manuel Campa. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Spain's deputy finance minister Jose Manuel Campa. Photographer: Daniel Acker/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
