-- Stealth Bankers Bomb as Anti-Reform Crusaders: Jonathan Weil
-- Jonathan Weil
-- 2010-07-15T01:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-15/stealth-bankers-bomb-as-anti-reform-crusaders-jonathan-weil.html

          
          
             If you thought herding cats was
tough, try herding bankers.  
 Last week Bloomberg News reported that the    American Bankers
Association  had started a campaign to mobilize investors against
an accounting-rule proposal that would force lenders to write
down their assets by billions of dollars.  
 The ABA sent e-mails to at least 15,000 people, along with
a  link  to a page on its website, titled “Guidance for Investors
Regarding FASB’s Mark to Market Proposal.” The goal was to
flood the  Financial Accounting Standards Board  with letters from
investors complaining about its  plan  to make lenders show the
fair-market values of their loans on their balance sheets, which
is something they don’t have to do now.  
 Among the letter writers was Terry L. Stevens of
Francesville,  Indiana , who identified himself as a bank
investor, as the ABA had suggested. He didn’t mention that he
also is chief financial officer and executive vice president of
 Alliance Bank , a closely held lender in Francesville with $270
million of assets.  
 “As a bank investor, of utmost importance to me regarding
the banks in which I own stock is their financial position, and
transparent financial reporting is key in order for me to make
investment decisions,” Stevens’  letter  said. “With this in
mind, I am writing to express my deep concerns and opposition to
the portion of the proposal that requires all financial
instruments to be marked to market.”  
 Choosing Words  
 Stevens didn’t write those words himself. He copied them
verbatim from a sample letter the ABA posted on its Web page.
So, too, did a bunch of other bankers who submitted  comment
letters  to the FASB opposing its proposal, notwithstanding the
ABA’s warning that they shouldn’t do cut-and-paste jobs.  
 “This  sample letter  is for educational purposes only,”
the ABA’s website said. “Please write your own letter -- the
FASB does not appreciate ‘form’ letters, and often discounts
them in their analyses.” Whoops.  
 Stevens told me he didn’t have time to write his own letter
from scratch. “The points that I grabbed out of their
paragraphs did a good job of explaining how I felt about the
situation,” he said. As for calling himself a bank investor,
that is accurate. He said he owns stock in his bank.  
 There’s much we can learn from that anecdote, as well as
other parts of the ABA’s widely copied comment letter. To wit:  
 1. The banking industry’s reputation has sunk so low, its
biggest trade group is telling bankers to call themselves
something else when lobbying policy makers.  
 “Let FASB know that you are an investor,” the ABA said on
its list of writing tips. We’ll probably be seeing more of this
kind of thing, now that the Obama administration’s financial-
overhaul legislation is on the verge of becoming law.  
 Battles to Come  
 The next battles will be waged at the federal agencies
charged with drafting the regulations that define how the 2,323-
page  Dodd-Frank Act  will be implemented. Expect more fake grass-
roots campaigns by “consumers” or “investors,” who just
happen to be bankers intent on watering down the rules.  
 2. Never underestimate a banker’s ability to deny reality.  
 Consider this excerpt from the ABA’s sample letter: “In
all my meetings with bank management regarding financial
results, market values of loans are never discussed.”  
 Whoever wrote this must have never bought a bank before.
When  Wells Fargo & Co . bought Wachovia Corp. for $23.1 billion
in 2008, for example, Wachovia’s last balance sheet still showed
net assets of $50 billion. What mattered most was how much
Wachovia’s loans were worth, not how much Wachovia was owed.  
 Wells probably won’t like the FASB’s  proposal  much, either.
It said its loans were worth $21.2 billion less than the
carrying value on its balance sheet as of March 31, equivalent
to 18 percent of its shareholder equity.  
 Scaring Us  
 3. Bankers’ scare tactics aren’t that scary.  
 The ABA’s letter continued: “Because the proposal to mark
loans to market does not reflect a bank’s business model,
requiring them to do so could result in a need for banks to
change their business models.”  
 And this is a bad thing? The Federal Deposit Insurance
Corp. included 775 banks with $431 billion of assets on its list
of troubled banks as of March 31, the highest level since 1992.
The way they got in such awful shape mainly was by making lots
of lousy loans. How bad could a change in those lenders’
business models be?  
 Sullied Reputations  
 4. Investment banks’ reputations are even worse.  
 The ABA’s letter warned that the FASB’s proposal “may
result in shifting toward an investment banking model rather
than a traditional banking model.”  
 Sure, like your local community bank is going to take a
stab at becoming the next Goldman Sachs just because of a change
in the accounting rules. Of course, no company is hated more
than  Goldman . Who knows? Maybe this line has potential.  
 5. The banking lobby thinks campaigns like this still work.  
 Maybe they can. They did in April 2009, when the FASB caved
to pressure from lawmakers by relaxing its mark-to-market rules
for debt securities, just when the banking crisis was at its
worst. Then, as now, bankers’ real target audience wasn’t the
FASB, but friendly regulators and politicians. If Congress holds
hearings again to scream at FASB members about how their rules
are destroying America’s lenders, all bets are off.  
 The accounting wars are just getting started.  
   Jonathan Weil  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  
 To contact the writer of this column:
Jonathan Weil in New York at 
 jweil6@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        