-- U.S. Stocks Reverse Losses as Goldman Sachs, BP Shares Rally
-- Nikolaj Gammeltoft
-- 2010-07-15T21:01:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-15/stocks-in-u-s-extend-losses-after-philadelphia-fed-s-factory-index-drops.html

          
          
             U.S. stocks recovered from an early
slump as BP Plc said it temporarily halted the flow of oil from
its Gulf of Mexico well and Goldman Sachs Group Inc. rallied
before settling the federal government’s fraud lawsuit.  
 BP’s  U.S. shares advanced 7.6 percent. Goldman Sachs jumped
4.4 percent in regular trading after the Securities and Exchange
Commission said it planned a “significant announcement” when
markets closed. Once the $550 million settlement was announced,
Goldman shares extended their gains, rising another 2.9 percent.  
 The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  reversed a loss of as much
as 1.3 percent to close up 0.1 percent at 1,096.48. The  Dow
Jones Industrial Average  fell 7.41 points, or less than 0.1
percent, to 10,359.31 to halt a seven-day streak of gains, its
longest in three months.  
 “The finalization of financial reform and the Goldman
speculation turned things around because they bring clarity and
it means we can finally get back to the business of banks making
money,” said  Frank Ingarra , a Stamford, Connecticut-based money
manager at Hennessy Advisors Inc., which oversees about $800
million. “The BP news is helpful too because it looks like we
might get resolution on that issue as well, but the market is
moving on headlines and it can make you seasick.”  
 BP jumped after the company said oil has stopped flowing
into the Gulf of Mexico for the first time in about three months
as the company pressure tests its damaged Macondo well. The
comments were made by Senior Vice President  Kent Wells  on a
conference call.  
 BP Jumps  
 “The BP news lifted all oil and oil-service stocks,” said
 Larry Peruzzi , senior equity trader at Cabrera Capital Markets
Inc. in Boston.  
 BP rose 7.6 percent to $38.92. An index of  energy companies 
in the S&P 500 gained less than 0.1 percent, after falling as
much as 1.6 percent.  
 Goldman Sachs  advanced 4.4 percent to $145.22 after the SEC
said it would make an announcement following the close of U.S.
stock exchanges.  
 After regular trading hours, the SEC said Goldman would pay
$550 million to settle the case. The litigation against  Fabrice Tourre , a Goldman employee involved with the case, will
continue, the SEC said. Goldman’s shares rose another 2.9
percent to $149.37 in extended trading after the announcement.  
 ‘Back to Running’  
 “The case has been a stone in the shoe for Goldman and now
it looks like they can get back to running,” said  Matt McCormick , a portfolio manager at Cincinnati-based Bahl & Gaynor
Inc., which has $2.7 billion under management.  
 U.S. stocks tumbled earlier as Federal Reserve reports on
the Philadelphia and New York regions showed manufacturing
growth slowed this month, suggesting corporate profit growth may
not be sustained.  
 The New York Fed’s index dropped to 5.1, lower than the
median forecast of 18 in a Bloomberg News survey of economists.
Readings greater than zero signal expansion in a region
including New York, northern New Jersey and southern
Connecticut. The Philadelphia Fed’s, covering eastern
Pennsylvania, southern New Jersey and Delaware, fell to 5.1 from
8.0. Economists forecast the measure would rise to 10, the
median projection in a Bloomberg News survey.  
 Jobless Claims  
 The manufacturing reports overshadowed the Labor
Department’s weekly tally of new claims for unemployment
insurance benefits, which declined more than estimated. Initial
jobless claims dropped by 29,000 to 429,000 in the week ended
July 10, the fewest since August 2008. The government
anticipates an increase in temporary factory layoffs in early
July that did not occur this year, a Labor Department spokesman
said.  
 The S&P 500 halted a six-day rally yesterday after  Intel
Corp. ’s record profit forecast was overshadowed by a drop in
retail sales and the Federal Reserve’s assessment that the
economy has “softened.” The gauge rebounded 7.1 percent from a
10-month low on July 2 through yesterday amid optimism about
second-quarter results. Analysts predict earnings in the S&P 500
grew 34 percent last quarter, according to Bloomberg data.  
 Host Hotels & Resorts fell 3.9 percent to $14.18 for the
second-biggest drop in the S&P 500. The real estate trust that
owns hotels in Mexico and Europe is leading a partnership that
will buy the W New York Union Square as part of a settlement to
bankruptcy proceedings, the property’s owner said. Terms of the
deal weren’t disclosed.  
 JPMorgan Chase Rises  
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. rose 0.3 percent to $40.46. The U.S.
bank posted a 76 percent  rise  in second-quarter profit to $4.8
billion, or $1.09 a share, beating an  average  estimate for
adjusted earnings of 71 cents, according to a Bloomberg survey.
Net income benefited from a $6.3 billion reduction in provisions
for soured mortgages and credit-card loans from last year.  
 Revenue declined to $25.6 billion in the second quarter
from $27.7 billion in the same period last year and from $28.2
billion in the first three months of 2010.  
 “Many investors coming into JPMorgan’s earnings today were
expecting decent earnings driven by better credit,” said  Steven Neimeth , a money manager at SunAmerica Asset Management Corp. in
Jersey City, New Jersey, which oversees $38 billion. “What may
be spooking people is the lack of revenue growth.”  
 The U.S. Senate today passed the biggest overhaul of
financial-industry regulation since the Great Depression,
sending the bill inspired by the 2008 credit crisis to the White
House for President  Barack Obama ’s signature. Obama proposed the
regulatory overhaul in response to the 2008 financial crisis
that led the U.S. to provide $700 billion in bailout funds for
companies including New York-based insurer American
International Group Inc.  
 Earnings Rebound  
 “Investors are extrapolating that the rebound in earnings
expected for the financials may not be as dramatic as people had
hoped,” Neimeth said. “In addition, investors continue to be
unclear on how financial regulation will impact financials’
earnings.”  
 Bank of America, the largest U.S. bank by assets, fell 1.8
percent to $15.39. Citigroup, the third-largest, retreated 1.2
percent to $4.16.  Financial companies  in the S&P 500 declined
0.1 percent as a group.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Elizabeth Stanton  in New York at 
 estanton@bloomberg.net ;
 Nikolaj Gammeltoft  in New York at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     A trader talks on a phone while working on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange. Photographer: Jin Lee/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 15 (Bloomberg) -- Jes Staley, head of investment banking at JPMorgan Chase & Co., talks about the company's decision to release reserves.
     Staley, talking with Carol Massar on Bloomberg Television's "In the Loop," also discusses JPMorgan's dividend, regulatory overhaul and the outlook for the U.S. economy. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

 
     
         Audio Download:  Schneider’s Gallo on Euro, BGC’s Wheeldon on Stocks 
     
         

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
