-- Sugar Futures Rise on Increasing Import Demand in Indonesia, Philippines
-- M. Shankar
-- 2010-07-15T12:56:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-15/sugar-advances-on-speculation-about-increased-imports-in-deficit-market.html

          
          
             Sugar rose in New York and London on
speculation that countries including Indonesia and the
Philippines will boost imports in a market that’s in deficit for
a second straight year.  
 Indonesia, Southeast Asia’s largest sugar buyer, is
expected to import more than 2 million metric tons in the year
starting in October as domestic demand climbs, the Indonesia
Sugar Association said today. The Philippines may open bids to
buy 150,000 tons of sugar by September, the Philippine Sugar
Millers Association said.  
 “Imports may be higher, as nonstop rains will probably
reduce sugar content in cane,” Faruk Bakrie, chairman of the
Indonesian group, said in an interview today. Prices rose to
records last year as excess rainfall in Brazil, the world’s
biggest sugar producer, cut cane yields.  
 Raw sugar for October delivery rose as much as 1.3 percent
on ICE Futures U.S. in New York. The contract climbed 0.14 cent,
or 0.8 percent, to 17.11 cents a pound at 8:29 a.m. local time.  
 White, or refined, sugar for October delivery added $3.40,
or 0.7 percent, to $522.60 a ton on the Liffe exchange in
London. The sweetener for August delivery is at a premium of
about $48 to October sugar, a so-called backwardation that may
signal limited supplies.  
 ‘Very Little Sugar’  
 “There is very little sugar to deliver against the August
contract,”  Jonathan Kingsman , managing director of sugar and
ethanol researcher Kingsman SA in Lausanne, Switzerland, said by
phone. “There is quite a bit of a deficit of white sugar in the
world market, and buyers are having to compete with each other
and bidding up the price.”  
 A surplus in the year starting Oct. 1 probably will be too
small to rebuild inventories after two years of shortfalls
reduced stockpiles by 27 million tons, broker Czarnikow Group
Ltd. said last month.  
 Rainfall in India, the world’s second-largest producer of
sugar, may remain subdued over grain- and sugar-cane-growing
regions during the next three to four days, said Medha Kole, a
director at the Indian Meteorological Department.  
 Cocoa for September delivery slipped $3, or 0.1 percent, to
$3,150 in New York. In London, cocoa for September delivery, the
most actively traded contract, lost 10 pounds, or 0.4 percent,
to 2,426 pounds ($3,731) a ton. The July contract that expires
today gained 0.7 percent on Liffe, erasing a decline of as much
as 1.8 percent.  
 Arabica coffee for September delivery advanced 3 cents, or
1.8 percent, to $1.679 a pound in New York. Robusta beans for
September delivery were up $34, or 2 percent, at $1,765 in
London after gaining as much as 3.1 percent, the highest since
July 2.  
 Steady, heavy rains will affect parts of Brazil such as
Mato Groso do Sul, northern Santa Catarina and southern Sao
Paulo, weather forecaster AccuWeather Inc. said in a report
today. Showers and thunderstorms will be scattered across much
of Vietnam in coming days, according to the report. Brazil is
the world’s biggest producer of coffee, followed by Vietnam.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 M. Shankar  in London at 
 mshankar@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        