-- Senior Swindles Increase, Often Perpetrated by Elderly Scammers
-- Alexis Leondis
-- 2010-07-15T21:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-15/swindles-against-seniors-increase-often-perpetrated-by-elderly-scammers.html

          
          
             Mara Krotec Baginski, a
gerontological social worker, said her parents still receive
phone calls looking for her grandfather to tell him he’s won a
sweepstakes, even though he’s been in an assisted living
facility since July 2008 because of advanced Alzheimer’s.  
 The scammers have targeted Baginski’s grandfather, a
retired physician, since 2003, calling or sending mailers
requesting checks for $25 in exchange for a $25 million prize.  
 “My grandfather is a brilliant man but because of his
dementia, he couldn’t make wise decisions and these people took
advantage of that,” said Baginski, 26, who lives in Chesapeake,
Virginia, and estimates her grandfather lost as much as $10,000
through the scams.  
 Financial abuse of older people is increasing as more
seniors are being lured into investments that are unsuitable or
outright swindles, according to lawyers and advocates for the
elderly, Bloomberg Businessweek reports in its July 19 issue. A
likely reason is the significant number of older adults who have
substantial wealth and possibly diminished cognitive abilities
as well, said a report by MetLife Inc.’s  Mature Market
Institute , a research organization focused on aging.  
 One out of five Americans older than 65 has been the victim
of a financial scam, according to the Washington-based Investor
Protection Trust, a nonprofit that promotes shareholder
education. That means more than 7.3 million seniors have been
taken advantage of financially through inappropriate
investments, high fees, or fraud, which New York-based insurer
MetLife said comes at a cost of more than $2.6 billion a year.  
 Ideal Targets  
 Older people are being targeted because “that’s where the
money is,” said Kathleen Quinn, executive director of the
National Adult Protective Services Association in Springfield,
Illinois, referring to the quote from 1930s bank robber Willie
Sutton. And those who suffer from isolation and diminished
capacity make ideal targets, said Steve Riess, a San Francisco
attorney who represents victims of con artists peddling bogus
investments.  
 The fraudsters themselves are also increasingly elderly,
possibly because senior citizens put more confidence in someone
their own age, said  Denise Voigt Crawford , president of the
Washington-based North American Securities Administrators
Association, which represents state regulators.  
 Older Fraudsters  
 Mineral Wells, Texas-based Ronald Keith Owens, 74, was
sentenced to  60 years  in state prison in January 2009 for
persuading investors, including retirees, to put more than $2.6
million into nonexistent bank-related investments.  
 In November, William Kirshner, 84, a financial adviser in
Corpus Christi, Texas, was  sentenced  to five years in state
prison for stealing more than $100,000 from senior citizens and
other clients who invested in promissory notes issued by his
company. The prison sentence was suspended and Kirshner was
placed on probation for two years and ordered to pay restitution
to eight victims.  
 William Walter Spencer, 68, a financial adviser in
Franklin, Tennessee, sold  elderly members  of his church
promissory notes that turned out to be fake. He pleaded guilty
to fraud in May and is expected to be sentenced in August.  
 Veterans looking for extra cash to supplement savings may
be a specific target. Several groups offer to help former
soldiers sign up for a $2,000-a-month needs-based benefit from
the Department of Veterans Affairs in Washington. While the
program is real, some groups are telling seniors in order to
qualify they have to first liquidate their assets and purchase a
private annuity, which usually comes with a hefty sales
commission.  
 Not Risk-Free  
 Another unsuitable practice affecting senior citizens that
involves insurance products is taking out a reverse mortgage and
then locking up the proceeds in a multi-year annuity, even
though a ban has been in place since 2008 on cross-selling the
mortgages with other financial products, said  Kent Smetters , a
professor of insurance and risk management at the University of
Pennsylvania’s Wharton School in Philadelphia. Reverse mortgages
let people age 62 and older get cash out of their homes and are
repaid when the borrower dies or moves.  
 Other inappropriate investments aimed at seniors are pools
of life insurance policies, similar to the bundles of home
mortgages that helped fuel the financial crisis, NASAA’s
Crawford said. Some products may include policies that don’t
exist, and it’s unclear whether they’re supposed to be overseen
by state insurance regulators or the Securities and Exchange
Commission, she said.  
 ‘Senior Specialists’  
 Principal-protected notes, which combine bonds with
derivatives to offer investors bets on stocks and commodities,
also are being marketed to the elderly, said  John Gannon  of the
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority in Washington. He said
seniors fall for these because the name makes it sound as if
they’re risk-free; in fact the principal isn’t always protected,
as holders of notes backed by  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. 
learned when the firm collapsed in September 2008.  
 “Financial professionals, both legitimate and
illegitimate, know there are assets seniors have that they can
get their hands on,” Gannon said. “They’ve figured out ways to
get to all of them.”  
 The financial-regulation bill will crack down on advisers
who market themselves as specialists in investments for seniors,
and another measure introduced last month in the Senate by  Herb Kohl , a Wisconsin Democrat, and  Kirsten Gillibrand , a New York
Democrat, would include harsher penalties for anyone committing
securities fraud against the elderly.  
 “We need better regulation of this industry,” said Kohl,
75, who heads the Senate’s  Special Committee on Aging , “so
seniors can tell the difference between professionals who offer
clear and unbiased financial advice and bad actors who steer
them toward inappropriate financial products.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alexis Leondis  in New York 
 aleondis@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Ronald Keith Owens was sentenced to 60 years for his investment scam. Source: Palo Pinto County Sheriff's Dept. via Bloomberg  
                      
      

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
