-- Swiss Lawyer Indicted for Conspiring With HSBC Client
-- David Glovin
-- 2010-07-15T22:43:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-15/swiss-lawyer-indicted-by-u-s-for-conspiring-with-hsbc-client-in-tax-case.html

          
          
             A Swiss lawyer was indicted on U.S.
charges that he helped a Virginia surgeon use an  HSBC Holding
Plc  account to hide assets from the Internal Revenue Service.  
 Felix Mathis, a Zurich-based attorney at Froriep Renggli
LLP, is alleged to have used a sham Liechtenstein trust to
conceal assets that the surgeon, Andrew Silva, held at HSBC. The
federal grand jury in Virginia also accused Mathis in two
“structuring” counts of helping Silva secretly import $235,000
into the U.S. without reporting it to the government.  
 Silva was sentenced on June 11 to two years of probation
after pleading guilty to conspiring with a Swiss banker and a
Zurich attorney to defraud the IRS. As part of his guilty plea,
Silva, who is cooperating with prosecutors, implicated Mathis.  
 The U.S. Justice Department is also conducting a criminal
investigation of HSBC clients who may have failed inform the IRS
of accounts in India or Singapore, according to three people
familiar with the matter.  
 A call to Mathis’s office in Zurich after business hours
wasn’t immediately returned. He faces up to 25 years in prison
if convicted.  
 Bricks  
 Silva in 1997 inherited from his mother a bank account held
at the Zurich branch of an “international bank” in the name of
the Liechtenstein trust, prosecutors said. Two years later, he
met with Mathis, who managed the account and advised the surgeon
not to disclose it to U.S. authorities, they said.  
 Told the bank was closing the account in September 2009,
Silva made two trips to Zurich to meet with Mathis and the Swiss
banker late last year, prosecutors said. They refused to wire
the funds to the U.S. because it would “leave a trail” for law
enforcement and instead gave him $200,000 in two individually
wrapped “bricks” of $100,000 each, prosecutors said.  
 To avoid U.S. requirements that he report the importation
of amounts exceeding $10,000 in currency, Silva mailed the cash
home in 26 packages, they said. He had Mathis’ help, prosecutors
said.  
 Mathis is not in U.S. custody.  
 The case is USA v. Mathis, 10-cr-260, U.S. District Court,
Eastern District of Virginia (Alexandria).  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Voreacos  in Newark, New Jersey at 
 dvoreacos@bloomberg.net , and
 David Glovin  in New York federal court at 
 dglovin@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        