-- Swiss Agree to Help Germany in Search for Hidden Former East German Assets
-- Paul Verschuur
-- 2010-07-15T11:51:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-15/swiss-agree-to-help-germany-in-search-for-hidden-former-east-german-assets.html

          
          
             Switzerland is helping Germany
investigate whether Swiss banks were used to hide stolen assets
from former East German organizations around the time of the
fall of the Berlin Wall in 1989.  
 Bank documents that could shed light on what happened to
assets belonging to former East German political parties and
organizations were handed to Germany yesterday after seven years
of talks and proceedings, the Foreign Ministry said today in an
e-mailed  statement .  
 State and Communist Party entities in the former East
Germany used foreign companies for legal business purposes as
well as for financing illegal activities, the ministry said from
the Swiss capital of Bern. According to German investigations,
such “front companies” also existed in Switzerland, it said.  
 Germany first requested Swiss help in 2003 after it was
“unable to uncover all of the financial movements in
question,” the statement said. Swiss authorities granted legal
assistance in cases where there was enough specific evidence and
decided in 2007 to ask 14 banks to check the accounts of people
suspected of “committing illegal acts,” it said.  
 Eight banks reported a total of 56 accounts following the
request, the Swiss ministry said without specifying names. The
documents may be used in court should Switzerland give approval
under its mutual legal assistance agreements with Germany.  
 Switzerland is holding talks with Germany on a new tax
treaty that would ease Swiss banking secrecy and require the
disclosure of information about Germans believed by their
government to have evaded taxes.  
 German officials yesterday raided offices of Credit Suisse
Group AG, the second-largest Swiss bank after UBS AG, in Germany
as part of a tax probe.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Paul Verschuur  at   pverschuur@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        