-- U.S. Paid Iranian Scientist $5 Million to Provide Intelligence, Post Says
-- 
-- 2010-07-15T01:11:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-15/u-s-paid-iranian-scientist-5-million-to-provide-intelligence-post-says.html

          
          
              
By Greg Miller
     July 15 (Washington Post) -- The Iranian nuclear scientist
who claimed to have been abducted by the CIA before departing for
his homeland Wednesday was paid more than $5 million by the
agency to provide intelligence on Iran's nuclear program, U.S.
officials said.
     Shahram Amiri is not obligated to return the money but might
be unable to access it after breaking off what U.S. officials
described as significant cooperation with the CIA and abruptly
returning to Iran. Officials said he might have left out of
concern that the Tehran government would harm his family.
     "Anything he got is now beyond his reach, thanks to the
financial sanctions on Iran," a U.S. official said. "He's gone,
but his money's not. We have his information, and the Iranians
have him."
     Amiri arrived at the Iranian diplomatic mission in
Washington this week and requested to be sent home. U.S.
officials, who said Amiri had been working with the CIA for more
than a year, were stunned by the decision.
     Whether the agency received an adequate return on its
investment in Amiri is difficult to assess. The size of the
payment might offer some measure of the value of the information
he shared. But it could also reflect a level of eagerness within
the U.S. intelligence community for meaningful information on
Iran.
     The U.S. official said the payments reflected the value of
the information gleaned. "The support is keyed to what the
person's done, including how their material has checked out over
time," said the official, who, like others, spoke on the
condition of anonymity because of the sensitivity surrounding the
case. "You don't give something for nothing."
     The transfer of millions of dollars into Amiri-controlled
accounts also seems to bolster the U.S. government's assertions
that Amiri was neither abducted nor brought to the United States
against his will.
     Given the amount of money he was provided, a second U.S.
official said, "I'm sure he could have been very happy here for a
long time."
     The payments are part of a clandestine CIA program referred
to as the "brain drain." Its aim is to use incentives to induce
scientists and other officials with information on Iran's nuclear
program to defect.
     The Iranian government maintains that its nuclear research
is strictly for peaceful purposes. But the United States and
other nations contend that Iran is secretly pursuing a nuclear
bomb. Acquiring intelligence on the country's nuclear
capabilities and intentions is among the highest priorities for
U.S. spy agencies.
     Amiri, 32, is known to have worked at Iran's Malek-e-Ashtar
Industrial University, which U.S. intelligence agencies think is
linked to the nation's Revolutionary Guard Corps, a powerful
entity accused of activities ranging from weapons research to
supporting terrorist groups.
     The scientist is not believed to have had direct access to
Iran's most sensitive nuclear sites or leaders involved in
decisions on whether to pursue a bomb. Still, officials said
Amiri was valuable in confirming information from other sources
and providing details on multiple nuclear facilities.
     Iran has already begun to take advantage of the Amiri case,
with state television echoing his claims that he was abducted and
describing his return as a national victory. The propaganda
effort could discourage others from defecting.
     The CIA has authority to bring as many as 100 people into
the United States each year under a provision of the 1949 Central
Intelligence Agency Act that enables the agency to bypass
ordinary immigration requirements.
     Promises of resettlement and reward money are two of the
primary inducements used by the CIA to recruit informants inside
"hard target" countries, including North Korea and Iran.
     The money that went to Amiri was apparently placed in
accounts or investment mechanisms that would sustain him over a
lifetime in the United States. "You basically put together a
long-term benefits package," one of the U.S. officials said.
     Although Amiri might no longer be able to access the
accounts, it was not clear whether the CIA would be able to
reclaim the funds. The U.S. officials declined to disclose where
the funds had been deposited.
     State Department spokesman P.J. Crowley would not disclose
Amiri's immigration status while he was in the United States or
the reason he had been in the country. "He was here of his own
volition and left of his own volition," Crowley said. "If he
wants to talk about this, he can."
     The CIA's payments to Amiri add to what has become one of
the more bizarre recent episodes in espionage. Amiri disappeared
in Saudi Arabia last summer and then resurfaced in a series of
contradictory Internet videos this spring.
     In some, he claimed to have been abducted, drugged and
subjected to CIA torture to get him to talk. In another
recording, apparently produced with help from the CIA, Amiri
insisted that he had come to the United States of his own accord
and said he was living in Tucson while pursuing a PhD.
     U.S. officials had refused to address any aspect of the case
before Amiri stepped out of a taxi at the Iranian diplomatic
offices on Wisconsin Avenue this week, seeking an airline ticket
back to Tehran.
     One of the U.S. officials said Amiri's family was a main
factor in his decision to return. "He just wanted to see his
family and, unfortunately, he chose a dumb way to do it," the
official said, "lying about what happened to him here to try to
build up his credibility back home."
     Amiri was expected to arrive in Tehran early Thursday to a
hero's welcome.
     On Wednesday, Iranian television presenters and analysts had
no trouble drawing a conclusion about the episode.
     "America has lost," they said repeatedly. "Iran is the
winner of this intelligence war."
     Correspondent Thomas Erdbrink in Tehran contributed to this
report.
 
          
          


  


        