-- U.S. Regulators Move to Open Satellite Airwaves for Mobile Internet Use
-- Todd Shields
-- 2010-07-15T15:29:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-15/u-s-regulators-move-to-open-satellite-airwaves-for-mobile-internet-use.html

          
          
             Federal regulators moved toward
easing restrictions on how some satellite companies use their
airwaves as part of a push to devote more spectrum to mobile
Internet services.  
 The Federal Communications Commission voted 5-0 today to
consider leasing spectrum by companies that operate satellite
services for customers using mobile equipment. The FCC also said
it would weigh lifting a requirement that customers’ handsets be
able to communicate with the companies’ satellites.  
 The steps are aimed at opening the way to use the satellite
companies’ airwaves for networks that rely on ground-based
towers, Matt Nodine, chief of staff of the FCC’s  wireless
bureau , said in an interview before the vote.  
 The FCC action may be significant for  TerreStar Corp. ,
which has indicated it would enter a leasing arrangement with
Harbinger Capital Partners, said  Rebecca Arbogast  and  David Kaut , Washington-based analysts at Stifel Nicolaus & Co., in a
note yesterday.  Philip Falcone ’s Harbinger purchased the
remaining stake in satellite company Skyterra Communications
Inc. this year that it didn’t already own and plans a network of
36,000 towers and two satellites.  
 Companies with mobile-satellite spectrum rights include
 Inmarsat Plc , SkyTerra,  Globalstar Inc.  and  Iridium
Communications Inc. , the FCC said in its national plan for
broadband, or high-speed Internet service, issued in March.  
 President  Barack Obama  on June 28 proposed to almost double
the airwaves available for smartphones, laptop connections to
the Internet and new wireless devices. Obama signed a memorandum
that commits the U.S. to free up 500 megahertz of government and
commercial spectrum in the next decade.  
 The FCC action today affects 90 megahertz of spectrum.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Todd Shields  in Washington at 
 tshields3@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        