-- U.S. Criticism of China's Military May Overshadow Asian Security Meeting
-- Daniel Ten Kate
-- 2010-07-15T23:56:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-15/u-s-criticism-of-china-s-military-may-overshadow-asian-security-meeting.html

          
          
             U.S. criticism of China’s military
buildup may overshadow Asia’s biggest security forum next week
after the sinking of a South Korean warship showed the potential
for conflict in waters vital to world trade.  
 Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  and Chinese Foreign
Minister  Yang Jiechi  are set to attend the  Asean Regional Forum 
in Hanoi on July 23, where they will meet with diplomats from 24
countries and the European Union. The Asia-Pacific gathering
comes as the U.S. questions China’s motives for beefing up its
armed forces, with President Barack Obama’s top military adviser
saying last month he’s “genuinely concerned.”  
 “There’s certainly been a lot of concern about China’s
growing capabilities,” said Roger Cliff, an analyst at the  Rand
Corporation , a non-profit policy research group based in
Arlington, Virginia. “By 2015, things could get quite dicey for
the U.S.”  
 Growing potential for conflict in waters off China’s
18,000-kilometer (11,184-mile) coastline came into focus in
March, when the torpedoing of a South Korean warship killed 46
sailors. After an independent inquiry blamed North Korea for the
attack, the U.S. and South Korea vowed to conduct joint military
exercises in the Yellow Sea.  
 “The drill is a threat to China’s security and risks
escalating tensions in the Korean Peninsula,” the state-run
China Daily wrote in a July 13  editorial . “The U.S. move will
be a new roadblock to the resumption of normal military ties
between Beijing and Washington.”  
 Suspension of Ties  
 China, which cut off high-level military exchanges with
the U.S. in January over arms sales to Taiwan, has declined to
blame North Korea for the ship sinking. North Korea denies it
had a role in the March 26 incident. U.S. Secretary of Defense
Robert Gates said in Singapore last month that China’s
suspension of military exchanges “makes little sense” and
threatens regional security.  
 Admiral  Mike Mullen , Obama’s top military adviser and
chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, spoke last month about
the “gap” between China’s stated intent and the reality of its
military programs.  
 “Indeed, I have moved from being curious to being
genuinely concerned,” he said.  
 China claims Taiwan and the entire South China Sea as its
own and supports Kim Jong Il’s regime in North Korea, putting it
at odds with neighboring countries that depend on the U.S. Navy
for security. Estimates of oil and gas reserves in the waters
vary, with some Chinese studies suggesting it contains more oil
than Iran and more natural gas than Saudi Arabia, according to
the U.S.  Energy Information Administration .  
 Punish Companies  
 China also said in January it would punish companies
involved in the Taiwan arms deal, including Lockheed Martin
Corp., United Technologies Corp. and  Boeing Co . The threat,
which has yet to materialize, represents an escalation in
rhetoric compared with a previous arms sale in 2008, said  Bonnie Glaser , an expert on U.S.-China relations at the Center for
Strategic and International Studies in Washington.  
 “If we are six months from now where we are today, and we
still don’t have a Gates visit and we still have suspended
military exchanges, then I would say it’s a far more severe
reaction,” Glaser said.  
 The U.S. sent three nuclear-powered submarines each capable
of holding 154 Tomahawk cruise missiles to the region earlier
this month, the South China Morning Post reported on July 4.  
 At the same time, America has stepped up engagement with
former adversaries in the region. This week, the U.S. co-hosted
the first large-scale  military exercise  in Cambodia involving
field training for peacekeeping missions and welcomed the
highest-level visit by a Laos government official to Washington
in 35 years. It has also sought to rejuvenate long dormant
military ties with Vietnam and Indonesia.  
 Military Buildup  
 China has beefed up its military over the past decade,
enhancing the capability to deter U.S. ships and enforce
territorial claims off its shores. Last year, Chinese fishing
boats harassed two U.S. naval vessels in the South China Sea,
where American forces have patrolled since World War II.  
 Gates called the sea “an area of growing concern” at a
security forum in Singapore last month and warned against
intimidation of U.S. companies operating in the area. Exxon
Mobil Corp. and  BP Plc  are among businesses that have halted
projects in the sea because of China’s objections, according to
U.S. government agencies.  
 “As China builds up its military power commensurate with
its economic and cultural power, it may become a lot less ready
to sit back and wait” for territorial disputes to be resolved,
said Richard Bitzinger, a senior fellow at the  S. Rajaratnam
School of International Studies  in Singapore.  
 Territorial Dispute  
 China formally disputed the claims of Vietnam and Malaysia
to part of the South China Sea’s Spratly Islands when it
submitted a  map  to the United Nations last year asserting
ownership over most of the sea. Brunei, the Philippines and
Taiwan also claim all or part of the island chain, which may
contain oil and gas reserves.  
 Chinese officials told U.S. counterparts in March they
consider the South China Sea a “core interest” on par with
Taiwan, Tibet and Xinjiang, Kyodo News reported on July 3,
citing unidentified officials. That would make the issue non-
negotiable and allow China to use force to uphold its claims,
said  Ian Storey , a fellow at the Institute of Southeast Asia
Studies in Singapore.  
 “The balance of military power in the South China Sea is
shifting decisively” toward China, he said. “That suggests the
status quo is not sustainable.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Daniel Ten Kate  in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     U.S. secretary of state Hillary Clinton. Photographer: Andrew Harrer/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
