-- Turkey Central Bank Leaves Benchmark Rate Unchanged Amid Slowing Inflation
-- Steve Bryant
-- 2010-07-15T16:25:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-15/turkey-central-bank-leaves-benchmark-rate-unchanged-amid-slowing-inflation.html

          
          
             Turkey’s central bank left its
benchmark interest  rate  at a record low after inflation slowed
for a second month and debt problems in Europe threatened the
country’s economic recovery.  
 The central bank in Ankara kept its one-week repo lending
rate at 7 percent, according to an e-mailed statement today.
That matched the  estimate  of all 13 economists in a Bloomberg
survey. The bank will release minutes of the meeting within
eight working days.  
 Turkey’s  inflation  rate fell to 8.4 percent in June from
9.1 percent a month earlier, a bigger drop than forecast by the
central bank, Governor  Durmus Yilmaz  said on July 8. The bank
has now held interest rates unchanged for eight months and said
today that it has detected signs that foreign demand for Turkish
goods is slowing.  
 “The bank is stressing the external risks a little more
now,” said  Levent Durusoy , chief economist for Yatirim
Finansman Securities in Istanbul. “We’ll see more of what the
bank’s thinking when it announces its inflation report” on July
27.  
 The lira was little changed after today’s decision, trading
at 1.5347 per dollar in Istanbul at 7:04 p.m.  
 The bank maintains its aim of keeping rates “at present
levels for a while longer,” it said in the statement alongside
today’s decision. While domestic demand is recovering, “risks
to global growth remain important,” it said.  
 Comfortable  
 “Given the improvement in inflation and the downshift in
global growth momentum, we expect the bank to remain on hold
until the second half of 2011,”  Yarkin Cebeci , an economist at
JPMorgan Chase & Co. in Istanbul, said in an e-mail today. “We
see the bank feeling very comfortable remaining on hold.”  
 Turkey emerged from recession in the second quarter of last
year. Quarterly  economic growth  has slowed since then, to 0.1
percent in the first three months of 2010. Manufacturing
confidence fell for a second month in June, after rising for the
previous five months. About half of Turkey’s exports are to
Europe.  
 Expectations for inflation over the next 12 months fell
after the June figures were announced. The average forecast
declined to 7.24 percent from 7.35 percent in the central bank’s
biweekly survey of economists and executives, released July 8.  
 Inflation may finish the year “above but close” to the
bank’s 6.5 percent goal, Yilmaz said July 8.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Steve Bryant  in Ankara at 
 sbryant5@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        