-- Vatican Extends Limit for Prosecuting Priests Accused of Abuse to 20 Years
-- Flavia Krause-Jackson
-- 2010-07-15T13:15:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-15/vatican-doubles-statute-of-limitations-on-sex-abuse-by-priests-to-20-years.html

          
          
             The Vatican doubled the statute of
limitations on prosecuting priests for sexual abuse to 20 years
in a revision of its canon-law rules as allegations of
misconduct by clergy spread around the globe.  
 The new rules amended Vatican regulations dating to 2001
initially prepared when Pope Benedict XVI headed the
Congregation for the Doctrine of Faith, the Vatican’s doctrinal
office, for then  Pope John Paul II . The changes were released
today in a  statement  on the Vatican’s website.  
 “It’s disturbing that the new rules merely will extend the
statutes of limitations rather than eliminate them altogether,”
said Anne Barrett Doyle, co-head of BishopAccountability.org,
which documents sex abuse by priests. “The policy revisions
announced by the Vatican are tiny improvements.”  
 Benedict has struggled to contain damage to the Church’s
reputation over its handling of allegations of sexual abuse by
priests in the U.S., Ireland, Germany and, most recently,
Belgium. The 83-year-old pontiff last month promised to do
“everything possible” to shield children from pedophile
clerics. Victim groups say church leaders have tried to cover up
crimes and done too little to prevent abuse.  
 The Vatican in April made public for the first time its
guidelines for dealing with clerics accused of molesting minors.
Besides reinforcing the message that suspected crimes should be
reported to the police, Catholic bishops were also called upon
to “investigate every allegation of sexual abuse of a minor by
a cleric,” the rules say.  
 April Guidelines  
 “If the allegation has a semblance of truth the case is
referred to the CDF” and bishops are “encouraged” to restrict
the activities of accused priests to protect alleged victims
during any investigation, the April guidelines said. The Vatican
reiterated today that Catholic bishops must report alleged abuse
to the police and investigate every allegation of sexual abuse
of a minor by a cleric.  
 Today’s changes include a new rule to consider a minor any
“developmentally disabled” individual even if over the age of
18. Additionally, the distribution of child pornography now
constitutes a crime in canon law and the ordination of women
into the priesthood is a “crime against faith,” the Vatican
said.  
 Between 2001 and 2009, there were 3,000 accusations of
sexual wrongdoing by priests, of which 60 percent were reported
to be same-sex attraction while 30 percent were heterosexual,
the Vatican has said. The remaining 10 percent were serious
claims of abuse of minors. The U.S. accounts for 80 percent of
the priests currently facing trial.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Flavia Krause-Jackson  in Rome at 
 fjackson@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       The changes were released today  
                       
                         
                           Daniel Bar-On/Pool via Bloomberg 
                         
                         Pope Benedict XVI. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Pope Benedict XVI. Photographer: Daniel Bar-On/Pool via Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
