-- Venezuela Becoming One of World's Most Dangerous Spots for Labor Activists
-- 
-- 2010-07-15T01:20:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-15/venezuela-becoming-one-of-world-s-most-dangerous-spots-for-labor-activists.html

          
          
              
By Juan Forero
     July 15 (Washington Post) -- MARACAY, VENEZUELA -- Calling
itself the most labor-friendly government in Latin America,
President Hugo Chávez's socialist administration has repeatedly
increased the minimum wage, turned over the management of some
nationalized companies to workers and fostered the creation of
new unions.
     But labor leaders and human rights groups say the
government's efforts have had a dark side. About 75 union members
have been shot dead in the past two years as the new unions --
many of them pro-Chávez -- and traditional unions battle it out,
making Venezuela among the world's most dangerous countries for
labor activists.
     "The state is responsible for all these deaths," said
Orlando Chirinos, a former Chávez ally who helps lead a labor
federation that has seen several members killed in this northern
city. "When union leaders from parallel unions know of job sites,
they sit there and wait -- and they are all armed. Everyone
knows. Why doesn't the government send troops?"
     Union leaders and the respected Provea rights group in
Caracas say newly formed unions have turned to paid killers,
targeting low-level activists and union chiefs alike.
     Pedro Perez, a union activist here who was shot in March,
said the violence stems from new unions trying to sideline old
ones like his.
     "They have already killed several friends," said Perez, who
now walks with a limp. "You can't be a unionist in this country
anymore."
     Most of the deaths have taken place in the lucrative
construction industry. In exchange for jobs, workers are forced
to pay kickbacks to union bosses.
     With big profits at stake, and the state doing little to
control the violence, the number of killings has tripled from 12
four years ago to 34 recorded in the 12 months ending in May,
according to the Catholic Church's human rights unit. Though
Colombia, with its slow-burning conflict, has historically
recorded the most union slayings in the world, Venezuela appears
to have surpassed its neighbor in the past two years and
registered more.
     And unlike Colombia, where teams of prosecutors,
investigators and judges have been deployed to resolve cases,
Venezuela's judicial system has brought only a handful of killers
to justice, according to the human rights arm of the Organization
of American States. The killings have also failed to garner much
attention in Venezuela or with international labor groups.
     "There is great indifference, combined with great impunity,"
said Marino Alvarado, an investigator with Provea who is
compiling information about the killings, including three more
this month.
     Calls to the attorney general's office and the Labor
Ministry were not returned. But Francisco Torrealba, a deputy in
Venezuela's congress and president of a subcommittee on labor
issues, acknowledged the problem and said government officials
have met with labor federations to stem the violence.
     Torrealba said the killings spring from a culture of
violence at unions long tied to Venezuela's two traditional
anti-Chávez parties. "It's about intra-union violence and has to
do with the culture of doing things in this country in a violent
way," he said, disputing assertions that the violence has picked
up dramatically under Chávez.
     Torrealba, president of a pro-government federation
representing railway workers, also said that through wage
increases and the job security offered at state companies, the
Chávez government has "proven itself to be a workers'
government."
     But Human Rights Watch, which carried out a study of
Venezuelan labor, says the government intervenes in union
elections and favors pro-government unions in negotiations,
sometimes sidestepping larger, established unions for smaller
organizations that support Chávez.
     Union leaders here say the government is trying to ensure
that unions are solidly pro-government, thus bringing practically
all important institutions in Venezuela, save for the Catholic
Church, under the state's fold.
     Already, the Venezuelan Workers Confederation, a decades-old
umbrella for most unionized workers, has suffered a dramatic loss
of influence since it participated in anti-government marches
that led to Chávez's brief ouster in 2002.
     The newcomers include several federations and 4,000 new
unions, up from 1,300 in 2001, said Froilan Barrios, among the
directors of the Workers Confederation and a labor scholar.
     In this city of 1.3 million just west of Caracas, the
leaders of UNT, a federation representing 80 unions, contend that
the killings of eight union activists in the past five years is
designed to weaken their movement.
     "We believe it is political, to debilitate UNT and cut us
off from projecting ourselves," said Emilio Bastidas, a regional
coordinator for the federation.
     The killings, he and other union leaders said, have the
makings of professional hits. One union activist was shot in his
home. Three others died at a roadside stand in 2008 when two men
calmly emptied their weapons into them and then fled.
     Among the most recent victims was Jerry Diaz, 35, who was
shot twice on April 25, moments after he got into his car at his
home.
     His twin brother, Cherry Diaz, also a union activist, found
him bleeding to death. He is not sure why his brother was killed,
but he recounted how a new union has tried to muscle in on their
longtime union at a paper company.
     "This is becoming like a hobby here in Aragua state," Diaz
said of the violence. "What we are sure about is that they are
now turning to hit men, to assassinate."
 
          
          


  


        