-- Visteon May Allow Suppliers to Buy `Small' Stake in Reorganized Company
-- Steven Church
-- 2010-07-15T19:02:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-15/visteon-may-allow-suppliers-to-buy-small-stake-in-reorganized-company.html

          
          
             Visteon Corp.  may give suppliers and
other creditors who hold unsecured debt a chance to buy shares
of the auto-parts maker once it exits bankruptcy, a lawyer for
the company said.  
 The company is in talks with investors who bought the right
to collect debts Visteon owes suppliers about buying stock the
company plans to issue, attorney James Mazza told U.S.
Bankruptcy Judge  Christopher S. Sontchi  at a hearing today.  
 “We’d like to get it done, if it’s the right deal,” Mazza
said in an interview after the hearing in Wilmington, Delaware.
“It’s insurance.”  
 Visteon, based in Van Buren Township, Michigan, was spun
off from  Ford Motor Co.  in 2000. It has proposed raising more
than $1.25 billion to help fund its exit from bankruptcy by
selling new stock to bondholders.  
 The company filed for bankruptcy last year, listing assets
of $4.58 billion and debt of $5.32 billion in its Chapter 11
documents. Visteon, which makes air-conditioning and interior
electronics for cars and trucks, has cut employees, closed
factories and moved production to lower-cost plants.  
 Suppliers and others who hold general unsecured claims may
get the chance to buy as much as $15.75 million of the new stock
to be issued, Mazza said in an interview. That would give those
creditors a “small” stake in the company, he said.  
 The bondholders are to get about 95 percent of the company
under the current plan. Visteon would have to issue more stock
to accommodate the suppliers, Mazza said.  
 Distressed Debt  
 The company’s current reorganization plan is opposed by
three distressed-debt investors that hold about $20 million in
supplier claims.  
 Those investors have collected pledges to vote no on the
plan from creditors with at least 60 percent of the so-called
trade debt, according to a person familiar with the tally. If
trade creditors vote against the plan, they could block Visteon
from winning court approval to exit bankruptcy.  
 Existing  shareholders  also oppose the plan, saying Visteon
is worth enough to give them something as well. Stockholders
typically are wiped out in bankruptcy unless the company can
fully repay all its debts. Shareholders want a chance to
participate in the proposed stock sale, according to court
records.  
 Sontchi today rejected shareholders’ request to put forward
their own reorganization proposal.  
 The case is In re Visteon Corp., 09-11786, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Steven Church  in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in Wilmington, Delaware,
at   schurch@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        