-- Vivus's Rejection by Diet Pill Panel Threatens Rival Candidates
-- Catherine Larkin
-- 2010-07-16T20:11:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-15/vivus-fails-to-win-u-s-fda-panel-s-recommendation-for-diet-pill-qnexa.html

          
          
             Vivus Inc.  shares plunged the most
ever in New York trading the day after U.S. reviewers
recommended against approval of its Qnexa diet pill, a decision
that analysts say may threaten makers of competing drugs.  
 Outside  advisers  to the Food and Drug Administration voted
10-6 yesterday that the potential risks of depression, birth
defects and increased heart rate trumped the weight loss seen
with Qnexa. Shares of Vivus, an unprofitable biotechnology
company with one marketed product, fell the most since the
company’s initial public offering in 1994.  
 Orexigen Therapeutics Inc.  also dropped as investors feared
their FDA review later this year may be contentious. The agency
hasn’t approved a prescription weight-loss drug in more than a
decade, and the panel’s comments highlighted concerns that
approval may trigger a potential repeat of the experience with
fen-phen, the diet pill pulled in 1997 over heart risks.  
 “The panel was blinded by the fear of side effects instead
of taking a pragmatic approach and recommending a restricted
label,”  Michael G. King Jr ., an analyst at Wedbush Securities
who had an “outperform” rating on Vivus shares, said in an e-
mail. The decision “sends a bad message to the developers” of
rival obesity drugs.  
 Vivus, of Mountain View, California,  fell  $6.70, or 55
percent, to $5.41 at 4 p.m. in Nasdaq Stock Market trading.
Orexigen, based in San Diego, declined 47 cents, or 9.4 percent,
to $4.53.  Arena Pharmaceuticals Inc. , which makes another rival
diet pill, rose 74 cents, or 19 percent, to $4.66.  
 Learning Opportunity  
 “While the negative Qnexa panel probably does increase the
risk for other obesity agents, we believe the other companies
have the opportunity to learn from the panel concerns and avoid
the pitfalls that caused Vivus to stumble,” said  Steve Yoo , an
analyst with Leerink Swann & Co. in New York, in a report today.  
 Two-thirds of American adults are obese or  overweight ,
raising their risk of diabetes, heart disease, and cancer. The
global diet-pill market may reach $10.5 billion by 2018 if the
new drugs are cleared, according to Datamonitor Plc in London.  
 “I was a little surprised that the vote went as it did,”
said  Eric Colman , the deputy director of the FDA’s Division of
Metabolism and Endocrinology Products, in a press briefing after
the meeting. He declined to elaborate. While the agency usually
follows its panels’ advice, it isn’t required to do so.  
 Anxiety, Depression  
 Panel members who voted against Qnexa said longer-term data
on safety would make them more comfortable about supporting a
drug that may appeal to millions of Americans. A 56-week study
showed the treatment helped severely obese people lose an
average of 14.7 percent of their body weight, compared with 2.5
percent on placebo. Side effects included anxiety, depression,
memory and attention lapses, and increased heart rate.  
 “As much as I feel for the people who want this drug and
want to lose weight, we have to protect the population at
large,” said panel member Lamont Weide, chief of endocrinology
at Truman Medical Centers in Kansas City, Missouri. “We need
longer-term data in the people who are really going to be using
the drug out there.”  
 Qnexa is a once-daily pill that works by using a
controlled-release formula of low doses of phentermine and
topiramate. The chemicals act on the receptors of the brain that
control appetite and fullness.  
 Topiramate, an anticonvulsant, is the generic form of
 Johnson & Johnson’s  Topamax. Phentermine is an ingredient from
the recalled fen-phen, linked to potentially fatal heart valve
complications. Topamax can trigger an irregular heartbeat and
psychiatric problems led by depression, anxiety and
hallucinations.  
 Side Effects  
 Side effects for Qnexa are similar to those seen with
Topamax and phentermine, and it is the most effective of the
three new diet pills, said  George Blackburn , associate director
of Harvard Medical School’s Nutrition Division. He consulted for
Arena in the past year and hasn’t worked with Vivus or Orexigen.  
 “Stopping the progression of weight gain is a high
priority for medical intervention,” Blackburn said July 13 in a
telephone interview. “All of the drugs for diabetes and for
lipid disorders call for lifestyle changes, and patients would
be able to make these changes if they had a drug that would
control their appetite.”  
 “We are disappointed with the advisory committee’s vote,”
said  LeLand Wilson , Vivus’s chief executive officer, in a
statement. The company plans to work with the FDA “to address
the labeling and safety questions raised during today’s
proceedings.”  
 Two-Year Data  
 The company expects data from a two-year extension study of
the drug to be available in the current quarter, Wilson said
later yesterday on a conference call.  
 Vivus would need to raise money to fund large outcome
studies if they’re required for FDA approval of Qnexa, Leerink’s
Yoo said in a telephone interview yesterday.  
 “It’s not good for Vivus but there still might be a chance
that the drug gets approved,” Yoo said in the interview. “It’s
definitely going to cast a pall on the other names.”  
 Vivus reported a net loss of $54.3 million in 2009 and
hasn’t recorded an annual profit since 2000, according to
company statements and Bloomberg data.  
 Christopher S. James , an analyst at McNicoll Lewis & Vlak
LLC in New York, said in a June 25 research report that Qnexa’s
peak annual sales may be $620.9 million by 2015, making it “the
leading obesity drug for the foreseeable years.” Yoo estimated
that pill’s global revenue may top $1 billion by 2017 if it’s
approved.  
 FDA Decisions  
 The FDA is scheduled to decide whether to clear Qnexa on
Oct. 28, six days after the deadline for Arena’s lorcaserin.
Orexigen said it expects a decision on Contrave by Jan. 31.  
 An advisory panel review for lorcaserin is scheduled Sept.
16, followed by Orexigen Therapeutics Inc.’s Contrave on Dec. 7.  
 Arena’s lorcaserin is similar to fenfluramine, and binds to
the same receptor in the brain that controls appetite, while
avoiding a separate target in the heart that was linked to valve
damage with the recalled treatment, the company has said. Tokyo-
based drugmaker  Eisai Co.  bought marketing rights to Arena’s
drug on July 1.  
 Orexigen’s Contrave adds a sustained-release version of the
smoking-cessation and depression treatment bupropion to
naltrexone, used for alcohol and opiate addiction.  
 “I would like to know more about all of these different
compounds before making a decision about any particular one,”
said panel member  Thomas Bersot , a professor of medicine at the
University of California, San Francisco, at the meeting. He
voted against Qnexa.  
 Sales Decline  
 Sales of prescription weight-loss drugs fell 11 percent
last year to $153.7 million, according to the research firm  IMS
Health Inc.  in Norwalk, Connecticut. Of the almost 7.5 million
prescriptions dispensed, four of every five were for generic
phentermine, still sold as a short-term appetite suppressant.  
 Roche Holding AG , based in Basel, Switzerland, added
warnings to its Xenical drug in May after cases of serious liver
injury. Meridia, from Abbott Park, Illinois-based  Abbott
Laboratories , added  warnings  in January recommending against use
in people with a history of cardiovascular disease because of an
increase in heart attacks and strokes.  Sanofi-Aventis SA , based
in Paris, was rejected by FDA in 2007 for its weight-loss drug
rimonabant because of suicide and depression.  
 “How many more drugs have to bite the dust in this
category?,”  Sidney Wolfe , health research director of the
Public Citizen consumer group in Washington, said in a July 7
telephone interview. “Weight loss is a long-term concern and
therefore if someone is arguably going to be taking a drug for a
long time you need to have long-term safety studies.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Catherine Larkin  in Gaithersburg, Maryland, at   clarkin4@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        