-- Senate Passes Wall Street Overhaul, Sending It to Obama
-- Alison Vekshin
-- 2010-07-15T20:52:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-15/wall-street-overhaul-wins-final-passage-in-senate-sending-bill-to-obama.html

          
          
             The U.S. Senate passed the biggest
overhaul of financial-industry regulation since the Great
Depression, sending a bill inspired by the 2008 credit crisis to
the White House for President  Barack Obama ’s signature.  
 Senators voted 60-39 today in favor of the top-to-bottom
rewrite of rules governing Wall Street firms, ending a year of
partisan wrangling over protections for consumers and investors.
The bill aims to prevent a repeat of an economic collapse that
led to the failures of  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.  and
Washington Mutual Inc. and a $700 billion bailout for companies
including  American International Group Inc.  and  Citigroup Inc.   
 “Never again, ever again should we have to go through what
we did in the fall of 2008 to ask the American taxpayer to write
a check for $700 billion to bail out a handful of financial
institutions that frankly in many cases helped create the mess
we were in,” Senate Banking Committee Chairman  Christopher Dodd , a Connecticut Democrat and a lead architect of the bill,
said at a news conference after the vote.  
 The measure’s passage came less than two hours before the
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission announced that Goldman
Sachs Group Inc., which got $10 billion in bailout funds, will
pay a record $550 million to settle claims it misled investors
in collateralized debt obligations linked to subprime  mortgages .  
 Expands Oversight  
 The bill will create a mechanism for liquidating failing
financial firms whose collapse could roil markets, a council of
regulators to police firms for threats to the economic system
and a consumer bureau at the Federal Reserve to monitor banks
for credit-card and mortgage lending abuses. It also expands
oversight of executive compensation and derivatives, contracts
whose value is derived from stocks, bonds, loans, currencies and
commodities.  
 Today’s vote delivers a victory to Obama, who proposed the
regulatory overhaul last year in response to the 2008 financial
crisis sparked by the collapse of the U.S. mortgage market. The
House of Representatives approved the bill on June 30.  
 Obama will likely sign the legislation toward the end of
next week, White House spokesman  Robert Gibbs  said today. “We
cannot continue to operate using the same rules that got us into
the recession,” Gibbs told reporters. “This will be a vote
Democrats will talk about through November.”  
 Republican Opposition  
 Most Senate Republicans voted against the measure, saying
it doesn’t go far enough to prevent future taxpayer-funded
bailouts of Wall Street firms and creates an unnecessary new
bureaucracy in the consumer bureau.  
 Senator  Richard Shelby  of Alabama, the banking committee’s
top Republican, called the bill a “2,300-page legislative
monster.”  
 “It creates vast new bureaucracies with little
accountability and seriously, I believe, undermines the
competitiveness of the American economy,” Shelby said.  
 Measured against Wall Street excesses that nearly toppled
the global financial system two years ago, some analysts saw the
bill as tinkering at the edges of banking practices rather than
forcing fundamental changes to the industry.  
 “There is little in this legislation that will
fundamentally change the way that Wall Street does business,”
said  Dean Baker , co-director of the Center for Economic and
Policy Research in Washington. “There is probably no economist
who believes that this bill will end the risks of too-big-to-
fail financial institutions. The six largest banks will still
enjoy the enormous implicit subsidy that results from the
expectation that the federal government will bail them out in
the event of a crisis.”  
 ‘Much Milder’  
 To others, such as  Douglas J. Elliott  of the Brookings
Institution, the bill named for Dodd and House Financial
Services Committee Chairman  Barney Frank  empowers regulators to
curb risk-taking and protect consumers in a way that will
mitigate, if not prevent, the next financial crisis.  
 “I am confident that the vicious recession we just lived
through would have been much milder if the Dodd-Frank bill had
been in place a few years ago,” said Elliott, a former
investment banker with  JPMorgan Chase & Co.  “The bill will not
eliminate financial crises, but it will make them less frequent
and considerably milder.”  
 Regulators will be responsible for implementing the
legislation by writing hundreds of rules for financial firms.  
 “There’s always that possibility” that Wall Street
lobbyists will succeed in weakening its provisions during the
rule-making process, Dodd said today.  
 Edward Yingling , president of the American Bankers
Association, a Washington-based trade group, said he is “very
disappointed” with the bill.  
 “While its core provisions provide needed reform, it is
overloaded with new rules and restrictions on traditional banks
that did not cause the financial crisis,” Yingling said in a
statement. “Implementation of this legislation will be
challenging for regulators, and we stand ready to work with
them.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alison Vekshin  in Washington at 
 avekshin@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Senator Christopher Dodd, the lead architect of the regulatory overhaul bill. Photographer: Andrew Harrer/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 15 (Bloomberg) -- U.S. Senator Mark Warner, a Virginia Democrat, talks with Bloomberg's Peter Cook about the Senate's passage of the biggest overhaul of financial industry since the Great Depression.
     Senators voted 60-39 today in favor of the top-to-bottom rewrite of rules governing Wall Street firms, ending a year of partisan wrangling over protections for consumers and investors. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 15 (Bloomberg) -- Senator Bob Corker, a Republican from Tennessee, talks with Bloomberg's Peter Cook about legislation overhauling the financial regulatory system.
     Corker also discusses the U.S. competitiveness in global banking markets, today's testimony by Federal Reserve nominees and the future of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 15 (Bloomberg) -- Steve Bartlett, president of the Financial Services Roundtable, talks with Bloomberg's Julie Hyman and Peter Cook about legislation overhauling the financial regulatory system.
     The U.S. Senate passed the biggest overhaul of financial-industry regulation since the Great Depression, sending the bill inspired by the 2008 credit crisis to the White House for President Barack Obama’s signature.(Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
