-- New Finance Rules Become Real as Emanuel Says `Just Do It'
-- Alison Vekshin
-- 2010-07-16T22:32:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-15/wall-street-regulations-became-reality-with-emanuel-saying-just-do-it-.html

          
          
             Three days after U.S. lawmakers
completed negotiations on the financial-overhaul bill last
month,  Rahm Emanuel  called an emergency meeting of top
administration officials in the White House’s Roosevelt Room.  
 The deal was unraveling as three Senate Republicans whose
votes were needed for passage were balking at a $19 billion bank
fee. Emanuel, President  Barack Obama ’s chief of staff, needed a
new way to help pay for the legislation. Among the options
offered by Treasury Secretary  Timothy Geithner : wind down the
bank-bailout fund Congress set up in 2008, to save billions of
dollars and end a program unpopular with voters.  
 “I don’t want to hear anything else,” Emanuel said,
according to people in the room. “That’s it. Just do it.”  
 The finance bill, which Obama is scheduled to sign July 21,
benefited from key elements lacking in the yearlong health-care
debate. Among them: A more active White House role, and two
Democratic lawmakers with a combined 65 years in Congress who
steered the bill through with little Republican backing.  
 The effort was also boosted by public anger, stoked at a
crucial moment by a government lawsuit against  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. , that overcame an industry lobbying blitz.  
 “Public opinion kicked big money’s ass,” said House
Financial Services Committee Chairman  Barney Frank , one of the
two main legislative architects of the bill, along with Senate
Banking Committee Chairman  Christopher Dodd .  
 Toughest Rules  
 As a result, the toughest set of market rules in seven
decades will soon become law, with Senate passage yesterday of
the legislation. The package is in response to an economic
crisis that pushed the banking industry to the brink of
collapse, froze credit markets, and led to $700 billion in
taxpayer bailouts to firms such as  Citigroup Inc. ,  Bank of
America Corp.  and  American International Group Inc.   
 Goldman Sachs  yesterday agreed to pay $550 million and
change its business practices to settle U.S. regulatory claims
that it misled investors in collateralized debt obligations
linked to subprime mortgages.  
 The legislation mirrors a plan Obama proposed in June 2009,
based on a 90-page white paper drawn up by White House and
Treasury officials. It creates a consumer financial protection
bureau with independent authority to write and enforce rules for
banks, sets up a council of regulators to police companies, and
establishes a mechanism to wind down failing firms whose
collapse would roil markets.  
 White House Setbacks  
 In addition to finding an alternative to the bank fee, the
administration helped salvage a proposal to strengthen oversight
of derivatives, incorporate a plan to limit proprietary trading
at banks, and defend the Federal Reserve against efforts to
reduce its power, according to lawmakers, congressional aides
and government officials.  
 The White House suffered setbacks, such as when auto
dealers were exempted from consumer agency supervision.  
 “Nobody here is happy about that,” said  Diana Farrell ,
deputy director of the White House National Economic Council.  
 Bankers and banking analysts also say the legislation won’t
fundamentally reshape Wall Street’s biggest firms. Obama’s white
paper grew to a 2,300-page bill packed with heavily lobbied
provisions that industry leaders say might dilute the impact on
their practices.  
 The overhaul won’t shrink banks deemed too big to fail, and
it leaves largely intact a financial industry dominated by six
banks with more than $9 trillion of combined assets.  
 Public Not Impressed  
 It does little to solve the danger posed by debt-financed
lending and trading firms that rely on markets for funding,
which can evaporate in a panic like the one that spread in late
2008. And rather than prohibit federally insured banks from
trading derivatives or investing in hedge funds and private
equity funds, the law just imposes limits on such activity.  
 Lenders including  JPMorgan Chase & Co.  and  Citigroup  will
be required to move less than 10 percent of the derivatives in
their deposit-taking banks to a broker-dealer division during
the next two years.  
 The bill strengthens oversight on financial advisers to
state and local governments in the municipal bond market. Still,
it postpones any immediate challenge to a 1975 law that prevents
the Securities and Exchange Commission from imposing corporate-
disclosure rules on local government borrowers.  
 A Bloomberg National Poll shows most Americans harbor
doubts that the new regulations will prevent a future crisis.  
 Expecting More  
 “Given the severity of the economic crisis caused by past
regulatory failures, the public had the right to expect much
more extensive reform,”  Dean Baker , co-director of the Center
for Economic and Policy Research in Washington, said yesterday
in a statement.  
 The overhaul gives Obama an opportunity to make the case as
November’s congressional elections approach that he took on an
industry that brought the economy to the verge of collapse,
aides said.  
 “Congress has now passed a Wall Street reform bill that
will bring greater economic security to families and businesses
across the country,” Obama said yesterday at the White House.
He called it “reform that would never again put taxpayers on
the hook for Wall Street’s mistakes.”  
 Other key players shaped the bill. Dodd, a Connecticut
Democrat, singled out Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. Chairman
 Sheila Bair . Bair, who has clashed with the administration,
pressed for new FDIC authority to liquidate “systemically
important” financial firms and collaborated with Republican
Senator  Susan Collins  of Maine on an amendment to require big
banks to meet stricter capital standards.  
 Watching Basketball  
 “Sheila Bair has been very good all the way through,”
Dodd said in a telephone interview.  
 At the staff level, Farrell and Deputy Treasury Secretary
 Neal Wolin  were among the administration’s top negotiators,
according to lawmakers.  
 Throughout the process, White House officials took a hands-
on approach with lawmakers. As House and Senate negotiators went
into conference last month, Emanuel, Dodd and aides met in
Frank’s Capitol Hill office to set priorities for the talks,
with game seven of the National Basketball Association finals
airing on a flat screen TV in the background.  
 With the game still going on and the meeting over, Emanuel
and Dodd headed to Tunnicliff’s Tavern nearby, where they
watched the Los Angeles Lakers rally to defeat the Boston
Celtics and win the title.  
 Central Role  
 It was Obama whose role was often central. On March 24, the
day after he signed the core of the health-care overhaul, the
president met at the White House with Dodd, Frank and other
officials to determine how strongly Republicans would oppose the
finance bill.  
 The legislation, which the House approved in December, had
just emerged from the Senate Banking Committee without
Republican support, and the policymakers were concerned they
would have to make “all kinds of compromises,” Frank, a
Massachusetts Democrat, said in a July 12 interview.  
 Obama, relaying a recent conversation with a Senate
Republican leader, allayed those concerns, according to a person
familiar with the discussion. While the Republican leader would
oppose the Democrats’ efforts, he wouldn’t fight as hard as with
health care to try to block it, Obama said, according to the
person.  
 ‘Bataan Death March’  
 Dodd reflected that newfound confidence after the meeting:
“The outcome there, I think, has strengthened our hand in
reaching out to people who would like to be part of the
solution,” he told reporters.  
 In some ways, the hard-fought victory on health care made
this debate less daunting, said White House senior adviser  David Axelrod .  
 “Once you’ve gone through the Bataan Death March of health
reform, every other fight seems a little less tumultuous,” said
Axelrod.  
 The health-care campaign also made White House officials
appreciate the need to forcefully respond to critics.  
 In April, Republicans attacked a Dodd proposal to create a
$50 billion industry-supported fund the government would use to
cover the cost of liquidating a failing financial firm whose
collapse would threaten the economy. They said the fund would
institutionalize bailouts by taxpayers -- echoing a central
theme of a memo written by Republican pollster  Frank Luntz 
earlier in the year to party members.  
 No Death Panels  
 Obama’s aides grew concerned the criticism would take hold.
They recalled the previous summer, when some Republicans almost
derailed the health-care legislation by accusing Democrats of
wanting to set up “death panels” to ration care.  
 “If this false perception had caught on, it would have
been damaging for the bill,” said  Austan Goolsbee , a White
House economic adviser. “We were not going to get death-paneled
on this thing.”  
 To push back, Axelrod, White House Communications Director
 Dan Pfeiffer  and Press Secretary  Robert Gibbs  started a media
campaign, using Obama’s April 17 weekly radio address to focus
on regulations and sending advisers, including National Economic
Council Director  Lawrence Summers , to the airwaves.  
 The timing coincided with the SEC’s April 16 announcement
of the lawsuit accusing Goldman Sachs of fraud tied to CDOs.
When news of the suit broke that day, Axelrod ran out of his
West Wing office and down the hall to Pfeiffer’s desk to ask if
anyone in the press operation was aware of the action. Nobody
was, he said.  
 ‘Shocking Development’  
 “It was really a shocking development for us,” Axelrod
said.  
 Goldman Sachs’s  settlement announced yesterday is the
largest ever levied by the SEC against a Wall Street firm, the
agency said in a statement. Under the deal, the firm
acknowledged it made a “mistake” and that marketing materials
for the debt instruments had “incomplete information,” the SEC
said.  
 Democrats tried to capitalize on the momentum when the suit
was announced. Obama gave a speech in New York on financial
regulations. With Goldman Sachs Chief Executive Officer  Lloyd Blankfein  in the audience, the president called on the industry
to back his efforts.  
 “The president was instrumental in painting this as, ‘if
you vote against the bill, you’re voting to coddle Wall
Street,’” said  Mark Calabria , a former Republican Senate
Banking Committee aide who directs financial-regulation studies
at the Cato Institute, a Washington-based libertarian research
group.  
 Wearing on Republicans  
 The pressure began to wear on Republicans, who had been
holding off Democrats’ attempts to begin considering the bill on
the Senate floor. In late April, Collins told her colleagues in
a meeting that she couldn’t keep voting against efforts to start
debate, according to a Senate Republican aide.  
 That cleared the way for Dodd and banking panel counterpart
 Richard Shelby , an Alabama Republican, to reach a deal on May 5
to remove the fund from the bill, which allowed lawmakers to
begin amending the legislation.  
 Legislators later agreed to add to the bill a variation of
the resolution fund -- the $19 billion bank fee. Yet the fee
also sparked objections from Republicans who had voted for an
earlier Senate version of the bill: Senators  Scott Brown  of
Massachusetts, Collins and  Olympia Snowe , also of Maine. Their
opposition forced Emanuel to call the June 28 meeting.  
 In a rare move, House-Senate negotiators, led by Frank and
Dodd, met to reopen the talks on June 29 to remove the levy and
add language ending the bank-bailout fund -- the Troubled Asset
Relief Program -- an option that Treasury counselor  Gene Sperling  had joined Geithner in laying out for Emanuel the day
before. The plan would also include raising the fee banks pay to
support the deposit-insurance fund.  
 Consumer Protection  
 The administration played a hand in designing another
element of the bill: the consumer protection bureau. The idea
was the centerpiece of Obama’s overhaul and had drawn fire from
Republicans and the banking industry.  
 While the House had approved a stand-alone agency in its
bill, Dodd succumbed to Republican pressure and placed it within
the Fed. In a victory for Obama, Dodd preserved the agency’s
power to write its own rules.  
 Derivatives, contracts whose value is derived from stocks,
bonds, loans, currencies and commodities, also assumed a central
role in the debate after losing bets on swaps tied to mortgage-
backed securities forced AIG close to bankruptcy.  
 As the Obama administration pushed for stronger rules on
derivatives, a Democratic lawmaker sought even tougher ones,
creating one of the biggest problems surrounding the bill.  
 Derivatives Language  
 Senator  Blanche Lincoln , the Arkansas Democrat who heads
the Agriculture Committee, sent an outline of proposed
bipartisan derivatives language to the Treasury on April 8, an
administration official said. Four days later, Assistant
Treasury Secretary  Michael Barr  communicated to Lincoln’s staff
that the bipartisan deal wasn’t satisfactory and asked for
stronger language. Lincoln responded by releasing a proposal so
strong that it threatened to hurt the bottom line of banks like
JPMorgan by requiring that federally insured banks place their
swaps-trading operations in subsidiaries.  
 Obama’s aides hadn’t been informed of the plan.  
 Lincoln’s staff and the White House were stalemated, as Fed
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  and Bair argued for the plan’s removal.
 Gary Gensler , chairman of the Commodity Futures Trading
Commission, who advocated for market deregulation in the 1990s
and once worked at Goldman Sachs, sided with Lincoln.  
 In the end, the White House pressed Lincoln to meet with
House Democrats, who were threatening to vote against the bill
if the provision was kept. Minnesota Democrat  Collin Peterson ,
head of the House Agriculture Committee, then announced a
Treasury-crafted compromise. Lincoln reluctantly signed off.  
 Volcker Rule  
 One of the final issues hammered out last month was a
measure that even administration officials initially said had
little chance of surviving: the so-called Volcker rule in Dodd’s
bill, which banned proprietary trading at banks and restricted
their investments in private-equity and hedge funds.  
 As the rule, named after former Federal Reserve Chairman
 Paul Volcker , was debated in the House-Senate conference, Dodd
and Frank presented various options to the 82-year-old
economist. While disappointed, Volcker ultimately endorsed the
changes, which allow banks to invest up to 3 percent of their
capital in private equity and hedge funds.  
 “Nobody ever thought we were going to get it,” Emanuel
said of the rule. “When we first introduced it, everybody said
this would just be a symbolic gesture.”  
 On June 25, the day Dodd and Frank completed an all-night
session to finish merging the bill’s two versions, Volcker sent
them a letter saying the Dodd-Frank legislation was the modern-
day Glass-Steagall Act, which separated commercial and
investment banking before its repeal a decade ago.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Julianna Goldman  in Washington at 
 jgoldman6@bloomberg.net .
 Alison Vekshin  in Washington at 
 avekshin@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     TheWhite House chief of staff Rahm Emanuel. Photographer: Olivier Douliery/Pool via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 15 (Bloomberg) -- U.S. Senator Mark Warner, a Virginia Democrat, talks with Bloomberg's Peter Cook about the Senate's passage of the biggest overhaul of financial industry since the Great Depression.
     Senators voted 60-39 today in favor of the top-to-bottom rewrite of rules governing Wall Street firms, ending a year of partisan wrangling over protections for consumers and investors. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 15 (Bloomberg) -- Senator Bob Corker, a Republican from Tennessee, talks with Bloomberg's Peter Cook about legislation overhauling the financial regulatory system.
     Corker also discusses the U.S. competitiveness in global banking markets, today's testimony by Federal Reserve nominees and the future of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 15 (Bloomberg) -- Steve Bartlett, president of the Financial Services Roundtable, talks with Bloomberg's Julie Hyman and Peter Cook about legislation overhauling the financial regulatory system.
     The U.S. Senate passed the biggest overhaul of financial-industry regulation since the Great Depression, sending the bill inspired by the 2008 credit crisis to the White House for President Barack Obama’s signature.(Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
