-- Wen Commitment to Reduced Export Role Tested as China Slows
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-07-16T05:01:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-15/wen-s-commitment-to-wean-china-off-export-dependence-is-tested-by-slowdown.html

          
          
             China’s commitment to reduce
dependence on exports and investment may be challenged as the
world’s third-largest economy slows more than estimated.  
 Industrial-production growth  cooled the most since 2008 in
June, government data showed yesterday in Beijing, as regulators
shutter energy-intensive factories. Gross domestic product rose
a less-than-forecast 10.3 percent in the second quarter from a
year ago, down from 11.9 percent in January to March.  
 A  deepening slowdown  may encourage Premier  Wen Jiabao ’s
government to focus on short-term expansion instead of heeding
the Group of 20 nations’ call to shift reliance toward domestic
consumers and services. Policy makers might be loath to allow
the yuan to gain “significantly” as demanded by President
 Barack Obama  when  export  demand is under threat from Europe’s
debt crisis.  
 “There is a risk that China will pull back on
restructuring the economy if policy makers are concerned that
headline growth will fall too far,” said  Brian Jackson , a Hong
Kong-based emerging-market strategist for Royal Bank of Canada.
He said the yuan’s gains may be affected by the outlook for
demand and pressure from the U.S.  
 China’s yuan, also called the renminbi, has climbed 0.8
against the dollar since a two-year peg to the U.S. currency
ended on June 19.  Export  gains in the second quarter, including
a record $137 billion of shipments in June, prevented a steeper
slowdown in the nation’s growth.  
 Stocks Slide  
 Stocks tumbled after the economic data, which also showed
inflation cooling to 2.9 percent in June. The Shanghai Composite
Index lost 1.9 percent, with Agricultural Bank of China Ltd.
posting the smallest first-day gain among the nine lenders that
have sold shares in Shanghai in the past four years. The index
fell 1.2 percent to 2,395.31 at the 11:30 a.m. local-time break
today.  
 Yesterday’s data also prompted economists to cut
expectations for higher interest rates, with HSBC Holdings Plc
and Barclays Capital abandoning calls for such a move by year-
end. Credit Suisse AG pared its call to one rise from as many as
three. In a Bloomberg News survey of 16 economists, nine
expected rates to stay unchanged this year.  
 Credit Suisse economist  Tao Dong  described a slide in
industrial output growth to 13.7 percent in June as the
“biggest worry” from yesterday’s numbers. The deceleration
from 16.5 percent in May was the deepest since November 2008.
 Baoshan Iron & Steel Co. , the biggest publicly traded Chinese
steelmaker, cut prices this week on weakening demand.  
 Maintaining Policies  
 Wen said today that the slowdown in growth in the second
quarter reflected the government’s “active regulation and
control” and the base effect from last year. He reiterated that
the economy is moving in the “expected direction” and that the
government will maintain its proactive fiscal policy and
moderately loose monetary policy in the second half of the year.  
 Economic policies are aimed at balancing the goals of
containing inflation and ensuring relatively fast growth while
also pushing ahead with economic restructuring, Wen told a press
briefing in Beijing after meeting German Chancellor  Angela Merkel . Steady, relatively fast growth is a precondition for
reforming the economy, he said, reiterating comments he made on
June 30.  
 China remains the fastest-growing among the big economies,
with companies from  Komatsu Ltd. , the world’s second-largest
maker of construction equipment, to Honda Motor Co. counting on
sales in the nation to help drive earnings.  
 Pressing Task  
 Government curbs on energy-intensive and polluting
industries, intended to help the nation meet efficiency goals,
were partly responsible for the slowdown in production growth,
the statistics bureau said yesterday. Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
economists  Helen Qiao  and  Song Yu  said yesterday that in coming
months, policy makers may see safeguarding growth as a more
pressing task than making structural adjustments to the economy,
such as controlling pollution.  
 “Unfortunately, there is a tension between the
government’s desire to push through structural change -- which
requires, for example, channeling a smaller share of resources
to heavy industry and more to services -- and its short-term
desire to support growth, which it tends to pursue by boosting
investment,” said  Mark Williams , an economist at Capital
Economics Ltd. in London who formerly advised the U.K. Treasury.  
 Western Regions  
 Still, the state-run China Securities Journal said in
front-page  commentary  yesterday that “stimulus and
restructuring are not completely in conflict,” citing plans to
boost investment in under-developed western regions.  Lu Ting , a
Hong Kong-based economist for Bank of America-Merrill Lynch,
said that while the government can quicken infrastructure
spending if necessary, it won’t ease up on cutting heavily
polluting and energy-intensive projects.  
 The G-20, which includes the European Union, the U.S. and
China, aims to reduce imbalances in trade and capital flows to
make global growth more sustainable in the wake of the worst
economic slump since World War II. Remedies indicated after a
Toronto summit last month included some emerging economies
stimulating private spending and increasing exchange-rate
flexibility.  
 China’s second-quarter growth was less than the median 10.5
percent estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of 28 economists
after the government tempered credit expansion, investment
spending and property speculation.  
 Growth will keep slowing, partly because comparisons will
be with levels that rose steadily in 2009 as the economy
recovered from the effects of the global financial crisis,
analysts’ forecasts show. Fourth-quarter growth may be 8.5
percent, according to UBS AG.  
 The full-year expansion will be 10 percent, according to
the median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey of 20 economists
yesterday.  
 -- Li Yanping , with assistance from  Sophie Leung ,  Jay Wang ,
 Belinda Cao ,  Zhao Yidi  and  John Liu . Editors:  Paul Panckhurst ,
 Chris Anstey ,  Nerys Avery   
 To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
 Li Yanping  in Beijing at +86-10-6649-7568 or
 yli16@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Wen Jiabao, China's premier, speaking in Beijing. Photographer: Nelson Ching/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 16 (Bloomberg) -- Dariusz Kowalczyk, a senior economist and strategist at Credit Agricole CIB, talks with Bloomberg's Mark Barton about the outlook for the global economy and financial markets.
     Kowalczyk, speaking in Hong Kong, also discusses Chinese government economic policy. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
