-- Louis Oosthuizen Takes 3-Shot Lead Over McIlroy at British Open
-- Bob Bensch
-- 2010-07-18T16:56:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-15/woods-says-he-s-in-good-shape-as-he-chases-leader-mcilroy-at-open-golf.html

          
          
             South Africa’s Louis Oosthuizen
holds an eight-shot lead in the final round of golf’s British
Open at St. Andrews, Scotland.  
 The 27-year-old South African is 2-under par through 14
holes today and 17-under for the championship on the Old Course.  
 Paul Casey and  Lee Westwood , both of England, and Germany’s
 Martin Kaymer  are tied for second at 9-under. Oosthuizen birdied
the 12th hole as playing partner Casey made triple-bogey to
increase the lead from four shots to eight.  
 Rory McIlroy  of Northern Ireland and Sweden’s  Henrik Stenson  are tied for fourth at 8-under. McIlroy shot 4-under par
68 today and Stenson is still on the course.  
 Tiger Woods , who won the British Open the last two times it
was held at St. Andrews, in 2000 and 2005, shot even-par 72 to
finish at 3-under for the championship.  
 “It was one of those weeks when I just couldn’t put
anything together,” Woods told the British Broadcasting Corp.
“I’ve had one of the worst putting weeks I’ve ever had.”  
 Woods switched back to his old putter today after changing
before the tournament because of the slower greens on the Old
Course. He had 99 putts in the first three rounds to rank 71st
of 77 players who made the halfway cut. He took 27 putts today.  
 Oosthuizen, a 27-year-old who plays on the European Tour,
brought a four-shot lead into today’s play and quick saw it
increase to five as Casey bogeyed the second hole. The South
African then saved par on the par-5 fifth after pulling his
second shot well left of the double green.  
 Reduced Lead  
 Casey birdied the sixth hole, pumping his fist as he left
the green, and Oosthuizen followed with a bogey at the par-3
eighth after pulling his tee shot left, reducing the lead to
three.  
 Both players drove the 352-yard ninth hole and Oosthuizen
rolled in a 50-foot putt for eagle. Casey settled for birdie and
the lead was back to four.  
 Oosthuizen made his second birdie on the 12th hole and saw
his lead double when Casey had to take a drop after putting his
tee shot into a gorse bush. Casey then wound up with a triple-
bogey after putting his approach shot through the green, all but
ending his chances of being the first Englishman to win the Open
since  Nick Faldo  in 1992.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bob Bensch  at St. Andrews through the London sports desk at
   bbensch@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Louis Oosthuizen of South Africa at St. Andrews. Photographer: David Cannon/Getty Images  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 16 (Bloomberg) -- Rick Horrow, founder of Horrow Sports Ventures Inc. and a Bloomberg Television contributing editor, reports on the second round of the British Open at St. Andrews in Scotland.
     Louis Oosthuizen leads by five strokes over Mark Calcavecchia in the second round, which was suspended by darkness. Tiger Woods is eight shots behind. Horrow talks with Matt Miller and Carol Massar on Bloomberg Television's "Street Smart." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
