-- My $80,000 Says Deflation Will Only Get Worse: William Pesek
-- William Pesek
-- 2010-07-15T19:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-15/my-80-000-says-deflation-will-only-get-worse-commentary-by-william-pesek.html

          
          
             Naoto Kan  may get the state dinners
and the motorcades, but he no longer runs Japan. Economist
 Masaaki Shirakawa  does.  
 If anything is clear since the drubbing that Prime Minister
Kan’s Democratic Party of Japan took earlier this week, it’s
that politicians are passing the buck to the central bank.
Expect Bank of Japan Governor Shirakawa to feel more pressure to
boost economic growth than ever before.  
 You may think you have seen this movie before. You haven’t.
Increased reliance on the BOJ will end badly for the world
economy.  
 It’s now entirely possible that, come September, Japan will
have its sixth leader in four years. Speculation is growing that
a power struggle could nudge Kan out of a job he assumed just
five weeks ago. That would be a blow to investors. Kan is the
only leader in 20 years who has talked seriously about ending
Japan’s debt-fueled-growth insanity.  
 With Kan now weakened to lame-duck status, the odds of him
reining in a debt that is double the size of Japan’s $4.9
trillion economy are dwindling. His party lost control of
parliament’s upper house in July 11 elections. The International
Monetary Fund yesterday warned about the nation’s fiscal
trajectory.  
 Growing Burden  
 Before Greece’s debt crisis, it was perhaps possible to
downplay Japan’s burden. Now, investors are questioning whether
Japan can avoid an eventual default.  
 That’s admittedly a stretch. Japanese households are
sitting on trillions of dollars in savings and more than 90
percent of government debt is held domestically. Also, Chinese
demand for Japan’s debt is growing markedly, as Finance Minister
 Yoshihiko Noda  told Bloomberg News yesterday. Japan is neither
Greece today, nor Thailand circa 1997.  
 Yet attention is turning to a depressing figure: $80,000.
Last November, the media worked itself into a tizzy over news
that Japan owed $76,000 for each of us 126 million people
residing here. Around the same time, former IMF Chief Economist
 Simon Johnson  told the U.S. Congress that there is a “real risk
that Japan could end up in a major default.” Well, that figure
has grown to $80,000 per person.  
 If I could wager my $80,000 share, I’d bet that Kan’s
travails are a harbinger of even greater trouble for Japan.  
 Demographics alone are enough to keep you awake at night.
 Sony Financial Holdings Inc.  tells the story. The insurance and
banking unit of Sony Corp. said it’s expanding in Asia as an
aging population constrains growth at home.  
 Befuddled Japan  
 Japanese leaders seem completely befuddled by this
phenomenon and others. Kan essentially committed political
suicide by proposing higher consumption taxes amid  deflation  and
weak employment. Even if Kan hangs on to his job, his
credibility has taken a terrible blow.  
 Kan, missteps aside, may be the most prescient Japanese
premier in years. His focus on unsustainable debt trends is the
right one. Japan needs to create growth organically, not via
stimulus. Kan’s weakened position makes it much harder for him
to balance the budget in 10 years.  
 It’s possible Kan will get a second wind and that two years
from now Japan will be on stronger footing. Kan will have to
stay in his job and then win broad support for radical change.
Both accomplishments look unlikely.  
 Blame Game  
 The DPJ’s poor election showing gave rise to a new crop of
lawmakers. Rather than offering fresh ideas, many see the
central bank as the answer. The sudden emergence of  Yoshimi Watanabe ’s one-year-old “Your Party” is a case in point.
Japan’s newest political force is already calling on Shirakawa
to do more.  
 This isn’t change; it’s the same-old-same-old. For 20 years
now, politicians have relied on the central bank to boost the
economy. Never mind that Japan’s problems are more structural
than  monetary  -- critics say the BOJ isn’t doing enough.  
 Yet greater reliance on the BOJ is dangerous. In 2000, it
was one thing to rely on monetary largess. Ten years on, it’s
quite another. Moody’s Investors Service and Standard & Poor’s
are sniffing around Tokyo for any whiff of optimism to offset
Japan’s toxic fiscal and demographic trajectories.  
 As Japan’s credit rating edges lower, so will investor
confidence. The Land of the Rising Sun is becoming the Land of
the Setting Sun.  
 With the benchmark interest rate at 0.1 percent, what can
Shirakawa do? He could return to the quantitative  easing  of the
early 2000s. He could buy loads of government and corporate
debt, essentially monetizing the economy. He could leave the
yen-printing presses on indefinitely.  
 Avoiding Change  
 Any of these actions will take even more of the onus off
politicians to do their jobs. Two decades after the bubble years
ended, Japan still doesn’t know how to grow without massive
government subsidies. BOJ moves to bail out the  government  will
punt true change another five or 10 years down the road.  
 Japan doesn’t have that kind of time to spare. Pressure for
the BOJ to take the lead smacks of desperation. It’s also a sign
that Japan may underperform to an even greater degree in the
years ahead.  
 ( William Pesek  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  
 To contact the writer of this column:
 William Pesek  in Tokyo at 
 wpesek@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        