-- Yellen, Nominee for No. 2 Fed Post, Tells Senate Jobs Are `High Priority'
-- Vivien Lou Chen
-- 2010-07-15T16:23:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-15/yellen-nominee-for-no-2-fed-post-tells-senate-jobs-are-high-priority-.html

          
          
             Janet Yellen , President  Barack Obama ’s pick to be the Federal Reserve’s next vice chairman,
told a U.S. Senate panel that the central bank must focus on
creating jobs and reducing “painfully high” unemployment.  
 She was joined by  Sarah Bloom Raskin , a fellow nominee for
the  Fed’s Board of Governors , who said to the Senate Banking
Committee today that the Fed’s achievement of stable prices is
“only a partial victory when many American households continue
to face the perils of unemployment.” The third board nominee,
 Peter Diamond , said the Fed has “major work to do” to
implement legislation on financial rules.  
 The trio, if confirmed by the Senate, would help Chairman
 Ben S. Bernanke  devise policies to reduce a jobless rate stuck
at 9.5 percent or higher for the past year while helping the Fed
carry out expanding regulatory duties. They would also bring the
Fed’s seven-person board to full strength for the first time in
four years.  
 “Over the next few years, the Fed must craft policies that
ensure that our economy accelerates its progress along the
recovery path it has begun to trace,” Yellen, president of the
San Francisco Fed, said at the nominees’ confirmation hearing
before the panel in Washington. “With unemployment still
painfully high, job creation must be a high priority of monetary
policy.”  
 Close to Zero  
 Last month, Fed policy makers left their benchmark rate
close to zero and renewed a pledge to keep it low for an
“extended period.” Minutes of the June 22-23 session, released
yesterday, show officials saw no need to boost stimulus to the
economy while trimming their forecasts for growth and noting
that risks to the recovery had increased.  
 “We have an outlook at this point where we seem to be in
recovery, but the recovery is not proceeding at a pace that is
sufficient to bring down unemployment very rapidly,” Yellen
said in response to a question.  
 Yellen said the Fed, in the years leading up to the
financial crisis, failed to “connect the dots” and understand
how mortgage standards had declined and how a drop in housing
prices would undermine the financial system. “We missed
critical elements of it that caused the crisis to be as severe
as it was,” Yellen said.  
 Raskin said the Fed has been subject to “substantial and,
I believe, justified criticism” on its actions before the
crisis, and that she believes the central bank had failures on
both regulation and  monetary policy .  
 Not ‘Taken Seriously’  
 Banks had a lack of capital to back up risky assets, and
“the extent of the housing bubble that was developing was not
appropriately monitored or taken seriously,” she said.  
 Yields on 10-year Treasuries declined by 0.07 percentage
point to 2.97 percent at 12:21 p.m. in New York after a report
showed U.S. factory output declined the most in a year. The
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index dropped 1 percent to 1,084.19.  
 Yellen, 63, would join the Fed board as the member with the
most years of experience as a central banker. She served as a
Fed governor from 1994 to 1997 under former Chairman  Alan Greenspan  and has led the San Francisco Fed since 2004, making
her the only policy maker since  Paul Volcker  to hold regional
and Washington-based roles.  
 Under a four-year term as vice chairman, Yellen would
preside over board meetings in Bernanke’s absence and hold a
permanent vote on monetary policy. Yellen would replace  Donald Kohn , a 40-year veteran of the central bank whose June 23
retirement date was pushed back while Yellen’s confirmation was
pending. She would get a separate term as governor through 2024.  
 Won’t Vote  
 The Senate probably won’t vote to approve the nominees
until September because of the need for time for the candidates
to respond to written follow-up questions from lawmakers and the
Senate’s summer recess, Banking Committee Chairman  Christopher Dodd  told reporters outside the hearing. The break lasts from
Aug. 9 to Sept. 10.  
 That means the Fed may have a period with four governors,
because Kohn said he would leave Sept. 1 if his replacement
isn’t approved by then. “I’m not OK with it, but that may add
some sense of urgency to the process,” Dodd said.  
 Raskin, a 49-year-old attorney, was appointed in August
2007 as Maryland’s top banking regulator. She was previously
managing director of Promontory Financial Group, a consulting
firm, and worked at the New York Fed and as a counsel for the
Senate Banking Committee.  
 “In addition to maintaining stable inflationary
expectations and keeping a vigilant eye on the emergence of new
bubbles, the Fed must seek to fulfill the other part of its
statutory mandate by addressing unemployment, which has
pervasive social costs,” Raskin said.  
 Diamond, 70, an economics professor at the Massachusetts
Institute of Technology and specialist in taxation and
behavioral economics, has written widely on overhauling
entitlement programs. He said his research into how the economy
deals with risks would help the Fed “as part of the process of
addressing our heightened awareness of the dangers of systemic
risks.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Scott Lanman  in Washington at 
 slanman@bloomberg.net ;
 Vivien Lou Chen  in San Francisco at 
 vchen1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        