-- Typhoon Conson May Cause Further China Floods After Battering Philippines
-- Ian C. Sayson
-- 2010-07-15T07:55:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-15/typhoon-conson-may-cause-further-china-floods-after-battering-philippines.html

          
          
             Typhoon Conson, which left 23 people
dead and damaged over 3,000 homes in the Philippines, threatens
to exacerbate conditions in China where officials are warning of
the worst flooding in 12 years in the Yangtze river region.  
 Conson, now a tropical storm, was about 627 kilometers (390
miles) west northwest of Manila at 8 a.m. Philippines time and
may reach China’s Hainan island tomorrow, the  U.S. Navy Joint
Typhoon Warning Center  said. Flooding across southern China has
left at least 118 people dead and 47 missing since July 1,
China’s official Xinhua News Agency reported yesterday.  
 With Typhoon Conson arriving, flooding in China’s Yangtze
River basin could be as bad as in 1998, Wang Jingquan, director
of the flood control and drought relief office at the Yangtze
River Water Resources Committee, told Agence France-Presse today.  
 Conson is the latest in a bout of extreme weather to hit
east and northeast Asia this month. In addition to flooding in
China, torrential rain of more than 10 centimeters (4 inches) an
hour in southwest Japan left two people dead as authorities
advised 300,000 people to evacuate their homes, Kyodo News
reported today.  
 In 1998, China had what it described as the worst floods in
44 years, including eight flood peaks that hit the 6,400-
kilometer regions along the Yangtze river. The floods in central
and northeastern China caused 166.6 billion yuan ($25 billion)
in damages, according to Xinhua.  
 Landslide warnings for Fukuoka, Yamaguchi and Nagano
prefectures remain in place, according to an  update  from Japan’s
Meteorological Agency at 2.40 p.m. local time. The agency also
issued alerts for potential flooding in Shizuoka, Saga and Osaka
prefectures.  
 Philippines Damage  
 In the Philippines, Conson damaged 3,274 houses, bridges
and schools in seven provinces around Manila, according to the
website of the National  Disaster Coordinating Council . Power has
been restored in some areas hit by the typhoon, and damages to
infrastructure, fisheries, agriculture and schools amount to
22.3 million pesos ($482,000), it said.  
 Conson,  named  after a picturesque mountain region in
Vietnam, had sustained winds of 93 kilometers per hour near the
center and is moving northwest at 19 kph, the  U.S. Navy Joint
Typhoon Warning Center  said in its latest update. The storm’s
winds are forecast to decrease in strength to 74 kph as it hits
Hainan island and down to 37 kilometers after making landfall in
northern Vietnam and the Chinese mainland.  
 As rains continue in China, Japan’s Meteorological Agency
is  warning  temperatures in Tokyo and southwest Japan may be as
much as 2.2 degrees Celsius higher than normal from July 18
through July 27, without giving further details.  
 Weathernews Inc. , a listed weather forecasting company
based in Chiba, east of Tokyo, expects the temperature in Tokyo
to reach 34 degrees Celsius (93 degrees Fahrenheit) on July 18.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ian C. Sayson  in Manila at 
 isayson@bloomberg.net ;
 Stuart Biggs  in Tokyo at 
 sbiggs3@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     An elderly Filipino makes repairs to his shanty home after it was damaged by Typhoon Conson Photographer: Jay Directo/AFP/Getty Images  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
