-- Yuan Likely to Track Euro More Closely, Ex-Treasury Official Keidel Says
-- Rebecca Christie
-- 2010-07-16T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-15/yuan-likely-to-track-euro-more-closely-ex-treasury-official-keidel-says.html

          
          
             China’s yuan is likely to track the
euro more closely now that its peg to the dollar has been
relaxed, said  Albert Keidel , a former Treasury Department
official and a senior fellow at the Atlantic Council.  
 Keidel, former acting director of the Treasury’s Asia
office, said Chinese policy makers may decide to tie the yuan,
also known as the renminbi, to a basket of currencies. If so, he
said, the Chinese currency would follow movements in the euro,
if not as closely as it previously tracked the dollar.  
 “Since the euro is quite low historically after the Greece
scare, and it’s started to move up again, we’ve seen the
renminbi strengthen a tiny bit,” Keidel said yesterday at an
Atlantic Council forum in Washington. “If then we see problems
with Greek and other debt and the euro tanks again, we might
even see a very mild” devaluation of the yuan against the
dollar.  
 The yuan has strengthened about 0.8 percent against the
dollar since China announced on June 19 it would relax its two-
year-old peg. China had kept the yuan stable at about 6.83
per dollar since July 2008, having allowed it to gain 21 percent
in the previous three years.  
 Keidel also said Chinese officials will avoid any change to
the banking system that risks economic turmoil. “It may be that
too rapid liberalization of the financial sector in a country
like China would jeopardize growth,” he said.  
 He predicted the Treasury would delay its next currency
report, due in October, until after the U.S. elections in
November. Keidel said officials in both countries may take
advantage of “political brouhaha” to criticize each other’s
policies in public while working collaboratively behind the
scenes.  
 Currency Report  
 Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  said this month he
would be tracking “how far and how fast the renminbi
appreciates” over the next few months. The Treasury released a
currency report on July 9 that had been due on April 15, after
delaying it until after a series of meetings between U.S. and
Chinese officials.  
 In the report, the Treasury said the yuan was
“undervalued” and pledged to monitor it for signs China is
living up to its commitments to help rebalance the global
economy. The report didn’t declare China or any other country to
be a currency manipulator.  
 Edwin Truman , a former undersecretary of the Treasury for
international affairs, said Chinese officials may have been
surprised at how much their currency appreciated while pegged to
the dollar in 2008 and 2009, because of the dollar’s rise
against other currencies.  
 “They had a huge appreciation,” Truman told reporters
yesterday at the Atlantic Council, a research organization
focusing on international issues. “One would hope that they
learned that actually was a mistake from their narrow
perspective.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rebecca Christie  in Washington at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net ;  
          
          


  


        