-- Zijin Mining Managers Detained by Police After Acid Spill, Securities Says
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-07-16T00:34:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-15/zijin-mining-managers-detained-by-police-after-acid-spill-securities-says.html

          
          
             Three managers at  Zijin Mining Group
Co. ’s plant in Fujian province were detained by authorities and
are under investigation, the China Securities Journal said,
citing a press conference held by local government officials.  
 Police started the investigation yesterday, detaining the
plant manager, the deputy plant manager and the environmental
protection supervisor, the report said. A Zijin employee who
answered the company’s main phone line declined to comment and
wouldn’t give his name.  
 The detentions come after an acid leak from the plant on
July 3 killed 1,890 metric tons of fish at a waterway near
Shanghang county where about half a million people live. Zijin,
which revealed the leak on July 12, is being probed over its
disclosure of the incident by the China Securities Regulatory
Commission.  
 Zijin, China’s biggest gold producer, has dropped 14
percent in Hong Kong trading since it revealed the spill, to
close at HK$4.82, the lowest since March 18, 2009, yesterday.  In
Shanghai trading , the stock fell 4.2 percent to 5.52 yuan
yesterday.  
 Zijin, which initially blamed rain for the leak, plans to
spend 200 million yuan ($30 million) on environmental and risk
measures within a year as part of its restructuring plan after
the incident, spokesman  Zhao Jugang  said yesterday by phone. The
company is cooperating with the securities commission probe.  
 The Chinese government may make an example of Zijin as it
seeks to highlight a more serious stance toward environmental
issues, Bank of America Corp.’s Merrill Lynch said July 12.  
 Waste water  containing acidic copper seeped into the Ting
River from its plant, the company said in a filing to the Hong
Kong exchange. Copper production at Zijinshan mine accounts for
about 15 percent of Zijin’s annual output, according to Guotai
Junan Securities Co.  
 The plant produces 12,800 metric tons of copper a year, and
will only reopen after checks by environmental authorities.  
 About 1.89 million kilograms of fish in the Mianhuatan
reservoir were found dead or poisoned, Xinhua News Agency said
July 12.  
 -- Editors:  Andrew Hobbs ,  Gregory Turk   
 To contact the Bloomberg News staff on this story:
 Xiao Yu  in Beijing at 
 yxiao@bloomberg.net ;  
          
          


  


        