-- Zuma's Nephew Khulubuse Says Daewoo Venture Will Expand Across Africa
-- Michael J. Kavanagh
-- 2010-07-15T15:47:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-15/zuma-s-nephew-khulubuse-says-daewoo-venture-will-expand-across-africa.html

          
          
             Khulubuse Zuma, a nephew of South
African President  Jacob Zuma , said a venture between a company
he owns and  Daewoo Shipbuilding & Marine Engineering Co.  will
ship energy commodities throughout Africa.  
 Zuma will sell 49 percent of his Impinda Group to Daewoo,
the world’s second-biggest shipbuilder, the Seoul-based company
said yesterday. The purchase will help reduce the South Korean’s
company’s dependency on building vessels and Daewoo will help
Impinda expand its commodity transportation business, it said.  
 “Impinda will be shipping gas, oil, coal,” Zuma said in
an interview from Johannesburg today. “It could be in South
Africa or Congo or somewhere else,” he said. Initially the
company will focus on South Africa.  
 The Democratic Republic of Congo awarded two other
companies in which Zuma is involved oil exploration blocks 1 and
2 in Congo’s Lake Albert on June 18. The companies, Caprikat
Ltd. and Foxwhelp Ltd., are incorporated in the British Virgin
Islands.  
 “There’s no link between Impinda and Caprikat and Foxwhelp
yet,” Zuma said. “There could be in the future.”  
 Daewoo Shipbuilding will jointly manage Impinda to help it
win more contracts to move cargo, Daewoo said. Impinda is
currently in talks with at least three mining companies to
transport raw materials, Daewoo added, without elaborating.  
 While the Johannesburg-based South African Press
Association reported yesterday that Impinda is co-owned by a
Congolese investor, Zuma said he is the sole owner.  
 Zuma is also chairman of Aurora Empowerment Systems Ltd., a
Johannesburg-based gold mining company.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Kavanagh  in Kinshasa at 
 mkavanagh9@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        