-- BP's Tests Show Cement Plug on Macondo Well Working as Relief Well Drilled
-- Katarzyna Klimasinska
-- 2010-08-08T16:42:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-08/bp-says-pressure-tests-show-that-cement-plug-on-macondo-well-is-working.html

          
          
             BP Plc  said the Macondo well in the
Gulf of Mexico is effectively plugged with cement poured last
week. The company continues to drill a relief well as the last
step to ensure that the source of the biggest offshore
accidental oil spill in history never leaks again.  
 The Macondo well, which spewed an estimated 4.9 million
barrels of crude after an April 20 explosion aboard the
Deepwater Horizon drilling rig, was filled with mud and cement
from the top in a process called static kill after BP capped the
gusher with a stack of valves on July 15.  
 “The pressure testing following the cementing operations
indicates we have an effective cement plug,” the company said
in a statement on its website today.  
 BP has stopped skimming for oil in the open ocean because
it’s having trouble finding crude on the surface,  Doug Suttles ,
chief operating officer for exploration and production, said.
About 74 percent of the oil that flowed from Macondo evaporated,
dissolved or biodegraded, or was burned, skimmed or captured,
the government said in a report on Aug. 4.  
 BP  rose  1.95 pence to 425.35 pence in London trading Aug.
6. The shares are down 35 percent since the April explosion,
which killed 11 workers.  
 Blowout Preventer  
 The relief well, which has about 85 feet (26 meters) to go,
probably will intercept Macondo between Aug. 13 and Aug. 15,
Senior Vice President  Kent Wells  said during a conference call
with reporters Aug. 6. The company will resume drilling tonight
after pausing for a ranging test needed to determine if the well
is going in the right direction, Wells said.  
 After pumping mud and cement into Macondo from the bottom
via the relief well, BP will remove the blowout preventer, which
later will be used in investigations about the cause of the
blast, Wells said.  
 The timing of the completion of the relief well will depend
on the weather, as a tropical storm could delay drilling
operations, BP said.  
 Tropical Storm Colin weakened to a tropical depression as
it moved north toward Bermuda, with maximum sustained winds of
about 35 miles per hour, the U.S. National Hurricane Center said
in its latest advisory.  
 President  Barack Obama  supports a proposal that a large
portion of any federal penalties paid by BP over the spill be
returned to the states, White House energy adviser  Carol Browner 
said today.  
 Penalties  
 Under current law, any penalties paid by the oil company
would go to the general treasury, Browner said on NBC’s “Meet
the Press.” Some Gulf-area politicians have suggested that 80
percent of the money be returned to the affected states.  
 National Incident Commander  Thad Allen  said BP did a
“fairly good” job dealing with plugging the Macondo well,
while not adequately addressing the needs of people involved in
the incident.  
 Dealing with individuals was “a real struggle” for BP,
Allen said today on CNN’s “State of the Union.” That’s “where
they need to improve.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Katarzyna Klimasinska  in Houston at 
 kklimasinska@bloomberg.net ;  
          
          


  


        