-- Visto Patent Verdict Against Seven Networks Is Upheld
-- Joel Rosenblatt
-- 2006-12-20T01:08:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2006-12-20/visto-patent-verdict-against-seven-networks-is-upheld-update2-.html

          
          
             Seven Networks Inc., whose e-mail
software is used in mobile phones, lost a bid to overturn a jury
verdict that it infringed three patents owned by Visto Corp.  
 U.S. District Judge T. John Ward in Marshall,  Texas , today
upheld the verdict, increased the jury award to a total of
$7.7 million, and ordered Seven Networks to stop providing its
Personal Edition, Server Edition and Enterprise Edition
products. The sales halt was put on hold pending appeal as
punishment for a Visto lawyer getting improper access to
confidential Seven Networks information.  
 ``We view these damages as compensation for years of
unauthorized use of our product,'' Visto co-founder Daniel
Mendez said in an e-mail. ``Visto has spent 10 years and
millions of dollars to develop our technology. It is only right
that others should not be allowed to use it for free.''  
 The same patents are the subject of a suit against  Research
In Motion Ltd. (RIM) , maker of the BlackBerry e-mail device. Visto,
Seven Networks and Good Technology Inc., all software makers,
are vying to challenge Research In Motion's supremacy in the
market for wireless e-mail.  
 Seven Networks will appeal the decision, which was
expected, General Counsel Harvey Anderson said in an interview.
Anderson said the appeal probably won't be completed until mid-
2008. A patent-infringement suit brought by Seven Networks
against Visto is schedule to go to trial in June, he said.  
 Mendez said he is confident Visto will prevail. The two
companies, both closely held and based in Redwood City,
 California , provide e-mail software for cell-phone service
providers including Cingular Wireless LLC and Sprint Nextel
Corp. Visto also provides software to Vodafone Group Plc.  
 The case is Visto Corp. v. Seven Networks Inc., 03cv333,
U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Texas, Marshall
Division.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Susan Decker  in  Washington  at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net .
Joel Rosenblatt in  San Francisco  at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Patrick Oster at   poster@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        