-- Asian Airlines Face `Minor' Costs From Volcano Ash, Macquarie Analysts Say
-- Shani Raja
-- 2010-04-20T04:31:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-20/asian-airlines-face-minor-costs-from-volcano-ash-macquarie-analysts-say.html

          
          
             The financial cost to Asian
airlines from the Icelandic volcanic eruption will be “minor”
compared with the impact on their European counterparts,
Macquarie Group Ltd. analysts said.  
 Europe’s carriers are likelier than Asian ones to have
business-class bookings canceled as a result of flight delays
caused by ash clouds that present a safety risk to jetliners,
the analysts, led by Wei Sim in Hong Kong, said in a research
note.  
 “We remain positive on the Asia/Australasian airline
recovery,” the analysts said in the note. “Though the volcanic
ash is likely to have a material near-term impact, we think this
will largely be gained back with a subsequent surge in demand
once the restrictions on air space are once again resumed.”  
 A flight ban introduced after the Eyjafjallajökull volcano
erupted on April 14 has led to the cancellation of 81,000
flights and is costing carriers as much as $300 million a day in
lost revenue, according to the International Air Transport
Association. The ash represents a threat to jetliners because it
could stop their engines by melting and congealing in turbines.  
 With planes out of position and airlines concentrating on
repatriating stranded passengers, the restoration of full
timetables may take six days, the industry group said. British
Airways Plc yesterday said European carriers are seeking
compensation for lost sales.  
 Flights Open  
 European airspace that was closed will reopen to flights
today after transport ministers said planes could fly through
thinner parts of the ash plume.  
 Singapore Airlines Ltd. flew an extra flight to Rome and
Cathay Pacific Airways Ltd. put larger planes on flights to the
city as carriers try to clear backlogs of passengers stranded by
the shutdown of European airspace. Air China Ltd. added two more
Beijing-Moscow flights, with an equal number of return services
today, as well as a service from Rome.  
 Japan Airlines Corp. added an extra Rome-Tokyo flight
yesterday, and is flying in both directions on the route today,
said Sze Hunn Yap, a spokeswoman. The carrier canceled all of
its other European flights today, while All Nippon Airways Co.
has axed flights to London, Frankfurt and Paris.  
 ‘Remain Positive’  
 “The volcanic ash has had a material impact on the near-
term earnings of the Asian/Australasian airlines,” the
Macquarie analysts said. “However, we expect the financial
impact of this to be small overall, as most premium travel,
which will be business related, may be postponed until after the
incident rather than totally cancelled. Furthermore, yields for
the European routes tend to be smaller, thus having a smaller
earnings impact.”  
 Asian airline stocks today recovered ground that was lost
yesterday after the volcanic ash prompted further flight
cancelations.  
 All Nippon Airways Co., Asia’s No. 2 carrier, which
retreated 2.4 percent yesterday, advanced 2.5 percent to 290 yen
at 12:52 p.m. Tokyo time today.  
 Australia’s Virgin Blue Holdings Ltd., which plunged 4.6
percent yesterday, climbed 1.6 percent to 63.5 Australian cents.
Singapore Airlines Ltd., the world’s second-largest carrier by
market value, rose 1.5 percent, paring yesterday’s 3.6 percent
drop.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Shani Raja in Sydney at 
 sraja4@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        