-- Butterfly Swap Strategy to Gain on India Rate Policy, Morgan Stanley Says
-- David Yong
-- 2010-04-20T04:17:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-20/butterfly-swap-strategy-to-gain-on-india-rate-policy-morgan-stanley-says.html

          
          
             Investors should employ a so-called
“butterfly” swap strategy in India to profit from higher
borrowing costs as a recovery in Asia’s third-largest economy
stokes inflation, according to Morgan Stanley.  
 Investors should agree to pay the fixed two-year interest
rate and receive a floating payment, Rohit Arora, a Hong Kong-
based interest-rate strategist, wrote in a research note dated
yesterday. They should take the opposite position for
one- and five-year maturity swaps. The two-year rate has greater
room to increase, he wrote.  
 The Reserve Bank of India will raise its reverse repurchase
rate by 50 basis points, or 0.5 percentage point, to 4 percent,
the U.S. bank forecast. The median forecast is for a quarter-
point increase, according to a Bloomberg News survey. The
decision is due at 11:15 a.m. in Mumbai.  
 “We expect the butterfly trade to perform well in a 25 or
50 basis point-hike in the reverse repo rate,” Arora wrote in
the report. The economy is in a “fast-recovery mode,” stoking
debates on how fast RBI will tighten its policy, the report said.  
 The one-year interest-rate swap has climbed 25 basis points
in the past one month to 5.095 percent yesterday, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. It reached the year’s high of 5.115
percent on April 16. The two-year rate stood at 5.78 percent and
the five-year rate was 6.98 percent.  
 Inflation Concerns  
 India’s economic growth may surpass 8 percent in the year
ending March 31, 2011, the finance ministry said in February,
versus an estimated 7.2 percent gain in 2010 and 6.7 percent in
2009. The wholesale-price inflation rate held at a 17-month high
of 9.9 percent in March, the government said on April 15.  
 “It is likely that the growth impulses could further
strengthen during 2010-11, and therefore, anchoring inflationary
expectations without hurting the growth process continue to be
the focus of monetary policy,” the central bank said in a
report yesterday.  
 Morgan Stanley said a quarter-point increase in the
benchmark rate will cause the one-year swap rate to decline
because the current rate implies investors are prepared for a
bigger rate increase, Arora said in an interview today. The
butterfly strategy could also profit from a half-point increase
outcome, as the decision could cause the two-year rate to
increase more than the five-year rate, he wrote.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
David Yong in Singapore at 
 dyong@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        