-- Canada's Van Loan Says Chinese Revaluation of Yuan Would Ease `Irritants'
-- Theophilos Argitis
-- 2010-04-20T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-20/canada-s-van-loan-says-chinese-revaluation-of-yuan-would-ease-irritants-.html

          
          
             Canadian Trade Minister Peter Van
Loan said a revaluation of the Chinese yuan would help ease
trade “irritants” and provide a boost to the global economy.  
 A revaluation would “help China trade freely with fewer
irritants with the kind of countries they want to be trading
with,” Van Loan said in an interview with Bloomberg Television.  
 The European Commission, the Brussels-based executive arm
of the European Union, opened an inquiry last week into whether
the Chinese are paying trade-distorting subsidies to paper
manufacturers. U.S. lawmakers also have urged President Barack
Obama to step up pressure on China, accusing officials in
Beijing of keeping the currency artificially weak to gain
advantage for their exporters.  
 Chinese President Hu Jintao told Obama on April 13 in
Washington that the country wouldn’t yield to “external
pressure” in deciding when to adjust the yuan.  
 China has pegged the value of its currency at about 6.83
yuan to the U.S. dollar since July 2008.  
 Canada has made open trade one of the main issues on the
Group of 20 nations’ agenda this year, with Prime Minister
Stephen Harper hosting the G-20 leaders this June in Toronto.  
 “We hope, as we go through the upcoming G-20 meetings in
Toronto and the ongoing multilateral process,” Van Loan said
about the prospects of a yuan revaluation, “that we’ll see that
situation improve and that will be of benefit to the overall
global economy.”  
 Courting Investment  
 While Finance Minister Jim Flaherty and Bank of Canada
Governor Mark Carney have said that Canada has done its share of
adjustment to stabilize the world economy following a 20 percent
appreciation of its own currency over the last year, Canada has
refused to threaten new tariffs and has courted more Chinese
investments.  
 China Petrochemical Corp. agreed last week to pay
ConocoPhillips about $4.7 billion for its stake in Syncrude
Canada Ltd. That purchase followed an acquisition last year by
PetroChina Co., China’s largest oil company, of a 60 percent
stake of a project run by Athabasca Oil Sands Corp and the sale
by Vancouver-based Teck Resources Ltd. of a 17 percent stake to
China’s sovereign wealth fund.  
 “That’s an example I think of a growing trend of interest,
not just from the Chinese but from countries indeed around the
world,” said Van Loan, citing Canada’s low debt levels, strong
rate of economic growth and resource “abundance”.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Theophilos Argitis at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        