-- Carney May Signal June Interest Rate Increase by Boosting Canada Forecasts
-- Greg Quinn
-- 2010-04-20T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-20/carney-may-signal-june-interest-rate-increase-by-boosting-canada-forecasts.html

          
          
             The Bank of Canada may use today’s
interest-rate statement to increase forecasts for economic
growth and inflation, signaling policy makers are preparing to
change lending rates for the first time in a year.  
 All 25 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News predict the
target rate for overnight loans between commercial banks will
remain at 0.25 percent in a decision set for 9 a.m. New York
time. Investors and economists will instead focus on any
language suggesting the bank may raise its rate at either the
June 1 or July 20 announcement.  
 Governor Mark Carney has said since last April that the
policy rate would stay at a record low unless the inflation
outlook shifted. Investors will look for whether today’s
statement modifies or removes wording about that “conditional
commitment” or adds a phrase suggesting higher rates will be
needed soon.  
 “You are going to have to be reading through the
forecasts,” said Sheryl King, head of Canadian economics and
strategy at Merrill Lynch Canada in Toronto. The statement “is
going to signal that they are going to raise rates, but not an
outright signal.”  
 King predicts a June 1 increase to 0.5 percent, which could
be the first such move in the Group of Seven.  
 The bank’s last interest rate statement on March 2 said
rates would stay on hold until July unless the “current”
inflation outlook shifts, and removed a reference to price risks
being “tilted slightly to the downside.” Carney said on March
24 that output and a key measure of prices have been faster than
expected, adding his pledge was “expressly conditional” on the
inflation outlook.  
 Increased Bets  
 Rates on 3-month and 6-month overnight index swaps show
investors increased bets that rate increases would come in June
following both of those events.  
 The bank may say today, or in its April 22 monetary policy
report, that inflation will reach the bank’s 2 percent target
before the third quarter of next year, as it had predicted in
January. Inflation will reach 2 percent in the third quarter of
this year according to the median estimate of 15 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg. The bank may also increase its estimate
of 3.5 percent annualized first-quarter economic growth, with
economists surveyed by Bloomberg predicting 5 percent.  
 “That is a significant outperformance of the economy,”
said Sal Guatieri, a senior economist at BMO Capital Markets in
Toronto, who predicts the bank will raise its rate to 0.5
percent in July. “Canada should outperform the other G-7
countries this year.”  
 Exceeding Forecasts  
 The economy expanded at the fastest pace in three years in
January, led by manufacturing, wholesaling and construction.
That followed fourth-quarter growth of 5 percent that exceeded
the Bank of Canada’s 3.3 percent estimate.  
 Canada has benefited from rising demand for copper, gold,
wheat and oil from the U.S. and emerging economies such as India
and China. The country is the world’s second-biggest exporter of
natural gas, and sits on the largest pool of oil reserves
outside the Middle East.  
 Even automobile and lumber companies -- among the hardest
hit last year by the recession-- are seeing a rebound. General
Motors Co. said March 26 it plans to add a third shift at its
Oshawa, Ontario, plant for additional production of the Equinox
sport-utility vehicle.  
 “The North American auto industry has seen some resurgence
in inventory levels since the fall of last year and it continues
today; we are very encouraged by that,” said John Amodeo, chief
financial officer of Samuel Manu-Tech Inc. in Toronto, a maker
of steel and plastic goods.  
 Parity  
 Still, some expect Carney to stick to the conditional
commitment to cement a recovery from last year’s recession,
given lingering high unemployment and the effects of the
Canadian currency that strengthened to parity with the U.S.
dollar last week.  
 “The Bank of Canada can continue to take the next few
months to make sure the recovery is on track,” said Meny
Grauman, a senior economist at Canadian Imperial Bank of
Commerce in Toronto. “We know rate hikes are coming, they just
don’t have to come immediately.”  
 “We are seeing mixed signals from the consumer,” said
Duncan Reith, senior vice president of merchandising in Toronto
at Canadian Tire Corp., the nation’s largest auto parts and
sporting goods merchant. Customers are spending more on items
linked to home repairs and shunning some other high-end items,
he said.  
 “They are watching their pennies still very carefully,”
Reith said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Quinn in Ottawa at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        