-- Chrysler's Old Carco, U.S. Reach Settlement on Contaminated Site in Ohio
-- Tiffany Kary
-- 2010-07-16T22:01:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-20/chrysler-s-old-assets-in-bankruptcy-can-liquidate-judge-rules-in-n-y-.html

          
          
             Old Carco LLC, the company
liquidating assets of the former  Chrysler LLC  in bankruptcy, is
seeking court approval to settle U.S. environmental claims at a
site in Dayton, Ohio, for $500,000.  
 The government’s claims for environmental response costs
and penalties at the site, which had totaled as much as
$40.4 million, were resolved under an agreement filed July 14 in
U.S. Bankruptcy Court in Manhattan. Chrysler owned and operated
the site from 1937 to 2002, when it was sold to Behr Dayton
Thermal Products LLC.  
 “Polluted ground water from beneath the Behr-Dayton plant
has migrated underground to the south/southwest through
residential, commercial and industrial areas,” the U.S.
Environmental Protection Agency said on its website.  
 The EPA said it installed a system to mitigate hazardous
vapors in 148 homes near the Behr Dayton Thermal Systems VOC
Plume Superfund site. The plant makes vehicle air conditioners
and engine-cooling systems.  
 The government asked that the settlement be published in
the Federal Register for a 30-day comment period. The Justice
Department will provide the comments to the court and, if
appropriate, seek approval for the agreement, the government
lawyers wrote.  
 Old Carco is liquidating after Chrysler’s April 2009
bankruptcy filing as part of a deal that sold assets to  Fiat SpA 
for $2 billion. The automaker’s remnants, including $27 billion
of debt, were included in Old Carco’s bankruptcy case.  
 ‘Immediate’ Threat  
 In 2006, Chrysler and the EPA entered an administrative
order that the government said made the company responsible for
cleaning up hazardous waste at the Behr site. The work was
needed to address an “immediate health threat posed by
trichloroethene vapor intrusion into homes,” the EPA said.  
 The U.S. claimed $3.6 million for past costs, a maximum
penalty of $27.07 million for violations of environmental laws,
and a penalty of $9.7 million for failure to respond to
information requests, according to court documents.  
 Old Carco’s liquidation trust disagreed with the EPA’s
demands.  
 Trichloroethylene, also known by trade names Triclene and
Vitran, is probably carcinogenic, and has been linked to birth
defects, according to the Agency for Toxic Substances & Disease
Registry.  
 Insurance Proceeds  
 Under the terms of the settlement, the EPA agrees not to
sue Old Carco, or the trusts the company set up to handle
accounts as it liquidates in Chapter 11. The EPA will get
$500,000 from a reserve set aside in Old Carco’s bankruptcy for
environmental issues. It could get as much as $1.5 million more
than that if a sale or transfer of property produces more money
for the reserve, according to court papers. It could also get 80
percent of the proceeds from insurance policies if the proceeds
exceed Old Carco’s trusts’ costs.  
 The EPA will also get an unsecured claim for $26 million
for response costs at the site, and an unsecured claim for
$5 million for penalties. Old Carco’s unsecured creditors will
be repaid in the wind-down from any proceeds from a pending
lawsuit against  Daimler AG .  
 The case is In re Chrysler LLC, 09-50002, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tiffany Kary  in New York at 
 tkary@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        