-- Citigroup Credit Cards Show Dependence on Overseas Consumers: Chart of Day
-- Courtney Schlisserman
-- 2010-04-20T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-20/citigroup-credit-cards-show-dependence-on-overseas-consumers-chart-of-day.html

          
          
             Purchases using Citigroup Inc.
credit cards are accelerating outside the U.S. and still
contracting in North America, adding to evidence that foreign
consumers are leading the recovery from the global recession.  
 The CHART OF THE DAY shows the breakdown in first-quarter
purchases using Citigroup-branded cards on a year-over-year
basis. Transactions made with Citigroup-issued credit cards rose
23 percent in Asia, a second straight increase, while the dollar
amount of charges in North America fell 10 percent. Purchases
were also up in Latin America and Europe.  
 These differences may help explain why Federal Reserve
Chairman Ben S. Bernanke is poised to keep interest rates low
until the labor market improves enough to allow for a sustained
pickup in Americans’ spending. Manufacturing is at the forefront
of the U.S. recovery, with factories producing more to satisfy
growing overseas appetites for exports.  
 “The global backdrop has been quite helpful to U.S.
corporations that are globally diversified while the U.S.
consumer is busy healing,” said Julia Coronado, a senior
economist at BNP Paribas in New York. U.S. “consumers don’t
want debt right now. That definitely slows the speed limit of
the recovery. With the recovery likely to remain moderate, it
will take the labor market years to heal and the Fed is on hold
for a while.”  
 The Fed has reiterated it will keep rates low for “an
extended period.” In contrast, the central banks of India and
Australia have already raised interest rates. Singapore this
week announced a one-time revaluation of its currency and China
announced measures to cool its real-estate market.  
 Citigroup, which said yesterday that its first-quarter
profit more than doubled, is the third-largest issuer of credit
cards in the U.S. behind No. 1 JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Bank of
America Corp.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Anthony Feld in New York at 
 afeld2@bloomberg.net ;
Courtney Schlisserman in Washington at 
 cschlisserma@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        