-- Goldman Donations Spurned by Kirk in Illinois Campaign for Obama's Seat
-- John McCormick
-- 2010-04-20T04:22:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-20/goldman-donations-spurned-in-illinois-campaign-for-obama-s-senate-seat.html

          
          
             Goldman Sachs Group Inc.’s problems
with the Securities and Exchange Commission are spilling over
into the U.S. midterm elections.  
 Congressman Mark Kirk, the Republican nominee for an open
Senate seat in Illinois, said he will return contributions made
by Goldman employees because the SEC is investigating the bank.  
 Kirk, 50, made the announcement after his Democratic
opponent, Illinois Treasurer Alexi Giannoulias, criticized him
for taking the donations. The two men are vying for the Senate
seat once held by President Barack Obama that will help
determine whether Democrats retain control of the chamber.  
 “We are calling on Congressman Kirk to explain why he
voted against Wall Street reform,” said Matt McGrath, a
spokesman for Giannoulias. “And we are challenging him to give
back his tainted Goldman Sachs campaign contributions.”  
 Kirk has taken $54,010 from Goldman employees, including
$21,600 for his Senate bid, McGrath said.  
 The congressman said that his campaign is still determining
how much Goldman employees donated to him, and that he hasn’t
accepted money from the bank’s political action committee.  
 “I want to set an example on ethics for others to
follow,” Kirk said yesterday during a Chicago news conference.
“I will err on the side of caution and watch this case
unfold.”  
 A Goldman Sachs spokesman, Lucas Van Praag, declined to
comment.  
 Goldman Targeted  
 Kirk said he made his decision over the weekend after
reading about a civil suit filed by the SEC that targeted
Goldman Sachs, alleging it created and sold collateralized debt
obligations linked to subprime mortgages in early 2007 without
disclosing that hedge fund Paulson & Co. helped pick the
underlying securities and bet against the vehicles.  
 “Obviously, this hits a number of other candidates as
well,” he said.  
 Kirk, a five-term congressman from Chicago’s northern
suburbs, raised $2.2 million during the first quarter
of 2010 and ended the period with more than $3 million in the
bank, his campaign said in an earlier statement.  
 Giannoulias, 34, raised $1.2 million during the first
quarter and ended the period with that same amount in the bank,
his campaign said last week.  
 Kirk criticized Giannoulias for not releasing his 2009 tax
return, as he has done.  
 “I knew that I had to finish my taxes on time because I
was running for a very high-profile office at a time when
transparency is everything,” he said.  
 Giannoulias Taxes  
 Kirk pointed to financial troubles experienced by a
community bank run by Giannoulias’s family as one possible
reason why his opponent filed for an extension.  
 “I worry that the coming implosion of his family bank may
have tax implications for him and therefore he’s not willing to
release his taxes,” Kirk said.  
 Giannoulias routinely files for an extension on his taxes
as he awaits documents from the family business, said Kathleen
Strand, a spokeswoman.  
 “Alexi, as he has for all of the years he has been in
public office, will release his tax returns in full as soon as
they are filed,” she said, adding they will be released “as
soon as possible.”  
 Broadway Bank  
 Broadway Bank in Chicago, whose wealth helped finance
Giannoulias’s successful 2006 bid for state treasurer, has been
operating since January under a consent agreement with the
Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. because of commercial real-
estate loan losses. The family must raise at least $75 million
by later this month to meet regulatory demands.  
 Kirk has suggested that Giannoulias exercised bad judgment
while working from 2002 through 2006 as a senior loan officer
and bank vice president.  
 Giannoulias has responded by saying the bank was healthy
when he left and that just 9 percent of about $240 million in
nonperforming assets on the bank’s books originated while he was
there.  
 Lenders are collapsing nationwide amid losses on
residential and commercial real estate loans. U.S. banks with
problems climbed to the highest level since 1992 in the fourth
quarter of 2009, according to FDIC data.  
 Kirk said he is opposed to legislation to overhaul U.S.
financial regulations being pushed by Obama and Democrats in
Congress. He said that proposal would “continue the ‘too big to
fail rule’” with “even more taxpayer dollars” on the line.  
 Blagojevich Trial  
 The Senate seat in Illinois is held by Democrat Roland
Burris, who isn’t seeking a full term. Republicans are trying to
take advantage of ethical problems experienced by Illinois
Democrats, including a public corruption trial set to begin June
3 for former Governor Rod Blagojevich, who appointed Burris to
complete Obama’s term.  
 The topic of Kirk’s news conference, held inside a federal
courtroom and managed by his congressional staff, was to make
the case that Illinois taxpayers and businesses are hurt by what
he called a “corruption tax” they face through rigged
contracts, kickback scenes and other fraud. He called for added
funding for the Federal Bureau of Investigation and federal
prosecutors.  
 A poll by Public Policy Polling released April 6 showed
Kirk leading Giannoulias by 37 percent to 33 percent, with 30
percent undecided. The survey of Illinois voters was conducted
April 1 to April 5 and has a margin of error of 4 percentage
points.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
John McCormick in Chicago at 
 jmccormick16@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Representative Mark Kirk, a Republican from Illinois  
                       
                         
                           Office of Representative Mark Kirk via Bloomberg 
                         
                         Representative Mark Kirk, a Republican from Illinois, poses in this undated handout photo released to the media on Aug. 12, 2009. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Representative Mark Kirk, a Republican from Illinois, poses in this undated handout photo released to the media on Aug. 12, 2009. Source: Office of Representative Mark Kirk via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          April 19 (Bloomberg) -- U.K. Prime Minister Gordon Brown talks with Bloomberg's Andrea Catherwood about the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission's fraud suit against Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
     Brown called yesterday for the U.K. Financial Services Authority to start an inquiry. (This is an excerpt of the full interview. Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
