-- IBM Contract Signings Fall; Rebound May Come in Second Half
-- Katie Hoffmann
-- 2010-04-20T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-20/ibm-contract-services-signings-decline-rebound-may-come-in-second-half.html

          
          
             International Business Machines
Corp. said signings of first-quarter service contracts fell,
signaling that spending on larger technology projects may not
pick up until the second half of the year.  
 Services signings, which account for more than half of
total revenue, dropped about 2 percent to $12.3 billion, IBM,
the world’s largest computer-services provider, said yesterday
in a statement. New contracts for application-management, which
help clients maintain and develop software, slid 23 percent.  
 Corporate customers are still delaying larger technology
projects as the economy recovers, said Andy Miedler, an analyst
at Edward Jones in St. Louis. One bright spot -- the 18 percent
gain in new consulting contracts -- suggest larger deals could
pick up in the third and fourth quarters, he said. Consulting
contracts are a leading indicator for other services.  
 “It’s a slow thing to turn IT services,” said Miedler, who
recommends buying IBM shares and doesn’t own any. “Those
transformational deals -- they will come back. Businesses are
more open to them now, but it takes a long time to sell those.”  
 IBM, based in Armonk, New York fell 2.2 percent to $129.38
in late trading yesterday after rising $1.60 to $132.23 on the
New York Stock Exchange. It had gained 1 percent this year
before today, compared with a 7.4 percent advance in the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  
 Technology spending will climb 1.7 percent this year, after
dropping 3.1 percent last year, according to an estimate from
Morgan Stanley. Intel Corp., the biggest chipmaker, lent support
to that prediction last week by forecasting second-quarter sales
that topped estimates.  
 Full-Year Forecast  
 IBM signed 13 contracts greater than $100 million last
quarter, down from 16 a year ago. Excluding the drop in
application-management signings, services contracts would have
been up 4 percent from a year earlier, IBM said. Still, that’s
slower growth than the fourth quarter’s 9 percent increase.  
 Sales this quarter will increase on a constant currency
basis, Chief Financial Officer Mark Loughridge said on a
conference call with analysts yesterday, citing projected growth
in services, software and hardware. Total sales in the second
quarter of last year declined 13 percent.  
 IBM said profit this year will be $11.20 a share, up from a
previous forecast of at least $11 a share. Analysts predicted
$11.13 on average, based on estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  
 Still, the company has yet to signal that profit can rise
based on revenue growth rather than steps like costs cutting and
stock repurchases, said Brian Marshall, an analyst at Broadpoint
AmTech in San Francisco.  
 “It’s a lackluster quarter,” Marshall said. “Really good
financial management from an earnings perspective. At the end of
the day, not much from a revenue perspective.”  
 Currency Effect  
 IBM, once the largest computer maker, has spent the past
decade selling off hardware businesses and investing in its
higher-margin software and services units, which now make up
more than 80 percent of total revenue. That’s helped it boost
gross profit margins, the percentage of sales left after
production costs, for 10 straight quarters on a year-over-year
basis.  
 Even so, the first-quarter margin of 43.6 percent was the
lowest in a year.  
 Total sales in the first quarter rose 5.3 percent to $22.9
billion. Adjusting for foreign-exchange fluctuations, or FX,
revenue was little changed from a year earlier, IBM said.  
 “The Street has been looking for better organic revenue
when you net out FX,” said Keith Bachman, an analyst at BMO
Capital Markets in New York. He rates IBM “outperform” and
doesn’t own shares.  
 Chief Executive Officer Sam Palmisano, 58, completed five
acquisitions last quarter, including Initiate Systems Inc. and
National Interest Security Co. to add health-care-related
programs. U.S. government plans to put patient health records
online may spur more than $20 billion in spending, Framingham,
Massachusetts-based researcher IDC said.  
 First-quarter net income rose to $2.6 billion, or $1.97 a
share, from $2.3 billion, or $1.70, a year earlier, IBM said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Katie Hoffmann in New York at 
 khoffmann4@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          April 20 (Bloomberg) -- Andy Miedler, an analyst at Edward Jones in St. Louis, Missouri, talks with Bloomberg's Susan Li about International Business Machines Corp.'s performance and growth outlook.
     IBM said service contract signings fell last quarter, suggesting corporate customers are still delaying some technology spending following the economic slowdown. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
