-- Iron Chef Cat Cora Eyes Clooney in Bid to Keep Haiti Aid Coming
-- Patrick Cole
-- 2010-04-20T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-20/iron-chef-cat-cora-plays-clooney-to-chefs-in-bid-to-keep-haiti-aid-flowing.html

          
          
             The televised images of weeping
Haitian children searching for their parents jolted celebrity
chef  Cat Cora .  
 She joined actor  George Clooney ’s early fundraising drive,
and within weeks of the quake she helped the United Nations’
 World Food Programme  launch “ One Million in 1 Month for
Haiti ,” which aimed to raise $1 million in 30 days for Haiti’s
earthquake victims.  
 “Seeing those children crying and not knowing where their
parents were and just sitting in the middle of the rubble broke
my heart,” said Cora, 43, in a phone interview from her home in
Santa Barbara, California, where she lives with her partner,
Jennifer, and four children. She was the  first woman member  of
the Food Network’s “Iron Chef America” program.  
 Charity work has become a part of the Jackson, Mississippi,
native’s life since launching her nonprofit  Chefs for Humanity .
Modeled on  Doctors Without Borders , it has donated food and time
to victims of Hurricane Katrina and the 2004 Asian tsunami
relief effort, and provides educational programs about
nutrition.  
 About 300,000 died and more than 1 million were left
homeless in the 7.0-magnitude earthquake that struck Haiti, the
poorest nation in the Western Hemisphere, on Jan. 12.  
 Cora traveled to Haiti last week to work with the World
Food Programme and the Washington-based  Share Our Strength  to
set up a long-term relief plan. One of her goals is to establish
a central kitchen that will feed earthquake victims.  
 She has also been watching Clooney’s fundraising moves.
Cora was the only chef chosen by the Academy Award winner to
work the telephones onstage during his  Hope for Haiti Now 
telethon that raised $66 million. She’d like to regularly bring
together chefs such as fellow Food Network stars  Rachael Ray ,
 Guy Fieri  and  Tyler Florence  when a disaster strikes a nation.  
 Relentless Clooney  
 Even after shadowing Clooney, Cora knows raising money on a
deadline with a strong network of boldface names still can be
tough. As of this week, only about $100,000 has been received in
her drive to raise $1 million in a month, but Cora said she will
continue to press for pledges.  
 “The thing I noticed about George was that he was
relentless, he was so persistent,” said Cora. “He called all
his friends in the industry, and he never gave up. Those of us
in the food industry need to be organized like that.”  
 Born Catherine Cora, the daughter of a restaurant owner
inspired by the Greek cuisine served in her household, in her
20s she became friendly with  Julia Child . Cora followed her
mentor’s advice to go to New York, where she studied at the
Culinary Institute of America.  
 ‘Melting Pot’  
 She apprenticed at restaurants in New York and California.
With her bubbly personality, the 5-foot-1-inch Cora made her
television debut in 1999 as co-host of the Food Network’s
“Melting Pot” beside Italian-American fusion chef Rocco
DiSpirito.  
 Cora operates  Kouzzina , which serves Mediterranean cuisine
on Walt Disney World’s boardwalk in Orlando, Florida, and CCQ
(which stands for Cat Cora’s Que), a barbeque joint in Costa
Mesa, California. She’s also the executive chef of Bon Appetit
magazine.  
 In Haiti, Cora and the other relief organizations will work
on food logistics and assess other needs such as building
shelters and providing nutritional advice. She’ll also travel to
the village of Cange in Haiti’s Central Plateau region to visit
a hospital funded by  Partners in Health , a nonprofit co-founded
by Dr. Paul Farmer.  
 “What I really want to do is create a movement and a buzz
in the culinary world the way the music and acting worlds
have,” she said. “These people in Haiti need so much help.
This effort is a marathon, not a sprint.”  
 To contact the writer on this story:
 Patrick Cole  in New York at 
 pcole3@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Cat Cora  
                       
                         
                           Robert Quailer/The Brooks Group via Bloomberg 
                         
                         Food Network "Iron Chef" Cat Cora. Cora, who started her nonprofit, Chefs for Humanity in 2005, went to Haiti this month to help establish a hunger alleviation plan to help those displaced by the 7.0 magnitude earthquake that struck the Caribbean nation on Jan. 12. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Food Network "Iron Chef" Cat Cora. Cora, who started her nonprofit, Chefs for Humanity in 2005, went to Haiti this month to help establish a hunger alleviation plan to help those displaced by the 7.0 magnitude earthquake that struck the Caribbean nation on Jan. 12. Photographer: Robert Quailer/The Brooks Group via Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
