-- Obama's Former White House Counsel Craig Working as Goldman Sachs Adviser
-- Christine Harper
-- 2010-04-20T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-20/obama-s-former-white-house-counsel-craig-working-as-goldman-sachs-adviser.html

          
          
             Gregory Craig, President Barack
Obama’s former White House counsel, is working as an adviser to
Goldman Sachs Group Inc., a spokesman for the New York-based
company said.  
 Craig is a lawyer assigned to Goldman Sachs at Skadden,
Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP, a law firm that has worked for
the investment bank “for years,” Goldman Sachs spokesman Lucas
van Praag said. Van Praag said he didn’t know how long Craig has
been working for Goldman Sachs and declined to comment on the
nature of his work for the company.  
 Goldman Sachs, the most profitable securities firm in Wall
Street history, was sued last week by the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission in a fraud case alleging that the company
misled investors about a mortgage-linked security it sold them
in 2007. Goldman Sachs has called the accusations “unfounded in
law and fact” and vowed to fight the case.  
 Politico.com reported on Craig’s work for Goldman Sachs
yesterday.  
 Craig, 65, announced his resignation from the White House
last November.  
 Several top officials at the White House didn’t learn about
Craig’s work for Goldman Sachs until reporters asked about it,
said two White House officials, who asked not to be named.  
 The officials dismissed any influence Craig may have with
the administration. They said that as a former White House
employee he isn’t allowed to represent clients before any unit
of the executive office of the president for two years, under an
executive order Obama signed upon taking office. The officials
also said the SEC is an independent agency and doesn’t
coordinate with the White House on any aspect of enforcement
actions.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Christine Harper in New York at 
 charper@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        