-- Obama Reverses Bush Title IX Sex-Discrimination Policy in School Sports
-- Curtis Eichelberger
-- 2010-04-20T04:07:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-20/obama-reverses-bush-title-ix-sex-discrimination-policy-in-school-sports.html

          
          
             The U.S. Department of
Education is scrapping a policy established under former
President George W. Bush’s administration, saying the
current procedure makes it easier to deny girls an
opportunity to play school sports.  
 Title IX, passed in 1972, prohibits discrimination on
the basis of gender in educational programs that receive
federal funding. In sports, schools were required to
perform a multipronged evaluation of whether girls were
being provided with equal opportunities to participate.  
 The Bush administration eased the policy in 2005,
allowing schools to use a single survey to gauge girls’
interest and to lump together both unreturned responses and
negative replies to demonstrate a lack of enthusiasm. The
Obama administration’s approach requires schools to make
greater efforts to gauge whether students’ sports needs are
being met equally, U.S. Secretary of Education Arne Duncan
said today.  
 “Making Title IX as strong as possible is a no-
brainer,” Vice President Joseph Biden, who is scheduled to
appear with Duncan this afternoon at George Washington
University in Washington, said in a statement released
before the appearance. “What we’re doing here today will
better ensure equal opportunity in athletics, and allowing
women to realize their potential -- so this nation can
realize its potential.”  
 Duncan said the policy change is needed because of
continuing discrimination against female athletes.  
 ‘Important Civil Right’  
 “There is no doubt that Title IX has dramatically
increased athletic, academic and employment opportunities
for women and girls, and educational institutions have made
big strides in providing equal opportunities in sports,”
Duncan said in a statement. “Yet discrimination continues
to exist in college athletic programs -- and we should be
vigilant in enforcing the law and protecting this important
civil right.”  
 Girls need an opportunity to develop an interest in
athletics at the high school level, said Nancy Hogshead-
Makar, 48, a law professor at Florida Coastal School of Law
in Jacksonville, Florida, and a former swimmer who won
three gold medals and a silver medal in the 1984 Summer
Olympics in Los Angeles.  
 -- Editors: Robin D. Schatz, Rob Gloster.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Curtis Eichelberger in Washington at 
 ceichelberge@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        