-- Obama Ready for `Big Battle' Over Financial Overhaul
-- Julianna Goldman
-- 2010-04-20T04:00:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-20/obama-says-he-s-ready-for-big-battle-over-financial-industry-overhaul.html

          
          
             President Barack Obama took his
drive for new financial industry rules to California last night,
saying the U.S. can’t afford to continue business as usual on
Wall Street.  
 “The notion that we would stick with the status quo that
created a situation in which Wall Street could gamble with
somebody else’s money” and make taxpayers pick up the cost
“makes absolutely no sense,” Obama said in Los Angeles, at a
fundraiser for California Senator Barbara Boxer’s re-election
bid.  
 Obama predicted a “big battle” in Congress over
legislation to overhaul financial regulations. “There are some
things that are worth fighting for, and financial regulatory
reform is one of those things,” he said.  
 The remarks kicked off a week of Obama amplifying his
appeal for revamping market regulations, which will culminate in
an April 22 speech he’s set to deliver at Cooper Union in New
York, where, as a presidential candidate, he first outlined a
regulatory overhaul plan in 2008.  
 With Republicans unified in opposition, the Senate this
week is expected to take up legislation that would set up a
mechanism for unwinding systemically important financial firms
when they fail, create a consumer protection bureau at the
Federal Reserve and bolster oversight of hedge funds and the
$605 trillion over-the-counter derivatives market.  
 Goldman Lawsuit  
 The debate over new rules heats up after the Securities and
Exchange Commission filed a civil suit accusing Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. of fraud in connection with a subprime mortgage
investment.  
 The suit filed last week alleges the bank created and sold
collateralized debt obligations linked to subprime mortgages in
early 2007 without disclosing that hedge fund Paulson & Co.
helped pick the underlying securities and bet against the
vehicles.  
 Democrats will need the backing of at least one Republican
to bring the financial legislation to a Senate vote. All 41
Senate Republicans signed a letter last week pledging their
opposition to the measure.  
 California has the largest number of electoral votes in the
U.S. and is a “huge piece of the Democratic equation for
winning presidential elections,” said Lynn Vavreck, a political
science professor at the University of California-Los Angeles.
Obama’s visit is designed to “cultivate and maintain”
California as a Democratic state, she said in an interview, to
bolster Obama’s chances of winning the White House again in
2012. Obama won the state in the 2008 election, garnering 61
percent of the vote.  
 Protesters  
 At the second of three fundraising talks in Los Angeles,
Obama was interrupted by protesters shouting support for repeal
of the Defense Department’s don’t-ask, don’t-tell policy barring
service by acknowledged gays and lesbians. Obama promised in his
January State of the Union address to end the ban. Defense
Secretary Robert Gates has ordered a review of the potential
impact of lifting the prohibition.  
 Boxer, 69, faces no serious primary challenge, yet is
bracing for what may be her toughest general election yet.  
 Boxer raised $2.4 million in the first quarter of this
year, outdoing her leading potential Republican challengers:
former Hewlett-Packard Co. Chief Executive Officer Carly
Fiorina, who raised $1.7 million in the first quarter, and
former Republican Representative Tom Campbell who raised $1.6
million. The primary is June 8.  
 “I’m in a very, very, very tough race,” Boxer said. “The
reason is these are very, very tough times.”  
 Approval Ratings  
 Obama has a 58 percent approval rating in California,
higher than the national average, according to a Los Angeles
Times/USC poll last month of 1,515 likely California voters.  
 According to the poll, conducted March 23-30, Boxer has a
40 percent approval rating and 48 percent of those polled say
they would vote for her over a Republican candidate. Campbell is
the leading Republican candidate with 29 percent of the vote in
a primary contest, followed by Fiorina at 25 percent, according
to the poll.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Kate Andersen Brower in Los Angeles at 
 kandersen7@bloomberg.net ;
Julianna Goldman in Washington at 
 jgoldman6@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          April 19 (Bloomberg) -- Vincent Reinhart, a resident scholar at the American Enterprise Institute, talks with Bloomberg's Matt Miller and Carol Massar about the U.S. financial industry.
     Reinhart also previews a House Financial Services Committee hearing tomorrow in Washington about the 2008 collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          April 19 (Bloomberg) -- Marcus Mabry, associate natinal editor at the New York Times, talks with Bloomberg's Matt Miller and Carol Massar about the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission's lawsuit against Goldman Sachs Group Inc. for fraud.
     Mabry also discusses overseas reaction to the suit, the possibility of criminal charges and legislation under consideration in Congress to overhaul U.S. financial regulation. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
