-- Obama Considers Corporate Lawyer Cole for No.2 Post at Justice Department
-- Justin Blum
-- 2010-04-20T04:20:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-20/obama-considers-corporate-lawyer-cole-for-no-2-post-at-justice-department.html

          
          
             James M. Cole, a corporate defense
lawyer who served as an independent monitor of American
International Group Inc., is being vetted by the Obama
administration for the No. 2 job at the Justice Department,
according to a person familiar with the matter.  
 Cole, a partner at Bryan Cave LLP in Washington and a
former Justice Department prosecutor, would replace former
Deputy Attorney General David W. Ogden, who left office earlier
this year. If nominated by Obama, Cole would need to be
confirmed by the Senate.  
 Cole was an official with the Justice Department for 13
years before entering private practice, according to his law
firm’s Web site. His law practice includes advising companies on
securities, regulatory and criminal law matters.  
 The person who confirmed Cole was being vetted wasn’t
authorized to discuss the matter and spoke on condition of
anonymity. Cole didn’t return an e-mail or phone message left at
his office after normal business hours. Matthew Miller, a
Justice Department spokesman, declined to comment.  
 Cole was hired as part of a 2004 agreement with the
government to monitor AIG’s regulatory compliance, financial
reporting, whistle-blower protection and employee retention
policies. He submitted confidential reports to the Justice
Department and the Securities and Exchange Commission.  
 Prosecutors accused the company of violating accounting
standards. AIG, a New York-based insurer, didn’t admit
wrongdoing and agreed to the deal to avoid prosecution.  
 AIG Work  
 AIG was bailed out by the U.S. government in 2008. Cole’s
assignment didn’t include probing the issues that led to the
company’s near collapse, including credit-default swaps, the
Wall Street Journal reported last year. The Journal also
reported last year that Cole and his firm were paid about $20
million for their AIG oversight work.  
 Ogden returned to the law firm WilmerHale in Washington
where he previously worked. Ogden and Attorney General Eric
Holder “had a different view of the job” of deputy attorney
general, said Jamie Gorelick, a partner at WilmerHale who is
friends with Holder and Ogden, in an interview last year.  
 Cole’s vetting was reported earlier by the nonprofit news
organization ProPublica, citing unnamed people with knowledge of
the matter.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Justin Blum in Washington at 
 jblum4@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        