-- U.S. Treasury's Housing Program Fails to Stem Foreclosures, Watchdog Says
-- Lorraine Woellert
-- 2010-04-20T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-20/u-s-treasury-housing-program-fails-to-stem-foreclosures-watchdog-says.html

          
          
             The U.S. Treasury Department’s
efforts to help troubled homeowners are ineffective, as
foreclosures continue to rise and aid fails to reach all those
who need it, a watchdog said.  
 The Treasury’s Home Affordable Modification Program, or
HAMP, “has made very little progress in stemming this
onslaught,” with 230,000 mortgage loans permanently modified in
a year, according to the report by Neil Barofsky, special
inspector general for the Troubled Asset Relief Program.  
 The report is the second in two weeks to criticize the
department’s $75 billion foreclosure-prevention program, which
pays lenders to modify troubled mortgages and lower homeowners’
monthly payments. U.S. home foreclosures this year are on a
course to exceed the 2.8 million initiated in 2009, with more
than 932,000 filings during the first three months, the report
said.  
 Borrowers helped by the programs continue to default on
their mortgages, threatening the effort’s success, Barofsky’s
review  found. The Treasury estimates that 40 percent of HAMP-
modified mortgages will default.  
 In a response released with the TARP inspector’s report,
Herb Allison, the Treasury’s assistant secretary for financial
stability, said the department will take steps to increase the
transparency of the HAMP program and will set targets for “key
program objectives” this year.  
 At the end of February, 1.1 million households have
benefited from trial loan modifications under HAMP with a median
savings of $500 a month, the Treasury reported last week.
Homeowners have saved a total of $3 billion in lower monthly
mortgage payments under the plan, the department said.  
 Second Liens  
 Barofsky’s report found that a reason for the failures is
about half of troubled mortgages are on homes with second liens,
which remain in effect after first loans have been modified to
reduce payments.  
 The program also doesn’t take into account borrowers’
overall debt and “likely overestimates many borrowers’
financial resilience.” HAMP borrowers have a median debt-to-
income ratio of 61.3 percent even after their mortgage payments
have been lowered, the report found.  
 The Treasury has been “ambiguous” in its goals for
helping homeowners, stepping back from its original promise to
help 3 million to 4 million borrowers, the report found. Housing
and Urban Development Secretary Shaun Donovan, speaking to
reporters last week, said the original goal was to offer aid to
that number of borrowers.  
 Any assessment of whether HAMP is worth the resources
“should be based on the projected estimate of permanent
modifications, not Treasury’s figure of 3- to 4-million
‘offers’,” according to Barofsky’s report, which repeats many
of the concerns raised last week by the Congressional Oversight
Panel for TARP.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorraine Woellert in Washington at 
 lwoellert@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        