-- China Forecast Is Too Rosy for Investors: John Wasik (Correct)
-- John F. Wasik
-- 2009-05-18T08:37:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2009-05-18/china-forecast-is-too-rosy-for-investors-john-wasik-correct-.html

          
          
             (Corrects investment to $1.2 trillion in 17th paragraph.)  
 For those of us who got scorched
staying in U.S. stocks last year, China’s markets look like a
surefire way to make up lost ground.  
 The  Shanghai Composite Index  has gained about 45 percent
this year through May 15. Its cousin  Shenzhen Composite Index 
has soared 60 percent.  
 Compare that with the 5 percent loss for the Dow Jones
Industrial Average this year and it’s not hard to make a case to
stampede into Chinese stocks and exchange-traded funds. Yet
international exuberance can be misleading as many analysts
caution that investors are inflating a bubble.  
 One optimistic theory suggests that as one of the few
countries with economic growth, China will rescue shrinking
Western economies with its lending and burgeoning domestic
consumer markets, which could become the world’s largest.  
 A more plausible view is that China will simply follow the
lead of the U.S., which is showing “green shoots” of a
recovery, according to Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben Bernanke .  
 It’s easy to be conflicted between these two points of view
because the future looks so bright for the world’s most populous
country, so much so that few financial advisers will steer you
away from it as a long-term holding in your portfolio.  
 Even Goldman Sachs Group Inc. is sanguine over China’s
prospects. The firm last month raised its forecast for the
country’s economic growth to 8.3 percent from 6 percent.  
 $586 Billion Stimulus  
 Analysts cited the positive impact of the Chinese Central
Bank cutting its benchmark rate five times since September and
the country’s $586 billion stimulus package.  
 Goldman Sachs’s optimism is at odds with the World Bank
forecast for Chinese growth of about 6.5 percent this year.
China’s economy expanded 6.1 percent in the first quarter.  
 While there’s a consensus that China is still expected to
have the most robust economy in the world in 2009, it won’t
revive Western housing, labor and credit markets.  
 “As long as we are in a recession, they are going to have
problems,”  Jim Trippon , publisher of the Houston-based China
Stock Digest, said in reference to China.  
 The perception that the Chinese may be willing to spend
more on consumer items and save less -- their personal-savings
rate is more than 30 percent -- may be off base as well.  
 One of the reasons Chinese families save a lot is due to
inadequate health care. They don’t have strong social safety
nets, so they have to spend heavily for out-of-pocket expenses.
Like most families, they are far more likely to spend on medical
expenses than on appliances and cars.  
 Help on Way  
 Some help is on the way. Part of the Chinese stimulus is
currently being spent on their health-care system, which will
take years to build.  
 There are also concerns about China’s financial industry.
Chinese banks tripled first-quarter lending to $670 billion and
many of these loans may well go bad.  
 As it stands now, China’s financial relationship with the
U.S. is complex, strained and symbiotic. The Chinese buy
supertanker-sized portions of U.S. Treasury debt, which in turn
finances everything from the Bush-era tax cuts to President
 Barack Obama ’s almost $800 billion stimulus plan.  
 China has increased its foreign-exchange reserves from
about $340 billion in 2003 to almost $2 trillion at the end of
March. About $1.2 trillion is invested in the U.S. economy.  
 Erosion of Value  
 A weakening dollar and the threat of inflation -- once the
U.S. finances all its debt -- erode the value of Chinese
holdings. They won’t hold on to U.S. paper forever as America’s
currency reflects the crippling $11 trillion national debt and
projected $1.8 trillion federal budget deficit.  
 If the Chinese decide to divest themselves of dollars --and
they will over time -- that is bearish for the U.S. economy.  
 “The People’s Bank will continue to invest carefully,”
 Zhou Wenzhong , China’s ambassador to the U.S., said this month
at a Chicago Council of Global Affairs event. “We hope the
economy will pick up and the dollar will remain strong.”  
 Chinese stocks also have become pricey. The price/earnings
ratio for the Shanghai Composite was  26.5 7 on May 15, almost
 double  what it was for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  
 Companies may be doing better in China than their U.S.
counterparts, but not that much better on a relative basis.  
 To avoid mutually assured destruction, the Chinese will
need to build a domestic economy strong enough to withstand the
loss of American exports. Their middle class will also need to
expand to much more than one quarter of their population. Some
800 million still live in relative poverty in rural areas.  
 Don’t be distracted by one country’s returns. Did you also
know that stock markets in Brazil, Malaysia, Singapore, Sweden
and Vietnam are having good years?  
 A better wager is to invest in many markets through an
exchange-traded fund such as the  Vanguard Total World Stock
Index Fund,  which tracks almost 3,000 stocks around the globe.  
 This, of course, isn’t a risk-free approach since a few
sick countries can always spread an economic pandemic in an
interconnected world.  
 ( John F. Wasik , author of “The Cul-de-Sac Syndrome,” is a
Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions expressed are his own.)  
 To contact the writer of this column:
John F. Wasik in Chicago at 
 jwasik@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Investors monitor stock prices at a securities exchange in Shanghai on May 7, 2009. Photographer: Qilai Shen/Bloomberg News  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
