-- Morgan Stanley Ups Forecast for Emerging Markets
-- Igor Muller
-- 2007-04-27T16:29:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2007-04-27/morgan-stanley-ups-forecast-for-emerging-markets-update1-.html

          
          
             Morgan Stanley (MS) , the world's second-largest securities company, raised its forecast for emerging-market stocks this year on expectations for worldwide economic
growth and rising commodity prices.  
 Jonathan Garner, head of global emerging-market strategy in
 London , raised his year-end projection for the Morgan Stanley
Capital International Emerging Markets Index by 8.2 percent to
1,060. That represents a gain of 7.8 percent from yesterday's
close.  
 The benchmark has risen 6.8 percent so far this year after
recovering from a slump that began in late February when equity
markets dropped worldwide on concerns about slowdown of the U.S.
economy.  
 ``The global growth story is about strengthening economies
in Japan, European Union, especially Germany and  emerging
markets ,'' Garner said in a telephone interview. ``It's
inappropriate to have such a U.S. centric view.''  
 A report showed today that last quarter's growth rate in the
U.S. was the weakest since the first three months of 2003,
trimmed by the slump in home construction and a bigger trade
deficit. Growth in the 12 months ended in March slowed to 2.1
percent, the weakest year-over-year gain since the second quarter
of 2003, while inflation rose.  
 Garner said the slowdown is mostly led by non-traded housing
market in the world's largest economy and doesn't have a major
impact on global and emerging market stocks.  
 Counterbalance  
 Morgan Stanley expects the global economy to grow 4.5
percent this year, as it expects the slowdown of the U.S. economy
to be counterbalanced by reviving expansion in countries that
share euro currency, Garner said in the note.  
 At the same time Morgan Stanley sees commodity prices and
prices for oil to rise above prices in 2006. Garner has
recommended buying South African basic resource stocks in his
report from March 20.  
 Metals such as copper has gained 23 percent this year as
demand surged in  China , the world's largest copper consumer.
Crude oil has advanced 6.6 percent so far this year.  
 Garner added  Dongfang Electrical Machinery Co. (600875) , China's
third-biggest maker of power-generation equipment, to its list of
recommended shares and removed  OAO Gazprom (GAZP) ,  Russia 's natural gas
export monopoly, citing concern about dividend yields and
earnings outlook in Russia.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Igor Muller in Vienna at 
 imuller@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balduin Hesse at 
 bhesse2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        