-- Sulzer Drops 1.11 Billion-Pound Approach for Bodycote
-- Sophie Kernon
-- 2007-04-27T20:32:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2007-04-27/sulzer-drops-1-11-billion-pound-approach-for-bodycote-update2-.html

          
          
             Sulzer AG (SUN) , the world's second-biggest maker of pumps, walked away from a 1.11 billion-pound
($2.2 billion) takeover bid for Bodycote International Plc after
five approaches failed to sway the U.K. metal-treatment company.  
 Sulzer was unable to agree an offer that would be
recommended by the board of Macclesfield, England-based Bodycote
by today's 5 p.m. bid deadline set by the U.K.'s Takeover Panel.
The Winterthur, Switzerland-based company won't be allowed to
make another bid for six months unless another party makes an
offer first.  
 Sulzer walked away from Bodycote after a fifth and ``final''
indicative 344.5 pence a share offer was rejected today by the
U.K. company. The pump maker said it had repeatedly tried to
engage in a ``friendly dialogue'' about a bid. Bodycote spokesman
Jon Simmons said the company wrote to Sulzer on April 23 setting
out an offer the board would be willing to talk about, which bore
no resemblance to Sulzer's proposal today.  
 ``I sense there has been some mud-slinging with a bit of `he
said, she said' and that relations have broken down,'' said Nick Webster, an analyst at Numis Securities in  London , with a
``hold'' rating on the stock. ``There has never been a compelling
argument put forward as to why these two companies should be put
together.''  
 The proposal was 49 percent higher than Bodycote's Jan. 25
close, the day before the company said it's aware of takeover
speculation. If the bid had succeeded, Sulzer would have gained
the world's biggest supplier of metal-strengthening services,
used by car company General Motors Corp. and plane-maker Boeing
Co.  
 Bids Increased  
 ``Sulzer announces that it is no longer considering making
an offer for Bodycote International Plc,'' the company said in
the statement.  
 The Swiss company initially bid 305 pence a share for
Bodycote, before raising the offer to 315 pence, 325 pence and
332 pence. Sulzer has said a deal would bring some cost savings
and diversify its range of products and services. It didn't give
precise targets.  
 The U.K. company's treatment processes put metal under
intense weight and heat to remove air bubbles and improve
durability, making a harder-wearing material suitable for use in
high-stress applications such as  jet engines  and Formula One
racing cars. It has an operating margin of more than 10 percent.  
 Last Effort  
 Both companies later issued press releases, pointing to a
possible sixth offer which later died.  
 ``Sulzer would like to record that it had made a final offer
of 346.5 pence per share,'' the company said. Sulzer said
Bodycote declined that bid.  
 In its response, Bodycote acknowledged further discussions
with Sulzer, ``in which Sulzer and its advisors made clear that
the maximum incremental price that they may have been prepared to
propose'' amounted to 346.5 pence per share.  
 Bodycote said it was ready to meet with Sulzer on one
stipulation, and Sulzer declined.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Sophie Kernon in London at 
 skernon@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Jasper at   cjasper@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        