-- Vale Adds $1 Billion to Metals, Mining Spending Plan
-- Jeb Blount
-- 2007-04-27T22:15:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2007-04-27/vale-adds-1-billion-to-metals-mining-spending-plan-update4-.html

          
          
             Cia. Vale do Rio Doce , the world's
largest producer of  iron ore  and nickel, increased this year's
spending plan by more than $1 billion to speed expansion of
metals production and make up for a weaker dollar.  
 Capital spending  will total $7.35 billion, or 16 percent
more than previously forecast, Rio de Janeiro-based Vale said
today in a statement. More than half of the increase, or $575
million, will go to nickel and copper mines in  Brazil  and on the
Pacific island of  New Caledonia .  
 Vale is moving to increase output as metal prices soar. Iron
ore has more than doubled in two years and nickel reached a
record high on April 24. The company also said $383 million of
the spending increase reflects higher costs as the slumping
dollar erodes the value of mines that sell metal in dollars and
pay worker in local currencies.  
 ``Demand is strong and we are doing everything we can to
meet our clients needs,'' Chief Executive Officer  Roger Agnelli 
told reporters at company headquarters in Rio de Janeiro. ``We
plan to accelerate our efforts to expand.''  
 The company, also known as CVRD, said it will increase iron-
ore investments by 14 percent to $1.87 billion to help meet
``strong'' demand. It will use part of the 9.5 percent iron-ore
price increase it received this year to cover the cost, Agnelli
said Jan. 26.  
 Nickel Mines  
 Vale's planned nickel investments include $938 million at
the Goro mine in New Caledonia and $658 million for Onca Puma in
Brazil. Iron-ore investments include $417 million for its
Itabaritos mine and $111 million for the Fazendao mine in
Brazil's central highland state of  Minas Gerais .  
 Vale's board of directors gave final approval to go ahead
with the Goro project, Agnelli said today. The company is
speeding up nickel investments and expects to begin production at
Goro by 2009 and at Onca Puma in late 2008 or early 2009, he
said.  
 Costs at Goro have climbed to $3.21 billion because of
environmental measures, Agnelli said. More than $1.4 billion of
that already has been spent.  
 The company also plans to spend $115 million expanding its
Paragominas bauxite mine and $520 million at the Barcarena
alumina refinery. Both are in Brazil's Amazon state of Para. The
company may build a 600-megawatt coal-fired power plant to serve
the operations, Agnelli said.  
 Coal, Iron Ore  
 Construction at the Moatize coal mine in  Mozambique  is set
to start this year after Vale negotiates a rail contract, Agnelli
said. Vale also is studying the possibility of building an iron-
ore mine in Brazil's Carajas region that would push the company's
annual production there beyond the planned 130 million metric
tons, he said.  
 The Serra Sul mine about 30 kilometers from the company's
main Carajas operations may have as much as 14 billion metric
tons of iron-ore resources, Agnelli said.  
 ``We hope to include Serra Sul in our 2008  capital budget ,''
Agnelli told reporters.  
 Vale and Boasteel Group Corp. also may build a $4 billion
steel-slab mill in Rio de Janeiro or Espirito Santo states, after
the government of Maranhao suggested a site 50 kilometers (31
miles) from the one sought by the companies in Sao Luis, the
state capital, Agnelli said.  
 Moving the site outside of Sao Luis will add $500 million to
$600 million to the cost of the project, he said.  
 Vale's preferred  shares , its most-traded class of stock,
rose 17 centavos, or 0.2 percent, to 70.52 reais in  Sao Paulo .
The shares have risen 30 percent this year.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeb Blount in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 jblount@bloomber.net ;
Romina Nicaretta in Sao Paulo at 
 rnicaretta@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at   sstroth@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        