-- Fed Should Read Its Own Memo on Rising-Rate Risk: Caroline Baum
-- Caroline Baum
-- 2010-01-20T02:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-01-19/fed-should-read-its-own-memo-on-rising-rate-risk-caroline-baum.html

          
          
             Bank regulators, in an effort to
buff up their tarnished image and appear proactive, took it upon
themselves to alert their charges to looming interest-rate risk.  
 “In the current environment of historically low short-term
interest rates, it is important for institutions to have robust
processes for measuring and, where necessary, mitigating their
exposure to potential increases in interest rates,” sayeth the
Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, the Federal Deposit
Insurance Corp., the Federal Reserve and other regulators in a
Jan. 8 Interagency Advisory Bulletin.  
 It’s no surprise interest rates are going up. They can’t go
any lower. The Fed’s benchmark rate has been close to zero for
more than a year.  
 Are regulators reading their own memo? Rising interest
rates introduce a new kind of balance-sheet risk for the Fed.
With $1.2 trillion of variable-rate liabilities and $2 trillion
of fixed-rate assets, when rates rise, the Fed’s net interest
margin shrinks. What would happen if it disappeared?  
 Raymond Stone, chief economist at Stone & McCarthy Research
Associates in Skillman, New Jersey, looked at the limits to the
size of the Fed’s balance sheet in a Dec. 15 research report.
Here are the key points:  
 Right now, the Fed is earning about 4 percent, or $80
billion a year, on its fixed-rate assets, consisting primarily
of U.S. Treasury, federal agency and mortgage-backed securities.
For the first time ever, the Fed is paying interest (0.25 basis
points) on bank reserves, the deposits banks hold in their
accounts at the Fed or as vault cash.  
 Currency Was King  
 Prior to September 2008, currency in circulation was the
Fed’s main liability and cost nothing. Its chief asset was
Treasury securities. So the Fed clipped coupons, reinvested the
proceeds from maturing securities at prevailing interest rates,
paid a small amount of interest on things like reverse
repurchase agreements, and turned over the bulk of its profit to
the Treasury, as required by law.  
 Last week, the Fed reported record net income of $52.1
billion for 2009; it earned a bundle on the money it created.
After operating expenses and interest on reserve balances, the
Fed remitted $46.1 billion to the Treasury.  
 The Fed has always been self-financing, which Stone says
underpins its independence. Just imagine if the central bank had
to go to Congress for an annual appropriation. By the time those
folks got done horse-trading earmarks, the Fed’s appropriation
might look like a transportation bill.  
 No T-Bills  
 The Fed no longer owns many Treasury bills, so the asset
side of its balance sheet won’t benefit from reinvesting in
higher yielding securities as rates rise. It will still be
earning about 4.5 percent on all those mortgage-backed
securities even as it pays higher interest rates on reserve
balances.  
 With $2.2 trillion in assets, it would take a 7 percent
funds rate for the Fed’s variable interest expense to overwhelm
interest income, Stone calculates. The bigger the portfolio, the
lower the break-even rate.  
 The Fed is scheduled to wind down its $1.25 trillion MBS
purchases by the end of March, but at the Dec. 16 meeting policy
makers discussed extending the program if the economy weakens,
according to the minutes.  
 “They have to realize they would be boxing themselves
in,” Stone says.  
 As the net interest margin shrinks, the less inclined the
Fed would be to raise interest rates and the more unhinged
inflation expectations would become, he says.  
 Political Meddling  
 The Fed is already fending off increased meddling from the
political classes. The House of Representatives passed a bill
that would open the door to government audits of monetary policy
decisions. New financial regulatory legislation before Congress
would clip, or eliminate, the Fed’s supervisory authority.  
 The shrinking of its net interest margin isn’t the only box
the Fed finds itself in. As the buyer of last resort for agency
MBS, the Fed has “supported the housing-market stabilization
policy of the Obama administration,” David Kotok, chairman and
chief investment officer of Cumberland Advisors Inc., a money
manager based in Vineland, New Jersey, wrote in a recent paper.
The effect has been to subsidize homeowners at the expense of
taxpayers, which is not a traditional role for a central bank,
he says.  
 The Fed and Treasury purchased a combined $1.3 trillion of
agency MBS last year, 76 percent of the gross issuance
(including refinancings) and more than three times the net
increase in the size of the market. Analysts estimate the effect
lowered mortgage rates by about 75 basis points.  
 Ranking the Concerns  
 When interest rates rise, the Fed will incur capital losses
on its securities if it decides to sell them. If it doesn’t sell
them, or isn’t successful in locking up banks’ excess reserves,
inflation will be waiting behind Door No. 2.  
 Stone admits it may be premature to worry about the Fed’s
net interest margin at a time of record profitability. On a
scale of 1 to 10 of things to worry about, with 1 being long-
term unemployment and 10 being the sun going dark in 5 billion
years, I’d give it at least a 4.  
 (Caroline Baum, author of “Just What I Said,” is a
Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions expressed are her own.)  
 Click on “Send Comment” in sidebar display to send a
letter to the editor.  
 To contact the writer of this column:
Caroline Baum in New York at 
 cabaum@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        