-- Prime View, Supplier to Kindle, to Triple Capacity This Year
-- Chinmei Sung
-- 2010-01-20T02:01:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-01-19/prime-view-supplier-to-kindle-to-triple-capacity-this-year.html

          
          
             Prime View International Co.,
supplier of the E Ink technology used in Amazon.com Inc.’s
Kindle and Sony Corp.’s Reader, plans to triple capacity as
clients release new color, touch-screen and flexible
electronic book readers.  
 “Color will be one of the options for the new product
introduced, we’ll also introduce the flexible and touch
panels,” Scott Liu, 61, Chairman of the Hsinchu, Taiwan-
based company said in an interview yesterday. “These three
products will be introduced this year.”  
 Prime View, which acquired Cambridge, Massachusetts-based
E Ink Corp. last year, is currently running at full capacity
and plans to utilize supply deals with LG Display Co. and Chi
Mei Optoelectronics Corp. to boost output further, Liu said.
The global electronic paper market will climb 41 percent
annually over 10 years as companies including China Mobile
Ltd. seek to offer electronic readers, according to
researcher DisplaySearch.  
 “So many companies are jumping into e-books, so the
demand is quite strong. This year will be a ramping up year
for e-books,” said Andy Hsu, who rates Prime View stock
“add” at Fubon Financial Holding Co. in Taipei. E Ink’s
superior technology, including lower power consumption, gives
it an edge over competitors, he said.  
 Prime View plans to triple its capacity to produce the
ink, film coating and partially completed displays, or
modules, that go into e-books, Liu said. The expansion will
raise capital expenditure above the $20 million it spent last
year, he said without providing details.  
 Capital Spending Saved  
 Deals with Chi Mei and South Korea’s LG Display will
give it access to the panel capacity it requires to meet
growing demand while removing the need to spend money on
equipment for the most-expensive step in e-paper production,
he said.  
 Prime View shares rose 1.2 percent to NT$75.4 as of 9:41
a.m. in Taipei trading. They climbed almost sixfold last year
after Sony released a touch-screen version of its Reader
electronic book device to tackle the lead held by Amazon.com,
which introduced new models of its Kindle.  
 Electronic paper, or e-paper, replicates traditional
paper by using a mix of chemicals and electronics to show
content that reflects ambient light. The technology is less
heavy and uses less power than standard liquid-crystal
displays because it doesn’t have its own built-in light
source.  
 Evolved From Papermaker  
 Prime View was founded in 1992 with Yuen Foong Yu Paper
Manufacturing Co., Taiwan’s largest paper maker, as its major
shareholder. Its first factory, producing thin-film
transistor LCDs used in computer displays, began production
in 1996.  
 Global e-paper shipments of 22 million units last year
will climb 64 percent annually to 1.8 billion in 2018,
according to Austin, Texas-based DisplaySearch. Revenue will
climb from $431 million last year to $9.6 billion, it said.  
 Electronic paper will account for more than half of
PVI’s revenue this year, with profit boosted by its
acquisition of E Ink, Liu said. Sales are expected to climb
69 percent to NT$22 billion ($692 million) on a parent-
company basis, according to the median of six analyst
estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Revenue from E Ink will be
shown in its consolidated numbers beginning this year, Liu
said.  
 Coming This Year  
 Color, touch-screen and flexible e-paper will be used in
products from existing clients this year, Liu said, declining
to provide names. The retail price of color e-book readers
will be up to 50 percent more expensive than monochrome
devices, he said.  
 “We’ve started selling models with touch-screen
function in the U.S. and Europe last year and they’ve gained
popularity,” said Yuki Kobayashi, a Tokyo-based spokeswoman
for Sony. The Japanese maker hasn’t announced any plans to
sell a model with color or flexible displays, she said.
Barnes & Noble Inc. last year announced its Nook reader with
a color touch-screen display. The device will ship from Feb.
12, it said on its Web site.  
 No Color Kindle?  
 Amazon.com is years away from introducing a color
version of the Kindle because the technology needs more time
to develop, Chief Executive Officer Jeff Bezos said in May.
Spokesman Drew Herdener didn’t immediately return an e-mail
seeking further comment.  
 China Mobile, the world’s biggest mobile phone operator,
plans to offer electronic book readers and has certified six
companies to be its suppliers, each of which uses Prime
View’s displays, Liu said. The products will be manufactured
by Hon Hai Precision Industry Co., China Mobile Chairman Wang
Jianzhou said Aug. 21.  
 A 1997 visit to the Media Lab of Massachusetts Institute
of Technology introduced Liu to the E Ink technology that was
later spun off into a company that bore its name, Liu said.  
 “We fell in love with it. We felt that this technology
could potentially replace paper usage,” Liu said. “We
decided to take offensive action and get into the business so
that hopefully one day we could become the big player in
electronic paper.”  
 -- With reporting by Mariko Yasu in Tokyo and Joseph Galante
in San Francisco. Editors: Jonathan Annells, Mark McCord.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Tim Culpan in Taipei at 
 tculpan1@bloomberg.net ;
Chinmei Sung in Taipei at 
 csung4@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        