-- Republicans Want the Senate Back With Just One Win: Ann Woolner
-- Ann Woolner
-- 2010-01-20T03:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-01-19/republicans-want-the-senate-back-with-just-one-win-ann-woolner.html

          
          
             For the weight given yesterday’s
Senate race in Massachusetts, you would think the Democratic
majority status in the Senate hung in the balance.  
 It didn’t. But its supermajority status did, and that’s
what counts these days, sad to say. Without 60 votes to kill a
threatened filibuster, it might take a legislative trick to get
health-care reform passed, for example.  
 This isn’t just about health care. Not long ago, either
party would have considered itself on solid ground with 59 votes
in the 100-member Senate. Filibusters aimed at killing bills
were rarely undertaken or even threatened when a strong majority
supported the measure.  
 “It wasn’t thought appropriate for a minority in the
Senate to view the filibuster as a way to actually stop
legislation,” says Rick Pildes, a New York University law
professor.  
 Opponents would give their opinions, however passionately.
With rare exception, such as in the area of civil rights,
filibusters were considered losing propositions from the get-go.  
 These days political parties are so polarized, so short on
ideological moderates and so bent on each other’s demise that
compromise on hot-button issues is the rarity.  
 Bipartisanship has come to mean that Democrats cajoled one
moderate Republican senator to join. There just aren’t many
senators willing to buck party discipline to help chisel
compromises.  
 Better Dead  
 For political reasons, many in the minority party would
rather kill legislation than work to make it more acceptable to
them. South Carolina Republican Jim DeMint last summer openly
wished for a health-care defeat as a way to hurt Obama
politically.  
 “It will break him,” the senator said.  
 At the same time, winning has become so crucial to
Democrats that they gave the people of Nebraska Medicaid tax
relief not granted any other state to bring their senator,
Democrat Ben Nelson, back into the fold. This shameless dealing
has prompted Republican state attorneys general to threaten a
constitutional challenge.  
 Lies are told by extremists to galvanize opposition and
make it politically hazardous to discredit the disinformation or
argue for moderation. So it was when Sarah Palin railed against
nonexistent “death panels” and was seconded by party leaders.  
 Democrats, taking a lesson from what their GOP counterparts
did during the Clinton years, helped bring the Senate to this
point by threatening filibusters against some of George W.
Bush’s judicial nominees. They killed several nominations and
delayed others.  
 Lifetime Appointments  
 I would argue that nominations to lifetime appointment on
the federal bench for candidates from the ideological fringe are
more worthy filibuster targets than policy issues or nominees to
shorter-term offices.  
 But Democrats accelerated the drive toward making 60 votes
the minimum needed to get anything controversial through the
Senate when they filibustered Bush’s judicial nominees.  
 The U.S. Constitution implies that a simple majority is
required for most issues to pass the Senate. Why else would it
instruct the vice president to break any Senate vote that is
“evenly divided”?  
 If the Founders wanted a supermajority for everything, they
would have said so. The Constitution specifies certain times
when a two-thirds vote is needed, as with ratifying treaties or
overturning a presidential veto.  
 It says nothing about supermajorities to approve judicial
nominations or a new federal program.  
 Shutting Off Debate  
 As for filibusters, the Constitution is silent. Procedures
for shutting off debate have evolved through the years, with the
current 60-vote majority spelled out in a rule the Senate
adopted in 1975.  
 Now senators don’t have to trouble themselves with non-stop
speechifying to force the other side to find 60 votes. All a
senator need do is threaten a filibuster and line up 41 senators
to oppose any motion to shut off debate.  
 That means a mere 41 senators can kill a bill by refusing
to ever let the Senate vote on it.  
 This is hardly democratic. Voters tossed Republicans out of
the House, Senate and White House in the 2008 elections in a
clear rebuff of the GOP. But none of that seems to matter in
light of a single Senate race in Massachusetts yesterday.  
 Opposing Health Care  
 It’s true that on health care, a majority of Americans say
they oppose the reform packages, making congressional support
for it more tenuous. That’s a key reason why deeply blue
Massachusetts was in dispute yesterday.  
 But the trend toward requiring 60 votes goes beyond a
single issue. When 41 senators have veto power over legislation
with strong majority support, something is wrong.  
 No wonder Vice President Joe Biden sounds so perturbed.  
 “This is the first time every single solitary decision has
required 60 senators,” Biden, a former senator, told a group
last weekend.  
 A bill with only 50 senators supporting it almost never
comes to the floor. There goes one of the two jobs the
Constitution gives him.  
 With it goes the idea that the party so clearly rejected at
the voting polls should take into account that the other guys
won.  
 (Ann Woolner is a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions
expressed are her own.)  
 Click on “Send Comment” in sidebar display to send a
letter to the editor.  
 To contact the writer of this column:
Ann Woolner in Atlanta at 
 awoolner@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                     Jan. 20 (Bloomberg) -- Sean King, vice president of Park Strategies LLC, talks with Bloomberg's Maryam Nemazee about the Republican victory in the election for the U.S. Senate seat formerly held by the late Edward Kennedy.
     Scott Brown won the seat in Massachusetts, increasing his party’s Senate numbers to 41. That gives Republicans enough members in the 100-person Senate to block votes on an overhaul of the U.S. health-care system, President Barack Obama’s top legislative goal. Park speaks from New York. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
