-- Ukraine Will Pay Russia for 2010 Gas Supplies on Time
-- Daryna Krasnolutska
-- 2010-01-19T16:17:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-01-19/ukraine-will-pay-russia-for-2010-gas-supplies-on-time-update1-.html

          
          
             Ukraine has funds to pay for gas
imported from  Russia  in January and will settle its bills on
time and in full for all of 2010, Deputy Prime Minister Hryhoriy Nemyria said.  
 “By this time, Ukraine has met all its obligations,”
Nemyria told reporters today at a press conference in Kiev.
“The IMF money and the country’s domestic funds allow Ukraine
to meet them in the future.”  
 Import volumes will depend on the weather, Nemyria said,
without estimating how much Ukraine will have to pay. Ukraine
may import more than 4 billion cubic meters of natural gas from
Russia in January, Bohdan Sokolovskyi, an aide to President
 Viktor Yushchenko , said on Jan. 11.  
 Russia, which holds the world’s largest gas reserves, ships
about 80 percent of its Europe-bound exports of the fuel across
Ukraine. A payment dispute with OAO Gazprom, Russia’s gas-export
monopoly, led to supply cuts in January last year that left
parts of  Europe  without deliveries of the fuel for two weeks
during freezing weather.  
 Ukraine, which relies on Russia for more than half its own
energy needs, was forced to turn to the International Monetary
Fund help in November 2008 to stay afloat and pay for Russian
gas after the credit crisis eroded demand for its commodity
exports and crippled its banks. In November last year, the IMF
delayed a $3.4 billion portion of the $16.4 billion bailout
after the government failed to meet budget demands, including
spending cuts.  
 The IMF authorized Ukraine to tap into central-bank
foreign-currency reserves on Dec. 31 to cover gas payments,
saying it will continue to freeze loan disbursement until the
Ukrainian parliament can commit to budget cuts. The move didn’t
involve new disbursements from the IMF.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Daryna Krasnolutska in Kiev at 
 dkrasnolutsk@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Torrey Clark at 
 tclark8@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        