-- FDA panel urges limits on Sanofi antibiotic
-- By  Lisa Richwine
-- Fri Dec 15, 2006 8:49pm EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2006/12/16/businesspro-sanofi-ketek-dc-idUSN1540889420061216

 

 SILVER SPRING, Maryland  (Reuters) - Sanofi-Aventis 
antibiotic Ketek should stay on the market but use should be 
limited to treating pneumonia, U.S. advisers said on Friday 
after reviewing rare cases of liver failure and other problems. 

  The recommendations mean the French drugmaker likely will 
be allowed to keep selling Ketek for pneumonia but be barred 
from promoting the medicine for bronchitis and sinusitis. The 
drug currently is approved for all three uses.  Members of a Food and Drug Administration panel said 
doctors needed Ketek as an option for treating pneumonia, which 
can have serious complications.  Many said they were unsure, however, if the drug was truly 
effective for bronchitis and sinusitis -- infections that often 
clear up on their own.  Given that concern and recent reports of liver failure, 
blurred vision and other problems, members voted 17-2 against 
continued marketing for the two less-serious conditions. They 
said the risks outweighed the benefits in those cases.  "I'm just not convinced the drug is effective given the 
clinical trials" on sinusitis and bronchitis, said panel member 
Louis Morris, a drug safety expert from Dix Hills, New York.  The FDA usually follows advice from its panels of outside 
experts. The panel voted 16-3 in favour of continued Ketek 
sales for pneumonia acquired outside a hospital.  U.S. sales of Ketek are about $71 million so far this year, 
Sanofi said. The drug is approved in more than 90 countries and 
has been prescribed to more than 28 million people worldwide, 
the company said.  Sanofi said in a statement it would discuss the 
recommendations with the FDA. During the panel deliberations, 
the company argued Ketek was an important option for 
hard-to-treat infections and its safety was similar to that of 
other antibiotics.  "This drug showed activity in the most severe of the 
respiratory tract infections," said Dr. Bruno Leroy, Sanofi's 
head of internal medicine.  Most panel members urged the FDA to consider a "black box" 
warning, the strongest type allowed for prescription drugs, to 
highlight the risks of Ketek. Some said the drug should be 
recommended only as a second choice.  Ketek, known generically as telithromycin, binds to two 
sites on bacteria to stop them from reproducing. Similar, older 
drugs called macrolides attach to just one. Ketek's design was 
meant to reduce the chances of bacteria developing resistance 
to treatment.  The FDA approved Ketek in 2004 even though an investigation 
found a key safety study was tainted by fraud. Agency officials 
said other data provided adequate reassurance.  Senate Finance Committee Chairman Charles Grassley, an Iowa 
Republican who has been investigating the Ketek case, has 
criticized the FDA's actions. Some reviewers within the FDA 
also have questioned the basis for approval.  Recent reports of liver failure added to concerns. Agency 
staff said they had been told of 13 severe liver failure cases 
in Ketek users through September. Five of the patients died.  Some FDA reviewers said it was striking that potentially 
serious problems appeared soon after patients took Ketek. Half 
the liver failure cases started within four days. Blurred 
vision, loss of consciousness and exacerbations of a 
neuromuscular disorder called myasthenia gravis also were 
reported.  One report to the FDA said a Ketek user who lost 
consciousness was driving at the time and fatally struck a 
pedestrian, agency reviewers said.