-- Money drying up for some investors in buyout firms
-- By  Michael Flaherty
-- Sat Dec 16, 2006 1:10pm EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2006/12/16/businesspro-column-mergers-dc-idUSN1433915520061216

 

 NEW YORK  (Reuters) - The massive funds raised by private 
equity firms and the faster-than-expected speed with which 
they're spending them are stretching some of their investors 
thin, causing concern that there won't be enough money to go 
around in 2007. 

  The crunch on institutional investors is being fueled by a 
32 percent drop in the number of sales by private equity firms, 
known as exits, in the last two years, while the number of 
buyouts has skyrocketed.  What is worrying institutional investors is that funds are 
coming back to them too quickly for money, without a track 
record from their prior fund.  A drying up of institutional capital would be a major 
setback to private equity firms raising funds next year and 
would likely prompt a slowdown in the torrid pace of deals 
sparked by the sector in the last two years.  Feeding such concerns are reports that firms such as Bain 
Capital, which raised $10 billion last year, may return to the 
fund-raising trail next year. The Carlyle Group and Warburg 
Pincus LLC are also expected to raise $10 billion-plus funds 
next year -- a relatively short turnaround time from their 
prior funds.  Signs that The Blackstone Group is having a hard time 
raising the last chunk of the industry's largest-ever buyout 
fund, according to sources, are also helping to stoke 
fund-raising worries. Blackstone closed a $15.6 billion fund 
earlier this year, and reportedly is seeking to reopen and lift 
it to $20 billion.  None of the firms would comment on their fund raising.  "There are some big funds coming out amazingly fast across 
the board. If you come back to market with few to no exits, 
that always creates difficulty for the investor. They're being 
asked to double down here," said Erik Hirsch, chief investment 
officer at Hamilton Lane, an advisory firm overseeing more than 
$48 billion of private equity commitments.  The value of private equity-backed buyouts this year 
doubled to $602.4 billion from last year, according to 
Dealogic, on 1,912 deals.  At the same time, the value of their exits is down 23 
percent to $176.8 billion. The number of exits, which include 
selling to other buyers or public offerings, is down 24 percent 
to 698, Dealogic says.  "Exits are way down. That raises issues on what LPs have in 
cash. LPs keep plowing money out but there's nothing coming in. 
You've seen them do big deals, but you haven't seen the exits," 
Hirsch said.  Private equity firms buy and sell companies using money 
raised from institutional investors such as state pension funds 
and college endowments.  So-called buyout firms used to take four to five years to 
spend their funds, allowing investors to receive returns gained 
from the sale of assets over that time. These institutional 
investors, known as limited partners (LPs), had money going out 
and money coming in. Right now, the money is mainly going out.  Indeed, so many big funds are spending money so fast that 
its sucking demand from investors. If private equity firms keep 
buying into companies at a pace that far exceeds their exits, 
the LP spigot could go from a steady stream to a slow trickle.
  RUNNING DRY  Large institutional investors such as the California Public 
Employees' Retirement System are confident they will have 
enough money to go around next year.  But other LPs and private equity managers are not so 
confident. While industry experts predict private equity 
activity to continue to grow into 2007, an LP pullback in the 
next fund cycle would almost certainly spark a slowdown.  The Oregon State Treasury, a big investor in some of the 
largest buyout funds, including Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Co., 
Texas Pacific Group Ventures Inc. and Apollo Management, tapped 
out of its 2006 allocation money in September.  "That's the first time that's ever occurred for us," said 
Jay Fewel, senior equities investment officer at the Oregon 
State Treasury. He added that he was aware of other 
institutional investors that used up allocation money as early 
as May.  And no wonder. Last year, U.S. buyout funds raised around 
$150 billion, a 50 percent increase from the prior year, 
according to Thomson Financial, and roughly $50 billion was 
raised by overseas funds. This year, funds expect to raise $300 
billion, according to private equity experts.  LPs are spending more on buyout funds because their returns 
are so impressive, especially from the largest funds. In the 12 
months through June 2006, investments in private equity firms 
returned 22.5 percent vs. 6.6 percent for the S&P 500, 
according to Thomson.  Buyout firms' success has been fueled in part by smart 
deals, favorable debt markets and an absence of corporate 
buyers. Private equity firms accounted for 22 percent of global 
M&A volume in the first nine months of the year, hitting a 
record $570.1 billion in deals. That's up from around 5 percent 
a few years ago.  A restriction in institutional capital next year could 
dampen activity, but it could also broaden the investor base 
for private equity firms. For example, smaller LPs or 
international investors seeking a slice of the action may be 
hit up by more buyout funds. Still, a cautious base of large 
investors would probably lead to megafunds getting smaller.  "There are a lot of fears in the back of LPs' minds that 
private equity firms are writing checks like crazy," said Kelly 
DePonte of Probitas Partners, a private equity fund-raising 
firm. "With another fund raising wave incoming in '07, a lot of 
LPs are beginning to feel tapped out. They're thinking this may 
be a great time to sell companies, not a great time to buy."