-- Searching for the stars among fund managers
-- By  Linda Stern
-- Sat Dec 16, 2006 1:11pm EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2006/12/16/businesspro-column-investing-dc-idUSN1418398020061216

 

 WASHINGTON  (Reuters) - Just about everything you've been 
told about mutual fund investing in recent years goes something 
like this: 

  Fund managers can't consistently pick stocks that beat the 
indexes. Even when they do, it's a fluke, and it's not good 
enough to compensate for their fees. So just buy index funds 
and be done with it.  And yet, there are some star managers, aren't there?  Bill Miller, who runs the Legg Mason Value Trust, has 
outperformed the Standard & Poor's 500 stock index for 15 
straight years (though 2006 will probably end that streak).  Tom Marsico of the Marsico Growth Fund has beaten the S&P 
500 in five of the last seven years.  Then there's that most legendary of managers, Fidelity's 
Peter Lynch, who either was a star in his own orbit or enjoyed 
the best timing/good luck combination ever.  But new research says that it isn't luck, it's skill. "We 
find that a sizable minority of managers pick stocks well 
enough to more than cover their costs," said the researchers, 
including Robert Kosowski of Imperial College in London, Allan 
Timmerman and Russ Wermers of the University of California, San 
Diego, and Hal White of the University of Maryland.  Furthermore, their paper, published in the December issue 
of the Journal of Finance, notes that such skilled performance 
persists over time.  Like a seductive salesman's toe in the door, that study is 
just enough to make you want to hear more, to play the odds and 
try your best to find the gem of a fund manager that will blow 
the market away.  Fine, give it a shot. But consider these pointers as you 
set about the hunt:  -- Know that your odds are lousy. It's still a long shot 
that the fund you pick, after you subtract expenses, trading 
costs and resulting taxes, will beat the market in a 
sustainable way. So don't put all of your money behind that 
star manager. Keep the bulk of your portfolio in those low-cost 
index funds and play with managers around the edges.  -- Measure right. Lots of managers beat the S&P 500 all the 
time. That's because they aren't large-cap stock fund managers 
who troll the same waters as the benchmark index. They are 
small-cap managers, or value managers, or international 
managers, who operate in markets that often best those big 
blue-chip stocks.  To find out if they really are exceptionally good managers, 
you have to compare them with the right index fund or 
benchmark. Compare, say, the performance of a managed 
international fund with the performance of the MSCI EAFE 
(Europe, Australasia and the Far East) index.  -- Count right, too. Don't just look at returns. Compare, 
as well as you can, the appropriate index returns with the 
after-fee, after-tax returns.  -- Be patient. A recent study by research firm 
Litman/Gregory Analytics found that outperforming fund managers 
typically have dry spells that last about three years when 
their style of management is out of vogue in the markets.  Divide your portfolio by asset type and investment style, 
and make sure you buy those manager-driven funds only to 
satisfy your holdings in the correct category. If that category 
is out of favor, just hold the fund and wait for brighter days.  If that category is in fashion and your manager still isn't 
doing well, you might not have found that star performer after 
all.  -- Remember that stock picking doesn't translate to bond 
picking, or even value stock picking.  The best outperformance seems to come from growth fund 
managers, Kosowski and his colleagues said. "We find no 
evidence of ability among income-oriented funds." Stick to fund 
managers who pick growth company stocks.  -- Stay small. Another study, by Jonathan Berk of the 
University of California, Berkeley, and Richard C. Green of 
Carnegie Mellon University, found that stellar managers lose 
their edge when their funds get too big. They can't move in and 
out of stocks as nimbly, and they also have to pick more and 
more companies to buy as their own shareholder base grows. They 
reach the point of diminishing returns.  -- Do more homework. You really should enjoy investing as a 
hobby if you want to go the star search route. If you don't 
like spreadsheets and prospectuses and fund tables, just stick 
with the mainstream index fund philosophy. You'll still beat 
the vast majority of fund managers.
  --Linda Stern is a freelance writer. Any opinions in the 
column are solely those of Ms. Stern. You can e-mail her at 
lindastern(at)aol.com--