-- U.S. clears Pfizer's Celebrex for arthritis in kids
-- 
-- Fri Dec 15, 2006 8:49pm EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2006/12/16/businesspro-pfizer-celebrex-dc-idUSN1542338220061216

 

 LOS ANGELES  (Reuters) - Pfizer Inc. won U.S. approval on 
Friday to promote its Celebrex pain reliever for treating 
children age two and older who have rheumatoid arthritis, the 
Food and Drug Administration said on Friday. 

  Pfizer already sells Celebrex for treating arthritis and 
other conditions in adults.  The FDA decision follows a November 29 advisory panel 
meeting that recommended approval in children despite 
uncertainty about the risks of long-term use.  "While there are other medicines approved for the treatment 
of this disorder, for some children they may have limited 
effectiveness or cause intolerable side effects." Dr. Steven 
Galson, director of FDA's Center for Drug Evaluation and 
Research, said in a statement.  Celebrex is the only medicine still on the U.S. market from 
the class called COX-2 inhibitors, which were linked to an 
elevated risk of heart attacks and strokes in adults.  The drug's third-quarter 2006 sales jumped 20 percent from 
a year earlier to $537 million, according to Pfizer.  The COX-2 inhibitors faced heightened scrutiny after Merck 
& Co. Inc. pulled Vioxx in 2004, citing a study that found 
prolonged use doubled heart attack and stroke risk. Pfizer 
withdrew another COX-2 inhibitor, Bextra, in 2005.  Celebrex, or celecoxib, stayed on the market with a new 
warning that it may raise the chances of serious and possibly 
fatal heart problems, as may other non-steroidal 
anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) used to fight pain.  Pfizer won an extra six months of exclusive marketing time 
for Celebrex in exchange for the study of juvenile rheumatoid 
arthritis, a disease that afflicts about 30,000 to 60,000 U.S. 
children when their immune system attacks their joints.  The severity of the condition varies, but there can be 
disabling joint swelling and pain, decreased range of motion 
and abnormal growth in some cases.  In the Pfizer study, children ages 2 to 16 years took 
either Celebrex or the NSAID naproxen for 12 weeks. The 
percentages of children who benefited were similar in both 
groups as were side effects, the company said.  The FDA said Pfizer has agreed to conduct two postmarketing 
studies: a short-term controlled trial to evaluate high blood 
pressure and a several-year registry study to further evaluate 
long-term safety issues, including kidney toxicity, high blood 
pressure, and cardiovascular events.  (Additional reporting by  Lisa Richwine  in Washington)