-- BP Texas City cases now down to one: court
-- 
-- Fri Aug 22, 2008 7:07pm EDT
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2008/08/22/businesspro-bp-blast-lawsuit-settle-dc-idUSN2239184820080822

 

 HOUSTON  (Reuters) - BP Plc ( BP.L ) on Friday announced 
settlements with four more victims of a deadly 2005 blast at a 
Texas refinery, leaving only one of more than 4,000 lawsuits 
still pending, a Texas state court said. 

  The lawsuits stemmed from the March 23, 2005, explosion at 
the giant Texas City refinery which killed 15 workers and 
injured 180 others.  "Our goal from the outset has been to fairly compensate 
people harmed by this tragedy," said BP spokesman Ronnie 
Chappell in a statement.  As part of the settlements BP agreed to release millions of 
pages of internal documents.  The terms of the settlements were confidential but lead 
plaintiffs' attorney Brent Coon said, "Our clients are very 
pleased with the settlement, which provide some assurances of 
security for their long-term financial needs."  BP set aside $2.1 billion to resolve the claims made 
against the company following the explosion.  A U.S. Chemical Safety Board investigation completed in 
2007 found cost-cutting by BP led to reductions in safety 
equipment and procedures at the refinery, which left it 
vulnerable to a catastrophic explosion.  An independent investigation found safety lapses at the 
company's five U.S. refineries.  The U.S. Justice Department has reached a plea deal with 
BP, which would require the energy giant to pay a $50 million 
fine and serve three years probation to resolve criminal 
violations in the explosion.  Relatives of workers killed along with people injured by 
the blast have asked a federal judge to throw out the deal, 
claiming the fine is too small for a company that posted a 
second-quarter profit of $6.85 billion.  The judge's ruling is not expected before the fall.  BP paid a fine of $21.4 million to the U.S. Occupational 
Safety and Health Administration for worker safety violations 
revealed in the blast.  None of the cases has ever been submitted to a jury, but 
some began trial before settlements were reached.  (Reporting by  Erwin Seba ; Editing by  Christian Wiessner )