-- Stocks brace for another whipsaw week
-- By  Kristina Cooke
-- Fri Aug 22, 2008 5:12pm EDT
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2008/08/22/columns-column-stocks-outlook-dc-idUSN1548247320080822

 

 NEW YORK  (Reuters) - What should be a holiday lull of a 
week looks set to be anything but, with Wall Street on high 
alert for the latest twists and turns in the credit crisis, 
more volatility in commodity prices and key developments in the 
race for the White House. 

  Fallout from the credit crisis continues to plague markets, 
with investors increasingly believing in the likelihood of a 
federal bailout of home-funding giants Fannie Mae FNM.N and 
Freddie Mac FRE.N. Some market watchers expect the Federal 
Reserve and U.S. Treasury Secretary Henry Paulson to take 
action as early as this weekend.  "Look for the Fed and Paulson to take steps on Fannie and 
Freddie -- the time is ripe. The market wants resolution here," 
said John Schloegel, vice president of investment strategies 
for Capital Cities Asset Management in Austin, Texas.  Lehman Brothers LEH.N will also remain firmly in the 
spotlight, after state-run Korea Development Bank KDB.UL said 
on Friday that the U.S. investment bank was one of its options 
for acquisitions. That announcement came a day after veteran 
bank analyst Dick Bove said Lehman could become a target of a 
hostile takeover.  Financials aside, the sharp and frequent turnarounds in the 
direction of the price of oil have played a key role in the 
market's daily fortunes. Mounting geopolitical tensions between 
the West and Russia and any economic data showing slowing 
global growth could tug oil either way next week.  The U.S. presidential campaign also will take a more 
central role, with Republican John McCain and Democrat Barack 
Obama set to reveal their vice presidential running mates and  the Democratic Party's national convention in Denver. 
Investors will look for how Wall Street-friendly the vice 
presidential picks are, analysts said.  "There are a lot of cross-currents here. You've got oil, 
financials and politics coming together, and it's hard to see 
that combining in a way that's a perfect storm to the downside 
or a perfect environment to the upside," said Jeffrey Kleintop, 
chief market strategist at LPL Financial Services in Boston.  All these cross-currents come in the week before the Labor 
Day holiday, and analysts said the low trading volume could 
exacerbate swings in the major stock indexes.  "I think it's important that the week ahead is the last 
week in August and so whatever happens, we should take it with 
a grain of salt," said Linda Duessel, market strategist at 
Federated Investors in Pittsburgh.  For the week ended August 22, the Dow Jones industrial 
average  .DJI  dipped 0.3 percent, while the Standard & Poor's 
500 Index  .SPX  declined 0.5 percent, and the Nasdaq Composite 
Index  .IXIC  lost 1.5 percent.
  LOOKING FOR THE SILVER LINING  Housing will be a dominant theme at the beginning of the 
week, with July existing home sales on Monday, followed on 
Tuesday by the S&P Case-Shiller home price index and new home 
sales for July.  "What we've been saying about housing is, 'Just show us 
some stability!' We're looking for a silver lining," said 
Federated Investors' Duessel.  Consumer confidence data on Tuesday, plus consumer 
sentiment and personal income data on Friday could give the 
market more clues about the health of consumer spending and the 
economy as the boost from tax-rebate checks wanes, said John 
Praveen, chief investment strategist at Prudential 
International Investments Advisers LLC in Newark, New Jersey.  The personal income data includes the Fed's preferred 
inflation gauge.  Preliminary real GDP data on Thursday is expected to show 
second-quarter growth at an annual rate of 2.7 percent, 
compared with 1.9 percent in the first quarter.  "The second-quarter GDP data will be revised higher because 
of the trade numbers, but the market will be looking more 
closely at some of the more forward-looking data to see what 
will happen next, what is the extent of the economic slowdown 
going forward," said Prudential International Investments' 
Praveen.  July durable goods orders on Wednesday and initial jobless 
claims data on Thursday could also provide more clues on the 
economic outlook, Praveen said.  (Wall St Week Ahead runs weekly. Questions or comments on 
this column can be e-mailed to: kristina.cooke(at)reuters.com)  (Additional reporting by  Deepa Seetharaman  and Herb Lash; 
Editing by Jan Paschal)  (Reporting by Kristina Cooke)