-- Bernanke's speech on reducing systemic risk
-- 
-- Fri Aug 22, 2008 10:28am EDT
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2008/08/22/us-usa-fed-bernanke-text-idUSN2243793420080822

 

 WASHINGTON  (Reuters) - Following is the full text of Federal 
Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke's "Reducing Systemic Risk" speech issued in 
Washington Friday and delivered before the Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City 
Annual Economic Symposium in Jackson Hole, Wyo.:  

 "In choosing the topic for this year's symposium--maintaining stability in a 
changing financial system--the Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City staff is, 
once again, right on target. Although we have seen improved functioning in some 
markets, the financial storm that reached gale force some weeks before our last 
meeting here in Jackson Hole has not yet subsided, and its effects on the 
broader economy are becoming apparent in the form of softening economic 
activity and rising unemployment. Add to this mix a jump in inflation, in part 
the product of a global commodity boom, and the result has been one of the most 
challenging economic and policy environments in memory.  The Federal Reserve's response to this crisis has consisted of three key 
elements. First, we eased monetary policy substantially, particularly after 
indications of economic weakness proliferated around the turn of the year. In 
easing rapidly and proactively, we sought to offset, at least in part, the 
tightening of credit conditions associated with the crisis and thus to mitigate 
the effects on the broader economy. By cushioning the first-round economic 
impact of the financial stress, we hoped also to minimize the risks of a 
so-called adverse feedback loop in which economic weakness exacerbates 
financial stress, which, in turn, further damages economic prospects.  In view of the weakening outlook and the downside risks to growth, the Federal 
Open Market Committee (FOMC) has maintained a relatively low target for the 
federal funds rate despite an increase in inflationary pressures. This strategy 
has been conditioned on our expectation that the prices of oil and other 
commodities would ultimately stabilize, in part as the result of slowing global 
growth, and that this outcome, together with well-anchored inflation 
expectations and increased slack in resource utilization, would foster a return 
to price stability in the medium run. In this regard, the recent decline in 
commodity prices, as well as the increased stability of the dollar, has been 
encouraging. If not reversed, these developments, together with a pace of 
growth that is likely to fall short of potential for a time, should lead 
inflation to moderate later this year and next year. Nevertheless, the 
inflation outlook remains highly uncertain, not least because of the difficulty 
of predicting the future course of commodity prices, and we will continue to 
monitor inflation and inflation expectations closely. The FOMC is committed to 
achieving medium-term price stability and will act as necessary to attain that 
objective.  The second element of our response has been to offer liquidity support to the 
financial markets through a variety of collateralized lending programs. I have 
discussed these lending facilities and their rationale in some detail on other 
occasions.1 Briefly, these programs are intended to mitigate what have been, at 
times, very severe strains in short-term funding markets and, by providing an 
additional source of financing, to allow banks and other financial institutions 
to deleverage in a more orderly manner. We have recently extended our special 
programs for primary dealers beyond the end of the year, based on our 
assessment that financial conditions remain unusual and exigent. We will 
continue to review all of our liquidity facilities to determine if they are 
having their intended effects or require modification.  The third element of our strategy encompasses a range of activities and 
initiatives undertaken in our role as financial regulator and supervisor, some 
of which I will describe in more detail later in my remarks. Briefly, these 
activities include cooperating with other regulators to monitor the health of 
individual financial institutions; working with the private sector to reduce 
risks in some key markets; developing new regulations, including new rules to 
govern mortgage and credit card lending; taking an active part in domestic and 
international efforts to draw out the lessons of the recent experience; and 
applying those lessons in our supervisory practices.  Closely related to this third group of activities is a critical question that 
we as a country now face: how to strengthen our financial system, including our 
system of financial regulation and supervision, to reduce the frequency and 
severity of bouts of financial instability in the future. In this regard, some 
particularly thorny issues are raised by the existence of financial 
institutions that may be perceived as "too big to fail" and the moral hazard 
issues that may arise when governments intervene in a financial crisis. As you 
know, in March the Federal Reserve acted to prevent the default of the 
investment bank Bear Stearns. For reasons that I will discuss shortly, those 
actions were necessary and justified under the circumstances that prevailed at 
that time. However, those events also have consequences that must be addressed. 
In particular, if no countervailing actions are taken, what would be perceived 
as an implicit expansion of the safety net could exacerbate the problem of "too 
big to fail," possibly resulting in excessive risk-taking and yet greater 
systemic risk in the future. Mitigating that problem is one of the design 
challenges that we face as we consider the future evolution of our system.  As both the nation's central bank and a financial regulator, the Federal 
Reserve must be well prepared to make constructive contributions to the coming 
national debate on the future of the financial system and financial regulation. 
Accordingly, we have set up a number of internal working groups, consisting of 
governors, Reserve Bank presidents, and staff, to study these and related 
issues. That work is ongoing, and I do not want to prejudge the outcomes. However, in the remainder of my remarks today I will raise, in a preliminary 
way, what I see as some promising approaches for reducing systemic risk. I will 
begin by discussing steps that are already under way to strengthen the 
financial infrastructure in a manner that should increase the resilience of our 
financial system. I will then turn to a discussion of regulatory and 
supervisory practice, with particular attention to whether a more 
comprehensive, systemwide perspective in financial supervision is warranted.  For the most part, I will leave for another occasion the issues of broader 
structural and statutory change, such as those raised by the Treasury's 
blueprint for regulatory reform.