-- Bank of Japan Waits for `Noose' to Tighten Before Adding Stimulus Measures
-- Mayumi Otsuma
-- 2010-08-06T04:45:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-05/bank-of-japan-waits-for-noose-to-tighten-before-adding-stimulus-measures.html

          
          
             The Bank of Japan is likely to hold
off on increasing monetary stimulus next week as policy makers
are unconvinced the yen’s approach toward a 15-year high will
derail the nation’s economic recovery.  
 The BOJ will keep unchanged its bank-loan program and
monthly bond purchases on Aug. 10, according to all but one of
17 economists in a Bloomberg News survey. The forecast reflects
Deputy Governor  Hirohide Yamaguchi ’s July 21 comment that
companies are better able to  cope  with the yen’s gain now than
in November, when it rose to the highest level since 1995.  
 With Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  refraining from the pressure
on the bank he applied last year to do more to end deflation,
and firms from  Sony Corp.  to  Toyota Motor Corp.  raising profit
projections, the bank has less of a trigger to move.  
 “A rising yen and declining stocks would tighten the noose
around the BOJ,” said  Hiroshi Watanabe , a senior economist in
Tokyo at the Daiwa Institute of Research, a unit of Japan’s
second-biggest brokerage. “In addition, if central banks
overseas take aggressive easing action, the government may find
it easier to demand the BOJ to ease more.”  
 The yen traded at 86.02 per dollar as of 1:34 p.m. in Tokyo.
It climbed to 85.33 two days ago, close to the 84.83 reached on
Nov. 27 that led the policy board to unveil its bank lending
program. Japan’s currency has advanced more than 8 percent
against the dollar and euro this year, gains that prompted
Nissan Motor Co. Chief Operating Officer  Toshiyuki Shiga  to say
on Aug. 4 that he’s “very concerned.”  
 Benchmark Rate  
 All 17 economists surveyed see the board leaving the
benchmark  interest rate  at 0.1 percent next week. The bank
doubled its credit program to 20 trillion yen ($232 billion) in
March, and in June unveiled a 3 trillion yen plan to encourage
lending in growth areas.  
 One spark for future BOJ action may come hours after the
board meeting, when the U.S. Federal Reserve also decides policy,
said  Takahide Kiuchi , chief economist at Nomura Securities Co.
in Tokyo. If worsening American payroll data prompts the Fed to
expand monetary easing, that may weaken the dollar further,
making it difficult for the Bank of Japan to refrain from acting
in coming months, Kiuchi said.  
 Former Deputy Governor  Toshiro Muto  said last week that
while the BOJ is unlikely to ease policy anytime soon, it will
“naturally consider what it can do” if the global economy
stagnates and the yen’s gains accelerate.  
 Policy Options  
 The bank’s options include operations to guide short-term
interest rates lower, like the credit program it adopted last
December, Muto, who now heads the Daiwa Institute of Research in
Tokyo, said at a forum hosted by Bloomberg on July 30. He said
the BOJ could flood the banking system with cash or use
communication to plot the path of interest rates.  
 With 10-year government bond yields around a seven-year low,
there is little incentive for the central bank to increase its
monthly purchases of the country’s debt from the current 1.8
trillion yen, said  Hiroaki Muto , a senior economist at Sumitomo
Mitsui Asset Management Co. in Tokyo.  
 Recent reports show Japan’s expansion is slowing as export
growth cools.  Industrial production  fell the most in 16 months
in June, and the  unemployment rate  climbed to a seven-month high.
Deflation is moderating, with  consumer prices  declining 1
percent in June, the smallest drop in more than a year.  
 Some Bank of Japan board members have shown concern over
the yen’s advance.  Hidetoshi Kamezaki  said on July 28 that “we
need to recognize the impact of the weaker euro and stronger yen
on the competitiveness of exporters.”  Ryuzo Miyao  told the
Asahi newspaper this week that further yen appreciation may
affect the economic outlook.  
 Better Earnings  
 Japanese exporters’ earnings outlook is improving even as
the currency climbs. As well as Sony and Toyota, Honda Motor Co.,
Panasonic Corp., Hitachi Ltd., and Fujitsu Corp. are among
companies that raised profit forecasts over the past two weeks.  
 Toyota , the world’s biggest carmaker, lifted its full-year
net income projection to 340 billion yen on Aug. 4, assuming
that the yen trades at 90. A one-yen appreciation against the
dollar lowers Toyota’s annual operating profit by 30 billion yen.  
 “Japan’s companies would be able to get through a period
with the yen at 90, or the late-80s,” said  Noriaki Matsuoka , an
economist at Daiwa Asset Management Co. in Tokyo. “But when it
goes down to the early 80s, their profit assumptions will start
to look different.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mayumi Otsuma  in Tokyo  at
 motsuma@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Naoto Kan, Japan's prime minister  
                       
                         
                           Haruyoshi Yamaguchi/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Naoto Kan, Japan's prime minister and president of the Democratic Party of Japan (DPJ). 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Naoto Kan, Japan's prime minister and president of the Democratic Party of Japan (DPJ). Photographer: Haruyoshi Yamaguchi/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
