-- BP Cementing Well Caps Confidence Crisis for Energy Bonds: Credit Markets
-- Abigail Moses
-- 2010-08-06T16:06:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-05/bp-cementing-well-caps-confidence-crisis-for-energy-bonds-credit-markets.html

          
          
             The bond market’s crisis of
confidence in companies tied to the biggest accidental offshore
oil spill on record is ending as  BP Plc  sealed off the source of
the leak in the Gulf of Mexico.  
 One-year credit-default swaps on bonds from BP and its
partner in the well, Anadarko Petroleum Corp., cost less than
five-year protection, reversing an inversion that began in June
amid a rush to hedge against the risk of the companies’ sudden
failure. London-based BP’s $3 billion of 5.25 percent bonds due
in 2013 have regained more than 70 percent of the value they
lost after the spill began.  
 Mounting expectations that the costs to clean up the spill
and compensate victims are being contained are sparking energy
companies such as  Hess Corp.  and Pride International Inc. to
sell debt. BP completed cementing a plug at the top of the well.
About 74 percent of the estimated 4.9 million barrels of crude
that spewed into the Gulf has evaporated, dissolved, or
biodegraded, or was burned, skimmed, or captured, the government
said in a report.  
 “It conveys a sense of a limit to what was previously
thought of as an open-ended problem,” said  Jerry Tempelman , a
director in Moody’s Corp.’s capital markets research group in
New York.  
 Credit-default swaps on BP for one year have plunged 179
basis points since Aug. 3 to 155 basis points, according to data
provider CMA. The annual  cost  of five-year swaps fell 78 to 226
over the same period and dropped below one-year contracts Aug. 4
for the first time since June 1.  
 Inverted Curve  
 One-year swaps on Anadarko started trading below five-year
swaps that same day for only the second time since June 9,
according to CMA. The company, based in The Woodlands, Texas,
owns a 25 percent stake in the Macondo well in the Gulf. An
inverted curve has almost vanished in swaps protecting debt sold
by Transocean Ltd., the Vernier, Switzerland-based owner of the
Deepwater Horizon rig that exploded, triggering the spill.  
 Elsewhere in credit markets, benchmark gauges of corporate
credit risk rose after a report showed private employers in the
U.S. added fewer jobs than economists were estimating.  
 The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index Series
14, which investors use to hedge against losses on corporate
debt or to speculate on creditworthiness, climbed 2.4 basis
points to a mid-price of 104 basis points as of 11:30 a.m. in
New York, after earlier dropping to as low as 100.8, according
to Markit Group Ltd. The index, which reached a 12-week low of
99.1 basis points on Aug. 2, typically rises as investor
confidence deteriorates and falls as it improves.  
 Jobs Forecast Missed  
 Private payrolls that exclude government agencies rose by
71,000 workers last month, less than the median forecast by
economists, after a gain of 31,000 in June that was smaller than
previously reported, Labor Department data in Washington showed.  
 In London, the Markit iTraxx Europe Index of 125 companies
with investment-grade ratings climbed 2.2 basis points to 103.8,
Markit prices show.  
 Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower
fails to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted
debt. A basis point equals $1,000 annually on a contract
protecting $10 million of debt.  
 The extra yield investors demand to hold company debt
instead of government bonds was unchanged yesterday at 175 basis
points, or 1.75 percentage point, the lowest since May 18, Bank
of America Merrill Lynch’s Global Broad Market Corporate Index
shows. Yields averaged 3.699 percent, down from 3.724 percent.  
 Implied Junk Rating  
 After BP completed cementing its Gulf well from the top, it
now will finish a relief well to inject cement at the bottom and
ensure there’s no leakage inside the 13,000-foot-long (3,962
meters) well bore beneath the seabed, National Incident
Commander  Thad Allen  said yesterday.  
 BP’s 5.25 percent bonds due in 2013, which traded at 110.6
cents on the dollar on April 16, the last trade before the
accident four days later, fell to as low as 89 cents on June 25
and have climbed back to 104.2 cents, Trace data show.  
 BP’s credit swaps, which in June were trading as if the
company were rated B2, five steps below investment grade, have
climbed back four levels to a grade that implies a Ba1 ranking
by Moody’s, according to data from the firm’s capital markets
research group.  
 “It is in our view not a question of if the company is
able to pay for the spill but how it will do so,”  Anke Richter ,
a strategist at Conduit Capital Markets Ltd. in London, wrote in
a note to investors.  
 ‘Cloud’ Lifting  
 New York-based Hess sold $1.25 billion of bonds due in 2041
and followed a $1.2 billion two-part offering on Aug. 3 from
Pride, the Houston-based oil-and-gas driller. Energy companies
have raised $3.58 billion in bond sales this week, Bloomberg
data show. Sales compare with a monthly average of $5.35 billion
from May to July.  
 “There was a cloud over the sector from the spill and as
investors get a higher level of confidence that the well will be
plugged and oil prices improve, it has started to lift,” said
 Brad Bryan , an analyst at Imperial Capital LLC in Los Angeles.
“Money flow is starting to come back into the sector now.”  
 Hess plans to use proceeds from its sale to help pay for
stakes in a pair of Norwegian North Sea offshore oil fields,
according to a prospectus filed with the Securities and Exchange
Commission. Pride will use money raised in its offering to fund
the construction of three drill ships, the company said in a
separate filing.  
 One-year credit swaps on Anadarko have plunged 236 basis
points since Aug. 3 to 164 basis points and five-year contracts
dropped 35 to 322, according to CMA.  
 While Moody’s credit analysts have said they expect
Anadarko will have to pay a portion of the costs of the spill,
credit swaps investors still may be pricing in too much risk,
Tempelman said in a report yesterday. The contracts are trading
as if the company were rated Ba3 by Moody’s, two steps below the
Ba1 ranking it was cut to on June 18.  
 Transocean one-year swaps have dropped 126 basis points
since Aug. 3 to 404 basis points, CMA prices show. Five-year
contracts have declined 97 to 366 during the same period.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Shannon D. Harrington  in New York at 
 sharrington6@bloomberg.net ;
 Abigail Moses  in London at 
 Amoses5@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Robert Nardelli  
                       
                         
                           Mannie Garcia/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Robert Nardelli in Washington. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Robert Nardelli in Washington. Photographer: Mannie Garcia/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
