-- Billionaire Li's Hutchison, Cheung Kong Surge in Hong Kong After Earnings
-- John Duce
-- 2010-08-06T08:22:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-05/cheung-kong-s-first-half-profit-increases-4-on-hong-kong-property-sales.html

          
          
             Li Ka-shing ’s  Hutchison Whampoa Ltd. 
and  Cheung Kong (Holdings) Ltd.  gained in Hong Kong trading
today after earnings beat estimates and the billionaire said
he’s optimistic about the world economy and China’s growth.  
 The prospects for global growth remain stable, the 82-year-
old said yesterday. Hutchison’s stock jumped the most in almost
two years after first-half net income rose from its port and
retail earnings. Developer Cheung Kong had the biggest gain in
nine months as it benefited from rising home prices.  
 “He seems to be fairly bullish,” said  Alexander Chia , an
analyst at Standard & Poor’s Equity Research in Kuala Lumpur.
Hutchison “is a cyclical stock, and in an up cycle, the
valuation isn’t particularly demanding, and there is room on the
upside.”  
 Dubbed “Superman” by Hong Kong’s media for his investing
skill, Li correctly forecast in 2007 that China’s stock-market
bubble would burst. Li, Hong Kong’s richest man, demonstrated
his confidence as economies emerged from the worst recession
since World War II by leading a group that offered $9.1 billion
for U.K. power networks last month in his biggest acquisition.  
 Hutchison , Li’s biggest company with operations in 54
countries, rose 9.7 percent to HK$58.20 at the 4 p.m. close in
Hong Kong, its biggest gain since October 2008 and the highest
since March. Cheung Kong gained 3.9 percent, the most since
October last year.  
 “The global economy remains vulnerable to a number of
uncertainties and destabilizing forces,” Li said.
“Nevertheless, the overall outlook for the global economy is
likely to remain generally stable.” Li said he’s “very
optimistic” about his companies’ prospects and has been buying
shares in them.  
 ‘Phenomenal’ Performance  
 Hutchison said net income rose 12 percent to HK$6.45
billion ($831 million) in a Hong Kong exchange filing after the
market closed yesterday.  Net income  at Cheung Kong climbed 4
percent to HK$11.9 billion.  
 “The retail segment has done phenomenally well, especially
considering talk of a slowdown in Europe, where a lot of the
business is based,” said  Kalai Pillay , who analyses Hutchison’s
debt as senior director at Fitch Singapore Pte.  
 Hutchison ’s earnings exceeded the HK$4.4 billion average
estimate of four analysts in a Bloomberg survey. Cheung Kong’s
profit beat the median HK$7.76 billion  estimate  of three
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News.  
 Without the contribution from Hutchison, Cheung Kong’s
profit rose 1 percent to HK$8.7 billion.  
 Slowing loan growth in  China  suggested steady  economic
expansion  there, Li said in the earnings statement.  
 Stress Tests  
 “The strength of the mainland’s economy is evident,” he
said. “The slowing growth in new lending suggests that pressure
on tightening liquidity may ease in the second half year. These
favorable conditions support optimism towards a continuing
stable macroeconomic environment in the mainland.”  
 Li said he has “full confidence” in China’s banks. The
country’s banking regulator told lenders to include worst-case
scenarios of prices dropping 50 percent to 60 percent in cities
where they have risen excessively, a person with knowledge of
the matter said this week, declining to be identified because
the regulator’s requirement hasn’t been publicly announced.  
 Hutchison, 49.9 percent owned by Cheung Kong, booked higher
profit from ports, retail and property, helping the Hong Kong
company fund an eighth year of mobile-phone  losses  in Europe.
The rebound has prompted Li to boost his investments this year,
capped by last week’s bid by another two of his companies to  buy 
Electricite de France SA’s power networks in the U.K.  
 3G  
 Hutchison’s third-generation mobile telephone units will be
profitable in most markets by 2011, Li said. The 3 Group, the
company’s telecommunications division, offers high-speed
wireless services in seven markets in Europe and Australia.  
 “3G next year will make money in almost every country,
barring any special circumstances,” Li said at a briefing.
“Now some countries are already making money this year, though
I don’t think we will make much money this year overall.”  
 3 Group lost HK$998 million before interest and tax in the
first half, compared with HK$5.45 billion a year earlier. The
unit has been unprofitable since starting services in 2003.  
 Cheung Kong booked a HK$5.81 billion profit from property
sales after Hong Kong’s  homes prices  rose more than 10 percent
this year. The developer will complete more property
transactions in the second half,  Victor Li , deputy chairman of
Cheung Kong and Li’s son, said at the briefing.  
 Hong Kong developers normally begin selling apartments
while they’re still in construction and book profits after they
are completed.  
 Stamp Duty  
 This year’s home-price gains in the city added to 2009’s 29
percent advance, according to the Centa-City Leading Index, a
weekly measure developed by Centaline Property Agency Ltd. and
City University of Hong Kong.  
 “Cheung Kong’s property business has positioned itself for
some significant growth,” said  David Ng , a Hong Kong-based
analyst at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc. “They are in for a
good year in terms of apartment sales.”  
 Victor Li said he doesn’t see a property bubble. The Hong
Kong government has increased the stamp duty on luxury
properties and pledged to raise the supply of land amid concerns
a real estate bubble is developing.  
 Li Ka-shing said Hong Kong property buyers will be alright
if they are not overstretched.  
 “If you have the financial ability and you’re not
overleveraging, in the long run buying properties in Hong Kong
has almost always been a good investment,” he said at the
briefing.  
 Ports  
 Hutchison’s port unit, the world’s largest container
terminal operator, reported a 35 percent gain in first-half
profit as a rebounding global economy spurred world trade.  
 Hutchison Port Holdings Ltd.’s earnings before interest and
taxes rose to HK$6.1 billion from HK$4.49 billion a year earlier.
Sales climbed 14 percent to HK$17.7 billion.  
 After arriving in Hong Kong as a refugee from China in 1940,
Li swept factory floors to survive during the Japanese World War
II occupation of the city between 1941 and 1945. After the war,
he opened a plastic flower factory and began buying Hong Kong
property in 1967 when riots tied to China’s Cultural Revolution
caused land prices in the city to collapse.  
 Li was listed as the world’s 14th-richest person in March by
Forbes magazine, compared with 16th a year earlier, after his
wealth increased to $21 billion.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Kelvin Wong  in Hong Kong at 
 kwong40@bloomberg.net ;
 Mark Lee  in Hong Kong at 
 wlee37@bloomberg.net ;
 John Duce  in Hong Kong at 
 Jduce1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Li Ka-shing, chairman of Hutchison Whampoa  
                       
                         
                           Jerome Favre/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Li, Hong Kong’s richest man, demonstrated his confidence as economies emerged from the worst recession since World War II by leading a group that offered $9.1 billion for U.K. power networks last month in his biggest acquisition. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Li, Hong Kong’s richest man, demonstrated his confidence as economies emerged from the worst recession since World War II by leading a group that offered $9.1 billion for U.K. power networks last month in his biggest acquisition. Photographer: Jerome Favre/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          Aug. 6 (Bloomberg) -- Bloomberg's Susan Li reports on Hong Kong billionaire Li Ka-shing’s views on Chinese banks. 
     Li spoke yesterday at a press conference in Hong Kong after his biggest companies, Hutchison Whampoa Ltd. and Cheung Kong (Holdings) Ltd., reported earnings that beat analysts’ estimates. Victor Li, deputy chairman of Cheung Kong and Li’s son, also spoke about the property market. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
