-- Gome Sues Billionaire Founder Huang Guangyu, Driving Down Stock
-- Debra Mao
-- 2010-08-06T09:41:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-05/gome-electrical-to-start-legal-proceedings-against-founder-huang-guangyu.html

          
          
             Gome Electrical Appliances Holdings
Ltd.  sued its founder  Huang Guangyu , once China’s richest man,
over share repurchases in 2008 and breach of trust. The
company’s shares dropped the most in almost two years.  
 China’s second-biggest electronics retailer by value filed
a complaint in the High Court of Hong Kong against Huang, 41,
claiming damages for a breach of fiduciary duty and profits owed
to the company in connection with Gome’s  buying back shares  in
2008. It also said Huang’s arrest and conviction for bribery and
insider trading in China caused “a great deal of uncertainty”
and hurt the company’s ability to access capital.  
 Gome  said that after it decided to sue, it received a
letter from Huang’s company, Shinning Crown, demanding a special
general meeting to cancel a shareholder mandate to issue new
shares and to oust Chairman  Chen Xiao , among other requests.
Hong Kong’s Securities and Futures Commission has said it’s
investigating Huang for allegedly organizing a share repurchase
to help repay a personal loan.  
 “I don’t see any solution to this in the short term,”
said  Selina Sia , Hong Kong-based regional head of consumer
research at Mirae Asset Securities Co. “It would have a
negative impact on the company’s operations.”  
 Bribery, Insider Trading  
 Gome  plunged 12 percent to HK$2.40 at the 4 p.m. close of
trading in Hong Kong. The stock has  dropped  15 percent this year,
compared with a 1 percent decline for the benchmark Hang Seng
Index.  
 Huang, Gome’s largest shareholder, was in May sentenced by
a Beijing court to 14 years in prison after being convicted of
bribery, insider trading and illegal operations. The billionaire
had built Gome into China’s biggest appliance chain and amassed
a fortune estimated at $6.3 billion in 2008, and is the highest-
profile businessman snared by a government crackdown on
corruption.  
 Bain Capital LLC last year bought 1.59 billion yuan
($235 million) of convertible bonds, and has said it plans to
convert debt it holds into stock to gain as much as 10.8 percent
of Gome.  
 Two unidentified shareholders with a 31.6 percent stake in
the company voted against three Bain-nominated directors at an
annual shareholders meeting on May 11. The three were
reappointed by the company to avoid a penalty payment to Bain.  
 Asset Freeze  
 Hong Kong’s High Court last year froze about HK$1.66
billion ($214 million) of assets held by Huang, his wife  Lisa Du Juan , and two of his companies. Huang still owns 34 percent of
 Gome , according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 Repeated calls to Du Juan have been unanswered since
yesterday.  
 Huang, also known as Wong Kwong Yu, and his wife were
placed under investigation by Hong Kong’s Securities and Futures
Commission for allegedly having  Gome  buy back shares in January
and February of 2008 to help them repay a HK$2.4 billion
personal loan, SFC spokesman Jonathan Li said in April.  
 The son of a peasant, Huang dropped out of school at 16 and
traveled to Beijing from Guangdong Province with his brother,
 Huang Junqin . They carried a bag of radios, batteries and other
electronics devices from factories to sell in the nation’s
capital.  
 Huang resigned as Gome’s chairman in January 2009.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Shelley Smith  in Hong Kong at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Gome Sues Billionaire Founder Huang Guangyu  
                       
                         
                           Timothy O'Rourke/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Huang, Gome’s largest shareholder, was in May sentenced by a Beijing court to 14 years in prison after being found guilty of bribery and insider trading. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Huang, Gome’s largest shareholder, was in May sentenced by a Beijing court to 14 years in prison after being found guilty of bribery and insider trading. Photographer: Timothy O'Rourke/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
