-- India Splits in Inflation Fight, Bets on Monsoon to Damp Consumer Prices
-- Unni Krishnan
-- 2010-08-06T05:11:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-05/india-splits-in-inflation-fight-bets-on-monsoon-to-damp-consumer-prices.html

          
          
             India’s officials are splitting over
how to quell the inflation hammering the 828 million people who
live on less than $2 a day, with the government counting on
monsoon rains to end a debate that risks policymaking paralysis.  
 Finance Minister  Pranab Mukherjee  Aug. 4 warned growth will
suffer if interest rates rise too fast, after the Reserve Bank
of India last week accelerated its pace of increases. A central
bank official was stripped of some powers this week after saying
the RBI hasn’t gone fast enough, The Economic Times said, and
opposition parties have stalled parliamentary proceedings over
the government’s failure to stem inflation.  
 At stake for Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  is sustaining
support for his coalition government, which aims to sell $8.7
billion of stakes in state-owned companies and ease investment
rules for foreign insurers including Aviva Plc. Mukherjee said
that inflation is poised to recede as the year’s monsoon
resuscitates an agriculture industry that was hobbled by last
year’s sub-standard rainfall.  
 “The government is hoping rains will help drive prices
down,” said  Jagannadham Thunuguntla , chief strategist at SMC
Capitals Ltd. in New Delhi. “If rains aren’t good, food prices
will remain high, and we will see stronger political protests
and public backlash.”  
 Inflation Impact  
 In the past decade and a half, Indians have ousted at least
two national governments after  inflation  eroded the spending
power of the nation’s poor. Price increases of more than 6
percent between 1994 and 1996 helped eject Prime Minister  P.V. Narasimha Rao . His Congress party-led government lost to the
Bharatiya Janata Party, which was voted out in May 2004 after
prices rose in eight of the 12 months that preceded the poll.  
 Addressing lawmakers in Parliament yesterday, Mukherjee
said central bank Governor Duvvuri Subbarao will tighten
monetary policy if excessive consumer demand stokes inflation.
Subbarao said yesterday that India needs more monetary policy
action to check rising prices, calling it the “first line of
defense” against inflation.  
 “But it will be less than honest not to acknowledge that
the autonomy of monetary policy from fiscal compulsions is once
again under threat, and resolving that threat requires credible
efforts by both governments and central banks,” Subbarao said
in a speech in Hyderabad yesterday.  
 Food Inflation  
 India’s  food inflation  slowed to 9.53 percent in July, a
13-month low and down from 21 percent in November, as the
country last month got more monsoon rains than forecast by the
weather office, aiding sowing of lentils and rice. The June-
September monsoon is the main source of irrigation in the
country. It was 16 percent above average last week, the India
Meteorological Department said yesterday.  
 Even so, the benchmark wholesale-price inflation rate would
remain at around the 10 percent level for a “few more months”
as economic growth accelerates, said  Dariusz Kowalczyk , a Hong
Kong-based economist at Credit Agricole CIB. Inflation quickened
to 10.55 percent in June.  
 The yield on India’s 10-year benchmark bond has climbed
about a quarter percentage point since the last monetary policy
announcement on July 27, when  Subbarao  raised rates for the
fourth time since mid-March.  
 Stocks, Bonds  
 The yield declined one basis point to 7.9 percent at 9:05
a.m. in Mumbai today. The Bombay Stock Exchange’s  Sensitive
Index  rose 0.2 percent while the rupee gained 0.2 percent to
46.10 against the dollar.  
 “The central bank continues to be hawkish and that is
keeping investors away” from bonds, said  Roy Paul , a deputy
general manager in charge of treasury at the Mumbai-based
Federal Bank Ltd.  
 Subbarao, while tightening borrowing costs, said rains are
critical to slow the benchmark wholesale-price inflation to 6
percent by March 31. He increased India’s  growth  forecast to 8.5
percent from 8 percent for the current financial year.  
 The central bank’s  reverse repurchase rate  is 4.5 percent
and the repurchase rate is 5.75 percent.  
 “I think expectation of good monsoon is behind the
forecast that inflation is going to fall,” said  Brian Jackson ,
an emerging-markets strategist at Royal Bank of Canada in Hong
Kong. “I don’t think you can rely on that alone to get
inflation down. It will require some more policy tightening.”  
 Political Pressure  
 Singh’s government, under pressure from opposition parties
for failing to check inflation, wants to cool prices without
choking economic expansion in Asia’s largest economy after Japan
and China.  
 “If interest rates are hiked abnormally, naturally, there
will be no investment, there will be no growth, there will be no
job creation,” Mukherjee said in the lower house of Parliament
in New Delhi on Aug. 4. “If I compromise my economic growth, I
can surely control inflation.”  
 Mukherjee is seeking to assuage concerns of the opposition,
whose support is vital to push through key economic changes in
Parliament, such as allowing overseas companies hold 49 percent
stake in local insurers from the current 26 percent.  
 Political stability will also help government focus on sale
of equity stakes in companies including  Power Grid Corporation
of India Ltd. , the nation’s largest energy transmission company
-- a key plan to narrow the budget deficit from a 16-year high.  
 Subbarao expects the inflation rate to increase by about a
percentage point after Prime Minister Singh on June 25 allowed
state-run refiners including  Indian Oil Corp.  to raise prices of
gasoline and diesel to cut fuel subsidies.  
 As India battles to slow inflation, the Reserve Bank this
week divested portfolios of a deputy governor who said the bank
should be more aggressive in tightening the monetary policy, The
Economic Times reported Aug. 4.  
 K. C. Chakrabarty  lost control over departments including
urban banks and human resources after saying July 29, two days
following the rate decision, that monetary policy tightening
should be more aggressive, the newspaper said.  
 Chakrabarty told Bloomberg News on Aug. 4 that he hasn’t
given any comment “in public,” and added that he may have a
different view in private.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Unni Krishnan  in New Delhi at 
 ukrishnan2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       India Splits in Inflation Fight, Bets on Monsoon  
                       
                         
                           Pankaj Nangia/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Finance Minister Pranab Mukherjee warned growth will suffer if interest rates rise too fast, after the Reserve Bank of India last week accelerated its pace of increases. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Finance Minister Pranab Mukherjee warned growth will suffer if interest rates rise too fast, after the Reserve Bank of India last week accelerated its pace of increases. Photographer: Pankaj Nangia/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
