-- Japan's Bonds Decline on Speculation Yields Are Too Low to Reflect Growth
-- Masaki Kondo
-- 2010-08-06T06:55:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-05/japanese-government-bonds-may-extend-weekly-gain-before-u-s-jobs-report.html

          
          
             Japanese  bonds  dropped for a second
day on speculation yields are too low given that the economy is
showing signs of sustainable growth.  
 Benchmark 10-year yields have climbed more than five basis
points since they fell to 0.995 percent two days ago, the lowest
level since Aug. 14, 2003. The coincident index, a composite of
11 indicators including factory production and retail sales,
rose in June from the previous month, a report showed today.  
 “Ten-year yields are too low, given that the economy is
mildly recovering,” said  Shinji Nomura , chief debt strategist
in Tokyo at Nikko Cordial Securities Inc., a unit of Japan’s
third-largest lender by assets. Yields are likely to rise to 1.6
percent by the end of this year, he said.  
 The  yield  on the benchmark 10-year bond rose two basis
points to 1.055 percent as of 3:14 p.m. in Tokyo at Japan Bond
Trading Co., the nation’s largest interdealer debt broker. The
price of the 1.1 percent security due June 2020 fell 0.180 yen
to 100.401 yen. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  
 Ten-year bond futures for September delivery declined 0.14
to 141.87 at the 3 p.m. close of the Tokyo Stock Exchange.  
 The coincident index gained to 101.3 from 101.2 in May, the
Cabinet Office said in Tokyo. The median estimate of nine
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News was 101.2.  
 An Aug. 11 report will show machinery orders rose 5.5
percent in June from the previous month, according to economist
forecasts. That would be the biggest gain since December.  
 ‘Double-Dip Recession’  
 “We don’t expect a double-dip recession although the bond
market has priced in prolonged deflation and the worsening of
the economy,” said  Koichi Kurose , chief strategist at Tokyo-
based Resona Bank Ltd., which manages about $57 billion.  “Any
economic recovery isn’t usually straightforward.”  
 Japan’s bond  yields  may extend declines from a seven-year
low, pushing 10-year rates down to 0.80 percent as a global
slowdown spurs safety demand, Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc.
and Okasan Asset Management Co. said.  
 “Treasury yields may fall more as the Fed keeps monetary
easing for a longer time,” said  Satoshi Yamada , who helps
oversee $110 billion as manager of fixed-income trading at
Okasan Asset Management in Tokyo. “A drop in U.S. yields will
weigh on Japan’s yields as well.”  
 Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke said on July 21
the economic outlook remains “unusually uncertain” and the Fed
remains “prepared to take further policy actions as needed.”  
 Additional monetary easing by the Fed easing may weaken the
dollar against the yen, push down Japanese stocks and boost
government bonds, said  Yuuki Sakurai , chief executive officer of
Tokyo-based Fukoku Capital Management Inc.  
 Sell Signal  
 The drop in Japan’s 10-year yields on Aug. 4 pushed the 14-
day relative strength index below the level of 30, suggesting
the securities were poised to change direction.  
 “The market seems to be running ahead of reality,” said
 Ayako Sera , a strategist in Tokyo at Sumitomo Trust & Banking
Co., which manages the equivalent of $310 billion. “The U.S.
job market is recovering, albeit mildly.”  
 Job losses at U.S. companies probably slowed to 65,000
positions last month from 125,000 in June, according to
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News before the Labor
Department releases the data today.  
 Japanese bonds also fell as Asian stocks gained for a
second day, damping demand for the safety of government debt.
MSCI’s Asia Pacific Index of shares rose 0.3 percent, erasing
earlier losses.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Masaki Kondo  in Tokyo at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        