-- Kagan to Be Sworn in Saturday as 112th Court Justice
-- Laura Litvan
-- 2010-08-06T18:47:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-05/kagan-is-confirmed-by-senate-as-obama-s-second-appointee-to-supreme-court.html

          
          
             Elena Kagan  will become the nation’s
112th justice tomorrow at a U.S. Supreme Court ceremony after
the Senate gave President  Barack Obama  his second appointment to
the high court in two years.  
 Kagan, 50, a former Harvard Law School dean, will be the
fourth woman and just the sixth member of the court who isn’t a
white male. For the first time, the nine-member court will have
three women as she joins Justices  Sonia Sotomayor , Obama’s first
appointee, and  Ruth Bader Ginsburg .  
 Kagan was the guest of honor today at a White House
reception where Obama said she has won the respect and support
from people and groups across the political spectrum for her
“formidable intellect and path-breaking career.”  
 As a member of the Supreme Court she is an example of “how
our union has become more, not less, perfect over time,” the
president said. The court now will be “a little more inclusive,
a little more representative” of the nation, he said.  
 Kagan’s elevation isn’t about to alter the court’s
ideological balance. In succeeding Justice  John Paul Stevens ,
who retired after 35 years, she is likely to take his place in
the court’s liberal wing. That would leave intact the court’s 5-
4 conservative majority on such issues as abortion, gun rights
and campaign finance.  
 Kagan will be sworn in by Chief Justice  John Roberts  at
tomorrow’s private ceremony at the Supreme Court. A formal
investiture will take place on Oct. 1, three days before the
justices take the bench to begin their next term.  
 Yesterday’s Senate vote of 63-37 was largely along party
lines, with five Republicans supporting Kagan and one Democrat,
 Ben Nelson  of Nebraska, opposing her.  
 Kagan’s Record  
 Democrats, led by Senate Judiciary Committee Chairman
 Patrick Leahy , said her credentials and character are beyond
question. Opponents described her as a political activist who
lacks judicial experience.  
 The ranking Republican on the Judiciary Committee,  Jeff Sessions  of Alabama, said she “does not have the gifts and the
qualities of mind or temperament” to be a justice.  
 Kagan is the first woman to be U.S. solicitor general,
representing the Obama administration before the Supreme Court.
In another endorsement of diversity, Obama picked Sotomayor to
be the first Hispanic on the Supreme Court.  
 Kagan’s nomination in May sparked a summer of partisan
debate over the role of judges and the sharply divided high
court led by Roberts. Her confirmation was never in doubt, given
Democrats’ 59-41 control of the Senate.  
 Only Justices  Clarence Thomas , approved 52-48, and  Samuel Alito , opposed by 42 senators, were confirmed with more negative
votes.  
 Possible Filibusters  
 Senate Republican leader  Mitch McConnell  of Kentucky told
reporters yesterday, “The process has become much more
political than it used to be, but Senate Republicans didn’t set
the standard.”  
 In response, Senator  Charles Schumer , a New York Democrat,
said he wouldn’t rule out filibusters to block judicial
nominations in the future. It’s “not out of the question if
they are out of the mainstream,” he said.  
 Sixty votes are required to break a filibuster in the 100-
member Senate.  
 A New York native, Kagan worked for four years in President
 Bill Clinton ’s White House as a lawyer and policy adviser. She
served as dean of  Harvard Law School  from 2003 to 2009, and in
the late 1980s was a law clerk to Supreme Court Justice  Thurgood Marshall .  
 Opponents attacked her decision as law school dean to bar
military recruiters from Harvard’s campus to protest the
Pentagon’s ban on openly gay troops. Kagan supported a lawsuit
seeking to force the government to stop withholding funds from
schools that blocked the recruiters.  
 No Judicial Background  
 Kagan will be the first person on the high court without
prior experience as a judge since the appointments by President
 Richard Nixon  of  Lewis Powell  and  William Rehnquist  almost 40
years ago.  
 “The 39 previous justices who lacked judicial experience
had an average of 21 years of legal experience,” said Senator
 Orrin Hatch , a Utah Republican. “In other words, Supreme Court
justices have had experience behind the bench as a judge, before
the bench as a lawyer or both. Ms. Kagan has neither.”  
 Senator  Dianne Feinstein , a California Democrat, said
Kagan’s professional credentials are a plus.  
 “In my view, judicial experience is a useful background,
but it is only one of many, and it is a background that is well
represented on the court today,” she said.  
 Republican Backer  
 One of the Republicans who backed her, Senator  Lindsey Graham  of South Carolina, said the Constitution’s authors
intended for senators to give deference to a president’s
judicial selections. Kagan is experienced and in the mainstream
and should therefore join the court, he said.  
 “She is not someone I would have chosen, but it is not my
job to choose,” Graham said. “It is President Obama’s job. He
earned that right.”  
 At her confirmation hearings, Kagan testified that she
believes justices should seek more consensus when possible,
while refusing to criticize decisions reached by the court under
Roberts.  
 She also made clear she doesn’t share the “originalist”
approach of Thomas and Justice  Antonin Scalia , who say the
Constitution should be interpreted in line with the meaning
intended by the founding fathers. She also said that court
precedents affirming abortion rights and those of gun owners are
established law.  
 Umpiring Analogy  
 Kagan took issue with an analogy made by Roberts during his
2005 confirmation hearing, when he likened judges to baseball
umpires who call balls and strikes. That is “correct in several
important respects but like all metaphors it does have its
limits,” Kagan said, adding that it suggests judging is a
“robotic enterprise.”  
 Kagan was denounced by anti-abortion groups including
 Americans United for Life . The  National Rifle Association  ran
ads opposing her, in part because as a law clerk to Marshall she
wrote in a memo that she was “not sympathetic” to a man who
said his constitutional rights were violated when he was
convicted for carrying an unlicensed pistol.  
 In addition to Graham, Republicans supporting Kagan were
 Richard Lugar  of Indiana,  Judd Gregg  of New Hampshire and  Susan Collins  and  Olympia Snowe  of Maine.  
 Sotomayor was confirmed last year, 68-31, with nine
Republicans supporting her.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Laura Litvan  in Washington at 
 llitvan@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Kagan to Be Sworn in as 112th Court Justice Tomorrow  
                       
                         
                           Andrew Harrer/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Elena Kagan, confirmed associate justice of the U.S. Supreme Court, claps during a reception in the East Room of the White House in Washington, D.C. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Elena Kagan, confirmed associate justice of the U.S. Supreme Court, claps during a reception in the East Room of the White House in Washington, D.C. Photographer: Andrew Harrer/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
