-- Neptune Orient Reports First Profit in Seven Quarters as Sea Cargo Surges
-- Kyunghee Park
-- 2010-08-06T09:33:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-05/neptune-orient-reports-first-profit-in-seven-quarters-as-sea-cargo-surges.html

          
          
             Neptune Orient Lines Ltd. , owner of
Asia’s largest container line by fleet size, posted its first
profit in seven quarters after moving more boxes at higher rates
amid a recovery in the global economy.  
 Second-quarter  net income  was $99.7 million, compared with
a $146.2 million loss a year earlier, the company said in a
 statement  today. Neptune Orient said it expects “significant
improvement” in profit for the third quarter.  
 Neptune Orient carried 32 percent more containers in the
quarter as demand for moving clothes, toys and furniture to the
U.S. and shipping rates increased. Chief Executive Officer  Ron Widdows  last month ordered new ships for the first time in three
years as the global economy rebounds from a recession that
caused industrywide losses of more than $15 billion last year
and pushed companies into mothballing vessels.  
 “Earnings will get better in the third quarter for
shipping lines because they’ve been successful in getting higher
rates for both U.S. and European destinations,” said Park Eun
Kyung, an analyst at Samsung Securities Co. in Seoul. “Those
rate increases will be fully reflected into earnings from the
third quarter.”  
 Neptune Orient  fell 3.3 percent, the most since July 1, to
S$2.06 in Singapore. The stock has climbed 25 percent this year,
compared with a 3.4 percent advance by the Straits Times Index.  
 Significant Progress  
 Of the  21 analysts  covering Neptune Orient tracked by
Bloomberg in the past 12 months, nine recommend investors buy
the stock, six have “sell” calls, and the remainder have
“hold” ratings.  
 The company may post net income of $68 million this year,
according to the average of 20 analyst estimates compiled by
Bloomberg. Neptune Orient posted a loss of $741 million in 2009,
the biggest in at least two decades.  
 APL Ltd. , Neptune Orient’s container-shipping unit, moved
646,000 forty-foot equivalent boxes in the quarter, compared
with 489,000 a year earlier, the company said. Average revenue
per container rose 22 percent to $2,778 in the period, it said.  
 “Volume has grown substantially, we’re handling at
historic levels for the company,” Widdows said today at a
briefing in Singapore. “The rate improvement will look a little
more dramatic in the third quarter.”  
 The company has been “very successful” in increasing
rates for the trans-Pacific trade in June and that will be fully
reflected into this quarter’s earnings, Widdows said. Rates on
the Asia-Europe trade is stable and haven’t seen a decline,
APL’s president  Eng Aik Meng  said.  
 Orient Overseas, Hanjin  
 Orient Overseas International Ltd. , Hong Kong’s largest
container line, and  Hanjin Shipping Co. , South Korea’s biggest,
also reported profit in the first half yesterday, helped by the
revival in demand.  
 “Our bookings for the third quarter are strong,” Ang
said.  
 Imports of cargo into the U.S. through containers may
increase 15 percent this year to 14.5 million 20-foot boxes amid
an economic recovery, according to the  National Retail
Federation .  
 The  International Monetary Fund  last month raised its
forecast for 2010 global growth to 4.6 percent, the fastest pace
since 2007. Global container volume will grow 13 percent this
year after contracting 12 percent last year,  Claire Teng , a Hong
Kong-based analyst at Standard Chartered Plc, said in a July 26
note.  
 The company said it won’t pay an interim dividend. Still,
it will “consider” a final dividend based on the current
policy of annual payout of 20 percent of net income, according
to the statement.  
 Neptune Orient last month ordered as many as 12 container
ships worth about $1.2 billion and plans to increase capacity by
7 percent this year. Sales at APL rose 54 percent to $1.9
billion in the quarter. The unit accounts for about 90 percent
of Neptune Orient’s total  revenue  of $2.12 billion.  
 The company will look at market conditions before deciding
on further capacity expansions, Widdows said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kyunghee Park  in Seoul at 
 kpark3@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Neptune Orient Lines CEO Ron Widdows  
                       
                         
                           Munshi Ahmed/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Neptune Orient Lines CEO Ron Widdows at the company's news conference in Singapore. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Neptune Orient Lines CEO Ron Widdows at the company's news conference in Singapore. Photographer: Munshi Ahmed/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Neptune Orient Posts Profit on Rebound in World Trade  
                       
                         
                           Munshi Ahmed/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Chief Executive Officer Ron Widdows last month ordered new ships for the first time in three
years as the global economy rebounds from a recession that caused industrywide losses of more than $15 billion last year and pushed companies into mothballing vessels. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Chief Executive Officer Ron Widdows last month ordered new ships for the first time in three
years as the global economy rebounds from a recession that caused industrywide losses of more than $15 billion last year and pushed companies into mothballing vessels. Photographer: Munshi Ahmed/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       APL President Eng Aik Meng  
                       
                         
                           Munshi Ahmed/Bloomberg 
                         
                         APL President Eng Aik Meng speaking in news conference in Singapore. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     APL President Eng Aik Meng speaking in news conference in Singapore. Photographer: Munshi Ahmed/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
