-- Morgan Stanley Sees San Francisco Housing Double-Dip, NYC Gains
-- John Gittelsohn
-- 2010-08-06T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-05/morgan-stanley-sees-san-francisco-double-dip-housing-drop-as-nyc-bottoms.html

          
          
             San Francisco home prices declined in
May and New York values rose even as the  S&P/Case-Shiller  Index
showed the opposite, according to  Morgan Stanley .  
 San Francisco prices fell 1.2 percent while New York gained
0.8 percent in May, Morgan Stanley said in a report, which
looked at homes that weren’t in foreclosure or involved in a
short sale, in which a buyer pays less than the amount owed on
the mortgage and the bank agrees to take a loss.  
 Short sales increased by 30 percent nationwide over the
past year, destabilizing the housing-price indexes, said  Oliver Chang , a U.S. housing strategist at Morgan Stanley who co-wrote
the report. Proceeds from short sales are 15 percent to 40
percent more than foreclosed homes, driving up S&P/Case-Shiller
indexes even when values of non-distressed homes are falling,
Chang said.  
 “There’s a price premium you can get from a short sale,”
Chang said in a telephone interview. “That makes it look like
prices are going up when they’re not.”  
 San Francisco home prices rose 1.8 percent in May from
April, according to the S&P/Case-Shiller  index of property
values , which measures all sales. San Francisco’s gain reflects
both a decrease in the number of distressed sales as a share of
transactions and an increase of short sales among distressed
sales, Morgan Stanley said. San Francisco  prices  have gained 21
percent since reaching a low in March 2009, according to the
 Case-Shiller index .  
 ‘Complete Picture’  
 Taking apart sales data, as Morgan Stanley did, gives a
distorted view of the market, said Karl Case, co-creator of the
S&P Case-Shiller indexes, and a former economics professor at
Wellesley College in Wellesley, Massachusetts.  
 “We don’t think it’s right to pull out distressed sales,”
Case said in a telephone interview. “You don’t get a complete
picture.”  
 Demand has declined since April, the deadline for
homebuyers to sign contracts to qualify for federal tax credits
worth up to $8,000. An index of pending home resales dropped 2.6
percent in June from the prior month to a record low since the
index was created in 2001, the National Association of Realtors
reported Aug. 3.  
 New York area prices increased in May because short sales
and foreclosures accounted for a stable share of the market,
Morgan Stanley said. Its report analyzes single-family home
data, most of which is outside Manhattan. The median price of a
Manhattan apartment rose 7.6 percent to $899,000 in the quarter
ending June 30, New York appraiser Miller Samuel Inc. and broker
Prudential Douglas Elliman Real Estate said July 1.  
 Chicago , Dallas, Los Angeles and Washington are other
cities where values of non-distressed homes have declined as the
property indexes increased, Morgan Stanley said.  
 “We expect actual home price performance to weaken
further,” the Morgan Stanley report said. “Our analysis was
performed on May home price data, which were affected by the
strong gains in sales due to the expiration of the tax credit.
With the weakness in sales that has since ensued, we expect home
prices to weaken as well, further contributing to the double-dip
effect we can already observe.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 John Gittelsohn  in New York at 
 johngitt@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       A house in San Francisco  
                       
                         
                           Erin Lubin/Bloomberg 
                         
                         A for sale sign marked sold hangs outside a house in the Seacliff district of San Francisco. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     A for sale sign marked sold hangs outside a house in the Seacliff district of San Francisco. Photographer: Erin Lubin/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          Aug. 5 (Bloomberg) -- Mark Vitner, a senior economist at Wells Fargo Securities LLC in Charlotte, North Carolina, talks with Bloomberg's Rishaad Salamat about the outlook for the U.S. economy and housing market.
    Consumer spending, pending home sales and factory orders were all weaker than projected in June, showing the U.S. recovery lost momentum heading into the second half of the year as employment stagnates. Household purchases, which account for about 70 percent of the economy, were unchanged from May, according to figures from the Commerce Department issued Aug. 3 in Washington. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
