-- Ambassador Roos Is First U.S. Representative to Hiroshima Event
-- Adam Le
-- 2010-08-06T10:09:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-05/roos-is-first-u-s-envoy-to-attend-hiroshima-memorial-on-65th-anniversary.html

          
          
             U.S. Ambassador  John Roos  attended
the annual Hiroshima ceremony to commemorate the atomic bombing
of the city 65 years ago, the first American representative to
do so.  
 Roos, the top U.S. diplomat in Japan, was joined by  Ban Ki- Moon , the first UN Secretary-General to attend the event. The
U.K. and France also sent envoys to Hiroshima for the first time.  
 “As long as nuclear weapons exist, we will live under a
nuclear shadow,” Ban said at the ceremony. “We made important
progress at the nuclear summit in Washington D.C. last April. We
must keep up this momentum.”  
 U.S. President Barack Obama at an April 2009 meeting won
commitments from 46 nations to lock down nuclear material and
keep it out of the hands of terrorists. Ban also said today he
would push for negotiations toward ridding the world of nuclear
weapons next month in New York at the  Conference on Disarmament ,
an international forum for discussing arms control.  
 Japanese Prime Minister  Naoto Kan , speaking at the ceremony,
pledged to keep Japan’s principle not to possess, develop or
allow nuclear weapons in the country. He said he wants atomic-
bombing victims to tell the world of the horror of nuclear
weapons as special envoys for nuclear disarmament.  
 ‘Moral Responsibility’  
 “Movement toward nuclear disarmament and non-proliferation
has gained new momentum” since April last year, Kan said. “I
firmly believe that Japan, as the only country to have
experienced nuclear devastation in war, has a moral
responsibility to lead actions toward realizing a world without
nuclear weapons,” he said.  
 Roos, who did not give a speech at the event, said in a
faxed statement sent by the U.S. embassy in Tokyo that “for the
sake of future generations, we must continue to work together to
realize a world without nuclear weapons.”  
 The atomic bomb dropped on Hiroshima by the U.S. aircraft
Enola Gay exploded at 8:15 a.m. on Aug. 6, 1945 and  killed  an
estimated 140,000 people in the western Japanese city that year.
A bomb dropped three days later on Nagasaki, in southwestern
Japan, killed more than 70,000 people initially, according to
city  records .  
 Rasmus Paltschik, 25, a visitor from Helsinki who was at
the ceremony, said he thought the U.S. should have sent
representatives to the ceremony decades earlier and should also
apologize for the bombings. “I would have expected the
President of the U.S.A. to come here in the 1950s,” he said.  
 “I don’t think the U.S. needs to apologize,” said Hiromi
Nii, 22, a local university student who was there for the first
time. “Still, I’d like it if they acknowledged what they did.”  
 The U.S., in its statement, said that on the 65th anniversary
of the bombing “it is fitting that we renew our determination
to ensure that such a conflict is never again repeated.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Adam Le  in Osaka at 
 ale14@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       John Roos  
                       
                         
                           Jiji Press/AFP/Getty Images 
                         
                         John Roos, center, U.S. ambassador to Japan, attends a ceremony commemorating the US atomic bombing of Hiroshima, at the Peace Memorial Park in Hiroshima. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     John Roos, center, U.S. ambassador to Japan, attends a ceremony commemorating the US atomic bombing of Hiroshima, at the Peace Memorial Park in Hiroshima. Photographer: Jiji Press/AFP/Getty Images  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
