-- Rwanda's Economic Expansion May Propel Kagame to Second Presidential Term
-- Michael J. Kavanagh
-- 2010-08-06T09:52:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-05/rwanda-s-economic-expansion-may-propel-kagame-to-second-presidential-term.html

          
          
             The killings of a Rwandan opposition
leader and an investigative journalist aren’t likely to keep
President  Paul Kagame  from winning a second term next week nor
to slow the pace of investment in the East African nation.  
 While human-rights groups criticize the 52-year-old leader
for restricting political freedom, he has also been praised for
resurrecting Rwanda’s economy. Kagame has pledged to continue
policies that contributed to average annual growth of 8.3
percent in the nine years through 2008. He has also promised to
maintain peace in a country torn apart in 1994 by genocide that
killed 800,000.  
 “We will not abandon our investment interest in Rwanda
because of violent incidents,” said Robert Fogler, a founder of
Kigali-based  Thousand Hills Venture Fund , which he says has
spent $1 million so far. The stakes are in technology, cotton
and cement projects, according to the fund’s website.  
 “We have seen that investors who dash in and out of
communities based on temporary troubles or short-term
uncertainty can cause great harm,” Fogler said in an Aug. 3
interview from Denver.  
 The Aug. 9 vote comes after Andre Rwisereka, deputy leader
of the opposition Democratic Green Party, was found dead July
14, and Jean-Leonard Rugambage, editor of the banned Umuvugizi
newspaper, was shot and killed June 24. Rugambage was
investigating allegations the government was behind the June 19
shooting of Faustin Kayumba Nyamwasa in South Africa. The former
Rwandan army chief of staff survived.  
 Ambassador Recalled  
 The government denied any involvement in the incidents.
Yesterday, South Africa recalled its ambassador to Rwanda amid
an investigation into the shooting of Nyamwasa, the South
African Press Association reported.  
 Kagame led rebel forces that ended the genocide of ethnic
Tutsis and moderate Hutus in which 10 percent of Rwanda’s
population died. He came to power in 2000 after President
Pasteur Bizimungu was deposed and then won a seven-year term in
September 2003 after Rwanda’s first multiparty elections.  
 He now faces three challengers:  Jean Damascene Ntawukuriryayo , deputy speaker of parliament, Alvera Mukabaramba
of the opposition Party of Progress and Concord, and the Liberal
Party’s Prosper Higiro. About 5.2 million of Rwanda’s 9.7
million people are eligible to vote. Results are expected
starting Aug. 10, according to the electoral commission.  
 ‘Weak Opposition’  
 It’s “almost certain” Kagame will win “because of what
he has achieved,” said Frederick Golooba, political analyst at
Makerere University in neighboring Uganda. Rwandan opposition
parties are also “too weak to oust an incumbent,” he said in
an interview.  
 Foreign direct investment increased to $541.2 million in
2009 from $32 million in 2003, according to the Kigali-based
 Rwanda Development Board . Investors include  Starbucks Corp.  in
Seattle, the world’s largest coffee-shop chain, and Issaquah,
Washington-based  Costco Wholesale Corp. , which have become the
biggest buyers of Rwanda’s coffee, the backbone of its economy.  
 “The atmosphere of the government is about trade and
investment, not about aid,” Peter Torrebiarte, director of
coffee sustainability at Starbucks, said in a telephone
interview. “That’s very attractive because we believe in that
model.”  
 David Sherman, a spokesman for Costco, said no one was
available to comment because the company’s international
managers are involved in a weeklong meeting.  
 Coffee Exports  
 Rwanda will produce 27,000 metric tons of coffee this year,
up 13 percent from 2009, estimates the Rwanda Coffee Development
Authority. The country exports 98 percent of its crop. The
nation also produces Africa’s second most-expensive tea after
Kenya, said Mombasa-based  Africa Tea Brokers Ltd.  in an e-mail.
Agriculture accounts for 33 percent of Rwanda’s $10 billion
economy, according to the latest  African Economic Outlook 
report.  
 Kagame’s ruling Rwandan Patriotic Front says he should
remain in power to extend the economic expansion. Growth is
forecast to accelerate to 7 percent this year, Finance Minister
 John Rwangombwa  said June 10, after slowing to 6 percent last
year because of the global crisis. Rwanda relies on aid from
foreign donors to finance about half its budget, according to
the Foreign Ministry.  
 While the economy has prospered, opposition parties
complain that Kagame’s party dominates the electoral commission
and that they have been blocked from registering presidential
candidates. Incidents of harassment and intimidation have
increased ahead of the vote,  Human Rights Watch  said on its
website.  
 ‘Diverging Stories’  
 The controversy may weigh on investors after the election,
said  Yvonne Mhango , head of Africa research at Johannesburg-
based  Standard Bank Group Ltd.  Rwanda now has “two diverging
stories” -- the growing economy and the increasingly oppressive
political environment, she said in an Aug. 4 telephone
interview.  
 While the oppression will likely “ease or subside” after
the election season ends, “I think private investors are going
to be a lot more wary,” she added.  
 Their caution may be tempered by policies that have
increased access to credit and simplified rules for business
start-ups, which contributed to Rwanda’s selection as the “ top
reformer ” in the  World Bank ’s 2010 Doing Business report.  
 “There are so many people in the donor community and the
West that have invested themselves so strongly in Kagame,”
 Laura Morrison , an Africa analyst at Control Risks, a London
political-risk management company, said in a telephone
interview. “They would rather try and bring him back on the
straight and narrow by talking to him than by criticizing him in
public.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 David Malingha Doya  in Kigali via Johannesburg at
   pmrichardson@bloomberg.net ;
 Michael Kavanagh  in Kinshasa on 
 mkavanagh9@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Rwandan President Paul Kagame  
                       
                         
                           Chris Jackson/Getty Images 
                         
                         Rwandan President Paul Kagame has pledged to continue policies that contributed to average annual growth of 8.3 percent in the nine years through 2008. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Rwandan President Paul Kagame has pledged to continue policies that contributed to average annual growth of 8.3 percent in the nine years through 2008. Photographer: Chris Jackson/Getty Images  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
