-- Stripper Finds Degree Profitable for Goldman Wasn't Worth It
-- John Hechinger
-- 2010-08-06T20:09:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-05/stripper-s-college-degree-profitable-for-goldman-finds-70-000-was-wasted.html

          
          
             Carrianne Howard dreamed of designing
video games, so she enrolled in a program at the Art Institute
of Fort Lauderdale, a for-profit college part-owned by  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc . Her bachelor’s degree in game art and design
cost $70,000 in tuition and fees. After she graduated in
December 2007, she found a job that paid $12 an hour recruiting
employees for video game companies. She lost that job a year
later when her department was shuttered.  
 These days, Howard, 26, makes her living in a way that
doesn’t require a college diploma: by stripping at the Lido
Cabaret, a topless club in Cocoa Beach, Florida. “I didn’t know
what else to do,” she says. “I’ve got a worthless degree. It’s
like I didn’t attend school at all.”  
 Like many investors, Goldman, owner of 38 percent of the
Art Institute’s parent,  Education Management Corp ., was drawn to
for-profit colleges by their rapid growth and soaring stock
prices, reports Bloomberg Businessweek in its Aug. 9 issue. Now
Goldman, which recently agreed to pay $550 million to settle
U.S. civil-fraud charges related to the subprime mortgage
meltdown, is invested in an industry under attack from Congress,
the Obama Administration and dissatisfied students.  
 The Senate held a hearing Aug. 4 featuring a Government
Accountability Office undercover probe that found recruiters at
EDMC’s Argosy University in Chicago and 14 other for-profit
colleges misled investigators posing as potential students about
the cost and quality of their programs. Near their peak in
April, Goldman’s shares in EDMC were worth $1.39 billion. Since
then they’ve  fallen  by 49 percent to about $708 million. EDMC
dropped $1.14, or 8 percent, to $13.04 at 4 p.m. New York time
in Nasdaq Stock Market trading.  
 Proposed Crackdown  
 A proposed government crackdown may have a disproportionate
effect on EDMC. The U.S. Department of Education may restrict
taxpayer-funded grants and loans to for-profit colleges like
EDMC that offer $50,000 associate’s and $100,000 bachelor’s
degrees in such low-paying fields as cooking, art and design.  
 Until recently the education business looked like a bonanza
for Goldman. Pittsburgh-based EDMC, the  second-largest  U.S.
chain of for-profit colleges after  Apollo Group Inc .’s
University of Phoenix, has 136,000 students -- more than three
times as many as the  University of Michigan . Its annual  revenue 
doubled over the last five years, to $2.4 billion. Goldman and
two other firms bought EDMC in 2006 and took it public in 2009.
Along the way they shared at least $70 million in advisory,
management and other fees, according to securities  filings .
Goldman also became EDMC’s biggest  stockholder .  
 Rewarding Investment  
 Government grants and loans to students, combined with
booming enrollment, have made for-profit colleges a rewarding
investment. Federal aid to for-profit colleges jumped to $26.5
billion in 2009 from $4.6 billion in 2000, according to the
Education Dept. EDMC currently receives almost 82 percent of its
revenue from federal financial aid programs.  
 On July 23, the Obama Administration proposed restricting -
- and in extreme cases, cutting off entirely -- programs whose
graduates end up with the highest debts relative to their
salaries and have the most trouble repaying their student loans.
EDMC will be affected more than most other for-profit companies
because of its focus on “passion” fields, such as art and
cooking, rather than more practical accounting or business
degrees, says  Jeffrey M. Silber , an analyst with BMO Capital
Markets in New York.  
 Low Salaries  
 Cooking, fashion, and arts jobs tend to have low starting
salaries: A beginning cook, for example, earns an average of
$18,000 a year, according to U.S.  Bureau of Labor Statistics 
data, while a two-year culinary degree can cost $40,000 to
$50,000. EDMC spokeswoman Jacquelyn P. Muller says Art Institute
students tend to earn more, with those holding culinary degrees
starting at $28,000.  
 EDMC also faces complaints from its own graduates and
employees. A lawsuit filed in Texas state court by 18 students
alleges they were misled about the accreditation status of their
program, diminishing their degrees’ value and leaving them with
debts they can’t repay. In another suit a former admissions
officer claims the company engaged in high-pressure sales
tactics, paying staff to sign up students. In July, dozens of
faculty who tried, unsuccessfully, to form a union at one Art
Institute campus complained that unqualified students were being
let into their classes.  
 Goldman spokeswoman  Andrea Raphael  said in a statement that
the company invested in EDMC “because of its leading position
in the private higher-education space, its successful track
record, and its demonstrated commitment to its students.”  
 ‘Successful Careers’  
 Raphael referred other questions to EDMC, which said that
the student complaints don’t reflect the quality of EDMC’s
academic programs or the success of its graduates. EDMC says it
takes seriously any alleged shortcomings uncovered by the GAO.
Declining to discuss individual students, EDMC denies the
allegations in the lawsuits.  
 “The vast majority of our students” are “satisfied with
their experience and go on to successful careers after
graduation,” Muller said in a statement. She also said EDMC’s
chain of institutes has illustrious alumni, including tennis
star  Venus Williams , who graduated with a fashion design degree
from Fort Lauderdale in December 2007, on the same day as
Howard; Logan Neitzel, a 2005 graduate of the Art Institute of
Seattle and a 2009 contestant on television’s Project Runway;
and Carol Guzy, a 1980 graduate from Fort Lauderdale who is now
a Pulitzer Prize-winning photographer at The Washington Post.  
 Top Chef  
 Over the last two years, Muller says, students have found
work at companies such as Electronic Arts, Neiman Marcus, and
Sony. The company cites students such as David Suppe, who
graduated in 2005 from the Art Institute of Las Vegas and now
works as a chef at the  MGM Resorts International ’s Excalibur
Hotel.  
 “I got so much out of my education,” says Suppe, 41. “I
never would have advanced in this career without it.”  
 As evidence that EDMC’s students are succeeding, Muller
notes that the company’s latest government student-loan default
rate -- which measures loans that go bust in the first two years
students owe money -- is 7.5 percent, vs. an average of almost
12 percent at all for-profit schools. EDMC’s rate is twice that
of four-year nonprofit universities -- though many graduates of
traditional schools find themselves with heavy debts and low-
paying jobs as well.  
 Debt Levels  
 Like some of its students, EDMC has substantial debt. In
2006, Goldman Sachs, Providence Equity Partners, and Leeds
Equity Partners borrowed $2 billion when the group purchased the
company for $3.4 billion, taking it private in a leveraged
buyout. Goldman, which made the investment through GS Capital
Partners, a private-equity fund that uses money from Goldman and
outside clients, took EDMC  public  again last October. The
company has reduced its debt to $1.53 billion.  
 The debt from the acquisition changed the culture of EDMC,
according to  Robert T. McDowell , who retired as EDMC’s chief
financial officer shortly after the buyout. Before the
acquisition, McDowell says he and other executives resisted
calls from Wall Street analysts to pursue growth opportunities
that could undermine academic quality.  
 “You take on that amount of private-equity debt, you need
to earn high rates of return for these investors,” says
McDowell, who worked at the company for 18 years. “I was
worried that the quality of the experience for employees and
students was going to deteriorate.”  
 Capital Investments  
 Muller says the borrowing hasn’t hurt employees, faculty,
students, or programs. EDMC has invested more than $1 billion in
campus buildings, technology, and other capital projects over
the last 10 years -- more than half over the last four years,
she says.  
 At the  New England Institute of Art  in Brookline,
Massachusetts, administrators show off classes averaging 16
students using new computers and the latest software in the
animation program. The school has a $500,000 sound studio, a
14,000-volume library, and a student-run art gallery.  
 In its promotional materials, EDMC highlights graduates
such as Jonathan Lukason, who received his bachelor’s in audio
and media technology in 2008 from New England and has worked as
a freelance audio engineer for NBC and ESPN. In an interview,
Lukason calls the institute’s program “the best one around.”
Still, Lukason complains, he earned $25,000 in his first year
out of school, and he is struggling with $55,000 in student
loans.  
 “At this rate, I’ll be dead before I pay it off,” he
says.  
 Sales Pitch  
 To sell students on degrees, EDMC de-emphasized their costs
and offered sales incentives to employees for signing up
prospects, says Brian Buchanan, a former admissions officer
whose lawsuit against EDMC was unsealed in May. Top producers
won spots in the “President Club,” which entitled them to
trips to foreign beach resorts, gift cards, and iPods, according
to Buchanan’s suit, which was filed in 2007 in U.S. District
Court in Pittsburgh. Buchanan, a former waiter, worked as an
admissions representative for EDMC’s  South University  online
from December 2005 until May 2007.  
 In an interview, Buchanan said EDMC gave admissions staff a
matrix showing them how much money they would make for each
enrollment. Generally, each student was worth $800, he said. To
recruit students, EDMC told employees to use the “bring the
pain” sales tactic, according to his lawsuit.  
 For example, a single mother would be told, “How are you
going to explain to your children that you cannot buy them the
things they need because you couldn’t be bothered to finish your
education?” the complaint says.  
 Whistle-Blower  
 Buchanan’s case is a whistle-blower  suit  that seeks to
recover damages on behalf of the federal government with the
plaintiff keeping a share. In a Securities & Exchange Commission
 filing , EDMC said the claims are “without merit.”  
 In July, instructors at the  Art Institute of Seattle  raised
questions about EDMC when they tried to join the American
Federation of Teachers. The union lost in a 48 to 64 vote.
Instructors objected to high-pressure marketing to students to
take out loans they couldn’t afford, says Sandra Schroeder,
president of the AFT in Washington State.  
 The institute encourages faculty to give passing grades to
students who aren’t making progress, she says, so the school can
keep collecting federal aid money. EDMC administrators take the
allegations seriously and “respect and promote the principles
of academic freedom without fear of repercussion or
interference,” Muller says.  
 Student Lawsuit  
 Students also object to EDMC practices.  Argosy University 
in Dallas falsely told applicants to the clinical psychology
doctoral program that the institution would get accredited by
the American Psychological Association, 18 former students claim
in a lawsuit filed in Dallas County District Court last year.  
 Stephanie Capalbo, one plaintiff, moved from suburban New
York City to go to the Texas university. In an interview,
Capalbo, who got her doctorate in 2008, says officials told her
the school was in the process of getting accreditation, which it
still hasn’t achieved.  
 Capalbo says she now owes about $130,000 in government
loans for Argosy tuition and fees and another $150,000 in
private loans for living expenses. Her payments are $1,500 a
month, draining the $60,000 the 29-year-old makes each year
working for a nonprofit that evaluates children for foster care
in New York. Many employers turned her down for higher-paying
jobs because she lacks a degree with APA accreditation, she
says.  
 ‘Unbearable Debt’  
 “I love being a psychologist, but I have a family,” she
says. “I’ll be working the rest of my life to pay off these
student loans. It’s an unbearable debt.”  
 EDMC spokeswoman Muller says the allegations in the lawsuit
against Argosy are “unfounded” and that APA accreditation
isn’t required for graduates to become licensed as clinical
psychologists in most jurisdictions, including Texas. Argosy
hasn’t submitted an application to the APA and continues to
prepare for the accreditation process, which takes time because
of the data required, Muller says. She adds that colleges can’t
control the amount of debt that a student takes on.  
 Carrianne Howard, the Florida student, didn’t borrow for
her education. Instead her parents paid roughly $70,000 in
tuition bills. Her mother, an airline data analyst, and her
father, a computer engineer, sold their California home and
moved to Virginia after her father lost his job and her mother
retired. They used money from the sale to pay for tuition, and
her parents are now struggling financially, Howard and her
mother say.  
 Dream School  
 Howard grew up in Valencia, California, a suburb of Los
Angeles, and became drawn to video gaming during high school.
One afternoon in 2004, an Art Institute ad popped up on her PC.  
 “I was as excited as can be,” she says. “I thought it
was a dream come true.”  
 She and her mother toured the  Fort Lauderdale campus , a
bright, modern three-story building flanked by reflecting pools
and palm trees. Her tour guide “just made it sound really
exciting and a lot of fun, like I was going to make hundreds of
thousands of dollars,” Howard says.  
 EDMC schools train representatives to make “no promise,
implication, or guarantee” about employment, Muller says.  
 A couple of years into her studies, Howard says she grew
disenchanted. Some classes consisted largely of playing video
games, she says. She wanted to drop out but her mother insisted
she finish because the family had spent so much already. She
graduated in December 2007; in March 2009 she lost her first
job, at GameRecruiter, a Fort Lauderdale-based gaming industry
employment agency where she was making $12 an hour.  Marc Mencher , GameRecruiter’s president and CEO, says she was let go
only because he closed down her entire department, and calls her
“an exceptional performer.”  
 ‘Weak Program’  
 She may be struggling to find work in part because of
inadequate preparation from the Art Institute’s gaming
department, Mencher says.  
 “It’s a weak program because it’s understaffed,” says
Mencher, who serves on the Art Institute’s national advisory
board for gaming programs. “I personally feel the students
aren’t getting their money’s worth.”  
 After Bloomberg Businessweek asked EDMC for comment,
Mencher sent a follow-up e-mail, saying that although the Art
Institute is “not perfect and they have issues like any
organization,” it is “an excellent program built on input from
respected industry professionals along with local employers.”
It has an “outstanding placement” record for graduates, he
said.  
 Lido Cabaret  
 Howard applied for dozens of jobs, not only in gaming but
also in grocery stores and nursing homes, mostly for minimum
wage, she says. In October 2009, Howard turned to adult
entertainment by doing paid Web chats. In March she started
dancing at Lido Cabaret, earning $400 to $1,000 a week, she
says.  
 She now hopes to save enough to go back to college and get
a business degree. As she considers returning to school, Howard
also helps run an anti-Art Institute website, where she has
collected more than 70 names in a petition to send to the U.S.
Education Dept.  
 The private, nonprofit  Florida Institute of Technology ,
where Howard would like to enroll, won’t accept any of her
credits from EDMC, according to spokeswoman Karen Rhine, because
the Art Institute doesn’t have the kind of accreditation the
traditional college requires. In its school catalog and other
documents, the Art Institute “does not imply or guarantee”
that credits will transfer to other universities, says EDMC’s
Muller.  
 At 1 a.m. on a recent weeknight, Howard finished a shift at
Lido. “This is what I do,” she says. “When I’m in here, I try
not to think about the Art Institute.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 John Hechinger  in Boston at 
 jhechinger@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Goldman Reaps Millions While Stripper Regrets Her Degree  
                       
                         
                           Misty Kealer/Bloomberg Businessweek via Bloomberg 
                         
                         Carrianne Howard makes her living in a way that doesn't require a college diploma from the Art Institute of Fort Lauderdale; stripping at the Lido Cabaret, a topless club in Cocoa Beach, Florida. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Carrianne Howard makes her living in a way that doesn't require a college diploma from the Art Institute of Fort Lauderdale; stripping at the Lido Cabaret, a topless club in Cocoa Beach, Florida. Photographer: Misty Kealer/Bloomberg Businessweek via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          Aug. 6 (Bloomberg) -- Carrianne Howard dreamed of designing video games, so she enrolled in a program at the Art Institute of Fort Lauderdale, a for-profit college part-owned by Goldman Sachs Group Inc. These days, the 26-year-old makes her living in a way that doesn't require a college diploma -- by stripping at a topless club. Like many investors, Goldman, owner of 38 percent of the Art Institute's parent, Education Management Corp., was drawn to for-profit colleges by their rapid growth and soaring stock prices. Bloomberg's Cali Carlin reports. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Goldman Reaps Millions While Stripper Regrets Her Degree  
                       
                         
                           Bloomberg 
                         
                         The Art Institute of Fort Lauderdale. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     The Art Institute of Fort Lauderdale. Source: Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
