-- U.K. Spending Cuts Will Push Insolvencies Up, Accountants Say
-- Stephen Morris
-- 2010-08-06T09:15:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-05/u-k-bankruptcies-to-rise-as-government-reduces-spending-accountants-say.html

          
          
             U.K. government budget cuts will push
more companies into bankruptcy in the second half of this year
as departments from education to transport delay or cancel
contracts, insolvency practitioners are predicting.  
 Industry trade body R3 said its members were forecasting
corporate insolvencies will rise as much as 20 percent in the
second half, compared with the first six months, when there were
fewer than anticipated.  
 Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s coalition government has
pledged to reduce the U.K.’s record budget deficit by slashing
spending, with most departments facing cuts of a third, the
independent  Institute for Fiscal Studies  says.  Connaught Plc , a
public-housing maintenance company, said in June revenue and
profit this year would be hurt after Chancellor of the Exchequer
 George Osborne  announced 6 billion pounds ($9.5 billion) of cuts
in May.  
 “This year, we will see some issues around the public
sector squeeze,”  Mark Orton , senior restructuring partner at
KPMG International in Birmingham, said in a phone interview.
“If we see companies that have been underperforming, have their
projects deferred, contracts delayed, margins squeezed,
particularly in the construction sector, you could see that
resulting in some businesses just not being able to hang on.”  
 Insolvency Levels  
 Last year, the U.K.’s deepest recession since World War II
pushed a record number of companies, 1,311, into administration
in England and Wales in the first quarter. In the same period
this year, that was down 40 percent to 783 companies, with
compulsory and voluntary corporate liquidations declining 18
percent to 4,060, according to revised data from the  Insolvency
Service .  
 In the second quarter there were 4,080 compulsory
liquidations in England and Wales, an increase of 0.5 percent
over the previous quarter, according to data released by the
service today.  
 Actions taken by the Labour government had kept business
failures at a much lower level than in previous recessions,
Shadow Business Secretary  Pat McFadden  said in an e-mailed
statement today.  
 “The big worry now must be that the huge cuts planned for
the autumn will mean job losses in both public and private
sectors with more business failures and more individuals unable
to make ends meet,” he said.  
 Government Cuts  
 Education secretary  Michael Gove  announced in July over 700
school refurbishment contracts would not now go ahead and a
further 123 academy revamps were under review as part of cuts to
the Building Schools for the Future program. The Department of
Transport has been told to cut 683 million pounds, an estimated
5.1 percent of its budget.  
 Some companies are already reporting problems because of
cuts.  Connaught  has dropped 87 percent since saying in June,
after May’s Emergency Budget, revenue this fiscal year will drop
80 million pounds, with earnings before interest, taxes and
amortization falling 13 million pounds.  
 “Public sector money filters down into the general economy
-- you can’t actually separate the two in reality,”  Andy Raynor , chief executive officer of  RMS Tenon Group Plc , said in
a telephone interview. “De facto cuts are already taking place
now. That just again creates an additional pressure on the
private sector and will result in formal appointments rising at
the end of this year.”  
 Industry Forecasts  
 A May survey of R3 members revealed the industry forecasts
corporate insolvencies would peak in 2010 at 27,797, up 5
percent from the 26,443 in 2009.  
 Steven Law, president of R3 and a partner at Ensors
Chartered Accountants, said members were forecasting corporate
insolvencies will climb as much as 20 percent toward the end of
the year as budget cuts kick in.  
 Recovery professionals said the U.K.’s record low interest
rate has kept many struggling companies afloat as their debt has
been easily serviceable. The Bank of England rate has been set
at 0.5 percent since March 2009, the lowest since the central
bank was formed in 1694.  
 “Inevitably, there will be a rise in interest rates,”
 Carl Jackson , head of recovery at Tenon, said in a telephone
interview. “I don’t think it will take too much of an increase
to actually force some of those struggling, debt-laden
businesses to call it a day.”  
 ‘Time to Pay’  
 U.K. Revenue and Customs’ “time to pay” program, which
allows businesses to pay back taxes over a longer period, has
also helped to keep insolvencies lower, Jackson said.  
 More than 200,000 companies have negotiated around 300,000
TTP agreements since November 2008 involving more than 5.2
billion pounds of tax, HMRC said in an e-mail.  
 “We’re starting to see more winding-up petitions coming in
from HMRC,” Orton said. “There has been a significant
hardening of attitudes at HMRC. Effectively, it will be a nail
in the coffin for these businesses. They’ve been in a situation
where they have obtained easy credit from the government through
HMRC agreements, and once that tap is turned off then that’s the
source of finance many businesses can’t do without.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Stephen Morris  in London 
 smorris39@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       U.K. Prime Minister David Cameron  
                       
                         
                           Pankaj Nangia/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Prime Minister David Cameron’s coalition government has pledged to reduce the U.K.’s record budget deficit. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Prime Minister David Cameron’s coalition government has pledged to reduce the U.K.’s record budget deficit. Photographer: Pankaj Nangia/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          Aug. 4 (Bloomberg) -- Bloomberg's Elliot Gotkine reports on business loans in the U.K. as Prime Minister David Cameron meets with Bank of England Governor Mervyn King to discuss how Britain’s banks can be encouraged to lend more to small and medium-sized firms.
 (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
