-- FCC Ends Round of Talks With Companies on Internet Regulation
-- Todd Shields
-- 2010-08-06T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-05/u-s-regulators-end-round-of-discussions-with-companies-on-internet-rules.html

          
          
             U.S. regulators ended closed-door
discussions with companies on Internet regulation after  Google
Inc.  and  Verizon Communications Inc.  were said to have reached
their own deal.  
 The talks, which drew criticism for their secrecy, haven’t
“generated a robust framework to preserve the openness and
freedom of the Internet,”  Edward Lazarus , chief of staff of the
Federal Communications Commission, said yesterday in a
statement.  
 At issue was the FCC’s power over providers of Internet
service and whether phone and cable companies may favor some Web
traffic, such as speeding certain videos in return for payment.
Among participants were  AT&T Inc. , Verizon, Google, Skype
Technologies SA, and the National Cable & Telecommunications
Association, representing companies led by  Comcast Corp.  and
Time Warner Cable Inc.  
 “We’re relieved to see that the FCC now apparently finds
dangerous side deals from companies like Verizon and Google to
be distasteful and unproductive,” Derek Turner, research
director of the Washington-based advocacy group Free Press, said
in an e-mailed statement. “The corporate deal-making and the
closed-door meetings have generated widespread public outrage.”  
 Verizon, the second-biggest U.S. phone company, and
Google, owner of the largest Internet search engine, reached
their own agreement on network rules as the federal talks were
under way, two people briefed on the discussions said Aug. 4.  
 Mobile Phones Exempted  
 The compromise would restrict Verizon from selectively
slowing Internet content that travels over its wires, but
wouldn’t apply such limits to Internet use on mobile phones,
according to the people, who asked not to be identified before
an announcement.  
 FCC Chairman  Julius Genachowski  told reporters in
Washington yesterday any resolution “that doesn’t preserve the
freedom and openness of the Internet for consumers and
entrepreneurs will be unacceptable.”  
 “We’ve been working with Google for 10 months to reach an
agreement on broadband policy,”  David Fish , a spokesman for New
York-based Verizon said Aug. 4.  
 Google  has “nothing to announce at this point,” Mistique
Cano, a Washington-based spokeswoman for the Mountain View,
California, company, said in an e-mail the same day.  
 The long-running fight over net neutrality has pitted cable
and phone companies that say they need leeway to protect the
performance of their networks against content providers and
advocacy groups that say the communications companies may favor
their own online offerings or those of partners.  
 Court Decision  
 The negotiations at the FCC, led by Lazarus, followed a
court decision in April that eviscerated the agency’s authority
over Internet service providers, and Genachowski’s subsequent
proposal to claim authority using rules applied to phone calls.
His idea sparked opposition from phone and cable companies and
from members of Congress of both parties.  
 AT&T of Dallas, the biggest U.S. phone company, is
disappointed the FCC talks broke down,  Jim Cicconi , senior
executive vice president, said in an e-mailed statement
yesterday.  
 “We put a number of significant concessions on the table
and, despite today’s setback, remain convinced that a consensus
solution can be achieved,” Cicconi said.  
 The FCC talks “made good progress toward consensus,”
Tom Tauke, Verizon’s executive vice president, said in an e-
mailed statement. Tauke said Verizon will continue to work
toward a solution that will keep the Internet open while
attracting investment.  
 Collapse of Talks  
 The FCC should claim authority over Web service providers
and pass rules ensuring an open Internet,  following the
“collapse” of the talks,  Gigi Sohn , president of Public
Knowledge, a Washington-based advocacy group, said in an e-
mailed statement.  
 “We were concerned about the negotiations because they
were largely restricted to the biggest industry players,” Sohn
said.  
 The participating companies met with the FCC at least nine
times since June 22, according to disclosure statements filed at
the agency.  
 Also attending was the Open Internet Coalition. The group,
which says it works to keep the Internet fast and open, lists as
supporters EBay Inc., Google, Skype, Free Press, Media Access
Project, Public Knowledge, Netflix Inc. and  IAC/InterActiveCorp 
unit Ask.com.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Todd Shields  in Washington at 
 tshields3@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          Aug. 3 (Bloomberg) -- Bloomberg's Todd Shields discusses efforts by the Federal Communications Commission and technology company executives to resolve a dispute over U.S. Internet regulation.
     Executives from Google Inc., AT&T Inc. and Verizon Communications Inc. met with FCC officials over the weekend in an attempt to reach a compromise on net-neutrality rules. Shields talks with Scarlet Fu on Bloomberg Television's "In the Loop." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
