-- Latin Leaders Cling to Early Hatred of U.S.: Alexandre Marinis
-- Alexandre Marinis
-- 2009-08-12T01:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2009-08-11/latin-leaders-cling-to-early-hatred-of-u-s-alexandre-marinis.html

          
          
             The world should look forward to the
next generation of Latin American leaders. They will be less
hostile toward the West and less likely to destabilize their
neighbors.  
 The region’s current rulers formed their political views
back in the 1960s and 1970s, when the U.S. was supporting
military coups to prevent communism from spreading beyond Cuba.  
 The ill will generated by U.S. policy reverberates today
among political leaders in Central and South America even though
the Cold War ended 20 years ago and the U.S. is focused on the
Middle East and Asia, letting the region more or less take care
of itself.  
 Latin America’s future leaders grew up watching the Berlin
Wall collapse on TV and celebrating the North American Free
Trade Agreement. They know a different U.S., one that no longer
has to meddle in their region’s internal affairs to make sure
capitalism prevails over communism.  
 In his 1986  book , “The Cycles of American History,”
 Arthur M. Schlesinger Jr.  -- a former aide to President  John F. Kennedy  who opposed the Bay of Pigs invasion of Cuba -- said
U.S. history moves in 30-year cycles between private interest
and public purpose, free market and activist government,
capitalism and democracy, Republicans and Democrats.  
 Today, as the global financial crisis swings the pendulum
of history away from overly unregulated markets and into the
arms of bigger government and Keynesian capitalism,
Schlesinger’s notion is worth revisiting from an international
perspective.  
 Forming an Identity  
 One of his noteworthy insights is that generations are
delineated by key historical events that take place while young
adults acquire their political consciousness, or identity. These
events, which shape hearts and minds, provide a common world
view that people will share for life.  
 For leaders in Latin America, those key events included
fighting oppressive military regimes propped up by an
imperialist Uncle Sam. Clinging to the past, they stick to the
only demand they can agree upon -- the end of Washington’s
embargo on Cuba -- while critical matters remain unattended.  
 They should worry, for instance, about the negative
political and economic consequences of the neo-populist
sentiment Venezuelan President  Hugo Chavez  is cultivating
throughout Central and South America.  
 Even respected moderates such as Brazil’s  Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva  and Chile’s  Michelle Bachelet  fail to criticize Chavez
for stoking the flames of tension and discord in the region.  
 Chavez’s Influence  
 Relying on petrodollars and a strong military, Chavez’s
self-proclaimed socialist revolution has influenced the recent
coup in Honduras as well as the remilitarization of the region,
including last year’s near-war between Colombia and Ecuador. And
thanks to Chavez, the hemisphere will suffer from the economic
decline that usually follows the nationalization of seized
private businesses, the overextension of presidential terms to
limits enjoyed only by dictators, and the curtailing of press
freedoms.  
 Chavez’s leadership grows stronger due to the political
vacuum left by Brazil, the region’s biggest country. For all his
passionate speechmaking, Brazil’s Lula has not uttered one word
about the growing evidence that Chavez supplied weapons to FARC,
the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia, a terrorist group
involved with drug lords.  
 Double Standard  
 Nor has Lula responded to the growing evidence that Chavez
illegally financed political campaigns in Argentina, Ecuador and
elsewhere. In 2002, documents from ABIN, Brazil’s national
intelligence agency, suggested that Lula’s Workers’ Party might
have received $5 million from FARC. The allegations were never
proved.  
 Last week, Lula said he was concerned about Colombia’s plan
to give the U.S. access to seven military bases for operations
against illegal drug traffickers and FARC guerrillas. Lula seems
to agree with Chavez, who sees the Colombia-U.S. agreement as an
“aggression” that should be countered with the purchase of
“several battalions” of Russian-made tanks.  
 Yet Lula didn’t oppose a joint naval exercise held by
Venezuela and Russia last year that involved 16 warships and
1,600 Russian sailors in the Caribbean. During the exercise, a
destroyer became the first Russian warship to cross through the
Panama Canal since World War II.  
 So Lula and other Latin American leaders appear to have a
double standard when it comes to military action.  
 ‘Automatic Anti-Americanism’  
 And that’s nothing compared to Nicaragua’s  Daniel Ortega ,
who charged that U.S. intelligence agencies, acting without the
approval of President  Barack Obama , planned the coup that ousted
President  Manuel Zelaya  from Honduras in late June. Ortega, of
course, didn’t just observe U.S. intervention as a young man in
Latin America. He led the Sandinista government in battle
against U.S-funded contra rebels in the 1980s.  
 “The continent must leave the automatic anti-Americanism
behind, in my view a sign of immaturity,” Colombian Defense
Vice-Minister Sergio Jaramillo told O Estado de São Paulo, a
Brazilian newspaper.  
 Jaramillo, at 42, sounds more reasonable than the most
experienced Latin leaders. His worldview was formed while
studying in Canada, England, France and Germany in the late
1980s and early 1990s, when the Cold War was already ending.  
 Schlesinger’s theories deserve to be revisited. They
explain what’s happening in the world today and how Latin
America will change for the better when future generations take
charge.  
 ( Alexandre Marinis , political economist and founding
partner of Mosaico Economia Politica, is a Bloomberg News
columnist. The opinions expressed are his own.)  
 To contact the writer of this column:
Alexandre Marinis in Sao Paulo at 
 amarinis1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        