-- Leap Advances as Subscriber Additions Top Estimates
-- Vivek Shankar
-- 2008-01-08T21:11:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2008-01-08/leap-advances-as-subscriber-additions-top-estimates-update2-.html

          
          
             Leap Wireless International Inc. (LEAP) , the
provider of Cricket and Jump mobile-phone service, rose
6.1 percent in Nasdaq trading after holiday sales helped add
more fourth-quarter subscribers than officials expected.  
 Leap netted about 152,000 new customers last quarter,
topping its November projection of 70,000 to 130,000. The rate
of customer turnover, or ``churn,'' was 4.2 percent, also above
the company's estimates.  
 The results reassured investors, who had anticipated slower
growth after disappointing results in the third quarter and a
22 percent decline in the share price last year. A financial
restatement and a failed takeover bid by rival  MetroPCS
Communications Inc. (PCS)  also weighed on the stock.  
 ``Expectations were pretty low here,'' said  Steve Clement ,
an analyst with Pacific Crest Securities in  Portland , Oregon.
Investors are betting that the announcement is a positive sign
for the first quarter, he said. Clement expects the shares to
perform in line with the company's peers and doesn't own any.  
 Leap climbed $2.32 to $40.16 at 4 p.m.  New York  time in
Nasdaq Stock Market  trading .  
 MetroPCS gained $1.06, or 6.4 percent, to $17.53 on the New
York Stock Exchange.  Todd Rethemeier  at Soleil Securities raised
his rating on MetroPCS shares to ``buy'' from ``hold'' today
after Leap's report.  
 Strongest Quarters  
 Leap targets younger customers who lack the credit scores
to qualify for service plans with larger carriers such as  AT&T
Inc. (T)   
 The company said last month that fourth-quarter churn would
be 4.5 percent to 4.7 percent. In November, Leap said it added
36,500 subscribers in the third quarter, missing its own
forecast of at least 40,000. The fourth-quarter additions
dropped 42 percent from a year earlier.  
 ``It still shows it's a tough macroeconomic environment,''
said  Michael Nelson , an analyst at Stanford Group Co. in New
York. The fourth and first quarters are typically strong periods
for Leap, said Nelson, who has a hold rating on the shares and
doesn't own any.  
 Leap restated more than three years of financial results
last month after miscounting sales and costs. The company had
counted extra months of sales from customers who had ended their
service, and booked some revenue and costs over the wrong
periods, according to  regulatory filings . The changes cut
operating income by $22.5 million and service revenue by
$7.5 million between 2004 and 2007.  
 Leap is the second-largest provider of pay-as-you-go
mobile-phone service, behind MetroPCS. That company, which
sought to acquire Leap last year, said it won't hold further
talks until after a government auction of airwaves. Both
companies plan to bid in the auction, which begins this month,
and merger talks would violate anti-collusion rules.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Vivek Shankar in  San Francisco  at 
 vshankar3@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Cesca Antonelli at   fantonelli@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        