-- Starbucks plans 2nd farm support center in Rwanda
-- By Arthur Asiimwe
-- Sat Dec 1, 2007 7:46am EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2007/12/01/businesspro-starbucks-rwanda-dc-idUSL0169198120071201

 

 KIGALI  (Reuters) - Starbucks Corp ( SBUX.O ) said on Saturday 
it would open a support centre for coffee farmers in Rwanda, 
the second in Africa after Ethiopia. 

  The world's biggest coffee chain said it would open the 
centre in Rwanda's capital Kigali in 2008.  "That support centre will go a long way in helping us 
increase our purchase of Rwandan coffee," Starbucks Chairman 
Howard Schultz said in Kigali.  On Wednesday, the firm announced it would open Africa's 
first support centre for farmers in 2008 in Ethiopia, the 
continent's largest coffee producer with an estimated annual 
production of 320,000 tonnes.  Schultz said Starbucks was looking to Africa for increased 
coffee supplies over the coming years.  "We are buying ten times more coffee today than we did a 
few years ago," he said.  The tiny central African country is an emerging grower of 
specialty coffee, having one of the world's top grades.  Rwandan coffee is mostly grown by small-scale farmers at 
high-altitude areas in rich volcanic soils.  The centre would be modelled on a program supporting Latin 
American farmers in Costa Rica, Shultz said after meeting with 
Rwanda's President Paul Kagame.  "This centre will help farmers elevate the quality of 
coffee, (making it) able to meet standards at the global market 
place which translate into more profits for them," he added.  Rwanda hopes to more than double coffee output to 32,000 
tonnes in 2008 from 14,000 tonnes in 2007 mainly due to 
improved farm practices and a better crop cycle.  Starbucks, which operates some 13,000 coffee shops in 39 
countries, bought beans from six African countries last year -- 
Rwanda, Burundi, Ethiopia, Kenya, Tanzania and Zambia.  Earlier this year, Starbucks was accused by Ethiopia and 
aid agency Oxfam of attempting to block the African nation from 
obtaining trademarks for its best-known beans -- Sidamo and 
Harrar.  But in June, Starbucks and the Ethiopian government reached 
an agreement that allowed the coffee shop chain to use and 
promote the Harrar, Sidamo and Yirgacheffe coffee designations 
in markets where trademarks exist, as well as where they don't.  (Editing by Wangui Kanina and Tony Austin)