-- Dealmakers optimistic despite global mergers lull
-- By  Mark McSherry
-- Fri Mar 9, 2007 1:08pm EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2007/03/09/businesspro-mergers-lull-dc-idUSN0939592920070309

 

 NEW YORK  (Reuters) - Mergers and acquisitions have slowed 
during the volatility in global financial markets over the past 
two weeks, but investment bankers say the upheaval would have 
to last a long while to threaten the M&A boom. 


  Through Friday morning, announced global mergers so far in 
March have slowed to about $82 billion compared with $201 
billion for the same period last year, according to data 
provider Dealogic.  In the United States, the March M&A slowdown has been 
sharp, with $11.8 billion of announced deals compared with 
$126.4 billion over the same stretch last year. Last March's 
figure was boosted hugely by AT&T Inc.'s ( T.N ) proposal to buy 
BellSouth Corp. BLS.N for roughly $85 billion.  Nonetheless, investment bankers remain confident the pace 
of mergers will pick up once again.  "A week or two of markets being up or down isn't enough to 
derail conversations," said Alan Hartman, head of U.S. M&A at 
Merrill Lynch. "To me, the overall market dynamics that exist 
today are still so positive for deals."  The global mergers boom has been driven by low interest 
rates, gains in stock markets and liberal credit markets. Also 
fueling M&A has been private equity funds, often known as 
financial sponsors.  Private equity firms were involved in deals worth about 
$737.4 billion in 2006 as global M&A reached a record $4.06 
trillion.  Year to date overall in 2007, Dealogic said announced 
global M&A is $748.1 billion, down slightly from $754.3 billion 
at this stage last year, with 2007 deals in the United States 
actually ahead of 2006 at this stage, with $336.3 billion 
compared with $310 billion last year.
  CAUTION  Global financial markets have gyrated over the past two 
weeks, with stocks see-sawing and risky assets being battered.  The caution has also affected initial public offerings.  3i Infrastructure Ltd ( 3IN.L ) said on Thursday it raised 
700 million pounds ($1.35 billion) in Europe's biggest initial 
public share offer for an infrastructure investment company.  But the proceeds were at the bottom of the 700 million to 
1.3 billion pound range the company had hoped for.  BH Macro Ltd. ( BHMG.L ), a hedge fund launched by Brevan 
Howard Asset Management, said on Friday it raised 770 million 
euros ($1.01 billion) in an initial public offering, below its 
original target of 1 billion euros.  And Chinese media and advertising company Xinhua Finance 
Media Ltd. XFML.O on Friday fell as much as 9.2 percent in 
its U.S. market debut, a day after pricing shares at the 
midpoint of a forecast range.  The stock market is just one factor influencing merger 
activity. M&A can also be vulnerable to unexpected geopolitical 
crises and uncertainty over credit markets and interest rates.  Also, if one mega-deal collapsed due to a failure to secure 
funding, the confidence of deal makers and corporate CEOs may 
begin to falter, experts said.  "Right now, I'm optimistic that this is a speed bump and we 
are going to get through it," said Jeffrey Raich, joint global 
head of M&A at UBS.  "I still think there is lots of money all over the world 
that is supporting the equity and debt markets. I do think it 
will be choppy, but hopefully not in a downward trajectory to 
the point where M&A activity slows down."  Also spooking some investors is the trouble in the risky 
U.S. subprime mortgage market, which serves borrowers with poor 
credit histories at high interest rates and has seen rising 
default rates in recent months.  At least 20 lenders in the subprime mortgage sector have 
gone out of business. If the problems in the subprime market 
escalated and rippled throughout the credit markets, financing 
could be tougher to secure for some deals.  "M&A is about confidence and when you have volatile markets 
or you have a general malaise set in on the markets for an 
extended period of time, CEOs and boardrooms tend to not want 
to make bold moves," said Raich of UBS.