-- Media firm sues Greenberg over trade practices
-- By Ed Leefeldt
-- Fri Mar 9, 2007 2:48pm EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2007/03/09/businesspro-greenberg-lawsuit-dc-idUSN0917998420070309

 

 NEW YORK  (Reuters) - A media firm hired to improve the 
image of former American International Group Inc. ( AIG.N ) Chief 
Executive Maurice "Hank" Greenberg is suing Greenberg's firm, 
claiming it engaged in "unfair and deceptive trade practices." 


  Greenberg could not be reached for comment. A spokeswoman 
for Greenberg's company, C.V. Starr & Co., attributed the 
lawsuit to a "billing dispute."  Greenberg has been trying to rebuild his image since he was 
forced to resign as head of AIG, the world's largest insurance 
company, in February 2005. He faces civil fraud charges for 
alleged improper accounting filed by former New York Attorney 
General Eliot Spitzer, who is now the state's governor.  The suit was filed in U.S. District Court in Massachusetts 
by eSapience Ltd. eSapience said it was paid to "present 
Greenberg in the best light" by creating forums where he could 
speak and "assuring the presence and participation of key 
intellectual and public figures," including academics 
affiliated with the company.  According to the eSapience suit, professors of the 
University College of London, the University of Chicago and the 
Massachusetts Institute of Technology went to bat for 
Greenberg, sometimes charging $1,000 an hour for their 
services.
  'SECURING A JOURNALIST'  The Cambridge, Massachusetts-based eSapience also led a 
media campaign, the purpose of which was "securing a New York 
Times journalist who might be inclined to write an article" on 
Spitzer's lawsuit against Greenberg, according to the suit.  Greenberg had been rumored last November to be interested 
in buying New York Times Co. ( NYT.N ). He has said in interviews 
that he thinks a number of media companies are undervalued and 
that some of them will be taken private.  Additionally eSapience tried to engage a "best-selling 
author" to ghostwrite Greenberg's autobiography, the suit 
claims.  ESapience said in the suit that its work for Greenberg from 
May through September was successful in getting Greenberg an 
article in the front section of The Wall Street Journal.  ESapience said it was told to bill the costs of the 
campaign to C.V. Starr, a private company where Greenberg is 
the chairman and chief executive, according to the suit. C.V. 
Starr runs insurance brokerage operations.  "The purpose of this request was to ... allocate the cost 
of this intense effort between more than one of Greenberg's 
entities," according to the suit. Greenberg himself is a 
billionaire who retains huge holdings in AIG, his former 
company.  In September, the day before an eSapience-hosted event at 
the St. Regis Hotel in New York at which Greenberg was 
"invited" to make the keynote speech, eSapience said Greenberg 
representatives told the company that he was not inclined to 
continue with part of its effort.  Subsequently, a Greenberg attorney, Lee Wolosky, "made 
scurrilous accusations" about eSapience's billing practices, 
the suit said.  ESapience said in its suit that Starr refuses to pay more 
than $2 million it owes the company for its services from 
August through November, including its commission to find a New 
York Times reporter and its article in The Wall Street Journal.  Calls to eSapience were returned by its chairman, David 
Evans, who confirmed the lawsuit but said that on the advice of 
his lawyers he could not provide further information.  Sarah Lubman, a spokeswoman for C.V. Starr, confirmed that 
eSapience was a public relations adviser to C.V. Starr during 
2006 and that "there is a billing dispute." Wolosky could not 
be reached for comment.