-- NYSE/NASD regulation merger challenged by broker
-- 
-- Fri Mar 9, 2007 2:33pm EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2007/03/09/businesspro-nasd-nyse-lawsuit-dc-idUSN0922232120070309

 

 NEW YORK  (Reuters) - A broker-dealer firm sued brokerages 
watchdog NASD and the New York Stock Exchange on Friday to 
block a deal to merge oversight functions, saying the 
arrangement would be unfair to NASD members. 


  Standard Investment Chartered Inc., a California-based 
brokerage firm, said in the complaint that the terms of the 
consolidation "represent a massively unfair disenfranchisement 
of NASD members."  The lawsuit, filed in U.S. District Court in Manhattan, 
seeks class-action status. It also names several NASD 
executives as defendants, including NASD Chairman and Chief 
Executive Mary Schapiro, who is to become the head of the new, 
combined entity.  The stock exchange's regulation unit, part of the NYSE 
Group Inc. NYX.N, and NASD, formerly known as the National 
Association of Securities Dealers, announced the planned 
consolidation in November 2006. The move is aimed at 
eliminating overlap that has caused brokerages to complain 
about duplicative costs, but it has drawn resistance from some 
small firms which say it will strip them of power.  In January, the NASD said that 64 percent of the more than 
5,000 NASD member firms voting on the matter backed changes to 
bylaws that would allow the deal to go forward. The two groups 
have said the merger is expected to close by the middle of this 
year.  The lawsuit contends that NASD members gave their consent 
to the deal "only through a 'bum's rush' campaign that included 
millions of dollars in public relations ballyhoo."  An NASD spokeswoman, Nancy Condon, said that the 
association believes "this lawsuit will be found to have no 
merit, and that the transaction will move forward as planned."  She said that "the member vote was conducted in a fair 
manner, with significant opportunity for all firms to review 
the consolidation, attend regional information sessions, ask 
questions, and determine for themselves the merits of the 
proposal."  An NYSE spokesman declined to comment.