-- Adam Smith gets O'Rourke alternative
-- By  Pedro Nicolaci da Costa
-- Fri Mar 9, 2007 6:53pm EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2007/03/09/businesspro-books-nations-dc-idUSN0722718220070309

 

 NEW YORK  (Reuters) - Adam Smith is revered by many as the 
father of modern economics, but even his biggest fans agree 
that writing was not his forte. 


  Smith's "The Wealth of Nations" is famously long, devoting 
more space to the minutiae of trade than to the ideas that now 
hold a place among the canons of Western thinking.  In comes the satirist P.J. O'Rourke, an unabashed Smith 
groupie, to condense it into a summary more palatable to the 
21st Century reader.  Some 700 pages shorter than the 1776 treatise, O'Rourke's 
"On the Wealth of Nations" provides a jovial and readable 
synopsis of its weighty forefather, starting with Smith's 
argument that the pursuit of self-interest ultimately benefits 
society.  As O'Rourke points out, this idea underpins capitalism, 
free trade and libertarianism -- the belief that everybody 
should be free to do what they like with their own person or 
property.  Author of political books such as "Republican Party 
Reptile," O'Rourke has described himself as a libertarian, and 
not surprisingly his latest book has drawn praise from 
similar-minded individuals.  "It goes right into Adam Smith in a very condensed and 
pithy way," said Eamonn Butler, director of the Adam Smith 
Institute, a free-market think tank based in London. "It's 
amusing and engaging but also surprisingly perspicacious."
  WEALTH OF PATIENCE  In his trek through Adam Smith, O'Rourke offers many unique 
insights into the 18th century Scotsman's thinking. He also 
takes some swipes at former U.S. President Bill Clinton, PBS 
broadcaster Bill Moyers, and Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez, 
among others.  O'Rourke's reading acknowledges the academic view that some 
modern interpretations of Smith as a pioneer of 
small-government doctrine are off the mark.  "A straight right-wing reading of Smith is considered quite 
problematic by most contemporary scholars," said Sam 
Fleischacker, a professor at the University of Illinois at 
Chicago and president of the International Adam Smith Society.  "Smith's own political environment, and concerns, were 
focused on such different issues -- how to combat feudal 
privileges, for instance, or Britain's imperial projects -- 
that it's very hard to fit him into contemporary debates over 
libertarianism versus the welfare state," Fleischacker added.  O'Rourke has been less orthodox on the subject of trade and 
in his effort to transpose Adam Smith onto the modern canvas of 
globalization, arguing recently -- apparently on Smith's behalf 
-- that the U.S. trade deficit was a mirage with marginal 
economic consequences.  Reaching $763.6 billion last year, the U.S. deficit is 
financed by public borrowing, a subject on which Smith himself 
had this to say: "When national debts have once been 
accumulated to a certain degree, there is scarce, I believe, a 
single instance of their having been fairly and completely 
paid."  Pop culture references to Paris Hilton and others will 
ensure a much shorter shelf life for "On the Wealth of Nations" 
than that enjoyed by its forebear. But for a deadline-conscious 
college student facing Adam Smith's turgid prose, the O'Rourke 
alternative will be an easy choice.  "On the Wealth of Nations" was published by Atlantic 
Monthly Press, a division of Grove/Atlantic Inc., in January.