-- Centrosolar Chief Predicts Record Profit, Revenue Next Year
-- Joseph Mapother
-- 2009-11-10T15:25:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2009-11-10/centrosolar-chief-predicts-record-profit-revenue-next-year.html

          
          
             Centrosolar Group AG sales and
profit next year will rise to records on demand for residential
solar panels and lower production costs, said Chief Executive
Officer Alexander Kirsch.  
 “We will exceed the record year of 2008,” when the
Munich-based company posted  sales  of 333 million euros ($499
million) and earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization of 21.4 million euros, Kirsch said today at an
investors conference in Frankfurt.  
 Centrosolar sells solar modules and mounting systems to
installers of residential units in Europe. It also sells its
anti-reflective glass, which increases the ability of modules to
absorb sunlight, to module manufacturers including Japan’s
 Kyocera Corp. (6971)  and Evergreen Solar in the U.S.  
 Kirsch said subsidies for home installations in  Germany ,
paid to encourage use of solar-generated electricity, will be
reduced by the new coalition government because module prices
have fallen faster than lawmakers anticipated. The cuts won’t
hurt installations, he said.  
 “We all expect that feed-in tariffs will be cut,” Kirsch
said, referring to the rates utilities pay to take power from
commercial solar producers or households that generate more than
they need. Most of the cuts will fall on large commercial parks,
not Centrosolar’s core residential business, Kirsch said.
Commercial solar parks order cheaper modules built outside
Germany, and the German government is unlikely to want to
subsidize foreign module makers, he said.  
 Next year’s rebound will follow sales this year as low as
280 million euros, Kirsch said, confirming the company’s 2009
forecast. Ebitda will fall to as low as 6 million euros because
of inventory writedowns and charges from a closed joint venture
with Qimonda AG, the German semiconductor maker that declared
involvency in January, Kirsch said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Joseph Mapother in  Frankfurt  at 
 jmapother1@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        