-- U.S. could face mild recession, Greenspan quoted
-- 
-- Wed May 14, 2008 1:51am EDT
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2008/05/14/businesspro-greenspan-us-dc-idUSSIN13522520080514

 

 SINGAPORE  (Reuters) - U.S. economic data suggests the 
world's biggest economy could face a mild recession, former 
Federal Reserve chairman Alan Greenspan was quoted as telling 
Asian investors on Wednesday. 

  "He said that the data coming out of the U.S. so far 
suggests a mild recession. The risk is really on the housing 
side," a participant quoted Greenspan as telling a closed-door 
Deutsche Bank investor meeting in Singapore via videolink from 
Washington.  Greenspan, who was quoted as saying earlier this month that 
the U.S. has fallen into an "awfully pale recession," also told 
the investor meeting that the credit crisis would end when home 
prices in the United States begin to stabilize.  "When home prices stabilize that would mark the end of the 
credit crisis," the participant quoted Greenspan as saying.  "The last part of liquidation will only occur in early 
2009, but he argued that it is likely home prices could well 
stabilize before that," added the participant, who declined to 
be identified.  The U.S economy is reeling from a housing-led slowdown, 
with some analysts convinced it is already in a recession 
despite a 0.6 percent growth rate in the first quarter of 2008.  The Fed has cut it's key overnight lending rate by 3.25 
percentage points to 2.0 percent since mid-September in a bid 
to prevent the housing downturn from spilling over to the 
broader economy.  Greenspan also said that global prices could remain firm 
because the effect of China's cheap exports is waning.  "We are entering a period where the disinflationary 
pressure from the exports of China have bottomed out," the 
participant quoted Greenspan as saying.  "Low cost labor in China probably reached its peak in late 
2006 and early 2006. We are beginning to see gradually rising 
inflationary pressures, which would be probably subdued during 
the current period of slowdown, but will surely re-emerge when 
the economy begins to pickup," he quoted Greenspan as saying.  (Reporting by Saeed Azhar)