-- Lowe's says mortgage woes could affect some markets
-- 
-- Tue Mar 13, 2007 7:27pm EDT
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2007/03/13/businesspro-lowes-ceo-dc-idUSN1318632920070313

 

 ATLANTA  (Reuters) - The chairman of Lowe's Cos. Inc. 
( LOW.N ), the second-largest U.S. home improvement retailer, 
warned on Tuesday that problems in the subprime mortgage sector 
may hurt its business in some areas. 


  "I don't think it's going to totally derail us in 2007 but 
I think it could have an impact in some markets on us," 
Chairman Robert Niblock said at a consumer conference when 
asked how the U.S. mortgage market fallout was affecting 
business.  Lowe's shares fell $1.60, or 5 percent, to a 2007 low of 
$30.74 in a down market, hurt by problems in the subprime 
mortgage segment and weak retail sales. Rival Home Depot Inc. 
( HD.N ) fell 2.2 percent to $37.35, its lowest since November.  Niblock said most mortgages were more conventional loans 
for which lending standards were not relaxed.  "If it gets to a point where you have delinquencies turning 
into foreclosures and people losing their homes, that will have 
some impact on those markets," Niblock said.  Problems in the subprime mortgage sector, which involves 
loans to borrowers with poor credit histories, have weighed on 
U.S. financial markets in recent weeks.  On Tuesday, the Mortgage Bankers Association said lenders 
began foreclosure against more than one of every 200 U.S. 
mortgage borrowers in the fourth quarter, a record level.  Deliquencies rose in 49 states and among all loan types. 
Subprime adjustable-rate loans logged the steepest increase, 
with that delinquency rate rising to 14.44 percent in the 
fourth quarter from 13.22 percent the prior quarter.  Niblock said although Lowe's does not expect a rapid 
recovery in the housing market, "we're seeing signs that the 
worst is behind us, which will mean easier comparisons."  Lowe's, based in Mooresville, North Carolina, said last 
month that sales at stores open at least a year could improve 
gradually this year.  Niblock said Lowe's was not seeing much change in 
competition as industry leader Home Depot looks to invest more 
in store improvements. He said data from a third-party firm 
showed Lowe's gained unit market share in all the product 
categories it sold in 2006.  As Lowe's adds stores in bigger U.S. cities, it was mulling 
different store formats, he said. For example, Lowe's was 
considering stores that had parking and garden centers on the 
roof as well as stores with two levels.  Niblock also said Lowe's was not inclined to buy the 
professional supply business that Home Depot is considering 
selling. Instead, he said Lowe's was focusing on expanding 
business with commercial customers through its retail stores.  Home Depot Supply includes businesses that sell building 
materials, fire hydrants and electrical products to cities and 
contractors.  "It's really hard to integrate (those businesses) and 
really hard to be able to get enough efficiencies out of them," 
Niblock said. "Our first intent is not to go out and buy 
something like that."
