-- Exchange M&A points to global players
-- By  Mark McSherry
-- Thu Nov 30, 2006 2:51pm EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2006/11/30/businesspro-column-mergers-dc-idUSMOL07124820061130

 

 NEW YORK  (Reuters) - Globalization is coming to financial 
exchanges. 

  The frenzied merger activity in this sector has set off a 
process that experts say in some cases will result in trading 
venues that have a worldwide reach.  Cultural issues may eventually prevent an outright merger 
of a big Asian exchange with one in Europe or the United 
States, but dealmakers said alliances similar to those among 
airlines could happen.  "It's a chess game and a land grab, and it's being played 
out on a global basis," said one M&A banker who works in the 
sector. "It's a desire to be a larger liquidity pool that can 
go across continents."  So far this year, at least 24 mergers worth about $25 
billion have been announced between securities exchanges, 
according to research firm Dealogic.  Among the biggest was New York Stock Exchange operator NYSE 
Group's NYX.N proposed purchase of Euronext ENXT.PA, the 
operator of the Paris, Brussels, Amsterdam and Lisbon bourses, 
as well as London's Euronext.Liffe derivatives exchange.  Also, Nasdaq Stock Market Inc. ( NDAQ.O ) has built up a 
stake of almost 29 percent in London Stock Exchange ( LSE.L ) and 
has offered to buy the remaining shares from investors. The LSE 
has dismissed the offer as too low.  High trading volumes boosted by hedge funds and a boom in 
commodities have helped drive the interest in financial 
exchanges.  Reflecting the excitement over the sector, shares of energy 
exchange NYMEX Holdings Inc. NMX.N more than doubled in their 
November 17 market debut.  In domestic deals, NYMEX competitor, Atlanta-based 
IntercontinentalExchange Inc. ( ICE.N ) is in the process of 
merging with the New York Board of Trade BOT.N, the largest 
of the remaining independent commodity futures exchanges in the 
United States.  And the Chicago Mercantile Exchange CME.N, the largest 
U.S. futures exchange, plans to acquire its cross-town rival, 
the Chicago Board of Trade.  The M&A banker, who requested anonymity, attributed the 
whirlwind merger activity to the convergence of several trends.  "You have the transformation from floor trading to 
electronic trading," he said. "You have the conversion of 
historically not-for-profit institutions to for-profit 
institutions. And you have technology now that allows you to 
trade electronically across the globe."  Another investment banker, James von Moltke, head of Morgan 
Stanley's global securities industry investment banking 
practice, said, "There is no question that there will be large 
exchange organizations that are global in scope created."
  TOO FAR?  However, the consolidation may be going too far for some 
customers of the exchanges, who fear a small number of 
megabourses could end up with too much pricing power.  "I think we are seeing the elimination of competitors," 
said Warren West, president of Philadelphia-based Greentree 
Brokerage Services.  As a result, some customers could effectively build their 
own exchanges.  In fact, some of the world's biggest investment banks are 
in the process of forming alternative trading platforms, and 
they see smaller regional exchanges as attractive and potential 
partners.  On November 15, for example, a group of seven banks said 
they planned next year to create a new pan-European equity 
trading platform to compete with stock exchanges in the region.  The banks -- Citigroup ( C.N ), Credit Suisse ( CSGN.VX ), 
Deutsche Bank ( DBKGn.DE ), Goldman Sachs ( GS.N ), Merrill Lynch 
MER.N, Morgan Stanley ( MS.N ) and UBS ( UBSN.VX ) -- said they 
would form a new company with an independent management team to 
develop the platform.  "You have all kinds of new exchanges coming on board -- the 
creation of a lot of competition," said Greentree's West.  "The large institutional investors would like nothing more 
than to have the ability to internalize all of their own 
trading -- and price it themselves."