-- Federated November same-store sales up 8.5 pct
-- 
-- Thu Nov 30, 2006 9:36am EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2006/11/30/businesspro-federated-sales-dc-idUSWEN050220061130

 

 NEW YORK  (Reuters) - Federated Department Stores Inc. 
FD.N, parent of Macy's and Bloomingdale's, on Thursday 
reported a stronger-than-expected gain in November sales at 
stores open at least one fiscal year and raised its same-store 
sales forecast for December. 

  But the department store operator, which acquired May 
Department Stores last year, said it continues to be 
disappointed by the performance of the former May stores, which 
it has converted to the Macy's name.  "In part, the sales lag in former May (stores) can be 
attributed to intense promotional activity last year, which we 
chose not to repeat, thus creating unfavorable year-over-year 
comparisons," said Terry Lundgren, Federated's chairman, 
president and chief executive officer, in a statement.  Federated said November same-store sales rose 8.5 percent, 
compared with the company's forecast of 3 percent to 5 percent. 
Analysts, on average, had been expecting an increase of 4.8 
percent, according to a Reuters survey.  Cincinnati, Ohio-based Federated said total sales were 
$2.39 billion for the four weeks that ended November 25, down 
8.9 percent from the year-ago period.  Total sales declined due to the closing of 78 so-called 
duplicative store locations over the past year.  For December, Federated now expects same-store sales to 
rise by 5 percent to 8 percent, up from its previous forecast 
for an increase of 3 percent to 5 percent.  Federated said fourth-quarter same-store sales are expected 
to rise by 5 percent to 7 percent, and it still expects total 
fourth quarter sales of $9.1 billion to $9.4 billion.  Its same-store sales figures include only the Macy's and 
Bloomingdale's stores that were operating as a Macy's or 
Bloomingdale's prior to September. Its total sales for November 
include May store sales.