-- Exxon CEO says evaluating next move in Alaska
-- By  Scott Malone
-- Thu Nov 30, 2006 3:38pm EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2006/11/30/businesspro-exxon-tillerson-dc-idUSMOL07384320061130

 

 BOSTON  (Reuters) - The chief executive of Exxon Mobil Corp. 
( XOM.N ) said on Thursday he is "disappointed" by a recent 
decision by Alaska to revoke some of the company's leases in 
the North Slope region and said the world's largest oil company 
is deciding its next move. 

  The Alaskan state government on Tuesday took the first step 
toward wresting control of the dormant 106,000-acre North Slope 
Point Thomson oilfield, according to local press reports.  "We're terribly disappointed by that decision; it is 
inconsistent with everything that we have been talking to them 
about over the last two years of negotiating," said Rex 
Tillerson, Exxon Mobil CEO told reporters after a speech to the 
Boston College Chief Executives' Club.  "We have met all of the requirements of the state of Alaska 
in the many ways we drilled out there. We spent hundreds of 
millions of dollars at Point Thomson to appraise that resource, 
understand it and be able to make knowledgeable decisions about 
how to develop it," said Tillerson, who took the helm of the 
world's largest publicly traded company by market 
capitalization at the start of the year. "We're disappointed 
the Alaskan legislature chose not to approve the contracts that 
the governor's office negotiated with us, but this is just kind 
of doubly disappointing now. So we're going to have to evaluate 
it and see what our next steps are."  Tillerson did not say what steps the Irving, Texas-based 
company is contemplating.  A year ago, the Alaska Department of Natural Resources 
found Exxon and its partners to be in default of state lease 
terms, contending that Exxon had not abided by a 2001 agreement 
to drill development wells by specific deadlines.  The field, just west of the Arctic National Wildlife 
Refuge, holds 8 trillion cubic feet of natural gas and about 
250 million to 300 million barrels of liquids, including 
natural gas condensates and oil.
  NO PRESSURES ON SAKHALIN  Tillerson also said Exxon hasn't faced unusual pressures in 
its efforts to develop an oil project on Russia's Pacific Ocean 
island of Sakhalin. Fellow oil major Royal Dutch Shell Plc 
( RDSa.L ) has faced friction from the Russian government.  "Going into new countries where the regulatory and legal 
frameworks are somewhat not well defined and they're evolving 
is not new to us," he said. "It's just part of the risk. You 
have to manage it. It continues to evolve in Russia, and we 
work closely with them to make sure what governs our activities 
today, which is our production-sharing agreement at Sakhalin; 
how you harmonize that with Russian regulations is just a 
challenge that we have to work at all the time. But we've been 
successful doing that; our project has gone well. It's on 
schedule."  Boosted by high petroleum prices, Exxon has reported record 
profits over the past 12 months. Its $10.5 billion 
third-quarter profit was the second-highest ever reported by a 
U.S. public company, trailing only the all-time high of $10.7 
billion Exxon posted in the fourth quarter of 2006.  The sky-high profits have helped push Exxon shares to 
all-time highs. They have also drawn criticism that the company 
is profiting at the expense of the American people, who have 
faced high retail gasoline prices for much of this year.  In late afternoon trading, Exxon shares were up $1.13 to 
$77.16. Earlier they touched a high of $77.18.