-- Stock options of UnitedHealth CEO frozen
-- By  Martha Graybow
-- Thu Nov 30, 2006 4:52pm EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2006/11/30/businesspro-unitedhealth-ceo-dc-idUSN3021849920061130

 

 NEW YORK  (Reuters) - A federal judge has temporarily 
blocked outgoing UnitedHealth Group Inc. ( UNH.N ) Chief 
Executive William McGuire from cashing in any of his 
unexercised stock options and collecting his retirement pay. 

  McGuire stepped down as chairman in October and his last 
day as CEO was Thursday, following an internal report by the 
insurer that concluded many of his stock option awards were 
likely backdated.  U.S. District Judge James Rosenbaum in Minnesota ruled late 
on Wednesday that McGuire cannot exercise his outstanding stock 
options until 30 days after a special litigation committee 
created by the UnitedHealth board finishes its review into 
options-related lawsuits filed against the company.  McGuire and plaintiffs in the shareholder suits had agreed 
to the freeze. "There has been no opposition to the joint 
motion for injunctive relief by any party to these matters," 
the judge wrote in his ruling.  McGuire also is temporarily barred from collecting his 
retirement package, reportedly worth $5.1 million a year.  McGuire's outstanding options and retirement package have 
"all been put on ice pursuant to the injunction," said lawyer 
Karl Cambronne, who brought one of the shareholder suits.  The California Public Employees' Retirement System had 
asked the court last month for a preliminary injunction that 
would bar McGuire from collecting his retirement package.  David Brodsky, a lawyer for McGuire, said "we are pleased 
that we were able to reach an agreement" with the plaintiffs on 
postponing the resolution of any issues concerning McGuire's 
employment agreement.  The company said McGuire's employment has ended. It said it 
is acting "in the best interests of our shareholders" and will 
not make payments to McGuire under his employment agreement 
until after the special litigation committee's work is done.  The judge said his order would expire on July 30, 2007, if 
the litigation committee review has not been finished by then.  McGuire had accumulated more than $1.6 billion in stock 
options by the end of 2005. Under an agreement with the company 
announced on November 8, some of his options were repriced, 
reducing their value by $200 million.  UnitedHealth announced sweeping changes following the 
independent report into its options practices, including the 
appointment of new CEO Stephen Hemsley.  The company also has said charges related to the mispriced 
stock options likely would be "significantly greater" than 
prior estimates of up to $286 million.