-- Economy stronger than first thought in third quarter
-- By Joanne Morrison
-- Wed Nov 29, 2006 3:50pm EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2006/11/30/businesspro-usa-economy-dc-idUSN2934336320061130

 

 WASHINGTON  (Reuters) - The U.S. economy grew faster than 
first thought in the third quarter on strong business 
investment, as the housing sector posted its biggest decline in 
more than 15 years, the government said Wednesday. 

  Gross domestic product, which measures total economic 
activity within U.S. borders, expanded at a 2.2 percent annual 
rate during the third quarter, higher than the 1.6 percent gain 
first estimated and above Wall Street expectations for a 1.8 
percent gain.  The housing market picture beyond the 
July-through-September quarter thus far does not look very 
bright, with separate data on Wednesday showing an unexpectedly 
sharp drop in sales of new homes during October.  U.S. Treasury debt prices were weaker while U.S. stocks 
were up in afternoon trading. The dollar was up against the 
euro and the yen.  After-tax corporate profits during the quarter were far 
stronger than expected, rising 4.6 percent after a scant 0.3 
percent increase in the prior quarter. Economists had indeed 
been expecting another weak quarterly gain, of 0.4 percent.  "This kind of cools the talk that the economy is edging 
closer to the brink of recession," said Chris Rupkey, senior 
financial economist at Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi in New York.  The third quarter gain in GDP was still weaker than the 2.6 
percent advance in the second quarter -- and the weakest since 
Gulf Coast hurricanes depressed the fourth quarter of last 
year.  And some analysts said the report was not quite as strong 
as it appeared, noting that more of the third quarter's output 
went into inventories than previously believed, while consumer 
spending was a touch softer.  "Most of the revisions came from inventory and a narrower 
trade deficit," said Lara Rhame, senior currency strategist at 
Credit Suisse in New York.  Even so, business spending in the third quarter was 
stronger than first thought according to the Commerce 
Department report, which was the second estimate of the figures 
after an initial report issued last month.  Business spending rose at a 10 percent annual rate, up from 
the 8.6 percent rise first estimated. Business spending on 
inventories rose, increasing sharply to a $58 billion rate from 
the $50.7 billion earlier estimated.
  HOUSING MARKET WEAKENS  Investment in housing tumbled by 18 percent during the 
quarter, a slightly bigger decline than the 17.4 percent 
decrease in the government's earlier estimate. It was the 
biggest decline since a 21.7 percent slide in the first quarter 
of 1991.  Adding more evidence to that weak housing market picture, a 
separate Commerce Department report showed that sales of new 
homes dipped by 3.2 percent in October, bringing up the supply 
of homes for sale to 7.0 months' worth. Compared to a year ago, 
new home sales dropped 25.4 percent.  In addition, many parts of the United States saw housing 
market activity continue to slow from mid October into the 
first three weeks of this month, according to a Federal Reserve 
report, which was released on Wednesday.  This Beige Book report of economic anecdotes will be 
weighed by Federal Reserve policy makers when they meet on 
December 12 to decide whether to hold benchmark interest rates 
steady at 5.25 percent.  Several regions watched by the Federal Reserve showed 
expectations of weak housing market conditions for several 
months going forward.
  CONSUMER SPENDING WEAKENS  Consumer spending, which accounts for roughly two-thirds of 
national economic activity, advanced at a 2.9 percent annual 
rate during the quarter, a weaker reading than the 3.1 percent 
advance first estimated.  A key inflation measure favored by the Federal Reserve -- 
personal spending excluding food and energy -- advanced at a 
2.2 percent rate during the quarter, down slightly from the 2.3 
percent first estimated and close to Wall Street expectations.  These so-called core prices measured on a year-over-year 
basis were up 2.4 percent, the same as first estimated and the 
strongest rate since 1995.