-- H&R Block loss nearly doubles on mortgage weakness
-- By Jonathan Stempel
-- Thu Nov 30, 2006 5:21pm EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2006/11/30/businesspro-hrblock-results-dc-idUSN3022518120061130

 

 NEW YORK  (Reuters) - H&R Block Inc. ( HRB.N ), the largest 
U.S. tax preparer, on Thursday said its quarterly loss nearly 
doubled, and was larger than analysts expected, as the 
struggles of its mortgage lending arm worsened. 

  For its fiscal second quarter ending October 31, H&R 
Block's net loss rose to $156.5 million, or 49 cents per share, 
from $81.2 million, or 25 cents, a year earlier. Revenue fell 7 
percent to $563.2 million.  Analysts polled by Reuters Estimates on average forecast a 
loss of 32 cents per share on revenue of $582.2 million.  Chief Executive Mark Ernst said "ongoing weakness in the 
mortgage industry" hurt overall results.  H&R Block reported a $39 million pretax loss at its Option 
One Mortgage Corp. subprime unit, which lends to less credit- 
worthy borrowers, as lending fell, margins shrank and defaults 
rose. The unit earned $48.8 million a year earlier.  "H&R Block would be a totally different company if it 
weren't being clobbered by Option One," said David Roberts, a 
principal at Harvest Investment Advisors LLC, which owns H&R 
Block shares. "It has a good collection of assets that is being 
weighed down by a bad business."  Subprime loan volume sank 46 percent to $6.62 billion. 
Compared with the prior quarter, loan volume fell 15 percent 
and margins fell by more than half.  Kansas City, Missouri-based H&R Block said it is making 
progress on plans, announced on November 6, to sell or spin off 
Option One. A decision on the Irvine, California-based unit is 
expected between January and March.  "We have had a high level of interest from a lot of 
sophisticated potential investors in the property," Chief 
Financial Officer William Trubeck said on a conference call 
with reporters.  Revenue rose 37 percent to $229.1 million in business 
services, which includes RSM McGladrey consulting, and 2 
percent to $82.1 million in tax services. It fell 8 percent to 
$112.4 million in consumer financial services, which includes 
banking and brokerage.  H&R Block shares closed on Thursday up 6 cents at $24.00 on 
the New York Stock Exchange. They rose 30 cents in after-hours 
electronic trading.
  LAWSUITS  H&R Block maintained its full-year profit forecast of $1.20 
to $1.45 per share. Analysts on average forecast $1.29. H&R 
Block had lowered the forecast on November 6 from $1.60 to 
$1.85.  The company generates much of its business in the quarter 
ending April 30, which includes the main tax filing season.  Several companies have sold subprime units or put them up 
for sale as the U.S. housing market cools. Subprime borrowers 
often miss more payments as rates rise or the economy slows.  Nevertheless, Barclays Plc ( BARC.L ), Deutsche Bank AG 
( DBKGn.DE ), Merrill Lynch & Co. MER.N, Morgan Stanley ( MS.N ) 
and other companies have bought lenders and servicers, in part 
to add loans they can package into securities.  "The larger Wall Street investment banks are likely very 
much attracted to the quality of those platforms," Ernst said 
on the media call. "That leads us to believe we are very 
confident about Option One."  H&R Block has also faced several setbacks this year, 
including regulatory problems, errors in computing its own 
taxes and a loss of market share to Jackson Hewitt Tax Service 
Inc. JTX.N.  The company is still defending a lawsuit by New York State 
Attorney General Eliot Spitzer accusing it of steering clients 
into retirement accounts that carry excessive fees.  Through the close, H&R Block shares were down 2 percent 
this year, while Jackson Hewitt was up 31 percent.