-- Smithfield Foods earnings fall, miss estimates
-- By  Bob Burgdorfer
-- Thu Nov 30, 2006 7:56am EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2006/11/30/businesspro-smithfield-results-dc-idUSWEN049120061130

 

 CHICAGO  (Reuters) - Top U.S. hog and pork producer 
Smithfield Foods Inc. SFD.N reported lower-than-expected 
quarterly earnings on Thursday due to a weak market for fresh 
meat and higher hog production costs. 

  The Smithfield, Virginia-based company, which has been 
rapidly buying other meat companies, said profit fell to $44.7 
million, or 40 cents per share, in the second quarter that 
ended October 29, from $51.6 million, or 46 cents per share, a 
year ago.  Wall Street analysts on average expected 46 cents per 
share, according to Reuters Estimates.  "Fresh pork and packaged meats margins remained weak even 
as we entered the fall period, traditionally the best time of 
the year," Chief Executive Larry Pope said in a statement. "In 
addition, difficulties in the beef industry persist."  Meat companies have been hurt by an excess of meat and low 
meat prices due in part to increased production and lingering 
export disruptions from mad cow disease two years ago and bird 
flu overseas earlier this year.  Two weeks ago, Tyson Foods Inc. ( TSN.N ), the nation's 
largest meat company, said an excess of meat was partly to 
blame for its fiscal fourth-quarter loss.  Smithfield's revenue for the period was $2.81 billion, 
compared with $2.87 billion a year ago.  The results included some earnings from the European meat 
operations of Sara Lee Corp. SLE.N, a joint-venture that 
Smithfield entered into in August, and from the meat unit of 
ConAgra Foods Inc. ( CAG.N ), which it bought in October. The 
ConAgra deal includes the Butterball turkey and Armor brands.  Looking ahead, the company said this year's higher prices 
for corn, a key livestock feed, will mean higher meat prices.  "Any significant cost increases will have to be passed 
through in selling prices relatively quickly to maintain 
margins," Pope said in the statement.  Corn prices reached a 10-year high this fall due to 
increased demand by the growing ethanol industry.  Smithfield raises about 14 million hogs a year, which are 
sold at market prices to its own pork plants as well as to 
competitors. It is also part-owner of the nation's largest 
cattle-feeding operation.  Smithfield has grown to an $11-billion-a-year company 
largely through acquisitions both in the United States and 
abroad, either outright or with partners.  Smithfield is in the process of buying smaller U.S. hog and 
pork producer Premium Standard Farms Inc. PORK.O  (Additional reporting by Christopher Kaufman)