-- Cardinal Health to sell drug manufacturing unit
-- By  Julie Steenhuysen  and  Debra Sherman
-- Thu Nov 30, 2006 2:45pm EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2006/11/30/businesspro-cardinal-divestiture-dc-idUSMOL07103520061130

 

 CHICAGO  (Reuters) - Cardinal Health Inc. ( CAH.N ) said on 
Thursday that it plans to divest its ailing drug manufacturing 
business, sending its shares up over 5 percent. 

  Cardinal, one of the nation's three major drug wholesalers, 
said it is divesting the unit to focus on customers such as 
hospitals and pharmacies. It said it is in talks with potential 
buyers and sees a deal closing by mid-2007.  Proceeds from a sale would be used to buy back shares. 
Cardinal's board authorized an additional $1 billion of share 
repurchases, bringing the total repurchase authorization for 
fiscal 2007 and 2008 to $3 billion.  Recently appointed Chief Executive R. Kerry Clark, at the 
Reuters Health Summit in New York earlier this month, said he 
was considering selling the drug manufacturing unit as part of 
his efforts to reshape the sprawling health products and 
services company.  Manufacturing problems in the Pharmaceutical Technologies 
and Services, or PTS, business segment have continually dogged 
Cardinal and have been a drag on earnings.  "We view the expected sale positively, as PTS has been a 
consistently volatile and oftentimes underperforming business," 
said Merrill Lynch analyst Tom Gallucci.  He said selling PTS is a departure from the company's past 
growth-focused strategy. "This is new CEO Kerry Clark's first 
major move, and we appreciate the direction he seems to be 
going in," Gallucci said in a note to clients.  Deutsche Bank on Thursday raised its rating on Cardinal to 
"buy" from "hold."  The PTS unit has 10,000 employees at more than 30 
facilities worldwide where it packages 100 billion doses of 
medications per year for other drug makers. It produces annual 
revenue of $1.8 billion, a small fraction of Cardinal's total 
revenue of $81 billion in the latest fiscal year.  Robert Willoughby, an analyst with Bank of America, said 
the divestiture was a good move "given the division's inability 
to post consistent earnings growth over the last several years, 
despite consuming hoards of Cardinal's capital.  "It is clear that Cardinal's focus is shifting more toward 
the provider, rather than the pharmaceutical manufacturer, 
which we believe will require less incremental capital in the 
future," Willoughby added.
  'OUR MOST INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS'  "PTS ... is our most international business of our 
businesses today," Clark told a conference call. "On the other 
hand, this now gives us the real opportunity to focus on our 
med-surg (medical-surgical) businesses, primarily in the UK, 
Canada, France, and Germany."  Cardinal said it plans to keep Martindale and Beckloff 
Associates, which support the generic pharmaceutical market. 
Martindale develops generic, intravenous medicine, while 
Beckloff provides regulatory consulting services. Combined, the 
two businesses have about 400 employees.  Growth goals for the four remaining Cardinal segments are 
unchanged, Clark said.  "Obviously, we are going to make sure we focus on driving 
the business hard in the remaining four business units," he 
told investors on a conference call.  Those segments include drug wholesaling, medical equipment 
wholesaling, medical products manufacturing and automated drug 
delivery products -- such as intravenous drug pumps -- for 
hospitals and other care facilities.  Dublin, Ohio-based Cardinal said it now expects earnings 
from continuing operations for fiscal 2007 ending June 30 of 
$3.25 per share to $3.40 per share.  Excluding the impact of proceeds from the PTS divestiture, 
Cardinal backed its long-term outlook for 12 to 15 percent 
growth in non-GAAP diluted earnings from continuing operations. 
It said proceeds from the deal should further add to fiscal 
2008 earnings growth.  In the fiercely competitive drug wholesaling segment, 
Cardinal competes with AmerisourceBergen Corp. ( ABC.N ) and 
McKesson Corp.( MCK.N ).  Cardinal shares were up $2.75 or 4.45 percent to $64.58 on 
the New York Stock Exchange in afternoon dealings after trading 
as high as $65.09 earlier. Nevertheless, Cardinal is 
underperforming its rivals, with shares down 6.85 percent since 
the start of the year, compared with McKesson, which has seen 
its shares fall 4.38 percent in the same period, and 
AmerisourceBergen, shares of which are up nearly 12 percent.