-- Coke and Caribou to sell iced coffees
-- 
-- Thu Nov 30, 2006 3:45pm EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2006/11/30/businesspro-cocacola-caribou-dc-idUSMOL07205620061130

 

 ATLANTA  (Reuters) - Coca-Cola Co. ( KO.N ) said on Thursday 
it will link up with Caribou Coffee Co. Inc. CBOU.O to sell a 
line of ready-to-drink iced coffees in the United States next 
summer, moving into a category that is currently dominated by 
rival PepsiCo Inc. ( PEP.N ) in North America. 

  Caribou is the No. 2 U.S. specialty coffee company behind 
Starbucks Corp. ( SBUX.O ). Starbucks has been selling bottled 
coffee drinks for years in a partnership with PepsiCo. 
Caribou's shares rose nearly 13 percent in afternoon trading.  Coca-Cola said the Caribou agreement marked the sixth 
product initiative launched by its North American unit in the 
coffee, tea and "indulgent beverage" category. Coke and PepsiCo 
are branching out into noncarbonated drinks as consumers move 
away from sugary sodas.  Coke spokesman Ray Crockett said the world's largest 
soft-drink maker had a big presence in ready-to-drink coffee 
internationally, selling such beverages in countries such as 
Japan, Thailand and India.  "The ready-to-drink coffee business in the U.S. is still 
very small but growing," said John Sicher, editor of industry 
newsletter Beverage Digest. He said products in the 
PepsiCo-Starbucks partnership dominate this segment with a 90 
percent share.  This year, Atlanta-based Coca-Cola launched a 
chocolate-coffee drink in the United States called Godiva 
Belgian Blends under a partnership with Godiva Chocolatier.  "Between Godiva and Caribou, Coke is planting its flag in 
this category," said Sicher.  Caribou Coffee, based in Minneapolis, has coffee cafes in 
17 states, mainly in the upper Midwest, Mid-Atlantic and 
Georgia. It also sells products to grocery stores and other 
commercial customers.  With the Coke deal, "the Caribou brand has the potential to 
be introduced to customers in markets that it isn't currently 
in with retail stores," said Jennifer Milan, vice president of 
equity research at Ryan Beck & Co.  "This could be the tip of the iceberg in terms of the 
opportunity that it could open up" for branded products, she 
added.  Coca-Cola shares were up 18 cents to $46.82 on the New York 
Stock Exchange, while Caribou shares were up $1.03 to $9.00 on 
Nasdaq.