-- Gap November same-store sales sag as traffic falls
-- 
-- Thu Nov 30, 2006 9:19am EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2006/11/30/businesspro-gap-sales-dc-idUSWEN051120061130

 

 NEW YORK  (Reuters) - Gap Inc. ( GPS.N ) said on Thursday its 
sales at stores open at least a year fell 8 percent in 
November, below analysts' average forecast, as fewer customers 
visited its stores even during the kick-off to the busy holiday 
season. 

  The company, whose shares fell 2 percent in early 
electronic trading, expects pressure on merchandise margins to 
continue into December, since revamped stores and merchandise 
have failed to attract shoppers.  Investment firm Lazard Capital Markets cut its rating on 
Gap to "hold" from "buy," saying it has lost confidence in 
management's ability to offer the right merchandise.  "Channel checks indicate that Gap is canceling an enormous 
amount of product, especially denim, signaling a meaningful 
amount of internal disarray and lack of confidence in its 
spring merchandising plans," wrote analyst Todd Slater, in a 
research note. "Throw in the towel before losing your shirt."  A company representative was not immediately available to 
comment on the possible product cancellations.  Gap's senior vice president Sabrina Simmons said in a 
statement, "November was a challenging month as negative 
traffic trends persisted. Promotional and markdown activities 
at Gap and Old Navy drove total company merchandise margins 
below last year, and we expect pressure on merchandise margins 
to continue into December."  Analysts, on average, had been expecting the San 
Francisco-based clothing retailer to post a same-stores sales 
decrease of 5.5 percent in November, according to a Reuters 
survey.  Gap, which runs Banana Republic, Old Navy and its namesake 
Gap stores, reported net sales of $1.40 billion for the 
four-week period ended November 25, down 2 percent from a year 
earlier.  Gap Inc. has lost its footing as discount department stores 
such as Target Corp. ( TGT.N ) have stolen away shoppers with 
lower prices on basic apparel.  Also, Gap's swings from wardrobe staples to fashionable 
offerings back to basic jeans and T-shirts have confused 
previously loyal customers, sending them elsewhere to shop for 
clothes.
  DIVISION RESULTS  In North America, November same-store sales dropped 7 
percent at Gap, declined 1 percent at Banana Republic, and slid 
10 percent at Old Navy. Sales at international stores declined 
8 percent.  The company has rolled out aggressive ad campaigns focusing 
on skinny black pants and its Red line of casual apparel, which 
donates some profits to charity.  It has also brought in a slew of new designers and 
streamlined its inventory systems, but the number of customers 
has continued to slide.  Declines in visitor traffic accelerated in November, from 
October. Gap traffic dropped 8 percent, compared with a 7 
percent decline the month before, while Banana Republic traffic 
dropped 8 percent, from a drop of 5 percent in October.  Old Navy traffic was down 7 percent, in line with the month 
before.  Shares dropped to $18.67 in light early trading, from their 
close at $19.07.