-- Wal-Mart sees slim December same-store sales growth
-- 
-- Thu Nov 30, 2006 8:54am EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2006/11/30/businesspro-walmart-sales-dc-idUSN3045515520061130

 

 CHICAGO  (Reuters) - Wal-Mart Stores Inc. ( WMT.N ) said on 
Thursday it expects little improvement in December sales at its 
stores open at least a year as it struggles with disappointing 
demand for clothing and home decor. 

  Wal-Mart also confirmed that November same-store sales fell 
0.1 percent, their first monthly decline since April 1996.  The world's biggest retailer said electronics and pharmacy 
were among its strongest categories in November as it cut 
prices on plasma televisions and rolled out its $4 generic 
drugs program nationwide.  The Bentonville, Arkansas-based retailer has promoted 
markdowns on popular electronics, toys, small appliances and 
food. Price cuts helped drive strong sales of high-definition 
televisions on the day after Thanksgiving.  But Wal-Mart said December same-store sales would likely be 
flat to up 1 percent -- below the 2 percent growth that Wall 
Street analysts have said would be necessary for Wal-Mart to 
meet its fourth-quarter sales forecast.  The retailer is expected to update its fourth-quarter 
forecast when it reports December sales.  Wal-Mart has struggled to beat last year's strong sales 
performance, which was inflated by post-hurricane shopping. 
Disappointing demand for its trendy Metro 7 women's apparel 
line has also hurt sales.  Wal-Mart said customer traffic declined in November.  The retailer said the hurricane hangover would weigh on 
December sales as well, but it expects improvement in the 
apparel and home categories by spring.  "The home and apparel business is challenging and this will 
continue through the fourth quarter," Eduardo Castro-Wright, 
head of Wal-Mart's U.S. discount stores, said in a statement.  "While we were disappointed in these areas, we did see 
strong results in our home and apparel basics," he added.  Wal-Mart has acknowledged that it expanded too far, too 
fast into trendy clothing at the expense of its basic apparel, 
which is more popular with many of its shoppers.  Total sales for the four-week period ended November 24 rose 
11.9 percent to $28.57 billion.