-- Target trumps Wal-Mart again
-- By  Emily Kaiser
-- Thu Nov 30, 2006 11:02am EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2006/11/30/businesspro-usa-retail-discount-dc-idUSN3047952020061130

 

 CHICAGO  (Reuters) - Wal-Mart Stores Inc.'s ( WMT.N ) 
lackluster December sales forecast on Thursday cast doubt on 
its fourth-quarter prospects, while its nearest rival, Target 
Corp. ( TGT.N ), continued to shine. 

  With strong November sales, Target widened the growth gap 
with Wal-Mart, and its monthly sales at stores open at least a 
year -- or same-store sales -- have now exceeded Wal-Mart's in 
39 of the last 40 months.  "If both companies are around the middle of their December 
guidance, next month will make 40 of the last 41," ThinkEquity 
Partners analyst Edward Weller wrote in a note to clients.  "Since we think that Target will outperform Wal-Mart in 
January --if only because of the greater importance of gift 
cards -- January will make 41 of the last 42. And so on."  Wal-Mart posted a 0.1 percent dip in November same-store 
sales, its first monthly decline in more than a decade, while 
Target's rose 5.9 percent. Last month, Wal-Mart's same-store 
sales were up 0.5 percent while Target's rose 3.9 percent.  But the bigger surprise for Wall Street was Wal-Mart's 
December forecast calling for same-store sales to be flat to up 
1 percent. Analysts had said that the company would need at 
least a 2 percent gain in December to meet its fourth-quarter 
forecast for 1 percent to 2 percent same-store sales growth.  Target expects same-store sales growth of 3.5 percent to 
5.5 percent for December, which is typically the biggest 
shopping month of the year.  Wal-Mart's disappointing forecast comes despite efforts to 
slash prices on popular electronics, toys and other items to 
draw more holiday shoppers. Wal-Mart said November customer 
traffic actually declined, while Target's rose.  Wal-Mart, the world's biggest retailer, has also been 
remodeling stores and upgrading merchandise in the hope of 
appealing to a broader base of customers.
  'TEDIOUS' EXCUSE  Wal-Mart blamed the poor sales on tough comparisons against 
last year's results, which were inflated as hurricane victims 
restocked. Apparel sales have also suffered as its trendy 
clothing lines drew a mixed response from customers.  Bernard Sosnick, retail analyst with Oppenheimer & Co., 
said the post-hurricane excuse "is getting tedious.  "Flattish December sales would mean the huge effort to 
upgrade the shopping experience would not produce the benefit 
in the fourth quarter that had been expected," he added.  Sosnick lowered his fourth-quarter earnings forecast to 88 
cents per share from 90 cents.  Wal-Mart is expected to update its fourth-quarter forecast 
when it reports December sales results.  Wal-Mart said electronics sold well in November, which 
suggests that its price cuts on items such as plasma 
televisions did catch customers' attention.  But Ken Perkins, president of research firm Retail Metrics, 
said shoppers may have cherry-picked those discounted items and 
avoided higher-margin goods in other parts of the store.  "I think Target did a much better job of being in stock on 
their 'doorbuster' items and being able to get consumers to go 
out and shop the rest of the store than Wal-Mart did," he said.  Shares of Wal-Mart dipped 43 cents, or 0.9 percent, to 
$46.46 in early New York Stock Exchange trading. Target was off 
53 cents, or 0.9 percent, at $57.32 as the entire retailing 
sector came under pressure.  Wal-Mart's shares trade at about 14.6 times analysts' 
profit forecasts for next year, compared with Target's multiple 
of 16.1.  (Additional reporting by  Jessica Wohl )