-- Best Buy says testing cell phone only stores
-- By  Nicole Maestri
-- Thu Nov 30, 2006 3:44pm EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2006/11/30/businesspro-bestbuy-phones-dc-idUSN3016879020061130

 

 NEW YORK  (Reuters) - Consumer electronics retailer Best Buy 
Co. Inc. ( BBY.N ) said on Thursday it is partnering with U.K. 
retailer Carphone Warehouse to test mobile phone-only stores at 
nine locations in Manhattan. 

  The stores, called Best Buy Mobile, carry more than 80 cell 
phones from manufacturers like Motorola Inc. MOT.N, Sony 
Ericsson and Samsung ( 000830.KS ).  Shoppers also have the option to choose from seven mobile 
phone service carriers, including Cingular, Verizon ( VZ.N ), 
Sprint, Amp'd Mobile and pay-as-you-go plans from Virgin 
Mobile, Boost Mobile, Verizon InPulse and Cingular GoPhone.  "What we've seen over time is no one out there offering 
customers both choice and service in one location," said David 
Sprosty, chief executive officer of Best Buy Mobile, in an 
interview.  "Our hypothesis is that by offering the level of care that 
they get from a carrier store with a better choice of phones, 
ultimately we can create something that will hopefully meet the 
needs of the customer that are underserved today."  The test comes as stores like RadioShack, Circuit City 
Stores Inc. CC.N and Best Buy that sell mobile phone products 
are facing more competition from wireless providers, which have 
opened up their own stores.  It also comes as RadioShack Corp. ( RSH.N ) struggles with 
its wireless business. Last year, RadioShack said it would 
start selling Cingular Wireless phones and cut ties with 
long-time ally Verizon Wireless to try to revive its wireless 
sales. It has also signed a new 11-year deal with Sprint Nextel 
Corp. ( S.N ).  But the transition, which took place at the beginning of 
2006, has been rocky. RadioShack has struggled to train its 
employees to sell Cingular phones and to raise awareness that 
it offers Cingular products.  "We believe (Best Buy's) test targets RadioShack and, to a 
lesser degree, Circuit City's wireless department," wrote 
Lehman Brothers analyst Alan Rifkin in a note November 29.  "While we don't know at this point whether Best Buy Mobile 
will ultimately be rolled out, it demonstrates the company's 
commitment to serving customers through a variety of channels.  Best Buy said it decided to test the mobile phone-only 
concept with Carphone Warehouse, or CPW, since CPW is the 
largest independent mobile phone retailer in the U.K. and it 
specializes in the small-box store format.  The Best Buy Mobile stores operate either as small 
stand-alone stores or as "stores-within-a-store," meaning they 
are set up within an existing Best Buy store.  Best Buy is hoping that by training its Best Buy Mobile 
employees extensively on the variety of cell phones and 
services it offers, it will get a leg up with today's shoppers 
who may be confused by all the choices out there.  Sprosty said the employees will not work on commission and 
will not be pushing one wireless brand over another.  The Best Buy Mobile stores started opening earlier this 
month and anecdotally, Sprosty said customers are responding 
well to the concept.  He said Best Buy will keep the test stores open for a few 
months before deciding whether to expand the pilot or scale it 
back, or see if the stores cannibalize business from its 
existing Best Buy stores.  "This whole thing really is about changing the experience 
for the customer and solving an unmet need, and if we can do 
that I think we will be a very successful and if we can't we 
won't. It's pretty simple," Sprosty said.