-- Delta says meets US Air, plans no merger
-- 
-- Thu Nov 30, 2006 6:49pm EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2006/11/30/businesspro-delta-usair-takeover-dc-idUSWEN056020061130

 

 NEW YORK  (Reuters) - Delta Air Lines Inc. DALRQ.PK said 
on Thursday it listened to a presentation by US Airways Group 
Inc. ( LCC.N ) on US Airways' $8.5 billion takeover offer for 
Delta, but repeated earlier statements that it intends to 
emerge from bankruptcy as a stand-alone carrier. 

  US Airways, which pitched its plan to Delta's senior 
management and creditor committee representatives on Thursday, 
said in a separate statement that it was pleased to have had 
the chance to discuss its proposal.  It was US Airways' first opportunity to speak directly to 
Delta's official committee of unsecured creditors since 
launching its offer on November 15. The group, which will have 
a large say in the airline's future, could not be immediately 
reached for comment.  It was not clear whether the parties would meet again to 
take US Airways' unsolicited bid for its larger rival further. 
Delta was legally obliged to review the bid.  "While we will fulfill this obligation, we will, as we have 
stated, continue to progress toward filing our stand-alone plan 
by the end of the year, which would have us emerge from 
bankruptcy as a highly competitive, independent and financially 
sound airline by mid-2007," Delta, the No. 3 U.S. airline, said 
in a statement after the meeting.  Atlanta-based Delta has been recalling pilots and flight 
attendants to work this year as it expands internationally and 
restructures operations. Its monthly loss in October narrowed 
year-over-year, helped by lower costs.  Delta's pilots' union, represented on the creditor 
committee, has expressed concerns about the offer.  US Airways has argued that a combined airline would have 
more benefits than a stand-alone Delta.  "We are confident that our proposal for a 'new' Delta will 
create more value than a stand-alone plan," said US Airways 
Chief Executive Doug Parker, in a statement after the meeting.  US Airways has won some backing for its plan from Delta 
bondholders.  An ad hoc group of bondholders, organized last week, aims 
to put pressure on Delta to fully consider the US Airways bid, 
a person familiar with the matter has said.  The group, which was not present at Thursday's meeting, is 
planning separate meetings with Delta and US Airways, Alan 
Kornberg of law firm Paul, Weiss, Rifkind, Wharton & Garrison, 
told Reuters via e-mail. The firm represents the bondholder 
group.