-- Treasury names another new finance official
-- 
-- Thu Nov 30, 2006 6:49pm EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2006/11/30/businesspro-usa-treasury-appointment-dc-idUSN3017144220061130

 

 WASHINGTON  (Reuters) - The U.S. Treasury on Thursday named 
a new deputy assistant secretary for domestic finance whose job 
includes helping manage debt financing and monitoring 
activities of dealers who buy and sell the debt. 

  The Treasury said Matthew T. Abbott will take over from 
James Clouse, who recently left the Treasury after a year-long 
leave from the Federal Reserve.  Clouse attracted attention earlier in the year by warning 
that questionable Wall Street practices were distorting prices 
in cash, futures and repo markets.  Abbott, who served with the airborne division of the 10th 
Special Forces Group of the U.S. Army in the 1990s, has held a 
variety of positions at the Treasury from 2004-2006. Most 
recently, he was senior adviser to the undersecretary for 
domestic finance.  The Treasury has been rebuilding its debt management 
office. Earlier in November, an investment manager serving as 
special adviser to Treasury Secretary Henry Paulson, Anthony 
Ryan, was nominated to become assistant secretary for financial 
markets.  A hearing on Ryan's nomination has been scheduled for next 
week before the Senate Finance Committee. He requires 
confirmation from the full Senate to take the job.  Ryan joined the Treasury in July when Paulson, the former 
head of Wall Street investment bank Goldman Sachs, took office.  The job, which has policy influence over Wall Street 
practices in government debt and oversight of financial 
markets, was vacated in October 2005 when Timothy Bitsberger 
left to join government-sponsored housing finance giant Freddie 
Mac as treasurer and head of funding and investor relations.  Also earlier this month, the Treasury announced its 
director of the debt management office, Jeff Huther, had left 
after three years. He is being replaced by Karthik Ramanathan, 
who was promoted from within Treasury to succeed Huther.