-- Kerkorian to cut GM stake to 4.95 pct
-- By  Jui Chakravorty
-- Thu Nov 30, 2006 2:57pm EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2006/11/30/businesspro-kerkorian-tracinda-dc-idUSN3019057920061130

 

 DETROIT  (Reuters) - Billionaire Kirk Kerkorian's Tracinda 
Corp. investment firm said on Thursday it had agreed to sell 
another 14 million shares of General Motors Corp., cutting his 
stake in the automaker to half of what he owned earlier this 
year. 

  In a U.S. regulatory filing, Tracinda said it had agreed to 
sell the shares in a private transaction for $28.75 a share.  GM shares were down 1 cent at $29.49 in afternoon trading 
on the New York Stock Exchange.  Kerkorian's move comes just a week after he sold 14 million 
shares for $33 a share, cutting his stake from 9.9 percent to 
7.4 percent. The latest move puts his stake at 4.95 percent.  "He's not a guy who typically backs down from a fight, but 
it does appear he is stepping away a bit," Morningstar analyst 
John Novak said.  "Clearly, he wasn't happy with the outcome of the 
Nissan-Renault talks and he has expressed frustration with the 
trajectory of the turnaround," Novak said. "It is always tough 
to read anything into these.  Kerkorian's associate Jerry York resigned from GM's board 
in October in a dispute over board oversight and strategy 
triggered by the automaker's decision not to pursue an alliance 
with Renault-Nissan he had attempted to broker on Kerkorian's 
behalf.  York's resignation from GM's board -- and his public 
criticism of the oversight it provided -- led many analysts to 
believe that Kerkorian could be gearing up for a proxy fight to 
seek control of GM's board and oust Wagoner.  But his moves touched off speculation that the investor, 
who has a history of trading corporate assets in Las Vegas, 
Hollywood and Detroit, could be steering away from a protracted 
fight for GM's board.  "Maybe he realizes he can't create the controversy he needs 
to change the board's direction," AMR Research analyst Kevin 
Reale said.  GM said it would not speculate on what Kerkorian's sale 
implied. "We don't speculate on the motivations or actions of 
our shareholders," spokeswoman Renee Rashid-Merem said.  After this cut, Kerkorian remains GM's largest individual 
shareholder, but now ranks as the fifth largest overall behind 
four institutional investors led by State Street Global 
Advisors. Tracinda had been the second largest investor before 
last week's sale.  Kerkorian first began amassing what became a $1.7-billion 
stake in GM in April 2005.  At the Greater Los Angeles Auto Show this week, GM CEO Rick 
Wagoner said he is "not excessively worried" about a possible 
proxy fight with Kerkorian.  "We're just running the business every day to do the right 
thing for the business and our shareholders and not excessively 
worried about the rest of that," Wagoner told reporters, 
referring to the possible proxy fight.