-- Imax Quarterly Loss Widens on Transition to Digital
-- Meg Tirrell
-- 2008-03-14T20:19:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2008-03-14/imax-quarterly-loss-widens-on-transition-to-digital-update3-.html

          
          
             Imax Corp. (IMAX) , the chain of giant-
screen movie theaters, reported a wider fourth-quarter loss as it
makes the transition to digital-projection systems.  
 The net loss expanded to $10.1 million, or 25 cents a share,
from $9.21 million, or 23 cents, a year earlier, Imax said in a
statement today. Merriman Curhan Ford & Co. analyst  Eric Wold 
estimated a loss of 14 cents. Sales fell 11 percent to $32.3
million.  
 Imax had a $4 million writedown related to its conversion to
digital-projection from film-projection systems, according to the
statement. The switch to digital, which the company plans to
start in the second half of the year, will eliminate film costs
that might be prohibitive for some studios, Chief Executive
Officer Bradley Wechsler said in an interview in December.  
 The company also recorded a $2.5 million gain from
discontinued operations related to the sale of a theater in
Providence, Rhode Island. Excluding the writedown and gain, the
net loss would have been 21 cents a share.  
 ``With the imminent launch of our digital product, the Imax
story has moved from one of development to one of execution and
implementation,'' Wechsler and Co-Chief Executive Richard Gelfond
said in the statement.  
 Revenue Sharing  
 The company said it signed agreements for 107 Imax theater
systems in the fourth quarter, compared with nine the year
earlier. An agreement in December to install 100 digital-
projection systems in AMC Theatres is the largest in Imax
history, the company said.  
 ``The pending introduction of a digital system plus more
joint venture deals should, in our opinion, reaccelerate Imax
theater growth and profitability,'' Wold wrote today in a note to
investors. Wold, based in New York, recommends investors buy Imax
shares and owns them.  
 Imax declined 12 cents, or 1.8 percent, to $6.62 at 4 p.m.
New York time in Nasdaq Stock Market trading. The Mississauga,
Ontario-based company has lost 2.9 percent this year.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Meg Tirrell in New York at 
 mtirrell@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colleen McElroy in New York at 
 cmcelroy@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        