-- Verizon Stores Start Two-for-One Sale on BlackBerrys
-- Amy Thomson
-- 2009-02-06T21:31:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2009-02-06/verizon-stores-start-two-for-one-sale-on-blackberrys-update3-.html

          
          
             Verizon Wireless , the biggest U.S.
wireless carrier, began a buy-one-get-one-free sale on
BlackBerry phones today to lure subscribers amid a deepening
recession.  
 The sale, part of an agreement with phone maker  Research In
Motion Ltd. (RIM) , will run through the end of the first quarter,
spokesman Jim Gerace said. He declined to disclose the terms of
the arrangement with Research In Motion. The offer requires
customers to sign up for two separate, two-year service plans.  
 Higher BlackBerry orders will increase data-plan sales,
Verizon’s fastest-growing  source of revenue , as users pay extra
to access the Internet. Data sales jumped 41 percent in the
fourth quarter. The  Basking Ridge , New Jersey-based company is
the sole U.S. carrier for the BlackBerry Storm, a touch-screen
device that sold out at some stores when it debuted in November.  
 “We like it because BlackBerry users have higher
revenue,” Gerace said.  
 The offer may help boost Research In Motion’s sales to
$11.1 billion this fiscal year, according to Vivek Arya, an
analyst at Bank of America Corp. in  New York . Analysts on
average estimate that sales will grow 83 percent to $11 billion
in the year ending this month, according to a Bloomberg survey.  
 Research In Motion spokeswoman Marisa Conway didn’t
immediately respond to messages seeking comment.  
 Smart-Phone Discounts  
 Companies that sell smart phones -- Web-equipped models
often priced at $199 or more -- are rolling out discounts as
they adapt to the longest economic slump since 1982.  Apple
Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone sold for $10 cheaper at Best Buy Co. stores over
the holidays as retailers competed for cash-strapped customers.  
 Data plans are helping Verizon and rival  AT&T Inc. (T)  hold on
to revenue as the recession pushes customers to cut home phone
lines. The two companies, the largest U.S. providers of phone
service, posted the slowest fourth-quarter sales growth in three
years last quarter.  
 Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ) , which co-owns Verizon Wireless
with Vodafone Group Plc, rose 53 cents, or 1.7 percent, to
$31.72 at 4 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite  trading .
Waterloo, Ontario-based Research In Motion climbed $2.37, or
4.2 percent, to $59.17 on the Nasdaq Stock Market.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Amy Thomson in New York at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Julie Alnwick at   jalnwick@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        