-- 3D `Monsters' Ring in Sales for European Satellite Companies
-- B y   C h i a r a   R e m o n d i n i
-- 2010-09-23T05:08:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-22/-flying-monsters-in-3d-eastenders-to-ring-in-sales-for-satellite-firms.html
“Flying Monsters,” a 3D
documentary presented by naturalist  David Attenborough , and the
BBC’s “EastEnders” in high definition are among television
programs satellite operators are banking on to ring in sales.  HDTV, widely prevalent in U.S. programs including “The
Tonight Show,” is spreading across Europe, while 3D broadcasts
are emerging from the realm of fiction to reality, both boosting
sales for satellite companies such as  SES SA  and  Eutelsat
Communications SA . Satellite channels may rise to about 40,000
by 2019 from 27,000 last year, with more than 7,600 in HD, said
Pacome Revillon, head of Euroconsult, a market research company.  “HD appears to be strong and solid, and it will be one of
our main growth drivers,”  Eutelsat  Chief Executive Officer
 Michel de Rosen  said in an interview at the World Satellite
Business Week in Paris this month. “A year ago, 3D was almost
science fiction but it’s now adding to the momentum.”  HD and 3D, which typically need more bandwidth, may offset
the impact of the switch from analog to standard digital
channels that need 12 times less capacity and cuts in defense
spending amid the economic slowdown, Citigroup analysts
including  Tania Valiente  estimate. SES and Eutelsat, which beam
250 and 150 HD channels, respectively, will benefit from the
introduction of new HD networks as well as the migration of
analog channels to the higher standard.  Satellite Market  Luxembourg-based SES, closely held Intelsat SA and Telesat
Inc. and France’s Eutelsat control about 67 percent of the
global fixed-satellite service market, according to Euroconsult.
Video services represent more than 70 percent of revenue at SES
and Eutelsat.  Eutelsat shares  have risen 29 percent this year to 28.92
euros, making it the  third-best performer  in the 24-member
Bloomberg Europe Telecommunication Services Index. In the year
ended June, it had an 11 percent sales gain to 1.05 billion
euros ($1.41 billion). SES, with  2009 sales  of 1.7 billion
euros, has risen 10 percent to 17.60 euros.  Broadcasters are adding HD and 3D channels to lure viewers
and boost revenue with premium services as advertising budgets
contract. Rupert Murdoch-controlled  British Sky Broadcasting
Group Plc , based in Isleworth, England, plans to start what it
claims is Europe’s first 3D channel for residential clients on
Oct. 1, offering sports, movies, and documentaries.  “Flying Monsters,” which will focus on the Pterosaurs, or
flying dinosaurs that lived about 200 million years ago, is its
first, original  commission in 3D . BSkyB has signed accords with
 Walt Disney Co.  and DreamWorks Animation SKG Inc. for 3D movies.  ‘Weakest Link’  The British Broadcasting Corp., or BBC, said it plans to
broadcast “EastEnders,” “Holby City” and “The Weakest
Link” in HD before the end of the year.  National Geographic Channel  and  Discovery Communications
Inc. , the owner of Animal Planet, have launched HD documentary
channels in more than 20 countries and expect further expansion
of this platform with close-up views of how fish swim, birds fly
or breeding, according to their websites.  Vivendi SA  unit Canal Plus SA broadcast nine matches in
this year’s soccer World Cup in 3D and plans to boost its HD and
3D broadcasts, according a statement on the company’s website.  “Besides HD, new platforms in emerging countries will help
growth in our business,” SES Vice President for Strategic
Market Development Christophe De Hauwer said in an interview.
“Many of the newcomers go directly to HD broadcasts.”  ‘Big Growth’  Regional operators in high-growth, emerging economies such
as  Arab Satellite Communications Organization , known as Arabsat,
also expect HD expansion in their regions.  “We see big growth in the coming years in HD in the Middle
East and North Africa,” Arabsat Chief Commercial Officer Nabil
Shanti said in Paris.  Denis Pivnyuk, chief financial officer of state-owned
Russian Satellite Communications Company, or  RSCC , said that
“the most dynamic growth in Russia will be in HD.” He said 3D
will remain a “premium service.”  HD is becoming the standard for the industry, Eutelsat’s de
Rosen said. He said 3D broadcasts still have some technical,
cost and content issues to address. “Content is not evolving as
fast as technology and there aren’t yet 3D glasses that can be
used with all TV sets,” he said.  News Corp’s  Sky Italia SpA , which expects to operate 50 HD
channels by mid-2011, is focusing its current marketing campaign
on HD programming for Italy’s top soccer games.  HD is still a small part of satellite operators’ business.
The HD standard accounts for 3 percent of channels in Europe,
compared with 30 percent in the U.S.,  Benjamin Rousseau , an
analyst with CM-CIC Securities wrote in a note on Sept. 21.  “Visibility is still weak regarding the change in demand
in the medium term, especially since the popularity of 3D could
encourage a certain number of TV operators to switch directly
from standard-definition to 3D,” he wrote.  3D Push  Exane BNP Paribas analyst  Mathieu Robilliard  expects 3D to
remain “marginal for the time being.”  “3D will remain pretty much a niche,” said Nomura
Holdings Inc. analyst  Henrik Nyblom . “It will take a long time
to emerge.”  Broadcasters are beginning to offer 3D and Euroconsult
forecast there will be almost 1,800 3D channels by 2019.  BSKyB, which “successfully” introduced a 3D channel to
commercial customers in April, said July 29 the service has more
than 1,400 pubs and clubs accessing live events such as soccer
and cricket.  Britons who own a HD definition television set are more
than twice as likely to buy a 3D TV within the next 12 months as
those who have not yet bought an HDTV, according to a Sept. 2
statement by  Strategy Analytics .  “HDTV ownership is clearly no barrier to 3DTV adoption,”
said  David Mercer , an analyst at Strategy Analytics.  “Sports will be the number one content for 3D, followed by
movies and special events,” according to SES’s De Hauwer.
“Broadcasters and TV-set manufacturers are pushing 3D but in
the end consumers will determine whether 3D is a niche or a much
larger market.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Chiara Remondini  in Milan at 
 cremondini@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at   vroot@bloomberg.net . 