-- `Invisible' Women to Gain Under UN Agency's Advocacy Push, Bachelet Says
-- B y   B i l l   V a r n e r
-- 2010-09-23T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-22/-invisible-women-to-gain-under-un-agency-s-advocacy-push-bachelet-says.html
Former Chilean President  Michelle Bachelet , head of a new United Nations agency focused on support
for women, said lack of respect for their rights is hampering
maternal health gains and efforts to curb sexual violence.  “Women are almost invisible in some places,” Bachelet
said at the UN in New York. “They are second-class citizens.
They are seen as people without rights. It is a shame for
humanity.”  Bachelet spoke at her first news conference since being
named under-secretary-general for the agency, to be known as UN
Women, following the announcement yesterday of $40 billion in
pledges to fund a UN plan improve the health of women and young
children over the next five years.  UN Secretary-General  Ban Ki-moon  yesterday unveiled a $169
billion program intended to prevent the deaths of 15 million
children under five years old and save 570,000 women who would
die from complications related to pregnancy and childbirth.  The UN said commitments to the plan include $5 billion from
Japan and $3.29 billion from the United Kingdom. The Seattle-
based  Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation  and Monrovia,
California-based  World Vision International  pledged $1.5 billion
each and  CARE , whose headquarters is in Atlanta, said it would
donate $1.8 billion, the UN said.  Corporate Pledges  Corporate pledges include $840 million from Whitehouse
Station, New Jersey-based  Merck & Co.  and $200 million each from
Brunswick, New Jersey-based  Johnson & Johnson  and New York-based
 Pfizer Inc .  “This is a day we have long waited for,” Secretary of
State  Hillary Clinton  said yesterday in New York. She announced
a U.S. joint venture with the U.K., Australia and the Bill &
Melinda Gates Foundation to make family planning available to
120 million women by 2015. She didn’t say how much money was
being invested in the effort or announce any additional funds.  The U.K.-based aid group  Oxfam International  questioned the
UN’s assertion that the $40 billion was new pledges, saying in a
statement that “almost half of the cash has already been
pledged elsewhere.”  Improving the lot of women would accelerate economic
development in the poorest nations, help the UN alleviate
poverty and hunger and foster political stability, according to
advocates. The potential of half of the population in many
countries remains largely untapped, they say.  Economic Argument  “We haven’t made the economic argument,”  Alyse Nelson ,
chief executive of the Washington-based women’s group  Vital
Voices , said in an interview. “Change happens when those who
hold power see how it is in their interests. We need to show men
that giving women a piece of the pie is not taking something
away them.”  China’s Premier  Wen Jiabao  said at the formal announcement
of the UN initiative that “women’s and children’s health is
crucial to the development of every country, every nation and to
the entire humanity.”  “Women’s and children’s health is a must if we are to
embrace a bright future,” Wen said. “Let us work together to
advance this cause.”  A June report from the UN, World Bank and other development
organizations said progress has been “sluggish on all fronts --
from education to political decision-making.”  While the number of women holding parliamentary positions
has increased to 19 percent from 11 percent in 1995, the goal of
gender parity by 2015 is out of reach. Equity in primary school
education has been widely achieved, yet only 70 girls for every
100 boys are enrolled in African and Asian colleges and the
share of women employed outside of agriculture is as low as 20
percent in those regions.  Inadequate Funding  Bachelet said UN work on women’s issues has suffered from
“inadequate funding and fragmentation.” Her office, which has
a proposed budget of $500 million for 2011, consolidates four
existing agencies.  She also said economic advancement is critical to meeting
all of the UN poverty and hunger reduction aims, known as the
 Millennium Development Goals , and to advancing democratic
governance in developing countries.  “We have to improve their share of paid employment,” she
said, noting that women hold as low as 20 percent of jobs
outside agriculture in the world’s poorest nations. “Also, as
long as they provide the only care for children and the elderly,
they will not have economic opportunities.”  The mass rapes by rebels in the Democratic Republic of
Congo two months ago, 18 miles from a UN peacekeeping unit,
epitomize the lack of respect for women, Bachelet said.  “It is women seen as people without rights,” she said.  Creating UN Women is a big step toward elevating the
importance of women’s issues, Nelson said.  “It sends a huge signal to countries that women are at the
center of the agenda,” she said. “We are not anywhere near
where we need to be and if we stay on the track we are on we
will not meet the goals.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bill Varner  at the United Nations at 
 wvarner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  