-- `Lenient' Meirelles Sparks Rally in Inflation-Linked Bonds: Brazil Credit
-- B y   Y e   X i e   a n d   A n d r e   S o l i a n i
-- 2010-09-22T16:08:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-22/-lenient-meirelles-sparks-rally-in-inflation-linked-bonds-brazil-credit.html
Investors are buying Brazilian
bonds that offer protection against inflation and selling fixed-
rate notes at the fastest pace since January 2009 on concern
policy makers are failing to contain  consumer price  increases.  Yields on inflation-linked bonds due in November 2011 sank
25 basis points, or 0.25 percentage point, in the past month to
a record low of 5.43 percent yesterday, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Yields on similar-maturity fixed-rate
notes climbed 28 basis points over that time to 11.54 percent.
The yield difference is the biggest since the inflation-linked
bonds were issued 20 months ago.  While the threat of deflation in the U.S. is prompting the
Federal Reserve to consider buying more government debt,
Brazil’s economic expansion is helping push consumer prices up
at the fastest pace in four months. Banco Central do Brasil
signaled on Sept. 9 it won’t raise borrowing costs further this
year, saying that calls for such a move are at odds with the
country’s  economic “fundamentals.”   “The market believes that if the central bank is on course
of keeping rates where they are now, inflation will steadily
edge up,” said  Luis Fernando Lopes , who helps manage 1.1
billion reais ($642 million) as a partner at Patria
Investimentos in Sao Paulo. “The market is diverging from the
central bank.”  Yields on debt tied to country’s benchmark consumer price
index, known as IPCA, have plunged 139 basis points since June,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Fixed-rate bonds due in
2012 have slumped, sending yields up 29 basis points from an 11-
month low of 11.25 percent on Aug. 24.  ‘Necessary Steps’  Yields on two-year fixed-rate  Treasuries , by comparison,
fell to a record 0.4155 percent yesterday as the Fed said that
it’s “prepared” to ease monetary policy further “if needed”
to support the recovery. Inflation is “at levels somewhat
below” what officials judge to be consistent with price
stability, the Fed said after keeping its benchmark rate in a
range between zero and 0.25 percent. In China, two-year note
yields have fallen to 2.17 percent from 2.29 percent in July.  Brazilian consumer prices  rose 4.6 percent in the 12 months
through mid-September, above the central bank’s 4.5 percent
target, a government report showed yesterday. Inflation is
accelerating as analysts predict growth in Latin America’s
biggest economy will climb to 7.47 percent, the most in two
decades, according to a central bank survey of about 100
financial institutions released this week.  ‘More Lenient’  Central bank President  Henrique Meirelles  said Sept. 20 in
Curitiba that the central bank is committed to its inflation
target and is ready to take the “necessary steps” to ensure
price stability. Meirelles kept interest rates unchanged at
10.75 percent on Sept. 1, snapping three straight increases that
brought the rate up from a record low 8.75 percent in April.  “The market thinks the central bank will be surprised by
faster inflation next year,”  Luciano Rostagno , chief strategist
at CM Capital Markets, said in a telephone interview from Sao
Paulo. “The central bank, theoretically, is now more lenient
with inflation.”  Rates traders are boosting bets that policy makers will
resume raising borrowing costs next year. Yields on overnight
futures contracts due in January 2012 rose 33 basis points in
the past month to 11.5 percent yesterday, suggesting traders are
anticipating central bankers will lift the rate to 12.5 percent
by December 2011, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Default Swaps  The central bank said yesterday in an e-mailed statement
that it “doesn’t comment on market rumors and doesn’t talk
about future decisions.”  The extra yield investors demand to own Brazilian dollar-
denominated government bonds instead of Treasuries narrowed two
basis points yesterday to 212 at 12:07 p.m. in New York,
according to JPMorgan Chase & Co. indexes.  The cost of protecting Brazilian bonds against default for
five years fell one basis point to 118, according to CMA
DataVision prices. Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value
in exchange for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent
should a government or company fail to adhere to its debt
agreements.  The  average yield spread  on Brazilian corporate dollar
bonds over Treasuries climbed nine basis points yesterday to
333, according to JPMorgan indexes.  Three Brazilian companies have hired banks to arrange
meetings with bond investors, according to people familiar with
the discussions. Votorantim Participacoes SA, a Sao Paulo-based
industrial conglomerate, is meeting with investors in Europe
this week. Braskem SA, Latin America’s biggest petrochemical
producer, started holding discussion with investors in Asia and
Europe yesterday. Gerdau SA, Latin America’s largest steelmaker,
is meeting investors this week.  Dollar Purchases  The real fell 0.7 percent to 1.7221 per dollar. It has
surged 35 percent since the end of 2008, the second-most among
all currencies tracked by Bloomberg after the Australian dollar.  The central bank bought $5.9 billion in the first 12 days
of September,  Altamir Lopes , head of the bank’s economic
department, told reporters yesterday. The purchases are the
biggest for a 12-day period since October 2009, when policy
makers bought $6.3 billion.  Economists raised their 2011 inflation forecast to 4.95
percent, up from 4.50 percent at the beginning of the year,
according to the median estimate in the central bank survey
published this week. The central bank will boost the  benchmark
rate  to 11.75 percent by December 2011, according to the survey.  Returns on fixed-rate government bonds are lagging behind
inflation-linked debt for the first time since March. Fixed-rate
bonds have gained 0.13 percent this month, compared with a 0.16
percent return for similar-maturity notes linked to consumer
prices, according to data compiled by the Sao Paulo-based
capital markets association, known as Anbima.  “Fixed-rate bonds are losing because the market expects
higher interest rates ahead,” said  Diego Donadio , Latin America
strategist at BNP Paribas in Sao Paulo.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ye Xie  in New York at 
 yxie6@bloomberg.net ;
 Andre Soliani  in Brasilia at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  