-- Abbott Recalls Similac Over Beetle Contamination Risk
-- B y   E l l e n   G i b s o n
-- 2010-09-22T20:21:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-22/abbott-recalls-similac-infant-formulas-over-risk-of-beetle-contamination.html
Abbott Laboratories  said it is
recalling Similac-brand powder infant formulas distributed in
the U.S., Puerto Rico, Guam and some Caribbean nations because
of possible insect contamination.  An internal quality review found that formula made in the
company’s Sturgis, Michigan, plant may contain parts of a small
common beetle or its larvae, Abbott said today in a statement.
The recall includes certain Similac powders sold in plastic
containers and others offered in 8-ounce, 12.4-ounce, and 12.9-
ounce cans. Liquid formulas aren’t affected.  Returns of the purchased formula may reduce third-quarter
revenue by an estimated $100 million and won’t affect  earnings ,
the Abbott Park, Illinois-based company said today in a
regulatory filing. Expenses associated with recall-related
actions will be treated as a one-time item, to be quantified
later, Abbott said.  “Abbott understands that parents expect to feed their
children only the highest quality product,”  Holger Liepmann ,
executive vice president of  Abbott Nutrition , a division of
Abbott Laboratories, said in the statement. “We are taking this
action so that parents know that the infant formula products
they provide unquestionably meet the highest quality standards
for which they are known.”  The U.S. Food and Drug Administration said infants that
consume the contaminated formula may experience stomach
discomfort and may refuse to eat as a result of irritation to
the gastrointestinal tract, according to the statement.  Quality Checks  Abbott detected the problem last week through routine
quality checks of not-yet-shipped formula and “immediately
stopped production,”  Kelly Morrison , a company spokeswoman,
said today in a telephone interview. Subsequent testing of the
entire inventory of Similac made in the Sturgis plant showed
that 99.8 percent was uncontaminated, she said.  Sales of Abbott’s pediatric-nutrition products were $1.3
billion in 2009, with Similac accounting for most of that
revenue, Morrison said.  Abbott  fell  16 cents, or less than 1 percent, to $51.99 at
4 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares
have risen 11 percent in the past 12 months.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ellen Gibson  in New York at 
 egibson9@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net . 