-- AbitibiBowater Pays Bond Premium to Emerge From Bankruptcy: Canada Credit
-- B y   C h r i s   F o u r n i e r   a n d   J o h n   D e t r i x h e
-- 2010-09-22T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-22/abitibibowater-pays-bond-premium-to-emerge-from-bankruptcy-canada-credit.html
AbitibiBowater Inc.  provided bond
investors with a one-day windfall of almost $12 million as it
prepares to emerge from bankruptcy.  The $850 million of notes sold by the Montreal-based paper
maker in the U.S. corporate debt market on Sept. 20 rose to a
mid-price of 101.375 cents on the dollar in trading yesterday
from 100 cents, according to brokerage firm RW Pressprich & Co.
The 10.25 percent coupon on the debentures due in 2018 was
almost 2 percentage points more than the 8.375 percent paid
yesterday by Sinclair Television Group Inc. for securities with
the same maturity and similar rating.  AbitibiBowater, which has 19 pulp and paper mills and 24
wood-products plants in the U.S., Canada, the U.K. and South
Korea, sold the debt a day before it said creditors approved its
reorganization. The company sought protection under Chapter 11
of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code in April 2009 amid a drop in paper
demand as newspapers lost readers and advertisers to the
Internet and its lenders refused to accept a restructuring.  “This is not a low risk industry at all,” said  Phillip Wirtz , a high-yield analyst at broker-dealer Odeon Capital Group
LLC in New York. Risks including diminished demand for newsprint
that is unlikely to rebound soon, a strengthening Canadian
dollar and rising labor costs, Wirtz said.  Wider Spread  Moody’s Investors Service said on Sept. 14 it gave the
bonds a provisional rating of B1, or four levels below
investment grade. The debt’s yield was 7.89 percentage points
more than Treasuries, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The spread was 1.68 percentage points more than debt with
similar ratings, based on Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes.  The relatively high yields enticed investors, allowing the
company to boost the offering from an initial $750 million.  “It’s fair to say the bond issue was a success,”  Rahul Gandhi , a CreditSights analyst in London, said via e-mail. “A
big reason is the overwhelming demand for yield.”  Elsewhere in credit markets, the extra yield investors
demand to own the debt of Canada’s companies rather than federal
government securities held at 146 basis points yesterday, the
narrowest since Aug. 30, according to a Bank of America Merrill
Lynch index. Yields fell to 3.78 percent, from 3.82 percent.  Spreads as measured by Merrill’s Global Broad Market
Corporate Index were also unchanged, holding at 171 basis
points, with yields dropping to 3.51 percent from 3.57 percent.  Losing Month  Canadian corporate bonds have lost 0.51 percent this month,
after reinvested interest, the most since the 1 percent decline
in December, the Merrill Lynch indexes show. They have returned
6.5 percent this year. The Global Broad Market Corporate Index
is down 0.28 percent his month.  In the nation’s provincial debt market, spreads widened by
1 basis point to 56. Those bonds have lost 0.4 percent this
month, after four consecutive months of gains.  Quebec, the nation’s second-most populous province, paid
91.5 basis points over benchmarks to offer an additional C$500
million ($487 million) of its 4.5 percent bonds due in December
2020, bringing the total outstanding to C$3 billion.  Ontario, Canada’s most-populous province, is going to
Europe for its next offering. It plans to sell 10-year bonds in
euros that may yield 33 to 35 basis points more than the
benchmark mid-swap rate, according to a banker involved in the
deal. Barclays Plc, Credit Suisse Group AG, Deutsche Bank AG and
JPMorgan Chase & Co. are managing the sale, the banker said.  Canada, U.S. Spread  The yield  advantage  of Canada’s 10-year bond over
equivalent-maturity U.S. Treasuries widened by 9 basis points
yesterday, the biggest move in Canada’s favor since Aug. 13
2009, after the Federal Reserve said it’s willing to ease
monetary policy further to boost the economy and lower
unemployment.  Statistics Canada may say today that retail sales rose 0.6
percent in July, after a 0.1 percent gain in June, according to
the median of 15 forecasts in a  Bloomberg survey . Statistics
Canada reported yesterday that  consumer prices  fell 0.1 percent
in August.  AbitibiBowater joins a flurry of Canadian companies selling
bonds in U.S. dollars as currency swap rates rise, making it
cheaper for borrowers to raise money outside the country.  The premium a borrower would need to add to three-month
Canadian-dollar bankers’ acceptances in exchange for three-month
U.S. dollar Libor over five years touched 18 basis points last
week, the most since October, making it more economical for
Canadian firms to issue in U.S. dollars. The rate ended
yesterday at 16 basis points.  Sale Flurry  Companies based in Canada have sold $6.6 billion of debt
denominated in U.S. dollars in September, the second-busiest
month of 2010. Issuers sold $7.98 billion of the debt in July
and $1.4 billion in August.  Pinafore LLC and Pinafore Inc., entities created by Onex
Corp. and the Canada Pension Plan Investment Board, sold $1.15
billion of eight-year notes yielding 9 percent, or 674 basis
points more than Treasuries, according to Bloomberg data.
Proceeds from the offering, which was rated B1 by Moody’s, will
be used to pay for the acquisition of  Tomkins Plc .  Proceeds from AbitibiBowater’s sale will be put in escrow
pending its emergence from bankruptcy, according to research
firm KDP Investment Advisors Inc. in Montpelier, Vermont.  The offering adds to a record year for sales of junk bonds.
Issuance has reached $172.2 billion in 2010, exceeding the all-
time high set in 2009 with more than three months left in the
year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Junk-rated
issuers have sold $22.1 billion of dollar-denominated bonds this
month, the busiest September on record going back to 1999.  ‘High Yield Money’  “A lot of people are helping themselves to the high-yield
money,” said Wirtz at Odeon. “The market’s been very kindly
taking to new deals lately. I don’t think they could have picked
a better time,” he said in reference to AbitibiBowater.  AbitibiBowater won court approval in August to borrow as
much as $1.35 billion to help fund its exit from bankruptcy. As
part of that, it’s raising a $600 million revolving credit line
on Sept. 7. The interest rate on the four-year loan arranged by
Citigroup Inc., Barclays Plc and JPMorgan Chase & Co. will be 3
percentage points more than the London interbank offered rate,
said a person familiar with the transaction who declined to be
identified because the terms haven’t been set.  “We continue to make progress towards our ultimate
emergence, which we anticipate for this fall,”  Seth Kursman , an
AbitibiBowater spokesman, said by phone from Montreal. “This is
another important step,” he said of the bond sale.  AbitibiBowater competitor  Tembec Inc.  paid a spread of 9.21
percentage points to sell $255 million of eight-year bonds last
month. Gandhi at CreditSights said AbitibiBowater was able to
issue at a narrower spread partly because it is a larger, more
diversified company with exposure to mechanical paper, pulp and
wood products. Moody’s gave Tembec’s bonds a rating of B3.  “Considering poor long-term prospects for the newsprint
business, this bond deal would normally be a stretch but
considering Tembec got a similar deal done recently and that
investors are aggressively reaching for yield, the bond deal
could be successfully completed,” Gandhi wrote in a note to
clients before the sale.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Chris Fournier  in Montreal at 
 cfournier3@bloomberg.net ;
 John Detrixhe  in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  