-- Ace in New York Life Asia Assets Talks as Rivals Exit
-- B y   C a t h y   C h a n
-- 2010-09-22T06:01:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-22/ace-said-to-be-in-talks-on-new-york-life-assets-in-asia-as-rivals-dropped.html
Ace Ltd. , the Swiss insurer
operating in more than 50 countries, is in talks to buy New York
Life Insurance Co.’s assets in Asia after two rivals dropped out,
according to three people with knowledge of the matter.  New York Life ended negotiations with  Manulife Financial
Corp. , Canada’s largest insurer, about the U.S. firm’s units in
Hong Kong, Taiwan and South Korea, said one of the people, who
declined to be identified as negotiations are private.  Primus
Financial Holdings Ltd. , which had bid for the Hong Kong
business, isn’t currently in talks, one person said.  Ace, led by Chief Executive Officer  Evan Greenberg , is
 expanding  after remaining profitable through the credit crisis
and has announced $1.3 billion of acquisitions in the U.S. and
Malaysia this month. Greenberg said on a conference call in July
that the outlook for purchases is “pretty robust.”  “New York Life’s management should be constantly asking
themselves whether it’s better to invest its capital in other
growth areas or just have sub-scale operations in markets such
as Hong Kong,” said  Ivan Cheung , an insurance analyst at Mirae
Asset Securities Hong Kong.  One bidder had valued the New York Life assets for sale at
about $500 million to $600 million, said a person with knowledge
of the matter.  New York Life, the biggest U.S. life insurer owned by
policyholders, also has operations in India, China and Thailand.
The company derived 21 percent of life insurance sales from
international markets, according to its 2009 annual report.  Expansion in Asia  Steve Wasdick , a spokesman for Zurich-based Ace, declined
to comment, as did officials at New York Life, Manulife and
Primus Financial, the Hong Kong-based investment firm founded by
former Citigroup Inc. banker  Robert Morse .  Deutsche Bank AG is advising New York Life on the sale.
 Mike West , a spokesman for Deutsche Bank in Hong Kong, declined
to comment.  The New York Life operations would mark Ace’s third
acquisition in Asia, after it agreed to buy Malaysian general
insurer Jerneh Insurance Bhd. for about $210 million this month.
Ace purchased a 22 percent stake in Huatai Insurance Co., a
Beijing-based property and casualty insurer, for $150 million in
2002, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Ace said on Sept. 14 it agreed to pay $1.1 billion for a
majority stake in Johnston, Iowa-based Rain & Hail Insurance
Service Inc.  Hong Kong, Taiwan  Primus Financial had bid about $200 million for New York
Life’s Hong Kong business, one of the people said. The firm
failed in its bid to buy  American International Group Inc. ’s
Taiwan unit this month after regulators rejected a $2.15 billion
takeover offer made with China Strategic Holdings Ltd.  Foreign insurers including Aegon NV, Prudential Plc and ING
Groep NV have exited Taiwan since 2009. AIG said last month it
will consider scaling back operations on the island.  “Taiwan is a very saturated market with negative spread so
they probably want to bundle that up with other profitable
markets and sell it in one package,” Cheung said.  Manulife was dropped by New York Life after it posted a
record quarterly loss of C$2.4 billion ($2.34 billion) for the
three months ended June 30, compared with net income of C$1.78
billion a year ago.  The Toronto-based company attempted to bid for a stake in
AIA Group Ltd. last year, competing with Prudential Plc and
Temasek Holdings Pte, people familiar with the matter said at
the time. The sale was scrapped in March last year as AIG
decided to take the business public.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Cathy Chan  in Hong Kong at 
 kchan14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  