-- Adobe Plunges After Sales Forecast Misses Estimates
-- B y   A a r o n   R i c a d e l a
-- 2010-09-22T20:07:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-22/adobe-s-shares-plunge-after-revenue-forecast-misses-estimates.html
Adobe Systems Inc. , the graphic-
design software maker, fell the most in eight years in Nasdaq
trading after forecasting sales that trailed estimates, citing
slower demand from back-to-school shoppers and Japanese buyers.  Fourth-quarter revenue will be $950 million to $1 billion,
San Jose, California-based Adobe said yesterday in a statement.
Analysts surveyed by Bloomberg had  projected  sales of $1.03
billion on average for the period, which lasts through November.  Adobe’s new Creative Suite 5 software, released in April,
isn’t driving as much growth as analysts had predicted. Cash-
strapped schools aren’t paying for as many copies of the
product, which includes Photoshop and Illustrator, the company
said. The sluggish economy in Japan, typically Adobe’s biggest
Asian market, also is hampering sales.  “The market’s pretty unforgiving of any squishiness,
whether it be in results or in guidance,” said Walter Pritchard,
an analyst at Citigroup Inc. He  recommends  buying Adobe shares
and doesn’t own them.  Adobe slumped $6.27, or 19 percent, to $26.67 at 4 p.m. New
York time in Nasdaq Stock Market  trading , the biggest drop since
August 2002. The shares have declined 27 percent this year.  Profit in the current quarter will be 48 cents to 54 cents
a share, compared with  analysts ’ average estimate of 53 cents.  ‘Cautious Approach’  “We’re taking a cautious approach to the guidance,” Chief
Executive Officer  Shantanu Narayen  said on a conference call
with analysts yesterday. “The U.S. back-to-school environment
this time was a little weaker overall.”  Education sales account for more than 10 percent of Adobe’s
revenue, and orders by students and schools have been lower than
expected “across the board,” Chief Financial Officer  Mark Garrett  said in an interview.  The Japanese economy, meanwhile, “hasn’t really come out of
the recession yet,” he said. The company declined to specify
how much revenue came from the country. Asia contributed a fifth
of revenue in the third quarter, Adobe said.  Sales of Creative Suite 5 may have peaked last quarter,
said  Yun Kim , an analyst at Gleacher & Co. in New York.  “CS5’s strong performance in its corporate market is a one-
quarter event -- something that is not sustainable,” said Kim,
who has a “neutral”  rating  on Adobe shares and doesn’t own
any.  Third Quarter  Net income  in the fiscal third quarter, which ended Sept.
3, rose 69 percent to $230.1 million, or 44 cents a share, from
$136 million, or 26 cents, a year earlier. Excluding some costs,
earnings were 54 cents. Sales increased 42 percent to $990.3
million. Analysts had projected earnings of 49 cents on revenue
of $985.4 million.  Operating expenses climbed 27 percent in the period, led by
a 31 percent increase in sales and marketing costs.  The division that includes Creative Suite makes up  more
than half  of total sales. The previous version, Creative Suite
4, came out in September 2008, just as the financial crisis
deepened and corporations reined in technology spending.  Sales of CS5 are still about 15 percent higher than version
4 at a comparable point in its life, Garrett said.  “It’s nothing like what we saw with CS4,” he said. Sales
are “much better than that.”  Investors may be selling shares too aggressively following
the conservative outlook from the company, said  Sasa Zorovic , an
analyst at Janney Montgomery Scott LLC in Boston. He recommends
buying Adobe shares, which he doesn’t own personally.  “The market is overreacting,” he said.  Flash Squabble  In mobile-computing software, Adobe may benefit from a
Sept. 9 decision by Apple Inc. to ease restrictions on creating
applications for its iPhone and iPad devices. Apple had
prevented developers from using Adobe’s Flash video software.
Adobe shares had gained 12 percent since Sept. 8, the day before
Apple’s announcement.  Still, the change doesn’t let Flash apps run inside the
browser on Apple devices, and that’s a larger concern, said  Jeff Gaggin , an analyst at Avian Securities Inc. in New York. Apple,
which dominates the market for mobile apps, is promoting an
Internet standard called HTML5 instead.  “The Apple announcement is a step in the right direction,
but it doesn’t solve the bigger problem for Flash,” Gaggin
said. He recommends  buying  Adobe shares, which he doesn’t own
himself.  Adobe’s Garrett said  Apple ’s Flash announcement is
positive, though he doesn’t foresee fewer restrictions on the
software.  “We’re not holding out much hope for that,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Aaron Ricadela  in San Francisco at 
 aricadela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  