-- India's Mahindra May Back Cimino Proposal for Fiat Termini Plant in Sicily
-- B y   T o m m a s o   E b h a r d t
-- 2010-09-22T10:35:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-22/mahindra-may-back-cimino-bid-for-fiat-termini-plant-conversion-in-sicily.html
Mahindra & Mahindra Ltd. , India’s
largest sport-utility vehicle maker, may back Sicilian financier
 Simone Cimino ’s plan to convert  Fiat SpA ’s Termini Imerese car
factory to production of electric vehicles.  Cimino, who’s planning to invest as much as 450 million
euros ($602 million), has a preliminary agreement with Reva
Electric Car Co. to build electric cars at Termini, he said in
an interview. Mahindra in May agreed to buy 55 percent of Reva,
a closely held company based in Bangalore, India.  Fiat plans to stop production at the unprofitable factory,
which employs 1,400 people in Sicily and assembles the Lancia
Ypsilon model, by the end of 2011. The Turin, Italy-based
carmaker  loses  1,000 euros on every car produced at the plant,
partly due to a lack of infrastructure and the high cost of
shipping parts to the island.  “We have the financial strength to develop the plant and
absorb the workforce,” Cimino, 49, said by phone yesterday. 
Private-equity funds that he manages may contribute as much 
as 100 million euros to the project.  Pawan Goenka , president of Mahindra’s automotive and farm-
equipment unit, said he’s had “positive discussions” with
Cimino and that a plan for the Sicilian factory was part of the
talks.  “We like his proposal,” Goenka said, adding that “it is
still at a very preliminary stage.”  Invitalia SpA , an adviser to Italy’s Industry Ministry,
plans to announce a shortlist of bidders for the Termini plant
today. The Italian government also plans to meet union officials
and Fiat representatives today in Rome for an update on the
situation. The Termini plant was built in 1970 in one of the
poorest regions of the country.  Taking Fiat’s Place  “We don’t think these projects are strong enough to take
the place of Fiat and maintain the current workforce,” said
Roberto Mastrosimone, an official for the FIOM labor union.
“We’re ready to listen to their proposals.”  Fiat plans to invest 20 billion euros through 2014 to
improve factories and vehicle development in Italy, where
productivity lags its plants in Brazil and Poland. Chief
Executive Officer  Sergio Marchionne  wants to lift production in
Fiat’s home market to as many as 1.4 million passengers cars a
year by 2014. The company is Italy’s biggest manufacturer.  Cimino, a former Montedison SpA executive, is CEO of
private-equity fund Cape Natixis Sgr SpA. His project, which
could involve as much as 900 million euros in total investments,
calls for developing electric cars and solar-recharge capability
in Sicily. Cimino said he may hire up to 3,500 people, including
workers from the Fiat plant.  To contact the reporter on for this story:
 Tommaso Ebhardt  in Turin, Italy via 
 tebhardt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong in Berlin at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  