-- Thailand's Exporters Say Measures to Curb Baht's Increase May Fall Short
-- B y   Y u m i   T e s o   a n d   S u t t i n e e   Y u v e j w a t t a n a
-- 2010-09-22T08:22:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-22/thailand-s-exporters-say-measures-to-curb-baht-s-increase-may-fall-short.html
Thailand’s plan to ease
restrictions on fund outflows may not be enough to stem an
appreciation in the baht that threatens to slow growth in
overseas shipments, exporters and trade groups said.  The central bank will allow companies to invest and lend
more abroad and give them more flexibility when repatriating
overseas earnings, moves aimed at alleviating pressure for the
baht to appreciate from its strongest level in 13 years.  Governor  Tarisa Watanagase  has so far resisted calls to
introduce controls on fund inflows, saying yesterday that
existing measures to curb volatility are sufficient. Policy
makers including Commerce Minister Porntiva Nakasai have urged
more aggressive action amid concern the baht’s strength will
crimp  exports  that account for about two-thirds of the economy.  “We want some measures with a short-term impact, like
taxing the inflows or giving minimum periods they need to keep
the money here,”  Thanit Sorat , vice chairman of the Federation
of Thai Industries, said yesterday. “We don’t want strong
medicine like in 2006, but we want something to discourage
speculators.”  Thailand last imposed limits on fund inflows in December
2006 to slow baht gains and protect exporters, a measure that
led to a divergence between the onshore traded value of the
currency and the offshore rate. The move also spurred the
benchmark stock index’s biggest slide in 16 years.  Central Bank Intervention  The baht has advanced 8.5 percent this year, the second-
best performer among the 10 most actively-traded currencies in
Asia excluding Japan, as an export-led economic recovery
encouraged overseas investors to pour $741.3 million into
Thailand’s  equities market .  Finance Minister  Korn Chatikavanij  said last week that
Thailand’s rising currency reserves show that the central bank
has already been buying dollars to curb volatility in the baht.  Tarisa said this month that the Bank of Thailand only
intervenes in the currency to smooth volatility, and doesn’t
attempt to control the baht’s level against the U.S. dollar.  Thailand’s  foreign reserves  grew by $19.23 billion to
$157.63 billion in the eight months through August, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The nation’s  trade surplus  over the
same period was $6.08 billion, according to customs data.  Prime Minister  Abhisit Vejjajiva  said today the government
will take advantage of the baht’s strength to repay some debt,
adding that it’s a good time for Thai companies to import
equipment to upgrade their local operations.  Rice Shipments Slump  The pace of the currency’s appreciation has made it
difficult for exporters to hedge their currency risk, said
 Chookiat Ophaswongse , former president of the Thai Rice
Exporters Association.  Thailand’s rice exporters, the world’s biggest shippers of
the grain, are already hurting. Rice exports fell 19 percent
last month because of price competition and the stronger baht,
the commerce ministry said on Sept. 20.  “The situation is worrisome,” said Chookiat, who is an
adviser to the association. “We have cut costs in all possible
ways. When the currency factor is counted in, it is very
difficult for us to compete.”  The finance ministry this month approved a plan to scrap a
ceiling on direct investment and lending by firms to affiliated
companies overseas, as part of a package of measures to promote
fund outflows.  “The measures may be soft, but they are better than
nothing,”  Dusit Nontanakorn , chairman of the Thai Chamber of
Commerce, said in a telephone interview. “At least there are
some proposals coming out.”  Automakers Affected  A survey conducted last month by the  Federation of Thai
Industries  showed more than 80 percent of companies have been
affected by the baht’s appreciation, most acutely in the
agricultural industry.  Japanese companies operating in Thailand used an average
exchange rate estimate of 33.04 baht per dollar when drawing up
their business plans, according to a survey of 375 respondents
conducted in May and June by the local  Japan Chamber of Commerce .
That’s 7.2 percent weaker than the baht’s exchange rate of 30.67
as of 3:09 p.m. in Bangkok.  “A sharp appreciation in the baht will impose a big
negative impact on the export sector,” said  Nobuyuki Murahashi ,
President of Mitsubishi Motors (Thailand) Co. “We expect the
government and the central bank to take measures when needed
against any sharp appreciation in the baht.” The company
exports 80 percent of its production in Thailand.  “The biggest concern is small and medium-sized
businesses,” Abhisit said today. “The government is
considering some measures to help them.”  Ford, Mitsubishi Motors  Thailand’s  exports  increased 23.9 percent to $16.5 billion
in August from a year earlier, after rising 20.6 percent the
previous month, customs data this week showed. The central bank
said on July 23 it predicts gross domestic product will grow as
much as 7.5 percent in 2010, the fastest pace in 15 years.  Companies including Mitsubishi Motors and  Ford Motor Co. 
said that while the baht’s appreciation this year has increased
costs in the short term, currency gains won’t derail longer term
investment plans in Thailand.  “Thailand serves as a global production and export base
for Ford, so a further strengthening of the baht would obviously
increase our costs,” said  Vas Srinivasan , the company’s vice
president of finance for the Southeast Asian region. “Our
investments in Thailand, as with any market around the world,
are based on a long-term outlook and are not influenced by
short-term currency fluctuations.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Yumi Teso  in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net ;
 Suttinee Yuvejwattana  in Bangkok at 
 suttinee1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tony Jordan at   tjordan3@bloomberg.net  