-- Taiwan's Stocks May Decline 5% by Yearend After China Catalyst, BofA Says
-- B y   S h i y i n   C h e n
-- 2010-09-22T03:19:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-22/taiwan-s-taiex-may-peak-out-by-november-bofa-merrill-says.html
Taiwan’s  Taiex index  may fall about
5 percent by the yearend after trading “sideways” for the next
month following a rebound from this year’s low, according to
Bank of America Merrill Lynch.  “We are toning down our previous positive stance as
investors have reacted to positive catalysts earlier than
expected,”  Tony Tseng  said in a report yesterday. The analyst
predicted in July that the gauge may rise to 8,500 in the second
half, helped in part by improved sentiment following the signing
of the Economic Cooperation Framework Agreement with China.  The  Taiex  climbed 0.1 percent to 8,196.40 yesterday,
rebounding from a low of 7,071.67 reached on June 9. Yesterday’s
advance helped the gauge erase its losses for the year. The
market is closed for a holiday today.  Merrill Lynch said it’s becoming less positive on Taiwan
because monthly hardware sales will be “flat” in October after
growing in September from the previous month, according to the
report.  Valuations  for non-technology stocks have also become
“stretched” after recent gains while Taiwan and China are
unlikely to make “major progress” on cross-strait ties before
December talks, the analyst said.  ‘Potential Uptrend’  Merrill Lynch lowered its  rating  on so-called domestic
plays to “market weight” from “overweight,” citing their
recent outperformance. The brokerage is maintaining an
“overweight” on financial stocks, a “market-weight”
recommendation on technology companies, as well as an
“underweight” rating on cyclical industries including steel
and cement.  Tseng correctly predicted on June 23 that the island’s
stocks appear to have passed their lows, and he advised
investors to position themselves for a “potential uptrend” in
the second half.  China and Taiwan, which were separated after a civil war
six decades ago, signed a trade accord on June 29 which  Ma Ying- jeou , the island’s president, called a “vitamin” for his
economy.  While Merrill Lynch has since cut its outlook for the
Taiex, its forecast of a 5 percent decline is still “less
pessimistic” than those of other brokerages, Tseng wrote.  Credit Suisse Group AG on Sept. 1 cut its yearend forecast
for the Taiex to 7,300 from 8,500, saying that the island faces
“contagion” risks as slowing U.S. consumer spending reduces
demand for exports. UBS AG said in August it’s maintaining its
end-2010 estimate of 7,600 for the gauge, with stocks heading
for a “pull-back” in the fourth quarter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shiyin Chen in Singapore at 
 schen37@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Linus Chua at 
 lchua@bloomberg.net  