-- Takeda Seeks 10-Fold Jump in China Sales by 2015, Hasegawa Says
-- B y   K a n o k o   M a t s u y a m a   a n d   J a s o n   G a l e
-- 2010-09-22T06:11:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-22/takeda-seeks-10-fold-jump-in-china-sales-by-2015-president-hasegawa-says.html
Takeda Pharmaceutical Co. , Asia’s
largest drugmaker, is seeking a 10-fold revenue gain in China
within five years after hiring a top executive to stem an exodus
of sales employees there, President  Yasuchika Hasegawa  said.  The maker of Actos, the world’s best-selling diabetes drug,
has struggled to increase annual  revenue  in China to more than
$40 million because 50 percent to 60 percent of its local sales
force was leaving each year, Hasegawa said in an interview today.
The average attrition rate among other companies in China is
about 10 percent to 20 percent, he said.  “We missed the boat several times in China,” Hasegawa, 64,
said. “We are trying to catch the last boat.”  Hasegawa said a new general manager of its Beijing-based
unit will start this year, after  Haruhiko Hirate , a former top
executive at Merck & Co. in Japan, was appointed head of  Asian
operations  in  July , to improve leadership in China. London-based
Datamonitor Plc said China’s drug sales reached $22.9 billion in
2009 and have risen about 23 percent annually since 2005, a pace
that Hasegawa says may continue for four to five more years.  “We already have very promising compounds on the market,”
Hasegawa said. “Those have big potential but because of the
poor management that ended up causing high turnover in the sales
organization, we couldn’t maximize those products’ opportunity
in China.”  Takeda  was unchanged at 4,020 yen at the 3 p.m. close of
Tokyo trading, compared with a 0.4 percent decline for Japan’s
Topix index. The stock, the seventh-largest on the benchmark, is
less than half its  peak  of 8,350 yen reached in June 2007.  Medicine Wholesaler  The drugmaker,  founded  in 1781 as a wholesaler of
traditional Japanese and Chinese medicines, entered China in
1994 through a 75 percent stake in a venture with  Tianjin
Lisheng Pharmaceutical Co.  Lisheng plans to sell its 25 percent
share of the venture and list the assets for sale on the Tianjin
Property Rights Exchange, and Takeda will join the bid, the
companies said in August.  Takeda’s joint venture in China has a sales force of about
170, compared with 3,000 for Pfizer Inc.,  Toshiyuki Ikeuchi , a
spokesman at the Japanese company, said in December.  Sales at  Pfizer , the largest foreign drugmaker in China,
reached almost $500 million in the country in the second quarter,
the New York-based company said on Aug. 3. Takeda and Pfizer
said in December they will co-promote Actos in China.  Relationship With Doctors  “Having a lot of salespeople turn over, it makes it harder
to develop the relationships with physicians that you need to
get the products up and running,” said  Philip Hall , a health-
care analyst at BNP Paribas Securities (Japan) Ltd. in Tokyo.
“Once the brand is big, they sell themselves.”  Hasegawa said the company is also targeting India, Russia
and Australia for growth, accelerating the development of
experimental medicines, and scouting for acquisitions to cope
with its first revenue decline in almost two decades.  Takeda has about $5 billion available for acquisitions and
“could easily borrow $10 billion,” he said, declining to
specify whether he is close to announcing a deal.  The company’s sales in China are less than 1 percent of
group revenue of 1.47 trillion yen ($17 billion) for the year
ended March 31.  “I don’t think anybody would dispute China is an area for
future growth, but it’s clearly going to be some time before it
reaches a size where it’s meaningful,” said BNP Paribas’ Hall,
who has a “ reduce ” rating on Takeda. “These guys need
billion-dollar profits to move the needle.”  Falling Profit  Takeda has predicted net income will fall to 220 billion
yen in the 12 months to March 2011 and decline to 200 billion
yen in the fiscal year ending March 2013, a 12-year low, as
competition from cheaper, generic copies of Actos erode profit.  Hasegawa said he expects to announce Takeda’s strategy for
India -- a country he’s yet to visit -- within a few months. The
company may enter the high-volume generic-drug business to
bolster  cash flow , he said.  “In emerging markets, including India, it may make good
sense to have a generics business,” Hasegawa said. “We may be
able to use that capability to tap other emerging countries.”  Therapies for ailments of the central nervous system, such
as Alzheimer’s disease and Parkinson’s disease, are Takeda’s
primary target for drug development, Hasegawa said. The company
is also pursuing treatments for cancer and metabolic conditions,
such as obesity.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Kanoko Matsuyama  in Tokyo at 
 kmatsuyama2@bloomberg.net ;
 Jason Gale  in Singapore at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Gale at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net . 