-- Al-Qaeda in Pakistan Is Weakest Since 2001, U.S. Anti-Terror Official Says
-- B y   J e f f   B l i s s
-- 2010-09-22T15:07:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-22/al-qaeda-in-pakistan-is-weakest-since-2001-u-s-anti-terror-official-says.html
Al-Qaeda’s command structure in
Pakistan is “weaker” than at any point since the U.S. invaded
neighboring Afghanistan in 2001, forcing the group to rely on
allies and sympathizers to carry out attacks, a top U.S. anti-
terrorism official said.  In the past 19 months, al-Qaeda in Pakistan “has been
restricted considerably,” National Counterterrorism Center
Director  Michael Leiter  told the Senate Homeland Security and
Governmental Affairs Committee today.  Al-Qaeda now is targeting the U.S. by using branches in
other countries such as Yemen, U.S. citizens inspired by
proselytizing on the Internet and radical religious leaders,
Leiter testified. Militants also are plotting less-spectacular
attacks than those of Sept. 11, 2001, which killed almost 3,000
people, said Senator  Susan Collins  of Maine.  “I am convinced that terrorists are beginning to focus
their efforts on small-scale attacks with small arms and
explosives,” said Collins, the committee’s senior Republican.  The changing tactics and al-Qaeda’s increasing willingness
to use Westerners and unaffiliated sympathizers have made it
“more difficult for law enforcement and the intelligence
community to detect” plots, said Homeland Security Secretary
 Janet Napolitano .  U.S. military officials have charged Army  Major Nidal Malik Hasan  with killing 13 and injuring 43 in a Nov. 5 shooting
rampage at Fort Hood in Texas. U.S. intelligence agencies before
the attack intercepted communications between Hasan and Anwar
al-Awlaki, a Muslim cleric in Yemen who supports violence
against U.S. targets.  Officials said about 20 men, all but one of Somali descent,
traveled from the Minneapolis area to Somalia between September
2007 and October 2009 to train with al-Shabaab, a militant group
with links to al-Qaeda.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jeff Bliss  in Washington 
 jbliss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  