-- Buried Nickel From Mars Lures Hunters to Texas Desert: Travel
-- B y   J a m e s   M .   C l a s h
-- 2010-09-22T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-22/alien-space-metals-lure-rock-hunters-gold-diggers-to-texas-desert-travel.html
I’m standing where blue sky meets
the yellow sand of Texas desert and a chance encounter with the
extraterrestrial changed forever the texture of this landscape.  Some 63,000 years ago, a school-bus-size mass of molten
iron and nickel from the asteroid belt between Mars and Jupiter
plummeted to Earth here, leaving a hole 100 feet deep and 550
feet across. The explosion, three times the force of the atomic
bomb dropped on Hiroshima, spewed shrapnel for a mile and a half
in every direction, punching four more small craters nearby.  I had never heard of the Texas town of Odessa until,
flipping through cable channels one night, I came across
“Meteorite Men” on the  Discovery Science  cable channel.
Geoffrey Notkin and Steve Arnold, the stars, stood in a barren
field while a tractor pulled a  Rube Goldberg -assortment of pipes
and wires -- a giant metal detector of sorts.  As with most shows like this (“ UFO Hunters ,”
“ MonsterQuest ”), I expected an entertaining buildup followed
by the inevitable letdown. I was wrong. Two huge meteorites, one
weighing 273 pounds, the other 230 pounds, were unearthed just 8
feet beneath the surface. Who knew? Exotic locales like
Antarctica, Namibia and Siberia are where such discoveries are
made, right?  Largest Crater  I contacted Notkin the next day and he, sensing my
enthusiasm, invited me on a hunt. So here I am at the second-
largest meteorite crater in the U.S. Over the centuries, it has
partly filled with silt and most of the obvious meteorites have
been scavenged. We have permission from landowner Tom Rodman to
hunt with metal detectors, the proviso being that anything found
will be donated to his museum.  Notkin, the elder at 49 (they share the same birthday, Feb.
1), is a devoted vegetarian who digs for the thrill of it. In
his approach, he is methodical and scientific. Arnold, 44, loves
meat and collects for the money. He goes more on gut instinct.  Meteorites are rare: The world inventory is less than the
annual production of gold, 2,500 tons, according to Darryl Pitt,
a New York collector. What actually falls to Earth, however, is
a much bigger number. Most of it plunges into the 70 percent of
the Earth covered by water.  Not surprisingly, a market exists for space rocks.
Collectors pay from $100 for small fragments to hundreds of
thousands of dollars for large, museum-worthy pieces. Metallic
meteorites, the most common and the ones in Odessa, average a
few dollars per gram, while those from Mars and the moon command
$1,000 to $2,000 per gram.  Bullet Shells  Of the three meteorite types (metallics, stony-irons,
stones), stones are by far the most prevalent. But the majority
of finds are metallics because of electronic devices like metal
detectors and ground-penetrating radar, both of which we have in
Odessa. Hunting metallics can be frustrating, though, as we
quickly discover. More often than not, the fruits of our digging
turn out to be nails, bullet shells -- what the diggers call
“meteor-wrongs.”  Hunting in Odessa is generally safe, though the arid
climate and sandy-shrub geography make it attractive to snakes.
Most are nonpoisonous but I almost step on a diamondback
rattler, whose bite, untreated, can kill a man in under an hour.  The other thing to beware of here in oil country is
pipeline. Sarah Cervera, a graduate student at the  University of
Texas El Paso , operates the $300,000 ground-penetrating radar --
good at mapping submerged metal down to 15 feet. Our team is
excited to have such sophisticated equipment. But after
identifying buried metal, our digger unearths large rusted cans,
pipe fittings, even working gas pipeline.  Sharp Eyes  After disappointment with the equipment, Arnold’s sharp
eyes turn out to be our greatest asset. While driving on an
isolated, unpaved access road, he spies something and asks the
driver to stop. Everyone laughs, thinking he is hallucinating
from a week’s worth of frustration. Sure enough, though, there
are telltale reddish-black stones in the roadbed.  Shovel-picks are brought out from the back of the truck,
and digging up the road quickly commences. Eventually we find
over 60 pounds of space rock. Notkin’s theory is that rocks
mined at a quarry near the crater contained the meteorites, and
workers had spread them out on the roadbed decades ago not
knowing what they were.  Later our dig is analyzed chemically by Dr. Laurence Garvie
at  Arizona State University . Verdict? The samples, indeed, are
Odessa meteorites. As promised, we turn over our find but Rodman
lets us keep a few small samples.  A few weeks later I had drinks with Apollo 11 moonwalker
 Buzz Aldrin  in New York. When I offered him one of my meager
“samples,” he inspected it quizzically, pocketed the rock and
thanked me with a big smile.  Later, when I told the story to Pitt, the New York
collector, he laughed.  “Do you know how many friends have given Buzz meteorites,”
he asked. “Really nice ones?”  (James M. Clash writes about travel for Muse, the arts and
culture section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed are his
own.)  To contact the writer on this story:
James M. Clash at  jclash@explorers.org   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 