-- Default Risk in U.S. Drops to Lowest in 2 Years, Moody's Says
-- B y   K r i s t e n   H a u n s s   a n d   K a t r i n a   N i c h o l a s
-- 2010-09-22T06:47:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-22/tally-of-default-candidates-shrinks-to-fewest-since-third-quarter-of-2008.html
The number of U.S. companies at
greatest risk of default dropped to the lowest level in two
years as Federal Reserve efforts bolstered the economy,
according to Moody’s Investors Service.  Companies rated at or below B3 with a negative outlook
declined to 195 as of Sept. 1 from a high of 288 in June 2009,
Moody’s said in a report. The B3 rating is six steps below
investment grade.  Clear Channel Communications Inc.  and  Energy
Future Holdings Corp. , formerly named TXU Corp., were among the
biggest companies on the list.  “What’s interesting is the snap back,”  David Keisman ,
senior vice president at Moody’s in New York, said in a
telephone interview. Increased liquidity is helping to improve
credit quality and lessen default risk, he said.  The Fed is “prepared to provide additional accommodation
if needed to support the economic recovery,” it said yesterday,
after a policy-making committee decided to keep its portfolio of
securities stable at around $2 trillion to prevent money from
draining out of the financial system. Data showing a steeper-
than-expected decrease in jobless claims this month helped ease
concern the world’s largest economy is cooling.  Junk Bond Sales  Speculative-grade debt sales in the U.S. jumped to $184.2
billion this year compared with $100.1 billion in the same
period of 2009, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Sales
of $119 billion in the first half were the most since Bloomberg
began compiling the data in 1999.  The extra yield investors demand to own U.S. high-yield
bonds instead of Treasuries declined 85 basis points this
quarter to 632 basis points, according to the Bank of America
Merrill Lynch U.S. High Yield Master II index. The debt has
returned 8.5 percent this year, the benchmark shows.  Moody’s trailing 12-month global speculative-grade default
rate ended August at 5 percent compared with 12.3 percent for
the same period a year earlier. The New York-based risk assessor
added 13 companies to its B3 Negative and Lower Corporate
Ratings List in the three months ended Aug. 31, compared with 35
additions in the same period of 2009.  Companies are being removed from the list mostly because
credit quality is improving, Keisman said, after ratings
upgrades struck 19 of 27 names from the tally. The other eight
were taken off either because they defaulted or their ratings
were withdrawn, according to the report.  American Axle & Manufacturing Holdings Inc. , Neiman Marcus
Group Inc. and  UAL Corp.  were all removed from the list after
their ratings improved.  Lisa Dollinger , chief communications officer at San
Antonio-based Clear Channel; and Rima Hyder, director of
investor relations at Dallas-based Energy Future Holdings,
didn’t immediately return telephone messages or e-mails left at
their offices after regular business hours.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Kristen Haunss  in New York at 
 khaunss@bloomberg.net 
 Katrina Nicholas  in Singapore at 
 Knicholas2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net  