-- AMR Falls Most Since April as Analysts See Wider Loss
-- B y   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n
-- 2010-09-22T20:16:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-22/american-airlines-parent-amr-drops-after-analysts-predict-wider-2010-loss.html
American Airlines  parent AMR Corp.
fell the  most  since April in New York trading after five
analysts widened their full-year loss estimates.  The changes came after AMR forecast third-quarter revenue
yesterday that was less than the analysts’ estimates and
projections by other big U.S. carriers. The Fort Worth, Texas-
based company’s 8.7 percent decline led a drop in the 12-member
 Bloomberg U.S. Airlines Index .  AMR said American’s quarterly revenue for each seat flown a
mile would rise as much as 10.8 percent from a year earlier.
That trailed the increases forecast by UAL Corp.’s United
Airlines of as much as 19.5 percent and by  Delta Air Lines Inc. 
of up to 15 percent.  “The revenue guidance was slightly weaker than we had
anticipated, but only modestly worse,”  Bob McAdoo , an Avondale
Partners LLC analyst, said in a report. “AMR’s revenue guidance
is consistent with its performance last quarter, when its unit
revenues lagged” the other major U.S. airlines.  American has been hurt this quarter because it has fewer
flights in Asia, where demand has picked up, and extensive
routes in Latin America, which is trailing other regions this
year, said  James M. Higgins , an analyst at New York-based Soleil
Securities Corp., and  Glenn Engel , a Bank of America Merrill
Lynch analyst in New York.  ‘Out of Kilter’  “Relative to our expectations for third-quarter regional
revenues, AMR is out of kilter by far more than any other
airline for which we have recent guidance,” Higgins said in a
report. American also may be affected by weakness in investment-
banking related travel between New York and London, he said.  American is the only airline among the six largest in the
U.S. expected to report a full-year loss, according to estimates
compiled by Bloomberg.  AMR slid 60 cents to $6.28 at 4:15 p.m. in  New York Stock
Exchange  composite trading, for the shares’ biggest daily
percentage decline since April 21. They have fallen 19 percent
 this year .  The  Bloomberg airlines index  dropped 3.2 percent, its
biggest slide since Aug. 19.  Jamie Baker  at JPMorgan Chase & Co., who  rates  AMR as
“overweight,” had estimated American’s quarterly unit revenue
would rise 12.7 percent. Higgins, who has a “hold” rating,
expected a 14 percent increase. Other analysts didn’t specify
their prior estimates.  Loss Estimates  Baker widened his annual loss estimate to $1.22 a share,
from 82 cents. The other analysts with such changes were  Hunter Keay  of Stifel Nicolaus & Co. to a $1.22 loss, from $1.08;
McAdoo to a loss of $1.20, from 91 cents; Higgins to a $1.50
loss, from 72 cents; and  Helane Becker  of Dahlman Rose & Co. to
a loss of $1.65, from $1.53.  Engel, who rates AMR “underperform,” narrowed his full-
year loss estimate to $1.44 a share, from $1.77.  Higgins narrowed his third-quarter profit estimate to 33
cents, from 74 cents, while McAdoo trimmed his to 28 cents, from
53 cents, and Baker cut his to 31 cents, from 65 cents. Engel
raised his earnings estimate for the quarter to 40 cents, from
20 cents, and Becker increased hers to 26 cents, from 21 cents.  McAdoo rates AMR shares “market outperform,” and Keay
recommends buying them. Becker rates the stock a “hold.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mary Schlangenstein  in Dallas at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net  