-- Mancini Tells Manchester City Players to Stop Moaning: Soccer Roundup
-- B y   P e t e r - J o s e p h   H e g a r t y
-- 2010-09-22T10:42:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-22/mancini-tells-manchester-city-players-to-stop-moaning-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of
soccer stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable links to the
Web.  Mancini’s Warning  Manchester City coach  Roberto Mancini  told his players to
stop moaning about lack of first-team playing opportunities and
to resolve any differences with him in private, the  Daily Mail 
reported.  Mancini warned that his players must accept a squad
rotation system if they are to challenge Manchester United and
Chelsea, the newspaper added.  Goalkeeper  Shay Given , who’s been displaced by  Joe Hart , is
among the disenchanted players at Eastlands. He and another
malcontent,  Emmanuel Adebayor , may get a spot in the League Cup
match at West Brom tonight, the Mail said.  Kuszczak Exit?  Tomasz Kuszczak  said he may follow  Ben Foster  in quitting
Manchester United because of lack of first-team playing chances,
according to  the Sun . His fellow goalkeeper Foster joined
Birmingham in the off-season.  “If I don’t get enough games I will have to do the same as
Ben,” the Sun cited the Pole as saying. “The years are going
by and I will be 29 after this season. I want to enjoy football
and I want to play.”  Kuszczak is set to play in United’s League Cup match at
Scunthorpe tonight, the Sun added.  Klinsmann Rejects U.S.  Former Germany coach  Juergen Klinsmann  said he rejected the
chance to coach the U.S. after the World Cup because he couldn’t
agree on terms with the country’s soccer federation, the  Daily
Telegraph  reported.  After talks broke down, U.S. coach  Bob Bradley  had his
contract extended. Bradley led the nation to the round of 16 in
South Africa, where it lost to Ghana.  Klinsmann returned to California with his family after his
dismissal by Bayern Munich in 2009, the newspaper added.  Arsenal Target  Arsenal coach  Arsene Wenger  is monitoring Ajax defender  Jan Vertonghen , and his scouting network has observed the 23-year-
old’s last three club games, the  Daily Mirror  reported.  Belgium’s Vertonghen has partnered Arsenal’s  Thomas Vermaelen  in central defense for both club and country, the
newspaper added. Juventus and Barcelona are also interested in
him, the Mirror said.  Wright Move  Sheffield United signed former England goalkeeper  Richard Wright  on a four-month deal, the  Daily Mail  reported.  The free agent had been without a club since leaving
Ipswich in the off-season, the Mail added.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Peter-Joseph Hegarty  in London at 
 phegarty@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net . 