-- Mangeoire’s $120 Bouillabaise Mocks French Riviera: Ryan Sutton
-- B y   R y a n   S u t t o n
-- 2010-09-22T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-22/mangeoire-s-120-bouillabaise-mocks-french-riviera-ryan-sutton.html
There may be a great French-
Mediterranean restaurant in New York City, but I’ve yet to find
it. Sorry.  That’s what I realized while steaming my face over awful
bouillabaisse at the otherwise impressive La Mangeoire. The $120
botch preceded my sampling of the same Marseillaise seafood stew
at Plein Sud, whose version was awfully boring.  This is an odd culinary deficiency. We love the Cote
D’Azur; how else explain  Delta ’s consistently packed flights
from JFK to Nice? We have no aversion to tomatoes, fennel or
lavender; the latter, Provence’s signature perfume, is served in
no fewer than 90 New York restaurants, a search on  Menupages.com 
tells me.  Yet our city’s only outstanding Mediterranean spot, Marea,
is Italian. So the brodetto di pesce available here is better
than the local bourride, a soup I fell in love with at Soho’s
old Provence, whose new owners have since turned it into an
American joint.  Maybe this is why the dowager  La Mangeoire  on Second
Avenue is overcrowded. Or perhaps it’s because the guy who’s
been cooking France’s sunny southern cuisine here since last
October is none other than Christian Delouvrier, the talented
chef who followed Gray Kunz at the late, lamented Lespinasse and
worked for Alain Ducasse at the late, unlamented Essex House.  Sardine Heaven  The pedigree is clear when sopping up La Mangeoire’s heady,
veal-jus coated snails or when devouring a trio of sardines; the
rich fish lie over a deeply concentrated tomato confit.  Delouvrier’s laurels are less clear with the bouillabaisse,
which we were told must be ordered four days in advance, for
four people or more, at $30 per person. I persuaded the place to
serve it to on a mere 48 hours’ notice and the owner now says
they could even do it for just two people.  Why the advance hoops to flip through? Would the chef
import scorpionfish, sea robin and conger eel, the traditional
ingredients native to Marseille? Would an intoxicating saffron
broth be served separately with garlicky rouille?  No. And no. What we got looked like any stew from any fish
shack anywhere but Marseille. Everything was in individual
bowls: a pile of clams, shrimp and mussels along with loup de
mer, monkfish and snapper, cooked to blandness. Intoxicating, to
be sure: The soup stung of so much Pernod we would’ve failed
sobriety tests. It wasn’t pleasant.  Everything Else  Far better -- indeed, very good -- was the Provencal fare
we didn’t need to order ahead of time. I’m not quite inclined to
say “the best” because a stellar crayfish soup doesn’t taste
quite as stellar when a waiter is smoking next to you by the al
fresco seats.  How very French. At least the bold, in your-face
ingredients stood up to the fumes. Salty crab is stuffed into
herbaceous zucchini blossoms. Salmon rillettes exude a clean,
oily taste of fresh brine. Baby squid are paired with pine nuts.
Not enough flavor? All tables get free ramekins of anchovy oil.
And $13.50 seafood soup is so redolent of the Mediterranean
you’ll be seeing azure blue.  You don’t expect to find a star of Delouvrier’s wattage at
a neighborhood bistro, and you may also wonder how much longer
Ed Cotton, a finalist on Bravo TV’s “Top Chef,” will keep faking
it at  Plein Sud  in Tribeca’s Smyth hotel. I ate there so you
don’t have to.  Plein Sud  Plein Sud is a southern French spot that’s neither entirely
southern nor French. There is, after all, a hamburger on the
menu; the tough, flavorless patty arrived medium-well and
stuffed with cheesy goop. Does a forgettable steak tartare or
coq au vin evoke Cannes? Thai-style mussels mimicked the ones I
often eat in Syosset, Long Island.  Since opening back in April, Cotton has 86-ed his gluey egg
noodles. That’s good. The replacement: undersalted rigatoni with
merguez sausage in a supermarket-quality sauce. That’s bad.
 AvroKO  must’ve designed the non-descript, banquette-laden space
with rotating tenants in mind. Not a bad idea after trying the
$34 bouillabaisse. The broth was well-balanced but Cotton
leached all the flavor out of everything else. The red mullet
was bland, the potatoes were mushy and the shrimp tasted as if
they’d been plucked fresh out of a freezer bag.  Can I finish with a tarte Tropezienne? Sorry, no longer on
the menu. I’ll have to take that Delta redeye to Nice.  Ratings: La Mangeoire: **. Plein Sud: 1/2 star.  The Bloomberg Questions  Price: Most dishes under $30 at both.  Sound Level: Moderate, around 70 decibels at both.  Date Place? Yes for La Mangeoire.  Inside tip: La Mangeoire offers smaller, cheaper portions
of most entrees; try the 7-ounce, $22 steak frites au poivre.  Special feature: When the oven works, Plein Sud bakes
flatbread pizzas.  Will I be back: To La Mangeoire.  La Mangeoire is at 1008 Second Avenue at E. 53rd St.
Information: +1-212-759-7086;  http://www.lamangeoire.com   Plein Sud is at 85 West Broadway. Information: +1-212-204-
5555;  http://pleinsudnyc.com   
Sound-Level Chart (in decibels):  51 to 55: Church on a weekday. 56 to 60: The vegetable aisle at
the Food Emporium. 61 to 65: Keyboards clacking at the office.
66 to 70: My alarm clock when it goes off inches from my ear. 71
to 75: Corner deli at lunchtime. 76 to 80: Back of a taxi with
advertisements at full volume. 81 to 85: Loud, crowded subway
with announcements.  ( Ryan Sutton  writes about New York City restaurants for
Muse, the arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Ryan Sutton in New York at  rsutton1@bloomberg.net  or
Qualityrye on  http://twitter.com/qualityrye   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 