-- Hopkins Ditches Wife for Hooker; Hostage Buried Alive: Movies
-- B y   R i c k   W a r n e r
-- 2010-09-22T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-22/anthony-hopkins-ditches-wife-for-hooker-hostage-buried-alive-rick-warner.html
Anthony Hopkins  wears a lot of
white and cream-colored outfits in  Woody Allen ’s “ You Will Meet
a Tall Dark Stranger .” They don’t symbolize purity.  Hopkins’s Alfie is a wealthy Londoner who abruptly ends his
40-year marriage to Helena (Gemma Jones) to cavort with a leggy,
dimwitted call girl (Lucy Punch). He becomes a fitness buff,
whitens his teeth and frequents a tanning salon, all in a
desperate attempt to relive his youth.  Alfie’s daughter Sally ( Naomi Watts ) also is experiencing
romantic wanderlust. Married to a struggling novelist ( Josh Brolin ) who pines for a gorgeous, guitar-playing neighbor
(Freida Pinto), Sally develops her own crush -- on her debonair,
art-gallery boss ( Antonio Banderas ).  An older man falling in love with a younger woman isn’t
exactly groundbreaking material for Allen. Neither are the other
shopworn themes of angst, betrayal, death and beauty.  Despite its sterling cast, “Stranger” is a middling
romantic comedy with a disjointed plot. Switching his milieu
from Manhattan to London, the setting for four of his last six
films, seemed to energize Allen for a while. But he’s trod this
ground too many times -- and in much better movies.  Fortune Teller  While the two disintegrating marriages are the film’s
focus, the most interesting pairing is Helena and her quack
psychic (Pauline Collins), who offers solace to her lonely,
suicidal client with fortune-cookie advice. Their sessions --
and Brolin’s cynical reactions to them -- provide the comic
highlights.  Jones, best known to movie audiences as Madam Poppy Pomfrey
in the Harry Potter series, steals scenes as the discarded
spouse whose rebound fling with a recent widower
includes a seance where he asks his late wife for permission to
remarry. Punch, who got the hooker role when  Nicole Kidman 
withdrew because of a scheduling conflict, is hilariously loopy
as the blond gold-digger.  “You Will Meet a Tall Dark Stranger,” from Sony Pictures
Classics,” opens today in New York and Los Angeles. Rating:
**1/2  ‘Buried’  Paul Conroy is buried alive, squeezed into a small wooden
coffin somewhere in Iraq by kidnappers who ambushed the supply
truck he was driving for an independent contractor. All he’s got
is a mobile phone with a fast-draining battery, a cigarette
lighter, a flashlight and a pen he uses to write names and phone
numbers on the inside of the coffin lid.  This is the setting for all 94 terrifying, claustrophobic
minutes of “ Buried ,” a masterful thriller directed by Rodrigo
Cortes and featuring a virtuoso solo performance by  Ryan Reynolds . Cortes and Reynolds keep you glued to the screen, even
though it’s dark, the dialogue is minimal and the movement is
almost non-existent.  Conroy wakes up in the coffin with no memory of how he got
there following the attack that killed several of his
colleagues. The money-seeking kidnappers leave him with the
phone, which he uses to call his wife, his company and the FBI.
He keeps getting the answering machine at his home, runs into a
bureaucratic wall at his company and gets little help from
authorities until he’s transferred to a hostage specialist at
the State Department.  The tension mounts as Conroy’s air supply dwindles and sand
begins seeping into the coffin, threatening to smother him. He
wheezes, coughs, curses and fends off a snake that slithers
through a hole in the box. With the deadline approaching to meet
the ransom, he has a chilling conversation with his company’s
personnel director, who has the bedside manner of a serial
killer.  The ending is shocking and bound to give you nightmares.  “Buried,” from Lions Gate, opens Friday in New York, Los
Angeles, Chicago, Dallas and San Francisco. Rating: ***1/2  ‘Waiting for Superman’  While the U.S. is preoccupied with terrorism, the listless
economy and  Lindsay Lohan ’s latest rehab, another problem may
loom larger in the long run: the decline of America’s once pre-
eminent public education system.  That’s the message of  Davis Guggenheim ’s documentary
“ Waiting for Superman .” Guggenheim, along with  Al Gore ,
sounded an alarm over global warming in “An Inconvenient
Truth.” Now he’s doing the same for American schools.  The film includes stats, charts and talking heads such as
crusading reformer Geoffrey Canada, teachers union leader  Randi Weingarten  (portrayed as the villain because she opposes
stricter teacher evaluations) and  Bill Gates , whose foundation
has made improving public education one of its priorities.  The U.S. is ranked near the bottom among 30 developed
countries in math and science, even though per-student spending
has doubled over the last 40 years. Nothing illustrates the
problem better than Guggenheim’s vignettes of students from
neighborhoods with horrible public schools. They enter lotteries
to get into vastly superior charter schools, but there are so
few openings that the odds are stacked against them.  The quality of education shouldn’t depend on where a child
lives or a lucky number. America can’t afford that gamble.  “Waiting for Superman,” from Paramount Vantage, opens
Friday in New York and Los Angeles: Rating: ***  ( Rick Warner  is the movie critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed are his
own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Rick Warner in New York at 
 rwarner1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 