-- Australia & New Zealand Bank Sued by Customers Over Credit Card, Late Fees
-- B y   J o e   S c h n e i d e r
-- 2010-09-22T07:12:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-22/anz-bank-sued-by-customers-seeking-return-of-late-payment-fees-charges.html
Australia & New Zealand Banking
Group Ltd. , Australia’s third biggest lender by market value,
was sued by customers seeking to recoup about A$50 million ($48
million) of bank charges.  IMF Australia Ltd. , the country’s biggest litigation funder,
said today the class action, or group lawsuit, was filed in
federal court in Melbourne on behalf of 27,000 of the bank’s
customers. Maurice Blackburn Lawyers will ask the court to place
the lawsuit on its “fast track” list, IMF said.  ANZ is the first of 12 banks IMF plans to sue in a bid to
recoup as much as A$5 billion that Australian account holders
paid in fees in the past six years, James Middleweek, managing
director at IMF’s Financial Redress Pty unit, said in May.
So far customers holding 213,000 accounts with claims exceeding
A$250 million have registered to sue, IMF said.  Melbourne-based ANZ plans to defend the legality of the
fees, the bank said in a statement today.  “We recognized that these fees were unpopular,”  Philip Chronican , the bank’s chief executive officer, said in the
statement. “It’s a big leap however for a fee to go from being
unpopular to being unlawful.”  ANZ was little changed at A$23.81 at the 4:10 p.m. close of
trading on the Australian Securities Exchange, while the
benchmark S&P/ASX 200 Index added 0.2 percent.  Overdraft, Late-Payment Fees  The fees include charges for insufficient funds, overdrawn
bank or credit card accounts and late credit card payments,
According to the Australian Bankers’ Association  website .  ANZ simplified the fees in December, according to the
statement. Commonwealth Bank of Australia and National Australia
Bank Ltd. have stopped charging the so-called exception fees
after opposition from account holders.  The ANZ lawsuit alleges that “charging these exception
fees is illegal and that the bank’s conduct was unconscionable
or unfair,” Maurice Blackburn’s Chairman  Bernard Murphy  said in
a statement.  The average claim for each customer involved in the lawsuit
is about A$1,500, ranging from several hundred dollars to more
than A$35,000, the law firm said.  The banks, for example, charged as much as A$35 when a
customer went A$1 over a credit card limit, Middleweek said.  “The fee far exceeds the true cost to the bank,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joe Schneider  in Sydney at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at   dwong19@bloomberg.net  