-- Argentina, Panama May Join Combined Latin American Exchange, Hoyle Says
-- B y   A l e x   E m e r y   a n d   E d u a r d o   T h o m s o n
-- 2010-09-22T20:15:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-22/argentina-panama-may-join-combined-latin-american-exchange-hoyle-says.html
Argentina may join a combined Latin
American securities exchange to compete for investors, said the
head of Peru’s main stock exchange.  Panama also could become part of the planned integrated
exchange, Lima Stock Exchange President  Roberto Hoyle  said
yesterday in a telephone interview from Lima.  Chile, Peru and Colombia aim to start a system of cross-
border transactions in stocks such as  Cencosud SA ,  Southern
Copper Corp . and  Ecopetrol SA  from Nov. 22, he said. In a second
phase, the three exchanges plan to establish a common market by
the end of next year that would surpass Mexico in terms of
combined market value and narrow the gap with Brazil, as well as
incorporating securities such as bonds.  “Panama has shown interest, but the three countries
decided to go with the current model as they’ve made more
progress adopting similar regulatory policies,” Hoyle said.
“When the Argentine market recovers, the Merval could join the
integrated market to compete with Brazil’s Bovespa.”  The combined market value of publicly traded companies in
Chile, Colombia and Peru is $592 billion, compared with Mexico’s
$420 billion and Brazil’s $1.29 trillion, according to Bloomberg
data.  MSCI Inc. removed Argentina from its benchmark emerging-
market index in June 2009, assigning it frontier status, citing
requirements for international investors to deposit 30 percent
of the funds they bring into Argentina for a year.  Capital Controls  Buenos Aires Stock Exchange President  Adelmo Gabbi  said in
a June 15 interview that authorities may lift capital controls.
He didn’t return a telephone message left with an assistant
today.  “Any kind of association, specially for such a small
market like Argentina’s, will definitely be positive for the
stock market,”  Jose Maria Aristi , who helps manage $280 million
for Standard Investments, said today in a telephone interview
from Buenos Aires.  While greater choice will benefit investors, Peru may not
be as competitive as Chile and Colombia because of its capital
gains tax,  Jose Luis Bustamante , head of trading at Cartisa SAB,
said in a telephone interview yesterday from Lima.  Peru’s government needs to make it simpler for the
country’s 24 brokerages to pay the 5 percent tax through the
exchange instead of individually filing returns, Hoyle said.  “The Lima Index has grown 24 percent over the past two
months, so it’s shown it can absorb the tax,” Hoyle said. “We
just need greater clarity.”  The integrated market will also spur the sale of local
corporate debt to compete with greater availability of bonds in
Colombia and Chile, Hoyle said.  Peru sold $1.7 billion in corporate debt last year,
compared with $7.5 billion in Chile and $7 billion in Colombia,
according to Bloomberg data and the exchanges.  The Lima  General Index  rose for a sixth session, gaining
1.2 percent to 17,367.60 at 4 p.m. New York time.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alex Emery  in Lima at 
 aemery1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  