-- Mark Cuban, Citigroup, Lehman, UBS in Court News
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2010-09-22T10:28:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-22/mark-cuban-monster-eu-documents-citigroup-lehman-socgen-in-court-news.html
Mark Cuban, the billionaire owner
of the Dallas Mavericks, must face insider-trading allegations
that were dismissed last year by a lower-court judge, an appeals
court ruled.  The federal appeals panel in New Orleans overturned the
lower-court ruling in a decision yesterday. In a 2008 lawsuit,
the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission accused Cuban of
trading on confidential information when he sold his stake in
Mamma.com Inc., a Canadian internet search company, just before
it announced a private placement of shares.  Cuban argued he had no legal obligation not to sell the
stock after Guy Faure, then Mamma.com’s chief executive officer,
told him of the impending private  offering  of below-market
shares in a 2004 telephone call. Cuban sold ahead of the deal,
which diluted the company’s shares by 8.5 percent.  “The allegations, taken in their entirety, provide more
than a plausible basis to find that the understanding between
the CEO and Cuban was that he was not to trade, that it was more
than a simple confidentiality agreement,” the panel of judges
said.  The agency claimed Cuban agreed with Faure at the beginning
of their call to keep the information confidential and told
Faure after learning details of the plan, “Well, now I’m
screwed. I can’t sell.”  Stephen Best, one of Cuban’s attorneys at  Dewey & LeBoeuf
LLP , said it appears the appeals court accepted the argument
that a confidentiality agreement alone isn’t proof of
wrongdoing.  “The uncontradicted record in this case is devoid of any
information suggesting any agreement imposing a fiduciary-like
responsibility on Cuban,” he said. The SEC is “pleased” with
the decision, spokesman John Nester said in a statement.  The case is SEC v. Cuban, 09-10996, 5th U.S. Circuit Court
of Appeals (New Orleans).  For more, click here.  Monster Backdating Case May Spur Ruling on Reporters’ Rights  A former  Monster Worldwide Inc.  executive’s appeal of a
fraud conviction for backdating stock options may wind up
generating a decision on when reporters can be forced to testify
at criminal trials.  James Treacy’s lawyers argued in the U.S. Court of Appeals
in New York yesterday that he was denied his right to a fair
trial when the judge hearing his case limited the cross-
examination of Charles Forelle, a reporter for the Wall Street
Journal. Forelle, forced to testify by the government, told
jurors about comments Treacy made to him in an interview. The
Journal’s stories helped trigger a national stock option
backdating probe.  News Corp. ’s Dow Jones unit, owner of the Journal, is using
the case to obtain a ruling that protects reporters from
government subpoenas. In a “friend of the court” brief, the
publisher said the First Amendment is threatened when
journalists are compelled to testify about their reporting. The
company wants the appeals court to spell out strict guidelines
for when federal prosecutors may call reporters as witnesses.  Treacy, who was Monster’s chief operating officer, was
convicted of conspiracy and securities fraud for backdating
employee stock options to days when the share price was at or
near a periodic low, and not disclosing it in public filings.  The trial court case is U.S. v. Treacy, 1:08-cr-00366, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan). The
appeal is U.S. v. Treacy, 09-3939-cr, U.S. Court of Appeals for
the Second Circuit (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  EU Court Says Access to Legal Documents Limited Until Judgment  European Union agencies can restrict public access to
documents they file in lawsuits until after cases are decided,
the EU’s highest court ruled.  The European Commission and other EU agencies pleading
cases at the  European Court of Justice  can withhold their
filings until a final judgment is issued, the Luxembourg-based
court ruled yesterday.  The commission, the EU’s executive agency can “refuse an
application for access to documents, without being under an
obligation to undertake a specific examination,” an 11-judge
panel said.  Lawyers for the  International Press Association , which
represents foreign reporters in Belgium, initiated the case
arguing that access to such documents is in the public interest.
The group rejected as “purely hypothetical” the commission’s
concerns that release of the documents may “adversely affect”
judicial proceedings. In 2007, a lower EU court clarified that
the document restrictions may be lifted once a ruling is given.  The court rejected the lower court’s position that the
commission and other EU bodies may be under an obligation to
give access to their filings after a hearing and before a final
ruling, saying that could undermine pending cases.  “Disclosure of the pleadings in question would have the
effect of exposing judicial activities to external pressure,
albeit only in the perception of the public, and would disturb
the serenity of the proceedings,” the court said.  The cases are C-514/07 P Sweden v. API and Commission, C-
528/07 P API v. Commission, C-532/07 P Commission v. API.  Lernout to Appeal Conviction for Accounting Fraud, Lawyer Says  Jo Lernout, the co-founder of  Lernout & Hauspie Speech
Products NV  sentenced Sept. 20 to five years in prison for
accounting fraud, will appeal his conviction before Belgium’s
highest appeals court, his lawyer said.  Lernout’s rights of defense were “violated,” because he
was denied a lower-court trial, Luc Gheysens, his lawyer, said
in a telephone interview yesterday.  The 21 defendants in the LHSP trial had to appear before an
appeals court directly because Dirk Cauwelier, a member of
LHSP’s audit committee, was also a part-time judge at the
commercial court. An appeal at Belgium’s  Cour de Cassation 
automatically suspends the execution of Lernout’s prison
sentence. Cauwelier was initially a defendant in the case before
the court ruled that he was indicted too late to be prosecuted.  Lernout’s five-year jail sentence includes two years of
probation.  For the latest trial and appeals news, click here.  New Suits  Citigroup’s Student Loan Unit Sued Over Discover Offer  Citigroup Inc.’s   Student Loan Corp.  was sued by a
shareholder who contends he will be shortchanged in a planned
$600 million acquisition by  Discover Financial Services .  Student Loan, based in Stamford, Connecticut, said Sept. 17
that it would be bought by Discover for $30 a share, a 40
percent premium over the previous day’s close.  The bank, which owns 80 percent of Student Loan, “is in
desperate need to raise cash and divest non-core banking assets
in the short term,” and the deal is “underpriced,” Alan R.
Kahn said in a complaint filed yesterday in Delaware Chancery
Court in Wilmington.  More than a score of Citigroup businesses were identified
for sale following the New York-based bank’s $45 billion bailout
in 2008.  “We believe this lawsuit is without merit, and we intend
to vigorously defend our position,” Mark Rodgers, a Citigroup
spokesman, said in an e-mailed message.  The case is Kahn v. The Student Loan Corp., CA5832,
Delaware Chancery Court (Wilmington).  ANZ Sued by Customers Over Credit Card, Late Fees  Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. , Australia’s
third biggest lender by market value, was sued by customers
seeking to recoup about A$50 million ($48 million) of bank
charges.  IMF Australia Ltd. , the country’s biggest litigation
funder, said yesterday the class action, or group lawsuit, was
filed in federal court in Melbourne on behalf of 27,000 of the
bank’s customers. Maurice Blackburn Lawyers will ask the court
to place the lawsuit on its “fast track” list, IMF said.  IMF is seeking to recoup all the fees, plus interest, that
Australian bank customers paid in the past six years. The total
may be as high as A$5 billion, James Middleweek, managing
director at IMF’s Financial Redress Pty unit, said in May. So
far, customers holding 213,000 accounts with claims exceeding
A$250 million against 12 banks have joined the lawsuits, IMF
said.  Paul Edwards, a spokesman for ANZ, didn’t respond to an e-
mail requesting a comment.  For the latest new suits news, click here. For copies of recent
civil complaints, click here.  Lawsuits/Pretrial  Executives to Face Court Reckoning as SEC Flexes New Power  Corporate executives are more likely to end up in court for
their employees’ misconduct now that Congress has handed broader
powers and more money to the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission, Bloomberg News’ Joshua Gallu reports, citing former
agency officials.  Since the start of the financial crisis, lawmakers,
investors and judges have criticized the agency for giving
bosses a pass while accusing companies of wrongdoing, as in
recent cases involving Citigroup Inc. and Bank of America Corp.
The Dodd-Frank regulatory  act  lowers the bar for filing fraud
lawsuits against individuals and authorizes the SEC to double
its spending within five years.  “The SEC is going to cast a much broader net to include
people on the edge of a fraud,” said Steve Crimmins, a former
trial attorney at the agency who is now at law firm K&L Gates
LLP in Washington. “There will be legions more SEC cops on the
beat and that will mean a lot more activity.”  Under Dodd-Frank, which was signed into law in July, the
SEC can sue an individual who “recklessly” aids a fraud even
if the person isn’t aware of the wrongdoing. Previously, lawyers
had to show the person knowingly assisted the misconduct. The
law also allows the agency to sue senior officers, directors or
other people directly or indirectly accountable for the fraud.  While Dodd-Frank may make that easier, it may be too late
for financial crisis cases, Crimmins said. “Had these standards
been in place two or three years ago, we probably would have
seen more individuals named in cases they’ve brought involving
the financial crisis,” he said.  For more, click here.  SEC Insider Trading Case Against Nelson Obus Thrown Out  Hedge fund manager Nelson Obus won dismissal of case by the
U.S.  Securities and Exchange Commission  claiming he made $1.34
million from an illegal tip about a 2001 merger.  U.S. District Judge George Daniels threw out the case
against Obus, president of  Wynnefield Capital Inc. , and two
other defendants, Thomas Strickland and Peter Black, on Sept.
20.  The SEC suit alleged that in May 2001, Strickland, a
 General Electric Capital Corp.  employee, tipped his friend
Black, a Wynnefield analyst, that SunSource Inc. was to be
acquired by  Allied Capital Corp.   Black passed the tip on to Obus, who used the information
in his decision to buy SunSource stock for three hedge funds
that he controlled, the SEC said.  “The SEC has not produced facts sufficient to prove that
Strickland breached a duty to his employer, nor has it
demonstrated the requisite degree of deceptive conduct on the
part of any defendant,” Daniels said in a written opinion.  SEC spokesman John Heine had no immediate comment on the
ruling.  The case is Securities and Exchange Commission v. Obus, 06-
CV-3150, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  For more, click here.  U.S. Seeks to Join Pfizer Whistleblower Lawsuit over Rapamune  The U.S. Justice Department is seeking to join a
whistleblower lawsuit over  Pfizer Inc. ’s organ transplant drug
Rapamune alleging the medicine was illegally marketed, according
to court papers.  The government’s lawyers are asking a federal judge in
Philadelphia to allow them to take over litigating claims that
officials of Pfizer’s Wyeth unit pushed the drug for unapproved
uses and specifically targeted black patients.  “This means the government had determined that some or all
of the allegations in our complaint are merit worthy,” Reuben
Guttman, a Washington-based lawyer representing two former Wyeth
employees who filed suit over the practices, said in a telephone
interview yesterday.  Rapamune is approved to help prevent the rejection of
kidney transplants. The U.S. Food and Drug Administration last
year found the drug may increase the risk of death and organ
rejection if given during a liver transplant.  Pfizer officials said yesterday Rapamune’s warning label
included “appropriate caveats” about how the drug could be
used safely in connection with transplants.  “Pfizer has previously disclosed that the company is
cooperating with the U.S. government regarding its review of
Wyeth’s promotional practices involving Rapamune,” Raymond
Kerins, a Pfizer spokesman, said in an e-mailed statement.  After investigating the whistleblowers’ claims about
Wyeth’s Rapamune marketing tactics, Justice Department lawyers
concluded they had “good cause to intervene” in the case,
according to a court filing. U.S. District Judge John R. Padova
in Philadelphia still must approve the government’s request to
join the 2005 suit.  The complaint was filed by Marlene Sandler and Scott Paris,
two former Wyeth sales reps, who claim the drugmaker “directed
their entire Rapamune sales force” to promote the drug among
physicians involved in heart, lung, liver and pancreas
transplants. The drug hasn’t been approved for use in any of
those transplants, according to the complaint.  The case is U.S. v. Wyeth Pharmaceuticals Inc, CA 05-6609,
U.S. District Court, Eastern District of Pennsylvania
(Philadelphia).  For more, click here.  Standard Chartered Wins Singapore Investment Suit Dismissal  Standard Chartered Plc  won dismissal of a Singapore lawsuit
by four persons claiming the bank misled them into buying
certain investment products after a judge ruled there was a risk
the trial may not be fair.  Singapore High Court Judge Tay Yong Kwang took the
“draconian measure” of throwing out the complaint by Lee Chang
Rung and three of his relatives, according to the  Sept. 17
ruling  made public yesterday. Lee, his brother, sister and
brother-in-law concealed certain documents including not fully
disclosing their previous investments in structured products to
gain an “unfair tactical advantage,” Tay said.  The group claimed they were conservative investors who
placed most of their money with American Express Bank Ltd. in
fixed deposits. Lee and the others claimed that American
Express, which has since been acquired by Standard Chartered,
misrepresented that the investments they bought were safe and
had guaranteed returns.  Lee and the other three complainants are appealing the
decision, Tay said in his ruling.  “There is a serious risk that a fair trial may not be
possible in the light of the hide and seek strategy adopted,”
Tay said, adding there was no indication the claim against the
bank will be pursued “honestly and fairly.”  Leonard Loo appeared for the group and Hri Kumar from Drew
& Napier LLC represented Standard Chartered.  The case is Lee Chang Rung v. Standard Chartered Bank
S212/2009 in the Singapore High Court.  Lehman Seeks Court Approval of $445 Million Accord with SocGen  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. , the bankrupt investment
bank, requested court approval of an agreement with  Societe
Generale  that would give the estate at least $445 million.  The accord relates to swap transactions with two special-
purpose entities, according to papers filed Sept. 20 in federal
court in Manhattan.  “The settlement agreement avoids the inherent risk for the
debtors in the current litigation against SG,” New York-based
Lehman said in the filing. The  creditors’  committee supports the
accord, court papers show.  If the deal is approved, Lehman could potentially recover
about $72 million more. The agreement would allow Lehman to
pursue the remaining assets in Libra CDO Ltd. and MKP Vela CBO
Ltd. against other parties to the swap transactions.  The case is In re Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., 08-13555,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  For the latest lawsuits news, click here.  Verdicts/Settlements  Ex-UBS Client Gets Year’s Probation for False Returns  Jules Robbins, a former  UBS AG  client who pleaded guilty to
five counts of filing false tax returns, was sentenced to one
year of probation.  Robbins, an 84-year-old retired watch distributor from
Jericho, New York, admitted in April that he failed to disclose
almost $42 million held in an offshore UBS account.  “I want to convey to you my most sincere apology for not
filing accurate federal tax returns,” Robbins said to U.S.
District Judge Richard Holwell at a hearing yesterday in
Manhattan. “I should have disclosed my UBS account in those
federal tax returns.”  As part of an agreement with prosecutors, Robbins agreed to
pay a $20.8 million civil penalty for failing to file foreign
bank account report forms. The amount is 80 percent of Robbins’s
net worth, his lawyer, Martin Perschetz, told Holwell. Holwell
imposed an additional $2,000 criminal fine.  Perschetz, who said that Robbins is in fragile health and
has already suffered punishment for the crime, asked Holwell for
a sentence that didn’t include prison. Robbins asked the judge
for mercy, breaking down several times as he told Holwell of the
“shame, aggravation and sleepless nights during the past many
months.”  The case is U.S. v. Robbins, 10-CR-333, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Sportingbet Rises After Reaching Agreement With U.S. Officials  Sportingbet Plc  rose 10 percent in London trading after the
U.K.-listed online betting company reached a non-prosecution
agreement with U.S. authorities that would have it forfeit $33
million for its American Internet gambling operations between
1998 and 2006.  Chief Executive Officer Andrew McIver said the step should
make it easier for the Guernsey-based company to raise funds,
make acquisitions, and resume operations in the U.S. if it
legalizes Web gambling.  Sportingbet and  PartyGaming Plc  are the only European
online gambling companies to have signed agreements to avoid
prosecution by the U.S. Sportingbet agreed to cooperate with the
Federal Bureau of Investigation and a continuing probe by the
Manhattan U.S. Attorney’s office, according to the agreement.  For more, click here.  Pioneer Food’s Antitrust Settlement May Exceed Provisions  Pioneer Foods Ltd. , the South African maker of Sasko bread
and Weet-Bix cereal, said a financial settlement with the
country’s antitrust authorities over bread prices may surpass
provisions it made for the accord.  “Indications are that the settlement amount will exceed
the provision previously made by Pioneer Foods,” the Paarl,
Western Cape-based company said yesterday in a statement. The
Competition Tribunal on Feb. 3 imposed a fine of 195.7 million
rand ($27.6 million) on Pioneer for its role in a bread cartel.  Pioneer was the only bread maker out of four that didn’t
admit to price-fixing following a complaint from Western Cape
distributors in 2006 that bakeries had increased prices a week
before Christmas. Premier Foods Ltd., based at Isando near
Johannesburg, was exempted from prosecution after helping the
Competition Commission with its investigation. Tiger Brands
Ltd., the country’s biggest food company, was fined 99 million
rand in 2007, while Foodcorp Ltd. paid 45.4 million rand.  For the latest verdict and settlement news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Elizabeth Amon  in Brooklyn, New York at   eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 