-- Armstrong Team Doping Investigation May Stutter in Europe
-- B y   A l e x   D u f f
-- 2010-09-22T10:33:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-22/armstrong-team-doping-investigation-may-stutter-in-europe-lawyers-say.html
A U.S. federal probe into doping in
cycling involving Lance Armstrong’s former team may be slowed by
legal hurdles in pursuing the inquiry in Europe, sports lawyers
said.  Former rider  Roberto Heras  is among three Spaniards who
worked for the disbanded U.S. Postal Service team led by
Armstrong who said they haven’t been questioned by investigators
now focused on American witnesses.  Jeff Novitzky , a Food and Drug Administration special
agent, interviewed ex-rider  Frankie Andreu , according to
Andreu’s wife Betsy. Three-time Tour de France champion  Greg LeMond  is among other Americans subpoenaed to testify, his
attorney  Mark Handfelt  said.  “It will be very difficult to get an arrest warrant”
outside the U.S. because doping isn’t seen as a serious crime,
Mel Goldberg, chairman of the British Association for Sport and
Law, said from London. “They can always ask to talk to
witnesses but there’s no legal obligation.”  About half of the cycling team’s staff was from Europe.
U.S. investigators would require assistance from foreign
judicial authorities to make progress, according to Rodrigo
Garcia, a lawyer at Laffer Abogados in Madrid who represented
three cyclists in a blood-doping investigation in Spain known as
Operacion Puerto.  Elaine Gansz Bobo, a spokesman for the Food and Drug
Administration, said she was unable to comment on the status of
any ongoing investigation.  Expand Investigation  Floyd Landis , stripped of his 2006 Tour de France title for
doping, said in a May 1 e-mail to USA Cycling Chief Executive
Officer Steve Johnson that he saw the “entire” U.S. Postal
Service team having blood transfusions in the team bus on a
mountain road in 2004. Armstrong, 39, and the team’s sports
director  Johan Bruyneel  say Landis’s claims aren’t credible.
They deny any wrongdoing.  Earlier this year, the World Anti-Doping Agency put U.S.
authorities in touch with the international police organization
Interpol so that “country by country” they can look at
expanding the investigation, WADA Director General  David Howman 
said by telephone from Montreal.  “Nobody’s called me and that’s that,” Heras said in a
phone interview. Heras was a so-called lieutenant to seven-time
Tour de France winner Armstrong, pacing him up mountain roads
from 2001 to 2003.  Heras, who hasn’t raced at an elite level since failing a
2005 drug test, declined to comment on the investigation or
whether he would cooperate.  ‘Evidence’ Produced  Luis Garcia del Moral, chief doctor of the U.S. Postal
Service team, and then-assistant Jose Aramendi said in
interviews they too haven’t been contacted by investigators.
Both Spaniards denied knowledge of a doping scheme.  Aramendi said he was willing to talk to investigators,
although if it was a “serious” inquiry he would need to seek
legal advice. Del Moral said he would help provided he doesn’t
have to break patient-confidentiality rules.  Bruyneel, who moved to London from Madrid this year, hasn’t
been contacted by Novitzky “as far as I know,”  Philippe Maertens , a spokesman for the RadioShack team the Belgian now
manages, said in an e-mail.  In the U.S., Andreu and his wife turned over “some
evidence” to special agent Novitzky, Betsy Andreu said by
telephone, without giving more details. In 2005, she told a
tribunal she heard Armstrong tell a doctor, while he was being
treated for cancer in 1996, that he’d used doping products.
Armstrong denied her claim.  Frankie Andreu wasn’t available for comment. LeMond was
subpoenaed in July, his attorney Handfelt said.  Tyler Hamilton ,
a former team rider from Marblehead, Massachusetts, was also
subpoenaed to testify, his attorney Chris Manderson said in an
e-mail, without elaborating.  ‘Difficult to Prosecute’  There’s unlikely to be a parallel investigation in Spain,
where many members of the U.S. Postal Service team were based,
according to lawyer Garcia. Armstrong -- who said this year’s
Tour de France would be his last -- had a home in Girona on
Spain’s east coast for several years.  “It’s very difficult to prosecute unless there was a crime
against public health” in Spain, Garcia said. The Operacion
Puerto investigation ended after two years in 2008 without
anyone being charged in that country, he added.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alex Duff  in Madrid at 
 aduff4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  