-- Harper Loses Vote in Canadian Parliament to End Country's Rifle Registry
-- B y   A l e x a n d r e   D e s l o n g c h a m p s
-- 2010-09-22T23:43:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-22/harper-may-win-voters-by-losing-bid-to-end-canada-rifle-shotgun-registry.html
Canadian Prime Minister  Stephen Harper ’s governing Conservative Party today lost a Parliamentary
vote that would have ended the country’s mandatory registry for
rifles and shotguns.  Lawmakers voted 153 to 151 to kill proposed legislation
that would have eliminated the registry, with all of the
opposition Liberal and Bloc Quebecois members and all but six
New Democratic Party representatives voting to keep it. Harper’s
Conservatives  hold  143 of 308 seats in Parliament, meaning they
must get support from some opposition lawmakers to win votes.  Harper, whose party dominates rural electoral districts,
has repeatedly vowed to end the registry, saying it treats
farmers and hunters like criminals while doing nothing to stop
gun-related violence. The Conservatives may try to use today’s
defeat to raise money and exploit divisions within the New
Democratic Party, the smallest opposition group with 36 seats.  “The people of the regions of this country are never going
to accept being treated like criminals and we will continue our
efforts” to eliminate the registry, Harper said outside
Parliament following the vote. “With the vote tonight, its
abolition is closer than it’s ever been.”  Voter Support  The Conservatives and the Liberals both have 33 percent
voter support, according to a  Nanos Research poll  of 1,014
voters conducted Aug. 28 to Sept. 3 that has a margin of error
of 3.1 percentage points. The NDP had 16 percent support, down 5
percentage points from a June poll, Nanos also found.  “This is an emotional issue inside our caucus, but we
showed unity,” Liberal Party Leader  Michael Ignatieff  told
reporters. “If you care about public safety in this country,
you want a gun registry.”  New Democratic Leader  Jack Layton  said “Harper continues
his politics of division” with the gun registry. Most Canadians
want it fixed instead of abolished, he said.  The Conservatives raised C$4.12 million ($4 million) from
34,431 donors in the second quarter, compared with the Liberals’
C$1.61 million raised from 17,064 donors, according to  Elections
Canada data .  Under  current legislation , Canadians must report ownership
of weapons to the firearms registry. This has allowed the
government to build an online database that is accessible to
law-enforcement authorities, according to the Royal Canadian
Mounted Police’s website.  There are about 1.8 million valid licenses for firearms in
Canada for the population of 34 million, according to RCMP and
Statistics Canada  data . Canadians own about 6.5 million so-
called long guns, which include rifles and shotguns, and 500,000
restricted firearms such as handguns, according to a February
 evaluation report  by the RCMP that was published last month.  Firearms Deaths  The report found that the share of firearms deaths caused
by long guns fell to 69 percent in 2004 from 72 percent in 2001,
the year the registry was implemented. Police consulted the
registry about 9,800 times a day in 2009, up from 1,800 times a
day in 2003, the report also said.  An online  Angus Reid  poll of 1,011 voters conducted Sept.
15-16 found 46 percent of Canadians want the registry abolished,
compared with 40 percent who want it kept. Some 53 percent of
people living in rural areas oppose the registry, compared with
44 percent in cities,  according to the poll  that was published
Sept. 20 and has a margin of error of 3.1 percentage points.  The registry was adopted in 1995, spurred by the 1989  mass
murder  of 14 women at Universite de Montreal’s engineering
school. The current government has enacted an amnesty, effective
until May 16, which exempts from criminal prosecution licensed
owners who haven’t registered their guns. The government allowed
a  transitional period  to let Canadians get used to the new law
and study its implementation.  The vote stopped the progress of a  private member’s bill 
introduced by Candice Hoeppner, a Conservative lawmaker from
Manitoba. Having the initiative come from an individual
lawmaker, instead of being a regular government bill, was a
tactical choice by Harper, said Andre Albinati, a principal at
Earnscliffe Strategy Group in Ottawa who was part of former
Liberal Prime Minister  Paul Martin ’s transition team.  It “allows him, win or lose, to save face,” Albinati
said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Alexandre Deslongchamps  in Ottawa at 
 adeslongcham@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net . 