-- Hartford Warrants Raise $706.3 Million in U.S. Auction
-- B y   N a t a l i e   D o s s   a n d   H u g h   S o n
-- 2010-09-22T13:34:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-22/hartford-bailout-warrants-said-to-sell-for-13-70-at-auction.html
Hartford Financial Services Group
Inc.  bailout warrants raised $706.3 million in a U.S. Treasury
Department auction.  The 52.1 million warrants to purchase Hartford stock sold
for $13.70 each, the Treasury said today in a statement. The
minimum bid price for the 10-year warrants was $10.50. Deutsche
Bank Securities Inc. was the auction agent.  Hartford, led by Chief Executive Officer  Liam McGee , paid
back $3.4 billion in federal aid in March after raising funds by
selling stock and debt to private investors. The insurer turned
to the Treasury for aid after the recession forced down the
value of the company’s fixed-income holdings and increased
liabilities on equity-linked retirement products.  “That’s a little lower than I would have thought they would
have gone,” said  Dan Theriault , an analyst at Portales Partners
LLC. “People are not anticipating that the stock will be a
strong performer over the near term given the small premium.”  Hartford fell 81 cents, or 3.5 percent, to $22.35 at 9:31
a.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading.  The Treasury demanded warrants from recipients of bailout
money from its Troubled Asset Relief Program as compensation for
the risks it was taking with taxpayer dollars. The warrants
entitle holders to purchase Hartford stock at $9.79 a share.  Treasury had raised more than $7 billion as of Sept. 10 by
selling warrants back to the companies or through public
auctions. The biggest divestiture was for Bank of America Corp.,
the largest U.S. lender by assets, whose bailout warrants sold
at auction in March for more than $1.5 billion.  The Treasury raised $213.7 million of Lincoln National
Corp. warrants last week. Hartford, based in the Connecticut
city of the same name, joined rival insurers Lincoln and
American International Group Inc. in accepting federal aid.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Natalie Doss  in New York 
 ndoss@bloomberg.net ;
 Hugh Son  in New York at 
 hson1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  