-- Harvard's Feldstein Says U.S. Economy in `Holding Pattern' After Recession
-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n   a n d   M a r g a r e t   B r e n n a n
-- 2010-09-22T15:17:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-22/harvard-s-feldstein-says-u-s-economy-in-holding-pattern-after-recession.html
Harvard University economics
professor  Martin Feldstein  said more bond purchases by the
Federal Reserve probably wouldn’t do much to spur the slowly
growing U.S. economy.  “At this point we’re really in a kind of holding pattern
for the economy,”  said Feldstein, a member of the National
Bureau of Economic Research committee that dates the beginning
and end of recessions, in an interview today on Bloomberg
Television’s “InBusiness with  Margaret Brennan .” He sees a 30
percent chance the U.S. will relapse into a recession, he said.  The NBER said this week that the worst U.S. recession since
the Great Depression ended in June 2009. “The committee did not
conclude that economic conditions since that month have been
favorable or that the economy has returned to operating at
normal capacity,” the Cambridge, Massachusetts-based NBER’s
group said.  “GDP has been growing at a slower rate quarter after
quarter,” Feldstein said. “It’s slowing down and there are a
lot of headwinds that make it hard for this economy to have a
robust recovery.”  The U.S. unemployment rate climbed to 9.6 percent in August
from 9.5 percent in July and is forecast to average more than 9
percent through next year. The rate has been at 9.5 percent or
higher since June 2009.  “The Fed, while it’s probably going to do some more
quantitative easing, that’s not going to have a big impact,” he
said.  ‘Somewhat Below’  The Federal Open Market Committee said yesterday that
inflation is “somewhat below” levels consistent with its
congressional mandate for stable prices. The central bank said
it is “prepared to provide additional accommodation if needed
to support the economic recovery and to return inflation, over
time, to levels consistent with its mandate.”  Another round of Fed easing could lower the yield on the
10-year Treasury by 20 or 25 basis points, Feldstein said. A
basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  “That’s not going to turn this economy around,” he said,
“It will show the Fed cares, it will show that they’re trying,
but it really won’t make any significant difference.”  The central bank can reduce the yield on the 10-year
Treasury note by about 3 basis points for each $100 billion it
spends, according to an estimate by Macroeconomic Advisers LLC.  The White House announced yesterday that  Lawrence Summers ,
the director of the National Economic Council, will leave
President  Barack Obama ’s administration following November’s
congressional elections and return to teach at Harvard.  “Frankly there’s not much he could do even if he stayed in
the White house,” said Feldstein, who was chairman of the
Council of Economic Advisers under President  Ronald Reagan .  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Joshua Zumbrun  in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  