-- Asian Currencies Rise, Led by Ringgit, as Economic Growth Attracts Funds
-- B y   A n d r e a   W o n g   a n d   Y u m i   T e s o
-- 2010-09-22T03:41:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-22/asian-currencies-rise-led-by-ringgit-as-economic-growth-attracts-funds.html
Asian currencies rose, led by
Malaysia’s ringgit and the Thai baht, after global investors
pumped more money into the world’s fastest-growing economies and
the U.S. signaled it may boost the supply of dollars.  The ringgit and the baht both climbed 0.3 percent to 13-
year highs of 3.09 per dollar and 30.65, respectively, as of
11:22 a.m. in Kuala Lumpur, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Indonesia’s rupiah strengthened 0.1 percent to 8,953.
Financial markets were closed in China, South Korea and Taiwan
for holidays.  “The perception among investors is that Asia is the most
attractive destination on the growth front,” said  Dariusz Kowalczyk , Hong-Kong based chief economist at Credit Agricole
CIB. “That means Asian currencies will continue to rise.”  The Bloomberg-JPMorgan Asia Dollar  Index , which tracks the
region’s 10-most traded currencies excluding the yen, rose to a
two-year high. Asia’s developing economies will expand 9.2
percent in 2010, outpacing growth of 2.6 percent in advanced
countries, the International Monetary Fund forecast in July.  The U.S. Federal Reserve said yesterday it’s willing to
ease monetary policy further to secure a stronger recovery in
the world’s biggest economy, which Kowalczyk said indicates a
bias toward more purchases of debt to boost the supply of
dollars in the financial system. The central bank’s benchmark
interest rate of a maximum 0.25 percent compared with 2.75
percent in Malaysia, 1.75 percent in Thailand and 6.5 percent in
Indonesia.  Stock, Bond Inflows  Global funds bought a net $124 million of Thai bonds
yesterday, according to Thai Bond Market Association data. They
also pumped $117 million into stocks, the most since March 2,
according to exchange data. Thailand’s 10-year bonds yield 3.35
percent, more than the 2.54 percent rate for similar-maturity
U.S. Treasuries, and the central bank predicts the economy will
expanded as much as 7.5 percent this year.  Malaysia’s ringgit, Asia’s best-performing currency this
year, was supported after Prime Minister Najib Razak said
yesterday the government was studying a plan to allow it to be
freely traded outside the country. While such a move isn’t
imminent, Bank Negara Malaysia Governor Zeti Akhtar Aziz said a
phased transition is possible once “international markets
stabilize and return to more normal conditions.”  “It’s positive for sentiment if they are considering the
plan, which could lead to a faster appreciation of the
ringgit,” said  Nik M. Khairul , a treasury dealer at Asian
Finance Bank Bhd. in Kuala Lumpur. “It’s not going to happen
soon though.”  Elsewhere, the Philippine peso gained 0.1 percent to 44.013
versus the greenback and the Singapore dollar rose 0.3 percent
to S$1.3280.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Yumi Teso  in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 