-- Atlas Copco Says Mining Demand Quickened in Third Quarter on Metal Prices
-- B y   O l a   K i n n a n d e r
-- 2010-09-22T10:58:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-22/atlas-copco-says-mining-demand-quickened-in-third-quarter-on-metal-prices.html
Atlas Copco AB , the world’s largest
maker of air compressors, is seeing mining-equipment demand
accelerate in the third quarter as higher metal prices spur
spending on drills, according to executive  Bjoern Rosengren .  “The mining industry is strong,” said Rosengren, who
oversees Atlas Copco’s Construction and Mining Technique unit,
in a telephone interview from Shanghai today.  The current quarter’s orders at the division, which
generated  41 percent  of total revenue last year, have been
“somewhat better” than the prior period, the executive said.  The Swedish manufacturer plans to build more factories in
faster-growing markets such as China, where the unit currently
has six plants. Rosengren relocated to Shanghai last year to be
closer to the booming Asian market. Gold futures are at record
highs and with growing demand for copper and iron ore, demand
for blast-hole drilling rigs is climbing, the executive said. By
contrast, no such investment is foreseen for the west.  Rising raw-material prices are helping reverse the effects
of the financial crisis, which led the mining and construction
unit to cut 3,000 jobs, half of the total workforce reduction
that Atlas Copco instigated to combat plunging orders in Europe
and the U.S.  Mining and construction is now Atlas Copco’s fastest
growing unit, with orders in the second quarter  nearly tripling 
to 16 billion kronor ($2.3 billion). The unit has hired about
1,000 people this year as demand recovered. There are no signs
of a looming double-dip recession in the global economy,
Rosengren said.  China Takes Lead  A primary focus in China, which overtook the U.S. as Atlas
Copco’s biggest market last year, is to keep small, local rivals
at bay by developing locally-produced, less-expensive products
matched to customers’ budgets, Rosengren said.  “New competitors are emerging in China that can quickly
grow in size,” he said. “You have to meet those rivals the
same way they’re acting in this market and make sure they don’t
get the chance to grow and become too big and enter other parts
of the world.”  The company’s construction business, which makes road-
building machinery such as rollers, is also expanding in China,
India and much of South America, especially Brazil, he said.  “In southern Europe things are difficult,” Rosengren
said. “In the U.S., it’s still pretty tough. Things are
beginning to move there but from a low level compared to the
good old days.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ola Kinnander  in Stockholm at 
 okinnander@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net . 