-- Laura Bush Reads to Dead Kids, Killer Gets Off: London Weekend
-- B y   F a r a h   N a y e r i
-- 2010-09-22T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-22/laura-bush-reads-to-dead-kids-killer-has-photography-show-london-weekend.html
Laura Bush  takes to the stage in a
burgundy pantsuit, a leather-bound book tucked under one arm.  The onetime librarian and wife of former U.S. President
 George W. Bush  reads Dostoyevsky to an invisible trio of dead
Iraqi children. “I’m sorry you’re dead, but all children love
books,” she says.  The Bush playlet is part of an evening of shorties by
Pulitzer prizewinner  Tony Kushner . In another, President  Richard Nixon ’s dead shrink observes from heaven: “What’s amazing is
that he didn’t blow up the planet.”  “Tiny Kushner” ends Saturday at the Tricycle Theatre, so
this is your last chance to catch it in London. Information:
 http://www.tricycle.co.uk  or call +44-20-7328-1000.  Saturday  Art books are getting their own fair at the Whitechapel
Gallery, with celebrity signings throughout the weekend.  At lunchtime on Saturday,  Martin Creed  -- whose last
escapade featured sprinters charging through  Tate Britain  in
2008 -- will give a talk and autograph copies of his book. Jake
and  Dinos Chapman  will do the same the day before, when the
three-day fair opens.  Information:  http://www.whitechapelgallery.org  or call
+44-20-7522-7878.  Saturday Night  Kathryn Williams  has spent a decade writing songs since she
was nominated for the 2000 Mercury Prize at age 26 for the
intimate CD “Little Black Numbers.”  “The Quickening,” released earlier this year, has a
fuller band sound. Admirers of Nick Drake,  Joni Mitchell ,  Beth Orton  and Laura Nyro will love Williams’s wordplay. She has
asked fans to vote online for the tunes they most want to hear.  Queen Elizabeth Hall, South Bank, SE1 8XX.  Information:  http://www.southbankcentre.co.uk ;
 http://www.kathrynwilliams.net/   Sunday  Eadweard Muybridge, the 19th-century photography pioneer,
would have spent the last decades of his life in jail for
murdering his wife’s lover in 1874. But he got lucky with his
all-male jury and continued making these eccentric pictures of
running nudes and galloping horses.  As this career survey at Tate Britain shows, he also
produced majestic images of the American landscape.  “Eadweard Muybridge” ends Jan. 16, 2011. Information:
 http://www.tate.org.uk/britain  or call +44-20-7887-8888.  Restaurant Picks  How about some griddled scallops, served on the shell, with
pea puree and mint? Le Cafe Anglais in west London is taking 25
percent off your bill -- including wine -- until Oct. 3 at its
new  Cafe & Oyster Bar .  More gourmet fish dishes are on offer over at One-O-One, in
Knightsbridge. Here, you can obtain 40 percent off the price of
food at lunchtime and between 6:30 p.m. and 7 p.m. if you book
the offer in advance via the London-Eating website:
 http://www.london-eating.co.uk/1729.htm .  ( Farah Nayeri  writes for Muse, the arts and leisure section
of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
 Farah Nayeri  in London  at
 farahn@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 