-- Australia May Introduce `Hybrid' Policy on Curbing Carbon, Citigroup Says
-- B y   J a m e s   P a t o n
-- 2010-09-22T02:25:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-22/australia-may-introduce-hybrid-policy-on-curbing-carbon-citigroup-says.html
Australia is likely to impose a
price on carbon emissions in the next three years, replacing a
previous plan with a blend of initiatives, including a trading
system or a tax as well as regulation, Citigroup Inc. said.  “It might be some sort of hybrid and perhaps more
incremental than was being proposed previously,” while focusing
initially on electricity generation,  Elaine Prior , an analyst at
Citigroup in Sydney, said in a phone interview today. Whether
it’s a tax or trading, “the same issues would arise,” with
debate about industries that should be included,
compensation and allocation of free permits, she said.  Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  pledged to restart an effort
to tackle climate change after replacing  Kevin Rudd  in June,
seeking to build a consensus before taking action. As part
of an accord with the Greens Party earlier this month, Gillard
said she would set up a committee to form a carbon plan.  Origin Energy Ltd. ,  AGL Energy Ltd.  and  Infigen Energy 
would be the main beneficiaries if a policy to reduce carbon
emissions succeeds, Prior said.  “Carbon regulation may contribute to higher electricity
prices, which would then improve the economics for renewables,”
she said. “But it depends on the detail of the design.”  BHP Billiton Ltd. Chief Executive Officer  Marius Kloppers 
last week urged lawmakers to combine a carbon tax, regulation
and a market-based trading system restricted to power generation.  ‘Top of Mind’  The Greens received a surge in voter support in Australia’s
August election after the ruling Labor Party under Rudd deferred
its carbon pollution reduction scheme, or CPRS, amid opposition
from lawmakers. Gillard named  Greg Combet , a former union leader
and coal-mining engineer, as climate change minister. Combet
replaced  Penny Wong , who became finance minister.  “Despite the CPRS being rejected, it’s clear the topic is
top of mind and it’s also clear that some business leaders would
like to see more clarity,” Prior said. She said if a new plan
“adds complexity, then it’s not good, and at the end of the day
one would hope to get a market signal that’s broad-based and
that encourages carbon reduction at the lowest cost.”  Resolving the policy details is unlikely to happen quickly
or smoothly, Prior said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 James Paton  in Sydney   jpaton4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at   aprakash1@bloomberg.net . 