-- Australian, New Zealand Stocks Fall on U.S. Concern; James Hardie Declines
-- B y   K a n a   N i s h i z a w a   a n d   S h a n i   R a j a
-- 2010-09-23T00:35:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-22/australian-stock-futures-fall-on-concern-over-u-s-profits-bhp-adrs-climb.html
Australian and New Zealand  stocks 
fell as concern about the outlook for U.S. earnings overshadowed
the effects of higher metal prices.  James Hardie Industries SE , the biggest supplier of home
siding in the U.S., dropped 1.2 percent in Sydney after a report
showed U.S. house prices slid for an eighth consecutive month.
Macquarie Group Ltd. led banks lower after Deutsche Bank AG cut
its earnings forecasts for Morgan Stanley and Goldman Sachs
Group Inc.  BHP Billiton Ltd. , the world’s largest mining company,
rose 0.4 percent as copper advanced to a five-month high.  “Risk aversion remains high among investors,” said  Tim Schroeders , who helps manage about $1 billion at Pengana Capital
Ltd. in Melbourne. “The U.S. recovery remains tepid, with key
areas of the economy such as housing and employment remaining
problems for policy makers.”  The  S&P/ASX 200 Index  fell 0.1 percent to 4,622.90 as of
10:29 a.m. in Sydney, with about two stocks declining for every
one that advanced. Banks were the heaviest drag on the index
among its 10 industry groups.  New Zealand’s  NZX 50 Index  lost 0.1 percent after a report
showed the nation’s economy expanded more slowly than forecast
in the second quarter. Markets in Japan, Hong Kong, China and
South Korea are closed today for holidays.  Futures on the U.S.  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  were little
changed today. The gauge slid 0.5 percent yesterday after Adobe
Systems Inc.’s sales estimates missed analysts’ projections, and
after Deutsche Bank cut its third-quarter earnings forecasts for
Morgan Stanley and Goldman Sachs, citing weak trading revenue.
Stocks also fell after the Federal Housing Finance Agency said
U.S. home prices dropped 3.3 percent in July from a year earlier.  Metals, Valuations  An index of six metals including aluminum and copper traded
on the  London Metal Exchange  jumped 2.2 percent yesterday to the
highest level since April. Copper futures in New York climbed to
their highest price since April in intraday trading, and gold
futures climbed to a record.  The  MSCI Asia Pacific excluding Japan Index  slumped as much
as 15 percent this year as Europe’s debt crisis and China’s
measures to curb property prices fueled concern the global
economic recovery may falter. Shares on the gauge trade at 13.7
times estimated earnings on average, compared with 18 times at
the start of the year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kana Nishizawa  in Tokyo at 
 knishizawa5@bloomberg.net ;
 Shani Raja  in Melbourne at 
 sraja4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nicolas Johnson at   nicojohnson@bloomberg.net . 