-- Australian Westpac Leading Economic Index Rises on Dwellings, Share Prices
-- B y   J a c o b   G r e b e r
-- 2010-09-22T00:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-22/australian-westpac-leading-economic-index-rises-on-dwellings-share-prices.html
An Australian index of leading
economic indicators rose in July, as increased share prices and
dwelling approvals signal the nation’s economic expansion will
continue in coming quarters.  The index, a gauge of future economic growth, gained 0.4
percent to 269.5,  Westpac Banking Corp.  and the Melbourne
Institute said in Sydney today. The index rose at an annualized
rate of 6.8 percent in July, after gaining 7.4 percent in June.
The long-term trend is 3.2 percent growth, Westpac said.  Today’s report adds to evidence the Australian economy, one
of few to skirt last year’s global recession, is weathering the
central bank’s six interest rate increases between October and
May. Australia is likely to need higher interest rates if the
Reserve Bank of Australia’s forecast is realized for the economy
to continue expanding at its trend pace of faster, policy makers
said yesterday.  “We have brought forward our timing” for the next RBA
“rate hike to October, from our earlier assessment of February
next year,” said  Bill Evans , chief economist at Westpac in
Sydney. “This is in response to some extremely hawkish
remarks” by the bank in yesterday’s minutes for its September
policy meeting, he said.  Westpac’s leading index tracks eight gauges of activity,
such as company profits and productivity, to give an indication
of how the economy will perform over the next three to nine
months.  The coincident index, a measure of the current state of the
economy, rose 0.4 percent to 255.9 points in July.  “The growth rate in the coincident index is now clearly
above trend,” Evans said.  To contact the reporter for this story:
 Jacob Greber  in Sydney at 
 jgreber@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey in Tokyo at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  