-- Hawaiian Adds Service Training to Win Asia Fliers on New Routes
-- B y   W i l l   D a l e y
-- 2010-09-22T23:39:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-22/hawaiian-air-adds-training-to-meet-asian-fliers-standards-on-new-routes.html
Hawaiian Airlines , poised to start
flights to Japan and South Korea, is coaching employees on how
to meet the service expectations of Asian passengers as it bids
to win business in the region.  The  Hawaiian Holdings Inc.  unit worked with a consultant
specializing in cultural variances between the U.S. and Asia to
help tailor a two-day program for flight attendants and service
workers, Chief Executive Officer  Mark Dunkerley  said yesterday
in an interview at Bloomberg’s New York headquarters.  Hawaiian will begin flights in November between Honolulu
and Tokyo’s Haneda airport and will add service in January to
Seoul, both of which are springboards into Asia. The carrier
will vie for market share against a dozen flights to Japan,
mainly by Japanese carriers including  All Nippon Airways Co.   “You are competing against, in many instances, the flag
carrier of that country, which of course is used to and
understands the culture,” said  Jerry Glass , president of
Washington-based consultant F&H Solutions Group. “If you want
to effectively compete, especially in the global market, you
absolutely have to do these sorts of things.”  Dunkerley said Hawaiian’s program delves into Asian culture
and history to help workers understand why certain expectations
exist.  The training isn’t an “instruction manual on how to
provide good customer service,” he said. Rather, the aim is for
employees to understand “what Asian customers expect in terms
of service and how we can deliver Hawaiian service in a way that
meets the need, the expectations of Asian customers,” he said.  Culture, Customs  Differences in culture and customs create the risk of
inadvertently offending passengers from other countries, said
Glass, a former labor executive at US Airways Group Inc. who
isn’t involved with Hawaiian’s program.  Hawaiian received U.S. Transportation Department permission
in May for one daily flight between Honolulu and  Japan. Delta
Air Lines Inc.  won authority to operate two daily flights,
serving Los Angeles and Detroit in the U.S., and  AMR Corp. ’s
American Airlines got clearance for one daily Haneda flight to
and from New York.  A draft “Open Skies” agreement reached in December
created openings for four daily U.S.-Japan round trips for U.S.
carriers at Haneda, which is 10 miles south of Tokyo. Narita
Airport is the Japanese capital’s main international airport,
about 44 miles (71 kilometers) east of the city by car.  U.S., Pacific  Hawaiian Holdings climbed 10 cents, or 1.8 percent, to
$5.73 yesterday in Nasdaq Stock Market trading. The shares have 
declined  18 percent this year.  In 2009, Hawaiian operated about 192 scheduled flights a
day, including to the state’s four major islands as well as
airports in the western U.S., Sydney and Manila, according to a
 regulatory filing .  Hawaiian’s 35-plane fleet is a mix of Boeing Co. and Airbus
SAS aircraft, according to the carrier’s  website . The airline
announced an order of 12 Airbus widebody jets in 2008 to help
replace aging Boeings on long-haul routes.  Winning access to Haneda gave Hawaiian a victory over UAL
Corp.’s United Airlines, which is poised to merge with
Continental Airlines Inc. and surpass Delta as the world’s
largest carrier. Hawaiian’s traffic last year was equal to about
5 percent of Delta’s total on mainline jets.  “We are very conscious of the fact that Asia is going to
be the engine of global economic growth over the course of the
next generation,” Dunkerley said yesterday. “We actually sit
on the doorstep of that.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Will Daley  in New York at 
 wdaley2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  