-- Axis Bank Bond Underwriting Lead Spurs Top-Performing Stock: India Credit
-- B y   S u p r o t i p   G h o s h   a n d   D a v i d   Y o n g
-- 2010-09-22T05:36:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-22/axis-bank-bond-underwriting-lead-spurs-top-performing-stock-india-credit.html
Axis Bank Ltd ., India’s fourth-
largest lender, is beating all local and international
competitors in underwriting bond sales from the country in a
market the bank says is poised to grow 30 percent.  Axis of Mumbai underwrote 215 billion rupees ($4.7 billion)
of domestic offerings this year, a 16 percent market share, as
global funds pumped an unprecedented  $9.2 billion  into Indian
debt, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. ICICI Bank Ltd.,
India’s second-biggest lender by market value, has 11 percent,
and Barclays Plc, the world’s biggest underwriter of
international bonds, has 9 percent, the data show.  Investors seeking to buy assets in Asia’s second-fastest-
growing major economy are hindered by trading in corporate
securities that is about 3 percent of U.S. volumes, according to
data from the Indian bond association and debt-reporting system
Trace. Axis Bank, the best performer this year on the  S&P CNX
Nifty Index  of India’s largest companies, has maintained its
lead by sustaining a market in the bonds it sells, Executive
Director  Srinivasan Varadarajan  said in an interview.  Axis has an “interest in keeping the bond alive for a
longer period,” said  Alok Singh , who manages the equivalent of
$1.8 billion of debt funds at Fortis Investment Management Pvt.
in Mumbai. “Other underwriters are only interested as long as
the bond is not out of their books.”  Axis Bank shares climbed 54 percent this year while State
Bank of India, the nation’s biggest by market value, gained 37
percent and ICICI Bank Ltd., the second largest, advanced 28
percent. Its 5.125 percent dollar notes maturing September 2015
have gained 6.6 percent since they were sold in March, beating
returns on 15 of 18 fixed-rate financial bonds in a country
index tracked by JPMorgan Chase & Co.  Busiest Year  India’s bond market is heading for the busiest year since
Bloomberg began tracking the data in 1999, with total sales
climbing to 1.366 trillion rupees, approaching 2009’s 1.477
trillion rupee annual record, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
The figures exclude government bond auctions.  The Reserve Bank of India has raised its reverse repurchase
rate, the benchmark lending rate, five times this year to 5
percent from 3.25 percent in March, to help contain inflation.  Indian investors often hold bonds to maturity, meaning
lower trading levels on the secondary market. About 27.7 billion
rupees of corporate bonds traded on Sept. 20, according to  data 
from the Fixed Income Money Market and Derivatives Association
of India. U.S. corporate bond trading volume was $20 billion on
Sept. 16, data from Trace show.  Growing Market  “We help investors not just in the primary markets, but
also when they need to churn their investments,” Varadarajan at
Axis said. He said he expects India’s corporate bond market to
grow 20 percent between now and March 31, and 30 percent in the
next financial year.  “Underwriting capacity is of primary importance,”  Rakesh Garg , Barclays Capital’s director of the global finance and
investment banking division, said in an e-mailed response to
questions. He said the most important aspect was “to place the
bonds with high quality investors, i.e. investors who would hold
their paper to maturity, and would not look to trade out in a
short time.”  The yield on Indian local-currency government bonds due in
10 years fell 1.5 basis points to 7.95 percent. The yield
compares with 11.82 percent for 10-year securities in Brazil,
7.61 percent in Russia and 3.23 percent in China, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Rupee Gains  India’s rupee strengthened 0.2 percent to 45.57 per dollar
as of 10:40 a.m. local time. The currency has appreciated 3.3
percent this month, making it the second-best performer after a
4 percent advance in South Korea’s won.  The  difference  in yields between India’s debt due in a
decade and similar-maturity U.S. Treasuries widened to 544 basis
points, or 5.4 percentage points, from 522 a week earlier. The
measure, which has averaged 317 basis points in the past decade,
reached a two-year high of 556 on Aug. 26.  Indian government bonds gained  0.04 percent  this month
through yesterday, while debt sold by China, Hong Kong,
Singapore and Thailand posted losses, according to London-based
HSBC Holdings Plc, which tracks 10 Asian local-currency debt
markets outside Japan.  The notes returned 3.2 percent this year, the least in the
region excluding Japan, as average  inflation  in the first eight
months jumped almost sevenfold to 9.8 percent.  Corporate bonds have gained. The  extra yield  investors
demand to hold India’s five-year corporate debt instead of
similar-maturity government notes has shrunk by 25 basis points
to 82 this year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
average was 171 basis points in 2009 and 217 in 2008.  Rural Electrification  Tata BlueScope Steel Ltd., the venture between Mumbai-based
Tata Steel Ltd. and BlueScope Steel Ltd. of Melbourne, plans to
sell 5 billion rupees of five- and nine-year bonds, two people
familiar with the matter said yesterday.  Axis was sole manager when state-owned lender Small
Industries Development Bank of India sold 10 billion rupees of
three-year bonds in March. Axis also underwrote Reliance
Utilities & Power Ltd.’s 10 billion rupees of five-year bonds in
April.  “When markets are bad, we have appointed up to 15
arrangers for one issue, but Axis Bank can help sell an entire
issue and sell it immediately,” said  Hari Das Khunteta , finance
director at Rural Electrification Corp, India’s state-controlled
lender to power projects. “They have the relationships and a
banking license to underwrite bonds if needed below one roof.”  Rural Electrification of New Delhi may sell as much as $500
million of bonds in yen or dollars to exploit lower borrowing
costs in those currencies, Khunteta said in a telephone
interview Sept. 14.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Suprotip Ghosh in Mumbai at 
 sghosh47@bloomberg.net ;
 David Yong  in Singapore at 
 dyong@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net ;
Will McSheehy at 
 wmcsheehy@bloomberg.net . 