-- New York Mayor Bloomberg Endorses Democrat Andrew Cuomo for Governor
-- B y   H e n r y   G o l d m a n   a n d   M i c h a e l   Q u i n t
-- 2010-09-22T19:15:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-22/mayor-bloomberg-is-said-to-plan-endorsement-of-democrat-cuomo-for-governor.html
New York Mayor  Michael Bloomberg 
endorsed Democratic gubernatorial candidate  Andrew Cuomo  over
Republican  Carl Paladino .  “Andrew Cuomo is the kind of effective leader to clean up
the state government and put our state back on track,”
Bloomberg said during a news conference with Cuomo in City Hall
Park today. “It’s time to put away the partisan politics of the
past and lead the way to the future.”  Since his 2001 election, Bloomberg has avoided endorsing
New York gubernatorial and U.S. Senate candidates, with the
exception of his 2002 support for former Governor  George Pataki .
This year, he has backed Democrats, Republicans and independents
throughout the country in what he says is an effort to support
moderates.  Cuomo, as New York attorney general, “has been willing to
take on the big issues and take on the special interests,” the
mayor said. Bloomberg praised Cuomo’s fight against illegal gun
sales, and his willingness to work with Republicans.  “The state government has to change, and that’s a comment
on both sides of the political aisle,” Cuomo said in accepting
the endorsement. “The state government has to catch up to the
level of performance we’ve been seeing in New York City and
cities across this state.”  ‘Grey Poupon’  Paladino, 64, a Buffalo real-estate developer and Tea Party
supporter, has been running with an “I’m Mad as Hell” slogan.
He has derided Cuomo, 52, the son of former Governor Mario
Cuomo, as unmanly and questioned whether he has the ‘cojones’ to
debate him.  “Anger is not a governing strategy,” Bloomberg said.  Michael Caputo, Paladino’s campaign manager, dismissed the
mayor’s endorsement.  “Bloomberg is missing the point on this important election
and climbing into the same royal coach as Prince Andrew,” he
said in a prepared statement. “One upside to this: the two can
stop passing Grey Poupon back and forth from their limousines.
It’s holding up traffic on Park Avenue.”  A Quinnipiac University  poll  released today showed Paladino
gaining to within 6 percentage points of Cuomo, 49 percent to 43
percent, since Paladino won the Sept. 14 Republican primary
against former U.S. Representative  Rick Lazio , the party’s
designee.  In a late August  Quinnipiac poll,  Cuomo led Paladino 60
percent to 23 percent.  An Angry Year  Cuomo “might be a victim of the ‘throw the bums out’
attitude that hits incumbents in this angry year,” said poll
director  Maurice Carroll .  Quinnipiac, in Hamden, Connecticut, surveyed 751 likely
voters from Sept. 16 to 20; the poll had a margin of error of
plus or minus 3.6 percentage points.  The poll immediately benefited Paladino’s fundraising,
Caputo said in an e-mailed statement. While describing “a
sudden monsoon” of contributions, he didn’t specify how much
the campaign received. Paladino “has a shot at spending
commensurate” with Cuomo, Caputo said.  A July report to the  Board of Elections , the most recent
available, showed Cuomo’s campaign had $23.6 million. Paladino,
whose website gives his net worth as $150 million, has said he
would spend $10 million of his own on the campaign.  Mayor Seeks the Middle  Bloomberg, 68, an independent since 2007, is a former
Democrat who ran as a Republican in 2001 and 2005, and on the
Republican and Independence Party ballots in 2009.  He supports Democratic senators  Harry Reid  of Nevada and
 Michael Bennet  of Colorado, who face Tea Party-supported
opponents; U.S. Representative  Joe Sestak , who is running for
Senate in Pennsylvania; Republican  Meg Whitman  for California
governor; independent  Lincoln Chafee  for Rhode Island governor,
and U.S. Representative  Mark Kirk , an Illinois Republican, for
U.S. Senate.  Among the New York candidates he supports are  Harry Wilson ,
a Republican running for comptroller, and Staten Island District
Attorney  Daniel Donovan , a Republican who wants to succeed Cuomo
as attorney general.  At today’s news conference, Cuomo said in response to a
question that he had voted for Bloomberg in the past. In 2005,
the only year in which as a city resident he was eligible to
vote for Bloomberg, Cuomo endorsed his Democratic opponent,
 Fernando Ferrer .  “He misspoke,” Cuomo campaign spokesman  Josh Vlasto  said
in an e-mail. “He was only registered to vote in NYC in 2005
when he endorsed Freddy Ferrer. As he said today, he thinks the
mayor is doing a good job.”  The mayor is founder and majority owner of Bloomberg LP,
the parent of Bloomberg News.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Henry Goldman  in New York at 
 hgoldman@bloomberg.net  or  Michael Quint  in Albany at 
9921 or  mquint@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  