-- Bank of Japan Board Member Miyao Sees Growing Risk of Prolonged U.S. Slump
-- B y   K e i k o   U j i k a n e
-- 2010-09-22T03:59:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-22/bank-of-japan-board-member-miyao-sees-growing-risk-of-prolonged-u-s-slump.html
Bank of Japan board member  Ryuzo Miyao  said the risk of a prolonged U.S. slowdown is increasing
and reiterated the central bank’s readiness to take
“appropriate” policy steps when necessary.  “We’re entering a situation where we need to pay more
attention to downside risks,” Miyao said today in a speech in
Tokushima, western Japan. “There is a growing risk that the U.S.
economy may fall into a period of low growth that could be a bit
protracted.”  The U.S. Federal Reserve yesterday said it’s willing to
ease monetary policy to spur growth and support prices as the
nation’s recovery and job growth cooled. The risk of a U.S.
slowdown has put pressure on the yen, prompting authorities to
sell the currency for the first time since 2004 last week to
protect exporters that have driven the nation’s expansion.  Miyao said the yen’s gain could squeeze profits of
exporters and there are some companies struggling to cope with
foreign-exchange movements. The yen traded at 84.87 per dollar
at 12:57 p.m. in Tokyo and has appreciated more than 8 percent
this year.  “Such a situation is affecting stocks, and we are closely
watching the impact of the yen appreciation on the real economy
as one downside risk to Japan’s economy,” Miyao said.  At the same time, he said it’s necessary to watch the
effect of the yen’s strength in a “balanced way” because an
appreciating currency can also bolster earnings of importers and
help companies seeking to purchase businesses overseas.  Monetary Easing  BOJ Governor  Masaaki Shirakawa  last week said that the bank
will pursue “strong monetary easing” after the currency-market
intervention. The central bank expanded a credit program for
lenders by 10 trillion yen ($118 billion) to 30 trillion yen at
an emergency board meeting on Aug. 30. It kept the benchmark
 overnight lending rate  at 0.1 percent.  “We will carefully examine the outlook for economic
activities and prices, and if judged necessary, take policy
action in a timely and appropriate manner,” Miyao said.  The BOJ said on Sept. 8 that the pace of Japan’s expansion
will temporarily slow, while keeping its overall assessment that
signs of a moderate recovery are appearing. Growth in exports
and production has been decelerating and consumer spending could
also decline as the effects of government stimulus steps fade,
the bank said.  Japan’s gross domestic product rose at an annualized 1.5
percent rate in the three months ended June 30, less than half
the pace of the previous quarter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Keiko Ujikane  at  kujikane@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey in Tokyo at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  