-- Baxter International Sued Over Misleading Public Statements, Share Price
-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t
-- 2010-09-22T01:55:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-22/baxter-international-sued-over-misleading-public-statements-share-price.html
Baxter International Inc ., a maker
of intravenous drugs, was sued by a pension fund over allegedly
misleading public statements made about the company’s business
prospects.  Deerfield, Illinois-based Baxter falsely said its plasma-
derivative business would grow, the city of Lakeland, Florida’s
employee pension plan claims in a complaint filed today in
federal court in Chicago. The plaintiffs seek class-action, or
group, status to represent people who bought the shares from
September 2009 to May 2010.  Baxter also failed to disclose to investors that it wasn’t
complying with a 2006 agreement with the U.S. Food and Drug
Administration covering changes made to its Colleague infusion
pump, according to a statement by lawyers for the pension plan
that was distributed by Business Wire.  As a result of the misleading statements and omission,
Baxter stock was artificially inflated, according to the
statement. After Baxter disclosed on April 22 the pressures it
faced in its plasma-derivative products business, its shares
fell more than 13 percent to $51.13, according to the statement.  Deborah Spak , a Baxter spokeswoman, didn’t immediately
return a call seeking comment after regular business hours.  U.S. regulators said July 13 that Baxter will have to
replace about 200,000 Colleague infusion pumps with other models
or issue refunds to customers. In May, Baxter said it was
recalling the devices.  The FDA said in April that infusion pumps from all
manufacturers were linked to 56,000 complaints of injuries,
including deaths, from 2005 to 2009. A charge to Baxter of
$588 million was recorded in the first quarter of 2010 as a
result of the recall, the company said.  The case is City of Lakeland Employees Pension Plan v.
Baxter International Inc., 10-06016, U.S. District Court,
Northern District of Illinois (Chicago).S  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joel Rosenblatt in San Francisco at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 