-- Belle Leads Retailers Higher in Hong Kong Ahead of China's Golden Week
-- B y   K e l v i n   W o n g
-- 2010-09-22T07:49:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-22/belle-leads-retailers-higher-in-hong-kong-ahead-of-china-s-golden-week.html
Belle International Holdings Ltd. ,
China’s largest retailer of women’s shoes, led Hong Kong-listed
shoe and clothing companies higher as investors anticipated
sales will increase during national holidays.  Belle , which was included in the Hang Seng Index earlier
this month, rose 1.7 percent to HK$15.28 as of 3:38 p.m. in Hong
Kong. It rose 5.6 percent earlier.  Bossini International
Holdings Ltd. , a retailer of inexpensive casual clothing, jumped
11 percent to 89 Hong Kong cents, set for the highest close
since February 2006.  “Shares related to China’s tourism and consumer themes are
in focus as the Mid-Autumn festival holiday and the upcoming
Golden Week in China will likely benefit retailers and Macau-
related shares,” said  Steven Leung , director of institutional
sales at UOB-Kay Hian Ltd. in Hong Kong.  The Golden Week holiday in China starts on the country’s
National Day on Oct. 1 and runs to Oct. 7. The Mid-Autumn
festival holiday begins today and runs through Sept. 26.  China Lilang Ltd. , owner of China’s biggest men’s clothing
brand, advanced 7.1 percent to HK$11.78, a record high.  Domestic Consumption  Retail sales may also increase as China tries to encourage
the population to spend more to help support the economy.  China needs to increase domestic consumption to survive in
a global economic environment that is growing more challenging,
 Li Daokui , an adviser to the People’s Bank of China, said this
week. The world’s second-largest economy grew 11.9 percent from
a year earlier in the first quarter, the fastest pace in almost
three years.  Other Hong Kong-listed retailers with links to China also
advanced.  Yue Yuen Industrial (Holdings) Ltd. , the world’s
largest supplier of branded athletic and casual shoes, rose 2.6
percent to HK$28.15.  Joyce Boutique Holdings Ltd. , a retailer of
designer clothing, jumped 1.3 percent to 39 Hong Kong cents.
 China Dongxiang Group Co. , owner of rights to the Kappa
sportswear brand in China, gained 5 percent to HK$4.45.  Ajisen China Holdings Ltd.  advanced 4.8 percent to
HK$12.14 on expectations the holiday will also boost sales at
the more than 450 outlets of the Japanese noodle-restaurant in
mainland China.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kelvin Wong  in Hong Kong at   kwong40@bloomberg.net ;
 Ian C. Sayson  in Manila at 
 isayson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Longid at 
 flongid@bloomberg.net  