-- Billionaire Anil Ambani Leading India's Syndicated Loan Surge
-- B y   S u b r a m a n i a m   S h a r m a   a n d   V .   R a m a k r i s h n a n
-- 2010-09-22T21:05:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-22/billionaire-ambani-leads-syndicated-loan-surge-for-railways-india-credit.html
India’s syndicated loans are
climbing to a record as the government turns to private
companies led by billionaire  Anil Ambani  after failing to build
enough roads, railways and power plants to keep pace with the
world’s third-fastest growing economy.  “There’s potentially money waiting in the wings both from
domestic savers and international investors that can fund the
infrastructure gap,”  Abheek Barua , chief economist in New Delhi
at HDFC Bank Ltd., India’s third-largest lender by market value,
said in an interview on Sept. 21.  Local-currency loans have increased 32 percent to 2.2
trillion rupees ($48.3 billion) this year from the first nine
months of 2009, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Ambani’s  Reliance Infrastructure Ltd. , which is working on 11
projects in the year started April 1, is seeking 70 billion
rupees to build an urban  rail network  in Mumbai, said a person
familiar with the plan who asked not to be identified because
details are private.  Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  wants to tap private
financing for at least half of the $1 trillion of construction
projects targeted in the five years ending March 2017. The
inadequacy of the nation’s utilities and transport network
shaves 2 percentage points from growth, the Finance Ministry
estimates. The economy has expanded an average 8.5 percent in
the last five years.  Spending Plans  The government plans to more than double spending to 20.5
trillion rupees to build ports, airports and other facilities in
the five years ending March 2012 from the previous five-year
period, according to a Planning Commission document released in
March. Private companies may account for about 36 percent of the
nation’s total spending on such projects between April 2007 and
March 2012, versus 25 percent in the previous five-year period.  The rise in loans also reflects increasing demand for
corporate debt.  Yields  on Indian company bonds due in five years
have fallen to within 82 basis points, or 0.82 percentage point,
of similar-maturity government notes, down 25 basis points this
year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The average
spread was 171 basis points in 2009 and 217 in 2008.  Finance Minister  Pranab Mukherjee , who aims to narrow the
federal budget deficit to 5.5 percent of gross domestic product
by March 2011 from a 16-year high of 6.9 percent in the previous
fiscal year, has restricted purchases of corporate bonds by
foreign funds at $15 billion.  Yields Fall  The yield on India’s benchmark 10-year  bond  fell 2 basis
points to 7.94 percent yesterday. While the rate has climbed 35
basis points in 2010, it has slid 18 basis points from a high of
8.12 percent on April 27. The rate compares with 12.2 percent
for 10-year securities in Brazil, 7.72 percent in Russia and
3.23 percent in China, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Yields  on India’s debt due in a decade rose to 543 basis
points more than similar-maturity U.S. Treasuries from 522 a
week earlier. The measure, which has averaged 317 basis points
in the past decade, reached a two-year high of 556 on Aug. 26.  India’s government securities returned 3 percent this year,
the least among 10 local-currency debt markets outside Japan,
according to indexes compiled by London-based HSBC Holdings Plc,
Europe’s largest bank.  The rupee rose 0.2 percent yesterday to 45.5850 per dollar.
The currency has climbed 2 percent this year as India’s GDP rose
8.8 percent last quarter from a year earlier, the most since
2007 and the fastest expansion among major economies after
China’s 10.3 percent and Brazil’s 8.81 percent.  Commonwealth Games  India, which is hosting Commonwealth Games that start Oct.
3, has struggled to get stadia, bridges and other facilities
ready in time. A footbridge collapsed this week next to the
Jawaharlal Nehru Stadium in New Delhi, the principal venue for
the event. That highlighted the challenges in a nation of 1.2
billion people after an eight-lane sea-bridge in the financial
hub of Mumbai became operational in July last year, five decades
after the project was planned.  “India’s growth story for the next few years is going to
be infrastructure,” Ambareesh Baliga, vice president of
equities at Karvy Stock Broking Ltd. in Mumbai, said in a phone
interview yesterday. The struggle to get ready for the games is
“showing the world that you are unable to execute,” he said.  Of the 578 infrastructure projects monitored by the
government, 268 were behind schedule at the end of April, some
by as long as 45 months, according to the Ministry of
Statistics. That has led to 612.8 billion rupees in cost
overruns, data on the ministry’s  website  show.  Reliance Loan  Reliance Infrastructure is seeking a loan with a maturity
of about 12 years with the details to be decided following talks
with lenders, the person familiar with the matter said.  Ravi Muthreja , a company spokesman, declined to comment.  Indian Railway Finance Corp., the funding arm of India’s
Ministry of Railways, increased a five-year term loan to $350
million from a planned $200 million, according to a person
familiar with the transaction.  A group of 10 banks led by State Bank of India agreed to
provide the facility, which pays an all-in fee of 164 basis
points more than the London interbank offered rate, the person
said, asking not to be identified as the details are private.
The company, based in New Delhi, is seeking funds to buy wagons.  Era Infra Engineering Ltd.  agreed last month to borrow 6.91
billion rupees for 16 years at 10.5 percent to fund a toll road
that it is building in north India,  Joy Saxena , group chief
financial officer of the New Delhi-based company, said in a
telephone interview on Sept. 21.  “The infrastructure deficit is a major reason for India
not realizing its potential,” Abhaya Agarwal, the leader for
public-private participation projects at Ernst & Young in New
Delhi said in an interview yesterday. “The government neither
has money nor the capacity to do everything. You need more
private companies to come and build infrastructure.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Subramaniam Sharma  in New Delhi at 
 ssharma@bloomberg.net ;
V. Ramakrishnan in Mumbai at 
 rvenkatarama@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  