-- Blockbuster Said to Plan Bankruptcy Tomorrow With Loan
-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 2010-09-22T19:50:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-22/blockbuster-said-to-plan-bankruptcy-filing-tomorrow-has-125-million-loan.html
Blockbuster Inc.  is set to file for
bankruptcy tomorrow in New York before the stock market opens,
using a $125 million loan to reorganize so it can compete with
rivals such as  Netflix Inc.  in renting movies online, according
to a person with knowledge of the planned petition.  Billionaire investor  Carl Icahn , who bought about one-third
of Blockbuster’s bonds, will join with a group of creditors in
swapping their debt for all of the video-rental company’s stock,
according to the person and two others who declined to be
identified because the discussions are private.  Blockbuster, saddled with more than $900 million in debt,
has stopped paying interest to its lenders. The company, led by
Chief Executive Officer  James Keyes , has said it may have to
file for bankruptcy as it tries to restructure its operations
and finances.  Blockbuster lost 2.5 cents, or 31 percent, to 5.5 cents at
3:05 p.m. New York time in over-the-counter trading. The shares
have lost about 92 percent of their value this year. Netflix,
based in Los Gatos, California, reached a record $156.97 in
intraday trading. The shares rose $9.22, or 6.3 percent, to
$156.42 on the Nasdaq Stock Market.  If creditors get all of Blockbuster’s stock, current
shareholders will be wiped out.  Business Revival  In attempting to revive its business, Blockbuster will keep
stores that are doing well, while using its bankruptcy loan to
take on Netflix and companies that rent videos in kiosks, said
the person with knowledge of the plan. Creditors believe
Blockbuster, with its “footprint” of stores, has an advantage
in a market where so many rivals compete, he said.  The Dallas-based company was founded in 1985, and grew to
serve almost 47 million customers daily in the U.S. and 16 other
countries.  Viacom Inc. , which owns the Paramount film studio,
bought Blockbuster from  Wayne Huizenga  for $8.4 billion in 1994,
then spun it off to shareholders in 2004.  The 74-year-old Icahn led a proxy fight in 2005 that put
him on the video rental chain’s board. He resigned as director
in January and in March sold most of his 16.9 percent common-
share stake, according to a regulatory filing.  Patricia Sullivan , a spokeswoman for Blockbuster, didn’t
immediately return calls seeking comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Linda Sandler  in New York at   lsandler@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 