-- BOE Says More Stimulus on Agenda After Posen Proposes `Plan B'
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n   a n d   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l
-- 2010-09-22T13:26:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-22/boe-voted-8-1-to-hold-rates-as-officials-said-economy-may-need-more-help.html
The Bank of England signaled that
it’s moving closer to more asset purchases, joining the Federal
Reserve in contemplating further  stimulus  to revive a flagging
economic recovery.  That may put both the expansion of the central bank’s 200
billion-pound ($313 billion) government-bond holdings and buying
other securities on U.K. officials’ agenda. Policy maker  Adam Posen  said last week that a “plan B” approach for the Bank of
England should be “heavy-duty credit easing.”  Some Bank of England policy makers said that the chances of
stimulus being needed have increased, in minutes of their Sept.
9 decision released today after the Confederation of British
Industry cut its gross domestic product forecast for next year.
The Fed said yesterday it’s willing to ease monetary policy
further to spur economic growth and support prices.  “The impact on money-supply growth and real economic
activity has been pretty subdued” given the scale of the Bank
of England’s bond buying,  Neil Mackinnon , an economist at VTB
Capital in London and a former U.K. Treasury official, said in a
telephone interview. “What Posen is recommending is that the
BOE take a leaf out of the Fed’s book” with wider purchases
than government bonds. His “idea has some merit,” he said.  Mackinnon said that the central bank could consider large-
scale purchases of securities such as mortgage-backed securities
and commercial paper. The minutes didn’t specify what further
measures may be considered.  The  yield  on the U.K. 10-year government bond plunged 15
basis points today to 2.963 percent. The pound, which fell as
much as 0.4 percent after the minutes, traded at at $1.5619 at
13:57 p.m. in London.  MPC Decision  The Monetary Policy Committee, led by Governor  Mervyn King ,
voted 8-1 to keep the  benchmark interest rate  at 0.5 percent and
the bond-purchase plan unchanged. For some officials, “the
probability that further action would become necessary to
stimulate the economy and keep inflation on track to hit the
target in the medium term had increased,” the minutes said.  Posen said on Sept. 16 the bank’s plan in case the economy
falters should be to start buying private assets to intervene in
specific markets.  “Because we have only done quantitative easing up till
now, our plan B or our next page in my opinion, and I’ve said
this, is to shift into heavy-duty credit easing,” he said.  Analysts at the National Institute of Economic and Social
Research, whose director is Bank of England official  Martin Weale , said in a paper published in February that the Fed has
given more help to the economy than the Bank of England because
U.S. officials made greater use of so-called credit easing
tools.  Fed Ahead  “The Bank of England has eschewed credit easing and hence
has done significantly less than the Federal Reserve to
mitigate the effects of the financial crisis,” Niesr economists
 Ray Barrell  and  Dawn Holland  wrote. “A lack of willingness to
use credit easing in the U.K. to reduce borrowing costs faced by
firms has probably meant that the output gap has been 1
percentage point larger than it could have been.”  Danny Gabay , a former Bank of England economist and
director of Fathom Financial Consulting in London, said that the
Bank of England could consider a range of measures such as
buying bank shares and mortgage-backed securities, and adding to
their corporate-bond purchases. He has previously proposed
purchases of homes on the verge of repossession.  More Needed  “Doing more of the same isn’t necessarily the right
thing,” he said in a telephone interview. “It’s a secondary
question which assets they buy. The intellectual point is that
they needed to do more to stimulate the economy.”  Bank of England officials said in July that the bond-
purchase program has aided growth by shaving 1 percentage point
off government bond yields. The bank still said this week that
M4, the broadest measure of money supply, rose an annual 1.8
percent in August, the least since records began in 1983.  Data in the past month have signaled a “reduction in
growth prospects” for the second half of the year, the minutes
said. The CBI, Britain’s biggest business lobby, cut its growth
forecast for next year to 2 percent from a projection of 2.5
percent in June because of the government budget squeeze.  Some Bank of England officials said that recent data
“indicated that the headwinds to a recovery in private-sector
demand in the U.K. and overseas were somewhat stronger than
previously thought and that the downside risks to activity had
increased.” One unspecified policy maker said that the risk of
“an adverse hit to the supply capacity of the economy had
increased in recent months.”  Andrew Sentance  pushed for a fourth month to raise the
interest rate “gradually.” “Most” officials see the bank’s
current stance as “appropriate,” according to the minutes.  “It certainly seems that the MPC is edging closer towards
doing more quantitative easing and perhaps out of all the
central banks is getting closest in providing additional
stimulus to the economy,” said Samuel Tombs, U.K. economist at
Capital Economics Ltd. in London, in a telephone interview.
Tombs said the Bank of England may buy an extra 50 billion
pounds in government bonds “at the start of next year.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jennifer Ryan  in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net ;
 Svenja O’Donnell  in London at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net  