-- Boeing's Final 787 Test Jet Faces `Challenges' for First Flight
-- B y   S u s a n n a   R a y
-- 2010-09-22T22:19:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-22/boeing-s-final-787-test-jet-faces-challenges-for-1st-flight.html
Boeing Co.  said the last of six 787
Dreamliner test jets, once set to start flying in June, has been
delayed by “challenges” in preparing for the maiden flight.  Other test planes have been made a priority over the last
one because it’s being used just to certify its General Electric
Co. engines, said  Yvonne Leach , a spokeswoman. It isn’t needed
for regulatory clearance for the first model, which has Rolls-
Royce Group Plc engines, to enter service, she said today.  Boeing is “working hard and is very close” to the latest
goal of a flight this month, Leach said in an interview, while
declining to give a new target date for having all six test
planes in the air.  The 787, the first airliner built mostly of composites
instead of aluminum, is running almost three years late because
of problems with the new materials and a new manufacturing
system. The first jet flew in December, and at that point
Chicago-based Boeing aimed to have all six flying by June and
certified for passengers as early as October.  “Typical build and flight-test challenges” are setting
back the sixth plane while workers are “finishing the structure
and dealing with anything you have to deal with in getting a
flight-test plane ready,” Leach said. She wouldn’t elaborate.  ‘Retiring Risks’  The sixth jet is being worked on outside Boeing’s factory
in Everett, Washington, she said. The GE engines have been
installed, said  Deborah Case , a GE Aviation spokeswoman who
declined to comment further.  The Dreamliner test fleet has completed 611 flights
spanning more than 1,880 hours, according to Boeing’s  website ,
as the planemaker works toward certification by the U.S. Federal
Aviation Administration for the twin-engine 787 to enter
commercial service.  “Flying the plane has not been the highest priority, so
the slip has not been a major worry,” said Howard Rubel, a New
York-based analyst for Jefferies & Co. “However, we would like
to see No. 6 fly as it would indicate that other risks are being
retired.”  Boeing has four 787s with Rolls-Royce engines in the air
and said last month it aims to deliver the first one to Japan’s
All Nippon Airways in the first quarter of 2011. The fifth test
jet, which has GE engines, flew in June.  Boeing also plans to use the ninth jet built -- out of more
than two dozen assembled so far -- for some certification tests,
Leach said. That plane will have Rolls-Royce engines.  Boeing fell 33 cents to $63.90 today in New York Stock
Exchange composite trading. The shares have tumbled 37 percent
since the 787’s first delay in October 2007.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Susanna Ray  in Seattle at 
 sray7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  