-- BOJ Flags `Downside' Risk for Japan's Economy as Yen Climbs Against Dollar
-- B y   K e i k o   U j i k a n e   a n d   M a y u m i   O t s u m a
-- 2010-09-22T06:42:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-22/boj-flags-downside-risk-for-japan-s-economy-as-yen-climbs-against-dollar.html
Top Bank of Japan officials flagged
rising risks to the nation’s growth as the yen climbed in the
aftermath of the U.S. Federal Reserve signaling willingness to
consider more monetary stimulus.  “We’re entering a situation where we need to pay more
attention to downside risks,” board member  Ryuzo Miyao  said in
a speech in Tokushima, western Japan, today. Governor  Masaaki Shirakawa  said that the central bank needs to monitor risks to
Japan’s economy, exports, and corporate profitability, the
Yomiuri newspaper reported, citing an interview.  The remarks came a week after Japan sold yen for the first
time in six years in response to a strengthening currency that
threatened to derail the economy’s recovery. The BOJ may be
pressured to consider further liquidity injections after the
government’s decision to intervene and the Fed’s signal it may
ease more, said economist  Yoshimasa Maruyama .  “The chance of additional easing by the BOJ is definitely
mounting as Miyao flagged concern about the yen’s effect and
Governor Shirakawa underlined the cooperation with the
government,” said Maruyama, a senior economist at Itochu Corp.
“It’s possible for the BOJ to act as early as next month, at
either the first or the second meeting.”  The BOJ policy board is scheduled to meet twice next month,
for a two-day conference October 4-5 and on October 28.  ‘Protracted’ Risk  “There is a growing risk that the U.S. economy may fall
into a period of low growth that could be a bit protracted,”
Miyao said today. “From a longer perspective, for instance, one
or two or three years, there’s a risk that the level of growth
could be lower than expected,” he said at a later news
conference.  Shirakawa said that Japan’s currency-market intervention
last week was appropriate, the Yomiuri newspaper reported. The
central bank must monitor ”more carefully than before” the
risk that the yen’s gain would hurt exports and corporate
profits, he was quoted as saying.  Japan’s currency rose 0.2 percent to 84.94 per dollar at
3:40 p.m. in Tokyo. It gained 0.7 percent yesterday following
the Fed’s statement, the most since Japan sold the yen on Sept.
15. A surge to the highest level in 15 years earlier this month
prompted Prime Minister  Naoto Kan ’s government to abandon a six-
year practice of avoiding currency intervention.  Bonds Rise  Government bonds advanced for a second day as the Fed’s
statement spurred speculation the yen will continue
strengthening and hurt company profits. The yield on the
benchmark 10-year bond was down 1.5 basis points to 1.03 percent
as of 1:54 p.m. in Tokyo at Japan Bond Trading Co., the nation’s
largest interdealer debt broker.  Kan said Japan should put in place economic and monetary
policies to weaken the yen, the Financial Times reported today,
citing an interview.  The Federal Open Market Committee said yesterday it “will
continue to monitor the economic outlook and financial
developments and is prepared to provide additional accommodation
if needed to support the economic recovery and to return
inflation, over time, to levels consistent with its mandate.”  Intervention Skepticism  Some analysts are skeptical about whether intervention will
be able to keep the Japanese currency down for long.  “The latest intervention won’t change the market trend,”
 Eisuke Sakakibara , a former top Finance Ministry official, said
in an interview in Tokyo yesterday. The currency’s climb to a
record is “just a matter of time,” he said, predicting it will
hit an all-time high this year.  In the run-up to Japan’s yen sales last week, local
corporate executives urged the government to take action against
the advancing yen, which makes exports more costly.  “We expect the yen to stay strong, unfortunately --single
country intervention has only limited impact.” said  Yasuchika Hasegawa , president of Takeda Pharmaceutical Co., in an
interview in Tokyo today.  Slower Growth  Growth in exports decelerated to 23.5 percent in July, its
slowest pace this year. The overall economy grew at a 1.5
percent annual rate in the second quarter, less than half the
pace of the previous period.  Japan’s central bank has kept its policy target rate at 0.1
percent since December 2008. It expanded a credit program for
lenders by 10 trillion yen ($118 billion) to 30 trillion yen at
an emergency board meeting on Aug. 30.  The central bank has refrained from removing funds in the
financial system after last week’s intervention, leaving
deposits held by lenders at the bank at near the highest level
this month.  Miyao said the central bank will use various funds,
including money from the intervention to provide liquidity. The
bank will continue “strong monetary easing,” he said.  If it chooses to loosen credit further, the central bank
will probably first consider expanding the credit program and
putting more money in a 3 trillion yen fund aimed at getting
banks to lend more, said  Mari Iwashita , chief market economist
at Nikko Cordial Securities in Tokyo.  Rate Cut  Other options may include lowering the benchmark rate,
increasing a monthly government bond purchases from 1.8 trillion
yen and adopting an inflation target, Iwashita said. The bank
will be more reluctant to adopt those steps, she said.  If keeping intervention funds in the market makes it
difficult for the bank to hold the key rate at 0.1 percent, the
bank may lower its target for the key rate to a range between
zero percent and 0.1 percent, Iwashita said.  Miyao said the central bank won’t rule out any policy
options, including increasing its bond purchases.  “We’ll examine the effects and side-effects of all
available options and we’ll make an appropriate response,” he
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Keiko Ujikane  in Tokyo at 
 kujikane@bloomberg.net 
 Mayumi Otsuma  in Tokyo at 
 motsuma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at   canstey@bloomberg.net  