-- Iran Army Parade Bombing Kills 12, Injures at Least 80 in West Azerbaijan
-- B y   A l i   S h e i k h o l e s l a m i   a n d   C a r o l i n e   A l e x a n d e r
-- 2010-09-22T17:35:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-22/bombing-at-iran-military-parade-kills-nine-injures-20-in-west-azarbaijan.html
Twelve people were killed and
dozens injured in a bombing at an annual military parade in
Iran’s West Azerbaijan province. The Iranian Foreign Ministry
blamed the attack on foreign “elements.”  At least 80 people were hurt in the blast early today, the
official  Islamic Republic News Agency  reported. Some were in
critical condition, a nurse said by telephone from the emergency
room at Imam Khomeini Hospital in the city of Mahabad, about 550
kilometers (340 miles) west of Tehran. She declined to give her
name.  “The terrorist attack in Mahabad is the reaction of
elements of the Zionist regime and their supporters to our
defense might and the success of Iran’s active diplomacy in New
York,” where President  Mahmoud Ahmadinejad  is taking part in
meetings at the United Nations,  IRNA  cited  Ramin Mehmanparast ,
the Persian Gulf country’s Foreign Ministry spokesman, as
saying.  U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton , also in New York
for UN meetings, condemned the bombing in a statement sent to
reporters and said the attack “underscores the international
community’s need to work together to combat terrorism that
threatening the lives of innocent civilians all around the
world.”  “Most of those injured and killed are women and
children,” provincial Governor Vahid Jalalzadeh was cited as
saying by  IRNA . The wives of two military commanders were among
the dead, the state-run Mehr news agency said. The bomb was
hidden in a bag among spectators, Iran’s Arabic-language al-Alam
television reported.  The governor has announced three days of mourning in
Mahabad and tomorrow will be a public holiday to honor the dead
and injured, IRNA said.  The region has been the scene of anti-government attacks by
the Party for a Free Life in Kurdistan, or PJAK, which says it
wants autonomy for Iran’s Kurdish areas.  The parade is among events throughout Iran marking the
start of the annual Sacred Defense Week.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ali Sheikholeslami  in London at 
 alis2@bloomberg.net ;
 Caroline Alexander  in London at 
 calexander1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at  phirschberg@bloomberg.net . 