-- Bonds, Gold Gain as Dollar Declines on Speculation Fed to Buy More Assets
-- B y   R i t a   N a z a r e t h   a n d   C l a u d i a   C a r p e n t e r
-- 2010-09-22T20:57:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-22/bonds-climb-dollar-drops-as-fed-may-resume-debt-purchases-gold-advances.html
Bonds rose around the world, the
Dollar Index fell to a six-month low and gold climbed to a
record on speculation the Federal Reserve will put more cash
into the economy. Stocks retreated in the U.S. while rallying in
emerging markets.  The gain in 10-year Treasuries sent yields down to 2.50
percent, the lowest in three weeks, and 10-year British gilt
yields slid 14 basis points to 2.97 percent as of 4 p.m. in New
York. The Dollar Index, a gauge of the U.S. currency versus six
top trading partners,  sank  to the lowest level since March. The
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index dropped 0.5 percent to 1,134.28,
while the MSCI Emerging Markets Index jumped to a two-year high
as developing nation currencies rallied against the dollar.  The Fed said yesterday for the first time that slowing
inflation and sluggish growth may need more action, positioning
it for expanding a near-record $2.3 trillion balance sheet as
soon as November. Portuguese government bonds rose after the
country sold 750 million euros ($1 billion) of debt.  “Equity markets are trying to strike the right balance
between the willingness of the Fed to do more and its ability to
deliver good outcomes,”  Mohamed A. El-Erian , chief executive
officer of Pacific Investment Management Co., which runs the
world’s biggest bond fund, wrote in an e-mail to Bloomberg News.
“The Fed took a step towards acknowledging a more challenging
economic outlook, but stopped short of a full recognition and
implementing additional policy actions.”  Treasuries Rally  Treasuries rose for a fourth day, driving yields down. Two-
year yields fell to 0.4074 percent, a record low. The central
bank bought $2.07 billion of Treasuries maturing from March 2013
to April 2014 today as part of its effort to keep borrowing
costs low.  Yields on five-year Treasury Inflation Protected Securities
turned negative after the Fed said yesterday that inflation is
running below levels that reflect a healthy economy. TIPS pay
interest on a principal amount that rises with consumer prices.
As yields on conventional shorter maturities have plunged,
investors have been willing to buy TIPS with negative yields
betting that return from the inflation adjustment will exceed
the interest the fixed-rate notes pay.  The S&P 500, which closed at a four-month high on Sept. 20,
fell the most since Sept. 7 as technology and financial shares
slumped on concern the outlook for profits is deteriorating.
 Adobe Systems Inc.  lost 19 percent as the maker of graphic-
design software forecast sales that trailed estimates because of
slower demand from back-to-school shoppers and Japanese buyers,
while PMC-Sierra Inc. sank 6 percent as the chipmaker reduced
its third-quarter sales estimate.  Investment Banks  Morgan Stanley and Goldman Sachs Group Inc. fell at least
2.2 percent as Deutsche Bank AG cut its earnings estimates for
the investment banks.  President  Barack Obama  is contending with widespread
opposition at home and mostly approval abroad among investors in
a global poll reflecting divergent perspectives on the global
business climate. More than three-quarters of U.S. investors
view Obama as anti-business and are pessimistic about his
policies, while a majority outside the U.S. holds a more
favorable view, a Bloomberg survey shows.  The German 10-year bund yield slid 10 basis points to 2.35
percent and the yield on the equivalent French security dropped
10 basis points to 2.71 percent. The yield on the 10-year
Portuguese bond fell 16 basis points to 6.14 percent after the
government auctions.  Daimler, Santander  Almost five stocks fell for each that rose on the  Stoxx
600 , while all of 19 industry groups retreated except for basic
materials companies. Daimler AG fell 1.7 percent after la
Repubblica reported that it made a 9 billion-euro “pre-offer”
for Fiat SpA’s truck and tractor unit. Daimler said today that
it isn’t in talks with Fiat about taking over the Italian
carmaker’s industrial operations. Banco Santander SA slumped 2.9
percent after Spain’s biggest lender was cut to “neutral” from
“outperform” at Credit Suisse Group AG.  Asian stocks rose, driving the  MSCI Asia Pacific Index  to
an almost five-month high, after the Hong Kong Monetary
Authority said the city’s economy will grow and an index of
leading Australian economic indicators climbed. Sun Hung Kai
Properties Ltd. advanced 1.8 percent, while Mitsui Fudosan Co.,
Japan’s biggest developer by sales, gained 1.7 percent.  CSL Ltd., the world’s second-biggest maker of treatments
derived from blood, climbed 3.4 percent in Sydney on optimism it
will benefit from the recall of a competitor’s product.  Fifth Straight Day  Gold futures climbed to a record for a fifth straight
session, with the December contract rising to as high as $1,298
an ounce, on growing demand for a store of value as the dollar
weakens. The dollar weakened against 14 of 16 major
counterparts, losing at least 0.9 percent versus the Swiss
franc, the euro and Norway’s krone. The euro appreciated to
$1.344, the highest since April.  Crude oil for November delivery slipped 0.4 percent to
$74.71 a barrel, its lowest New York settlement price of the
month, following a U.S. government report showing an unexpected
increase in inventories.  Copper rose as much as 3.2 percent to a five-month high of
$3.5905 a pound as the slumping dollar boosted the price of some
commodities denominated in the U.S. currency. Orange-juice
futures jumped to a three-year high of $1.657 a pound as dry
weather threatens to reduce citrus output in Brazil, the world’s
largest producer.  Lumber Rises  Lumber prices climbed to a three-month high, gaining the
maximum permitted by the Chicago Mercantile Exchange for a
second straight day. Lumber futures for November delivery rose
the CME’s $10 limit, or 4.3 percent, to $242 per 1,000 board
feet. Lumber also rose $10 yesterday after the Commerce
Department reported a jump in U.S. housing starts that revived
prospects for construction materials.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index  increased 0.4 percent to
the highest level since July 2008, as stronger developing nation
currencies pushed up the dollar value of stocks. The South
African rand advanced 0.3 percent against the dollar. Malaysia’s
ringgit and the Thai baht both touched 13-year highs. Financial
markets were closed in mainland China, Taiwan and South Korea.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Rita Nazareth  in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net ;
 Claudia Carpenter  in London at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 