-- Branson's Virgin Group to Invest $500 Million in Hotels
-- B y   N a d j a   B r a n d t
-- 2010-09-23T00:29:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-22/branson-s-virgin-group-to-invest-500-million-in-hotel-venture.html
Virgin Group Ltd. , founded by U.K.
billionaire  Richard Branson , formed a partnership to spend as
much as $500 million on high-end hotels over the next three
years, banking on brand recognition to lure affluent clients.  Virgin Hotels, intended as a four-star chain, will cater to
“high income, well-educated, metropolitan ‘creative class’”
customers, according to a brochure on its  website  detailing
plans for the venture. The company said it’s seeking hotel sites
in such North American cities as New York, San Francisco, Miami,
Boston and Los Angeles, and plans to expand globally later.  The plans come as business and leisure travel rebound,
helping the U.S. lodging industry recover after the recession
sent occupancies to a 30-year low in 2009. Revenue per available
room, or revpar, in the top 25 U.S. markets rose to $73.87
during the first half from $71.08 a year earlier, according to
 Smith Travel Research Inc . of Hendersonville, Tennessee.  “We’re very encouraged by the number of hotel transactions
we’ve seen this year,” Anthony Marino, an executive director of
the new venture, said in a telephone interview. “Compared to
last year, it’s like night and day. There are a lot of
properties out there that were developed in 2007 that are now
opportunities for us.”  High-End Competitors  Virgin, which plans to have as many as 25 hotels within a
decade, will have to compete with such established hotel chains
as  Starwood Hotels & Resorts Worldwide Inc. , owner of the high-
end W and St. Regis names, and  Marriott International Inc. ,
which has the JW Marriott, Ritz-Carlton and Renaissance brands.
 Hyatt Hotels Corp. , operator of its namesake properties, entered
the upscale boutique segment in 2007 with the Andaz brand.  “There are a lot of brands out there,” said  David Loeb ,
an analyst at Milwaukee-based Robert W. Baird & Co. “It’s tough
to get a share in this market. It helps to have a globally
recognized name like Virgin does, but it’s not a cakewalk and
not an obvious transition.”  Virgin Hotels will be overseen by Marino, with Virgin Group
since 2006; President and Chief Operating Officer  Raul Leal ,
previously president of Desires Hotels; and  Paul Whetsell , an
executive director who founded CapStar Hotel Co.  Virgin Group, based in London, said it formed a partnership
for the acquisitions with  Alberto Beeck , a Key Biscayne,
Florida-based entrepreneur and silver-mine investor, and Diego
Lowenstein, chief executive officer of Miami Beach, Florida-
based  Lionstone Development . Virgin Hotels, whose properties
will range from 150 to 400 rooms, will operate as a third-party
manager, team with owners or acquire properties directly,
according to the brochure.  ‘Get Things Going’  “The fact that they have already raised $500 million is a
huge start in today’s world to get things going,” said  Patrick Scholes , an analyst at FBR Capital Markets in New York.  Virgin Group, with companies including Virgin Atlantic
Airways Ltd. and the Virgin America Inc. airline, said its sales
and distribution network will help attract customers.  “It is a competitive market with very savvy competitors,”
said Marino. “But if you look at Virgin’s history, we have come
into markets with big powerful players, where customers are
generally satisfied but not in love, and we have been able to
cut through that.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nadja Brandt  in Los Angeles at 
 nbrandt@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at   kwetzel@bloomberg.net . 