-- Branson's Virgin Group to Invest $500 Million in Hotel Venture
-- B y   N a d j a   B r a n d t
-- 2010-09-22T21:14:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-22/branson-s-virgin-group-to-expand-into-hotels-with-500-million-investment.html
Virgin Group Ltd. , founded by
British billionaire  Richard Branson , formed a partnership to buy
as much as $500 million of properties over the next three years
for a new high-end hotel venture.  Virgin Hotels, intended as a four-star chain, will cater to
“high income, well-educated, metropolitan ‘creative class’”
customers, according to a brochure on its  website  detailing
plans for the venture. The company said it’s seeking hotel sites
in such North American cities as New York, San Francisco, Miami,
Boston and Los Angeles, and plans to later expand globally.  The plans come as business and leisure travel rebound,
helping the U.S. lodging industry recover after the recession
sent occupancies to a 30-year low in 2009. Revenue per available
room, or revpar, in the top 25 U.S. markets rose to $73.87
during the first half from $71.08 a year earlier, according to
 Smith Travel Research Inc . of Hendersonville, Tennessee.  “With over 25 years in the travel sector and a reputation
for delivering unforgettable experiences to millions of Virgin
fans, Virgin is a perfect fit for the hotel business,” the
company said on its website.  Virgin Group, based in London, said it formed a partnership
with investors Alberto Beeck and Diego Lowenstein to acquire
hotel properties. Virgin Hotels will operate as a third-party
manager, team with owners or acquire properties directly,
according to the brochure.  Virgin Group, with companies including Virgin Atlantic
Airways Ltd. and the Virgin America Inc. airline, said its sales
and distribution network will help attract customers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nadja Brandt  in Los Angeles at 
 nbrandt@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at   kwetzel@bloomberg.net . 