-- Brazil's Sovereign Wealth Fund Can Buy Dollars at Any Time, Mantega Says
-- B y   A r n a l d o   G a l v a o
-- 2010-09-22T16:33:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-22/brazil-s-sovereign-wealth-fund-can-buy-dollars-at-any-time-mantega-says.html
Brazil’s sovereign wealth fund can
purchase dollars at any time to prevent an “excess”
appreciation of the real, Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  said
today.  Mantega, speaking to reporters in Brasilia, said the
Treasury can sell more debt to increase liquidity to buy
dollars. He also said Brazil won’t change rules on currency
inflows and that the real will stabilize once  Petroleo
Brasileiro SA ’s $78 billion share offering is over.  “The Treasury will assess when it’s opportune to buy or
sell, it will act thru the central bank, asking the bank to do
the purchase so there’s no conflict,” Mantega said. “We are
here to prevent excesses’ of appreciation.”  Brazil’s real strengthened 35 percent since the beginning
of 2009, the third-biggest gainer after the Australian dollar
and South African rand among 16 major currencies tracked by
Bloomberg. In a bid to curb the real’s gains, President  Luiz Inacio Lula  da Silva authorized the government’s 17.9 billion
reais ($10.4 billion) sovereign wealth fund to supplement the
central bank’s purchases in the local spot market.  The real fell 0.6 percent to 1.7207 per U.S. dollar at
12:26 p.m. New York time.  Central bank President  Henrique Meirelles  stepped up dollar
purchases to the highest in almost a year this month in a bid to
temper gains in the real. The central bank bought $5.9 billion
in the first 12 businesses days of September,  Altamir Lopes ,
head of the bank’s economic department, said yesterday. The
purchases are the biggest for the period since October 2009,
when policy makers bought $6.3 billion.  Former central bank President  Arminio Fraga  said in an
interview the real, which hit a nine-month high last week, is
“a little bit overvalued” as interest rates that top 10
percent lure foreign investors.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Arnaldo Galvao  in Brasilia Newsroom at 
 agalvao1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  