-- Britain to Allow Royal Mail Employees to Buy 10% of Shares in Stock Sale
-- B y   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n
-- 2010-09-22T12:30:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-22/britain-to-allow-royal-mail-employees-to-buy-10-of-shares-in-stock-sale.html
U.K. Business Secretary  Vince Cable 
said employees of Royal Mail Group Plc will be able to buy at
least 10 percent of the shares in the company when the
government legislates to allow private investment.  “Employees in Royal Mail will benefit from the largest
employee share scheme of any privatization for 25 years,” Cable
told the Liberal Democrat party’s annual conference today in
Liverpool, northwest England.  The U.K.’s 360-year-old service is struggling to compete
with TNT NV of the Netherlands, Deutsche Post AG’s DHL Worldwide
Express unit and  Business Post Group Plc  as European Union rules
phase in competition for deliveries between 2011 and 2013.  A report for the government this month recommended the sale
of a stake in the postal service or an initial public offering.
The report by  Richard Hooper , a former communications regulator,
found the current system of funding is “unsustainable” and
called for private investment.  Aides to Cable said today that the government does not
believe it needs to keep a stake in Royal Mail in the long term,
though it will retain some flexibility so that it can negotiate
the best possible outcome for the future of the company.  The extent of private-sector investment in Royal Mail and
the speed at which the government begins to divest shares will
depend on market conditions, the aides said.  ‘Deeply Patronizing’  The general secretary of the Communication Workers Union,
 Billy Hayes , dismissed Cable’s plan.  “Any offer of shares to employees is deeply
patronizing for people who have invested their working lives in
this public service,” Hayes said in an e-mailed statement.
“The British public currently owns 100 percent of Royal Mail
and now 90 percent is to be sold off to the banks and financial
institutions that have created Britain’s current financial
crisis.”  The Postal Services Bill, which will be introduced to
Parliament within weeks, will include a provision for postal
deliveries to be cut to five days a week from the current six in
the future, though such a step would need the approval of
lawmakers.  The separately operated network of post offices is
“struggling under the weight of some huge pressures: pressure
from e-mail and falling mail volumes; pressure from a dire
pension position; pressure from a lack of money to invest,”
Cable said in an e-mailed statement accompanying the speech.  “The much-valued Post Office is not for sale and there
will be no repeat of the previous closure programs,” he said.
“But Royal Mail is a different business, with different
challenges.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kitty Donaldson  in London at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net . 