-- Broncos Coach McDaniels Says No Signs Wide Receiver McKinley Was Suicidal
-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 2010-09-22T04:02:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-22/broncos-coach-mcdaniels-says-no-signs-wide-receiver-mckinley-was-suicidal.html
Kenny McKinley  never showed signs
to his Denver Broncos teammates that he was suicidal, coach  Josh McDaniels  said.  The 23-year-old wide receiver was found dead two days ago
at his Colorado home, the victim of a self-inflicted gunshot
wound, investigators said.  McKinley never exhibited any behavior “that would alarm us
to anything like this,” McDaniels said yesterday during a news
conference.  McKinley “was the same kid, happy smile,” McDaniels said
of the last time he saw the player, a couple of weeks ago in the
National Football League team’s cafeteria.  McKinley, who was selected by the Broncos in the fifth
round of the 2009 draft, was put on injured reserve last month
with a season-ending knee problem. He appeared in eight games as
a rookie last season, being used mostly on special teams.  The player became depressed following knee surgery four
weeks ago, an incident report by the Arapahoe County Sheriff’s
office said.  “He had made statements while playing dominoes shortly
after the surgery that he should just kill himself,” the report
said. “No one believed he was serious.”  McKinley played college football at the University of South
Carolina from 2005-08 and set school records with 207 receptions
for 2,781 yards.  McKinley is the third Broncos player to die in four years.
Cornerback Darrent Williams was killed in a drive-by shooting on
Jan. 1, 2007, and linebacker  Damien Nash  collapsed and died two
months later while playing in a charity basketball game.  The Broncos will observe a moment of silence and wear a
decal with McKinley’s No. 11 when they host the Indianapolis
Colts on Sept. 26.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nancy Kercheval  in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  