-- Buy Call Options on Top-Rated ‘Laggards,’ Goldman Sachs Says
-- B y   N i k o l a j   G a m m e l t o f t
-- 2010-09-22T17:31:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-22/buy-call-options-on-top-rated-laggards-after-surge-goldman-sachs-says.html
Investors looking for gains amid
the biggest U.S. stock rally since April 2009 should purchase
bullish options on companies such as  Citigroup Inc.  and  Devon
Energy Corp. , according to Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  Goldman Sachs recommended calls on stocks that have trailed
their industry-group performance in the past month, have “buy”
ratings from the firm’s analysts and are judged to be able to
exceed analysts’ price estimates by more than 15 percent, and
whose options that are “inexpensive” relative to peers.
Purchasing the calls offers the potential for gains even after
stocks rose this month, equity derivatives strategists  John Marshall  and  Maria Grant  said in a report today.  “We screen for opportunities to gain asymmetric upside
exposure to laggards where options are inexpensive and our
analysts have a positive fundamental view,” the strategists
wrote in a note to investors today. “If the rally continues, we
expect these fundamentally well-positioned companies to benefit
disproportionately.”  The  Standard & Poor’s 500  has surged 8.6 percent this month
through yesterday as concern eased that U.S. unemployment and
less spending from indebted European nations would stall the
global economic recovery. The index is on track for its best
month since a 9.4 percent rally 17 months ago amid speculation
the U.S. economy was stabilizing from the worst financial crisis
since the 1930s.  Citigroup , the New York-based third-largest U.S. lender,
has risen 6.2 percent this month through yesterday, while  the S&P
500 Financials Index  is up 8.9 percent. Devon Energy, the
second-biggest independent oil company in the U.S. by market
value, has climbed 4 percent in that time, trailing the S&P
500’s Oil & Gas Exploration & Production Index’s 6.9 percent
gain.  The strategists also recommended buying calls on  Visa Inc. ,
the world’s biggest payments network; Applied Materials Inc.;
Nasdaq OMX Group Inc.; Lam Research Corp.; AK Steel Holding
Corp.; E*Trade Financial Corp.; Ford Motor Co. and  Texas
Instruments Inc. , the second-largest U.S. chipmaker.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nikolaj Gammeltoft  in New York at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net  