-- California's Bell Used as `Cash Drawer,' State Controller Says After Audit
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i
-- 2010-09-22T21:55:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-22/california-s-bell-used-as-cash-drawer-state-controller-says-after-audit.html
Bell , California, the Los Angeles
suburb that paid its city manager almost $800,000 a year,
illegally raised taxes, mismanaged bond funds and entered into
improper contracts and land purchases, according to an audit by
state Controller  John Chiang .  The city used $93,000 to repay two personal loans extended
to its former manager,  Robert Rizzo , and approved $1.5 million
in other loans to city employees without legal authorization,
the controller’s office said today.  “The city had almost no accounting controls, no checks or
balances, and the general fund was run like a petty-cash
drawer,” Chiang, a Democrat who is running for re-election in
November, said in a  statement . “The city’s purse-strings were
tied to only one individual, resulting in a perfect breeding
ground for fraudulent, wasteful spending.”  Rizzo, 56, was among eight current and former city
officials arrested yesterday, according to Los Angeles County
District Attorney  Steve Cooley . Rizzo was charged with 53 counts
of misappropriating public funds and conflict of interest. He is
scheduled to appear in court today.  In addition to the criminal charges, Rizzo and seven others
face a civil complaint filed by the state attorney general’s
office Sept. 15.  The prosecution is politically motivated, Rizzo’s lawyer,
 James Spertus, said in a  telephone interview. The district
attorney, a Republican, is running for state attorney general in
November, and Attorney General  Jerry Brown , a Democrat, is
running for governor.  ‘City Approval’  “Mr. Rizzo was paying off his own loans with his own
money, he was not using public funds,” the Los Angeles Times
quoted Spertus as saying. “I do know, and I confirmed with Mr.
Rizzo, the loans were paid with salary and declared as income on
his taxes, and it was done with city approval.”  The audit said Bell’s City Council increased the tax
assessment for the Sanitation and Sewerage System District
without voter approval, an improper tax increase amounting to
$621,737 from the fiscal year starting in 2007 through 2010.  The city issued $50 million of a $70 million voter-approved
bond measure without a documented plan to use the proceeds, then
lost $1.7 million in potential interest earnings because most of
the money was deposited in a non-interest-bearing account,
according to the audit.  Tax Receipts  Property-tax receipts that were supposed to pay back the
bonds were deposited into the city’s general fund, its main
account, rather than to a restricted debt-service fund, the
audit found. Rizzo’s salary raises were contingent on a positive
cash balance in the general fund, the audit said.  Bell paid $4.8 million to purchase land from a former mayor
without documenting the purpose, the audit said. In addition,
$10.4 million was paid to two companies owned by the city’s
then-director of planning services.  A city of 38,000 where nearly one in six residents lives
below the poverty line, Bell made national headlines in July
when the Times disclosed Rizzo’s salary.  The audit’s findings “are shocking and detail actions that
are reprehensible beyond words,” the city’s interim
administrator, Pedro Carrillo, said in a statement. “This audit
is an invaluable tool in our crusade to correct the many wrongs
from the past.”  In the 17 years that Rizzo served as Bell’s manager, his
annual salary rose to $787,000, or 11 times the starting figure,
the controller’s office said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Christopher Palmeri  in Los Angeles at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Tannenbaum  at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  