-- California Budget Impasse Set to Break 85-Day Record as No Vote Scheduled
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s   a n d   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i
-- 2010-09-22T20:55:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-22/california-budget-impasse-set-to-break-85-day-record-as-no-vote-scheduled.html
California  is poised this week to
break its record of going 85 days without a budget as Governor
 Arnold Schwarzenegger  and lawmakers remain at odds over closing
a $19 billion deficit in the most populous U.S. state.  “We can solve this in three seconds if the Democrats
wanted to cut enough so the state could live within its means,”
the 63-year-old Republican said in an interview before meeting
with legislators in his Santa Monica office today.  “The second that happens, we could have a budget,” he
said. “It’s a very difficult time for all of us.”  Lawmakers adjourned at the end of last month and haven’t
scheduled a vote on the budget. The last time California had
gone this long without a spending plan was on Sept. 23, 2008,
when Schwarzenegger signed an accord a week after it was
approved by legislators.  California, the biggest U.S. issuer of municipal debt, has
missed its constitutional deadline to have a budget by the July
1 start of its fiscal year in all except four of the last 20
years. Budgets and tax increases require approval by a two-
thirds vote of the Legislature, a so-called supermajority that
neither the Republicans nor the Democrats can muster.  “The two-thirds supermajority required for budget passage
basically sets them up each and every year to fail persistently
like this,” said  Guy LeBas , a fixed-income strategist with
Janney Montgomery Scott, a financial advisory firm based in
Philadelphia.  Rating Threat  At issue this year is how to best erase the resurgent
deficit brought on by the recession that cut into state revenue.
Schwarzenegger and Republicans want to dismantle the state’s
main welfare program and slash $12.4 billion of spending.
Democrats proposed $5.9 billion in higher taxes and fees
combined with $8 billion of spending cuts.  The state’s credit grade may be cut if the stalemate
continues for several months or more, Standard & Poor’s said in
June. S&P rates the state A-, its fourth-lowest investment grade
and the lowest among its peers. A lower rating may add to
California’s borrowing costs. The  extra yield  investors demand
on 10-year California bonds fell from 1.53 percentage points
above AAA rated municipal securities Dec. 9 to 1.21 percentage
points yesterday, Bloomberg Fair Value Index data show.  Schwarzenegger is demanding lawmakers roll back pension
benefits for state workers to 1999 levels and agree to ask
voters to approve spending curbs and the creation of a rainy-day
fund.  IOU Alert  “It’s unfortunate that the Legislature has gone this long
without a budget, but we absolutely will not just solve the
short-term problem in front of us without addressing the pension
and budget reforms so we don’t go through this again,” said
Schwarzenegger’s spokesman,  Aaron McLear .  California Controller  John Chiang  has warned that unless a
compromise is reached soon he might have to once again resort to
paying state bills with IOUs as soon as next month to ensure he
has enough money to pay priority obligations such as debt
service.  “It’s maddening and frustrating to be more than 80 days
into the fiscal year without a budget,” said Senate President
 Darrell Steinberg , a Democrat from Sacramento. “We’re close to
an agreement and I am hopeful a deal that is fiscally
responsible, funds education at the highest level possible, and
doesn’t shred the already delicate safety net, can come together
soon.”  In 2009, two back-to-back impasses ended only after
Schwarzenegger and lawmakers agreed to cut $32 billion from
spending and raise taxes by $12.5 billion. He has vowed not to
raise taxes again.  Compromise Call  The governor “needs to get together and work out a
compromise,” said Kevin Richards, 58, an unemployed
construction worker standing outside Schwarzenegger’s Santa
Monica office.  “He can’t get anything done and I end up on the street,”
said Richards, who said he once supported the governor and lost
his unemployment benefits two months ago. “I’ve got sand in 
my hair from sleeping on the beach.”  After a budget agreement, California plans to issue as much
as $10 billion in short-term notes. Schwarzenegger’s Department
of Finance has identified about $6 billion of bonding needs for
the period from the budget’s resolution to the end of November.  California last sold general-fund backed securities in
June, when it offered about $120 million of debt for veterans’
homes. The state sold $450 million of public-works bonds in
April and $5.9 billion of debt in March.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Michael Marois  in Sacramento at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net ;
 Christopher Palmeri  in Los Angeles at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net .
To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  