-- Canada July Retail Sales Unexpectedly Drop 0.1% on Furniture, Electronics
-- B y   A l e x a n d r e   D e s l o n g c h a m p s
-- 2010-09-22T13:51:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-22/canada-july-retail-sales-unexpectedly-drop-0-1-on-furniture-electronics.html
Canadian  retail sales  unexpectedly
fell in July as consumers cut purchases of furniture, appliances
and electronics.  Sales declined 0.1 percent to C$35.9 billion ($35 billion),
the third drop in four months, Statistics Canada said today in
Ottawa. Economists surveyed by Bloomberg anticipated a 0.6
percent gain, according to the median of 15 estimates. Sales in
volume terms fell 0.2 percent.  After increasing the central bank’s  overnight target rate 
for a third time to 1 percent on Sept. 8, Bank of Canada
Governor  Mark Carney  said the economic recovery will be
“slightly more gradual” than the bank expected when it
released its last prediction in July. The central bank had
predicted the economy would expand at a 2.8 percent pace in the
third quarter.  “Canada’s going through a bit of a soft patch right now,
something the U.S. also experienced during the summer,” said
 Rudy Narvas , a senior economist with Societe Generale SA in New
York. The drop “dampens expectations for another 25 basis point
rate hike in October.”  Narvas said “underlying fundamentals” suggest the
disappointing data is temporary and other parts of the economy,
such as investment in machinery and equipment, point to stronger
growth. He expects the bank will raise rates a quarter point
either in October or December.  Furniture Drop  July’s retail sales drop was led by an 8.4 percent decline
in sales at furniture and home furnishing stores and a 4.9
percent drop at electronics and appliance stores. Five of the
measurement’s 11 components posted lower sales, the agency said.  Sales at gasoline stations were up 0.7 percent, and motor
vehicle and parts dealers recorded a 1 percent gain.  Excluding car and parts dealers, retail  sales  fell 0.4
percent to C$28 billion, compared with the 0.4 percent increase
expected by economists. Sales excluding the automotive industry
and gasoline stations fell 0.5 percent.  The statistics agency also said June’s retail sales were
unchanged from May, revising the 0.1 percent gain initially
reported.  In a separate release, Statistics Canada said the country’s
index of leading economic indicators advanced in August for a
15th straight month, as new orders for manufactured durable
goods gained 5.2 percent and sales of durable goods other than
furniture and appliances rose 1 percent.  The index rose 0.5 percent in August, faster than the 0.4
percent gain during the previous month, Statistics Canada said.
Economists surveyed by Bloomberg News said the index would rise
0.3 percent, based on the median of eight estimates.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alexandre Deslongchamps  in Ottawa at 
 adeslongcham@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  