-- Rubenstein Sets $10 Million Pledge for Kennedy Center
-- B y   P h i l i p   B o r o f f
-- 2010-09-22T19:51:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-22/carlyle-s-rubenstein-sets-10-million-pledge-for-kennedy-center.html
David M. Rubenstein , co-founder of
the Carlyle Group private-equity firm, pledged $10 million over
five years to Washington’s John F. Kennedy Center for the
Performing Arts, the center said in a press release.  Half of the money will be for the National Symphony
Orchestra, while $1.5 million funds a nationwide arts-education
program which serves 11 million students. The Kennedy Center
will spend the remaining $3.5 million on productions and annual
events such as festivals.  Rubenstein was named Kennedy Center chairman in May,
succeeding Blackstone Group LP’s  Stephen A. Schwarzman . A major
patron of Lincoln Center for the Performing Arts in Manhattan,
Rubenstein earlier this month donated $10 million to the
University of Chicago Law School, for 60 scholarships.  A Kennedy Center spokesman, John Dow, said Rubenstein has
given the Kennedy Center $2 million of the pledged amount.  “This gift allows us to do some of the recording and
touring projects that  Christoph Eschenbach  would like to do,”
Michael M. Kaiser, the Kennedy Center’s president, said by phone
about the German music director who joins the organization this
week. “We’re thrilled with a gift of this size in this economic
climate.”  Rubenstein has become the public face of Carlyle, which he
co-founded in 1987. This year, Forbes magazine estimated his
wealth at $2.5 billion. He has also served on the boards of
several nonprofits such as New York’s  Memorial Sloan-Kettering
Cancer Center  and the Asia Society.  As a Lincoln Center board member, he donated $10 million
last year to the organization, which named an atrium near the
complex after him.  To contact the writers on this story:
 Philip Boroff  in New York at 
 pboroff@bloomberg.net  or
Patrick Cole in New York at 
 pcole3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 