-- CBOE Plans to Challenge CDS Market With Credit-Default Options
-- B y   N i n a   M e h t a   a n d   J e f f   K e a r n s
-- 2010-09-22T21:10:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-22/cboe-to-challenge-cds-market-with-resurrection-of-credit-default-options.html
CBOE Holdings Inc. is  seeking  to
resurrect credit-default options, or contracts that pay off when
companies fail to repay their debt, as regulators try to shift
some trading of over-the-counter derivatives onto exchanges.  The owner of the largest U.S. options exchange first
created the derivatives in 2007. Trading  volume  amounted to 56
contracts in 2007 and 2008, and none changed hands last year,
CBOE said. To generate interest, the settlement price for
contracts would be less than the $100,000 value on the original
options, according to a proposal filed with the U.S. Securities
and Exchange Commission.  CBOE  is trying to win business from the  $29.6 trillion 
credit-default swap market, where contracts are traded over the
counter. Among changes mandated by the  Dodd-Frank Act , signed
into law in July, are requirements that standardized interest-
rate, credit-default and other swaps be processed by
clearinghouses and traded on exchanges or similar systems.  “They’re dusting off the rules and changing the trading
protocols to allow them to manage the instrument more to meet
market demand and conditions,” said  Andy Nybo , head of
derivatives at financial services research firm Tabb Group LLC
in New York. “If it builds liquidity, it’ll attract more
speculative trading strategies from hedge funds and proprietary
trading accounts, but that’ll take deep, two-sided markets with
active support from market makers.”  ‘Simply Won’t Develop’  In its filing with the SEC, CBOE didn’t say whether market
makers would facilitate trading in the credit-default options.
New York-based  Jane Street Specialists LLC  was the market maker
for the earlier product.  “The biggest challenge is to build liquidity and get
market participants to trade the instruments,” Nybo said.
“Until you do that, the marketplace simply won’t develop.”  CBOE also proposed altering rules about how the contracts
settle and what constitutes a credit event, which determines
whether the product has a payout. CBOE plans to change the
increment by which quotes in credit options can move to allow
for bids and offers at more prices. The exchange told the SEC
that “more pricing points” would decrease the spread, or
difference between bid and offer prices, which would benefit
investors by enabling them to sell a contract for more money and
buy at a cheaper price.  Bankruptcy Insurance  The options, like credit-default swaps, will give buyers
insurance against a company filing for bankruptcy. Privately
negotiated credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value if a
borrower defaults minus the value of the defaulted debt. A basis
point, or 0.01 percentage point, equals $1,000 a year on a
contract protecting $10 million of debt for five years.  Unlike over-the-counter products, those traded on exchanges
are usually standardized and cleared by an organization that
guarantees the contract will settle. A clearinghouse, by acting
as the central counterparty to every buy and sell order they
process, reduces the risk that could result if a trading firm
defaults on its obligation in a transaction. Clearinghouses are
funded by their members, who must meet capital requirements and
pass operational and technology tests.  “When you have liquid public markets, it provides
information to investors that might otherwise be obscured to
their view,” said  Michael McCarty , managing partner at
Differential Research LLC in New York, which advises investors
on volatility strategies. “It basically just makes the playing
field more level.”  Settling Contracts  Options Clearing Corp., the Chicago-based organization that
clears and settles all trading of exchange-listed contracts, got
SEC approval in 2007 to handle credit options from the CBOE.  “It is not uncommon for derivative contracts that are
initially developed in the OTC market to become exchange-traded,
as the market for the product matures,”  James Overdahl , the
SEC’s former chief economist, said in  testimony  before the
Senate Banking Committee in July 2008. He cited CBOE’s credit
default options product as an example of this.  “Exchange trading of credit derivatives would add both
pre- and post-trade transparency to the market which could add
credibility to the pricing of credit derivatives,” Overdahl
said at the time. He left the SEC earlier this year and is now a
vice president at NERA Economic Consulting in Washington.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nina Mehta  in New York at 
 nmehta24@bloomberg.net ;
 Jeff Kearns  in New York at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 