-- Central Banks Struggle for Exit as Recovery Weakens
-- B y   S c o t t   L a n m a n   a n d   J a n a   R a n d o w
-- 2010-09-22T22:22:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-22/central-banks-have-trouble-finding-exit-from-stimulus-as-recovery-weakens.html
The world’s major central banks are
having a tough time exiting crisis mode, prolonging aid or
raising the prospect of reviving unconventional stimulus tools
as the global recovery loses momentum.  The U.S. Federal Reserve said Sept. 21 it’s prepared to
ease monetary policy further if needed and has highlighted asset
purchases as an option. The Bank of England yesterday signaled
policy makers are moving closer to adding stimulus. The European
Central Bank extended liquidity support for banks into 2011 on
Sept. 2.  The stances are a turnabout from early 2010, before
Greece’s debt crisis came to a head in May, when central bankers
were halting stimulus or discussing how to tighten policy. The
recovery from the worst global downturn since World War II is
proving weaker than projected, the Organization for Economic
Cooperation and Development said this month.  “Economies are slowing, so the central banks will have to
do an awful lot more to help them,” said  Stuart Thomson ,
international fixed income fund manager at Glasgow-based Ignis
Asset Management, which manages about 70 billion pounds ($110
billion). “It’s a done deal that more quantitative easing is
coming and then the only question now is when we get it.”  Also on Sept. 16, the Swiss National Bank kept borrowing
costs close to zero while lowering its inflation forecast.  Top Bank of Japan officials yesterday flagged rising risks
to the nation’s growth as the yen climbed in the aftermath of
the Fed’s statement. The remarks came a week after Japan sold
yen for the first time in six years in response to a
strengthening currency that threatened to derail the economy’s
recovery.  Previously Envisaged  Recent data suggest the economy of the Group of Seven
nations could grow at an annualized rate of about 1.5 percent in
the second half, below the 1.7 percent previously envisaged and
the 3 percent rate of the first six months of the year, the
Paris-based OECD said Sept. 9. The  International Monetary Fund 
said in July, while raising its global growth forecast for this
year, that “downside risks have risen sharply.”  Central banks are weighing the potential inflationary costs
of further stimulus against the prospect of deflation, or a
broad-based decline in prices, and may see benefits from more
aid, said  Jay Bryson , global economist at Wells Fargo Securities
LLC in Charlotte, North Carolina.  The risk “of not putting too much stimulus into the
economy is potentially deflation, and that’s not a good thing to
do,” said Bryson, a former Fed economist. “On the other hand,
what happens if you overstimulate the economy? You may end up
down the line with a little bit higher inflation rate than you
would like, but we can deal with that later.”  Another Wave  The Fed’s Open Market Committee, which met this week in
Washington, moved closer to a second wave of unconventional
monetary easing after purchasing $1.75 trillion of mortgage debt
and Treasuries from December 2008 through March 2010 and
deciding in August to stop letting its balance sheet shrink.  The U.S. central bank said in a statement that it’s
“prepared to provide additional accommodation if needed to
support the economic recovery and to return inflation, over
time, to levels consistent with its mandate” for stable prices.
Growth “is likely to be modest in the near term,” the Fed
said.  In February, the Fed raised the discount rate, charged on
direct loans to commercial banks, to 0.75 percent from 0.50
percent, while keeping the benchmark overnight lending rate
target close to zero. Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  testified
before Congress in March on how the Fed would pare back record
stimulus, and his July written testimony on  monetary policy 
devoted more space to the Fed’s exit strategy than what the
central bank could do to boost growth and employment.  Remove Stimulus  The Bank of England purchased 200 billion pounds of bonds
from March 2009 through January 2010.  Mervyn King , the U.K.
central bank’s governor, said in a June speech that officials
would probably raise interest rates before selling bonds when
they decide to remove stimulus in the economy.  Now the Bank of England, which has held its benchmark rate
at a record-low 0.5 percent since March 2009, is signaling that
it’s contemplating further asset purchases.  “Most” officials see the central bank’s current stance as
“appropriate,” and for some members, “the probability that
further action would become necessary to stimulate the economy
and keep inflation on track to hit the target in the medium term
had increased,” according to minutes of the Sept. 9 meeting
released by the central bank yesterday.  Opinions aren’t unanimous among policy makers.  Thomas Hoenig , president of the Kansas City Fed bank, dissented from
the Fed’s decision for a record-tying sixth straight time and
has been calling for an increase in interest rates.  Andrew Sentance  pushed for a fourth month to raise the Bank of
England’s benchmark rate “gradually,” minutes said.  Tightening Credit  Still, the signals from the Fed and Bank of England leave
central banks in Canada, Australia and Norway with little
company in tightening credit among developed countries.  The ECB this month extended unlimited liquidity support for
banks in its one-week, one-month and three-month refinancing
operations into 2011 to give them more time to patch up their
balance sheets as the euro-area recovery shows signs of
weakening. Growth in the 16-nation currency region may slow from
1 percent in the second quarter to 0.3 percent in the three
months through December, the European Commission forecast Sep.
13.  In April, the ECB tightened the terms of its three-month
market operations by returning to the pre-crisis practice of
offering the funds at a variable rate. The bank started pulling
back stimulus in December, when it stopped offering 12-month
loans and announced that it would terminate its six-month loans
in March.  Halt Withdrawal  The escalation of Europe’s fiscal crisis in May forced the
ECB to halt its withdrawal of support for the region’s banks.
While the ECB no longer offers firms 12-month loans, the debt
crisis has prompted it to reintroduce unlimited lending in its
three- and six-month refinancing operations and to start buying
the bonds of big-deficit governments.  Bond purchases have risen in the past three weeks to 323
million euros ($432 million) as spreads between Irish and
Portuguese 10-year bonds and their German equivalent rose to
record highs. Since the program’s inception in May, the ECB has
bought 61.5 billion euros of government debt.  “Central banks are still leaning in the direction of
unconventional measures,” said  Ken Wattret , chief European
economist at BNP Paribas in London.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Scott Lanman  in Washington at 
 slanman@bloomberg.net ;
 Jana Randow  in Frankfurt at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
John Fraher at   jfraher@bloomberg.net . 