-- Chevron May Pass Rivals to Become Fourth-Largest LNG Producer
-- B y   D i n a k a r   S e t h u r a m a n
-- 2010-09-22T08:25:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-22/chevron-may-pass-rivals-to-become-fourth-largest-lng-producer.html
Chevron Corp.  may overtake rivals
such as Exxon Mobil Corp., BG Group Plc and state companies in
Indonesia and Algeria to become the fourth-largest liquefied
natural gas producer as new ventures start, an official said.  Chevron may climb to be second behind Royal Dutch Shell Plc
among non-state companies in 2020, Stephen Del Regno, managing
director for Asia, said at the World LNG Series conference in
Singapore today. Projects in Australia, Africa and South-East
Asia will boost supplies will boost Chevron from its current
ranking of 20 among all producers.  Chevron’s Gorgon and Wheatstone ventures in Australia are
among A$200 billion ($192 billion) of proposed LNG ventures in
the Pacific nation targeting Asian demand for cleaner-burning
alternatives to coal, according to figures from the Australian
Petroleum Production & Exploration Association. The biggest of
the projects is Chevron’s A$43 billion Gorgon development on
Barrow Island off the northwestern coast.  The share of Asian LNG purchases in the global mix will
drop to 54 percent by 2020 from 64 percent in 2015 as European
LNG purchases rise, according to the presentation. Asia’s share
was about 63 percent last year, according to BP Plc’s annual
energy review.  Qatar Petroleum Ltd. will retain its position as the
world’s biggest supplier in 2020, according to a presentation by
Del Regno, based on Wood Mackenzie Research Consultancy data.
Shell will be second and Algeria’s Sonatrach third.  Chevron said on Sept. 16 that it aims to supply China
National Petroleum Corp., the nation’s largest oil company, with
LNG from its proposed Wheatstone project.  LNG is natural gas that’s been chilled to liquid form for
transportation by ship to destinations not connected by pipeline.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Dinakar Sethuraman  in Singapore at 
 dinakar@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Clyde Russell at 
 crussell7@bloomberg.net . 