-- Chicago Man Indicted for Terror Attack Attempt Tells Judge He's Innocent
-- B y   A n d r e w   M .   H a r r i s
-- 2010-10-20T16:08:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-22/chicago-man-accused-of-planning-terror-bombing-denied-bail-by-u-s-judge.html
Sami Samir Hassoun, a 22-year-old
Chicago man indicted for allegedly plotting to explode a bomb on
a crowded street near the home ballpark of Major League
Baseball’s Cubs, pleaded not guilty.  Hassoun entered his plea today before U.S. Magistrate Judge
Susan Cox in Chicago to charges of attempting to use a weapon of
mass destruction and attempting to damage property with an
explosive. If convicted, he faces as long as life in prison.  “My client is not a terrorist,” Myron Auerbach, a lawyer
for Hassoun, told reporters after the hearing. Hassoun isn’t
affiliated with any terrorist organization and has no ability to
construct a bomb, the attorney said.  Hassoun was arrested just after midnight on Sept. 19,
moments after he placed what he had been told was a time bomb in
a trash bin near the team’s stadium in the Wrigleyville
neighborhood, prosecutors said. The device, created by FBI
agents in Quantico, Virginia, was a fake.  “He wanted to transform the city of Chicago. He wanted to
make a statement,”  Robert Grant , special agent in charge of the
Federal Bureau of Investigation’s Chicago office, told reporters
after Hassoun’s first court appearance on Sept. 20.  He intended to “kill as many people as he could” by
planting the explosive in a neighborhood full of bars, clubs and
restaurants, Grant said.  Hassoun has been in federal custody since his arrest.  Videotaped Surveillance  He was apprehended three months after he began discussing
with a confidential FBI informant his alleged plans to
destabilize Chicago, the third-largest U.S. city, through a
campaign of terror, prosecutors said in court filings.  Prosecutors said the final moments of that operation
involved Hassoun placing a paint can lined with ball bearings
and, he believed, explosives and topped with a timer in a trash
can near Wrigley Field.  Auerbach said federal agents have more than 100 hours of
videotaped surveillance, which he hasn’t yet reviewed. Cox
denied Auerbach’s request to extend a Nov. 3 deadline for filing
pretrial motions, telling the lawyer he must ask the U.S.
district judge assigned to the case,  Robert Gettleman .  While Auerbach told reporters his client is “a troubled
young man,” who “did not bring anything to the party,” the
attorney said it was too early in the case to know whether he
would assert the defense that his client was entrapped by
government agents.  The case is U.S. v. Hassoun, 10-cr-00773, U.S. District
Court, Northern District of Illinois (Chicago).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew M. Harris  in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 