-- ChicoBag's Bag Monster Bets on Eco-Conscious Consumers
-- B y   A n t o n e   G o n s a l v e s
-- 2010-09-22T16:09:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-22/chicobag-s-bag-monster-bets-on-eco-conscious-consumers.html
The average American throws out 500
plastic bags a year. ChicoBag’s founder and president, Andy
Keller, wants to cut that number to zero.  Six years ago, after a trip to a local dump strewn with plastic
shopping bags, Keller, then unemployed, became convinced
environmentally conscious shoppers would pay a premium for
reusable bags that could be folded small enough to fit in a
purse or hang on a belt. Despite lacking experience in
manufacturing or distributing consumer products, Keller, a
former software sales rep, launched a business to follow his
hunch, charging $5,000 on his credit card and taking out an
$80,000 line of credit on his home. By April 2005, he had
patented the bag’s design, hired a Chinese manufacturer, and
persuaded local retailers to carry his product. As sales picked
up, he borrowed about $100,000 from his family, mostly to
increase production.  His bet paid off. Last year, 30-person ChicoBag, in Chico,
Calif., brought in $5.3 million in revenue, Keller says, and
sales are up 14 percent year-over-year. As communities around
the country consider banning single-use bags, he hopes that
growth rate will hold steady in 2011. Today, some 3,500
retailers, including Whole Foods and outdoor gear retailer REI,
carry ChicoBag products.  Expanding into Advocacy  Keller, 36, is competing with dozens of companies across the
country that make reusable bags -- in California alone, there
are roughly 20. Wholesale sales nationwide are about $100
million a year, according to Stanley Joffe, president of one of
the largest producers in the nation, Earthwise Bag Co. in
Burbank, Calif. When he started, Keller says his bags were
unique, because they could be folded into a 3-inch by 4-inch
pouch. Such bags are now more common, forcing Keller to expand
ChicoBag’s product line. He considers his recently released
reusable water-bottle holder his most innovative invention so
far.  Keller hasn’t limited his expansion push to products. He has
also branched into advocacy. With fewer than 5 percent of
Americans using reusable bags, ChicoBag joined environmental
groups in pushing for government bag bans. In California, they
worked to pass a bill that would have barred grocery stores from
giving away plastic bags. Last month, the California Senate
rejected the bill, which was opposed by the chemical industry.
If the bill had become law, California would have been the first
state to have such a ban, giving a major boost to the reusable
bag market.  Because of the failure in California, ChicoBag and other
advocates are now turning their attention to the more than 20
cities considering bans on plastic bags. They’re hoping the
results in those cities will be as successful as in Washington,
D.C., where a 5¢ bag tax went into effect in January. The fee
resulted in the number of plastic bags handed out at stores
dropping from 22.5 million a month in 2009 to 3 million the
first month the tax was imposed, “The Washington Post” reported.
“What you see in D.C. is a remarkable increase in the number of
people bringing their own bags,” says Neil Seldman, president of
the Washington, D.C., office of the Institute for Local Self-
Reliance, a national community development group. “There’s a lot
of competition for reusable bags in grocery stores in D.C.”  The Point of the Bag Monster  As reusable bags go, ChicoBags are expensive, starting at about
$6. At many large supermarkets, reusable bags start at $1.
Keller says his higher prices are justified because of his
products’ quality, materials, and relatively elevated labor
costs, which come from working with a manufacturer approved by
the Fair Labor Assn., a nonprofit dedicated to ending sweatshop
conditions in factories worldwide. “I’m trying to run a company
that’s responsible socially, as well as environmentally,” Keller
says. “All these things cost money … but we feel it’s a good
investment for our customers.  On the day the California Senate rejected the ban on plastic
bags, Keller was riding in a van driven by his assistant near
Peoria, Ill., where Keller had visited retailers in a costume
made of 500 plastic bags as part of a national tour to promote
reusable bags. The tour is classic Keller, a blend of activism
and marketing that educates people about the environmental harm
of single-use bags, while also keeping ChicoBag in the
spotlight. “Wearing a Bag Monster costume is my way of reaching
out to people in a way that isn’t threatening,” Keller says. “A
lot of environmental messages are doom and gloom, and people
will check out because it’s so overwhelming. So when I wear the
Bag Monster costume, people are laughing.”  How far Keller’s showmanship can take him remains to be seen. “A
few years ago a compact, reusable bag was very unique,” Keller
says. “Going forward, we have to keep innovating.” 