-- Chilean Peso's Region-Beating Rally Driven by Economic Growth, Pinera Says
-- B y   F a b i o l a   M o u r a   a n d   R a n d y   W o o d s
-- 2010-09-22T20:04:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-22/chilean-peso-s-region-beating-rally-driven-by-economic-growth-pinera-says.html
Chile’s peso is Latin America’s
best-performing currency this quarter because economic growth is
outpacing other countries, President  Sebastian Pinera  said.  Chile’s exchange rate is in its “normal equilibrium,”
Pinera said today in a speech to the Council of the Americas in
New York.  Interest rates  in the country are “still very low,”
he said.  The peso has risen 11 percent since June 30, the biggest
gain among seven regional currencies, as the economy grows at
the fastest pace in five years, rebounding from last year’s
slump and February’s earthquake, and copper, Chile’s main
export, trades near five-month highs.  “At the end of the day, if you grow faster than the rest
of the world, your currency has to appreciate,” Pinera, a
Harvard-trained economist, said. “The exchange rate is in its
normal equilibrium. I don’t think there will be major changes in
the near future.”  Chile’s economic growth is set to exceed 5 percent this
year and possibly 6 percent in 2011, he said in a Sept. 20
interview on national television. The economy grew 1.5 percent
in the first quarter, 6.5 percent in the three months through
June and a faster-than-estimated 7.1 percent in July.  Pinera’s government has been raising funds to finance $8.4
billion in reconstruction work after the Feb. 27 quake. The
financing package, which aims to protect exchange rate
stability, includes taking on debt, tapping foreign funds, asset
sales and corporate tax increases. It’s seeking $20 billion
through 2013 to pay down a deficit, cover the earthquake repairs
and fund $9 billion of extra spending.  Bonds  Chile sold its first international bond in six years in
July, issuing $1 billion in 10-year notes in dollars to yield 90
basis points, or 0.9 percentage point, above U.S. Treasuries.
The South American country also sold $520 million of bonds in
pesos at 5.5 percent.  “I don’t expect that Chile will be borrowing too much
money,” Pinera said today. The country has its own resources
and is committed to balancing its fiscal budget, he said.  Chile’s central bank increased interest rates by a half-
point last week for a fourth straight month, saying in a
accompanying statement that it would continue to remove monetary
stimulus at a pace determined by economic conditions.  Chile’s peso rose to the highest in eight months today
after the U.S. Federal Reserve said it may put more cash into
the world’s largest economy, pushing the dollar down against
emerging-market currencies.  The peso gained 0.9 percent to 493.35 per U.S. dollar from
497.55 yesterday. It was the steepest intraday gain since Sept.
1.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Fabiola Moura  in New York at 
 fdemoura@bloomberg.net ;
 Randy Woods  in Santiago at 
 rwoods13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  