-- Chile's Central Bank to Raise Interest Rate to 3% Next Month, Survey Shows
-- B y   R a n d y   W o o d s
-- 2010-09-22T13:18:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-22/chile-s-central-bank-to-raise-interest-rate-to-3-next-month-survey-shows.html
Chile’s central bank will increase
its  benchmark interest rate  by a half-point for the fifth
straight month in October, according to a bi-weekly survey
published today on the central bank website.  Policy makers will raise the rate to 3 percent in October,
4.25 percent in six months and 5 percent in a year, according to
the median estimate of 39 traders and investors. Consumer prices
will rise 0.35 percent in September from August and 3.2 percent
in 12 months, the survey said.  The central bank increased interest rates by a half-point
last week, saying in a statement accompanying its decision that
it would continue to remove monetary stimulus at a pace
determined by economic conditions.  Chile’s economy is set to exceed 5 percent growth this year
and possibly 6 percent in 2011, President  Sebastian Pinera , a
Harvard-trained economist, said in a Sept. 20 interview on
national television.  The economy grew 1.5 percent in the first quarter this
year, 6.5 percent in the three months through June and a faster-
than-estimated 7.1 percent in July.  Chile’s peso will trade at 495 per U.S. dollar in seven
days, appreciating to 490 in three months and weakening to 505
at the end of next year, according to the survey. The currency
climbed 0.5 percent to 494.95 at 9:11 a.m. New York time from
497.55 yesterday.  ‘Dynamic’ Economy  “The monetary adjustments continue to justify themselves
because of highly dynamic economic activity, internal demand and
the labor market,”  Aldo Lema  and  Cesar Guzman , economists at
Inversiones Security, said in a Sept. 21 e-mailed report. “As a
result, the economy has closed gaps faster than expected.”  The gap between actual gross domestic output and potential
GDP could close next year, putting pressure on consumer prices,
central bank President  Jose De Gregorio  said in a Sept. 12
interview in Basel, Switzerland.  “Our measure of the output gap, which is current output
minus full capacity output, is about 1 percent,” he said. “It
was much bigger before the earthquake.”  Chile’s  unemployment rate  fell to 8.3 percent in the three
months through July from 9.7 percent at the beginning of the
year. The rate will fall further to 8.1 percent in the three
months through August, according to the median of three
economists in a  Bloomberg survey . Chile’s statistics institute
will publish August unemployment data next week.  Consumer prices fell 0.1 percent in August from July.
Annual inflation rates increased to 2.6 percent in August from
2.3 percent in July, according to  Bloomberg data . The central
bank targets annual inflation of 3 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Randy Woods  in Santiago at 
 rwoods13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  