-- China Won't Let Yuan Rise Soon in Poll Signaling No. 1 Economy
-- B y   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e
-- 2010-09-22T10:21:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-22/china-won-t-let-currency-rise-soon-in-global-poll-signaling-no-1-economy.html
Most global investors expect China
to become the world’s biggest economy over the next two decades,
and they are divided over whether that will help or hurt the
economies of other industrialized countries.  There’s also a strong consensus that China won’t move very
aggressively to increase the value of its currency by the end of
next year, according to a global quarterly poll of 1,408
investors, analysts and traders who are Bloomberg subscribers.
Almost seven in 10 expect China to revalue the yuan by a few
percent or less against the dollar, rather than a surge like the
yuan’s roughly 20 percent rise between 2005 and 2008.  While the largest percentage of those surveyed say China’s
economic growth will provide a bigger market for exports from
other nations, some investors worry that China’s ascendance will
hurt labor markets in competing nations, and one-quarter of
respondents expect a stronger China will push up oil and
agriculture prices.  “If China becomes the biggest economy, it will result in
higher commodity prices because the country needs more resources
for their output, plus the population will have higher
earnings,” said Erik Bakker, an asset manager for OHV Asset
Management in the Netherlands.  Non-deliverable yuan forwards rose 0.1 percent to 6.5765
per dollar as of 6:06 p.m. in Hong Kong today, reflecting
traders’ bets that the currency will gain about 1.9 percent in
the next 12 months. Chinese markets are closed for a holiday.  Bullish on China  More than half of respondents in the Bloomberg Global Poll
say they are bullish about China’s prospects for long-term
 investments , in contrast to about a third of investors who take
a bearish view. They split more evenly over how China’s ascent
will affect other major economies.  European investors were the most optimistic, with 60
percent of respondents from that region saying they were bullish
on China as a long-term  investment opportunity , compared to 53
percent in the U.S. and 56 percent in Asia. Likewise, just 28
percent of European investors say they are bearish, compared to
36 percent in the U.S. and 34 percent in Asia.  China overtook Japan in the second quarter as the world’s
second-largest economy, and it is the second largest U.S.
trading partner. Along with Brazil, China led the list of most
attractive investment locations in the survey, with 33 percent
of investors citing it as the country with the best
opportunities over the next year.  ‘Excellent Venue’  “The more important aspect of China’s growth, and the
reason for my bullishness, is that this provides an excellent
venue for direct foreign investment into China by U.S.
companies,” said  Will Aston-Reese , vice president for money-
market sales at Tradition Asiel Securities Inc., in New York.
“In essence, we’re exporting investments and, hopefully,
importing profits.”  Investors see China’s prospects as better than those of its
neighbor, Japan, which 30 percent of respondents cite as the
worst place to invest over the next year. At the same time, many
expect that Japan’s efforts to weaken its currency won’t bear
much fruit.  Four out of 10 investors expect the yen to appreciate
against the dollar in the next year, even though Japan
intervened last week in the currency markets for the first time
since 2004. About a quarter of respondents expect the yen to
remain about the same against the dollar, and another 25 percent
predict some depreciation.  The quarterly Bloomberg Global Poll is based on interviews
Sept. 16-17 with a random sample of 1,408 Bloomberg subscribers.
The survey, taken by Des Moines, Iowa-based  Selzer & Co. , has a
margin of error of plus or minus 2.6 percentage points.  Trade Tensions  Tensions over China’s exchange rate and tightly controlled
economy raise concerns that the Asian nation may not live up to
its promise. Earlier this month, the U.S. filed a pair of trade
complaints against China over payment services and steel
exports. The Obama administration also is stepping up pressure
on Beijing to let the yuan appreciate more than the 1.8 percent
it has gained since a June decision to drop the yuan’s peg to
the dollar.  “In the short run, I’m incredibly bearish,” said Scott
Frew, a general partner at Rockingham Capital Partners in
Glastonbury, Connecticut. “China’s property market is a bubble
without question, and one that must eventually burst.”  Almost two-thirds of investors say there is a bubble in
Chinese property markets, with one in five investors
disagreeing.  ‘Tons of Bad Loans’  “China’s banks are sitting with tons of bad loans; that
will eventually have to be recognized and dealt with,” Frew
said. “And lastly, China’s reaction to the slowdown in 2008,
vastly increasing fixed investment, was brutally bad policy.”  These concerns don’t appear to dampen China’s prospects for
growth. Most respondents expect China will become the world’s
largest economy, with 26 percent predicting its ascent in the
next 10 years and an additional 38 percent seeing such growth
within two decades.  “China could be bigger than the U.S.A. in 20 years,” said
 Mario Di Marcantonio , a senior global portfolio manager at
Eurizon Capital in Milan. “The Chinese economy has driven the
big expansion of the cities -- now the rural parts of China need
to grow as well.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rebecca Christie  in Washington at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  