-- Renewable Energy Mergers, Acquisitions Seen Rising, Industry Survey Says
-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s
-- 2010-09-22T11:35:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-22/clean-energy-mergers-acquisitions-to-increase-mergermarket-survey-says.html
Mergers and acquisitions among
clean energy companies will rise in the next year, according to
a survey of bankers and advisers by Mergermarket Group.  Purchases of assets such as wind farms and solar parks and
mergers between clean energy companies in 2009 totaled 228 deals
worth 49.7 billion euros ($66.5 billion), the data provider
Mergermarket said today in the e-mailed  study . Of 100 financial
and private equity workers surveyed in May, 78 percent said they
expect activity to increase in the next 12 months.  “The future prospects for mergers and acquisitions in the
renewable energy sector are undoubtedly favorable,” the group
said in the report. “Although government subsidies play a key
role in the sector, the need for companies to achieve scale and
a global presence are now more important than ever and will be
key determinants of dealmaking going forward.”  Seventy-two percent of respondents said they expected the
bulk of deals to remain in Western Europe and the U.S., and 47
percent said the most significant activity will take place in
the wind industry. That compares with 18 percent who chose solar
thermal power, 16 percent who picked hydropower and 9 percent
who selected solar photovoltaics.  Even so, barriers to deals remain, with 70 percent of
respondents identifying access to finance as the biggest
obstacle.  ‘Difficulties’ in Financing  “A number of firms in the clean tech space are continuing
to have difficulties financing their day-to-day operations,
representing an opportunity for cash-rich investors who are able
to fill the financing void,” the company said. “Despite this,
compared to other industry sectors, banks have been relatively
willing to finance transactions in the renewable energy sector,
underpinned by government involvement and stable income
streams.”  The Mergermarket data for 2009 compares with the $33.4
billion of renewable deals PricewaterhouseCoopers in March said
was carried out last year. PwC said alternative energy
transactions accounted for a quarter of deals carried out in the
electric industry, up from 17 percent in 2008.  The study was commissioned from Mergermarket by the
Nuremberg, Germany-based consultant  Roedl & Partner .  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alex Morales  in London at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at   landberg@bloomberg.net . 