-- Clinton Says NATO Isn't Russia's Enemy, Urges Cooperation With Alliance
-- B y   P e t e r   S .   G r e e n   a n d   V i o l a   G i e n g e r
-- 2010-09-22T16:49:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-22/clinton-says-nato-not-russia-s-adversary-urges-cooperation-with-alliance.html
Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton 
and NATO’s top civilian official urged Russia to work with the
alliance on a range of disputes including missile defense,
saying the two sides aren’t enemies.  “The United States does not believe that NATO and Russia
are adversaries,” Clinton told her counterparts in the alliance
and Russian Foreign Minister  Sergei Lavrov  during a meeting in
New York today. “Indeed, the opposite is true.”  While Clinton affirmed U.S. opposition to a separate
security organization linking Russia and Europe, she offered
cooperation within existing structures of the  North Atlantic
Treaty Organization . She cited missile defense, military
transparency, the flow of narcotics from Central Asia and
conventional forces in Europe as areas of mutual interest.  “The United States agrees that there is a need to
strengthen European security,” Clinton said. “We believe that
the best way to achieve this is by reinforcing the pillars that
have supported European security for decades, not by negotiating
new treaties, as Russia has suggested.”  NATO Secretary General  Anders Fogh Rasmussen  held out the
prospect of agreeing with Russia on “basic principles” for a
revived agreement on conventional arms by the time leaders of
the two sides meet in Lisbon in November.  “Despite disagreements, I hope we see progress,”
Rasmussen told reporters in New York on the sidelines of the
United Nations General Assembly’s annual meeting. “I do believe
all parties realize that we need each other.”  Mending Ties  The U.S. and its allies in NATO aim to accelerate progress
on mending ties with their former Cold War adversary that
deteriorated to a new low after Russia’s 2008 invasion of the
ex-Soviet republic of Georgia. U.S. efforts to install a missile
defense system in Europe to defend against “rogue” states such
as Iran have long riled leaders in Moscow.  Russian President  Dmitry Medvedev  signed a decree today
banning the sale of weapons to Iran in compliance with UN
sanctions. The order covers shipments of S-300 missiles, tanks,
aircraft and large-caliber artillery, among other items,
according to a government statement.  Clinton proposed that Russia and NATO work out a plan by
November, when NATO heads of state including President  Barack Obama  meet in Lisbon, to resume missile defense exercises and
find ways to link the early warning systems of Russia and the
alliance.  Central Asia  The top U.S. diplomat also offered to begin regular talks
between the two sides on defense doctrine and strategy and
broader cooperation throughout Central Asia to counter the flow
of narcotics. And she urged agreement on ways to “modernize” a
treaty between the two sides on limiting conventional forces on
the European continent, known as the CFE treaty. Russia
suspended its participation in 2007.  Clinton’s remarks echo points that U.S. Defense Secretary
 Robert Gates  sought to make with his Russian counterpart when
they met at the Pentagon last week, their first talks in more
than two years.  Russian Defense Minister  Anatoly Serdyukov  agreed to
continue low-level talks on missile defense, and the two agreed
to try again to renew negotiations toward compliance with the
conventional forces agreement.  Rasmussen has formally invited Russia to attend the
November summit of NATO heads of state in Lisbon.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Peter S. Green  in New York at 
 psgreen@bloomberg.net ;
To contact the reporter on this story:
 Viola Gienger  in Washington at 
 vgienger@bloomberg.net  