-- Net Neutrality Compromise Being Weighed by U.S. Lawmakers
-- B y   T o d d   S h i e l d s
-- 2010-09-23T19:00:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-22/congress-said-to-seek-net-neutrality-compromise-for-u-s-fcc.html
U.S. regulators would get authority
over Internet-traffic practices of companies such as  AT&T Inc. 
and  Comcast Corp.  for two years in a plan being weighed by
congressional staff, two people involved with the talks said.  Legislation letting the Federal Communications Commission
regulate Internet service providers was being discussed with
industry representatives yesterday by aides to Representative
 Henry Waxman , chairman of the House Energy and Commerce
Committee, according to the people, who asked not to be
identified discussing the private talks.  The two years would give the FCC and Congress time to
permanently resolve a long-running fight over rules on net
neutrality. Internet-service providers would be barred under
such regulations from selectively blocking or slowing content
going to subscribers while favoring their own offerings and
those of business partners.  “I’m pleased that Chairman Waxman and the other members of
Congress who are involved are making a real effort,” FCC
Chairman  Julius Genachowski  said today at a news conference in
Washington. “I admire and I appreciate the effort and I hope it
succeeds.”  The compromise would let the FCC claim authority over Web
service delivered over wires, such as by cable and fiber-optic
lines, while allowing the agency to write less-stringent rules
for wireless services such as mobile phones, the people said.  Google, Verizon  Google, operator of the most-used Internet search engine,
and  Verizon Communications Inc. , the second-largest U.S. phone
company after AT&T, proposed in August that providers of wired
Internet service be barred from unreasonably slowing or speeding
Web content. Their proposal contained two exemptions: It
wouldn’t apply to unspecified “additional services” developed
in the future or to Internet service over wireless devices.  Excluding wireless is an approach “that I don’t think
works,” Genachowski said.  “We need to find appropriate protections for wireless,”
Genachowski said today on Bloomberg Television. “When people
access the Internet from wireless devices they should be
accessing a free and open Internet.”  The FCC’s authority has been in question since a federal
court in April said the agency lacked authority to censure
Comcast for its Web practices. Genachowski has said he may claim
power using rules written for monopoly telephone service in the
20th century. Companies led by AT&T and Verizon oppose such
action.  Sony, Amazon  Any compromise would need to satisfy service providers
including the telephone companies, Comcast and  Time Warner Cable
Inc ., and Internet and technology companies such as  Amazon.com
Inc . and  Sony Corp .,  Rebecca Arbogast  and David Kaut, analysts
with Stifel Nicolaus & Co., said in a Sept. 21 note to
investors.  It will be difficult “to thread such a narrow needle”
before lawmakers leave Washington to campaign for the Nov. 2
election, perhaps as early as next week, Arbogast and Kaut said
in their note. Efforts could continue after the election, “but
the momentum may be lost,” they said.  Karen Lightfoot, a spokeswoman for Waxman, a California
Democrat, didn’t reply to telephone and e-mail inquiries.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Todd Shields  in Washington at 
 tshields3@bloomberg.net 
To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net . 