-- Warren Seeks to Equalize Rules for Credit Unions and Big Banks
-- B y   L o r r a i n e   W o e l l e r t
-- 2010-09-22T23:18:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-22/consumer-adviser-warren-seeks-to-equalize-rules-for-credit-unions-banks.html
Consumer protection adviser
 Elizabeth Warren  said part of her job will be to create a set of
rules not just for consumers, but for small lenders to compete
against big banks and other institutions.  “We’ve got folks who want to play by a clean set of rules
competing against folks who don’t,” Warren said in a speech to
a meeting of the  National Association of Federal Credit Unions 
in Washington.  “The job of regulation is not only to level the playing
field between consumers and the lender, it’s often to level the
playing field among the lenders so that everybody is competing
on a straight-up basis,” Warren told the group.  “The whole financial services area has gotten badly out of
whack,” Warren said.  The speech was her first since President  Barack Obama  named
the Harvard Law professor to help build the new Consumer
Financial Protection Bureau. Warren, 61, is credited with
inspiring the idea for the agency, which will have broad
oversight of consumer credit products, including mortgages and
credit cards.  “We were especially pleased to hear that she is very
concerned about smaller institutions being overburdened by
regulation and unable to compete with the nation’s largest
banks,” Fred Becker, president of the credit union association,
said in a written statement.  Geithner  Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  said today that he
expects Warren would be willing to testify before Congress on
her role helping to set up the new agency. Speaking before the
House Financial Services Committee, Geithner also said Obama
planned to nominate a director of the new bureau “at an early
date” for confirmation by the Senate.  “Before there is a confirmed director in place, this
agency by statute has very limited authority to actually write
new rules,” Geithner said, adding that the agency would not be
fully up and running until at least July 2011. “We’re going to
try to use that interim period to try to build a stronger
consensus among the major players on how to improve disclosure,
do things like that.”  Calling herself a “long-time member” of a credit union,
Warren said she viewed the industry as an ally in the fight to
protect consumers.  “I think that consumers and credit unions should be on the
same side of the line,” Warren said.  “If at the end of the day we don’t have a robust -- and
this is very important -- a diverse banking system that has
different kinds of providers that come from a lot of different
perspectives, offer different products, then we will have
failed,” Warren said.  Warren has said that small banks and credit unions, which
are financial cooperatives that operate under different rules
than banks, are an important part of a functioning financial
market. About 70 million Americans belong to a credit union.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Lorraine Woellert  in Washington at 
 lwoellert@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at   lroberts13@bloomberg.net . 