-- Carlyle's CoreSite IPO Raises $270 Million for Data Center REIT
-- B y   C e c i l e   V a n n u c c i
-- 2010-09-23T21:06:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-22/coresite-ipo-raises-270-million-pricing-at-middle-of-the-range.html
CoreSite Realty Corp. , the
developer of data centers that’s owned by Carlyle Group, raised
$270 million after pricing the second U.S. initial public
offering of September at the middle of its forecast range.  The real estate investment trust sold 16.9 million shares
at $16 apiece after offering them at $15 to $17 each, according
to Bloomberg data and a  filing  with the Securities and Exchange
Commission. CoreSite will use the proceeds to repay debt and
develop data center space, while Washington-based Carlyle will
retain a 63 percent stake in the REIT’s common shares after the
IPO, the filing showed.  CoreSite’s deal, which was priced at a discount to its
publicly traded competitors, is the second of at least 11 U.S.
IPOs scheduled for this month after 44 companies postponed or
withdrew offerings this year amid concern that the economic
recovery was deteriorating. Beijing-based  SouFun Holdings Ltd. 
posted the second-largest first-day gain for a U.S. initial sale
in 2010 last week after raising $125 million.  “IPOs are going to be successful only if valuations are
reasonable,” said  Michael Yoshikami , who oversees about $1
billion at YCMNet Advisors in Walnut Creek, California. The
share sale by CoreSite “suggests that there is a desire to take
on risk,” he said.  CoreSite  advanced 0.1 percent to $16.01 today in New York
on U.S. composite trading.  Underwriters, Relative Value  Citigroup Inc.  in New York, Bank of America Corp. of
Charlotte, North Carolina, and Toronto-based Royal Bank of
Canada led CoreSite’s offering.  At the IPO price of $16 a share, CoreSite is valued at 1.4
times its net assets, according to  Francis Gaskins , president of
IPOdesktop.com in Marina del Rey, California.  That’s at least 26 percent less than the ratios for  Digital
Realty Trust Inc.  in San Francisco or Washington-based  DuPont
Fabros Technology Inc.,  operators of data centers that CoreSite
listed as competitors in its prospectus, according to data
compiled by  IPOdesktop.com .  The six REITs that completed U.S. IPOs this year, including
San Diego-based  Excel Trust Inc.  and Los Angeles-based Hudson
Pacific Properties Inc., declined an average of 2.3 percent
through yesterday, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  At least eight other REITs such as Atlanta-based Americold
Realty Trust, controlled by  Ron Burkle’s  Yucaipa Cos., have
withdrawn or postponed initial sales this year.  IPO Timing  The offering also came after private-equity backed U.S.
IPOs posted the worst returns in at least a decade this year,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg and Greenwich,
Connecticut-based Renaissance Capital LLC.  The 19 initial sales from U.S. companies led by leveraged
buyout firms have lost 1.9 percent of their value through
yesterday in the first month of trading in 2010, after averaging
gains every year since at least 2001, the data show.  CoreSite’s IPO is the first by a U.S. company in a month,
following Houston-based  Whitestone REIT ’s sale on Aug. 25. Since
then, the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index has rallied 6.6 percent.  “IPOs have been viewed with some degree of skepticism,”
 Thomas Ray , CoreSite’s chief executive officer, said in an
interview today. “The process, certainly, takes a fair amount
of energy. The timing ended up working well for us.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Cecile Vannucci  in New York at 
 cvannucci1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net . 