-- Corn Takes `Baton' From Wheat, to Lead Grain Rally, Rabobank's Gordon Says
-- B y   L u z i   A n n   J a v i e r
-- 2010-09-22T04:32:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-22/corn-takes-baton-from-wheat-to-lead-grain-rally-rabobank-s-gordon-says.html
Corn will lead the advance in
grains and oilseeds, outperforming wheat, in the fourth quarter
as La Nina threatens to parch crops in Argentina and Brazil,
curbing supply and draining inventories, Rabobank Groep NV said.  “The baton is now being passed from wheat to corn,” said
 Wayne Gordon , an agricultural commodities analyst. The rebound
in prices “has all been about climate,” he said in a phone
interview from Sydney yesterday.  Wheat as much as doubled since early June and corn climbed
to the highest level in two years after drought and flooding
ruined crops from Russia to Canada. Global corn stockpiles will
drop next year to the lowest level since 2007-2008 as livestock
farmers seek alternatives to wheat, said the U.S. Department of
Agriculture. Concern over food supplies in 2008 sent wheat, corn,
rice and soybeans to records, sparking riots from Haiti to Egypt.  The climate risks that “dogged” wheat have not “broadly
filtered through” to corn, said Gordon, who correctly predicted
on Aug. 30 that the price gap would narrow after wheat costs
climbed to almost double those of corn. There is also the risk
of low stockpiles relative to consumption, he said.  Corn for December delivery gained 0.5 percent to $5.08 a
bushel at 12:19 p.m. Singapore time, taking the advance for the
most-active contract to 16 percent this month, three times the
increase for wheat. A bushel of wheat will buy 1.42 bushels of
corn today, down from 1.95 bushels on Aug. 5, the day Russia
announced its ban on grain exports.  ‘Tight’ Supply  “The supply and demand scenario seems quite tight,” said
 Jonathan Barratt , managing director at Commodity Broking
Services Pty, in an interview from Sydney. Corn may climb to
$5.50 by December, he said, the highest level in more than two
years. “People aren’t factoring in adverse weather just yet.”  Increasing demand for feed grain in China, the world’s
second-largest consumer, and rising ethanol production in the
U.S., the biggest corn grower and exporter, will shrink supplies,
amid harvest “uncertainties” in South America, Gordon said.  La Nina, characterized by colder-than-normal surface
temperatures in the Pacific, can cause below-average rainfall in
parts of the U.S., Argentina and southern Brazil and wetter
weather in Asia, according to Telvent DTN Inc. The event may
strengthen through November to January, before beginning to
weaken, according to the U.S. Climate Prediction  Center .  The last La Nina was in 2008-2009, Gordon said. Exports
from Argentina, the second-largest corn shipper, plunged 46
percent that year from the previous season, and Brazil’s
shipments slumped 8.9 percent, according to USDA  data . The two
nations are likely to represent 24 percent of global exports in
2010-2011, while the U.S. will supply 57 percent.  ‘Driving Seat’  “Yields are the underlying support,”  Michael Pitts , a
commodity sales director at National Australia Bank Ltd., said
by phone from Sydney yesterday. “A lot of that will depend on
what happens” in South America, he said.  Advancing corn prices may push soybeans, another ingredient
in livestock feed, as high as $12.50 a bushel by December, the
highest in more than two years, Commodity Broking’s Barratt said
yesterday. Wheat futures may decline to $7 around the yearend,
Barratt said. They traded at $7.21 a bushel today.  “It’s now firmly corn in the driving seat and the other
commodities will start to follow,” Rabobank’s Gordon said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Luzi Ann Javier  in Singapore at 
 ljavier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at   jpoole4@bloomberg.net  