-- Government Credit-Default Swaps Rise in Europe as Borrowing Costs Climb
-- B y   A b i g a i l   M o s e s
-- 2010-09-22T11:15:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-22/corporate-bond-risk-rises-in-europe-credit-default-swaps-show.html
The cost of insuring against losses
on European sovereign bonds rose on concern the region’s deficit
crisis will deepen as government borrowing costs climb and the
economic recovery flags.  Credit-default swaps on Ireland surged 27.5 basis points to
a record 467.5, while contracts on Portugal jumped 10.5 to 383,
the highest since May, according to data provider CMA. The
Markit iTraxx SovX Western Europe Index increased 3 basis points
to 160 basis points.  Portugal’s borrowing costs rose at a debt auction today,
after Ireland and Spain sold bonds at higher yields yesterday.
Investor confidence in the recovery diminished after the Federal
Reserve yesterday said below-target inflation may lead to
further easing of monetary policy.  “The FOMC indicated that the recovery has slowed but did
not announce further asset purchases,” said  Aziz Sunderji , a
credit strategist at Barclays Capital in London. “It could be
viewed as a poor outcome.”  Investors are concerned higher borrowing costs may drive
the region’s peripheral nations to seek help from the European
Union’s Financial Stability Facility. That may provide limited
assistance as it may only be able to lend as much as 212 billion
euros ($284 billion) while retaining its top AAA rating,
strategists at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc wrote in a note
yesterday.  Greek Swaps  Swaps on Greece increased 1 basis point to 827, Italy rose
6 basis points to 199 and Spain added 5 basis points to 239, CMA
prices show.  The cost of protecting against default on corporate debt
also rose, with the Markit iTraxx Crossover Index of 50
companies with mostly high-yield credit ratings up 3 basis
points at 513, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  The Markit iTraxx Europe Index of 125 companies with
investment-grade ratings increased 1.75 basis points to 112,
JPMorgan prices show.  The Markit iTraxx Financial Index of 25 banks and insurers
jumped 4.5 basis points to 142 and the subordinated index was 4
higher at 211.  A basis point on a credit-default swap contract protecting
10 million euros of debt from default for five years is
equivalent to 1,000 euros a year.  Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange
for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a
company fail to adhere to its debt agreements. An increase
signals deterioration in perceptions of credit quality.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Abigail Moses  in London at 
 Amoses5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Armstrong at 
 Parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  