-- Swaps on U.S. Government Debt Climb to Highest in Six Weeks
-- B y   M a r y   C h i l d s
-- 2010-09-22T23:04:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-22/corporate-credit-risk-benchmark-climbs-in-u-s-after-federal-reserve-meets.html
The cost to hedge against losses on
U.S. government debt rose to the most in six weeks as investors
bet the Federal Reserve will put more cash into the economy and
a report showed home prices continued to drop.  Credit-default swaps on U.S. Treasuries climbed 1.7 basis
points, the biggest increase in more than three weeks, to 49.4,
according to data provider CMA. The Fed said yesterday that
slowing inflation and sluggish growth may require further
action. The statement positioned the central bank to expand its
near-record $2.3 trillion balance sheet as soon as November.  “It goes right along with the gold trade and the dollar
trade and the idea that the U.S. is debasing its currency and
accumulating obligations beyond that which it will repay,”  Dan Greenhaus , the New York-based chief economic strategist at
Miller Tabak & Co., said in a telephone interview.  The Dollar Index fell to a six-month low today and gold
climbed to a record.  The Fed’s  target rate  for overnight loans between banks has
held at zero to 0.25 percent since 2008 and the central bank
bought more than $1.7 trillion in housing debt and Treasury
securities last year to help bolster the economy.  Yesterday, policy makers said they’re prepared “to provide
additional accommodation if needed to support economic recovery
and to return inflation, over time, to levels consistent with
its mandate.”  “The Fed is finding reasons to continue down the path of
resuming quantitative easing,” said  Rizwan Hussain , a credit
strategist at Morgan Stanley. “Credit investors are raising
their defenses here a little bit short term.”  Raising Defenses  Swaps on the Markit CDX North America Investment Grade
Index, which investors use to hedge against losses on corporate
debt or to speculate on creditworthiness, increased 3.1 basis
points to a mid-price of 111.6 basis points, the highest this
month, as of 6:22 p.m. in New York, according to Markit Group
Ltd.  The current version of the measure updated Sept. 20 to
replace one company in the group. The so-called roll to the new
index also added six months to the five-year contracts’
maturity, which increased its risk. Series 15 began trading as
much as 5.5 basis points wider than Series 14, according to
broker Phoenix Partners Group.  Credit-default swaps on banks, including  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc.  and  Morgan Stanley , rose today after the Federal
Housing Finance Agency in Washington said U.S. home prices
dropped 3.3 percent in July from a year earlier, the eighth
consecutive decline.  Looking to Banks  Swaps on Goldman Sachs increased 7.6 basis points to 147.1
and those on Morgan Stanley added 5.6 basis points to 183.4,
according to CMA.  The cost of protecting JPMorgan Chase & Co. debt climbed
2.5 basis points to 86.6 and for Merrill Lynch & Co. the gain
was 4.9 basis points to 184.3, CMA data show.  “Banks are going to be a good sentiment indicator
reflecting what’s going on in the housing market,” Hussain
said. “To the extent that housing continues to slide and you
have potentially renewed worry about the whole foreclosure issue
not getting better, that has some capital drawdown on the
banks.”  Contracts on Lennar Corp., the third-largest U.S.
homebuilder, added 7.3 basis points to 441.7, and those on  D.R.
Horton Inc. , the second-largest builder by revenue, added 8
basis points to 264.3, CMA data show.  The Markit iTraxx Europe Index of 125 companies with
investment-grade ratings added 4.5 basis points to 114.4, and
the Markit iTraxx Crossover Index of credit-default swaps on 50
companies with mostly high-yield credit ratings climbed 9.6
basis points to 519, Markit prices show.  Credit swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails
to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A
basis point, 0.01 percentage point, equals $1,000 annually on a
contract protecting $10 million of debt.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mary Childs  in New York at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  