-- Cox Apes Apple, Comcast Joins Blockbuster in Cable Retail Push
-- B y   K e l l y   R i d d e l l
-- 2010-09-22T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-22/cox-channels-apple-comcast-joins-blockbuster-as-cable-steps-up-retailing.html
Dorothy Jones, 73, is sitting at a
glossy white countertop in a renovated  Cox Solutions Store  in
Chesapeake, Virginia, getting free lessons on how to hook up her
personal computer to the Internet.  Jones says she visits Cox Communications Inc.’s modern
glass-front store, whose interior replicates the trademark
minimalism of an Apple Inc. retail shop, once a month to pay her
Web, cable and phone bill and ask questions about her service.  “These stores were set up to help our customers get the
most out of our products,” said Tracy Nolan, Cox’s vice
president of retail. “The learning lounge offers several
educational courses like how to program your DVR, use Cox On
Demand, and helps with technical and security issues.”  Cox,  Comcast Corp.  and Time Warner Cable Inc., the three
largest cable operators in the U.S., are branching into retail
as growth in the pay-TV industry stalls. The companies face
mounting competition from movie services such as  Netflix Inc. 
and devices such as Apple’s iPad, which pull viewers away from
televisions.  The pay-TV industry lost 216,000 basic subscribers last
quarter, the first such decline on record, according to research
firm SNL Kagan, which tracks the industry. In the year-earlier
period, the industry had a gain of 378,000, the Charlottesville,
Virginia-based firm said.  Hulu, Amazon.com  Sales of new and existing homes in the U.S. fell to the
lowest levels on record in July as a federal tax credit for
buyers expired and U.S. unemployment remained near a 26-year
high. Consumers are increasingly being offered cheaper
alternatives to traditional pay-TV such as video site  Hulu LLC 
and a planned video-subscription service from Amazon.com Inc.  Closely held Cox, based in Atlanta, plans to remodel its 26
stores in Hampton Roads, Virginia; Omaha, Nebraska; and Orange
County, California, by November. Since starting the effort last
year, Cox has seen a 14 percent boost in revenue in those
regions, Nolan said.  Comcast, the largest U.S. cable operator, recently began a
marketing agreement with Blockbuster Inc. that offers its
customers discounted access to the movie-rental company’s
monthly service, and gives Comcast the ability to market its
cable, Internet and phone products in Blockbuster stores.  For example, when a customer goes into Blockbuster to rent
a “Halo” video game to play on Microsoft Corp.’s Xbox, an
employee may try to get them to sign up for Philadelphia-based
Comcast’s Internet service so they can compete with other
players online.  Wireless Cards, Movies  Time Warner Cable , the second-largest U.S. cable operator,
has an agreement with Best Buy Co. and Wal-Mart Stores Inc. to
help sell its services when a TV set or gaming system, such as
Sony Corp.’s PlayStation 3, is sold.  The New York-based cable operator also has renovated a few
of its payment centers and opened a retail shop on the Upper
West Side of Manhattan in May to both attract and retain
subscribers.  As cable companies begin to offer more products such as
wireless data air-cards and premium movies, retail stores are a
good avenue to promote those services, said  David Joyce , an
analyst with Miller Tabak & Co. in New York.  “They can use these retail venues to highlight all their
offerings,” for instance showing customers how easy it is to
access video-on-demand or use Wi-Fi services in their
neighborhood, said Joyce. “The better educated a customer is on
all the services they can get and how to best utilize them, the
better it is for the cable operator.”  Jones, the Cox customer in Chesapeake, said she enjoys her
trips to the retail store: “The competition doesn’t offer
anything like it.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Kelly Riddell  in Washington at 
 kriddell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  