-- Cuomo's Lead Over Paladino Shrinks in New York Governor's Race, Poll Says
-- B y   M i c h a e l   Q u i n t
-- 2010-09-22T10:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-22/cuomo-lead-over-paladino-shrinks-in-governor-s-race-quinnipiac-poll-says.html
New York  Republican candidate for
governor  Carl Paladino  surged in the polls after winning his
party’s nomination and now trails Democrat  Andrew Cuomo  by 6
percentage points,  Quinnipiac University  said.  A Buffalo real estate developer and Tea Party supporter,
Paladino is favored by 43 percent of likely voters, compared
with 49 percent for Cuomo, the state attorney general. In late
August, before Paladino was the nominee, a Quinnipiac poll had
Cuomo leading by 60 percent to 23 percent.  Paladino, 64, won an upset victory in the Republican
primary, beating the candidate selected by party leaders. With
an “I’m Mad as Hell” campaign slogan, he has promised to clean
up Albany with “a baseball bat” and cut taxes by 10 percent
and spending by 20 percent in his first year as governor.  “Forty percent of New Yorkers say the most important trait
in a candidate is that he’ll ‘bring change,’”  Maurice Carroll ,
director of the university’s polling institute, said in a
statement. That’s a “plus” for Paladino, who also benefited
from publicity surrounding the Republican primary, Carroll said.  Cuomo, 52, the son of former Governor  Mario Cuomo , has been
the favorite in polls, even before he officially entered the
race in May.  ‘Angry Year’  “He might be a victim of the ‘throw the bums out’ attitude
that hits incumbents in this angry year,” Carroll said of
Cuomo. The attorney general has also promised to cut spending in
New York, which faces an $8.2 billion budget gap in the year
that begins April 1.  The Quinnipiac survey of likely voters, conducted Sept. 16-
20 following the Sept. 14 primary, showed Cuomo’s lead to be
less than the 54-to-38 percent margin in a Rasmussen Reports
survey of Sept. 16.  Quinnipiac didn’t include  Rick Lazio , the Conservative
Party candidate, in questions about voter choices. Lazio lost
the Republican nomination to Paladino by 68 percent to 32
percent.  About 18 percent of voters identified themselves as part of
the Tea Party movement, which favors lower taxes and less
government spending. Among those voters, Paladino had a 4-to-1
lead, according to the poll.  Cuomo had a favorable rating among 51 percent of voters,
with 34 percent reporting an unfavorable opinion. Sixty-seven
percent said they approved of the job he was doing as attorney
general.  Paladino was viewed favorably by 36 percent of voters, with
31 percent unfavorable and 31 percent not knowing enough about
him to have an opinion.  Quinnipiac, located in Hamden, Connecticut, surveyed 751
likely voters, and the poll had a margin of error of plus or
minus 3.6 percentage points.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Quint  in Albany, New York, at 
 mquint@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  