-- Czech Central Bank Board May Begin Interest Rate-Increase Debate Tomorrow
-- B y   P e t e r   L a c a
-- 2010-09-22T11:49:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-22/czech-central-bank-board-may-begin-interest-rate-increase-debate-tomorrow.html
The Czech central bank may discuss
tomorrow whether to move forward interest-rate increases after
two board members suggested a tightening of monetary policy is
needed earlier than forecast.  While all 16 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg expect the
Ceska Narodni Banka to leave its two-week rate unchanged at a
record-low 0.75 percent, attention is focused on the post
meeting news conference and minutes to be released Oct. 1.  The “interpretation of the central bank’s overall view,
presented at the news conference and later in the minutes from
the board meeting, will certainly be interesting,” Michal
Brozka, an analyst at Raiffeisenbank AS in Prague said in a
Sept. 20 report.  The bank cut its benchmark rate by 3 percentage points in
the past two years as the country suffered its worst recession
in two decades. Since an Aug. 5 meeting, two members have
suggested policy makers may raise borrowing costs, a quarter-
point lower than  European Central Bank’s  main rate, before the
second half of 2011 as signaled by the bank’s latest forecast.  Board member  Eva Zamrazilova  said a rate increase should be
discussed as soon as possible because low borrowing costs create
a “bad allocation of capital,” according to an Aug. 24
interview in the newspaper Lidove Noviny.  Probably Raise  Robert Holman , another of the seven policy makers, told
Tyden magazine on Aug. 30 that the bank will probably raise the
main rate to 1 percent at the end of this year or at the
beginning of 2011.  The Czech  economy , where exports account for about 70
percent of output, last year emerged from the worst recession
since the end of communism in 1989.  Gross domestic product 
expanded an annual 2.4 percent in the three months through June,
the  fastest pace  in eight quarters.  August’s  inflation  rate was 1.9 percent, unchanged from a
16-month high in July. The bank sees annual price growth
exceeding its 2 percent target this year before dropping to 1.9
percent in the third and fourth quarters of 2011.  GDP data showed 0.8 percent growth of household consumption
in the second quarter, which the central bank said was a
“surprising” increase.  Signals from the economy don’t suggest “we are in for a
rate hike already,”  Martin Lobotka , an analyst at Ceska
Sporitelna AS, the Czech unit of Erste Group Bank AG. “But the
discussion at the meeting may foreshadow the more important
meeting in November, when the new forecast will be unveiled,”
Lobotka said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Peter Laca  in Prague at 
 placa@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at   wmorris@bloomberg.net  