-- Daimler Said to Invite Banks to Join $9.4 Billion Loan to Refinance Debt
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   K u o
-- 2010-09-22T16:03:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-22/daimler-said-to-start-marketing-7-billion-euro-refinancing-loan.html
Daimler AG , the world’s second-
biggest luxury carmaker, started marketing a 7 billion-euro
($9.4 billion) loan to refinance debt, four people familiar with
the matter said.  Deutsche Bank AG, Societe Generale SA and UniCredit SpA,
coordinators of the refinancing for the Stuttgart, Germany-based
automaker, today invited a wider group of lenders to join the
five-year revolving credit, said the people, who declined to be
identified because the information is private.  Florian Martens ,
a spokesman for Daimler, declined to comment.  The owner of the Mercedes and Maybach nameplates has about
$4.9 billion of credit lines due in December 2011 and a 3
billion-euro revolving credit due in October 2011, according to
the company’s  earnings report  shows.  Daimler said Sept. 6 it was considering moving up parts of
refinancing that was planned for 2011 as credit market
conditions improve.  The automaker agreed to pay interest of 160 basis points
more than the euro interbank offered rate for the 3 billion-euro
credit line signed last year, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  Daimler in July raised its 2010 operating profit forecast
to 6 billion euros after beating quarterly estimates on higher
sales in China and the U.S.  Standard & Poor’s and Fitch Ratings rank Daimler’s debt
BBB+, the third-lowest investment grade. Moody’s Investors
Service rates it a level higher at A3.  Credit-default swaps linked to Daimler’s debt rose 4 basis
points today to 91 basis points, according data provider CMA,
after la Repubblica reported that the company made a 9 billion-
euro “pre-offer” for Fiat Industrial SpA, the truck and
tractor unit of Fiat SpA. Daimler said today it isn’t in talks
with Fiat about taking over the Italian carmaker’s industrial
operations.  A basis point on a credit-default swap protecting 10
million euros of debt from default for five years is equivalent
to 1,000 euros a year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Patricia Kuo  in London at 
 pkuo2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net  