-- Daimler Says No Talks With Fiat After Report on Industrial Bid
-- B y   C h r i s   R e i t e r   a n d   T o m m a s o   E b h a r d t
-- 2010-09-22T16:20:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-22/daimler-made-12-billion-pre-offer-for-fiat-industrial-repubblica-says.html
Daimler AG  said today that it isn’t
in talks with  Fiat SpA  about taking over the Italian carmaker’s
industrial operations, after la Repubblica reported that the
German company made a 9 billion-euro ($12 billion) pre-offer.  “There are no talks on this with Fiat,” Daimler spokesman
 Florian Martens  said in a telephone interview. “In our industry
at this time, everyone is talking with everyone and so are we.”  Negotiations are stalled as Fiat wants 10.5 billion euros
for Fiat Industrial SpA, the truck and tractor unit being spun
off from Fiat SpA, la Repubblica reported, without saying where
it got the information. A deal could still be reached after the
division’s listing in Milan next year, the newspaper said.  Daimler, headed by Chief Executive Officer  Dieter Zetsche ,
is the world’s largest maker of heavy trucks and the No. 2 in
luxury vehicles. To focus on carmaking, Fiat CEO  Sergio Marchionne  is spinning off industrial operations, including the
Iveco truckmaking unit and  CNH Global NV  tractor division. Fiat
Industrial may have a market value of 13 billion euros,
according to an estimate by  Jochen Gehrke , an analyst at
Deutsche Bank AG.  “Such a deal would be difficult to pull off because of
antitrust concerns on the truck side,” said  Georg Stuerzer , a
Munich-based analyst with UniCredit, who recommends buying
Daimler shares. “I don’t see how a combination with Iveco would
work from a competition point of view, especially in Europe.”  Credit-Default Swaps  It’s normal for Fiat to look at “opportunities to enhance
operational synergies and access to new markets through
potential cooperation agreements,” the Italian company said in
a statement. One aim of the spinoff of industrial businesses is
“significant improvement in strategic flexibility.”  Fiat  rose  3 cents, or 0.3 percent, to 10.89 euros at the
5:30 p.m. close of trading in Milan. Daimler, based in
Stuttgart, Germany,  dropped  1.7 percent to 44.85 euros on the
Frankfurt exchange.  Credit-default swaps linked to Daimler’s debt jumped 4
basis points to 91 today, according to data provider CMA. A
basis point on a credit-default swap protecting 10 million euros
of debt from default for five years is equivalent to 1,000 euros
a year.  Daimler and competitors  Volvo AB  and Scania AB are
benefitting from increasing orders for commercial vehicles.
Daimler’s heavy-truck unit posted a second-quarter operating
profit of 300 million euros compared with a loss of 604 million
euros a year earlier.  Market Share  Daimler had 23 percent of the market for medium- and heavy-
duty trucks in western European, based on 2009 delivery figures.
A combination with Iveco would create an entity with a 34
percent share. MAN SE and Scania, both partly owned by
 Volkswagen AG , had a total share of 27 percent.  Industrywide deliveries of heavy vehicles will grow by more
than 50 percent to about 3 million vehicles by 2015 because of
emerging markets,  Andreas Renschler , head of Daimler’s truck
division, forecast at an industry event in Hanover this week.  “I would not be surprised if Daimler was interested in
Iveco, but I would be surprised if they were interested in all
of Fiat Industrial,” said  Arndt Ellinghorst , a London-based
analyst with Credit Suisse, who has a “neutral” rating on Fiat
and “outperform” on Daimler.  Fiat, which acquired a 20 percent stake in Chrysler Group
LLC in June last year, and Daimler have enough time to evaluate
a possible deal, and Marchionne is committed to preparing the
document for the spinoff of Fiat Industrial and its listing, la
Repubblica reported.  Marchionne Target  For every Fiat share held, investors will receive one share
in Fiat Industrial, which will be listed on the Milan stock
exchange on the first trading session of 2011. Fiat shareholders
approved the deal last week.  “If Marchionne believes his 2014 targets for CNH and Iveco
-- and there’s no reason to think they are not feasible -- then
it would be strange to sell it now still near the bottom of the
cycle, and not at the price the article suggests,” said  Max Warburton , an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein.  To contact the reporters on for this story:
 Tommaso Ebhardt  in Milan at 
 tebhardt@bloomberg.net ;
 Chris Reiter  at 
 creiter2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at   kwong11@bloomberg.net  