-- Dale Says Bank of England Must Be Ready to React to Unusually Large Risks
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2010-09-23T11:01:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-22/dale-says-bank-of-england-must-be-ready-to-react-to-unusually-large-risks.html
Bank of England Chief Economist
 Spencer Dale  said the strength of inflation isn’t showing signs
of shifting consumer expectations, though officials will need to
react if risks emerge either way to price stability.  “The current risks to inflation are unusually large,”
Dale said in a speech yesterday at Cardiff Business School,
Wales. “These risks should gradually lessen as the temporary
effects pushing up on inflation wane and the economic recovery
continues. But it is possible that some of the risks will
crystallize and policy will need to react.”  U.K.  inflation  exceeded the government’s 3 percent limit
for a sixth month in August, stoked by the weakness of the pound
and higher commodity costs. Bank of England policy makers still
overruled  Andrew Sentance ’s call for an interest-rate increase
this month and signaled they have moved closer to adding more
 stimulus  to revive a slowing economic recovery.  “There are significant downside risks to inflation,” Dale
said. “It is difficult to know exactly how much spare capacity
there is in the economy” and “that impact should become more
apparent as the temporary effects” pushing up inflation wane.  Some Bank of England policy makers argued that the chances
of stimulus being needed have increased, according to minutes of
their Sept. 9 decision released yesterday. They have kept the
 benchmark interest rate  at a record low of 0.5 percent and
bought 200 billion pounds ($313 billion) in government bonds to
aid the economy as the government pares the  budget deficit .  ‘Surprising Strength’  “Downside risks to the growth outlook, stemming in
particular from the substantial fiscal consolidation now in
train and the continuing constraints on the supply of bank
lending, add materially to the downside risks to inflation,”
Dale said. “Even if the economic recovery does continue, it is
possible that some of the factors that may have contributed to
the surprising strength in inflation in the past may start to
fade.”  Dale said temporary factors such as rising oil prices, the
weakness in the pound and an increase in sales tax are “more
than sufficient to explain” why inflation has remained
“significantly” above the bank’s 2 percent target over the
past four years while not destabilizing inflation expectations.  The “peak impact” of sterling’s the past depreciation on
inflation “has probably passed,” he said. “But there is
considerable uncertainty surrounding this judgment and it is
quite possible that there may be further significant upward
pressure on prices to come.”  Inflation Credibility  Dale said that the strength of inflation in the past and
the likelihood it will stay above target through 2011 add to the
risk of public confidence ebbing in the Bank of England.  “It is perhaps understandable that some may have started
to question the commitment or competence of the Monetary Policy
Committee,” he said. “Although this remains a significant
risk, my reading of the available evidence to date is that
inflation expectations remain relatively well anchored.”  Investors should not pay attention to “dangerous talk”
that policy makers were “turning a blind eye” to faster-than-
expected inflation, Dale said. However, “the response to a
possible loss of credibility is clear -- monetary policy would
need to tighten, possibly aggressively so. But I think this risk
remains just that -- a risk.”  MPC’s Commitment  “Maintaining low and stable inflation is the best
contribution that monetary policy can make to the long-term
health and prosperity of our economy,” he said. “The MPC
remains as committed as ever to meeting the inflation target.”  The U.K. faces “substantial headwinds” and the economy
needs “sustained” growth before companies will see normal
order books, the Western Mail newspaper today cited Dale as
saying in an interview on his visit to Wales.  British house prices may fall further after the small size
of declines prompted by the financial crisis surprised people,
Dale said in response to questions after his speech yesterday.
“House prices have fallen 10 percent or so in this period,” he
said. “It could be that we haven’t seen it all and that more is
still to come.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Scott Hamilton  in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net  