-- Mark Cuban Wins Access to Documents in Feud With SEC
-- B y   T h o m   W e i d l i c h
-- 2010-09-22T19:32:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-22/dallas-mavericks-owner-cuban-wins-access-to-documents-in-feud-with-sec.html
Mark Cuban, who lost a bid to get
tossed insider-trading allegations by the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission, won access to documents in his ongoing feud
with the agency.  U.S. District Judge Reggie B. Walton in Washington today
ruled that the SEC improperly withheld documents the billionaire
owner of the  Dallas  Mavericks requested through the Freedom of
Information Act, that its reasons for withholding other
documents weren’t detailed enough and that it can’t take three
years to complete his request for still more.  “To the extent that the court has found that the defendant
cannot rely on an exemption to withhold a record in its
entirety, the defendant is obligated by the FOIA to produce a
complete or redacted version of the record to the plaintiff, and
must do so forthwith,” Walton wrote.  The federal appeals court in New Orleans yesterday
reinstated the SEC’s insider-trading case against Cuban, filed
in federal court in Dallas. The lower-court judge tossed the
case last year. The SEC accuses Cuban of trading on confidential
information when he sold his stake in Mamma.com Inc., a Canadian
Internet search company, just before it announced a private
placement of shares.  “We are reviewing the decision,”  John Nester , an SEC
spokesman, said today.  Trading History  Walton found the agency’s document search into certain
areas to be inadequate, including Cuban’s request for “any
trading history by SEC personnel in Mamma.com Inc. securities.”
He also asked for documents on several SEC lawyers and on any
investigation into his companies.  The agency asked for three years to sift through 107 boxes
on the Momma.com probe, which Walton denied. He said he’d hold a
hearing on how long the agency should be given.  “The most significant thing out of this decision is the
quite-correct skepticism about the three years,” said Lyle
Roberts, a lawyer for Cuban at Dewey & LeBoeuf LLP in
 Washington .  The documents Cuban seeks include e-mails,
handwritten notes and memorandums, according to the ruling.  Cuban, 52, has waged a multipronged fight against the SEC’s
claims, attacking the agency on his blog and in complaints to
the regulator’s inspector general. Cuban sued the SEC in May
2009, claiming the agency improperly refused his request for
documents, including information on internal probes of a staff
attorney in  Texas  who had argued with him by e-mail over his
ties to a film, “Loose Change,” about the Sept. 11 terrorist
attacks. The SEC lawyer wasn’t involved the probe of Cuban.  Private Placement  In the insider-trading suit, Cuban argues he never agreed
not to trade on information about the private placement, only
that he would keep the information confidential.  Mamma.com is now known as Copernic Inc., based in  Montreal .  Cuban owns the HDNet high-definition television channel and
the Landmark Theater chain. He made his fortune through the sale
of Broadcast.com, the multimedia Web service he co-founded and
that Yahoo! Inc. bought for $4.7 billion in 1999.  The next year, Cuban purchased the Mavericks from Ross Perot Jr. for $280 million, a record at the time for a National
Basketball Association team.  The case is Cuban v. SEC, 09-cv-996, U.S. District Court,
District of Columbia (Washington). The insider-trading case is
SEC v. Cuban, 09-10996, 5th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals (New
Orleans) and SEC v. Cuban, 08-cv-2050, U.S. District Court,
Northern District of Texas (Dallas).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thom Weidlich in  Brooklyn , New York, federal court at
   tweidlich@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 