-- Germany Stocks Decline; Siemens Shares Lead DAX Index Lower
-- B y   A l e x i s   X y d i a s   a n d   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 2010-09-22T15:54:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-22/dax-index-declines-led-by-daimler-deutsche-bank-limits-loss.html
German stocks dropped after U.S.
home prices fell and the Federal Reserve said that it is willing
to ease monetary policy further to spur growth in the world’s
largest economy.  Siemens AG, which makes more than a quarter of its sales in
the Americas, led falling shares on the benchmark DAX Index.
Daimler AG declined 1.7 percent after la Repubblica reported
that the carmaker had offered to buy Fiat SpA’s industrial unit.
Infineon Technologies AG gained 2.7 percent after the chipmaker
raised its profit forecast.  The DAX index  dropped 1.1 percent to 6,208.33 at the 5:30
p.m. close in Frankfurt. The Fed said it’s willing to ease
monetary policy further to spur growth while refraining from
buying more securities. The DAX has rebounded 14 percent since
its 2010 low in February on optimism that the German economy is
weathering a global slowdown. The broader  HDAX Index  also
retreated 1.1 percent today.  “Economic growth in developed markets will be slow from
here,” said  Adrian Brass , a fund manager at Fidelity Investment
Management Ltd. in London. “Those who think the economy could
continue to expand at the same pace are still blinkered by the
artificially high growth experience prior to the financial
crisis.”  U.S. home prices dropped 3.3 percent in July from a year
earlier, the eighth consecutive decline, as foreclosed
properties flooded the market. Prices fell 0.5 percent from
June, the Federal Housing Finance Agency in Washington said in a
report today. Economists had projected prices to fall 0.2
percent from the previous month, based on the average of 15
estimates in a Bloomberg survey. The agency revised the
previously reported May-to-June decline to 1.2 percent from 0.3
percent.  Siemens, Daimler Drop  Siemens , Europe’s largest engineering company, lost 2.8
percent to 77.16 euros.  Daimler  retreated 1.7 percent to 44.85 euros. The maker of
Mercedes Benz cars made a 9 billion-euro ($12.04 billion) “pre-
offer” for Fiat Industrial SpA, the truck and tractor unit of
Fiat that will be listed in Milan next year, la Repubblica
reported, without saying where it got the information. Daimler
Spokesman Florian Martens said, “There are no talks on this
with Fiat.”       Infineon  gained 2.7 percent to 4.85 euros. Europe’s
second-largest chipmaker yesterday raised its fiscal 2010
profitability and revenue forecast for a fourth time as it
benefits from higher-than-estimated sales of smartphones.  The company predicted revenue in the 12 months ended Sept
30 will rise by about 50 percent with an operating profit margin
of 13 to 14 percent. That compares with a previous prediction
for a “mid-to-high” 40s percent sales growth and a “low
teens” percentage margin.  Kabel Deutschland Holding AG, Germany’s largest cable-
television operator, climbed 2 percent to 26.51 euros. BofA
Merrill Lynch Global Research rated the stock “buy” in new
coverage.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Alexis Xydias  in London at  at
 axydias@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Merritt at 
 dmerritt1@bloomberg.net . 