-- Bridge Collapse Adds Safety to Terror Fears Before Delhi Games
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h   a n d   M e h u l   S r i v a s t a v a
-- 2010-09-22T18:06:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-22/delhi-faces-filth-security-fears-bridge-collapse-at-commonwealth-games.html
England will send its first group
of athletes to New Delhi for the Commonwealth Games tomorrow as
the over-budget event struggles with construction, cleanliness 
and safety.  Twenty-two of the 369-member squad will travel to India as
planned,  Caroline Searle , the team’s chief press officer, said
in an interview. Some teams and athletes have delayed their
departures because of questions about the facilities and
security.  “We have made the decision that those first athletes will
get on the flight tomorrow night, unless anything develops in
the next twenty-four hours,” Searle said.  English triple-jumper  Phillips Idowu  withdrew yesterday,
while his teammates  Christine Ohuruogu , the Olympic 400-meter
champion, and Lisa Dobriskey, who won silver in the 1,500 meters
at the world championships, said they will miss the event
because of injury.  Sending the first English athletes to India doesn’t mean
the entire team will travel, Commonwealth Games England chairman
Andrew Foster told the British Broadcasting Corp.  “We are still needing further assurances from the Indian
authorities,” Foster said. The team has eight people in New
Delhi monitoring the situation.  “There are significant blocks in the road that need to be
removed,” Foster told the BBC. A final decision will be made in
the next “two to three days.”  Bridge Collapse  Twenty-seven people were injured yesterday when a
footbridge collapsed near the  Jawaharlal Nehru Stadium , home to
the opening and closing ceremonies, television channel CNN-IBN
reported. Adding to organizers’ woes, a section of false ceiling
at the weightlifting venue collapsed today, CNN-IBN said.
Scotland’s team delayed the departure of its first group of
competitors.  The athlete’s village, scheduled to open tomorrow, still
has some unfinished plumbing and electrical work. Jon Doig, head
of the Scottish delegation, said yesterday that some apartments
are covered with feces from stray dogs and laborers. There’s
been an outbreak of dengue fever, monsoon floods and security
concerns after the Sept. 19 shooting of two Taiwanese near a
mosque.  ‘Seriously Compromised’  “The Commonwealth Games village is seriously
compromised,” Michael Fennell, president of the  Commonwealth
Games Federation , said yesterday in a statement. “Significant
operational matters remain unaddressed.”  Indian Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  said Jan. 26 that the
event, which gathers 8,000 athletes and officials from the U.K.
and its former colonies and dependencies, would show how his
country “is rapidly marching ahead with confidence.” He has
now ordered a probe into preparations for the quadrennial Games,
which start Oct. 3. Government spending has surpassed $4.6
billion -- more than nine times as much as the December 2003
estimate of $500 million.  The collapse of the footbridge, connecting the main stadium
to a parking lot, presented yet another challenge to organizers.  “It’s just a footbridge,”  Jaipal Reddy , the urban
development minister told CNN-IBN. “If you had said to me that
this was Nehru Stadium, then that would be something.”  Lalit Bhanot, secretary-general of the organizing
committee, told reporters the complex would be clean when
athletes start arriving tomorrow.  Weather  Part of the trouble with preparation comes from bad
weather, India’s Foreign Minister S.M. Krishna told the BBC
World News.  “Unfortunately the prolonged monsoon in India has
contributed in no small measure to the preparations of this
major event,” Krishna said. “I can assure you with all the
confidence at my level that we will be able to deliver on the
Commonwealth Games.”  India’s Central Vigilance Commission, which investigates
allegations of corruption in government projects, is examining
seven complaints about procurement, and is carrying out
oversight of 16 Games-related construction projects totaling
23.2 billion rupees ($508 million), the commission said
yesterday in response to a question from Bloomberg News.  Australia’s Dani Samuels, the discus world champion,
dropped out yesterday, citing security and health concerns. The
Australian government warned there was a “high risk of
terrorism” after the shootings outside Delhi’s main mosque.  “The decision on whether to travel to India for the
Commonwealth Games is one for individuals to make,” Australian
Sports Minister  Mark Arbib  told reporters in Sydney. “The
government cannot tell people not to compete.”  Most Expensive  Even before this week’s complaints by attendees, the Games
have been criticized as the most expensive ever by India’s
Comptroller and opposition parties in a nation where the World
Bank says 828 million people live on less than $2 a day.  India has spent at least $4.6 billion upgrading stadiums,
refurbishing roads and building power and water utilities. It
spent another $2.7 billion on a new airport terminal.  While the international zone and main dining area have been
praised, deadlines for completion of the athletes’ village are
constantly being pushed out, Fennell said. Security around the
site is “slowing progress and complicating solutions,” he
said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Mehul Srivastava  in New Delhi at 
 msrivastava6@bloomberg.net ;
 Danielle Rossingh  in London at 
 drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  