-- Democrats Push Tax Breaks for Companies That Hire U.S. Workers
-- B y   J a m e s   R o w l e y
-- 2010-09-22T17:26:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-22/democrats-push-measure-with-tax-breaks-for-companies-hiring-u-s-workers.html
Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid 
moved to set up a vote on legislation that would give companies
a tax break for hiring U.S. workers to replace overseas-based
employees. The plan also would end tax advantages for closing
U.S. plants to move jobs offshore.  The measure introduced by Reid, a Nevada Democrat, would
give companies a two-year holiday from their share of Social
Security payroll withholding taxes for each employee they hire
to replace a worker at a foreign-based facility.  The Creating American Jobs and Ending Offshoring Act would
bar companies from taking tax credits or deductions for the cost
of closing a U.S.-based facility to move the operation overseas.
Companies could still take deductions for severance and job
placement services for employees who lose their jobs as a result
of a U.S. plant closing.  Under the legislation, companies that close a U.S.-based
business and expand it overseas would no longer be allowed to
defer U.S. income taxes on foreign subsidiaries.  Current law allows companies to put off paying taxes on
earnings from foreign subsidiaries until the income is brought
to the U.S. Democrats say this gives companies that employ
workers overseas an unfair advantage over those that hire more
U.S. workers.  Reid has the option to set up a procedural vote next week
on whether the Senate should take up the legislation. The
measure is cosponsored by two other members of the Democratic
leadership,  Charles Schumer  of New York and  Dick Durbin  of
Illinois. North Dakota Democrat  Byron Dorgan  is the fourth
sponsor.  The bill is  S. 3816 .  To contact the reporter on this story:
 James Rowley  in Washington at 
 jarowley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net  