-- Detroit's Mayor Bing Seeks to Impose 10% Wage Cut for Unionized Employees
-- B y   T i m   J o n e s
-- 2010-09-22T19:36:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-22/detroit-s-mayor-bing-seeks-to-impose-10-wage-cut-for-unionized-employees.html
Mayor  Dave Bing  of  Detroit , the
largest U.S. city with debt below investment grade, said he
wants to turn operation of a freight airport over to a private
company and impose a 10 percent pay cut on union workers.  Bing, the first-term mayor and former National Basketball
Association star, made his remarks in an  interview  with the
Detroit News published today, saying, “Everybody’s going to
have to participate in the pain.”  Detroit warned investors in a financial document in March
that the city might have to consider reorganizing under Chapter
9 bankruptcy protection. Bing later said insolvency wasn’t being
considered and has moved to cut costs.  The city sold $250 million in debt in March to help close a
budget deficit estimated at $330 million in April. Detroit’s
general-obligation bonds are rated Ba3 by Moody’s Investors
Service and BB by Standard & Poor’s, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. The ratings are three steps and two steps below
investment grade, respectively.  In his interview with the News, Bing said the city had no
business running the old east-side airport, formerly known as
Detroit City Airport and now called  Coleman A. Young
International Airport.  It is used primarily for freight service.  “We ought not to be in that business,” Bing said, noting
it could save Detroit $500,000 a year. “We got to get out of
it. We got to get somebody else to come in and run the airport
if we’re going to keep that airport.”  ‘Pain Together’  The 10 percent wage cuts Bing wants would affect 3,250 of
the city’s 13,000 employees, members of the American Federation
of State, County and Municipal Employees. Thirty-four of the
city’s 48 bargaining units have agreed to the pay cuts that
amount to 26 unpaid furlough days, Bing told the News.  The unwillingness of Afscme to agree to the concessions
costs the city about $500,000 a month, the mayor said.  “It’s unfortunate where we are, but we’re going to have to
impose the contract, move on and participate in this pain
together,” Bing told the News.  Since taking office in May 2009, the 66-year-old Bing has
trimmed the city’s deficit to about $85 million, the News
reported. Bing said that had he not acted quickly to rein in
spending last year, “we could have gone bankrupt or had payless
paydays,” he said.  Detroit, which 60 years ago had almost 2 million residents,
has lost more than half its population as the automotive-led
manufacturing base declined.  Bing, who went into went into the steel business after
 playing basketball  for the hometown Pistons, the Boston Celtics
and the Washington Bullets, told the News he isn’t thinking
about a re-election bid in 2013.  “I don’t care about a legacy, quite frankly,” Bing said
in the interview. “I didn’t come into this office as a
politician (and) I won’t go out as a politician.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tim Jones  in New York at 
 Tjones58@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  