-- Dinosaurs With 15 Horns, 7-Foot Heads Are Discovered in Utah
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   L o p a t t o
-- 2010-09-22T16:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-22/dinosaurs-with-15-horns-7-foot-heads-are-discovered-in-utah.html
Two new species of horned  dinosaurs 
were discovered to have lived in Utah  76 million years  ago when
the U.S. state was part of an island continent.  One of the giant reptiles, dubbed the Utahceratops gettyi,
had a 7-foot-long head. The other, called Kosmoceratops
richardsoni, the most-ornate dinosaur ever unearthed, had 15
horns: 1 over the nose, 1 over each eye and at the tip of each
cheekbone, and 10 across the back of its bony frill. Each
dinosaur was about as heavy as a hippopotamus.  The dinosaurs are cousins of the  Triceratops  and are the
southern neighbors of the  Chasmosaurus , said Scott Sampson, the
lead author of a paper on the beasts that will appear in the
journal  PLoS One . They lived on an island continent, dubbed
 Laramidia , when what is now North America was divided by an
interior sea that ran along the eastern side of the Rockies,
extending from the Gulf of Mexico through Alaska. The climate
was swampy and subtropical.  “This points to the fact that the world of dinosaurs was
more unusual than we’d previously thought,” Sampson, a
paleontologist at the  Utah Museum of Natural History  and the
University of Utah, both in Salt Lake City, said in a telephone
interview. “How do you jam so many giant dinosaurs on such a
small chunk of land?”  Grand Staircase  The team of paleontologists found bones and skulls of the
new dinosaurs at  Grand Staircase-Escalante National Monument ,
and there are probably many more discoveries waiting there, Mark
Loewen, a paleontologist at the Utah museum who is another
author of the paper, said in an interview. The site only opened
10 years ago, and 2 to 3 new dinosaurs are found there every
year, he said.  The site remained unexplored for so long because it’s
difficult to reach, and getting the dinosaurs out requires a
helicopter because of the rough terrain, Sampson said.  Utahceratops, initially discovered by the museum’s Mike
Getty in 2000, was about 6 feet high at the shoulder, and 18 to
22 feet long. It weighed about 3 to 4 metric tons (6,600 to
8,800 pounds).  Kosmoceratops, first found in 2007 by volunteer Scott
Richardson, was smaller, about 15 feet long. It weighed about
2.5 metric tons.  Skulls of the dinosaurs will be on display at the Utah
Museum of Natural History for the rest of the year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Elizabeth Lopatto  in New York at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 