-- DLJ’s Ted Shen, Theater Patron, Pens New Show About Late Love
-- B y   P h i l i p   B o r o f f
-- 2010-09-22T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-22/dlj-s-shen-trades-banking-for-theater-pens-musical-on-late-blooming-love.html
It’s not every day that  John Chalsty , the former chief executive officer of Donaldson, Lufkin
& Jenrette, and  Stephen Sondheim  both take in a new composer-
lyricist’s first musical at  Joe’s Pub  in Manhattan.  “ A Second Chance ,” unveiled Monday night at the East
Village spot, was written by their mutual friend  Ted Shen , a
musical-theater patron and former DLJ executive. The title
refers to a second chance at love, but could apply to artistic
fulfillment.  Shen, 65, played bass in a professional jazz quintet while
an undergraduate at Yale University, but didn’t try his hand at
writing for the musical theater until after he retired from DLJ
in 1999. (In 2000,  Credit Suisse Group  bought the company.)  “Ted’s first love is music,” said his wife, Mary Jo Shen.
“This is his dream.”  The two-character, 75-minute show will have a second, final
performance tonight. It depicts the romance of a wealthy,
grieving widower and a divorced woman unlucky in love. Shen, a
widower, dedicated it to Mary Jo, who’d been divorced before
their 2006 wedding. He said it’s “informed by personal
experience.”  “I wasn’t writing it autobiographically,” he said.
“Since I’m a novice writer, however, I needed to use my
personal experience to color those characters.”  Sondheim Speaks  Shen said Sondheim suggested he write about his first year
after meeting Mary Jo. Another friend, Oskar Eustis, artistic
director of the  Public Theater , gave dramaturgical advice and
offered Joe’s Pub for two performances.  The  Shen Family Foundation  subsidizes musical-theater
development at the Public and other nonprofit theaters.  Shen wouldn’t say how much he spent to mount the show. The
score fuses jazz and musical-theater styles and is sung-through,
containing minimal dialogue. It was directed by Jonathan
Butterell (who did musical staging for  Lincoln Center Theater’s 
“The Light in the Piazza”) and was orchestrated by Bruce
Coughlin (”Grey Gardens”), with a five-piece band.  The post-show reception Monday night, also courtesy of the
Shens, featured bite-size morsels of sesame chicken, crab cakes
and peanut-butter cookies.  In “A Second Chance,” the man and woman, played by
married performers Brian and Diane Sutherland, hit it off at a
dinner party. But he sings that he’s “damaged goods” following
the death of his wife. She frets he’s emotionally unavailable.  Demons Arrive  “Each time we’re together, I feel I’ve come alive, in
museums or at the movies or just seeing you smile,” the male
character sings. “But once I’m back alone then my demons arrive
and they fill me with guilt and remorse, for pursuing my own
selfish course.”  “All I have to offer is damaged goods.”  “I love how personal it is,” said Eric Schaeffer,
artistic director of the  Signature Theatre  in Arlington,
Virginia, which has a commissioning program funded by the Shens.  Adam Guettel , who wrote “Light in the Piazza,” said the
show has “value on every level.”  “It’s very beautiful,” he added.  Shen alerted friends to the performance but didn’t offer
complimentary tickets (not even to Sondheim). Joe’s Pub, he
said, will make money on the shows. Were a non-profit to produce
another incarnation, he’s not concerned about perceptions of
favoritism because he’s a patron.  “No legitimate theater will book the show if it’s going to
be detrimental to its standing,” he said. “And I wouldn’t want
that if that’s the case.”  “A Second Chance” will be performed tonight at 425
Lafayette St. Information: +1-212-967-7555.
 http://www.joespub.com   To contact the writer on this story:
 Philip Boroff  in New York at 
 pboroff@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 