-- Dodgers Owner McCourt's Wife Didn't Want to Co-Own Team, Lawyer Testifies
-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 2010-09-22T01:49:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-22/dodgers-owner-mccourt-s-wife-didn-t-want-to-co-own-team-lawyer-testifies.html
Jamie McCourt , the estranged wife
of Los Angeles Dodgers’ owner  Frank McCourt , didn’t want the
team to be their shared property when the couple moved to
California, an estate planning lawyer testified.  Reynolds Cafferata, a witness for Frank McCourt, said he
drew up a marital property agreement in 2004 at the request of
Jamie McCourt because she wanted to make sure the homes that
were in her name wouldn’t become community property when the
couple moved to California from Boston and, as such, be exposed
to her husband’s business creditors.  Cafferata said today at the couple’s divorce trial in Los
Angeles that he discussed with Jamie McCourt the possibility of
the businesses being the couple’s common property and the homes
her separate property. She rejected that option because, if she
was the Dodgers part owner, it would leave the houses more
exposed to potential creditors, he testified.  “It was agreed the businesses would be Mr. McCourt’s,”
Cafferata said in response to questions from Ryan Kirkpatrick, a
lawyer for Frank McCourt.  Jamie McCourt, 56, wants California Superior Court Judge
Scott M. Gordon to invalidate the 2004 postnuptial agreement
that purports to make the team, valued at $727 million by
Forbes, Frank McCourt’s separate property. Her husband, 57,
claims she wanted the agreement to shield herself against the
debt he took on when he bought the team.  California Law  Jamie McCourt, a former family law attorney in Boston,
testified yesterday that she was never told the agreement would
nullify her claims to a share of her husband’s businesses if
they divorced. She testified that she didn’t understand the
implications of California community property law and that she
had assumed she was entitled to half the couple’s assets no
matter whose name they were in.  Cafferata, a California lawyer, said under cross-
examination from Jamie McCourt’s lawyer, Michael Kump, that the
only meeting in which he discussed the agreement with her was at
Dodgers’ stadium at a lunch in February 2004 to celebrate the
closing of the acquisition. The actual time they spent
discussing the agreement was about 15 minutes, he said.  The case is McCourt v. McCourt, BD514309, Los Angeles
County Superior Court (Los Angeles.)  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Edvard Pettersson  in Los Angeles at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 