-- Dollar Near Five-Month Low Versus Euro Before Housing Report; Kiwi Weakens
-- B y   R o n   H a r u i   a n d   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a
-- 2010-09-23T07:24:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-22/dollar-near-five-month-low-on-concern-u-s-recovery-will-stall-kiwi-drops.html
The dollar traded near a five-month
low against the euro before a report today that may show U.S.
home sales were close to the weakest in 10 years, adding to
signs the world’s largest economy is struggling to recover.  The greenback was within half a yen of a one-week low
versus Japan’s currency ahead of data tomorrow forecast to show
durable goods orders dropped, giving the Federal Reserve more
reason to expand monetary easing measures. New Zealand’s dollar
slumped after a report showed the economy grew less than
forecast. The yen traded in a narrow range before President
 Barack Obama  and Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  hold a meeting today
at which they may discuss Japan’s recent currency intervention.  “The data has been disappointing and the Fed will have to
resort to quantitative easing,” said  Neil Jones , head of
European hedge fund sales at Mizuho Corporate Bank Ltd. in
London. “There’s momentum to sell the dollar.”  The dollar traded at $1.3398 per euro as of 8:06 a.m. in
London from $1.3405 in New York yesterday, when it fell to
$1.3440, the weakest since April 21. The U.S. currency was at
84.58 yen from 84.50 yen yesterday, when it dropped to 84.28,
the lowest since Sept. 15. The euro bought 113.35 yen from
113.27 yen. Financial markets in Japan, South Korea and China
were shut today for holidays.  Home Sales  Sales of existing  U.S. homes  rose to a 4.1 million pace in
August, behind only July’s 3.83 million as the weakest in a
decade’s worth of data, according to a Bloomberg survey before
today’s report. Economists say data tomorrow will show durable
goods fell 1 percent last month, the biggest drop since August
2009, and a report on Sept. 28 will reveal consumer confidence
declined to 53 in September from 53.5 in August.  The dollar has weakened against 13 of its 16 major
counterparts since the Fed said after its Sept. 21 meeting it
“will provide additional accommodation if needed” to spur
growth. The Federal Open Market Committee also said “inflation
is likely to remain subdued for some time before rising to
levels the committee considers consistent with its mandate.”  Futures on the Chicago Mercantile Exchange show a 65
percent chance the central bank will keep its target rate for
overnight bank lending between zero and 0.25 percent through its
June 2011 meeting, up from a 52 percent probability a month ago.  Kiwi Slides  New Zealand’s dollar snapped a four-day rally as today’s
economic-growth report spurred traders to reduce bets for
interest-rate increases over the next 12 months.  Gross domestic product expanded 0.2 percent in the second
quarter from the prior three months, Statistics New Zealand said,
less than the 0.7 percent estimate in a Bloomberg survey.  Swaps 
traders cut the size of the rate increase they expect from the
Reserve Bank over the next 12 months to 58 basis points from 65
basis points yesterday, a Credit Suisse AG index showed.  “The GDP data was clearly weaker than the market expected
and noticeably weak compared to the Reserve Bank’s
expectations,” said  Mike Jones , a currency strategist at Bank
of New Zealand Ltd. in Wellington. “The Reserve Bank will
remain on hold until at least the end of this year and probably
presents some near-term headwinds for the New Zealand dollar.”  New Zealand’s dollar slumped as much as 1.1 percent, the
biggest drop since Sept. 16, and was at 73.14 U.S. cents from
73.86 cents yesterday. It weakened 0.9 percent to 61.86 yen.  Intervention Concern  Gains in the yen were tempered on speculation Japan will
sell its currency again after intervening in foreign-exchange
markets last week for the first time in more than six years.  Bank of Japan board member  Ryuzo Miyao  said yesterday he
expects the government’s intervention will help stabilize the
currency markets. Finance Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  said last week
Japan is ready to take bold action on the yen if necessary.  “You’ll see Japanese intervention continuing,”  Nader Naeimi , a Sydney-based strategist at AMP Capital Investors Ltd.,
which manages $85 billion, said in a Bloomberg Television
interview. “The yen should weaken.”  Obama will meet with Kan in New York today after the U.S.
President addresses the United Nations, White House Press
Secretary  Robert Gibbs  said Sept. 18. The two leaders are likely
to discuss the dollar-yen rate, the Tokyo Shimbun newspaper
reported on Sept. 16.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ron Harui  in Singapore at 
 rharui@bloomberg.net ;
 Lukanyo Mnyanda  in London at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 Rswift5@bloomberg.net . 