-- DBNGP Finance Sells A$550 Million of Five-Year Notes
-- B y   S a r a h   M c D o n a l d
-- 2010-09-22T05:26:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-22/duet-s-dbngp-raises-526-million-in-biggest-non-bank-bond-sale-since-2007.html
DBNGP Finance Co. Pty Ltd. sold
A$550 million ($526 million) of five-year bonds in the biggest
local debt sale by an Australian non-financial company in more
than three years.  The finance unit of a natural gas pipeline venture in the
state of Western Australia priced A$150 million of fixed-rate
notes and A$400 million of floating-rate bonds to yield 300
basis points more than swap rates, according to an e-mailed
statement today from Commonwealth Bank of Australia, which
helped manage the sale.  Australian non-financial companies this year account for
less than 4 percent of the domestic bond market, which is
dominated by banks and foreign issuers of local currency debt,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The sale is the biggest
since Reliance Rail Finance Pty Ltd., the funding arm of a group
building trains for the New South Wales state government, sold
A$1.9 billion of notes in February 2007, the data show.  “DBNGP’s stability of earnings and commitment to its
credit rating are among elements that make it a solid
investment,” said  Scott Rundell , head of credit research at ING
Investment Management in Sydney, which bought the bonds.  DBNGP is rated BBB- by Standard & Poor’s and the equivalent
Baa3 by Moody’s Investors Service. Reliance Rail’s bonds were
sold with guarantees from third-party insurers, Bloomberg data
show.  The almost 1,500-kilometer (932-mile) Dampier to Bunbury
natural gas pipeline is the longest in Western Australia and
transports gas from fields off the northwest coast to customers
in the state’s southwest. It is 60 percent owned by DUET Group,
while Alcoa Inc. and Prime Infrastructure Group each own 20
percent, according to the pipeline’s  website .  While Australian infrastructure-related companies still
tend to rely on bank loans, more are accessing bond markets to
obtain longer-dated funding, Fitch Ratings said in a July report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sarah McDonald  in Sydney at 
 smcdonald23@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will McSheehy at 
 wmcsheehy@bloomberg.net . 