-- Duke May Sell Ohio Electricity Plants After Customers Defect, Prices Drop
-- B y   J i m   P o l s o n
-- 2010-09-22T20:06:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-22/duke-may-sell-ohio-plants-amid-customer-losses-low-power-prices-ceo-says.html
Duke Energy Corp. , the third-
largest U.S. producer of coal-fired electricity, has begun a
review of its Ohio strategy that may lead to selling $3.84
billion of power plants in the region, said Chief Executive
Officer  James E. Rogers .  The review is driven by narrower profit margins as
wholesale power prices fall and customers switch suppliers in
Ohio’s competitive electricity market, Rogers said in an
interview in New York yesterday. Duke estimates retail customer
losses in the state will cut profit about 7 cents this year.  “I liked the business when it was lightly regulated
because it fit with our business model,” Rogers said. “I don’t
like the business as much now.”  Duke wrote down the value of its 7,700 megawatts of
wholesale plants in the region in the second quarter by $660
million, to $3.84 billion. The company said the writedown was
due to lower prices and the potential costs of complying with
tighter federal air-pollution regulations at coal plants that
can generate 3,600 megawatts. A megawatt is enough power for
about 800 U.S. homes, according to the Energy Department.  Prices in  PJM Interconnection LLC , the largest U.S.
wholesale power market which includes most of Ohio, have
averaged $55.34 a megawatt-hour this year, 40 percent less than
in 2008 when Duke and state regulators negotiated rates for
customers of the company’s Ohio utility.  Customer Switching  As power prices fell, utility customers began looking for
bargains. To keep them, Duke formed a retail subsidiary that
sells electricity to residential customers at 15 percent below
the regulated utility’s rate, according to the Ohio Public
Service Commission  website . Duke’s retail unit kept 60 percent
of customers who opted to switch from the default power
supplier.  With reduced sales to its utility customers at contracted
prices, Charlotte, North Carolina-based Duke is selling more
power than expected into the wholesale market, Rogers said.  “This is temporary,” Rogers said. “The price is going to
come back, but I don’t think it’s going to come back until 2016
or 2018.”  The entire wholesale group in the region is under
consideration for divestiture, including coal, natural-gas and
oil-fired power plants, Rogers said. No decision has been made
whether to proceed or when, he said.  Duke has about two months to propose extending the current
rate agreement with Ohio regulators, which expires at the end of
2011, or seek the state’s permission to charge customers market-
based rates, “the most viable alternative” at current prices,
Rogers said.  Transmission and Distribution  Duke would then have to decide whether, or for how long, it
wants to bet on wholesale and retail power prices in Ohio.  By selling off its plants, “we could just become a
transmission and distribution company in Ohio,” Rogers said.  “It was his choice to come in and ask for higher rates,”
Janine Midgen-Ostrander, Ohio Consumers’ Counsel, said of Rogers
in an interview yesterday. “Duke used to be smack in the middle
in rates for residential customers. Now, they’re highest in the
state.”  Duke’s power price became the highest among the state’s
three utility owners after Akron, Ohio-based FirstEnergy Corp.
cut its rates, said Migden-Ostrander, who is appointed to
represent ratepayers in the state. The other utility owner in
the state is Columbus, Ohio-based American Electric Power Co.  Duke  rose  19 cents, or 1.1 percent, to $17.98 at 4 p.m. in
composite trading on the New York Stock Exchange. The shares are
up 4.3 percent this year.  About 75 percent of Duke’s revenue comes from selling power
and natural gas at regulated rates in other states, including
North and South Carolina, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jim Polson  in New York at 
 jpolson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at   susanwarren@bloomberg.net . 