-- Health Overhaul's $264 Million Question Weighs Down WellPoint, Coventry
-- B y   A l e x   N u s s b a u m
-- 2010-09-22T20:12:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-22/health-overhaul-s-264-million-question-weighs-down-wellpoint-s-shares.html
The failure by state regulators to
decide how much insurers must spend on patient care is scaring
investors from  health-plan stocks  and complicating company
decisions on premiums, commissions and cost cutting.  The  National Association of Insurance Commissioners’ 
decision, expected in June, has slipped to October, and U.S.
officials must weigh in after that, said  Jane Cline , the group’s
president. How to count federal taxes in the calculation, the
most pivotal decision remaining, may cost the industry, led by
 WellPoint Inc. , an extra $264 million next year, said  Ana Gupte ,
a Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. analyst in New York.  The health law requires companies to spend at least 80
percent of their premiums on medical care or return the
difference to customers. It assigned the commissioners’ group to
decide how to calculate that figure, known as the medical-loss
ratio. Their delay has helped drive insurer stocks down for six
months, Gupte said in a telephone interview.  The formula and “the federal tax issue have become a proxy
for the broader political risk facing the industry,” she said.
“There are many people that will not invest at all until they
know for sure what the definitions look like.”  Cline and commissioners from Florida, Kansas and Iowa met
today with President  Barack Obama  to discuss how to implement
the health overhaul. While the tax issue wasn’t raised, many
states would like some of the spending requirements phased in
over three years to lessen the risk that insurers will drop out
of markets, said  Kevin McCarty , Florida’s commissioner. The law
calls on companies to start paying rebates next year.  Slower Timetable  “If our goal is to minimize disruption” in insurance
markets, “then a way to do that is to do some kind of phase-
in.” McCarty said after the White House meeting.  Administration officials asked for more evidence on the
chances insurers would drop out, he said.  Shares of insurers, led by Indianapolis-based  WellPoint ,
have dropped 3.3 percent since the health overhaul was approved
March 22 by Congress, as measured by the Standard & Poor’s 500
 Managed Health Care Index . The broader S&P 500 has lost 2.7
percent in that time.  Before today, WellPoint, the biggest insurer by enrollment,
had declined 12 percent since March 22.  Coventry Health Systems
Inc. , a Bethesda, Maryland-based insurer, lost 18 percent. The
two face the biggest potential rebates as a percentage of
earnings next year because of their reliance on policies for
individuals and small employers, where administrative costs and
 profit margins  tend to be higher, Gupte said.  WellPoint, Coventry  WellPoint rose 89 cents, or 1.6 percent, to $56.64 in New
York Stock Exchange composite trading at 4 p.m. Coventry fell 7
cents, or less than 1 percent, to $21.34.  Kristin Binns , a WellPoint spokeswoman, and  Drew Asher ,
Coventry’s senior vice president for corporate finance, didn’t
return messages seeking comment.  For insurers, the most important issue yet to be decided is
how to treat federal payroll and income taxes paid by the
companies, Gupte said. If taxes are subtracted from premiums, as
insurers want, the six biggest for-profit plans would rebate
$859 million next year, she estimated in an Aug. 31 note to
clients. Including taxes, as some lawmakers demanded in August,
would raise the potential giveback to $1.12 billion.  Uncertain Decisions  The uncertainty has left insurers to set rates, negotiate
broker commissions and craft budgets without knowing their
ultimate costs, Gupte said. Most publicly traded plans have
chosen simply to price according to their expected medical costs
and desired profit, even if it means risking a bigger rebate in
2011, she said.  A  subcommittee  of the Kansas City, Missouri-based
commissioners’ group initially sided with industry on the tax
question. The controversy prompted the association to withdraw
the ruling and leave the decision to its 17-member executive
committee. The panel hopes to issue final recommendations for
the medical-loss ratio at its  national meeting  in Orlando,
Florida, starting Oct. 18, said Cline, West Virginia’s insurance
commissioner.  The deliberations have been necessary to sort through
questions over what spending may be considered medical care and
how quickly the regulation can be imposed without driving
insurers from the market, Cline said in a Sept. 17 interview.  ‘Spirit of the Law’  “I have had more input from consumer groups, interest
groups and the industry on the subject of medical-loss ratios
than I have on any other subject in my 10-year tenure,” Cline
said. “Ultimately, we’ll have to make the best determination
that fits with the spirit of the law.”  Even after the group makes its decision, the law gives the
final say to Obama’s Health and Human Services Department. Cline
declined to predict how closely the agency would follow her
group’s advice. She also declined to give her position on the
tax issue.  The legislation says the medical ratio should be calculated
“excluding federal and state taxes.” In an Aug. 10 letter, the
Democratic chairmen of six congressional committees said they
meant the law to omit only the insurance taxes created under the
bill, not payroll or income levies.  America’s Health Insurance Plans , the industry trade group,
responded with its legal interpretation, citing the law’s
“plain, unambiguous language” for subtracting “the broad
array of taxes and fees.”  Legal Fight  If insurers lose the argument, they may sue, blocking a key
provision of Democrats’ overhaul, said Peter Harbage, a
Sacramento, California-based health-policy consultant to unions,
foundations and county governments.  “There’s a pretty good chance that any part of this could
end up in court,” Harbage, a former adviser to  John Edwards ,
who was a Democratic presidential candidate and senator from
North Carolina. “There’s so much money at stake. I think the
insurance industry is likely to use every approach possible to
try to make sure they’re getting the best deal possible.”  Federal officials have the power to waive rebates in
specific states and sectors of the industry “if the market
would be destabilized,” said  Kathleen Sebelius , the Health and
Human Services secretary, in a Sept. 20 forum in Washington
sponsored by National Journal magazine.  Sebelius Comments  That determination will be “step two in the process,” she
said. For now, the agency has asked commissioners to wrap up
their work so “the market will know what’s in and what’s out”
of the ratio, she said.  The comments should be “a positive catalyst” for
insurers, showing the Obama administration is willing to work
with them, said  Thomas A. Carroll , a Stifel Nicolaus & Co.
analyst in Baltimore. The medical-spending uncertainty has
bothered investors more than insurers, who consider the
regulation manageable, he said by telephone.  The rule will impose the biggest costs on insurers focused
on selling to individuals or small employers and those with
higher administrative expenses or profit margins, Gupte said.  WellPoint  would pay rebates as high as $341 million next
year if it can’t exclude taxes and trim its projected earnings
by 8.5 percent a share, she said.  Coventry  may rebate as much as
$52 million, cutting earnings 10.9 percent, she said.  Overall, Gupte said the regulation is likely to shave
earnings by 5 percent to 6.4 percent a share next year for the
top six plans: WellPoint; Coventry;  UnitedHealth Group Inc.  of
Minnetonka, Minnesota;  Aetna Inc.  of Hartford, Connecticut;
 Humana Inc.  of Louisville, Kentucky and  Cigna Corp.  of
Philadelphia.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alex Nussbaum  in New York 
 anussbaum1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   Rgale5@bloomberg.net  