-- Education Secretary Duncan to Campaign for Democrats in Illinois, Colorado
-- B y   T r a c i   M c M i l l a n
-- 2010-09-22T17:36:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-22/education-secretary-duncan-to-campaign-for-democrats-in-illinois-colorado.html
U.S. Education Secretary  Arne Duncan  said he will campaign for Democratic candidates including
 Alexi Giannoulias  in Illinois, Senator  Michael Bennet  in
Colorado and Representative  Tom Perriello  in Virginia.  Candidates who “want folks voting on their education
record” will get support, Duncan said today at a breakfast with
reporters in Washington. He said campaigning set for next month
won’t politicize education.  Duncan, the former chief executive officer of the Chicago
Public Schools, has sought bipartisan support for his education
overhaul. He was joined last year by former Republican House
Speaker  Newt Gingrich  and the Reverend  Al Sharpton  in a three-
city tour to advance education reform.  Giannoulias, seeking to fill the Senate seat previously
held by Barack Obama, also has had fundraising help from Vice
President  Joe Biden  and  David Plouffe , Obama’s presidential
campaign manager.  Duncan said he will continue seeking support for
legislation letting children of illegal immigrants earn
citizenship after spending two years in college or the military.
Senate Democrats were thwarted yesterday in a bid to pass
legislation that included the provision. U.S. lawmakers are
“not in the right place on this one,” Duncan said.  A third round of funding for the “Race to the Top” state
competition, which seeks to push states to raise standards for
public schools, should expand to provide money to local
districts as well as states, Duncan said.  Local Decisions  “Every community should decide at the local level” what
to do with the grants, Duncan said. “Washington is not going to
prescribe” a solution as the government did in “No Child Left
Behind,” the plan adopted during President  George W. Bush’s 
administration, he said.  The Obama program encourages states to assign talented
teachers and principals to the worst schools to raise student
achievement, and is backed by $100 billion in federal stimulus
money. Duncan said he would like to make new awards early next
year. The department also has pushed for funds to support higher
education, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Traci McMillan in Washington at 
 tmcmillan1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joe Winski in Washington at 
 jwinski@bloomberg.net  