-- Edwards' Valve Win Means First Therapy for Frail Heart Patients
-- B y   D a v i d   O l m o s   a n d   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 2010-09-23T20:22:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-22/edwards-heart-valve-extended-life-while-increasing-risk-of-stroke-in-study.html
Edwards Lifesciences Corp. ’s Sapien
heart valve may become the first life-saving treatment in the
U.S. for frail, elderly patients with diseased valves after a
study found it slashed deaths in those with few medical options.  Edwards rose $7.89, or 13 percent, to $67.59 at 4 p.m. in
New York Stock Exchange trading, in the biggest single-day
increase since July 2002. The company’s  shares  have doubled in
the past 12 months as investors anticipated yesterday’s study
results.  Edwards, based in Irvine, California, will use this
research and additional tests in healthier patients to seek FDA
approval of the $30,000 valve next year. If Sapien is safer and
works as well as alternatives in a broader group of patients,
Edwards may double sales to $2.8 billion in five years, analysts
 surveyed  by Bloomberg projected.  “The overall data is stronger than we expected,”  Jason Mills , an analyst with Canaccord Adams Inc. in San Francisco,
said in a telephone interview. “This moves the ball down the
field with respect to this technology.”  The death rate from any cause was 20 percentage points
lower for patients who received Sapien, implanted without open-
heart surgery, than for those who got traditional therapy
designed to ease symptoms, the study published yesterday found.
The results bode well for U.S. Food and Drug Administration
clearance and widespread acceptance of the device,  Larry Biegelsen , a Wells Fargo Securities analyst in New York, said in
note to clients.  Study Results  The Sapien valve kept 69 percent of the sickest patients
with damaged aortic valves alive after a year, compared with 49
percent who received standard care with blood-pressure pills and
an older procedure that snakes a tiny balloon into the valve and
inflates it to improve circulation. The study, published online
in the  New England Journal of Medicine , will be presented today
at the  Transcatheter Cardiovascular Therapeutics  in Washington.  “You only need to treat five patients to save a life,”
said  Martin Leon , the lead researcher, who is a cardiologist at
Columbia University Medical Center and New York-Presbyterian
Hospital in New York. The device should become the new standard
of care for patients who can’t withstand traditional open-heart
surgery, Leon and his colleagues concluded.  The procedure wasn’t free of risks. Patients getting the
valve also were significantly more likely to experience a stroke
or serious vascular complication, the study found. After 30
days, 5 percent of patients who received the Edwards valve had
strokes, compared with 1.1 percent on standard therapy.  ‘Potential Risk’  “It is absolutely a promising therapy, but it should be
deployed in patients who are reasonable candidates and who truly
understand the potential risk,” said  Clyde Yancy , president of
the American Heart Association and medical director of the
Baylor Heart & Vascular Institute in Dallas. “This is medicine
that’s being practiced right on the edge. Patients need to be
aware of the situation.”  The valve, made partly from cow tissue, is inserted into
an artery in the groin, and threaded using a thin wire into the
heart. It’s designed to help patients who may be too frail to
undergo  surgery  in which doctors cut open the chest, spread the
ribs and temporarily stop the heart. It may also give a less
invasive option with speedier recovery to healthier patients.  Results from the trial, called Partner, are one of two key
pieces of information Edwards needs to win U.S. approval for
 Sapien . Data from a second group in the study who were healthy
enough for open-heart surgery will be released in the first half
of 2011.  Aortic Stenosis  Participants in the Partner trial suffered from narrowing
of the heart’s aortic valve, or  aortic stenosis , a condition
affecting about 200,000 people in the U.S. Patients often
experience fatigue and dizziness. Study patients had advanced
cases of the disease and were too sick to undergo traditional
surgery. About half of people with advanced cases will die in
the first two years after symptoms appear, according to the
study’s authors.  “Our experience with the valve has been quite favorable,
even dramatic,” said  William Fearon , a cardiologist at Stanford
University Medical Center near Palo Alto, California. “I’ve
seen patients before surgery who could barely get from the
waiting room to the exam table without getting short of breath.
I’d see them a month later and they could walk down the hallway
without any shortness of breath.”  Edwards and Minneapolis-based  Medtronic Inc.  sell the less-
invasive devices, known as transcatheter valves, in Europe.
Medtronic is reviewing the final design of its U.S. trial for
its device with the FDA, said  Kathleen Janasz , a company
spokeswoman.  Fewer Deaths  After a year, Sapien had 54 percent fewer deaths and
hospitalizations than the traditional treatment, in a combined
measurement that was a second main goal of the study.  Leon said strokes that happened in the first month after
surgery were more likely tied to the device than those that
occurred later in the study.  “In the face of a huge mortality benefit, the magnitude of
these upfront risks is smaller,” said  Laura Mauri , a
cardiologist at Brigham & Women’s Hospital and Harvard Medical
School in Boston, who wasn’t involved in the Sapien study.
“It’s not a simple procedure. Over time, we expect these
devices to become even safer.”  Several of the researchers reported receiving an
undisclosed amount of speaking, consulting and other fees from
Edwards, which funded the research. Leon, the lead researcher,
was a founder of Percutaneous Valve Technologies, which
developed the Sapien valve. Edwards bought the venture, in 2003,
for $125 million.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 David Olmos  in San Francisco at 
 dolmos@bloomberg.net ;
 Michelle Fay Cortez  in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 Rgale5@bloomberg.net  