-- Egg Producer in Salmonella Scare Passed FDA Inspection in May, Owner Says
-- B y   J e f f r e y   Y o u n g   a n d   M o l l y   P e t e r s o n
-- 2010-09-22T21:15:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-22/egg-producer-in-salmonella-scare-passed-fda-inspection-in-may-owner-says.html
An Iowa producer of eggs linked to
a salmonella outbreak that sickened more than 1,600 people said
chicken feed ingredients from an outside supplier were the
likely source of the contamination.  Wright County Egg is “terribly sorry” its eggs may have
made people sick, and has made “sweeping biosecurity changes”
to prevent future contamination, Peter DeCoster, the closely
held company’s chief operating officer, said today at a House
Energy and Commerce subcommittee hearing.  Wright, based in Galt, Iowa, recalled 380 million eggs last
month. Another 170 million eggs were pulled from the market by
Hillandale Farms of Iowa, based in New Hampton. The  Centers for
Disease Control and Prevention  has said 1,608 illnesses reported
since May 1 may be linked to the eggs.  “We view the most likely root cause of contamination to be
meat and bone meal that was an ingredient in our feed,”
DeCoster told the panel. A May inspection by regulators didn’t
reveal deficiencies at Wright’s chicken feed mill, he said.  Rodents and improperly handled manure were among the health
violations found by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration at
both farms last month. House investigators found evidence of
salmonella problems at Wright County Egg dating to 2008,
lawmakers said Sept. 15.  No Decision  The FDA hasn’t concluded that chicken feed was the source
of the contamination,  Joshua Sharfstein , the agency’s principal
deputy commissioner, told lawmakers today.  “We’re not ruling anything out and we’re continuing to
look,” Sharfstein said after the hearing, when asked by
reporters whether the FDA had identified a source.  Pointing to a feed-ingredient supplier as a possible source
of the contamination is “refusing to take responsibility,”
Representative  Henry Waxman , the Democrat who chairs the Energy
and Commerce Committee, said today at the hearing. Wright County
Egg has operated with “a shocking level of disregard for basic
food safety controls,” he said.  Documents obtained by Congress show the Wright farm was
contaminated with traces of salmonella for at least two years,
said Representative  Bart Stupak  of Michigan, a Democrat who
heads the panel’s oversight subcommittee. About 426
environmental samples collected at the facility since 2008
tested positive for the bacteria, and 73 of them were
“potentially positive” for the strain identified in the
outbreak, Stupak said.  Egg Testing  Positive environmental samples for salmonella didn’t prompt
Wright to test eggs for the bacteria, DeCoster said.  “Experts advised that egg testing is a poor indicator of
the presence” of salmonella, he said. “Our perception was that
egg test results always would be negative.”  Wright now follows  regulations  imposed by the FDA in July
that requires testing of eggs after an environmental test finds
salmonella, DeCoster said.  Orland Bethel, president of Hillandale Farms of Iowa,
declined to answer lawmakers’ questions about the contamination
of eggs at his facility, invoking his Fifth Amendment right to
protect himself from self-incrimination.  Another Hillandale official told lawmakers the recall has
forced the company to “take a hard look” at its operations.  “It is too bad that this occurred and we do feel sorry for
any inconvenience and cost that it has caused the industry,”
Duane Mangskau, a production representative of closely held
Hillandale, said at today’s hearing. “Even if the source of the
salmonella illness is never confirmed, where we have fallen
short in Iowa we are committed to improving our operations.”  Austin “Jack” DeCoster, the owner of Wright County Egg,
said the company was “horrified” to learn of the outbreak.  “We apologize to everyone who may have been sickened by
eating our eggs,” Austin DeCoster, who is Peter DeCoster’s
father, told the panel. “I have prayed several times each day
for all of these people for improved health.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jeffrey Young  in Washington at 
 jyoung89@bloomberg.net ;
 Molly Peterson  in Washington at 
 mpeterson9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net  