-- Egyptian Legal Panel Proposes Talaat Moustafa Group to Keep Madinaty Land
-- B y   A b d e l   L a t i f   W a h b a   a n d   A l a a   S h a h i n e
-- 2010-09-22T15:20:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-22/egyptian-legal-panel-proposes-talaat-moustafa-group-to-keep-madinaty-land.html
Talaat Moustafa Group Holding 
should keep land on the outskirts of Cairo so the real estate
developer can finish building housing units on the 33 million-
square-meter site, a government-appointed legal committee
recommended.  The proposal would reverse an earlier court ruling that
annulled the government sale of the land due to irregularities,
cabinet spokesman  Magdy Rady  told a news conference in Cairo
today.  The committee recommended that the government revoke its
existing sales contract with Talaat Moustafa before reallocating
it to the same company, invoking a law that allows the
authorities to assign land by a direct order to protect the
“public interest,” the cabinet said in a statement distributed
to reporters.  Talaat Moustafa is Egypt’s biggest publicly traded real
estate developer and the Madinaty development is its biggest
project. The project is designed to accommodate 600,000 people
in 120,000 housing units. A court ruling to annul the sale,
upheld on Sept. 14, prompted foreign investors to sell off
Egyptian real estate stocks because of concern that developers
will be forced to pay more for land they already own.  Shares of Talaat Moustafa were little changed at 6.96
Egyptian pounds at the 2:30 p.m. close in Cairo today, valuing
the company at 14 billion Egyptian pounds ($2.45 billion),
according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg. The government
announcement came after the close of the market.  Advanced Stage  The committee said the size and progress of the project
merits keeping the land with Talaat Moustafa, given that the
company has already developed a “big part of the project, with
infrastructure that includes buildings and services,” according
to the cabinet statement.  The committee said that the state-run New Urban Communities
Authority, which sold the land, should discuss the appropriate
price of the land with the ministries of finance and housing
before reassigning it to the company.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Abdel Latif Wahba  in Cairo at 
 alatifwahba@bloomberg.net ;
 Alaa Shahine  in Cairo at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at  phirschberg@bloomberg.net  