-- Lehman to File New Reorganization Plan, Says It's Cooperating With Probes
-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r   a n d   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 2010-09-22T16:35:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-22/lehman-to-file-new-reorganization-plan-in-4th-quarter-update1-.html
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.  plans
to file a new reorganization plan in bankruptcy court by the
fourth quarter and aims to win court approval by March 2011,
according to a regulatory filing.  The defunct New York-based securities firm said it aims to
cut creditor claims to between $250 billion and $350 billion,
down from a total of $1.2 trillion earlier. Its filing was made
today with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. Only
after winning approval of its plan can Lehman start to pay
creditors, it has said.  The “biggest obstacle” to getting a plan approved has
been dealing with foreign affiliates that are in their own
insolvency proceedings, Chief Executive Officer  Bryan Marsal 
told U.S. Bankruptcy Judge  James Peck  in Manhattan today. “I
think our patience is paying off,” he said. Marsal originally
hoped for plan approval by this month, he told Peck.  The former investment bank, which is liquidating over five
years, provided a progress report in court to Peck, two years
after filing the biggest bankruptcy in U.S. history.  Lehman is cooperating with “various government
investigations” that started before and after the March
publication of examiner  Anton Valukas ’s report on causes of the
bankruptcy, according to the filing. No details were given.  Fees  Marsal, whose restructuring firm Alvarez & Marsal LLC has
been paid $342.4 million in fees for “interim management”
through August, told Peck that Lehman is pursuing “an
aggressive asset recovery strategy” and has taken
“unorthodox” steps in managing its real-estate assets.  Lehman and its affiliates now have $21 billion in cash and
liquid investments, according to the filing. Lehman has a
monthly payroll of as much as $45 million for managers and
advisers including Marsal, while real estate and other
investments it considers illiquid are being managed by 400
employees under a five-year plan. The company also is spending
tens of millions of dollars on litigation that may stretch to at
least 2012.  After Marsal’s report to Peck, the judge approved Lehman’s
plan to spend a total of $1.6 billion bailing out its two banks,
Woodlands Commercial Bank in Salt Lake City and Aurora Bank FSB
in Wilmington, Delaware, which it plans to sell or close. Lehman
has said the rescue will save creditors $3 billion.  Douglas Lambert , a managing director at Alvarez & Marsal,
said at the hearing that Lehman will “most likely” close the
Utah bank and sell the Delaware bank.  Liquidation Cost  The cost to liquidate Lehman may reach $1 billion by the
end of the month, based on the monthly payroll. Lehman paid its
advisers $44.6 million in fees in August, bringing the total to
$961.3 million since its bankruptcy, according to a court
filing.  Weil, Gotshal & Manges LLP  of New York, the investment
bank’s lead bankruptcy law firm, collected $220.9 million
through Aug. 31.  Lehman has said it might be able to pay unsecured creditors
about 15 cents to 44 cents on the dollar.  Creditors include Goldman Sachs Group Inc.,  UBS AG , the New
York Giants football club and Abu Dhabi Investment Authority, as
well as individuals who hold Lehman bonds.  The case is In re Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., 08-13555,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Linda Sandler  in New York at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net ;
 David McLaughlin  in New York at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 