-- Lehman, Thompson, Abitibi, Tribune: Bankruptcy
-- B y   B i l l   R o c h e l l e
-- 2010-09-22T13:10:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-22/lehman-abitibi-ultimate-escapes-sea-island-bankruptcy.html
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.  filed
a motion this week for approval of a settlement of a complex
credit-default swap involving Societe General, New York Branch,
that will bring in at least $445 million.  Lehman entered into the swap in October 2006 to protect
itself from losses on mortgage-related securities. The swap was
written with Libra CDO Ltd. and MKP Vela CBO Ltd. Societe
Generale in substance backstopped Libra’s and Vela’s ability to
make good to Lehman if there was liability on the swap.  The settlement, to be approved at an Oct. 20 hearing, will
produce $445 million for Lehman and offer the potential to
recover $72 million more. In addition, Lehman says the
settlement improves its ability to recover eventually $128
million in collateral.  Lehman also filed papers this week dropping the motion it
filed in late June for authority to sell debt it holds against
the Heritage Fields master planned community in Irvine,
California. The debt would have been purchased for $125 million
by a hedge fund called Silver Lake Credit Fund LP, an affiliate
of State Street Corp.  Lehman didn’t give any reason for dropping the proposed
sale. Lehman was among the lenders that made loans to the 3,723-
acre Heritage Fields project. Had the sale gone through, Lehman
would have received additional contingent payments from the
project.  A group of creditors including Paulson & Co. is objecting
to Lehman’s proposal for investing another $1 billion in its two
non-bankrupt bank subsidiaries, Aurora Bank FSB and Woodlands
Commercial Bank. A hearing on the bank bailout will be held
today. To read Bloomberg coverage, click here.  The Lehman holding company and its non-brokerage
subsidiaries filed a revised Chapter 11 plan and disclosure
statement in April. For details, click here and here for the
April 15 and 16 Bloomberg bankruptcy reports. The Lehman holding
company filed under Chapter 11 in New York on Sept. 15, 2008,
and sold office buildings and the North American investment-
banking business to London-based  Barclays Plc  one week later.  The Lehman brokerage operations went into liquidation on
Sept. 19, 2008, in the same court. The brokerage is in the
control of a trustee appointed under the Securities Investor
Protection Act.  The Lehman holding company Chapter 11 case is In re Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc., 08-13555, while the liquidation
proceeding under the Securities Investor Protection Act for the
brokerage operation is Securities Investor Protection Corp. v.
Lehman Brothers Inc., 08-01420, both in U.S. Bankruptcy Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  New Filings  Thompson Publishing Files for Sale to Senior Lenders  Thompson Publishing Holding Co., a publisher of newsletters
and loose-leaf services on regulatory issues, filed under
Chapter 11 yesterday intending to sell the business through a
so-called credit bid to first-lien lenders unless a better offer
turns up at auction.  Thompson, based in Washington, has 300 products and 70,000
subscribers. The content is written by third parties. Revenue of
$56.7 million in 2009 is anticipated by the company to decline
to $49 million this year.  Debt includes $122.6 million owing on first-lien debt where
PNC Bank NA serves as agent. Second-lien creditors, owed $43.5
million, have Ableco Finance LLC as their agent. The second lien
went into payment default in February and the debt was
accelerated.  The first-lien creditors are providing $3 million in
secured financing for the Chapter 11 effort. On an interim
basis, $750,000 would be available before final approval of the
financing.  Thompson blamed the filing partly on the “relative lack of
new regulation in recent years.” The implosion in the financial
industry also resulted in a loss of customers.  Before bankruptcy, Thompson sought a buyer and received
seven letters of intent. The company and the lenders concluded
that the offers didn’t represent what Thompson called “fair
value.”  Thompson filed a motion asking the bankruptcy judge to
schedule an auction. The first bid will come from the first-lien
lenders, who are under contract to buy the business in exchange
for $42 million in secured debt. The buyer will assume
liabilities on subscriptions and obligations to employees.  The motion for an auction doesn’t include suggested dates
for bids, the auction and the sale-approval hearing.  Thompson, which is controlled by Avista Capital Partners
LP, generated 74 percent of income from subscription. The
company also arranges conferences and employee training events.  The case is In re Thompson Publishing Holding Co., 10-
13070, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  CryptoMetrics Files for Credit-Bid Sale to Insiders  CryptoMetrics Inc., a developer of biometric security
products, filed for Chapter 11 protection on Sept. 17 in its
hometown of San Antonio. The company previously had offices in
Tuckahoe, New York.  The company, whose Canadian operating subsidiary is already
in bankruptcy, intends to sell the assets in exchange for debt
to the secured lender owed $10.5 million. The debt was purchased
by company insiders who would end up owning the assets if the
sale is approved.  The buyer would also pay $150,000 cash, which the company
intends to use in filing lawsuits.  The company filed a proposed Chapter 11 plan and disclosure
statement. The disclosure statement doesn’t tell creditors how
much they can expect to recover. The plan would distribute
assets in accordance with the priorities in bankruptcy law.  CryptoMetrics, under former management, raised $60 million
in debt and equity from investors between 2002 and 2008,
according to court papers. The filing says that “significant
sums of money” were “wasted and perhaps subsidized illegal
activities.”  The case is In re CryptoMetrics Inc., 10-53622, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Western District of Texas (San Antonio).  Updates  Judge Telegraphs How to Resolve Tribune Conflict Motion  The bankruptcy judge for  Tribune Co.  may have already
effectively ruled on a motion that will be heard this afternoon
where Aurelius Capital Management LP is seeking to disqualify
 Chadbourne & Parke LLP , primary counsel for the newspaper
publisher’s official creditors’ committee.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Kevin J. Carey signed an order
yesterday directing the parties and the U.S. Trustee to meet,
confer and decide on a “delineation of responsibilities”
between Chadbourne and the committee’s so-called conflicts
counsel.  Aurelius, which called itself the largest holder of bonds
predating the 2007 leveraged buyout, sought to remove Chadbourne
based on what it called “corrupt and conflicted individuals
managing the debtors’ affairs” and “conflict-ridden counsel
advising the committee.” Aurelius contends that Chadbourne
currently represent “numerous” lenders, agents and other
parties involved in the 2007 leveraged buyout that is the
subject of the mediation beginning Sept. 26 with regard to the
reorganization plan.  Aurelius filed a separate motion asking Cary to appoint a
Chapter 11 trustee. For other Bloomberg coverage, click here.  Many of the allegations in Aurelius’s motions are redacted,
because the underlying information was obtained under
confidentiality agreements.  Now that Tribune’s exclusive right to propose a plan has
expired after more than 18 months in Chapter 11, Oaktree Capital
Management LP and Angelo Gordon & Co. filed a creditors’ plan on
Sept. 17 which the company itself said might form the basis for
a reorganization should mediation fail. For details of the
creditors’ plan, click here for the Sept. 20 Bloomberg
bankruptcy report.  Tribune withdrew its own Chapter 11 plan in August in the
wake of the report by examiner Kenneth N. Klee, who concluded
that there was some likelihood that the second phase of the
leveraged buyout in December 2007 could be attacked successfully
as a constructively fraudulent transfer. Klee found less
likelihood that the first phase of the transaction, in May 2007,
could be unraveled as a fraudulent transfer. For a summary of
some of the examiner’s conclusions, click here for the July 27
Bloomberg bankruptcy report.  Tribune’s plan would have forced a settlement of the LBO
claims on terms that some creditors opposed. For details of the
withdrawn plan, the proposed settlement and the parties’
arguments, click here for the April 13 Bloomberg bankruptcy
report.  The Oaktree-Angelo Gordon plan would allow the operating
companies to emerge from Chapter 11 while litigation continues
attacking the second part of the LBO representing $2.1 billion
in claims. The creditors’ plan wouldn’t allow an attack on the
first part of the LBO, which was responsible for $6.6 billion in
claims.  The $13.7 billion leveraged buyout in 2007 was led by Sam
Zell.  Tribune is the second-largest newspaper publisher in the
U.S. It listed $13 billion in debt for borrowed money and assets
of $7.6 billion in the Chapter 11 reorganization begun in
December 2008. The company owns the Chicago Tribune, Los Angeles
Times, six other newspapers and 23 television stations.  The case is In re Tribune Co., 08-13141, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  AbitibiBowater Creditors Accept Plan Except for BCFC  AbitibiBowater Inc. , the largest newsprint maker in North
America, reported yesterday that all classes of creditors on the
U.S. side of the reorganization voted in favor of the plan,
except the class covering Bowater Canada Finance Corp.  On the Canadian side, the result was the same. All classes
accepted except BCFC.  The company issued a statement yesterday saying it doesn’t
expect voting results to slow down the U.S. plan confirmation
hearing to begin Sept. 24. BCFC will be excluded from the
confirmation process, the statement said. BCFC has no operating
assets.  Aurelius Capital Management LP and Contrarian Capital
Management LLC, two BCFC noteholders, have been arguing that
BCFC has a contribution claim against Bowater under a provision
of the Nova Scotia Companies Act. The noteholders contend the
companies’ managers have been derelict in their duties by not
ascribing more value to the contribution claim and thereby
enhancing recoveries by creditors of BCFC.  For details of Abitibi’s plan and disclosure statement,
click here to read the July 29 Bloomberg bankruptcy report.  The company was formed in October 2007 through a merger
between Montreal-based Abitibi-Consolidated Inc. and Greenville,
South Carolina-based Bowater Inc. Abitibi is a producer of
newsprint, uncoated mechanical paper and lumber. Bowater also
makes newsprint along with papers, bleached kraft pulp and
lumber.  The Montreal-based company began reorganizing with 24 pulp
and paper mills plus 30 wood-product plants. Revenue in 2008 was
$6.8 billion. In Chapter 11 petitions filed in April 2009, the
combined AbitibiBowater companies listed assets of $9.9 billion
and debt totaling $8.8 billion as of September 2008.  The case is AbitibiBowater Inc., 09-11296, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  Ultimate Escapes Sues Competitor Club Holdings  Ultimate Escapes Inc. , the destination club operator that
filed for Chapter 11 protection on Sept. 20, started a lawsuit
yesterday against Club Holdings LLC, one of its competitors.  The complaint says that the two companies entered into a
confidentiality agreement in April allowing Club Holdings, based
in Broomfield, Colorado, to investigate the possibility of an
acquisition. The complaint alleges that Club Holdings, operating
as  Quintess , used information obtained through the
confidentiality agreement to solicit about 200 of Ultimate
Escapes’ members.  Ultimate Escapes wants the bankruptcy judge in Delaware to
sign a temporary restraining order halting use of the customer
lists. The company contends contacting customers violates the
confidentiality agreement and the so-called automatic stay
resulting from the Chapter 11 filing.  The complaint also alleges Club Holdings received a
fraudulent transfer. The basis for the allegation isn’t known
because the complaint was redacted to blank out relevant
allegations.  Ultimate Escapes, based in Kissimmee, Florida, intends to
sell the business to secured lender CapitalSource Finance LLC
unless a better offer turns up at auction on Oct. 20. It owns or
leases 119 residences in 45 destinations and has about 1,250
members. The June 30 balance sheet had $189 million in assets
against total liabilities of $222 million.  The case is In re Ultimate Escapes Holdings LLC, 10-12915,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  Sea Island Creditors Say Plan Fatally Defective  Sea Island Co., a resort and real-estate development
company, is proposing a Chapter 11 plan that won’t work, the
creditors’ committee says. Consequently, the committee wants the
bankruptcy judge to withhold approval of the disclosure
statement that comes to court for consideration tomorrow.  The committee says the plan has a fatal defect in the
treatment of unsecured creditors. If an unsecured creditor votes
in favor of the plan, the creditor is put in one class. If the
vote is “no,” the creditor goes into another class, thus
improperly assuring that one class accepts the plan.  An auction for the properties is scheduled to take place on
Oct. 11. A company affiliated with Oaktree Capital Management LP
and Avenue Capital Group is under contract to buy the business
for $197.5 million. The properties are on or near St. Simons
Island and Sea Island, Georgia.  If the so-called stalking horse isn’t outbid, the sale will
be approved when the bankruptcy judge signs a confirmation order
approving the Chapter 11 plan negotiated before the bankruptcy
petition was filed on Aug. 10.  Synovus Bank,  Bank of America Corp.  and Bank of Scotland
are lenders.  The case is In re Sea Island Co., 10-21034, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, Southern District of Georgia (Savannah).  Equipment Renter Neff Confirms Plan for Wayzata Sale  Neff Corp . received approval of the Chapter 11 plan from
the bankruptcy judge at a confirmation hearing yesterday, the
closely held equipment-rental company said in a statement.  Confirmation was facilitated by a settlement improving the
treatment of unsecured creditors. The plan reduces debt by $400
million. Neff, which filed under Chapter 11 in May, said it
plans on emerging “in the next few weeks.”  Wayzata Investment Partners LLC was the winning bidder at
auction under an offer to finance a plan with $73 million in
cash for second-lien creditors owed $299 million. Second-lien
creditors may also participate in an equity-rights offering.  First-lien term loan lenders, owed $87.9 million, can elect
either to be paid in full with interest at the default rate or
to participate in the $181.6 million rights offering. Wayzata is
backstopping the rights offering.  The plan includes a $1.8 million “gift” from the buyer to
holders of senior notes claims. Other unsecured creditors are to
split up a $365,000 cash “gift” from the buyer. Both groups
are predicted to have a recovery of about 5 percent. For details
on the company’s finances and the original plan, click here for
the May 17 Bloomberg bankruptcy report.  Wayzata and  Apollo Capital Management  together have more
than 67 percent of the first-lien debt. Miami-based Neff, with
63 branches in 14 states, listed assets of $299 million and debt
totaling $609 million.  The case is In re Neff Corp., 10-12610, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Watch List  IStar to Begin Negotiating Prepack Next Month  IStar Financial Inc ., a property finance company, will
begin negotiating next month with creditors on a prepackaged
Chapter 11 plan, according to people with knowledge of the
situation. The filing isn’t likely to occur until next year when
debt comes due, they said.  IStar, a real estate investment trust, is also considering
extending the maturities on maturing debt or proposing an
exchange offer, according to two people familiar with the
situation. For Bloomberg coverage, click here.  Standard & Poor’s said in July that IStar has “ample
liquidity” this year. The difficulties arise beginning next
year, with $3 billion of  debt  maturing in 2011 and $3.5 billion
in 2012, S&P said.  IStar sported an investment grade rating from Standard &
Poor’s until October 2008.  IStar listed assets of $10.7 billion and total liabilities
of $8.8 billion on the June 30 balance sheet. Revenue for the
first half was $306.6 million, producing net income of $213.7
million. For the year 2009, the net loss was $811.1 million on
revenue of $893.3 million.  The provisions for loan losses were $109.4 million for the
first six months of this year, compared with $435 million during
the same period last year.  The stock closed yesterday at $3.48, down 53 cents in New
York Stock Exchange composite trading. Three years earlier, the
shares closed at $36.56.  Briefly Noted  Point Blank’s Exclusivity Stretched to October 12  Point Blank Solutions Inc. , a manufacturer of soft body
armor for the military and law enforcement, was granted its
motion and received an extension of the exclusive right to
propose a Chapter 11 plan until Oct. 12.  David Brooks, founder and former chief executive officer,
and Sandra Hatfield, the former chief operating officer, were
convicted this month by a federal jury in Central Islip, New
York, for orchestrating a $185 million fraud.  Point Blank has a plant and head office in Pompano Beach,
Florida, and a second plant in Jacksboro, Tennessee. Revenue in
2009 was more than $153 million. The petition listed assets of
$64 million against debt totaling $68.5 million. Debt included a
$10.5 million secured loan paid off by financing for the Chapter
11 case. Point Blank said it also owes $28.2 million to trade
suppliers.  The case is In re Point Blank Solutions Inc., 10-11255,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  Vultures Looking Elsewhere for Lack of Large Chapter 11s  Restructuring experts said at a conference yesterday that
the lack of large, new Chapter 11s is forcing vulture investors
to find opportunities with smaller companies in financial
distress, mortgage-backed securities and sovereign debt.  For details, click here to read Bloomberg coverage.  Downgrade  Waterford Gaming Downgraded on Lower Casino Revenue  Waterford Gaming LLC, a 50 percent partner in the developer
of the Mohegan Sun casino in Connecticut, was demoted another
notch yesterday to a Caa3 corporate rating by Moody’s Investors
Service.  Moody’s cited lower revenue at the casino. Waterford is
paid a so-called relinquishment fee based on revenue. Moody’s
said there needs to be a “material and sustained” improvement
in revenue for Waterford to be in a position to repay $82
million of senior notes that mature in 2014.  Yesterday’s was the fourth downgrade for Waterford since
May 2008. Waterford’s only material source of cash flow to
service debt ultimately is derived from the casino, Moody’s
previously said.  Moody’s served notice yesterday that it may again downgrade
Mohegan Tribal Gaming Authority, the owner and operator of the
Mohegan Sun casino. Currently, the corporate rating is B3 while
the senior secured debt is B1.  Daily Podcast  Lehman, Mesa Air, Ultimate Escapes, Ashley Stewart: Audio  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.  operating like a hedge fund,
the stock for unsecured creditors of  Mesa Air Group Inc. , new
filings by  Ultimate Escapes Inc.  and  Ashley Stewart  stores, and
an important ruling on disqualification of professionals in
bankruptcy cases are covered in the new bankruptcy podcast on
the Bloomberg terminal and Bloomberglaw.com. To listen, click
here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bill Rochelle  in New York at 
 wrochelle@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 