-- Emanuel Likely to Leave Before November for Chicago Race
-- B y   J u l i a n n a   G o l d m a n   a n d   J o h n   M c C o r m i c k
-- 2010-09-23T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-22/emanuel-likely-to-leave-white-house-before-november-for-chicago-mayor-race.html
With the expected departure of
presidential chief of staff  Rahm Emanuel , leaving before U.S.
national elections to run for mayor of Chicago, President  Barack Obama  can turn to a number of ready replacements.  Among them:  Thomas Donilon , deputy national security
adviser for the president, a former secretary of state’s chief
of staff and a seasoned hand in Democratic Party politics.  Obama is considering Donilon for both chief of staff and
national security adviser, administration officials speaking on
condition of anonymity said. They said his preference may be the
top national security post at the White House should retired
Marine General  James Jones  leave that job. The administration
hasn’t indicated that its top adviser is going.
   Emanuel  is likely to leave the White House before November
congressional elections to run for mayor in his hometown of
Chicago, people familiar with the matter said.  Emanuel, who would be running to replace Mayor  Richard M. Daley , could depart by early October, after Congress leaves for
a recess to campaign, the people said on condition of anonymity.
The White House has announced no plans about Emanuel’s future.  “I am not aware that he’s made any decisions,” said
 Robert Gibbs , the White House press secretary. “The president
is not aware of him making any decisions.” Emanuel, he said,
“is doing this in a process outside of the White House.”  Ready to Move  At the same time, Gibbs said, the White House stands ready
to replace the most powerful official on the president’s staff.  Among those being considered to fill the chief-of-staff
post are  Ron Klain , Vice President  Joseph Biden ’s chief of
staff; White House Counsel  Robert Bauer , and Donilon,” people
familiar with the situation said.  The timing of Emanuel’s departure would allow him to devote
full attention to the Chicago race while still giving the
president time to choose his replacement as the chief gate-
keeper for the Oval Office.  Emanuel, 50, would be the fourth top-level Obama adviser to
leave the White House since July. The administration announced
Sept. 21 that National Economic Council Director  Lawrence Summers  will leave by the end of the year to return to Harvard
University.  Peter Orszag , who was budget director, and  Christina Romer , head of the president’s Council of Economic Advisers,
have already left the administration.  Donilon, 55, has been involved in Democratic politics for
more than three decades. He held a White House post in the
administration of President  Jimmy Carter  and worked on the 1984
and 1988 Democratic presidential campaigns.  Biden Aide  Donilon went to work in 1986 for Biden, who was a senator
from Delaware and became chairman of the Senate Judiciary
Committee in 1987. Donilon joined President  Bill Clinton ’s
administration in 1993 to work at the State Department and
eventually served as Secretary of State  Warren Christopher ’s
chief of staff.  Donilon left government in 1996 to work at the law firm
O’Melveny & Myers before being hired by  Fannie Mae , the nation’s
largest mortgage finance company, in September 1999.  He was executive vice president for law and policy at
Fannie Mae, leaving in 2005 after the its regulator, the Office
of Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight, found Fannie Mae broke
accounting rules and improperly deferred expenses to meet an
earnings target that triggered the maximum bonuses for company
executives.  Donilon joined the Obama administration, where he has
become a trusted and valuable adviser to the president.  Emanuel was the first major appointment announced by Obama
after the 2008 presidential election.  Long Aspiration  Speculation about Emanuel’s plans increased after he said
in an April 19 interview on PBS television’s “ Charlie Rose” show  that running for mayor has long been an aspiration of his,
though he wouldn’t run against Daley. Then Daley announced on
Sept. 7 that he wasn’t seeking re-election.  Nov. 22 is the last day to file nomination papers for the
Feb. 22 Chicago mayoral election. That contest is almost certain
to be followed by an April 5 runoff for the top two vote-
getters, assuming no one gets more than 50 percent support.  A growing list of candidates is exploring bids for the
office following Daley’s announcement that he wouldn’t run for a
seventh term as mayor of America’s third-largest city.  Other potential candidates include  Cook County Sheriff Tom Dart ; State Senator  James Meeks , minister of one of Chicago’s
largest congregations; former city Inspector General  David Hoffman ; Democratic U.S. Representative  Luis Gutierrez,  and
former U.S. Senator  Carol Moseley Braun .  Daley Dynasty  The office has been held by the current Mayor Daley or his
father,  Richard J. Daley , for 43 of the past 55 years.  Emanuel, a Chicago native, owns a  house  in the Lakeview
neighborhood, where he lived while he was a member of Congress
representing a district that includes parts of the city and
adjacent suburban areas. When he and his wife, Amy Rule, moved
their family to Washington, they rented out the 2,719-square-
foot home, the Chicago Tribune  reported .  If he runs, Emanuel is likely to face questions about help
he received from a Daley patronage army to win the congressional
seat in 2002 and conversations he had with former Illinois
Governor  Rod Blagojevich  about who should be picked to fill the
U.S. Senate seat that was vacated by Obama.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Julianna Goldman  in Washington at 
 jgoldman6@bloomberg.net ;
 John McCormick  in Chicago at 
 jmccormick16@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  