-- Emerging-Markets Benchmark Stock Index Climbs to Highest Since July 2008
-- B y   S h i y i n   C h e n   a n d   J a s o n   W e b b
-- 2010-09-22T21:54:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-22/emerging-markets-benchmark-stock-index-climbs-to-highest-since-july-2008.html
Emerging-market stocks rose,
driving the benchmark index to the highest level since July
2008, and currencies gained on speculation the U.S. Federal
Reserve will ease monetary policy further.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index  added 0.4 percent to
1,047.95 by 5 p.m. New York time, the highest level since July
23, 2008. Brazil’s  Bovespa  stock index rose to the highest level
in seven weeks as record credit and consumer confidence boosted
the outlook for property firms. The Czech koruna, Hungarian
forint and Bulgarian lev gained at least 1 percent versus the
dollar. The rand appreciated 0.2 percent after South Africa’s
current-account gap fell to a six-year low.  Treasuries hit an all-time low after the Fed meeting on
speculation the U.S. central bank will purchase additional
government securities in a bid to lower long-term interest
rates, widening the yield differential between the U.S. and
emerging-market countries.  “What we’re seeing is a dollar move, and that is what is
driving the emerging-market currencies,” said  Robert Beange ,
head of emerging-market strategy at RBC Capital Markets in
London. “The Fed marginally edged closer to another round of
quantitative easing,” or large-scale asset purchases, he said.  Current Account  South Africa’s current-account gap, the broadest measure of
the country’s trade with the world, eased to 2.5 percent of
gross domestic product in the second quarter, the central bank
said. The rand has appreciated more than 30 percent versus the
dollar since the start of last year. The key central bank rate
in South Africa is 6 percent versus 0.25 percent in the U.S.  Gold futures climbed to a record after the Fed said it was
willing to ease monetary policy further to boost the U.S.
economy, triggering a slump in the dollar and bolstering the
appeal of commodities as alternative investments.  The forint advanced 1.2 percent against the dollar and 0.2
percent versus the euro. The budget deficit of Hungary, the
European Union’s most indebted eastern member, will be about 2.8
percent of economic output in 2011,  Andras Karman , a state
secretary at the Economy Ministry, told Magyar Nemzet newspaper.
That would be in line with the target of the International
Monetary Fund, which broke off loan talks with Hungary in July
due to disagreement over deficit targets.  The Bombay Stock Exchange’s  Sensitive Index  lost 0.3
percent after yesterday rallying above 20,000 for the first time
since January 2008.  Brazilian stocks gained 0.9 percent, led by homebuilder  MRV
Engenharia & Participacoes SA .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shiyin Chen in Singapore at 
 schen37@bloomberg.net ;
 Jason Webb  in London at 
 jwebb25@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Linus Chua at 
 lchua@bloomberg.net  