-- Lenovo Sees China’s PC Market Growth Slowing After Strong Gains
-- B y   M a u d   v a n   G a a l
-- 2010-09-23T17:07:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-22/lenovo-recently-saw-significant-slowdown-in-china-pc-market-roman-says.html
Lenovo Group Ltd. , China’s biggest
maker of personal computers, says the pace of growth in the
country’s PC market has seen a “significant” drop, after some
strong gains.  “We’ve seen a significant slowdown of growth in China,
although it still very strong,” Chief Marketing Officer  David Roman  said in an interview at the Picnic conference in Amsterdam
yesterday. Growth probably slowed to about 20 percent from about
40 percent in earlier periods, he said. Growth in mature markets
is “good,” he said.  Lenovo, maker of Thinkpad laptops, is trying to expand into
the consumer market for PCs from its traditional place in the
commercial segment. It is diversifying into game consoles and
handsets to boost revenue as the PC market slows.  “There is no doubt that worldwide market growth is smaller
than in the past several quarters, but the market in China has
performed very well over the last several quarters, and built up
a comparatively high base,” he said. “So naturally the
magnitude of growth will be smaller towards the year end. We
believe the China market will show moderate growth and Lenovo
continues to have the right strategy and products to outgrow the
market and extend our lead there.”  In the first quarter, the Chinese PC market grew 38.8
percent followed by a 30.9 percent surge in the second three
months of the year, compared to a year earlier periods,
according to Framingham, Massachusetts based IDC. The market
researcher is predicting growth of 14.8 percent in the third
quarter and 19.2 percent in the fourth, said analyst Liwen Jing.  Consumer Segments  Roman, whose appointment at Lenovo was announced in March
after previously holding marketing positions at  Hewlett-Packard
Co.  and Apple Computer Inc., aims to expand the company’s
presence in consumer segments that it expects growing faster
than the PC market.  “We’re number four in PCs worldwide; Over the next three
to five years we expect to be a major player in terms of
technology overall, which includes mobile devices, cell phones,
slates as well as PCs,” he said.  Lenovo started selling the LePhone smartphone on China’s
domestic market in May, taking on handset rivals including Apple
and  Nokia Oyj .  Lenovo got 98 percent of its 16.6 billion yuan ($2.5
billion) revenue last year from PCs. Less than 1 percent came
from mobile phones.  The Chinese company moved its headquarters to the U.S. after
buying the personal computer business of International Business
Machines Corp. in 2005, and now has headquarters in Raleigh,
North Carolina.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Maud van Gaal  in Amsterdam at 
 mvangaal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at 
 vroot@bloomberg.net  