-- Merkel Winning Most With Investors in Poll on Business Policies
-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   D o d g e
-- 2010-09-22T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-22/merkel-wins-most-with-investors-worldwide-in-poll-on-policies-for-business.html
German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  is
enjoying soaring popularity among investors, who say she has
created a more favorable business climate than the leader of any
other major economy.  Merkel, 56, gets a favorability rating of 70 percent in a
Bloomberg Global Poll as she pushes budget cuts and revenue-
raising initiatives to close a  deficit . That’s a turnaround from
her 49 percent rating in the last quarterly poll in June. She
wins high marks in the European Union and even stronger ratings
in the U.S., according to the poll of 1,408 investors and
analysts who are Bloomberg subscribers.  “Her leadership is keeping her country at the forefront of
European growth,” says poll respondent  John Lee , 52, vice
president and portfolio manager at  Peapack-Gladstone Bank  in
Morristown, New Jersey.  Merkel’s U.K. counterpart, British Prime Minister  David Cameron , 43, who has also pursued budget cuts since taking
office in May, is getting increased backing from investors as
well. The Conservative Party leader gets a favorable rating of
63 percent globally, up from 52 percent in June.  Almost a year after Merkel’s re-election during the
economic crisis, 59 percent of poll respondents say they are
optimistic that her policies are creating a good investment
climate in Germany. That’s followed closely by Chinese President
 Hu Jintao , whose policies are viewed favorably by 58 percent of
those participating in the poll. Cameron’s policies are well
regarded by 50 percent.  Sour on Obama  Respondents are more sour on U.S. President  Barack Obama ,
with a little more than three in 10 saying they are optimistic
about his policies. The policies of French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  and Japanese Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  were each viewed
favorably by 27 percent.  The Bloomberg Global Poll was conducted Sept. 16-17 by
Selzer & Co., a Des Moines, Iowa-based company, and has a margin
of error of plus or minus 2.6 percentage points.  The German economy is leading Europe’s recovery as exports
and investment fuel economic growth. Europe’s biggest economy
expanded 2.2 percent in the second quarter from the previous
three months, more than double the pace of the euro area and the
fastest since the country’s reunification two decades ago. The
benchmark  DAX stock index  has risen more than the European
average, and the yield on the 10-year German bund reached a
 record low  of 2.087 percent on Aug. 31.  Following Merkel  Merkel initially balked at aid for Greece when that country
faced a debt crisis. She then backed a 750 billion euro ($993
billion) support plan by the European Union and International
Monetary Fund to halt the spread of the crisis even though many
German voters opposed it.  She also alienated markets when her government introduced
an overnight ban on some types of naked short-selling. Short
sellers borrow assets and sell them, betting the price will
fall, buying them later and pocketing the difference. In naked
short-selling, traders never borrow the assets, so betting is
unlimited.  Since then, the European Commission recommended bloc-wide
curbs on naked short-selling of stocks and government bonds. And
her commitment to cutting budget deficits has won support from
countries including Spain and France.  ‘True Economic Leadership’  Poll respondent  Jim Schetakis , 56, president and chief
investment officer at Gyrus Investment Management Inc. in
Toronto, praised Merkel for her “very able” handling of the
European debt crisis.  “She was able to hold out and force Greece to commit to
substantial reform when it would have been easier to go along
with her counterparts in the rest of Europe and allow a much
weaker solution,” he says. “Her resolve showed true economic
leadership under difficult conditions while facing an election
at home.”  For all her international profile, Merkel’s support is
flagging at home. Her three-party coalition trails the
opposition in polls. Her plans to extend the running time of
Germany’s 17 nuclear-power plants drew 100,000 protesters to a
Berlin rally on Sept. 18, and her 81.6 billion euro program of
budget cuts and revenue-raising measures has also prompted
criticism.  Behind in Polls  Merkel’s Christian Democratic Union and its CSU Bavarian
sister party had 32.5 percent support in an Allensbach poll
published in the Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung newspaper today.
While that’s up 1.5 percentage points since August, her
coalition with the Free Democrats lags behind the opposition
Social Democrats and their Green party allies by 39 percent to
48 percent. The poll was conducted Sept. 3-16. No margin of
error or poll sample was given.  In the U.S., Merkel wins a favorability rating of 74
percent in the Bloomberg Global Poll and is more popular among
U.S. investors than Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke ,
who gets a favorability rating of 71 percent. In Europe, 71
percent of respondents view her favorably, and in Asia her
approval rating is 60 percent.  “I generally have a positive opinion on European leaders
who’ve enacted austerity measures,” says poll respondent
 Richard McNamara , 26, a capital markets analyst at  SunTrust
Banks Inc.  in Atlanta.  Cameron’s Conservative-led coalition government unveiled an
emergency budget on June 22. It will announce an austerity
program on Oct. 20 that will slash most departments’ budgets by
a quarter to tackle a deficit that reached 11 percent of gross
domestic product in the year through March.  The U.K. leader is viewed favorably by 61 percent of
investors in the U.S. In Europe, seven in 10 respondents hold a
favorable rating of Cameron.  “He seems to be the only one that is halfway serious when
it comes to austerity, which is necessary in order to create a
new opportunity for economic growth,” says poll respondent
 Valentin Schmid , 27, an associate at  BNP Paribas Investment
Partners  in Amsterdam.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Catherine Dodge  in Washington at 
 Cdodge1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  