-- Merkel’s Cabinet Raises Health-Care Premiums to Plug Deficit
-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e
-- 2010-09-22T09:29:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-22/merkel-s-cabinet-raises-health-care-premiums-as-employers-unions-complain.html
German Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s
Cabinet approved an increase in health-care premiums to plug a
hole in the budget, drawing fire from both employers and unions.  Ministers meeting in Berlin today backed a bill to raise
compulsory premiums paid to German public-health insurers to
their pre-crisis level of 15.5 percent of gross monthly pay from
14.9 percent. The aim is to help narrow the gap between payments
and insurance payouts that lawmakers earlier this year said
might amount to 11 billion euros ($14.4 billion) in 2011.  “There is no alternative for the system,” Health Minister
 Philipp Roesler  said today on ARD television. “Because of our
ageing population and the fact that we want technological
progress, it’s not going to become any cheaper.”  Health-care reform, a core pledge of Merkel’s campaign for
re-election, has turned into one of the main points of
contention within her coalition, helping hurt her standing. The
Bundesbank this week questioned the need to raise premiums,
while a business lobby group within Merkel’s own party accused
the government of ducking the “Herculean” overhaul necessary.  The increase in premiums follows a measure introduced
earlier this year to win savings by breaking pharmaceutical
companies’ hold on prices. Plans for a flat-fee health premium
regardless of income, included in the  coalition agreement  signed
in October, were quashed by Merkel’s CSU Bavarian sister party.  Instead, the bill limits a supplemental contribution that
public insurers can charge to 2 percent of wages, with any
amount exceeding that to be paid through public tax revenue.  About 3.5 billion euros of the shortfall next year will be
covered by savings in administrative costs at hospitals, dental
practices, through vaccinations and drug prescriptions.  ‘New Burden’  The  BDA employers’ federation  criticized the increase in
premiums, shared between employers and employees, saying it
“creates a new burden” for small businesses. The  DGB trade
union federation  said capping employers’ premiums at 7.3 percent
shifts the burden of future increases to workers, who must
contribute 8.2 percent. That “breaks with more than 125 years
of reliable, joint responsibility,” the DGB said yesterday in
an e-mailed statement.  Merkel’s government is cutting the  budget deficit  as it
leads other euro-region countries in trying to stem the spread
of Europe’s debt crisis. The economy, Europe’s biggest, grew at
the fastest pace since reunification in the second quarter, and
 unemployment  is approaching a 19-year low.  The economic recovery, with more people in employment
paying contributions to public health insurers, means the
health-care system will probably show a surplus this year, the
Bundesbank said Sept. 20. “From the current perspective it will
hardly be necessary” to push up monthly premiums, it said.  The government “is taking the path of least resistance”
on health-care reform, Wolfgang Steiger, general secretary of a
business lobby group within Merkel’s Christian Democratic Union,
said July 6 when the coalition announced its plans. “The one-
sided financing of health costs via wages has to be stopped.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Patrick Donahue  in Berlin at  at
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  