-- European Union Lawmakers Approve Banking, Securities, Insurance Agencies
-- B y   B e n   M o s h i n s k y
-- 2010-09-22T11:49:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-22/eu-lawmakers-approve-new-supervisors-for-banking-securities-and-insurance.html
European Union lawmakers approved
measures to create pan-EU supervisors for banking, securities
and insurance firms.  The  European Parliament  voted to establish authorities in
London, Paris and Frankfurt that would have the power to mediate
between national supervisors and impose emergency bans of some
transactions, such as naked short sales of shares and government
bonds.  The  European Commission  proposed the new agencies last year
as part of an overhaul of European regulation following the
worst financial crisis since the Great Depression. Today’s vote
in Strasbourg, France, also paves the way for the creation of a
European Systemic Risk Board, chaired by  European Central Bank 
President  Jean-Claude Trichet , to monitor markets and send
warnings to EU nations on economic and financial risk.  “This is a historic, watershed achievement,”  Didier Reynders , the Belgian finance minister, said in a speech in
Strasbourg. “It’s a unique supervisory model.”  Today’s vote was the final stage in the approval process,
allowing the new regulators to begin work at the start of 2011.  Finance ministers from EU member states approved the
package at a meeting in Brussels earlier this month.  Supervisory Model  “Europe will have a supervisory model adapted to its
needs,”  Michel Barnier , the EU’s financial services
commissioner, said in a speech in Strasbourg today. “This is
important for our citizens. They want to see that we’ve reacted
to the crisis and taken the bull by its horns.”  London will host the  European Banking Authority , which will
have the power to impose its decisions directly on financial
firms if the U.K.’s  Financial Services Authority , or any
national regulator, fails to implement its recommendations.  The European Securities and Markets Authority will be based
in Paris and have the power to investigate certain financial
products, such as credit default swaps, and temporarily ban
them. The systemic risk board and European Insurance and
Occupational Pensions Authority will be both based in Frankfurt.  The approval of the agencies gives “reason for hope,”
Sony Kapoor, managing director of policy-advice company Re-
Define, said in an e-mail, “especially if they are given an
increasing set of powers and responsibilities” stemming from
revamped EU financial regulation in the 27-nation EU.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ben Moshinsky  in Brussels at 
 bmoshinsky@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net ; 