-- Europe Industrial Orders Decline More Than Forecast
-- B y   S i m o n e   M e i e r
-- 2010-09-22T09:32:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-22/european-industrial-orders-declined-more-than-economists-forecast-in-july.html
European  industrial orders  declined
more than economists forecast in July, led by a drop in capital
goods such as factory machinery.  Orders  in the 16-nation euro area decreased 2.4 percent
from June, when they rose 2.4 percent, the European Union’s
statistics office in Luxembourg said today.  Economists  had
forecast orders to drop 1.4 percent in July, the median of 17
estimates in a Bloomberg News survey showed. From a year
earlier, July  industrial orders  jumped 11 percent after rising
23 percent in June.  European manufacturers may curb  output  and hiring as a
cooling global economy threatens to undermine exports just as
governments step up spending cuts. The European Commission on
Sept. 13 forecast the region’s recovery would show a more
“moderate” pace in the second half. In the U.S., the world’s
largest economy, industrial output weakened in August.  “The global economic dynamic is already past its peak,”
said  Andreas Scheuerle , an economist at Dekabank in Frankfurt.
“We’ll see some cooling in the second half along with weaker
output growth even if we’re still  far from  a double dip.”  The euro was higher against the dollar after the data,
trading at $1.3310 at 10:02 a.m. in London, up 0.4 percent on
the day.  Transport Equipment  Euro-area orders for capital goods dropped 5.1 percent from
the previous month, today’s report showed. Orders for  durable
consumer goods  fell 3.2 percent and those for intermediate goods
slipped 0.1 percent. Orders excluding heavy transport equipment
such as ships and trains declined 0.6 percent in the month.  “Consumers remain reluctant to splash out on big-ticket
items,” said  Howard Archer , chief European economist at IHS
Global Insight in London. “While the manufacturing sector still
appears to be performing pretty decently, there are mounting
signs that activity peaked in the second quarter and
manufacturers will see softer expansion over the coming
months.”  The  European economy  may expand 0.5 percent in the third
quarter after growing 1 percent in the previous three months,
the Brussels-based commission said last week. Nobel Prize-
winning economist  Joseph Stiglitz  said on Sept. 20 that he sees
only “very limited growth” in Europe.  The euro’s 7.1 percent depreciation against the dollar this
year may help shield exporters from a global slowdown by making
their goods more competitive.  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG , the
world’s largest maker of luxury cars, said on Sept. 9 that sales
increased 13 percent in August.  Mixed Signs  So far, the economy is showing mixed signs of a slowdown.
European  confidence  in the economic outlook improved to the
highest in more than two years in August. Growth in Europe’s
services and manufacturing industries weakened last month and
 unemployment  held at the highest in almost 12 years in July.  “We have now solid ground under our feet,” but “there’s
no reason to shout for victory,” EU Commissioner for Economic
and Monetary Affairs  Olli Rehn  said on Sept. 13 in Brussels.
“Instead we must stay alert and vigilant in the face of the
remaining uncertainties.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Simone Meier  in Zurich at 
 smeier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at   jfraher@bloomberg.net  