-- Ex-Gartmore, GLS Managers Plan Asia Big-Cap Stock Hedge Fund Canning Park
-- B y   N e t t y   I s m a i l
-- 2010-09-22T03:21:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-22/ex-gartmore-gls-managers-plan-asia-large-cap-stock-hedge-fund-on-oct-1.html
Canning Park Capital, founded by
former Gartmore Group Ltd. and GLS Capital UK LLP managers,
plans to start a hedge fund that will trade the equities of
large-capitalization companies in Asia.  The Singapore-based firm, which also has an office in
Sydney, will start the CCP Asian Opportunities Fund on Oct. 1,
said David Thompson, its portfolio manager who previously
managed Gartmore’s European and Asian hedge funds.  Equity hedge funds  were among the strategies that attracted
assets in the second quarter as investors allocated more than
$360 million in new capital to Asian hedge funds, Chicago-based
Hedge Fund Research Inc. said. Asia offers higher returns as
correlations between markets are low relative to other regions,
with Indonesian stocks outperforming China’s by 60 percent this
year a good example of that, Thompson said.  “One of the reasons why we like Asia is the country effect
in the region is very significant,” he said in an interview
today. “They’re a big driver of returns.”  Poor corporate governance, different monetary policies,
listing requirements and regulations contribute to “structural
inefficiencies” in Asia, he said.  The fund, which will start with money from the principals
as well as family and friends, is also getting seed capital from
an Asian pension fund, Thompson said, declining to provide
details about the investor and size of the fund because of a
non-disclosure agreement. The long-short fund, which bets on
rising and falling stocks, will have a capacity of at least $300
million, he said.  Preserving Capital  The fund will focus on liquid stocks with a market value of
at least $500 million in Hong Kong, China, Australia, Singapore,
South Korea and India, he said. It targets annual returns of 15
percent to 20 percent and seeks to change the direction or
holdings in its portfolio quickly to adapt to the volatility in
Asian markets, according to the firm.  It will be a “nimble, trading fund” that can liquidate
positions in a day and will use a maximum leverage, or borrowing,
of only 1.2 times capital, Thompson said. The manager aims to
have 20 to 40 positions in the fund, he said.  “The focus is on preserving capital and only being
aggressive when we feel conditions are right in the market for
stock-picking,” he said. “We have a fundamental view but to
not fall in love with positions or get stuck in them.”  Canning Park has partnered with  Regal Funds Management , a
long-short equity manager in Sydney which sold a 30 percent
stake to a unit of Westpac Group in July, according to the
Singapore-based firm. Canning Park will use Regal’s risk-
management system and back-office support, allowing the
principals to focus on returns, Thompson said.  Background  Thompson, 37, was a senior fund manager at Gartmore
Investment Management’s European hedge fund business. He left
the firm in September last year and set up  Redhill Partners , a
Singapore-based private investment firm with assets in Australia,
Singapore, Mongolia, Hong Kong and China.  Jason Rich, 34, Canning Park’s chief investment officer,
was previously a portfolio manager at London-based GLS Capital,
an emerging markets hedge-fund firm, and subsequently Bennelong
Asset Management, a multistrategy hedge fund firm in Sydney.  James Hyndes , Canning Park’s head of research, also worked
at Gartmore in Singapore before starting Redhill with Thompson.
His earlier stints included research and equity sales positions
at Goldman Sachs Group Inc., Macquarie Group Ltd. and JPMorgan
Chase & Co. in London, Hong Kong and South Korea. Hyndes, 40, is
a co-founder of  Redhill Education Ltd. , a Sydney-based education
company, whose stock rose 20 percent on its first day of trading
on the Australia stock exchange on Sept. 21.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Netty Ismail  in Singapore 
 nismail3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  