-- Texas Selling $1 Billion of Highway Bonds as Build America Yields Slide
-- B y   D a r r e l l   P r e s t o n   a n d   B r e n d a n   A .   M c G r a i l
-- 2010-09-22T04:00:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-22/texas-selling-1-billion-of-highway-bonds-as-build-america-yields-slide.html
Texas,  which may face a budget
deficit of $21 billion a year from now, is set to cut its cost
on a $1 billion highway-bond sale as investors receive about 17
percent less yield than in a previous issue.  The second most-populous U.S. state will have to pay about
1 percentage point above Treasuries in its 30-year taxable Build
America Bond, compared with the 1.2 percentage point above the
same-maturity benchmark when it sold the same type of bond last
year, according to a source with knowledge of the deal. Texas is
selling the general obligations to pay for  road construction  to
alleviate traffic congestion.  Since the August 2009 sale, which comprised mainly Build
Americas, legislative estimates of the state’s deficit for its
next two-year budget cycle have doubled since January. The
forecast cost for the issue declined as the overall market for
Build Americas stayed at 1.8 percentage points over Treasuries.  “This will be priced at slightly lower yields than the
previous sale,” said  Paul Brennan , a senior vice president in
Chicago for Nuveen Asset Management, which holds $73 billion of
municipal securities. “Texas is a strong credit and investors
are comfortable with that.”  Average Build America Bond yields  fell to 5.71 percent
yesterday, from about 6.02 percent at the time of the August
2009 sale, according to a Wells Fargo index. The Texas bonds
from that sale traded at 4.8 percent on Sept. 21.  In the tax-exempt market, yields on top-rated 10-year debt
fell by 1 basis point to 2.66 percent yesterday, according
 Municipal Market Advisors  data. A basis point is 0.01 percentage
point.  Build Americas  The Texas sale comes about three months before the Build
America program, launched last year to stimulate the economy, is
scheduled to expire. Build Americas, which come with a 35
percent interest-rate subsidy from the federal government, are
the fastest-growing part of the $2.8 trillion municipal market.  Issuers have sold $135 billion of them since the program
was launched in early 2009. Legislation introduced by Senate
Finance Committee Chairman Max Baucus would extend the program
for one year with the subsidy reduced to 32 percent.  Texas chose to issue the taxable debt rather than
conventional tax-exempt securities because Build Americas offer
the lowest borrowing cost, said  James Bass , chief financial
officer of the Texas Transportation Department, in an e-mail.  “We are not concerned with the bonds being considered in
an orphaned program, even if Congress does not extend the
program,” said Bass. “We expect considerable savings from the
Build America Bond program.”  The bonds, which are being sold through the Texas
Transportation Commission, have top ratings from Moody’s
Investors Service and Fitch Ratings on the general obligation
debt and AA+, one level lower, from Standard & Poor’s.  Cutting Expenses  State officials have already begun cutting expenses in
anticipation of the deficit, which Texas lawmakers will have to
address starting in January. Governor  Rick Perry  said in an
interview with Bloomberg Television last week that the gap will
be half as much as legislators predict, or about $10 billion to
$11 billion.  Texas’s ability to respond more effectively than other
states to its deficits instills investor confidence, according
to Brennan. He contrasted the Lone Star state with California,
whose budget is almost three months overdue.  “They have a lot more confidence in Texas’s credit,” he
said. “They know budget gaps will be dealt with in a timely
manner. That plays a lot with investor perception.”  Revenue Bonds  Texas benefited from its ratings when it sold $1.5 billion
of Build America Bonds backed by transportation revenue on July
26. The issue, which was top-rated by Moody’s and S&P, included
more than $1.2 billion in Build Americas due in 2030. The bonds
were priced to yield 5.18 percent at sale, or 115 basis points
above  30-year Treasuries . The same securities traded Sept. 16 at
an average yield of 4.59 percent, or 66 basis points above the
benchmark.  The extra yield investors demand for the federally
subsidized debt, compared with benchmark Treasuries, fell 20
basis points in the same period, according to the Wells Fargo
Build America Bond index. The  so-called spread  was 184 basis
points on Sept. 16, down from 204 basis points on the sale date.  Following are descriptions of pending sales of municipal
debt in the U.S.:  NEW MEXICO FINANCE AUTHORITY , created in 1992 to help state
and local governments finance capital projects, plans to sell
$428 million in tax-exempts today, to refinance existing debt.
The bonds, backed by New Mexico Department of Transportation
revenue, are rated Aa1 by Moody’s and AA+ by S&P, both second-
highest. Underwriters led by Morgan Stanley will market the
offering to investors. (Updated Sept. 22)  TENNESSEE STATE SCHOOL BOND AUTHORITY, which helps finance
school construction and student loans, will issue $212 million
in taxable Qualified School Construction Bonds tomorrow. The
bonds are rated Aa2 by Moody’s and AA by Fitch, both third-
highest. Underwriters led by Citigroup Inc. will market the
issue to investors. (Added Sept. 22)  UTAH , the second-fastest growing state by population in the
U.S., plans to sell $1 billion in tax-exempts and Build America
Bonds tomorrow to fund the expansion and renovation of state
highways. The securities, rated highest by Moody’s, Fitch and
S&P, will be marketed by underwriters led by Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. The borrowing will increase the state’s debt by 50 percent,
to $3 billion. In 2009, Utah sold almost $1 billion of tax-
exempt and Build America bonds for highway projects. Utah’s
anticipated 2010 budget deficit is about 20 percent of its
initial projections as revenue was boosted by tourism and
companies such as  Adobe Systems Inc.  and Twitter Inc. (Updated
Sept. 22)  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Darrell Preston  in Dallas at 
 dpreston@bloomberg.net ;
 Brendan A. McGrail  in New York at 
 bmcgrail@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net . 