-- Facebook Has Fixed Gaps in Privacy, Canada Commissioner Stoddart Says
-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 2010-09-22T18:35:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-22/facebook-has-fixed-gaps-in-privacy-canada-commissioner-stoddart-says.html
Facebook Inc., owner of the world’s
largest social-networking website, has made changes sought last
year by Canada’s privacy commissioner in how personal
information is handled.  “It’s been a very long and winding road and last December
we thought maybe they had run off the road,” Commissioner
 Jennifer Stoddart  said in a telephone interview from Ottawa
today. “They got back on track.”  The closely held company, based in Palo Alto, California,
has about 500 million users who post updates about their daily
lives and share pictures with friends. An Internet policy group
at the University of Ottawa’s law school filed a privacy
 complaint  against the company in May 2008.  Stoddart also said in a statement that “our work with
Facebook is not over” and the company should ensure that new
features respect privacy rules. Canada is also investigating new
complaints about the Facebook feature that suggests friends to
new users and buttons that let users tell people they like other
websites, the privacy office said.  “We are confident that we will resolve any outstanding
concerns,” Michael Richter, Facebook’s chief privacy counsel,
said in an e-mailed statement.  Facebook on May 26 introduced new privacy controls and
reduced the amount of user information that is publicly
available. The company said the changes make it easier for users
to determine how their content is shared and prevent their
personal data from going to outside websites.  Stoddart said in August 2009 that the company had agreed to
make changes to how personal information is gathered and used.
At that time, she also said there was “good cooperation,” and
she probably wouldn’t file a lawsuit to obtain the changes she
wanted.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Greg Quinn  in Ottawa at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  