-- Fed’s Inflation Concern Broadens Easing Rationale
-- B y   S c o t t   L a n m a n   a n d   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 2010-09-22T11:43:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-22/fed-s-concern-over-inflation-broadens-rationale-for-more-easing.html
The  Federal Reserve  moved closer to
a second wave of unconventional monetary easing and said for the
first time that too-low inflation, in addition to sluggish
growth, would warrant taking action.  The Federal Open Market Committee’s statement yesterday
that inflation is “somewhat below” levels consistent with its
congressional mandate for stable prices pushed yields on two-
year Treasuries to a record low. The language evoked FOMC
warnings in 2003 of the risk of inflation “becoming undesirably
low” that justified the era’s low-rate policy.  The move by Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke , 56, who was a chief
advocate of the 2003 stance, positions the Fed for expanding a
near-record $2.3 trillion balance sheet as soon as November.
Inflation that’s too low could result in higher real interest
rates and further slow the economy while increasing chances of
deflation, or a broad-based decline in prices, said  Mark Gertler , a  New York  University economist.  “The language on inflation is a pretty clear message that
they’re going to do something” and purchase more securities,
said John Canally, an investment strategist and economist at LPL
Financial Corp., which oversees $276.9 billion in  Boston .  “The question that will be repeatedly asked over the next
six weeks in the markets is, ‘How much are they going to do and
will it work?’” Canally said, referring to the FOMC’s next
meeting Nov. 2-3.  The FOMC said in its statement that it’s “prepared to
provide additional accommodation if needed to support the
economic recovery and to return inflation, over time, to levels
consistent with its mandate.”  Bank of England  In London, the  Bank of England  signaled that policy makers
are moving closer to adding more stimulus to the economy. The
BOE’s Monetary Policy Committee voted 8-1 to keep the benchmark
interest rate at 0.5 percent and the bond-purchase plan at 200
billion pounds ($313 billion).  While  Andrew Sentance  pushed for a fourth month to raise
the rate “gradually,” “most” officials see the central bank’s
current stance as “appropriate,” according to minutes of the
Sept. 9 meeting released by the central bank today.  Dollar Falls  The dollar slid to the lowest in almost five months versus
the euro on speculation the Fed’s willingness to ease monetary
policy further will damp demand for U.S. assets. The dollar
dropped to $1.3356 per euro as of 10:40 a.m. in  London  from
$1.3264 yesterday in New York, after reaching $1.3382, the
weakest since April 27. The greenback fell to 84.6 yen from
85.09 yen.  Gold climbed to a record in London and New York.
Bullion for immediate-delivery rose $4.75, or 0.4 percent,
to $1,291.90 an ounce in London at 10:31 a.m., after earlier
today rising to a record $1,295.  Treasuries rose for a fourth day. The 10-year note yield
dropped 4 basis points to 2.54 percent as of 6:40 a.m. in New
York, according to BGCantor Market Data. The Standard & Poor’s
500 Index slipped 0.3 percent to 1,131.10 at 7:23 a.m. New York
time, retreating from a four-month high.  The Fed yesterday retained its policy, begun last month, of
reinvesting proceeds from the repayment of mortgage debt into
long-term Treasuries. The committee also kept the benchmark
federal funds rate in a range of zero to 0.25 percent, where
it’s been since December 2008, and reiterated that the rate will
stay “exceptionally low” for an “extended period.”  The Fed’s previous statement, from Aug. 10, said the Fed
would “employ its policy tools as necessary to promote economic
recovery and price stability.”  Fed Directive  The statement didn’t say what level of inflation would be
consistent with the Federal Reserve Act’s directive for
“maximum employment, stable prices, and moderate long-term
interest rates.” Fed officials indicated at their June meeting
that they prefer long-run inflation ranging from about 1.7
percent to 2 percent. That’s based on the Commerce Department’s
personal consumption expenditures price index.  The index rose 1.5 percent in the 12 months ended July.
Excluding food and energy costs, it rose 1.4 percent.  “They made it very clear they’re not happy with current
inflation rates,” said  Stephen Stanley , chief economist at
Pierpont Securities LLC in  Stamford ,  Connecticut , and a former
Fed researcher. “That gives an intellectual underpinning as to
why they might do” quantitative easing, or large-scale asset
purchases, he said.  Market-based measures of inflation expectations rose
following the Fed’s announcement. Expectations for inflation in
five years, derived from yields on Treasury Inflation Protected
Securities and nominal Treasuries, rose to 2.54 percent, the
highest in three months, from 2.45 percent on Sept. 20.  Slowing Inflation  Bernanke, as a Fed governor at the August 2003 FOMC
meeting, outlined his concerns about slowing inflation when the
committee adopted the “undesirably low” language and held the
overnight interbank lending rate target at 1 percent.  “Even if we consider actual deflation to be too remote to
worry about, further disinflation poses important risks,”
Bernanke said, according to transcripts released last year.
“Disinflation offsets monetary policy ease already in the
system, and very low inflation may limit the ability of monetary
policy to respond by conventional means to future adverse
shocks.”  Gertler, who’s collaborated on inflation research with
Bernanke, said yesterday that “low inflation doesn’t bother
them if they could keep it exactly where it is. It’s just that
they’re that much closer to the red zone” of deflation.  Avoiding Deflation  Bernanke has researched avoiding deflation before and
during his time at the central bank, “so that likely is
informing some of his actions now,” said Dean Maki, Chief U.S.
Economist at Barclays Capital Inc. in New York and a former Fed
researcher.  From late 2008 through March 2010, Bernanke’s purchases of
mortgage debt and Treasuries helped end the longest downturn
since World War II without securing a recovery strong enough to
reduce joblessness.  “They set the table” for more easing in yesterday’s
statement, said former Fed Governor  Lyle Gramley , now senior
economic adviser with Potomac Research Group in  Washington .
“They need to see enough evidence that the economy is growing
slowly so that the  unemployment rate  will start to move up.”  At the same time, the inflation language “provides for a
basis for the committee acting even if the unemployment rate
didn’t go up,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Lanman in Washington at 
 slanman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  