-- Former Fed Governor Heller Says `Too Little' Inflation Concern Misplaced
-- B y   V i n c e n t   D e l   G i u d i c e   a n d   K a t h l e e n   H a y s
-- 2010-09-22T21:27:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-22/fed-s-concern-over-too-little-u-s-inflation-is-misplaced-heller-says.html
Former Federal Reserve Governor
 Robert Heller  said the central bank’s concern that inflation is
too low is misplaced.  “Gold prices are up, commodity prices are up and the Fed
is concerned about too little inflation,” Heller said today in
an interview on Bloomberg Radio’s “The Hays Advantage” with
 Kathleen Hays . “There’s a lot of inflation, as far as I can
see, in the pipeline.”  The Federal Open Market Committee, the central bank’s
policy-setting panel, yesterday said it’s willing to ease
monetary policy further to spur growth and support prices. The
panel also voted to maintain a benchmark interest rate target of
near zero.  In trading today, the December gold futures contract rose
to a record $1,298 an ounce following the Fed’s decision.  “The Federal Reserve is very much focused on the short-
term, the here and now, the slack in the economy,” said Heller,
who served on the Fed board from 1986 to 1989.  “The Fed is
concerned about too-low inflation. Ninety-nine percent of the
time you hear the Fed being concerned about too-high
inflation.”  Heller said much of the Fed’s focus lies on housing, the
industry that triggered the recession, the deepest economic
contraction since the 1930s.  “The Federal Reserve is looking very much at what is
happening right now in the inflation data,” Heller said.
“About one-third of the consumer price index is dominated by
the  costs of rents , the cost of housing. That is the one sector
in the U.S. economy that is most depressed. We see housing
prices continue to fall because of the overbuilding.”  (In the U.S., hear Bloomberg Radio on satellite radio: Sirius
Channel 130 and XM Channel 129. In New York City, tune to WBBR
1130 on the AM dial.)  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Vincent Del Giudice  in Washington 
 vdelgiudice@bloomberg.net ;
 Kathleen Hays  in New York 
 Khays4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  