-- Filmmaker Spielberg Didn't Infringe `Rear Window' Copyright, Judge Rules
-- B y   D o n   J e f f r e y
-- 2010-09-22T19:32:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-22/film-maker-spielberg-didn-t-infringe-rear-window-copyright-judge-rules.html
“Disturbia,” the 2007 film made
by  Steven Spielberg ’s production company, didn’t infringe the
copyright of  Alfred Hitchcock ’s “Rear Window” or the short
story that the older movie was based on, a New York judge ruled.  “Disturbia” isn’t “substantially similar” to the murder
mystery “Rear Window,” U.S. District Judge  Laura Taylor Swain 
said in a ruling yesterday in federal court in Manhattan.  The Sheldon Abend Revocable Trust, the copyright holder for
the story on which “Rear Window” is based, sued Spielberg,
Dreamworks LLC and  Viacom Inc. ’s Paramount studio, alleging
similarities between the two works.  “The total look and feel of the works is so distinct that
no reasonable trier of fact could find the works substantially
similar within the meaning of copyright law,” Swain said in her
summary judgment ruling.  “Murder From a Fixed Viewpoint” was written in 1942 by
Cornell Woolrich and first appeared in “Dime Detective
Magazine,” according to court papers. Hitchcock’s adaptation
came out in 1954.  In “Rear Window,”  James Stewart  plays an injured
photographer convalescing at home who spies on neighbors in a
New York apartment building and comes to suspect that one of
them murdered a woman. In “Disturbia,” Shia LaBeouf plays a
teenager under house arrest who spies on his neighbors and
suspects one is responsible for the disappearance of several
women.  Clay Townsend, a lawyer for the Abend trust, and Scott
Goldfinger, a lawyer for Spielberg, didn’t return messages for
comment. Abend died in 2003.  A previous “Rear Window” copyright infringement lawsuit,
filed by Abend after Universal Pictures re-released the film in
1983, went to the U.S. Supreme Court. The high court ruled in
1990 that the moviemaker had infringed Abend’s copyright. The
parties entered into a licensing agreement after the ruling.  The case is The Sheldon Abend Revocable Trust v.
Spielberg, 08-07810, U.S. District Court, Southern District of
New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Don Jeffrey  in New York at 
 djeffrey1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net  