-- Jury Selection Starts for Trial of Accused U.S. Embassy Bomber Ghailani
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2010-09-22T16:52:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-22/first-phase-of-u-s-jury-selection-begins-for-accused-u-s-embassy-bomber.html
Several hundred people were
summoned to federal court in Manhattan to fill out
questionnaires for prospective jurors in the trial of  Ahmed Khalfan Ghailani , an accused al-Qaeda terrorist charged in the
1998 bombings of two U.S. embassies in Africa.  U.S. District Judge  Lewis Kaplan , who is presiding over the
case, described the case today to the potential jurors.  “Mr. Ghailani denies the charges,” Kaplan told the
prospective jurors. “He is presumed innocent, and that
presumption stays with him until the government proves him
guilty beyond a reasonable doubt.”  Ghailani, the first detainee from Guantanamo Bay to be
tried in a U.S. civilian court, is accused of helping deliver
bomb components in a truck detonated outside the U.S. embassy in
Dar es Salaam, Tanzania on Aug. 7, 1998. Almost simultaneously,
another bomb went off outside the U.S. embassy in Nairobi,
Kenya. The blasts killed 224 people, including 12 Americans, and
injured at least 5,000.  After the bombing, Ghailani fled from Africa, prosecutors
said. He “remained an active participant in al-Qaeda,” the
U.S. said in court papers. He served as a cook and bodyguard for
 Osama bin Laden  and later as a document forger, they said.  Ghailani was indicted by a federal grand jury in New York
in December 1998 on 286 charges, including conspiring with bin
Laden in a plot to kill and maim U.S. citizens in both bombings.  Guantanamo Prisoner  He was captured in July 2004 in Pakistan and was taken to
the Guantanamo Bay detention camp on Cuba in 2006.  He pleaded not guilty and was transferred to federal court
in New York for trial. He faces as long as life in prison if
convicted.  Kaplan told prospective jurors that he hopes the jury
selected will hear opening arguments by Oct. 4. The panel will
be anonymous and partly sequestered, Kaplan said, kept separate
from other juries in the building and escorted to and from the
courthouse by a U.S. marshal.  “Your privacy can and will be preserved,” Kaplan said.  Potential jurors are from Manhattan, the Bronx,
Westchester, Rockland, Putnam, Orange, Dutchess and Sullivan
counties, which comprise the Southern District of New York.  After being captured, Ghailani was questioned by the
Central Intelligence Agency and later the Department of Defense,
the U.S. said in court papers, much of which are redacted and
remain under seal. His lawyers have said Ghailani was held in
so-called “black sites” by the U.S. and was subjected to
“coercive” tactics, including torture.  The case is U.S. v. Ghailani, 98-cr-1023, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Patricia Hurtado  in New York
at   pathurtado@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net  