-- Food That Kills Doesn’t Have to Be on Your Plate: Ann Woolner
-- B y   A n n   W o o l n e r
-- 2010-09-22T01:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-22/food-that-kills-doesn-t-have-to-be-on-your-plate-ann-woolner.html
Maybe the egg-borne outbreak of
salmonella last month didn’t rattle you, nor the death-inducing
peanut butter last year or the spinach-linked E. coli sickness
in 2006.  But if you are reading this while eating, you might want to
lay down the fork. A new  study  from the Union of Concerned
Scientists and Iowa State University could ruin your appetite.  Hundreds of U.S. inspectors and scientists whose job it is
to check the safety of food say that, within the past year
alone, political or corporate interests interfered with their
work. Unpleasant findings are glossed over, edited out or
changed to make food seem safer than it is, they say.  “Once a member of Congress gets involved the agency does
whatever it can to make the situation go away rather than
address food safety issues,” an unnamed U.S. Department of
Agriculture employee said when answering the survey.  Of the 1,700 people at the department and the Food and Drug
Administration who answered the survey, 507 said they had
personally experienced political interference in their work.  Specifically, 266 said that they had been involved in
situations in which a member of Congress forced the agency to
back off an action intended to protect the public. And 301 said
they had witnessed corporate interests force such a change. (It
isn’t clear whether those two groups overlapped.)  Not only that, but 330 said they had seen businesses
withhold food safety information in situations that harmed the
public health.  Still hungry?  Sense of Urgency  You might think the new survey would inject a sense of
urgency into the Senate, where a food safety  bill  has stalled.
Passed last year in the House with two-thirds in favor, the bill
is treading water in the face of bipartisan support and backing
by consumer and mainstream food industry groups alike. A Senate
committee gave it unanimous approval.  The legislation would require regular inspections of food
processing plants, give the FDA authority to order recalls,
boost the number of inspectors, require companies to
scientifically analyze their products for safety and keep better
records.  Not everyone wants this law. Smaller producers, who say
their food is safer anyway, worry about being strangled by more
regulation. Amendments are possible.  But the bigger industry players, as well as the U.S.
Chamber of Commerce, have been pushing for passage. They like
tighter regulation, in part because spinach growers learned
that, even when they keep their operations in top shape, they
can be shut down while authorities hunt for the culprit,
according to the New York Times.  Blocked by Coburn  The chief Senate critic, the man preventing a vote, is  Tom Coburn , Republican of Oklahoma. He  complains  about the cost and
the law’s inability to correct long-running problems at the
agencies, such as duplication of efforts.  So he objected to Majority Leader  Harry Reid ’s attempt to
put the bill up for a vote with limited debate on a crowded
calendar before the October recess, an objection Reid calls
“unconscionable.”  In the 13 months since the House passed the FDA overhaul,
there have been 85 food recalls, involving products that have
sickened at least 1,850 people,  according  to the Center for
Science in the Public Interest.  We are talking about salad dressings and soup mixes,
alfalfa sprouts and lettuce, to name a few contaminated items.  Food Fatalities  The Centers for Disease Control  estimates  that 76 million
people get sick from food-borne illnesses annually, 325,000 of
whom wind up hospitalized, and 5,000 die.  Under the best of circumstances, government inspectors
can’t be everywhere all the time. That’s why the bill contains
protections for company whistleblowers.  These are the insiders who take their responsibilities
seriously. They refuse to give up when a boss tells them not to
worry their pretty little heads if they find rat feces in a
peanut processing plant, for example.  In food safety as in other areas, whistleblowers find
themselves reassigned, punished and harassed. They risk their
jobs and their emotional health when they refuse to go along
with glossing over dangers lurking in the nation’s food supply.  The stalled safety law would shield from retaliation
employees of food-related companies who report violations.  The pressure is on for the Senate to pass the law and soon.
If they miss the chance to do it before the October recess,
there is always the lame duck session. But that’s pushing it.  And that’s a long time to wait before picking up the fork.  ( Ann Woolner  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions
expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Ann Woolner in Atlanta at 
 awoolner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  