-- Forint, Hungary Bonds Advance on Deficit-Cutting Outlook, U.S. Stimulus
-- B y   K r y s t o f   C h a m o n i k o l a s
-- 2010-09-22T14:13:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-22/forint-hungary-bonds-advance-on-deficit-cutting-outlook-u-s-stimulus.html
Hungary’s currency advanced to a
one-month high and bonds gained after an official said the 2011
budget gap will fall to the level demanded by creditors and the
U.S. Federal Reserve signaled it will ease monetary policy.  The forint jumped as much as 0.8 percent to 278.5, its
strongest since Aug. 23, and traded up 0.5 percent as of 4:08
p.m. in Budapest. Local-currency debt maturing in 2013 rallied,
pushing the yield down almost 5 basis points to 6.624 percent, a
four-week low.  Bonds rose around the world and the dollar weakened after
the Fed indicated it will put more cash in the world’s largest
economy by purchasing Treasuries. The euro appreciated after
investors bought the maximum amounts offered at Spanish and
Irish debt sales yesterday, easing concern that some euro area
countries won’t be able to finance themselves.  “All good for emerging European currencies, which should
strengthen further today, with the forint leading the way as the
government comes out with more hawkish fiscal statements,”
 Simon Quijano-Evans , head of emerging-market strategy at Credit
Agricole Cheuvreux SA in Vienna, wrote in a report today.  The deficit in Hungary, the European Union’s most indebted
eastern member, will be about 2.8 percent of economic output in
2011,  Andras Karman , a state secretary at the Economy Ministry,
told Magyar Nemzet newspaper today. That would be in line with
targets mandated by the EU and the International Monetary Fund,
which bailed out Hungary in 2008.  The forint has been the world’s best-performing currency
against the euro since Sept. 7, gaining 3.3 percent after
Economy Minister  Gyorgy Matolcsy  said Hungary will cut the 2011
gap to less than 3 percent of output, marking a turnaround in a
two-month row with the IMF.  ‘Good News’  Retail sales jumped 1.7 percent annually in July, the
statistics office in Budapest said today. It was the first
increase since January 2007 as the economy is recovering from
its worst recession in 18 years. The median estimate in a
Bloomberg survey of four economists was for a 3 percent drop.  Hungary sold more three-month Treasury bills than its
target yesterday as the average yield fell five basis points
from a Sept. 14 auction. Ireland raised 1.5 billion euros ($2
billion) with bids exceeding the offer 2.9 times for 2018 notes
and 5.1 times for 2014 debt.  Demand for Irish debt “is very good news for the EU as a
whole, with markets gradually getting the message that support
will remain in place,” Quijano-Evans wrote. Combined with a
“more dovish” U.S. central bank, this will help bring down
funding costs, especially for Greece and Hungary, he said.  Interest rates in Hungary may rise if inflation risks
persist or if the country’s risk assessment fails to improve,
central bank Vice President  Ferenc Karvalits  told FN.hu news
website in an interview published today.  The Czech koruna appreciated 0.4 percent to 24.571 per
euro, near its strongest level in two years, and Poland’s zloty
was up 0.1 percent at 3.9479.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Krystof Chamonikolas  in Prague at 
 kchamonikola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at   gserkin@bloomberg.net  