-- Fraga Says Brazil's Real a `Bit Overvalued' as Rates Draw Short-Term Fund
-- B y   J o s h u a   G o o d m a n   a n d   A d r i a n a   A r a i
-- 2010-09-22T14:34:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-22/fraga-says-brazil-s-real-a-bit-overvalued-as-rates-draw-short-term-funds.html
Former Brazilian central bank
President  Arminio Fraga  said the real, which hit a nine-month
high last week, is “a little bit overvalued” as interest rates
that top 10 percent lure foreign investors.  The real strengthened the most in two months yesterday
after the U.S. Federal Reserve said it’s willing to ease
monetary policy further and said interest rates will stay
“exceptionally low” for an “extended period.” Since the
start of 2009, Brazil’s currency has strengthened 36 percent,
the second most among 16 major currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  “If the next government hits the ground running and
addresses some of these longer-term issues, both macro and
micro, we’re going to get more money flowing into Brazil,” said
Fraga, founder of hedge fund Gavea Investimentos Ltda, in an
interview at his office in Rio de Janeiro yesterday. “The best
we can do is create the conditions for interest rates to come
way down.”  Fraga said the government’s decision to step up purchases
of dollars in the local spot currency market through the
nation’s 17.9 billion reais ($10.4 billion) sovereign wealth
fund will do little to stem the currency’s rally. The government
should rein in spending growth to create conditions for a
decline in interest rates without fueling inflation, he said.  Buying Dollars  The central bank alone has purchased $5.9 billion in
dollars in the first 12 business days of the month, the most for
the period since October 2009.  “I’m skeptical the government will be able to have a major
impact on where the exchange rate will be,” said Fraga, 53, who
is also chairman of the Sao Paulo-based  BM&FBovespa SA , the
operator of Latin America’s biggest securities exchange. “You
can delay an appreciation for a while, but if the fundamentals
stay strong the pressure will be for further appreciation.”  The real today fell 0.3 percent to 1.7166 per U.S. dollar
at 10:23 a.m. New York time.  Some of currency’s rally is being driven by interest rates
that are steeper than those in the U.S., which attract investors
seeking higher yields, rather than “bottom-up investment
opportunities” that boost economic growth, Fraga said.  Brazil’s real interest rate of 6.26 percent, which takes
inflation into account, is the second-highest among 53 countries
tracked by Bloomberg after Croatia. This month, the central bank
left the benchmark Selic rate at 10.75 percent, ending three
straight increases from a record low of 8.75 percent in March.  Fraga, who stepped down as central bank chief in 2002 after
implementing Brazil’s inflation targeting system, said President
 Luiz Inacio Lula  da Silva’s successor can create conditions to
lower real interest rates by half by curbing spending growth and
government lending.  An expansion in government credit during the global
financial crisis has “overstayed its welcome” and needs to be
rolled back, he said.  “I just see so much hubris that may lead to complacency in
the sense that some of these deeper structural questions won’t
be tackled,” he said. “Many of these are politically nasty.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net 
 Adriana Arai  at 
 aarai1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriana Arai at 
 aarai1@bloomberg.net  