-- France Officials Mobilize as Kidnapping in Nigeria Follows Niger Incident
-- B y   G r e g o r y   V i s c u s i   a n d   H e l e n e   F o u q u e t
-- 2010-09-22T15:46:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-22/france-officials-mobilize-as-kidnapping-in-nigeria-follows-niger-incident.html
French authorities are mobilizing
to free hostages in two African standoffs after today’s
kidnapping of three oil workers in Nigeria. That came a week
after five French workers at a mine in Niger were seized.  The Niger kidnapping was claimed by a terrorist group in
the Sahara Desert affiliated with al-Qaeda. No one has claimed
the Nigerian kidnapping, which took place off the coast on an
oil-services boat owned by  Bourbon SA .  The incidents aren’t connected, said Louis Caprioli, a
former head of French anti-terrorist police who now advises
GEOS, a Paris-based security company.  “Kidnappings in the Delta region of Nigeria are common and
they are just after the money,” Caprioli said in a telephone
interview today. “Al-Qaeda in the Maghreb is much more
political. They will be making heavy demands about the
liberation of prisoners.”  In a message sent to Al-Jazeera television yesterday, al-
Qaeda’s North African branch took responsibility for kidnapping
seven people in Niger, of which five are French. The hostages,
five workers from Vinci SA’s Satom subsidiary and one  Areva SA 
employee and his wife, were kidnapped in Arlit, during the night
of Sept. 15 or early Sept. 16, the companies have said.  “We can confirm the authenticity of the claim,”  Romain Nadal , a spokesman for the French Foreign Ministry in Paris,
said today to reporters. “We have good reasons to believe they
are alive,” he said.  The government confirmed the Bourbon kidnapping and is
“fully mobilized” to obtain the captives’ release, the
ministry said in a statement today. They were taken from the
Bourbon Alexandre vessel by armed men on speed boats. Thirteen
more remained on board without being injured.  Nigerian Kidnappings  Bourbon workers in Nigeria have been kidnapped in the past.
Two French officers from the Bourbon Apsara vessel were taken in
August 2008 on land near the oil harbor of Port Harcourt.  This week’s kidnappings bring to 11 the numbers of French
citizens being held around the world, according to the Foreign
Ministry. They include an intelligence agent held by militants
in Somalia and two television reporters in Afghanistan.  “There is a specific threat against French interests” by
al-Qaeda in the Islamic Maghreb or AQMI, Frederic Pechenard,
head of the French national police, told Europe 1 radio today.
“We fear either an attack on a specific person” or a bomb, he
said.  French Interior Minister  Brice Hortefeux , in charge of the
country’s intelligence unit DCRI, left yesterday for Mali, which
borders Niger, according to his office. President  Nicolas Sarkozy  will meet the family of the hostages next week in Paris,
government spokesman  Luc Chatel  told reporters today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Helene Fouquet  in Paris at 
 hfouquet1@bloomberg.net ;
 Gregory Viscusi  in Paris at 
 gviscusi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  