-- France Telecom Pays ‘High’ Price for Meditel Growth
-- B y   M a t t h e w   C a m p b e l l
-- 2010-09-22T15:55:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-22/france-telecom-pays-high-price-for-growth-in-meditel-deal.html
France Telecom SA ’s 640 million
euro ($856 million) purchase of 40 percent of Morocco’s Medi
Telecom SA gives the company a foothold in another fast-growing
African market -- albeit for a price.  The acquisition announced yesterday values Morocco’s
second-largest mobile operator, better known as Meditel, at
11.5 times 2009 earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation,
and amortization, according to Societe Generale analysts
including  Thierry Cota . The “very high multiple” will
nonetheless give France Telecom exposure to a politically stable
emerging market without too much risk, they said in a note.  France Telecom Chief Executive Officer  Stephane Richard  is
reorienting the company toward Africa and the Middle East, where
he has pledged to spend as much as 7 billion euros as part of a
plan to double emerging-market revenue. The head of the
company’s African operations said in June that France Telecom
was weighing “four or five” acquisitions in the region.  “Its proximity linguistically, its economic growth and its
political stability make Morocco a natural target,” CM-CIC
Securities analyst  Benjamin Rousseau  said in a note. “France
Telecom could use Meditel but also the expertise and influence
of Morocco in the region as a springboard.”  In doing so, France Telecom would mimic the strategy of
domestic rival  Vivendi SA , which has used its Maroc Telecom unit
to expand into nearby countries including Mali and Burkina Faso.
That operator will also be the stiffest local competition for
Meditel, which has a 37 percent market share in Morocco.  France Telecom fell 1.8 percent to 16.13 euros in Paris
trading, valuing the company at 42.7 billion euros. The
benchmark CAC-40 index declined 1.3 percent.  Like Vivendi  France Telecom isn’t the first European operator to look to
Meditel for exposure to Africa.  Telefonica SA  and  Portugal
Telecom SGPS SA  both had holdings in the Moroccan company. They
sold their 32 percent stakes for 400 million euros apiece. That
valued the company’s total equity at 1.25 billion euros, less
than the 1.6 billion euros implied by France Telecom’s purchase.  “The acquisition looks expensive, but makes strategic
sense as France Telecom focuses on emerging markets,” said
 Javier Borrachero , an analyst at Kepler Capital Markets. The
largest French phone company can “justify some of the premium
based on potential managerial improvement and economies of
scale,” he said.  Through its Orange brand, France Telecom operates in
African countries including Kenya, Tunisia and the Ivory Coast.  Meditel, based in Casablanca, posted a 12 percent increase
in  sales  to about 2.7 billion dirhams ($324 million) in the
first half, with earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation,
and amortization of about 1 billion dirhams.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Matthew Campbell  in Paris at 
 mcampbell39@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at 
 vroot@bloomberg.net . 