-- European Stocks Retreat for Second Day; Santander, Daimler Slide
-- B y   J u l i e   C r u z
-- 2010-09-22T06:30:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-22/france-telecom-groupe-open-kuoni-reisen-myriad-europe-equity-preview.html
European stock-index futures were
little changed after the U.S. Federal Reserve said it’s willing
to ease monetary policy further to spur growth while refraining
from buying more securities. Asian shares and U.S. futures rose.  Siemens AG may be active after Europe’s largest engineering
company said it will take a 1.4 billion-euro ($1.86 billion)
writedown. Inditex SA may move after reporting first-half profit
that beat analysts’ estimates.  Futures on the Euro Stoxx 50 Index were little changed,
advancing less than 0.1 percent to 2,786 at 7:21 a.m. in London.
The U.K.’s FTSE 100 Index may open up 28 points, according to IG
Partners.  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  futures rose 0.3 percent,
while the  MSCI Asia Pacific Index  climbed 0.4 percent.  “The fact that the Fed isn’t increasing its purchases of
treasuries might suggest that behind the scenes they’re more
optimistic about things,” said  Michael Strauss , who helps
manage $25 billion at Commonfund in Wilton, Connecticut.
“Economic numbers recently have actually come in a little
better.”  The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index  has rallied 13 percent since its
low this year in May as investors speculated that the global
economy will avoid another recession even as Europe’s
governments slash spending and China moves to slow its economy.
Even so, concern about the region’s sovereign-debt crisis has
left the gauge 2.6 percent below its April high for 2010.  Fed Reserve Meeting  The Fed held its meeting a day after the National Bureau of
Economic Research announced that the longest and deepest U.S.
recession since the Great Depression ended in June 2009, lasting
18 months. U.S. growth slowed to a 1.6 percent pace in the
second quarter from 3.7 percent in the first quarter, according
to revised data released on Aug. 27.  “The committee will continue to monitor the economic
outlook and financial developments and is prepared to provide
additional accommodation if needed to support the economic
recovery and to return inflation, over time, to levels
consistent with its mandate,” the Federal Open Market Committee
said yesterday in a statement in Washington. The Fed reiterated
that it would keep the benchmark-lending rate in a range of zero
to 0.25 percent “for an extended period.”  Siemens, Inditex  Siemens  may move after the company announced it will take
an impairment charge on its health-care diagnostics unit. The
business that it built up through multiple acquisitions failed
to meet company growth targets. Siemens will write down the
goodwill in its fiscal fourth quarter ending Sept. 30. The
German company said its overall outlook for the year is
unchanged.  Inditex , the world’s largest clothing retailer, may move
after saying first-half net income rose to 628 million euros.
That’s more than the 569.4 million euros expected by analysts,
according to a Bloomberg survey.  Tesco Plc may be active as the U.K.’s largest supermarket
chain was raised to “overweight” from “equal weight” at
Barclays Capital.  Roche Holding AG may move as the world’s biggest maker of
cancer medicines was raised to “buy” from “neutral” at
Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  Kabel Deutschland Holding AG  may be active after BofA
Merrill Lynch Global Research recommended buying the shares of
Germany’s largest cable-television operator.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Julie Cruz  in Frankfurt at 
 jcruz6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Merritt at   dmerritt1@bloomberg.net . 