-- Fraport Seeks to Expand in China, Puerto Rico in Bid to Add Sales, Profit
-- B y   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n
-- 2010-09-22T14:04:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-22/fraport-seeks-to-expand-in-china-puerto-rico-in-bid-to-add-sales-profit.html
Fraport AG , the owner of Frankfurt
airport, has taken steps to manage a second Chinese airport and
one in San Juan, Puerto Rico, in an effort to add revenue and
find more profitable sources of income.  The company is evaluating with Hunan Airport Group whether
to take a 25 percent stake in the Changsha operation in southern
China, Fraport Chief Executive Officer  Stefan Schulte  told
reporters in Frankfurt today. A decision is expected in the next
one to two years, Schulte said.  Fraport ’s non-German business, which includes airports in
Antalya, Turkey; Lima; and two cities in Bulgaria, accounts for
about 20 percent of revenue and 30 percent of earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, according to
 Thomas Uber , a spokesman. The Changsha project would follow a
strategy Fraport used in Xi’an in central China, Schulte said.  The airport operator will also bid to manage the airport in
San Juan, the CEO said, adding that the tender is likely to
begin at the end of the year. Brazil’s government will probably
decide on selling the country’s state-owned airports in the
first quarter of 2011, and Frankfurt-based Fraport is interested
in projects there, he said.  Frankfurt Expansion  Fraport is expanding Frankfurt airport, Europe’s  third-
busiest  by passenger numbers after London Heathrow and Paris
Charles de Gaulle, with projects including a third terminal.
Construction of the planned fourth runway, which will eventually
increase the airport’s hourly flight capacity by 54 percent, is
on schedule for completion late next year, Schulte said.  There are “clear signals from  airlines ” that the
additional landing times provided by the new runway will be
utilized, Schulte said, adding that slots will be decided upon
in spring. Fraport aims to attract primarily long-distance
flights and larger planes with the expansion, he added.  There are no signs that the city of Frankfurt or the German
state of Hesse, Fraport’s controlling  shareholders , plan to sell
their stakes, Schulte said, adding that “the ownership
structure is a good one that helped during the financial
crisis.” The company is looking at strengthening equity capital
with funds from its operations, the CEO said.  The company  aims  to raise Ebitda this year to 670 million
euros ($900 million) to 680 million euros, a gain of as much as
20 percent from 567.5 million euros in 2009, and increase  net
income . Business at Frankfurt airport is going “very well,”
supported by strong German exports, Schulte said today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Cornelius Rahn  in Frankfurt at 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at   kwong11@bloomberg.net . 