-- French Unions Protest Pension Reform, Trains Disrupted
-- B y   H e l e n e   F o u q u e t   a n d   G r e g o r y   V i s c u s i
-- 2010-09-23T14:38:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-22/french-unions-protest-sarkozy-pension-overhaul-disrupt-public-transport.html
French labor unions’ second protest
in two weeks against President  Nicolas Sarkozy’s  plan to raise
the retirement age disrupted trains and schools.  The 24-hour strike, which started last night in the rail
system, followed Sept. 7 demonstrations that drew as many as 2.7
million by union estimates and 1.1 million by government count.  The police said 410,000 people took part in demonstrations
in cities outside Paris today, down from 450,000 on Sept. 7.
Unions said that 1.4 million people had marched. In Paris, the
CGT union said 300,000 took part in a demonstration, up from
270,000 two weeks ago. The police said the total dropped to
65,000 from 80,000.  The  Paris metro system  said its operations were close to
normal today, with service at 85 percent. Post offices,
government offices and most schools were shut.  The protest “will primarily be judged by comparing the
number of people taking part” with the demonstrations two weeks
ago, said  Dominique Barbet , senior economist at BNP Paribas SA,
“This will determine the future amendments to the reform. It
will also be pivotal for trade unions that will meet on Friday
to decide the future course of events.”  The  National Assembly  last week passed the government’s
pension bill, which raises the minimum retirement age to 62 from
60, and the age for a full pension to 67 from 65. The bill is
headed to the Senate. Unions want the retirement age to remain
at 60. Sarkozy’s government says it has already made concessions
and won’t bow to demands to scrap the increase.  Only Solution  “Other European countries have carried out” the reform,
 Jean-Francois Cope , the head of the UMP ruling party
parliamentary group told  La Chaine Info  television today. “They
raised the retirement age because life expectancy rose. It’s
mechanical, we have no other solution.”  SNCF , the national railway, said about half its high-speed
trains ran. The agency said 37.1 percent of its workers struck
today, compared to 42.9 percent two weeks ago.  Eurostar  service
to London and Thalys trains to Brussels weren’t affected.  In the capital, metro lines 1, 2, 6 and 14 functioned
normally, the operator RATP said. Just one-fifth of trains to
and from Paris Charles de Gaulle and Orly airports, the  RER B
line , operated.  Air France  cancelled half of its medium-and short-haul
flights while maintaining long-distance service. France’s  civil
aviation authority  asked airlines to cancel 40 percent of
flights from Charles de Gaulle airport and 50 percent from the
capital’s smaller Orly airport.  Walkouts  Workers walked out of  Electricite de France SA  nuclear
plants and Total SA refineries as part of the nationwide strike.
EDF’s nuclear output dropped by 7,000 megawatts late yesterday,
according to CGT union spokeswoman  Marie-Claire Cailletaud .  La Poste , the state-owned mail and banking system, reported
16.5 percent workers struck, down from 23 percent on Sept. 7.
The Ministry of Education reported 25.8 percent of teachers on
strike, down from 29 percent.  Excluding teachers, about 8 percent of government workers
stayed away, down from 18.6 percent two weeks ago, the Labor
Ministry said.  The state pension fund will lose 10.7 billion euros ($13.6
billion) this year, with the shortfall reaching 50 billion euros
in 2020 without a change in policy, according to the Budget
Ministry. Unions and the opposition Socialist Party want to plug
losses through higher taxes on capital and on high earners.  Socialist View  The Socialists advocate keeping the retirement age at 60.
“We have to use all the means to put a pressure on the
government,”  Martine Aubry , the party’s first secretary, said
today on RTL radio. “It’s not that we don’t want a reform, we
do want a pensions system reform but one that will solve the
problem lastingly,”  she said . The current reform is due to
balance the system until 2018.  Opposition to tighter pension rules sparked extended
strikes in 2003 and 2007. In 1995, President  Jacques Chirac 
dropped an attempt to eliminate retirement privileges for
transport workers after walkouts crippled the country.  France’s legal retirement age has been 60 since Socialist
President  Francois Mitterrand  cut it from 65 after his 1981
election. Germany decided in 2007 to raise its retirement age
gradually to 67 from 65. Spain and Italy have also increased
their retirement ages to 65 to address the squeeze of longer
life expectancies and declining birth rates.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Helene Fouquet  in Paris at 
 hfouquet1@bloomberg.net ;
 Gregory Viscusi  in Paris at 
 gviscusi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  