-- Funds Seek Countrywide, Bear Stearns Home Mortgage Buybacks
-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n
-- 2010-09-22T22:47:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-22/funds-seek-countrywide-bear-stearns-home-mortgage-buybacks.html
Mortgage-bond trustees  Bank of New
York Mellon  Corp.,  Bank of America Corp.  and  Wells Fargo & Co. 
should demand lenders buy back home loans underlying securities
owned by two hedge funds, a lawyer for the investors said.  The funds sent separate requests to the three banks that
serve as trustees for 14 securitizations at issue with $11.6
billion in outstanding debt, said  David J. Grais , a partner in
the law firm Grais & Ellsworth LLP. He declined to name the
funds in a Sept. 20 interview at his New York offices.  An increasing number of investors are taking action after
the worst housing recession since the 1930s sparked a record
drop in the value of mortgage debt. Banks face as much as $51
billion in losses tied to loan repurchases from poorly
performing securities, FBR Capital Markets Corp. analysts said
in a Sept. 20 report.  “The loss of patience has taken longer than we expected,”
said Grais, whose hedge-fund clients are using data from real
estate researcher CoreLogic Inc. to press their cause with the
trustees. Grais said he has “been endlessly surprised” that
more investors haven’t moved faster to assert contract rights.  His hedge-fund clients are looking to recoup money on loans
in bonds from issuers including Countrywide Financial Corp., now
part of BofA, and a unit of Bear Stearns Co., which was bought
by JPMorgan Chase & Co.  Grais also represents the Federal Home Loan Banks of San
Francisco and Seattle and Charles Schwab Corp. in separate
lawsuits against securities underwriters, as well as hedge funds
Ellington Management Group LLC and Greenwich Financial Services
LLC in suits involving the servicing of mortgages within bonds.  Can’t Sue Underwriters  The hedge funds he’s representing in the request sent about
45 days ago to bond trustees can’t sue the securities’
underwriters because the funds bought the mortgage bonds in the
secondary market, Grais said.  Kevin Heine , a spokesman for Bank of New York Mellon, and
 Jerry Dubrowski , a spokesman for Charlotte, North Carolina-based
Bank of America, declined to comment.  Elise Wilkinson , a spokeswoman for San Francisco-based
Wells Fargo, and  Tom Kelly , a spokesman for JPMorgan in Chicago,
also declined to comment.  Investors face an “obstacle course” of challenges in
attempting to get banks to repurchase loans that failed to match
their description in bond documents, Grais said. The funds he
represents that are seeking buybacks used data from Santa Ana,
California-based  CoreLogic  to show the quality of specific loans
didn’t meet sellers’ contractual promises, Grais said.  Scraping Data  CoreLogic’s data is culled from bond reports, tax records,
 property-valuation  models and credit services, Grais said.
Typically, only bond trustees can review actual mortgage files,
seek loan repurchases and file lawsuits if the demands aren’t
met.  Earlier this month, Houston-based law firm Gibbs & Bruns
LLP said its clients had demanded Bank of New York investigate
mortgages backing $26 billion of Countrywide-issued bonds, a
request the bank denied because it said it failed to meet
multiple requirements.  Kathy Patrick , a partner at Gibbs & Bruns, said her unnamed
clients are evaluating the response.  Who Has Power  In that case, bondholders said they have the power to order
the trustee for the securities to start probes because the
investors own 25 percent of the debt in particular bond issues.  Grais’s clients are relying on a different approach, in
part because they don’t own 25 percent in all the cases they are
pursuing, he said. Some contracts require not only that
investors demanding trustee action own 25 percent of the overall
deal, but rather 25 percent of each class of securities in a
given issuance, he said.  So far Grais’s clients are relying on CoreLogic’s data,
which he said costs about $5 per loan, to make the case for
them. Gibbs & Bruns’ Sept. 3 statement didn’t mention offering
such research to the bank.  CoreLogic’s information on 48 securitizations showed about
 28 percent of properties were valued at least 5 percent more
than they should have been, Grais said. About 21 percent
inaccurately described consumers as planning to live in homes
rather than rent or flip them, which can be determined in part
through where borrowers’ tax and other bills get sent, he said.  While Grais said he’s having a “constructive dialogue”
with Wells Fargo, he expects the push will end in court as
trustees either balk at the requests or complete probes and
demand repurchases that the mortgage lenders then dispute.  The next step may be to file so-called derivative lawsuits
on behalf of bondholders, which Grais said is an untested
approach that would rely partly on court precedent involving
family trust cases.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jody Shenn  in New York at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  