-- Geithner Says U.S. Banks Can Use Profits to Meet Capital Rules
-- B y   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e
-- 2010-09-22T05:46:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-22/geithner-says-u-s-banks-can-use-profits-to-meet-new-basel-capital-rules.html
Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  said U.S. banks will be able to adapt to tougher
international safeguards by tapping future profits, rather than
curtailing lending and choking off the economic recovery.  Geithner said the international capital standards known as
Basel III, due to be agreed on this year by the Group of 20
nations, will require banks around the world to hold
“substantially” more capital. He made the comments in prepared
testimony for a House Financial Services Committee hearing today
in Washington.  “The U.S. financial system is in a very strong position
internationally to adapt to the new global rules,” Geithner
said. “For the most part, banks should be able to meet these
new requirements through future earnings, which will help
protect the recovery currently under way.”  Banks will have as long as eight years to adjust to the new
capital rules, a centerpiece of the G-20 agenda heading into
November meetings in Seoul. Regulators want the biggest banks to
be more insulated from financial shocks, in hopes of reducing
the need for future bailouts, like the $700 billion U.S. bank
rescue package or the credit lines extended by central bankers
around the world at the height of the crisis.  Geithner said the Basel III agreement includes a
“meaningful” transition period for phasing in the new
requirements. Forcing banks to raise capital too quickly would
jeopardize the global economic recovery, he said.  In addition to the requirements that banks hold more high-
quality capital, regulators also must make sure that the rules
are applied evenly around the world, Geithner said. Liquidity
requirements, intended to make sure banks can access their money
in a crisis, will need to be properly calibrated, he said.  Regulators also will have to keep investigating additional
ways to protect the financial stability, he said.  “We will also continue to explore innovative ways, such as
the use of counter-cyclical buffers and contingent capital, to
expand the capacity for the system to absorb unexpected losses
without amplifying shocks to the system,” Geithner said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rebecca Christie  in Washington at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  