-- Geithner Says TARP Costs Shrinking as Allison Leaves
-- B y   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e   a n d   I a n   K a t z
-- 2010-09-22T15:25:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-22/geithner-says-tarp-losses-shrinking-as-bailout-program-s-chief-steps-down.html
U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  said taxpayer losses from the Troubled Asset Relief
Program are shrinking, and he credited departing TARP chief
 Herbert Allison  with helping the government stabilize financial
markets.  Allison, the department’s assistant secretary for financial
stability, today announced plans to leave the Obama
administration and return to Connecticut, saying in a letter to
employees today that “it is the right time for me to step
down.” Geithner said  Tim Massad , the financial stability
office’s chief counsel, will be acting TARP administrator.  The Congressional Budget Office predicts the $700 billion
rescue program will cost $66 billion, Geithner told employees
today in Washington, compared with the $105 billion in the
Treasury’s most recent official estimate. Taxpayer returns,
including repayments and dividends from banks, already have
reached $225 billion, the Treasury chief said.  “We are going to largely get the taxpayers’ money back,”
Geithner said. “As TARP comes to its end, the skeptics are
coming around.”  TARP was enacted in October 2008 to prevent a collapse of
the U.S. financial system. The program was used by then-Treasury
Secretary  Henry Paulson  to inject capital into hundreds of
banks, including Goldman Sachs Group Inc., Citigroup Inc. and
Bank of America Corp.  ‘Despised’  “The TARP may well be the best and most useful federal
program that has ever been despised by the public,” said
 Douglas Elliott , a fellow at the Brookings Institution in
Washington and a former managing editor at  JPMorgan Chase & Co. 
“Unfortunately, the public hates the banks so much that it
cannot accept that a program that did the banks so much good
could also have been a real boon to the public.”  Allison, a former Merrill Lynch executive who also
previously worked as chief executive officer of TIAA-CREF and of
Fannie Mae, took the program’s helm in June 2009. In addition to
the program’s bank investments, TARP funds also have been used
to shore up the U.S. auto industry and help homeowners who fall
behind on their mortgages.  “The TARP program has proven remarkably successful in
achieving its goal of stabilizing the financial sector and
laying the foundation for our nation’s economic recovery,”
Allison said in his letter.  Economic Recovery  In his prepared remarks, Geithner said the U.S. economy is
headed “in the right direction” after the financial system was
falling apart at the height of the crisis. The economy is now
“healing” and growing again, he said, and he called on
lawmakers to shore up the recovery through bipartisan
cooperation on measures to boost hiring and help small
businesses.  “TARP was the single-most important program that prevented
a meltdown in our financial system,” said  Tony Fratto , who
served as a White House and U.S. Treasury official under
President  George W. Bush . “Many members of Congress -- on both
sides of the aisle -- fell on their swords during a tense and
difficult time to get it done.”  Massad, named today as Allison’s interim successor, was a
partner at New York-based Cravath, Swaine & Moore LLP for 17
years. While on leave from the firm in late 2008 and early 2009,
Massad was special legal adviser to a congressional panel on
economic stability, the Treasury said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Rebecca Christie  in Washington at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net ;
 Ian Katz  in Washington at 
 ikatz2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  