-- General Mills Profit Rises on Cereal, Snack Sales
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B o y l e   a n d   I a n   T h o m s o n
-- 2010-09-22T13:47:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-22/general-mills-first-quarter-profit-rises-12-on-sales-of-cereals-snacks.html
General Mills Inc. , the maker of
Cheerios and Green Giant frozen vegetables, said first-quarter
profit gained 12 percent, helped by sales of a chocolate-
flavored cereal and new snack bars.  Net income advanced to $472.1 million, or 70 cents a share,
the Minneapolis-based company said in a statement. Profit
excluding some items totaled 64 cents a share, exceeding by 1
cent the average of analysts’  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  Chief Executive Officer  Kendall Powell  lured U.S. consumers
with new products such as Chocolate Cheerios and Wheaties Fuel
even as they kept tight budgets. Industrywide, food makers have
increased promotional programs, cutting prices of their products
at grocery stores, said  Christopher Growe , an analyst at Stifel
Nicolaus & Co. in St. Louis.  General Mills’ “sales were above our estimate, which was
surprising given all the fears around heavy promotional spending
in the U.S. market,” said Growe, who recommends buying the
shares. “That figure is good not only for General Mills, but
good to see for the food industry.”  General Mills  rose 43 cents, or 1.2 percent, to $36.10 at
9:35 a.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The
shares had gained almost 1 percent this year before today.  Cereal sales rose 4 percent in the U.S. Snack sales
increased 5 percent, aided by new grain bars and fruit snacks.
The company is also developing new soups, such as four Mexican-
inspired flavors, in an effort to bolster that category.  ConAgra Promotions  ConAgra Foods Inc. , the maker of Banquet and Healthy Choice
dinners, posted a 12 percent drop in first-quarter earnings.
Sales from promotions in the frozen-food category fell short of
expectations, the company said yesterday.  Consumer confidence dropped to an eight-month low in July
in the U.S. The  unemployment  rate rose to 9.6 percent in August,
auguring further cuts in consumer spending, which accounts for
70 percent of the economy.  Revenue  at General Mills climbed 1.5 percent to $3.53
billion in the quarter ended Aug. 29, trailing the average
analysts’ estimate of $3.57 billion.  The company reiterated its full-year profit forecast of as
much as $2.48 per share, excluding items such as mark-to-market
effects, up from $2.30 a year earlier. Analysts, on average,
predict $2.49.  General Mills also said it expects near-term financial
results “will continue tracking in line with year-ago levels.”  Net income was $420.6 million, or 62 cents, in the year-
earlier first quarter.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Matthew Boyle  in New York at 
 Mboyle20@bloomberg.net ;
 Ian Thomson  in New York at 
 ithomson2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  