-- Georgette Nears Mexico's West Coast as Thunderstorms Build Up in Caribbean
-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n   a n d   A l e x   M o r a l e s
-- 2010-09-22T21:21:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-22/georgette-nears-mexican-west-coast-as-thunderstorms-build-up-in-caribbean.html
The threat of a storm in the
Caribbean boosted natural gas futures for the second day, while
Tropical Storm Lisa languished in the Atlantic and the remains
of Georgette began washing ashore on Mexico’s mainland.  A collection of thunderstorms near the northern coast of
Venezuela has a 60 percent chance of developing into a tropical
cyclone, according to the National Hurricane Center in Miami. If
the system becomes a storm, it may end up in the eastern Gulf of
Mexico or Florida, according to  MDA Federal Inc.’s  EarthSat
Energy Weather in Rockville, Maryland.  “The system has the potential to become a tropical
depression later today or tomorrow as it moves westward at 15
miles per hour toward the western Caribbean,” the Miami
hurricane center said in a statement. “This system has the
potential to produce heavy rains over portions of Central
America in a couple of days.”  Natural gas for October delivery rose 4.7 cents, or 1.2
percent, to settle at $3.966 per million British thermal units
on the New York Mercantile Exchange. The futures have gained 9.9
percent from a year ago.  “The storm is offering some support to the market,” said
 Brad Florer , a trader at Kottke Associates Inc., an energy
trading firm in Louisville, Kentucky. “People are keeping their
eyes on it and something like that will force some sellers to
the sideline.”  Possible Path  MDA’s forecast calls for the storm to be redirected into
the Gulf and toward Florida next week.  “While weakening is certainly possible due to potential
interaction with the mountainous terrain of Central America, its
emergence back over water could fuel strong intensification
before nearing the Gulf,” MDA said.  Twelve storms with winds of at least 39 miles (63
kilometers) per hour have formed this year, more than in an
average Atlantic season, with five of them becoming major
systems with winds of 111 mph or more.  While the U.S. and its oil and gas interests in the Gulf of
Mexico have avoided a strike by a major storm, tropical systems
have had an impact, said  Gerry Bell , lead hurricane forecaster
at the U.S. Climate Prediction Center in Camp Springs, Maryland.  U.S. Impact  “Five of the 12 named storms to date have affected the
U.S. or the Mexican mainland,” Bell said in an e-mail. “That
is quite a bit of activity.”  Tropical Storm Bonnie, with winds of 40 mph, crossed South
Florida in July. Tropical Storm Hermine landed in Mexico,
causing flooding in Texas, and Hurricane Earl had a close call
with the Outer Banks of North Carolina and Nantucket in
Massachusetts. Mexico was also struck by hurricanes Alex and
Karl.  “There is still a long way to go in this very active
hurricane season, and people should not, in any way, let their
guard down,” Bell said.  The Gulf is home to about 32 percent of U.S. oil and 10
percent of its natural gas production. About 43 percent of its
refining capacity is also located in Gulf Coast states.  While traders watch the system in the Caribbean, Tropical
Storm Lisa, with top winds of 45 mph, continues a slow track
through the Atlantic and will still be far from land early next
week, according to a hurricane center  advisory  at 5 p.m. Miami
time. Lisa is 425 miles west of the Cape Verde Islands.  Pacific System  In the Pacific, Georgette moved over Mexico’s Gulf of
California after losing strength and was downgraded from a
tropical storm, according to an advisory. Most of the system’s
winds had moved ashore in Sonora by 5 p.m. East Coast time, the
U.S. center said in an  advisory .  Georgette, a tropical depression with winds of 35 mph, was
75 miles southeast of Bahia Kino, moving north at 16 mph. It hit
the Baja peninsula yesterday near the resort of Cabo San Lucas.  A tropical storm watch, indicating winds of at least 39 mph
are possible within 12 hours to 24 hours, was issued for the
mainland coast from Huatabampito northward to Bahia Kino, and as
much as 250 millimeters (10 inches) of rain may cause “life-
threatening” floods and mudslides in the south-central Baja
peninsula and Sonora state, according to the center.  “Moisture from Georgette is expected to spread into
portions of the southwestern United States during the next
couple of days,” the  center  said.  Canadian Damage  In Newfoundland, Premier  Danny Williams  toured the province
to inspect damage done by Hurricane Igor, which passed by
yesterday.  As of about 4 p.m. East Coast time, 25,000 customers were
still without power in Igor’s wake, according to a statement by
Newfoundland Power Inc., which is owned by  Fortis Inc.  in St.
John’s.  Across the continent, cleanup continues in Mexico from
Hurricane Karl, which struck last week. The storm killed at
least 16 people and may have caused as much as $200 million in
damage, according to  AIR Worldwide , a catastrophe risk modeling
company in Boston. It said 2,000 homes were flooded in the
Mexican state of Oaxaca and 500,000 hectares (1.2 million acres)
of cropland were damaged, AIR said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Brian K. Sullivan  in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net ;
 Alex Morales  in London at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  