-- German Union Mobilizes Over Pay to Avert `One-Leg' Recovery
-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e
-- 2010-09-23T09:37:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-22/german-strikes-mark-mobilization-for-higher-pay-to-avert-one-leg-rebound.html
German workers are mobilizing to
fight for a bigger share of the  export-driven recovery , arguing
that wage raises are necessary to spur consumer spending in
Europe’s biggest economy, an IG Metall union leader said.  So-called warning strikes by steelworkers at ThyssenKrupp
AG and Salzgitter AG that began yesterday will “definitely”
continue unless employers meet demands for 6 percent more pay,
 Helga Schwitzer , an IG Metall board member responsible for wage
negotiations said in a Sept. 21 interview in Frankfurt.  While exports give Germany a “very strong leg to stand
on,” increases are justified because the recovery is at risk
without consumer spending, Schwitzer said. “If you’re only
standing on one leg, you start to limp,” she said. “The second
leg, domestic spending, has to be strengthened.”  Pressure is building for pay raises in Germany after years
of belt-tightening. The U.S. Treasury, the European Commission,
French Finance Minister  Christine Lagarde  and billionaire
investor  George Soros  have all urged Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s
government to bolster consumption and rely less on exports to
aid recovery in Europe and globally.  “We could use a level of redistribution in this wage
round, but we shouldn’t overdo it,”  Andreas Scheuerle , an
economist at Dekabank in Frankfurt, said by phone. “Pay
increases would mean a win for the domestic economy, but it
would come at the  cost of exports .”  Order Books Full  The clamor for wage raises is growing as full order books
and dwindling inventories at companies such as carmaker
 Volkswagen AG  helped fuel second quarter growth that was the
fastest since records for a reunified Germany began in 1991.  The yield on the 10-year German bund, Europe’s benchmark
government debt security, reached a record low of 2.087 percent
on Aug. 31. The yield dropped 6 basis points to 2.28 percent as
of 11:34 a.m. in Berlin, a two-week low, after the government
said it will sell less debt than previously planned.  The  DAX index  has meanwhile risen more than the European
average this year, while the Munich-based Ifo institute’s survey
of  business confidence  reached its highest level since June 2007
in July. The index for August is released tomorrow.  “At the moment there’s no real problem with inflation,”
Scheuerle said. “But heading toward 2012 we could see an above-
average inflation development in Germany.”  Down Tools  About 2,000 steelworkers downed tools in factories in
Dortmund and Salzgitter yesterday after employers declined to
respond to the union’s call for the pay increase and an allied
demand for more full-time positions.  The workers are due to protest through the end of the week.
Although the 85,000 steelworkers concerned are a small portion
of IG Metall’s 3.5 million workers, the resolution of this wage
round traditionally influences other negotiations with workers.  “Steelworkers are very angry,” Schwitzer said. She cited
Dusseldorf-based  ThyssenKrupp , Germany’s largest steelmaker,
which last month raised its fiscal earnings outlook. “Steel is
booming, the industry is booming, despite commodity prices and
other factors -- so the workers want their fair share,”
Schwitzer said.  Siemens AG , Europe’s biggest engineering company, said
yesterday it had reached an “open-ended” agreement with IG
Metall that will secure the jobs of its 128,000 German workers
indefinitely, avoiding compulsory layoffs “wherever possible.”  Job Security  IG Metall , Germany’s biggest union, struck a separate deal
in February for workers in the automotive and other industries
after going into the talks putting job security above pay,
omitting for the first time to set a concrete wage claim.  The union and the Gesamtmetall employers’ association
agreed on a one-time payment of 320 euros for this year and a
2.7 percent pay raise for 2011. At the previous wage round in
November 2008, the manufacturing union won a pay increase of 4.2
percent, after pressing for an 8 percent raise.  While Merkel and her labor minister,  Ursula von der Leyen ,
have both signaled their openness to higher pay for workers,
 Martin Kannegiesser , Gesamtmetall head, indicated the demands
won’t be met. He told  Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung  on Sept. 16
that wages climbed even during the crisis and employers don’t
need to offer “further assistance.”  The German economy will grow 3.4 percent this year and 2.2
percent in 2011, the RWI institute, which advises Merkel’s
government, said on Sept. 15. Even so, Merkel’s focus on reining
in the budget deficit to steer the country out of the European
debt crisis may stop consumers from loosening their wallets.  The government should use its trade surplus, the European
Union’s biggest, to “foster domestic demand and ease reliance
on exports that are contributing a huge trade imbalance on the
euro-zone’s periphery,” said Juergen Kroeger, a director in the
EU Commission’s Economic and Financial Affairs department.  “Why aren’t we paying people higher wages in this
country?” he said Sept. 13 in Berlin. “That might be a
start.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Patrick Donahue  in Berlin at  at
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  