-- GMAC Gave ‘False Testimony’ Years Before Eviction Halt
-- B y   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l   a n d   L o r r a i n e   W o e l l e r t
-- 2010-09-23T12:46:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-22/gmac-mortgage-s-foreclosures-drew-earlier-sanctions-over-false-testimony-.html
Ally Financial Inc.’s GMAC Mortgage
unit, which suspended evictions in 23 states last week after
finding employees didn’t verify foreclosure documents, was
sanctioned in 2006 for similar practices, court records show.  GMAC gave “false testimony” when it justified
foreclosures by submitting sworn affidavits signed by a mortgage
executive who later said in a deposition she didn’t actually
review the loan documents or sign in the presence of a notary,
according to a 2006 court order filed in Duval County,  Florida .
In response to the sanctions, GMAC Mortgage directed employees
to “read and fully understand” court documents before signing.  “Do not sign unless you have that comfort level,” said a
policy directive from GMAC Mortgage’s James Barden, then-
associate counsel for the legal staff. “It is the integrity of
our cases that is at stake and we cannot afford anything less
than full accuracy.”  GMAC Mortgage is facing new allegations in court documents
that it evicted homeowners without verifying that borrowers
actually defaulted or whether the firm had legal standing to
seize the homes. Ally, the Detroit-based auto and home lender,
said this week it found a “technical” deficiency in its
foreclosure process allowing employees to sign documents without
a notary present or with information they didn’t personally know
was true.  Loan Industry  Ally declined to say how many loans may be affected. The
firm, formerly known as GMAC Inc., ranked fourth among U.S.
home-loan originators in the first six months of this year with
$26 billion, and fifth among loan servicers, with a $349.1
billion portfolio, according to Inside Mortgage Finance, an
industry newsletter. It’s also the beneficiary of more than $17
billion in U.S. bailout funds.  Servicers conduct billing and collections on mortgages,
sometimes for other firms that actually own the loans, and
handle foreclosures when borrowers default.  Gina Proia, a spokeswoman for Ally, confirmed that a policy
directive was issued in 2006, “but we recently became aware of
a breakdown in the process. The process has since been addressed
and the prior practice is no longer taking place.”    Mark Paustenbach , a spokesman for the U.S. Treasury
Department, which owns 56.3 percent of Ally, declined to
comment. Kim Fennebresque, a director named by the Treasury to
serve as an independent board member, didn’t return calls.  In a statement earlier this week, Proia said “the entire
situation is unfortunate and regrettable and GMAC Mortgage is
diligently working to resolve the situation,” and that “there
was never any intent on the part of GMAC Mortgage to bypass
court rules or procedures.” Florida was among the 23 states
where evictions have been halted.  Verification  Lawyers defending borrowers have accused mortgage firms
including GMAC and  JPMorgan Chase &amp; Co . of foreclosing on
homeowners without making proper efforts to verify the accuracy
of the documents. In foreclosure cases, companies typically file
affidavits to start court proceedings. Affidavits are statements
written and sworn in the presence of someone authorized to
administer an oath, such as a notary public.  The 2006 case stems from a GMAC Mortgage foreclosure that
began in August 2004 on a home owned by Robert and Lillian
Jackson. The filing included an affidavit signed by a GMAC
officer laying out the amount owed on the loan.  Florida Circuit Court Judge Bernard Nachman sanctioned GMAC
in May 2006, saying that the company “submitted false testimony
to the court in the form of affidavits of indebtedness.” The
company was ordered to submit an explanation and confirmation
that the policies were changed, and told to pay defendants’
legal costs of $8,135.55.  Legal Directive  GMAC’s legal department issued a statement afterward that
told employees “not to sign verifications on court pleading
documents unless you have independently reviewed and checked the
facts.” The policy, distributed in June 2006, also stated in
italics and boldface that employees should sign documents only
in the presence of a notary. GMAC told the court four years ago
that the policies were “being corrected.”  In December 2009, a GMAC Mortgage employee said in a
deposition that his team of 13 people signed about 10,000
affidavits and other foreclosure documents a month without
verifying their accuracy. The employee’s supervisor is the same
executive sanctioned in the 2006 case.  GMAC’s internal review discovered the new discrepancies “a
few months ago” and halted the practice, according to Proia’s
statement earlier this week. Barden, who wrote the 2006
directive, and the two employees still work at GMAC, Proia said.
Barden didn’t return a request for comment left on his work
phone.  GMAC Impact  “They’re acting like this is a new problem,” said O. Max
Gardner III, a bankruptcy attorney at Gardner & Gardner PLLC in
Shelby,  North Carolina , who isn’t directly involved in either
GMAC case. “It’s the exact same thing,” Gardner said. “This
is not just a GMAC problem. This is an industry-wide problem.”  Deborah Rhode, a Stanford University law professor and
director of the school’s Center on the Legal Profession, said
GMAC Mortgage’s behavior may amount to misleading the court.  “It’s not ‘technical’ when people attest under oath to
knowledge they don’t have, and it doesn’t matter that in fact
there isn’t actual error or discrepancy,” Rhode said. “Any
court would take this very seriously.”  Judges could decide to dismiss the foreclosures, sanction
the attorneys and company or levy a “substantial” financial
penalty that would “get their attention,” she said.  The U.S. took control of Ally as part of a larger effort to
prop up auto manufacturers. On a national level, regulators and
lawmakers are trying to persuade bankers to avert foreclosures
as seizures of homes by banks set records. Bank repossessions
climbed 25 percent in August from a year earlier to 95,364,
according to RealtyTrac Inc., the Irvine, California-based data
provider.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dakin Campbell in  San Francisco  at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net ;
Lorraine Woellert in  Washington  at 
 lwoellert@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Alec McCabe at   amccabe@bloomberg.net .  Lawrence Roberts  at   lroberts13@bloomberg.net . 