-- GMP Ranks First for Canada Equity Sales, Ousting RBC Capital
-- B y   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r   a n d   S e a n   B .   P a s t e r n a k
-- 2010-09-22T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-22/gmp-ranks-first-for-canada-equity-sales-ousting-rbc-capital.html
GMP Capital Inc. , the second-worst
Canadian financial stock this year, is the top adviser on equity
sales in the country for the first time, tapping its links to
the energy industry to oust bigger rival RBC Capital Markets.  GMP Securities managed 38 initial public offerings and
secondary stock sales worth $2.52 billion this year, topping BMO
Capital Markets and CIBC World Markets by number and value of
deals. GMP led more IPOs than all the bank-owned advisers
combined.  GMP’s equity financings included Athabasca Oil Sands Corp.’s
C$1.35 billion ($1.32 billion) sale, the biggest IPO in Canada
in more than a decade. GMP also led IPOs for  Tahoe Resources
Inc.  and  Tricon Capital Group Inc. , according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  “If you look at the sectors that are firing, even in this
economy, it’s the commodity sector, most notably precious and
non-precious metals, and oil and gas,” said  Harris Fricker , 46,
who becomes CEO of Toronto-based GMP on Oct. 1. “We happen to
be very adept in both areas,” he said in an interview.  GMP has gained ground with energy offerings after spending
two years reorganizing its business under investment banking co-
head  Dan Tsubouchi , a former oil-and-gas analyst. GMP has about
10 bankers working on Tsubouchi’s team in Calgary, Canada’s
energy hub. Before this year, GMP’s best ranking was fourth in
2006, based on Bloomberg data that excludes preferred share
sales.  “Athabasca was a home run for them,” said Neil Manji,
national IPO services leader for PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP in
Toronto.  Stock Plunge  The top equity ranking hasn’t helped GMP’s stock. The
shares have fallen 29 percent since Athabasca began trading in
April, to C$10.18 yesterday on the Toronto Stock Exchange. GMP,
down 19 percent this year, trails only Manulife Financial Corp.
among the worst performers in the 44-company  S&P/TSX Financials
Index .  Athabasca Oil Sands was Canada’s worst-performing IPO in
more than two years after its first month of trading, and has
 fallen  43 percent from its C$18 IPO price.  Tahoe, a Vancouver-based gold miner, has risen 55 percent
since its GMP-led IPO in June, while Tricon, a real estate
lender, has slumped 16 percent since it went public in May.  The advisory rankings don’t always boost a bank’s stock
because firms often rise and fall quickly, said  Robert A. Floyd ,
lead money manager at R.A. Floyd Capital in Mississauga,
Ontario.  “One year may be very robust, another year it may not,”
said Floyd, who owns GMP shares. “It’s a good number, but
because it’s a volatile number it will not get the multiple that
some might think.”  RBC Ranked on Top  Royal Bank of Canada’s RBC Capital Markets was the No. 1
arranger of stock sales during the past four years, and last
missed top spot in 2005 when  Canadian Imperial Bank of
Commerce ’s CIBC World Markets ranked first.  Kirby Gavelin , head
of equity capital markets at RBC Capital, declined to comment.  This year, smaller firms such as GMP and Canaccord
Financial Inc. are gaining. Toronto-based Canaccord, which
bought Genuity Capital Markets in April, ranks sixth, ahead of
bigger rivals Morgan Stanley and Scotia Capital.  “The non-bank firms have become more aggressive,” Manji
said. “We’re definitely seeing them more in the marketplace.”  Canada’s bank-owned firms have struggled to take some
companies public after stocks declined earlier this year, Manji
said.  Can’t Close Deals  Publisher Lulu Ltd. postponed its planned C$55 million IPO
in April that was led by CIBC and Genuity. RBC Capital couldn’t
take airline Porter Aviation Holdings Inc. public in its
proposed C$120-million IPO in June. Canada has had at least nine
IPOs postponed or withdrawn since January.  “The banks have lots in the pipeline, but they just
haven’t been able to execute and close deals,” Manji said.
“They want to make sure they’re not on the wrong side of a
failed deal.”  Companies sold $17.8 billion worth of equity in Canada this
year, down 12 percent from the same period a year ago, according
to Bloomberg data. The amount raised through IPOs was $4.56
billion, the most since 2006.  “It’s great news that we’re on that rebound,” Manji said.
“We’d like to see more of those C$200 million to C$300 million-
sized deals, which would really tell us that we’ve got a lot of
activity.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Doug Alexander  in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net ;  Sean B. Pasternak  in Toronto at +1-
   spasternak@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net ; or
Alec McCabe at   amccabe@bloomberg.net  