-- Gold Climbs to Record as Dollar Weakens Following Fed Statement
-- B y   P h a m - D u y   N g u y e n   a n d   A n n a   S t a b l u m
-- 2010-09-22T14:22:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-22/gold-climbs-to-record-as-dollar-weakens-following-fed-statement.html
Gold futures climbed to a record
$1,298 an ounce after the Federal Reserve said it was willing to
ease monetary policy further to boost the U.S. economy,
triggering a slump in the dollar.  The metal surged to an all-time high for the fifth straight
session. The greenback declined to a six-month low against a
basket of six major currencies. The Fed signaled yesterday it
may expand its near-record $2.3 trillion balance sheet as soon
as November. Silver extended a rally to the highest price since
March 2008.  “People are finally starting to understand that
quantitative easing will devalue the currency,” said  Gijsbert Groenewegen , a partner at Gold Arrow Capital Management in New
York. “That’s why they’re shifting into gold and silver.”  Gold futures for December delivery rose $20.30, or 1.6
percent, to $1,294.60 at 10:17 a.m. on the Comex in New York.
Before today, the metal gained 16 percent this year.  The Fed has kept its benchmark interest rate at zero
percent to 0.25 percent and purchased mortgage-backed securities
and Treasuries to help bolster the economy. Yesterday, policy
makers said in a statement they are “prepared to provide
additional accommodation if needed to support the economic
recovery and to return inflation, over time, to levels
consistent with its mandate.”  ‘Stealth Devaluation’  “If and when this ‘additional accommodation’ occurs, the
reasoning will be more about a stealth devaluation of currency
than a boost for consumer spending,”  Brad Yim , a New York-based
analyst at Castlestone Management Ltd., said in an e-mail. The
Fed wants a lower dollar to stimulate exports, and “a move like
this should provide further support for gold in the near to
medium term.”  Gold for immediate delivery rose to a record $1,296.30.  The metal is heading for its 10th consecutive annual gain
amid tame inflation. Fed policy makers said yesterday that
inflation is “somewhat below” levels consistent with its
target for stable prices, a signal that low interest rates may
remain for an extended period.  The Reuters/Jefferies CRB Index of 19 raw materials has
climbed 6.1 percent this month.  “The Fed has encouraged investors to front-run some of
their ideas and get involved in some of these assets before they
make a move toward extended quantitative easing,” said  Adam Klopfenstein , a senior market strategist at Lind-Waldock, a
broker in Chicago.  Gold has outperformed global equities, Treasuries and most
industrial metals, spurring record investments in exchange-
traded products backed by the metal.  Global holdings  of gold by ETPs gained 1.01 metric tons to
a record 2,089.5 tons yesterday, according to Bloomberg data
from 10 providers. They have increased 16 percent this year.  Inflation  “I don’t think many people are actively trading gold based
on a view that inflation is likely to accelerate in the near
term,” said  Tom Kendall , an analyst at Credit Suisse Group AG
in London. “Certainly, some people are concerned about the
longer-term impact of current monetary policy on inflation.”  Silver futures for December delivery jumped 46.5 cents, or
2.5 percent, to $21.15 an ounce. Earlier, the metal reached
$21.20, the highest level since March 17, 2008.  Platinum futures for October delivery rose $24.40, or 1.5
percent, to $1,636.80 an ounce on the New York Mercantile
Exchange.  Palladium futures for December delivery gained $15.70, or 3
percent, to $545.76 an ounce, halting a four-session slide.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Pham-Duy Nguyen  in Seattle at 
 pnguyen@bloomberg.net ;
 Anna Stablum  in London at 
 astablum@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at   sstroth@bloomberg.net  