-- Gold Can Keep Setting Records, Kleinwort Benson's Thompson Tells Clients
-- B y   R o d n e y   J e f f e r s o n
-- 2010-09-22T11:33:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-22/gold-can-keep-setting-records-kleinwort-benson-s-thompson-tells-clients.html
Gold, up 27 percent in the past
year, can advance to new records and investors should prepare to
buy more, according to Kleinwort Benson, a manager of money for
the wealthy.  Andrew Thompson, head of advisory portfolio management at
 Kleinwort Benson  in London, is telling his clients to stick with
existing holdings of the metal and increase them once prices
drop, he said in an interview. Thompson’s customers have a
combined 400 million pounds ($622 million) of assets.  “It’s clear blue sky from here,” Thompson said by
telephone. “Gold has the potential to be a bubble. It could go
a great deal higher first. It won’t go on forever, but it has
the capacity to go on for longer.”  Prices today advanced to a record for a fifth straight day.
Bullion has gained as investors seek safety and assets that can
give protection against possible inflation after governments
pumped billions of dollars, euros and pounds into ailing
economies the past two years.  Gold has advanced 63 percent since Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc. filed for bankruptcy on Sept. 15, 2008. That compares with
total returns of 0.2 percent for the  MSCI World Index , a
benchmark for stocks, and 11.7 percent for an index of U.S.
bonds compiled by Bloomberg and the European Federation of
Financial Analysts Societies.  10th Full-Year Climb  “People are terrified about inflation, and it’s a good
tool,” Thompson said of bullion. “It’s one of the very few
asset classes trading at an all-time high.”  Gold for immediately delivery traded at $1,291.05 an ounce
at 12:31 p.m. in London after touching $1,295. The metal is
headed for a 10th consecutive annual gain, the longest winning
streak since at least 1920.  Thompson, 40, caters to 250 customers who each typically
have between 500,000 pounds and 10 million pounds of assets. All
clients are advised to use “trailing stops,” which allow them
to take profit once gold hits a certain level.  Demand for bullion from emerging markets also will help to
keep the precious metal gaining in value,  Jeremy Beckwith , chief
investment officer at Kleinwort Benson, said in an interview in
Edinburgh last week.  “The countries catching up fast, like China, India and the
Middle East, are those that have been historically inclined to
buy gold, so there is a good demand story,” Beckwith said. “We
are still positive.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rodney Jefferson  in Edinburgh at 
 r.jefferson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tim Quinson at   tquinson@bloomberg.net  