-- Goolsbee Says Wall Street's Strength Returns, Not `Go-Go Days'
-- B y   M i k e   D o r n i n g
-- 2010-09-23T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-22/goolsbee-says-wall-street-s-strength-returns-not-go-go-days-.html
President  Barack Obama ’s chief
economist said Wall Street has largely recovered from the 2008
crisis and will be strengthened by the White House-backed
regulatory overhaul that Congress passed this year.  “In the long run, the financial sector will be
significantly stronger because we did this,”  Austan Goolsbee ,
chairman of the  Council of Economic Advisers , said yesterday.  While Wall Street may not return to “the go-go days” when
it earned “20, 40 percent of all the profits in the entire
nation,” the financial industry will benefit from the new
regulations because “setting clear rules of the road is going
to allow the credit channels to keep flowing to the wider
economy,” Goolsbee said.  During a lunch with Bloomberg News editors and reporters,
Goolsbee predicted a “massive shift” of derivatives trading
from over-the-counter transactions to exchanges.  He rejected arguments that the economy has been held back
by perceptions that the Obama administration is anti-business or
by uncertainty over government policies. He also said access to
credit is back to normal for large corporations, while small
businesses face continuing problems.  Goolsbee offered no hints on who might be chosen to succeed
 Larry Summers , a top economic adviser to Obama and an architect
of the administration’s stimulus plan. Summers announced Sept.
21 that he would leave his post as director of the National
Economic Council by the end of the year.  Three of Four Advisers  Goolsbee, whose relationship as an economic adviser to the
president stretches back to Obama’s 2004 U.S. Senate campaign,
became chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers earlier this
month, replacing  Christina Romer . With Summers’s plan to leave
and the departure of White House budget director  Peter Orszag ,
the administration has lost three of its four main economic
policy advisers.  “The good news is we do have time,” Goolsbee said.
“Larry’s not going to be leaving until the end of the year.”  People familiar with the search have said the Obama
administration is debating whether to recruit a business
executive to replace Summers. Goolsbee acknowledged hearing
criticism from business leaders that the administration doesn’t
have a prominent former business executive in a Cabinet-level
role.  Goolsbee said attracting corporate chief executives to the
administration has been hindered by the intense vetting process
for senior posts. “People in business tend to have
significantly more complicated finances,” he said.  Bloomberg Poll  In a Bloomberg poll of investors and analysts who are
Bloomberg subscribers, conducted Sept. 16-17, 77 percent of U.S.
respondents said the Obama administration is “too anti-
business.”  “I don’t think that perception is the main reason
businesses don’t invest,” Goolsbee said. “The main reason
business does not invest is the demand is not there. They’re
still waiting for the growth rate to get faster than, you know,
1 percent, 2 percent.”  Goolsbee said the financial sector has “pretty much
healed” for large corporations. “The credit spreads are
completely normal,” he said.  Average spreads on investment-grade  corporate bonds  have
narrowed from a peak of 6.18 percentage points on Dec. 3, 2008,
in the wake of the turmoil following Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc.’s collapse, to 1.75 percentage points on Sept. 21,
according to Barclays Capital.  Proprietary Trading  Goolsbee pointed to decisions by banks such as  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc.  and  JPMorgan Chase & Co.  to close or spin off
proprietary trading desks. The new financial regulation law
restricts banks’ ability to risk capital by trading for their
own accounts, though banks have four years to comply.  “They’re getting out of that business, which was exactly
the point,” Goolsbee said.  He predicted more change in the markets for derivatives.  “We have to work through technical issues of rulemaking,
but I think we’re going to see a massive shift of over-the-
counter derivatives to exchanges, which is what we needed to
address those systemic risks,” Goolsbee said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mike Dorning  in Washington at 
 mdorning@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 Msilva34@bloomberg.net . 