-- U.K. Government Bonds Soar on Speculation Central Bank May Ease With Fed
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B r o w n
-- 2010-09-22T16:30:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-22/government-bonds-rise-on-speculation-bank-of-england-may-ease-with-the-fed.html
U.K. government bonds jumped on
speculation that the Bank of England will ease monetary policy
after the Federal Reserve said yesterday it is prepared to do
more to support the economy.  Ten-year gilt  yields fell the most in more than a year
after the Fed signaled it may restart purchases of government
debt with new money, a policy known as quantitative easing.
Central bank policy makers voted 8-1 to keep rates on hold this
month, and some officials said the probability the economy will
need more stimulus has risen, minutes of the Sept. 9 meeting
showed today. The economy will grow slower than previously
forecast next year and the central bank won’t raise rates until
the second quarter, the Confederation of British Industry said.  “The Bank of England and the Fed have been closely related
in their policy response, so the market is now speculating as to
whether they will do further quantitative easing,” said  Mohit Kumar , a fixed-income strategist at Deutsche Bank AG in London.
“That is not my central scenario.”  The yield on the 10-year gilt fell 14 basis points to 2.98
percent as of 5:26 p.m. in London, after earlier dropping by 17
points, the most since August 2009. The 4.75 percent security
due March 2020 rose 1.25, or 12.50 pounds per 1,000-pound face
amount, to 114.53. Two-year yields slipped 6 basis points to
0.65 percent.  The Monetary Policy Committee, led by Governor  Mervyn King ,
overruled  Andrew Sentance  to keep the benchmark interest rate at
0.5 percent and the bond-purchase plan at 200 billion pounds
($313 billion). Sentance pushed for an increase in the rate to
0.75 percent, reiterating it should be raised “gradually.”  ‘Further Action’  “Most members thought that the current level of bank rate
and stock of asset purchases financed by the issuance of central
bank reserves remained appropriate to balance the risks,”
minutes of the Sept. 9 meeting released by the central bank
today in London said. “For some of those members, the
probability that further action would become necessary to
stimulate the economy and keep inflation on track to hit the
target in the medium term had increased.”  The Fed said yesterday after its policy meeting that it’s
“prepared to provide additional accommodation if needed to
support the economic recovery.”  U.S. 10-year Treasury yields fell 4 basis points to 2.53
percent after plunging 14 basis points yesterday. German 10-year
yields were 11 basis points lower at 2.35 percent.  The pound rose 0.2 percent to $1.5649 and weakened 0.7
percent to 85.50 pence per euro.  “The minutes raised the issue that further deterioration
of the data increases the risk of more QE from the BOE, which
has seen the pound underperform versus the euro,” said  Jeremy Stretch , executive director of foreign-exchange strategy at CIBC
World Markets in London. “It’s doing better against the dollar
because there’s more concern about what the Fed might do at this
juncture.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Matthew Brown  in London at 
 mbrown42@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  