-- Greeks Seek Work in Cyprus as Economic Malaise Provokes Exodus
-- B y   S t e l i o s   O r p h a n i d e s
-- 2010-09-22T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-22/greeks-seek-higher-wages-in-cyprus-as-rising-unemployment-leads-to-exodus.html
Photis Karavasilis, a car mechanic
from Volos, Greece, used to work as a builder because he
couldn’t find a job in his chosen profession. He now earns 25
percent more grilling meat 650 miles away in  Cyprus .  Karavasilis, 25, moved to the eastern Mediterranean island
in July after a friend told him about a vacancy at a restaurant
in Nicosia, the capital. He makes about 1,000 euros ($1,338) a
month, compared with the 800 euros he was taking home in the
construction industry in Greece.  “I came to Cyprus in search of something better,” he said
after a shift cooking souvlaki kebabs and putting salad in pitta
bread. “The whole system here is better than in Greece.”  Greeks heading overseas have typically been students,
doctors and bankers seeking education and jobs. This year, more
blue-collar workers with no language skills are looking to
escape economic hardship just as they did in the 1950s. As a
fellow Greek-speaking euro member, Cyprus is a main destination.  Unemployment  in Greece was 11.8 percent in the second
quarter, while in Cyprus, the  rate  was 7 percent, according to
data from national statistical offices. In the 25-to-34 age
bracket, joblessness in Greece was 15.8 percent. The highest
rate was for car mechanics, at 18.1 percent.  Labor Offices  “There is an increase in the number of Greeks visiting
labor offices in Nicosia and e-mails sent to us by Greeks in the
last five months,” said Panagiota Lyra, district labor officer
at the  Ministry of Labour and Social Insurance  in Cyprus. “They
are generally holders of higher education degrees or people in
their 20s to 40s who lost their jobs.”  The Cypriot  economy  grew for the second straight quarter in
the second quarter after it shrank 1.7 percent in 2009. Greek
 gross domestic product  has fallen for seven consecutive
quarters, shrinking 2 percent in 2009, and the government and
European Union predict a 4 percent decline this year.  So far, figures show a small increase in the number of
Greeks working in Cyprus because the latest data available goes
through the end of April, before the summer tourist season. The
increase was 0.9 percent to 9,515 from 9,429 at the end of April
2009, according to the labor ministry.  Maria Paraskevopoulou from the tourist region of  Halkidiki 
in northern Greece got a degree in business administration in
2008 and came to Cyprus three months ago. She worked as a
business consultant in Thessaloniki, Greece’s second-largest
city, for 500 euros a month and earns almost twice that in
Cyprus as a trainee.  Speaking Greek  “No matter how hard I tried, it was impossible to find a
job in Greece,” said Paraskevopoulou, 25. “I thought of
looking abroad for employment. Here people speak the same
language and this counts a lot and I could easily identify where
there were opportunities.”  Almost 74 percent of college-educated Greeks would abandon
the country if they could, as Prime Minister  George Papandreou 
increases taxes and cuts spending to avoid a debt default,
according to a  survey  of 22- to 35-year-olds by Kapa Research
and published in the To Vima newspaper on Aug. 29.  In the 1950s, many Greeks of a similar age fled to places
such as Australia and Canada following the civil war in the
aftermath of World War II.  While the unemployment rate for university graduates was
lower than the Greek national average in the second quarter at
8.1 percent, it was still higher than in Cyprus.  Reluctant Exit  “If I could have found a permanent job in Greece, I would
have surely stayed there,” said Christos Choutoukoglou, a 35-
year-old mathematics graduate from Thessaloniki who arrived in
Nicosia on Aug. 26. “If there is some movement on the labor
market in Greece, I will think again about relocating back home.
But I don’t see it happening in the next five years.”  The travel time from Greece and the willingness of Cypriot
employers to cover relocation expenses are additional incentives
for Greeks and their families to relocate for longer, said
Phryni Yiakoumetti, senior manager at the human resources
consulting department of  PricewaterhouseCoopers Cyprus .  It takes an hour and 40 minutes to fly to Larnaca, the
city with the biggest airport in Cyprus, from Athens and about
two hours from Thessaloniki.   “Cyprus is an attractive destination for Greeks mainly due
to a high standard of living and cultural similarities,” said
Yiakoumetti. Her company has received more enquiries over the
past six months from Greek nationals, she said.  Karavasilis wants to spend at least a year working in Cyprus
to save 5,000 euros before he decides whether to return back to
his home town in central Greece. He told his friends at home
that he would try to get them work too.  “I do not like it that much here to tell you the truth,”
he said. “It was the better pay that brought me to Cyprus.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Stelios Orphanides  in Nicosia, through the Athens office at
   sorphanides@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rodney Jefferson at 
 r.jefferson@bloomberg.net  