-- Iceland Reduces Its Benchmark Rate to 6.25% as Stable Krona Caps Inflation
-- B y   O m a r   R .   V a l d i m a r s s o n
-- 2010-09-22T11:41:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-22/iceland-reduces-its-benchmark-rate-to-6-25-as-stable-krona-caps-inflation.html
Iceland’s central bank cut the
benchmark interest rate by three quarters of a point after the
island’s currency, sheltered by capital controls for almost two
years, remained stable since the bank’s last decision, capping
import prices.  Sedlabanki lowered the seven-day collateral lending rate to
6.25 percent, the Reykjavik-based bank said on its website today.
The bank also cut the  deposit rate  to 4.75 percent from 5.5
percent. Policy makers have reduced the benchmark 12 times from
a record 18 percent since obtaining a $4.6 billion loan from a
group led by the International Monetary Fund at the end of 2008.  “The cut was in accordance with the hints the central bank
has given,” said  Ludvik Eliasson , head of research at MP Bank
hf. It “could continue to cut rates,” though “how deep the
cuts will be will depend on the economic developments. We can’t
overlook that monetary policy also takes into account factors”
including “the eventual removal of capital controls.”  The capital controls, imposed following the failure of
Iceland’s three largest lenders in October 2008, have protected
the krona from a sell-off. The currency has gained 21 percent
against the euro since a Nov. 12 low, stemming consumer price
gains.  Inflation  fell 0.3 point to 4.5 percent last month, the
lowest rate in almost three years. Economic output slumped an
annual 8.4 percent last quarter after contracting 6.3 percent in
the three months through March.  More Rate Cuts  The central bank may continue cutting rates if the krona
remains stable, Governor  Mar Gudmundsson  said at a press
conference today. Inflation, excluding the impact of value-added
taxes, may reach the central bank’s 2.5 percent target by the
end of this year, he said.  The krona is little changed against the euro since the
bank’s last rate decision on Aug. 11. It was down 0.6 percent at
154.30 against the euro at 11:38 a.m. in Reykjavik.  The IMF resumed its program with Iceland in April, freeing
a $160 million payment. The lender’s third review of the
island’s economic program is scheduled for Sept. 29. The fund
delayed the review following a June 16 court decision banning
some foreign loans that had threatened to derail the
government’s debt reduction plans. The next review will also
release about $160 million in funds.  In a subsequent  ruling  on Sept. 16, the island’s Supreme
Court allowed Iceland’s lenders to charge higher rates on loans
affected by the foreign-currency lending ban, potentially
sparing them as much as $4 billion in currency losses.  Capital Controls  The court’s decision last week will put the $12 billion
economy on track to achieve a stronger recovery, Gudmundsson
said at the time.  The bank may start easing capital controls after the third
IMF review, Gudmundsson said on Sept. 20 following the sale of
Kaupthing Bank hf’s FIH Erhversvbank to a group of Danish and
Swedish investors. Sedlabanki will receive 255 million euros
($339 million) following that transaction. The bank had held the
FIH shares as collateral for a 500 million-euro loan to
Kaupthing before its collapse.  “This amount is about double what we’re expecting from the
International Monetary Fund after the third review of the
economic program,” said Gudmundsson. “This will make it easier
for us to proceed to remove the capital controls.”  In Limbo  The bank estimates foreigners are locked into about $3.4
billion in krona assets, mostly in the form of krona Eurobonds
that have remained in limbo since the controls were imposed at
the end of 2008. Krona Eurobonds, known as Glacier bonds, will
probably be the last to be exempt from the capital controls,
Gudmundsson said today. Longest-dated bonds will be the first to
be exempt, Deputy Governor Arnor Sighvatsson said at the same
press conference.  Iceland’s economy will return to growth in 2011, when the
central bank estimates output will expand 2.4 percent. Gross
domestic product contracted a record 6.8 percent last year and
will shrink a further 1.9 percent this year, marking the
island’s longest period of economic decline since records began
in 1944.  The economic decline probably troughed last quarter,
Gudmundsson said today.  Editors: Tasneem Brogger, Chris Kirkham.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Omar R. Valdimarsson  in Reykjavik   valdimarsson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at   tbrogger@bloomberg.net . 