-- Microsoft Plans $4.75 Billion, 4-Part Bond Sale
-- B y   S a p n a   M a h e s h w a r i   a n d   T i m   C a t t s
-- 2010-09-22T19:19:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-22/microsoft-is-said-to-be-planning-debt-sale-in-four-part-benchmark-offering.html
Microsoft Corp ., the world’s
biggest software maker, plans to sell $4.75 billion of bonds a
day after its board boosted the company’s dividend and approved
the issuance of as much as $6 billion in new debt.  Proceeds may be used to fund working capital, capital
expenditures, stock buybacks and acquisitions, the Redmond,
Washington-based company said today in a regulatory filing that
didn’t disclose the size or timing of the sale. The bonds may be
sold as soon as today, said a person familiar with the
transaction said, who declined to be identified as terms aren’t
set.  Microsoft is marketing the debt after yields on investment-
grade corporate bonds fell to 3.73 percent yesterday, according
to Bank of America Merrill Lynch, the lowest since daily records
began on Oct. 31, 1986. Demand for the securities, from one of
only four nonfinancial U.S. companies with the top credit grade,
will be “huge across the globe,” said  Mirko Mikelic , a money
manager at Fifth Third Asset Management.  “I’m sure it’s going to be a name everyone’s going to
want,” said Mikelic, who helps oversee $13 billion of fixed-
income assets in Grand Rapids, Michigan. “It’s a triple-A
credit, great company, well-run, what’s there not to like, other
than the pricing?”  Microsoft plans to sell $1 billion each of 3-, 10- and 30-
year bonds and $1.75 billion of 5-year debt, the person said.  Projected Yields  The 3-year notes may yield 25 basis points more than
similar-maturity Treasuries, the 5-year debt may pay a spread of
40 basis points, the 10-year securities may yield 55 basis
points more than benchmarks, and the 30-year bonds may pay a
spread of 83 basis points, the person said. A basis point is
0.01 percentage point.  The company will use proceeds to pay for dividends and
share repurchases because much of its cash is held overseas, a
person familiar with the matter said last week. Peter Wootton, a
spokesman for the company, wasn’t immediately available to
comment today.  Standard & Poor’s and Moody’s Investors Service also rank
Exxon Mobil Corp., Johnson & Johnson and Automatic Data
Processing Inc. as AAA, or an equivalent Aaa, the same level
they assign to U.S. government debt. J&J sold $1.1 billion of
bonds at the lowest interest rates on record for 10-year and 30-
year securities last month, according to Citigroup Inc. data
going back to 1981.  “The Treasury markets have lower rates than mid-August and
that creates the likelihood that Microsoft will price at lower
rates than the J&J deal,” said  Guy LeBas , chief fixed-income
strategist and economist at Janney Montgomery Scott LLC in
Philadelphia.  Overseas Cash  Microsoft reported $36.8 billion in cash and short-term
investments at the end of last quarter. Much of that is held
overseas, forcing the company to pay taxes on any of the money
used for dividends or stock repurchases.  The company boosted its quarterly  dividend  by 3 cents, or
23 percent, to 16 cents a share yesterday.  “This higher dividend, combined with our ongoing share
repurchase program, reflects our commitment to returning capital
to our shareholders and our confidence in the long-term growth
of the company,” Microsoft Chief Financial Officer  Peter Klein 
said yesterday in a statement.  “You can take it as a sign of soft expected future stock-
market performance,” LeBas said. “Microsoft doesn’t have a lot
of acquisition opportunities, doesn’t have a lot to do
internally, apparently, with this capital, so they’re giving it
back to shareholders.”  Microsoft sold its first bond in May 2009, a $3.75 billion
offering, in a bid to diversify its capital structure and add to
its cash pile for acquisitions, capital expenses and share
buybacks. The sale comprised $2 billion of 2.95 percent, 5-year
notes; $1 billion of 4.2 percent, 10-year debt; and $750 million
of 5.2 percent, 30-year bonds.  In June, Microsoft raised $1.15 billion of interest-free
financing from its first sale of convertible bonds.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Sapna Maheshwari  in New York at 
 sapnam@bloomberg.net ;
 Tim Catts  in New York at 
 tcatts@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  