-- Microsoft Sells $4.75 Billion of Debt in Four-Part Offering
-- B y   S a p n a   M a h e s h w a r i
-- 2010-09-22T22:29:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-22/microsoft-sells-4-75-billion-of-bonds-with-portion-at-record-low-coupon.html
Microsoft Corp ., one of four non-
financial U.S. companies with AAA ratings, sold $4.75 billion of
bonds, including three- and five-year maturities at the lowest
coupons on record.  The company’s $1 billion of 0.875 percent notes due in 2013
and $1.75 billion of 1.625 percent debt maturing in 2015 have
the lowest interest rates of more than 3,500 securities in the
Barclays Capital U.S. Corporate Index of investment-grade
company debt.  The world’s biggest software maker sold the bonds a day
after its board boosted its dividend and approved the issuance
of as much as $6 billion in new debt. The offering came as
yields on investment-grade debt fell to 3.718 percent, the
lowest level since daily records began on Oct. 31, 1986,
according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data.  “A name like Microsoft is always going to garner the
biggest and best investors,” said  Anne Daley , managing director
at Barclays Capital in New York, which helped underwrite the
sale.  Microsoft, based in Redmond, Washington, also sold $1
billion each of 10- and 30-year bonds, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The 4.5 percent, 30-year debt tied for
the lowest coupon with an issue last month from Johnson &
Johnson.  Cash Held Overseas  Proceeds from Microsoft’s sale may be used to fund working
capital, capital expenditures, stock buybacks and acquisitions,
the company said today in a regulatory filing. The company also
plans to pay for dividends and share repurchases because much of
its cash is held overseas, a person familiar with the matter
said last week.  Peter Wootton, a Microsoft spokesman, wasn’t available to
comment today.  The 3-year notes yield 25 basis points more than similar-
maturity Treasuries; the 5-year debt pays a 40 basis-point
spread; the 3 percent securities due in 2020 pay 55 basis
points; and 30-year bonds pay 83 basis points, Bloomberg data
show. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  Spreads on investment-grade debt rose 1 basis point today
to 184 basis points, Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data
show.  Standard & Poor’s and Moody’s Investors Service also rank
Exxon Mobil Corp., Johnson & Johnson and Automatic Data
Processing Inc. as AAA, or an equivalent Aaa, the same level
they assign to U.S. government debt.  Higher Dividend  Microsoft reported $36.8 billion in cash and short-term
investments at the end of last quarter. Much of that is held
overseas, forcing the company to pay taxes on any of the money
used for dividends or stock repurchases.  Microsoft boosted its quarterly  dividend  by 3 cents, or 23
percent, to 16 cents a share yesterday.  The dividend and share repurchase programs reflect
Microsoft’s commitment to returning capital to shareholders and
confidence in its long-term growth prospects, Chief Financial
Officer  Peter Klein  said yesterday in a statement.  “You can take it as a sign of soft expected future stock-
market performance,” said  Guy LeBas , chief fixed-income
strategist and economist at Janney Montgomery Scott LLC in
Philadelphia. “Microsoft doesn’t have a lot of acquisition
opportunities, doesn’t have a lot to do internally, apparently,
with this capital, so they’re giving it back to shareholders.”  Debut Sale  Microsoft sold its first bond in May 2009, a $3.75 billion
offering, in a bid to diversify its capital structure and add to
its cash pile for acquisitions, capital expenses and share
buybacks. The sale comprised $2 billion of 2.95 percent, 5-year
notes; $1 billion of 4.2 percent, 10-year debt; and $750 million
of 5.2 percent, 30-year bonds.  In June, Microsoft raised $1.15 billion of interest-free
financing from its first sale of convertible bonds.  “It’s a perfect storm for issuers right now between low
rates, tight spreads and the fact that investors continue to
have cash to put to work,” Daley said. “We expect the active
new issue calendar to continue.”  In addition to Barclays, Citigroup Inc. and JPMorgan Chase
& Co. helped underwrite today’s sale.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sapna Maheshwari  in New York at 
 sapnam@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  