-- Microsoft Raises Dividend, May Borrow Up to $6 Billion More
-- B y   D i n a   B a s s
-- 2010-09-22T13:56:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-22/microsoft-raises-dividend-23-to-16-cents-may-increase-debt-by-6-billion.html
Microsoft Corp.  raised its
quarterly dividend by 3 cents, or 23 percent, to 16 cents a
share and got approval from its board to sell as much as $6
billion in additional debt.  “This higher dividend, combined with our ongoing share
repurchase program, reflects our commitment to returning capital
to our shareholders and our confidence in the long-term growth
of the company,” Microsoft Chief Financial Officer  Peter Klein 
said yesterday in a statement.  Microsoft  is planning to sell debt this year to pay for
 dividends  and share repurchases because much of its cash is held
overseas, a person familiar with the matter said last week. The
company will try to raise as much as possible without
jeopardizing its debt  rating  of AAA, the highest available, said
the person, who declined to be named because the plans are
confidential and not completed.  The dividend increase was a sign Microsoft is confident in
its ability to generate cash, said  Brent Thill , an analyst at
UBS AG in San Francisco.  “While not as high as some Street expectations, it was a
larger incremental increase than the 2-cent dividend hike
Microsoft’s board approved in fiscal year 2009,” he said in a
note to clients.  ‘Meaningful’ Acquisition?  Thill, who recommends buying Microsoft shares, estimates
the company will generate $25 billion in free cash flow in the
current fiscal year. Based on that, Microsoft could potentially
increase its share repurchases beyond his $12 billion estimate
for the year or pay for a “meaningful” acquisition, he said.  Bloomberg data had indicated the company would increase its
quarterly dividend by 2 cents a share, while  Heather Bellini , an
analyst at ISI Group, predicted an increase of 4 cents. A
quarterly dividend of 16 cents would yield 2.5 percent.  Microsoft fell 45 cents to $24.70 at 9:55 a.m. New York
time in Nasdaq Stock Market  trading . The shares had dropped 17
percent this year before today.  A debt offering may come before the end of the company’s
fiscal year, which closes next June, and could come as soon as
this calendar year, the person familiar with the matter said.  Issuing $6 billion probably wouldn’t put the rating at
risk, according to  data compiled by Bloomberg . The company,
based in Redmond, Washington, is under pressure to return more
cash to shareholders amid declines in its stock price this year.  Cash Hoard  Microsoft reported  $36.8 billion  in cash and short-term
investments at the end of last quarter. Much of that is held
overseas, forcing the company to pay taxes on the money if it
uses it for dividends or stock repurchases. Bellini estimates
that about 74 percent of Microsoft’s cash is overseas.  Microsoft said yesterday that in the 10 years through June,
it had returned almost $170 billion to investors through
dividends and share repurchases. The company began its dividend
in 2003 and offered a $3-a-share special dividend in 2004.  Microsoft sold its first debt in May 2009, a $3.75 billion
offering, in a bid to diversify its capital structure and add to
its cash pile for  acquisitions , capital expenses and share
buybacks. The sale was comprised of $2 billion of 2.95 percent,
5-year notes; $1 billion of 4.2 percent, 10-year debt; and $750
million of 5.2 percent, 30-year bonds.  In June, Microsoft said it would sell $1.15 billion of
convertible senior notes due in 2013 and use the proceeds to
retire some of its commercial paper.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Dina Bass  in Seattle at   dbass2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  