-- IEA Says More People in India Lack Access to Power Than Any Other Nation
-- B y   N a t a l i e   O b i k o   P e a r s o n
-- 2010-09-22T12:19:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-22/iea-says-more-people-in-india-lack-access-to-power-than-any-other-nation.html
More people in India lack access to
electricity than any other nation, a deficit that must be closed
to ensure that expansion of the world’s third-fastest growing
major economy is sustained, the International Energy Agency said.  In India, 404 million people don’t have access to the
energy needed for lighting, mechanical power, transport and
telecommunications, according to an  IEA  report published today.
That’s equivalent to one in three Indians or roughly the
population of the U.S. and Mexico combined, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  On a country-by-country basis, that’s the highest number of
people without electricity, the Paris-based agency said in an e-
mailed response to questions.  “Access to electricity is not only a result of economic
growth but electricity access also contributes actively to
economic growth,” according to the report. “In this regard,
reliability, and not just access, is very important to
sustainable economic growth.”  India’s government has pledged to provide electricity
nationwide by 2012, which would require an installed generation
capacity of  200 gigawatts  to sustain economic growth of  8
percent , the power ministry said on its website. The country had
165 gigawatts as of Aug. 31, according the Central Electricity
Authority, short of the target by  35 gigawatts , or 18 percent.  The IEA estimates India will need to invest an additional
$182 billion to 2030 to achieve universal access to electricity.  India’s economy grew at 8.8 percent in the three months
ended June, the fastest pace in 2 1/2 years. The country faced
power shortages of as much as 10.7 percent during peak hours in
 August , the Central Electricity Authority said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Natalie Obiko Pearson  in Mumbai at 
 npearson7@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Clyde Russell at   crussell7@bloomberg.net . 