-- Illegal Immigrants to Australia Protest in Test for Gillard's Government
-- B y   M a r i o n   R a e
-- 2010-09-22T06:57:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-22/illegal-immigrants-in-australia-protest-on-rooftop-in-test-for-gillard.html
Illegal immigrants held at an
Australian processing center protested for a second day after a
Fijian man jumped to his death, drawing attention to Prime
Minister  Julia Gillard ’s support for mandatory detention.  Today’s rooftop demonstration involves nine Chinese
nationals facing deportation, refugee advocate Jamal Daoud said
by phone from outside the Villawood complex in Sydney.
Immigration Department Spokesman Sandi Logan confirmed that nine
people remained on the roof, without providing their
nationalities.  The gathering follows a similar demonstration yesterday by
13 Tamil, Iraqi and Iranian immigrants after a Fijian facing
deportation leaped from the roof Sept. 20, said Daoud, who works
for the Social Justice Network. The public focus on detainee
conditions may force Gillard to address the issue with
parliamentary allies such as the Greens Party, which opposes the
processing centers.  “This is symptomatic of what’s brewing across the system,
which is under pressure,” Louise Newman, professor of
psychiatry at Melbourne-based  Monash University  and an adviser
to the government, said by phone today. “Australia needs a
radical re-think of mandatory detention.”  Separately, 18 asylum seekers are in the sixth day of a
hunger strike at the Sydney facility, Daoud said. There are
almost 5,000 asylum seekers in  detention  in Australia, and about
half of those are housed offshore on Christmas Island, according
to government figures.  Mandatory Detention  Australia’s policy of mandatory detention of illegal
immigrants started in 1992. Gillard vowed during her election
campaign to continue the practice and set up an offshore
processing center in East Timor if that government agrees to the
plan. Inmates at Villawood, which is often the last stop before
deportation, include boat people sent from Christmas Island and
people who have overstayed work or student visas.  Immigration Minister  Chris Bowen  will fly to the island, an
Australian territory in the Indian Ocean, to inspect conditions
today, according to his office. He wasn’t immediately available
for comment.  Bowen said Sept. 17 the government plans to expand capacity
for detainees by at least 900 people in Queensland and Western
Australia at a cost of A$50 million ($48 million).  Refugees at Villawood are from Sri Lanka, Iraq, Turkey,
Vietnam, China, India, Malaysia, and Africa, said Ramesh
Fernandez, chief executive officer of Melbourne-based advocacy
group Refugees, Survivors and Ex-Detainees.  Villawood  is
designed to hold 304 people and can be expanded to accommodate
another 154, according to the immigration department website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Marion Rae  in Canberra at 
 mrae3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Iain Wilson at 
 iwilson2@bloomberg.net  