-- Imperial Holdings Raises $285 Million in Its Biggest Bond Sale, RMB Says
-- B y   G a r t h   T h e u n i s s e n
-- 2010-09-22T13:46:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-22/imperial-holdings-raises-285-million-in-its-biggest-bond-sale-rmb-says.html
Imperial Holdings Ltd. , the largest
owner of auto dealerships in South Africa, sold 2 billion rand
($285 million) of bonds to boost liquidity and refinance
existing debt, according to joint arranger Rand Merchant Bank.  The company sold five- and seven-year securities in its
largest-ever issue of local-currency debt, RMB, the investment
banking arm of FirstRand Ltd., said in an e-mailed statement.
RMB arranged the transaction for Johannesburg-based Imperial
with Absa Capital, according to the statement.  “The issue proceeds will be used to further improve
liquidity for the group and to provide for the refinancing of
IPL3, a 1 billion-rand bond which matures at the end of
November,” according to RMB.  The debt issue was split into 500 million rand of floating-
rate notes maturing September 2015 that were priced to yield
1.98 percentage points more than the three-month  Johannesburg
Interbank Agreed Rate , the statement said. Imperial issued a
further 1.5 billion rand of 9.78 percent bonds due September
2017 that were priced to yield about 2.1 percent more than
government debt maturing in the same year, RMB said.  South African companies are boosting bond issues and
repaying existing debt with sales of new securities to take
advantage of record-low borrowing costs. The country’s benchmark
money market rate, the three-month Jibar rate, slid to 6.035
percent today, the lowest since the central bank introduced the
 repurchase rate  in 1999.  A total of 17 investors placed bids for Imperial’s bonds at
today’s sale, with demand reaching 3.25 billion rand, according
to the e-mailed statement.  Imperial Group Treasurer  Willem Reitsma  was unavailable
when contacted by Bloomberg News at his office and on his mobile
phone.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Garth Theunissen  in Johannesburg 
 gtheunissen@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net . 