-- In Rural Missouri, an IT Outsourcing Company Challenges India
-- B y   N i c k   L e i b e r
-- 2010-09-22T16:32:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-22/in-rural-missouri-an-it-outsourcing-company-challenges-india.html
Can information technology services
companies located in rural areas in the U.S. compete with lower-
priced counterparts offshore? Shane Mayes is betting they can.
The 37-year-old founder of Onshore Technology Services says his
70-person business, which teaches software development skills to
former manufacturing workers in small towns in Missouri, had $5
million in revenue last year, expects $10 million this year, and
plans to hire an additional 70 employees in 2011. Mayes, who
founded Onshore in 2004, spoke with Bloomberg.com Entrepreneurs
editor Nick Leiber about his company’s training program, pricing
strategy, and plans to expand to 1,000 employees. Edited
excerpts of their conversations follow.  Nick Leiber: Most people don’t think of the U.S. as a great
place to locate outsourcing services; can you describe your
approach to the business?  Shane Mayes: We provide IT services with a premium customer
experience at an offshore price. That includes application
development and integration, software testing, and data
reporting services. The thing that we’re really known for is the
fact that we’re in very rural towns. We go into areas where
there isn’t a rural IT workforce and create a workforce
organically by taking underemployed and dislocated workers
through a [four-month] bootcamp-style training program that
we’ve developed to make software developers out of them.  Q: How do you figure out who to take for the training program?  A: We partner with the Missouri Career Centers. [The career
centers] do a certain amount of screening before we even talk to
them, then we do behavioral interviewing and we give them what’s
called the Computer Programming Aptitude Battery Test. They’re
ranked, and there’s a threshold they have to be past before they
can get in. We have about a one-to-eight interview-to-hire
ratio.  Q: Are there enough workers in these areas?  A: It is a challenge. For us to continue to grow significantly,
we have to have a distributed structure. I don’t see us getting
any larger than a couple hundred people in any one of our
locations. So what we would have to do is open up new locations
across the country. We’ll get to that eventually.  Q: So even though there are lots of people out of work, it
doesn’t mean they can all do what you need them to do?  A: Absolutely not. It is very, very hard. [Our training] is kind
of our secret sauce. It’s gut-wrenching hard work -- otherwise
everybody would be doing it.  Q: How do your prices compare to offshorers?  A: We are a bit more expensive than offshore outsourcing firms
but there’s a thing called a risk-adjusted rate. Gartner came up
with a formula for applying risk factors when outsourcing. So if
you look at the communication gaps, the time zone differences,
and the quality issues that come from high attrition that goes
on offshore, all of those things combine to raise the actual
costs. So there’s a risk multiplier that you to apply. Our costs
and offshorers’ costs net out to be about the same.  Q: What about domestic suppliers?  A: We’re anywhere from 25 percent to 30 percent less. If you see
a $70-an-hour bill rate in St. Louis, that would compare to a
$45-an-hour bill rate [in our rural centers]. And that’s doing
advanced software development, like a JAVA developer or a .NET
developer. Now there are some other activities where we get in
the low $20s an hour -- that’s where they’re performing more of
a low-end technology function, like some scripting, or something
like that.  Q: What kind of clients do you work with?  A: We’ve got a very strong portfolio of Fortune 500 companies,
including MasterCard.  Q: In terms of growth, what’s your strategy?  A: We are growing relatively slowly compared to the actual
opportunity. Our sales pipeline is about $14 million. That’s
well over 100 people we could bring on right away. We don’t
really market ourselves. We only have one sales person in the
entire company. Typically for a company of our size, you’d have
three -- one for every 20 people.  Over the years, we’ve gotten to the point where we know a two-
times growth rate every year allows us to hand-select the best
customers and opportunities. Typically, we’ll just focus on our
top five opportunities and our top five customers and literally
tell everyone else “no.” Eventually we’ll grow to 1,000 people,
but we’re just doing it in a sensible way.  Q: Where do you fit within your clients’ outsourcing suppliers?  A: All of our customers do offshore outsourcing, and sometimes
when they want to do something new and it’s a little risky --
they’re rolling out some new system or some new innovation --
they’ll have us work on that and we’ll effectively commoditize
that work. Then that work will eventually be transitioned to a
competitor’s offshore center. That is just fine with us. Our
business always grows within a client, so even though some work
will go offshore, there’s always something else.  Q: What led you to start this kind of business?  A: I was in the Air Force during the first Gulf War, then I got
into IT. Before I started Onshore, I was running offshore
development projects for Elsevier. While I was in Turkey for the
Air Force, a sort of zealous patriotism that I have began to
solidify.  When I started this company, I didn’t have anything. I had no
money. There was no such thing as a rural outsourcing industry.
I had no customers. I had no proven ability to deliver. I didn’t
have people to do the work. I’ll say it again: I had no money. I
used to talk about how we could build a billion-dollar business.
[I still say] we will build a billion-dollar business. 