-- Inditex Net Income Beats Estimates as Sales Recover
-- B y   A r m o r e l   K e n n a
-- 2010-09-22T06:39:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-22/inditex-first-half-profit-rises-greater-than-expected-68-as-sales-recover.html
Inditex SA , the world’s largest
clothing retailer, said first-half profit rose 68 percent,
beating analyst estimates, as the company sold more full-priced
items at its Zara stores.  Net income  advanced to 628 million euros ($835 million) in
the six months through July from 375 million euros a year
earlier, the Arteixo, Spain-based company said in a statement
today. That compared with a 569 million-euro average estimate of
seven analysts compiled by Bloomberg.  Earnings jumped as Spain’s economic growth improved and
consumers stepped up spending before a sales-tax increase in
July. The retailer, which sells women’s raincoats for less than
70 euros, also reduced reliance on Spain, which accounted for 28
percent of store sales compared with 32 percent a year earlier,
while Asian and other European markets expanded their share.
Revenue at stores open at least a year rose 5 percent.  Achieving the same rate of profit growth in the second half
will be “difficult” due to the comparison basis,  Luca Solca , a
London-based analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein, said before the
statement was released. Bernstein has an “outperform”
recommendation on Inditex.  Gross profit as a proportion of sales increased to 59.4
percent from 55.3 percent a year earlier. Inventory and supply
management and currency shifts helped boost profitability, the
company said. “Inditex expects gross-margin drivers to return
to normal in the second half,” it said.  Revenue Rises  First-half sales rose 14 percent to 5.53 billion euros.
Store sales in local currencies increased 10 percent from Aug. 1
through Sept. 20. Asian markets contributed 15 percent of  sales 
compared with 12 percent a year earlier, while European
countries outside Spain provided 45 percent versus 44 percent.  The retailer opened 173 outlets in the period, taking the
total to 4,780. Zara started online sales on Sept. 2 in six
European countries and will extend Internet sales to Austria,
Ireland, the Netherlands, Belgium and Luxembourg in the second
half. Inditex confirmed online sales will be available to
customers in the U.S., South Korea and Canada next year.  Inditex  has risen 34 percent this year in Madrid trading,
compared to an almost 31 percent gain for its nearest rival in
the region, Hennes & Mauritz AB.  Gap Inc.,  owner of the Banana
Republic brand and the world’s second-largest clothing retailer,
has slumped 10 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Armorel Kenna  in Milan at 
 akenna@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net  