-- India's Sensex to Extend Rally After Reaching 20,000, Deutsche Bank Says
-- B y   S h i y i n   C h e n
-- 2010-09-22T02:25:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-22/india-s-sensex-to-extend-rally-after-reaching-20-000-deutsche-bank-says.html
Indian stocks  may be poised to
extend a rally after the Bombay Stock Exchange’s Sensitive Index
passed the 20,000 level for the first time since January 2008,
according to Deutsche Bank AG.  The  Sensex , as the benchmark measure is known, climbed 0.5
percent yesterday to 20,001.55, the highest since Jan. 15, 2008.
Deutsche Bank has a yearend forecast of 22,000 for the index, or
a further 10 percent gain.  India will be a beneficiary of global deflation given its
low reliance on exports, a widening savings investment gap and
its ability to use its exchange rate as a monetary tool,
Deutsche Bank analysts led by  Abhay Laijawala  and  Abhishek Saraf 
wrote in a report. The Indian economy is also “in a sweet
spot,” which will help support stock gains, they said.  “India is well-positioned as a potential global deflation
hedge trade,” the analysts said. “A positive macroeconomic
environment is creating a strong platform for corporate earnings
growth.”  Gains yesterday helped extend the Sensex’s year-to-date
rally to 15 percent. That’s the best performance among the
world’s 10 largest stock markets by value, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  The Sensex’s rally has been driven “solely” by overseas
investors, according to Credit Suisse Group AG said. The advance
was propelled by net inflows of about $11.2 billion from foreign
institutional investors, according to Credit Suisse analysts led
by  Ashish Gupta .  Net Sellers  Mutual funds have been net sellers of about $2.5 billion
while other domestic institutions including insurance companies
have sold about $1.8 billion, the analysts said in a report.  “Domestic investors do not seem to share the optimism of
foreign investors and the media,” the analysts said.  Net inflows from foreign investors climbed 60 percent this
year to $16.23 billion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The U.S. Federal Reserve said yesterday it’s willing to
ease monetary policy further to spur growth and support prices
while refraining today from expanding its holdings of
securities. Policy makers said the pace of recovery and job
growth have “slowed in recent months.”  Even as the U.S. rebound slows, the Reserve Bank of India
said last week the nation’s  economic growth  remains “steady,”
allowing the central bank to raise interest rates for a fifth
time this year.  ‘New Normal’  “The deflation trade is part of the emergence of a ‘New
Normal’ in the global macro environment - a sharply polarized
world with deflation or near deflation in the western world and
strong growth, albeit inflationary, in emerging markets,” the
Deutsche Bank analysts said.  They recommended investors hold shares of consumer
discretionary and industrial companies, with  Axis Bank Ltd.  and
 Bharat Heavy Electricals Ltd.  ranking among their top picks,
according to the report.  Even after gains this year,  valuations  for Indian stocks
are “not yet in the bubble zone,” the analysts also said. The
Sensex is valued at 19 times estimated earnings, compared with a
high of about 24 times when the measure reached its record in
January 2008, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shiyin Chen in Singapore at 
 schen37@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Linus Chua at 
 lchua@bloomberg.net  