-- Inditex Store Sales Growth Slows in Third Quarter; Shares Drop in Madrid
-- B y   A r m o r e l   K e n n a
-- 2010-09-22T11:21:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-22/inditex-store-sales-growth-slows-in-third-quarter-shares-drop-in-madrid.html
Inditex SA , the world’s largest
clothing retailer, said sales growth at its stores eased in the
third quarter, sending the  shares  lower.  Store sales increased 10 percent at local currency rates
from Aug. 1 through Sept. 20, the Arteixo, Spain-based owner of
the Zara chain said today as it reported first-half profit that
beat analyst estimates. Net sales increased 11 percent in the
first half, stripping out exchange-rate shifts.  “Bears may point to the slower sales in the second half to
date,”  Simon Irwin , an analyst at Liberum Capital Ltd., said by
e-mail. The slowdown should be viewed in the context of a
stronger comparable period a year ago, he said.  Inditex fell as much as 3.2 percent in Madrid trading,
having gained 34 percent this year before today. First-half
 profit  rose 68 percent as Spain’s economic growth improved and
consumers stepped up spending before July’s sales-tax rise.
Achieving the same rate of profit growth in the second half will
be “difficult,”  Luca Solca , a London-based analyst at Sanford
C. Bernstein, said before the earnings were released.  The start to the third quarter was “slightly” below
estimates, said Cheuvreux analyst  Daniel Ovin , who has an
“outperform”  rating  on the shares.  Inditex Chief Executive Officer  Pablo Isla  attributed the
slowdown to tougher comparisons, with sales having fallen in the
first half of the prior year and risen in the second half.  ‘Not Very Relevant’  “To look at the sales over a short period of time is not
very relevant,” Isla said on a conference call.  Inditex  was down 1.49 euros, or 2.6 percent, at 56.63 euros
as of 12:48 p.m. in Madrid, giving the company a market value of
about 35 billion euros ($47 billion).  First-half sales rose 14 percent to 5.5 billion euros. Net
income advanced to 628 million euros from 375 million euros a
year earlier. That compared with a 569 million-euro average
estimate of seven analysts compiled by Bloomberg.  The Spanish retailer also said it expects “gross-margin
drivers to return to normal in the second half,” after first-
half gross profit as a proportion of sales increased to 59.4
percent from 55.3 percent a year earlier.  Purchasing is going to get more “difficult” over the next
12 months, said Liberum’s Irwin, citing rising raw-material
expenses and labor costs in Asia. “Inditex is very well
positioned relative to peers.”  Supply Structure  Inditex concentrates about half its production in Europe,
15 percent in Turkey and 35 percent Asia, and isn’t planning to
change its supply structure, CEO Isla said.  Hennes & Mauritz AB , Inditex’s nearest rival in Europe,
buys its goods from about 700 independent suppliers, mostly in
Asia and Europe. H&M shares have risen 29 percent this year,
near the 30 percent gain for Inditex.  Inditex has cut the weighting of its store sales coming
from Spain to 28 percent from 32 percent, according to the
statement. Asian store sales rose to 15 percent of the total in
the first half from 12 percent last year.  Sixty percent of the company’s planned store openings for
the year will come in the second half, compared to 50 percent in
the year-earlier period, the CEO said. Selling-space will rise
by as much as 10 percent annually in the coming years, he said,
confirming earlier statements.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Armorel Kenna  in Milan at 
 akenna@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net  