-- Sugar Cane Yields in Uttar Pradesh May Fall on Floods, Commissioner Says
-- B y   P r a t i k   P a r i j a
-- 2010-09-22T12:22:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-22/india-s-top-sugar-cane-grower-maintains-production-forecast-amid-floods.html
Sugar cane yields in Uttar Pradesh,
India’s biggest cane grower, may be affected because of flooding
in some growing areas in the northern state, an official said.  About 10 percent of the 2.1 million hectare (5.2 million
acres) crop area is under water, Kamram Rizvi, cane commissioner
with the provincial government, said in a phone interview.  “Unlike rice or wheat, sugar cane doesn’t get affected if
it stays under water for three to four days,” he said. “There
may be some productivity loss,” Rizvi said, without providing
an estimate of how much output may be lost.  Adverse weather in Brazil, Russia, China and Pakistan has
helped raw-sugar prices in New York rally 75 percent from May 7.
An extended monsoon season in India, the second-biggest producer,
may delay crushing by mills, a producers’ group said last week.  Raw-sugar futures for March delivery gained as much as 1.2
percent to 23 cents a pound on ICE Futures U.S. before trading
at 22.96 cents at 5:41 p.m. Mumbai time. The price dropped 1.3
percent yesterday, the biggest drop since Sept. 15.  India’s monsoon rainfall, the main source of irrigation for
the country’s 235 million farmers, has been 104 percent of the
50-year average, more than the 102 percent predicted in June,
 the weather office  said today. Floods in Uttar Pradesh have
inundated 177 villages in 30 districts, Press Trust of India
reported yesterday.  Still, the state may produce 6.8 million metric tons of
sugar in the year starting Oct. 1, unchanged from a previous
forecast,  Shyamlal Gupta , secretary of Uttar Pradesh Sugar
Mills’ Association, said by phone earlier today.  “There isn’t much damage to the crop in eastern Uttar
Pradesh and supplies won’t be affected,” said  Vivek Saraogi ,
managing director of Balrampur Chini Mills Ltd., the nation’s
second-biggest producer.  Balrampur’s plants are among the 42 mills operating in the
eastern part of the state that has a total of 128 factories,
according to the Indian Sugar Mills Association.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Pratik Parija  in New Delhi at 
 pparija@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Poole at   jpoole4@bloomberg.net  