-- Indonesian Stocks, Asia's Priciest, to Extend Gain on Growth, Mandiri Says
-- B y   B e r n i   M o e s t a f a
-- 2010-09-22T23:37:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-22/indonesian-stocks-asia-s-priciest-to-extend-gain-on-growth-mandiri-says.html
Indonesian stocks , Asia’s most
expensive, are set to extend gains by as much as 4.6 percent in
2010 as faster economic growth draws more overseas investors,
the nation’s second-largest state-owned fund said.  The  Jakarta Composite index  may trade in a range from 3,300
to 3,500, said  Kenny Soejatman , director of equity investment at
PT Mandiri Manajemen Investasi, which manages about $1.9 billion
in Jakarta. The benchmark gauge has risen 32 percent this year,
the most among Asia’s 10 biggest markets.  Overseas investors  bought a net 4.9 trillion rupiah ($547
million) of Indonesian shares this month, almost a third of the
15.7 trillion rupiah purchased this year. Flows into emerging-
market equity funds and high-yield bonds reached a six-week high
in the week to Sept. 15, as higher risk appetite sustained a
global rally, EPFR Global said last week.  “The market has been rising largely thanks to liquidity,”
Soejatman said in an interview in Jakarta yesterday. “The
market has been in a much more forgiving mood about high
valuations because the expectation of growth is high.”  The stock index fell 0.6 percent to 3,343.34 yesterday.
Shares gained this year as  Bank Indonesia  kept its interest rate
at a record low to boost growth even as inflation quickened. The
central bank left the rate at 6.5 percent for 13 months as
President  Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono  targets an average 6.6
percent annual expansion through the end of his term in 2014.
Domestic consumption makes up two-thirds of the economy.  Most Overvalued Sectors  Fund inflows helped push stock values to 35 times reported
earnings, the highest level in a year, making Indonesia Asia’s
most expensive stock market, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “We suggest investors take profits in the most overvalued
sectors,” in Indonesia, Credit Suisse Group AG strategists led
by Sakthi Siva wrote in a Sept. 16 report. Consumer staples,
consumer cyclicals and industrials are the three most overvalued
industries, based on a model that compares prices to book values
against the return on equity, said Siva, ranked first for equity
strategy in Institutional Investor’s 2010 Asian poll.  Mandiri’s Soejatman said investors should buy consumer
stocks that aren’t expensive, such as  PT Gudang Garam , the
nation’s second-biggest cigarette maker. Gudang Garam is trading
at 21 times estimated earnings, compared with 34 times of  PT
Unilever Indonesia , the nation’s biggest detergent maker.  PT Astra International , the nation’s largest company by
market value, may also rise as its businesses in the automotive,
finance, palm oil, and mining industries serve as a “proxy” to
the Indonesian economy, he said. The stock is trading at 17
times estimated earnings.  “Consumer discretionary stocks remain attractive because
of the consumption story that’s driven by credit expansion,”
Soejatman said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Berni Moestafa  in Jakarta at 
 bmoestafa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Linus Chua at 
 lchua@bloomberg.net  