-- Indonesia Rejects China Stance That U.S. Stay Out of Local Waters Dispute
-- B y   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e   a n d   S u s a n   L i
-- 2010-09-22T05:42:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-22/indonesia-rejects-china-stance-that-u-s-stay-out-of-local-waters-dispute.html
Indonesian Foreign Minister  Marty Natalegawa  rejected China’s stance that the U.S. stay out of
territorial disputes in the South China Sea ahead of a meeting
of Southeast Asian leaders with President  Barack Obama .  The Association of Southeast Asian Nations is aware of
China’s position “but at the same time the issues on the South
China Sea need resolution,” Natalegawa said in an interview
today with Bloomberg Television. “Indonesia, through Asean, is
keen to ensure we have conditions conducive for negotiations to
take place” so disagreements “can be resolved through peaceful
means.”  China yesterday signaled for the U.S. to stay out of the
spat over territorial waters, portions of which are claimed by
Vietnam, the Philippines, Malaysia, Brunei and  Indonesia ,
Southeast Asia’s largest economy.  The U.S. has asserted a role in the sea vital to world
trade to push back against Chinese assertiveness in the region.
Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  called the matter “a leading
diplomatic priority” at an Asean meeting in Hanoi two months
ago. That drew a reaction from China, which prefers to negotiate
with claimants on a one-to-one basis.  The dispute comes as China and Japan are locked in a
diplomatic row centering on conflicting territorial claims in
the same waters. That conflict “reminds all of us that we
cannot take for granted the relatively benign atmosphere we’ve
had for many decades now in the Asia-Pacific region,” said
Natalegawa, who is in New York to attend United Nations meetings.  Talks Stalled  Talks between Asean and China on a code of conduct in the
sea have stalled since they agreed in 2002 to resolve
disagreements peacefully. In a July  filing  to the UN, Indonesia
said China’s claim to the entire sea “clearly lacks
international legal basis.”  Obama has sought to boost security and trade ties with
 Asean , the fourth-biggest export market for the U.S.  His
meeting with Asean leaders in Singapore last year was the first-
ever a U.S. president has held with the bloc.  This week’s meeting “is a good symbol that the group is a
priority for the Obama administration,” said  Simon Tay ,
chairman of the Singapore Institute of International Affairs.
“There are, however, questions about the substance of the
summit, especially given the domestic priorities for the U.S.
President.”  Indonesian President  Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono  will not
attend Asean’s meeting with Obama. The U.S. president has
postponed a planned trip to his childhood home three times this
year, most recently in June because of the Gulf oil spill.  Vision, Partnership  “The fact that certain visits have yet to take place I
don’t think is impairing our vision of partnership in the
future,” Natalegawa said. “I’m very optimistic that we’re
heading into even deeper and wider relations.”  Indonesia is the world’s most populous Muslim country, and
its 231 million people make up about 40 percent of Asean’s
population. In July, the U.S. resumed ties with Indonesia’s
special forces that were cut 12 years ago because of human
rights concerns.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Daniel Ten Kate  in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Austin at 
 billaustin@bloomberg.net  