-- Swiss Stocks Decline; Shares of Banks, Transocean Lead Benchmark SMI Lower
-- B y   A d a m   E w i n g
-- 2010-09-22T16:08:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-22/minoteries-hbm-kuoni-myriad-tecan-may-move-swiss-equity-preview.html
Swiss stocks fell, as a slide in
financials and  Transocean Ltd . pulled the benchmark index lower
for a second day.  UBS AG  and  Credit Suisse Group AG , The country’s two
biggest banks, each fell more than 2 percent, while Transocean
slipped 3.2 percent after a report said the company has a higher
credit risk.  The benchmark  Swiss Market Index  fell 1.2 percent to
6,344.88 at the 5:30 p.m. close in Zurich, extending yesterday’s
0.6 percent fall. The broader Swiss Performance Index slid 1
percent today.  European stock indexes declined today after the U.S.
Federal Reserve said it’s willing to ease monetary policy
further to spur growth while refraining from buying more
securities. The SMI has rebounded 7.3 percent since this year’s
low in July on optimism the country’s economy is weathering a
global slowdown.  “We’re nearing the end of a great quarter and at the top
of the trading range,” said  Lex van Dam , fund manager at
London-based Hampstead Capital, which oversees $500 million.
“Investor confidence is a bit weak today as there are still
signs the real economy is not doing that well and with more
quantitative easing coming, worries remain.”  UBS slumped 2.9 percent to 17.6 francs, its fourth loss in
five days, while Credit Suisse slipped 2.5 percent to 44.75
francs, extending yesterday’s 1.6 percent slide, following
European banking shares in their biggest loss since August.  Transocean, Myriad  Transocean, owner of the Deepwater Horizon offshore rig,
fell 3.2 percent to 58.45 francs, its fourth decline. Rating
agency Moody’s said there is an increased credit risk because of
the rig’s collapse.  Myriad Group AG  tumbled 20 percent to 3.40 francs, the
biggest fall since 2006. The maker of software for hand-held and
mobile devices said its customer Sagem Wireless has requested a
contract termination with immediate effect following Sagem’s
“difficulties.”  ABB Ltd. , the world’s largest builder of electricity
networks, slumped 1.7 percent to 20.7 francs, paring five days
of gains. European industrial orders declined more than
economists forecast in July, led by a drop in capital goods such
as factory machinery, the European Union’s statistics office in
Luxembourg said today.  Helvetia Holding AG  rose 1.6 percent to 337 francs, its
third rise. Switzerland’s fourth-biggest insurer is acquiring
the Swiss insurance companies Alba General Insurance Company
Ltd., Phenix Insurance Company Ltd. and Phenix Life Insurance
Company Ltd. from Allianz Suisse.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Carolyn Bandel  in Zurich at 
 cbandel@bloomberg.net ;
 Adam Ewing  in Stockholm at 
 aewing5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
David Merritt at   dmerritt1@bloomberg.net . 