-- Investors Are Deaf to the Screams of Gold, Cotton: Mark Gilbert
-- B y   M a r k   G i l b e r t
-- 2010-09-22T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-22/investors-are-deaf-to-screams-of-gold-cotton-commentary-by-mark-gilbert.html
Most of us own truths too painful
to confess. We drink too much. We lust inappropriately. We envy.
We covet material goods, when every study shows experiences
count for so much more. Confessing them, even just to ourselves
in the long, dark teatime of the soul, is too distressing.  The collective subconscious of the financial markets is no
different. It knows pension systems are bankrupt, water wars are
coming,  China  will best the West, Keynesian stimulus is a
surefire way to stoke inflation, gold is saying something, and
the banking community remains as rapacious as it was prior to
the credit crisis. Knowing and admitting isn’t the same thing.  The following paragraphs list some of the taboos that
should ping our radar harder.  In Price Is Knowledge  If you told Rip van Bondtrader that gold had risen to a
record during his decade-long slumber, he’d want to know what
the inflation outlook was, and how badly he’d gotten killed on
his bond investments. He’d be astonished to discover that he’s
made a total return of about 8 percent since January on
Treasuries maturing in more than a year.  “What makes the gold story so interesting is that bullion
has so many different correlations -- with inflation, with the
dollar, with  interest rates , with political uncertainty,”
according to  David Rosenberg , chief economist at Gluskin Sheff &
Associates in Toronto. “This year, for example, gold has
shifted from being a commodity toward being a currency -- the
classic role as a monetary metal that is no government’s
liability.”  Gold may be screaming more about a general mistrust of the
securities markets than about the prospect of rising prices.
Rip, though, would be similarly horrified to see cotton trading
near a 15-year high at more than $1 a pound, or wheat surging
more than 30 percent in the past year, helping to drive a
UBS/Bloomberg index of food prices up by about 28 percent. The
official figures say inflation is dormant; the phrase “lies,
damned lies and statistics” springs to mind.  Lots of Clever People Don’t Believe in Currencies  Imagine trying to explain to a grandmother or a teenager
that a lot of very clever people in the financial world don’t
actually believe in dollars, euros and yen. Exchanging goods and
services for bits of paper is a confidence game, say some; a
conjuring trick without bones, because without the skeleton of a
gold standard, so-called fiat currencies are worth nothing more
than the paper they are printed on.  Even the majority of finance professionals who don’t see
any need to back currencies with precious metals are haunted by
the thought of the central bank printing presses whirring into
action. And, with every nation in the world trying to export its
way out of trouble, the beggar-thy-neighbor race to devalue
currencies will only gather pace in the coming months.  When I’m 64  Folk wisdom claims that bumble bees defy the laws of
physics because their power-to-weight ratio should be
insufficient to allow flight. Luckily, because the bees don’t
know this, they happily take off, buzz around and land, buoyed
by blissful ignorance. Similarly, no sane investor would ever
buy a stock or a bond if they stopped to consider the inverted-
pyramid mathematics of an ageing, death-resistant population, a
slump in birthrates, and the New Normal of spectacularly low
returns in a post-bubble environment.  How on Earth is society going to pay pensions to this
growing army of old people? If granddad does what investment
theory says he should and socks his nest egg (assuming he even
has one) into the ultra safety of Treasuries, earning a record-
low yield of less than 0.45 percent on two-year securities, how
will he afford his medications? Many countries and companies are
probably bankrupt once you account properly for their future
obligations; some problems, though, are too big and too
intractable and too downright scary for polite conversation.  Water, Water Everywhere  The recent surge in the price of wheat as a summer-singed  Russia  banned exports should have been a sign that  food security 
is a global tinderbox waiting to flare. Everyone has read the
stories about Chinese officials wandering around  Africa  buying
agricultural rights that last for decades; no-one wants to
really consider the consequences of not being able to feed their
kids.  While the West was tinkering with its crops to grow
allegedly environmentally friendly fuel for our automobile
obsession, the nation that takes the long view was snapping up
long-term leases on the world’s bread boxes. In the not-too
distant future, nations that currently share rivers will divide
into those geographically fortunate enough to be the source of
those waterways, and those risking drought and deprivation.  The Inflationary Consequences of John  Maynard Keynes   Inflation is always and everywhere a monetary phenomenon,
according to  Milton Friedman , who has been eclipsed in recent
years by his chief competitor, John Maynard Keynes. Every bond
investor suspects that chucking billions of dollars into the
global economy builds a bed of kindling; nobody wants to shout
“fire!” in a crowded trade.  The Answer to Too Much Debt Is Not More Debt  Lending to governments is not risk-free, whether that
government is  Argentina ,  Iceland , Ireland or the U.S. These
days, when you buy government debt, you are taking on the credit
risk of the global financial system because that is what the
too-big-to-fail doctrine has saddled the world’s taxpayers with.  This week’s successful debt auctions by Ireland,  Greece  and  Spain  sure beat the alternative of failed sales with nobody
turning up. With central banks acting as buyers of first and
last resort, however, it is impossible to pretend that the
capital markets are functioning properly -- another dirty little
secret kept suppressed deep in the subconscious.    Mark Gilbert  is the London bureau chief and a columnist
for Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Mark Gilbert in London at 
 magilbert@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  