-- TIPS Five-Year Yields Turn Negative on Fed Inflation Concern
-- B y   D a n i e l   K r u g e r
-- 2010-09-22T19:21:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-22/tips-five-year-yields-turn-negative-on-fed-concern-inflation-level-too-low.html
Yields on five-year Treasury
Inflation Protected Securities turned negative after the Federal
Reserve said inflation is running below levels that reflect a
healthy economy.  TIPS pay interest on a principal amount that rises with
consumer prices. As yields on conventional shorter maturities
have plunged, investors have been willing to buy TIPS with
negative yields betting that return from the inflation
adjustment will exceed the interest the fixed-rate notes pay.  The Federal Open Market Committee said in its statement
yesterday that “measures of underlying inflation are currently
at levels somewhat below those the Committee judges most
consistent, over the longer run, with its mandate” to promote
employment and price stability.  “The big story is the Fed telling us they wouldn’t mind it
if inflation went up a bit,” said  Jay Mueller , who manages
about $3 billion of bonds at Wells Fargo & Co. in Milwaukee.
“They’re probably going to have to engage in some more
 quantitative easing .”  The five-year inflation-protected note yield dropped 3
basis points, or 0.03 percentage point, to negative 0.07 percent
at 3:12 p.m. in New York, according to BGCantor Market Data. The
price of the 0.5 percent security maturing in April 2015 gained
1/8, or $1.25 per $1,000 face amount, to 102 19/32.  The TIPS yield last turned negative on Aug. 6, four days
before the central bank’s policy meeting after which it said the
Fed would reinvest principal payments on its mortgage holdings
into long-term U.S. debt securities to stimulate an economic
recovery that has proved “more modest” than anticipated.  Two-Year TIPS  Yields on inflation-indexed Treasuries maturing in July
2012 have been negative since July 20 as yields on conventional
two-year Treasuries dropped to record lows well below the annual
rate of inflation.  The yield on the two-year note touched an all-time low for
a second day after the Fed said yesterday it’s prepared ease
policy further to support the economic recovery. The  central
bank  bought $2.07 billion of Treasuries maturing from March 2013
to April 2014 today as part of its effort to keep borrowing
costs low.  “There is an underlying bid in the market as the bull
trend in Treasuries remains intact,” said  Martin Mitchell , head
government bond trader in Baltimore at Stifel Nicolaus & Co., a
brokerage firm. “The Fed has tipped their hand that they are
likely to initiate a larger-scale asset-purchase program in the
future. If the Fed becomes a larger buyer, the Treasury market
can only go higher.”  Fed ‘Accommodation’  The Fed said in its statement yesterday that it’s prepared
“to provide additional accommodation if needed to support
economic recovery and to return inflation, over time, to levels
consistent with its mandate.”  Consumer prices excluding food and energy increased in
August for a fifth month at an annual rate of 0.9 percent,
matching the slowest year-over-year rate of gains since 1966,
the Labor Department said Sept. 17.  The Fed completed a program to buy $1.25 trillion of agency
mortgage-backed securities and about $175 billion of agency debt
in March. The Fed was the biggest buyer of Treasuries when it
purchased $300 billion of U.S. debt in 2009.  The  difference  between yields on 10-year  notes  and Treasury
Inflation Protected Securities, a gauge of trader expectations
for consumer prices over the life of the maturity known as the
break-even rate, was 1.88 percentage points, compared with the
five-year average of 2.11.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Daniel Kruger  in New York at 
 dkruger1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  