-- Iran May Be Open to Security Council Meeting on Nuclear Program, U.S. Says
-- B y   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n   a n d   P e t e r   S .   G r e e n
-- 2010-09-22T19:39:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-22/iran-may-be-open-to-security-council-meeting-on-nuclear-program-u-s-says.html
Iran may be open to meeting this
year with the permanent members of the United Nations Security
Council, including the U.S., to discuss the dispute over its
nuclear program, a U.S. official told reporters today.  The official cited signs of Iranian willingness to hold
talks, while warning that the regime had still failed to respond
to overtures by European Union foreign policy chief  Catherine Ashton . She leads efforts to get Iran to return to the “P5 Plus
One,” a negotiating forum comprised of the U.S., U.K., France,
Russia, China and Germany, to discuss its nuclear program.  Iranian President  Mahmoud Ahmadinejad , attending the UN
General Assembly, has sent mixed signals about how receptive he
is to engaging in talks. The “conditions are easy” for
resuming talks with the U.S., he said today in a video
conference with American academics. Yesterday, he warned that a
U.S. attack on Iran to destroy its nuclear facilities would
start a war unlike any the U.S. has ever experienced.  “Now is the time for Iran to engage in real negotiation,
in actual constructive dialogue,” said U.K. Foreign Secretary
 William Hague  told reporters in New York today. Iran’s nuclear
program “threatens to bring about a nuclear arms race.”  Russian Ban  The six countries pressuring Iran are showing a united
front. Russian President  Dmitry Medvedev  today signed a decree
banning the sale of weapons, including S-300 air defense
systems, to Iran in compliance with UN sanctions against the
Middle Eastern country. The decree complies with June 9 UN
sanctions, also agreed to by China, that aim to prevent
development of nuclear weapons or ballistic missiles.  “We welcome” Russia’s steps, Assistant Secretary of State
for European and Eurasian Affairs  Philip H. Gordon  told
reporters today at a briefing in New York.  The U.K.’s Hague is meeting later today with Iranian
Foreign Minister  Manouchehr Mottaki , the only talks announced so
far between Iran and a member of the nuclear negotiating forum.
The U.S. isn’t willing to meet one-on-one with Iran, the U.S.
official said. Ashton said today the goal is an “early”
resolution of the impasse through diplomacy.  Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  and her counterparts
from Britain, China, France, Germany and Russia met today in New
York to discuss their strategy to shift Iran’s position.  Blast in Iran  The meeting was overshadowed by a bombing in Iran’s West
Azerbaijan province that killed at least 12 people and injured
at least 80 people at an annual military parade. The Iranian
Foreign Ministry blamed the attack on foreign “elements.”  Clinton condemned the attack, saying it “underscores the
international community’s need to work together to combat
terrorism that threatens the lives of innocent civilians all
around the world.”  The U.S. cut diplomatic ties with Iran in 1980 in response
to the seizure of the American Embassy in Tehran, where 52
diplomats were held hostage for 444 days. They were taken
hostage during the 1979 Islamic Revolution that ousted the
monarchy and brought Shiite Muslim clerics to power.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Flavia Krause-Jackson in New York at  fjackson@bloomberg.net ;
Peter S. Green in New York at 
 psgreen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward DeMarco at 
 edemarco1@bloomberg.net  