-- Iran Marks Defense Week With a Rebuff to Clinton Over the Military's Role
-- B y   L a d a n e   N a s s e r i
-- 2010-09-22T10:37:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-22/iran-marks-defense-week-with-a-rebuff-to-clinton-over-the-military-s-role.html
Iran used the annual armed forces
parade outside Tehran to counter concerns expressed by U.S.
Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  over the power of the Iranian
military and to stress its defensive role.  “We tell her Iran’s military might is only a deterrent and
for defending our country against foreign aggressors,” the
armed forces joint chief of staff, General Hassan Firouzabadi,
said today in a speech aired live by state-run  Press TV  at the
start of Sacred Defense Week, a commemoration of the 1980-1988
Iran-Iraq war. “Iran’s armed forces can confront any threat.”  Clinton said in a Sept. 19 interview on ABC’s “This Week”
program, “When you empower a military as much as they have -- to
rely on them to put down legitimate protests and demonstrations
-- you create a momentum and unleash forces that you do not know
where they will end up.” Iran’s Basij militia, controlled by the
Revolutionary Guard Corps, was used against dissenters who
disputed President  Mahmoud Ahmadinejad ’s 2009 re-election.  Iran has hailed its recent advances as proof it is
technologically self-sufficient and ready to confront foreign
threats, even while under four sets of United Nations sanctions
over its refusal to scale back its nuclear program.  The U.S. and several of its allies say Iran’s nuclear
activities are cover for the development of a bomb, a claim that
Iran rejects, saying it needs the technology to generate power
for its growing population. Israel views the work as a threat to
its existence and hasn’t ruled out attacks against Iran’s
nuclear facilities.  Missiles Showcased  The televised parade included the presentation of Iran’s
latest military achievements, including short- and long-range
missiles. Among them were the long-range Sejil-2 missile, which
can reach targets 2,000 kilometers (1,240 miles) away, the long-
range Shahab-3 missile and the medium-range Shahab-2. Iran
announced successful tests of the three missiles last year.  The Shejil and the Shabab-3 both put Israel within reach.
Ahmadinejad has questioned the right of the state of Israel to
exist and the truth of the Nazi Holocaust.  The Qiam surface-to-surface missile was also showcased,
along with the Iranian-built Karrar, a long-range drone aircraft
that can carry bombs.  In West Azerbaijan province, a smaller military parade was
targeted today in a bombing in the city of Mahabad, about 550
kilometers (340 miles) west of Tehran. Eleven people were killed
and at least 67 injured in the blast, a nurse said by telephone
from the emergency room at the city’s Imam Khomeini Hospital.  The governor of the western province blamed “anti-
revolutionary elements” for the bombing. The region has been the
scene of attacks on government targets by the Party for a Free
Life in Kurdistan, or PJAK, which says it wants autonomy for
Iran’s Kurdish areas.  Clinton told ABC that there has been “increasing power
exercised by the military, by the Revolutionary Guard and by
other militia and military entities,” and that the development
is “a concern of people inside Iran.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ladane Nasseri  in Tehran at 
 lnasseri@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maher Chmaytelli at 
 mchmaytelli@bloomberg.net  