-- Israeli Police Enter Jerusalem Holy Site After Unrest Over Man's Killing
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   A l e x a n d e r
-- 2010-09-22T16:15:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-22/israeli-police-enter-jerusalem-holy-site-after-unrest-over-man-s-killing.html
Israeli police moved briefly into a
holy site in Jerusalem’s Old City after the killing of a
Palestinian man led to unrest in Arab neighborhoods.  Officers entered the area known to Jews and Christians as
the Temple Mount, and to Muslims as Harem es-Sharif or Noble
Sanctuary, though they didn’t enter the site’s al-Aqsa Mosque,
police spokesman  Micky Rosenfeld  said. They pulled back from the
area after the situation calmed down, he said.  The 32-year-old Palestinian was shot dead by a security
guard employed by Jewish residents of Silwan, a predominately
Arab neighborhood in east Jerusalem earlier today. Nine Israelis
were slightly injured in clashes throughout the day and eight
Israeli Arabs have been arrested, Rosenfeld said.  U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  met Israeli Prime
Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and Palestinian Authority President
 Mahmoud Abbas  last week for peace talks in Sharm el-Sheikh,
Egypt, and in Jerusalem. She urged them to find a compromise to
resolve a dispute over Israeli settlement construction in the
West Bank that may derail the talks, which began in Washington
Sept. 2.  The Palestinian was killed today when the guard fired shots
into the air after his vehicle was stoned from rooftops in the
Silwan area, Rosenfeld said. The Palestinian had previously been
arrested for taking part in protests, the spokesman said. Police
are maintaining a presence in east Jerusalem, he said  ‘Escalating Violence’  Palestinian leaders accused Israel of trying to sabotage
the peace negotiations.  “Israel is apparently heading toward escalating violence
with the Palestinians and carrying out actions that will
undermine the peace process,” Jamal Muheisen, member of the
central committee of Abbas’s Fatah party, told  Voice of
Palestine  Radio.  The Jerusalem holy site has been the flashpoint for
previous clashes between Israelis and Palestinians, including
rioting that touched off the second Palestinian intifada, or
uprising, in 2000.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Caroline Alexander  in London at 
 calexander1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Sanders at 
 psanders@bloomberg.net . 