-- Israel Settlers Set to Build if Netanyahu Allows as Freeze Ends
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   F e r z i g e r
-- 2010-09-22T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-22/israeli-settlers-poised-to-build-if-netanyahu-permits-as-freeze-nears-end.html
On the terraced southern slope of
Israel’s Neriah settlement in the West Bank, about five miles
from the Palestinian Authority’s headquarters, tractors and work
crews are poised to start building a new neighborhood.  Excavating the lots and pouring cement foundations for 70
homes will begin promptly on Sept. 26, when a 10-month
settlement construction moratorium expires, unless the Defense
Ministry withholds needed permission, said Neriah Council
Chairman Doron Ben-Yehuda.  The planned action will force Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  to choose between keeping a commitment to his
coalition partners to end the freeze -- which could bring peace
negotiations with Palestinians to a halt -- or heeding President
 Barack Obama ’s call to extend the moratorium.  “When the government says we can build, we will start
building again and we hope to start on Sunday,” Ben-Yehuda
said, standing at the building site.  Palestinian Authority President  Mahmoud Abbas  said the
talks he started with Netanyahu at the beginning of the month
can’t continue if construction resumes. The Israeli leader
repeatedly has said he doesn’t plan on extending the freeze.  Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton , who joined Netanyahu
and Abbas for talks last week in Sharm el-Sheikh, Egypt, and
Jerusalem, urged the two to reach a compromise on settlements
that would allow negotiations to continue. Obama’s envoy,  George Mitchell , said Israeli and Palestinian officials would meet this
week to try to find a solution and keep the talks going.  The end of the moratorium may mean the start of
construction on at least 2,066 housing units that have the
necessary permits, according to a survey by Peace Now, a Tel
Aviv-based group that opposes settlement construction.  Settler Council  That is exactly what the  Yesha Council , which represents
some 300,000 Israelis living in West Bank settlements, wants to
encourage.  “If Netanyahu caves in on this, it will shatter his
government’s credibility and his word will mean nothing,” said
Naftali Bennett, the director-general of Yesha and a former top
aide to Netanyahu when he was the parliamentary opposition
leader. “Politically, I don’t think he can risk that.”  Netanyahu’s government collapsed during his first term as
prime minister in 1998 after he made concessions in negotiations
with the Palestinians and his coalition allies who supported
settlements left the administration.  Foreign Minister  Avigdor Lieberman , who leads the second-
biggest party in Netanyahu’s current ruling coalition, Yisrael
Beitenu, says he has the political clout to stop any extension
of the moratorium.  Peace Talks  Netanyahu said he declared the freeze to restart peace
talks, which were frozen for 20 months after Israel waged a
military offensive in the Gaza Strip it said was aimed at
stopping militants from firing rockets at southern towns and
cities. He said housing construction would be stopped in West
Bank settlements, excluding some 3,000 homes that already
received government approval, as well as some public buildings.  Netanyahu spokesman  Mark Regev  said the prime minister
hasn’t stated the precise time when the moratorium expires.  Ghassan Khatib , a Palestinian Authority spokesman, declined
to say whether Abbas will declare an end to the peace talks as
soon as construction begins or what level of building activity
would cause him to stop negotiations.  Ben-Yehuda said he expects construction to start at
sundown, because the moratorium was issued according to the
Hebrew calendar in which the day ends when the sun sets. He said
he would check with the government to make sure construction
would be legal, because contractors are subject to fines and
confiscation of equipment if they violate military orders
against building.  Negotiating Strategy  Defense Ministry permission is required for building in the
West Bank and Defense Minister  Ehud Barak  can block construction
by withholding approval. A government official, speaking on
condition of anonymity because Israel’s negotiating strategy is
secret, said Netanyahu is considering such a de facto freeze.  Neriah, founded in 1991, is an offshoot of the larger
Talmon settlement and the two have a population of about 2,500,
said Tzvika Dror, Talmon’s operations chief.  “This freeze has been strangling us,” Ben-Yehuda, 47,
said. “If we can’t build, we can’t grow, and if we don’t grow
we’ll just wither away.”  Members of the prime minister’s Likud party are planning to
mark the end of the moratorium by laying the cornerstone for a
new neighborhood in the settlement of Revava in the northern
West Bank.  Settler Outposts  Israel has built about 120 settlements in the West Bank
since the late 1960s. Another 100 smaller settlements, which
Israel calls outposts, were built during the past decade. The
United Nations says settlements are illegal and the
International Committee of the Red Cross says they breach the
Fourth Geneva Convention governing actions on occupied
territory. Obama has said they aren’t legitimate.  Israel says settlements don’t fall under the convention
because the territory wasn’t recognized as belonging to anyone
before the 1967 war, in which Israel prevailed, and therefore
isn’t occupied.  Abbas and Netanyahu have agreed to meet every two weeks for
a year to reach a framework peace agreement.  “We are looking for ways to insure that the talks are not
interrupted but we cannot negotiate while Israel is building on
our territory,” said Khatib.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jonathan Ferziger  in Neriah via Tel Aviv at 
   jferziger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net . 