-- Hitachi Said to Pick Six Banks for $1 Billion U.S. IPO of Hard-Drive Unit
-- B y   L e e   S p e a r s   a n d   J a s o n   C l e n f i e l d
-- 2010-09-22T02:49:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-22/hitachi-said-to-pick-six-banks-for-1-billion-u-s-ipo-of-hard-drive-unit.html
Hitachi Ltd.’s  hard-drive unit
plans to raise as much as $1 billion in a U.S. initial public
offering and has hired six banks to manage the sale, two people
familiar with the plans said.  Hitachi Global Storage Technologies will use New York-based
 Citigroup Inc. , Goldman Sachs Group Inc., JPMorgan Chase & Co.
and Morgan Stanley; Bank of America Corp. in Charlotte, North
Carolina; and Nomura Holdings Inc. in Tokyo to manage the sale,
said the people, who declined to be identified because the
information isn’t yet public.  Spinning off the hard disk drive business, the world’s
third-largest behind  Seagate Technology Plc  and  Western Digital
Corp. , may ease concern Hitachi will have to issue more equity
after selling $4.5 billion in stock and convertible bonds last
year. The unit’s Tokyo-based parent is redefining itself as a
provider of power plants, trains and other infrastructure
following four years of losses, said  David Rubenstein , an
analyst at MF Global Ltd. in Tokyo.  “They had a big equity offering last November, and
investors might be worried about another one,” Rubenstein said.
“This kind of sedates that.”  Hajime Kito, a Tokyo-based spokeswoman for Hitachi, Japan’s
 third-largest company  by revenue, declined to confirm that the
company is planning an initial offering. Sales at Hitachi’s
Santa Clara, California-based  hard-drive business  fell 14
percent to $4.8 billion in 2009.  No Decision  “At this moment, nothing has been decided,” Kito said.
“We continue to explore various possibilities for business
growth, and an IPO is just one of them.”  Hitachi  rose  0.3 percent to 377 yen at the midday trading
break in Tokyo. The shares have gained 33 percent this year.  Reuters reported the underwriters for the IPO last week.  While Santa Clara, California-based HGST is a large enough
business to stand on its own, the timing of an IPO may not be
optimal, according to MF Global’s Rubenstein. Shares of  Seagate ,
the world’s largest maker of hard-disk drives, have fallen 46
percent since March 1 on concern the personal computer market is
slowing.  “PC demand was very strong in the first and second quarter
of this year. It’s tapered off because of a reduction in demand
on the consumer side,” Rubenstein said. “In hindsight this
should have been done six months ago. They’re going to get 30 to
50 percent lower in offering price.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Lee Spears  in New York at 
 lspears3@bloomberg.net ;
To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jason Clenfield  in Tokyo at 
 jclenfield@bloomberg.net  