-- Liverpool Directors Oppose Owners' Attempts at Refinancing, Purslow Says
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   E l s e r
-- 2010-09-22T16:16:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-22/liverpool-directors-oppose-owners-attempts-at-refinancing-purslow-says.html
Liverpool’s directors will oppose
any attempt by owners  George Gillett  and  Tom Hicks  to refinance
their debt instead of selling the 18-time English soccer
champion, Managing Director  Christian Purslow  said.  The American owners owe 282 million pounds ($441 million)
to  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc  after buying the club in
2007. They’re struggling to get an extension of their loan by an
Oct. 6 deadline. Blackstone Group LP’s GSO Capital Partners unit
rejected a refinancing plan.  Hicks and Gillett are continuing to try to sell the team as
soon as possible, although “they haven’t had an offer yet that
they like,” Purslow said. Refinancing would require board
approval, which isn’t likely to come, he said. The five-time
European champion failed to reach this year’s Champions League,
which can add more than 30 million pounds in revenue. While
Hicks in April said he wanted as much as 800 million pounds for
the team, no bidder has approached the asking price.  “Any occurrence of indebtedness by Liverpool Football Club
needs full board approval,” Purslow said in an interview on the
team’s website. “The non-owner directors have made it clear
that’s not what we want to see.”  Liverpool, which sits a point above the relegation zone
with five points from five matches, is in good financial shape,
Purslow said. The club has cash and banking facilities that last
until after the end of next season, leaving Purslow saying he
“cannot perceive a situation where Liverpool Football Club
could go into administration,” a form of bankruptcy. The team
is highly profitable, he said.  “The issue today is too much of that profit is being
used to service loans put in place when the club was bought,”
Purslow said. “When we sell the business, that debt will be
reduced or go away, which will make us the most profitable club
in the Premier League. Liverpool football club is not going
bust.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Christopher Elser  in London at 
 celser@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net . 