-- Ivy League Football `Mafia' Gives Wall Street a Talent Pipeline
-- B y   C u r t i s   E i c h e l b e r g e r
-- 2010-09-22T17:58:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-22/ivy-league-football-mafia-provides-talent-pipeline-to-wall-street-jobs.html
University of Pennsylvania 
defensive back Josh Powers may have a better opportunity than
playing for college football’s national championship: a six-
figure Wall Street salary upon graduation.  Powers, a senior at the Philadelphia-based school, was able
to use contacts on Penn’s athletic board to land internships at
two financial firms.  “I have a job opportunity that the top, top percentile of
applicants would give their right arm to have,” Powers said in
a telephone interview from campus. “I’ve been blessed with a
fantastic opportunity.”  Penn’s athletic board of overseers includes  George Weiss ,
founder of the George Weiss Associates Inc. hedge fund in
Hartford, Connecticut;  Robert Wolf , chairman and chief executive
officer of  UBS Group Americas  in Stamford, Connecticut; and  Mark Werner , the former  JP Morgan Securities Inc.  vice chairman who
is co-founder and CEO of  Pierpont Securities LLC , also in
Stamford.  Having that kind of board helps the Quakers get better
players, coach  Al Bagnoli , who led the team to the Ivy League
championship last season, said in a telephone interview from the
school’s campus.  “We call them our alumni mafia,” Bagnoli said. “Everyone
looks out for one another. It’s a very close group.”  The school, founded by Ben Franklin, has an undergraduate
enrollment of 10,300 full-time students.  Summer Internships  Ivy League athletes often receive internships from
executives involved with their school’s sports programs, while
others use alumni for references or to gain insights into a
company’s needs. Powers is one of dozens of student-athletes who
had summer internships with financial firms.  Schools such as Duke University in Durham, North Carolina;
the University of Notre Dame in South Bend, Indiana; and
Northwestern University in Evanston, Illinois, have similar
networks.  “The alumni of the University of Notre Dame play a key
role in assisting student-athletes in developing the skills
critical to obtaining internships and jobs post graduation,”
said Charmelle Green, senior assistant athletic director for
student development and welfare. These programs have “all
proven to provide student-athletes the necessary skills that
lead to success beyond college.”  Etiquette Dinners  New York’s Columbia University formally recognized the
importance of tapping into networks in 2006 by appointing
 Kimberly Curry , 36, as the first full-time director of career
development for athletics in the Ivy League.  Curry holds so-called etiquette dinners where student-
athletes are taught how to make small talk in a formal dinner
setting. She schedules mock interviews, sets up talks by local
business leaders and arranges for athletics alumni to help
students by reviewing resumes, providing advice and making
introductions.  Most college athletes aren’t going to make a living with
their sports, especially those from the Ivy League, which
doesn’t award athletic scholarships. National Football League
teams had 334 rookie, or first-year, players on their 2010-2011
season-opening rosters, according to the league. None were from
the Ivy League, which comprises eight of the top-ranked schools
in the U.S.  NFL Rosters  There were five Ivy players on NFL rosters when the season
started: center  Matt Birk  (Harvard, Baltimore Ravens), defensive
tackle  Desmond Bryant  (Harvard, Oakland Raiders), quarterback
 Ryan Fitzpatrick  (Harvard, Buffalo Bills), linebacker  Zak DeOssie  (Brown University, New York Giants) and guard  Kevin Boothe  (Cornell University, New York Giants), who is on the
physically unable to perform list with a torn pectoral muscle.  Powers, the son of an accountant and high-school secretary
in Fishers, Indiana, has a 3.42 grade-point average as a finance
major at Penn’s Wharton School, ranked No. 4 among U.S.
undergraduate business schools this year by  Bloomberg
Businessweek . He interned at Wolf’s and Weiss’s firms the past
two years.  Powers, who started buying stocks with his allowance in
high school, researched companies, built financial models and
made trade suggestions based on his research at Weiss
Associates.  “He did phenomenally well,” Weiss said. “He’s smart and
they told me he was real aggressive. I said, ‘How can an analyst
be aggressive?’ They said, ‘He is.’”  $80 Million Donations  Weiss, 67, has contributed more than $80 million to Penn,
according to the school, including $20 million to recruit and
fund professorships, $14 million for undergraduate scholarships
and $10 million for a football stadium renovation.  “There is a huge benefit to having the support of our
alumni network,” Weiss said in a telephone interview. “But
it’s not a freebie, either. They have to pass muster. We work
our interns 50 to 60 hours a week and I don’t tell them to hire
a guy; they have to come to me and say they want to hire this
guy.”  Weiss said the starting salary for undergraduates at his
firm is about $120,000 a year.  The internships don’t violate National Collegiate Athletic
Association rules because any student can apply for an
internship or job. Participation in intercollegiate athletics is
one factor that goes onto an application.  Pierpont Securities’ Werner hired  Barb Seaman , captain of
Penn’s 2010 Ivy League champion women’s lacrosse team, to work
on his sales and trading team after she graduated with a degree
in marketing from the Wharton school.  ‘World Class’  “These are really intelligent kids with a world-class
education,” Werner, 52, said in a telephone interview. “It’s
not just about pulling them up. It’s an advantage to us, too.”  Athletes can bring something extra that’s necessary for
success in finance, Werner said.  “In a business where it tends to knock you down a lot,
they tend to get back up,” he said. “That drive, that level of
discipline, the rigor they have in their own personal lives and
their willingness to take on hard challenges; a lot of that gets
taught to you on an athletic field.”  Powers said while he loves football, he knows where his
future lies. He interviewed with  Nick Morris , the head of
Weiss’s equity trading desk, and got the thumbs up.  Morris was a Penn defensive back in the 1990s. He was voted
the Quakers’ defensive Most Valuable Player and was tri-captain
of the 1995 team that finished 7-3 overall and 5-2 in the Ivy
League, tied for second place with Cornell behind Princeton.  “A lot of the time it’s who you know,” Powers said.
“Then, of course, you have to deliver.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Curtis Eichelberger  in Washington at 
 ceichelberge@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  