-- Jefferies Shares Drop After Third-Quarter Net Misses Analysts' Estimates
-- B y   D a v i d   H e n r y
-- 2010-09-22T20:16:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-22/jefferies-third-quarter-profit-declines-46-on-lower-revenue-from-trading.html
Jefferies Group Inc. , the first
Wall Street firm to release third-quarter results, fell the most
in two months in New York  trading  after reporting earnings that
missed analysts’ estimates on a drop in trading revenue.  Jefferies declined 5.2 percent on the report, which showed
a 46 percent drop in third-quarter net income. Profit for the
three months ended Aug. 31 fell to $46.3 million, or 23 cents a
share, from $86.3 million, or 42 cents, a year earlier, when the
quarter ended on Sept. 30, the New York-based company said today
in a statement. The average  estimate  of seven analysts surveyed
by Bloomberg was 30 cents a share.  Trading revenue from stocks and bonds slid 51 percent to
$273.1 million at Jefferies, which has relied on stock and bond
markets for more than 80 percent of revenue since 2008.
Industrywide bond-trading volume declined 12 percent in the
period, according to Trace, the bond-price reporting system of
the Financial Regulatory Authority. U.S. equity underwriting
fell 15 percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Trading volumes across the board were painfully slow
during the months of June, July and August,” Chief Executive
Officer  Rich Handler , 49, said in the statement. “The normal
seasonal slowdown was exacerbated by continued concerns over the
state of the global economy.”  Jefferies fell $1.25 to $23 in  composite trading  on the New
York Stock Exchange at 4:15 p.m., after reaching $22.47 earlier
today. The shares were up 2.2 percent for the year before today.  Banking Revenue  Investment-banking revenue more than doubled to $246.2
million, including an increase of $105.9 million in fees from
advising on mergers and acquisitions and restructurings.  The investment-banking results got a boost from fees for
advising  XTO Energy Inc.  on its $35 billion sale, which closed
June 28, to Exxon Mobil Corp, company officials said on a
conference call today. Jefferies’s fee from the deal was $24
million, according to a proxy statement filed by XTO.  Employee compensation costs were 59 percent of net revenue,
compared with 56 percent a year earlier. Jefferies’s stated
target range for the ratio is 55 percent to 58 percent.  The firm in April changed the end of its fiscal year to
November and today compared its results to the 2009 quarter that
ended in September. Jefferies now reports earnings a month
earlier than most other Wall Street firms.  “Just about everyone is going to have negative comparisons
for the quarter,”  Chris Kotowski , an analyst at Oppenheimer &
Co., said in an interview before earnings were released. “It
was a really slow summer.”  Economic Stall  Concern that the U.S. and global economies were stalling
discouraged many investors from buying stocks during the
quarter, Handler said on the call. The average estimate for
Jefferies earnings for the period declined 12 percent from June
22 through yesterday, according to Bloomberg data.  Jefferies increased its  staff  31 percent in 20 months to
2,971 people in a drive to pick up capacity from failed
investment banks and profit from a recovery in the financial-
services industry.  The hiring “has made it highly leveraged to a capital-
markets recovery, and we are just not there yet,”  Steve Stelmach , an Arlington, Virginia-based analyst at FBR Capital
Markets, wrote in a Sept. 17 report.  Jefferies won’t reverse its expansion, Handler said on the
call.  “We are not rethinking anything that we have done because
we have incredible traction with a variety of people and a
variety of  businesses  that we feel great about,” Handler said.  Long-Term Value  The company is trying to balance the need for short-term
results with the goal of creating long-term value, he said.  “We might slow things down if it continues to be as
challenging as it is, but really it is a balancing act,”
Handler said.  Non-compensation expenses increased 26 percent to $134.6
million on technology and telecommunications costs to support an
expansion abroad, the company said. Those costs are unlikely to
go down soon, Chief Financial Officer  Peregrine “Peg” C. de M. Broadbent  said on the call.  Jefferies’ expansion will ultimately pay off, Byron Snider,
co-founder of West Oak Capital LLC Partners, said in an
interview after the report.  ‘Quite Patient’  “I am quite patient,” said Snider, who said Jefferies is
his firm’s largest position. Low borrowing costs and mounting
corporate cash will result in more M&A advisory revenue for
investment banks such as Jefferies. “Deals overseas are going
to pick up,” Snider said.  West Oak, based in Westlake Village, California, holds 1.56
million shares, or 0.91 percent of Jefferies, according to  data 
compiled by Bloomberg.  During the three months covered by the earnings report, the
Standard & Poor’s 500 stock index  lost  3.68 percent as average
daily trading  volume  in stocks in the index declined 17 percent
from the previous three months, according to Bloomberg data.  Jefferies’s earnings are useful as “an imperfect data
point” in anticipating trading results to be announced next
month by other Wall Street firms, Kotowski said. The report
includes two of the three months that will be covered in other
firms’ results. Jefferies’s mix of business tends to be more
domestic and more tied to high-yield bond markets than bigger
firms, he said.  Jefferies had $32 billion of assets at the end of May,
placing it between  Morgan Stanley , with $809 billion of assets,
and  Stifel Financial Corp. , an investment bank based in St.
Louis, with $3.37 billion, according to Bloomberg data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Henry  in New York at 
 dhenry19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Alec McCabe at   amccabe@bloomberg.net  