-- Jets Coach Ryan Says Team's Embarrassments Must End After Edwards Arrest
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2010-09-22T20:44:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-22/jets-coach-ryan-says-team-s-embarrassments-must-end-after-edwards-arrest.html
New York Jets coach  Rex Ryan  said
he held a team meeting and told players he’s tired of dealing
with off-field embarrassments, a day after receiver  Braylon Edwards  was charged with driving while intoxicated.  Edwards’s blood-alcohol level was almost twice the legal
level in New York when he was stopped by police early yesterday
morning in Manhattan.  The arrest came four days after the National Football
League issued a statement saying Jets coaches and players
exhibited “unprofessional conduct” toward a female television
reporter.  “I’m tired dealing with some of these issues,” Ryan said
during a news conference today at the team’s training facility
in Florham Park, New Jersey. “I’m tired of the embarrassment to
our owner and this organization. I said, ‘Let’s just end it.’ We
don’t need to be that team. This team works too hard at
everything else to be looked at in this light.”  The Jets said yesterday that Edwards, 27, won’t start their
Sept. 26 game against the Miami Dolphins.  Ryan said today that he hasn’t decided how much playing
time Edwards will get this week. Edwards caught five passes for
45 yards and a touchdown in last week’s 28-14 victory against
the New England Patriots.  “None of us know the facts 100 percent,” Ryan said. “I’m
not going to tell you that Braylon is going to miss X amount of
the game because I’m not ready to do that now. When it’s the
right time, I’ll make that decision.”  Revis Won’t Play  Ryan said today that cornerback  Darrelle Revis  won’t play
against the Dolphins while he recovers from a hamstring injury.
Revis, the runner-up for last year’s defensive player of the
year award, missed training camp and the preseason while holding
out for a new contract.  “It’s too risky of a proposition to put him out there,”
Ryan said.  Edwards, the third overall pick in the 2005 NFL draft,
issued a statement today apologizing to his family, fans and
members of the Jets’ organization. He also said he’s cooperating
with the league’s investigation into his arrest. Edwards was
released without posting bail yesterday and his next court
appearance is scheduled for Nov. 9.  DWI incidents fall under the NFL’s substance-abuse policy
and a first-time offender would be subject to a fine, though not
a suspension. If Edwards had a previous violation of the NFL’s
substance-abuse program, which is confidential, he would face a
suspension.  On-Field Focus  While with the Cleveland Browns last year, Edwards was
accused of punching an acquaintance of  LeBron James  during a
fight outside a Cleveland nightclub. Edwards pleaded no contest
to misdemeanor aggravated disorderly conduct, was fined $1,000
and received probation for that incident, which was covered by
the NFL’s personal conduct policy.  Ryan said he wants the focus to return to how his team,
which fell one win short of the Super Bowl last season, performs
on the field.  The Jets made headlines in New York during the offseason
with their contract impasse with Revis and a preseason
appearance on the HBO series “Hard Knocks,” during which Ryan
said the Jets would win the Super Bowl.  Ryan was criticized by  Tony Dungy , the former Indianapolis
Colts coach who is now an analyst for NBC Sports, for his
frequent use of profanity in the program. The New York Post also
said Ryan was involved in the Sept. 11 incident involving TV
Azteca reporter Ines Sainz. The newspaper said Ryan purposely
overthrew passes so they landed near her, while some Jets
players “hooted and hollered” at Sainz when she entered the
locker room.  “We have a great time, we get after it, we play a physical
brand,” Ryan said. “But that’s what we should be focused on
instead of other issues, and myself being as guilty as
anybody.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Erik Matuszewski  in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  