-- Jordan Has Right to Develop, Enrich Uranium Deposits, U.S. Official Says
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   T i r o n e   a n d   N a y l a   R a z z o u k
-- 2010-09-22T16:51:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-22/jordan-has-right-to-develop-enrich-uranium-deposits-u-s-official-says.html
Jordan and other countries have the
right to develop and enrich their uranium deposits, U.S.
Undersecretary for Nuclear Security  Thomas D’Agostino  said at a
press briefing in Vienna.  The U.S. wants to offer cost-saving alternatives to
countries seeking uranium enrichment capabilities, D’Agostino
said in the Austrian capital, where the  International Atomic
Energy Agency  is meeting. Enriched uranium can fuel power
reactors and is the core component of nuclear weapons.  “We believe quite strongly that nations have the right to
develop their civil programs for civil purposes,” D’Agostino
said when asked about Jordan’s nuclear program.  “We are not trying to tell other nations that you can’t
have enrichment,” he said.  The U.S. is reluctant to encourage some Middle Eastern
states, especially Iran, to enrich uranium or reprocess fuel
rods, because of the risk material could end up being used to
make nuclear weapons.  Jordan has insisted that it has the right to enrich
uranium. The kingdom estimates it has 65,000 tons of uranium
deposits and could produce 2,000 tons a year.  Covered by desert and lacking substantial oil and gas
reserves, the kingdom relies almost entirely on imports for its
energy sources. It is turning to nuclear power to meet
increasing electricity demand and plans to build reactors by
2019.  Jordan signed a nuclear cooperation agreement with Japan
earlier this month, paving the way for reactor sales by
engineering companies such as Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Ltd.  To contact the reporters responsible for this story:
 Jonathan Tirone  at 
 jtirone@bloomberg.net 
 Nayla Razzouk  in Beirut at 
 nrazzouk2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  