-- Kenya May Keep Interest Rate Unchanged as Dry Weather Threatens Inflation
-- B y   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r
-- 2010-09-22T06:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-22/kenya-may-keep-interest-rate-unchanged-as-dry-weather-threatens-inflation.html
Kenya’s central bank will probably
leave its benchmark interest unchanged following forecasts of
unseasonably dry weather that may raise food and energy costs.  The  Monetary Policy Committee , which meets every two
months, will probably keep the key rate at a record low of 6
percent, according to all three analysts surveyed by Bloomberg
News. The Nairobi-based Central Bank of Kenya is due to announce
its decision tomorrow afternoon.  “We are hearing forecasts of poor rainfall which mean
food-price inflation could be on the rise,”  Robert Bunyi ,
managing director of Nairobi-based Mavuno Capital, said by phone
yesterday. “Depending on the extent, we could also see energy
price inflation as well, with a move away from hydropower to
diesel which is more expensive.”  Kenya’s weather agency  said on Sept. 7 that it expects
“generally poor” rainfall for the short October-to-December
rainy season, warning it could “interfere” with farming.
Kenya, the world’s largest exporter of black tea, relies on
agriculture for a quarter of its gross domestic product, with
horticulture earning the country its single biggest share of
foreign exchange.  Dry weather may also reduce levels at Kenya’s hydroelectric
dams, which generate about three-quarters of the country’s power
supplies.  Inflation Eases  Good rains from late last year have helped bring down the
inflation rate, which fell to 3.2 percent in August from 3.6
percent the month earlier, according to the latest data from the
 Kenya National Bureau of Statistics .  The central bank unexpectedly slashed its key lending rate
by three-quarters of a percentage point at its last meeting on
July 28, increasing pressure on lenders to lower the cost of
borrowing for individuals and businesses. That was the sixth cut
since the start of 2009 as policy makers try to spur economic
growth and boost the expansion of credit.  Lending rates at commercial banks have been slow to fall in
line with previous reductions to the benchmark rate. Kenyan
banks’ average lending rate fell to 14.29 percent in July from
14.39 percent in June and 14.46 percent the month before.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sarah McGregor  in Nairobi at   smcgregor5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin in Johannesburg at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 