-- Name Your Price for Dinner With Ramsay: Food Buzz
-- B y   R i c h a r d   V i n e s
-- 2010-09-23T10:46:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-22/name-your-price-for-dinner-with-chef-ramsay-on-london-eye-u-k-food-buzz.html
Bids for a dinner prepared by
 Gordon Ramsay  for guests aboard the London Eye on Oct. 8 have
reached only 7,400 pounds ($11,500), according to the  London
Restaurant Festival website . The television chef raised 23,000
pounds to help fight poverty in London at a similar charity
event last October.  Bidding for the meal, served a course at a time as the
wheel revolves, was scheduled to close on Sept. 8 and has been
extended again through Sept. 26. If you have no fear of being 
shouted at in a confined space, you have another day to name 
your price to  Katie.mann@londonrestaurantfestival.com . Evenings
with chefs  Richard Corrigan  (Oct. 4) and  Joel Antunes  (Oct. 
18) are also still available, according to the organizers.  Ferran Adria  will be in London on Sunday, Oct. 24, at the
Royal Geographical Society. The El Bulli chef will be reflecting
on his career with Colman Andrews, the author of the new book
“Reinventing Food, Ferran Adria: the Man Who Changed the Way We
Eat” (Phaidon). There will be a book signing after the talk.
Tickets are 24 pounds from  http://bit.ly/ajnfot . One small word
of advice: Please don’t ask about getting a table at El Bulli.
He doesn’t generally welcome such inquiries.  Terroirs, the wine bar and bistro that is packing in the
punters off Trafalgar Square, is to have a baby brother in East
London. Brawn -- as in potted pig’s head -- is scheduled to open
in November in a former furniture-making warehouse at 49
Columbia Road. The head chef will be Owen Kenworthy, from
Terroirs, and the venue is expected to seat 70 over two rooms
and on stools at the bar.  Bar Battu, a new natural wine bar and bistro in the City,
is offering 50 percent off food until Oct. 1. The venue, on two
floors near the Guildhall, is the brainchild of  Simon Binder ,
the owner of Luc’s Brasserie. The menu consists of bar snacks,
charcuterie, small plates such as steak tartare and about four
mains, currently including bavette, shallot and bone marrow.  D&D London Ltd. , the company that owns Coq d’Argent and
other popular restaurants, says City diners are returning to the
table after a squeeze on expenses and corporate hospitality held
back earnings last year. Like-for-like sales rose 6 percent in
the five months to August. All outlets in the financial district
are trading better than last year and the Royal Exchange is up
15 percent. In addition to building a hotel in South Place, D&D
is looking at bidding for the restaurant atop the Heron Tower
and is expected to announce a new venue in an East India
warehouse off Devonshire Square. Chief Executive  Des Gunewardena 
would only say that more projects are “bubbling under.”  Bompas & Parr , purveyors of towering jellies and other
culinary treats, has produced a line of meat jewelry. “These
solid silver skewers can be used to truss quail or to garnish
pigs’ heads, but equally as elegant brooches or hair
accessories,” Sam Bompas said in an e-mail. They are what the
world has been waiting for. While this may be a triumph of
gluttony over lust,  Lady Gaga’s  meat dress just made me feel
hungry.  Two of Sydney’s leading chefs, Peter Gilmore of Quay and
Mark Best of Marque, cooked a fabulous lunch for food writers at
the Ledbury on Sept. 17. Neither has immediate plans to open a
London restaurant, so you probably won’t want to read too much
about a multicourse meal that included butter-roasted partridge
breast with chestnuts, truffle, bitter chocolate black pudding,
milk skin and walnuts. I would recommend Gilmore’s book
“ Quay ,” ( Murdoch  Books) and here’s a tip. The lunch was
attended by chef  Bill Granger , a celebrity in Australia. He’s
looking to open a restaurant in London. Having met him, and also
watched him on “ Saturday Kitchen ,” I predict great things for
him in the U.K.  Fans of a fine dram may be in for a treat at the Whisky
Show, at the Brewery, on Chiswell Street. Tickets costs 95
pounds and include the chance to sample any of the 200 varieties
on show. You also get one tasting of an ultra premium, meaning a
whisky that is aged as long as 62 years or is up to 3,500 pounds
in value. Information:  http://www.thewhiskyshow.com/2010/ .  The Roundhouse  plans to open a new restaurant and bar next
month. It will be called Made in Camden, which sounds like an
 Amy Winehouse  adventure. The singer may be pleased to hear that
the bar will be the only local venue to stock of all of Camden
Town Brewery’s beers, while Bibendum will supply the wines. Chef
Josh Katz promises dishes with light, seasonal ingredients. I’d
like to meet the chef who promises heavy, unseasonal grub.  Geales, a posh fish-and-chip shop in Chelsea, opened with a
party last week on the site of Tom’s Place, which closed when
chef  Tom Aikens’s  business there failed. Guests were served
Champagne cocktails, the perfect accompaniment for chips.  Booking starts on Sept. 27 for the Covent Garden branch of
Hawksmoor, which opens on Nov. 1. The number will be +44-20-
7856-2154: Don’t call before Monday unless you would like a
conversation with a plasterer or someone fixing the phone. There
may be a soft opening for those who sign up via the website
 http://www.thehawksmoor.co.uk/index.asp , where you will also see
a raffle for Action Against Hunger with the prize of free
monthly meals for a year.  Chef  Shane Osborn  of Pied a Terre made the canapes and
donned military attire for a Blitz party to promote the  Rare Tea
Co. ’s Royal Air Force Tea at the disused Aldwych Underground
station. Guests included a Battle of Britain veteran and the
menu featured corned beef.  ( Richard Vines  is the chief food critic for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
 Richard Vines  in London at 
 rvines@bloomberg.net  or Richardvines on
 http://twitter.com/home .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 