-- IBM, Netezza Sued by Shareholder Over Buyout Offer
-- B y   P h i l   M i l f o r d   a n d   J e f   F e e l e y
-- 2010-09-22T20:22:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-22/netezza-is-sued-by-shareholder-seeking-higher-price-in-ibm-takeover-offer.html
Netezza Corp. , a computer-data
warehousing company, was sued by a shareholder who contends his
stock is undervalued in a $1.7 billion buyout offer from
 International Business Machines Corp.   Officials of Marlborough, Massachusetts-based Netezza and
IBM structured the $27-a-share offer to unfairly scare off other
bidders interested in the company, Netezza investor Anthony
Kolton contends in his Delaware Chancery Court lawsuit.  “Netezza’s directors have not acted in a manner designed
to obtain the highest price reasonably available to
shareholders,” lawyers for Kolton said in the complaint, filed
yesterday in Wilmington.  Netezza, whose clients include NYSE Euronext and  Estee
Lauder Cos. , integrates hardware with programs that store and
analyze data. It’s one of the few data-warehousing companies
that has gained customers, making it an attractive buy for large
technology corporations looking to increase sales,  Keith Bachman , an analyst at BMO Capital Markets, said Sept. 20.  IBM Chief Executive Officer  Sam Palmisano  said in May he’s
planning to spend about $20 billion on acquisitions in the next
five years. Armonk, New York-based IBM is the world’s biggest
computer-services company.  Neither Glenn Zimmerman, a Netezza spokesman, nor  Emily Horn , an IBM spokeswoman, immediately returned a call and e-mail
seeking comment on Kolton’s suit.  ‘Record Revenues’  In August, Netezza executives said strong demand for data-
warehousing services had analysts predicting 30 percent revenue
growth for the company this year, lawyers for Kolton said in the
suit. The firm is experiencing “record revenues and operating
income,”  Jim Baum , Netezza’s CEO, told investors earlier this
year, according to the suit.  That performance warrants a higher price than IBM is paying
for the computer firm, Kolton contends. The $27 offer is only
about a 10 percent premium to Netezza’s closing price on the
preceding trading day, the suit notes.  “This is an exceptionally low price for Netezza,” the
complaint said. The company’s board and IBM also have inserted a
so-called no solicitation provision in the deal and set up a $56
million termination fee to dissuade other bidders, the suit
contends.  IBM has spent more than $20 billion on 100 purchases since
Palmisano took over in 2002, as he shifts IBM’s focus to
software and services from hardware. His largest purchase was
business-management software maker Cognos Inc. at $5 billion.
The Netezza deal will be his sixth purchase of more than $1
billion.  Netezza rose 27 cents, or almost 1 percent, to $28.19 at
4:15 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading, after
earlier rising as much as 3.7 percent.  The case is Anthony Kolton v. Netezza Corp., 5836, Delaware
Chancery Court (Wilmington).  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Phil Milford  in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 pmilford@bloomberg.net ;
 Jef Feeley  in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 