-- New York Weighs Catastrophe Pool That May Limit Insurer Profit
-- B y   N a t a l i e   D o s s
-- 2010-09-22T17:29:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-22/new-york-considers-creating-catastrophe-pool-that-may-limit-insurer-profit.html
New York state, which has about
$2.4 trillion in insured coastal property, is weighing a plan
that may limit insurers’ profit by forcing them to fund a pool
that would cover claims from disasters such as hurricanes.  The pool could be funded from the 2 percent to 5 percent of
policyholder premiums that are already assessed for disasters,
said  Michael Moriarty , deputy superintendent of the state
insurance department, in an interview today. Carriers are now
allowed to book those funds as profit if there are no disasters
in the policy’s term, he said.  Insurance Superintendent  James Wrynn  is seeking to limit
volatility in the market for property insurance in New York
after carriers including Allstate Corp. dropped coverage of
customers most vulnerable to storm damage. New York ranks second
to Florida in the amount of insured coastal property, according
to 2007 data from AIR Worldwide distributed by the Insurance
Information Institute.  The pool being considered by the department “would, over
time, accumulate resources that could be used to help cover the
cost of a catastrophe and reduce the need for a large premium
increase after the catastrophe,” according to a statement today
from Wrynn’s office.  Moriarty didn’t have an immediate estimate of how much
money the pool may collect each year. The department hasn’t
decided who would manage the funds, said Moriarty. Options
include having the state handle the job, or representatives of
the insurance industry, he said.  October Meeting  Florida created a catastrophe fund in 1993 after Hurricane
Andrew. The fund is financed by premiums charged to insurers,
investment earnings and emergency assessments, according to the
 website  of Florida’s State Board of Administration.  A panel on homeowners insurance will meet Oct. 13 in
Manhattan to review the pool proposal, according to the
statement. The group includes consumer representatives and
people appointed by the governor and legislature.  Ellen Melchionni , president of the New York Insurance
Association, said mandating how companies allocate their capital
will discourage them from expanding in the state.  “Regulations are already restrictive,” she said in an
interview. “New York probably has some of the most burdensome
regulations in the country.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Natalie Doss  in New York 
 ndoss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  