-- New Zealand Dollar Slides After GDP Expands Less Than Economists Forecast
-- B y   C a n d i c e   Z a c h a r i a h s
-- 2010-09-23T07:09:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-22/new-zealand-dollar-drops-as-report-shows-economy-grew-less-than-estimated.html
New Zealand’s dollar fell the most
in a week after a government report showed the economy grew at
less than a third of the pace analysts estimated, damping demand
for the nation’s assets.  The so-called kiwi snapped a four-day gain as the  gross-
domestic-product  report spurred traders to cut their predictions
for the amount of interest-rate increases over the next 12
months. Australia’s dollar traded near a two-year high versus
the greenback as Commonwealth Bank of Australia forecast the
currency will strengthen above parity early next year.  “The GDP data was clearly weaker than the market expected
and noticeably weak compared to the Reserve Bank’s
expectations,” said  Mike Jones , a strategist at Bank of New
Zealand Ltd. in Wellington. “The Reserve Bank will remain on
hold until at least the end of this year and that probably
presents some near-term headwinds for the New Zealand dollar.”  New Zealand’s currency fell 1 percent to 73.15 U.S. cents
as of 5:02 p.m. in Sydney from yesterday in New York, the
biggest drop since Sept. 16. The currency slid 0.9 percent to
61.87 yen. Australia’s dollar traded at 95.59 cents from 95.68
cents yesterday, when it climbed to 96.00, the strongest since
July 2008. The so-called Aussie was at 80.86 yen from 80.82 yen.  The kiwi dropped against all its major counterparts after
Statistics New Zealand said the economy expanded 0.2 percent in
the second quarter from the prior three months, compared with
the median forecast for 0.7 percent growth in a Bloomberg survey.  Rate Outlook  “Although it remains clear that this recovery will be
bumpy at times,” Finance Minister  Bill English  said today in a
statement. “Looking ahead, I expect some volatility in the next
few quarters of GDP data.”  The growth report backs the case for the central bank to
keep interest rates unchanged until next year after it kept
borrowing costs on hold on Sept. 16 after boosting them in June
and July.  The earthquake that struck the Canterbury region on Sept. 4
“significantly disrupted economic activity” and is likely to
slow growth in the third quarter, Reserve Bank of New Zealand
Governor Alan Bollard said after the rate decision.  Swaps traders predict the central bank will raise rates by
a total 58 basis points over the next 12 months, from a forecast
of 65 basis points yesterday, a Credit Suisse AG  index  showed.  “There are serious risks that GDP in the third quarter
will have been flat to negative,”  Michael Turner , a fixed-
income strategist at RBC Capital Markets Ltd. in Sydney, wrote
in a note. “We continue to expect the RBNZ to remain sidelined
into the first quarter of next year.”  Milk Prices  New Zealand’s currency maintained declines after Auckland-
based Fonterra Cooperative Group Ltd., the world’s largest dairy
exporter, raised its minimum milk price forecast after exports
rose to a record.  The Australian dollar held three days of gains as
Commonwealth Bank of Australia, the nation’s largest lender,
increased its forecasts for the currency saying it will be
boosted by an widening yield advantage.  The Aussie will reach 97 U.S. cents by year-end and then
rise to $1.02 by March 2011, analysts led by  Richard Grace ,
chief currency strategist in Sydney, wrote in a note to clients.  “Low market volatility, widening Australia-U.S. interest
rates and firm 2011 Asia-led global growth suggest Australian
dollar upside,” the analysts wrote. “The Australian dollar
will rise through parity to the U.S. dollar by early 2011.”  The  extra yield  investors get by investing in two-year
Australian government debt compared with similar-maturity U.S.
Treasuries increased to 4.39 percentage points today, near the
widest since June 2008.  New Zealand’s two-year swap rate, a fixed payment made to
receive floating rates that is sensitive to interest rate
expectations, fell six basis points to 3.72 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Candice Zachariahs  in Sydney at 
 czachariahs2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net . 