-- New York Times Projects Sales Trailing Estimates
-- B y   B r e t t   P u l l e y
-- 2010-09-22T13:57:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-22/new-york-times-projects-sales-that-trail-estimates-as-circulation-declines.html
New York Times Co. , publisher of
the namesake newspaper, predicted third-quarter sales that
trailed analysts’ estimates as circulation revenue drops.  Sales in the quarter ending this month will fall as much as
3 percent, the New York-based company said today in a statement.
Analysts predicted a decline of 1.3 percent to $563.3 million,
the average of estimates  compiled by Bloomberg .  “It was well below our forecast,” said  John Janedis , an
analyst at UBS AG in New York, who advises selling the shares.
“It shows that the trajectory of the recovery in print
advertising is slowing. If that doesn’t improve, it would be
somewhat disappointing.”  Revenue at Times Co., faced with competition from websites
and  News Corp. ’s Wall Street Journal, is falling again after the
newspaper owner posted its first increase in sales in more than
two years in the previous quarter. Newspapers are struggling to
lure subscribers as readers seek their news from the Web, where
stories are updated more frequently.  Times Co. fell 29 cents, or 3.6 percent, to $7.68 at 9:55
a.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite  trading . The stock had
declined 36 percent this year before today.  Chief Executive Officer  Janet Robinson  said the New York
Times newspaper is experiencing “no impact” on its business as
a result of the Wall Street Journal’s new local New York City
section. Speaking at a Goldman Sachs Group Inc. event in New
York today, Robinson said the company’s digital advertising
business “continues to be strong.”  Circulation sales will decrease about 5 percent this
quarter, while digital-ad revenue will increase 14 percent, the
company said. In July, it predicted a circulation-sales decline
of 3 percent to 5 percent, and digital-ad revenue growth “in
the mid-to-high teens.”  Third-quarter  profit  will be 3 cents to 5 cents a share,
excluding some items, the company said. Analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg estimated 4 cents on average.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Brett Pulley  in New York at 
 bpulley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  