-- New Jersey's Residents Split on Cutting Public-Worker Benefits, Poll Finds
-- B y   T e r r e n c e   D o p p
-- 2010-09-22T15:37:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-22/new-jersey-s-residents-split-on-cutting-public-worker-benefits-poll-shows.html
New Jersey  residents are split on
Governor  Chris Christie ’s proposals to reduce benefits for
current public workers and require them to pay more of their
health-care premiums, a poll found.  Forty-six percent of voters support cutting benefits for
existing employees, and 46 percent disapprove, according to a
 Monmouth University /Gannett New Jersey poll released today. The
public’s view has changed since a Monmouth survey in 2008, when
a majority opposed a reduction.  Christie, a first-term Republican, called on lawmakers this
month to roll back a 9 percent benefits increase enacted in 2001
to help trim a $46 billion deficit in the state’s pension fund.
He also proposed making workers cover 30 percent of their health
costs, up from 8 percent now. Forty-three percent of voters
polled by Monmouth said workers shouldn’t have to pay more than
10 percent of their medical premiums.  “The public agrees wholeheartedly that something needs to
be done to rein in pension costs, but he needs to tread
carefully when it comes to eliminating benefits that have
already been promised,”  Patrick Murray , director of the
Monmouth University  Polling Institute , said in an interview
today. “It’s not their fault it wasn’t managed properly.”  Sixty-one percent of poll respondents said new government
workers should be put into a 401(k)-style defined contribution
plan instead of a pension. Sixty-one percent also said
government doesn’t need to give more generous benefits than
private employers.  Trust in Christie  Sixty-seven percent said they have at least some trust in
Christie to overhaul state government, including 32 percent who
said “a lot”. While Democrats and Republicans in the
Legislature each received a similar overall trust level, only 14
percent said they trusted the lawmakers a lot.  “While the New Jersey public is not unquestioning in its
support, the governor does have a credibility advantage over the
legislature,” Murray said.  Christie’s spokesman,  Michael Drewniak , declined to comment
on the poll.  New Jersey’s $68.1 billion pension fund, which provides
benefits to 780,000 current and retired employees, had a deficit
of $46 billion as of June 2009 because of investment losses and
missed contributions, according to annual financial reports.  Pension Obligations  Seventy-eight percent of poll respondents said the state’s
pension costs are out of control, up from 59 percent who felt
that way five years ago.  Christie’s plan to reshape state government also includes
ethics, education and economic-development proposals. He has
said he will seek stricter campaign-finance rules, and a ban on
holding more than one public job that ends an exemption for
existing dual officeholders.  Seventy-one percent of voters polled by Monmouth University
said they disapprove of anyone holding two or more public jobs,
even if both positions are part-time.  West Long Branch-based Monmouth surveyed 801 New Jersey
adults by telephone from Sept. 15-19. The poll has a margin of
error of plus or minus 3.5 percentage points.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Terrence Dopp  in Trenton, New Jersey, at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at   mtannen@bloomberg.net . 