-- New Zealand Economic Growth Lags Forecast; Currency Declines
-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 2010-09-23T01:09:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-22/new-zealand-economy-expanded-0-2-in-the-second-quarter-lagging-estimate.html
New Zealand’s economic growth
unexpectedly weakened even before the nation’s worst earthquake
in eight decades crippled infrastructure in the south of the
country. The local currency snapped a four-day rally.  Gross domestic product  increased 0.2 percent in the second
quarter from the previous three months, less than the 0.7
percent median estimate in a  Bloomberg News survey  of 12
economists and the 0.9 percent forecast by the central bank,
Statistics New Zealand figures showed in Wellington today.  The report adds to the case for central bank Governor  Alan Bollard  to keep borrowing costs unchanged until next year after
he paused in raising interest rates last week. Growth missed
forecasts last quarter as drought curbed milk production and
manufacturing slumped, led by a record decline in output from
dairy plants and other food processors.  “It validates the Reserve Bank of New Zealand’s approach
to play it cool for a while and try to pick up the threads of
what’s going on over the coming months,” said  Craig Ebert ,
senior market economist at Bank of New Zealand in Wellington,
whose prediction of 0.5 percent growth was the most accurate of
the analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  New Zealand’s dollar declined to 73.19 U.S. cents at 12.15
p.m. in Wellington from 73.63 cents just before the release.  Farm Production  Farm production declined 2.1 percent in the second quarter
after Waikato province, the nation’s biggest milk producing
region, was declared a drought zone in April. Manufacturing
slumped 4 percent, led by a decline in output from dairy plants,
the statistics agency said.  Even so,  Fonterra Cooperative Group Ltd. , the world’s
largest dairy exporter, said today that full-year exports rose
to a record as global prices gained, and raised its forecast for
the minimum milk payment for farmers.  There are signs that international dairy supply and demand
are “moving more in balance at prevailing prices” amid
international market volatility, Chief Executive Officer  Andrew Ferrier  said in a statement.  Bollard on Sept. 16 kept the  official cash rate  at 3
percent and said the pace of further increases was likely to be
more moderate. The central bank last week lowered its growth
forecasts, citing falling  home sales  and consumer borrowing.  Annual average growth will be 2.6 percent this year, down
from 3.1 percent forecast in June, the bank said. The expansion
will slow to 2.5 percent in 2011, it said.  ‘Significantly Disrupted’  Those projections excluded the impact of the magnitude 7
earthquake that struck the Canterbury region on the nation’s
South Island on Sept. 4. The temblor “significantly disrupted
economic activity” and will likely reduce growth in the third
quarter before bolstering demand next year as houses, commercial
buildings and infrastructure are repaired, Bollard said Sept. 16.  The economy grew 1.9 percent in the second quarter from a
year earlier, less than the 2.5 percent median estimate in the
Bloomberg survey. Annual average growth, a measure forecast by
the central bank, was 0.7 percent, today’s report showed.  On a quarterly basis, GDP rose a revised 0.5 percent in the
first quarter of this year.  Exports increased 1.3 percent from the first quarter, led
by food, lumber, paper and machinery. Companies exported goods
produced in previous periods, leading to a decline in
inventories, the  agency said . Imports were buoyed by purchases
of passenger cars and a navy ship.  Residential Investment  Residential investment increased 11 percent, the most in
almost eight years, today’s report showed. Spending on mineral
exploration and non-residential building also buoyed growth.
Outlays on factories and equipment declined.  Consumer spending was unchanged, following four quarters of
growth. Purchases of furniture, appliances and other durable
goods increased but services spending fell amid lower demand for
air travel, telephone calling and medical visits. Sales of food,
liquor and non-durables were unchanged.  Ian Morrice , chief executive officer of Warehouse Group
Ltd., New Zealand’s biggest discount retailer, said this month
the outlook for consumer demand “will remain patchy” in the
next 12 months.  “Picking a trend in consumer confidence is difficult in
the short term, but we do expect in the medium to long term the
gradual recovery will continue,” he said in a Sept. 10
conference call.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tracy Withers  in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  