-- Jennifer Lopez, Steven Tyler Joining Fox's `American Idol' as Show Judges
-- B y   R o n a l d   G r o v e r   a n d   S a r a h   R a b i l
-- 2010-09-22T20:18:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-22/news-corp-s-american-idol-names-jennifer-lopez-steven-tyler-as-judges.html
“American Idol,” the most-watched
U.S. television show, said Aerosmith lead singer  Steven Tyler 
and actress  Jennifer Lopez  will be judges for the singing
competition’s 10th season.  Tyler and Lopez are joining  Randy Jackson , an original
judge, in time for the start of auditions today, “Idol” host
 Ryan Seacrest  said at an event in Los Angeles.  Simon Cowell ,
 Ellen DeGeneres  and  Kara DioGuardi  have left the Fox TV program,
making Jackson the only remaining judge from last season.  The  News Corp. -owned network is revamping “Idol” with a
higher priority on music with the addition of  Jimmy Iovine ,
chairman of Universal Music Group’s Interscope record label, as
a consultant and the return of  Nigel Lythgoe  as producer.
“Idol” ratings dropped 9 percent last season, according to
Nielsen Co. data.  “I want to bring some rock to this roller coaster,” Tyler
said at the news conference.  “Idol” was the most-watched prime-time program in the
broadcast TV season that ended in May. The twice-weekly talent
contest averaged 24.9 million viewers on Tuesday nights and 23.7
million on Wednesdays. The show was also the most popular among
the 18-to-49 year-old viewers that advertisers target.  Cowell, an original judge on the program, left to start a
new talent show, “The X-Factor,” which will also air on Fox,
starting in September 2011.  ‘Idol’ Music Rights  Vivendi SA’s  Universal Music Group, the world’s biggest
record label, gained rights to “Idol” performers for the 10th
season, replacing Sony Corp.’s music division, the show’s
producers announced last month. Universal will develop,
distribute and market the finalists. Since its 2001 debut,
“Idol” has generated more music sales than any U.S. TV show in
history,  CKX Inc. ’s 19 Entertainment unit, which created the
show, said last month.  News Corp. , controlled by Chairman and Chief Executive
Officer  Rupert Murdoch , fell 32 cents to $13.50 at 4 p.m. New
York time in Nasdaq Stock Market trading. The Class A shares
have declined 1.4 percent this year.  Lopez also entered into an agreement with Twentieth Century
Fox Films and Fox Broadcasting Co., giving the News Corp.
divisions a “first-look” at projects from her Nuyorican
Productions.  Lopez, 40, first appeared in the spotlight on the TV show
“In Living Color” in the early 1990s and was further
catapulted by her portrayal of the Latin-music chart-topping
singer  Selena Quintanilla-Perez  in “Selena.”  As a singer, Lopez has sold more than 55 million albums
worldwide, according to Fox, including her 1999 debut “On the
6,” “J. Lo,” “J To Tha L-O! The Remixes” and “This Is Me _
Then.” Lopez, who’s married to singer  Marc Anthony , parted with
her record label Sony/Epic earlier this year and is scheduled to
release her new album “Love?” in December.  ‘Idol’ Owners  Tyler, the 62-year-old lead singer for rock band Aerosmith,
is a member of the Rock & Roll Hall of Fame. Members of the
band, known for songs such as “Walk This Way” and “Janie’s
Got a Gun,” have been playing together since 1970 and have sold
more than 100 million records, Fox said.  CKX owns two-thirds of the “Idol” brand and co-produces
the show in the U.S. with Fremantle Media, owner of the rest,
according to the company’s annual report. CKX’s 19 Entertainment
has a global television and production agreement with Fremantle.
In 2005 CKX bought 19 Entertainment, which was founded by  Simon Fuller , the creator of the “Idol” series.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ronald Grover  in Los Angeles at 
 rgrover5@bloomberg.net ;
 Sarah Rabil  in New York at 
 srabil@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at   pelstrom@bloomberg.net ;
Anthony Palazzo at   apalazzo@bloomberg.net . 