-- NFL Players May Lose Health Coverage in Lockout, Union Executive Says
-- B y   C u r t i s   E i c h e l b e r g e r
-- 2010-09-22T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-22/nfl-players-may-lose-health-coverage-in-lockout-union-executive-says.html
National Football League players
may be left without health coverage if a new labor accord isn’t
agreed upon before the start of next season, the head of the
players’ union said.  DeMaurice Smith ,  executive director  of the  National
Football League Players Association , told Georgetown University
graduate students last night that he expects owners to lock
players out when the collective bargaining agreement expires
after the 2010 season, and that NFL Commissioner  Roger Goodell 
hasn’t guaranteed health coverage will continue for players.  “We’re preparing our guys for the worst,” Smith told the
audience of about 200 students. “We told them that, in all
likelihood, they will lose their health care.”  Smith couldn’t say how much NFL teams would save if health
coverage is cut. Owners haven’t decided whether to extend health
care, NFL spokesman  Greg Aiello  said in an e-mail last night.  “The way to avoid this decision is to reach agreement on a
new CBA before March,” Aiello said.  The  NFL  and its players are negotiating a new labor
contract and are in disagreement over what proportion of league
revenue players will receive. Rookie salaries, the length of the
season, health coverage and drug testing are other points of
contention, Smith said.  The union has about $200 million in a lockout fund, Smith
told Bloomberg this month without saying how he planned to use
the money.  Canceling next season will cost each city with an NFL
stadium about $140 million in lost jobs and revenue, Smith said.  “Every state and local jurisdiction made the choice that
we’re going to invest in a stadium because that’s something that
will create revenue and create jobs,” Smith said. “Now we know
that, if a lockout occurs for a year, it will cost each and
every one of those cities $140 million.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Curtis Eichelberger  in Washington at 
 ceichelberge@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  