-- Northam Platinum Mine Remains Closed for 17th Day as Wage Strike Continues
-- B y   C a r l i   L o u r e n s
-- 2010-09-22T10:52:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-22/northam-platinum-says-second-round-of-mediation-talks-over-pay-have-failed.html
Northam Platinum Ltd.  said its only
mine, located in South Africa, remains shut for a 17th day after
it rejected the demands of striking workers to increase pay and
other benefits by as much as 32 percent.  A second round of mediation talks, held yesterday, failed,
the Johannesburg-based company said in a statement today.
“Management remains firm in its rejection” of the union’s
demands, it said.  The total demands of workers, which include a 15 percent
basic wage increase, higher allowances, and changes to payment
categories, equate to a 32 percent rise per worker, Northam
said. The inflation rate in Africa’s largest economy slowed to
3.7 percent in July from 4.2 percent in June.  Workers went on strike at Northam’s Zondereinde mine on
Sept. 5. The mine taps the world’s richest platinum deposits,
located in the north of South Africa and which produce more than
three-quarters of world supply of the metal.  While Northam raised its basic wage offer to 9 percent
yesterday, it will be rejected by members of the  National Union
of Mineworkers  as the improvement isn’t “substantial,” union
negotiator Ecliff Tantsi said by mobile phone today.  The company didn’t improve its living-out allowance for
workers not making use of company hostels, where as many as 16
people share one room, he said.  The strike is costing about 9 million rand ($1.3 million)
a day in lost revenue, Northam has said.  Platinum, Palladium  Zondereinde, which employs about 6,800 workers, each day
produces about 1,000 ounces of metal including platinum,
palladium, rhodium and gold.  Larger rival  Impala Platinum Holdings Ltd.  avoided a strike
by the union when it agreed last month to boost the pay of
lower-grade workers by 8 percent and higher-grade employees by
7.5 percent. Impala is the world’s second largest producer of
the metal and it mines almost all of its metal in South Africa.  The union’s demands are not comparable with those made of
Impala because payment structures differ and Impala is
converting hostels into family units, Tantsi said.  Shares  in Northam fell as much as 2.5 percent to 44.74 rand
and traded at 45.51 rand as of 12:23 p.m. in Johannesburg,
giving a market value of 16.4 billion rand.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Carli Lourens  in Johannesburg at 
 clourens@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amanda Jordan at   ajordan11@bloomberg.net  