-- Norway Leaves Benchmark Rate Unchanged at 2% for Third Consecutive Meeting
-- B y   J o s i a n e   K r e m e r
-- 2010-09-22T12:04:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-22/norway-leaves-benchmark-rate-unchanged-at-2-for-third-consecutive-meeting.html
Norway’s central bank left its
benchmark interest rate unchanged for a third meeting today
after policy makers scaled back tightening plans to adjust to
the prospect of a slower recovery in global export markets.  Oslo-based Norges Bank left the  overnight deposit rate  at 2
percent, as forecast by all 14 economists  surveyed by Bloomberg .
The bank, which in October became the first in Europe to start
reversing crisis easing, last raised rates on May 5.  The bank has since pushed back plans to increase borrowing
costs as policy makers try to avoid fueling krone gains that
hurt exporters. Governor  Svein Gjedrem , due to step down in
December as his final term ends, said on Aug. 11 he expected
rates to rise at the “turn of the year.” That’s about six
months earlier than when his possible successor, statistics
agency head  Oeystein Olsen , says tightening should resume.  “We don’t expect any rate hikes in the euro zone, the U.K.
or the U.S., so the interest rate differential is already high
and I don’t think Norges Bank wants to increase that spread
further,” said  Kyrre Aamdal , senior economist at DnB NOR ASA,
Norway’s biggest bank.  The European Central Bank has left its benchmark rate at a
record-low 1 percent since May last year. ECB President  Jean- Claude Trichet  said on Sept. 2 the bank’s rates are
“appropriate.” The U.S. Federal Reserve has kept its benchmark
rate in a range of zero to 0.25 percent since December 2008 and
reiterated yesterday that rates will stay “exceptionally low”
for an “extended period.”  Government Support  The krone has gained 9.3 percent against the euro in the
last 12 months, hurting exporters including Oslo-based Norsk
Hydro ASA, Europe’s third-biggest aluminum producer. Olsen, who
is the top candidate to succeed Gjedrem next year according to
four economists contacted by Bloomberg last month, said in an
Aug. 26 interview the next rate increase should be shelved until
summer next year.  Finance Minister Sigbjoern Johnsen last month pledged to
support the bank’s efforts to stem krone gains by curbing public
spending. “If the krone gets too strong, that is worrying,”
Johnsen said in an interview on Aug. 27. He will present
Norway’s 2011 budget on Oct. 5.  Growth in Europe may falter as nations including Greece,
Spain and Portugal struggle to contain excessive budget deficits
even after a debt crisis forced European officials to craft a
750 billion euro ($996 billion) aid package in May.  Stiglitz on Europe  Nobel Prize-winning economist  Joseph Stiglitz  said on Sept.
20 European governments’ efforts to reduce budget deficits are
threatening to undermine the region’s recovery and hurt investor
confidence. Growth in the European Union, Norway’s largest
trading partner, may slow to 1.4 percent next year from 1.6
percent in 2010, according to a Bloomberg survey of economists.  In the U.S., growth has slowed for two quarters while
employment stagnated. That sent  consumer confidence  to a one-
year low in September.  Norway is one of 18 countries to have lifted borrowing
costs since the height of the financial crisis.  Mainland growth ,
which excludes oil, gas, and shipping accelerated to 0.5 percent
in the second quarter from the first quarter. The Nordic economy
will expand 1.75 percent this year and 2.75 percent next year.
Growth prospects and falling unemployment pushed third quarter
 consumer confidence  to the highest level in more than two years.  A lack of inflationary pressure has increased the central
bank’s scope to keep rates unchanged. Underlying inflation,
which adjusts for energy and taxes, has lagged behind the
central bank’s 2.5 percent target since August last year. The
rate stood at 1.4 percent last month.  No Reason  “With negative imported inflation, the overall inflation
in Norway should be quite modest so there is no reason for the
Norwegian central bank to hike rates,” Aamdal at DnB NOR said.  Gjedrem expressed concern about what he called high house
prices  earlier this month . Near record-low borrowing costs have
fuelled the property market with house prices rising in five of
the past six quarters. Household debt will rise to 197 percent
of disposable incomes by the end of the year, the central bank
forecasts.  Swedish Riksbank Deputy Governor Lars E. O. Svensson warned
last week that central banks shouldn’t raise rates to curb
asset-price growth when inflation is low. The Riksbank on Sept.
2 raised its benchmark repo rate a second time in as many months
to 0.75 percent. Svensson, who opposed the move, has been
outvoted by his policy setting colleagues twice this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Josiane Kremer  in Oslo at 
 Jkremer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  