-- Norway May Boost Oil Production by 16 Billion Barrels
-- B y   M a r i a n n e   S t i g s e t
-- 2010-09-22T13:25:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-22/norway-sees-potential-to-produce-16-billion-additional-barrels-of-crude.html
Norway, the world’s seventh-biggest
oil producer, has the potential to produce an additional 16
billion barrels of oil, which would extend output beyond 2050,
according to a report commissioned by the oil ministry.  By reducing costs, improving technology and introducing
regulatory changes, producers offshore Norway could increase
recovery rates from existing oil and gas fields to 60 percent
from today’s average of 46 percent, said the report issued
today. That could add about 16 billion barrels of oil to be
produced offshore Norway, in addition to today’s reserves and
recoverable oil in discovered and undiscovered deposits.  “This is work that needs to be done now,” Oil Minister
 Terje Riis-Johansen  said today at a press conference in Oslo.
“It will soon be too late. It is fully possible that
significant resources on the Norwegian shelf will never be
utilized if we don’t get control over costs.”  The government is urging producers such as state-controlled
Statoil ASA and  ConocoPhillips  to improve recovery rates from
the country’s oil deposits. Output has almost halved in the past
decade after 40 years of pumping oil and natural gas from fields
such as Ekofisk, Oseberg and Troll.  Cheaper Rigs  The report recommended 44 measures to enhance oil recovery
from producing fields, including revising the voting rights
among license partners to enable those with a majority to make
the final decision and introducing simpler well designs that
could use smaller, cheaper rigs. The government’s push to
attract more companies to boost exploration offshore may have
impacted production at existing fields.  “There’s probably been greater priority given to
exploration than production and we cautiously recommend that the
ministry takes a look at this and asks itself whether this has
had an effect and should this be adjusted,” Knut Aam, head of
the commission responsible for the report, said today in Oslo.  Statoil aims to spend 8 billion kroner ($1.4 billion) on
upgrading installations this year, while Conoco in March
proposed development plans for the North Sea Eldfisk and Ekofisk
South fields valued at as much as $13 billion to prolong their
production lives. The Norwegian  Petroleum Directorate  estimates
54 percent of crude in existing fields may be left underground
if companies fail to improve recovery.  ConocoPhillips has raised the recovery rate at Ekofisk to
more than 50 percent from about 18 percent in 1971, spokesman
Stig Kvendseth said in an interview earlier this year. The field
produced about 178,000 barrels of oil day last year, down from a
peak of almost 300,000 a day in 2002.  The Petroleum Directorate set a 10-year goal of adding 5
billion barrels to reserves by 2015, of which two-thirds were
expected to come from enhanced recovery. The Directorate
estimates the total resource base offshore Norway at between
10.6 billion and 17 billion standard cubic meters of oil
equivalents (67 billion and 107 billion barrels), of which 5.3
billion standard cubic meters have been produced. Oil is
classified as reserves when it’s approved for production.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Marianne Stigset  in Oslo at 
 mstigset@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at   wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  