-- Novartis Gains FDA Approval for Gilenya Multiple-Sclerosis Drug
-- B y   E v a   v o n   S c h a p e r
-- 2010-09-22T16:27:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-22/novartis-says-fda-granted-approval-for-gilenya-multiple-sclerosis-medicine.html
Novartis AG  won U.S. regulatory
approval to sell its multiple sclerosis medicine Gilenya,
beating  Merck KGaA  in a race to market the first pill to slow
the crippling disease.  The Food and Drug Administration cleared the treatment for
use against relapsing forms of multiple sclerosis, the Basel,
Switzerland-based company said in a statement. A doctor will
have to watch patients for six hours after their first dose of
Gilenya, Novartis said. Regulators also recommend checking
patients’ blood and eyes before treatment, a demand less
restrictive than expected, said  Karl-Heinz Koch , an analyst at
Helvea SA in Zurich.  “We were like ‘Wow,’” Koch said in a telephone interview.
“This is a very good outcome for Novartis. They’ll really be
able to stir up the MS market.” Koch said he now believes
Gilenya can achieve double his estimate of $1.4 billion in peak
annual sales.  Regulators said doctors can prescribe the drug as the first
treatment for MS patients, making it competitive with standard
drugs such as Biogen Idec Inc.’s Avonex, Merck’s Rebif and Teva
Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd.’s Copaxone. The drug “certainly
has multibillion potential,”  Trevor Mundel , Novartis’s head of
drug development said in a telephone interview today.  Current Therapies  Multiple sclerosis affects 2.5 million people worldwide,
many of whom have trouble sticking with current therapies
because they’re difficult to use or have side effects, according
to the  National Multiple Sclerosis Society , a New York-based
patient group.  Novartis fell 1 Swiss franc, or 1.8 percent, to 55.45 Swiss
francs at 5:30 p.m. in Zurich trading. Merck fell 1.57 euros, or
2.2 percent, to 70.65 euros in Frankfurt, the biggest drop since
July 16.  A Novartis spokesman didn’t immediately return a call
seeking comment on the price of the drug. Gilenya probably will
cost about $30,000 a year in the U.S., said Koch, based on the
price of the existing treatments, which ranges from $20,000 to
$30,000.  Novartis changed the spelling of the pill’s name to Gilenya
from Gilenia during the FDA’s review.  The review, initially set for six months, was delayed by
three months when Novartis said May 25 that the FDA requested
additional analysis of current data. Rival medicine cladribine,
from Darmstadt, Germany-based Merck, won a priority review in
July, reducing to six months from 10 the time it will take the
FDA to decide on approval, after the agency rejected an earlier
application in November. Merck expects a decision on cladribine
in the fourth quarter.  European Approval  Novartis expects European regulators to decide on Gilenya’s
approval within six months. The European approval is “on
track,” Mundel said.  Multiple sclerosis  causes the body to attack nerve cells
through the immune system. Gilenya, known by the chemical name
fingolimod, and cladribine blunt the attack by targeting white
blood cells that harm the protective coating of nerve cells.
Gilenya keeps lymphocytes, a type of white blood cell, from
being released into the immune system, while cladribine works by
killing lymphocytes.  Cladribine was cleared more than a decade ago to fight
leukemia and has been approved as an MS treatment in Russia and
Australia. Gilenya won approval in Russia on Sept. 10.  Three studies released this year showed both pills reduce
the risk of relapses and worsening disease, with the Novartis
drug also providing a greater benefit than an established
interferon therapy in 12 months of treatment. Though the
medicines work differently, both suppress the immune system, and
patients who took the drugs had higher rates of infections
including herpes and shingles.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Eva von Schaper  in Munich at 
 evonschaper@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at   pserafino@bloomberg.net  