-- Novartis Awarded U.S. Approval for MS Pill Gilenya
-- B y   E v a   V o n   S c h a p e r
-- 2010-09-22T06:14:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-22/novartis-awarded-u-s-approval-for-ms-pill-gilenya-update1-.html
Novartis AG  won U.S. regulatory
approval to sell Gilenya, beating  Merck KGaA  in a race to market
the first pill to slow multiple sclerosis.  The Food and Drug Administration cleared the medicine for
use against relapsing forms of the neurological disease, the
Basel, Switzerland-based company said today in a statement.
Novartis changed the spelling of the pill’s name to Gilenya from
Gilenia during the FDA’s review.  Multiple sclerosis affects 2.5 million people worldwide,
many of whom have trouble sticking with current therapies
because they’re difficult to use or have side effects, according
to the  National Multiple Sclerosis Society , a New York-based
patient group. Standard treatments are injectable drugs led by
 Biogen Idec Inc. ’s Avonex, Merck’s Rebif and  Teva Pharmaceutical
Industries Ltd. ’s Copaxone.  “An approval should position Gilenia for blockbuster
success as the first highly effective oral treatment for MS,”
 Emmanuel Papadakis , an analyst at Collins Stewart, said in a
note to clients on Sept. 13.  The review, initially set for six months, was delayed three
months when Novartis said May 25 that the FDA requested
additional analysis of current data. Cladribine, from Darmstadt,
Germany-based Merck, won a priority review in July, reducing to
six months from 10 the time it will take the FDA to decide on
approval, after the agency rejected an earlier application in
November. Merck expects a decision on cladribine in the fourth
quarter.  Multiple Sclerosis  Multiple sclerosis  causes the body to attack nerve cells
through the immune system. Gilenya, known by the chemical name
fingolimod, and cladribine blunt the attack by targeting white
blood cells that harm the protective coating of nerve cells.
Gilenya keeps lymphocytes, a type of white blood cell, from
being released into the immune system, while cladribine works by
killing lymphocytes.  Cladribine was approved more than a decade ago to fight
leukemia and has been approved as an MS treatment in Russia and
Australia. Gilenya won approval in Russia on Sept. 10.  Three studies released earlier this year showed both pills
reduce the risk of relapses and worsening disease, with the
Novartis drug also providing a greater benefit than an
established interferon therapy in 12 months of treatment. Though
the pills work differently, both suppress the immune system, and
patients who took the drugs had higher rates of infections
including herpes and shingles.  Sales for a multiple sclerosis pill could “absolutely”
reach $1 billion annually, the measure of a so-called
blockbuster drug, said  Trevor Mundel , Novartis’s head of global
drug development, in a telephone interview in January.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Eva von Schaper  in Munich at 
 evonschaper@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at   pserafino@bloomberg.net ;
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 