-- Obama Loses U.S. Investor in Global Poll With Approval Abroad
-- B y   J o h n   M c C o r m i c k
-- 2010-09-22T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-22/obama-loses-u-s-investor-in-global-poll-as-majority-abroad-favor-policies.html
President  Barack Obama  is
contending with widespread opposition at home and mostly
approval abroad among investors in a global poll reflecting
divergent perspectives on the business climate from the U.S. to
Europe and Asia.  More than three-quarters of U.S. investors view Obama as
anti-business and are pessimistic about his policies, while a
majority outside the U.S. holds a more favorable view, a
Bloomberg survey shows.  Two-thirds of U.S. respondents say investing would be
improved if Republicans won control of Congress in the November
elections, according to the quarterly poll of investors and
analysts who are Bloomberg subscribers conducted Sept. 16- 17.
Separately, 50 percent of U.S. respondents say a Republican
takeover would improve the economy, 36 percent say it wouldn’t
make much difference and 13 percent say it would be harmful.  “The scope of the administration’s agenda is so ambitious
and the level of proposed change so big, that uncertainty is the
result,” says poll participant  David Yucius , 42, president of
Aurora Investment Counsel in Atlanta.  Obama, 49, inherited what the National Bureau of Economic
Research said this week was the deepest U.S. recession since the
Great Depression. Even after an $814 billion stimulus measure
enacted last year and other government actions, the U.S.
unemployment rate is 9.6 percent.  Right Balance  The president does better with investors outside the U.S.,
with 53 percent saying he offers about the right balance on
business issues. Those outside the U.S. are also less
pessimistic about the investment climate his policies have
created. Globally, 50 percent of poll participants say they
consider him anti-business, up from 42 percent in a January
Bloomberg Global Poll. Among U.S. respondents that number is 77
percent, unchanged from January.  Obama’s wider popularity outside the U.S. isn’t surprising,
considering that stock indexes in Europe and Asia have done
worse this year than those in the U.S.  The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index , the benchmark measure of
U.S. shares, has increased 2.2 percent this year. In the same
period, Japan’s  Nikkei 225 Stock Average  has lost 9 percent and
the  Shanghai Composite Index  has plunged 21 percent, while
gauges for Italy, Spain, France and Switzerland have all
declined. The  Dollar Index , which measures the U.S. currency
against the euro, yen, pound, Canadian dollar, Swedish krona and
Swiss franc, had gained 3.3 percent this year as of yesterday.  Stock Indexes  Overall, 49 percent of poll respondents say the  S&P  is
likely to be higher six months from now; only 38 percent say the
same of the  Euro Stoxx 50 Index  and 37 percent of the  FTSE 100
Index .  The administration has repeatedly defended itself against
accusations that it is anti-business, going back to an interview
Obama gave to Bloomberg Businessweek in February.  “The irony is, is that on the left we are perceived as
being in the pockets of big business; and then on the business
side, we are perceived as being anti-business,” Obama said Feb.
9 in the Oval Office interview.  Most U.S. respondents -- 70 percent -- say they aren’t
taking any action in anticipation of a potential increase in
U.S. capital-gains taxes, which will happen if Congress doesn’t
take action by the end of the year. Only about one in four
respondents say they already have sold or plan to sell more
assets than they normally would to lock in the current 15
percent  tax rate .  Capital-Gains Tax  Those with a higher net worth are more likely to say they
have already acted or are planning to, with 35 percent of those
with a net worth of more than $1 million saying so, compared
with 19 percent with smaller portfolios.  Unless Congress acts, rates for capital gains will increase
to 20 percent from 15 percent. Dividends, currently taxed at 15
percent, would be taxed as ordinary income with rates as high as
39.6 percent. Under Obama’s plan, the capital-gains rate would
remain at 15 percent for most, while the top rate would rise to
20 percent.  Two-thirds of respondents in the U.S. say they think damage
would be done to the economy if Congress approved Obama’s
proposal to extend tax-rate reductions enacted under President
 George W. Bush  only for those who earn less than $200,000 per
individual, or $250,000 per couple.  Extending Bush Policies  There is division globally on what would be the best tax
action for the U.S. economy. Within the U.S., 67 percent say
extending the cuts for all would be best. That is more than
twice the proportion who hold that view outside the U.S.  “It is a classic tool to stimulate the economy,” said
poll participant  Chris Klass , 45, a vice president for portfolio
strategy at Duncan Williams Inc., in Memphis, Tennessee. “Who
has the money to spend, or who is currently spending money? The
rich. The middle class is probably over-leveraged and currently
saving money in fear they may lose their jobs.”  Political leanings play a role on the views about tax
policy. Among U.S. investors who describe their politics as
“left of center,” 37 percent say the cuts should be extended
to all, compared with 81 percent of those who say they are
“right of center.” Among centrists, 60 percent support
extending the cuts to everyone.  ‘Lost the Centrists’  “President Obama has lost the centrists,” said J.  Ann Selzer , president of Des Moines, Iowa-based  Selzer & Co. , which
conducted the poll for Bloomberg. “In our July 2009 survey,
almost two in three of U.S. customers who consider themselves to
be in the political center were favorable toward Obama. Now,
almost that many are unfavorable.”  The quarterly Bloomberg Global Poll of investors, traders
and analysts is based on interviews with a random sample of
1,408 Bloomberg subscribers. The poll has a margin of error of
plus or minus 2.6 percentage points.  Obama’s 49 percent favorability rating among investors
hasn’t changed much since June, although it is down from his
peak of 73 percent in July 2009. In the U.S., 74 percent of poll
participants have an unfavorable view, up 6 percentage points
from June. Almost two-thirds have a favorable view of him
outside the U.S.  More than half of respondents polled say they think this
year’s passage by Congress of an overhaul of U.S. financial
regulations will weaken Wall Street’s profitability for the next
few years. Almost a third say it won’t affect profitability,
while 10 percent say it will strengthen earnings. Among U.S.
investors, 65 percent say it will weaken Wall Street’s profits.  Financial-Regulations Overhaul  A fifth of subscribers say their own companies have been
affected a fair bit or a great deal by the new rules, while 31
percent say just some. Among those who say their employers have
been affected at least some, 51 percent say it has been bad for
the company’s profitability.  One of the few pieces of good news for Obama in the survey
is that global investors view him much more favorably than they
do his predecessor,  George W. Bush . Only 25 percent give Bush a
favorable rating, while 71 percent say they view him
unfavorably. The former president does better among U.S.
respondents: 45 percent view him favorably and 52 percent
unfavorably.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 John McCormick  in Chicago at 
 jmccormick16@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  