-- Obama Steps Up Defense of Health-Care Overhaul Law
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   J o h n s t o n
-- 2010-09-22T16:57:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-22/obama-steps-up-defense-of-health-care-overhaul-as-support-for-law-declines.html
President  Barack Obama  said
politicians who want to repeal this year’s health-care overhaul
should have to explain to people who need insurance that they
won’t be able to buy it.  “I want them to look you in the eye and say sorry,” he
said, “you can’t buy health insurance.”  “I don’t think that’s what this country stands for,” the
president said at a backyard gathering today in Falls Church,
Virginia.  Stepping up his defense of legislation most Americans say
they dislike, the president highlighted provisions beginning to
take effect, including new regulations for insurance companies,
requirements to let young adults stay on their parents’ plans,
and a bar on coverage being denied to children with preexisting
conditions.  Insurance companies “are not going to be able to drop you
arbitrarily,” Obama said. “You’re going to be able to choose
your doctor and not have to go through some network in an
emergency situation.”  “All these things are designed not to have government more
involved in health care, they’re designed to make sure you have
basic protections in your interactions with your insurance
company, that you’re getting what you paid for,” the president
said.  Rising health-care costs are the largest factor in the
increasing federal deficit, he said.  $1 Trillion  “Why would you want to repeal something that the
Congressional Budget Office says is going to save us $1 trillion
if you’re serious about the deficit?” he said.  Since the overhaul was approved six months ago, support for
the legislation has fallen, according to a USA Today/Gallup
poll. A  survey conducted Aug. 27-30  found that 56 percent of
Americans disapprove of the health-care overhaul. When the
legislation was signed into law by Obama, 49 percent of
Americans said it was a “good thing.”  “Sometimes I fault myself for not having been able to make
the case more clearly to the country,” the president said
today.  Obama is on the defense six weeks before congressional
elections as surveys show Republicans likely to gain seats in
the Senate and U.S. House of Representatives.  “Sometimes we’ve done some things that were very
unpopular,” Obama said at a Sept. 20 fundraiser in
Philadelphia. “But you didn’t work so hard on my behalf simply
to do what was popular. You elected me to do what was right.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nicholas Johnston  in Washington at 
 njohnston3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  