-- Obama Tricks Voters Like Enron Hoodwinked Public: Amity Shlaes
-- B y   A m i t y   S h l a e s
-- 2010-09-22T01:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-22/obama-tricks-voters-like-enron-hoodwinked-public-amity-shlaes.html
The debate concerning the top tax
rate for wealthier Americans is so difficult in part because
most people only pretend to know the actual figure.  Sure, we all know Republicans want to keep the top rate at
its current level while Democrats prefer to let the  George W. Bush -era rate cuts expire. And some of us may even know that the
tax code’s current 35 percent figure would rise to 39.6 percent
if President  Barack Obama  gets his way.  Beyond that, we get hazy. And no wonder: other sections of
the tax code combine with the statutory rate in mysterious ways,
creating a different effective top marginal rate. These include,
for example, phaseouts known as  Pease and PEP , under which
itemized deductions and personal exemptions fade. If you really
want to capture the top taxpayer’s situation, you have to add
state taxes into the mix. So what’s the exact top rate? Nobody
knows. Or, maybe, nobody wants to know.  I asked the biggest, baddest tax mind I know, former
Congressional Budget Office director  Douglas Holtz-Eakin , to
tell what he thinks the top tax is. Even Holtz-Eakin
approximated, texting back a formula that might serve as the
theme song for tax year 2011: “39.6 + 2 (phaseout of pep and
pease) + 3.8 (Medicare net investment income tax) = 45.4. Add in
state-level taxes and 50 is easy to reach.”  Holtz-Eakin is a genius. If he’s approximating, it’s
because he can’t bear to feel the pain of the precise reality.  Illusion of Fairness  So how did we get here? Politicians love progressive rate
structures. First, they appear to be fair. We’ve all heard
President Obama invoking fairness in defense of the 39.6 rate he
seeks. A second, greater advantage of progressive rates is their
complexity. The staircase concept of  rates  rising on successive
income tranches is hard enough. Add in all the traps and breaks
and taxpayers become truly confused and give up protesting.  What’s at work here is the same phenomenon that caused
otherwise sentient members of Enron’s audit committee to go
along with executives  Andrew Fastow  and  Jeff Skilling : fear of
looking stupid. Given a choice between seeming like dummies or
paying more money than they think they should, people often
choose the latter.  For the first quarter century or so of its existence,
lawmakers didn’t dare impose the income tax on the average
earner. Only when World War II broke out did this class tax
become a mass tax. And then two extra tricks were necessary for
the transition. First, many taxpayers were hardly in a position
to resist a shift in the code since they were already government
captives: draftees. Second, withholding was introduced. Soldiers
never knew how much they were taxed because part of their income
never even made it into their pockets.  Selling the Structure  After the war, the feds found new ways to justify and
complicate our tax system. They marketed progressivity as a
necessity for the nation’s general welfare. The very name itself
helped. Many people don’t want to oppose political progressives,
so they go along with the idea of a progressive tax structure.
Even those who reject progressive politics may not want to be
caught opposing something that sounds like progress. The
progressivity brand was so successful that government was able
to keep the top rate at more than 70 percent for decades.  But did postwar Americans really endorse, or even
understand, that progressive principle? This was less clear. Two
skeptics were  Harry Kalven  and Walter Blum of the University of
Chicago. They set out to make the case for progressivity but
found the argument so weak they titled their 1953 book “The
Uneasy Case for Progressive Taxation.”  Taxing Experiment  In the 1990s, scholars designed an experiment to see
whether people understood the difference between progressive
structures, under which rates go up as people earn more, and
proportional ones, under which higher earners pay taxes at the
same rate as lower earners.  Michael Roberts, Cassie Bradley and Peggy Hite asked
college students abstract questions: “Are progressive tax rates
more or less fair than flat tax rates?” By a margin of almost 4
to 1, students said they preferred a progressive rate system for
society. Next the researchers gave the same students concrete
examples of a paired set of two earners with different salaries
and possible tax bills for those earners, asking which tax
amount the earners should pay. By a margin of 4 to 1, the same
students picked tax amounts for the higher earner that
corresponded to a flat rate, or even a regressive, system.
Remarkably, these subjects were accounting students who had
already studied these various systems.  The point isn’t that taxpayers are stupid. Rather, they are
stupefied and conflicted. On a gut level, they may not
necessarily agree with the basic principle of modern taxation.
“Overall, our results indicate the existence of a norm for
proportionality…” concluded Roberts, Bradley and Hite.
Lawmakers may want to drag the country into a new higher tax
era. But they shouldn’t console themselves that there’s
consensus for such a change, when there may not be.  ( Amity Shlaes , senior fellow in economic history at the
Council on Foreign Relations, is a Bloomberg News columnist. The
opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Amity Shlaes at  amityshlaes@hotmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at 
 jgreiff@bloomberg.net . 