-- Lockheed Values Sale of 32 F-35s at Over $5 Billion (Correct)
-- B y   G o p a l   R a t n a m
-- 2010-09-24T15:49:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-22/lockheed-martin-says-agreement-for-32-f-35-jets-valued-at-over-5-billion.html
(Corrects eighth paragraph in story originally published on
Sept. 22 to clarify the planes being replaced by the F-35.)  Lockheed Martin Corp. agreed to
build 32 Joint Strike Fighters, and absorb some of any cost
increases, in a U.S. Defense Department order that may be valued
at more than $5 billion.  The contract is for the fourth batch of early production-
model jets on a so-called fixed-price plus incentives basis.
Defense companies usually work on a cost-plus basis during a
weapon’s development, with taxpayers picking up any growth in
expenses.  The F-35 Joint Strike Fighter is the most expensive U.S.
weapons program, with costs surging 65 percent since 2002 to
$382.4 billion. Defense Secretary Robert Gates has said the
country may withhold from Lockheed as much as $614 million in
fees because of delays on the warplane, pending improvements in
flight tests.  The accord “brings us to 63 production aircraft on
contract for five services in three countries,” Jeffery Adams,
a spokesman for the Bethesda, Maryland-based company, said in an
e-mail.  The U.S. will purchase 30 of the jets, the U.K. will buy
one and the Netherlands may also take one, Cheryl Irwin, a
Pentagon spokeswoman, said in a statement.  The contract will include for the first time all three
variants of the fighter jet: the conventional take-off, short
take-off and aircraft-carrier models, Jennifer Whitlow, a
Lockheed spokeswoman, said in an e-mail. The order’s value
includes the jet’s production as well as maintenance and
production tooling, she said.  Behind Schedule  Development and combat testing of the F-35 is more than
four years behind schedule. The warplane is designed to be used,
with modifications, by the Air Force, Navy and Marine Corps,
instead of each service buying its own aircraft.  The jet will replace models such as the Air Force’s F-16
and A-10, and the Harrier jet flown by the Marines and the U.K.  The U.S. plans to buy about 2,473 jets and eight
international partners may buy 700 more.  Lockheed rose 39 cents to $72.04 at 2:28 p.m. in New York
Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares declined 4.9
percent this year before today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gopal Ratnam in Arlington, Virginia, at 
 gratnam1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net . 