-- LodgeNet Plans Debt as Fed Meeting Slows Sales: New Issue Alert
-- B y   S a p n a   M a h e s h w a r i
-- 2010-09-22T08:36:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-22/lodgenet-plans-debt-as-fed-meeting-slows-corporate-sales-new-issue-alert.html
LodgeNet Interactive Corp ., a
provider of television and Internet access for hotels, is
marketing debt as bond sales slowed before a Federal Reserve
statement that the pace of economic recovery was sluggish.  LodgeNet plans to sell $435 million of senior secured
second-lien notes due in 2016, according to a Sept. 20 filing
with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.  Company debt sales slowed 61 percent yesterday from Sept.
20 as the Federal Open Market Committee said yesterday that it’s
willing to ease monetary policy further to spur growth though it
would refrain from stepping up purchases of U.S. debt. Some
investors had speculated that the Federal Reserve would say it
planned to expand its holdings of securities, signaling a lack
of confidence in the economic recovery.  Issuance is “kind of always a volatile thing to do when
people are waiting for the Fed,” said  Rajeev Sharma , a money
manager at First Investors Management Co., who oversees $1.4
billion of investment-grade debt. “A lot of deals were probably
just waiting to see the market reaction.”  The extra yield investors demand to own investment-grade
debt instead of Treasuries was unchanged at 183 basis points
yesterday, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s U.S.
Corporate Master index. Yields on the bonds fell 9 basis points
to 3.73 percent, the lowest since daily records began on Oct.
31, 1986, the data show. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  Corporate bond sales have surged to at least $105.1 billion
this month, a 16 percent increase from the similar period in
August, which was the busiest for that month on record,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Companies issued $4.55
billion of debt yesterday, Bloomberg data show.  ‘New Issuance to Continue’  “I do expect new issuance to continue until the blackout
period for earnings,” Sharma said, referring to the time
preceding company results.  Valeant Pharmaceuticals International , the U.S. company
merging with  Biovail Corp ., Canada’s largest publicly traded
drugmaker, led $2.95 billion of high-yield, high-risk bond sales
yesterday, Bloomberg data show. High-yield debt is rated below
Baa3 by Moody’s Investors Service and BBB- by Standard & Poor’s.  Spreads on junk debt rose 7 basis point to 632 basis
points, according to the Bank of America Merrill Lynch U.S. High
Yield Master II Index. Yields fell 2 basis points, to 8.13
percent.  Investment-grade companies issued $1.6 billion of debt,
Bloomberg data show.  LodgeNet’s debt may be issued later this week, according to
a person familiar with the offering, who declined to be
identified because terms aren’t set.  The following is a description of at least $11 billion of
pending sales of dollar-denominated bonds in the U.S.  Investment Grade  BURGAN BANK, the lender part-owned by Kuwait Projects Co.,
plans to sell 10-year lower Tier 2 bonds in dollars, according
to three people with knowledge of the sale. The notes may yield
in the 8 percent range, the people said. The bank may sell $300
million to $500 million of bonds, two of the people said.
JPMorgan Chase & Co., Morgan Stanley and Standard Chartered Plc
are managing the sale.  GERDAU SA, Latin America’s largest steelmaker, hired HSBC
Holdings Plc, Banco Santander SA and JPMorgan Chase & Co. to
sell benchmark bonds overseas, according to a person familiar
with the transaction who declined to be identified because the
terms aren’t set. Proceeds will be used to refinance debt, the
company said Sept. 16 in a regulatory filing. A benchmark sale
is typically at least $500 million.  TRANSPOWER NEW ZEALAND LTD., which operates New Zealand’s
electricity grid, started marketing at least $150 million of
bonds to U.S. private investors, according to a person familiar
with the plan. National Australia Bank Ltd. and Citigroup Inc.
are managing the sale, the person said, asking not to be named
as the details are private.  DOHA BANK QSC, Qatar’s third-largest bank, may raise as
much as $1 billion from bond sales, its chief executive officer
said. The debt is likely to be for five years and is meant to
“fix the maturity mismatch” on the bank’s balance sheet,
 Raghavan Seetharaman  said in a June 16 telephone interview from
Doha. The bank will sell the bonds in dollars and the local
riyal currency, the CEO said in a July 25 interview.  Not Rated  STERICYCLE INC. plans to issue $175 million of seven-year,
3.89 percent notes and $225 million of 10-year, 4.47 percent
debt after receiving informal commitments from 22 institutional
investors to buy the securities, it said in a statement
distributed by Business Wire.  High Yield  CHINA MEDICAL TECHNOLOGIES INC., which makes devices for
tumor treatments, plans to sell as much as $200 million of five-
year senior notes denominated in dollars, the company said in a
statement distributed by PR Newswire. Proceeds will be used to
buy back convertible notes due in 2011 and 2013, Fitch Ratings
said in a statement. Deutsche Bank AG and Standard Chartered Plc
will help the Beijing-based company arrange meetings with
investors in Hong Kong, Singapore, London and the U.S., said a
person familiar with the transaction who asked not to be
identified because terms aren’t set.  EXOPACK HOLDING CORP., a designer and manufacturer of paper
and plastic film packaging, plans to sell $100 million of 11.25
percent senior notes due 2014, the company said in a statement
distributed by Business Wire.  RHODIA SA, the French maker of plastics and perfume
ingredients, may sell $400 million of 10-year notes to extend
maturities, the company said in an e-mailed statement. The notes
may be sold at a yield of about 7 percent, according to a person
familiar with the offering who declined to be identified because
terms aren’t set. Proceeds will be used to redeem some of
Rhodia’s outstanding floating-rate notes maturing in 2013, the
Paris-based company said in the statement.  CHC HELICOPTER CORP., the provider of flights to offshore
rigs and platforms purchased by First Reserve Corp. in 2008,
plans to sell $1.1 billion of 10-year notes denominated in U.S.
dollars, according to a person familiar with the transaction.
The debt may yield 9.25 percent to 9.5 percent, said the person,
who declined to be identified because terms aren’t set. Proceeds
may be used to repay bank borrowings and for breakage fees on
interest-rate swap agreements, the person said.  LODGENET INTERACTIVE CORP. plans to sell $435 million of
six-year notes, according to a filing with the Securities and
Exchange Commission.  VERTELLUS SPECIALTIES INC. plans to sell $325 million of
five-year notes, according to a person familiar with the
offering. Proceeds may be used to repay bank debt, said the
person, who declined to be identified because terms aren’t set.  STONERIDGE INC. plans to sell $175 million of seven-year
notes, according to a statement distributed by PR Newswire.
Proceeds will be used to buy back the Warren, Ohio-based
company’s 11.5 percent notes due 2012, it said in the statement.  HARVEST OPERATIONS CORP., a unit of Harvest Energy Trust,
may sell $500 million of seven-year notes, according to a person
familiar with the offering. Proceeds may be used to repay debt
and for general corporate purposes, said the person, who
declined to be identified because terms aren’t set. The notes
may be sold as soon as Sept. 27, the person said.  YASAR HOLDING AS, a Turkish company that makes dairy and
meat products, paint and paper, plans to sell five-year notes
denominated in U.S. dollars, said a person familiar with the
matter. Barclays Plc is managing the sale, which will be used to
fund a senior loan to Yasar from Barclays Bank Plc, said the
person, who asked not to be identified because the details are
private.  EVERTEC INC., the processing unit of  Popular Inc. , a Hato
Rey, Puerto Rico-based bank holding company, plans to sell $220
million of seven-year notes, according to a person familiar with
the offering. Proceeds will help pay for the acquisition of 51
percent of the company by Apollo Management LP, said the person,
who declined to be identified because terms aren’t set.  LIBERTY TIRE RECYCLING plans to sell $200 million of six-
year notes, according to a person familiar with the offering.
Proceeds may be used to repay bank debt and for general
corporate purposes, said the person, who declined to be
identified because terms aren’t set.  WEST CORP. , the call-center operator taken private by
Thomas H. Lee Partners LP and Quadrangle Group LLC in 2006,
plans to sell $500 million of notes due 2018 to repay bank debt,
according to Standard & Poor’s. S&P assigned the debt a grade of
B, the credit rater said in a statement. Moody’s Investors
Service ranked the notes B3, on step lower, it said in a
separate statement.  TITAN INTERNATIONAL INC. , the maker of tires and wheels for
off-highway vehicles, plans to sell $175 million of senior
secured notes due 2017, it said in a Sept. 15 statement
distributed by Business Wire. The Quincy, Illinois-based company
plans to buy back up to $139.9 million of notes maturing in
2012, it said in a separate statement. The company withdrew a
proposed $150 million offering announced in May because of
adverse market conditions, Chief Financial Officer  Paul Reitz 
said in a telephone interview.  DINEEQUITY INC., the owner of Applebee’s Neighborhood Grill
& Bar and the IHOP pancake chain, plans to sell senior unsecured
notes, the company said in a statement distributed by
Marketwire. Proceeds may be used to help fund tender offers for
“certain series of its subsidiaries’ outstanding securitization
notes,” the Glendale, California-based company said in the
statement.  REYNOLDS GROUP HOLDINGS LTD., the maker of Reynolds Wrap
aluminum foil, may sell $2 billion of senior secured notes and
$1.5 billion of senior unsecured notes to help pay for its
purchase of Pactiv Corp., according to a person familiar with
the transaction who declined to be identified because terms
aren’t set. Reynolds Group is also seeking $1.5 billion in loans
to pay for the acquisition, the person said.  NBTY INC. , the maker of Nature’s Bounty and MET-Rx
nutritional supplements, may issue $650 million of bonds that
yield 9 percent to 9.25 percent to help pay for its acquisition
by Carlyle Group, according to a person familiar with the
transaction who declined to be identified because terms aren’t
set. The company earlier marketed $900 million of the debt, the
person said.  E-LAND FASHION CHINA HOLDINGS LTD, the Hong Kong-based
apparel products provider, hired Morgan Stanley to help it sell
$200 million of three-year bonds, according to a person familiar
with the matter. Moody’s Investors Service ranked the proposed
notes at Ba2, citing growing personal consumption in China, E-
Land Fashion’s moderate scale and significant business
volatility. Proceeds will be used mainly for capital
expenditures and general corporate purposes, Moody’s said in the
report.  Offerings in Pipeline  SYDNEY AIRPORTS CORP. hired Bank of America Merrill Lynch,
JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc to
arrange debt investor meetings in Asia and the U.S., according
to a person familiar with the matter.  AEGIS LTD., an outsourcing unit of Essar Group, may sell
the first non-convertible dollar bonds from an Indian
information technology company. The company, which bought
PeopleSupport Inc. in 2008, may sell its bonds as part of a
financing package that would include a loan of as much as $350
million to consolidate debt, Chief Financial Officer C.M. Sharma
said. The money would go to fund expansion  AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC. , the insurer that’s
majority owned by the U.S., may sell bonds to help repay its
government bailout, it said in an Aug. 9 registration statement
filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.  GATX CORP ., a Chicago-based company that leases railroad
cars and other equipment, filed a shelf registration with the
Securities and Exchange Commission to sell debt securities and
pass-through certificates. The debt securities may be senior or
subordinated, according to the filing.  JSW STEEL LTD , India’s third-largest steelmaker, plans to
sell dollar bonds for the first time in three years and as
rupee-denominated finance costs rise. JSW has applied for credit
ratings before a possible offshore bond sale to help build a 200
billion rupee ($4.3 billion) steel and power plant in West
Bengal, Chief Financial Officer  Seshagiri Rao  said.  ARGENTINA may sell $1 billion of bonds due in 2017, El
Cronista newspaper reported, without saying how it obtained the
information. The government is also planning to offer an
exchange for dollar bonds due in 2011 and 2012, the Buenos
Aires-based publication said.  RURAL ELECTRIFICATION CORP., India’s state-owned lender to
power projects, may sell as much as $300 million of bonds in
U.S. dollars, Finance Director  Hari Das Khunteta  said in a
telephone interview. Rural Electrification plans to raise $500
million from debt sales in the year ending March 31, he had said
on April 16.  CZECH REPUBLIC plans to sell as much as $2 billion of
dollar bonds to diversify from koruna and euro debt,  Eduard Janota , former finance minister, said in an interview for Mlada
Fronta Dnes  newspaper .  POTASH CORPORATION OF SASKATCHEWAN INC. , the world’s
largest fertilizer company by capacity, filed a registration
statement with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission for
$2 billion of debt securities.  INDONESIA plans to name three banks to help it sell about
$650 million of Islamic bonds,  Dahlan Siamat , director for
Islamic financing at the finance ministry, said in a telephone
interview in Jakarta. The government sold its first
international Islamic dollar bonds in April 2009.  SRI LANKA hired HSBC, Bank of America Merrill Lynch and
Royal Bank of Scotland to sell $1 billion of bonds, the Central
Bank of Sri Lanka said on its website on Aug. 12.  JORDAN plans to sell about $500 million of bonds, Finance
Minister  Mohammad Abu Hammour  said in an interview on June 23.
The sale will be denominated in U.S. dollars “as it’s a stable
currency and the Jordanian dinar is pegged to it,” Abu Hammour
said.  URUGUAY may sell as much as $1 billion of bonds in 2011,
including $500 million of dollar-denominated debt,  Carlos Steneri , director of public credit at Uruguay’s Ministry of
Economy and Finance, said June 3 at a Latin Finance conference
in London. The dollar-denominated bonds may have a maturity of
20 years or more, Steneri said.  MALAYSIA plans to raise about $1 billion from its first
sale of conventional dollar bonds in eight years after drawing
bids for five times the Islamic debt it offered, a finance
ministry official said. The government may hire banks including
CIMB Group Holdings Bhd. and HSBC Holdings Plc to arrange the
sale by Sept. 30, said the official, who declined to be named as
the discussions are private. Malaysia raised $1.25 billion from
a Shariah-compliant dollar bond on May 27. Malaysia is rated A3
by Moody’s and A- by S&P.  GHANA is considering selling its second dollar bond in 2011
to tap investor demand as the start-up of oil production boosts
economic growth and narrows the budget deficit, Deputy Finance
Minister  Fifi Kwetey  said. The government was considering a
“no-deal roadshow” to gauge international investors’ appetite,
Kwetey said in a May 26 interview in Abidjan. Ghana sold its
first global bond in 2007, raising $750 million to help fund the
construction of roads and power plants.  ANGOLA received credit ratings from Moody’s, S&P, and Fitch
Ratings that put it on par with Nigeria, Lebanon and Belarus,
and paved the way for a planned sale of international bonds. The
southern African nation’s creditworthiness was rated at B+ by
S&P and Fitch, four levels below investment grade. Moody’s
assigned an equivalent ranking of B1.  MONGOLIA plans to raise $500 million selling bonds in 2010
and the remainder of a planned $1.2 billion program will be sold
according to market conditions,  Batbayar Balgan , director
general of the financial and economic policy department of
Mongolia, said at a forum in Ulan Bator on June 16. The
government scaled back its plans for global bond sales after
Europe’s debt crisis drove up borrowing costs. Investment banks
are advising Mongolia to issue debt with maturities of 5 years
to 10 years, Finance Minister Sangajav Bayartsogt said in a Feb.
9 interview. The securities may yield 8 percent to 11 percent,
he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sapna Maheshwari  in New York at 
 sapnam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  