-- Tokio Marine to Raise $590 Million for a New Buyout Fund, Invest Next Year
-- B y   T o m o k o   Y a m a z a k i   a n d   K o m a k i   I t o
-- 2010-09-22T01:24:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-22/tokio-marine-to-raise-590-million-for-a-new-buyout-fund-invest-next-year.html
Tokio Marine Holdings Inc. , Japan’s
second-largest casualty insurer, plans to raise as much as 50
billion yen ($590 million) for a new buyout fund focused on
Japan’s middle-sized companies.  Tokio Marine Capital Co. , the private-equity arm of the
insurer, aims to raise about 15 billion yen this year and reach
its target by the end of 2011, said  Hideaki Fukazawa , the
president of the Tokyo-based unit. It plans to start investing
as early as next year, he said.  The buyout fund will be the fourth offered by Tokio Marine
Capital as firms recover from a 57 percent plunge in the value
of global private-equity fundraising that peaked three years ago.
Fukazawa aims to invest in mid-cap Japanese companies with 5
billion yen to 50 billion yen in annual sales, he said.  “We’re finally starting to see some recovery in the
private-equity market here,” Fukazawa, 54, said in an interview
in Tokyo on Sept. 17. “Japanese mid-sized companies have great
technology with ample potential.”  Tokio Marine Capital, founded in 1991, has approached
Japanese institutional investors who have invested in its
previous funds including major banks, insurers and foreign
public pension funds and sovereign wealth funds, he said.  Funds globally raised $281 billion last year, dropping from
the record $646 billion collected in 2007, according to London-
based researcher  Preqin Ltd .  KKR’s Investment  Private-equity firms pool money from investors to take over
companies using a mix of cash and debt with the intention of
selling them at a profit. Recent Japan private-equity deals
include Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Co.’s agreement in June to buy
Usen Corp.’s human resources business -- its first in the nation.  The new fund will target “niche, top players” in their
respective markets because it makes it easier to find buyers
when the time comes to exit the investments, Fukazawa said.
Tokio Marine Capital will also offer an off-shore parallel fund
in conjunction with the new fund, allowing overseas investors to
participate without the tax burden, Fukazawa said.  Tokio Marine Capital’s previous investments include  Showa
Yakuhin Kako Co. , the maker of Acetaminophen-based pain reliever
Calonal; Bushu Pharmaceuticals Ltd., which provides
manufacturing and packaging services for global drugmakers; and
Barneys Japan Ltd., an apparel and accessories retailer.  “Going forward, we’ll be interested in businesses involved
with child care, health care and fashion including general
manufacturers,” said Fukazawa.  Tokio Marine Capital’s first and second funds produced
internal rates of returns of about 25 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Tomoko Yamazaki  in Tokyo at 
 tyamazaki@bloomberg.net ;
 Komaki Ito  in Tokyo at 
 kito@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net . 