-- U.S. Home Prices Fell 3.3% in July From Year Earlier
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   M .   H o w l e y
-- 2010-09-22T14:57:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-22/home-prices-in-u-s-fell-3-3-in-july-from-year-earlier-fhfa-index-shows.html
U.S. home prices dropped 3.3
percent in July from a year earlier, the eighth consecutive
 decline , as foreclosed properties flooded the market.  Prices fell 0.5 percent from June, the Federal Housing
Finance Agency in Washington said in a report today. Economists
had projected prices to fall 0.2 percent from the previous
month, based on the average of 15 estimates in a Bloomberg
survey. The agency revised the previously reported May-to-June
decline to 1.2 percent from 0.3 percent.  Foreclosures are boosting the supply of available
properties and reducing prices, even as mortgage rates tumble to
 record lows . The time it would take to clear the market of homes
for sale was  12.5 months  in July, the highest in more than a
decade of data, according to the National Association of
Realtors. Banks seized a record 95,364 properties from
delinquent borrowers in August, according to RealtyTrac Inc., an
Irvine, California-based seller of housing data.  “We have a lot of homes for sale, and a lot of them are
distressed properties,” said  Thomas Lawler , founder and
president of Lawler Housing and Economic Consulting in Leesburg,
Virginia. “That is putting downward pressure on home prices.”  The biggest price loss was 1.6 percent in the region that
includes Florida, Georgia, North Carolina and South Carolina,
according to the report. The area that includes Arizona and
Nevada posted the second-largest decline, at 1.5 percent.  Nationally, sales of existing homes in July plunged 27
percent to a 3.83 million annual pace, the lowest level on
record, NAR said Aug. 24. July  sales  of new homes dropped to an
annual pace of 276,000, the fewest since data began in 1963, the
Commerce Department reported Aug. 25.  Falling Mortgage Rates  The average U.S. rate for a 30-year fixed loan fell to 4.32
percent this month, according to Freddie Mac. That’s the lowest
in the McLean, Virginia-based company’s records dating to 1971.
The  rate  probably will average 4.6 percent this year, down from
5 percent in 2009, according to Washington-based Fannie Mae,
Freddie’s larger rival.  “The low interest rates aren’t giving housing a big enough
boost because they’re not attractive to someone who doesn’t have
a job or is concerned about keeping a job,” Lawler said.  The unemployment rate probably will average 9.6 percent
this year, according to the median estimate of 59 economists in
a Bloomberg survey. That would be the highest since the same
rate in 1983, data from the Bureau of Labor Statistics show.  Today’s report from the FHFA is based on repeat sales data
that compares prices of the same properties over time. The
agency, which measures sales of homes with mortgages backed by
Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac, doesn’t provide a specific price.  The median home  price  was $182,600 in July, as measured by
NAR. The Chicago-based Realtors’ group is scheduled to issue its
report on August sales and prices tomorrow.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kathleen M. Howley  in Boston at 
 kmhowley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net . 