-- London Financial Vacancies Fell 8% Last Month, Survey Shows
-- B y   A m b e r e e n   C h o u d h u r y
-- 2010-09-22T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-22/london-financial-vacancies-fell-8-last-month-survey-shows.html
Job vacancies at London financial-
services companies fell 8 percent in August as the City went on
summer holiday leave, according to a survey.  The number of new job openings in the City, as London’s
main financial district is known, and elsewhere in the British
capital fell to 5,544 in August from 6,048 a month earlier,
recruitment consultant Morgan McKinley said in a statement
today. The number of people seeking new jobs rose 6 percent to
10,810, the survey showed.  “There have been no dramatic rises or falls in the amount
of hiring financial institutions have undertaken over the last
two months,”  Andrew Evans , managing director of Morgan
McKinley’s financial-services unit, said in the statement.
“While conditions have improved, there is still a long way to
go before we reach full recovery within the financial-services
market.”  Financial-services companies in the U.K. and U.S. are still
trimming staff numbers. Credit Suisse Group AG said last month
it will eliminate 75 posts in the U.K. while Barclays Capital is
cutting 300 administrative jobs, a person with knowledge of the
matter said at the time. Bank of America Corp. is firing as many
as 400 employees in its global banking and markets division as
revenue from trading and advising clients declines, a person
briefed on the matter said this week.  Average City salaries rose 3 percent in August from the
previous month to 53,336 pounds ($83,588), the survey showed.  “Salaries continue to follow a relatively steady pattern
with remuneration at the mid and senior levels rising slightly
compared to salaries for those who were placed in July,” Evans
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ambereen Choudhury  in London 
 achoudhury@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans in London at  at
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  