-- Orange Juice Extends Rally to Three-Year High as Supply Concerns in Brazil
-- B y   L e s l i e   P a t t o n
-- 2010-09-22T19:31:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-22/orange-juice-touches-three-year-high-as-dry-spell-threatens-brazil-citrus.html
Orange-juice futures rose,
extending a rally to a three-year high, as dry weather threatens
to reduce citrus output in Brazil, the world’s largest producer.  Brazil ’s main growing region may harvest 271.7 million
boxes of oranges, the smallest crop since 2001 and down from 305
million a year earlier, according to Sucocitrico Cutrale Ltda.,
the world’s second-biggest orange-juice maker. Futures, up 16
percent this month, have gained for eight straight sessions, the
longest rally since late July.  “Brazil is a big market driver,” said  Jimmy Tintle , an
analyst at Transworld Futures in Tampa, Florida.  Orange juice for November delivery rose 2.6 cents, or 1.6
percent, to settle at $1.623 a pound at 2 p.m. on ICE Futures
U.S. in New York. Earlier, the price reached $1.657, the highest
level for a most-active contract since May 21, 2007.  In the past 12 months, the commodity has gained 64 percent,
the most among 19 raw materials in the Reuters/Jefferies CRB
Index  The start of Brazil’s rainy season has been delayed by
about two weeks, said  Joel Widenor , the director of agriculture
services at Commodity Weather Group LLC in Bethesda, Maryland.
Showers are expected next week, he said.  “We’re still a little bit worried that there could be some
tendencies toward the drier side in October,” Widenor said.
Inconsistent rains can damage the crop after trees have
blossomed, he said.  A box of oranges weighs 90 pounds, or 41 kilograms.  Brazil produced 16.2 million tons of oranges last year,
according to U.S. Department of Agriculture data. Growers in the
U.S., the second-largest producer, picked 7.5 million. The USDA
on Oct. 8 will release its first estimate for this year’s
harvest, which begins next month and runs through June.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Leslie Patton  in Chicago at 
 lpatton5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net . 