-- Asian Stocks Rise to Five-Month High on Growth Outlook; Sun Hung Kai Gains
-- B y   K a n a   N i s h i z a w a   a n d   A k i k o   I k e d a
-- 2010-09-22T10:57:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-22/most-asian-stocks-fall-as-dollar-weakens-on-fed-policy-pledge-canon-drops.html
Asian  stocks  rose, driving the MSCI
Asia Pacific Index to an almost five-month high, after the Hong
Kong Monetary Authority said the city’s economy will grow and an
index of leading Australian economic indicators climbed.  Sun Hung Kai Properties Ltd.  advanced 1.8 percent in Hong
Kong on speculation economic growth will boost asset prices.  CSL
Ltd. , the world’s No. 2 maker of treatments derived from blood,
climbed 3.4 percent in Sydney on optimism it will benefit from
the recall of a competitor’s product. Honda Motor Co., which
gets almost 85 percent of its revenue abroad, fell 1.6 percent
in Tokyo as the yen strengthened to its highest level in a week
against the dollar, damping the outlook for the nation’s exports.  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index  gained 0.5 percent to 125.58 as
of 7:55 p.m. in Tokyo, the highest level since April 30. About
four stocks fell for every three that rose. The measure advanced
as the Federal Reserve said it’s willing to ease monetary policy
further to spur growth. The U.S. central bank kept its key
interest rate unchanged yesterday and refrained from expanding
its holdings of securities.  “Money is flowing into Asia, Australia and Brazil as
growth is expected to continue with strong domestic demand,”
said  Naoteru Teraoka , general manager at the investment unit of
Tokyo-based Chuo Mitsui Asset Management Co., which oversees
about $26 billion. “This trend is likely to continue because
the economic recovery in developed countries like the U.S. is
still weak.”  Hong Kong’s Hang Seng Index rose 0.2 percent. Singapore’s
Straits Times Index dropped gained less than 0.1 percent and
Japan’s  Nikkei 225 Stock Average  lost 0.4 percent. Markets in
China, South Korea and Taiwan were closed for holidays.  Hong Kong Property  Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 Index advanced 0.2 percent after an
index of the nation’s leading economic indicators, a gauge of
future economic growth, gained in July, according to Westpac
Banking Corp. and the Melbourne Institute. Woolworths Ltd.,
Australia’s biggest retailer, added 0.9 percent to A$28.79.  Developers in Hong Kong had the biggest gain among the four
industry groups on the Hang Seng Index.  Sun Hung Kai Properties ,
Hong Kong’s biggest developer by market value, rose 1.8 percent
to HK$125.20. Cheung Kong (Holdings) Ltd., the No. 2, advanced
2.1 percent to HK$111.50. Sino Land Co., controlled by
billionaire Robert Ng, climbed 2 percent to HK$15.70.  The Hong Kong Monetary Authority yesterday said the city’s
economy will grow at a “moderate” pace through the end of this
year. The HKMA kept its base rate at 0.5 percent today, tracking
the Fed’s interest-rate decision yesterday.  Striking A Balance  The Fed pledged in its last statement on Aug. 10 to
maintain holdings of securities to stop money from draining out
of the financial system and support a faltering U.S. economy.
The MSCI Asia Pacific Index has climbed 8.1 percent from a one-
month low on Aug. 25 as concerns over global growth eased.
 Stocks  in the gauge are valued at an average 14.2 times
estimated profit, about the highest level since Aug. 10.  “Equity markets are trying to strike the right balance
between the willingness of the Fed to do more, where uncertainty
is declining, and its ability to deliver good outcomes, which is
challenged by declining policy effectiveness,”  Mohamed A. El- Erian , chief executive at Pacific Investment Management Co.,
which runs the world’s biggest bond fund, wrote in an e-mail.  Drug Recall  Japanese developers rose after the nation’s land-price
declines slowed for the first time since 2007. Mitsui Fudosan
Co., Japan’s No. 1 developer by sales, gained 1.7 percent to
1,411 yen in Tokyo.  Sumitomo Realty & Development Co. , Japan’s
third largest developer, climbed 1.7 percent to 1,721 yen, while
Nomura Real Estate Holdings Inc. increased 3.2 percent to 1,179
yen. A measure of real-estate companies had the biggest gain
among the  Topix  index’s 33 industry groups.  The nationwide average price of  land  dropped 3.7 percent in
the 12 months ended June, compared with a 4.4 percent decline a
year earlier, the Ministry of Land, Infrastructure, Transport
and Tourism said in a report released yesterday.  A measure of health-care stocks in the  MSCI Asia Pacific
Index  climbed 1.6 percent, the most of 10 industry groups.  CSL  jumped 3.4 percent to A$32.80 in Sydney on speculation
it will benefit from a recall of a competitor’s product in the
U.S. and Europe. The U.S. Food and Drug Administration will meet
this week to decide whether to extend a recall of closely held
Octapharma AG’s Octagam, UBS AG said in a note to investors.  Panasonic Corp. , the Japanese electronics maker, gained 2.4
percent to 1,138 yen in Tokyo. Nikkei English News reported the
company plans to avoid selling new shares as part of its buyouts
of Sanyo Electric Co. and Panasonic Electric Works Co.  Cosco, Neptune  Panasonic isn’t the source of information in the report,
 Akira Kadota , a Tokyo-based spokesman, said by telephone.  In Singapore,  Cosco Corp. Singapore Ltd. , a China-based
shipbuilder that also operates bulk carriers, gained 2.3 percent
to S$1.77 after Citigroup Inc. raised the stock to “buy” from
“sell.”  Neptune Orient Lines Ltd. , Southeast Asia’s biggest
container carrier, climbed 1 percent to S$2.02 after Macquarie
Group Ltd. increased its rating on the stock to “outperform”
from “underperform” and doubled its share-price forecast to
S$2.50 from S$1.25.  Japanese exporters declined after the yen strengthened to
its highest level since Sept. 14 against the dollar. Honda
dropped 1.6 percent to 2,953 yen. Toyota Motor Corp., the
world’s largest carmaker, sank 1 percent to 3,040 yen.  Canon
Inc. , the world’s biggest camera maker, slid 1.2 percent to
3,860 yen.  The yen appreciated to 84.90 against the dollar at the
close of stock trading in Tokyo, compared with 85.57 yesterday,
curbing the value of overseas income at Japanese companies when
converted into their home currency.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Kana Nishizawa  in Tokyo at 
 knishizawa5@bloomberg.net ;
 Akiko Ikeda  in Tokyo at 
 iakiko@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net . 