-- Pelosi Urges Action on China Currency as Panel Considers Measure
-- B y   M a r k   D r a j e m   a n d   J a m e s   R o w l e y
-- 2010-09-23T03:34:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-22/house-may-vote-next-week-on-china-sanctions-over-yuan-weakness-aide-says.html
House Democratic leaders began a
final pre-election push for legislation that would authorize
trade sanctions against China if the nation’s currency remains
undervalued.  “It is time for Congress to pass legislation that will
give the administration leverage in its bilateral and
multilateral negotiations with the Chinese government -- so that
U.S. businesses and workers have a more level playing field in
world trade,” House Speaker  Nancy Pelosi  said yesterday in a
statement, as the Ways and Means Committee set a session for
tomorrow to draft the legislation.  The committee will take up a measure that would let
companies petition for duties on imports to compensate for what
lawmakers say is a weak yuan, according to an e-mailed statement
yesterday. The currency gives Chinese companies an unfair
subsidy over their U.S. competitors, say lawmakers such as
Representative  Tim Ryan , an Ohio Democrat.  “China’s mercantilist exchange-rate policy places a drag
on U.S. economic growth and job creation,” Chairman  Sander Levin  of Michigan said in the committee statement. “It is a
major distortion in the international marketplace.”  Chinese Premier  Wen Jiabao  rebutted that view late
yesterday in remarks to U.S. business leaders in New York. Wen
said that China “doesn’t pursue a trade surplus intentionally”
and that “the main cause of the U.S. trade deficit is not the
exchange rate of the Chinese currency, but the structure of
investment and savings.”  Yuan Pledge  The yuan has risen less than 2 percent against the dollar
since June 19, when the People’s Bank of China said it would
allow a more flexible exchange rate after keeping it at about
6.83 for almost two years. It closed around 6.7079 two days ago
in Shanghai before Chinese autumnal holidays began.  Democratic leaders plan to bring the trade measure to the
House floor next week, according to aides who were briefed on
the schedule. The China measure is “a key part of our Make It
in America agenda,” Pelosi said. The Senate is considering
similar legislation and hasn’t yet voted.  Levin said he worked with officials from the U.S. Trade
Representative’s office to resolve concerns that the measure
violates the terms of the World Trade Organization.  Trade Deficit  The U.S.  trade deficit  with China widened to $145 billion
in the first seven months of this year, from $123 billion for
the same period in 2009. The expanding deficit, the lingering
unemployment rate at almost 10 percent and polls showing
Democrats’ seats at risk heading into the November elections may
boost prospects for the bill, which has been discussed since
2005.  Representatives for companies such as Peoria, Illinois-
based  Caterpillar Inc. , New York-based  Citigroup Inc.  and
Redmond, Washington-based  Microsoft Corp.  have been lobbying
lawmakers to block the legislation, which they say will be
counterproductive.  Economists such as C.  Fred Bergsten  at the Washington-based
Peterson Institute for International Economics say the yuan is
as much as 25 percent undervalued, giving Chinese exporters an
unfair advantage and cutting U.S. employment.  The U.S. Trade Representative’s office is working with
Levin on the legislation, and won’t comment further on it, said
 Carol Guthrie , a spokeswoman.  WTO Rules  Levin said that he has amended a bill proposed by Ryan and
Representative  Tim Murphy , a Pennsylvania Republican, to make
sure that it is compatible with the rules of the World Trade
Organization. The changes eliminate the rationale the Commerce
Department has used to reject complaints in the past, saying the
currency intervention results in a subsidy for exporters.  “In all cases, however, the act, as amended, preserves
Commerce’s authority -- and responsibility -- to consider each
case on its facts,” the committee said in a statement.  Those changes were backed by the coalition of domestic
manufacturers and labor unions pushing for the measure.  “This pro-jobs, pro-growth and pro-investment legislation
preserves the heart of the bipartisan Ryan-Murphy bill while
improving upon it,” said Charles Blum, executive director of
the Fair Currency Coalition.  The legislation is H.R. 2378.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mark Drajem  in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net ;
 James Rowley  in Washington at 
 jarowley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at   or
 lliebert@bloomberg.net . 