-- House Republicans Seek Spending Cut, Health Law Repeal
-- B y   P a t r i c k   O ’ C o n n o r   a n d   J a m e s   R o w l e y
-- 2010-09-23T15:56:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-22/house-republican-plan-said-to-seek-health-law-repeal-new-jobs.html
House  Republicans  announced a
governing agenda today that would cut  federal spending , extend
expiring tax cuts and repeal the Democrats’ health-care law.  The program was released by party leaders at a hardware
store in Sterling, Virginia, as Republicans make their case to
voters to retake the House majority in the Nov. 2 elections.  The first priority, according to Representative  Mike Pence 
of Indiana, is the extension of Bush-era tax cuts.  “It’s the top of the list to get the economy moving again
right now,” Pence said today on Bloomberg Television. “There
would be almost nothing more important that Congress could do
right now.” He called on House Speaker  Nancy Pelosi  and Senate
Majority Leader  Harry Reid  to take all of the proposals for
extensions of 2001 and 2003 tax cuts to a vote.  Titled “A Pledge to America,” the plan is patterned after
House Republicans’ “ Contract with America ” from 1994.
Republicans unveiled the earlier plan six weeks before elections
in which they gained the majority for the first time in 40
years. House Republican leader  John Boehner  of Ohio was an
architect of the 1994 plan and the new version. Democrats
regained the House majority in 2006.  “It’s a governing agenda that could be enacted tomorrow,”
Boehner said at the event in Virginia. “These are the things
the American people are demanding,” he said. “Republicans
stand ready to get it done.”  ‘Ideological Document’  Former President  Bill Clinton , in an interview today in New
York for Bloomberg Television’s “Political Capital with  Al Hunt ,” called the Republican plan an “ideological document” and
warned that it would be implemented at the expense of America’s
middle class.  “They don’t know that the model for success in the 21st
century is a vigorous private sector, an effective government, a
partnership, not these hysterical tirades against government,”
Clinton said. “Their objective for 30 years has been to
dismantle the federal government.”  The plan includes a number of proposals previously offered
by Republicans, including a permanent extension for all income
levels of tax cuts enacted under former President  George W. Bush .  It would repeal the Democrats’ health-care law and replace
it with longstanding Republican priorities such as controlling
medical-malpractice costs, expanding health-savings accounts and
allowing people to buy insurance policies across state lines. It
would provide health coverage to the costliest Americans to
insure by expanding high-risk pools and reinsurance programs.  Insurance Companies  “Under Republicans, insurance companies will once again be
in charge of Americans’ health care,” House Majority Leader
 Steny Hoyer  of Maryland said in an e-mailed statement.  Republicans also will seek to end government control of
 Fannie Mae  and  Freddie Mac  and require them to establish a
minimum capital standard. That would save as much as $30
billion, the plan said.  Small businesses would get a 20 percent tax deduction on
their income, and the military prison in Guantanamo Bay, Cuba,
would be kept open to hold suspected terrorists.  Republicans want to roll back federal spending to “pre-
stimulus, pre-bailout levels” and set spending caps for the
future. They estimate this would save $100 billion in the first
year. They also would impose a net hiring freeze on non-security
federal employees. The plan didn’t estimate how much money a
hiring freeze would save.  Congressional Approval  Anticipating a series of showdowns with President  Barack Obama  over health care and federal spending, Republicans propose
requiring congressional approval of any federal regulation that
would result in more than $100 million in new annual costs to
the economy.  Some of the proposed rules changes echo complaints about
the legislative process by Tea Party activists who favor lower
taxes and limited government.  Republicans want to establish a certification process to
make sure all bills meet a constitutional standard. They also
promise to act on one major legislative issue at a time instead
of bundling them into a “must-pass” vehicle.  Obama has accused Republicans of not being serious about
cutting the $1.34 trillion federal  deficit  because they back an
extension of tax cuts for the wealthiest Americans that will
cost about $700 billion over 10 years. Speaking last night at a
Democratic fundraiser in New York, he said past Republican
policies “turned record surpluses into record deficits.”  Prior Eight Years  “Republicans running for Congress, they want the next two
years to look like the eight years before I ran for office,”
Obama said.  House Speaker  Nancy Pelosi ’s spokesman,  Nadeam Elshami ,
said in a statement the Republican plan would send jobs
overseas, reduce patients’ rights, boost the deficit by $700
billion to provide tax cuts for the wealthy, and “once again,
subject American families to the recklessness of Wall Street.”  Elshami said that after the Republicans’ event at a small
business, they would be “racing back presumably to vote against
the Small Business Jobs Act” scheduled for a final vote today.
The plan offers a mix of tax cuts, loans and spending to ease
the flow of credit to small businesses.  The 1994 “Contract With America” spelled out a 10-point
legislative agenda. While the new Republican-controlled House
passed nine of the measures, most, including a constitutional
amendment requiring a balanced budget, failed to get Senate
support.  The new plan seeks to save money by canceling unspent funds
from the $814 economic stimulus plan enacted last year.  The White House called the idea of unspent stimulus funds a
“myth” in an Aug. 11 website article by Chief Economic Adviser
 Jared Bernstein . He said 94 percent of the money is obligated
through payments already made, promised tax cuts, or projects
under contract. The remaining 6 percent has been awarded or soon
will be, he wrote.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Patrick O’Connor  in Washington at 
 poconnor14@bloomberg.net ;
 James Rowley  in New York at 
 jarowley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva@bloomberg.net  