-- Pakistan Urging Persian Gulf Loans for Farmers: Islamic Finance
-- B y   K h a l i d   Q a y u m
-- 2010-09-23T08:05:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-22/pakistan-urges-persian-gulf-banks-to-lend-to-farmers-islamic-finance.html
Pakistan’s  central bank , seeking to
double Islamic banking assets in three years, is urging lenders
from the Persian Gulf to open branches in rural areas.  Albaraka Banking Group, the largest publicly traded Islamic
bank in Bahrain, is increasing branches to 80 from 30,  Kaleem Iqbal , a senior executive vice president at the local unit, said
in a Sept. 21 interview in Islamabad. Meezan Bank, controlled by
Kuwait’s Noor Financial Investment Co., is opening 25 outlets
this year, said  Amir Ali , head of investment banking in Karachi.  Gulf banks are looking outside of the region for expansion
after lending that complies with Shariah law slumped 46 percent
to $3.3 billion in Europe, the Middle East and Africa this year,
compared with $6 billion in the same period of 2009, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. Pakistan has six Islamic banks
with 668 branches and plans to approve two more as it seeks to
boost lending to rural communities,  Saleem Ullah , director of
Islamic banking at the Karachi-based central bank, said in an e-
mail on Sept. 16.  “The State Bank of Pakistan’s policy encouraging banks to
open branches in rural areas makes it easier to get new
licenses,” Ali said yesterday in an interview. “We may end up
opening 225 more branches in the next four years and the
majority of those will be in smaller towns.”  Sukuk Issuance  Albaraka plans to spend $200 million on acquisitions and is
looking at buying assets in Indonesia and Malaysia, Chief
Executive Officer Adnan Ahmed Yousif said yesterday. The Manama-
based bank also plans to sell $200 million of Islamic bonds, or
sukuk, by the end of 2010 and appointed Standard Chartered Plc
as a manager for the sale, Yousif said at a conference in Dubai.  “We prefer to either start an Islamic bank or acquire an
Islamic bank,” he said.  Qatar Islamic Bank  plans to sell its first dollar sukuk and
will start meeting investors in the Middle East, Asia and Europe
from tomorrow, according to a statement from the Gulf state’s
biggest Shariah-compliant lender.  Global sales of sukuk have dropped this year as debt
restructuring in the Persian Gulf, falling property prices and
doubts about the strength of the global recovery damped demand
for issuance. Planned fourth-quarter sales of $5.5 billion will
help relieve the shortage of supply, data compiled by Bloomberg
show.  Islamic bond sales declined 24 percent to $10.7 billion so
far this year, compared with $14 billion in the same period a
year ago, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Access to Credit  The spread between the average yield for emerging-market
sukuk and the London interbank offered rate widened one basis
point to 376 yesterday, according to the  HSBC/NASDAQ Dubai US
Dollar Sukuk Index . The yield difference has narrowed 91 basis
points from 467 at the end of last year.  Shariah-compliant bonds returned 10.8 percent this year,
according to the  HSBC/NASDAQ Dubai US Dollar Sukuk Index , while
debt in developing markets gained 13 percent, JPMorgan Chase &
Co.’s  EMBI Global Diversified Index  shows.  The yield on Malaysia’s 3.928 percent Islamic note due June
2015 fell two basis points to 2.63 percent today, according to
prices from Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc. The yield on the
Dubai Department of Finance’s 6.396 percent sukuk maturing in
November 2014 was unchanged at 6.37 percent, RBS prices show.  Pakistan’s central bank  estimated  in a December 2008 report
that of the country’s 6.6 million farmers, only 2 million had
access to credit. Policy makers plan to increase Islamic
financing to 12 percent of the total by the end of 2012, from 6
percent, to cater to Muslims, who account for 97 percent of the
nation’s 170 million population, Ullah said.  ‘Urban Clients’  “Islamic banks are providing 80 percent of their services
to urban clients,” said Iqbal at  Al Baraka Islamic Bank .
“Islamic banks can provide best products to the farmers, who
will be more attracted to Islamic services because people in
villages are generally more inclined toward the religion.”  Pakistan plans to sell sukuk maturing in a year or less in
the domestic market by the end of this month,  Syed Wasimuddin , a
spokesman for the State Bank of Pakistan, said in an e-mailed
statement on Sept. 8.  Islamic banking assets in Pakistan reached 411 billion
rupees ($4.8 billion) as of June, or 6 percent of the total,
Wasimuddin said. That compares with 303.3 billion ringgit ($98
billion) in Malaysia, accounting for 19.6 percent of the total,
the central bank said in March. The Southeast Asian nation is
the world’s biggest market for sukuk.  ‘Comparative Advantage’  A shortage of investment options and services offered to
limited clients is hampering growth in Islamic banking in
Pakistan, according to  Dawood Islamic Bank Ltd. , which is 35
percent owned by Bahrain’s Unicorn Investment Bank.  “Islamic banks have no short-term products to deploy their
liquidity,”  Pervez Said , chief executive officer of Dawood
Islamic, said in a Sept. 14 interview from Karachi. “It is
natural for us to go to non-traditional sectors like
microfinance and agriculture.”  Agriculture in Pakistan accounted for a quarter of the
nation’s $150 billion economy in the fiscal year that ended on
June 30, 2010, government data in May showed. The nation was hit
by the worst floods since independence in 1947 last month,
destroying crops worth $1 billion.  “The central bank is encouraging Islamic banking
institutions to tap non-traditional sectors like agriculture,
where they have a comparative advantage over their conventional
counterparts,” said Ullah.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Khalid Qayum  in Singapore 
 kqayum@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 