-- Palm Oil Futures Gain as Weather Threatens Oilseeds Crops in China, India
-- B y   T h o m a s   K u t t y   A b r a h a m
-- 2010-09-22T05:44:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-22/palm-oil-erases-gains-drops-as-much-as-0-4-to-2-662-ringgit-in-malaysia.html
Palm oil climbed on speculation
that China and India, the biggest users, may need to increase
imports as weather threatens to lower local oilseed production.  December-delivery futures advanced 0.3 percent to 2,677
ringgit a metric ton ($866) at the midday break in trading on
the Malaysia Derivatives Exchange. Earlier, the most-active
contract swung between gains and losses.  “The weather is playing a crucial role in determining
commodity prices, be it palm oil or soybeans,” said Pawan K.
Poddar, director at Mumbai-based Poddar’s Agro Trading Co.
“Damage to Chinese crop may prompt them to import more and
excess rain is damaging the oilseed crop in India.”  Soybeans jumped to a 15-month high in intraday trading on
Sept. 20 as a cold snap threatens crops in China, the biggest
user of the oilseed. Freezing weather this week in northeastern
China will reduce crop quality and output, after rains delayed
planting, according to T-Storm Weather Inc.  U.S. shippers sold 170,000 tons of soybeans to China for
delivery before Aug. 31, the U.S. Department of Agriculture said
yesterday.  India, the top buyer of vegetable oils after China, may
import a record amount of soybean and palm oils for a fourth
year as growing population and incomes drives demand for fried
and processed foods,  Ashok Sethia , president of the Solvent
Extractors’ Association of India, said yesterday.  Purchases may reach 9.5 million tons in the year starting
Nov. 1, from 9 million tons this season, he said.  “There’s always uncertainty in the palm oil market ahead
of the peak harvests in Indonesia and Malaysia and as the main
soybean harvests wind up around the world,” Poddar said. “The
trade may remain choppy in the next few sessions.”  December-delivery soybean oil traded in Chicago added as
much as 0.6 percent to 43.06 cents a pound. November-delivery
soybeans rose as much as 0.5 percent to $10.8575 a bushel.  The Dalian Commodity Exchange is closed for holidays.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Thomas Kutty Abraham  in Mumbai at 
 tabraham4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  