-- Panasonic Rises After Report Company Won't Sell New Shares to Fund Buyout
-- B y   M a r i k o   Y a s u
-- 2010-09-22T01:25:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-22/panasonic-rises-after-nikkei-reports-it-won-t-issue-new-shares-for-buyouts.html
Panasonic Corp. , the world’s
largest maker of plasma televisions, rose the most in seven
weeks in Tokyo trading after the Nikkei English News said the
company won’t issue new shares to fund buyouts of two affiliates.  Panasonic  climbed 3.5 percent to 1,150 yen as of 10:01 a.m.
on the Tokyo Stock Exchange, poised for the biggest gain since
July 30. Japan’s Nikkei 225 Stock Average fell 0.2 percent.  The maker of Viera televisions won’t issue new stock to pay
for its 800 billion yen ($9.4 billion) buyouts of  Sanyo Electric
Co.  and Panasonic Electric Works Co. to avoid damping its share
price, Nikkei reported today, without saying where it got the
information. The Osaka, Japan-based company will use cash and
loans to finance the purchases, the report said.  “If Panasonic isn’t considering selling new shares, that
may be proof that the company’s businesses are robust and it
isn’t worried about using its cash,” said  Nobuo Kurahashi , an
 analyst  at Mizuho Financial Group Inc. in Tokyo, who has a
“neutral plus” rating on the stock. “Panasonic is a company
that has kept its cash level high.”  The TV maker had cash and equivalents of 1.17 trillion yen
as of June 30, according to its financial statement. Panasonic
on July 29 raised its forecast for net income in the year ending
March 31 by 70 percent to 85 billion yen because of better-than-
expected sales of flat-panel TVs.  Panasonic isn’t the source of information in the report,
 Akira Kadota , a Tokyo-based spokesman, said by telephone. The
company is considering ways of raising funds for the
acquisitions, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mariko Yasu  in Tokyo at 
 myasu@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy in Singapore at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net . 