-- Persian Gulf Sukuk May Reach $5 Billion in Fourth Quarter: Islamic Finance
-- B y   D a n a   E l   B a l t a j i
-- 2010-09-22T09:31:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-22/persian-gulf-sukuk-may-reach-5-billion-in-fourth-quarter-islamic-finance.html
Banks and companies in the Persian
Gulf may issue the most Islamic debt in three years in the
fourth quarter as economic growth accelerates and Dubai’s
companies reach agreements to restructure debt.  The Islamic Development Bank, a Jeddah-based multilateral
lender, said on Aug. 24 it would raise $1 billion selling debt
that complies with Shariah law’s ban on interest, bringing to
$5.5 billion the planned offerings for the remainder of the
year. That would be the most since the third quarter of 2007,
when sales reached $5.7 billion, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Sales from the region have declined 24 percent to
$2.5 billion so far in 2010, as three companies sold Islamic
debt, the data show.  “Investors are hungry for supply,”  Naji Nabaa , a Dubai-
based associate director of fixed-income sales for the Middle
East and North Africa at Exotix Ltd., an investment bank
specializing in illiquid assets, said in a telephone interview
yesterday. “There’s a cash pile that has built up. Now that
we’re seeing an early settlement between Dubai World and banks,
it has given the credit markets some impetus to rally.”  Dubai World’s agreement earlier this month with 99 percent
of its creditors to restructure $24.9 billion of borrowings
reduced the risk that the company will default, bolstering
investor appetite for higher-yielding Islamic debt after two-
year Treasury yields fell to record lows. Economic growth in the
Middle East will accelerate to 4.5 percent this year, from 2.4
percent in 2009, the  International Monetary Fund  said on July 7.  Sukuk Pipeline  The United Arab Emirates, the third-largest economy in the
Persian Gulf, may sell Islamic securities, central bank Governor
 Sultan bin Nasser al-Suwaidi   said  in March.  Albaraka Banking
Group , the largest publicly traded Islamic lender in Bahrain,
plans to sell $200 million of sukuk by the end of the year,
Chief Executive Officer Adnan Ahmed Yousif said in Dubai today.  The combination of declining yields in emerging markets and
a successful restructuring of state-owned Dubai World’s debt may
spur more sales, according to Exotix and Royal Capital PJSC.  The average yield on sukuk sold by Gulf Cooperation Council
issuers fell 26 basis points, or 0.26 percentage point, this
month to 6.26 percent yesterday, according to the  HSBC/NASDAQ
Dubai GCC US Dollar Sukuk Index . The average yield reached this
year’s low of 6.21 percent on Sept. 16.  Spreads Narrow  The extra yield investors demand to hold Dubai’s dollar
sukuk rather than Malaysia’s 3.928 percent Islamic note due June
2015 has narrowed 54 basis points to 358 this month, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. The yield on Dubai’s 6.396
percent sukuk maturing in November 2014 fell 12 basis points to
6.266 percent today, the data show.  Persian Gulf sukuk have returned 4.7 percent this quarter,
according to the  HSBC/NASDAQ Dubai GCC US Dollar Sukuk Index .
Debt in developing markets gained 6.7 percent, JPMorgan Chase &
Co.’s EMBI Global Diversified Index shows.  The spread between the average yield for emerging-market
sukuk and the London interbank offered rate shrank 68 basis
points to 375 this quarter, according to the  HSBC/NASDAQ Dubai
US Dollar Sukuk Index . The extra yield investors demand to hold
developing nation debt rather than U.S. Treasuries narrowed 44
basis points to 292 in the same period, according to JPMorgan
Chase EMBI+ indexes.  ‘Risk Taking’  “The compression in spreads and higher risk taking in the
region encourages investors to consider sukuk structures, which
usually carry a yield premium over conventional issues,”  Ahmed Talhaoui , the head of portfolio management in Abu Dhabi at Royal
Capital, which is 44 percent owned by United Gulf Bank, an
investment bank in Bahrain, said in an e-mailed response
yesterday. “Any Dubai World debt resolution is positive for
sukuk.”  Ahmed Salem Bugshan Group, a Saudi Arabian company that
owns and operates steel plants, plans to raise as much as $100
million from Islamic bonds to fund projects, Mohamed H. Zakaria,
senior vice president of the group, said in June. Doha-based
 Qatar Islamic Bank , the emirate’s biggest Shariah-compliant
lender, plans to sell as much as $750 million, Chief Executive
Officer  Salah Mohammed Jaidah  said in May.  Nakheel PJSC, the property unit of Dubai World, may issue
as much as $3.2 billion of five-year sukuk to pay contractors as
part of its debt restructuring plan, JPMorgan Chase London-based
analyst Zafar Nazim wrote in a report Aug. 26.  Dubai World said on Sept. 10 it expects to conclude its
debt restructuring in the “coming weeks.” A group of Nakheel
creditor banks supported a plan to alter the terms on $10.5
billion of loans and unpaid bills, the company said July 14. In
April, the company said its trade creditors would be offered 100
percent recovery of their claims -- 40 percent through a cash
payment and 60 percent in the form of a tradable sukuk.  Nakheel, Saudi  The yield on Nakheel’s 2.75 percent $750 million Islamic
notes due in January 2011 fell 522 basis points to 10.5 percent
this month, and is down from 124 percent on Feb. 26, the highest
level this year, according to prices compiled by Bloomberg.  This year, Saudi Electricity Co., the region’s largest
utility, issued 7 billion riyals ($1.9 billion) in April.  Dar Al
Arkan Real Estate Development Co ., the biggest Saudi Arabian
developer by market value, sold $450 million of Shariah-
compliant debt in February.  National Bank of Abu Dhabi PJSC , the
U.A.E.’s second-largest lender by assets, sold 500 million
ringgit ($161 million) in the only Islamic debt offering from
the emirate so far this year.  Some analysts say more needs to be done before bond sales
increase. Governments in the Persian Gulf haven’t borrowed
through global sukuk sales since the Dubai Department of Finance
issued a $1.25 billion Islamic bond in October.  Industry Confidence  “Confidence in the industry needs to strengthen in order
for sukuk sales to pick up,” Dubai-based Bashar Al-Natoor,
director at Fitch Ratings Europe Middle East Africa corporates
team, said in an e-mail on Sept. 20. Issuance may pick up in the
fourth quarter “provided economies worldwide stabilize and
market sentiment toward Islamic bonds in the region improves,”
he said.  Kuwait’s Investment Dar Co ., owner of half of Aston Martin
Lagonda Ltd., was the first company from the region to default
on a $100 million sukuk in April last year, triggering concern
about restructuring laws for such securities.  National Central
Cooling Co. , a Abu Dhabi-based refrigeration company, said on
May 27 it hasn’t made distribution payments on its 1.7 billion-
dirham ($463 million) sukuk.  Spending by governments in the region may help accelerate
Islamic bond sales, Royal Capital’s Ahmed said.  Saudi Arabia plans to invest $385 billion over the next
five years on infrastructure, education and health, the Saudi
Arabian embassy in Washington said on Aug. 12. Qatar and its
state-owned companies plan to spend as much as $100 billion
within the next four years, Finance Minister  Yousef Hussain Kamal  said June 10.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Dana El Baltaji  in Dubai at 
 delbaltaji@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  