-- Peso Bonds Beating Dollar Debt on `Phenomenal' Harvest: Argentina Credit
-- B y   D r e w   B e n s o n   a n d   B e n   B a i n
-- 2010-09-22T16:48:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-22/peso-bonds-beating-dollar-debt-on-phenomenal-harvest-argentina-credit.html
Argentine peso bond returns are
beating the country’s dollar-denominated debt for the longest
stretch since October 2008 as investors bet the currency will
weaken less than economists expect.  The yield on peso-denominated bonds due in 2033 fell 5.65
percentage points during the past four months compared with a
decline of 2.67 percentage points for dollar notes with the same
maturity. The average yield on emerging market debt as measured
by JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s  EMBI+ Index fell  1 percentage point
over the same period.  President  Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner’s  2011 budget
forecasts the peso falling to 4.1 per dollar next year, or 3.6
percent from yesterday’s close of 3.9518 per dollar. The
currency is exceeding the median forecast of 10 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg. At the end of 2009, they expected the
currency to drop 7.3 percent to 4.1 per dollar by September.
South America’s second-biggest economy will grow 8.9 percent
this year, the most since 2005, according to the government’s
 budget proposal . U.S. growth is forecast at 2.7 percent,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “The big downward move in the peso that a lot of people
were looking for didn’t materialize,” said  Paul McNamara , who
oversees $4.5 billion of emerging market debt, including
Argentine peso bonds, at Augustus Asset Management Ltd. in
London. “That is clearly a contributing factor” to the peso
bond rally, he said.  The government’s peso bonds due in 2033 have returned 35.47
percent this year, more than double the 17.19 percent return on
dollar bonds maturing the same year, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  Peso Drops  The peso has fallen 3.8 percent this year, making it the
worst performer among major Latin American currencies tracked by
Bloomberg. Fernandez forecast a 2010 exchange rate of 3.92 per
dollar in this year’s budget compared with an estimate of 4.5
per dollar in a survey of 13 economists by Bloomberg.  The currency is sliding slower than economists expected as
dollars enter the country from a record 55 million metric ton
soybean harvest and after Fernandez concluded a $12.9 billion
defaulted debt restructuring in June.  “You’ve had positive movement in the trade accounts,
you’ve had a phenomenal harvest, you’ve had strong prices in
soybeans,” said  Bret Rosen , a Latin America debt strategist
with Standard Chartered Bank in New York. “All that’s
contributed to keep the peso pretty stable.”  Credit Rating Raised  Standard & Poor’s raised Argentina’s credit rating one
level to B, five levels below investment grade on Sept. 13,
citing “strong” economic growth. That put the country on the
same level as Lebanon, Bolivia and Jamaica.  The extra yield investors demand to hold Argentine dollar
bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries rose five basis points to 685
at 12:42 p.m. New York time, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  The cost of protecting Argentine debt against non-payment
for five years with credit-default swaps was little changed
yesterday at 751, according to data compiled by CMA DataVision.
Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for
the underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a
government or company fail to adhere to debt agreements.  The peso was little changed today at 3.9522 per dollar,
after closing yesterday at its weakest point since the
currency’s inception in 1992.  Warrants linked to growth in South America’s second-biggest
economy rose 0.09 cent to 11.85 cents, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  More Debt Sales  Among future Argentine debt sales, Buenos Aires province
officials plan to meet with investors in Europe and the U.S.
this week about plans to sell about $500 million in debt, said a
ministry official who declined to be identified because the
terms haven’t been completed.  Shareholders of Aeropuertos Argentinas 2000 SA, the
country’s main airport operator, last week approved plans to
sell as much as $300 million in bonds due in up to 10 years. The
board of Arcor SAIC, Argentina’s biggest candy maker, last month
approved a program to sell up to $500 million worth of global
bonds.  Argentine peso bonds, which are linked to inflation, are no
longer cheap since the currency has appreciated in real terms
due to high inflation, said  Pablo Cisilino , who helps manage $14
billion in emerging-market debt at Stone Harbor Investment
Partners in New York.  Inflation Forecast  Credit Suisse Group AG expects annual inflation by the end
of the year to climb to 30 percent, more than double the
 official rate  of 11.1 percent in the 12 months through August.
Economists and politicians including Vice President  Julio Cobos 
have questioned the government’s price reports since Fernandez’s
husband and predecessor,  Nestor Kirchner , began changing
personnel at the national statistics institute in 2007.  “I don’t see a fundamental reason” for the peso debt
rally, Cisilino said.  The peso bonds are rallying at an accelerated pace as
investors, bolstered by rising expectations that the global
economy is improving, seek out high-yielding local currency
bonds in emerging markets, McNamara said.  “When there’s risk appetite, it’s the sort of thing that
gets bought, and it’ll fall a lot more when people get spooked
again,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Drew Benson  in Buenos Aires at 
 abenson9@bloomberg.net ;
 Ben Bain  in New York at 
 bbain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  