-- Philippine Stocks to Extend Rally on Valuations, Economy, Union Bank Says
-- B y   I a n   S a y s o n
-- 2010-09-22T02:21:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-22/philippine-stocks-to-extend-rally-on-valuations-economy-union-bank-says.html
The Philippine benchmark stock
index will rise to new highs because valuations remain
“undemanding,” according to Union Bank of the Philippines.  The  Philippine Stock Exchange Index  has rallied 21 percent
since June, set for the best third-quarter performance since
1993, as economic growth accelerated in the second quarter and
corporate earnings beat expectations. The gauge trades at 15.3
times estimated earnings, compared with a high of 18.5 times in
October 2007, and closed at a record yesterday. The index lost
0.3 percent to 4,075.03 at 9:56 a.m. today.  “We see the index to continue marching to a new high after
high,”  Michael Garcia , who runs the nation’s best-performing
equities fund at Union Bank, said in a phone interview today.
“Valuations remain undemanding and there’s still a lot of
upside left.”  Stable inflation has allowed Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas to
keep its overnight borrowing rate unchanged for more than a year,
helping economic growth accelerate to a three-year high last
quarter. Gross domestic product grew 7.9 percent from a year
earlier in the three months, compared with a revised 7.8 percent
gain in the first quarter.  Second-quarter earnings of companies in the index beat
analysts’ forecasts by 21 percent, compared with 11 percent for
those on the MSCI Asia Pacific Index, based on data compiled by
Bloomberg.  The benchmark stock index may trade at 18 times estimated
earnings in 12 months, Garcia said. “Share prices will be
lifted by rising liquidity, earnings upgrades and a good
economic story.”  Sell recommendations by analysts have slumped to 7.67
percent of total stock ratings this month, the lowest since
February 2008, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Garcia’s UBP Large Capitalization Philippine Equity
Portfolio has returned 84 percent this year, the most the
highest among Philippine stock funds tracked by Bloomberg and
more than double the equity gauge’s 34 percent advance.  -- Editors:  Richard Frost , Linus Chua   To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ian C. Sayson  in Manila at 
 isayson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Linus Chua at   lchua@bloomberg.net  