-- Philadelphia Inquirer, Daily News Have Two Bidders for Auction Tomorrow
-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h   a n d   M i c h a e l   B a t h o n
-- 2010-09-22T21:34:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-22/philadelphia-inquirer-daily-news-have-two-bidders-for-auction-tomorrow.html
The  Philadelphia Inquirer  and its
sister newspaper will have two bidders competing to buy them out
of bankruptcy at an auction in which the opening offer is less
than half the value of a deal that fell apart this month.  Lenders who backed out of their contract to buy the
newspapers for $139 million on Sept. 14, will compete with
 Raymond Perelman , father of billionaire  Ronald Perelman , said
Lawrence G. McMichael, an attorney who represents the holding
company that owns the two newspapers.  “We have two bids,” McMichael said today in an e-mail.
The bids were due today for the auction tomorrow.  The auction will be the second this year for the Inquirer
and the Philadelphia Daily News, which are owned by bankrupt
Philadelphia Newspapers LLC. Lenders owed more than $200 million
won the first auction. They refused to complete the deal after
members of the Teamsters union rejected changes to their pension
plan.  Under rules approved by Judge  Stephen Raslavich  on
Sept. 16, the new opening bid must be at least $50 million.  The newspaper company filed for bankruptcy in February
2009, blaming the recession and a fall in advertising.  Fred Hodara , a lawyer for the lenders, and  J. Gregory Milmoe , an attorney for Perelman, weren’t immediately able to
respond to phone calls seeking comment.  Raymond Perelman was among local investors who lost an
auction this spring to the company’s main lenders, including
hedge fund operator Angelo Gordon & Co. and a unit of  Credit
Suisse Group AG .  Courtroom Auction  Also today, Raslavich agreed to open the auction, which
will be conducted in his Philadelphia courtroom, to the press,
McMichael said.  Philadelphia Newspapers filed for bankruptcy two years
after  Brian Tierney , now publisher, and a group of investors
bought the company. In court filings, Philadelphia Newspapers
listed assets and debt of as much as $500 million each.  The Inquirer, founded in 1829, is the third-oldest daily
newspaper in the U.S. and has won at least 18 Pulitzer Prizes.
The Daily News, a tabloid founded in 1925, won a Pulitzer Prize
this year for investigative journalism. The two newspapers have
had a common owner since 1969, when they were bought by Knight
Newspapers Inc.  The case is In re Philadelphia Newspapers LLC, 09-11204,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Eastern District of Pennsylvania
(Philadelphia).  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Steven Church  in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net ;
 Michael Bathon  in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 mbathon@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 