-- Philippines Plans to Hunt Tax Cheats, Considers Change in Cigarette Taxes
-- B y   G a b r i e l l e   C o p p o l a
-- 2010-09-22T06:58:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-22/philippines-plans-to-hunt-tax-cheats-considers-change-in-cigarette-taxes.html
The Philippines is considering a
change in cigarette and alcohol levies and will step up
prosecution of tax evaders to increase revenue to a level on par
with its Asian neighbors as soon as 2013, the government said.  Tax revenue in the Southeast Asian country makes up 13.8
percent of  gross domestic product , compared with an average of
17 percent among Asian peers, Finance Secretary  Cesar Purisima 
said. The difference is costing the government as much as 250
billion pesos ($5.7 billion) a year, he said in an interview at
Bloomberg’s headquarters in New York yesterday.  President  Benigno Aquino  plans to boost the country’s
credit rating and lure foreign investors by shrinking a record
budget deficit. Philippine growth has lagged behind its
Southeast Asian neighbors as a budget shortfall in all but four
of the past 25 years curtailed the government’s ability to
develop an economy where the World Bank estimates one in every
four people live on less than $1.25 a day.  “The president has told us to fix the system, then
simplify the process,” said Purisima, who was named finance
secretary in June. “Ultimately as we improve our efficiency,
we’re really going for lower income-tax rates and higher
consumption taxes, but that’s down the road.”  Aquino has vowed to jail tax evaders and smugglers to
narrow a deficit forecast to reach a record 325 billion pesos
this year. The government, which has pledged to avoid raising
taxes, may simplify the levy structure for cigarette and alcohol
to yield as much as 50 billion pesos annually in revenue,
Purisima said.  Record Deficit  “Philippine tax collection has always been below par
compared with its peers,” said  Vishnu Varathan , an economist at
Capital Economics Asia Pte in Singapore. “The chronic issue of
tax evasion and graft within state agencies has been a legacy
issue, and increasingly steps have been taken on this.”  The government has filed at least 23 complaints against
suspected tax evaders, smugglers, and corrupt officials since
Aquino took office in June.  Markets have been receptive to Aquino’s proposals to cut
the deficit and boost the economy, including a plan to offer
investors $16.7 billion of infrastructure projects.  The  Philippine Stock Exchange Index  has climbed 33 percent
this year. Debt issued in dollars by the Philippines has
returned 16 percent, compared with a 14 percent return on all
Asian emerging-market debt in dollars, according to JPMorgan
Chase & Co. EMBI Global indexes. Local-currency denominated
bonds and the peso advanced today.  Turning Positive  “Markets are turning more positive on the Philippines,”
Varathan said. “The government’s approach is comprehensive.
First, it wants the Philippines to attract investments. Second,
it doesn’t want to put a dampener on consumption.”  The country’s debt is rated below investment level by Fitch
Ratings, Standard & Poor’s and Moody’s Investors Service, and is
graded lower than that of neighboring Malaysia, Indonesia and
Thailand.  The Philippines reported a  budget surplus  in August for the
first time in four months, a report showed Sept. 20.  Spending 
declined 9 percent in August from a year earlier after a 1.9
percent gain previously  reported  for July, and revenue rose 13.5
percent after growing 4.6 percent the previous month.  The government has a deadline of growing tax revenue to the
17 percent peer average by the end of Aquino’s term in 2016,
though it should be nearing that by 2013, according to Purisima.  The  economy  grew 7.9 percent last quarter, the fastest pace
in three years, boosted by exports and remittances. Purisima
said he expects the economy to expand 6 percent in 2010.  In comparison, Singapore’s economy grew at a record 17.9
percent pace in the first half, while Malaysia expanded 8.9
percent last quarter and Thailand grew 9.1 percent.  To contact the reporter for this story:
 Gabrielle Coppola  in New York at 
 gcoppola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at   shendry@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Anstey in Tokyo at   canstey@bloomberg.net  