-- Poland's PKO Bank Plans to Sell 800 Million Euros of Five-Year Eurobonds
-- B y   M a r t a   W a l d o c h   a n d   P i o t r   S k o l i m o w s k i
-- 2010-09-22T10:21:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-22/poland-s-pko-bank-plans-to-sell-800-million-euros-of-five-year-eurobonds.html
PKO Bank Polski SA , Poland’s
largest lender, will sell as much as 800 million euros ($1.06
billion) of five-year Eurobonds to help finance expansion and
increase lending.  The sale will be the first portion of a 3 billion-euro bond
program announced in 2008, and the Warsaw-based bank’s first
sale of bonds in euros ever, it said in a regulatory statement
today. PKO, which met with investors in April, hired HSBC
Holdings Plc and Societe Generale SA to manage the sale.  Polish companies are ramping up debt sales in foreign
currencies as the extra yield investors demand to own corporate
bonds instead of similar-maturity government debt has declined
to the lowest since May, according to Bank of America Merrill
Lynch’s Global Broad Market Corporate Index.  “The situation on the debt market has improved recently,
and conditions for the sale are perceived as advantageous,”
Chief Executive Officer  Zbigniew Jagiello  said in an e-mailed
statement. He said the Polish government’s recent Eurobond sale
was “supportive” for PKO’s offer.  Poland last week sold bonds due in 2021 for 1 billion
euros, attracting bids at yields below those of Spain, which has
higher credit ratings. Demand at the country’s third sale of
debt in the common European currency this year exceeded 5
billion euros, Deputy Finance Minister  Dominik Radziwill  said.  Yield Falls  The yield on the bonds fell to 3.937 percent today from
4.016 percent at the sale on Sept. 16, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  PKO’s Eurobonds are rated A2 by Moody’s Investors Service,
the bank said in the e-mail.  Polska Grupa Energetyczna SA , Poland’s largest power
company, plans to sell at least 500 million euros of bonds this
year.  Polskie Gornictwo Naftowe i Gazownictwo SA , the dominant
gas distributor, wants to sell 500 million euros of five-year
bonds in the first quarter of 2011. Koleje Mazowieckie, the
railway operator for the region that includes Warsaw, will sell
100 million euros of bonds by the end of this year.  PKO shares were little changed at 43.19 zloty as of 11:57
a.m. in Warsaw, valuing the bank at 53.9 billion zloty.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Marta Waldoch  in Warsaw on 
 mwaldoch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  