-- Porsche-Style Stealth Takeovers Are Targeted in Bill Before Merkel Cabinet
-- B y   B r i a n   P a r k i n   a n d   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d
-- 2010-09-22T09:23:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-22/porsche-style-stealth-takeovers-are-targeted-in-bill-before-merkel-cabinet.html
German Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s
Cabinet approved legislation making it more difficult for
stealth takeovers such as  Porsche SE’s  2008 acquisition of
shares in  Volkswagen AG .  The move, two years in the making, aims to plug gaps in
disclosure rules for stock options including swaps held by
investors building a position in companies. The provision helped
Porsche’s bid to build a majority stake in Volkswagen as well as
an attempt by Schaeffler Group to control tiremaker  Continental
AG . Both bids ultimately backfired.  German finance-industry groups including the  BVAI
Alternative Investment Federation  said the government measure,
backed by ministers in Berlin today, will probably benefit
investment strategies by increasing transparency and won’t
necessarily hamper takeovers. At present, disclosure applies
only to common shares, a copy of the draft bill shows.  “It’s hard to argue against the basic logic of the
legislation,” Frank Dornseifer, Bonn-based BVAI’s managing
director, said in an interview. Widening disclosure rules
“amplifies insight for all market players and not just for
executives at companies whose shares are being bought
invisibly.”  Herzogenaurach-based Schaeffler in March 2008 began
amassing a position in  Continental  through equity swaps. When
the stock dropped close to a three-year low in July of that
year, Schaeffler made a bid that Europe’s second-largest car-
parts maker was powerless to fight off. The financial crash
intervened, and Schaeffler was stuck with more shares than it
intended to purchase, plunging it into debt.  ‘Unacceptable’  Porsche’s use of options to build a stake in Volkswagen was
“unacceptable,” U.S. pension fund TIAA-CREF said in a letter
to then Finance Minister  Peer Steinbrueck  in 2008. Porsche was
itself taken over by Volkswagen in August 2009.  Nine German companies including  Daimler AG ,  Munich Re  and
Siemens AG asked the government in 2008 to force disclosure of
swap purchases after the financial regulator, BaFin, said the
swaps didn’t violate disclosure laws.  The bill before the Cabinet, which also needs the approval
of parliament, states that “non-reportable financial
instruments have been used in concrete cases in the past to move
with stealth on a company including taking it over.”  The enactment of new disclosure rules has been delayed by
almost two years after Merkel’s government bracketed the move
with a wider plan to boost financial-market transparency in the
wake of the crisis. The bill includes new rules on open real
estate funds. A ban on naked short-selling and tighter rules for
so-called gray market financial were taken out the original
bill.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Brian Parkin  in Berlin at 
 bparkin@bloomberg.net ;
 Aaron Kirchfeld  in Frankfurt at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net ;
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net . 