-- Portugal Sells 750 Million Euros of Bonds, Yields Fuel Demand
-- B y   J o a o   L i m a
-- 2010-09-22T12:02:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-22/portugal-sells-750-million-euros-of-bonds-yields-fuel-demand.html
Portugal sold 750 million euros ($1
billion) of bonds as yields driven higher by concern that the
government will struggle to trim its deficit fueled demand.  The debt agency sold 450 million euros of securities due
October 2014 to yield 4.695 percent, a jump from the 3.621
percent at the July 28 auction. Investors bid for 3.5 times the
amount offered, more than the 3.1 times in July. Portugal also
sold 300 million euros of 10-year bonds, leaving the total for
the auction at the low end of the 750 million-euro to 1 billion-
euro range set for the sale. Demand also rose for that debt.  Portuguese bonds slumped this week on concern that the
government was not making as much progress trimming its budget
deficit, the European Union’s fourth-biggest, as other countries
affected by the fallout from the Greek debt crisis such as
Ireland and Spain. The yield on Portuguese 10-year bonds rose to
a record relative to benchmark German bunds on Sept. 20 as the
central government shortfall widened in the first eight months.  “The auction seems to have been taken down without too
much difficulty after the wider spreads provided an
opportunity,” said  Nick Stamenkovic , a strategist in Edinburgh
at RIA Capital Markets Ltd., a broker for banks and money
managers. “It’s slightly disappointing they didn’t manage” to
sell the maximum intended amount, he said.  Fully Funded  Portugal has already funded around 90 percent of its
financing needs for this year, Finance Minister Fernando
Teixeira dos Santos said on Sept. 10, and the country doesn’t
face a bond redemption until next year.  The spread between the yield on Portugal’s 10-year bonds
and those of Germany, Europe’s benchmark, fell to 382 at 12:40
p.m. in Lisbon from as high as 398 basis points earlier in the
day. It widened to 399 basis points on Sept. 20, the most since
Bloomberg began collecting the data in 1997.  The auction came one day after Ireland sold 1.5 billion
euros of bonds and Spain sold 7 billion euros in bills. Firm
demand for that debt helped narrow the yield premiums between
Irish and Spanish debt over German bonds yesterday even as
borrowing costs at the sale increased for both countries.  Europe’s sovereign debt crisis took hold at the end of 2009
after Greece’s newly-elected socialist government said the
budget deficit was twice as big as the previous administration
disclosed. In April, Greece asked to tap an EU-International
Monetary Fund 110 billion-euro loan facility after being shut
out of debt markets. The EU then passed a broader 750 billion-
euro backstop for the rest of the euro region.  Austerity Plans  To avoid Greece’s fate, EU governments have adopted
austerity measures including wage cuts for public workers and
higher taxes to speed deficit-reduction efforts. Portugal has
made less progress reining in its shortfall than Spain, Greece
and Ireland, contributing to the jump in bond yields.  The austerity measures have fueled expectations at banks
that spreads with Germany will narrow in the months ahead.
 Yields  on bonds of Greece, Spain, Ireland and Portugal will fall
to within 2.2 percentage points of benchmark German bunds on
average in the next two years from 4.61 percentage points last
week, according to a Bloomberg News survey of 15 banks that
trade directly with Germany’s debt agency.  Teixeira dos Santos on Sept. 10 said Portugal doesn’t need
to tap the euro-region’s rescue fund, following the increase in
borrowing costs.  Klaus Regling , the head of the bailout fund
known as the European Financial Stability Facility, this week
said he doesn’t expect any country will need to tap the fund.  Deficit Targets  The Portuguese government is trying to cut its budget gap
after posting a deficit of 9.3 percent of  gross domestic product 
in 2009, the fourth-highest in the 16-country euro region after
Ireland, Greece and Spain. The government aims to narrow the
 shortfall  to 7.3 percent this year and intends to meet the EU
limit of 3 percent in 2012, a year earlier than in a previous
plan.  Portugal’s central government’s deficit rose to 9.19
billion euros in the first eight months of this year from 8.74
billion euros in the same period last year, the Finance  Ministry 
said Sept. 20. Tax revenue gained 3.3 percent, more than
budgeted, and spending increased 2.7 percent, in line with
budget estimates, the ministry said.  By contrast, Spain slashed its seven-month central
government deficit in half from a year earlier. Ireland and
Greece also reduced their budget deficits in the first eight
months.  ‘Robust Plan’  “The latest deficit figures put more pressure on the
government to come up with a credible and robust plan to bring
down the deficit when the state budget for 2011 is presented
next month,”  Diego Iscaro , an economist at IHS Global Insight
in London, said in an e-mail to investors. “The main challenge
will be to achieve fiscal consolidation without driving the
economy back into a recession.”  Portugal’s minority Socialist government, led by Prime
Minister  Jose Socrates , this year has pledged to reduce hiring
of public workers, while raising taxes and postponing public
infrastructure  spending .  The investment and spending cuts may hurt an economy that
has barely grown for a decade, with the expansion averaging less
than 1 percent annually since 2000. The Bank of Portugal said in
July that growth may slow to 0.2 percent in 2011 from 0.9
percent this year. The government forecasts economic growth of
0.7 percent for this year.  ---Editors:  Andrew Davis ,  Jeffrey Donovan   To contact the reporters on this story:
 Joao Lima  in Lisbon at 
 jlima1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at   wkennedy3@bloomberg.net . 