-- Potash Sues BHP in U.S. to Block `On the Cheap' $40 Billion Takeover Offer
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   D o n v i l l e   a n d   A n d r e w   M .   H a r r i s
-- 2010-09-22T20:54:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-22/potash-corp-files-complaint-against-bhp-in-u-s-court-after-hostile-bid.html
Potash Corp. of Saskatchewan Inc. 
sued  BHP Billiton Ltd. , the world’s largest mining company, in
Chicago federal court to prevent it from acquiring the
fertilizer maker with a $40 billion hostile offer.  BHP sought to improve its chances of acquiring Saskatoon-
based Potash Corp. “on the cheap” by seeking to “drive down”
its share price prior to the Aug. 17 offer, Potash Corp. said
today in the complaint.  Potash Corp., the world’s largest producer of its namesake
crop nutrient, rejected Melbourne-based BHP’s $130-a-share offer
as too low. Potash Corp.’s U.S. shares have advanced 30 percent
since Aug. 16, the last trading day before BHP made its
proposal, and are trading above the bid price, indicating
investors expect a higher offer.  “The suit is a defensive mechanism, but also an offensive
tool because it attempts to point out why the stock is
relatively inexpensive on a stand-alone, no-transaction basis,”
 Louis Meyer , an analyst at Oscar Gruss & Son Inc. in New York,
said in a telephone interview. “The rationale is that the best
defense is a good offense.”  The lawsuit is “entirely without merit,” BHP said today
in an e-mailed statement, adding that it does not expect the
court filing to interfere with or delay its all-cash offer.  “This lawsuit seems to be their answer to the absence of
another bidder emerging,”  Ruban Yogarajah , a BHP spokesman,
said today by telephone.  Kloppers in Ottawa  Potash Corp.  fell  $1.19, or 0.8 percent, to $146.33 at
4:15 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading.  BHP 
climbed 41 pence, or 2.1 percent, to 2,000 pence in London.  BHP Chief Executive Officer  Marius Kloppers  is scheduled to
meet with lawmakers in Ottawa today.  Potash Corp. alleges BHP made “false and misleading”
statements about the offer. BHP allegedly sought to depress the
value of Potash shares to make an acquisition possible by
pledging to develop its Jansen project in Saskatchewan and to
“run its new mine flat out, flooding the market with potash,”
according to the court filing.  BHP’s announcements were “designed to raise the specter
that BHP was the 800-pound gorilla about to become a major
competitor” to Potash Corp., the Canadian company said in the
filing.  Yogarajah said it was “absurd” to suggest that BHP’s
Jansen project was a “ruse” designed to undermine Potash
Corp.’s share price. “We have repeatedly reaffirmed to the
governments of Canada and to Saskatchewan our commitment to
advancing Jansen,” he said.  Shareholder Vote  BHP also failed to inform Potash Corp. shareholders that it
was “reasonably likely” that  BHP investors  would have to vote
on the takeover, Potash Corp. said. Under U.K. listing rules, a
vote is mandatory if the value of an acquisition matches or
exceeds 25 percent of the acquirer’s market value.  BHP’s offer came “before an expected spike in worldwide
potash demand that would surely lead to increases” in Potash
Corp.’s stock price and require a BHP shareholder vote, Potash
Corp. said.  Potash is seeking a court order barring BHP from taking
further steps to consummate its tender offer or acquire shares
and directing the prospective purchaser to make “complete
corrective disclosure” to Potash shareholders about prior
allegedly misleading statements.  The Canadian company is also seeking a 60-day freeze on BHP
taking any further steps to acquire it, until “misleading
statements to the market have dissipated and shareholders have
had the opportunity to review and consider the corrective
disclosures,” according to the lawsuit.  The case is Potash Corp. of Saskatchewan v. BHP Billiton,
10-06024, U.S. District Court for the Northern District of
Illinois (Chicago).  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Christopher Donville  in Vancouver at 
 cjdonville@bloomberg.net ;
 Andrew M. Harris  in Chicago federal court
at   aharris16@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net ;
David E. Rovella at 
 drovella@bloomberg.net . 