-- Jarislowsky Prefers Canada Block BHP's Potash Bid
-- B y   F r e d e r i c   T o m e s c o
-- 2010-09-23T02:31:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-22/potash-shareholder-jarislowsky-would-prefer-canada-block-bhp-s-hostile-bid.html
Potash Corp. of Saskatchewan Inc. ’s
third-largest shareholder would prefer Canada to block  BHP
Billiton Ltd. ’s $130-a-share offer because the price is too low
and a deal would make his job as fund manager more difficult.  Potash, the world’s biggest producer of its namesake crop
nutrient, yesterday sued BHP over the $40 billion bid, saying
the Melbourne-based company sought to “drive down” its share
price prior to the Aug. 17 offer. Should BHP succeed, Potash
would join Canadian mining and metals companies including
Falconbridge Ltd. and Alcan Inc. that have been acquired by
foreign competitors in the past four years.  “Is the price at $130 an excellent price? No,”  Stephen Jarislowsky , chief executive officer of Jarislowsky Fraser Ltd.,
said in an interview. “Is it a good thing for Canada? No.”  The deals have reduced investment options for investors
such as Jarislowsky, 85, whose  Montreal-based company  manages
about C$44 billion ($43 billion) for pension funds and private
investors and held 8.82 million shares in Saskatoon-based  Potash 
as of June 30.  “I would prefer it if the government says, ‘You’re not
going to do that,’ because for me, if you invest in Canadian
stocks and there is nothing left to invest in, it’s not a full
market,” Jarislowsky said. “Pension funds need to have a
diversified portfolio in Canadian stocks when their liabilities
are in Canadian dollars.”  BHP Pledges  BHP, the world’s largest mining company, pledged to make
Saskatchewan home to its head office for potash operations in
the event of a successful takeover. It also said it will
continue developing its Jansen potash project in the province,
maintain current employment levels and propose a Canadian
nominee for election to its  board .  Foreign takeovers of major Canadian companies are
automatically reviewed in Canada under the  Investment Canada
Act . The government can block any transaction if it finds
insufficient “net benefits” to the country, based on such
factors as employment and productivity.  In the past 25 years, Canada has only formally rejected one
takeover offer, Alliant Techsystems Inc.’s bid for MacDonald
Dettwiler & Associates Ltd.’s space business in 2008.  Potash Suit  Potash’s suit alleges BHP made “false and misleading”
statements about its offer. BHP allegedly sought to depress the
value of Potash shares to make an acquisition possible by
pledging to develop its Jansen project and to “run its new mine
flat out, flooding the market with potash,” according to the
court filing.  “The suit is a defensive mechanism, but also an offensive
tool because it attempts to point out why the stock is
relatively inexpensive on a stand-alone, no-transaction basis,”
 Louis Meyer , an analyst at Oscar Gruss & Son Inc. in New York,
said in a telephone interview. “The rationale is that the best
defense is a good offense.”  The lawsuit is “entirely without merit,” BHP said in an
e-mailed statement, adding that it does not expect the court
filing to interfere with or delay its all-cash offer.  Potash’s U.S. shares have advanced 30 percent since Aug. 16,
the last trading day before BHP made its proposal, and are
trading above the bid price, indicating investors expect a
higher offer.  No ‘Benefit’  “What benefit does BHP bring to these potash mines?
None,” Jarislowsky said. “From the point of view of the
country, it’s an enormous negative. I don’t know what these
governments are thinking.”  Jarislowsky said he hasn’t been approached by BHP to
discuss the offer for Potash.  “If there is no better offer, I may have to accept this
offer because I am a fiduciary for my clients,” Jarislowsky
said. “So from that point of view, I want to get the highest
price.”  With a market capitalization of about C$44.9 billion,
Potash is Canada’s sixth-biggest  publicly traded company . It
accounts for about 3.3 percent of the country’s benchmark
 Standard & Poor’s/TSX Composite Index , trailing only  Barrick
Gold Corp.  among the country’s publicly traded miners.  Potash Corp. fell $1.19 to $146.33 yesterday in New York
Stock Exchange  composite trading . BHP  climbed  20 cents to
A$39.10 at 12:19 p.m. in Sydney.  BHP Meetings  BHP Chief Executive Officer  Marius Kloppers  was in Ottawa
yesterday to meet lawmakers about the proposed transaction
after earlier this week holding talks with Saskatchewan Premier
 Brad Wall . The premier told reporters Sept. 19 he isn’t
convinced a takeover of Potash is good for the province,
according to a report from the Globe and Mail newspaper.  Opposition lawmakers in Ottawa have called on Prime
Minister  Stephen Harper ’s governing Conservative Party to hold a
public review of the bid, and impose conditions on any foreign
acquisition of the Canadian fertilizer maker.  Rio Tinto Group  based its global aluminum operations in
Montreal after acquiring Alcan in 2007. Switzerland’s  Xstrata
Plc  bought nickel miner Falconbridge a year earlier, while Rio
de Janeiro-based Vale SA acquired Inco Ltd. in that same year.  BHP’s bid undervalues the Canadian company because it comes
amid declining fertilizer prices, Jarislowsky said. Potash
 prices  for delivery at the port of Vancouver have dropped about
44 percent since reaching an all-time high in March 2009,
according to Bloomberg data.  “BHP is being opportunistic, and I would be too if I were
in their place,” Jarislowsky said. “I wouldn’t want to overpay.
We are not at a period of high prices for potash, so why would
we sell the whole company if prices are at cyclical lows?”  The case is Potash Corp. of Saskatchewan v. BHP Billiton,
10-06024, U.S. District Court for the Northern District of
Illinois (Chicago).  To contact the reporter for this story:
 Frederic Tomesco  in Montreal at 
 tomesco@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at   scasey4@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net . 