-- Profumo Exit Throws UniCredit's European Expansion Into Doubt
-- B y   S o n i a   S i r l e t t i   a n d   E l i s a   M a r t i n u z z i
-- 2010-09-22T16:25:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-22/profumo-exit-throws-future-of-unicredit-s-european-expansion-into-question.html
The resignation of  UniCredit SpA 
Chief Executive Officer  Alessandro Profumo , who built Italy’s
largest bank through $65 billion of purchases, may jeopardize
the international expansion he led.  Profumo, 53, stepped down after relations soured with some
of the bank’s largest Italian shareholders over Libyan
investments in the company. Chairman  Dieter Rampl , 63, will take
over Profumo’s duties on an interim basis and seek a
replacement, the Milan-based lender said in a statement.  The fall of Profumo, one of Italy’s most prominent bankers,
had its roots in the expansion that made UniCredit the country’s
most European bank.  Takeovers  left him short of funds when
confidence in banks collapsed in 2008 and credit became
scarce, forcing the CEO to turn to investors for cash twice
in 18 months. Recent  Libyan investments  in the lender met
opposition from the Italian foundations that own more than 11
percent of the bank.  Profumo’s resignation is “a lose, lose situation,” said
 Fabrizio Bernardi , an analyst at Evolution Securities Ltd. in
London, who has a “sell” rating on UniCredit shares. “He won
the respect of international investors for putting together a
large banking group and being open and transparent. Profumo
sought to limit foundations’ weight and the strategy
backfired.”  Shares Slide  The Italian bank  fell  4 percent to 1.82 euros in Milan, the
lowest price since July 5, giving the company a market value of
35.2 billion euros ($47 billion).  Italy’s banking foundations are non-profit entities created
two decades ago when the government started privatizing lenders.
The foundations were formed to separate savings banks’
philanthropic work from the lenders, which became corporations.
The foundations retain stakes in Italy’s biggest banks,
including UniCredit and Milan-based  Intesa Sanpaolo SpA , and
they use the investments to fund philanthropic expenditures.  Profumo, a former McKinsey & Co. consultant, seized on the
opening of European markets brought on by the introduction of
the euro to expand at home and abroad. He turned regional bank
Credito Italiano SpA, which he took over in 1997, into
UniCredit, the sixth-biggest lender in the euro region, with
954.6 billion euros of  assets  at the end of June.  “We are based on the euro project,” the former CEO, who
also heads the Brussels-based European Banking Federation, said
in an interview in Milan in May.  Buying Spree  The company spent $65 billion on takeovers in the last
decade, including the $29.4 billion purchase of Capitalia SpA in
2007 and the $18 billion acquisition of Munich-based HVB Group
in 2005. UniCredit owns the largest lenders in Poland and
Austria and operates in 22 countries.  Italian Finance Minister  Giulio Tremonti  lobbied UniCredit
shareholders, including Fondazione Cariverona and Fondazione
CRT, to support Profumo, and indicated his resignation was a
mistake, Corriere della Sera reported today, without saying
where it got the information.  Profumo “tried to free himself from the local power games
with the internationalization of the bank,” said  Fabrizio Spagna , CEO of Axia Financial Research in Padua, Italy.  UniCredit  earns about 55 percent of its revenue outside
Italy, compared with 22 percent at  Intesa Sanpaolo , the
country’s second-largest bank.  The expansion came at a cost. UniCredit’s  net income , which
peaked at 5.9 billion euros in 2007, fell to 1.7 billion euros
in 2009 as bad loans accumulated, particularly in central and
eastern Europe, and commissions fell.  Tapping Shareholders  In October 2008, Profumo was forced to go back on his word
of not selling stock to investors, as he announced a 3 billion-
euro  rights offer  after the bank’s shares shed 24 percent in
three days on concerns over capital. He also replaced a cash
 dividend  with shares. Profumo conceded at the time that the firm
had “made some mistakes” by underestimating the financial
crisis and making acquisitions at the top of the market.  Early this year, UniCredit tapped shareholders again for 4
billion euros to boost capital.  UniCredit shares, which more than quadrupled during
Profumo’s first two years on the job, have  dropped  about 70
percent from their peak in April 2007. That compares with a 30
percent  decline  from the pre-crisis high at  Banco Santander SA ,
Spain’s largest bank, which has also pursued international
 expansion .  Stock Performance  UniCredit trailed behind European rivals over the last
year, the  Bloomberg Europe Banks and Financial Services Index 
shows. The lender, the 11th largest among the 54 members of the
index by market value, fell 22 percent in the past 12 months,
compared with the 9 percent drop in the index.  “The shares have been lagging,” said  Dirk Sebrechts , a
Brussels-based fund manager at KBC Asset Management SA, which
oversees about 4.1 billion euros. “New management might not be
bad news in the long term.”  Some of UniCredit’s largest shareholders asked Profumo to
resign after he failed to inform them of the intention of Libyan
investors to raise their stakes, people with knowledge of the
discussions said Sept. 20. The Libya Investment Authority, a
sovereign wealth fund, recently increased its holding in
UniCredit by 0.5 percent to 2.6 percent. The Central Bank of
Libya holds almost 5 percent.  Libyan investors remain committed to UniCredit,  Farhat Omer Bengdara , governor of the country’s central bank and deputy
chairman of the lender, told Il Sole 24 Ore in an interview
published today. “We bought shares of a bank, not of a
manager,” Bengdara said.  Foundation Opposition  UniCredit should pay less attention to fostering
international ties and more to its home market, especially
northern Italy, said Flavio Tosi, mayor of the city of Verona,
the biggest shareholder in Fondazione Cariverona, UniCredit’s
fourth-largest investor. Tosi is a member of the Northern League
party, part of Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi ’s governing
coalition. The League has criticized the Libyan investments.  “The foundations have close ties to their territory, they
cater to their constituencies and that needs to be kept in
consideration,” said Axia’s Spagna.  Pressure from the foundations increased as UniCredit’s
difficulties mounted. In February 2009, Cariverona didn’t
participate in a sale of 3 billion euros of convertible bonds
aimed at shoring up the bank’s capital. This year, foundations,
including Cariverona, tied their support of the second rights
offer to a return to a cash dividend.  Rising Tide  “Profumo’s like a man halfway through a wade and the tide
has risen,” said  Giorgio Questa , a finance professor at Cass
Business School in London and a former banker at Italy’s Banca
IMI SpA. “He might have got to the other side had there not
been a financial crisis. The bank’s international strategy needs
to be reviewed, refocused, and Profumo might have done so
himself if he’d been given the time.”  Profumo and the bank “agreed the time had come for a
change in the top management,” UniCredit said in the statement,
which followed a board meeting that lasted about five hours.  The executive agreed to a 38 million-euro severance payment
and a 2 million-euro charitable donation from the bank, Corriere
della Sera reported today, without saying where it got the
information. Profumo had total compensation last year of 4.3
million euros, according to the bank’s annual report.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Sonia Sirletti  in Milan at 
 sirletti@bloomberg.net  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Elisa Martinuzzi  in Milan at 
 emartinuzzi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  