-- Qatar Islamic Will Start Marketing First Dollar-Denominated Sukuk Tomorrow
-- B y   G l e n n   K a l i n o s k i   a n d   K h a l i d   Q a y u m
-- 2010-09-23T07:33:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-22/qatar-islamic-bank-plans-debut-benchmark-dollar-sukuk.html
Qatar Islamic Bank SAQ  plans to
sell its first dollar sukuk and will start meeting investors in
the Middle East, Asia and Europe from tomorrow, according to a
statement from the Gulf state’s biggest Shariah-compliant lender.  “The sukuk is expected to be launched, subject to market
conditions” and Credit Suisse Group AG, HSBC Holdings Plc and
Qatari investment bank QInvest have been hired to manage the
issuance, said the statement posted on the Qatar Exchange
website today. Chief Executive Officer Salah Mohammed Jaidah
said on May 19 the company may issue up to $750 million of the
notes that comply with the religion’s ban on interest.  Sales of Islamic bonds are picking up in the Persian Gulf
after Dubai World reached an agreement with 99 percent of its
creditors this month to change terms on $24.9 billion of debt.
Banks and companies in the Middle East may sell $5.5 billion of
sukuk in the fourth quarter, the most since the three months
ended September 2007, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “There will be huge support” for the debt,  Hang Tuah Amin Tajudin , assistant vice president at OCBC Bank Malaysia Bhd.’s
Global Treasury Division, said in an interview from Kuala Lumpur
today. “Market sentiment has improved and the restructuring in
the Gulf region will help create more certainty.”  ‘Risk Perception’  Albaraka Banking Group, the largest publicly traded Islamic
bank in Bahrain, plans to sell $200 million of sukuk by the end
of the year and appointed Standard Chartered Plc as a manager
for the sale, Chief Executive Officer Adnan Ahmed Yousif said
yesterday. The Islamic Development Bank, a Jeddah-based
multilateral lender, said on Aug. 24 it would raise $1 billion
selling Shariah-compliant debt.  Global sales of sukuk dropped 24 percent to $10.7 billion
so far this year, compared with $14 billion in the same period a
year ago, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Issuance from
the six-member Gulf Cooperation Council, which includes the
United Arab Emirates, Bahrain, Kuwait, Oman, Qatar and Saudi
Arabia, has declined 22 percent to $2.5 billion.  “Risk perception in the region is far more constructive,
not only due to the apparent resolution of the restructurings
taking place in Dubai, but also helped by the solid regional
economic landscape,”  Rafael Dalmau , director of Islamic
investment at BNP Paribas Investment Partners in Singapore, said
in an e-mailed response to questions today.  Wider Spread  Malaysia raised $1.25 billion from sukuk in May, the
country’s first overseas debt offering in eight years, and
received bids for more than five times the initial $1 billion
sought.  The yield on Malaysia’s 3.928 percent Islamic note due June
2015 was little changed at 2.65 percent today, according to
prices from Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc. The debt was sold
to yield 180 basis points more than Treasuries. The spread has
since narrowed 37 basis points to 143.  The yield on the Dubai Department of Finance’s 6.396
percent sukuk maturing in November 2014 rose four basis points
today to 6.41 percent, according to Bloomberg data.  “Demand for sukuk has recovered since the last sale from
Malaysia, said OCBC’s Hang Tuah. “Since Qatar Islamic isn’t a
sovereign issuer then the spread will be wider” than the
Malaysian sovereign, he said.  Qatar has a credit rating of AA from Standard & Poor’s, and
is rated Aa2 by Moody’s Investors Service, the third-highest
investment grades.  “In terms of ratings quality, Qatar has been considered by
many as one of the strongest in the GCC region, with that, many
of the strongest local corporates enjoy an initial positive view
by investors,” said BNP’s Dalmau, whose company is the asset
management unit of BNP Paribas SA, France’s biggest bank.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Glenn Kalinoski at 
 gkalinoski1@bloomberg.net 
Khalid Qayum in Islamabad at 
 kqayum@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at   shendry@bloomberg.net . 