-- Mr. Hope and Change Can Feel No One’s Pain: Margaret Carlson
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C a r l s o n
-- 2010-09-22T01:00:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-22/mr-hope-and-change-can-feel-no-one-s-pain-margaret-carlson.html
We don’t get many do-overs in life.
President  Barack Obama  got one on Monday, a chance to correct
the impression that he can’t identify with Joe and Josephine Six
Pack except when telling them to eat their spinach and not be
upset that the bankers who got us into this mess are dining on
caviar.  His opening came in the form of a long, compelling question
from  Velma Hart  at a town hall meeting at the Newseum in
Washington. As an exemplar of the middle class, sitting at the
kitchen table at the end of the month asking why it’s going so
wrong, you couldn’t do better than Hart.  You just know she plays by the rules, wakes early to get to
her job as chief financial officer of the veterans’ group
 Amvets , and raced to the polls in November 2008 to vote for
Obama.  Velma told the president that she’s “exhausted of
defending you,” “deeply disappointed with where we are right
now,” and waiting for him finally “to change things in a
meaningful way for the middle class.”  A veteran of the U.S. Army Reserve, Hart is married to a
facilities manager and lives in suburban  Maryland . With two
daughters in private school, one about to go to college, she
told the president she’s afraid of having to revert to serving
hot dogs and beans, the universal symbol of scrimping. The room
was with her.  Bill Clinton  would have been feeling Velma’s pain at
“Hello.” He would undoubtedly have gone overboard, biting too
hard on his lower lip. But too much empathy is better than
treating a plea from the heart as a request to the professor for
a make-up exam.  Clinton’s Embrace  Empathy helped Clinton beat  George H.W. Bush  in 1992. At a
 presidential debate  in Richmond, Bush fumbled when asked by a
woman in the audience how the federal debt affected him
personally. “I’m not sure I get it,” Bush said. “Help me with
the question, and I’ll try to answer it.”  Clinton, naturally, embraced the question, the questioner,
the room and the country. He’d met people like her “all over
America, people that have lost their jobs, lost their
livelihood, lost their health insurance.” He may have clinched
the election that night.  Obama is less Clinton and more Bush, itching to check the
time or, in Obama’s case, his BlackBerry. But even by the
standards of, say, Senate Republican Leader  Mitch McConnell ,
whose party believes extending  unemployment benefits  encourages
sloth, Obama’s response was removed and cold.  ‘Times Are Tough’  “Now, as I said before, times are tough for everybody
right now, so I understand your frustration,” he told Hart,
after rather clumsily praising her as part of “the bedrock of
America” and before citing new credit-card rules and student-
loan procedures as evidence of progress.  “As I said” always carries with it the implied question,
Weren’t you paying attention? “For everybody” telegraphs
you’re one out of millions, nothing special.  And “everybody” isn’t suffering, which is the truth that
gets to the heart of Obama’s problem and makes his brushing off
Hart as much substance as theater.  Ticking off government initiatives isn’t recognizing how
unfair life feels when the rich are getting richer, thanks to
government support, and you aren’t. Obama’s one moment of
connection came when he joked to Hart that even the most
responsible person might want to go buy a new pair of shoes.  Hart said of the man who was going to change things, “I’m
waiting. I don’t feel it yet.”  Slick Willie  I’m not one of these people who think Obama should be
getting down with the people, or getting emotional. A Slick
Willie he isn’t, nor should he try to be.  But he’s being hammered in polls that ask Americans whether
he cares about people like them. Where did Mr. Hope and Change
go? Even if that was inauthentic, he should bring it back.  It’s a long time now since Obama was a community organizer.
Even then, he might have been more comfortable dealing with
communities than with individuals. Democrats are best with
groups. If I break down on the side of the road, I hope a
Republican stops -- he’ll fix my flat and offer me a drink. A
Democrat will get busy forming a Committee to Protect Women Who
Own Vulnerable Cars.  Obama showed more concern toward business, perhaps out of
deference to the town-hall host, CNBC, which airs shows morning
to night on making the financially secure more so.  “My entire focus right now is to make sure that the
private sector is thriving, is growing, is investing,” Obama
said.  Caught in Middle  Obama voiced his own frustration at being caught in the
middle: Business feels vilified by him, while workers think he
favors business over them.  The problem is that Obama, temperamentally, tilts, as most
of us do, toward the people he hangs out with and sees every
day. And White House work pays well above the minimum wage.  In the toniest neighborhoods of  Washington , there’s no
housing slump. It’s hard to get a table at many restaurants.
Power breakfast at the Hay-Adams hotel across from the White
House, where the first family holed up during the transition, is
brisk business. A bowl of cereal with bananas is $10.50. Coffee
is extra.  Obama is no miracle worker. In fairness, he probably
couldn’t do much more than tell Hart, “I understand your
frustration.” Next time, though, he should try saying it with
feeling.  (Margaret Carlson, author of “Anyone Can Grow Up: How
 George Bush  and I Made It to the White House” and former White
House correspondent for Time magazine, is a Bloomberg News
columnist. The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
 Margaret Carlson  in Washington at 
 mcarlson3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  