-- Rand Rallies, Breaching 7 to Dollar, on Shrinking Deficit, Fed Speculation
-- B y   G a r t h   T h e u n i s s e n   a n d   R o n   D e r b y
-- 2010-09-22T15:07:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-22/rand-gains-to-more-than-2-1-2-year-high-on-deficit-decline-fed-statement.html
South Africa’s rand rallied to a
more than 2 1/2-year high, breaching 7 per dollar for the first
time since January 2008, after the nation’s  current-account gap 
fell to a six-year low and a report showed retail sales rose.  The currency appreciated 2.2 percent to 6.9815 per dollar,
the biggest gain since May 26 and the strongest exchange rate
since the start of 2008. The rand traded 1.5 percent stronger at
7.0275 by 4:48 p.m. in Johannesburg, from a previous close of
7.1352. Against the euro, the rand lost 0.6 percent to 9.4185.  The deficit on South Africa’s current account, a broad
measure of trade in goods and services, shrank to 2.5 percent of
 gross domestic product  in the second quarter, the central bank
said. The deficit eased from 4.6 percent in the first quarter,
reducing the need for foreign purchases of stocks and bonds to
fund the shortfall.  Retail sales  climbed an annual 7.9 percent
in July, exceeding a 7.1 percent estimate in a Bloomberg survey.  “We’ve broken through the 7 and we’re edging closer to
6.90 rand -- and we could go to 6.50 rand to the dollar,”
 Brigid Taylor , a Johannesburg-based currency analyst at RMB, the
investment-banking arm of FirstRand Ltd., said by phone.
“Retail is much better than expected -- we are seeing a bigger
upward momentum, which is positive.”  South Africa’s currency had gained before the domestic
central bank and retail reports as the U.S. Federal Reserve
yesterday indicated its willingness to ease monetary policy
further, damping demand for dollar-based assets. The U.S.
currency weakened against 15 of its 16 major counterparts after
policy makers said they “will provide additional accommodation
if needed” to stimulate the world’s biggest economy.  Yield Differential  “It’s good to see the current account coming down and
better retail sales but the Fed comments are also a very big
driver,”  Julian Wilson , a trader at Citigroup Inc. in
Johannesburg, said by telephone. “The dollar has lost a lot of
ground. U.S. interest rates are going to be kept lower for much
longer, which maintains the interest differential” between
higher-yield assets and those denominated in dollars, said
Wilson.  Near-zero interest rates in developed markets have
encouraged investors to borrow cheaply and invest in higher-
yielding, emerging markets such as South Africa where the
benchmark  interest rate  is 6 percent. The transactions, known as
carry trades, have swelled net foreign purchases of South
African assets to 100.8 billion rand ($14.4 billion) this year,
according to stock and bond exchange data.  Inflows  Africa’s biggest economy relies on the foreign inflows to
fund its current-account deficit and prevent the rand from
weakening, prompting government to refer to the shortfall as the
“Achilles’ heel” of the economy.  While the rand received a lift from the current-account
data, “questions about the sustainability of this performance
are likely to dominate,”  Razia Khan , head of macroeconomics at
Standard Chartered Bank Plc in London, said in an e-mailed note
today.  The narrowing of the current-account shortfall should be
regarded as a “blip” as imports into South Africa were likely
to rise as economic growth accelerates, widening the shortfall,
Reserve Bank Chief Economist Monde Mnyande said today.  Government bonds advanced for a third day, with the
benchmark 13.5 percent security due September 2015 rising 45
cents to 125.87 rand, reducing the yield by 10 basis points to
7.21 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Garth Theunissen  in Johannesburg at 
 gtheunissen@bloomberg.net ;
 Ron Derby  in Johannesburg at 
 rderby1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  