-- RBA Sees Support for Targeting Financial `Imbalances' Rather Than Assets
-- B y   J a c o b   G r e b e r
-- 2010-09-22T02:58:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-22/rba-sees-support-for-targeting-financial-imbalances-rather-than-assets.html
There is rising support for the
idea that central banks should stem “imbalances” in the
financial system as asset prices climb, according to a Reserve
Bank of Australia research paper.  “Support for the approach of responding only after
damaging asset price declines are underway has diminished in
light of the fallout from the global financial crisis,”
according to  the study published today  in Sydney. “An idea that
appears to be gaining wider acceptance is that there is a case
for policy to focus on financial imbalances more generally,
rather than asset prices in particular.”  Australia has led Group of 20 nations in raising  borrowing
costs , with six increases between October and May, partly to
prevent a housing bubble as prices surged 18.4 percent in the 12
months through June. Earlier this decade, a record U.S. mortgage
boom fueled banks’ earnings and balance sheets before a housing
collapse caused the worst financial crisis since the 1930s.  “In contrast to the earlier debates about whether to burst
asset-price bubbles, more attention is now being focused on an
intermediate path of leaning against emerging imbalances with a
view to reducing their severity,” co-authors  Paul Bloxham ,
 Christopher Kent  and Michael Robson wrote in the report.  A key issue is the question of what policies should be used
to “lean against” imbalances so that the impact is less severe
and costly, the authors said. “For monetary policy, this would
require, at the minimum, avoiding periods of unnecessarily low
interest rates that might exacerbate imbalances,” the report
said.  One “difficulty” is that there is little practical
evidence about how effective such an “intermediate leaning
strategy might be,” the RBA report said.  The views of the authors are not necessarily those of the
RBA, the bank said in report.  The RBA signaled this week that higher rates are likely if
its forecast for growth to continue at the economy’s trend rate
or faster is realized.  To contact the reporter for this story:
 Jacob Greber  in Sydney at 
 jgreber@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey in Tokyo at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  