-- Treasury 10-Year Notes Rise for Fourth Day on Bets Fed Will Buy More Debt
-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s
-- 2010-09-22T20:08:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-22/treasury-10-year-notes-rise-for-fourth-day-on-fed-debt-buying-speculation.html
Treasury 10-year notes rose for a
fourth day in the longest stretch of gains since June as traders
speculated that the Federal Reserve is preparing to increase
purchases of U.S. debt.  The yield on the two-year note touched a record low for a
second day after the Fed said yesterday it’s “prepared to
provide additional accommodation if needed to support the
economic recovery.” The  central bank  bought $2.07 billion of
Treasuries maturing from March 2013 to April 2014 today as part
of its effort to keep borrowing costs low.  “There is an underlying bid in the market as the bull
trend in Treasuries remains intact,” said  Martin Mitchell , head
government bond trader in Baltimore at Stifel Nicolaus & Co., a
brokerage firm. “The Fed has tipped their hand that they are
likely to initiate a larger-scale asset-purchase program in the
future. If the Fed becomes a larger buyer, the Treasury market
can only go higher.”  The benchmark 10-year note yield dropped 2 basis points, or
0.02 percentage point, to 2.56 percent at 4:04 p.m. in New York,
according to BGCantor Market Data. The price of the 2.625
percent security maturing in August 2020 gained 5/32, or $1.56
per $1,000 face amount, to 100 19/32.  The 10-year note yield touched 2.50 percent, the  lowest
level  since Sept. 1. The last time the yield fell for four days
in a row was on June 30. The 2-year yield climbed 1 basis point
to 0.43 percent after dropping earlier to a record 0.41 percent.
The 30-year bond yield fell 4 basis points to 3.74 percent.  Yield Curve  The  extra yield  investors demand to hold 10-year notes
compared with 2-year securities slid to 2.13 percentage points,
the narrowest on a closing basis since Sept. 7, reflecting
concern the economic recovery is stalling.  European bonds gained on the Fed’s statement. The yield on
the benchmark 10-year German bund dropped as much as 12 basis
points to 2.34 percent in the biggest intraday  decrease  since
Aug. 24, when the yield fell as much as 14 basis points.  Gold for December delivery touched an all-time high of
$1,298. The dollar dropped to the lowest level since March
against the currencies of six major trading partners. The
 Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  fell 0.5 percent.  U.S. home prices dropped 3.3 percent in July from a year
earlier in an eighth consecutive decrease as foreclosed
properties flooded the market, the Federal Housing Finance
Agency in Washington said. Prices fell 0.5 percent from June,
compared with a 0.2 percent drop that was the median forecast of
15 economists in a Bloomberg News survey.  ‘Gravitate Higher’  “That puts another feather in the cap of the possibility
of quantitative easing as it reflects the Fed’s concern about
falling prices,” said  Thomas Tucci , head of U.S. government
bond trading in New York at Royal Bank of Canada, one of the 18
primary dealers that trade directly with the Fed. “The Treasury
market should gravitate higher from here.”  The 2-year note  yield  was 18 basis points above the upper
end of the Fed’s target rate for overnight lending between
banks. The spread was 17 basis points yesterday, the narrowest
since Dec. 15, 2008, a day before the central bank reduced the
benchmark to a range of zero to 0.25 percent.  The Fed said in its statement yesterday that it’s prepared
“to provide additional accommodation if needed to support
economic recovery and to return inflation, over time, to levels
consistent with its mandate.”  Consumer prices excluding food and energy increased in
August for a fifth month at an annual rate of 0.9 percent,
matching the slowest year-over-year rate of gains since 1966,
the Labor Department said Sept. 17.  Goldman Sachs View  The central bank will announce at its next meeting that it
intends to buy at least $1 trillion of Treasuries, economists at
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. led by  Jan Hatzius  in New York wrote in
a report after the central bank’s statement was released. “A
sizable asset purchase program will be implemented in coming
months,” according to Goldman Sachs, a primary dealer.  The Fed retained its stance from last month of keeping its
portfolio of securities stable at about $2 trillion to keep
money from draining out of the financial system. It has bought
$30.172 billion of Treasuries since Aug. 17.  U.S. government debt due in five to seven years will
outperform other sectors of the Treasury curve if the Fed
extends its asset purchases, according to  David Ader , head of
government bond strategy in Stamford, Connecticut, at CRT
Capital Group LLC.  Treasuries maturing from five to seven years have returned
1.349 percent since the Fed’s announcement to buy more debt at
the Aug. 10 meeting, outperforming the 1.186 percent return for
the broader Treasury market, according to Bank of America
Merrill Lynch index data.  “The Fed has been active in the belly of the yield curve,
so Treasuries there should continue to benefit,” Ader said.
“We are being sustained by this revitalized or enhanced notion
from the Fed that QE is a very viable option. Now it comes down
to big data. Treasuries will stay bid until the data goes the
other way.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Cordell Eddings  in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  