-- Reserve Bank Incurs $142 Million Loss Attempting to Curb Advance in Rand
-- B y   N a s r e e n   S e r i a   a n d   G a r t h   T h e u n i s s e n
-- 2010-09-22T09:04:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-22/reserve-bank-incurs-142-million-loss-attempting-to-curb-advance-in-rand.html
South Africa’s Reserve Bank posted
a loss of 1.05 billion rand ($142.4 million) in the year through
March as the cost of building foreign currency reserves soared.  The loss compared with a profit of 886.6 million rand in
the year-earlier period, the central bank said in its annual
report, released in the capital, Pretoria, today.  The bank has slowed the pace of dollar purchases since last
year as the cost of building reserves increased, undermining its
ability to cap the rand’s gain. The currency of Africa’s biggest
economy has strengthened 33 percent against the dollar since the
beginning of 2009, prompting exporters and labor unions to lobby
the central bank to step up actions to weaken the rand.  “Acting in the interests of the country and not the bank
means we’ve incurred losses,” Governor  Gill Marcus  told
reporters today. “The reason for the loss is a question of
building reserves and the interest income differential” between
South Africa and advanced economies.  The central bank issued domestic bonds to mop up excess
liquidity resulting from selling rand for dollars. South
Africa’s  benchmark interest rate  of 6 percent, which compares
with rates of almost zero in developed markets, means those
bonds have a higher yield than the central bank receives on its
investments in foreign reserves, creating a loss.  Constraints  “The position will recover when the markets recover,”
Deputy Governor  Daniel Mminele  told reporters in Pretoria today.
“It may take a while. The financial position of the bank would
put constraints on how long it can” continue buying foreign
currency to add to reserves.  The  National Treasury  has increased its foreign currency
deposits with the central bank this year in a bid to boost
reserves and provide monetary policy makers with more resources
to stem rand gains. The bank in August began buying longer-date
dollar swaps to improve its net reserves position.  The rand gained as much as 1.7 percent to 7.0171 against
the dollar today and was trading at 7.0308 as of 10:20 a.m. in
Johannesburg.  The currency’s strength is “certainly impacting on
manufacturers and exporters,” Marcus said. “Therefore it is
something that receives attention from us from time to time.”  There is no “easy solution” and “any solution is hugely
costly,” Marcus said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Nasreen Seria  in Johannesburg at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net ;
 Garth Theunissen  in Johannesburg 
 gtheunissen@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net . 