-- Tribune Judge Refuses to Replace Law Firm Hired By Unsecured Creditors
-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 2010-09-22T20:02:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-22/tribune-judge-refuses-to-replace-creditor-lawyer-for-mediation.html
Tribune Co. ’s official unsecured
creditors committee can keep its current law firm during a
mediation session designed to help end the publisher’s
bankruptcy, a judge ruled today.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge  Kevin Carey  in Wilmington, Delaware,
rejected a request by some low-ranking creditors to replace
 Chadbourne & Park LLP  as the lead law firm representing a panel
of unsecured creditors.  Most members of the panel supported Chadbourne, saying the
firm is the best qualified to represent it during two days of
mediation starting Sept. 26.  It would be “wrong to take our general and put him in the
back lines and put a major up front,” Jay Tietelbaum, an
attorney for Tribune retirees represented on the committee, said
in court. Each member of the committee is represented by
individual lawyers who aren’t involved in the details of the
bankruptcy.  Two members of the panel have complained that the law firm
has too many conflicts of interest to participate in mediation.
Those creditors asked Carey to replace Chadbourne for the
mediation with the group’s other law firm,  Zuckerman Spaeder
LLP .  In an order yesterday, Carey told the creditors to try to
divide the mediation duties between Chadbourne and Zuckerman.
They were unable to reach an agreement, Chadbourne attorney
 Howard Seife  said at the start of today’s hearing.  Zell’s Buyout  The seven-member official committee of unsecured creditors
is divided over the $8 billion leveraged buyout led by real-
estate billionaire  Sam Zell  that took the newspaper and
television company private in 2007.  Low-ranking noteholders, represented by Wilmington Trust
Co., want to sue fellow committee member JPMorgan Chase Bank NA
and other banks that financed the buyout. Because Chadbourne
represents some of the banks in other matters, the committee
hired Zuckerman to advise it on a potential lawsuit over the
buyout.  Deutsche Bank Trust Co. Americas and Wilmington Trust are
the only members of the committee seeking to prevent Chadbourne
from participating in the mediation.  Wilmington Trust claims the buyout was a fraudulent
transfer that left the Chicago-based publisher unable to pay its
debts and benefited only its former shareholders and the banks.  Fighting among Tribune creditors, who are owed more than
$12 billion, intensified after July 27 when a bankruptcy
examiner,  Kenneth N. Klee , released a report that bolstered the
position of lower-ranking creditors. Those creditors, including
the noteholders owed $1.2 billion, said JPMorgan and the other
buyout lenders should lose their position among the first to be
repaid because of the 2007 transaction.  Tribune filed for bankruptcy in December 2008, a year after
the  buyout .  The case is In re Tribune Co., 08-13141, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:  Steven Church  in
Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 