-- Rio Says India Diamond Project Is Biggest Global Find in Decade
-- B y   J e s s e   R i s e b o r o u g h
-- 2010-09-22T11:47:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-22/rio-says-india-diamond-project-is-biggest-global-find-in-decade.html
Rio Tinto Group , the world’s third-
largest mining company, said its Bunder project in India is the
world’s biggest diamond discovery in the past 10 years.  “It’s in a pre-feasibility study right now so a major
drilling program is under way to define the resource,”  Eric Finlayson , the London-based company’s head of exploration, said
today in an interview in the city. “A mining lease has been
applied for so we are waiting on that. It’s the largest diamond
discovery in the last 10 years.”  Prices of rough, or unpolished, diamonds have risen during
the past year, returning to levels last seen in June 2008, after
producers including De Beers cut output, gem dealers rebuilt
stockpiles and demand rebounded. Rio last week said it will
invest $803 million to complete the underground expansion of its
Argyle diamond mine in Western Australia state.  Diamonds are “one of the few commodities where it does
look as if there are geological limitations on new
discoveries,” Finlayson said. “The simple fact is there have
been very few diamond discoveries in recent years by anyone and
this is one of the biggest ones.”  The  Bunder project  is located about 500 kilometers (311
miles) from Delhi in Madyha Pradesh. The deposit has an
estimated inferred resource of 37 million metric tons at a grade
of 0.7 carats per ton for 27.4 million carats. A carat is a
fifth of a gram.  “Our exploration effort continues in India for other
diamond deposits,” Finlayson said. “I’m pretty sure that we’ll
be successful.”  The company is also studying “early stage opportunities”
for potash projects and is in talks with unidentified Chinese
companies about mineral exploration joint ventures in the
country, Finlayson said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jesse Riseborough  in London at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amanda Jordan at   ajordan11@bloomberg.net  