-- Rising European Heating Fuel Demand Draws South Korean, Japanese Supplies
-- B y   R a c h e l   G r a h a m
-- 2010-09-22T15:33:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-22/rising-european-heating-fuel-demand-draws-south-korean-japanese-supplies.html
Rising heating oil demand in Europe
amid seasonal refinery maintenance has attracted supplies from
as far as Japan and South Korea and pushed the benchmark London
futures market into so-called backwardation.  Vitol Group, the world’s largest independent oil trader,
hired one of four tankers to ship 90,000 metric tons of heating
oil from South Korea to Europe, according to a Sept. 17 report
from Interocean Shipping, a New Delhi-based ship broker.
Consumers in Germany, the region’s biggest market for the fuel,
bought twice as much of the fuel in August as the same month a
year ago. A total of 485,000 tons were provisionally booked for
shipment from East Asia, shipping reports show this week.  The front-month contract is “probably being propped up by
refinery maintenance and restocking by end-users,” said  Harry Tchilinguirian , London-based head of commodity-markets strategy
at BNP Paribas SA. “There appears to be a lot of gasoil moving
from Asia to Europe as a consequence.”  Gasoil futures for October delivery traded at a premium of
$1 a ton to the November contract today. It was at a discount of
$3.25 at the start of this month. The front-month contract
traded at $670 a ton on the ICE Futures Europe exchange in
London as of 4:28 p.m. local time. Gasoil is the European
equivalent of heating oil in the U.S.  Gasoil futures were last in an extended backwardation in
March and early April. A market is in backwardation when fuel
for nearby delivery trades at a higher price than contracts for
shipment in later months. This tends to happen when demand
increases and inventories fall.  ‘Unusual Arbitrages’  “The tightness in the spot market is creating unusual
arbitrages,” he said. “I imagine some people might start
moving diesel from the U.S. Gulf Coast to the Mediterranean.”  Refiners often carry out repairs in the northern hemisphere
autumn before demand for heating oil peaks. Royal Dutch Shell
Plc shut a diesel unit at  Pernis , Europe’s largest refinery,
last week for repairs, according to two people with knowledge of
the work.  European refiners including  ConocoPhillips  have reduced the
amount of crude processed this year, helping to bring down
inventories, according to Deutsche Bank.  Chinese refinery runs are up 17 percent this year,
according to Deutsche Bank. “This imbalance in Asian gasoil
fundamentals is reflected in the steady rise of gasoil from Asia
to Europe,” Deutsche Bank analyst  Soozhana Choi  wrote in a
Sept. 17 note.  Chinese Refining Capacity  Chinese refiners are poised to increase capacity to 10.1
million barrels a day by 2012 from 8.6 million last year,
according to data from BP Plc and forecasts by Standard
Chartered. China’s refining expansion exceeded demand by 1.6
million barrels last year, the bank said.  European refiners are forecast to cut the amount of crude
processed by 4.8 percent in the three months to December,
compared with the previous three months, according to the
International Energy Agency.  Gasoil cargoes arrived in northwest Europe last week from
South Korea and India, according to PJK International BV, an
Oosterhout, Netherlands-based consulting company. “You could
expect more cargoes to come in,”  Pieter Kulsen , PJK’s founder,
said by phone today.  German gasoil or heating fuel sales were up in each of the
past four months compared with the same month a year earlier,
according to Mineraloelwirtschaftsverband, the country’s
petroleum association. August sales were 1.76 million tons
compared with 819,000 tons a year ago.  “The gasoil market is getting better and will continue to
pick up,” said Uwe Babilon, manager of Weko Petrol GmbH, a fuel
wholesaler that imports gasoil from Rotterdam by barge on the
Rhine River. “Consumer tanks are still less full than normal.”  This week, Shell booked the tankers Moskovsky Prospect and
Atlantic Spirit to load 80,000 tons each from South Korea and
Japan. Vitol chartered three Long Range 2 tankers the Avor,
Absheron and Paramount Hatteras while Mabanaft BV leased the
Nansen Spirit, according to the shipping report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rachel Graham  in London 
 rgraham13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  