-- Troika May Boost Assets 10-Fold on Growing Russian Wealth, Foreign Money
-- B y   M a r i a   L e v i t o v
-- 2010-09-22T12:31:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-22/troika-may-boost-assets-10-fold-on-growing-russian-wealth-foreign-money.html
Troika Dialog, Russia’s oldest
brokerage, seeks to increase assets under management 10-fold
within five years by courting the country’s growing middle class
and foreign investors.  “In terms of size, asset management and private banking is
going to change fundamentally in the next five years.”  Jacques Der Megreditchian , Troika’s chief business officer, said in an
interview. “We currently have $3 billion under management. In
three to five years we aim to have $30 billion.”  Troika Chairman  Ruben Vardanian  said July 23 he plans to
leave the Moscow-based brokerage in three to five years and will
offer his 40 percent stake to management. Der Megreditchian, who
proposed the management buyout, is the leading internal
candidate to take over the company, Vardanian said.  Troika’s asset management business, mainly focused on local
institutions and individuals, is set to grow as more Russians
invest in financial markets, Der Megreditchian said. Troika also
aims to attract more money from overseas investors, starting
with institutional clients.  “It’s on the emerging markets where you see the growth,”
he said. “There’s definitely some appetite to be strong in
these markets.”  Russia’s economy is recovering from its biggest contraction
on record as higher commodities prices and increased consumer
spending fuel growth. The  economy  may expand 4.4 percent this
year, more than the official government forecast, Prime Minister
 Vladimir Putin  said Sept. 17 in Sochi, Russia, where the
government sponsored an investment conference. Disposable
 incomes  jumped 7.9 percent in August, the most in seven months.  ‘Mass Affluent’  Russia has almost 1 million “mass affluent” people, those
with investable wealth of 1.3 million rubles ($41,000) to 13
million rubles, and their ranks will increase by as much as 5.5
percent annually over the next five years, Citigroup Inc. and
the New Economic School said in an April report.  While almost 70 percent of these people “keep most of
their wealth” in bank deposits, they are becoming “more active
in managing their investments,” according to the report.  Asset management and private banking are “going to be
important for us,” Der Megreditchian said.  Troika is in the process of hiring a specialist to lead the
firm’s private banking business, Der Megreditchian said,
declining to identify the person. The banker will join Troika at
the end of this month, he said.  New Products  Troika, which is on the short list to advise the Russian
government on some asset sales, may generate “additional
profitability” by offering new investment products, he said.  The investment bank “will continue earning most of its
money in global market activities, which account for around 60
percent of our revenues,” Der Megreditchian said. “There is
room for a lot of new instruments.”  There is demand for new products to help companies hedge
credit risk in Russia, he said.  “You don’t have futures, you don’t have CDS’s on the local
market,” and commodities futures and bets on the three-month
London interbank offered rate are also missing, he said. “Not
very complicated” products will expand in coming years.  “The Russian market is still young,” he said. “I think
this will be a plus for a bank like ours.”  Should a management buyout of Troika fail, Vardanian said
another option would be to offer his stake to state-controlled
lenders OAO Sberbank and VTB Group, along with Johannesburg-
based Standard Bank Group Ltd., which owns 36 percent of the
company.  “There is no urgency. We will survey all the possibilities
and make a decision based on the environment and our own
preferences,” Der Megreditchian said. “Personally, I like
independence.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Maria Levitov  in Moscow at 
 mlevitov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at 
 wmorris@bloomberg.net  