-- Romania Won't Borrow More Money From IMF, Seeks Bond Sales, Basescu Says
-- B y   I r i n a   S a v u
-- 2010-09-22T15:26:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-22/romania-won-t-borrow-more-money-from-imf-seeks-bond-sales-basescu-says.html
Romania will refrain from borrowing
more money from the International Monetary Fund next year as it
seeks to extend its current bailout agreement with a
precautionary accord, President  Traian Basescu  said.  The eastern European country plans to sell bonds on
international and domestic markets next year to cover a  budget
deficit  of 5.7 billion euros ($7.6 billion), or 4.4 percent of
 gross domestic product , Basescu said in an interview with the
foreign press at his presidential palace in Bucharest today.  “We need a precautionary agreement as a safety belt and an
element of credibility, so that’s why I insist on the idea that
in April next week after we conclude this accord, we’ll sign the
precautionary agreement,” Basescu said. “We’re going to borrow
from the international and domestic markets for the deficit, we
could sell Eurobonds or bonds on the Japanese market and
others.”  Romania, which turned to the IMF and the European Union for
a 20 billion-euro ($26 billion) bailout package last year, is
struggling to raise money on the domestic market after the
government pushed through austerity measures to meet IMF
demands. The EU disbursed 1.2 billion euros to the Balkan
country today, said  Laurent Moulin , the head of the European
Commission’s mission to Romania, in an interview today.  The opposition plans to topple Prime Minister  Emil Boc ’s
Cabinet next month, prompting investors to demand higher yields
on mounting concern about the government’s ability to meet the
targets.  Tax Increases  The coalition government increased a value-added tax rate
by 5 percentage points to 24 percent and cut public wages 25
percent from July to rein in its budget-deficit within the IMF-
mandated target of 6.8 percent of gross domestic product this
year.  Romania has failed to find buyers for its debt and raised
only 26.9 billion lei ($8.5 billion) from the sale of Treasury
bills and bonds from the domestic market so far in 2010,
compared with a planned 37.85 billion lei, as investors pushed
for a higher yields than the 7 percent the government was
willing to pay.  Romania is seeking to raise funds on international markets
after mid-October in its second offering this year, following
the Czech Republic, which sold 2 billion euros of bonds due in
2021 and attracted 5.3 billion euros in bids and Poland, which
raised 1 billion euros in bonds due 2021. Romania wants to make
up for its failure to sell leu-denominated treasuries on the
domestic market.  Euro Target  Basescu reiterated that Romania needs to re-discuss its
2015 euro-adoption target and said the country may need to delay
it by a year or two until its economy can handle the pressure of
the eurozone.  He said he doesn’t have a clear view yet on whether a delay
will be necessary. Central bank Governor  Mugur Isarescu  said in
an interview in weekly Timpul on Sept. 17 that the 2015 target
must be “re-discussed but not postponed too much.”  “Greece has been a very good example for us that we need
to be very solidly ready,” Basescu said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Irina Savu  in Bucharest at 
 isavu@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez in Prague at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  