-- Romania Gets $1.6 Billion Payment to Support Deficit as Program `On Track'
-- B y   A n d r a   T i m u   a n d   I r i n a   S a v u
-- 2010-09-22T18:41:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-22/romania-gets-1-6-billion-payment-to-support-deficit-as-program-on-track-.html
Romania received a 1.2 billion-euro
($1.6 billion) loan payment from the European Union today as the
bloc said a “much-needed fiscal adjustment is in place” and
the country is making progress on its bailout agreement.  The money will help finance Romania’s budget deficit as it
struggles to sell debt on the domestic market. The payment came
after Romania streamlined its pension system and raised the
retirement age to 65 to comply with terms of a 20 billion-euro
aid package led by the International Monetary Fund.  The EU and IMF “are happy about what happened under the
program, and it’s definitely on track,’’  Laurent Moulin , the
bloc’s mission chief in Bucharest, said today. “It’s fair to
say a lot of positive things have been done. This program is on
track, and the much-needed fiscal adjustment is in place.”  Romania, mired in its  worst recession  on record, also cut
wages for government workers by 25 percent and increased the
value-added tax by 5 percentage points to help rein in its
budget deficit. Prime Minister  Emil Boc  faces a confidence vote
over the austerity measures next month, prompting investors to
demand higher yields on the country’s debt.  Moulin also said Romania’s currency is trading in line with
fundamentals after falling during the global economic crisis.
The leu has dropped 14 percent against the euro over the past 24
months, the third-biggest decline among the 25 emerging-market
currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  The leu “is broadly fairly valued, and I think the
colleagues in the IMF share this assessment,” Moulin said at a
conference in Bucharest. “The exchange rate was much better
controlled than in other countries.”  Monetary Policy  Romania will ease monetary policy once the inflation rate
drops to the level it was at before the VAT increase in July,
Moulin said. The central bank kept its main interest rate at
6.25 percent for a second meeting Aug. 4, after cutting it by a
quarter point in May.  Inflation accelerated to a two-year high of 7.6 percent in
August, from 4.4 percent in June. The IMF forecasts it will slow
to about 3 percent by the end of 2011.  “Romanian monetary policy will be prudently eased once
inflation slows down to the levels preceding a government
increase in the value-added tax,” Moulin said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Andra Timu  at   atimu@bloomberg.net 
 Irina Savu  in Bucharest at 
 isavu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez in Prague at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  