-- Tropical Storm Malakas Churns Toward Japanese Islands, May Become Typhoon
-- B y   S t u a r t   B i g g s
-- 2010-09-22T08:56:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-22/tropical-storm-malakas-churns-over-western-pacific-toward-japanese-islands.html
Tropical Storm Malakas maintained
strength as it churned over the Pacific Ocean toward the
Japanese islands of Iwo Jima and Chichi Jima, the U.S. Navy
Joint Typhoon Warning Center said on its website.  The official  forecast  shows the storm tracking north over
Iwo Jima and Chichi Jima before turning north-northeast,
indicating it won’t make landfall on Japan’s main islands. The
storm’s eye is forecast to remain about 570 kilometers (350
miles) off Japan’s coast, with Tokyo and surrounding prefectures
no longer in range of the forecast path’s margin of error.  Malakas is expected to become a typhoon by Sept. 24 with
sustained winds of 157 kilometers per hour. That would make it a
Category 2 storm on the five-step  Saffir-Simpson  scale, capable
of “extensive damage,” according to the U.S. weather service.  Malakas was 590 kilometers south of Iwo Jima and 1,800
kilometers south of Tokyo at 3 p.m. Japan time today, the center
 said . The storm had maximum sustained winds of 74 kph and was
moving northwest at 7 kph.  Malakas means “strong” or “powerful” in the Philippines,
according to the Hong Kong Observatory, which  lists  names
assigned to storms in the northwest Pacific and South China Sea.
Malakas is the 13th storm of the northwest Pacific season.  Dam Collapse  Typhoon Fanapi, the 12th storm of the season, swept across
Taiwan on Sept. 19, downing electric lines, forcing evacuations
and closing airports. Two people were killed and 107 were hurt,
the island’s National Fire Agency said in a statement.  Fanapi, the Micronesian name for sandy islands, then
brought the heaviest rains in a century to China’s southern
province of Guangdong, the official Xinhua News Agency reported.
Heavy rain triggered floods and landslides in Maoming City,
where more than 8,000 people were evacuated, Xinhua said.  Zijin Mining Group Co.  said a dam built to hold tin-mining
waste collapsed in Guangdong after about 60 centimeters (24
inches) of rain from Typhoon Fanapi triggered mud and rock
slides, the company said in a statement.  Fanapi killed 18 people in Guangdong and injured 44, Xinhua
News Agency reported today, citing the Ministry of Civil Affairs.  Thousands of people have died this year in China as
torrential rain and floods inundated the country in July and
August. In Pakistan, the United Nations has asked for $2 billion
in aid to help 14 million victims of flooding, the largest ever
appeal for humanitarian relief by the world body.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Stuart Biggs  in Tokyo at 
 sbiggs3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net . 