-- Rubber Advances to Five-Month High on Outlook for Improvement in Demand
-- B y   A y a   T a k a d a   a n d   S u p u n n a b u l   S u w a n n a k i j
-- 2010-09-22T07:52:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-22/rubber-advances-to-five-month-high-on-outlook-for-improvement-in-demand.html
Rubber gained for a third day to
the highest price in almost five months after the Federal
Reserve said it may ease monetary policy further to spur growth,
boosting the demand outlook for the commodity used in tires.  Futures in Tokyo advanced as much as 2 percent to 311.5 yen
per kilogram ($3,669 a metric ton), the highest level since
April 28. The price jumped 3 percent yesterday, the largest gain
in two months, on expectations that the global market is set for
the worst shortage in four years next year.  The Federal Open Market Committee said yesterday that it is
“prepared to provide additional accommodation if needed to
support the economic recovery.” The dollar weakened and gold
climbed to a record for a fifth day on speculation Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  will purchase additional U.S. government securities
in the coming months in a bid to lower long-term interest rates.  “The statement boosted speculation that the Fed may ease
monetary policy further to support the economy, which is
positive for commodities,”  Shuji Sugata , research manager at
Mitsubishi Corp. Futures Ltd. in Tokyo, said today by phone.  February-delivery rubber rose as much as 6.1 yen, before
settling at 309.7 yen on the Tokyo Commodity Exchange.  “The Fed’s remarks spurred optimism that demand for the
rubber may grow,” said Sureerat Kunthongjun, an analyst at
Agrow Enterprise Ltd. “Supplies remain limited in top producing
nations as rains disrupted tapping, lowering production,” she
said by phone from Bangkok.  Heavy Rains  The cash price in Thailand, the largest exporter, advanced
for a third day, rising 0.7 percent to 108.35 baht ($3.54) per
kilogram as rains continue in the country’s main plantation
areas, limiting supply availability, the Rubber Research
Institute of Thailand said on its  website  today. Some companies
accelerated purchases to ensure they meet delivery commitments,
the institute said.  Drought earlier this year followed by heavy rains have
hampered tree-tapping across plantations in Asia, according to
Pongsak Kerdvongbundit, managing director of Phuket, Thailand-
based Von Bundit Co.  Persistent rains will probably continue across the country
in the second half of September, the Thai weather office said on
its website.  Natural-rubber consumption will outpace supply by 127,000
tons next year, the widest production deficit since 2007,
according to Goldman Sachs Group Inc. Stockpiles will drop 12
percent to 67 days of demand in 2011, the lowest level in at
least 11 years, the bank estimated in a report this month.  “While supply remains tight throughout this year, the
possibility of change is remote in 2011 also,” Jom Jacob,
senior economist at the Association of Natural Rubber Producing
Countries, said in a monthly statement yesterday.  The Shanghai rubber market is closed today for a holiday.
The March-delivery contract advanced to 26,920 yuan ($4,024) a
ton yesterday, the highest level since July 2008.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Aya Takada  in Tokyo at 
 atakada2@bloomberg.net ;
Supunnabul Suwannakij in Bangkok at 
 ssuwannakij@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  