-- Try $1.6 Million If You Weren't Already Disgusted: Joe Mysak
-- B y   J o e   M y s a k
-- 2010-09-22T01:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-22/try-1-6-million-if-you-weren-t-already-disgusted-commentary-by-joe-mysak.html
Shock and disgust greeted the
revelation in July that the city manager of Bell, California,
made almost $788,000 a year.  That was the reaction of public officials at both the state
and local level as they rushed to assure taxpayers that
excessive compensation wasn’t the norm. I wonder what they will
think about a pay package worth $1.6 million.  That’s what  Joan McCallen , the president and chief
executive officer of International City Management Association
Retirement Corp., made last year, according to the nonprofit
 organization ’s IRS Form 990.  Kathryn McGrath , ICMA-RC’s secretary and general counsel,
made $1.4 million.  Wayne Wicker , senior vice president and chief
investment officer, made almost $1.3 million. Another six
employees made more than $500,000. In all, 231 of its 689
employees each earned $100,000 or more in 2009.  Created by the International City/County Management
Association in 1972, the ICMA-RC provides retirement services
for local governments and administers $35 billion, most of which
is in proprietary funds, and the rest managed by third parties.  Don’t be surprised, David Mora, chairman of the ICMA-RC’s
board and retired city manager of  Salinas, California , told me
in an interview earlier this month.  “This is the financial-services industry, and the
expertise required there is very different from that of managing
services for residents of a community.”  The ICMA-RC designated Mora to respond to my questions
about compensation.  Reviewed Each Year  Mora, who is also West Coast regional director of the ICMA,
was one of the first city-government experts to react to the
 Bell  situation. He was quoted in the Los Angeles Times’ initial
story, “Is a City Manager Worth $800,000?” Two weeks ago, he
called the Bell paydays “gross” and “just not right.”  I asked him why public officials shouldn’t be outraged by
the pay at ICMA Retirement Corp. He said the employees of the
company were in “a very different business,” and that he was
confident the board had approved “competitive compensation
packages” that were “not at the extreme” and “not at the low
end.” He said the pay of the organization’s top officers was
reviewed every year to make sure it was fair and reasonable.  I said that in the non- Wall Street , non-financial services
world, $1.6 million was a lot of money. He said it was a lot of
money “in any world.”  I also asked Mora about the numbers contained in the ICMA-
RC’s IRS Form 990, which showed the head of the corporation had
compensation of $6.8 million in 2007 and $4.4 million in 2008.  Performance-Driven  Mora explained that in 2007, the president became vested in
the supplemental retirement plan for senior executives, and
under tax law the organization had to report the present value
of the future retirement payments.  In the 990 form for 2007, the organization spelled this
out, and said this accounted for $4.1 million of the $6.8
million in compensation listed. The same occurred in 2008, the
corporation explaining that the compensation total “includes
$1.6 million representing the projected present value increase
of any such retirement payments, along with a payment of
$433,000 under this plan.”  I get it. Even if you subtract the present value of future
retirement payments, these were still pretty nice paydays, more
than $2 million in 2007 and 2008. In financial services, you
have a “performance-driven compensation system,” with bonus
incentives, as Mora told me.  How Much?  Taxpayers are angry about and envious of public employees’
pensions and, in light of the Bell flap, their compensation and
benefits. Public employees are sensitive to the criticism, and
have responded with any number of defenses, chiefly that they
played by the rules, and it’s not their fault that, for years,
the public didn’t care about the details of public finance.  The ICMA-RC is caught somewhere in the middle. It’s a
creation of the ICMA, and its 10-member board includes four
current or retired government officials and the executive
director of the ICMA, who also is a retired government official.
The ICMA-RC pays the ICMA a licensing fee, which was about
$335,000 in 2008, according to the organization’s website.  There the relationship ends. Or does it? The ICMA-RC is in
financial services. Its employees aren’t government workers. But
it’s also a nonprofit, tax-exempt organization that, in the
words of the mission outlined in the IRS Form 990, “serves to
lessen the burdens of state and local governments and their
agencies and instrumentalities by administering qualified and
deferred compensation retirement plans, thereby helping public
sector employees build retirement security.”  These are resentful times. How much did you say you make?  ( Joe Mysak  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Joe Mysak in New York at 
 jmysakjr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  