-- Ryanair's O'Leary Plans Shift to Major Airports as Growth Slows
-- B y   S t e v e n   R o t h w e l l
-- 2010-09-22T23:01:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-22/ryanair-s-o-leary-plans-shift-to-europe-s-major-airports-as-growth-slows.html
Ryanair Holdings Plc  is looking at
opening routes to all major European airports bar the top three
as slowing growth prompts the region’s top discount carrier to
modify a strategy based on flying only to less-costly terminals.  Flying to larger airports, while raising costs, would
boost average ticket prices by luring more business travelers. 
Big-city airports are also keener to talk to Ryanair after the
recession, Chief Executive Officer  Michael O’Leary  said.  “Almost any airport that we don’t fly to is talking to us
across Europe,” the CEO said in an interview in Dublin, where
Ryanair is based. “Increasingly in the future there’s going to
be a spread of bigger airports, as well as secondary ones.”  Ryanair has avoided some of Europe’s top airports, often
routing passengers to terminals 25 miles or more from the cities
they serve, such as Brussels Charleroi, Glasgow Prestwick and
Milan Bergamo. O’Leary’s plan, which heightens competition with
 British Airways Plc  and  EasyJet Plc , rules out only London
Heathrow, Paris Charles de Gaulle and Frankfurt am Main as
targets because of the need to turn planes around in 25 minutes.  Ryanair last year boosted passenger numbers 11 percent to
73.5 million. Even if the Irish carrier were to revive a deal to
buy as many as 200 aircraft from Boeing Co., the growth rate is
likely slow to 5 percent or lower, in part because it would be
expanding from a much bigger base, the executive said in the
interview yesterday after Ryanair’s annual shareholders meeting.  As expansion slackens at Ryanair, whose flight to Hamburg-
Luebeck lands 43 miles from the German city, the company will
switch focus from slashing fares to a “value and service
proposition” which will take more account of quality and
customer satisfaction, O’Leary said.  ‘Carey-Sharey’  “At the moment it’s all about price, price, price, but as
you slow down the growth rate you’re doing less discounting to
fill seats,” he said. “Your focus is more on ‘most-on-time
airline in Europe,’ the fewest bags lost, brand-new aircraft,
all-leather seating -- the carey-sharey stuff.”  Flights to more central airports such as Barcelona El Prat,
located six miles from the city, where Ryanair began flying this
month, should also help boost ticket receipts as the company
exhausts options for raising “ancillary revenue” by charging
for everything from snacks and drinks to checking baggage.  ‘Evolutionary’  Costlier airports are also becoming viable as Ryanair
reduces its use of facilities such as check-in desks and
baggage-handling machines in response to customers registering
for flights electronically and carrying hand luggage, O’Leary
said. That has cut entry expenses and kept ticket prices lower.  “It’ll be an evolutionary process,” he said. “When fares
aren’t being reduced every year in 2013, 2014, 2015 there’ll be
more of a focus on quality, service, customer satisfaction and
all that, because the prices will be rising. But are we suddenly
going to go from an average fare of 34 euros to 100 euros? No!”  Among Ryanair’s closest competitors,  EasyJet , Europe’s
second-biggest discount carrier, already operates to primary
airports including Charles de Gaulle, Brussels International and
the most centrally located terminals in Hamburg and Milan, while
Air Berlin Plc, the No. 3, has established a discount model
that’s been successful in attracting business passengers.  Still, O’Leary says he isn’t concerned about Ryanair’s
ability to win customers from carriers already well-established 
at the terminals it’s targeting.  “Bigger airports are now realizing that EasyJet isn’t
growing and none of the flag carriers are growing, so they’re
now doing deals with us,” the CEO said. “And we have such a
price advantage over anyone else that we can move in on anyone’s
route and blow them out of it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Steven Rothwell  in London at 
 srothwell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor on this story:
Kenneth Wong at   kwong11@bloomberg.net  