-- HSBC Denies Reports of Geoghegan Threat to Resign Unless Named Chairman
-- B y   J o n   M e n o n
-- 2010-09-22T15:29:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-22/hsbc-says-nonsense-that-ceo-geoghegan-threatened-to-resign.html
HSBC Holdings Plc  said reports that
its Chief Executive Officer  Michael Geoghegan  had threatened to
resign if he was not given the chairman’s job were “nonsense.”  “It is nonsense that the group CEO threatened to resign
unless he was appointed chairman,” said spokesman  Patrick McGuinness  in a telephone interview. “The suggestion is
offensive to Mike and to the company.”  HSBC ’s independent directors, led by former Goldman Sachs
Europe President  Simon Robertson , are seeking a replacement for
Chairman  Stephen Green  before the end of the month, a person
familiar with the situation said Sept. 10. Geoghegan threatened
to quit if he wasn’t promoted to chairman, the Financial Times
and the Evening Standard reported today.  Geoghegan, a 37-year HSBC veteran, has worked all over the
world for the London-based bank. After stints in Asia and the
Middle East, he ran the South American unit from 1997 to 2003.
He became CEO in May 2006 and moved to Hong Kong from London in
February to sharpen the bank’s focus on Asia.  “As previously stated, the board is working under due
process to finalize HSBC’s succession plan following Stephen
Green’s already announced departure and this proceeds in line
with the scheduled timetable,” said McGuinness.  Green will join the British government as trade minister in
January, he said on Sept. 7.  The board must decide whether to follow the bank’s
tradition of promoting a CEO to the post of chairman or observe
corporate governance guidelines and name an independent
chairman, a person familiar with the situation said.  John Thornton , a former Goldman Sachs president who is chairman of
HSBC’s North American division, is the most likely rival
candidate to Geoghegan, the person said.  “If John Thornton was put above him, he might see it as a
slight,” said  Christopher Wheeler , an analyst at Mediobanca SpA
in London who has a “buy” rating on the stock. “But being CEO
is a very important role.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jon Menon  in London at 
 jmenon1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  