-- HSBC’s Finance Director Likely Chairman Candidate, FT Reports
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-09-23T01:16:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-22/hsbc-s-finance-director-likely-chairman-candidate-ft-reports.html
HSBC Holdings Plc  Finance Director
 Douglas Flint  is a likely candidate to replace  Stephen Green  as
the bank’s chairman, the Financial Times reported, citing three
unidentified people close to the lender’s board.  A “compromise candidate” may be appointed to the post,
which would enable  Michael Geoghegan  to continue as chief
executive officer, the newspaper said. Calls to HSBC’s Hong
Kong-based spokesmen were not answered as Hong Kong’s markets
are closed for a national holiday.  HSBC’s independent directors, led by former Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. Europe President  Simon Robertson , are seeking a
replacement for Green before the end of the month, a person
familiar with the situation said Sept. 10. The bank yesterday
denied reports in the Financial Times and the Evening Standard
that Geoghegan threatened to quit if he wasn’t promoted to
chairman.  “It is nonsense that the group CEO threatened to resign
unless he was appointed chairman,” London-based spokesman
 Patrick McGuinness  told Bloomberg News yesterday. “The
suggestion is offensive to Mike and to the company.”  Geoghegan, a 37-year HSBC veteran, has worked all over the
world for the London-based bank. After stints in Asia and the
Middle East, he ran the South American unit from 1997 to 2003.
He became CEO in May 2006 and moved to Hong Kong from London in
February to sharpen the bank’s focus on Asia.  “As previously stated, the board is working under due
process to finalize HSBC’s succession plan following Stephen
Green’s already-announced departure and this proceeds in line
with the scheduled timetable,” said McGuinness.  Green, 61, will join the British government as trade
minister in January, he said on Sept. 7.  The board must decide whether to follow the bank’s
tradition of promoting a CEO to the post of chairman or observe
corporate governance guidelines and name an independent chairman,
a person familiar with the situation said.  John Thornton , a
former Goldman Sachs president who is chairman of HSBC’s North
American division, is the most likely rival candidate to
Geoghegan, the person said.  -- Ben Martin ,  Jon Menon  in London,  Liza Lin  in Shanghai.
Editors:  Mark McCord ,  Andreea Papuc   To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Liza Lin in Shanghai at +86-21-6104-7010 or
 Llin15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kae Inoue at 
 kinoue@bloomberg.net  