-- Sberbank, VTB Hunt for Dollars Weakens Ruble: Russia Credit
-- B y   P a u l   A b e l s k y   a n d   E m m a   O ’ B r i e n
-- 2010-09-23T14:45:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-22/sberbank-vtb-hunt-for-dollars-to-lend-means-weaker-ruble-russia-credit.html
The biggest jump in Russian demand
for dollar-denominated loans since the collapse of Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc. is sending the nation’s banks on a hunt
for foreign currency, contributing to the weakest ruble in more
than two months.  OAO Sberbank and VTB Group, the country’s two biggest
lenders, are raising as much as $12 billion for borrowers
ranging from Oleg Deripaska’s United Co. Rusal to  Alfa Group ,
controlled by billionaire  Mikhail Fridman , according to Moscow-
based investment bank  Renaissance Capital . The amount of
foreign-currency corporate lending is the highest since before
the credit crisis froze markets in October 2008 and led New
York-based Lehman to fail, said Anton Nikitin, an analyst at
Renaissance.  “Banks are looking everywhere to finance the dollar assets
they are lending to companies,” Nikitin said in a phone
interview. “There’s a sense that dollar liquidity is not
reaching the markets.”  While Russia’s economic rebound is helping Rusal, the
world’s biggest aluminum producer, and Alfa Group’s
telecommunications unit Altimo, to replace government aid with
commercial bank loans, the ruble has lost 2.5 percent against
the dollar since the beginning of August, hitting a two and a
half month-low last week.  South Africa ’s rand has jumped 3.7
percent against the dollar in the same period and  Poland ’s zloty
gained 2.4 percent.  Rusal Refinancing  Demand for dollar-denominated loans has been rising for the
past six months, Sberbank Chairman  German Gref  said in response
to questions at a conference in the southern Russian city of
Sochi on Sept. 16. Russia’s largest bank is providing funds for
Moscow-based Altimo to repay $1.5 billion borrowed during the
credit crisis from VEB, the state-owned  development bank ,
Interfax newswire reported Sept. 13.  Rusal is getting a $4.59 billion refinancing loan from
Sberbank, the Moscow-based company said on Aug. 10. Gref said
Sept. 17 the country’s biggest lender plans to finish the Rusal
funding this month.  Acquisitions are also driving foreign-currency lending. VTB
lent $1 billion each to three Russian billionaires including
Suleiman Kerimov in June to buy a controlling stake in
Berezniki-based OAO Uralkali, the country’s second-largest
potash producer, from Dmitry Rybolovlev, Vedomosti reported in
June. VimpelCom Ltd.,  Russia ’s second-largest mobile phone
operator, is seeking to buy assets from Egyptian billionaire  Naguib Sawiris , Chief Executive Officer Alexander Izosimov said
Sept. 2.  Lukoil Stake  VTB is “not facing a deficit of liquidity in foreign-
currency liabilities” because it’s attracting corporate
deposits and is issuing foreign-currency bonds on the
international market, the Moscow-based bank’s press service said
in an e-mailed reply to questions yesterday. Sberbank’s press
service didn’t reply to e-mailed questions.  The ruble weakened as much as 1.4 percent on Sept. 16, the
most since June 7. That sort of “spike” may be repeated should
a Russian investor or company seek more dollars to buy the stake
in OAO Lukoil, the country’s second-largest oil producer, that
Houston-based ConocoPhillips is offering, according to Clemens Grafe, chief economist in Moscow at UBS AG.  Lukoil, Russia’s second-biggest oil producer, has already
bought back 7.6 percent of its stock from ConocoPhillips, and
has an option to purchase up to 11.61 percent more until Sept.
26, according to regulatory filings.  The company, based in Moscow, will decide next week whether
to proceed with the option to buy out its own shares from
ConocoPhillips, Chief Executive Officer Vagit Alekperov told
Interfax in Sochi on Sept. 17. Lukoil doesn’t have anything to
add, an official for the company, who declined to be identified
citing Lukoil policy, said yesterday by phone from Moscow.  ‘Lack of Dollars’  “There is a lack of dollars onshore in Russia,” Grafe
said in a phone interview. “If someone wants a lot of dollars
the banks are going to have a lot of trouble coming up with
them, especially with the uptick in issuance of dollar debt.”  The ruble slid as much as 1.9 percent to a seven and a
half-month intraday-low against the euro yesterday. The Russian
currency was little changed against the dollar at 31.0250 and
added 0.2 percent versus the euro to 41.4141 by the 5 p.m. close
in Moscow today. Non-deliverable forwards, or NDFs, which
provide a guide to expectations of currency movements and
interest rate differentials, showed the ruble at 31.2590 per
dollar in three months.  Default Swaps  Gains in Russia’s dollar bonds due in 2020 pushed the yield
9 basis points, or 0.09 percentage point, lower, to 4.58
percent. The yield on the country’s ruble notes due November
2014 dropped 1 basis point to 6.87 percent.  The cost of protecting Russian debt against non-payment for
five years using credit-default swaps was unchanged at 162.5
basis points, according to data provider CMA. The contracts pay
the buyer face value in exchange for the underlying securities
or the cash equivalent should a government or company fail to
adhere to its debt agreements.  Credit-default swaps for Russia, rated Baa1 by Moody’s
Investors Service, its third-lowest investment grade, cost 0.5
basis point more than similar contracts for  Turkey , which is
rated four levels lower at Ba2. Russia swaps cost as much as 40
basis points less on April 20.  The extra yield investors demand to hold Russian debt
rather than U.S. Treasuries increased 2 basis point to 236,
according to JPMorgan Chase & Co. EMBI+ indexes. The difference
compares with 175 for debt of similarly rated  Mexico  and 213 for  Brazil , which is rated two steps lower at Baa3 by Moody’s.  The yield spread on Russian bonds is 57 basis points below
the average for emerging markets, down from a 15-month high of
105 in February, according to JPMorgan indexes.  Loans Triple  Russian banks sold a record $12.1 billion of international
debt so far this year, or 78 percent of all foreign issuance by
Russian companies, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Syndicated loans tripled to $20 billion this year, from $6.7
billion in the same period of 2009, the data show. Russia’s top
six banks have all borrowed abroad in 2010.  Foreign-currency debt is set to increase to 20 percent of
total corporate borrowing within three to five years and may
reach 30 percent in the “longer term,” from 15 percent now,
Ekaterina Trofimova, a banking analyst at  Standard &amp; Poor’s  in
Paris told reporters at a conference in Moscow Sept. 21.  Temporary Effect  The demand for dollars from banks and corporate debt
refinancings are “not long-lasting factors that will lead to
the ruble moving significantly lower and staying there,” Dmitry Polevoy, an economist focused on Russia and  Kazakhstan  at ING
Groep NV in Moscow, said in a phone interview yesterday.  “This is temporary, there are no significant fundamental
reasons for a proper ruble devaluation,” Polevoy said. ING
predicts the ruble will strengthen more than 5 percent versus
the central bank’s target basket of dollars and euros by the end
of the year as the price of oil, Russia’s chief export earner,
underpins the country’s economy and current account, Polevoy
said.  Crude oil in  New York  has gained 3.5 percent in September.
The world’s biggest energy exporting economy may expand 4.4
percent this year, Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin  said in Sochi
on Sept. 17, more than the official forecast of 4 percent.  An unidentified company or individual investor is selling
dollars at 31 per dollar, preventing the Russian currency from
weakening beyond 30.90 against the greenback,  Denis Korshilov ,
head of foreign-exchange trading in Moscow at Citigroup Inc.,
said by e-mail yesterday.  Volatile Outlook  Traders are maintaining bets on a weaker ruble, with the
currency’s one-week risk-reversal rate against the dollar -- the
premium of put options over calls -- at 2 percent for a fifth
straight day yesterday, the highest level since Aug. 12.  “Banks need foreign currency to meet demand for loans, but
the bulk of their liabilities is in rubles and as a result the
system has ended up with a deficit of foreign currency,” said
Pavel Pikulev, a fixed-income strategist in Moscow at OAO
Gazprombank, the lending arm of Russia’s gas export monopoly.
“The ruble will remain volatile” as “several major loan deals
go forward in the banking system, requiring more foreign-
currency funds,” Pikulev said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Paul Abelsky in Moscow at 
 pabelsky@bloomberg.net ;
Emma O’Brien in Moscow at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at   gserkin@bloomberg.net  