-- Schapiro Says SEC May Rein in High-Frequency Trading Firms
-- B y   J e s s e   W e s t b r o o k   a n d   N i n a   M e h t a
-- 2010-09-22T20:55:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-22/schapiro-says-sec-will-weigh-restrictions-on-high-frequency-trading-firms.html
U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission Chairman  Mary Schapiro  said her agency will examine
whether market participants who buy and sell thousands of shares
in milliseconds should face restrictions on their trading
strategies.  “High-frequency trading firms are subject to very little
in the way of obligations,” Schapiro said at an event held
today by the  Security Traders Association  in Washington. “We
will consider carefully whether these firms should be subject to
an appropriate regulatory structure governing key aspects of
their market behavior, including quoting and trading
strategies.”  The SEC is increasingly signaling concern that a surge in
computer-based trading, accounting for more than 50 percent of
the daily volume in stocks, has outpaced regulation. The agency
faces resistance from hedge funds and other financial firms,
which say new rules shouldn’t be imposed without specific
evidence that high-frequency trading hurts markets.  The May 6 plunge in stock prices, in which $862 billion was
temporarily erased from the value of U.S. equities in less than
20 minutes, has prompted regulators to question whether markets
can “handle the high-speed, pre-programmed trading algorithms
that generate much of today’s trading volume,” Schapiro said.  ‘Disproportionate’  As the SEC considers new rules for high-frequency trading
firms, the regulator must avoid imposing “disproportionate
obligations” that would give some participants advantages over
those facing new requirements, Schapiro  said .  “Imposing significant obligations for market quality on
some firms, but leaving other firms free to operate without
those obligations -- or, indeed, to take advantage of the firms
with obligations -- would create an unfair playing field that
might, in the end, do little to promote market quality,” she
said. Such a move could also drive trading firms out of the
equities market, she said.  The regulator responded to the drop on May 6 by
implementing halts on stocks whose prices move at least 10
percent in five minutes. It may adjust those circuit breakers to
reduce the likelihood that errant transactions will trigger the
curbs, Schapiro said.  Limits on the prices at which trades occur could be
introduced, with circuit breakers triggered only if prices don’t
improve “within a preset period of time,” she said.  Circuit Breakers  The watchdog will also reconsider the specifications that
trigger circuit breakers, she said. Trading firms that provide
“significant liquidity to the market” program their computers
to trade less or stop transactions when prices move in unusual
ways, she said.  “An important consideration will be how best to prevent
these ad hoc circuit breakers from pulling significant liquidity
providers out of the markets at moments of extreme volatility,
thus leaving the markets to fend for themselves,” she said.  The agency is also concerned that an “out-of-control”
computer algorithm could flood markets with orders that
inappropriately drive prices up or down, Schapiro said. SEC
staff reviewed one example in which a circuit breaker was
triggered because an algorithm tried to execute 10 percent of a
stock’s daily trading volume in two seconds, she said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jesse Westbrook  in Washington at 
 jwestbrook1@bloomberg.net ;
 Nina Mehta  in New York at 
 nmehta24@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at   lroberts13@bloomberg.net . 