-- Muni Reform, Mortgage Disclosure, Cuban: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n   a n d   E l l e n   R o s e n
-- 2010-09-22T12:01:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-22/sec-muni-reform-mortgage-disclosure-sime-darby-compliance.html
The U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission is moving to remake the regulations covering public
officials and Wall Street underwriters that sell municipal bonds
to investors.  SEC Chairman  Mary Schapiro  in May said regulators should
consider requiring more timely disclosure of financial
information, the adoption of mandatory accounting standards, and
moves to ensure that borrowers such as real-estate developers
who raise money through municipal entities provide adequate
information to investors.  Schapiro appointed SEC Member Elisse B. Walter to lead
hearings in San Francisco that began yesterday on improving
regulations for the municipal  bond market . The  San Francisco 
hearing is the first of six planned.  Rules for the $2.8 trillion municipal bond market should
afford investors protections similar to those in other U.S.
securities trading, Walter said at the hearing.  Municipal securities investors “should have the same
rights as investors in other types of securities to receive
information that is not materially misleading and does not
contain material omissions,” Walter said. The disclosures
should include “financial and other material information that
is not stale.”  Walter said new regulations would acknowledge the
difference between the municipal and corporate securities
markets. California Treasurer Bill Lockyer, California Treasurer
Bill Lockyer, who testified at yesterday’s hearings, cautioned
regulators against a uniform approach, saying the rules also
should reflect the differences among the many government
entities that raise money in the market.  Washington Treasurer James McIntire told the panel he
opposed uniform issuance rules. “It could also have a dramatic
impact on the access to the market by small municipalities, and
could simply cause numerous infrastructure projects to grind to
a halt,” he said.  For more, click here and click here.  Compliance Policy  SEC’s Canellos Says Swaps Overhaul May Fuel Investigations  George Canellos, the head of the Securities and Exchange
Commission’s  Manhattan  office, said new U.S. rules for clearing
derivatives trades are likely to expose frauds tied to
instruments including credit-default swaps.  “In history, there’s been one insider-trading case brought
in the context of credit-default swaps, and it’s not because
insider trading isn’t perpetrated,” Canellos said at a hedge-
fund forum at Bloomberg’s  New York  headquarters yesterday.
“It’s because of the lack of transparency.”  The Dodd-Frank Act, signed by President Barack Obama in
July, requires most derivatives trades to be processed through
third-party clearinghouses. Lawmakers gave regulators greater
ability to monitor the market after some instruments, such as
contracts insuring mortgage-backed bonds, fueled losses that led
to the worst recession since the Great Depression.  The new rules will allow both investors and regulators to
examine credit markets more closely, including credit-default
swaps, Canellos said. In a credit-default swap, the buyer pays a
fee to the seller, receiving a payout in the event of a default
or another trigger.  From an enforcement perspective, “the most significant
aspect of swap regulations will not be the regulations
themselves, it’s going to be the greater transparency in the
swaps market,” Canellos said.  A former federal prosecutor, Canellos heads the SEC’s
largest office outside  Washington , overseeing teams of
investigators as well as examiners who perform periodic checks
on investment advisers such as  hedge funds .  For more, click here.  Executives to Face Court Reckoning as SEC Flexes New Power  Corporate executives are more likely to end up in court for
their employees’ misconduct now that Congress has handed broader
powers and more money to the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission, former agency officials said.  Since the start of the financial crisis, lawmakers,
investors and judges have criticized the agency for giving
bosses a pass while accusing companies of wrongdoing. The Dodd-
Frank regulatory  act  lowers the bar for filing fraud lawsuits
against individuals and authorizes the SEC to double its
spending within five years.  Under Dodd-Frank, which was signed into law in July, the
SEC can sue an individual who “recklessly” aids a fraud even
if the person isn’t aware of the wrongdoing. Previously, lawyers
had to show the person knowingly assisted the misconduct. The
law also allows the agency to sue senior officers, directors or
other people directly or indirectly accountable for the fraud.    Robert Khuzami , the SEC’s top enforcement official, is
scheduled to answer for the agency’s progress today before the
 Senate Banking Committee  after Senator Ted Kaufman, a Delaware
Democrat, told him in December he was “frustrated” that
regulators hadn’t been able to prosecute more executives and
bankers.  The provisions “increase the likelihood of litigation”
with fewer quietly settled cases, said David Kornblau, who was
the SEC’s top prosecutor from 2000 to 2005.  For more, click here.  Compliance Action  Sime Darby to Take Legal Action on Project Misconduct    Sime Darby Bhd ., the world’s biggest publicly traded palm
oil producer, plans to start legal proceedings and lodge reports
with the authorities after finding evidence of misconduct in
four of its energy-related projects.  The company completed an audit and had evidence of
inappropriate conduct and breaches of duties and obligations, it
said in a stock exchange filing in  Kuala Lumpur  on Sept. 20. The
board was advised by counsel to keep the details of the report
confidential, Sime Darby said.  The projects reviewed were Sime Darby’s engineering works
at the Bulhanine and Maydan Mahzam fields for  Qatar Petroleum , a
Maersk Oil Qatar project including the construction of ships,
and Malaysia’s Bakun hydroelectric dam project.  Originally an operator of rubber plantations, Sime Darby
has diversified into businesses ranging from cars and
shipbuilding to property development. It made an unsuccessful
foray into banking in the 1990s. The group will be reorganized
starting Jan. 1, reverting to a previous structure where each
division would be its own separate company, Group Chief
Executive Officer Mohd Bakke Salleh told reporters on Aug. 26.  Geithner Says Mortgage Forms Show Financial Overhaul Progress  Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner said efforts to
improve consumer access to mortgage information show progress in
implementing the financial regulatory overhaul that Congress
passed earlier this year.  “Wherever possible, we are committed to expediting
completion of the law’s requirements ahead of statutory
deadline,” Geithner said at a Treasury Department forum on
mortgage disclosure. “Simplifying these forms is a prime
example of where we can and will accelerate our efforts to
deliver real benefits to consumers as soon as possible.”    Elizabeth Warren , the Harvard law professor named last week
as a special adviser to Geithner on consumer protection issues,
said families will be able to make better choices if banks
improve the way they market their products.  The Treasury Department released a summary of their remarks
at the forum.  Courts  SEC’s Cuban  Insider-Trading  Suit Is Revived by Court    Mark Cuban , the billionaire owner of the Dallas Mavericks,
must face insider-trading allegations by the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission that were thrown out last year by a lower-
court judge, an appeals court ruled.  The U.S. Court of Appeals in New Orleans overturned the
lower-court ruling in a decision yesterday. In a 2008 lawsuit,
the SEC accused Cuban of trading on confidential information
when he sold his stake in Mamma.com Inc., a Canadian Internet
search company, just before it announced a private placement of
shares.  Cuban argued he had no legal obligation to refrain from
selling the stock after Guy Faure, then Mamma.com’s chief
executive officer, told him of the impending private  offering  of
below-market shares in a 2004 telephone call. Cuban sold ahead
of the deal, which diluted the company’s shares by 8.5 percent.  “The allegations, taken in their entirety, provide more
than a plausible basis to find that the understanding between
the CEO and Cuban was that he was not to trade, that it was more
than a simple confidentiality agreement,” the appellate panel
said.  The agency claimed Cuban agreed with Faure at the beginning
of their call to keep the information confidential and told
Faure after learning details of the plan, “Well, now I’m
screwed. I can’t sell.”  The appeals judges stopped short of saying that a
confidentiality agreement implicitly contains a duty not to
trade and said the final outcome of the case depends on the
evidence to be gathered.  Stephen Best, one of Cuban’s attorneys at Dewey & LeBoeuf
LLP, said it appears the appeals court accepted the argument
that a confidentiality agreement alone isn’t proof of
wrongdoing.  “The uncontradicted record in this case is devoid of any
information suggesting any agreement imposing a fiduciary-like
responsibility on Cuban,” he said.  The SEC is “pleased” with the decision, spokesman  John
Nester  said in a statement.  The case is SEC v. Cuban, 09-10996, 5th U.S. Circuit Court
of Appeals (New Orleans).  For more, click here.  EU Court Says Access to Legal Documents Limited Until Judgment  European Union agencies can restrict public access to
documents they file in lawsuits until after cases are decided,
the EU’s highest court ruled.  The European Commission and other EU agencies pleading
cases at the  European Court of Justice  can withhold their
filings until a final judgment is issued, the Luxembourg-based
court ruled yesterday.  The commission, the EU’s executive agency can “refuse an
application for access to documents, without being under an
obligation to undertake a specific examination,” an 11-judge
panel said.  Lawyers for the  International Press Association , which
represents foreign reporters in  Belgium , initiated the case
arguing that access to such documents is in the public interest.
The group rejected as “purely hypothetical” the commissions’
concerns that release of the documents may “adversely affect”
judicial proceedings. In 2007, a lower EU court clarified the
document restrictions may be lifted once a ruling is given.  The court rejected the lower court’s position that the
commission and other EU bodies may be under an obligation to
give access to their filings after a hearing and before a final
ruling, saying that could undermine pending cases.  The not-for-profit association, which represents reporters
from news organizations including Bloomberg LP, said it still
believes document access before hearings would improve
transparency and allow for more informed reporting, according to
an e-mailed statement.  The cases are C-514/07 P Sweden v. API and Commission, C-
528/07 P API v. Commission, C-532/07 P Commission v. API.  Sportingbet Forfeits $33 Million in Deal With U.S. Prosecutors    Sportingbet Plc , the U.K. Internet gambling company that
agreed to forfeit $33 million in proceeds that the company
provided to U.S. customers, might resume U.S. operations one day
if the law changes, its lawyer said.  According to a statement by Sportingbet filed as part of
the agreement, the company said that from 1998 until Oct. 12,
2006, it offered Internet gaming to players located in the U.S.,
including real-money sports betting as well as wagering on poker
and casino games.  As part of a non-prosecution agreement entered yesterday
between the company and Bharara’s office, Sportingbet said it
would maintain a permanent restriction on providing Internet
gambling services to U.S. customers as required by U.S. law,
unless the law changes, according to the agreement.  The company, incorporated in England and Wales, also agreed
to cooperate with the U.S. Federal Bureau of Investigation and
with an ongoing probe by prosecutors in Bharara’s office.  For more, click here.  SEC Insider Trading Case Against Obus Thrown Out  Hedge fund manager Nelson Obus won dismissal of case by the
U.S.  Securities and Exchange Commission  claiming he made $1.34
million from an illegal tip about a 2001 merger.  U.S. District Judge George Daniels on Sept. 20 threw out
the case against Obus, president of  Wynnefield Capital Inc. , and
two other defendants, Thomas Strickland and Peter Black.  The SEC suit alleged that in May 2001, Strickland, a
General Electric Capital Corp. employee, tipped his friend
Black, a Wynnefield analyst, that SunSource Inc. was to be
acquired by Allied Capital Corp. Black passed the tip on to
Obus, who used the information in his decision to buy SunSource
stock for three hedge funds that he controlled, the SEC said.  “The SEC has not produced facts sufficient to prove that
Strickland breached a duty to his employer, nor has it
demonstrated the requisite degree of deceptive conduct on the
part of any defendant,” Daniels said in a written opinion.  SEC spokesman John Heine had no immediate comment on the
ruling.  The case is Securities and Exchange Commission v. Obus, 06-
CV-3150, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  Interviews  CFTC’s Gensler Plans European Trip to Talk Derivatives  Commodity Futures Trading Commission Chairman  Gary Gensler 
spoke about his plans to travel to  Europe  to discuss derivatives
regulation proposals with the  European Commission .  Under two separate initiatives announced Sept. 15, frequent
traders of some OTC derivatives in Europe will have to use
central clearinghouses to close sales, and naked short-sellers
would be required to submit proof they can access underlying
securities to settle trades. Gensler spoke yesterday in
Washington at a  U.S. Chamber of Commerce  event.  For the video, click here.  Comings and Goings  White House Announces Summers Departure, Return to Harvard  The White House said Lawrence Summers, director of the
National Economic Council, will leave the administration and
return to Harvard University at the end of the year.  Summers, chief adviser to President Barack Obama on the
development and implementation of economic policy, previously
served as Treasury secretary during the Clinton administration.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Carla Main in New Jersey at 
 Cmain2@bloomberg.net ;  Ellen Rosen  in New York at 
 erosen14@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 