-- SEC's Canellos Says U.S. Swaps Overhaul May Fuel Investigations
-- B y   D a v i d   S c h e e r
-- 2010-09-22T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-22/sec-s-canellos-says-new-u-s-swaps-rules-may-expose-additional-frauds.html
George Canellos , the head of the
Securities and Exchange Commission’s Manhattan office, said new
U.S. rules for clearing derivatives trades are likely to expose
frauds tied to instruments including credit-default swaps.  “In history, there’s been one insider-trading case brought
in the context of credit-default swaps, and it’s not because
insider trading isn’t perpetrated,” Canellos said at a hedge-
fund forum at Bloomberg’s New York headquarters yesterday.
“It’s because of the lack of transparency.”  The Dodd-Frank Act, signed by President  Barack Obama  in
July, requires most derivatives trades to be processed through
third-party clearinghouses. Lawmakers gave regulators greater
ability to monitor the market after some instruments, such as
contracts insuring mortgage-backed bonds, fueled losses that
lead to the worst recession since the Great Depression.  The new rules will allow both investors and regulators to
examine credit markets more closely, including credit-default
swaps, Canellos said. In a credit-default swap, the buyer pays a
fee to the seller, receiving a payout in the event of a default
or another trigger.  From an enforcement perspective, “the most significant
aspect of swap regulations will not be the regulations
themselves, it’s going to be the greater transparency in the
swaps market,” Canellos said.  A former federal prosecutor, Canellos, who turns 46 this
month, heads the SEC’s largest office outside Washington,
overseeing teams of investigators as well as examiners who
periodically check on investment advisers such as hedge funds.  Market Visibility  He was appointed as regional director in June 2009, one
month after the agency brought a trading lawsuit linked to
swaps, targeting a Deutsche Bank AG salesman. After a nonjury
civil trial, a U.S. District Court judge in Manhattan said on
June 25 the defendant didn’t illegally disclose information.  Detecting misconduct in over-the-counter swaps markets is
more difficult than in stock markets, where well-timed spikes in
trading may be instantly visible to regulators and the public,
Canellos said.  “Everyone can see it, we can trace it, there’s a full audit
trail of it,” he said, referring to records that help show who
ordered the transactions. “There has never historically been
anything like that in the swap market.”  Congress this year handed the SEC more money, broader
powers and a lower bar for filing fraud lawsuits against some
individuals. The agency’s investigators got more authority to
reward whistleblowers, haul witnesses across the country and use
its own administrative forum to impose fines.  Michael Litt , who runs Arrowhawk Capital Partners, a hedge-
fund firm in Darien, Connecticut, said the Dodd-Frank Act’s
registration requirement will help his industry raise money by
providing a level of comfort to investors.  “We will have more business opportunities over time if the
public believes that we are good citizens operating within the
framework,” Litt said at the forum.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Scheer  in New York at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alec McCabe at   amccabe@bloomberg.net . 