-- SEC Changes to Avoid Repeat of Stanford Fraud Case Missteps, Khuzami Says
-- B y   J o s h u a   G a l l u
-- 2010-09-22T16:29:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-22/sec-changes-to-avoid-repeat-of-stanford-fraud-case-missteps-khuzami-says.html
The U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission, responding to a watchdog’s criticism that it bungled
fraud claims against  R. Allen Stanford , has strengthened its
investigations and is pursuing several people linked to the
Texas-based executive, agency officials told lawmakers.  The SEC has added investigators and improved handling of
tips after Inspector General  H. David Kotz  faulted the agency’s
probe of Stanford, who is facing trial for an alleged $7 billion
fraud, Enforcement Director  Robert Khuzami  said today at a
Senate Banking Committee hearing. The agency is “also
vigorously pursuing its case against Stanford and the others
charged in this massive Ponzi scheme,” Khuzami said.  “The scope and egregiousness of Stanford’s conduct and the
resulting injury to investors underscores that it is essential
for us to push forward with our efforts to hold the wrongdoers
accountable and seek maximum investor recovery,” he said.  Khuzami,  Carlo di Florio , head of the SEC’s Office of
Compliance Inspections and Examinations, and  Rose Romero ,
director of the agency’s regional office in Fort Worth, Texas,
were called to testify on their progress in implementing changes
Kotz proposed in an April  report  on the Stanford case. Kotz said
the SEC failed to conduct a meaningful probe of Houston-based
Stanford Financial Group Co. until 2005 even though examiners
suspected Stanford was engaging in fraud eight years earlier.  Former Employee  The agency sued Stanford, 60, in February 2009, claiming
his Antigua-based firm, Stanford International Bank Ltd,
defrauded investors by selling billions of dollars in bogus
certificates of deposit. Stanford, who has denied wrongdoing, is
jailed while awaiting trial on related criminal charges, and at
least three of his top executives are facing related claims.  Kotz said he has discussed with U.S. law enforcement
officials whether criminal charges should be brought against
 Spencer Barasch , a former SEC employee described in the April
report as having sought to represent Stanford after leaving the
agency. Barasch hasn’t been accused of wrongdoing.  Khuzami said the enforcement unit has addressed all of
Kotz’s recommendations, including steps to ensure potential harm
to investors is weighed when deciding whether to pursue a case
and grading employees based on their willingness to take on
difficult probes that are important to investor protection.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joshua Gallu  in Washington at 
 jgallu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story
Lawrence Roberts at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net . 