-- Sharp Acquires U.S. Solar Developer for $305 Million
-- B y   M a r i k o   Y a s u   a n d   A n d r e w   H e r n d o n
-- 2010-09-22T09:03:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-22/sharp-buys-california-s-recurrent-for-305-million-amid-chinese-competion.html
Sharp Corp. , Japan’s biggest solar-
panel maker, agreed to buy California’s  Recurrent Energy  for as
much as $305 million to expand into building power plants as it
faces more competition from Chinese panel manufacturers.  The companies plan to complete the all-cash deal by year-
end, they said in a statement during the Japanese morning today.
Owning the San Francisco-based solar-power developer will bring
Osaka-based Sharp further into the U.S. market for installing
photovoltaic panels and building power plants to sell emissions-
free electricity to utilities and large commercial consumers.  Japanese panel manufacturers and U.S. competitors are
seeking expertise in building solar plants to diversify their
revenue sources as they face intensifying competition from
Chinese makers including Suntech Power Holdings Co. Sharp is
focusing more on power plants and developers to win bigger
contracts, Sharp President  Mikio Katayama  said last week.  “Sharp needs to move on to value-added businesses as the
device market has become overly populated,”  Nobuo Kurahashi , an
analyst at Mizuho Financial Group Inc. in Tokyo, said today in
an interview. “It’s a new area for Sharp and won’t be easy.”  Panel makers from Sharp to First Solar Inc. of Tempe,
Arizona, are scrambling to expand into installing the devices
and making related electric components, a business with less
international competition. First Solar, the largest U.S. solar
panel maker, is considering “all aspects of the value chain”
as it expands and aims to lower costs, Chief Executive Officer
Rob Gillette said on July 29.  Boom Year  The rush is fed by forecasts that 2010 will be a boom year
for photovoltaic panels. Global sales may more than double to as
much as 18 gigawatts and then flatten next year as countries
including Germany, Italy and France cut guaranteed above-market
rates for solar energy, Bloomberg New Energy Finance estimated.  The industry is competing to build panels more cheaply as
those government-mandated rates decline as well as to help the
technology compete better with fossil fuels such as coal and
natural gas.  Under Sharp’s deal, Recurrent isn’t obliged to use Sharp
solar panels in its projects, and the transaction includes no
preferential pricing terms for Recurrent to buy Sharp products,
the U.S. company’s Chief Executive Officer  Arno Harris  said on a
conference call.  Sharp  gained  1.3 percent to close at 857 yen on the Tokyo
Stock Exchange, narrowing its loss this year to 27 percent.
Japan’s benchmark Nikkei 225 Stock Average slipped 0.4 percent
today.  Recurrent’s Pipeline  Recurrent, which is  active  in the U.S., Canada, France,
Spain, Germany and Israel, according to the company’s website,
said it has contracts to develop more than 330 megawatts of
projects. Including those in earlier stages of development, its
project pipeline totals 2 gigawatts.  The developer focuses on  projects  ranging from 2 megawatts
to 20 megawatts in capacity because smaller developments require
can be approved and installed more quickly and don’t require new
power lines, according to Recurrent’s website.  Teaneck, New Jersey-based  Hudson Clean Energy Partners , a
private equity firm focusing exclusively on renewable energy,
 invested  $75 million in Recurrent in July 2008.  “With Recurrent Energy’s know-how as a developer, Sharp
aims to become a total solutions company in the photovoltaic
field, extending from developing and producing solar cells and
modules to developing and marketing power generation plants,”
Sharp Executive Vice President  Toshishige Hamano  said in the
statement.  Sharp’s Forecasts  Sales of solar panels may gain 50 percent in the year
ending March 2011, faster than Sharp earlier forecast, because
of robust demand in Europe, Katayama said last week. The company
said in April solar-device sales may grow 20 percent to 250
billion yen ($2.95 billion) during the year.  The Japanese manufacturer said July 1 it planned to
increase its global solar-cell production to more than 1,500
megawatts by March 2013, about double the current capacity. It
is also expanding production at its U.K. module factory to 500
megawatts by February after the British government brought in
price guarantees for electricity generated by the sun.  Morgan Stanley  advised Recurrent and investor Hudson on the
deal, Harris said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mariko Yasu  in Tokyo at 
 myasu@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy in Singapore at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net . 