-- Buy Stocks as Silver Rally Calls Economic Rebound: Chart of the Day
-- B y   S u n g w o o   P a r k   a n d   S a e r o m i   S h i n
-- 2010-09-22T00:39:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-22/silver-rally-shows-s-p-500-will-return-to-1-500-amid-growth-chart-of-day.html
The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index may
surge 32 percent by the second half of 2011 as a rally in silver,
the precious metal most used in industry, signals a pickup in
economic growth, according to Mirae Asset Securities Co.  The CHART OF THE DAY tracks the gold-to-silver ratio, a
leading indicator for the U.S. equities gauge, according to
South Korea’s biggest seller of mutual-fund products. Gains in
the price of silver relative to gold since October 2008 will
continue, driving the ratio below 50 by early next year, from 61
now, said Mirae Asset analyst Lee Jae Hun. If history is any
guide, the index will subsequently rise to 1,500, he said. The
ratio is inverted on the chart.  “A falling gold-to-silver ratio implies that silver is
rising with industrial activity or that gold is weakening as
economic recovery lowers the safe-haven appeal,” said Seoul-
based Lee. “The ratio has more room to decline, and equities
are poised to gain” amid signs of economic revival.  Hedge-fund managers and other large speculators increased
their net-long positions in New York silver futures by 3 percent
in the week ended Sept. 14, according to U.S. Commodity Futures
Trading Commission  data . Speculative long positions, or bets
prices will rise, outnumbered shorts by 48,791 contracts on the
Comex division of the New York Mercantile Exchange.  The  S&P 500  has climbed 2.2 percent this year, to 1,139.78
at yesterday’s close,  erasing  earlier losses. Berkshire Hathaway
Inc. Chief Executive Officer  Warren Buffett  last week joined
optimists in predicting the U.S. will skirt a second recession
since the global financial crisis. The world economy has
stabilized, three out of five investors, analysts and traders
said in a global quarterly poll of Bloomberg subscribers, with
almost half predicting gains for the S&P 500 over the next six
months.  Silver’s uses include electronics, soldering, jewelry and
photography, according to the Washington-based Silver Institute.  (To save a copy of the chart, click here.)  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sungwoo Park  in Seoul at 
 spark47@bloomberg.net ;
Saeromi Shin in Seoul at 
 Sshin15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at   jpoole4@bloomberg.net ;
Linus Chua at   lchua@bloomberg.net  