-- South African Retail Sales Climbed 7.9% in July on Soccer World Cup Boost
-- B y   N a s r e e n   S e r i a
-- 2010-09-22T11:14:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-22/south-african-retail-sales-climbed-7-9-in-july-on-soccer-world-cup-boost.html
South African retail sales climbed
an annual 7.9 percent in July as fans attending the soccer World
Cup boosted demand for clothes and food.  Sales  growth accelerated from a revised 7.6 percent in
June, Pretoria-based  Statistics South Africa  said on its website
today. The  median estimate  of 10 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg was for an increase of 7.1 percent. Sales rose a
seasonally adjusted 0.5 percent in the month.  The soccer tournament, which ended on July 11, attracted
about half a million foreign visitors and may have helped to
boost the size of the  economy  by about 1 percent, according to
Finance Minister  Pravin Gordhan . Spending has also been revived
after the central bank cut its benchmark interest  rate  eight
times to 6 percent since December 2008.  “Growth in retail sales surprised on the upside, possibly
due to World Cup spending,”  Carmen Altenkirch , an economist at
Nedbank Group Ltd., said in a note to clients. “Above-inflation
wage increases, particularly in the public sector, combined with
low interest rates and inflation will support retail sales over
the coming months.”  The rand was at 6.9958 against the dollar as of 12:28 p.m.
in Johannesburg from 7.0044 before the data was released. The
yield on the R157 government bond, due 2015, slumped 10 basis
points, or 0.1 percentage point, to 7.21 percent.  Consumer Spending  Consumer demand hasn’t been strong enough to add to price
pressures, giving the central bank room to cut its repurchase
rate by half a percentage point on Sept. 9. The  inflation  rate
reached an annual 3.7 percent in July, the lowest in more than
four years.  Retailers, such as  Shoprite Holdings Ltd. , Africa’s biggest
grocer, are expanding in anticipation of stronger spending. Cape
Town-based Shoprite said on Aug. 24 it plans to open 85 stores
and add 5,700 jobs this fiscal year.  Consumer spending rose an annualized 4.8 percent in the
second quarter, after expanding 5.7 percent in the previous
three months, the Reserve Bank said in its Quarterly Bulletin
today.  “With the economy recovering, we’ll see some activity from
the household side,” the bank’s Chief Economist Monde Mnyande
told reporters in Pretoria today. “There’s some constraint with
the employment side. There are problems there that are still
ongoing.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nasreen Seria  in Johannesburg at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net . 