-- South African President Zuma Reassures Business of Ruling Party's Support
-- B y   M i k e   C o h e n   a n d   F r a n z   W i l d
-- 2010-09-22T11:12:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-22/south-african-president-zuma-reassures-business-of-ruling-party-s-support.html
South African President  Jacob Zuma 
told business leaders that the ruling  African National Congress 
will continue to protect their interests, as the party’s labor
union allies press for greater state control of the  economy .  “Politics and business go together,” Zuma told reporters
at an ANC conference in the eastern city of Durban today.
“Business, the ruling party, don’t have a problem, they are
together.”  The ANC has ruled Africa’s largest economy since all-race
elections in 1994, adopting policies that helped attract foreign
investment and fostered the longest period of economic growth on
record. Even so, one in four people remain without  jobs , and
income inequality levels are among the highest in the world.  The  Congress of South African Trade Unions , South Africa’s
biggest labor grouping and part of the ruling alliance, has
called for an overhaul of the way the economy is managed. It has
urged the government to assume direct control of key industries
and to re-nationalize  Sasol Ltd. , the world’s biggest producer
of motor fuels from coal, and ArcelorMittal  South Africa Ltd. ,
Africa’s biggest steelmaker.  About 5,000 companies help fund the ANC through the party’s
Progressive Business Forum, paying as much as 7,500 rand
($1,071) a year to gain access to officials and participate in
party-organized trade missions.  Companies including banks  Absa Group Ltd.  and Nedbank Group
Ltd., and mobile phone companies MTN Ltd. and Vodacom Ltd. paid
to have exhibition stands at this week’s meeting and attend
speeches by government ministers.  “Any business person who knows marketing would come to the
ANC conference to do marketing, because everyone is here,” Zuma
said. “Once business gets closer to any political party you
know things are going very well. The country will move
forward.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Mike Cohen  in Cape Town at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net ;
 Franz Wild  in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net . 