-- South African Unions Must Commit to Incresing Productivity, Patel Says
-- B y   F r a n z   W i l d   a n d   M i k e   C o h e n
-- 2010-09-22T08:36:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-22/south-african-unions-must-commit-to-incresing-productivity-patel-says.html
South African Economic Development
Minister  Ebrahim Patel  said labor unions, which have organized a
series of strikes this year, must commit to increasing
productivity as they demand higher wages.  “What we must avoid is another debilitating policy debate
over the next number of years on the abstracts of the labor
market and see that we can instead bring together business and
labor on some clear and concrete productivity outcomes,” Patel,
the former head of South Africa’s largest textile trade union,
told businesspeople on the sidelines of a conference of the
ruling African National Congress in Durban today.  Exports were crippled, automobile plants halted, schools
closed and hospitals disrupted this year as workers went on
strike demanding wage increases of more than double the 3.7
percent inflation rate. Labor unions are in alliance with the
ANC and their support was instrumental in President  Jacob Zuma ’s
rise to power last year.  The  economy  will probably expand 3.2 percent this year and
3.6 percent in 2011, the International Monetary Fund said in a
report yesterday.  A shortage of skills and collusion over prices between
businesses are among the biggest structural issues restraining
growth, Patel said. He was speaking in the eastern port city on
the third day of the ANC’s National General Council.  The government should stick to its plan to curb expenditure
to help reduce the budget deficit, which may fall to 4.7 percent
of gross domestic product in the year through March 2012, from
5.9 percent this year, according to the IMF.  Rising public-sector wage demands may “jeopardize” the
government’s fiscal targets, the Washington-based lender said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Mike Cohen  in Durban via Johannesburg at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net ;
 Franz Wild  in Durban via Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net . 