-- South Africa's Current Account Deficit Narrows to 2.5%, Lowest Since 2004
-- B y   G a r t h   T h e u n i s s e n   a n d   N a s r e e n   S e r i a
-- 2010-09-22T09:02:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-22/south-africa-s-current-account-deficit-narrows-to-2-5-lowest-since-2004.html
South Africa’s current account
 deficit  narrowed to the lowest in more than six years in the
second quarter as exports of commodities and automobiles
recovered and the 2010 soccer World Cup raised tourist receipts.  The shortfall on the current account, the broadest measure
of trade in goods and services, eased to 2.5 percent of  gross
domestic product  from 4.6 percent in the first quarter, the
Reserve Bank said in its Quarterly Bulletin released in Pretoria
today. That’s the lowest since the first quarter of 2004 when
the deficit reached 1.6 percent of GDP, the central bank’s
Deputy Head of Research, Stefaans Walters, said by telephone.  “There has been some improvement in manufactured and
commodity exports as the global economy begins to pick up,”
Monde Mnyande, chief economist at the Reserve Bank, said in an
interview following a presentation to journalists on the release
of the Quarterly Bulletin today. “Receipts from the football
tournament contributed quite significantly.”  Africa’s biggest  economy  relies on foreign purchases of its
stocks and bonds to fund the current account deficit and prevent
the rand from weakening, prompting the government to refer to
the shortfall as the nation’s “Achilles heel.” Net foreign
purchases of South African assets have swelled to 100.8 billion
rand ($14.2 billion) so far this year, helping the rand extend
its surge against the dollar since the start of 2009 to more
than 33 percent.  Blip  The narrowing of the current account deficit was mainly due
to “the notable increase” in mining exports, as well as
vehicles and transport equipment, the central bank said. The
shortfall is likely to widen as economic growth accelerates,
boosting imports, Mnyande said.  “If the domestic economy picks up, imports will definitely
start to rise,” said Mnyande. The narrowing of the current
account shortfall could be seem as a “blip,” he said.  The deficit was forecast to narrow to 3.2 percent of GDP in
the second quarter, according to the  median estimate  of 13
economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  Tourism receipts from South Africa’s hosting of the 2010
FIFA World Cup between June 11 and July 11 helped narrow the
current account gap, according to the central bank. Tourist
spending reached an estimated 15 billion rand in the second
quarter, a 19 percent increase from the corresponding period the
previous year, the central bank said.  About 3.5 billion rand of the total second-quarter tourist
receipts could be attributed to the soccer tournament, according
to the report.  Exports and FDI  Merchandise exports excluding gold rose 6.4 percent to 552
billion rand in the second quarter, the bank said. Bullion
exports surged more than 19 percent to 59 billion rand, the bank
said.  Foreign portfolio inflows eased to 28.4 billion rand in the
second quarter from 44.1 billion rand in the previous three
months, the central bank said. Foreign direct investment dropped
to 1.7 billion rand from 3.7 billion rand.  The rand appreciated as much as 1.7 percent to 7.0171 per
dollar and traded 1.5 percent stronger at 7.0298 by 10:16 a.m.
in Johannesburg, from a previous close of 7.1352.  Finance Minister  Pravin Gordhan  is likely to give a
forecast for the current account gap for all of 2010 when he
delivers his Medium Term Budget Policy Statement on Oct. 27. The
National Treasury estimated the deficit would reach 4.9 percent
of GDP this year in its annual budget on Feb. 17.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Garth Theunissen  in Johannesburg 
 gtheunissen@bloomberg.net ;
 Nasreen Seria  in Johannesburg at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net . 