-- Sudan's North, South Must Not Oust Minorities After Referendum, HRW Says
-- B y   M a r a m   M a z e n
-- 2010-09-22T08:25:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-22/sudan-s-north-south-must-not-oust-minorities-after-referendum-hrw-says.html
The authorities in Sudan’s
northern and southern regions should pledge not to expel
minorities if  Southern Sudan  votes to become an independent
nation in a January referendum, Human Rights Watch said.  “Both southerners in the north and northerners living
in Southern Sudan told Human Rights Watch that they feared
retaliation, even expulsion, if secession were approved,”
the New-York based rights group said today in an e-mailed
 statement .  The independence vote is a key component of a 2005
 peace agreement  that ended two decades of civil war between
the Muslim north and the south, which follows Christianity
and traditional beliefs. About 2 million people died in the
conflict and more than 4 million were displaced. As many as
1.5 million Southern Sudanese now live in northern Sudan.  United Nations Secretary-General  Ban Ki-moon , U.S.
President Barack Obama and representatives from the African
Union, the World Bank and other groups are scheduled to
discuss the Southern Sudan referendum at a Sept. 24 meeting
in New York. Ban appointed a three-member panel, led by
former Tanzanian President  Benjamin Mkapa , to monitor the
vote, the UN said in a  statement  yesterday on its website.  The UN panel will also monitor a separate,
simultaneous referendum in the north-south border area of
Abyei on whether to remain part of Sudan’s north or join
Southern Sudan, irrespective of the outcome of the southern
independence vote, according to the statement.  Building Confidence  “The panel will work directly to enhance confidence in
the process by encouraging the parties and the relevant
authorities to take corrective measures to resolve any
significant problems or disputes that may arise,” the
statement said.  The commission organizing Southern Sudan’s referendum
plans to start registering voters next month, a spokesman
for the body, Tarek Othman al-Taher, said on Sept. 8. The
initial voters’ roll was due to be completed by the end of
August, according to the referendum law passed by Sudan’s
national assembly in December.  Sudanese President Umar al-Bashir’s ruling National
Congress Party and the Sudan People’s Liberation Movement,
the former southern rebel movement that now governs the
semi-autonomous southern region, have not set up yet the
commission to organize the vote in Abyei. Both votes are
scheduled to be held on Jan. 9.  The two parties also haven’t agreed on post-referendum
arrangements such as the responsibility of each region for
Sudan’s foreign debt and how to share the nation’s oil
wealth. Sudan’s northern and southern regions now split the
proceeds from oil pumped in the south.  Oil fields in Southern Sudan account for most of the
nation’s crude output, which, at 490,000 barrels a day, is
the third-biggest in sub-Saharan Africa, according to the
 BP Statistical Review of World Energy .  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Maram Mazen  in Khartoum via the Cairo newsroom at
   mmazen@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net . 