-- Sun Gains in Mumbai Trading After Acquiring Control of Taro Pharmaceutical
-- B y   A d i   N a r a y a n
-- 2010-09-22T04:58:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-22/sun-gains-in-mumbai-trading-after-acquiring-control-of-taro-pharmaceutical.html
Sun Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. ,
India’s most valuable drugmaker, rose to the highest in almost
16 years in Mumbai after saying it had acquired a controlling
stake in Israel’s  Taro Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd.   Sun  rose  as much as 2.8 percent to 1,984.7 rupees, the
highest since December 1994, and changed hands at 1,970.1 rupees
at 09:55 a.m. The shares have gained 31 percent this year. Taro
rose 2.1 percent to $12.25 in over-the-counter trading yesterday.  The drugmaker, based in Mumbai, completed the purchase of
the Taro stake two weeks after the Israeli Supreme Court ruled
that the company could proceed with the takeover. The
acquisition will give Sun control over Taro’s factories in
Israel and Canada and help add medicines for heart disease, skin
care and pain relief to its offerings.  Sun now has a 48.7 percent stake in Yakum, Israel-based
 Taro  and 65.8 percent of the voting rights, it said in a
statement.  Dilip Shanghvi , Sun’s chairman and managing director,
has also taken over as the chairman of Taro, the statement said.  Sun plans to increase drug production at Taro and to make
more investments in the company’s research and development
facilities, Shanghvi said.  The Indian drugmaker didn’t reveal the financial details of
the transaction. The company offered in May 2007 to buy Taro for
$454 million, which included $224 million for refinancing debt.
The takeover attempt was rejected by Taro’s board. The terms of
the agreement included a clause that gave Sun the option of
buying then-Chairman  Barrie Levitt ’s and his associates’ stake
in the company.  Sun may have to pay $37 million to buy the stake of the
controlling shareholders in the company, Uday Baldota, a company
spokesman, said on Sept. 8.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Adi Narayan  in Mumbai at 
 anarayan8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Gale at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net  