-- Swedish Government Fails to Secure Majority After Postal Votes Are Counted
-- B y   J o h a n   C a r l s t r o m
-- 2010-09-22T22:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-22/swedish-government-fails-to-secure-majority-after-postal-votes-are-counted.html
Sweden’s government failed to
secure a majority, the country’s Election Authority said after
it finished counting all postal votes.  Prime Minister  Fredrik Reinfeldt ’s four-party coalition
will get 173 lawmakers in the 349-seat assembly after the Sept.
19 election, two short of a majority and five less than it had
after the 2006 vote, the Stockholm-based authority said on its
 website  late yesterday. The opposition will have 156 lawmakers,
while the anti-immigration Sweden Democrats get 20 seats in the
legislature. Turnout was 84.6 percent.  Reinfeldt will rely on support outside his coalition to
pass some bills, though budget laws can only be blocked if a
majority provides an alternative proposal. Sweden has been ruled
by minority governments since the current one-chamber
parliamentary system was introduced in 1971, with the exception
of six years of majority coalitions starting in 1976, and the
last four years under Reinfeldt.  There will be “negotiations and compromises on issues
outside the budget and there the government may run into
problems,” said Jonas Hinnfors, a political science professor
at Gothenburg University.  The government has said it may seek a collaboration with
opposition parties the Greens and the Social Democrats.
Parliament reconvenes on Oct. 5.  “Reinfeldt will send out feelers about a semi-permanent
cooperation with the Green party, even though I don’t think
he’ll invite them into government,” Hinnfors said. Should the
Green Party refuse to work with the government, Reinfeldt will
rule “with jumping majorities on individual issues, which is
how the Social Democrats ruled the country for decades.”  Reduce Clout  That will probably reduce the clout of the Sweden
Democrats, which campaigned on a pledge to try to reduce
immigration by as much as 90 percent. The party won seats in
parliament for the first time since being formed in 1988, making
it a potential kingmaker.  “Our ambition is to work in parliament for increased
cooperation with the Green party,” Reinfeldt said at a press
conference on Sept. 20. “I can also see several issues where
traditionally the government and the Social Democrats have been
in agreement and could be so on many issues in the future.”  Local newspapers Dagens Nyheter and Svenska Dagbladet both
reported that in one district, Gothenburg, the government lost a
parliamentary seat by fewer than 10 votes, a number within the
margin of error of the first count.  All votes have now been counted once. The county
administrative boards will recount all votes on Sept. 23 before
a final tally is presented. The margin of victory was slim in
several districts, meaning the final count could change the
outcome.  Economic Rebound  Reinfeldt presided over the biggest economic rebound in the
European Union, cutting taxes and running the EU’s narrowest
budget deficit. Sweden’s $430 billion  economy  will expand 4.5
percent this year, the best performance in the 27-member EU,
recouping most of last year’s 5.1 percent decline, the Finance
Ministry said on Aug. 20.  The government, which pushed through 70 billion kronor ($10
billion) in income-tax cuts in its first four-year term, plans
to cut taxes on incomes and pensions by a further 25 billion
kronor through 2014. The last four years of income-tax cuts were
equivalent to 2.3 percent of  gross domestic product .  Besides its anti-immigration stance, the Sweden Democrats
want to raise spending on elderly care, jobless benefits, longer
prison sentences and introduce compulsory military conscription.  “The other parties have warned of this situation and
warned that we will create problems,” Jimmie Aakesson, Sweden
Democrat leader, told supporters on election night. “My promise
to the Swedish people is that we will not create problems, we
will take responsibility for Sweden.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Johan Carlstrom  in Stockholm at 
 jcarlstrom@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  