-- Swiss Franc Rises to 2 1/2-Year High Versus Dollar as Fed Considers Easing
-- B y   S t e p h e n   M o r r i s
-- 2010-09-22T16:01:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-22/swiss-franc-rises-to-2-1-2-year-high-versus-dollar-as-fed-considers-easing.html
The Swiss franc strengthened to its
highest level against the dollar in 2 1/2 years on speculation a
sluggish recovery will prompt the Federal Reserve to increase
stimulus for the economy, boosting demand for safety.  The Swiss currency appreciated versus 15 of its 16 most-
traded peers after the Federal Open Market Committee said
yesterday in Washington that it’s “prepared to provide
additional accommodation if needed to support the economic
recovery and to return inflation, over time, to levels
consistent with its mandate.” The franc traded through parity
with the dollar for the second consecutive day.  “The Swiss franc is significantly below parity, and we
expect the dollar will continue to decline,” said  Marcus Hettinger , a currency strategist at Credit Suisse Group AG in
Zurich. “Yesterdays FOMC statement left open the door for
further quantitative easing, meaning U.S. interest rates will
stay at very low levels for a very long time.”  The franc strengthened as much as 1.2 percent against the
dollar to 98.39 centimes, the most since a record 97.86 centimes
on March 18, 2008, and traded at 98.69 centimes as of 5 p.m. in
London. The Swiss currency was little changed at 1.3208 per
euro.  Investors traditionally buy the franc during times of
economic turmoil because of the perceived stability of
Switzerland’s economy. The nation’s trade surplus frees it from
dependence on overseas capital. The franc strengthened to a
record 1.2766 per euro on Sept. 8.  Franc ‘Driver’  The Fed, which also left its main interest rate unchanged
yesterday, next meets on Nov. 2-Nov. 3.  “The announcement from the Fed is the most significant
driver for the franc,” said  Lee Hardman , a currency strategist
at Bank of Tokyo Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd., in London. “It has led to
a broad dollar sell-off as the Fed moved from a neutral to an
easing bias, which increases the likelihood of increased
quantitative easing at the November meeting.”  The Swiss currency climbed 4.8 percent this year against a
basket of currencies, according to Bloomberg Correlation-
Weighted Currency Indexes.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Stephen Morris  in London at 
 smorris39@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at   dtilles@bloomberg.net  