-- Synagogue Bomb-Plot Informant Testifies FBI Told Him Not to Record Arrests
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2010-09-22T23:12:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-22/synagogue-bomb-plot-informant-testifies-fbi-told-him-not-to-record-arrests.html
An undercover informant who
recorded hundreds of hours of audio and video of four men
accused of plotting to bomb a New York synagogue said his FBI
handlers told him not to record the men’s arrest.  The informant, Shahed Hussain, testified today under cross-
examination by defense attorney  Vincent Briccetti  that Federal
Bureau of Investigation agents instructed him to turn off a
hidden camera before law enforcement swept in and arrested the
men in a coordinated sting in the Riverdale section of the Bronx
on May 20, 2009.  “The movie at this point literally fades to black, doesn’t
it?” said Briccetti, a lawyer for James Cromitie, 44, who is
accused of being the leader of the plot. The trial of Cromitie
and co-defendants David Williams, 29, Onta Williams, 34, and
Laguerre Payen, 28, began Aug. 23 in federal court in Manhattan
before U.S. Judge  Colleen McMahon .  Defense attorneys have attempted to portray the informant
as a habitual liar who tried to lure their impoverished clients
into the plot by paying for meals and rent and promising,
without the authorization of his FBI handlers, cars, cash and
vacations.  Briccetti, who completed his questioning of the informant
today after four days, pointed out that several interactions
between Hussain and the defendants in the days leading up to
their arrests weren’t recorded, including a dinner at TGI
Friday’s the night before they planned to bomb a synagogue and
Jewish community center in the Bronx.  “You could have recorded it, but you didn’t, correct?”
Briccetti asked.  “It’s not my decision, sir,” Hussain replied.  Sticking to ‘Script’  Briccetti asked Hussain if he was sticking to a “script”
when he told the defendants on a ride to Riverdale on May 13,
2009, that Cromitie was “running the show.” According to the
recordings, that statement prompted Cromitie to respond, “Ain’t
nobody running the show. Why you keep saying that?”  “You kept saying those things because it was in the movie
script you had been given, correct?” Briccetti asked.  “No sir,” Hussain responded.  McMahon admonished Hussain for giving long answers to yes
or no questions, saying she was “getting tired” of him
“playing games with the questions.”  The judge’s comments prompted Assistant U.S. Attorney David
Raskin, the lead prosecutor on the case, to later ask McMahon to
apologize to Hussain and the jurors, which she did at the end of
the day’s proceedings, saying she was “a little testy this
morning.”  After bombing the synagogue and community center, the four
planned to fire heat-seeking missiles at military planes at
Stewart International Airport in Newburgh, prosecutors said.  The charges against the men include conspiracy and
attempted use of weapons of mass destruction in the U.S. They
face as long as life in prison if convicted.  The case is U.S. v. Cromitie, 09-cr-00558, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Chris Dolmetsch  in New York at 
 cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 