-- U.A.E. GDP to Exceed $272 Billion This Year as Trade Picks Up, Tayer Says
-- B y   Z a i n a b   F a t t a h   a n d   A r i f   S h a r i f
-- 2010-09-22T07:49:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-22/u-a-e-gdp-to-exceed-1-trillion-dirhams-this-year-difc-s-governor-says.html
Gross domestic product in the
United Arab Emirates will exceed 1 trillion dirhams ($272
billion) this year as  liquidity  returns and trade picks up, the
head of the Dubai International Financial Center said.  “Most sectors of the economy are doing well and growing
such as trade, transport and even finance,”  Ahmed Humaid  al
Tayer told reporters today in Dubai. The DIFC, Dubai’s financial
hub, hosts offices of banks such as Morgan Stanley and Deutsche
Bank AG.  GDP was 914.3 billion dirhams last year, as the economy
slowed after real estate prices plummeted and credit markets
tightened. The outlook has improved as Dubai World, the state-
owned holding company, makes progress on its $24.9 billion debt
restructuring, according to the International Monetary Fund.  The IMF will raise its economic forecasts for the U.A.E. in
its next review due in a few weeks,  Masood Ahmed , its Middle
East director, said on Sept. 16.  Al Tayer said Dubai’s financial industry “has witnessed
vast improvement and seen better liquidity, above central bank
requirements, despite high provisions.” When asked whether
Dubai would need more government support he said: “We have
overcome a lot of those stages.”  The Abu Dhabi government and the U.A.E. central bank
provided Dubai with $20 billion after it first announced plans
to restructure debt last year. The emirate borrowed $109 billion
to transform itself into a tourism, transport and financial hub,
according to current IMF estimates.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Arif Sharif  in Dubai at 
 asharif2@bloomberg.net  or
 Zainab Fattah  in Dubai on 
 zfattah@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Inal Ersan at 
 iersan@bloomberg.net  