-- U.K. Stocks Retreat as Autonomy Drops; Mining Shares Rally
-- B y   S a r a h   J o n e s
-- 2010-09-22T15:59:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-22/u-k-stocks-drop-for-second-day-next-marks-spencer-retreat-in-london.html
U.K. stocks  fell as investors
speculated that a 15 percent rally for the FTSE 100 Index
since July may have outpaced prospects for economic growth.  Autonomy Corp., Invensys Plc and WPP Plc paced
declining shares, falling more than 2 percent.  Weir Group
Plc  lost 3.1 percent as Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc
downgraded the shares. Antofagasta Plc and Kazakhmys Plc
paced a rally in mining companies, limiting losses on the
benchmark index.  The  FTSE 100  dropped 24.28, or 0.4 percent, to
5,551.91 at the close in London as all but 25 stocks fell.
The gauge has rebounded 16 percent from this year’s low on
July 1 as concern eased that Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis
would cause another recession. The  FTSE All-Share Index 
lost 0.5 percent today, while Ireland’s  ISEQ Index  dropped
1.5 percent.  Stocks paced European equities lower after the Federal
Reserve yesterday said it’s willing to ease monetary policy
further to spur the economy and support prices.  “Equities in Europe have had a great run in recent
weeks,” said London-based  David Buik , a market strategist
at BGC Partners. “So a little setback after the Fed’s
rather qualified comments on economic recovery can come as
no surprise.”  More Stimulus  The Bank of England in its Sept. 9 meeting minutes
also signaled it is moving closer to adding more stimulus
to bolster growth. Policy makers overruled  Andrew Sentance ’s call for an interest-rate increase for a fourth
month in September.  The Monetary Policy Committee, led by Governor  Mervyn King , voted 8-1 to keep the benchmark interest rate at 0.5
percent and the bond-purchase plan at 200 billion pounds
($313 billion).  The Confederation of British Industry today said the
U.K. economy will grow slower than forecast next year at 2
percent as a public spending squeeze takes hold. That
compares to a previous forecast of 2.5 percent.  Shares of Autonomy, the U.K.’s second-biggest software
company, dropped 3.3 percent to 1,768 pence. Invensys, a
maker of factory controls, declined 3.3 percent to 281.7
pence and  WPP , the world’s largest advertising company,
lost 2.7 percent to 709.5 pence.  Lowered Recommendation  Weir Group lost 3.1 percent to 1,395 pence, falling
for the first time in six days. RBS lowered its
recommendation for the world’s biggest maker of pumps for
the mining industry to “hold” from “buy,” citing the
stocks’ valuation.  “We remain firm fans of Weir and believe in the long-
term growth opportunities,” wrote London based  Andrew Douglas  in a report to clients today. “ But we prefer to
buy on weakness in the short term.”  Asos Plc , the U.K.’s second-biggest online clothing
retailer, retreated 3.2 percent to 1,067 pence as Morgan
Stanley lowered its recommendation for the online retailer
to “underperform” from “outperform,” citing a 127
percent increase in the share price since the start of the
year.  Antofagasta led a rally in mining shares as a weak
dollar boosted metal prices. The owner of copper mines in
Chile rallied 3.1 percent to 1,214 pence, while Xstrata Plc
gained 2.7 percent to 1,198.5 pence and Kazakhmys Plc
increased 2.9 percent to 1,441 pence.  Copper, Gold  Copper gained for the first time in three days as the
dollar slid to an almost five-month low against the euro
after the Fed yesterday left its benchmark interest-rate
target at a record low. Gold futures also advanced,
climbing to a record $1,298 an ounce.  Imperial Tobacco Group Plc also climbed after the
maker of Gitanes and Gauloises Blondes cigarettes said it
expects net revenue from tobacco to rise this fiscal year.
The shares rose 1.7 percent to 1,925 pence.  Shanks Group Plc rallied 6.5 percent to 110.2 pence
amid speculation Carlyle Group, the world’s second- largest
private equity firm, may make a bid for the U.K. waste-
disposal company. The firm’s spokeswoman,  Emma Thorpe ,
today declined to comment on the speculation.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sarah Jones in London at 
 sjones35@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Merritt at 
 dmerritt1@bloomberg.net . 