-- U.K. Regulator Fines Scottish Law Firm, Two Men Over Lehman-Backed Product
-- B y   L i n d s a y   F o r t a d o
-- 2010-09-22T12:23:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-22/u-k-regulator-fines-scottish-law-firm-two-men-over-lehman-backed-product.html
The U.K.’s financial regulator
fined a law firm and two men for giving misleading advice to
clients when marketing structured products backed by  Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc.   The Financial Services Authority fined Dundee, Scotland-
based  Thorntons Law LLP  35,000 pounds ($55,000) and Michael
Royden, a partner at the firm, 10,500 pounds, the regulator said
in  a statement today  on its website. The FSA also fined Robert
Peter Yarr, a financial adviser at McClelland Yarr Financial
Services Ltd. in Belfast, 28,000 pounds for not warning
customers about the risks of the products.  The FSA said in October that three firms were facing fines
after it probed sales literature in the 107 million-pound
structured-products market. Lehman’s September 2008 collapse and
bankruptcy prompted lawsuits by former clients whose assets were
frozen in insolvency proceedings around the world.  “Firms and individuals giving investment advice must
properly assess their clients’ needs and make suitable
recommendations,” FSA head of enforcement  Margaret Cole  said in
the statement. “They must also have the necessary systems and
controls in place to ensure that this happens.”  Royden was in charge of compliance at Thorntons’ Investment
Services at the time the firm was offering the products from
November 2007 and August 2008. Structured products were
typically marketed as guaranteeing the principal amount of money
invested, even if no returns were possible. After  Lehman’s
collapse , the investors’ original contributions weren’t repaid.  Independent Review  Thorntons “commissioned an independent review of systems,
following which, a number of improvements have been
implemented,” the firm said in an e-mailed statement. “We are
in the process of reviewing each case to ensure that our
obligations regarding redress are met and a number of clients
affected by the FSA findings have already received payment.”  Royden and Yarr didn’t immediately respond to requests for
comment. All three received the FSA’s standard 30 percent
discount for cooperating with the probe.  In February, the regulator fined a unit of  RSM Tenon Group
Plc , a London-based financial-advice company, 700,000 pounds for
failing to explain to customers the risks of products backed by
Lehman.  To contact the reporter for this story:
 Lindsay Fortado  in London at 
 lfortado@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net . 