-- U.S. Stocks Fall on Technology, Banking Profit Outlook
-- B y   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 2010-09-22T20:53:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-22/u-s-stock-index-futures-decline-adobe-shares-retreat-on-sales-forecast.html
U.S. stocks fell, dragging the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index to its biggest decline in two weeks,
as a weakening earnings outlook for technology and financial
companies overshadowed speculation the Federal Reserve will take
steps to bolster the economy.  Adobe Systems Inc.  tumbled 19 percent after estimating
sales that missed analysts’ projections. PMC-Sierra Inc. dropped
6 percent as the chipmaker reduced its third-quarter revenue
forecast.  Microsoft Corp.  sank 2.2 percent after announcing a
dividend increase that was smaller than some analysts expected.
Morgan Stanley and  Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  lost at least 2.2
percent, pacing a slump in financial shares, as Deutsche Bank AG
cut its earnings estimates for the banks.  The S&P 500 slid 0.5 percent, the most since Sept. 7, to
1,134.28 at 4 p.m. in New York, a day after the Federal Reserve
said it’s willing to ease monetary policy further to spur
growth. The  Dow Jones Industrial Average  fell 21.72 points, or
0.2 percent, to 10,739.31.  “We’re navigating the slow-growth economy and trying to
avoid pitfalls,” said  Jack Ablin , chief investment officer at
Chicago-based Harris Private Bank, which oversees $55 billion.
“The Fed will do whatever it can to avoid a double-dip
recession, but it can’t keep on buying debt forever. This is a
‘reflation’ story of weaker dollar, higher commodities prices
and lower interest rates. This is not an environment that
suggests a huge rally for stocks.”  The  S&P 500  has surged 11 percent from this year’s low on
July 2 as concern eased that U.S. unemployment and less spending
from indebted European nations would stall the global economic
recovery. The gauge has gained 1.7 percent so far this year,
leaving it 6.8 percent below its peak for 2010.  Housing Prices  Stocks reversed earlier gains after the Federal Housing
Finance Agency said U.S. home prices dropped 3.3 percent in July
from a year earlier, the eighth consecutive  decline , as
foreclosed properties flooded the market. Prices fell 0.5
percent from June, more than the projected drop of 0.2 percent
based on the median economist estimate in a Bloomberg survey.  Treasuries rose for a fourth day. The gains drove the  yield 
on the 10-year note to as low as 2.50 percent, the least since
Sept. 1. Two-year yields fell as low as 0.41 percent, the lowest
ever, after the Fed said that it’s “prepared to provide
additional accommodation if needed to support the economic
recovery.”  ‘More Challenging’  “Equity markets are trying to strike the right balance
between the willingness of the Fed to do more and its ability to
deliver good outcomes,”  Mohamed A. El-Erian , chief executive at
Pacific Investment Management Co., which runs the world’s
biggest bond fund, wrote in an e-mail to Bloomberg News. “The
Fed took a step towards acknowledging a more challenging
economic outlook, but stopped short of a full recognition and
implementing additional policy actions.”  President  Barack Obama  is contending with widespread
opposition at home and mostly approval abroad among investors in
a global poll reflecting divergent perspectives on the global
business climate. More than three-quarters of U.S. investors
view Obama as anti-business and are pessimistic about his
policies, while a majority outside the U.S. holds a more
favorable view, a Bloomberg survey shows.  Adobe  tumbled 19 percent to $26.67 after the company
yesterday said fourth-quarter revenue will be $950 million to $1
billion, citing slower demand from back-to-school shoppers and
Japanese buyers. Analysts surveyed by Bloomberg had projected
sales of $1.03 billion on average for the period, which lasts
through November.  PMC, Microsoft  PMC-Sierra  lost 6 percent to $7.32. The chipmaker reduced
its third-quarter sales forecast, saying it expects $163 million
at most. That trails the average analyst estimate of $173.5
million in a Bloomberg survey.  Microsoft  fell the most in the Dow, losing 2.2 percent to
$24.61. The world’s biggest software maker raised its quarterly
dividend by 23 percent to 16 cents a share. The magnitude of the
increase was “disappointing,” according to Cowen & Co. analyst
 Gregg Moskowitz , who said the 2.5 percent yield fell short of
his expectations of as much as 4 percent.  Financial stocks slumped 1.6 percent, the  biggest decline 
in the S&P 500 among 10 industries.  ‘Weak’ Trading Revenue  Morgan Stanley and  Goldman Sachs  had their third-quarter
earnings estimates cut by Deutsche Bank, which cited weak
trading revenue. Goldman Sachs’s earnings-per-share estimate was
lowered to $1.95 from $3 and Morgan Stanley’s was trimmed to 15
cents from 50 cents, analysts led by  Michael Carrier  said in a
note to clients yesterday. The German bank has a “buy”
recommendation on both stocks. Morgan Stanley fell 4.3 percent
to $24.95, while Goldman Sachs declined 2.2 percent to $148.07.  New York Times Co.  slid 6.5 percent to $7.45. The newspaper
publisher said third-quarter profit will be 3 cents to 5 cents
on an adjusted basis. Analysts surveyed by Bloomberg have
estimated 4 cents on average. Revenue in the quarter ending this
month will decline as much as 3 percent, the company said, while
circulation sales will decrease about 5 percent.  The NYSE Arca Airline Index slumped 2 percent, led by  AMR
Corp.  The owner of American Airlines said its mainline unit
revenue will increase 11 percent at most in the third quarter.
That trailed an estimate for a gain of 12 percent by Deutsche
Bank. JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Stifel Nicolaus & Co. both
widened their 2010 loss estimates for the airline. AMR sank 8.7
percent to $6.28.  Lower S&P 500 Forecast  Bank of America Corp.’s chief U.S. equity strategist  David Bianco  cut his forecast for the S&P 500’s year-end level to
1,250 from 1,300, citing concern that American taxes will rise
and hold the economic recovery back.  “We believe that Congress will be gridlocked through year-
end until the new Congress is seated in January,” Bianco wrote
in a note today. “The fear of tax hikes in 2011 is likely to
constrain growth. This setback to confidence is likely to
prevent the S&P 500 from reaching our previous target.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rita Nazareth  in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 