-- Mortgage Applications Index in U.S. Declines for a Third Week
-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 2010-09-22T11:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-22/u-s-mortgage-applications-retreat-amid-decline-in-purchases-refinancing.html
Mortgage applications in the U.S.
declined last week for a third consecutive time, hurt by a drop
in purchasing and refinancing.  The Mortgage Bankers Association’s  index  fell 1.4 percent
in the week ended Sept. 17 to the lowest level in six weeks, the
Washington-based group said today.  Purchases  decreased 3.3
percent and  refinancing  lost 0.9 percent.  An  unemployment  rate near a 26-year high and battered
household finances will probably restrain housing, even as
record-low mortgage costs and decreasing prices make buying more
affordable. Federal Reserve policy makers yesterday again
acknowledged that the economic recovery will be “modest,” in
part because residential construction remains “depressed.”  “The housing recovery will remain very slow,”  Chris Christopher , a senior economist at IHS Global Insight in
Lexington, Massachusetts, said in a note before the report.  A report yesterday from the Commerce Department showed
builders in August sought fewer permits to begin work on single-
family homes for a fifth consecutive month. Overall, housing
starts rose more than forecast, outstripping a gain in
applications that signals construction will stay close to record
lows.  The average rate on a  30-year  fixed mortgage fell to 4.44
percent last week from 4.47 percent the prior week, today’s
report from the bankers’ group showed. It reached 4.43 percent
in the last week of August, the lowest in data going back to
1990.  Lower Payments  At the current rate, monthly payments for each $100,000 of
a loan would be about $503, or $32 less than a year ago when the
rate was 4.97 percent.  The average rate on a 15-year fixed loan fell to 3.88
percent from 3.96 percent, and the rate on a one-year adjustable
climbed to 6.96 percent from 6.89 percent.  The share of applicants seeking to refinance a loan rose to
81.3 percent from 80.5 percent the prior week.  Sales slumped after the deadline for signing contracts and
becoming eligible for a government homebuyer credit worth as
much as $8,000 lapsed on April 30. The tax incentive provided
temporary relief for the industry that precipitated the
recession.  The Fed’s policy-making Federal Open Market Committee
yesterday said it’s willing to ease monetary policy further to
reduce unemployment and prevent inflation from slowing further.
Officials kept the benchmark interest rate in a range of zero to
0.25 percent, where it’s been since December 2008.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Shobhana Chandra  in Washington at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  