-- UBS Hires Naomi Takagi From JPMorgan, Expanding Japanese Equity Research
-- B y   T a k a h i k o   H y u g a
-- 2010-09-22T03:36:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-22/ubs-hires-naomi-takagi-from-jpmorgan-expanding-japanese-equity-research.html
UBS AG , Switzerland’s biggest bank,
said it hired analyst  Naomi Takagi  from  JPMorgan Chase & Co.  in
a bid to expand its equity research business in Japan.  Takagi, rated best Japan food and beverage analyst this
year by the Nikkei Veritas newspaper, joined UBS this week, said
 Damien Horth , head of Asia and Japan equity research. The bank
will hire more analysts in the “next couple of weeks,” he said.  Domestic and overseas banks are luring research talent from
rivals to earn more commissions and fees from equity-related
business in Japan. Takagi is the latest of at least three senior
hires at UBS in the country as the Swiss bank boosts its equity
research and investment banking businesses in Japan.  Tokyo-based Horth, 37, will move to Hong Kong this year
after the bank expanded his duties to include all of Asia from
solely covering Japan. Fund managers in Japan are demanding more
research on Asian markets as the continent leads the global
economic recovery and Japanese companies seek growth in the
region, Horth said in an interview in Tokyo yesterday.  Asahi Breweries Ltd. , the country’s second-largest
beermaker, agreed to buy Australia’s P&N Beverages last month,
building on its acquisition of Cadbury Plc’s Australian drinks
unit last year. Asahi, which is among the companies reported to
be interested in bidding for Foster’s Group Ltd.’s beer business,
is adding overseas business given the 16 percent contraction of
Japan’s beer market since its peak in 1994.  Kirin Holdings Co. , Japan’s largest brewer, and Suntory
Holdings Ltd. are among beverage makers that are also seeking
mergers and acquisitions.  Watanabe From Citigroup  Takagi’s recruitment follows the hiring of  Yoshifumi Watanabe  from Citigroup Inc. last month to head UBS’s financial
institutions group. UBS also employed  Zenji Nakamura  in May from
Nomura Holdings Inc. to run its fixed income, currencies and
commodities unit.  Bank of America Corp.’s Merrill Lynch & Co. also plans to
boost equity research in Japan to 360 companies from 318 this
year, adding firms in the automobile, pharmaceutical, Internet
and transportation industries. Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group
Inc., Japan’s second-largest bank, is also adding domestic
research analysts.  Recent defections of other top-rated analysts to rival
firms include securities and insurance analyst Masao Muraki,
hired by Deutsche Bank AG this month from Daiwa Securities Group
Inc., and paper industry analyst Hiroyuki Okaseri, recruited by
Sumitomo Mitsui’s Nikko Cordial Securities Inc. from Mitsubishi
UFJ Morgan Stanley Securities Co.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Takahiko Hyuga  in Tokyo at 
 thyuga@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  