-- Lufthansa Names Franz to Succeed CEO Mayrhuber Next Year at German Airline
-- B y   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n
-- 2010-09-22T17:02:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-22/lufthansa-appoints-christoph-franz-to-succeed-mayrhuber-as-airline-s-ceo.html
Deutsche Lufthansa AG , Europe’s
second-largest carrier, named  Christoph Franz  to succeed
 Wolfgang Mayrhuber  as chief executive officer and announced  jet 
orders valued at 3.5 billion euros ($4.7 billion).  Franz, 50, will take over on Jan. 1, the Cologne, Germany-
based airline said in a  statement  today.  Carsten Spohr , 43, who
has run the cargo unit since 2007, will succeed Franz as head of
the Lufthansa brand passenger unit.  The CEO of Swiss International Air Lines from 2004 to 2009,
Franz made the carrier profitable after it was taken over by
Lufthansa by cutting costs. He initiated a program to reduce
annual expenses by 1 billion euros by the end of 2011 at the
Lufthansa brand. That track record may help Lufthansa turn
around the Austrian Airlines and BMI units it bought last year.  “He works very solidly and turned Swiss around when it was
in difficulty,” said  Bjorn Naf , an ex-CEO at Gulf Air who
worked at Swiss between 2000 and 2004 before Franz joined.
“Swiss was a much smaller company than Lufthansa, so he may
find it difficult dealing with the political aspect of the
airline. There will be a lot more restrictions in Lufthansa and
the job will be more about the network he will have to work
within.”  BMI, Austrian  Lufthansa’s shares  fell  from a two-year high, dropping 1.9
percent to 13.40 euros at the 5:30 p.m. close of trading in
Frankfurt. That pared the stock’s gains this year to 14 percent
and valued the company at 6.1 billion euros.  “We view the appointment of Christoph Franz as the
continuation of the air carrier’s strategic positioning
in Europe and around the world,” said Donald Reed, who manages
about $1.4 billion at Franklin Templeton Investments in Toronto.  The supervisory board today also approved an order for 48
planes. The aircraft include eight Airbus SAS A330 wide-bodies
for long-haul flights. The single-aisle contracts are for two
A321s, 22 A320s, eight A319s and eight Empresa Brasileira de
Aeronautica SA E-195 regional jets.  The aircraft will be delivered beginning in 2012 and
financed from cash or “external financing,” Lufthansa said.  Mayrhuber, who took charge of Lufthansa in 2003, oversaw
the takeovers of Swiss, BMI, Austrian and Brussels Airlines. It
isn’t immediately clear yet what the 63-year-old plans to do
after stepping down.  Engineering Background  Franz studied industrial engineering in Germany, France and
the U.S. He helped former CEO and current chairman  Juergen Weber 
cope with a slump in demand following the 1991 Iraq War. He also
worked at Deutsche Bahn AG for nine years, eventually leading
the state-owned railway’s passenger business.  His contact will run until May 31, 2014, Lufthansa said.  In an interview with the carrier’s employee newsletter
published last week, Franz said that he is aiming for an 8
percent operating margin for the Lufthansa brand passenger
division. The unit had an operating loss of 203 million euros in
the first half, bringing the group to an operating loss of 171
million euros.  Revenue was hurt in the period by cold winter weather, a
strike by pilots and an ash cloud from an Iceland volcano that
shut down European air traffic during April.  Lufthansa more than doubled its net income in the three
months through June to 194 million euros.  British Airways Plc 
had a 122 million-pound ($191 million) loss, while  Air France-
KLM Group , Europe’s largest airline by traffic, reported an
operating loss of 142 million euros from its passenger business.  Fares Rebound  Demand for Lufthansa’s passenger and cargo transport have
bounced back after the economic crisis. Average fares are almost
back to 2008 levels except on short-haul routes, and the cargo
division is raising prices for the second time this year
starting Oct. 1 after a slump in the previous year  “Through his work at Swiss, he has proven that he can
bring an airline onto the right path,” said  Uwe Weinreich , an
analyst at Unicredit in Munich with a “hold” recommendation on
the shares. “Lufthansa is a different story in terms of size,
but I’m sure he can do it.”  The carrier agreed on pay freezes with its pilots and
ground staff this year. It is negotiating with cabin crews, and
the UFO union has said it may call for walkouts should talks
fail to result in an agreement.  Karl Ulrich Garnadt , 53, was proposed to succeed Spohr as
head of the cargo division, the airline said. Garnadt is
currently chief of hub management and passenger services at
Lufthansa’s passenger unit.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Cornelius Rahn  in Frankfurt at 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong in Berlin at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  