-- Uranium Miners Need 25% Price Gain to Expand, Rio’s Beyer Says
-- B y   A n n a   S t a b l u m
-- 2010-09-22T14:02:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-22/uranium-miners-need-25-price-gain-to-expand-rio-s-beyer-says.html
Uranium must rise 25 percent to
give mining companies an incentive to start or expand projects
outside of top producer Kazakhstan, said  Clark Beyer , managing
director of Rio Tinto Uranium Ltd.  His comments apply to uranium-oxide concentrate’s “long-
term” price, defined as delivery in more than 24 months by Ux
Consulting Co. The price is $60 a pound, UxC said Sept. 20 in
its latest weekly report, compared with a 2010 low of $58.  “You need probably a $75 price to incentivize a lot of the
new projects around the world,” Beyer said yesterday in an
interview. “It is certainly a helpful sign that things are
picking up, but as yet we haven’t seen much movement in the
long-term price.”  Kazakhstan, which now accounts for almost a third of world
uranium production, more than tripled its output of the
radioactive element over the past five years, according to
figures from the World Nuclear Association. Output fell in that
span in Canada, the second-biggest producer, and in third-
ranking Australia, according to association data.  “There are a lot of projects on the drawing board that
will have trouble getting into production or will be delayed”
at current prices, Beyer said. “Almost all of the supply growth
of the past five years has been in Kazakhstan. If it is going to
be anywhere else, in Africa, Australia and Canada, we will
probably need to see stronger prices.”  Spot Market  UxC expects between 40 million and 45 million pounds of
uranium to trade this year on the spot market, where most
purchases are for delivery in up to three months. A record 54
million pounds was bought and sold last year, accounting for
about 33 percent of global reactor needs, according to the
Roswell, Georgia-based consultant.  Uranium for immediate delivery has climbed 19 percent to
$48 a pound from this year’s low in March, UxC’s latest report
shows. The “long-term” price “is really the more important
indicator when it comes to supporting new project development,
rather than the spot price,” Beyer said.  Rio Tinto Group  is the world’s third-biggest uranium
producer after Paris-based Areva SA and Cameco Corp., located in
Saskatoon, Saskatchewan. London-based Rio has controlling stakes
in Energy Resources of Australia Ltd., the operator of the
Ranger uranium mine, and the Rossing mine in Namibia, its
 website  shows.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Anna Stablum  in London at 
 astablum@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 