-- Vale's Blanco Says New Iron-Ore Projects Face More Hurdles Than Decade Ago
-- B y   J u a n   P a b l o   S p i n e t t o
-- 2010-09-22T10:05:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-22/vale-faces-difficulties-in-getting-iron-ore-projects-on-stream.html
Vale SA , the world’s largest iron-
ore company, said producers of the steelmaking ingredient face
more difficulties than a decade ago in bringing new projects on
stream as the market tightens.  Unfavorable exchange rates, scarcity of capital and
restraints relating to environmental and infrastructure
requirements are all obstacles,  Fidel Blanco , Vale’s senior
managing director of iron ore sales, said today at a conference
in London.  Mining companies including  Anglo American Plc , Xstrata Plc
and  Vedanta Resources Plc  have seen projects stall on regulatory
scrutiny this year. Anglo, seeking to get its Minas Rio iron-ore
venture in Brazil off the ground, said in July the cost of the
development may rise by about a fifth because of delays in
getting permits and project design changes.  Producers are striving to get projects on line as demand
for the raw material climbs. Global consumption will be close to
1 billion metric tons this year, Blanco said, adding that Vale
produced 144.9 million tons in the first half. The seaborne
market will be even tighter in 2010 than in 2008, the Rio de
Janeiro-based company said in a presentation.  Prices for iron ore almost doubled in the April quarter and
gained more than 20 percent in the June-to-September period.
Vale,  Rio Tinto Group  and  BHP Billiton Ltd. , which account for
three-quarters of global iron ore trade, this year ended a 40-
year custom of setting annual prices in favor of quarterly
agreements as they bet on rising prices.  The recovery in demand “is not a surprise” and will
continue “moderately,” Blanco said today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Juan Pablo Spinetto  in London at 
 jspinetto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amanda Jordan at 
 ajordan11@bloomberg.net  