-- Velarde Says Peru's Rate Should Be 4 Percent in '12 in a `Benign Scenario'
-- B y   F a b i o l a   M o u r a   a n d   B e n   B a i n
-- 2010-09-22T16:26:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-22/velarde-says-peru-s-rate-should-be-at-4-in-2012-in-a-benign-scenario-.html
Peru’s benchmark rate should
eventually rise to about 4 percent, though the central bank can
slow the pace should economic growth “cool down,” bank
Governor  Julio Velarde  said in New York.  “Probably we have to return close to normal, close to 4
percent,” Velarde said. “But we can take the time to do that
if we don’t see inflationary pressure and the economy is
beginning to cool down.”  The central bank has increased its  reference rate  five
times since May, to 3 percent, and raised reserve requirements
after government spending and a rebound in private investment
raised the risk of stirring inflationary pressures.  Policy makers quickened the pace of rate increases to 50
basis points at the August and September meetings after quarter-
point increases at the three previous meetings.  “Probably, in a benign scenario, two years from now we’ll
be at 4 percent,” Velarde said. South America’s sixth-largest
economy is no longer in danger of overheating after rate
increases and slower growth in public outlays, he said Sept. 17.  Peruvian monetary authorities are scheduled to meet Oct. 7.
The bank “might be getting ready to slow the pace of rate
increases to 25 basis points at the next meeting, unless data on
real activity and/or inflation surprise on the upside,”  Alberto Ramos , an economist at Goldman Sachs Group Inc. in New York,
said in an e-mail to clients on Sept. 17.  While Peru’s economy is still growing “pretty strongly,”
close to 8.7 percent in the third quarter, as consumption of
energy and cement remains at high levels, it will slow to about
6 percent in the fourth quarter, Velarde said.  The sol was little changed at 2.7910 per dollar at 12:20
p.m. New York time from 2.7915 yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Fabiola Moura  in New York at 
 fdemoura@bloomberg.net ;
 Ben Bain  in New York at 
 bbain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  