-- Verizon Taps `Intuitive' McAdam to Lead in Era of Apple, Google
-- B y   A m y   T h o m s o n
-- 2010-09-22T20:14:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-22/verizon-taps-intuitive-mcadam-as-heir-apparent-in-era-of-apple-google.html
In 2008,  Lowell McAdam , head of
Verizon Wireless, introduced an unlimited wireless calling plan
for $99.99 a month that sparked investor concerns he was
starting a price war.  The company argued the plan would boost revenue over time
as customers used their mobile phones more, and  AT&T Inc.  and T-
Mobile USA Inc. matched the move within hours. McAdam, who this
week was named  Verizon Communications Inc. ’s chief operating
officer and heir apparent, had a clear vision for the future
that has helped his company succeed, said  Larry Babbio , a former
president of Verizon Communications, co-owner of Verizon
Wireless with Vodafone Group Plc.  “He understood the business not just intellectually, but
intuitively,” Babbio, now a senior adviser at Warburg Pincus in
New York, said in an interview. “Lowell was able to create a
vision for the entire company, and then he was able to execute
in every element of the business.”  His skills helped McAdam, 56, build Verizon Wireless into
the biggest wireless business in the U.S. Now McAdam, who
started his private-sector career in 1983 as the old Ma Bell was
being broken into pieces, will need those skills to help Verizon
succeed in an industry being remade by  Apple Inc.  and  Google
Inc.   “It’s a changing landscape,”  Blair Levin , a fellow at the
Aspen Institute in Washington, said in an interview. “There’s a
whole new set of issues, new rules of the road.”  McAdam’s Sept. 20 promotion puts him in line to succeed
Chief Executive Officer  Ivan Seidenberg , who is expected to
retire by his 65th birthday in December 2011. McAdam and
Seidenberg declined to comment through spokesman  Marquett Smith .  Verizon’s Struggles  The appointment comes as Verizon is struggling with the
loss of traditional telephone customers. Though the company has
come to rely increasingly on Verizon Wireless, the largest
wireless business in the U.S., for revenue growth, that growth
is slowing as more people get mobile phones. Verizon’s sales may
shrink in 2010 for the first time in five years, according to
the  estimates of analysts  surveyed by Bloomberg.  Companies such as Verizon need to figure out new approaches
to business, Levin said. The challenge, he said, is that a
company like Google is both partner and rival. Google markets
mobile applications that compete with Verizon’s products, even
as Android phones operate on Verizon Wireless.  McAdam will have to be ready to capitalize on the
opportunities for cooperation, while competing where needed,
Levin said.  “His leadership qualities have been pretty clear from my
dealings with him,” said Levin, who crafted the U.S. broadband
plan with telecom and Internet companies while he worked at the
Federal Communications Commission. “An important part of that
is political leadership.”  McAdam’s Early Years  McAdam grew up in upstate New York. His family owned a farm
machinery business and McAdam would fiddle with welding and
machining tools, while his father ran the shop, according to an
 interview  McAdam did last year with the University of San Diego.  He got his MBA from USD after receiving a bachelor’s degree
in engineering at Cornell University. In between the two
schools, he was an engineer in the U.S. Navy, serving in San
Diego and Okinawa, according to an interview with a veterans’
publication.  McAdam is still a tinkerer. In his spare time, he restores
old cars, particularly 1970s-era muscle cars. One recent project
was fixing up one car built as a pacer for the 1969 Indianapolis
500, according to the USD video.  “He has a well-documented love of cars, and he restores
classic cars,” said David Pyke, dean of the San Diego business
school, where McAdam graduated in 1983. “Some people do their
roses, and he’s in his workshop making really old, ugly looking
cars look fabulous.”  Fine-Tuning Verizon  McAdam has been fine-tuning Verizon Wireless ever since he
took over at the beginning of 2007. He helped engineer the
acquisition of Alltel Corp., which allowed the company surpass
 AT&T  as the largest wireless company in the U.S.  He has also championed the Android smartphones made by
 Motorola Inc.  and  HTC Corp. , helping the company compete against
AT&T, the exclusive carrier for the iPhone in the U.S. Android
phones outsold the iPhone and the BlackBerry from  Research In
Motion Ltd.  in the U.S. in the second quarter, according to
researcher Gartner Inc.  McAdam has also led the push toward fourth-generation
wireless technology, called long-term evolution. The technology
will debut later this year with speeds similar to what customers
get on fixed broadband connections at home. To promote the new
service, McAdam oversaw the creation of labs for building LTE
products, as well as a $1.3 billion venture capital fund.  Succession Planning  Verizon Communications rose 7 cents to $32.39 in New York
Stock Exchange composite trading at 4 p.m. The shares have
increased 4.6 percent this year.  Babbio said that Seidenberg, who has been Verizon’s only
CEO since it was created in 2000, has been planning for his
retirement for years. Six or eight years ago, Verizon’s
management chose a handful of potential successors and put them
in roles that would illustrate their abilities, he said.  McAdam’s work since then has convinced Seidenberg he’s the
right person to lead Verizon as it faces such dramatic change,
Babbio said.  “Your primary job as a manager is to leave this company in
the hands of somebody that is better than you are,” Babbio
said. “I don’t think Ivan’s ashamed to say that he’s going to
leave the company in the hands of someone better than he is.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Amy Thomson  in New York at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at   pelstrom@bloomberg.net  