-- Volvo, Saab Need More Than `Me-Too' Luxury to Beat BMW
-- B y   O l a   K i n n a n d e r
-- 2010-09-22T22:01:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-22/volvo-saab-need-more-than-me-too-german-luxury-to-beat-bmw.html
Volvo Cars and Saab Automobile AB,
struggling to revive slumping U.S. sales, need distinctive
design and the right price tags to compete as luxury brands
against  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG  and Daimler AG.  “It will be very difficult for them to move up,” said
 Brian Johnson , an automotive analyst at Barclays Capital in
Chicago. They need to “get something that’s uniquely
Scandinavian in design, as opposed to being ‘me-too’ German.”  Moving into the luxury segment in the U.S. is essential to
restoring profitability at Saab and Volvo after years of losses
under  General Motors Co.  and  Ford Motor Co.  The U.S. is Volvo’s
largest market and was Saab’s biggest until last year.  Volvo’s eight-month U.S. deliveries dropped 12 percent
because offerings such as the S40 sedan failed to attract
buyers, while Saab’s plunged 86 percent as consumers waited for
the new 9-5, the carmaker’s first new model in eight years. BMW
and  Daimler ’s Mercedes-Benz both posted gains.  As the Swedish carmakers plan new models, which take years
to build, they’re counting on their offerings at the Paris auto
show opening next week to help bring back some of the buzz.  Volvo will premiere its new V60 station wagon, while Saab
will showcase a prototype of its first electric car. A test
fleet of the Saab 9-3 ePower, an all-electric version of the 9-3
SportCombi, will begin user trials in Sweden next year.  New Owners  The automakers will need to lure back customers who
fled in the last year as GM and Ford sought to offload them.
 Ford  sold Volvo to Zhejiang Geely Holding Group Co. last month
for $1.5 billion, while Spyker Cars NV purchased Saab from GM in
February for $74 million in cash and $326 million in shares.  Saab’s U.S. sales, which peaked at 48,000 cars in 2003,
dropped to 8,500 last year. Volvo’s U.S. deliveries declined 16
percent to 61,435 in 2009. BMW sold 196,502 cars in the U.S.
last year, while Mercedes-Benz delivered 190,604.  Toyota Motor
Corp. ’s Lexus is the luxury leader in the U.S., the world’s
second-largest car market after China.  The fight back will be toughest for Saab, which was on the
brink of collapse before Spyker stepped in. While Volvo is now
backed by a Chinese company with money to invest, Spyker has
never turned a profit and is smaller than Saab, which is
surviving on loans from the European Union’s investment bank.  Saab’s 9-5, released in the U.S. last month, competes with
Audi AG’s A6, BMW’s 5-Series and  Mercedes-Benz ’s E-Class. The
release follows the full restart of Saab’s factory in Troll-
hattan after a seven-week shutdown earlier this year under GM.  Rebuilding  “It takes some time to recover from that damage, to
marshal your forces, rebuild your sales teams and get ready to
sell,” said Mike Colleran, Saab’s North American chief. “Our
business plan is to restore the U.S. to its former place as
Saab’s number one market.”  Saab is pricing the 9-5 in the U.S. in the luxury segment,
with the Aero version of the car starting at $47,565, according
to the manufacturer’s website. The BMW 5-Series begins at
$44,550 and  Audi ’s A6 at $45,200. The strategy will be difficult
to implement, said analyst  Michelle Krebs .  “Saab priced the 9-5 very aggressively,” said Krebs, a
senior analyst at Santa Monica, California-based Edmunds.com.
“They priced it right on top of BMW and for a brand that’s
trying to come back, they didn’t earn that spot yet.”  Volvo Cars Chief Executive Officer  Stefan Jacoby , who took
over this month after leading Volkswagen AG’s U.S. operations,
says he intends to bring the automaker into the “top league of
the premium manufacturers.” To do that, Volvo will no longer be
able to rely alone on its reputation for safety.  Safety Reputation  “That intangible has lower and lower value each day,”
said  Michael Robinet , an IHS Automotive analyst in Northville,
Michigan, explaining that nowadays most cars sold in the U.S.
win the government’s top safety ranking.  Both brands need better design to succeed in the U.S., said
 Jim Hall , principal of 2953 Analytics Inc. in Birmingham,
Michigan. The Swedish carmakers in recent years crafted cars
that were too bland or confused buyers, he said.  “Volvo’s XC60 SUV, to me, is sort of a mess,” Hall said.
“Drive behind one in traffic and there’s a lot going on.”  Volvo’s new S60, a retooled version of the mid-sized sedan
that first came out in 2000, will start selling in the U.S. at
the end of the year, said  Gerry Keaney , Volvo’s sales and
marketing chief. The car, which comes with an optional system to
automatically stop the vehicle at low speeds if someone walks in
front of it, starts at $37,700.  Improved Models  It should be able to overtake the XC60 as Gothenburg-based
Volvo’s best-selling U.S. model, Keaney said.  “Rather than just a traditional big TV campaign we are
taking the car on the road around the country, demonstrating it
and letting customers and dealers experience the car,” Keaney
said. “We have a better car range going forward that’s more
suitable to North America.”  The first challenge will be letting American consumers know
the carmakers survived.  “A lot of our customers still think there is nothing going
on,” said John Carter, a Saab dealer in West Chester,
Pennsylvania. “We’re reaching out to them and showing them
we’re here and mean business.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ola Kinnander  at 
 okinnander@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at   kwong11@bloomberg.net  