-- Vue Said to Conclude Sale of Company Next Month, Considers Buying Rivals
-- B y   K r i s t e n   S c h w e i z e r   a n d   B r e t t   F o l e y
-- 2010-09-22T16:10:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-22/vue-said-to-conclude-sale-of-company-next-month-considers-buying-rivals.html
Vue Entertainment Ltd.  is seeking
to conclude the sale of the cinema chain to a private equity
buyer for as much as 500 million pounds ($784 million) and may
use the proceeds to buy a rival, according to two people with
knowledge of the matter.  The company is in talks with potential buyers, including
Permira Advisers LLP and CVC Capital Partners Ltd., and the
auction will be narrowed to one or two bidders next week, when
bids are due, one of the people said. The sale of Vue, which
operates about 700 movie screens in the U.K., Ireland, Portugal
and Taiwan, is expected to conclude in October, said the people,
who declined to be identified as the matter is private.  Vue, based in London, may use proceeds from its sale to buy
a competitor such as Terra Firma Capital Partners Ltd.’s Odeon &
UCI Cinemas Group, the U.K.’s largest cinema chain, or  Cineworld
Plc , the people said. Vue could also look at large operators in
continental Europe, the people said. A spokesman for Vue
declined to comment.  The management of Vue would retain a stake in the company
and stay in place after any sale, the people said. The company
is 52 percent owned by its executives, while  Och-Ziff Capital
Management Group LLC  has 19 percent and Coller Capital Ltd.
holds 29 percent.  Vue, which is outfitting its screens with digital equipment
to screen 3-D films and live events, is being advised by  UBS AG .
In the 12 months ending May 2010, Vue had more than 37 million
customers, according to the company’s website.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Kristen Schweizer  in London at 
 kschweizer1@bloomberg.net ;
 Brett Foley  in London at 
 bfoley8@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at   vroot@bloomberg.net ;
Jeff St.Onge in London at 
 jstonge@bloomberg.net . 