-- Warner Bros.’ Meyer Extends Contract, Horn to Consult
-- B y   M i c h a e l   W h i t e
-- 2010-09-22T22:51:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-22/warner-bros-extends-ceo-meyer-s-contract-president-horn-to-be-consultant.html
Warner Bros. Chairman and Chief
Executive Officer  Barry Meyer  agreed to stay on through December
2013, while President  Alan Horn  will become a studio consultant.  Warner Bros., maker of the Harry Potter and Batman films,
also created a president’s office to lead the studio after Meyer
leaves.  Jeff Robinov  is president of motion pictures,  Bruce Rosenblum  leads television and  Kevin Tsujihara  oversees home
entertainment. Each will becomes more involved in the overall
business, New York-based Time Warner said today in a statement.  With the extension for Meyer, Time Warner establishes a
succession timetable at the studio, which is second at the U.S.
box office this year with revenue of $1.26 billion, according to
the industry  website  Box Office Mojo. The three divisional
executives will continue as co-presidents when Meyer departs,
according to  Paul McGuire , a Warner Bros. spokesman.  “We decided that this phased plan was in the best interest
of Warner Bros. and its businesses,”  Jeff Bewkes , Time Warner’s
chairman and CEO, said in the statement.  Meyer, 66, has been the studio’s CEO since 1999. Horn, 67,
has been president since then as well.  Warner Bros., based in Burbank, California, contributed
$2.52 billion of parent  Time Warner ’s $6.38 billion in revenue
during the second quarter.  Motion pictures, led by Robinov, 51, generated $1.44
billion in sales, while the television unit led by Rosenblum,
52, contributed $868 million from shows such as “Two and a Half
Men,” according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Home entertainment, headed by Tsujihara, 45, generated $680
million for both groups.  ‘Phased Plan’  Robinov will gain authority to approve movie projects when
Horn leaves, spokesman McGuire said in an interview.  Time Warner, also the owner of HBO and CNN, fell 61 cents
to $31.25 at 4:15 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite
 trading . The stock has gained 7.2 percent this year.  Time Warner led the domestic box office in 2009 with $2.11
billion in ticket sales, according to Box Office Mojo. This
weekend the studio releases “Legend of the Guardians: The Owls
of Ga’Hoole,” and it is scheduled to release the latest chapter
of the Harry Potter saga in November.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael White  in Los Angeles at 
 mwhite8@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at   apalazzo@bloomberg.net . 