-- Wayzata’s Anchor Glass Said to Seek Buyer, May Fetch $1 Billion
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   R .   M i d e r   a n d   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n
-- 2010-09-22T19:09:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-22/wayzata-s-anchor-glass-said-to-seek-buyer-may-fetch-1-billion.html
Anchor Glass Container Corp. , the
bottle maker that’s been through three bankruptcies since 1996,
is for sale and may fetch as much as $1 billion, said people
with knowledge of the matter.  Closely held Anchor is controlled by Minnesota-based
Wayzata Investment Partners, a spinoff of Cargill Inc. that
bought the company in 2006. Wayzata is using  Goldman Sachs Group
Inc . to look for a buyer, said the people, who spoke on
condition of anonymity because the talks are private.  The bottle maker is likely to get more interest from
private-equity funds than from competitors, the people said. It
has annual earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization of about $150 million and may fetch six or seven
times that amount in a sale, the people said.  Private-equity firms are buying and selling companies among
themselves this year, seizing on the revival of credit markets
to cash out old investments and invest their newer funds.
Leveraged buyout-backed companies that have agreed to be sold to
other private-equity investors this year include Burger King
Holdings Inc., for $3.3 billion; Multiplan Inc., for $3.1
billion; and Michael Foods Inc. for $1.7 billion.  John Foley, a partner at Wayzata who sits on Anchor’s
board, said he couldn’t comment, as did a spokeswoman for
Goldman Sachs. A message left at Anchor’s executive office today
wasn’t immediately returned.  One bottle maker that has pursued Anchor in the past is the
world’s biggest,  Owens-Illinois Inc . The company bought plants
from Anchor in 1997 and sought a controlling stake in 2001.
Stephanie Johnston, an Owens-Illinois spokeswoman, declined to
comment on Anchor, adding that Owens-Illinois looks at all
options to determine if they fit with the company’s strategy.  Glass Operations  Based in Tampa, Florida, Anchor calls itself the third-
largest glass container maker in  North America , with eight
plants in states including  Florida , Ohio and  Indiana  and about
2,900 employees, according to its website. In a 2005 regulatory
filing, it said Anheuser-Busch Cos., the brewer that is now part
of  Anheuser-Busch Inbev NV , accounted for about half of sales.  Anchor has had had six owners and two initial public
offerings in the past thirty years. It came into being when
Wesray Corp., an early practitioner of the leveraged buyout,
bought the glass container division of Anchor Hocking Co. in
1983. Wesray later took Anchor Glass public, and in 1989 a
Mexican glassmaker, Vitro SA, acquired it in a hostile takeover.  By 1997, Anchor had sought  bankruptcy protection , and most
of its assets were sold to  Canada ’s Consumers Packaging Inc. In
2002, headed toward a second bankruptcy, Anchor agreed to an
investment by Stephen Feinberg’s Cerberus Capital Management LP
that would leave the New York-based buyout firm with a
controlling position.  Cerberus took the company public the next year. By 2005 it
was in bankruptcy again. After Anchor emerged the following
year,  Wayzata , which manages private-equity and hedge-fund
investments, acquired a majority stake.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zachary R. Mider in  New York  at 
 zmider1@bloomberg.net ;
Jeffrey McCracken in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Jennifer Sondag  at   jsondag@bloomberg.net . 