-- Wen Says 20% Gain in Yuan Would Cause Social Upheaval
-- B y   Y e   X i e
-- 2010-09-23T05:44:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-22/wen-says-investment-structure-is-main-cause-of-trade-imbalance-with-u-s-.html
Chinese Premier  Wen Jiabao  said a
20 percent rise in the yuan would cause severe job losses and
trigger social instability, putting the nation on course for a
clash with U.S. lawmakers demanding a stronger currency.  “We cannot imagine how many Chinese factories will go
bankrupt, how many Chinese workers will lose their jobs, and how
many migrant workers will return to the countryside” should
China acquiesce to demands for a 20 percent to 40 percent gain,
Wen said in New York yesterday. “China would suffer major
social upheaval.”  The yuan has appreciated about 2 percent against the dollar
since June 19, when the central bank said it would pursue a more
flexible exchange rate after keeping the currency at about 6.83
versus the U.S. currency for almost two years. The yuan gained
0.1 percent to 6.7079 per dollar on Sept. 21, the strongest
level since the central bank unified official and market
exchange rates at the end of 1993.  “To make a call for a currency to be revalued in the near
term by up to 40 percent is something that only someone who
isn’t familiar with the economics of exchange rates would say,”
said  Glenn Maguire , a Hong Kong-based economist at Societe
Generale SA. “It’s just not that feasible for something like
that to happen so quickly.”  The yuan’s value isn’t causing the U.S.  trade deficit  with
China or fueling unemployment and there is no basis for a
“drastic appreciation” in the currency, Wen said in an evening
speech at an event co-hosted by the National Committee on U.S.-
China Relations and the U.S.-China Business Council.  Cheap Currency  President  Barack Obama  earlier this week said China is
keeping the currency cheap to aid exports.  The currency is “valued lower than market conditions say
it should be” and that gives China “an advantage in trade,”
Obama said Sept. 20 at a town-hall discussion on jobs and the
economy in Washington. The U.S. House Ways and Means Committee
said yesterday it will meet Sept. 24 to consider legislation to
push China to raise the value of its currency.  “The main cause of the U.S. trade deficit is not the
exchange rate of the Chinese currency, but the structure of
investment and savings,” Wen said at a meeting with U.S.
business leaders, including Goldman Sachs Group Inc. Chief
Executive Officer  Lloyd Blankfein , in New York yesterday.
“China doesn’t pursue a trade surplus intentionally.”  November Elections  The U.S. trade deficit with China is widening at a time
when Obama is confronted with an unemployment rate of 9.6
percent and the threat for his Democratic party to lose seats
heading into the November elections. China ran up a $119 billion
trade surplus with the U.S. in the first half of 2010, putting
it on course to exceed last year’s total of $227 billion,
figures from the U.S. Commerce Department show.  With the “U.S. having outsourced all its manufacturing
capacity and production to China, the policy response of getting
the currency to appreciate dramatically, or put up tariffs,
would ultimately mean the welfare loss is more likely to be in
the U.S. than China,” Societe Generale’s Maguire said.  China’s exports are focused on labor-intensive
manufacturing, and “the U.S. has long since stopped producing
many of these products,” Wen said. “If the U.S. doesn’t import
from China, it will import from somewhere else.”  The two countries should instead focus on boosting exports
to China, Wen said, calling on the U.S. to ease restrictions on
the sale of some goods. The Chinese government is committed to
boosting domestic consumption to help rebalance trade, he said.  New York Meeting  Wen is scheduled to meet Obama today at the United Nations
General Assembly in New York. Wen said he expected the meeting
to improve trust. China has invited U.S. Defense Secretary
 Robert Gates  to visit, he said.  “I am sympathetic to the Chinese argument that the
exchange rate doesn’t explain all the problems of the trade
imbalance, but it contributes to the problems,” said  Mark Dow ,
who helps manage $3 billion at Pharo Management LLC in New York.
“Obama is becoming impatient. They are forced to be more vocal.
Obama isn’t ready to expend his political capital to buy time
for China to move its currency.”  The Chinese yuan rose 21 percent between July 2005 and July
2008, when the government halted its advance to protect exports
during the global financial crisis.  Economic Imbalance  The economic imbalance China is facing is “hardly
avoidable in any country’s development,” Wen said yesterday,
adding that China’s trade surplus as a percentage of its economy
has been declining in recent years, and that both his country
and the U.S. must reject trade protectionism.  Yesterday’s meeting also included PepsiCo Inc. Chief
Executive Officer  Indra Nooyi  and two former Treasury
secretaries,  Henry Paulson  and  Robert Rubin . Former Secretary of
State  Henry Kissinger , who helped re-establish diplomatic ties
between China and the U.S. under President  Richard Nixon , was
the moderator.  Differences with the U.S. are “very easy to resolve,”
when compared with “the challenges that Dr. Kissinger faced in
those early days,” Wen said.  China needs to take “very aggressive” measures to adjust
its economy,  Stephen Roach , chairman of Morgan Stanley Asia,
said at the meeting. The country needs to improve social
security to reduce excess savings, Roach said. Increased Chinese
demand would in turn help U.S. exports and jobs, he said.  “The currency fix will not work, despite what you hear
from a lot of famous economists and politicians,” Roach said.
“It didn’t work for Japan in the late 1980s. It didn’t work for
the U.S. when the dollar fell 23 percent on a trade-weighted
basis since early 2002.”  China’s surplus in its current account, the broadest
measure of trade in goods and services, narrowed to 2.2 percent
of gross domestic product in the first half from 9.9 percent in
2008, Wen said yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ye Xie  in New York at   yxie6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  