-- Western Australia Wheat Deteriorating Rapidly on Dry Weather, Farmers Say
-- B y   W e n d y   P u g h
-- 2010-09-29T09:09:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-22/wheat-forecast-for-western-australia-cut-on-dry-weather-association-says.html
Wheat crops in Western Australia,
the nation’s largest growing-state last season, may receive some
rain this week amid forecasts for declining production, a
farmers’ group said.  “It will certainly be the last roll of the dice for a lot
of people,” Mike Norton president of the Western Australian
Farmers Federation, said today by phone. “In the last fortnight
to three weeks the situation has deteriorated rapidly.”  Harvesting in Western Australia will start next month and
may continue to early January. Dry weather has eroded crop
prospects in the state as above-normal rainfall in the nation’s
east has boosted forecasts for total production.  “It’s not a total wipeout for the whole of the state but a
very large chunk of that good wheat-growing country in the
central to eastern wheat belt is certainly feeling the pinch,”
Norton said. Output was heading for 5 million tons, he said.  Wheat for December delivery on the Chicago Board of Trade
was little changed at $6.8425 a bushel at 6:43 p.m. Melbourne
time, taking this year’s advance to 27 percent.  Western Australia’s wheat output may be 4.473 million
metric tons, with production of all grains in the state forecast
at 7.6 million tons, the Perth-based Grain Industry Association
of Western Australia said in a report dated Sept. 17.  The state harvested 8.2 million tons of wheat last season,
according to the Australian Bureau of Agricultural and Resource
Economics-Bureau of Rural Sciences.  Showers, Thunderstorms  Isolated showers and thunderstorms were possible in the
grains belt tomorrow, with dry weather likely to return on
Friday, Mohammed Nabi, a Perth-based forecaster at the  Bureau of
Meteorology  said today.  Australian wheat production may reach 23.8 million tons,
National Australia Bank Ltd. forecast today. Risks to the
outlook included damage from locusts and mice, excess rain in
the east and possible crop downgrades in the west, the bank said
in an e-mailed report.  New South Wales, set to overtake Western Australia as the
largest producing state, expected to this week begin spraying
more than 60,000 hectares (148,263 acres) for locusts, a
government statement said.  Surveys in the Bourke, Walgett and Brewarrina regions had
spotted more than 700 locust bands stretching up to 1.5
kilometers in length, Industry & Investment NSW said.  Government agencies and farmers plan to spray locusts after
they hatch and before they can fly to protect crops and pastures
from an infestation forecast to be the largest in decades.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Wendy Pugh  in Melbourne 
 wpugh@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  