-- William Foster Gets 3 Years for His Role in $22 Million Real Estate Fraud
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2010-09-22T21:36:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-22/william-foster-gets-3-years-for-his-role-in-22-million-real-estate-fraud.html
William Foster, convicted for his
part in a $22 million real estate investment fraud, was
sentenced to three years in prison.  Foster, 70, was one of three men convicted of cheating
investors in a network of companies named Cobalt, which claimed
to have interests in residential real estate developments
throughout the U.S. The sentence came less than three months
after one of Foster’s codefendants was sentenced to 85 years.  U.S. District Judge  Kimba Wood  in New York, who sentenced
both men, said she rejected guidelines that called for a life
sentence for Foster because of his poor health and his lower
level of criminal responsibility compared with the other
defendants.  “Mr. Foster, everyone agrees, had a much lesser role than
his two co-conspirators,” Wood said.  Foster,  Irving Stitsky  and Mark Shapiro were convicted by a
jury after a three-week trial that ended in November. Each was
found guilty of two counts of securities fraud, one of mail
fraud, one of wire fraud and one of conspiracy.  According to the government, the men defrauded more than
250 investors by inventing a false history for Cobalt; failing
to disclose that the company was owned and controlled by Stitsky
and Shapiro, who were convicted felons; and misstating Cobalt’s
property interests.  Stitsky was sentenced in July to 85 years in prison after
Wood called him an “inveterate con man.” Shapiro is scheduled
to be sentenced Oct. 14.  $22 Million Restitution  In addition to the three years in prison, Wood sentenced
Foster to three years’ probation and ordered him to pay
$22 million in restitution to the victims of the fraud. She
declined Foster’s request to remain free while he appeals the
conviction.  Lawrence Gerzog, one of Foster’s defense attorneys, tried
to persuade Wood to spare his client prison time.  “It breaks my heart that anyone would think that I entered
into this intending to defraud anyone of any money,” Foster,
who has chronic obstructive pulmonary disease and used an oxygen
canister, told the judge. “I wish there was something I could
do about it. I am heartbroken over it.”  David Rubenstein, who said he lost $25,000 in the fraud,
asked Wood to sentence Foster to the maximum prison term.  “My wife left me because of this,” Rubenstein told Wood.
“This was like the straw that broke the camel’s back.”  The case is U.S. v. Shapiro, 06-cr-357, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bob Van Voris  in U.S. District Court in New York at
   rvanvoris@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 