-- Twitter Hack Started With `Rainbow Tweets,' High School Student Says
-- B y   A r i k   H e s s e l d a h l
-- 2010-09-22T23:06:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-22/twitter-hack-started-with-rainbow-tweets-high-school-student-says.html
A person in Australia, who claims
to be the center of an incident that impaired service on Twitter
Inc.’s website for thousands of users, said he had no malicious
intent when he disclosed a security weakness to others.  A Twitter user identifying himself as Pearce Delphin, a 17-
year-old high school student in Melbourne, said in an e-mail
interview that he saw the potential for trouble in the short
messages of another user in Japan.  Delphin, whose Twitter moniker is ZZAP, said he analyzed
the Japanese user’s “rainbow” code that let messages appear
against backgrounds of red, yellow and purple, and found the
flaw. “Instead of just changing the appearance of the tweet,
you could actually execute commands within the users’ browser of
whoever viewed the tweet,” he said.  As a test, Delphin said he created messages containing the
Javascript command “onmousover,” which displayed the words
“uh oh” when a mouse was dragged over it.  Hackers, who saw his demonstration model on Sept. 21,
tweaked the code to direct people to pornography websites and to
create malicious software, or “worms,” that copied themselves
into the message stream of anyone mousing over them. “Within
half an hour, I saw the first worms auto-retweeting scripts,”
Delphin said.  He said he didn’t write malicious code himself.  Paul Mutton, a computer security researcher with Netcraft
Ltd., a Bath, U.K.-based Web research firm, identified the
security flaw and notified Twitter at 5:40 a.m. New York time on
Sept. 21, “even before the first worms started appearing,”
Mutton said in a telephone interview. The weakness was patched
by 10 a.m., Twitter said on its website and in a blog post.  Flaw Reappears  Twitter said in the blog post that the security flaw was
identified and repaired about a month before the incident. It
resurfaced following a software update, the company said.  Graham Cluley  a security researcher with Sophos Plc, an
Abingdon, U.K.-based computer-security firm, said this points to
a longer-term concern for Twitter. Once security “holes” are
fixed, “they have to remain fixed,” he said.  Cluley estimated that about 1 percent of Twitter accounts,
or more than 1 million users, were affected. Carolyn Penner, a
Twitter spokeswoman, couldn’t confirm the number of users
affected, and declined to comment beyond the blog post.  “To Twitter’s credit, they fixed it very quickly,” Cluley
said. “It could have been much worse.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Arik Hesseldahl  in New York at 
 ahesseldahl@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net . 