-- Won to Outperform Baht as Bank of Korea Allows Gain, DBS, Kokusai Predict
-- B y   Y u m i   T e s o   a n d   P a t r i c i a   L u i
-- 2010-09-22T01:15:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-22/won-to-outperform-baht-as-bank-of-korea-allows-gain-dbs-kokusai-predict.html
The won, Asia’s worst-performing
currency in 2010, will lead regional gains as a stronger yuan
makes South Korea more tolerant of appreciation, DBS Asset
Management Ltd. and Kokusai Asset Management Co. said.  Malaysia’s ringgit and Thailand’s baht, which have risen
the most this year in Asia excluding Japan, are set to lag
behind as both nations’ central banks step up dollar purchases
to support exports, according to DBS Asset. The won will climb 5
percent by the end of March 2011, while the ringgit and the baht
retreat, according to the median forecasts in Bloomberg surveys
of 17 or more analysts.  “I would put my bets on the Korean won for the next three
to six months,”  Desmond Soon , a Singapore-based fund manager at
DBS Asset, who helps oversee the equivalent of $19 billion of
assets, said in an interview last week. “The Bank of Thailand
seems quite keen to slow appreciation, so this may not be a good
level to enter the baht. The ringgit has rallied so much this
year and I am not keen to chase it from here.”  The ringgit has strengthened 11 percent since the end of
2009 and the baht rose 8.4 percent as interest-rate rises and
the fastest economic growth in more than a decade lured funds
from abroad. The won advanced 0.2 percent to 1,161.30 per dollar
through Sept. 20, before a three-day holiday began, as the Bank
of Korea increased borrowing costs just once. Thailand raised
its benchmark  rate  twice and  Malaysia  three times.  ‘Appreciation Pressures’  South Korea’s currency faces the “strongest appreciation
pressures” in the region owing to a robust balance of payments,
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said last week in a research note. The
nation’s  current-account surplus  reached a 16-month high of $5.9
billion in July and the Bank of Korea said Aug. 27 the full-year
figure may exceed its projection of $21 billion.  The won may strengthen when the yen or yuan gains, Korean
Finance Minister Yoon Jeung Hyun said Sept. 15, when the Bank of
Japan intervened for the first time since 2004 to bring its
currency down from a 15-year high.  The won has appreciated 3.6 percent since China ended the
yuan’s two-year peg to the dollar on June 19 and said it would
pursue a more flexible exchange rate. The yuan gained 1.8
percent in that time, spurred by the prospect of U.S. trade
sanctions, and breached 6.70 per dollar yesterday for the first
time since the central bank unified official and market exchange
rates at the end of 1993.  Malaysia, Thailand  Bank Negara Malaysia said Aug. 24 that it “will be there”
when there are excessive moves in the foreign-exchange market,
while Thailand is easing curbs on capital outflows and Finance
Minister Korn Chatikavanij said Sept. 17 in Bangkok that policy
makers have taken steps to check the baht’s advance.  Thailand’s currency can be kept from breaching the 30 baht
level against the dollar should the central bank and the
government “take care of the situation,” Commerce Minister
Porntiva Nakasai told reporters this week in Nonthaburi province,
on the outskirts of Bangkok.  The ringgit and the baht this week touched 13-year highs of
3.0905 per dollar and 30.69, respectively, and were trading at
3.0930 and 30.70 as of 9 a.m. in Kuala Lumpur. They will slip to
3.10 and 31.20 by the end of March, according to the median
estimates in Bloomberg surveys. Analysts predict the won will
strengthen to 1,106 in that time and reach 1,050 by end-2011.  “The won is the best pick among them for the next year,”
 Takahide Irimura , the head of emerging-market research in Tokyo
at Kokusai Asset Management, which manages about $57 billion of
assets, said in an interview last week. “As it is relatively
cheaper in the region, the central bank will be more tolerant.
The baht and the ringgit will also continue to rise, but not at
the same pace from here.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Yumi Teso  in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net ;
 Patricia Lui  at 
 plui4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 