-- Yankees Beat Tampa Bay Rays to Move Closer to Playoffs; Twins Clinch Title
-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 2010-09-22T10:26:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-22/yankees-beat-rays-to-close-on-playoff-berth-twins-clinch-division-title.html
The New York Yankees beat the Tampa
Bay Rays 8-3 last night to move closer to a Major League
Baseball playoff berth, while the Minnesota Twins claimed the
American League Central division title.  Nick Swisher  hit a home run as the Yankees scored five
times in the first inning. New York improved its record to an
MLB-best 92-59, and is 2 1/2 games in front of the Rays in the
AL East.  The Twins defeated the Cleveland Indians 6-4 to lead the
White Sox by 12 games in the AL Central division after Chicago
lost 7-2 to the Oakland Athletics.  In the AL West, Texas lost 2-0 to the Los Angeles Angels as
its lead over the Athletics narrowed to seven games.  Tampa Bay has a 6 1/2-game advantage over the Boston Red
Sox in the American League wild-card chase. Boston lost 9-1 to
the Baltimore Orioles.  In the National League,  Roy Halladay  earned his 20th win as
the Philadelphia Phillies extended their lead to five games over
the Atlanta Braves in the NL East with a 5-3 victory. The
Phillies’ 91-61 record is the best in the National League.  At Wrigley Field in Chicago, the San Francisco Giants beat
the Cubs 1-0 to remain a half-game ahead of the San Diego Padres
in the NL West. The Padres defeated the Los Angeles Dodgers 6-0.  In the NL Central, the Cincinnati Reds are eight games
ahead of the St. Louis Cardinals. The Reds beat the Brewers 4-3,
while the Cardinals lost to the Pittsburgh Pirates 5-2.  Atlanta holds a one-game advantage over San Diego in the NL
wild card race, with the Colorado Rockies three-games behind the
Braves.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nancy Kercheval  in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  