-- Mylan, Glaxo, Disney, Kohl’s: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2010-09-22T18:11:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-22/mylan-disney-kohl-s-righthaven-intellectual-property.html
Mylan Inc.  sued U.K. drugmaker
 GlaxoSmithKline Plc  and Apotex Inc. to stop them from selling
the antidepressant Paxil CR as a generic drug, claiming the
sales violate an exclusive licensing contract.  Mylan, the largest U.S.-based generic-drug company, said
Glaxo pledged that it would be the only company selling copies
of Paxil in controlled-release form as part of a 2007 settlement
of a patent suit. Instead, Glaxo is letting Toronto-based Apotex
sell the brand-name drug without the label, under the chemical
name paroxetine hydrochloride, according to Mylan.  Allowing the sale of the so-called authorized generic would
undercut Mylan sales and cause an “irretrievable loss of market
share and customers” for generic Paxil CR, Mylan said in a
complaint filed Sept. 20 in federal court in Trenton, New
Jersey. Mylan asked the court to rule that Glaxo breached the
agreement and that Apotex can’t sell the authorized generic.  Apotex, Canada’s biggest drugmaker, and Glaxo planned to
launch an authorized generic version of Paxil CR in 12.5-, 25-
and 37.5-milligram forms, according to the complaint. Sales were
to begin yesterday.  Since May 2008, Mylan’s generic version generated
“hundreds of millions of dollars in sales” in the U.S.,
according to the complaint. Mylan reported $5 billion in sales
last year.  The 2007 accord followed a lawsuit by London-based Glaxo
against Mylan, claiming a generic version of Paxil CR would
infringe a patent that expires in 2019. The agreement had
provisions to allow other generic versions of Paxil CR to enter
the market before the patent expired. Glaxo hasn’t followed
those terms, Mylan said.  Mylan, based in Canonsburg, Pennsylvania, said then it was
the first generic-drug maker to seek regulatory approval for the
12.5-milligram and 25-milligram forms of Paxil CR. The regular
form of Paxil has multiple copies on the market.  A spokeswoman for Glaxo, Mary Anne Rhyne, didn’t
immediately return a call and e-mail seeking comment. A
spokesman for Apotex, Elie Betito, also didn’t return a call and
e-mail.  The case is Mylan Inc. v. SmithKline Beecham Corp., 10-cv-
4809, U.S. District Court for the District of New Jersey
(Trenton).  GlaxoSmithKline Sues Roche, Unit Over Herceptin Patents  GlaxoSmithKline Plc , the U.K.-based drugmaker, sued rivals
Roche Holding Ltd. and its unit Genentech Inc. over patents for
a technology used to make the breast-cancer drug Herceptin.  GlaxoSmithKline, in a complaint filed Sept. 20 in federal
court in Wilmington, Delaware, alleged that  Roche  and Genentech,
in manufacturing their cancer therapy, were infringing
“antibody purification” inventions covered by patents issued
in 2008 and last month.  “GSK has been damaged by defendants’ infringement,” the
London-based company alleged in its complaint. The company seeks
compensatory damages for any infringement up to the date a
judgment is entered.  Genentech, based in South San Francisco, California, was
acquired by Basel, Switzerland-based Roche last year. The
companies derived almost $5.2 billion from U.S. sales of
Herceptin last year, according to Bloomberg data.  Genentech filed a reciprocal action at the U.S. court in
San Francisco yesterday, seeking a judge’s finding that it
hadn’t infringed the same two patents.  Kristina Becker, a spokeswoman for Genentech, didn’t
immediately respond to a phone message seeking comment. There
was no immediate reply to a voice-mail message seeking comment,
left with Glaxo’s media relations department in Research
Triangle, North Carolina.  The Wilmington case is GlaxoSmithKline LLC v. Roche Holding
Ltd., 1:10-cv-00799-UNA, U.S. District Court for Delaware
(Wilmington). The California case is Genentech Inc. v.
GlaxoSmithKline LLC, 5:10-cv-04255, U.S. District Court,
Northern District of California (San Francisco).  For more patent news, click here.  Copyright  Ivi Seeks Declaration It doesn’t Infringe Disney, Fox, MLB  Walt Disney Co. , Major League Baseball and eight other
television content owners were sued by a Seattle-based start-up
Internet company.  For $4.99 per month  Ivi Inc.  provides subscribers with
technology to view on the Internet programming that the content
owners originally broadcast over the air. Ivi’s technology works
with any Windows, Macintosh or Linux computer and eventually
will be available for mobile devices, tablets and set-top boxes,
the company says on its website.  The company asked a federal court in Seattle to declare
that it isn’t infringing any copyrights. Each of the defendants
has “expressly accused” Ivi of copyright infringement, the
company said.  Ivi claims that copyright law authorized secondly
transmission of copyrighted works embodied in primary
transmissions, such as those from the content owners. It’s
arguing that because copyright law permits secondary
transmission upon payment of licensing fees, its actions are
permissible.  In addition to Disney and Major League Baseball, the
defendants are Seattle-based Fisher Communications Inc., NBC
Universal Inc., CBS Broadcasting Inc., the CW Television
Stations Inc.,  News Corp ’s Fox Television Stations and Twentieth
Century Fox Film units, WGBH Educational Foundation and
WNET.org.  Ivi asked the court for awards of attorney fees and
litigation costs. The company is represented by  Lawrence D.
Graham  and  David A. Lowe  of  Black Lowe & Graham PLLC  of Seattle.  The case is Ivi Inc. V. Fisher Communications Inc., 2:10-
cv-01512, U.S. District Court, Western District of Washington
(Seattle).  Kohl’s Sued, Accused of Infringing ‘I Rock’ T-shirt Design  Kohl’s Corp. , a Menomonee, Wisconsin-based department-store
chain, was sued for copyright infringement by a Minnesota
artist.  Heidi Panelli and her Panelli Design accused Kohl’s of
selling T-shirts that infringe her copyright-protected designs.
She objects to a t-shirt she says is similar to her “I Rock”
work featuring stick-figure characters.  The artist is known for her “BusyBodies” designs of stick
figures performing various activities. They are sold through her
 www.ibusybodies.com  website and in addition to the “I Rock”
image, include “I Camp,” “I Defend,” “I Farm,” “I
Preach” and “I Garden.”  Panelli, who first created her BusyBodies works in 1999,
registered all her designs with the U.S. copyright notice. She
learned of the alleged infringement earlier this year when she
saw the “I Rock” shirt for sale at a Kohl’s store in
Minnesota, she said in the complaint she filed Sept. 17 in
federal court in Minnesota.  The shirts sold at Kohl’s also infringe her trademarks and
trade dress, Panelli said in her pleadings. The public is likely
to be confused about the source of the shirts at Kohl’s, and
Panelli’s business reputation will be hurt and she will lose
goodwill and profits as a result, according to the complaint.  She asked the court to halt the production and sale of the
allegedly infringing items, and seeks destruction of all
infringing material. She also asked for money damages, including
Kohl’s profits attributable to the t-shirt sales, and awards of
attorney fees and litigation costs.  Panelli is represented by  Edward P. Sheu  and  Kristin L.
Peterson  of  Best & Flanagan LLP  of Minneapolis.  The case is Heidi Panelli v. Kohl’s Corp., 0:10-cf-03969-
MJD-FLHN, U.S. District Court, District of Minnesota.  Righthaven Loses Round in Las Vegas Newspaper Copyright Suits  Righthaven LLC, which has sued more than 200 website
operators for allegedly infringing copyrights to stories
appearing in the Las Vegas Review-Journal, received a setback in
one of the cases.  U.S. District Judge Gloria M. Navarro rejected Righthaven’s
request for a default judgment against the operators of the
skyscrapercity.com website. Jan Klerks and Stichting
Wolkenkrabbers were sued in federal court in Las Vegas on May 19
over the posting of an article from the newspaper.  The judge said in her Sept. 17 order that the defendants
raised a reasonable defense that their posting the article
didn’t have any negative effect on the market for the original
work. She acknowledged their argument that the same article was
viewable by the public for free at the newspaper’s website and
is still available for free through a Google search.  She said the issue would need to be resolved in later
litigation, so granted the defendants’ request to set aside a
default judgment. The judge also noted that the defendants
hadn’t been served with a complaint and that their address was
incorrectly given in the court filings. They also retained
counsel and filed a motion to set aside the default as soon as
they knew of the case.  The defendants are represented by  Michael J. McCue  and
 Nikkya J. Williams  of Phoenix-based  Lewis & Roca LLP . Righthaven
is represented by in-house counsel John Charles Coons and Steven
A. Gibson of Dickinson Wright PLLC of Las Vegas.  The case is Righthaven LLC v. Jan Klerks, 2:10-cv-00741-
GMN-LRL, U.S. District Court, District of Nevada (Las Vegas).  For more copyright news, click here.  Trademark  Bikinis Bar Sued by Republic of Texas Biker Rally Over Marks  Republic of Texas Biker Rally Inc., the sponsor of a
motorcycle rally that draws 45,000 motorcycles and 200,000
spectators each year to Austin, Texas, sued a chain of sports
bars for trademark infringement.  Bikinis Bar & Grill LLC of Austin is accused of using the
bike rally’s trademarks without authorization. According to the
complaint, Bikinis Bar used the marks in posters and handbills
promoting food specials, musical acts and bikini contests. It’s
also accused of manufacturing men’s and women’s T-shirts and
tank tops incorporating the marks.  The rally sponsors accused Bikinis of trying to piggyback
onto the fame and goodwill of the rally, which gives Austin a
$35 million economic boost every year. The bar creates “the
false impression” that its events and goods are legitimate
products endorsed by the rally, according to court papers.  The rally seeks court orders for the seizure and
destruction of all allegedly infringing merchandise and
promotional material, and a ban on future infringement.  Additionally, the company seeks money damages, profits the
bar derived from its alleged infringement, and extra damages to
punish the bar for its actions.  The case was originally filed in Texas state court and
moved Sept. 20 to federal court in Austin.  The rally is represented by Carl F. Schwenker of the Law
Offices of Carl F. Schwenker in Austin. The bar chain is
represented by David A. Buono II and Mitchell D. Savrick of
Austin’s  Savrick Schumann Johnson McGarr Kaminski & Shirley LLP.   “After learning of the claims, Bikinis Bar and Grill
started an investigation and plans to exchange information with
the ROT Rally on an informal basis,” Buono said in an e-mail.
“Bikinis Gar & Grill hopes that any dispute between the parties
can be resolved in a timely manner.”  The case is Republic of Texas Biker Rally Inc., v. Bikinis
Bar & Grill LLC, 1:10-cv-00697-SS, U.S. District Court, Western
District of Texas (Austin).  For more trademark news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Victoria Slind-Flor  in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 