-- Your Favorite Team Probably Blew Second Chance: Scott Soshnick
-- B y   S c o t t   S o s h n i c k
-- 2010-09-22T01:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-22/your-favorite-team-just-blew-second-chance-commentary-by-scott-soshnick.html
Athletes get second chances. Some
take advantage, like Philadelphia Eagles quarterback  Michael Vick  and Texas Rangers outfielder Josh Hamilton. Others blow it.  Teams deserve a shot at redemption, too. They ought to have
the chance to right a wrong, to prove that they care about the
customer. That chance was offered. The results are in and, well,
let’s just say the odds are good that your favorite team
flunked.  Three years have passed since I asked in a column the 122
teams in the four major U.S. sports leagues -- Major League
 Baseball , the National Hockey League, National Basketball
Association and National Football League -- to prove what they
say: that they value every fan.  The premise was simple: What would teams do, to what
lengths would they go, to woo a free-agent fan. Players think
nothing of switching uniforms, from red socks to pinstripes,
even. Heck, even franchises change cities, sometimes under the
cover of snowy darkness (ask the folks in Baltimore). Just
business, they say. There is no loyalty in sports, except, it
seems, from the consumer.  If you think about it, though, so many of our sporting
allegiances aren’t chosen. They’re inherited. Dad was a Dodgers
fan so kid is a Dodgers fan. So often one’s cheering loyalties
are a byproduct of ZIP code more than anything else. Like the
song says --  root, root, root  for the home team.  Those That Cared  Big-league teams failed the 2007 experiment miserably. Only
nine responded. That’s a measly 7 percent. Those that cared
enough were, in alphabetical order, the Atlanta Hawks and
Thrashers, Chicago Bears, Cincinnati Bengals, Dallas Mavericks,
Golden State Warriors, who went above and beyond, Jacksonville
Jaguars, San Diego Chargers and San Jose Sharks. Those clubs
were exempt from the second-chance experiment, leaving 113
franchises with something to prove.  We’ve heard so much from professional sports teams during
the worst economic climate since the Great Depression about
caring, catering to customers and creating value. You want
depressing? Chew on these results:  Only 17 franchises availed themselves of the opportunity to
make amends. That means 85 percent didn’t care, don’t care and,
in all likelihood, won’t care in the future. Fans ought to
rethink their rooting interest.  Of the respondents, six did the minimum, sending
promotional items such as T-shirts, stickers and refrigerator
magnets. They are, in alphabetic order, the Baltimore Ravens,
Miami Dolphins, Minnesota Twins, New Orleans Saints, Tampa Bay
Buccaneers and Washington Nationals. Hey, at least they did
something, even if none of them addressed the question of
providing value.  Rangers and Grizzlies  The New York Rangers had former player  Adam Graves , now a
team executive, call to make his sales pitch. He described a
young, entertaining team with charitable intentions. The Memphis
Grizzlies had General Manager  Chris Wallace  call, gushing about
his young team’s promise, community involvement and absence from
the police blotter.  A number of teams sent thoughtful letters, including the
Red Sox. Boston’s Fenway Park Ambassador, Robert Mayhew, made a
good case for adding to Red Sox Nation with three pages of on-
and off-field accomplishments. Convincing letters also arrived
from the Sacramento Kings, who trumpeted the affordability of
their ticket plans, and Cleveland Indians, who, this is a nice
touch, began by apologizing for failing to respond last time.  “Our fans are our family and family lasts forever,” said
the letter from the Indians Fan Services Team.  New Beginnings  The Philadelphia 76ers, before responding, wisely inquired
what mattered most to this free-agent fan. The Minnesota
Timberwolves called, too, selling a young team that, on many
fronts, is starting over. The Washington Wizards forwarded an e-
mail from an intern, a lifelong fan who welcomed a new beginning
with a new owner,  Ted Leonsis .  The Orlando Magic impressed with an e-mail that touched on
every facet of the organization, including their new  arena . The
Houston Rockets blended substance and style, sending a leather-
bound book that included 1) my face on the body of a Rockets
player that touted me as the team’s #1 Fan, and 2) the top 10
reasons why Houston is the right choice. No. 1 is a commitment
to winning.  That’s a perfect segue to the most refreshing and
unexpected response, which came from Sarah Szabo, who works in
community relations for the Carolina Panthers.  ‘Thank You’  Szabo in a letter retold the story of team owner  Jerry Richardson  meeting a man while eating lunch at Art’s BBQ in
Charlotte. The man told Richardson that his father, who ran a
business in Clemson, South Carolina, never had much interest in
the Panthers, who began play in 1995. Richardson took a napkin
and addressed a note to the man’s father. He wrote “Thank you
for your support” and signed it. The napkin hangs in the man’s
office today.  Every Panthers employee on their first day of work is given
a replica of a 1995 hand-written note from Richardson. “The
fan,” it says, “is the most valuable member of our team.”  “Company culture and community are two prominent aspects
of this business,” Szabo wrote. “Winning and competition come
second.”  Wow. Never thought a pro sports team would admit that
winning comes second.  While the Panthers are 0-2, and have been outscored 51-25
this season, they still seem like a team worth backing. Most
aren’t. Sorry, no third chances.  ( Scott Soshnick  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Scott Soshnick in New York at 
 ssoshnick@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  