-- Tyson Foods May Be `Forced' to Raise Chicken Prices Amid Rising Corn Costs
-- B y   S h r u t i   D a t e   S i n g h
-- 2010-09-22T16:16:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-22/tyson-foods-may-be-forced-to-raise-chicken-prices-amid-rising-corn-costs.html
Tyson Foods Inc. , the largest U.S.
chicken processor, said higher costs for corn may spur the
company to raise prices for the meat.  Corn futures reached $5.2375 a bushel this month in
Chicago, the highest price for a most-active contract since
September 2008, as U.S. exports rose and yield forecasts were
revised lower. Tyson, which uses corn and soybean meal as the
primary feed for chicken, has covered its corn needs through the
end of 2010 and the company has options to buy the crop at about
$4 through December, said  Gary Mickelson , a company spokesman.  “We’re closely monitoring grain prices and continue
efforts to limit our exposure to price increases,” Mickelson
said in an e-mail yesterday. “However, we believe higher corn
prices will ultimately result in consumers paying more for
chicken, since we’ll be forced to raise our prices to offset the
increase in input costs.”  Rising feed costs may temper the expansion in U.S. chicken
output,  David Nelson , a Chicago-based analyst at Rabobank
Nederland NV, said in an interview yesterday. Chicken production
may rise 2 percent to 3 percent in the first quarter of 2011
from a year earlier, less than his earlier projection of 3
percent to 4 percent, he said.  Tyson , based in Springdale, Arkansas, fell 11 cents to
$15.61 at 12:09 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite
trading.  The shares  rose 28 percent this year before today.  Beef, Pork Units  The  company  buys livestock from independent cattle and hog
producers and doesn’t expect the corn rally to have any short-
term impact on its beef and pork units, Mickelson said.  “While it is difficult to predict any long-term impact, we
can tell you the overall volume of protein availability is
tighter today than the last time corn prices spiked in 2008,”
Mickelson said.  In June, the U.S. hog breeding herd was close to the
smallest size on record after losses hit farmers in 2008 and
2009.  Tyson is the largest U.S. chicken processor based on 2009
production, followed by JBS SA’s Pilgrim’s Pride unit and
closely held Perdue Inc., according to  WATT PoultryUSA , a
magazine covering the industry.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. analyst  Ken Goldman  yesterday
downgraded his rating on Laurel, Mississippi-based  Sanderson
Farms Inc.,  the fourth-largest chicken producer, to “neutral”
from “overweight” after corn rallied in the past month.
Sanderson is solely a poultry producer and processor.  “Grain prices are always volatile, particularly until the
harvest is done,” Sanderson Chief Financial Officer  Mike Cockrell  said yesterday in an interview. “Our industry goes
through these cycles. This is not the first time we’ve had high-
priced grain.”  The company isn’t delaying its expansion plans, Cockrell
said.  Sanderson  fell 14 cents to $42.04 in Nasdaq Stock Market
trading in New York.  The shares  are little changed this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Shruti Date Singh  in Chicago at 
 ssingh28@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at   scasey4@bloomberg.net . 