-- Zurich Suffocates Selling to Tourists as Franc Makes All Pricey
-- B y   A n t o n i o   L i g i   a n d   K l a u s   W i l l e
-- 2010-09-22T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-22/zurich-suffocates-selling-to-tourists-on-pricey-mcdonald-s-meal.html
The Swiss franc’s 11 percent
appreciation against the euro this year is forcing Urs Boehler,
who runs Zurich’s  Les Millionaires  jewelry store, into lower-
priced watches he has never sold before.  He now markets rings, necklaces and other jewels from
Bahnhofstrasse, the city’s ritziest shopping street, for prices
of as much as 150,000 Swiss francs ($152,393). In late November,
he plans to start selling watches for as little as 3,000 francs.  “We wouldn’t have taken this decision if we hadn’t had
to,” Boehler said. The franc is “hurting us enormously. It’s
cutting our air off,” he said.  The country has become 15 percent more expensive for
tourists from the euro region because of the franc’s rally, said
Juerg Schmid, the Zurich-based head of  Switzerland Tourism 
marketing group. A global survey of 73 urban centers by UBS AG
found that Zurich is the second-least affordable city after
Oslo.  Switzerland lost about 2 percent of hotel visitors from
Germany, Europe’s biggest economy, during the first half of the
summer season, according to the  BAK Basel Economics research
institute . As the country’s central bank stops trying to
suppress gains, the currency may rise further with investors
concerned about a global economic slowdown seeking the safety of
the franc.  The Swiss currency strengthened to a record 1.2766 versus
the euro on Sept. 8. It advanced 4.7 percent against the dollar
this year, reaching parity on Sept. 14 for the first time in
almost 10 months.  Rising Costs  “We were warned that everything is very expensive,” said
Rudi Vaff, a 65-year-old visitor from Phoenix. “Food and hotel
prices are out of this world.”  Rita Rossi, Vaff’s partner, said they may go somewhere else
in Europe for their next vacation rather than return to
Switzerland.  In Zurich, where artists from  Lauren Bacall  to  Andy Warhol 
dined at the historic  Kronenhalle restaurant , tourism accounts
for 3.2 percent of gross domestic product. That compares with 5
percent in Vienna and as much as 6 percent in London.  Daniel Lehmann, head of Zurich’s Marriott Hotel, said he
offers customers who organize conferences prices at the current
exchange rate so they can minimize potential losses from the
currency market.  “The question is, how long will a family with an average
income be able to afford a trip to Switzerland?” Lehmann said.
Business travelers are less affected “as they just have to come
here,” he said.  Four-Star Hotel  The average cost of a room at a four-star hotel in Zurich
rose 0.4 percent to 290.23 francs in June from a year earlier,
according to the  Zurich Hotels Association . That’s up about 16
percent when converted into euros.  “We’re feeling the difference in price,” said Klaus
Matthies, 63, a pensioner from Hamburg as he strolled past the
restaurant where poet  Johann Wolfgang von Goethe  used to dine.
“We’re holding back and looking for cheaper places to eat.”  A McDonald’s Big Mac costs $6.19 in Switzerland, compared
with $3.73 in the U.S. and $4.33 in the euro area, according to
data compiled by The Economist. The figures are based on so-
called purchasing power parity, which states that the dollar
should buy the same amount in all countries.  “I spent 13 francs on a McDonald’s meal and I didn’t even
get a refill,” said Julio Cesar Ponce, a 30-year-old computer-
science researcher from Aguascalientes, Mexico, who was standing
on a Zurich bridge overlooking the Limmat river. In the U.S.,
that meal would have cost about half the money, he said.  Swatch Purchases  Some visitors are already looking at less-expensive brands.
Linda Hofer, head of  Swatch Group AG ’s namesake watch store at
the start of Bahnhofstrasse, said people are turning to cheaper
Swiss watches as “something they can afford.” The street
further up hosts luxury watch stores that include brands like
Patek Philippe, Audemars Piguet and Rolex.  “People come first thing in the morning,” she said.
“Then they walk up the street and all they see are higher
prices before they finally come back to us.”  Swatch , whose products range from budget plastic watches to
pricey Omega and Breguet timepieces, reported last month that
first-half profit rose 55 percent to 462 million francs as
revenue climbed to a record. Shares of the Biel, Switzerland-
based company  advanced  37 percent in Zurich trading this year, 
compared with the 3.1 percent decline of the Swiss Market Index.  ‘Expensive Holiday’  Martin Lohmann, a professor at tourism research institute
N.I.T. in Kiel, Germany, said that while some European visitors
may choose more affordable hotels, Switzerland has always been
considered “an expensive holiday destination.”  “Those who find Switzerland too expensive, didn’t show up
a year ago either,” he said. “But generally tourists visiting
Switzerland are able to afford higher prices. They might be
annoyed, but they won’t be deterred.”  The franc will probably remain close to a record high
against the euro for the next three months, according to  Beat Siegenthaler , a currency strategist at Zurich-based UBS, the
country’s biggest bank.  Back on  Bahnhofstrasse  between luxury-brand stores from
Chanel to Prada and Hermes, Vaff and Rossi plan to limit their
purchases.  “We would shop but then you take a closer look and say,
wait, I can get that cheaper at home,” said Rossi, 56, while
resting on a bench on Lindenhof hill, the historic site of a
Roman Castle five minutes from Bahnhofstrasse. “You’d be better
off going to another European country.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Klaus Wille  in Zurich at 
 kwille@bloomberg.net ;
 Antonio Ligi  in Zurich at 
 aligi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
John Fraher at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net ;
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  