-- Research In Motion Says IPhone May Help BlackBerry
-- Ville Heiskanen
-- 2007-03-28T20:03:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2007-03-28/research-in-motion-says-iphone-may-help-blackberry-update2-.html

          
          
             Research In Motion Ltd. (RIMM)  says  Apple
Inc. (AAPL) 's introduction of the iPhone in June may help drive sales of
BlackBerrys.  
 ``Hats off to Steve'' Jobs, Apple's leader, Research In
Motion co-Chief Executive Officer Michael Lazaridis said in an
interview yesterday at the CTIA Wireless conference in  Orlando ,
 Florida . ``He made smartphones cool again. Now everyone wants
one. He helped the entire industry.''  
 Analysts such as Goldman Sachs Group Inc.'s Brantley
Thompson had speculated that the iPhone, which blends an e-mail
phone with the best-selling iPod music player, would take sales
from the BlackBerry. U.S. sales of those types of phones may rise
43 percent to $6 billion this year, according to researcher
 Strategy Analytics .  
 Lazaridis, 46, contends that the two products aren't in
competition because they target different users. Apple plans to
sell 10 million iPhones next year, equal to about 1 percent of
the global market. Research In Motion, based in Waterloo,
Ontario,  shipped  1.8 million BlackBerry e-mail phones in the
quarter ended Dec. 2.  
 ``We complement each other really well,'' Lazaridis said.
``We both focus on two entirely different markets. One is pure
consumer and pure consumable. One is pure function and pure
productivity.'' Research In Motion has sought to woo more
consumer users with the Pearl, a device that includes a camera
and a music player.  
 Natalie Kerris , a spokeswoman for Apple, declined to
comment.  
 Research In Motion shares fell 7.9 percent Jan. 9, the day
Apple introduced the iPhone. At the time, ICAP research director
 Richard Williams  called the iPhone ``a considerable threat,''
saying Apple's reputation for designing ``cool'' products may
lead customers away from the BlackBerry.  
 Slimmer Model  
 Research In Motion started selling a slimmer version of the
BlackBerry in February. The BlackBerry 8800 has a music and video
player, a global positioning system and a full keyboard. The 8800
is 14 millimeters (about one half-inch) thick, compared with 11.6
millimeters for the iPhone.  
 Motorola Inc., the world's second-largest mobile-phone
maker, in February unveiled new versions of its Q e-mail phone,
which competes with the BlackBerry. Nokia Oyj, the No. 1 mobile-
phone maker, the same month showed three models for business use.  
 Research In Motion had 45 percent of U.S. sales for more
advanced phones with e-mail in the fourth quarter, ahead of Palm
Inc.'s 18 percent and Motorola's 12 percent, according to
researcher IDC in Framingham,  Massachusetts .  
 BlackBerrys Lead  
 Research In Motion shares fell $1.75 to $136.91 at 4 p.m. in
trading on the Nasdaq Stock Market. Cupertino, California-based
Apple dropped $2.22 to $93.24.  
 Apple's Jobs plans to sell the iPhone for $499 to $599 with
a two-year contract from AT&T Inc. Research In Motion's Pearl
costs less than a third of that, which may help the device win
over customers, Lazaridis said.  
 Apple has sold more than 90 million iPods since Jobs
released the player in October 2001, with 46.4 million gadgets
shipped in the past year. The device had almost 75 percent of
U.S. sales for music players in January, according to researcher
NPD Group Inc.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Ville Heiskanen in  New York  at 
 vheiskanen@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Cesca Antonelli at 
 fantonelli@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        