-- Vale's Agnelli Says Goro Mine on Time, Within Budget
-- Paulo Winterstein
-- 2007-03-28T01:06:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2007-03-28/vale-s-agnelli-says-goro-mine-on-time-within-budget-update1-.html

          
          
             Cia. Vale do Rio Doce 's Goro nickel
mine on the French Pacific Island of New Caledonia likely will
start output as expected in late 2008 and stay within its $3
billion budget, Chief Executive Officer  Roger Agnelli  said.  
 The mine is the largest nickel mine under construction and
is expected to produce 60,000 metric tons of nickel a year before
2011, Agnelli told reporters at a dinner in  Sao Paulo  today. The
mine has faced delays because of protests from islanders who say
the project will disturb the environment. Rio de Janeiro-based
Vale is the world's largest producer of iron-ore and nickel.  
 ``We are finishing our final budget for Goro, and it is
within our expectations,'' Agnelli said. ``Obviously, a project
of this size and dimension could have been expected to take three
years to reach full production, but we are confident we'll get
there before then.''  
 Vale is hoping to capitalize on nickel prices that have
almost tripled in the past year, reaching a record $47,700 a
metric ton on March 16 on the London Metal Exchange. Prices rose
as demand outstripped supply and as output from new mines was
delayed. Prices finished today at $42,800 a ton.  
 The chief executive of Vale's Goro unit, Phil du Toit,
yesterday said full output of 60,000 metric tons a year won't be
reached at the mine until 2011 if production begins in 2008. The
project may take three years to reach full production and costs
may exceed Vale's most recent estimate of $3 billion, du Toit
said at a conference in  New Caledonia  yesterday.  
 Agnelli, his boss, disagreed.  
 ``There have been some statements out of the mine director
in Goro that have perhaps been misunderstood,'' Agnelli said
after reporters asked him about Du Toit's comments. ``Everything
has been going full steam and we want to get things started by
2008.''  
 Chief Financial Officer  Fabio Barbosa  said today in  Rio de
Janeiro  that Vale is still working to cut Goro costs.  
 Vale preferred  shares , its most-traded class of stock, fell
72 centavos, or 1.1 percent, to 63.99 reais in Sao Paulo trading.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeb Blount in Rio de Janeiro at 
 jblount@bloomberg.net ;
Paulo Winterstein in Sao Paulo at 
 pwinterstein@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Patrick McKiernan  in  New York  at 
 pmckiernan@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        