-- SRM Global Sues U.K. Over Northern Rock Compensation
-- Caroline Binham
-- 2008-05-08T17:16:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2008-05-08/srm-global-sues-u-k-over-northern-rock-compensation-update3-.html

          
          
             Northern Rock Plc's largest shareholder
filed a lawsuit seeking a judicial review of the compensation
they will receive under the U.K.'s nationalization of the
mortgage lender.  
 SRM Global, a hedge fund based in  Monaco , today joined
smaller shareholders represented by the U.K. Shareholders
Association, SRM said in a statement. The lawsuit in the High
Court in London claims the government took shareholders' stock
without proper compensation. The review may be worth as much as
1.2 billion pounds ($2.4 billion), the UKSA said.  
 ``Northern Rock's shareholders have had an unfair
compensation proposal forced on them and the only redress is
through the courts,'' SRM Global said in the statement.  
 A judicial review would be the first shareholder action over
Northern Rock, nationalized in February after a five-month search
for a private buyer ended in failure. The review needs to be
approved by the court to proceed.  
 An independent valuation specialist will be appointed to
analyze how much compensation shareholders should get, the U.K.
Treasury said in an e-mailed statement.  
 This ``represents a fair and reasonable basis for
determining any compensation payable to former shareholders,''
the Treasury said.  
 Share Valuation  
 Shares in the Newcastle, England-based bank closed at 90
pence on Feb. 15 on the  London  Stock Exchange and were then
suspended.  
 The UKSA earlier said a ``proper independent valuation'' of
Northern Rock may be between 300 and 500 pence a share rather
than 5 pence a share under the government's current calculation.
A valuation of 300 pence per share would put total compensation
at 1.2 billion pounds, according to UKSA spokesman Roger Lawson.  
 ``The compensation scheme passed by Parliament in March is
neither fair nor balanced and the compensation which will ensue
is grossly disproportionate to the true value of Northern Rock's
shares,'' SRM said today.  
 SRM and the UKSA will provide analysis from their own
valuation specialist in their submissions to court, today's
statement said. They will also rely on evidence from Tim Congdon,
an economist and former adviser to the Chancellor of the
Exchequer.  
 Legal & General  
 SRM lawyer John Reynolds at White & Case LLP in London said
 Legal & General Group Plc (LGEN) , which held around 5 percent of
Northern Rock's shares, will join the judicial review as an
interested party.  
 ``We expect there to be a broad representation of
shareholders,'' he said today in a telephone interview.  
 Legal & General spokesman Richard King declined to comment.
The company, the U.K.'s third-largest insurer, has 10 days to
join the suit.  
 The shareholders aren't suing for a specific amount. They
are asking judges to look at both the bank's nationalization and
the compensation process set by an independent specialist. If
judges agree with shareholders, they will be able to ask their
own expert to analyze how much compensation they are due.  
 A judge will first decide whether the shareholders have a
case, which typically is done within four weeks. If granted, the
case moves to a hearing before two judges. It could be a year
before a hearing ends.  
 `Public Interest'  
 ``Anyone can bring a judicial review but most don't get past
the first hurdle, which is the permissions stage,'' said Sam Eastwood, a litigator at London-based Norton Rose LLP, who isn't
involved in the case. ``This will almost definitely pass, given
the amount of public interest.''  
 Interested parties that may be called include the  Treasury ,
the Bank of England and the  Financial Services Authority ,
Eastwood said.  
 SRM, run by former UBS trader Jon Wood, held the biggest
stake in Northern Rock before its nationalization, with 48.45
million shares, or 11.5 percent.  
 SRM first disclosed a stake on Oct. 10, when the shares
traded at 273.5 pence. The position was worth 43.6 million pounds
on Feb. 15, one week before the government finished nationalizing
the bank.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Caroline Binham in London 
 cbinham@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@Bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        