-- Adelphia Noteholders Challenge $1.3 Billion Bond
-- Thom Weidlich
-- 2007-02-06T21:24:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2007-02-06/adelphia-noteholders-challenge-1-3-billion-bond-update2-.html

          
          
             A group of Adelphia Communications
Corp. noteholders shouldn't have to post a $1.3 billion bond
while a judge considers objections to the company's bankruptcy
exit plan, the group's lawyer told a federal appeals court.  
 The holders of $1.1 billion in Adelphia notes won a stay of
the bankruptcy plan on Jan. 24 from a federal district judge, who
said they stood to get $250 million if they prevailed and ordered
them to post the bond within three days. The next day, an appeals
judge suspended the bond requirement until a panel of judges
could hear arguments on the issue.  
 ``To get a $250 million upside, they're being told to invest
and put at risk $1.3 billion,''  Martin Bienenstock , a lawyer for
the noteholders, told the two-judge panel today in New York.
``There's too much that's not in our clients' control to risk
$1.3 billion.''  
 The noteholders object to the value placed on the shares in
 Time Warner Cable Inc. (TWC)  that Adelphia received when it sold its
assets to  Time Warner Inc. (TWX)  and  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA)  last year. The Jan.
24 delay imposed by U.S. District Judge Shira Scheindlin of New
York postponed full trading in the Time Warner Cable shares,
which creditors will get as part of their payout from Adelphia,
once the fifth-biggest U.S. cable TV company.  
 The judges didn't rule today on the bond question. If the
noteholders lose their appeal of Adelphia's bankruptcy plan, the
bond would be used to cover whatever damages other Adelphia
creditors suffered because of the delay in implementing the plan.  
 Unreasonable  
 Bienenstock, of  New York 's Weil, Gotshal & Manges, told
appeals court judges Robert D. Sack and Jon O. Newman that
Adelphia and those of its creditors that approve of the plan are
trying to prevent the noteholders from appealing by calling for
an unreasonable bond.  
 He argued that it's unfair for his 11 clients, which include
Bank of America Corp. subsidiary Banc of America Securities LLC
and a unit of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., to have to indemnify
the thousands of other creditors in the case.  
 David M. Friedman, an attorney for Adelphia's unsecured
creditors, argued that the bond is needed to cover costs,
including $700 million in underwriting expenses for a public
offering of the cable stock if the plan delay prevents the shares
from being distributed to creditors.  
 ``These are not a few creditors carrying the water for
everyone else,'' said Friedman, of New York's Kasowitz, Benson,
Torres & Friedman. ``These are 11 creditors carrying the water
for themselves and themselves alone.''  
 It wasn't the business of the court to give banks and  hedge
funds  better returns on their investments, Friedman said.  
 `Better Deal'  
 ``They've come to this court for a better deal,'' he said.  
 Newman said the crucial question is whether imposing a large
bond pending appeal amounts to denying a stay of the plan. Sack
said the court would keep in place the temporary stay on the bond
requirement until he and Newman rule. A third judge who was
scheduled to hear the case recused himself, Sack said.  
 Bienenstock said his substantive brief on the appeal of the
bankruptcy plan is due tomorrow.  
 In freezing Adelphia's plan while she considers the appeal,
Scheindlin had said the noteholders didn't show a substantial
possibility of success on their challenge to the cable stock
valuation. She said they may succeed on other issues, such as the
possibility that the bankruptcy judge permitted an invalid
settlement among creditors to be included in the plan.  
 Rigas  
 Adelphia, based in  Greenwood Village ,  Colorado , filed for
 bankruptcy protection  in June 2002 after the discovery of an
accounting fraud at the company. Adelphia founder  John Rigas  was
convicted of fraud in 2004 and sentenced to 15 years in prison.
He is free during his appeal.  
 The Time Warner Cable shares were to begin trading
officially Jan. 22 on the New York Stock Exchange. They began
trading earlier this month for $41 on a ``when issued'' basis in
the over-the-counter market, pending the court's decision. The
stock fell 40 cents to $42.10 at 3:48 p.m. New York time.  
 Shares of New York-based Time Warner Inc., the world's
largest media company, rose 6 cents to $21.61 today in New York
Stock Exchange composite trading.  
 The case is In re Adelphia Communications Corp., 02-41729,
 U.S. Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of New York ( Manhattan ).  
 -- Editor: Dunn.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Thom Weidlich in New York at 
 tweidlich@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Patrick Oster at   poster@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        