-- RHB Capital Surges; Group May Invest $3.4 Billion
-- Angus Whitley
-- 2007-02-06T11:40:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2007-02-06/rhb-capital-surges-group-may-invest-3-4-billion-update5-.html

          
          
             Shares of  RHB Capital (RHBC)  Bhd.,
Malaysia's fourth-biggest bank, surged after a  Kuwait  Finance
House-led group offered to invest more than $3.4 billion in the
lender's parent to expand in  Asia 's biggest Islamic finance
market.  
 Kuwait Finance (Malaysia) Bhd. said yesterday the group may
use some of the 12 billion ringgit total investment to pay for
Utama Banking Group Bhd.'s 33 percent stake in Rashid Hussain
Bhd., the parent of RHB Capital. RHB Capital stock jumped 7.5
percent and Kuala Lumpur-based Rashid Hussain rose 4.6 percent.  
 Kuwait Finance, the  Persian Gulf 's largest Islamic
investment bank, is competing for the stake with  Hong Kong 's
Primus Pacific Partners. The holding in Rashid Hussain offers
access to the world's largest Islamic bond market and control of
RHB Capital. Kuwait said its proposal would create a ``mega''
bank run as an ``Islamic brotherhood.''  
 ``It's a very attractive offer for RHB Capital especially
when Malaysia sees itself as a front-runner to become an  Islamic
finance  hub,'' said Nik Azhar Abdullah, who oversees about $684
million in assets including RHB Capital stock at Avenue Asset
Management Sdn. in Kuala Lumpur. ``People will be asking what's
next for the other smaller banks.''  
 RHB Capital stock  rose  30 sen to 4.28 ringgit. Shares of
Rashid Hussain, which owns 65 percent of RHB Capital, advanced 7
sen to 1.58 ringgit. Utama added 4.2 percent to 1.72 ringgit.  
 Looser Rules  
 The interest from foreign investors in Malaysian banks
follows the central bank's decision on Nov. 15 to allow
financial services companies to discuss mergers and acquisitions
with more than one suitor at the same time.  
 Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. in November
agreed to pay A$833 million ($645 million) for 25 percent of
 AMMB Holdings Bhd. (AMM) , Malaysia's fifth-biggest bank. Affin
Holdings Bhd., a Malaysian financial services group, said last
month it's in preliminary talks to sell a stake to Hong Kong-
based Bank of East Asia Ltd.  
 The investment from the Kuwait Finance-led group will also
clear debt at Rashid Hussain and expand its business. Salman Younis, head of Kuwait Finance's Malaysian unit, declined to say
yesterday how much the group bid for Utama's stake in Rashid
Hussain, though said he expects a response in two to three days.  
 Primus on Feb. 1 said Utama would remain the biggest
shareholder of Rashid Hussain should a group of investors led by
Primus succeed in buying a stake. Primus shareholders included
the Qatar Investment Authority.  
 Another Bidder  
 ``KFH's proposal seems more appealing because it carries
greater likelihood of a general offer on RHB and RHBC as well as
plans for regional growth,'' said Boon Leong Ong, an analyst at
Hwang-DBS Vickers Research Sdn. in  Kuala Lumpur , who has a
``buy'' rating on RHB Capital shares.  
 About 60 percent of Malaysia's 27 million people are
Muslim. Flush with oil revenue,  Persian Gulf states  such as
 Saudi Arabia  and Kuwait are searching for investment
opportunities in banking, oil infrastructure and real estate in
developing Asian economies.  
 Malaysia's Islamic banking assets may expand 15 percent
this year to 144 billion ringgit, Kuwait Finance said in a
report last month. Such assets account for 12 percent of
Malaysia's banking system and may represent 20 percent by 2010,
Central Bank Governor Zeti Akhtar Aziz said in a speech today.  
 Losses  
 Malaysian lender EON Capital Bhd. has submitted a bid for
Utama's Rashid Hussain stake, the Edge reported today, without
saying where it obtained the information.  
 Rashid Hussain said on Jan. 30 it's also considering a
proposal from shareholder Employees Provident Fund,  Malaysia 's
biggest pension fund, for Rashid Hussain to sell the RHB Capital
stake back to shareholders and use the proceeds to cut debt.  
 Rashid Hussain, a financial services group, has 5.1 billion
ringgit of  outstanding debt , some of which falls due this year,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 Rashid Hussain posted losses in the second and third
quarters of 2006. The company scrapped a $190 million bond sale
in August last year after some shareholders, including the
pension fund, considered the proceeds wouldn't be enough to
revive the business.  
 Kuwait Finance said in a statement yesterday it would
support the proposal from Employees Provident Fund, which owns
31 percent of Rashid Hussain. Utama said on Jan. 16 it struck a
preliminary agreement to sell its Rashid Hussain stake to Kuwait
Finance.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Angus Whitley in Kuala Lumpur at 
 awhitley1@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Tony Jordan  at 
 tjordan3@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        