-- California Expedites Berkshire Bond Insurer License
-- Michael B. Marois
-- 2008-03-12T19:45:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2008-03-12/california-expedites-berkshire-bond-insurer-license-update1-.html

          
          
             Berkshire Hathaway Assurance
Corp.'s application for a license to insure bonds in California
is being fast-tracked to fill a void left by guarantors such as
 MBIA Inc. (MBI) , which are coping with losses tied to mortgage-backed
securities.  
 ``We're currently expediting the processing of this
application,'' said Molly DeFrank, spokeswoman for the
 California Department of Insurance . ``Normally it takes around
six months, but we're working to make this happen as soon as we
can.'' California is the largest issuer of municipal debt.  
 The unit of Warren Buffett's  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A)  has
won approval in 25 states, including New York, Florida, Texas,
Illinois, Pennsylvania and  New Jersey . The company agreed in
January to apply to all states simultaneously in exchange for
speedier approvals. The states are counting on Berkshire to step
in as MBIA,  Ambac Financial Group Inc. (ABKFQ)  and other insurers
struggle to maintain their own credit ratings.  
 Insurance on municipal bonds boosts their credit rating,
allowing municipalities and other public entities to offer lower
 interest rates  and save taxpayer money. Buffett's municipal bond
insurance company, based in Omaha, Nebraska, started operating
in December.  
 The risk of guaranteeing municipal debt is increasing
because the economy is slowing,  Ajit Jain , the chairman of
Berkshire Hathaway Assurance, told the House Financial Services
Committee today. He said fiscal stress in cities such Vallejo,
California, and Jefferson County, Alabama, may be the ``tip of
the iceberg.''  
 Berkshire commands a top-level AAA credit rating and has
access to more than $40 billion in cash. The company's  stock 
fell $990, or 0.75 percent, to $130,950 at 3:39 p.m. in New York
Stock Exchange composite trading, down 7.5 percent this year.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael B. Marois in Sacramento at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Beth Williams in New York at 
 bewilliams@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        