-- H&R Block's Bennett Vows Turnaround, Will Keep Tax Preparer Independent
-- Laura Keeley
-- 2010-07-09T13:16:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-09/h-r-block-plans-to-stay-independent-lure-clients-new-ceo-bennett-says.html

          
          
             H&R Block Inc. , the biggest U.S. tax
preparer, expects to remain an independent company and will step
up efforts to win online customers as more returns get filed
electronically, Chief Executive Officer  Alan Bennett  said.  
 Bennett, who returned to the CEO job this week after  Russ Smyth  resigned, said in an interview that H&R Block will use
advertising to spotlight prices rather than focus on brand
image. Asked about  acquisitions , he said the firm is “always
looking for opportunities to grow revenue and profitability.”  
 H&R Block is trying to halt the erosion of its market share
to  competitors  such as Intuit Inc.’s Web-based TurboTax program.
Revenue has dropped for two years, and concern is growing that
retail tax preparers are in “secular decline,” according to
 Bill Carcache , an analyst with Macquarie (USA) Equities
Research. The firm’s biggest rival, Jackson Hewitt Tax Service
Inc., has said it’s considering strategic alternatives.  
 Digital returns are “an area that we can also grow and
prosper in,” Bennett said. “We have tremendous opportunities
in the marketplace and are very optimistic about our future as
an independent company.”  
 Alexander Paris , an equity analyst at Barrington Research
Associates Inc., said in an interview yesterday that the Kansas
City, Missouri-based company is undervalued and might attract
bids from buyout firms. H&R Block’s cash flow would help to make
it “a perfect private transaction,” he said.  
 Rival Preparers  
 Jackson Hewitt  hired Goldman Sachs Group Inc. last year to
consider “strategic and financial alternatives,” and the stock
has dropped 77 percent in 2010 through yesterday. JTH Tax Inc.,
the parent company of Liberty Tax Service, said in March 2009 it
wanted to explore a deal.  
 Liberty CEO  John Hewitt , a founder of Parsippany, New
Jersey-based Jackson Hewitt, said in an interview yesterday that
H&R Block probably won’t attract buyers unless its business is
growing.  
 “I don’t see any continuity or any movement in the right
direction,” said Hewitt, whose firm is based in Virginia Beach,
Virginia.  
 H&R Block stock  dropped 37 percent this year, including 8.2
percent yesterday to $14.22 in New York Stock Exchange composite
trading after the firm announced Smyth was leaving.  
 Subprime Mortgages  
 Chairman  Richard Breeden , the hedge-fund manager and former
Securities and Exchange Commission chief,  brought in  Smyth in
2008 to help turn around H&R Block after it racked up more than
$1 billion in losses tied to subprime home loans. Smyth had been
president of  McDonald’s Corp. ’s European unit.  
 Refocusing the firm on tax preparation, Breeden  sold  the
investment-adviser and mortgage units. “Rather than the
unsuccessful effort to build a financial supermarket, we would
prefer to concentrate on building market share,” Breeden, 60,
said in a letter to fellow investors in August 2007. The company
declined to make him available for comment.  
 Bennett, 59, served as interim  CEO  for nine months in 2007
and 2008 and remained on the board. He said he plans to continue
the strategy for adding retail clients that Smyth began.  
 “When you go to McDonald’s, the experience is the same,
there is a good consistency across the board,” Bennett said.
Smyth “has brought a lot of that discipline to Block. The
business plan he developed and the strategies we have discussed
with the board, we have pretty much all embraced.”  
 Fewer Returns  
 Profit from continuing operations dropped 4.7 percent in
fiscal 2010 as total tax returns prepared dropped 4.3 percent.
Smyth, 53, said in a telephone interview that H&R Block’s
performance didn’t influence his decisions to leave. He’s
joining a “very large but very private” company based in his
hometown of Chicago that he declined to name, he said.  
 “The things that we started last year and will continue to
build on in our business plan for next year are the right things
to fix the fundamentals of the business,” he said.  
 Bennett’s prior leadership of the company in 2008, the most
successful tax season of the decade, may bode well for the firm,
Oppenheimer & Co. analyst  Scott Schneeberger  said in a note to
clients yesterday. He rates the stock “outperform.”  
 “While a CEO change might trigger a negative knee-jerk
reaction in HRB’s shares, we’d be buyers on possible weakness
given the attractive valuation of the stock and Mr. Bennett’s
experience and respected status,” the analyst wrote.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Laura Keeley  in New York at 
 lkeeley@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        