-- Thai Swaps, Bond Yields Rise as Odds of Rate Increase Next Week Intensify
-- Yumi Teso
-- 2010-07-09T02:34:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-09/thai-swaps-bond-yields-rise-as-odds-of-rate-increase-next-week-intensify.html

          
          
             Thailand’s one-year interest-rate
swap rose, headed for the biggest weekly gain of 2010, signaling
traders are betting the central bank will raise borrowing costs
as soon as next week.  
 The baht and two-year government bond yields also climbed
after Bank of Thailand Governor Tarisa Watanagase said on July 6
that policy makers may increase the benchmark rate this year.
More than half the 12 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News
predict the central bank will tighten rates by 25 basis points
to 1.5 percent on July 14.  
 “Officials seem to be getting markets ready for a rate
increase, probably next week, boosting swap rates and bond
yields,” said  Hideki Hayashi , a global economist at Mizuho
Securities Co. in Tokyo. “Growth in Southeast Asian countries
is pretty strong, supported by exports, and that justifies a
rate hike.”  
 The swap rate, the fixed cost needed to receive a floating
payment, rose six basis points to 1.625 percent as of 9:09 a.m.
in Bangkok, and was up 20 basis points from a week ago, the
biggest five-day advance since Dec. 11, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  
 Seven of the economists surveyed forecast a quarter-
percentage point increase, while five predict no change next
week.  
 Baht Gains  
 “The central bank needs to take preemptive action,” Bank
of Thailand’s Tarisa said on July 6. “If we leave it too long
and inflation becomes a problem, we will need to use strong
medicine, which isn’t good,” she said. Prasarn Trairatvorakul,
the Kasikornbank Pcl president who will take over as governor
from Tarisa on Oct. 1, said the following day that “there is a
chance” the policy rate will rise to 2 percent by the end of
the year.  
 The baht gained 0.1 percent to 32.39 per dollar and was up
by the same magnitude from 32.41 a week ago, Bloomberg data show.  
 The yield on Thailand’s 4.125 percent bond climbed seven
basis points this week to 2.28 percent yesterday, according to
prices from the Thai Bond Market Association.  
 “The rate increase in Thailand will put appreciation
pressure on the baht,” which may rise to as high as 32.20 by
the end of this month, Mizuho’s Hayashi said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Yumi Teso  in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        