-- Air Products Will Probably Increase Hostile Airgas Bid Again, Analysts Say
-- Jack Kaskey
-- 2010-07-09T20:25:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-09/air-products-will-probably-increase-hostile-airgas-bid-again-analysts-say.html

          
          
             Air Products & Chemicals Inc. , the
industrial-gases producer attempting a hostile takeover of
Airgas Inc., probably will raise its $5.3 billion offer again to
close the deal, analysts and investors said.  
 Air Products yesterday increased its cash offer for Radnor,
Pennsylvania-based Airgas by 5.8 percent to $63.50 a share, from
$60. That represents a 46 percent premium over the closing price
on Feb. 4, the day before the first bid was publicly announced.  
 Air Products Chief Executive Officer  John McGlade  wants to
acquire Airgas to gain the largest U.S. distributor of packaged
gases and become the biggest industrial-gas company in North
America. McGlade will raise the bid again, perhaps to as much as
$70 a share, to win shareholder support for his slate of Airgas
directors, said  Amit Shabi , a partner at Bernheim Dreyfus & Co.  
 “The double bump will probably be pitched as the knockout
price,” Shabi said today in an interview from Paris. “I would
be very happy as a shareholder.” Bernheim Dreyfus, which
invests client money in hedge funds, owns Airgas shares.  
 Airgas rose $1.03, or 1.6 percent, to $64.90 at 4:15 p.m.
in New York Stock Exchange trading.  The shares  have increased 36
percent this year. Air Products, based in Allentown,
Pennsylvania, climbed 96 cents, or 1.4 percent, to $69.74.  
 Airgas  said yesterday that shareholders should take no
action until its board reviews the revised offer and determines
a course of action. Airgas had refused to negotiate, calling the
$60 offer “grossly inadequate.”  
 Latest Offer  
 Airgas probably will reject the latest offer, analysts
including  David Manthey  of Robert W. Baird & Co. said in reports
today.  
 “We continue to believe that Air Products is the most
logical buyer, and that the deal has a good chance of being
ultimately completed,” Milwaukee-based Manthey said in his note
to clients.  
 Praxair Inc. , the biggest North American producer of
industrial gases and the second-largest U.S. packaged-gas
company behind Airgas, has considered buying Airgas for 25 years
and may be invited to make a “white knight” bid, Chief
Financial Officer  James Sawyer  said in May.  Susan Szita-Gore , a
Praxair spokeswoman, didn’t respond to a request for comment
today.  
 Praxair probably won’t bid because its share of the U.S.
packaged-gas business would prompt antitrust scrutiny,  Edward H. Yang , an analyst at Oppenheimer & Co., said in a report.  Air
Liquide SA , the world’s largest producer of industrial gases, is
more likely to make an offer, he said.  
 Air Liquide  
 “Air Liquide may be the only potential competitive bidder
and is likely to come in at some point,” Yang said in the
report.  
 Air Liquide, based in Paris, is targeting expansion in
emerging markets, not the U.S., Chief Executive Officer  Benoit Potier  said Feb. 17 in response to a question about the
possibility of an Airgas bid. Airgas generated 98 percent of its
 sales  in the U.S. last year.  
 Linde AG  Chief Executive Officer  Wolfgang Reitzle  said in
March that he has no plans for major acquisitions and is focused
on expanding in faster growing regions outside the U.S. Linde,
based in Munich, is the world’s second-biggest industrial-gas
company.  
 Air Products has nominated three directors to compete
against  Airgas  nominees at the annual meeting to be held by
Sept. 17. Shareholders of record on July 19 are eligible to
vote. Stockholders also will vote on moving up the next annual
meeting to January, allowing Air Products to accelerate its
takeover attempt.  
 May Raise Bid  
 Air Products is likely to raise its bid to ensure its slate
wins the support of arbitrage investors who bought the stock for
more than $60,  Mark Gulley , a New York-based analyst at Soleil
Securities, said in a telephone interview. He has a price target
of $68 on Airgas shares.  
 Air Products will probably end up paying $65 to $70 a share
to close the deal, which would be as much as 11.4 times 2010
earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization,
 Paul Mann , a New York-based analyst at Morgan Stanley, said
today in a report.  
 The current offer is about 10 times ebitda and is at the
high end of recent valuations for industrial gas and chemical
mergers, which average 9.5 times ebitda,  Laurence Alexander , a
New York-based analyst at Jefferies and Co., said in a report.
That’s partly because the bid was made during Airgas’s biggest
earnings drop in two decades, so the deal remains “attractive”
for Air Products, he said.  
 The bid, if not accepted, may be sufficient to bring Airgas
to the negotiating table, Alexander said.  
 Air Products is likely to pay $65 to $67 a share and no
more than $70, Alexander said in an e-mail exchange.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jack Kaskey  in New York at 
 jkaskey@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        