-- Angolan Oil-Region Rebels Declare End to Civil War and Seek Peace Talks
-- Candido Mendes
-- 2010-07-09T15:11:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-09/angolan-oil-region-rebels-declare-end-to-civil-war-and-seek-peace-talks.html

          
          
             Angola’s government said it’s willing
to hold talks with rebels in the oil-producing region of Cabinda
after separatist leaders said their armed struggle was over.  
 “Angola has always been ready for talks since 2006,”
Antonio Bento Bembe, a former rebel who is now the secretary of
state for human rights, said today in a phone interview in
Luanda, the Angolan capital. “I’m happy that my brothers are
now aware that dialogue is the way.”  
 Bembe, who joined the government after talks began in 2006,
said the two sides “will find a consensus.”  
 Angola, which vies with Nigeria as Africa’s leading crude
producer, pumps the majority of its 1.8 million barrels a day
from off the coast of Cabinda, a northern enclave separated from
the country by a sliver of the Democratic Republic of Congo.  
 The Front for the Liberation of the Enclave of Cabinda,
which has waged a low-level fight for independence for the past
30 years, came to prominence in January when it claimed
responsibility for killing two members of the visiting Togolese
soccer team during the African Nations Cup in Angola.  
 The group is now ready for talks with the government,
Portuguese news agency Lusa cited FLEC leader N’zita Tiago as
saying today.  
 “No, we don’t want war in Cabinda,” Tiago, 82, said in
the interview. “The Portuguese government should advise the
Angolan government or its leaders to start a dialogue. I would
like those talks to begin in Lisbon.”  
 Chevron Corp , Total SA, and ENI SpA are among the companies
tapping oil in Cabinda. State oil company Sonangol is also
exploring for oil on land in Cabinda.  
 FLEC’s struggle is separate from the 27-year civil war
between government forces and the National Union for the Total
Independence of Angola, known as UNITA, that destroyed much of
the country’s infrastructure. That war ended in 2002 after UNITA
leader  Jonas Savimbi  was shot and killed.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Candido Mendes  in Luanda via Johannesburg 
 cmendes6@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        