-- Most Asian Stocks Fall; Fast Retailing Drops, Samsung Gains
-- Lisa Pham
-- 2010-07-09T10:40:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-09/asian-stocks-advance-as-korea-raises-rates-canon-climbs-on-profit-report.html

          
          
             Asian  stocks  completed the biggest
weekly advance this year, as falling U.S. jobless claims,
speculation China may wind back some tightening measures and a
South Korean interest-rate increase spurred confidence in a
global economic recovery.  
 Li & Fung Ltd., a supplier to Wal-Mart Stores Inc., gained
7.4 percent in Hong Kong.  KB Financial Group Inc.  climbed 4.4
percent in Seoul after South Korea raised its benchmark interest
rate for the first time since the global financial crisis.  China
Construction Bank Corp.  advanced 1.9 percent on optimism loan
demand will rise.  Santos Ltd.  jumped 9.7 percent on speculation
Royal Dutch Shell Plc may buy a stake in one of its gas projects.  
 “The markets are bouncing back from an oversold level,”
said  Prasad Patkar , who helps manage about $1.6 billion at
Platypus Asset Management Ltd. in Sydney. “Companies are less
pessimistic than the markets. They’re cashed up and looking to
do deals.”  
 The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index  climbed 0.9 percent to 116.10
as of 7:39 p.m. in Tokyo, its highest level since June 24. The
gauge, which surged 1.6 percent yesterday as the International
Monetary Fund raised its global economic growth forecast, gained
3.9 percent this week, the most since the period ended Dec. 4.  
 The index has slumped 10 percent from its high this year on
April 15 on concern Europe’s debt crisis and Chinese steps to
curb property prices will hurt global growth.  
 Home Loans  
 South Korea’s Kospi index climbed 1.4 percent. Japan’s
Topix was little changed. Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 Index advanced
0.9 percent, while New Zealand’s  NZX 50 Index  increased 0.7
percent in Wellington.  
 Hong Kong’s  Hang Seng Index  advanced 1.6 percent and the
Shanghai Composite Index rose 2.3 percent after the Oriental
Morning Post reported some Shanghai-based commercial banks have
resumed providing loans for third-home purchases and have eased
lending policies for second-home purchases.  
 Futures on the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  lost 0.1 percent.
The U.S. gauge gained 0.9 percent yesterday after Labor
Department figures showed initial claims for unemployment
benefits decreased by 21,000 in the week ended July 3 to 454,000.
Economists had forecast claims would fall to 460,000.  
 Samsung Electronics Co. , which gets a fifth of its revenue
in America, climbed 2.7 percent to 796,000 won. Canon Inc.,
which gets more than a quarter of its sales from the Americas,
increased 1 percent to 3,480 yen, after the Nikkei reported that
operating profit for the first half of the year may be about 182
billion yen ($2.1 billion).  
 “The U.S. jobless data shows the economy is slowly
recovering,” said  Yoji Takeda , who manages about $1.1 billion
at RBC Investment (Asia) Ltd. in Hong Kong.  
 Bank Of Korea  
 Li & Fung rose 7.4 percent to HK$37.80 in Hong Kong after
announcing acquisitions and agreements that may generate $1
billion in sales next year. It paid $140 million for health-and-
beauty and fashion companies, and entered four licensing deals,
it said in an e-mailed statement.  
 In Seoul, KB Financial increased 4.4 percent to 50,900 won.
Woori Finance Holdings Co. climbed 4.1 percent to 15,100 won.
The  Bank of Korea  raised its benchmark interest rate for the
first time since the global crisis, joining counterparts across
Asia in removing monetary stimulus as Asia leads world growth.  
 Governor  Kim Choong Soo  boosted the  seven-day repurchase
rate  to 2.25 percent from a record low 2 percent, the bank said
in a statement in Seoul today. An increase was forecast by just
four of 14 economists  surveyed  by Bloomberg News.  
 ‘Confidence In Recovery’  
 “Today’s move is a reflection of the central bank’s
confidence in an economic recovery,” said  Kim Jae Woo , an
analyst at Samsung Securities Co. “Banks can increase interest
rates on loans quickly, while it takes time to fully reflect the
increase in deposits.”  
 In Hong Kong, China Construction Bank climbed 1.9 percent
to HK$6.33, while  Industrial & Commercial Bank of China Ltd. 
rose 1.8 percent to HK$5.72 and Bank of China Ltd. jumped 2.5
percent to HK$4.08. The three lenders denied the Oriental
Morning Post report, saying that they’re complying with
government lending freezes.  
 “There are some expectations that the government may ease
its tightening measures, such as those for mortgages,” said
 Wang Zheng , a Shanghai-based fund manager at Jingxi Investment
Management Co. China implemented earlier this year policies,
such as increased minimum interest rates for home loans and
restrictions of lending for second and third houses, to prevent
the formation of asset price bubbles.  
 An index of China’s business climate released by the
National Bureau of Statistics rose for a fifth quarter in the
three months to June 30.  
 Chinese Property Prices  
 Poly Real Estate Group Co. , China’s second-largest
developer by market value, advanced 3.8 percent to 11.42 yuan in
Shanghai, paring its year-to-date loss to 34 percent. China
Vanke Co., the biggest, rose 2.4 percent to 7.24 yuan. China
Resources Land Ltd., a state-controlled developer, increased 4.4
percent to HK$15.52 in Hong Kong.  
 “Property prices are stabilizing, so the lending
environment is getting better,” said  Kevin Au , a research
analyst at Phillip Securities Group. “For the longer term, it
depends on whether there will be announcements from the
government that third-home mortgage loans would be offered.”  
 Commodity companies gained as copper climbed in  London  for
the fifth time in six days, while crude oil rose in New York,
poised for the biggest weekly gain in six, as concern receded
that the global economic recovery may stall.  
 Rio Tinto Group, the world’s third-biggest mining company,
increased 1.6 percent to A$68.10 in Sydney.  BHP Billiton Ltd. ,
the No. 1 miner, added 0.7 percent to A$38.43. Mitsubishi Corp.,
Japan’s largest trading company, advanced 1.1 percent to 1,972
yen in Tokyo.  
 Santos, Shell  
 Santos  surged 9.7 percent to A$14, the biggest gain in the
MSCI Asia Pacific Index, after the Australian Financial Review
said Royal Dutch Shell may spend A$2 billion to acquire 35
percent of Santos’s Gladstone liquefied-natural-gas project,
without saying where it got the information.  
 Cnooc Ltd. , China’s biggest offshore energy explorer,
gained 1.2 percent to HK$13.02 in Hong Kong after Deutsche Bank
AG analysts raised its stock rating to “buy” from “hold,”
citing a stronger global growth outlook.  
 Inpex Corp. , Japan’s largest energy explorer, plunged 13
percent to 415,000 yen, its lowest price since listing in 2006,
after saying it’s planning the country’s biggest share sale by a
non-financial institution this year to fund a natural-gas
project in Australia.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Monami Yui  in Tokyo at 
 myui1@bloomberg.net ;
 Lisa Pham  in Sydney at 
 lpham14@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        