-- Asian Swap Rates Rise Most in Three Months as Central Banks Cool Economies
-- David Yong
-- 2010-07-09T08:06:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-09/asian-swap-rates-rise-most-in-three-months-as-central-banks-cool-economies.html

          
          
             Asian interest-rate swaps gained this
week by the most in three months as central banks from Malaysia
to South Korea to India increased borrowing costs to ease rising
consumer prices.  
 The average  three-year  swap in the nine most-active
regional markets rose nine basis points to 3.38 percent as of
3:30 p.m. in Singapore, the biggest weekly gain since March 26,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The one-year swap rate
climbed 10 basis points to 2.79 percent.  
 South Korea’s won led gains in Asian currencies as policy
makers raised the seven-day repurchase rate today for the first
time since 2008, a day after Bank Negara Malaysia lifted its
benchmark. Developing Asian economies may expand 9.2 percent
this year, outpacing 4.6 percent global growth, the
International Monetary Fund said this week.  
 “Sentiment and confidence for Asia remains strong and rate
hikes are justified, boosting swap rates,” said  Nalin Chutchotitham , an analyst at Kasikornbank Pcl in Bangkok. “I’m
rather positive on Asian currencies.”  
 Asian central banks need to raise interest rates before the
U.S. as inflation may become a problem in the region, Kenneth
Rogoff, a Harvard University professor and former chief
economist of the International Monetary Fund, said in Singapore
today.  
 Thailand Rate Forecast  
 The U.S. Federal Reserve may keep rates steady for a “very
long time,” Rogoff said. The Fed on June 23 left the target
overnight lending rate between banks unchanged in a range of
zero to 0.25 percent, where it’s been since December 2008.  
 The won appreciated 1.1 percent to a two-week high of
1,195.85 per dollar, Malaysia’s ringgit strengthened 0.3 percent
to 3.1925 and the Indian rupee climbed 0.3 percent to 46.7425,
Bloomberg data show. The MSCI Asia-Pacific Index of stocks rose
0.9 percent.  
 Nine of 15 economists in a Bloomberg News survey forecast
the Bank of Thailand will increase its one-day repurchase rate
25 basis points to 1.5 percent on July 14. The Philippine
central bank will hold its meeting the following day. India and
Taiwan have also raised policy rates this year. In swap
contracts, two parties exchange a fixed rate for a floating
payment  
 “The swap market has indeed seen a bit of pressure over
the past days with a slight improvement in global sentiment,”
said  Delphine Arrighi , an interest-rate strategist in Hong Kong
at Standard Chartered Plc. “We do expect the central bank to
raise rates this quarter in the Philippines, while the Bank of
Thailand has repeatedly maintained a hawkish stance.”  
 Korea Forward Rates  
 South Korea’s one-year swap climbed six basis points from
yesterday to 3.2 percent, the highest level since March 15. The
Bank of Korea boosted its benchmark to 2.25 percent from a
record-low 2 percent, a move forecast by four of 14 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News.  
 Investors should profit from receiving South Korea’s short-
term forward rates because the central bank won’t raise
borrowing costs another three times as implied by swaps traders,
according to Barclays Capital Plc.  
 Speculation that the Bank of Korea will continue to boost
borrowing costs has prompted investors to price in about an 80
basis-point rise in three-month certificates of deposit by the
end of the year, said Matthew Huang, a Singapore-based rate
strategist at Barclays. That’s greater than the 25 basis-point
increase the U.K. bank predicts by December, Huang said.  
 Malaysia Swaps  
 The six-month forward rate for the three-month swap was
3.4360 percent today, or 81 basis points higher than the 2.63
percent on the three-month certificate of deposit fixed by the
central bank.  
 “Markets have priced in forward rates that are too high
and unlikely to be realized,” Huang said. “In addition to too
many rate hikes being priced in, ample onshore liquidity will
likely keep rates low.”  
 Thailand’s one-year swap rose eight basis points to 1.645
percent. Bank of Thailand Governor Tarisa Watanagase said on
July 6 that the bank may increase borrowing costs this year amid
concern inflation will accelerate. Consumer prices rose 3.3
percent in June after gaining 3.5 percent the previous month,
the government said on July 1.  
 Malaysia’s three-year swap rate is set for its first weekly
advance in a month after Bank Negara yesterday raised its
 overnight policy rate  to 2.75 percent from 2.5 percent, saying
growth in the second quarter “remained robust.” The swap
gained 2.5 basis points to 3.315 percent this week.  
 Malaysia’s ringgit, the region’s best performer this year,
will continue to outperform because the central bank may add to
its three rate increases this year, according to Brown Brothers
Harriman & Co. The ringgit, which climbed 7.3 percent so far in
2010, may gain another 0.6 percent to 3.1720 per dollar,  Win Thin , a New York-based senior currency strategist, wrote in a
research note yesterday. He predicted a 25 basis-point rate
increase every quarter.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Yong  in Singapore at 
 dyong@bloomberg.net ;
 Yumi Teso  in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        