-- Asian Stocks Have Biggest Weekly Gain This Year on U.S. Retail Sales, IMF
-- Monami Yui
-- 2010-07-09T21:59:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-09/asian-stocks-have-biggest-weekly-gain-this-year-on-u-s-retail-sales-imf.html

          
          
             Asian  stocks  had their biggest
weekly gain this year after U.S. retail-sales rose and the
International Monetary Fund increased its forecast for global
economic growth.  
 Sony Corp. , an electronics maker that gets more than a
fifth of its sales in the U.S., jumped 5.8 percent this week in
Tokyo. Jiangxi Copper Co., China’s biggest producer of the metal,
gained 8.6 percent in Shanghai after copper prices climbed.
 Santos Ltd.  surged 15 percent in Sydney after newspapers said
Royal Dutch Shell Plc may buy a stake in Australia’s third-
largest oil and gas producer. HTC Corp., the maker of Google
Inc.’s Nexus One mobile phone, soared 19 percent in Taipei after
reporting higher profit and getting rating upgrades.  
 The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index  rose 4 percent this week. It
has fallen 3.6 percent this year on concern Europe’s debt crisis
and China’s measures to curb inflation will slow global growth.  
 “I doubt we’ll have another global recession,” said
 Masayuki Kubota , a fund manager at Tokyo-based Daiwa SB
Investments Ltd., which oversees about $51 billion in assets.
“People are very sensitive to economic data from the U.S. If
something good comes out, market sentiment easily rebounds. I’m
buying sectors which were sold on excessive pessimism.”  
 Japan’s Nikkei 225 Stock Average rose 4.1 percent this week,
as a weaker yen buoyed the profit outlook for exporters.
Taiwan’s  Taiex index  jumped 4.3 percent, the most among major
benchmark indexes in the Asia-Pacific region.  
 U.S. Retail Sales  
 Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 Index climbed 3.7 percent after oil
and metal prices gained and as the nation’s central bank left
its benchmark interest rate unchanged for a second straight
month. Hong Kong’s  Hang Seng Index  advanced 2.4 percent and
China’s Shanghai Composite Index increased 3.7 percent.  
 The  International Council of Shopping Centers  trade group
said U.S. retail sales probably expanded at an average monthly
rate of 4 percent in the first five months of the retail fiscal
year that began Jan. 31, the biggest gain since 2006.  
 “The focus now is on how the U.S. economy is doing,” said
 Mitsushige Akino , who oversees $450 million at Tokyo-based
Ichiyoshi Investment Management Co. “The general consensus was
that the economy was going to deteriorate, and the good retail
sales put a brake on that view.”  
 The MSCI Asia Pacific Index has slumped about 10 percent
from its high this year on April 15 as swelling budget deficits
prompted Standard & Poor’s to cut ratings of Greece, Spain and
Portugal. The retreat drove down the average price of shares in
the gauge to 13.2 times  estimated earnings  on July 2, the lowest
level since December 2008.  
 IMF Raises Forecast  
 Sony, the maker of Bravia televisions and Cyber-shot
cameras, climbed 5.8 percent to 2,445 yen this week in Tokyo.
 Canon Inc. , which gets more than a quarter of their revenue from
the Americas, increased 6.8 percent to 3,480 yen. James Hardie
Industries SE, the biggest seller of home siding in the U.S.,
advanced 3.8 percent to A$6.49 in Sydney.  
 Japanese exporters got a further boost as the yen weakened
to as much as 112.56 against the euro from 109.93 at the close
of stock trading in Tokyo on July 2. Against the dollar, it
depreciated to as much as 88.71 from 88.01. A weaker yen boosts
companies’ revenue from overseas sales when converted into the
local currency.  
 The IMF raised its forecast for global growth this year,
reflecting a stronger-than-expected first half, while warning
that financial-market turmoil has increased the risks to the
recovery. The world economy will expand 4.6 percent in 2010, the
biggest gain since 2007, compared with an April projection of
4.2 percent, the Washington-based fund said in revisions on July
8 to its World Economic Outlook.  
 Oil, Metal Gains  
 Jiangxi Copper gained 8.6 percent to 25 yuan this week in
Shanghai.  Aluminum Corp. of China Ltd. , the nation’s No. 1
producer of the metal, jumped 4.3 percent to HK$6.08 in Hong
Kong. BHP Billiton Ltd., the world’s largest mining company,
rose 3.6 percent to A$38.43 in Sydney.  
 Crude oil for August delivery jumped 5.3 percent this week
in New York before Tokyo markets closed, as economic data from
the U.S. added to signs of recovery. The London Metal Exchange
Index of six metals advanced 3.2 percent, while copper futures
for September delivery climbed 4.4 percent.  
 Material producers rose the most this week among the MSCI
Asia Pacific Index’s 10 industry groups. Santos surged 15
percent to A$14 in Sydney. Shell may spend A$2 billion ($1.75
billion) to acquire as much as 35 percent of Santos’s Gladstone
liquefied-natural-gas project, the Australian Financial Review
said, without saying where it got the information.  
 Centennial Coal Co.  soared 33 percent to A$5.88 after Banpu
Pcl agreed to buy the 80 percent of Centennial it doesn’t
already own.  
 HTC  jumped 19 percent to NT$526 in Taipei after reporting
second-quarter profit that beat estimates as demand for Google’s
Android phones drove sales to a record. Citigroup Inc. boosted
the stock to “buy” from “sell.”  
 To contact the reporters for this story:
 Kana Nishizawa  in Tokyo at 
 knishizawa5@bloomberg.net ;
 Monami Yui  in Tokyo at 
 myui1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        