-- Latvian Austerity Drive `Complicated' by Return to Inflation, Parex Says
-- Aaron Eglitis
-- 2010-07-09T07:23:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-09/latvian-austerity-drive-complicated-by-return-to-inflation-parex-says.html

          
          
             Latvia’s austerity program, which
relies on lower wages to deflate the economy, defend the
currency peg and boost competitiveness, may be frustrated by
 inflation , said  Zigurds Vaikulis  at Parex Asset Management.  
 Consumer prices rose 0.4 percent on a monthly basis in
June, the statistics office said yesterday, the fifth increase
in six months. That signals annual deflation may swing to
inflation as fast as 2 percent by year-end, Vaikulis said.  
 The Baltic nation is trying to restore competiveness lost
during its economic boom while keeping its currency pegged to
the euro and meeting the terms of an emergency bailout from the
European Union and  International Monetary Fund . That process, a
so-called internal devaluation, requires prices and wages to
fall, while the value of the currency remains stable.  
 “The inflation development complicates the internal
devaluation because it’s hard to cut salaries in this
environment,” Vaikulis said by telephone from Riga. Much of the
monthly increases stem from external influences such as heating
and food prices, he said.  
 Public-sector pay in Latvia fell an annual 14.1 percent in
the first quarter, after rising almost 30 percent a year during
the economic boom triggered by the country’s entry into the EU
in 2004. The government implemented austerity measures equal to
about 10 percent of gross domestic product last year to narrow
the budget deficit.  
 Protests  
 Thousands of people staged protests against the program
last summer, arguing the budget cuts would hurt pensioners,
health-care workers and teachers.  
 Investors welcomed the plan. The country’s  5-year credit
default  swap was at 373 basis points on July 7, compared with a
high of about 1,200 basis points in March 2009, when devaluation
concerns were at their height.  
 The  real effective exchange rate  of the lats, which shows
the price development of Latvian goods versus those of major
trading partners, has fallen 9.5 percent since reaching a high
in February 2009. The measure had increased about 33 percent
from the beginning of 2005 until reaching its peak.  
 Vaikulis said the monthly price increases imply an annual
inflation rate of as high as 2 percent by Dec. 31.  
 ‘High Risk’  
 Latvia turned to a group led by the EU and IMF for a 7.5
billion-euro ($9.5 billion) loan after Parex, its second-biggest
bank, collapsed. Between 2005 and 2007, the economy expanded as
much as 12.7 percent, triggering 25 consecutive months of
inflation above 8 percent, peaking at 17.9 percent in May 2008.  
 “There is a high risk of a strong pass through of global
commodities energy prices to local consumer prices,” said
 Violeta Klyviene , senior Baltic economist at Danske Bank A/S, in
an e-mailed note. “It is gradually becoming clear that there is
a clear risk that high inflation will adversely affect the
recovery trends in all Baltic markets,”  
 Estonia, which will adopt the euro in January, has had
seven months of monthly inflation. Lithuania, which missed out
on adopting the euro in 2007 due to high inflation, has recorded
monthly inflation for four of the last five months.  
 The Latvian  economy  grew a seasonally adjusted 0.3 percent
in the first three months of this year, the first quarterly
growth in two years, as exports picked up. The Baltic country’s
economy is recovering from an 18 percent fall in output in 2009.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Aaron Eglitis  in Riga, Lia, at 
 aeglitis@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        