-- GE, Bayer Loom Over Avid's Lead in Creating Alzheimer's Test
-- Kanoko Matsuyama
-- 2010-07-09T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-09/avid-may-beat-ge-bayer-in-creating-first-imaging-test-for-alzheimer-s.html

          
          
             Avid Radiopharmaceuticals Inc.,  an
eight-year-old startup, will likely beat  General Electric Co. 
and  Bayer AG  to the market with the first imaging test to
pinpoint Alzheimer’s early on in the disease.  
 A quick, definitive diagnosis would enable patients to
start drug treatments sooner, join trials for experimental
medicines, plan for future disability and rule out other reasons
for dementia. It also would create a $3 billion market that Avid
may be hard-pressed to defend, said  Harry Glorikian  of Scientia
Advisors, an industry consulting firm.  
 All three companies are developing chemical dyes to
identify proteins in the brain, called beta amyloid, that are
markers for Alzheimer’s. Avid has completed the final tests
needed for U.S. approval, and aims to submit its results this
year, the company said. While that may give Avid a year’s head
start over GE and Bayer, in testing at earlier stages, it
doesn’t assure long-term market dominance, Glorikian said.  
 “The devil’s in the details of the data,” said Glorikian,
the managing partner for Cambridge, Massachusetts-based
Scientia. When doctors can finally look at data from all three,
the winner will be the company that is “superior,” he said.  
 Marketing prowess will also count in determining which
company dominates, said Glorikian and analysts who follow
Alzheimer’s treatments. GE, based in Fairfield, Connecticut, is
the world’s largest maker of medical imaging equipment, and
Bayer, based in Leverkusen, is Germany’s largest drugmaker.  
 PET scans  
 All three of the tests are designed to cause  beta amyloid 
clumps to light up when the patients’ brains are scanned using
PET, or positron emission tomography. The scanners read
radiation from the dyes, which bind to beta amyloid.  
 Each of the companies in the diagnostics race will present
its data at the  International Conference on Alzheimer’s Disease 
starting July 10 in Honolulu. Avid, founded in 2002, is the
first to finish the third and final stage of testing.  
 GE rose 21 cents, or 1.4 percent, to $14.83 in New York
Stock Exchange composite trading yesterday. Bayer rose 45 cents
to 46.05 euros in Frankfurt trading.  
 The new dyes would be a big improvement over existing
diagnostic methods, said  Michael Weiner , director of the Center
for Imaging and Neurodegenerative Disease at the University of
California, San Francisco. “Up until now it’s been very, very
difficult to identify this pathological process before people
become demented,” he said in a telephone interview.  
 Alzheimer’s disease was first described in 1906 by German
doctor  Alois Alzheimer , for whom the illness was named. In the
decades before brain imaging technology was developed, doctors
diagnosed the ailment by its symptoms and by examining brain
tissue after a patient died.  
 5.1 million Americans  
 Even today, with the advent of  PET  and other imaging
methods, doctors continue to rely on memory tests, family
histories, and interviews with relatives, and autopsies are
still required to verify the presence of amyloid plaques. As
many as 5.1 million Americans may have Alzheimer’s, the most
common form of dementia in older people,  according to  the U.S.
National Institutes of Health.  
 While there is no cure, drugs such as Aricept, from New
York-based  Pfizer Inc.  and  Eisai Co.  of Tokyo, can ease the
symptoms, and may be especially helpful if administered at an
early stage, doctors and analysts said. The global market for
such drugs was about $7.5 billion last year, according to
consultants IMS Health Inc. in Norwalk, Connecticut. Once the
new imaging agents are available, the market for Alzheimer’s
drugs and dyes may swell to $10 billion, said Glorikian.  
 Software and ‘Wetware’  
 GE and Bayer bring strengths to the diagnostics race.
Jonathan Allis, global head of imaging for  GE Healthcare , said
that amyloid imaging alone “is not enough.” Diagnosis and
treatment involve behavioral assessments, use of blood markers,
“and the need for powerful software analysis to help clinicians
make sense of it all,” he said in an e-mailed statement.  
 Only GE has the hardware, software, and “wetware,” or
biology, he said.  
 Bayer, whose  health-care group  had sales of 16 billion
euros in 2009, has no presence in the market for medical imaging
equipment. The company has had a stake in diagnostics since the
1930s and imaging agents fit with that historical interest, said
Barbara Putz, the company’s head of clinical development for
molecular imaging.  
 Bayer’s compound was initially developed by Avid; Bayer
licensed it in 2007. In addition to starting phase 3 testing for
that drug, the company said in June that it is working with
 TauRx Pharmaceuticals Ltd. , a closely held Singaporean
drugmaker, to develop an Alzheimer’s test based on a different
biomarker, tangled molecules in the brain called  tau proteins .  
 Attentive, Caring  
 If  family members  can obtain reliable information from
tests like these, they may be more attentive and caring toward a
relative who is slowly progressing, Putz said in a phone
interview. “With patients it is important to have an accurate
diagnosis as early as possible,”  
 Hank Kung, Avid’s chief scientific adviser, acknowledges his
competitors’ resources and marketing clout.  
 “GE is a much bigger company,” Kung said in an interview.
It is “hard to predict” which imaging agent will dominate
commercially. At the same time, Avid’s drug has the advantage of
a very fast scanning time, meaning “the patient doesn’t have to
wait long” in the imaging machine, he said.  
 Avid Chief Executive Officer  Daniel Skovronsky  said interim
results from the clinical trials showed that the amyloid plaques
in PET scans of living patients were identical to the plaques
doctors later found in autopsies of their brains. This proves
the test’s accuracy, Skovronsky said in a telephone interview.  
 Head-to-Head  
 While Avid plans to sell its agent in the U.S. and Europe,
the company has ties to the medical unit of  Siemens AG  of
Munich, Germany. In addition to making the dye for Avid, Siemens
sells a range of medical systems similar to GE’s product line,
and it is going head-to-head with its American rival in PET.
Siemens and Avid declined to comment on how their partnership
will evolve in the future, although Skovronsky said Avid will
continue to rely on strong partners and backers.  
 “As a growing biotech company, there’s always need for
financing,” Skovronsky said. “We are always thinking about
where our next dollar is going to come from.”  
 Important as early diagnosis is for patients, one of the
biggest contributions of the new tests may be in drug
development, said  Murali Doraiswamy , head of the biological
psychiatry division at Duke University Medical School in Durham,
North Carolina, who has been involved in Avid’s drug trials.
Using the dyes with PET scans, “you can pick out patients who
have higher levels of amyloid, expose them to treatments and see
if the treatment is clearing out the amyloid in the brain or
not,” he said in an interview.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Elizabeth Lopatto  in New York at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net ;
 Kanoko Matsuyama  in Tokyo at 
 kmatsuyama2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        