-- Bank of America Plans Volatility ETN to Compete With Barclays
-- Zeke Faux
-- 2010-07-09T14:11:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-09/bank-of-america-creates-volatility-security-to-compete-with-barclays-vxx.html

          
          
             Bank of America Corp. will introduce
an exchange-traded note whose value is derived from the size of
stock-price  swings  in the U.S., competing with Barclays Plc
securities that won as much as $2.8 billion in assets.  
 The ETN will track prices for  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index 
options using a Bank of America  gauge  similar to the Chicago
Board Options Exchange Volatility Index, or  VIX , according to
 John O’Brien , co-head of equity derivatives sales at the firm.
It will be called the Investable Volatility Index.  
 While the Barclays volatility products, known as the  VXX 
and  VXZ , have lured money since their introduction in 2009,
critics say they don’t work as long-term investments because
costs are too high due to their monthly purchase of futures that
tend to decline in value as time passes. Bank of America says it
has addressed that problem by instead buying S&P 500 options
that don’t drop in value as fast.  
 “If a product comes along that doesn’t have these
deteriorating return characteristics, it may be attractive
compared to VXX,” said  Jim Strugger , an options strategist at
MKM Partners LP in Stamford, Connecticut.  
 Traders use put and call options to hedge against losses on
equities. Because the VIX and S&P 500 move in opposite
directions about 80 percent of the time, investors buy and sell
options and futures on the volatility measure -- as well as the
Barclays securities -- to guard against market plunges. The VIX
quadrupled between Aug. 22 and Nov. 20, 2008, as the financial
crisis intensified and the S&P 500 retreated 42 percent.  
 42-Fold Jump  
 Trading volume for the VXX has jumped more than 42-fold
compared with a year ago to a four-week average of 22.1 million
a day. The number of  outstanding shares  has risen to 44.5
million and peaked at 76.4 million in April.  
 The VXX is an effective way to make short-term bets on
volatility, Strugger said. That’s what investors generally use
the ETN for, according to  Ian Merrill , director of U.S. investor
solutions at Barclays.  
 “There had not previously been an investable VIX index,”
Merrill said. “Now many investors are watching what’s happening
in the marketplace and taking positions on the direction of
volatility.”  
 Critics of the VXX, which has 56 times the average trading
volume of the VXZ, say that it doesn’t protect against losses
over long periods of time because the fund periodically buys
more expensive long-term contracts as current holdings near
maturity, boosting costs. Bank of America’s product tracks
options with an average maturity of five months. The VXX tracks
VIX futures that expire in one or two months.  
 ‘Carefully Educated’  
 “VXX provides a vehicle for retail investors to gain
volatility exposure,” said  Dominic Salvino , a specialist at
Group One Trading, the primary market maker for VIX options on
the CBOE floor. “However, they need to be carefully educated on
exactly what they are getting. The VXX will slowly bleed away
value unless there is an event. In this case, the event is a
spike in volatility which usually means a market meltdown.”  
 Bank of America’s Investable Volatility Index has fallen 34
percent since the S&P 500 sank to a 12-year low in March 2009.
The VXX has lost 77 percent and the VIX dropped 48 percent.  
 “Existing products haven’t consistently delivered on the
performance of the VIX, and many clients have come to us asking
for a better way to gain exposure to volatility,” O’Brien said.  
 An option is a contract that gives its holder the right to
buy or sell a security at a fixed price, while a futures
contract carries an obligation to buy or sell. Structured notes
are bank-issued securities that combine bonds with derivatives,
which are contracts whose value is derived from stocks, bonds,
currencies and commodities.  
 Last month,  Bank of America  started selling derivatives
such as structured notes and swaps that reference its volatility
gauge, according to  Kerrie McHugh , a New York-based spokeswoman.  
 Bank of America’s ETN will track the price of S&P 500
options that are farther from maturity instead of short-term VIX
futures to minimize the cost of carrying positions, O’Brien
said. The Barclays VXZ note tracks longer-dated VIX futures and
is suitable for “medium-term” investments, Merrill said.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jeff Kearns  in New York at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net ;
 Zeke Faux  in New York at 
 zfaux@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        