-- Korea Raises Rates as Asia Leads Recovery; Won Gains
-- William Sim
-- 2010-07-09T04:53:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-09/bank-of-korea-raises-interest-rate-to-2-25-to-stem-inflation-on-recovery.html

          
          
             The  Bank of Korea  raised its
benchmark interest rate for the first time since the global
crisis, joining counterparts across Asia in removing monetary
stimulus as the region leads world growth. The won climbed.  
 Governor  Kim Choong Soo  boosted the  seven-day repurchase
rate  to 2.25 percent from a record low 2 percent, the bank said
in a statement in Seoul today. An increase was forecast by just
four of 14 economists  surveyed  by Bloomberg News. Investors are
already boosting bets on another move.  
 The won neared a two-week high as South Korea joined India,
Malaysia and Taiwan in lifting rates in recent weeks, judging
that Asia’s expansion will remain resilient to Europe’s debt
crisis. The decision follows Kim’s assessment that growth may
surpass the country’s trend rate, and a call by the government
to wait until second-quarter data come later this month.  
 “This is the start of monetary-policy exit,” said  Hwang In Seong , vice president of Samsung Economic Research Institute,
which is part of the nation’s largest industrial group. “We may
see another 25-basis-point rise in August and even more later
this year. The governor showed confidence and declared a fight
against inflation in a pre-emptive manner.”  
 Currency, Stocks  
 The won rose 1.1 percent to 1,196.05 per dollar at 1:48 p.m.
in Seoul, according to data compiled by Bloomberg, heading for a
weekly advance that would snap two weeks of losses. The Kospi
stock index climbed 0.9 percent.  
 The one-year treasury bond yield advanced 5 basis points to
3.20 percent at 11:30 a.m., as investors bet on another move,
adding to 38 basis points of gains over the past month,
according to data compiled by the Korea Financial Investment
Association.  
 South Korea’s economy grew more than 1 percent in the
second quarter from the previous three months, and approached
“its potential output level,” Governor Kim said today, his
100th day at the helm of the bank. It may face inflation
pressure driven by demand, he said.  
 “Inflation may rise above our target of 3 percent next
year unless we do something,” Kim told reporters in Seoul.
“The policy interest rate is very low, compared with our
economic growth pace and inflation. We can’t adjust rates
quickly because the global crisis is not over yet.”  
 Consumer Prices  
 Consumer prices rose 2.6 percent in June from a year
earlier, after climbing 2.7 percent in May. The central bank is
targeting inflation of between 2 percent and 4 percent on
average through 2012.  
 South Korea’s producer-price inflation held at a 16-month
high of 4.6 percent in June as food and oil costs rose, a
central bank report showed today, suggesting inflationary
pressure may build.  
 Exports jumped 32.4 percent in June from a year earlier, an
eighth straight monthly increase, as global demand rebounded.
 Samsung Electronics Co. , Asia’s biggest maker of semiconductors,
flat screens and mobile phones, this week reported record
earnings last quarter, as a recovery in demand for computer-
memory chips drove up prices.  
 Finance Minister  Yoon Jeung Hyun  last month boosted this
year’s  growth forecast  to 5.8 percent from a December projection
of 5 percent and said the nation needs to “normalize” fiscal
and monetary policies. The central bank will release a revision
of its economic outlook next week.  
 Election Defeat  
 President  Lee Myung Bak ’s administration had pressed the
central bank to hold rates down before local elections on June 2.
The government suffered a surprise defeat at the polls and Lee
may accept Prime Minister  Chung Un Chan ’s offer to resign,
Yonhap News reported this week.  
 Strengthening growth prompted Malaysia’s central bank to
raise rates yesterday for the third time this year, Taiwan to
boost borrowing costs last month and the Reserve Bank of India
to increase its benchmark three times since mid-March.  
 “It appears that policy-makers across Asia are reasonably
confident about the economic outlook despite concerns about the
potential impact of euro-area weakness and a near-term dip in
growth from the fast pace set earlier,” said  Brian Jackson , a
Hong Kong-based emerging markets strategist at Royal Bank of
Canada. “Another possible motivation for the rate hikes we have
seen in recent weeks is that this will provide scope for rate
cuts later on if growth turns out to be weaker than expected.”  
 Bank of Korea researchers said in a report this week that
it is “inevitable” that Greece will default because a
shrinking economy will push its debt to an unsustainable level.
While such an outcome isn’t imminent, it may trigger “major
chaos” in global financial markets if it occurs, they said.  
 Concern over Europe’s debt crisis is keeping some policy
makers from raising interest rates. Australia this week joined
the U.S., Europe and Indonesia in keeping borrowing costs
unchanged to gauge whether the European crisis threatens the
global economic recovery.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Eunkyung Seo in Seoul at 
 eseo3@bloomberg.net ;
 William Sim  in Seoul at 
 wsim2@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Kim Choong Soo, governor of Bank of Korea, attends a meeting at the bank's headquarters on Friday. Photographer: Seokyong Lee/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
