-- Barnes & Noble's Riggio Says He Didn't Probe Trial Foe Burkle's Background
-- Matt Townsend
-- 2010-07-09T21:41:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-09/barnes-noble-s-riggio-says-he-didn-t-probe-trial-foe-burkle-s-background.html

          
          
             Barnes & Noble Inc.  Chairman  Leonard Riggio  testified that he’s been displeased for years with
Yucaipa Cos.’  Ron Burkle , who is asking a judge to change the
bookseller’s “poison pill” anti-takeover defense so he can buy
more of its stock.  
 “I was completely unhappy with our partnership” in other
companies over the last decade, Riggio said in testimony in a
trial of Yucaipa’s lawsuit in Wilmington, Delaware. “I didn’t
like the idea he invested in Barnes & Noble” and “I didn’t
think highly of his judgment.”  
 Today was the second day of the nonjury trial being heard
by Judge  Leo Strine Jr.  Riggio has testified live and on
videotape. The trial continues July 12.  
 Burkle had “a good relationship” with Riggio until he
began accumulating the stock, the Yucaipa chairman testified
yesterday in court.  
 Yucaipa sued Barnes & Noble’s directors May 5, alleging
they orchestrated a “self-dealing scheme” designed to keep the
Riggio family in control of the company and prevent Burkle from
buying blocks of stock and gaining board seats.  
 Yucaipa, based in Los Angeles, is the biggest outside
 shareholder  of New York-based Barnes & Noble, the largest U.S.
bookstore chain.  
 Founding Shareholder  
 Barnes & Noble directors put the poison pill in place to
thwart what they said they perceived as a hostile takeover bid.
Burkle contends he is buying stock to enhance his ability to put
candidates on the board and improve company operations,
according to court papers.  
 In further testimony today, Riggio said he was the founding
shareholder of the company, has always been the largest
shareholder and “I have a strong preference for being the
largest shareholder of Barnes & Noble.”  
 While the lawsuit claims Riggio and other directors adopted
the poison pill to stymie Burkle’s attempt to equal Riggio’s
stake, Riggio said “I didn’t even know poison pills were
allowed” until company lawyers drafted one.  
 Burkle’s Yucaipa holds more than 19 percent of the stock,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The Riggio family owns
about 32 percent.  
 The poison pill is a shareholder rights agreement that
allows investors to buy large amounts of stock at bargain prices
if an outsider acquires 20 percent or more of the shares. The
plan, designed to make a hostile takeover prohibitively
expensive, “is intended to protect our shareholders,” Barnes &
Noble said in court papers.  
 Management Criticized  
 Buckle in his complaint criticized management for  buying 
Barnes & Noble College Booksellers Inc. last year from Riggio
for $514 million. He also questioned company lease agreements
giving the Riggios annual rent of more than $5 million, the
purchase of $8.25 million in textbooks from a Riggio affiliate,
and the contracting of freight services from Riggio interests
for shipping to retail stores.  
 Barnes & Noble, with $5.81 billion in sales for the year
ended May 1, said last month it might see a loss of as much as
40 cents a share this fiscal year because of a $140 million
investment in its digital-book unit.  
 Barnes & Noble rose 54 cents or 4.2 percent to $13.28 at
4:15 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading.  
 The case is Yucaipa American Alliance Fund II LP v. Riggio,
CA5465, Delaware Chancery Court (Wilmington).  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Phil Milford  in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 pmilford@bloomberg.net ;
 Matt Townsend  in New York at 
 mtownsend9@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        