-- BC Partners, Silver Lake Agree to Acquire Health-Care Provider Multiplan
-- Cristina Alesci
-- 2010-07-09T17:12:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-09/bc-partners-silver-lake-agree-to-acquire-health-care-provider-multiplan.html

          
          
             BC Partners Ltd., manager of a 5.8
billion-euro ($7.4 billion) private equity fund, and Silver Lake
Partners of the U.S. said they agreed to buy medical-care
provider Multiplan Inc.  
 The two firms will be “equal equity partners,” they said
today in a statement, without disclosing the terms of the
acquisition. They are purchasing the New York-based network of
health-care providers from Carlyle Group and Welsh, Carson,
Anderson & Stowe in a transaction valuing the company at $3.1
billion, said two people with knowledge of the deal.  
 The $1 trillion overhaul passed by Congress in March will
expand coverage to 34 million uninsured Americans, while putting
a premium on health-care companies that specialize in
controlling medical costs, said Chip Clark, a partner at New
York-based Ernst & Young LLP who advises equity firms on health-
care deals.  
 “While nobody knows how the healthcare legislation will
play out, we do know that more people will be going to the
doctor, which isn’t bad for this business, ” said Jamie Rubin,
a senior partner at BC Partners.  
 “MultiPlan today is a leader in working with all health-
care industry participants to ensure that individuals receive
greater choice, increased flexibility and cost effective care,”
 Raymond Svider , co-chairman of London-based BC Partners, said in
the statement. “We look forward to helping the MultiPlan
leadership team build on this foundation and continue to grow.”  
 LBO Financing  
 BC Partners is seeking to invest the remainder of its fund
before it starts raising a new pool in the second half of this
year. Private equity firms are on the lookout for acquisitions
again after the credit crisis froze deal making for two years.
They have led $59 billion in takeovers this year, 73 percent
more than in 2009, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 Carlyle purchased Multiplan, the largest independent
preferred provider organization, or PPO, in the U.S. in 2006.
The company has 2,350 clients, according to Carlyle’s website.  
 Bank of America Corp., Barclays Plc and Credit Suisse
Group AG agreed to finance the transaction, according to the
statement. The financing commitment is $2 billion, according to
a person familiar with the transaction, who declined to be
identified because the terms are private. “Lenders like deals
that are on the right side of a trend,” said Rubin.  Multiplan
has $1.39 billion of debt of which $1.12 billion is in term
loans maturing in 2013, according to Bloomberg data.  
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Bank of America arranged a
$1.19 billion credit facility in 2006 to help pay for Carlyle
and Welsh Carson’s acquisition of the company, Bloomberg data
show. The loan package consists of a $50 million revolving
credit line, a $425 million term loan B, a $360 million term
loan C and a $350 million term loan D.  
 Multiplan’s revolver had an interest rate 2.25 percentage
points more than the London interbank offered rate when the
credit line was established in 2006, according to Bloomberg
data. At the time the term loan C had a margin of 2.5 percentage
points over Libor, the rate banks charge to lend to each other,
and the term loan D had a spread of 4.25 percentage points more
than the lending benchmark.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Anne-Sylvaine Chassany  in Paris at 
 achassany@bloomberg.net ;
 Cristina Alesci  in New York at 
 Calesci2@bloomberg.net ;  
          
          


  


        