-- Berlusconi Allies Dispute Spending Cuts as Budget Confidence Vote Looms
-- Steve Scherer
-- 2010-07-09T13:53:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-09/berlusconi-allies-dispute-spending-cuts-as-budget-confidence-vote-looms.html

          
          
             Italian Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi ’s allies are revolting against budget cuts to
transport and welfare services, creating tension within the
ruling coalition as a vote on deficit reduction looms.  
 The 20 regional presidents, nine of whom are members of the
coalition, said today they would surrender their powers to
manage local spending if the planned cuts aren’t scaled back.  
 “We’re willing do our part and make sacrifices,”  Vasco Errani , the head of the group, told reporters in Rome after
meeting Berlusconi and Finance Minister  Giulio Tremonti . “But
it must be clear what is going to happen in the next few months
if these cuts remain in place. We won’t be able to provide vital
services.”  
 The reduction of outlays to regions is part of a 25
billion-euro ($32 billion), two-year budget package now being
debated in the Senate. A confidence vote, which puts the
survival of the government at risk, is scheduled for next week.
The Italian deficit reduction is part of a European effort to
shore up confidence in the euro region amid the Greek debt
crisis.  
 “There are ample margins for conserving and maintaining
services,” Tremonti said, responding to the criticism of the
regional chiefs.  
 The cuts to the regional governments total 8.5 billion
euros in 2011 and 2012. Tremonti said the cuts would “remain
unchanged” after reaching a compromise with city and provincial
leaders over 3 billion euros of budget reductions over two years
for their administrations. The total amount of cuts will remain
unchanged, while local governments will have more flexibility in
managing annual spending, Tremonti said.  
 Deficit Threshold  
 The government’s spending package includes freezing
salaries in the public administration to bring the budget
deficit below the European Union threshold of 3 percent of gross
domestic product by 2012 from 5.3 percent in 2009. The
government is seeking 12.5 billion euros a year in savings, with
about half coming from cutting outlays to regional and city
administrations.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Steve Scherer  in Rome at 
 scherer@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        