-- Ex-Hostage Betancourt Seeks $7 Million Damages From Colombia
-- Matthew Bristow
-- 2010-07-09T21:54:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-09/betancourt-seeks-7-million-saying-colombian-negligence-led-to-kidnapping.html

          
          
             Ingrid Betancourt  and her family are
seeking about 13 billion pesos ($6.94 million) in damages from
the Colombian government, alleging that officials’ negligence
led to her being kidnapped by rebels and held for six years.  
 Betancourt’s lawyer filed two sets of demands June 30 with
the Defense and Interior ministries, one from Betancourt, and
one from her mother, sister and two children, according to
copies of the documents distributed today by the Defense
Ministry. The filings say the government failed to provide her
with proper security when she was a presidential candidate.  
 “The state gravely failed in its duty in allowing a
presidential candidate to travel in this part of the country
without proper protection,” the documents say.  
 The demands are a “request for extrajudicial
conciliation,” not a lawsuit. If Betancourt, her family and the
government fail to reach an agreement, she could file suit.  
 Betancourt was kidnapped by guerrillas from the
Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia, or FARC, in February
2002 as she attempted to travel to the southern town of San
Vicente del Caguan to fulfill a campaign pledge. She was forced
to make the journey overland after officials denied her
permission to land at the town’s airport in a private plane and
refused to take her by helicopter, the documents say.  
 The Defense Ministry said it was “surprised and saddened”
by the demands and that there was no reason to blame the state
for Betancourt’s kidnapping.  
 “Ingrid Betancourt ignored insistent recommendations from
the armed forces and other authorities not to proceed with her
trip to San Vicente del Caguan,” the ministry said in a
statement.  
 Pastrana’s Trip  
 Betancourt was refused permission to travel with the then-
president of Colombia,  Andres Pastrana , who flew to San Vicente
del Caguan on the same day, or with the journalists who were
covering the president’s trip, the documents say.  
 Authorities also failed to provide Betancourt with an
armored car or escorts for her overland trip, the documents add.  
 The army rescued Betancourt along with three U.S. hostages
and 11 others in an operation in July 2008.  
 San Vicente del Caguan was part of a Switzerland-sized
demilitarized zone used for negotiations between the government
and FARC rebels. The government ordered the army to re-capture
the area on Feb. 20, 2002, three days before Betancourt was
kidnapped.  
 Betancourt’s lawyer Ernesto Devis-Morales, didn’t
immediately return a call requesting comment.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Matthew Bristow  in Bogota at 
 mbristow5@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        