-- Bharti Airtel, Idea Cellular Gain in Mumbai After Credit Suisse Upgrade
-- Ketaki Gokhale
-- 2010-07-09T07:10:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-09/bharti-airtel-idea-cellular-gain-in-mumbai-after-credit-suisse-upgrade.html

          
          
             Bharti Airtel Ltd.  climbed in Mumbai
trading, poised for its biggest gain in almost 14 months, after
Credit Suisse Group AG raised its stock rating to
“outperform,” citing an improved competitive environment.  
 Bharti , India’s biggest mobile-phone company, surged 8.5
percent as of 11:58 a.m. local time to 305.10 rupees, set for
its largest percentage gain since May 18, 2009. The stock was
the  best performer  on the benchmark Sensitive Index which rose 1
percent. Trading  volume  jumped to more than four times the six-
month daily average.  
 Tariff wars in India, spurred last year by the entry of
Japan’s NTT DoCoMo Inc. and Norway’s Telenor ASA with cut-price
plans, are over and large operators have “emerged unscathed,”
wrote Credit Suisse analyst  Bhuvnesh Singh , who raised his
share-price estimate for Bharti to 360 rupees from 320 rupees.  
 Idea Cellular Ltd. , which also had its rating raised at the
brokerage,  gained  12 percent to 66.45 rupees. Volume was sixfold
the six-month daily average. Reliance Communications Ltd.,
Bharti’s closest rival which had its rating increased to
“neutral,” added 3.1 percent to 193.65 rupees.  
 Reliance has lost 24 percent in the past year making it the
worst performer on the Sensitive Index, which has climbed 30
percent in the period. Bharti is the second-worst index stock in
the 12-month period, having declined 24 percent.  
 Call rates in India, the world’s largest wireless market
after China, fell to less than a penny a minute as more than a
dozen operators vied to win market share. Operators including
Bharti and Vodafone Plc’s Indian unit paid 509.7 billion rupees
($11 billion) in a recent government spectrum auction in the
hope that third-generation services would help revive earnings.
About half the nation’s 1.2 billion people still don’t use a
cell phone, according to India’s telecom regulator.  
 “At first glance, nothing seems to be right in the Indian
telecom sector,” wrote Credit Suisse’s Singh. “Deeper analysis
suggests that the tide is turning. Revenue market shares are
steady, high auction prices could force most players to avoid
competitive actions and regulatory risks could be exaggerated.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ketaki Gokhale  in Mumbai 
 kgokhale@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        