-- BNDES to Maintain Record Lending Through October Election, Barbosa Says
-- Arnaldo Galvao
-- 2010-07-09T14:14:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-09/bndes-to-maintain-record-lending-through-october-election-barbosa-says.html

          
          
             Brazil will maintain record lending
by the state development bank through October presidential
elections, said  Nelson Barbosa , economic policy secretary at the
Finance Ministry.  
 BNDES, as the Rio de Janeiro-based bank is known, has
enough resources to keep making loans at the current pace until
the beginning of next year, allowing President  Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva’s  successor to decide whether to continue the policy,
Barbosa said in an interview yesterday in Brasilia.  
 BNDES lending rose 41 percent in the first five months of
the year to a record 46 billion reais ($26.1 billion). Such
loans contribute to job creation, economic growth, tax
collection and private investments, Barbosa said.  
 “The benefits are bigger than the costs; don’t forget that
BNDES is posting profits and pays dividends to the Treasury,”
Barbosa said. “Without BNDES some companies wouldn’t get the
loans they need. These loans have low default rates and generate
jobs, economic growth and employment.”  
 The credit expansion by the state bank is making it more
difficult for the central bank to contain inflation, Fitch
Ratings said June 28.  
 Policy makers at Latin America’s biggest economy increased
banking reserve requirements and raised the benchmark  interest 
rates twice this year to 10.25 percent from a record 8.75
percent low in March to curb consumer price increases. The
annual  inflation  rate was 4.84 percent at the end of June, above
the central bank’s 4.5 percent  target .  
 Credit Expansion  
 BNDES loans reduce the efficiency of monetary policy and
may push the benchmark interest rate higher, central bank
president  Henrique Meirelles  told Valor Economico newspaper in
an interview published July 5.  
 The higher rates are luring capital to Brazil’s fixed-
income assets and fueling gains in the real that Lula, 64,
sought to curb by implementing a 2 percent tax on foreigners’
investments in stocks and bonds in October, Harvard University
Professor  Ricardo Hausmann  said in an interview last month.  
 BNDES President  Luciano Coutinho , in an interview last
week, rejected criticism that record lending is placing a burden
on the central bank to keep inflation in check and slowing the
reduction of  public debt .  
 Lending by the state development bank is helping to
increase Brazil’s potential gross domestic product from less
than 4 percent in the 1990s, Barbosa said.  
 “As economic growth is being led by investments, we expect
Brazil’s potential GDP to reach around 5.5 percent next year,”
Barbosa said. “The rise of formal employment increases
productivity and this is also linked to growth.”  
 The real gained 0.4 percent to 1.7605 per dollar yesterday
from 1.7674 on July 7, the strongest since May 3. Markets are
closed today due to a holiday in Sao Paulo.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Iuri Dantas  in Brasilia at 
 idantas@bloomberg.net 
 Arnaldo Galvao  in Brasilia at 
 agalvao1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Henrique Meirelles, president of the central bank of Brazil, speaks at a news conference in London. Photographer: Simon Dawson/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
