-- Boeing to Alter 767 Line to Gain Tanker Advantage Over Airbus
-- Gopal Ratnam
-- 2010-07-09T22:07:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-09/boeing-s-lean-767-attempts-to-tip-air-force-tanker-price-scale-from-airbus.html

          
          
             Boeing Co. , trying for the third time
in a decade to win a U.S. refueling tanker order, is moving and
redesigning its 767 production line to cut costs in an attempt
to outbid European Aeronautic, Defence & Space Co.  
 The changes brought “significant savings over our previous
bid,”  Jean Chamberlin , the vice president in charge of Boeing’s
tanker program, said in an interview today.  
 Boeing and EADS each submitted 8,000-page bids this week
for the $35 billion contract to build aerial tankers for the
U.S. Air Force. The Pentagon plans to pick a winner by November
for 179 aircraft to replace its 1950s-era tankers, built by
Chicago-based Boeing. Two previous awards were canceled amid an
ethics scandal and government auditors’ criticism of the
selection process.  
 Boeing has learned in the meantime “to take advantage of
its operating scale much better than it did before, so it should
have a lower cost and with it a lower price,” said  Howard Rubel , a Jefferies & Co. analyst in New York who recommends
buying the stock. “They’ve thought long and hard about how to
make that 767 cheaper.”  
 Boeing plans to build both the commercial and tanker
versions of its 767 jet on one assembly line that’s being
modeled after  Toyota Motor Corp. ’s lean-style manufacturing. The
move will slash production space by 44 percent and cut labor
hours per plane by as much as 40 percent, as well as reduce
inventory costs, said Elizabeth Lund, the 767 program chief.  
 A330 Airplane  
 Rival EADS, whose tanker bid is based on the Airbus A330
airplane, already employs lean manufacturing methods,  Ralph Crosby , the head of EADS’s North American unit, said in an
interview in Washington today. He declined to compare the price
of its current bid with its successful 2007 bid made with former
partner Northrop Grumman Corp.  
 U.S. Aerospace Inc. of Santa Fe Springs, California, today
said it submitted a bid based on an airplane made by its partner
Kiev-based Antonov Co., for $150 million each. Boeing and Airbus
declined to discuss prices.  
 Under Chief Executive Officer  Jim McNerney ’s “One Boeing”
push, the company has been working to leverage its commercial
and defense operations. The Air Force criticized complications
with the division of the two in the last tanker competition,
which Boeing lost, Chamberlin said.  
 Moving Assembly  
 Boeing also has used its work from the 1990s, switching to
a lean-style moving assembly line for its 737 airliner, to more
efficiently build a new submarine hunter based on that
commercial plane for the U.S. Navy last year.  
 Building on that process, Lund is switching 767 production
to a system that keeps assembly moving at a set pace as jets are
pulled nose to tail down the automated line. Previously, the
company used cranes to move the aircraft to new stations as each
step was completed.  
 The line is being moved to the back of Boeing’s Everett,
Washington, wide-body  factory , which will help isolate the
military aircraft for security purposes, Lund said.  
 She’s also changing the manufacturing process itself so
that the company no longer has to build a 767 and then fly it to
the military facility in Wichita, Kansas, to be ripped apart and
turned into a tanker. Now, wire routing, brackets and fuel tanks
can be built into the plane while it’s in Everett, and the
Wichita  workers  will only add equipment.  
 Labor and Space  
 The changes cut labor and space requirements and reduce
Boeing’s inventory costs, Lund said. The first 767 will come off
the new line in January, she said.  
 Chamberlin said for the next four months, she’ll be
answering the Air Force’s questions about today’s bid and
“adjusting the offer as need be to assure we come in at the
lowest price with the capability that our customer is looking
for so that we win this competition.”  
 The airplanes’ price, although a “substantial” factor,
isn’t the only one, EADS’s Crosby said yesterday.  
 In other international competitions where price of the
larger A330-based tanker was judged against its capabilities,
“we have won every time,” Crosby said. “So I feel good about
the intersection of value and price.”  
 Australia  has ordered five planes based on EADS’s A330
tanker. Boeing is building 767-based tankers for Japan and
Italy.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Gopal Ratnam  in Washington at 
 gratnam1@bloomberg.net ;
 Susanna Ray  in Seattle at 
 sray7@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     This artist's rendering shows the Boeing 767 Tanker/Transport. Source: Boeing Co./ via Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
