-- BP Aims to Contain Flow of Gulf Well Within Days
-- Jim Polson
-- 2010-07-09T23:11:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-09/bp-u-s-aim-to-seal-gushing-gulf-of-mexico-well-within-days-allen-says.html

          
          
             BP Plc  may contain all of the flow
from its Gulf of Mexico oil gusher within the next four days by
accelerating installation of a tight seal between the damaged
wellhead and surface production vessels, said  Thad Allen , the
government’s national incident coordinator.  
 Potential setbacks could lengthen the timeline to nine
days,  Robert Dudley , chief executive officer of BP’s Gulf Coast
Restoration unit, said in a letter to Allen, released late
today.  
 The quickened timeline is necessary to complete surface and
subsea connections needed before another storm roils the Gulf,
stalling work, Allen said today at a press conference in New
Orleans. It may also result in thousands of additional barrels
spilled over several days while the work is done.  
 Obama administration officials probably will tell BP to
begin as early as tomorrow replacing a leaky cap atop the well
that has been routing about 16,000 barrels of oil a day to the
surface. Today, crews are connecting to the well a ship BP has
estimated can take as much as 25,000 barrels per day beginning
July 11, Allen said.  
 “This is in anticipation of a weather window that will
allow us seven to 10 days of good weather,” Allen said. “We’d
like to take advantage of that.”  
 Rough Seas  
 Rough seas after the passage of Hurricane Alex southwest of
the well site last month delayed connection of the Helix
Producer I and forced more than 500 oil-skimming vessels into
port. Allen reiterated today he doesn’t expect BP to stop the
gusher with a relief well 13,000 feet (3,962 meters) below the
seafloor before mid-August.  
 In the letter to Allen, Dudley said the company
expects the relief well to have stopped the flow of oil from the
leak by Aug. 13.  
 The Helix vessel, capable of handling 25,000 barrels of oil
a day, may be connected today for tests, he said.  
 BP collected 24,395 barrels of oil yesterday, with 16,305
barrels processed aboard the drillship Discoverer Enterprise and
3,090 barrels flared from the Q4000, an offshore rig, as oil and
gas continued to gush around the loose-fitting cap. As much as
60,000 barrels a day may be flowing from the well, a committee
of government and academic scientists estimated.  
 The disaster began 82 days ago when a BP well drilled by
the Deepwater Horizon rig blew out, killing 11 crew. The rig
sank April 22 after burning for more than a day, leaving the
mile of pipe that had connected it to the well crumpled on the
seafloor.  
 Tight Seal  
 To make a tight seal, the drillship and its cap will be
moved away so underwater robots can unscrew six bolts holding
the stump of pipe left after a robot sheared away most of it
June 3, Allen said. A purpose-built sealed cap with connections
to the surface would be bolted in place, with the whole process
taking three to four days, he said.  
 Dudley’s letter to Allen outlined four potential situations
that could set the process back a total of four days. The
contingencies include difficulty unbolting the flanges and
changing the installation point of equipment.  
 “The expectations now are that they are successful in
making a switch,”  Brian Youngberg , an analyst at Edward Jones
in St. Louis who rates BP shares “sell” and owns none, said in
a telephone interview. “If they have problems with it, I think
the market would view this negatively.”  
 Killing the Well  
 Until this week, BP and the U.S. Coast Guard had planned to
wait until the Helix Producer I was connected and drawing oil
and gas through a line connected below the top of the well,
reducing the size of the gusher and the pressure that may buffet
the robots during the cap replacement. They’d planned to take a
number of days to determine the next step, Allen had said.  
 Today, Allen said quick work reduces the risk of further
delays, and that the sealed cap improves BP’s chances of
successfully plugging the well from the bottom by injecting mud
followed by cement through a relief well. With a tight seal at
the top, engineers will get accurate flow and pressure readings,
clues to the condition of the well bore, he said.  
 “If they have that cap in place, they have an added
advantage in trying to kill the well,” said  Don Van Nieuwenhuise , director of professional geosciences at the
University of Houston. “It should ensure the kill will work.”  
 Controlling flow atop the well will assure that cement
injections have a chance to set, he said.  
 BP, the government and outside petroleum experts have
speculated that the blowout occurred because the well bottom was
improperly sealed, allowing oil and gas to gush to the surface
around the drill pipe itself. Pressure readings may indicate
whether that occurred and suggest how BP should move to kill the
well at the bottom, Allen said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jim Polson  in New York at 
 jpolson@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Admiral Thad Allen, U.S. Coast Guard National Incident Commander speaks to the media in the briefing room of the White House in Washington. Photographer: Andrew Harrer/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     The Transocean Ltd. Development Driller II platform works to drill a relief well at the site of the BP Plc Deepwater Horizon oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico off the coast of Louisiana. Photographer: Derick E. Hingle/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
