-- Brazil Won't Slow State Bank Lending Before October Election, Barbosa Says
-- Arnaldo Galvao
-- 2010-07-09T12:04:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-09/brazil-won-t-slow-state-bank-lending-before-october-election-barbosa-says.html

          
          
             The Brazilian government doesn’t plan
to slow record lending by the state development bank before the
October presidential elections, said  Nelson Barbosa , economic
policy secretary at the Finance ministry.  
 The bank, known as BNDES, has enough resources to keep
making loans at the current pace until the beginning of next
year, allowing President  Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva’s  successor
to decide whether to continue the policy, Barbosa said.  
 BNDES lending rose 41 percent in the first five months of
the year to a record 46 billion reais ($26.1 billion). Such
loans contribute to job creation, economic growth, tax
collection and private investments, Barbosa said.  
 “The benefits are bigger than the costs; don’t forget that
BNDES is posting profits and pays dividends to the Treasury,”
Barbosa said. “Without BNDES some companies wouldn’t get the
loans they need. These loans have low default rates and generate
jobs, economic growth and employment.”  
 Policy makers at Latin America’s biggest economy increased
banking reserve requirements and raised the benchmark  interest 
rates twice this year to 10.25 percent from a record 8.75
percent low in March to bring  inflation  closer to the  target .  
 The credit expansion sustained by the bank is putting
pressure on policy makers, Fitch Ratings said June 28.  
 Loans provided by Brazil’s state development bank reduce
the efficiency of monetary policy and may push the benchmark
interest rate higher, central bank president  Henrique Meirelles 
told Valor Economico newspaper in an interview published July 5.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Iuri Dantas  in Brasilia at 
 idantas@bloomberg.net 
 Arnaldo Galvao  in Brasilia at 
 agalvao1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        