-- BT Group Agrees to 39-Month Pay Deal With Union, Ending Threat of Strike
-- Jonathan Browning
-- 2010-07-09T08:43:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-09/bt-group-agrees-to-39-month-pay-deal-with-union-ending-threat-of-strike.html

          
          
             BT Group Plc, the U.K.’s biggest
fixed-line phone company, agreed to a 39-month pay deal with
the  Communication Workers Union  after the labor group came
close to strike action.  
 BT and the CWU agreed to a revised pay package of an
annual 3 percent increase in pay from April 2010 to March 2013.
The pay rise will be backdated to January, BT said today in a
statement. The CWU will recommend the deal to its members.  
 The union, which represents more than 50,000 BT workers,
reached the accord after balloting members for what would have
been the first companywide strike in 23 years. The strike
ballot was canceled on July 5 because of legal technicalities.  
 “This agreement is good for BT, its employees,
shareholders and customers,” BT Chief Executive Officer  Ian Livingston  said in the statement. “BT will benefit from a long
period of certainty whilst our employees will have financial
stability during uncertain economic times.”  
 BT climbed  2.1 percent to 138.8 pence at 9:39 a.m. in
London trading.  
 The CWU had asked for a pay increase of 5 percent for this
year after Livingston slashed jobs to combat falling sales amid
the economic slowdown. The strike would have been the first
national industrial action at BT since 1987, according to the
CWU, whose members work in engineering, call center and retail
positions.  
 “Although our ballot for strike action was ultimately
withdrawn, we believe it played a major part in getting BT back
to the negotiating table with a significantly improved pay
offer,” Andy Kerr, CWU deputy general secretary, said in a
separate statement.  
 BT had asked managers to stand by to help fix telephone
services and field customer calls, two people with knowledge of
the company’s plans said this month. They declined to be
identified as the preparations were confidential.  
 The pay deal is the longest agreed between the company and
the union, according to Dan Thomas, a BT spokesman.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jonathan Browning  in London 
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        