-- Cleveland NBA Owner's Putdown Brings Support to James
-- Mason Levinson
-- 2010-07-09T17:46:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-09/cavalier-owner-s-putdown-rallies-support-to-james-from-durant-to-ochocinco.html

          
          
             Cleveland Cavaliers owner  Dan Gilbert ’s effort to rally his city the night  LeBron James  fled
town might keep other basketball players from wanting to come
there.  
 Gilbert said last night in an  open letter  to Cavaliers fans
that James’s decision to leave Cleveland for the Miami Heat was
a “cowardly betrayal” that ended a “narcissistic, self-
promotional” buildup to a spectacle that the sports world has
never before seen. Gilbert also said in an interview with the
Associated Press that James quit on the Cavaliers during their
playoff loss last season to the Boston Celtics.  
 The two-time National Basketball Association Most Valuable
Player announced his decision on an hour-long ESPN show last
night. Gilbert’s reaction came less than two hours later and was
posted on the team’s website.  
 Kevin Durant , the NBA’s leading scorer last season who just
signed a new contract with the Oklahoma City Thunder, said on
his  Twitter  account that, “I really don’t think it’s
professional that Dan Gilbert is talkin about LeBron like
that,” while free agent  Tracy McGrady  took note that Gilbert
“went OFF.”  
 Pro athletes from other sports commented as well. National
Football League receiver  Larry Fitzgerald  said on the social
media website that he was shocked Gilbert would talk so badly
about James.  
 “That owner profited so much 4 the years bron played in
Cleveland & now he’s the bad guy?,” Fitzgerald, of the Arizona
Cardinals, asked on Twitter.  
 Ochocinco’s Comment  
 Cincinnati Bengals wide receiver  Chad  Ochocinco asked on
Twitter why a free agent’s decision to leave a city is an act of
treason, but when a team cuts a player it’s part of the
business.  
 Gilbert was right to send a passionate letter to the team’s
fan base, though his word choice might have hurt his chances of
landing future players, said William Sutton, professor in the
University of Central Florida’s DeVos Sport Business Management
Graduate Program.  
 “He’s got to be as outraged as his fans or they’re not
going to be his fans,” Sutton said in a telephone interview.
“But when a player is thinking about coming there and has to
wonder, ‘Will he be talking about me three years from now?,’
what he’s done is created the question.”  
 Passion, Business Sense  
 Prior to the tirade, Gilbert, the founder and chairman of
Quicken Loans Inc., was an owner players would have wanted to
play for because of his passion and business sense, Sutton said.  
 “He took away some of his own aura by the choice of some
of those words,” Sutton said.  
 Cavaliers General Manager Chris Grant declined today to say
whether Gilbert’s comments might hurt the team’s chance of
signing free agents.  
 “Dan’s owned the team for five years now, I think he’s
earned the right to voice his opinion,” Grant said at a
televised news conference, which Gilbert did not attend.  
 The Cavaliers’ new coach,  Byron Scott , said he didn’t think
Gilbert’s comments would scare players away.  
 “An owner acting that way, he’s showing a lot of passion
for the city, a lot of passion for the organization,” Scott
said. “I thought that he was speaking from his heart.”  
 While all of the NBA team executives spurned by James said
they were disappointed with losing out on his talents, Gilbert
was most expressive.  
 “Disloyalty’  
 “This shocking act of disloyalty from our home-grown
chosen one sends the exact opposite lesson of what we would want
our children to learn,” Gilbert said of James, a 25-year-old
native of Akron, Ohio. “If you thought we were motivated before
tonight to bring the hardware to Cleveland, I can tell you that
this shameful display of selfishness and betrayal by one of our
very own has shifted our motivation to previously unknown and
previously never-experienced levels.”  
 Gilbert went too far, though his comments likely wouldn’t
keep others from signing with the Cavaliers in the future,
former NBA coach  Jeff Van Gundy , now analyst for  Walt Disney
Co .’s ESPN, said in a telephone interview.  
 “If I was him I wouldn’t have done it that way, but he has
every right to do it,” Van Gundy said. “A player doesn’t play
for an owner. It’s not like you have everyday contact. You play
for the coach. Had  Byron Scott  said that, it may have had a more
lasting impact.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mason Levinson  in New York at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Dan Gilbert of the Cleveland Cavaliers talks to the fans during a timeout in the game against the Seattle SuperSonics in Cleveland, Ohio. Photographer: David Liam Kyle/NBAE via Getty Images  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     LeBron James speaks during the announcement of his future NBA plans in Greenwich, Connecticut. Photographer: by Larry Busacca/Getty Images  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
