-- Cavendish Wins 2nd Straight Tour de France Stage as Cancellara Keeps Lead
-- Alex Duff
-- 2010-07-09T16:42:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-09/cavendish-wins-second-straight-tour-de-france-stage-cancellara-keeps-lead.html

          
          
             Mark Cavendish  of the U.K. won the
longest stage of this year’s Tour de France for his second
straight success, as Switzerland’s  Fabian Cancellara  kept the
race-leading yellow jersey.  
 Cavendish sprinted to victory after the 141-mile ride
between Montargis and Gueugnon which took riders about 5 hours,
37 minutes. The U.S.’s Tyler Farrar was second and  Alessandro Petacchi  of Italy third.  
 “It was a really, really hard day, a lot of up and down
and a lot of miserable faces,” Cavendish, who rides for the
HTC-Columbia team, told Eurosport. He said he will keep
“plugging away” in the race for the sprinters’ green jersey
after he “messed up” in early stages.  
 Norway’s  Thor Hushovd  kept the green jersey as the
remaining 188 riders prepare to enter the mountains tomorrow
with a stage that ends with a nine-mile climb to Station des
Rousses, a ski resort. Ten riders have dropped out, mostly with
injuries.  
 Seven-time Tour champion  Lance Armstrong  and other race
contenders for the more prestigious yellow jersey finished in
the peloton today. Cancellara of Team Saxo Bank remains in the
lead by 23 seconds over Britain’s Geraint Thomas of Team Sky.
Australia’s two-time runner-up Cadel Evans of BMC Racing is
third, 16 seconds further back.  
 Defending champion  Alberto Contador  is ninth overall and
Armstrong is 18th.  
 Garmin-Transitions riders sought to lead Farrar to victory
only for Columbia’s Mark Renshaw and Cavendish to tail them and
pull out in front over the last 100 meters.  
 “It was straightforward from there,” said Cavendish. He
rose to fifth in the green jersey standings after his 12th Tour
de France stage win in three years.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alex Duff  in Madrid 
 aduff4@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        