-- CBOE, Barnes & Noble, Kenneth Starr in Court News
-- Ellen Rosen
-- 2010-07-09T12:51:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-09/cboe-barnes-noble-kenneth-starr-tyco-genzyme-shire-in-court-news.html

          
          
               CBOE Holdings Inc . and McGraw-Hill
Cos. won an Illinois court ruling barring the International
Securities Exchange LLC from providing a forum for the trading
of  S&P 500  and Dow Jones Industrial Average index options.  
 The parent of the Chicago Board Options Exchange, together
with McGraw-Hill and Dow Jones, sued the ISE in 2006 to block it
from competing with them. This year,  CME Group Inc . acquired 90
percent of the Dow Jones index business from  News Corp .’s Dow
Jones.  
 State court Judge William Maki in Chicago, in a ruling
yesterday, barred ISE from featuring the listings. Allowing the
listings would deprive New York-based McGraw Hill and CME Group
of their rights to license use of the indexes, the judge ruled.
CBOE holds an exclusive license to offer options based on the
indexes, he wrote.  
 The Chicago exchange is the biggest U.S. options exchange.
The last major U.S. exchange owned by its members, it raised
$339 million last month in an initial public offering.  
 Molly McGregor, a spokeswoman for New York-based ISE, said
the exchange would appeal Maki’s ruling.  
 “We believe this result is incorrect based on the facts
and the applicable law in this case,” she said in a phone
interview. ISE’s parent company is Frankfurt-based  Deutsche
Boerse AG .  
 The case is Chicago Board of Options Exchange v.
International Securities Exchange LLC, 06CH24798, Cook County,
Illinois Circuit Court,  Chancery Division  (Chicago).  
 Dutch Supreme Court Dismisses ASM International Probe Ruling  
 The Dutch Supreme Court dismissed a probe into  ASM
International NV ’s management and sent the case back to the
Amsterdam Court of Appeal’s Enterprise Chamber for
reconsideration.  
 The Netherlands’ highest court said the Enterprise Chamber
based its decision on an incorrect legal interpretation of the
way a company’s management has to perform.  
 The lower court “lost sight of the fact that it is ASMI’s
management that is primarily responsible for the strategy to be
followed,” the  Supreme Court  said in a statement on  its website 
today.  
 The Enterprise Chamber will now have to reconsider whether
there are grounds to order an investigation requested by
shareholders Hermes Focus Asset Management  Europe  Ltd. and Fursa
Alternative Strategies U.K. Ltd. into ASMI’s management.  
 The Enterprise Chamber in August ordered the investigation
of Europe’s second-largest maker of semiconductor equipment
following the investors’ request. The company didn’t give its
external shareholders sufficient chance to influence strategy
and corporate governance, the court said at that time.  
 Hermes and Fursa opposed the issuance of shares to a
foundation created to safeguard ASMI’s independence. The
investors were attempting to oust Chief Executive Officer Chuck del Prado at the time.  
 ASMI co-founder and former board member Arthur del Prado
and the foundation appealed the ruling. The Supreme Court, based
in The Hague, set aside an advisory opinion from Advocate
General Vino Timmerman, who in April said there were valid
reasons to “doubt proper management.”  
 Trials/Appeals  
 Yucaipa’s Burkle Challenges Barnes & Noble ‘Pill’  
 Yucaipa Cos.’  Ron Burkle  told a judge he wants to improve  Barnes & Noble Inc .’s business as he seeks to invalidate the
bookseller’s poison-pill defense against takeovers and buy more
shares.  
 Yucaipa accuses Barnes & Noble directors, including
Chairman  Leonard Riggio , of engineering a “self-dealing scheme
designed to entrench the Riggio family” as controlling
shareholders and to stymie Burkle’s efforts to gain seats on the
board. Los Angeles-based Yucaipa is the biggest outside
shareholder of the bookstore chain, the largest in the U.S.  
 Burkle’s firm invests in promising businesses because “we
want to try to make them better companies,” he told Delaware
Chancery Court Judge Leo Strine Jr. as trial began yesterday in
Wilmington. At the same time, “we wouldn’t want to keep them
forever,” Burkle said.  
 Yucaipa considered pursuing a buyout bid for Barnes & Noble
at $25 a share before deciding the effort would be “a waste of
time” considering the Riggios’ 32 percent stake, Burkle
testified. Barnes & Noble, based in  New York , adopted the poison
pill plan in November and said it would come up for shareholder
ratification within a year.  
 Michael Pittenger, a Barnes & Noble lawyer, wrote in a
filing that the company’s board, “reasonably fearing a hostile
attack,” set up the poison pill on the advice of legal and
financial advisers after learning that Burkle had bought almost
18 percent of the stock.  
 The poison pill is a shareholder rights agreement that
would allow investors to buy large amounts of stock at cut-rate
prices when an outsider acquires 20 percent or more of the
shares. The plan, designed to make a hostile takeover
prohibitively expensive, “is intended to protect our
shareholders from actions that are inconsistent with their best
interests,” Barnes & Noble said in court papers.  
 The case is Yucaipa American Alliance Fund II LP v. Riggio,
CA5465, Delaware Chancery Court (Wilmington).  
 New Suits  
 Martin Scorsese Sued by  Kenneth I. Starr  Receiver  
 The receiver for firms once controlled by jailed money
manager Kenneth I. Starr sued filmmaker Martin Scorsese and his
production company for about $600,000.  
 The complaint, filed yesterday by receiver Aurora Cassirer
in New York state court in Manhattan, said Scorsese’s Sikelia
Productions Inc. owes the Starr companies payment for
bookkeeping, accounting and other services.  
 “Martin Scorsese’s Sikelia Productions has paid
substantial fees to his former business manager’s firm, and if
it has been determined that there is anything still outstanding,
it will be rectified,” Michelle Benson, a spokeswoman for the
Oscar-winning director of “The Departed” and “Goodfellas,”
said in an e-mail.  
 Starr, 66, is charged with 20 counts of wire fraud and one
each of securities fraud, money laundering and fraud by an
investment adviser. He’s being held without bail and denies the
charges. If convicted of  wire fraud , Starr faces as much as 20
years in prison.  
 He was arrested May 27 and accused of defrauding clients,
including heiress Rachel “Bunny” Mellon, in a scheme to buy a
$7.5 million Manhattan apartment. Prosecutors expanded the
allegations in a subsequent indictment.  
 The suit is Cassirer v. Sikelia Productions, New York state  Supreme Court  (Manhattan). The criminal case is U.S. v. Starr,
1:10-cr-520, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  
 Tyco Electronics Faces Whistleblower Suit by Manager  
 Tyco Electronics Corp. was sued by a former employee who
claims he was fired for revealing information about fraudulent
accounting practices at the maker of electronic connectors.  
 Jeffrey Wiest, who worked for 31 years in the company’s
accounting office in Harrisburg, Pennsylvania, said he was
“constructively discharged” for providing information about
Tyco’s “illegal attempts” to process payments for
“extravagant parties,” according to the complaint filed July 7
in U.S. District Court in Philadelphia.  
 Wiest, 54, said in mid-2007 that he began questioning
expenses that didn’t meet accounting standards, including the
“legitimacy of a $350,000 event being held at the Atlantis
Resort in the Bahamas,” court papers show.  
 The former account manager said he “was amazed that his
supervisors authorized an island party with disturbing
similarities to the past issues raised under Dennis Kozlowski.”  
 “Mr. Wiest’s claims of any inappropriate activity or
accounting are completely without merit,” Martinique Woods, a
spokeswoman for Tyco Electronics, said in an e-mailed statement.
“Our company has reviewed all of the allegations raised by Mr.
Wiest and concluded that our accounting was proper for this
business event.”  
 Tyco International Ltd. spun off Tyco Electronics in 2007.
Both are based in Schaffhausen, Switzerland. Kozlowski, Tyco
International’s former chief executive officer, was convicted in
2005 of securities fraud, grand larceny and falsifying business
records.  
 Wiest asked for a jury trial, reimbursement for medical
expenses, and compensation for legal fees, pain and suffering.  
 The case is Wiest v. Tyco Electronics Corp., 10-cv-03288,
U.S. District Court, Eastern District of Pennsylvania
(Philadelphia).  
 Genzyme Sues Anika for Patent Infringement by Arthritis Drug  
   Genzyme Corp ., the world’s largest maker of drugs for rare
genetic diseases, sued Anika Therapeutics Inc., claiming its
proposed osteoarthritis treatment Monovisc would infringe two
patents.  
 The patents, issued in 1992 and 1995, relate to gels used
to deliver drugs into the body. Genzyme is seeking a court
ruling to prevent further use of its inventions, plus cash
compensation.  
 “Anika’s activities have been without express or implied
license from Genzyme,” Cambridge, Massachusetts-based Genzyme
said in the complaint, filed July 7 in federal court in Boston.  
 Anika plans to sell Monovisc in the second half of this
year, the company said May 10. Officials with the company didn’t
return a message seeking comment. Bedford, Massachusetts-based
Anika reported $40.1 million in sales last year.  
 The case is Genzyme Corp. v.  Anika Therapeutics Inc .,
10cv11146, U.S. District Court for the District of Massachusetts
(Boston).  
 Shire Sues Cadila Healthcare to Block Generic Lialda  
   Shire Plc  sued  Cadila Healthcare Ltd . to prevent sales of a
generic version of ulcerative colitis treatment Lialda until a
patent expires in 2020.  
 Cadila, based in Ahmedabad,  India , and its Zydus unit are
seeking U.S. Food and Drug Administration approval to sell a
lower-cost version of the drug, according to Shire’s complaint
filed July 7 in federal court in Wilmington, Delaware. Shire
wants the court to block approval until the patent expires.  
 Lialda generated $236 million in sales last year for
Dublin-based Shire, according to Bloomberg data. The patent is
for a way of controlling how the drug is released into the body.  
 In its application with the FDA, Zydus said it wouldn’t
infringe the patent. It didn’t make any claims that the patent
is invalid or unenforceable, Shire said in the complaint.  
 Under federal drug law, lawsuits are commonly filed to
clarify patent rights at the same time the FDA is considering
the generic-drug maker’s application.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Ellen Rosen in New York at 
 erosen14@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at 
 drovella@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        