-- McGill Sells C$764 Million in Public-Private Hospital Bonds: Canada Credit
-- Chris Fournier
-- 2010-07-09T14:23:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-09/mcgill-university-sells-c-764-million-in-hospital-bonds-canada-credit.html

          
          
             McGill University Health Centre  sold
C$764 million ($732 million) of bonds maturing in 2044, Quebec’s
largest public-private partnership financing, to fund
construction of a hospital in Montreal.  
 The 6.632 percent bonds priced to yield 290 basis points
over the yield curve between government benchmarks, according to
 Greg Woynarski,  head of debt capital markets at Bank of Nova
Scotia’s Scotia Capital unit, lead manager of the sale. The
bonds, sold in a private placement, are amortizing, meaning the
principal is repaid over time rather than at maturity.  
 “It’s a very attractive deal,”  Doug MacDonald , president
of Aviva Investors Canada Inc., said by phone from Toronto.
Aviva oversees about C$6 billion in Canadian fixed-income
assets. He wouldn’t comment on whether Aviva bought the bonds.
“This will be the deal that sets the tone for the market and
gets a lot of people interested.”  
 The McGill sale signals issuance may increase from so-
called public-private partnerships, in which governments join
with companies to build and finance infrastructure projects. The
Canadian Council for Public-Private Partnerships  lists  at least
25 federal and provincial infrastructure projects in the
proposal stage.  
 Toll-road operator  407 International Inc.  last month sold
C$800 million of 3.88 percent bonds maturing in 2015 and C$300
million in 4.99 percent 10-year notes. The Canadian government
has targeted C$7.7 billion in infrastructure spending this
fiscal year, adding to an C$8.3 billion investment in 2009-10.  
 Spread Narrows  
 Elsewhere in credit markets, the extra yield investors
demand to own Canadian company rather than the federal
government debt narrowed yesterday to 147 basis points, from 149
basis points at the end of last week, according to a Bank of
America Merrill Lynch Index. Overall yields rose to 4.030
percent, from 3.98 percent.  
 The yield gap on provincial bonds over federal benchmarks
fell 1 basis point to 63 basis points, the Merrill data showed.
Provincial debt has lost investors 0.53 percent this month,
after a 1.677 percent gain in June.  
 Ontario, Canada’s largest province, sold C$750 million in a
reoffering of its 4.2 percent bonds maturing in June 2020,
bringing the total amount outstanding to C$3.6 billion. The debt
priced at 89.5 basis points over the Canada 3.5 percent bond due
in June 2020.  
 Groupe immoblier santé McGill S.E.N.C. will design, build
and maintain McGill’s  Glen Campus  project and through its
subsidiary SNC-Lavalin Innisfree McGill Finance Inc., will
handle financing. The debt is rated A (low) with a stable
outlook by DBRS Ltd., the company’s seventh-highest rating. The
Montreal-based university is responsible for payments to the
project owner.  
 Biggest Quebec Sale  
 Quebec, Canada’s second-most populous province, will cover
capital costs, or about 68 percent of the monthly service
payments over the life of the project, through a direct grant to
the owner, according to a DBRS report.  
 “It’s a big deal,”  Grant Headrick , a DBRS vice president
said by phone from Toronto. “The biggest deal we’ve seen in
Quebec.”  
 The 500-bed hospital will combine five existing hospitals
on a new site about 5 kilometers west of downtown Montreal and
includes four buildings with 20 operating rooms, pediatric and
adult in-care facilities, a cancer center and the Montreal Chest
Institute. Construction is slated to begin this month and run
through September 2014.  
 ‘Good Value’  
 “This is a very successful deal in the market, based on
pricing and interest levels,”  David Pennington , managing
director of debt capital markets at Bank of Montreal’s BMO
Capital Markets, said by phone from Toronto. BMO is part of the
syndicate for the McGill sale. “It’s good news for the Canadian
infrastructure market.”  
 The McGill bonds represent “good value” over other
comparable forms of debt, according to Aviva’s MacDonald, whose
firm manages the C$157 million  Canadian Core Fixed Income Fund ,
with holdings that include Power Corp. of Canada.  
 “If you look at it versus long utility paper or long
provincial paper or long infrastructure paper, it’s pretty
attractively priced,” said MacDonald.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Chris Fournier  in Montreal at 
 cfournier3@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        