-- Chemtura Files Bankruptcy Reorganization Plan That Includes Canadian Unit
-- Steven Church
-- 2010-07-09T21:35:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-09/chemtura-files-bankruptcy-reorganization-plan-that-includes-canadian-unit.html

          
          
             Chemtura Corp. , the bankrupt plastic-
additives maker, updated its reorganization proposal with a plan
to put a Canadian unit into bankruptcy.  
 Chemtura Canada will join 26 other affiliates that are
already in bankruptcy, allowing Chemtura to resolve certain
liabilities related to a chemical it made that gave microwave
popcorn a butter flavor, the company said. Adding the Canadian
unit was the biggest change to the plan, company spokesman  John Gustavsen  said in an interview.  
 The reorganization proposal has the “potential to satisfy
all creditors’ claims in full, as well as offering value to
equity holders,” the company said in a statement today.  
 The company, based in Middlebury, Connecticut, has a
preliminary agreement with some governmental agencies fighting
for about $2 billion in cleanup costs, company lawyer Brian
Stansbury told U.S. District Judge  Richard Berman  in Manhattan
last month.  
 Chemtura , which filed for bankruptcy protection in March
2009, sued the U.S. and several states, saying it should be able
to cancel some environmental claims because of its bankruptcy.
The U.S. won its bid to have the case moved to district court
from bankruptcy court.  
 197 Sites  
 As many as 197 sites may be involved, the U.S. said in
court papers. The Environmental Protection Agency is seeking
about $2 billion in cleanup costs for at least 19 sites where it
claims Chemtura is partly responsible. The largest estimated
cost, $1 billion, is for a cleanup of the Gowanus Canal in
Brooklyn, New York.  
 Also today, the official equity committee filed court
papers objecting to an agreement that binds the creditors’
committee and a group of bondholders to support the
reorganization proposal.  
 Chemtura is a successor to Crompton &amp; Knowles Corp., a
chemical maker since 1954. The company said it was burdened with
“legacy liabilities” from mergers including the 1996 purchase
of Uniroyal Chemical Co., a 1999 merger with Witco and the 2005
acquisition of Great Lakes Chemical Corp.  
 The bankruptcy case is In re Chemtura Corp., 09-11233, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan). The
district-court case is Chemtura Corp. v. U.S., 10-cv-00503, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  
 For Related News and Information:
Top legal stories: TLAW &lt;GO&gt;
Bloomberg legal resources: BLAW &lt;GO&gt;
Bankruptcy related information: NI BCY &lt;GO&gt;
Chemtura company news: CEMJQ US &lt;Equity&gt; CN &lt;GO&gt;
Chemtura earnings: CEMJQ US &lt;Equity&gt; TCNI ERN &lt;GO&gt;
Distressed chemical-company debt: TNI DBON CHM &lt;GO&gt;
Chemical bankruptcies: TNI BCY CHM &lt;GO&gt;  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Steven Church  in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in Wilmington, Delaware,
at   schurch@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        