-- China Holds Meeting on `Adjusting' Commodity Levy on Gold, Copper, Coal
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-07-09T04:27:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-09/china-holds-meeting-on-adjusting-commodity-levy-on-gold-copper-coal.html

          
          
             China, the world’s largest metal
consumer, held a meeting in Beijing to discuss “adjusting”
resource compensation fees for 21 commodities including coal,
copper, gold, oil and natural gas.  
 The discussion was about potential changes to the 1994
compensation regulation, the China Iron & Steel Association said
on its  website , citing a statement from the Ministry of Land and
Resources. Representatives from 11 areas including Hubei,
Tianjin, Henan, Inner Mongolia provinces attended the meeting,
the statement said, without giving details on the changes.  
 China this year revised its taxation of oil, gas and coal
extracted in Xinjiang province, pegging the rate to prices
instead of volume produced, to bolster the coffers of local
governments as commodity prices rose. Governments worldwide are
seeking to boost their share of mining profits, which may
constrain supplies, Rio Tinto Group Chief Executive Officer Tom
Albanese said yesterday.  
 “The compensation fees were imposed to prevent an
overdevelopment of natural resources,”  Liang Owen , a mining
analyst at Guotai Junan Securities Co., said in Shenzhen. “For
China, it’s more urgent to implement the revised taxes to boost
the Western region development. We can’t see any impact on the
metal producers so far since the revised tax was only on energy
companies.”  
 China plans to extend the revised tax rate on oil, gas and
coal to the entire nation, after the trial in the western
regions, the National Development and Reform Commission said
yesterday. The revision may hurt profits at companies including
 PetroChina Co. , according to JPMorgan Securities Ltd.  
 1994 Tax Rate  
 The government imposed a 4 percent resource compensation
fee for precious metals including gold and silver, 3 percent on
neodymium, dysprosium and other rare earths, 2 percent on iron,
copper, lead and zinc and other metals, and 1 percent on oil,
natural gas and coal, according to a State Council  statement 
issued in February 1994.  
 A typical mining company in China’s western regions would
have about a 2 percent levy that combined resource tax and
compensation fee, before the new rate, Liang said.  
 Crude oil futures have risen 26 percent in the past two
years, and gold prices have jumped 32 percent, and copper
futures in London are up 42 percent over the same period.  
 The Australian government this month reached an agreement
with mining companies to impose a 30 percent mineral resources
tax on iron ore and coal. Funds from the levy will enable the
government to cut the company tax rate and help fund spending.  
 -- Helen Yuan . Editors:  Tan Hwee Ann ,  Indranil Ghosh .  
 To contact the Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Helen Yuan in Shanghai at 
 hyuan@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 9 (Bloomberg) -- London Metal Exchange Chief Executive Officer Martin Abbott talks with Bloomberg's Rishaad Salamat about demand for commodities in Asia and the LME's growth strategy in the region.
     The London-based exchange, founded in 1877, has entered talks with Singapore Exchange Ltd. on possible cooperation in Asia, according to a statement yesterday. The LME opened its first overseas office in the Southeast Asian city-state this year. Abbott, speaking from Singapore, also discusses regulation for commodity trading. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
