-- China's E Fund Hires Acadian Asset's Charles Wang to Head Hong Kong Unit
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-07-09T08:49:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-09/china-s-e-fund-hires-acadian-asset-s-charles-wang-to-head-hong-kong-unit.html

          
          
             China’s E Fund Management Co. hired
 Charles Wang  from Acadian Asset Management LLC to head the
company’s Hong Kong unit to expand overseas and advise on
foreign institutional investments in China.  
 Wang will help oversee global investment and business
development operations at the Guangzhou, southern China-based
fund, he said in a phone interview today. Developing investment
products in global markets and fund raising outside China will
be part of Wang’s position at E Fund, he said.  
 E Fund received a $1 billion quota from the Chinese
government in October to invest abroad under the qualified
domestic institutional investor, or QDII, program. The fund will
seek to work with overseas institutional investors to help them
obtain a quota for investing in China, according to Wang.  
 “We see two trends happening, China’s money is going out
to invest globally, and money all over the world is looking for
opportunities in China,” Wang said in the interview. “I will
be working on both fronts at E Fund.”  
 E Fund spokeswoman Ai Liqun declined to comment. At Boston-
based Acadian, Wang was a senior portfolio manager.  
 Assets under management at E Fund exceeded 200 billion yuan
($29.5 billion) at the end of March, according to its website.
Assets under management at the nation’s top 60 fund management
companies combined climbed 38 percent to 2.68 trillion yuan in
2009, according to Shanghai-based Z-Ben Advisors in January.  
 QDII, QFII  
 China lets citizens buy overseas stocks and bonds only
through QDII funds while ownership of yuan-denominated or A-
shares is limited to Chinese citizens and approved overseas
investors under the qualified foreign institutional investors,
or QFII, program.  
 “A shares have become more attractive to foreign investors
now,” he said. Last month, yuan-denominated stocks fell below
Chinese stocks traded in Hong Kong for the first time in almost
four years,  according  to the Hang Seng China AH Premium Index.  
 China had approved 76 QDII funds at the end of the first
quarter, allowing $64 billion to be taken from China and
invested abroad, the State Administration of Foreign Exchange
said today. The regulator approved 88 QFIIs at the end of the
first quarter.  
 -- Eva Woo . Editors:  Joost Akkermans , Chitra Somayaji  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Eva Woo  in Beijing at 
 ewoo9@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        