-- China Swaps Drop on Likelihood of Delayed Rate Rise; Yuan Little Changed
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-07-09T09:11:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-09/china-swaps-drop-on-likelihood-of-delayed-rate-rise-yuan-little-changed.html

          
          
             China’s  interest-rate swaps  dropped
this week after the central bank said it favored policies to
bolster economic growth, prompting speculation it will delay
increases in borrowing costs.  
 The People’s Bank of China said yesterday it will stick to
a moderately loose monetary policy as growth becomes better
balanced between consumption, investment and exports. It has
added cash to the money market for seven consecutive weeks via
open-market operations.  
 “The swap curve has become flatter because investors have
cut bets on the possibility that China will tighten monetary
policy,” said  Ye Yuzhang , an interest-rate trader with
Industrial Bank Co. Ltd. in Shanghai. “ The short-end swap rate
dropped more than the long-end because funding availability has
become even easier this week.”  
 The one-year interest-rate swap, which measures the fixed
cost to receive the floating seven-day repurchase rate, fell
five basis point this week to 2.23 percent, data compiled by
Bloomberg showed. Contracts due in three years receded two basis
points in the last five days to 2.67 percent.  
 The seven-day repurchase  rate , a measure of lending costs
between banks, slumped 30 basis points this week to 2.32 percent,
according to a fixing rate published daily by the National
Interbank Funding Center. More cash will return to the market
after the initial public offerings of Agricultural Bank of China
Ltd., which locked up a total of 480.3 billion yuan ($70.9
billion) of subscription capital, according to the lender’s
statement yesterday.  
 Government bonds advanced this week on easier liquidity
between banks. The yield on the 2.53 percent note due in June
2015 slid four basis points to 2.59 percent, and the price of
the security added 0.18 per 100 yuan face amount to 99.72, the
funding center data showed.  
 Yuan Little Changed  
 The yuan traded at 6.7716 per dollar, little changed from
6.7761 yesterday and 6.7711 a week ago, according to the China
Foreign Exchange Trade System. The currency has strengthened 0.8
percent since the central bank loosened control of the exchange
rate on June 19.  
 The U.S. government stopped short of branding China a
currency manipulator yesterday and said the yuan “remains
undervalued” after the nation ended its peg to the dollar.  
 China took a “significant step” last month when it began
to allow markets to drive the currency higher, the Treasury
Department said in a report to Congress. The report, initially
due April 15, also said it’s not yet clear whether the policy
shift will correct the yuan’s undervaluation.  
 The yuan may appreciate “erratically” to reach 6.5 per
dollar by the end of next year,  Donald Straszheim , senior
managing director for China research at International Strategy &
Investment Group, said in a Bloomberg Television interview.  
 A gradual strengthening of the yuan would be good for China
as it would help curb large inflows of investment money drawn by
expectations for currency appreciation, Yu Yongding, a former
central bank adviser, wrote in a commentary published in today’s
China Securities Journal.  
 -- Belinda Cao . Editors:  Sandy Hendry ,  James Regan   
 To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
 Belinda Cao  in Beijing at +86-10-6649-7570 or
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        