-- New Jersey Governor Christie to Examine Privatization to Reduce Costs
-- Terrence Dopp
-- 2010-07-09T21:53:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-09/christie-studies-privatizing-some-new-jersey-services-to-save-210-million.html

          
          
             New Jersey  Governor  Chris Christie  is
proposing to privatize all motor-vehicle inspections and state
park services and stop government construction of pre-schools.  
 The state may save as much as $210 million by turning over
some services to private businesses, said former U.S.
Representative  Dick Zimmer , the chairman of the New Jersey
Privatization Task Force. Christie, who created the panel in
March, released a  report  today outlining the proposals.  
 “What they have provided is a path for change that will
benefit New Jersey’s taxpayers through improvements in the
quality of public-service programs and services delivered to our
citizens without placing further burdens upon the state
budget,” Christie said today in a  statement  about the report.
“I look forward to further reviewing these recommendations.”  
 New Jersey may save $28 million a year by having automobile
owners go to private garages for emissions tests, ending
examinations at state facilities, the report said. Zimmer said
he also recommended creating a panel to identify privatization
candidates and to oversee implementation, he said.  
 “Our recommendations are designed to provide higher-
quality services for New Jersey’s taxpayers at a lower cost,”
Zimmer said today in an interview. “In many cases, the
government can provide the best services at lower costs; in many
instances, it can’t.”  
 Suggested Opportunities  
 The report proposed allowing private companies to run
concessions at state parks, charging state employees a parking
fee and relying on non-government workers for some health-care
services. The report also recommends that the state stop
building public pre-schools in the poorest districts and
continue to pay to enroll the toddlers with private providers.  
 Christie, 47, the first Republican elected New Jersey
governor since 1997, signed a $29.4 billion  budget  last month
that closed a gap that he pegged at almost $11 billion. The
plan, which cut education funding by $820 million and skipped a
$3 billion pension payment, called for saving $50 million and
cutting the workforce by 1,300 employees through privatization.  
 New Jersey should explore hiring companies to provide
health care, education and food services in state prisons and to
conduct building-code inspections, the report recommends. The
study also suggests the state could save as much as $42.5
million by privatizing New Jersey Turnpike and Garden State
Parkway toll collecting.  
 Unions Lambaste Study  
 Union leaders blasted the report, citing past problems with
hiring contractors to provide public services.  
 “Privatization in this state has been an abject failure,”
said  Hetty Rosenstein , state director of the Communications
Workers of America, the biggest union representing government
workers in New Jersey. “It has meant higher fees, worse service
and created new opportunities for corruption,” she said.  
 “We’ve been there and done that -- and it’s failed,”
Rosenstein said. “The state already tried to privatize medical
services in prisons, and they had to unprivatize it. Now
Governor Christie wants to do it again.”  
 In its discussion of the past use of private companies to
provide medical services in state prisons, the report cites
“poor fiscal monitoring and weak contract enforcement” for
increasing costs. A contract for the services was canceled,
according to the report. It says the state could save $6.5
million by hiring a private company for the service.  
 Earlier Pitfalls  
 The study cites shortcomings or failures in implementation
of other past privatization efforts, including “poor
conception, unclear goals and lax oversight.” It examined
issues with the E-ZPass electronic toll-collection system and a
school construction program. Both suffered from a lack of
planning, the report said.  
 In 1999, Pasadena, California-based Parsons Corp. got a
contract to operate more than 30 motor-vehicle inspection
stations statewide. After equipment failures in cold weather,
the company was fined by the state. Parsons agreed to changes,
and the state renewed its contract in 2008.  
 Michael Turner, a spokesman for Parsons, said the company
entered into a first-of-its kind contract to provide inspection
services and adjusted accordingly. It tests 1.2 million vehicles
a year in New Jersey, he said.  
 “There were some growing pains and mistakes were made, but
they were rectified quickly,” Turner said in an interview. He
said the company has “a productive dialogue with the state.”  
 Assembly Speaker  Sheila Oliver,  a Democrat from East
Orange, said that the inspection proposal may result in higher
costs for motorists. Spending cuts in Christie’s budget may spur
increases in mass-transit fares, and towns and school districts
may raise property taxes to replace lost revenue, Oliver said.  
 “This plan and its tax hikes on average New Jerseyans will
require a hard analysis,” she said in a statement.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Terrence Dopp  in Trenton at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Chris Christie, governor of New Jersey, speaks during an event at the Statehouse in Trenton, New Jersey. Photographer: Tim Larsen/Office of the Governor via Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
