-- Citigroup Hires Goldman's Osmond for Investment Banking Unit in Australia
-- Jacob Greber
-- 2010-07-09T01:50:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-09/citigroup-hires-goldman-s-osmond-for-investment-banking-unit-in-australia.html

          
          
             Citigroup Inc.  has hired  Tony Osmond 
from Goldman Sachs Group Inc. as head of its Australia and New
Zealand investment banking business in a move aimed at boosting
fees from arranging deals.  
 Osmond will be based in Melbourne in a newly created
position and report to Australian global banking chief  Chris Knoblanche , Citigroup spokeswoman  Judy Hitchen  said today.  
 The appointment of Osmond, who ran Goldman’s Australian
mergers and acquisitions business, follows Citigroup’s decision
to recently hire senior bankers at its institutional clients and
capital management divisions. Citigroup is the ninth ranked
arranger of mergers and acquisitions this year, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. JPMorgan is ranked first.  
 “We are not looking to build size, but rather appoint
individual bankers who bring a new dimension to the business,”
Knoblanche said in an e-mailed statement. “As a region, we
continue to benefit from ties to growth in emerging markets and
a sound local business and financial sector.”  
 Takeovers in Australia’s mining industry may reverse a
slump in coming months after new Prime Minister  Julia Gillard 
last week resolved a dispute over a minerals tax that cost her
predecessor his job. Mining acquisitions tumbled to more than a
four-year low last quarter after  Kevin Rudd , dumped as leader on
June 24 by his party, proposed a resources levy on May 2.
Companies including Rio Tinto Group and BHP Billiton Ltd. agreed
last week with Gillard on the introduction of an alternative tax.  
 Australia’s economy, stoked by demand from China for
resources and energy, is forecast expand 3.5 percent in 2011,
after gaining 3 percent in 2010, the International Monetary Fund
said this week. By contrast, growth among all advanced economies
will slow to a 2.4 percent pace in 2011 from 2.6 percent this
year, the fund said.  
 Osmond has had over 16 years experience on mergers,
acquisitions and capital markets transactions for Australian
companies, Citigroup said in the statement.  
 To contact the reporter for this story:
 Jacob Greber  in Sydney at 
 jgreber@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        