-- Commodities Demand in Asia Surging on Infrastructure Boom, LME Chief Says
-- Rishaad Salamat
-- 2010-07-09T08:34:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-09/commodity-demand-growth-in-asia-is-structural-lme-chief-executive-says.html

          
          
             Growth in demand for commodities
including metals in Asia is surging as nations ramp up
infrastructure spending, according to the head of the London
Metal Exchange, the biggest marketplace for industrial metals.  
 “Everywhere we look in this region, we see growth,”
 Martin Abbott , chief executive officer of the LME, said in an
interview on Bloomberg Television in Singapore today. “All of
the numbers are so impressive,” Abbott said.  
 Asian nations including China are leading the global
economy out of recession, boosting demand for metals such as
copper, nickel and tin. The LME has announced talks with
 Singapore Exchange Ltd.  on cooperation, and plans more metal
warehouses in the world’s fastest growing region.  
 “We are recognizing that the growth in Asia is not
cyclical, it is structural, and more and more of the business
that we transact is going to be derived in this region,” Abbott
said. “This is not simply a China story.”  
 Three-month copper futures have advanced for  seven of the
past eight years  driven by rising Asian demand, and the contract
has climbed 37 percent in the past 12 months to $6,717.25 a
metric ton today. The  LMEX Index  of six industrial metals has
gained 30 percent over the past year.  
 ‘We See Growth’  
 “When you look at what’s happening throughout Asia, I
think we’re looking at a long-term story of infrastructure build,
industrial build and GDP growth,” Abbott said, citing
expansions in Indonesia, Vietnam and Malaysia.  
 Abbott’s view echoes that of commodity bulls such as
Singapore-based investor  Jim Rogers , who has said that economic
growth in Asia is powering demand. Rogers said earlier this week
that “you should own commodities because that’s your only
refuge,” backing silver and farm goods such as rice.  
 The International Monetary Fund yesterday raised its
forecast for global growth to 4.6 percent this year, reflecting
a stronger-than-expected first half. The lender increased the
2010 growth forecasts for China to 10.5 percent and for India to
9.4 percent for the year to March.  
 China’s economy expanded 9.1 percent last year, boosted by
an unprecedented 9.59 trillion yuan ($1.4 trillion) of credit
extended by banks in 2009 and a 4 trillion yuan, two-year fiscal
stimulus plan. The nation is the world’s largest metals user.  
 Indonesia, Southeast Asia’s largest economy, may accelerate
to 5.9 percent growth this year, Finance Minister  Agus Martowardojo  said yesterday.  
 Singapore Talks  
 The London-based metal exchange, founded in 1877, has begun
talks with  Singapore Exchange Ltd. , operator of the local
derivatives and securities exchange, on possible cooperation,
according to a statement yesterday. The LME opened its first
overseas office in the Southeast Asian city-state this year.  
 “The crisis has been a huge opportunity for the LME,”
Abbott said yesterday to mark the exchange’s new Singapore
office, referring to the global credit crisis. “We have
actually seen more business coming onto the exchange because of
the crisis, because companies are even more aware of the need
for counterparty risk management.”  
 Abbott, who became  chief executive  of the LME in 2006, has
overseen the introduction of cobalt and molybdenum futures.
Trading volumes last year were the second highest on record
after 2008, with a notional value of $7.4 trillion.  
 “We are agnostic about price,” Abbott said today. “We
are not agnostic to cyclical and structural trends,” such as
the industrialization of Asia, he said.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Claire Leow  in Singapore at 
 cleow@bloomberg.net ;
 Rishaad Salamat  in London at
 rishaad@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 9 (Bloomberg) -- London Metal Exchange Chief Executive Officer Martin Abbott talks with Bloomberg's Rishaad Salamat about demand for commodities in Asia and the LME's growth strategy in the region.
     The London-based exchange, founded in 1877, has entered talks with Singapore Exchange Ltd. on possible cooperation in Asia, according to a statement yesterday. The LME opened its first overseas office in the Southeast Asian city-state this year. Abbott, speaking from Singapore, also discusses regulation for commodity trading. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
