-- Commodities Head for Biggest Weekly Advance Since April on Growth Outlook
-- Chanyaporn Chanjaroen
-- 2010-07-09T11:27:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-09/commodities-head-for-biggest-weekly-advance-since-april-on-growth-outlook.html

          
          
             Commodities advanced for a fourth
day, heading for the biggest weekly gain since April as
investors’ concerns about the global economic slowdown subsided.  
 The  S&P GSCI Total Return Index  of 24 raw materials rose
0.4 percent as of 12:23 p.m. London time. That would be a 3.9
percent increase for the week, the biggest gain since the week
ended April 2. The MSCI  Index  of global equities jumped as much
as 0.3 percent, also the fourth advance in a row.  
 Central banks in South Korea, Malaysia, Taiwan and India
raised rates in the past 15 days, signaling Europe’s debt crisis
won’t derail economic growth. European Central Bank President
Jean-Claude Trichet said yesterday that the recovery is gaining
momentum and the International Monetary Fund raised its estimate
for global growth this year.  
 “We believe demand for commodities in general will be
growing in the period of six months to one year,” Walter De
Wet, head of commodities research at Standard Bank Plc in
London, said today by phone. This week’s gains in prices are
also a technical rebound, he said, after the S&P GSCI Index
dropped 6 percent last week, the most in eight weeks.  
 Copper, which moves in line with manufacturing, gained as
much as 1.9 percent at $6,740 a metric ton on the London Metal
Exchange and was recently at $6,728 a ton. It’s up 5 percent
this week.  
 Stockpiles of copper tracked by commodity exchanges in
London, Shanghai and New York have fallen 6 percent this year to
the lowest level since Dec. 11, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  
 Stock Draws  
 “Base metals have benefited from improved risk sentiment
over the past week, gradually trending higher, also helped by
persistent stock draws,” Andrey Kryuchenkov, an analyst at VTB
Capital in London, said in an e-mail today.  
 The  U.S. Dollar Index , a six-currency gauge of the
greenback’s strength, slipped as much as 0.2 percent and headed
for the fifth weekly decline. A weaker dollar makes commodities
priced in the currency cheaper for holders of other monies.  
 Crude oil for August delivery rose as much as 51 cents, or
0.7 percent, to $75.95 a barrel on the New York Mercantile
Exchange and recently traded at $75.67. That would be a 4.9
percent gain for the week, the most since May.  
 Oil climbed after a U.S. government report yesterday showed
stockpiles dropped 4.96 million barrels last week, the most
since September.  
 “Oil is moving extremely closely with equity markets,”
Maziar Amiri, an energy trader at E&T Energie
Handelsgesellschaft mbH, said from Vienna. “The fall in
inventories was also positive for the market.”  
 Recent economic data from the U.S. and China, the world’s
top users of oil and industrial metals, indicated a slower
outlook. The U.S. Labor Department reported last week that
employment dropped by 125,000 workers in June, the first decline
this year.  
 China’s manufacturing growth weakened for a second month in
June and a raw-material inventory index contracted, a purchasing
managers’ survey released by the Federation of Logistics &
Purchasing showed July 1. The report indicated a “sharp”
decline in orders for industries including oil and metal
processing.  
 There remains “some risk” that the equity market could
falter, possibly pulling down prices in industrial commodities
including metals and energy, Michael Lewis, head of commodities
research at Deutsche Bank AG in London, said today by phone.  
 “We’re still cautious,” Lewis said. “A moderating credit
growth in China still maintains a bearish tone for base
metals.”  
 Gold for immediate delivery added 22 cents to $1,198.32 an
ounce. Prices are down 1.1 percent this week.  
 White, or refined, sugar for October delivery advanced
$5.90, or 1.1 percent, to $528.90 a ton on Liffe in London. A
close at that price would mean a weekly gain of 7.5 percent, the
most since the week ended June 11. Raw sugar for October
delivery rose 1.4 percent to 17.33 cents a pound on ICE Futures
U.S. in New York.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Chanyaporn Chanjaroen  in London at 
 cchanjaroen@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        