-- Company Bond Sales at Four-Month High in Europe on Economic Optimism Boost
-- Sonja Cheung
-- 2010-07-09T10:15:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-09/company-bond-sales-at-four-month-high-in-europe-on-economic-optimism-boost.html

          
          
             Bond sales in Europe jumped this week
to the most in almost four months as indicators signaled the
economic recovery is on track, opening a “window of
opportunity” for borrowers.  
 Issuance climbed to at least 13 billion euros ($16.5
billion), more than three-times last week’s total, and almost
double the year’s weekly average of 7 billion euros, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. France’s  Societe Generale SA ,
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc and Italy’s  Intesa Sanpaolo
SpA , raised funds.  
 “The window of opportunity is open for issuers,” said
 Harpreet Parhar , a credit strategist at Credit Agricole SA in
London. “It’s better to issue when the market is buoyant than
to try re-opening the market on one’s own.”  
 The global economic growth forecast for the year was raised
to 4.6 percent by the International Monetary Fund, the biggest
expansion since 2007. Confidence in the U.S. economy was boosted
by falling jobless claims and better-than-forecast retail sales.  
 Borrowers are also tapping the market before Europe’s
vacation season, said Parhar. There’s “another two weeks to
sell new debt before the summer lull descends,” he said.  
 The all-in borrowing cost for companies is close to the
lowest in a year at just over 3.6 percent, according to Bank of
America Merrill Lynch index data. It started the year at almost
4 percent.  
 Confidence started to return to the financial sector after
the Committee of European Banking Supervisors said July 7 that
it’s carrying out stress tests on lenders that make up 65
percent of the region’s finance industry to assess how they can
withstand a shrinking economy and a drop in government bonds.  
 Bank Debt  
 The cost of insuring bank debt from default fell to the
lowest in eight weeks with the Markit iTraxx Financial Index of
credit-default swaps linked to 25 banks and insurers dropping
6.5 basis points to 133.5.  
 Societe Generale, the second-largest French bank, raised 1
billion euros of three-year floating-rate notes paying 92 basis
points more than the euro interbank offered rate, or Euribor,
Bloomberg data show.  BNP Paribas SA  offered 1 billion euros of
fixed-rate notes due 2015 that were priced to yield 87 basis
points more than the benchmark swap rate.  Royal Bank of
Scotland,  the biggest bank owned by the U.K. government, sold
1.25 billion euros of five year notes at a spread of 280 basis
points.  
 Intesa Sanpaolo  
 Intesa Sanpaolo SpA, Italy’s second-biggest bank, offered
1.25 billion euros of notes eligible for lower Tier 2 capital at
a spread of 230 basis points over swaps, while U.K. lender
 Barclays Bank Plc  raised 1.5 billion euros from junior notes due
2021, priced at 310 basis points over swaps.  
 Elsewhere,  Schneider Electric SA  is planning to raise 800
million euros from the sale of new six- and 10-year bonds today,
its first debt issue in more than a year.  
 The world’s largest maker of low-voltage equipment is
looking to sell 300 million euros of six-year notes that will be
priced to yield 73 basis points more than swaps, and 10-year
notes that may have a spread of 88 basis points, according to a
banker involved in the sale. At the same time the Paris-based
company is tendering for up to 300 million euros of its 6.75
percent bonds due 2013, the banker said.  
 “Europe seems to have woken up from its slumber,” said
 Justin D’Ercole , head of investment-grade syndicate for the
Americas at Barclays Capital.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sonja Cheung  in London 
 scheung58@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        