-- Crude Oil Fluctuates in N.Y. as Equities Retreat, Dollar Gains Versus Euro
-- Mark Shenk
-- 2010-07-09T13:27:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-09/crude-oil-fluctuates-in-n-y-as-equities-retreat-dollar-gains-versus-euro.html

          
          
             Crude oil fluctuated as the Dow Jones
Industrial Average  retreated  from a two-week high and the dollar
gained against the euro.  
 Oil traded in a 95 cent range as U.S. equities slipped
after Johnson & Johnson recalled more medicine and an analyst’s
downgrade dragged down chipmakers. The U.S. currency appreciated
0.6 percent against the euro, signaling that investor demand for
raw materials will decline.  
 “We’re going to be looking at the equities and the dollar
for direction here,” said  Gene McGillian , an analyst and broker
at Tradition Energy in Stamford, Connecticut. “The fundamentals
remain weak and the economic news is mixed at best. The market
is directionless at the moment.”  
 Crude oil for August delivery rose 2 cents to $75.46 a
barrel at 9:15 a.m. on the New York Mercantile Exchange. Futures
touched $76 yesterday, the highest intraday price since June 30.  
 Oil is set for a 4.6 percent increase this week, the most
since the five days ended June 18.  
 “The price isn’t reflective of the economy,” said  Michael Fitzpatrick , vice president of energy at MF Global in New York.
“We had a good run-up above $75, but once we neared $76 the
skepticism came back into the market.”  
 Brent crude for August settlement climbed 7 cents to $74.78
a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange.  
 The global economy will grow 4.6 percent in 2010, the
biggest expansion since 2007, the International Monetary Fund
said on July 7 in revisions to its World Economic Outlook.  
 Oil may rise next week after the IMF upgraded its global
economic outlook and as U.S. supplies dropped to a two-month
low, a Bloomberg News survey showed.  
 Twenty of 38 analysts and traders, or 53 percent, forecast
crude will increase through July 16. Ten respondents, or 26
percent, predicted futures will be little changed and eight saw
a decrease. Last week 53 percent of survey respondents forecast
a price decline.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mark Shenk  in New York at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        