-- Diamond Offshore Is Moving Rig to Egypt on Restrictions in Gulf of Mexico
-- Jim Polson
-- 2010-07-09T20:12:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-09/diamond-offshore-is-moving-rig-to-egypt-on-restrictions-in-gulf-of-mexico.html

          
          
             Diamond Offshore Drilling Inc. , the
largest U.S. deep-water oil driller, said one of its rigs is
moving to Egypt from the Gulf of Mexico, as the company seeks
other international contracts after BP Plc’s crude spill.  
 The Ocean Endeavor, capable of drilling in water as deep as
8,000 feet (2,438 meters), has been hired by an Egyptian
company, Diamond Offshore said in a statement today. The rig
owner will get about $100 million in revenue for the move,
including a $31 million early-termination fee paid by the prior
lessee, said  Les Van Dyke , a spokesman for Diamond Offshore.  
 President  Barack Obama  in May suspended permits for new
wells in waters deeper than 500 feet after a BP well blowout on
April 20 that led to the nation’s biggest oil spill. The
administration has appealed a June 22 court order overturning
the ban.  
 “As a result of the uncertainties surrounding the offshore
drilling moratorium, we are actively seeking international
opportunities to keep our rigs fully employed,”  Larry Dickerson , chief executive officer of Houston-based Diamond
Offshore, said in the statement. “We greatly regret the loss of
U.S. jobs that will result from this rig relocation.”  
 Devon Energy Corp.  canceled its contract for the rig to
drill in the Gulf of Mexico because it has no use for it,  Alesha Leemaster , a spokeswoman for the Oklahoma City-based company,
said in an interview today.  
 Devon sold its Gulf of Mexico operations and is exiting
other offshore holdings to concentrate on oil and gas production
in the U.S. and Canada.  
 Burullus Gas  
 The rig has been hired by Cairo-based Burullus Gas Co.
through June 2011, when the contract with Devon was due to
expire. Burullus Gas is a joint venture of Egyptian General
Petroleum Corp., BG Group Plc and Petronas Dagangan Bhd.,
according to BG’s  website . There is an option to extend the
contract, Van Dyke said.  
 Devon was paying about $265,000 a day for the Ocean
Endeavor, Van Dyke said. Diamond will get about $285,000 a day
by moving the rig to Egypt when the early-termination fee is
included, he said.  
 The termination payment ended costs that would have reached
about $100 million by the end of the contract, Leemaster said.  
 Permits aren’t being issued in the Gulf because of ongoing
“confusion” after the BP blowout and a federal moratorium that
was rejected by an appeals court, said  Geoff Kieburtz , an energy
analyst at Weeden & Co. in Greenwich, Connecticut. “Even if
permits starting getting issued tomorrow, they have no property
to drill,” he said of Devon.  
 Offshore Rig Decline  
 The April blowout destroyed the Deepwater Horizon rig,
killing 11 crew members and injuring 17 others. BP leased the
rig from Transocean Ltd. The well may continue leaking through
mid-August, when a permanent plug is scheduled to be completed.  
 The number of offshore rigs operating in U.S. waters has
plunged 71 percent to 16 from 56 before the blowout, according
to surveys by Baker Hughes Inc.  
 Diamond Offshore  fell  86 cents, or 1.3 percent, to $64.40
at 4:11 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. It
has dropped 29 percent since the Deepwater Horizon blowout.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jim Polson  in New York at 
 jpolson@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        