-- Norway's DnB NOR Says Quarterly Profit Almost Triples on Lower Loan Losses
-- Niklas Magnusson
-- 2010-07-09T07:21:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-09/dnb-nor-second-quarter-profit-jumps-after-baltic-region-loan-losses-fall.html

          
          
             DnB NOR ASA , Norway’s largest bank,
said profit in the second quarter almost tripled after loan
losses in the Nordic and Baltic regions decreased.  
 Net income rose to 3.3 billion kroner ($518 million) from
1.2 billion kroner in the year-earlier period, Oslo-based DnB
said in a statement today. The average estimate of 11 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg was for profit of 3.2 billion kroner. Loan
losses fell 62 percent to 878 million kroner.  
 While DnB suffered soaring loan impairments in the Baltic
countries of Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania during the financial
crisis, the bank coped better than other Nordic lenders partly
because Norway’s economy fared better than those of Sweden and
Denmark. Since 2007, DnB has leapfrogged four other banks to
become the Nordic region’s second-largest bank by  market value 
after Nordea Bank AB.  
 “We are experiencing a strong reduction in writedowns on
loans and must now be able to say that writedowns have settled
at a level which is considerably lower than last year,” the
Norwegian bank’s Chief Executive Officer  Rune Bjerke  said in
today’s statement.  
 DnB operates in the Baltic states and Poland through its
DnB NORD joint venture with Germany’s Norddeutsche Landesbank
Girozentrale. DnB said in March that it’s willing to buy out
Nord/LB from the joint venture and the bank’s board will decide
before the end of July whether to proceed with the plan.  
 The lender has also been cited by Diena newspaper as a
possible buyer for the retail unit of Parex, the Latvian lender
nationalized in 2008 after a run on deposits. In an interview on
June 18, Bjerke said that while DnB NOR has its “eyes open,
organic growth has been placed at the top of our agenda.”  
 DnB may sell its Swedish real-estate brokerage and abandon
plans to develop a retail business in the country to focus on
corporate finance and investment banking, Bjerke said in the
interview. DnB had planned to become Sweden’s sixth-largest
retail bank by offering mortgages and other services to clients
of Svensk Fastighetsfoermedling AB, the real-estate broker it
 acquired  for 440 million kronor ($59 million) in 2007.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Niklas Magnusson  in Stockholm at 
 nmagnusson1@bloomberg.net ;  
          
          


  


        