-- Document Security, Cadila Health, Apple, BT, Google: Intellectual Property
-- Victoria Slind-Flor
-- 2010-07-09T11:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-09/document-security-cadila-health-apple-bt-google-intellectual-property.html

          
          
             The European Central Bank won a court
ruling invalidating the German part of  Document Security Systems
Inc. ’s European patent for a method to prevent copying bank
notes.  
 The Federal Court of Justice, Germany’s highest civil
tribunal, said in an e-mailed statement yesterday that the
patent isn’t valid for use in Germany. The ruling granted the
ECB’s appeal of a lower-court ruling which the central bank had
lost.  
 The case is part of a nine-nation battle over the patent.
Rochester, New York-based Document Security’s right to the
technology has so far been upheld in the Netherlands and Spain,
where the Frankfurt-based bank has filed an appeal.  
 The ECB has succeeded in revoking the patent in Austria,
Belgium, France, Italy and the U.K. A case in Luxembourg is
still pending.  
 “The court is, similar to the English and French courts,
of the opinion that the patent granted exceeds the scope of”
the technology the company originally applied to protect, the
judges wrote. “For the territory of Germany, the validity has
been retroactively voided.”  
 The ECB welcomes the ruling, Wiktor Krzyzanowski, a
spokesman for the bank said.  
 The German case is BGH, Xa ZR 124/07.  
 Genzyme Sues Anika for Arthritis-Drug Patent Infringement  
 Genzyme Corp.,  the world’s largest maker of drugs for rare
genetic diseases, sued Anika Therapeutics Inc., claiming its
proposed osteoarthritis treatment  Monovisc  would infringe two
patents.  
 The patents, issued in 1992 and 1995, relate to gels used
to deliver drugs into the body. Genzyme is seeking a court
ruling to prevent further use of its inventions, plus cash
compensation.  
 “Anika’s activities have been without express or implied
license from Genzyme,” Cambridge, Massachusetts-based Genzyme
said in the complaint, filed July 7 in federal court in Boston.  
 Anika plans to sell Monovisc in the second half of this
year, the company said May 10. Officials with the company didn’t
return a message seeking comment. Bedford, Massachusetts-based
Anika  reported  $40.1 million in sales last year.  
 The case is Genzyme Corp. v. Anika Therapeutics Inc.,
10cv11146, U.S. District Court for the District of Massachusetts
(Boston).  
 Shire Sues Cadila Healthcare in U.S. Court Over Lialda  
 Shire Plc sued Cadila Healthcare Ltd. in federal court in
Delaware to block its attempt to market and sell a generic
version of Lialda, a treatment for ulcerative colitis.  
 The lawsuit, which alleges infringement of U.S. patent
6,773,720, was triggered by an application that Cadila’s Zydus
unit filed with the U.S. Food and Drug Administration.  
 In the abbreviated new drug applications filed by makers of
generic drugs, the companies claim they have created a
biologically equivalent form of a patented product. Such
applications allow the generic-drug makers to bypass clinical
and animal studies.  
 Under federal regulations, when the maker of the patented
drug files an infringement suit, the regulatory agency many not
approve the application for 30 months, or until a court finds
the patent is invalid or not infringed.  
 Cadila, based in Ahmedabad, India, will cause Shire
“irreparable harm” if it’s permitted to go ahead with the
generic drug, Dublin-based Shire said in court papers.  
 Shire is represented by  Frederick L. Cottrell III  and  Sarah
R. Stafford  of Wilmington’s  Richards, Layton & Finger PA , and
 Edgar H. Haug ,  Sandra Kuzmich  and  Andrew Wasson  of New York’s
 Frommer Lawrence & Haug LLP .  
 The case is Shire development Inc., v. Cadila Healthcare
Ltd, 1:10-cv-00581-UNA, U.S. District Court, District of
Delaware (Wilmington).  
 Apple Seeks U.S. Patent on User Interface That Changes Shape  
 Apple Inc. , maker of the iPad and iPhone, applied for a
patent on a shape-shifting user interface.  
 Application 20100162109, published in the database of the
U.S. Patent and Trademark Office on June 24, covers a user
interface with changeable topography.  
 The inclusion of tactile features would make it easier for
a user to manipulate the device without having to look at it,
according to the application. Changeable nodes would be able to
push out or pull away from the surface.  
 The configuration of the device would be altered through
temperature change, either related to room temperature or
through heating by an electrical current.  
 Apple, based in Cupertino, California, applied for the
patent in March 2009 with assistance from San Francisco’s
 Morrison & Foerster LLP   
 For more patent news, click here.  
 Copyright  
 BT, TalkTalk Challenge U.K. Law on Digital Piracy  
 BT Group Plc  and  TalkTalk Telecom Group Plc  said they are
seeking a judicial review of U.K. digital piracy legislation to
avoid investing in compliance systems for a law that may be
unenforceable.  
 The companies filed papers with the High Court because
provisions in the Digital Economy Act received “insufficient
scrutiny” before the previous government dissolved parliament,
they said in a statement yesterday.  
 “We think the previous government’s rushed approach
resulted in flawed legislation,” TalkTalk Chairman Charles
Dunstone said in the statement. “Innocent broadband customers
will suffer and citizens will have their privacy invaded.”  
 The law is designed to prevent illegal file sharing of
television shows, films and music by forcing Internet service
providers to block some users. BT and TalkTalk may invest “tens
of millions of pounds in new systems and processes” to monitor
Internet users and block connections, only to find the law is
unenforceable, the companies said.  
 Piracy may cost content providers 400 million pounds ($605
million) each year, the U.K. Department for Business, Innovation
and Skills said in an e-mailed statement yesterday.  
 The act “sets out to protect our creative economy from the
continued threat of online copyright infringement,” the
department said. “We believe measures are consistent with EU
legislation and that there are enough safeguards in place to
protect the rights of consumers.”  
 For more copyright news, click here.  
 Trademark  
 Internet Terms That Create Confusion May Be Blocked in EU  
 Companies can stop rivals from using trademarked terms as
keywords on Internet search engines if they trigger
advertisements that confuse users, the European Union’s highest
court said.  
 In a dispute involving two companies that sell modular
buildings, the  European Court of Justice  in Luxembourg ruled
yesterday that using a competitor’s trademarks as keywords to
link Internet searches to ads can be stopped if the ad “does
not enable average Internet users, or enables them only with
difficulty, to ascertain” who made the products.  
 The  decision by a five-judge panel follows the EU court’s
ruling in a dispute between  Google Inc. , owner of the most-used
search engine, and luxury-goods maker  LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis
Vuitton SA . The March 23 ruling established that brand owners
can sue advertisers who buy protected keywords and display ads
on the search engine’s website that make it difficult for users
to see whether they sell original or fake products.  
 Portakabin Ltd., a maker of portable cabins and modular
buildings, sought to stop Dutch competitor Primakabin from using
Internet keywords such as “portakabin,” and “portacabin” to
trigger an ad that said “used portakabins.” A Dutch court in
December 2008 sought the EU tribunal’s guidance.  
 The case is C-558/08, Portakabin Ltd, Portakabin BV v
Primakabin BV.  
 Vuvuzela Trademarks to be Used for Wide Range of Products  
 Although the sound of vuvuzelas may fade away after the
July 11 World Cup championship game between Spain and the
Netherlands, vuvuzela-related trademarks are likely to linger.  
 The vuvuzela is a long plastic horn popular with South
African sports fans. Its loud blasts of noise have punctuated
this year’s World Cup broadcasts.  
 Masincedane Sport CC of Kuils River, South Africa,
registered the trademark in the European community in December
2005 for games, playthings, toys and sporting articles.  
 Myliki International (Wines) Ltd. of Manchester, England,
has had a European registration for “vuvuzela” to be used for
wines since November.  The company website  shows no vuvuzela
label for any of the wines Myliki imports from three different
sites in South Africa.  
 Intersnack Group GmbH  of Dusseldorf, Germany, registered
“vuvuzela” in the European community in April for snack foods
including extruded potato products, dried fruits and muesli
bars. The company, which produces chips in a variety of flavors
including goulash and roasted chicken, doesn’t feature a
vuvuzela-named product on its  website .  
 On June 22, Tendence Group Anstalt of Vaduz,
Liechtenstein, applied for a European registration for
“vuvuzela” for products ranging from scientific instruments,
leather goods, and jewelry to bookbinding materials and paint
brushes.  
 Laurie Mark Kempster of Cape Town, South Africa, filed an
application with the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office on July 4
to register “vuvuzela” for beer, ale, lager and porter.  
 On July 2, Mark F. Thomann of Chicago applied to register
“vuvuzela” in the U.S. for musical instruments.  
 J Sainsbury Plc  imported 70,000 vuvuzelas in anticipation
of the World Cup matches, and sold them for 2 pounds ($3)
apiece. The supermarket chain sidestepped potential trademark
problems by calling them “vuvu horns” according to the London-
based company’s  website .  
 World Cup Fakes Cost South Africa 14,400 Jobs, INTA Claims  
 Imports of fake World Cup-related merchandise cost South
Africa 14,400 jobs in the clothing and textile-industry industry
sectors, the International Trademark Association said in a
 statement .  
 South Africa seized counterfeit goods valued at 66 million
rand ($8.7 million) in the six months leading up to the World
Cup, according to the INTA statement.  
 For more trademark news, click here.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Victoria Slind-Flor  in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        