-- Dump Microsoft, Use Linux to Save Government Money, U.K. Officials Suggest
-- Robert Hutton
-- 2010-07-09T10:13:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-09/dump-microsoft-use-linux-to-save-government-money-u-k-officials-suggest.html

          
          
             U.K. government staff suggested
replacing  Microsoft Corp.  operating systems on computers with
free alternatives in response to a call for ideas for Prime
Minister  David Cameron ’s cost-cutting drive.  
 Cameron asked the 600,000 government workers last month to
make suggestions on saving money as his administration seeks to
cut Britain’s  record budget deficit . Chancellor of the Exchequer
 George Osborne  today published a sample of the 56,000 submitted
ideas, which including abandoning Microsoft, switching office
lights off and centralizing stationery procurement.  
 “In terms of spending less, what about migrating the whole
of government (the NHS, education etc.) from Microsoft products
to Linux and open-source software like Openoffice,” read one of
the suggestions displayed on the  Treasury website . Two of the 31
listed proposals, whose authors were not named, suggested
dropping Redmond, Washington-based Microsoft.  
 Open-source software such as Linux and Openoffice offers
free or very cheap alternatives to Microsoft’s Windows and
Office, the world’s most popular operating system and
productivity software. Osborne said before the Conservatives won
power in the May 6 election that he favored the idea.  
 “We need to follow the example of businesses all over the
world and take advantage of open-source technology,” Osborne
wrote in The Times of London in February 2009.  
 Osborne said today he is now asking the public to send in
ideas about how the government should save money to narrow the
155-billion-pound ($235 billion) budget shortfall.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Kitty Donaldson  in London at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net ;
 Robert Hutton  in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        