-- Dutch Supreme Court Dismisses Probe Into ASM International Management
-- Maud van Gaal
-- 2010-07-09T12:08:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-09/dutch-supreme-court-dismisses-probe-into-asm-international-management.html

          
          
             The Dutch Supreme Court dismissed a
probe into  ASM International NV ’s management and sent the case
back to the Amsterdam Court of Appeal’s Enterprise Chamber for
reconsideration.  
 The Netherlands’ highest court said the Enterprise Chamber
based its decision on an incorrect legal interpretation of the
way a company’s management has to perform.  
 The lower court “lost sight of the fact that it is ASMI’s
management that is primarily responsible for the strategy to be
followed,” the  Supreme Court  said in a statement on  its website 
today.  
 The Enterprise Chamber will now have to reconsider whether
there are grounds to order an investigation requested by
shareholders Hermes Focus Asset Management Europe Ltd. and Fursa
Alternative Strategies U.K. Ltd. into ASMI’s management.  
 The Enterprise Chamber in August ordered the investigation
of Europe’s second-largest maker of semiconductor equipment
following the investors’ request. The company didn’t give its
external shareholders sufficient chance to influence strategy
and corporate governance, the court said at that time.  
 Hermes and Fursa opposed the issuance of shares to a
foundation created to safeguard ASMI’s independence. The
investors were attempting to oust Chief Executive Officer  Chuck del Prado  at the time. ASMI co-founder and former board member
 Arthur del Prado  and the foundation appealed the ruling.  
 The Supreme Court, based in The Hague, set aside an
advisory opinion from Advocate General Vino Timmerman, who in
April said there were valid reasons to “doubt proper
management.”  
 “ASMI’s board did enter into dialogue with Hermes and
Fursa, discussed the arguments raised and rejected them with
well substantiated and defendable arguments,” the Supreme Court
ruled. The Almere, Netherlands-based company also discussed
governance issues with its shareholders, the court said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Maud van Gaal  in Amsterdam at 
 mvangaal@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        