-- East African Breweries Profit May Decline on Taxes, African Alliance Says
-- Eric Ombok
-- 2010-07-09T11:22:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-09/east-african-breweries-profit-may-decline-on-taxes-african-alliance-says.html

          
          
             Diageo Plc ’s Kenyan unit may forego
as much as 1 billion shillings ($12.3 million) of profit in the
year through June 2011 as beer consumption slows on higher taxes
and prices, said African Alliance analyst Maciek Szymaski.  
 Kenya’s government last month increased duties on alcohol
by about 20 percent, Szymaski, who is based in Johannesburg,
said in an e-mailed note late yesterday. In response,  East
Africa Breweries Ltd. , or EABL, raised its prices by as much as
8.5 percent, he said.  
 “Consumers, who have already felt some of the impact of the
global slowdown on their disposable incomes, are likely to be
put under further pressure to buy-down or cut down on their beer
consumption,” said Szymaski, who maintained his “sell”
recommendation on the stock.  
 EABL may also face increased competition should President
 Mwai Kibaki  approve new laws passed by parliament last month to
legalize illicit beer and spirit sales. The proposed legislation
includes restrictions on alcohol advertising, Szymaski said.  
 Kenya’s illicit beer-brewing industry accounts for as much
as 60 percent of total alcohol consumption in Kenya, and 70
percent of spirits consumption, according to the National Agency
for the Campaign Against Drug Abuse.  
 “Far-reaching restrictions on alcohol advertising will
force commercial producers to rethink their marketing
strategies,” Szymaski said.  
 EABL is expected to report earnings per share in the 12
months through June 2011 of 9.61 shillings, compared with 9
shillings a year earlier, he said.  
 “There will be growth coming from the other markets,” in
addition to cost management, Szymaski said.  
 Kenya is EABL’s largest market, accounting for 73 percent
of total revenue and 68 percent of volumes, according to Kestrel
Capital East Africa Ltd., a Nairobi-based brokerage.  
 Diageo, the world’s biggest liquor maker, owns 50.03
percent of EABL.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Eric Ombok  in Nairobi at 
 eombok@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        