-- Lebanon Reinforces Army in South With 5,000 Troops as Threat of War Grows
-- Bill Varner
-- 2010-07-10T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-09/lebanon-reinforces-army-in-south-with-5-000-troops-as-threat-of-war-grows.html

          
          
             Lebanon is sending as many as 5,000
more soldiers to the country’s south following clashes between
civilians and  United Nations  troops and a warning from Israel
that Hezbollah is preparing for a new war there.  
 “Some measures had to be taken to make sure no such
incidents take place in the future,” Nawaf Salam, Lebanon’s
ambassador to the UN, said in an interview yesterday, referring
to three attacks on French peacekeeping troops since June 29.  
 The commander of the UN’s 12,000 soldiers and civilian
police in southern Lebanon appealed for calm this week in an
open letter to the region’s population, while France called a
meeting of the UN Security Council in New York yesterday to
receive a report.  
 “We wanted to emphasize the seriousness of the
situation,”  Gerard Araud , France’s ambassador to the UN, told
reporters after the meeting. “These incidents have given rise
to apprehension and concern. We cannot accept obstacles to
freedom of movement” of UN troops.  
 The members of the  Security Council  “strongly deplore”
the clashes with peacekeepers and urge the Lebanese army to send
reinforcements to the border area with Israel, according to a
statement adopted after the briefing.  
 The tensions came as Israel said the Shiite Muslim
Hezbollah militia, considered a terrorist group by the U.S., is
preparing for fighting. Hezbollah fought a monthlong war with
Israel in 2006.  
 The Israeli daily Haaretz said Israel’s army has shown
journalists previously classified aerial photographs of a unit
of 90 Hezbollah militiamen operating in a village where they
were storing weapons close to hospitals and schools.  
 Hezbollah Arsenal  
 Israel thinks Hezbollah has an arsenal of 40,000 short-and
medium-range rockets and a force of 20,000 fighters, around a
third of which have received combat training in Iran, Haaretz
said.  
 “The very problematic events that we witnessed and the
region witnessed are only a reflection of what we have been
saying for four years now, which is that southern Lebanon,
despite the good work of the UN, has been hijacked by terrorism,
by Hezbollah,”  Daniel Carmon , Israel’s deputy ambassador to the
UN, said in an interview.  
 UN Secretary-General  Ban Ki-moon  said in a July 1 report to
the Security Council that increased tensions “raised the
specter of a miscalculation by either party leading to a
resumption of hostilities, with potentially devastating
consequences for Lebanon and the region.”  
 Ban also noted Israel’s allegation in April that Syria
supplied Hezbollah with Scuds, ground-to-ground missiles with a
range of hundreds of miles.  
 “Rhetoric escalated rapidly, creating a perception in the
public that a resumption of conflict was imminent,” Ban said.  
 French troops were pelted with stones as they participated
in large-scale exercises in southern Lebanon. The patrols were
conducted without the usual accompaniment of the Lebanese army,
which didn’t participate out of concern that the movements would
be considered provocative.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bill Varner  at the United Nations at 
 wvarner@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        