-- Heat Are Favorite in Las Vegas to Win NBA as LeBron James Joins Wade, Bosh
-- Erik Matuszewski
-- 2010-07-09T04:57:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-09/lebron-james-joins-wade-bosh-to-make-miami-heat-favorites-in-las-vegas.html

          
          
             The All-Star trio of  LeBron James ,
 Dwyane Wade  and  Chris Bosh  make the Miami Heat the favorites to
win the National Basketball Association title next season,
according to Las Vegas oddsmakers.  
 Las Vegas Sports Consultants dropped Miami’s odds of
winning the championship to 4-5 after James’s announcement last
night that he’ll sign with the Heat.  
 “You definitely don’t want to give anything away here,”
said Sean Van Patten, an oddsmaker at Las Vegas Sports
Consultants, which advises Nevada sports books on gambling
lines. “Four-to-five might be a little low, but everybody is
going to bet them if they’re going to come in to bet.”  
 Coming off a second straight first-round playoff exit,
Miami was listed at 25-1 after last month’s NBA Finals.  
 The odds were lowered to 6-1 when Wade said two days ago he
was returning and Bosh announced he’d sign there as a free
agent. Wade was the Most Valuable Player when the Heat won the
NBA Finals in 2006 and the 6-foot-10 Bosh is a five-time All-
Star.  
 Now the Heat have added James, who joined Hall of Fame
center  Kareem Abdul-Jabbar  as the only players to win two NBA
MVP awards by the age of 25.  
 Lakers Are 5-1  
 The Los Angeles Lakers, who have won the past two titles,
are the second favorites at 5-1. The Boston Celtics and Orlando
Magic are given 10-1 odds of winning the championship, followed
by the Denver Nuggets at 12-1.  
 At 4-5 odds, a winning $100 bet on the Heat would return
$80 along with the initial stake.  
 “All our mindset is on winning the NBA championship or we
wouldn’t have come together,” James said last night during his
nationally televised announcement. “This isn’t where we’re
happy with a 55- or 60-win regular season, or getting out of the
first round, we want to win it all. The only reason we play this
game is to win championships.”  
 Jon Barry , who played in the NBA from 1992-2006 and is now
an analyst for ESPN, said the addition of James doesn’t
guarantee a championship team in Miami.  
 “There are too many holes that this team has to fill,”
said Barry, a son of Hall of Famer  Rick Barry . “They have only
four guys on their roster. They’re going to have seven or eight
guys playing for minimum contracts. Who is that going to be?  I
don’t think they can put that together in this short amount of
time to be title contenders next year.”  
 Filling the Roster  
 Eric Snow , an NBA TV analyst who played with James in
Cleveland from 2004-08, said he doesn’t expect the Heat to have
problems finding talent to play alongside James, Wade and Bosh.
The trio averaged 70.3 points last season and all three were
among the top 10 scorers in the NBA.  
 “Every guy that is making the minimum (salary) is trying
to go to Miami,” Snow said. “Now that he is there, filling out
the roster is going to be easy.”  
 While the oddsmakers in Las Vegas have pegged the Heat as
heavy favorites, James says there’s still plenty of work to be
done before the NBA’s regular season begins in October.  
 “I feel it’s not a super team right now because we don’t
have enough guys to fill a roster,” James said. “A
championship team isn’t built on just three guys, it’s built on
the whole organization and everybody having the same goal.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Erik Matuszewski  in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 9 (Bloomberg) -- Reporter Jim Gray discusses two-time National Basketball Association Most Valuable Player LeBron James's decision to leave the Cleveland Cavaliers for the Miami Heat. 
     Gray, who hosted the ESPN special where James announced his decision, spoke with Deirdre Bolton and Michele Steele on Bloomberg Television's "InsideTrack." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
