-- LeBron to Knicks May Have Been Like Babe Ruth to Yankees
-- Barry Rothbard
-- 2010-07-09T05:09:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-09/lebron-james-move-to-knicks-would-have-been-like-babe-ruth-to-the-yankees.html

          
          
             The New York Knicks’ two-year plan to
clear salary space in time to woo free agent  LeBron James  ended
in failure after the two-time Most Valuable Player opted to play
for the Miami Heat.  
 James said in a national telecast on ESPN last night that
he’ll join  Dwyane Wade  and  Chris Bosh  in Florida next season
after seven years with the Cleveland Cavaliers.  
 “If he really wanted a challenge, he should have come to
New York,” said Patrick Cumisky, 36, a teacher from Ossining,
New York. “Biggest stage, biggest challenge. It’s been
sickening, the LeBronathon.”  
 In April 2008, New York brought in  Donnie Walsh  as its top
executive with a mandate to create enough salary-cap space this
offseason to lure a free-agent All-Star such as James or Wade.  
 The Knicks traded  Jordan Hill ,  Jared Jeffries  and  Nate Robinson  last season, a year after shipping off  Tim Thomas ,
 Anthony Roberson  and  Jerome James . That freed up enough money to
sign James and another top-level player. They’ll have additional
cap space next year after  Eddy Curry’s  contract expires.  
 Yesterday, forward  David Lee  left the Knicks for the Golden
State Warriors in return for  Anthony Randolph ,  Ronny Turiaf ,
 Kelenna Azubuike  and others, ESPN reported.  
 So far, the biggest arrival for the Knicks is  Amar’e Stoudemire , who signed for the National Basketball Association
team today.  
 ‘Disappointed’  
 “We are disappointed that LeBron James did not pick the
New York Knicks, but we respect his decision,” Walsh said.  
 The Knicks last won a championship 37 years ago and have
missed the playoffs the past six years. Last season, they
finished 11th in the Eastern Conference, 32 games behind the
Cavaliers with a 29-53 record. They haven’t had a winning season
since 2000-01, when they went 48-34 and lost in the first round
of the playoffs.  
 Had James also decided to move to New York, it would be
“similar in impact to when Babe Ruth was traded to the Yankees
-- the beginning of a championship era in a year or two,”
William Sutton, professor in the University of Central Florida’s
DeVos Sport Business Management Graduate Program, said in an e-
mail.  
 “The Knicks would become the hottest ticket in town and
sponsors and other premium buyers would scramble to secure space
in the soon-to-be-renovated MSG,” Sutton said. “The secondary
ticket market would be the very definition of a bull market.”  
 $500 Million Refit  
 Madison Square Garden is undergoing a more than $500
million facelift. The lower bowl is scheduled to be renovated
prior to the 2011-12 NBA season and the upper bowl a year later.  
 The sports bar Stout, less than a block from the arena,
emptied out minutes after James’s decision was made public.  
 “It’s a shocking day, very, very shocking,” said Michael
Bermudez, a 21-year-old New Yorker and lifelong Knicks’ fan.
“There would have been a big parade in New York; blue and
orange everywhere.”  
 James was “precisely what the Knicks needed -- an emerging
global icon that could help the franchise reclaim its once lofty
status,”  David Carter , executive director of the Los Angeles-
based Sports Business Group, said in an e-mail.  
 “I was hoping for an upset,” said Alan Lindo, a 28-year-
old from Union, New Jersey. “The fact that I bought my season
tickets already, that’s the part that kicks me.”  
 Money Available  
 Guille Mendoza, a 24-year-old disc jockey from the Queens
borough of New York, was optimistic that the Knicks can add
marquee names.  
 “We still have money to sign somebody else,” he said. “I
don’t think all three egos in Miami will help win a
championship.”  
 Madison Square Garden lost $90.2 million in market value
yesterday after gaining $98.5 million two days ago on
speculation James would choose the Knicks.  
 Shares in the company fell 5.5 percent to $20.38 in New
York. The odds that James would sign with the Knicks sank to 11
percent yesterday from more than 50 percent the day before,
according to  trading  on the prediction market run by Dublin-
based Intrade. The Heat was at 68 percent.  
 Madison Square Garden will have a profit this year of 75
cents a share excluding some items, according to the average of
two estimates in a Bloomberg survey. That compares with earnings
of 37 cents on the same basis for 2009.  
 “It’s a disappointment for the company, but earnings will
probably still go up regardless of not having LeBron,” said
 Chris Marangi , an analyst with Gabelli & Co. in Rye, New York
who has a “buy” rating on the stock.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Nancy Kercheval  in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net ;
 Mason Levinson  in New York at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net ;
 Barry Rothbard  in New York at 
 brothbard@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     LeBron James speaks during the announcement of his future NBA plans in Greenwich, Connecticut. Photographer: by Larry Busacca/Getty Images  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 9 (Bloomberg) -- Two-time National Basketball Association Most Valuable Player LeBron James selected the Miami Heat as his new team, spurning his former team the Cleveland Cavaliers, as well as the New York Knicks, who tried to woo the free agent. Bloomberg's Jon Erlichman reports on the potential impact of James's decision on the Knicks' revenue. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 9 (Bloomberg) -- Reporter Jim Gray discusses two-time National Basketball Association Most Valuable Player LeBron James's decision to leave the Cleveland Cavaliers for the Miami Heat. 
     Gray, who hosted the ESPN special where James announced his decision, spoke with Deirdre Bolton and Michele Steele on Bloomberg Television's "InsideTrack." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
