-- LeBron James Fathead Price Cut Is Sparked by Birthyear of Benedict Arnold
-- Barry Rothbard
-- 2010-07-09T19:27:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-09/lebron-james-fathead-price-cut-is-sparked-by-birthyear-of-benedict-arnold.html

          
          
             Even Benedict Arnold has been dragged
into  LeBron James ’s decision to leave the Cleveland Cavaliers
for the Miami Heat.  
 A company held by Cavaliers owner  Dan Gilbert  -- who last
night called James’s decision an act of cowardly betrayal -- cut
the price of James memorabilia to $17.41, echoing the year of
Arnold’s birth.  
 Gilbert’s Fathead LLC had sold life-size wall stickers of
James in a Cavaliers uniform for as much as $99.99. Arnold was
a colonial army officer who  offered to surrender  West Point to
the British for money during the Revolutionary War.  
 “Isn’t that the year Handel premiered ‘The Messiah?’”
Todd Lunsford, president of the Livonia, Michigan-based company,
said in an e-mail. “Oh yeah, and the whole Benedict Arnold
thing, too.”  
 James, the two-time reigning Most Valuable Player of the
National Basketball Association, announced last night that he
would join  Dwyane Wade  and  Chris Bosh  on the Heat after seven
seasons playing for his hometown team. Less than two hours
later, Gilbert said in a letter to fans posted on the team
website that James’s decision was a “shocking act of
disloyalty.”  
 “You simply don’t deserve this kind of cowardly
betrayal,” wrote Gilbert, the founder and chairman of Quicken
Loans Inc. “This shocking act of disloyalty from our home grown
‘chosen one’ sends the exact opposite lesson of what we would
want our children to learn. And ‘who’ we would want them to
grow-up to become.”  
 An e-mail to Maverick Carter, James’s business manager,
seeking comment was unanswered.  
 Lunsford said the company had more than 1,000 of the James-
in-a-Cavaliers-uniform stickers in stock. Normally three to five
a day are sold in July, he said. More than 250 were sold today.  
 “We were just looking to make the best of a bad
situation,” Lunsford said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Barry Rothbard  at   brothbard@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        