-- James's Exit Is `Cowardly Betrayal,' Cavs Owner Says
-- Erik Matuszewski
-- 2010-07-09T12:32:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-09/lebron-james-s-exit-is-a-cowardly-betrayal-cavaliers-owner-gilbert-says.html

          
          
             LeBron James’s  decision to spurn his
hometown Cleveland Cavaliers for the Miami Heat was a “cowardly
betrayal,” team owner  Dan Gilbert  said in an open letter to
fans.  
 The two-time National Basketball Association’s Most
Valuable Player spurned the Cavaliers, where he spent seven
years, along with the New York Knicks, New Jersey Nets, Chicago
Bulls and Los Angeles Clippers to play for the Heat next season.  
 Gilbert also said in an interview with the Associated Press
that James quit on the Cavaliers during their playoff series
loss last season to Boston, which won the final three games
after trailing 2-1.  
 James made the announcement last night in an hour-long ESPN
special. He made his decision after meeting with all six teams
over the past week.  
 Following is the letter from Gilbert to Cleveland fans as
well as statements from the Cavaliers, Knicks, Nets, Bulls,
Clippers and Heat after James’s decision:  
 Cavaliers Owner Dan Gilbert:  
 “As you now know, our former hero, who grew up in the very
region that he deserted this evening, is no longer a Cleveland
Cavalier.  
 “This was announced with a several day, narcissistic,
self-promotional build-up culminating with a national TV special
of his decision unlike anything ever witnessed in the history of
sports and probably the history of entertainment.  
 “Clearly, this is bitterly disappointing to all of us.  
 “The good news is that the ownership team and the rest of
the hard-working, loyal, and driven staff over here at your
hometown Cavaliers have not betrayed you nor never will betray
you.  
 “There is so much more to tell you about the events of the
recent past and our more than exciting future. Over the next
several days and weeks, we will be communicating much of that to
you.  
 “You simply don’t deserve this kind of cowardly betrayal.
You have given so much and deserve so much more.  
 “In the meantime, I want to make one statement to you
tonight:  
 “I personally guarantee that the Cleveland Cavaliers will
win an NBA championship before the self-titled former ‘king’
wins one.”  
 “You can take it to the bank.  
 “If you thought we were motivated before tonight to bring
the hardware to Cleveland, I can tell you that this shameful
display of selfishness and betrayal by one of our very own has
shifted our motivation to previously unknown and previously
never-experienced levels.  
 “Some people think they should go to heaven but not have
to die to get there. Sorry, but that’s simply not how it works.  
 “This shocking act of disloyalty from our home-grown
chosen one sends the exact opposite lesson of what we would want
our children to learn. And who we would want them to grow-up to
become. But the good news is that this heartless and callous
action can only serve as the antidote to the so-called curse on
Cleveland, Ohio.  
 “The self-declared former King will be taking the curse
with him down south. And until he does right by Cleveland and
Ohio, James (and the town where he plays) will unfortunately own
this dreaded spell and bad karma. Just watch.  
 “Sleep well, Cleveland. Tomorrow is a new and much
brighter day.  
 “I promise you that our energy, focus, capital, knowledge
and experience will be directed at one thing and one thing only:
delivering you the championship you have long deserved and is
long overdue.”  
 Cavaliers General Manager Chris Grant:  
 “We believe in this team, this organization, this
community, and what we will do to compete at the highest level.  
 “ We believe in the new coach and leader we have in  Byron Scott  and the world class basketball organization and positive
and strong culture we’ve established.  
 “Dan Gilbert and our ownership group are firmly committed
to reaching our goals and succeeding on the court and in the
community, at the highest level.  
 “Our fans stepped up and showed their support, to a degree
unlike anywhere else. We are fortunate to have the support of
the best fans in the NBA. That passion and dedication will be
rewarded.  
 “We will work relentlessly to continue to build a team
that will contend, a team that will win championships. We are
all competitors and our one goal is to win, that and Dan Gilbert
and our ownership team’s commitment and investment in this
organization and community are constants that will not change.”  
 Knicks President of Basketball Operations  Donnie Walsh :  
 “We are disappointed that LeBron James did not sign with
the New York Knicks, but we respect his decision.  
 “Today, we signed five-time NBA All-Star Amar’e Stoudemire
and we will continue to move forward, getting back on track to
develop into a championship contending team.”  
 Nets Owner  Mikhail Prokhorov :  
 “We have a vision of a championship team and need to
invest wisely and for the long term.  
 “Fortunately, we have more than one plan to reach success,
and, as I have found in all areas of my business, that is key to
achieving it.  
 “To Nets fans past, present and future, the goal of making
the playoffs this season remains intact and we reiterate our
commitment to winning a championship within five years.”  
 Bulls General Manager Gar Forman:  
 “I remain convinced that this organization made the
strongest of bids to acquire LeBron James during this free
agency period.  
 “While we’re disappointed he chose to go to another
franchise, our strategy for the future competitiveness of this
organization did not begin or end with James, and we feel
today’s addition of two-time All-Star  Carlos Boozer 
significantly strengthens our team’s already talented roster.  
 “It is our goal to keep exploring every avenue that it may
take, whether through trades or free agency, to continue to
build this team to compete at a championship level.”  
 Clippers General Manager  Neil Olshey :  
 “Our goal remains unchanged. We will continue to be
exhaustive and use every available resource to assemble an
exciting and successful team.  
 “We have a dynamic new head coach who will lead the very
talented roster we already have in place. We will use the free
agent market to enhance that roster. We expect to compete at a
very high level.”  
 Heat President  Pat Riley :  
 “We are thrilled that LeBron James and  Chris Bosh  have
decided to come to Miami to join forces with our truly great
player, Dwyane Wade.  
 “We are looking forward to the opportunity of building
something that our fans in Miami will be proud of for a long,
long time. The journey is just beginning.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Erik Matuszewski  in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Dan Gilbert of the Cleveland Cavaliers talks to the fans during a timeout in the game against the Seattle SuperSonics in Cleveland, Ohio. Photographer: David Liam Kyle/NBAE via Getty Images  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 9 (Bloomberg) -- Reporter Jim Gray discusses two-time National Basketball Association Most Valuable Player LeBron James's decision to leave the Cleveland Cavaliers for the Miami Heat. 
     Gray, who hosted the ESPN special where James announced his decision, spoke with Deirdre Bolton and Michele Steele on Bloomberg Television's "InsideTrack." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
