-- LeBron Drawn to Miami by Friends, Dreams of NBA Titles
-- Rob Gloster
-- 2010-07-09T12:24:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-09/lebron-james-will-sign-for-miami-heat-transforming-nba-eastern-conference.html

          
          
             LeBron James  said he was drawn to the
Miami Heat by a pair of friends and his confidence the All-Star
trio can win NBA championships, even though he could have made
more money by staying with the Cleveland Cavaliers.  
 James, the National Basketball Association’s reigning two-
time Most Valuable Player, said in a nationally televised show
on ESPN last night that he will join  Dwyane Wade  and  Chris Bosh 
by signing a free-agent contract with Miami.  
 James, Wade and Bosh won gold medals for the U.S. team at
the 2008 Beijing Olympics, and the three talked frequently
before and during the free-agency period that began July 1.  
 “I think the major factor, the major reason, in my
decision was to give me the best opportunity to win and to win
now,” said James, who never won an NBA title during his seven
seasons in Cleveland. “Winning is a huge thing for me.”  
 Teams including the New York Knicks and Chicago Bulls vied
for the six-time All-Star, who could have signed a six-year
contract worth about $128 million in Cleveland. He can get a
maximum of about $99 million for five years in Miami.  
 Spurned Cavaliers owner  Dan Gilbert  said James committed an
act of “cowardly betrayal,” saying in an open letter to fans
on the team’s website that “this shocking act of disloyalty
from our home grown ‘chosen one’ sends the exact opposite lesson
of what we would want our children to learn.”  
 Gilbert’s Reaction  
 Gilbert, the founder and chairman of Quicken Loans Inc.,
accused James of a “heartless and callous action” and said the
days leading to last night’s announcement were a “narcissistic,
self-promotional build-up” without precedent in sports history.  
 He also told the Associated Press that James quit on the
Cavaliers during their playoff series loss last season to
Boston, which won the final three games after trailing 2-1.  
 “He quit,” Gilbert told AP in an interview. “Not just in
Game 5, but in Games 2, 4 and 6. Watch the tape. The Boston
series was unlike anything in the history of sports for a
superstar.”  
 James grew up in Akron, Ohio, about 40 miles from
Cleveland, and acknowledged it will be difficult returning there
as an opponent.  
 “It’s going to be a challenge going there and playing on
the other side of the court,” he said in the ESPN show. “It’s
a lot of mixed emotions because of what I was able to build
there from being an 18-year-old kid to being a 25-year-old
man.”  
 Personal Coup  
 James’s move to Miami is the latest personnel coup for
 Micky Arison , 61, the billionaire owner of the Heat and chairman
of  Carnival Corp ., the biggest cruise-line operator. In his 15
years as the team’s managing general partner, Arison has won an
NBA title and brought in All-Stars such as  Alonzo Mourning  and
 Shaquille O’Neal , in addition to James, Bosh and Wade. He also
installed  Pat Riley  as coach in 1995 and then team president.  
 Miami hasn’t won a playoff series since capturing the NBA
championship in 2006. The free-agent signings of James and Bosh
and the re-signing of Wade has transformed the NBA’s Eastern
Conference.  
 “We are looking forward to the opportunity of building
something that our fans in Miami will be proud of for a long,
long time,” Riley said in a statement released by the Heat.
“The journey is just beginning.”  
 Cavaliers General Manager Chris Grant said the team would
“compete at the highest level” even without James.  
 “We will work relentlessly to continue to build a team
that will contend, a team that will win championships,” Grant
said in an e-mailed statement.  
 Home Attendance  
 Miami ranked 15th in the NBA in average home attendance
last season. Sales of season tickets for Heat games next season
were suspended yesterday afternoon after all currently available
seats sold out, the Associated Press reported.  
 “For a franchise that cost $32.5 million in the mid-80s
and now is worth over 10 times that, a LeBron James-Wade-Bosh
trilogy will immediately raise the value of the franchise to a
significant degree and lead to significant incremental marketing
dollars beyond that and increase the chances of a dynasty, which
will raise the value even further,”  Rick Horrow , a Miami-based
sports consultant who is a contributing editor to Bloomberg
Television, said yesterday in a phone interview.  
 In December 2009, Forbes magazine estimated the value of
the Heat at $364 million, 12th highest among the 30 NBA
franchises.  
 Franchise Value  
 Russ Granik , the NBA’s deputy commissioner for 30 years and
now vice chairman of Galatioto Sports Partners in New York, said
yesterday in an e-mail that James’s signing would have “a small
impact” on the Heat’s value.  
 “If the three of them play as well as people project,
that’s going to put more people in the stands, create more
sponsorships and that could have an effect over time on
revenue,” Granik said. “I don’t believe it would have a great
impact on the franchise value because, no matter how good things
turn out, it’s only for a limited amount of time.”  
 James, who has said he aspires to join friend  Warren Buffett  as a billionaire, was named the world’s second-most
powerful athlete this year in a ranking by Bloomberg
BusinessWeek -- trailing golfer  Tiger Woods , with whom James
shares a Dec. 30 birthday.  
 LeBron Raymone James skipped college and jumped from high
school to the NBA at 18. He had a $90 million shoe contract with
 Nike Inc. , the world’s largest athletic shoemaker, before
playing his first pro game. He also endorses  McDonald’s Corp .,
the world’s biggest restaurant company;  Coca-Cola Co ., the
world’s biggest soft-drink maker; and State Farm Mutual
Automobile Insurance Co., the largest U.S. home and auto
insurer.  
 No. 1 Pick  
 James, a 6-foot-8 forward, has  career averages  of 27.8
points, seven rebounds and seven assists per game. When he
arrived in Cleveland as the No. 1 draft pick in 2003, the
Cavaliers hadn’t won a playoff series in a decade. The Cavaliers
reached the NBA Finals in 2007 and had the best regular-season
record in each of the past two seasons.  
 The Heat cleared an NBA-high $43.3 million in salary cap
space to be able to pay James, Wade and Bosh close to the $16.6
million maximum allowed for free agents in the first year of a
new contract.  
 Wade announced two days ago on ESPN that he will re-sign
with Miami after considering free-agent offers from teams
including the Bulls. Bosh said on ESPN that he will move as a
free agent to the Heat from Toronto.  
 Outside Madison Square Garden, a fan wearing a blue
“LeBron or Bust” shirt said the Knicks were among the biggest
losers in the bidding for James.  
 “It’s such a shame,” said Greg Wolinsky, 22, of Dix
Hills. “The hype was ridiculous. We wasted an entire season
just to get him. We shed our entire (salary) cap for one man
only.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rob Gloster  in San Francisco at 
 rgloster@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     LeBron James speaks at the announcement of his future NBA plans on July 8, 2010 in Greenwich, Connecticut. Photographer: Larry Busacca/Getty Images for Estabrook Group  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 9 (Bloomberg) -- Reporter Jim Gray discusses two-time National Basketball Association Most Valuable Player LeBron James's decision to leave the Cleveland Cavaliers for the Miami Heat. 
     Gray, who hosted the ESPN special where James announced his decision, spoke with Deirdre Bolton and Michele Steele on Bloomberg Television's "InsideTrack." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
