-- LeBron James on Super Team Might Be Good for Miami, Bad for NBA
-- Erik Matuszewski
-- 2010-07-09T04:54:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-09/lebron-james-on-super-team-might-be-good-for-miamiheat-bad-for-the-nba.html

          
          
             LeBron James’s  decision to leave the
Cleveland Cavaliers to play for Miami might be good for the Heat
and bad for the National Basketball Association.  
 James’ decision to sign with the Heat brings the two-time
NBA Most Valuable Player together with guard  Dwyane Wade , the
2006 Finals MVP, and All-Star forward  Chris Bosh , concentrating
three of the league’s best players in a single market.  
 While the trio might turn the Heat -- owned by Carnival
Corp. Chairman  Micky Arison  -- into title contenders, NBA
Commissioner  David Stern  and the league’s broadcasters --  Walt
Disney Co.’s  ABC and ESPN units and  Time Warner Inc.’s  Turner
Broadcasting System Inc. -- may wish for a greater distribution
of talent, said  Neal Pilson , former president of CBS Sports.  
 “Stern and ESPN and ABC and Turner would prefer to have
the stars spread out among several teams,” Pilson said in an
interview. “You can’t just show Miami all the time and
certainly the TV carriers benefit when you have attractive stars
and personalities on multiple teams.”  
 James, 25, said last night in a nationally televised
program that he was leaving his hometown Cavaliers after seven
seasons and “taking my talents to South Beach.” He spurned
large-market teams such as the New York Knicks, Chicago Bulls,
New Jersey Nets and Los Angeles Clippers.  
 The decision came a day after Wade said he’d re-sign with
the Heat and the 6-foot-10 Bosh, who spent the previous seven
seasons with the Toronto Raptors, announced he was coming to
Miami as a free agent.  
 “I feel like this is going to give me the best opportunity
to win and win for multiple years,” James said on ESPN. “I
want to be able to win championships.”  
 Possible Albatross  
 The possibility of a “super team” will build interest in
basketball next season, even if it’s among people rooting
against the stars, said  David Carter , executive director of the
Sports Business Institute at the University of Southern
California’s Marshall School of Business. A losing Miami team,
however, might become a league albatross.  
 “If they don’t win, if there are injuries involved, if
infighting exists, then I think it’s really problematic for the
NBA,” Carter said. “You’ve now put three of your top players
in a modestly sized market as opposed to having them dispersed
and drawing attention to multiple markets.”  
 New York, Los Angeles and Chicago are the top three U.S.
television markets, according to Nielsen Co., while the Miami-
Fort Lauderdale area ranks 17th.  
 Attracting Fans  
 The combination of James, Bosh and Wade in Miami may help
basketball attract fans, said  Steve Patterson , the former
president of the Portland Trail Blazers.  
 The courting of James got fans talking about basketball
four months before the season begins, he said.  
 “The whole process has been a great boon to the NBA in the
offseason,” said Patterson, who owns Lake Oswego, Oregon-based
Pro Sports Consulting LLC. “It’s amazing when you think about
it. It’s an international story.”  
 James made his announcement during an hour-long program
called “The Decision” that the player’s manager Maverick
Carter said was prompted by the “unprecedented attention and
interest surrounding” his player’s choice.  
 The University of  Phoenix Inc . and  Microsoft Corp. ’s Bing
website co-presented the program, while James’ LRMR Marketing
also secured sponsorships from  Coca-Cola Co. ’s Glaceau
Vitaminwater and  McDonald’s Corp . The Boys and Girls Clubs of
America was the beneficiary of the show and estimated it would
receive about $2.5 million.  
 Pilson, now president of Pilson Communications Inc., in
Chappaqua, New York, said the league can also benefit from the
publicity surrounding James’s choice.  
 “I’ve heard the argument that this circus is sure to
persuade the owners to ratchet the system down in the next labor
agreement,” Pilson said. “That it’ll lead to a work stoppage
and so forth. The answer to that is to have fun while you can.
Here we are talking about the NBA when you have baseball in full
bloom and a very exciting World Cup.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Aaron Kuriloff  in New York at 
 akuriloff@bloomberg.net ;
 Erik Matuszewski  in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net ;
 Barry Rothbard  in New York at 
 brothbard@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     LeBron James speaks during the announcement of his future NBA plans in Greenwich, Connecticut. Photographer: by Larry Busacca/Getty Images  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 9 (Bloomberg) -- Reporter Jim Gray discusses two-time National Basketball Association Most Valuable Player LeBron James's decision to leave the Cleveland Cavaliers for the Miami Heat. 
     Gray, who hosted the ESPN special where James announced his decision, spoke with Deirdre Bolton and Michele Steele on Bloomberg Television's "InsideTrack." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
