-- ECB Board Members Say Higher Market Interest Rates Won't Disrupt Economy
-- Simone Meier
-- 2010-07-09T12:36:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-09/ecb-board-members-say-higher-market-interest-rates-won-t-disrupt-economy.html

          
          
             Two European Central Bank Executive
Board members downplayed concerns about the recent increase in
market interest rates, saying it won’t hurt the economy.  
 The gain in the overnight Eonia rate is “very small” and
“we shouldn’t exaggerate this development,”  Juergen Stark  told
reporters in Frankfurt today. His colleague  Lorenzo Bini Smaghi 
told Bloomberg Television that “it’s not going to affect
ultimately the interest rates banks charge customers.”  
 Market borrowing costs are rising after banks tapped the
ECB for less funds than expected before paying back a record 442
billion-euro ($559 billion) ECB loan on July 1, reducing excess
liquidity in the system. Some economists and investors are
concerned that higher market rates may hurt Europe’s recovery
amid the sovereign debt crisis and uncertainty about the health
of the region’s banks.  
 The rate that banks charge each other to borrow for three
months has increased to 0.82 percent, the highest in almost 11
months, from 0.63 percent at the end of March.  The European
Overnight Index Average  rate, or Eonia, rose to 0.542 percent on
June 30 from as low as 0.295 percent on June 3. It was fixed at
0.398 percent yesterday.  
 “We have seen only a slight increase in Eonia rates,”
Stark said. “That’s an important signal for confidence that is
given to the euro area and within the banking system.”  
 Bond Purchases  
 Stark also said that if bond markets continue to improve,
the ECB should end its purchase program.  
 “We’ve always said that this is a temporary measure like
other non-standard measures,” he said. “We monitor the situation
and if the situation improves further, there’s no
reason anymore to continue with this program.”  
 The International Monetary Fund this week said the ECB may
have to step up its bond purchases to convince investors it
won’t allow market tensions to escalate. It also cut its
forecast for euro-region growth next year to 1.3 percent from
1.5 percent. The 16-nation economy will expand 1 percent this
year, it said.  
 “The IMF is underestimating the strength of the recovery
in Europe,” Stark said.  
 Bini Smaghi said he expects a “strong” second quarter and
then more “moderate” economic growth. “One has to be
reasonably optimistic,” he said, adding that “lending from
banks is picking up.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Gabi Thesing  in Frankfurt on 
 Gthesing@bloomberg.net ;
 Simone Meier  in Frankfurt at  smeier@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Juergen Stark, member of the executive board of the European Central Bank, speaks at the National Association for Business Economics economic policy conference in Arlington, Virginia. Photographer: Joshua Roberts/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 9 (Bloomberg) -- European Central Bank Executive Board member Lorenzo Bini Smaghi talks about money-market rates and the outlook for the euro-zone economy.
     Market borrowing costs are rising after banks tapped the ECB for less funds than expected before paying back a record 442 billion-euro ($559 billion) ECB loan on July 1, reducing excess liquidity in the system.  (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Lorenzo Bini Smaghi, member of the executive board of the European Central Bank (ECB), speaks during a news conference in Berlin. Photographer: Michele Tantussi/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
