-- Economy in U.S. to Cool as Consumers Spend Less, Survey Shows
-- Kristy Scheuble
-- 2010-07-09T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-09/economy-in-u-s-to-cool-as-consumers-spend-less-survey-shows.html

          
          
             Economists trimmed their U.S. growth
forecasts through the middle of next year, though not enough to
show the recovery is in danger of faltering.  
 Growth in the world’s largest economy will average 2.8
percent from the current quarter through the second quarter of
2011, according to the median estimate of 52 economists surveyed
by Bloomberg News from July 1 to July 8, down 0.1 percentage 
point from last month.  
 While recent housing, manufacturing and employment figures
suggested the U.S. economy is more vulnerable, the survey shows
the recovery will survive the effects of Europe’s debt crisis
and China’s efforts to slow growth. With few signs of inflation,
the  Federal Reserve  will wait longer than previously anticipated
before raising interest rates.  
 “It’s not a falling-off-the-cliff scenario but it is a bit
more cautious,” said  Julia Coronado , a senior U.S. economist at
BNP Paribas in New York. “There is going to be fallout from the
European situation.”  
 Economists reduced their forecasts for consumer spending
for this year as companies are slower to hire after the worst
recession in seven decades.  
 Spending will average 2.4 percent this year, down from a
2.5 percent forecast a month ago. That compares with last year’s
decline of 0.6 percent, the biggest decrease since 1974, and a
three-decade average of 3.1 percent.  
 Economists marked down this year’s average growth pace to
3.1 percent, with the expansion cooling to an average 2.9
percent in 2011.  
 Unemployment Rate  
 Unemployment  will be slow to fall after reaching a 26-year
peak of 10.1 percent in October, signaling it will take years
for the economy to recover the more than 8 million jobs lost
during the latest recession.  
 “Some of the momentum that looked to be in the job market
has faded,” said  Nigel Gault , chief U.S. economist at IHS
Global Insight in Lexington, Massachusetts.  
 The jobless rate will average 9.6 percent in 2010 before
falling to 9.1 percent in 2011.  
 The Labor Department reported last week that employment
dropped by 125,000 workers in June, the first decline this year,
because of layoffs of temporary census workers. Private
companies added 83,000 people, a smaller-than-forecast gain that
capped a month of data indicating weakness in industries from
housing to manufacturing.  
 Wells Fargo Cuts  
 Companies are still firing staff to cut costs. Wells Fargo
& Co., the fourth-largest U.S. bank by assets, plans to
eliminate 3,800 jobs, or about 1.4 percent of its workforce, and
close its consumer-finance branch network, the San Francisco-
based company said this week.  
 “We have a store network, and that is closing,”  David Kvamme , president of the unit, said in a phone interview. Also,
“some of the businesses have been branded Wells Fargo Financial
and we will rebrand them over time.”  
 The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  has fallen 12 percent from
a 19-month high on April 23, while the euro has dropped 5
percent as investors worry that some cash-strapped European
nations may default on their debt.  
 A July 1 report from the Institute for Supply Management
showed manufacturing, which has been leading the recovery,
expanded in June at the slowest pace this year as orders and
exports cooled.  
 Housing Market  
 The number of contracts to purchase previously owned houses
plunged 30 percent in May after a homebuyer tax credit expired,
the National Association of Realtors said the same day. The drop
was the biggest in records dating to 2001.  
 “The deceleration we’re seeing is being magnified by the
fact that the policy incentives have pulled demand forward and
now we’re suffering from the hangover,” said  Steve Ricchiuto ,
chief economist at Mizuho Securities USA Inc. in New York.  
 Job creation, the sluggish recovery and the growing budget
deficit are likely to be top issues in November elections that
will decide control of Congress.  
 “Government doesn’t have all the answers,” President
 Barack Obama  said yesterday after touring the Smith Electric
Vehicles factory in Kansas City, Missouri, where he highlighted
a $32 million government grant to the plant. “What government
can do is lay the foundation for small businesses to expand and
thrive.”  
 Europe, China  
 A strengthening dollar and slower growth in Europe and
China threaten demand for American exports. Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. last week cut its forecast for 2010 growth in China to 10.1
percent from 11.4 percent as government restrictions on lending
and real estate slow expansion in the world’s fastest-growing
major economy.  
 The Fed last month said slowing inflation and the fallout
from Europe’s debt crisis were among reasons it will maintain
interest  rates  close to zero for “an extended period.”  
 The central bank’s preferred price gauge will rise 1.1
percent this year, the smallest gain in data going back to 1960
and the same as last month’s forecast in the Bloomberg survey.  
 Economists pushed back their forecast for the first rise in
the fed funds target rate. The benchmark interest rate on
overnight loans between banks will rise to 0.75 percent in the
second quarter of 2011. Last month, they projected the first
increase, to 0.5 percent, to occur in the January-to-March
period. The rate has been in a range of zero to 0.25 percent
since December 2008.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Bob Willis  in Washington at 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net ;
 Kristy Scheuble  in Washington at 
 kmckeaney@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       U.S. President Barack Obama  
                       
                         
                           Joshua Roberts/Bloomberg 
                         
                         U.S. President Barack Obama speaks in the East Room of the White House. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     U.S. President Barack Obama speaks in the East Room of the White House. Photographer: Joshua Roberts/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
