-- Leduc Tops 93% of Peers With Standish Dutch-French-German Focus
-- MaryAnn Busso
-- 2010-07-09T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-09/leduc-beats-93-of-bond-peers-with-standish-s-dutch-french-german-focus.html

          
          
             When bond yields in Greece rose at
the end of 2009,  David Leduc  hunkered down with his team at
 Standish Mellon Asset Management Co.  to try to figure out
whether events in the cash-strapped European economy would send
chills beyond its borders, Bloomberg Markets reports in its
August 2010 issue.  
 Leduc oversees $11 billion of assets as managing director
of global fixed income at the Boston subsidiary of  Bank of New
York Mellon Corp.  He manages five funds, including the $104
million  Dreyfus/Standish International Fixed Income Fund , which
invests at least 65 percent of its assets in non-U.S. bonds.  
 During the five years ended on July 7, the  fund  returned
7.12 percent annually, outperforming 93 percent of its peers,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. This year through July
7, it returned 3.52 percent, beating 73 percent of similar
funds.  
 “We did some research early and started to see that Greece
isn’t the only peripheral economy that has some pretty big
imbalances,” Leduc says in an interview in his Boston office in
late May. “We’ve had the view for some time that the problem
wasn’t limited to this tiny country, which is a small proportion
of European GDP.”  
 Leduc, 44, says he owned no Portuguese or Irish bonds at
the end of 2009. Spanish bonds accounted for about 0.8 percent
of the fund’s  portfolio , which was underweight the 2.5 percent
in the fund’s benchmark, the Barclays Capital Global Aggregate
ex-U.S. Index.  
 Picking Countries  
 In January, Leduc bought credit-default swaps on Portugal
and Spain, selling them at a profit in February, he says.
Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for
the underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a
borrower fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  
 The fund held a small position in Greece’s bonds in the
first quarter in order to track the index, in case a bailout
eventually drove a rebound, he says. Since the end of March,
Leduc exited all of his positions in the peripheral European
economies, except for Italy, he says.  
 Leduc says that two-thirds of the fund’s excess  return  over
its benchmark, or  alpha , comes from  picking  which countries and
sectors to invest in relative to its benchmark, along with
choices about credit quality and individual bond selection. The
other one-third of alpha derives from the fund’s bets on
interest rates and currencies, he says.  
 Stable Economies  
 The outlook for slow growth and low inflation in Europe
means that prices of the region’s bonds are likely to rise and
yields will remain low, Leduc says. He expects the euro to
continue to decline. “The things that have made us more
interested in having interest-rate exposure to German government
bonds, for example, are the very same things that made us more
negative on the currency,” he says. The euro traded at $1.2685
on July 8.  
 The Dreyfus/Standish fund had 40 percent of its assets in
Europe as of March 31. Most of that was invested in government
bonds of Germany, France and the Netherlands, core countries
with more stable economies, Leduc says. The fund’s benchmark is
denominated in U.S. dollars, so Leduc hedges the currency risk
of most of the fund’s investments.  
 Leduc says he uses derivatives to mitigate both currency
risk and risk tied to interest rates and credit. Leduc uses
interest-rate futures to reduce the exposure to U.S. interest
rates on his corporate bond investments. “Spreads in the U.S.
are attractive, but I don’t want to have U.S. interest rates in
the fund,” he says. “I like Europe better.”  
 Currency Wagers  
 Foreign exchange bets have historically accounted for about
15 percent of the fund’s alpha during a market cycle, Leduc
says. Lately, given some of the shifts between developed-market
growth and emerging-market growth, he says he’s found more
currency opportunities. Such bets have contributed about 20
percent of excess returns.  
 The fund’s biggest currency position in the first quarter
involved wagering on the euro’s decline against other
currencies. The second-biggest bet was being short the dollar
versus emerging-market currencies such as the Brazilian real. A
short position is a wager that a currency will fall.  
 Leduc says he tapped Brazilian investments in one of two
ways over time: either through owning the Brazilian local
currency-denominated bonds and not hedging them or by buying
forward contracts in the Brazilian real.  
 Leduc, who earned a bachelor’s degree in finance and
economics from the University of Rhode Island in 1988 and a
Master of Business Administration from Boston University in
1993, has been a history buff since he was a child and spent
hours in the local library in Warwick, Rhode Island, poring over
books about Napoleon’s army.  
 Napoleon’s General  
 He now collects military artifacts and rare volumes,
including an English edition of Voltaire’s 1731 book on Sweden’s
King Charles XII.  
 A print portrait of Marshal Louis-Nicolas Davout, one of
Napoleon’s most successful generals, hangs on the wall in
Leduc’s office. It’s framed with a letter that Davout wrote to
the French minister of war and an early map of  Auerstedt ,
Germany, where the general had his greatest victory in 1806.  
 “For me, what became interesting was the study of some of
the personalities in history, what drove them,” Leduc says.
Davout and other historical figures share certain
characteristics that can be adapted by investors in the
financial markets, Leduc says. They were not only courageous in
battle, he says, they were also typically well prepared for what
they faced. And they were good administrators as well as
strategists. “In terms of decision making, I think you can learn
something,” he says.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 MaryAnn Busso  in New York at 
 mbusso@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       David Leduc of Standish  
                       
                         
                           Jason Grow/Bloomberg Markets via Bloomberg 
                         
                         David Leduc, managing director of global fixed income at Standish, poses in his office in Boston on May 19, 2010. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     David Leduc, managing director of global fixed income at Standish, poses in his office in Boston on May 19, 2010. Photographer: Jason Grow/Bloomberg Markets via Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
