-- Telenor Names Brekke to Head Uninor India Unit, Replacing Founder Vellan
-- Diana ben-Aaron
-- 2010-07-09T10:47:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-09/telenor-names-brekke-to-head-uninor-india-unit-replacing-founder-vellan.html

          
          
             Telenor ASA , the Nordic region’s
largest phone company, named  Sigve Brekke  to head its Uninor
unit in India as it struggles to stand out in a crowded market.  
 Brekke will also continue to head Asia regional operations,
Fornebu, Norway-based Telenor said in a statement. He replaces
the unit’s founding CEO  Stein-Erik Vellan  who will move to a
position within Telenor that has yet to be determined, said
 Scott Engebrigtsen , a company spokesman.  
 Telenor entered the world’s second-largest wireless market
in December with local partner Unitech Ltd., aiming to capture
an 8 percent nationwide share against  more than a dozen rivals .
Sales haven’t met expectations in all regions and the company is
trying to improve by changing its commission structure and the
way it works with retailers,  Jon Fredrik Baksaas , Telenor’s
chief executive officer, said in May.  
 The change of personnel “should be seen in the context of
the weak revenue development at Uninor which was clearly visible
in the first-quarter numbers,” said  Ole Jorgen Rod , an Oslo-
based analyst at First Securities ASA who has a “strong buy”
rating on Telenor. “It’s an indication that the company has not
been sufficiently successful in improving the revenue trend in
the second quarter, though it seems to be very successful in
rolling out the network and in cost and capex control.”  
 Telenor rose as much as 3 percent, the most since July 6,
to 89.10 kroner and was trading up 2.3 percent as of 12:41 p.m.
in Oslo.  
 Competition  
 Uninor  reported  a first-quarter operating loss of 1.11
billion kroner ($170 million) on sales of 56 million kroner at
the unit. It currently operates in 13 of India’s 23
telecommunications circles, or coverage areas. Competitors range
from market leader  Bharti Airtel Ltd.  to other foreign companies
such as Emirates Telecom or Etisalat.  
 “Uninor has now entered a demanding operating phase with
some new challenges that require other management skills,”
spokesman Engebrigtsen said.  
 Brekke’s appointment is dependent on Indian government
approvals, Telenor said. Telenor owns 67.25 percent of Uninor
and Unitech owns the remainder.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Diana ben-Aaron  in Helsinki at 
 dbenaaron1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        