-- Emerging-Market Stocks Advance on China Growth in Best Week Since December
-- Berni Moestafa
-- 2010-07-09T21:43:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-09/emerging-market-stocks-climb-set-for-best-week-in-four-months-on-china.html

          
          
             Emerging-market stocks  rose, capping
the best week in seven months, after China said it will keep a
moderately loose monetary policy and South Korea raised interest
rates, boosting confidence in a global economic recovery.  
 The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index  rose 1.2 percent to 951.85
by 5 p.m. New York time, extending the weekly gain to 4.2
percent, the best since the week ended Dec 4. China’s  Shanghai
Composite Index  climbed 2.3 percent on speculation the
government will wind back tightening measures. South Korea’s
 Kospi Index  increased 1.4 percent and the won strengthened to a
two-week high after the Bank of Korea raised borrowing costs for
the first time since the global financial crisis.  
 Rate increases in South Korea, Malaysia, Taiwan and India
in recent weeks signaled Europe’s debt crisis won’t derail
economic growth. European Central Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet  yesterday said the recovery is gaining momentum. Global
and Asian emerging-market stock funds took net inflows as
investors bought more shares in Taiwan and India in the week
ended July 7,  EPFR Global  said in a report.  
 ‘Good Results’  
 “Asian consumers and emerging market consumers are the
plays we like,”  Marino Valensise , chief investment officer at
Baring Asset Management Ltd., said in a Bloomberg television
interview today. “If you have a look at the economy at the
micro level, companies are actually posting good results.”  
 The MSCI emerging gauge has  retreated  3.8 percent this year
on speculation China’s efforts to curb inflation and spending
cuts by governments worldwide will prompt analysts to cut
earnings projections. Developing-nation shares will rally 20
percent to 25 percent by the end of this year as the world
economy avoids a double-dip recession and attractive valuations
lure investors, according to Citigroup Inc.  
 Samsung Electronics Co. , Asia’s biggest maker of
semiconductors, flat screens and mobile phones, advanced 2.7
percent. The company this week reported record quarterly
earnings as demand recovered. South Korea’s exports in June
jumped 32.4 percent from a year earlier, an eighth straight
monthly increase, the Ministry of Knowledge Economy said July 1.  
 Bank of Korea  
 Bank of Korea Governor  Kim Choong Soo  today raised the
 seven-day repurchase rate  to 2.25 percent from a record low of 2
percent. Problems in some advanced economies don’t pose a big
threat, Kim said after the rate increase.  
 KB Financial Group Inc.  advanced 4.4 percent, leading South
Korean banks higher.  Woori Finance Holdings Co.  added 4.1
percent. Higher rates may help banks increase their margins,
said Kim Jae Woo, an analyst at Samsung Securities Co. The won
rose 1.1 percent to 1,195.85 per dollar.  
 Poly Real Estate Co.  rose 3.8 percent, pacing gains by
Chinese developers after the Oriental Morning Post reported some
Shanghai banks have resumed lending to third-home buyers.
 PetroChina Co.  and Yanzhou Coal Mining Co. led an advance by
energy producers, China’s  worst performers  this year.  
 China Eastern Airlines Corp.  jumped 5.6 percent. The
carrier’s passenger numbers in June rose 70 percent from a year
ago, China Business News reported, citing a company statement.  
 The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries fell for a fifth day, dropping nine
basis points, or 0.09 percentage point, to 3.11 percentage
points, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI+ Index.  
 Poland  
 Polish stocks are set to lead a rallying emerging Europe
and the zloty will gain 6.1 percent against the euro by year-end
as the country shows “strong” economic growth, according to
Raiffeisen Zentralbank AG. The zloty gained 0.2 percent versus
the euro today.  
 Global emerging-market stock funds attracted $518 million
and those investing in Asia excluding Japan drew $124 million as
Indian inflows rose to an 11-week high and Taiwan funds had
their second-best week this year, according to EPFR.  
 Taiwan’s  Taiex index  added 0.5 percent, extending the
weekly climb to 4.3 percent, the most since September, on
speculation a trade agreement with China will benefit the
island’s companies.  
 In India, the Bombay Stock Exchange’s Sensitive Index, or
 Sensex , gained 1 percent.  Bharti Airtel Ltd. , India’s largest
mobile-phone operator, and  Idea Cellular Ltd.  jumped the most in
13 months after Credit Suisse Group AG raised their ratings to
“outperform,” citing stable tariffs and reduced prospects of
further price wars.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Berni Moestafa  in Jakarta at 
 bmoestafa@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 9 (Bloomberg) -- Andrew Bosomworth, head of portfolio management at Pacific Investment Management Co. in Munich, talks about bond investments and the outlook for sovereign debt in Europe.
     Bosomworth speaks in Frankfurt with Francine Lacqua on Bloomberg Television's "Countdown." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
