-- Emerging Market Growth Gap to Widen, El-Erian Says: Tom Keene
-- Tom Keene
-- 2010-07-09T16:33:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-09/emerging-developed-world-growth-gap-will-widen-el-erian-says-tom-keene.html

          
          
             Growth in emerging markets will
accelerate faster than in developed nations as economies mature
and leaders are quicker to make structural changes, according to
Pacific Investment Management Co.’s  Mohamed El-Erian.   
 “The structural vision is going on outside of
industrialized countries,” El-Erian, Pimco’s chief executive
and co-chief investment officer, said in a radio interview today
on Bloomberg Surveillance with  Tom Keene . “You go to Brazil,
you go to Russia, you go to China: they are thinking
structurally whereas industrial countries are thinking
cyclically.”  
 Global growth will be below average during the next three
to five years as developed economies struggle with mounting
deficits and increased regulation in the wake of the 2008
collapse of credit markets in what Pimco calls the “new
normal,” El-Erian said. The firm is advising investing more in
emerging-market nations such as Brazil and China, which should
continue to thrive because of stable levels of government debt
and expanding middle classes.  
 “The gap between the high growth countries which are in
the emerging world and the slower growing countries in the
industrial world will get bigger,” said El-Erian, who helps
oversee about $1.1 trillion with Pimco founder  Bill Gross .
“The emerging world is looking to tap the brakes because they
are growing too rapidly right now. Compare that debate to the
one we are having in the U.S., where we are seeing a slowing of
economic growth.”  
 Move to Stocks  
 Pimco, which has been synonymous with bonds for almost four
decades, in the past year has created an equity mutual fund and
a unit to invest in hedge, real estate and buyout funds. Newport
Beach, California-based Pimco has also started 10 exchange-
traded funds.  
 The $234 billion  Total Return Fund  managed by Gross
returned 11.97 percent in the past year, beating 61 percent of
its peers, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The one-
month return of the world’s biggest mutual fund is 1.61 percent,
outpacing 86 percent of competitors. Pimco is a unit of Munich-
based insurer Allianz SE.  
 Emerging market maturation “is happening,” said El-Erian,
a former deputy director of International Monetary Fund. “It
takes time. The important thing to remember is that the market
will inevitably be more volatile. They will overshoot on the way
up and they will overshoot on the way down. You have to be smart
about it.’  
 Global Realignments  
 El-Erian said he’s concerned that policy makers in
industrialized countries are being forced to choose between
stimulus and austerity.  
 “We need both,” he said. “Its not just about the lack of
global aggregate demand. It’s that the U.S. and other industrial
countries have to adjust to some major global and national
realignments.”  
 If industrial counties do not adjust they will see “an
erosion of human skills, less productivity growth, more pressure
on budgets that are already stretched, and more pressure on
social safety nets that are already inadequate,” El-Erian said.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Cordell Eddings  in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net ;
Thomas R. Keene in New York at 
 tkeene@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Mohamed El-Erian, chief executive officer of Pacific Investment Management Co. (PIMCO), speaks in Los Angeles. Photographer: Jonathan Alcorn/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
