-- Ten-Year Yields May Reach 1.2% if Kan Loses Majority, Morgan Stanley Says
-- Nobuyuki Akama
-- 2010-07-09T00:27:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-09/ten-year-yields-may-reach-1-2-if-kan-loses-majority-morgan-stanley-says.html

          
          
             Japan’s 10-year bond yields may rise
above 1.2 percent if the ruling government coalition fails to
keep its majority in upper-house elections this weekend,
according to Morgan Stanley MUFG Securities Co.  
 Prime Minister  Naoto Kan ’s plan to raise the sales tax has
helped to spur a decline in bond yields since the latter half of
June, said  Atsushi Ito , a strategist at the unit of Japan’s
largest banking group.  
 “If the ruling bloc fails to win a majority, that will
dampen expectations that Kan will put his policy into action,”
Tokyo-based Ito said.  
 Japan’s benchmark 10-year  yields  declined to a seven-year
low of 1.055 percent on July 1 amid Kan’s pledges to curtail
borrowing and spending and as U.S. job losses darkened the
outlook for the world’s largest economy.  
 Failure by the ruling coalition to keep a majority may spur
investors to reverse a bond rally that’s been fueled by
speculation of fiscal tightening, Ito said. It would not be
surprising if 10-year yields rose above 1.2 percent, he said.  
 Kan’s Democratic Party of Japan is fielding 106 candidates
for 121 seats in the July 11 contest for the diet’s upper house.
In order for the ruling coalition to keep a majority, the DPJ
together with its ally People’s New Party must win 56 spots.
Half the chamber’s 242 seats are up for grabs.  
 Still, the impact of the election on bonds will be limited,
as the recent drop in yields has primarily been driven by
concern over the global slowdown, according to  Seiji Shiraishi ,
chief economist for Japan at HSBC Holdings Plc in Tokyo.  
 With Treasury yields falling amid concerns about the U.S.
recovery, it’s unlikely Japan’s will turn upward after the
election, he said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nobuyuki Akama  in Tokyo at 
 akam@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        