-- Merck KGaA Seeks Second Cancer Vaccine in BB Biotech Vaximm Joint Venture
-- Naomi Kresge
-- 2010-07-09T06:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-09/merck-kgaa-seeks-second-cancer-vaccine-in-bb-biotech-vaximm-joint-venture.html

          
          
             Vaximm Holding AG , a joint venture
between  Merck KGaA  and a Swiss investment fund, will start
testing an experimental cancer vaccine in patients next year.  
 The 40-person study will give Darmstadt, Germany-based
Merck a stake in a second anti-tumor vaccine in human trials.
The researchers will recruit patients with advanced pancreatic
cancer, with results expected in 12 months, said Klaus Breiner,
chairman of the board of Vaximm and a partner in Zurich-based BB
Biotech Ventures III, Merck’s collaborator in the joint venture.  
 Like Roche Holding AG’s top-selling cancer therapy Avastin,
the experimental therapy VXM01 works by choking off a tumor’s
blood supply, Breiner said in an interview. Unlike Avastin, the
vaccine harnesses the body’s own T-cells to kill the blood
vessels surrounding a tumor. Therapeutic vaccines like VXM01
work differently from traditional vaccines, enlisting the immune
system to fight disease instead of to prevent infection.  
 “It’s the next, the better Avastin,” and will target
similar types of cancers as the Roche drug, said Juerg Eckhardt,
a BB Biotech Ventures partner, in an interview. “It’s early
days, but it has lots of potential.”  
 Merck owns 25 percent of the Vaximm joint venture,  Phyllis Carter , a spokeswoman for the drugmaker, said in an e-mail. The
venture fund owns 68 percent, Eckhardt said. Vaximm’s management
holds the remainder through a stock-option plan.  
 The companies formed the venture in 2008 after Merck
decided not to develop VXM01 itself, Eckhardt said.  
 ‘Giving Away Drugs’  
 “They have had a strategy of actively giving away drugs
that they had on their shelf, because they felt it’s better if
someone else develops it and they keep a part of the action than
just having it sit on the shelf,” Eckhardt said.  
 Merck is developing another experimental vaccine, Stimuvax,
for use against lung and breast cancer. The drugmaker resumed
tests of Stimuvax in lung cancer patients last month, ending a
three-month hiatus requested by U.S. regulators after a patient
with a blood malignancy developed a brain infection while taking
the vaccine. A trial in breast cancer remains on hold.  
 Licensed from Seattle-based  Oncothyreon Inc. , Stimuvax may
generate as much as $1 billion in annual sales to boost a
portfolio of cancer medicines now led by Erbitux, according to
Merck. Erbitux generated sales of 697 million euros ($885
million) last year.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Naomi Kresge in Zurich at 
 nkresge@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        