-- EU Stress Tests Are `Tough' for Lenders, European Banking Federation Says
-- Aaron Kirchfeld
-- 2010-07-09T15:57:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-09/eu-stress-tests-are-tough-for-lenders-european-banking-federation-says.html

          
          
             European Union stress tests of the
region’s largest banks are “tough” and will boost market
confidence, leading to a rebound in lenders’ shares, the
Brussels-based European Banking Federation said.  
 “Our perception is that they are rather tough,”  Guido Ravoet , secretary general of the EBF, said in a telephone
interview today. Assumed losses on sovereign bonds, the so-
called haircuts, range from 5 percent to 30 percent in the
tests, depending on the country, he said, citing information
passed on from banks. Ravoet said he didn’t know the haircuts on
individual states’ bonds.  
 EU regulators are carrying out stress tests on 91 lenders
aimed at reassuring investors that banks have enough capital to
withstand economic and sovereign debt shocks. Assessments
carried out in the U.S. last year found 10 lenders needed to
raise $74.6 billion of capital.  
 The 54-member Bloomberg Europe Banks and Financial Services
Index slumped 13 percent in the second quarter amid the region’s
sovereign-debt crisis.  
 Publication of the test results will “boost confidence”
in the markets, which will have a “beneficial impact on the
share prices” of lenders, Ravoet said. A number of lenders will
probably fail the tests and governments “must stand ready to
assist these banks” as they may struggle to tap markets for
additional capital, he said.  
 Spanish Savings Banks  
 “My guess is that investors will be very cautious to
invest in these banks, that would be a normal attitude,”
according to Ravoet.  
 Spanish savings banks and the state-owned Landesbanken in
Germany will probably be among the lenders experiencing “most
difficulties with coming out with a positive stress test,”
Ravoet said. The Europe-wide stress tests, organized by the
 Committee of European Banking Supervisors , include seven German
Landesbanken, including Stuttgart-based Landesbank Baden-
Wuerttemberg and WestLB AG in Dusseldorf.  
 The EBF represents the interests of about 5,000 European
banks. Its members are national banking groups such as the
British Bankers’ Association and the Association of German
Banks. UniCredit SpA Chief Executive Officer  Alessandro Profumo 
is the EBF’s president, according to the federation’s  website .  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jann Bettinga  in Frankfurt at 
 jbettinga@bloomberg.net ;
 Aaron Kirchfeld  in Frankfurt at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        