-- European Stocks Climb, Extending Biggest Weekly Gain in a Year
-- Sarah Jones
-- 2010-07-09T16:13:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-09/european-stock-index-futures-advance-rio-tinto-shell-dnb-may-be-active.html

          
          
             European stocks  rose for a fourth
day, extending the biggest weekly advance in a year for the
Stoxx Europe 600 Index, as confidence in the economic recovery
strengthened.  
 Antofagasta Plc  led a gauge of mining companies higher as
base-metals rose and Citigroup Inc. analysts recommended the
copper producer. Michael Page International Plc rallied 2
percent after the U.K.’s second-largest recruitment company
reported increased profit.  
 The  Stoxx 600  advanced 0.6 percent to 250.09, extending
this week’s rally to 5.4 percent. The gauge has risen the most
since July 17, 2009, this week as an increased growth forecast
from the International Monetary Fund and lower-than-estimated
U.S. jobless claims helped ease concern that the economy may be
entering another recession.  
 “People have been overdoing their economic fears without
looking at the underlying corporate stories,” said London-based
 Justin Urquhart Stewart , who helps oversee about $3.3 billion at
7 Investment Management. “There has been a realization that
valuations are getting cheap. For the time being gains could
have a bit further to go. Your risk now is being out of it.”  
 The Stoxx 600 has fallen 8.1 percent from this year’s high
in April, pushing the index’s  valuation  to about 11.5 times
estimated earnings. That’s near the lowest level in more than a
year, according to Bloomberg data.  
 Benchmark Indexes  
 National benchmark indexes rose in 14 of the 18 western
European markets today. The U.K.’s  FTSE 100 , Germany’s DAX and
France’s CAC 40 all advanced 0.5 percent.  
 Alcoa Inc., the largest U.S. aluminum maker, is due to
unofficially kick off the American earnings season on July 12
when it becomes the first  Dow Jones Industrial Average  company
to report second-quarter results.  
 In Canada, a report today showed job creation was almost
five times more than economists expected in June, helping the
economy to recover almost all of the job losses seen since 2008.  
 South Korea raised its benchmark interest rate for the
first time since the global financial crisis to 2.25 percent
from a record low 2 percent. The country joins Malaysia, Taiwan
and India in raising rates over the past 15 days, signaling
Asian confidence that Europe’s government-debt crisis won’t
derail economic growth.  
 Antofagasta  gained 4.1 percent to 886 pence as base metals
rose and Citigroup raised its recommendation for the shares to
“ buy ” from “hold.”  
 Rio, Boliden  
 Rio Tinto Group, the world’s third-largest mining company,
gained 3.2 percent to 3,172.5 pence, while Sweden’s Boliden AB
increased 1.3 percent to 88.55 kronor.  
 Copper climbed in London for the fifth time in six days
after a decline in stockpiles to a seven-month low stoked
optimism demand is rising for the metal. Lead, nickel, and zinc
also advanced on the London Metal Exchange.  
 Michael Page gained 2 percent to 393.4 pence. The
recruitment company said second-quarter  profit  rose 33 percent
as business confidence levels improved, leading to higher “job
churn.”  
 William Hill Plc  rose 1.9 percent to 179.1 pence after BofA
Merrill Lynch Global Research upgraded Britain’s largest
bookmaker by number of outlets to “buy” from “neutral.”
Analysts cited “continuing strong trends in online and an
improvement in machines as key catalysts for the stock.”  
 Shares of Ladbrokes Plc, owner of 2,700 betting shops,
climbed 1.7 percent to 134.7 pence.  
 Bwin Interactive Entertainment AG fell 4.8 percent to 33.68
euros as CA Cheuvreux cut its share-price estimate on the
Austrian online bookmaker by 21 percent to 31 euros.  
 Portugal Telecom SGPS SA  sank 3.5 percent to 8.30 euros as
Sanford C. Bernstein Co. downgraded the country’s biggest phone
company to “underperform” from “market perform.” Analyst
 Robin Bienenstock  said Telefonica SA’s bid for Portugal
Telecom’s stake in a Brazilian wireless venture is unlikely to
succeed in its current form.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sarah Jones  in London at 
 sjones35@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        