-- European Stocks Post Biggest Weekly Gain in a Year as Recovery Doubts Ease
-- Sarah Jones
-- 2010-07-09T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-09/european-stocks-climb-extending-biggest-weekly-gain-in-a-year-rio-rises.html

          
          
             European stocks  surged this week by
the most in a year as concern about the economic recovery faded
and investors speculated that the selloff in equities since
April has overshot the outlook for earnings.  
 Antofagasta Plc and Xstrata Plc paced a rally in mining
companies, rising more than 8 percent, as base metals advanced
in London. Societe Generale SA and Banco Santander SA led a
gauge of banks shares higher on optimism European stress tests
will ease concern about the financial system. BP Plc jumped 13
percent amid speculation funds in the Middle East may invest in
the energy company as it works to contain the worst oil spill in
U.S. history.  
 The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index  rallied 5.4 percent this week,
the biggest gain since July last year, after the International
Monetary Fund raised its global growth forecast and lower-than-
estimated U.S. jobless claims boosted optimism that the economy
will avoid slipping bank into recession. All 19  industry  groups
on the benchmark gauge climbed.  
 “We could see the market push on quite a bit further,”
said London-based  Justin Urquhart Stewart , who helps oversee
about $3.3 billion at 7 Investment Management. “We’ve seen a
flip around from overdone fear, based on everything from
sovereign debt to double-dip malaise, into a realization that
actually valuations are getting cheap.”  
 Debt Impact  
 The Stoxx 600 has still declined 8.1 percent from this
year’s high on April 15 amid concern about the impact of
Europe’s sovereign debt crisis on the world economy. The retreat
has pushed the index’s valuation to about 11.5 times estimated
earnings, near the lowest level in more than a year, according
to Bloomberg data.  
 National benchmark indexes rose in all 18 western European
markets as the European Central Bank and Bank of England both
maintained interest rates at record lows. Germany’s DAX gained 5
percent and France’s CAC 40 increased 6.2 percent. The U.K.’s
 FTSE 100  advanced 6.1 percent, while Spain’s IBEX 35 surged 9.5
percent.  
 Antofagasta, which was upgraded to “buy” at Citigroup
Inc., this week soared 14 percent as a  gauge of 24 raw materials 
rose the most since April. Xstrata, the world’s fourth-largest
copper producer, climbed 8.3 percent and BHP Billiton Ltd.
increased 7.5 percent.  
 Stress Tests  
 Societe Generale soared 17 percent, leading a measure of
 banks stocks  up 9.6 percent, its biggest advance in 12 months.
Santander, Spain’s largest bank, jumped 14 percent, while
Unicredit SpA, the biggest lender in Italy, rallied 13 percent.  
 The European Union is carrying out stress tests on 91
banks, accounting for 65 percent of the region’s banking
industry, to examine whether they can withstand a shrinking
economy and a drop in government bond values.  
 EU banking regulators have told lenders that their planned
stress tests may assume a loss of about 17 percent on Greek
government debt and 3 percent on Spanish bonds, according to two
people briefed on the talks.  
 Strategists at Credit Suisse Group AG upgraded the industry
to “benchmark,” saying European sovereign-debt risk is
overstated, shares are undervalued and the EU stress tests “may
be a positive catalyst.” Deutsche Bank AG’s analyst  Matt Spick 
wrote in a report that he expects most banks to pass the stress
tests and sees “fundamental reasons to be positive on selected
names.”  
 Spill Liabilities  
      BP  posted its biggest weekly gain since November 2008,
rallying 13 percent, as Chief Executive Officer  Tony Hayward 
said he had a “very good” meeting with Abu Dhabi’s crown
prince. UBS AG said BP could be seeking money from sovereign
wealth funds after incurring billions of dollars in liabilities
from the Gulf of Mexico oil spill.  
 Royal Dutch Shell Plc also advanced, gaining 6.8 percent as
crude oil rallied above $75 a barrel. Total SA, which was
upgraded to “buy” at UBS, c1limbed 5.8 percent.  
 Abertis Infraestructuras SA  soared 19 percent after the
Spanish highway operator’s largest investors said they’re in
talks with CVC Capital Partners Ltd. about a possible debt-
funded takeover.
      J Sainsbury Plc  advanced 7.5 percent on reports the Qatar
Investment Authority may renew its interest in acquiring the
U.K.’s third-largest supermarket owner.  
 The Daily Mail said in its market report column Qatar may
soon increase its stake in Sainsbury to 29.9 percent prior to
making a cash offer of 500 pence a share. The Daily Telegraph
said there is speculation of a bid at 550 pence a share.  
 CRH Plc  tumbled 7.1 percent after the world’s second-
largest maker and distributor of building materials said first-
half earnings and sales fell more than previously forecast.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sarah Jones  in London at 
 sjones35@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        