-- Former SEC Lawyer Says He's LeBron James' Father, Seeks $4 Million in Suit
-- Jesse Westbrook
-- 2010-07-09T00:43:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-09/ex-sec-lawyer-says-he-s-lebron-james-father-seeks-4-million-in-lawsuit.html

          
          
             A former U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission attorney who claims to be the biological father of
 LeBron James  filed a lawsuit seeking at least $4 million from
the basketball superstar and his mother for denying paternity.  
 Leicester Bryce Stovell, who left the SEC in 2002 after
resolving a legal complaint against the agency, filed the suit
against James and his mother, Gloria, in federal court in
Washington June 23. Stovell accuses her of “maliciously”
denying that they met at a bar in 1984 and had a “one-night,
unprotected sexual relationship.”  
 “It is overwhelmingly likely that he is the son of me and
defendant Gloria James,” Stovell wrote in the 22-page
complaint. “He also likely is aware that I am his father.”  
 According to Stovell’s complaint, LeBron James “has come
to direct and control, conspire in, or knowingly or recklessly
aid and abet his mother’s unjustifiable attempts to prevent
acknowledgement that I am his father” because of his “anger at
perceived abandonment and conflict arising from his image as a
successful fatherless child from the projects.”  
 The complaint, first reported on the Web site TMZ.com,
comes as James plans to announce where he will play next season.
The National Basketball Association’s reigning Most Valuable
Player will reveal tonight in a live television special whether
he’ll remain with the Cleveland Cavaliers or join the Miami
Heat, New York Knicks, or another suitor.  
 Stovell, of Washington, is representing himself in the
legal action. He didn’t answer a phone call seeking comment and
his voice-mail box was full. James’ attorney,  John Burlingame ,
didn’t immediately return a phone call and an e-mail seeking
comment.  
 Zero Probability  
 Stovell’s lawsuit says the basketball player agreed to join
him in taking DNA tests in Ohio in 2007. While Stovell was told
the results revealed a “0 percent probability of paternity,”
he says he believes someone may have tampered with the test.  
 Stovell wrote in the complaint that he decided in 1984 to
forget his encounter with Gloria James after learning from a
bartender that she was 15 years old when they had sex. He was 29
at the time.  
 Gloria James told ESPN the Magazine in 2002 that her son’s
father is a man named Anthony McClelland.  
 Stovell agreed to resign from the SEC in 2002 after the
agency said it would pay him $230,000 to drop a complaint
against the agency, legal records show. Stovell had joined the
SEC in 1983 and was earning $134,539 a year at the time of his
resignation, according to the settlement.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jesse Westbrook  in Washington at 
 jwestbrook1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        