-- Texas Rangers Said to Draw `Significantly Higher' Bids Than Present Offer
-- David McLaughlin
-- 2010-07-09T19:50:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-09/texas-rangers-said-to-draw-significantly-higher-bids-than-present-offer.html

          
          
             The Texas Rangers will draw a
“significantly higher” opening bid at a bankruptcy auction
than an existing offer for the baseball team, a person familiar
with the matter said.  
 The team has attracted several bidders interested in
participating in the auction, the person said today.  
 The Rangers initially sought approval of a sale agreement
with a group led by Pittsburgh attorney  Chuck Greenberg  and Hall
of Fame pitcher  Nolan Ryan , a deal valued at $575 million. The
team then reversed course and agreed to auction itself.  
 The Rangers yesterday abandoned a request for court
permission for a July 16 auction. The team made the move because
the chief restructuring officer for its equity owners withdrew
his support,  Martin Sosland , the Rangers’ bankruptcy lawyer,
said today in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in Fort Worth, Texas.  
 The chief restructuring officer, William Snyder, said
yesterday in an interview that the team would submit a new
request for an auction and bidding rules. The team could reach a
new sale agreement with a buyer that would lead off the auction,
he said. He declined to name the bidders interested in the team.  
 One of the bidders is Dallas businessman Jeff Beck, the
person familiar with the matter said. A lawyer for Houston
businessman  Jim Crane , who unsuccessfully bid for the team
before its bankruptcy, joined other lawyers involved in the case
at a closed-door conference today with Judge  D. Michael Lynn .  
 Lynn is pushing the parties to reach an agreement on the
auction and bidding rules so that he can consider approval of
the sale of the Rangers at a July 22 hearing, another person
involved in the case said after the hour-long meeting.  
 The case is In re Texas Rangers Baseball Partners, 10-
43400, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Northern District of Texas (Fort
Worth).  
 -- With assistance from  David McLaughlin  in New York. Editor:
 Charles Carter   
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Thomas Korosec  in Dallas
at   tkorosec@sbcglobal.net ;
 David McLaughlin  in New York
at   dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        