-- FDIC's Bair Says European Bonus Rules Move in `Good' Direction
-- Phil Mattingly
-- 2010-07-09T19:47:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-09/fdic-s-bair-says-eu-bank-bonus-restrictions-are-move-in-good-direction.html

          
          
             Federal Deposit Insurance Corp.
Chairman  Sheila Bair  said rules adopted in Europe to restrict
bankers’ bonus payments are a move in the right direction.  
 “As a matter of principle, yes, the direction it goes is a
good one,” Bair said today in an interview for Bloomberg
Television’s “Political Capital with  Al Hunt ” that will be
broadcast this weekend.  
 The proposals adopted by the European Union that would
require a percentage of the bonuses be deferred for at least
three years and allow companies to claw back bonus money in the
event of a business downturn “are all very important principles
of compensation that as best practices should apply more
generally,” she said.  
 Bair, 56, said the financial regulation bill moving through
Congress has “many important new tools” to identify loopholes
in the system.  
 The legislation awaiting Senate approval after being passed
by the House last month has features that are “very important
and are timely and directly responsive to the things that led to
this crisis,” she said.  
 Bair, in a separate interview today, said the FDIC plans to
launch a website that will list the new rules the agency will be
required to promulgate, as well as posting information on visits
by industry representatives and other government officials.  
 “Anyone who comes in to meet with us, we will post their
name and their affiliation,” she said.  
 Double-Dip Rececession  
 Bair said FDIC economists have seen no indication of a
double-dip recession amid economic indicators that have
suggested a slowing of recovery from the worst financial crisis
since the Great Depression.  
 “The recovery is slow and sluggish, but it is
recovering,” she said.  
 U.S. and European regulators are seeking to curb executive
pay practices that encourage the kind of excessive risk-taking
blamed for causing the collapse of the U.S. mortgage market and
the 2008 credit crisis. The FDIC is considering a proposal that
would punish banks that have risky pay practices with higher
insurance premiums.  
 Bair, a Republican appointee named FDIC chairman in 2006 by
President  George W. Bush , declined to address House Minority
Leader  John Boehner ’s comments that the financial regulation
bill produced by the Democrat-dominated Congress was akin to
“killing an ant with a nuclear weapon.”  
 Perspective  
 “Everybody’s got their perspective and it is certainly a
long bill, but I think it probably needs to be because it was a
big crisis and a lot of things went wrong,” Bair said. She said
she disagreed with the perception that the bill was too big.  
 Bair has spent much of the past year advocating for
stronger powers for the FDIC, most of which she will get if the
Senate approves the bill.  
 The FDIC, which is responsible for maintaining the nation’s
deposit insurance fund and resolving failed banks, will gain the
power to resolve the failing non-banks, like Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc. or  American International Insurance Group Inc. ,
that don’t hold deposits. Bair’s agency will also get backup
supervisory authority over any of the institutions it may be
forced to resolve.  
 “The ball will really be in the regulators’ court to
effectively use these new tools,” said Bair, whose term as
chairman ends in June 2011.  
 The agency will require an increase of $30 million to $50
million in its budget and an increase in staff.  
 “We will need to hire new staff that has more experience
in investment banking, the securities side as well as the
insurance side,” Bair said.  
 Bank Failures  
 Bair said the banking industry continues to recover from
the 2008 collapse, and the agency is still forecasting 2010 to
be the peak year for bank failures. The FDIC has closed more
than 250 banks since 2008, pushing the agency’s deposit
insurance fund into a deficit for the first time since the
savings-and-loan crisis in the 1990s.  
 The FDIC included 775 banks with $431 billion in assets on
the confidential list of problem lenders as of March 31, an
increase from 702 banks with $402.8 billion at the end of the
fourth quarter, the agency said in its quarterly banking  report .  
 Bair also said that  Elizabeth Warren , the Harvard professor
who has pushed the Obama administration and Congress for
stronger rules to protect consumers, would be qualified to run a
new consumer bureau designed to regulate financial products such
as mortgages and credit cards.  
 “It’s not my call, but I think she certainly has all the
qualifications and credentials for that job,” Bair said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Phil Mattingly  in Washington at 
 pmattingly@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Sheila Bair, chairman of the U.S. Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. (FDIC) pauses during an interview in Washington. Photographer: Joshua Roberts/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
