-- Ferrous Chairman Toll Quits After Iron-Ore Company's Second IPO Is Shelved
-- Jesse Riseborough
-- 2010-07-09T16:45:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-09/ferrous-chairman-toll-quits-after-iron-ore-company-s-second-ipo-is-shelved.html

          
          
             Ferrous Resources Ltd.  Chairman
 Gordon Toll  will quit the board of the iron-ore company after
its second attempt at an initial public offering in London was
shelved last month.  
 “I’ve run my race there,” Toll, 63, said today in a phone
interview from London. “The company is in great hands; it’s got
plenty of money in the bank, a good board, albeit reconstituted
somewhat.” Ferrous may announce further board changes next
week, he said, declining to comment on who will replace him.  
 Ferrous, backed by  Harbinger Capital Partners LLC , is
seeking funds to build a $3 billion iron-ore operation in
Brazil. Last month it put off plans for a $400 million IPO in
London because of equity-market volatility, becoming one of at
least 50 companies to postpone or drop IPOs worldwide since
April. The company earlier shelved a public offering in 2008 as
commodity prices slumped and the global economy slowed.  
 “As much as I would’ve loved to have got the IPO away, as
much as I think we should’ve got the IPO away, I have also been
presented with an opportunity to move on,” Toll said. “There’s
no disappointment; I’m a significant shareholder in a major iron
ore opportunity that didn’t exist 3 1/2 years ago.”  
 Kazakh Venture  
 Toll, a former  Rio Tinto Group  executive and former
chairman of Fortescue Metals Group Ltd., will retain a stake in
Ferrous of just below 5 percent, he said. He will now focus on a
Kazakh potash and vanadium project, for which he plans an IPO.
He also has interests in gold ventures in Africa and is chairman
of  Petro Matad Ltd. , which has an oil project in Mongolia.  
 Ferrous remains convinced of “its suitability as a public
company,” it said in a June 2 statement. Toll described his
departure as an “amicable and joint decision,” adding that
Ferrous still plans an IPO in the future.  
 The company remains in talks with lenders in China and
Brazil to secure more than $2 billion in loans to help fund
development, Toll said in May.  
 Harbinger, the hedge fund founded by billionaire  Philip Falcone , was studying the sale of a portion of its 26.6 percent
stake in Ferrous, four people with knowledge of the matter said
in May. Ferrous had planned to offer at least 25 percent of the
company to the public and include the sale of shares by existing
holders, it said May 17.  
 JPMorgan Cazenove Ltd. was the sole sponsor for the planned
offer, with Morgan Stanley and Deutsche Bank AG acting as joint
global coordinators, Ferrous said last month. BMO Capital
Markets, Liberum Capital Ltd. and RBC Capital Markets were co-
lead managers.  
 “At 63, I’ve got a lot of miles left in me, but all of
those projects take a fair bit out of you,” Toll said today.
“The potash project in Kazakhstan, for instance, market-cap-
wise and revenue-wise, will be every bit as big as Ferrous, if
not bigger.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jesse Riseborough  in London at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        