-- Flawed Financial Bill Contains Huge Surprise: Simon Johnson
-- Simon Johnson
-- 2010-07-09T01:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-09/flawed-financial-bill-contains-huge-surprise-simon-johnson.html

          
          
             On the face of it, financial reform
appears to have failed.  
 To be sure, there will be a new consumer agency charged
with protecting people against financial products. Given the way
financial companies treated people during past decades, even
those who aren’t generally enthusiastic about regulation think
this is a good idea.  
 Yet with regard to the heart of the matter -- the kind of
systemic risk that almost caused another Great Depression in
late 2008 -- all the high-profile ideas in the Dodd-Frank  bill 
turn out to be damp squibs.  
 The Volcker Rule -- aiming to limit banks’ use of their
capital in risky activities -- was watered down by the
administration almost as soon as it was introduced in January
and has now been negotiated down to almost nothing. Banks will
still be able to take big bets with their own capital, as long
as the deals don’t look like traditional proprietary trading.  
 The Lincoln Amendment, targeting undercapitalized
derivative trading and about which there was tremendous emotion
in recent months, has been greatly diluted. Undercapitalized
derivative positions, broadly defined, were at the heart of the
matter in 2007 and 2008. This is the common thread that runs
from the failure of funds backed by  BNP Paribas SA  in the summer
of 2007 through the demise of Bear Stearns Cos. in the spring of
2008 and into the cataclysm that  American International Group
Inc.  became a few months later.  
 Small Change  
 Yet the final bill does almost nothing to change realities
on the ground. Even  JPMorgan Chase & Co. , the giant of over-the-
counter derivatives trading, apparently claims that it is
already compliant with the new rules.  
 The Treasury Department will get the much vaunted
“resolution authority” that will in effect allow the Treasury
(and the Federal Reserve) to take over and manage the
liquidation of any financial firm. This essentially allows a
Federal Deposit Insurance Corp.-type closure process for bank
holding companies and other entities that do not have insured
deposits and therefore aren’t covered by the FDIC.  
 But this authority applies only to firms whose operations
are entirely domestic. It doesn’t apply to those that do any
type of global business because there is no cross-border
resolution mechanism and no prospect that the G-20 will even
take up such an idea.  
 None of the big financial firms will be affected by this
legislative outcome. And Treasury Secretary  Timothy Geithner ’s
approach of “let us raise capital standards” doesn’t seem to
have legs. Congress was told to not legislate minimum capital
requirements and has duly obliged.  
 Letting Others Decide  
 But the administration seems intent on deferring to the
Basel Committee, which has in mind that no bank or similar
institution needs Tier 1 capital of more than 10 percent, less
than Lehman Brothers Holdings Co. had immediately before it
failed. (Lehman had 11.6 percent, according to the public
record.)  
 Scouring all 2,400 or so pages of the bill, which has now
passed the House and awaits final passage in the Senate, it is
hard to find anything that will substantially change how Wall
Street operates.  
 And yet there is one item that is more than a surprise --
in fact, its presence in the final bill is quite stunning.  
 This is what is known as the Kanjorski Amendment, after
Congressman  Paul Kanjorski , chairman of the House Subcommittee
on Capital Markets, part of the House Financial Services
Committee.  
 Big Shift  
 In essence, Kanjorski proposed that a group of 10 federal
regulators be given the explicit power to break up big financial
firms when they pose systemic risk. Not only that, the wording
of the bill makes it clear that these regulators now face the
expectation that they will use these powers.  
 This is a big shift in responsibility, away from the
Federal Reserve, which implicitly had all kinds of emergency
powers but would never have taken such action.  
 Who are the Kanjorski 10? This is the systemic risk
council, which includes the treasury secretary (as chairman),
the chairman of the Federal Reserve’s Board of Governors, the
director of the new consumer protection agency, the head of
 Federal Housing Finance Agency , the chair of the National Credit
Union Administration board, an individual who will represent
insurance regulators and representatives from the each of the
four standard federal regulatory agencies.  
 If two thirds of the council’s members agree (i.e., 7 out
of 10), then a financial company can be subject to a variety of
restrictions, up to and including the requirement that it divest
itself of particular activities or more generally break up.  
 ‘Grave Threat’  
 The criteria for an intervention here are broad, with the
key condition being defined clearly and quite sensibly as “a
grave threat to the financial stability of the United States.”  
 This is not, of course, the same thing as a legislative
requirement that megabanks be subject to a hard size limit -- in
effect breaking up the largest six banks -- in order to reduce
system risk. That idea was put forward by Democratic Senators
 Sherrod Brown  and  Ted Kaufman . It received impressive support on
the Senate floor, but ultimately failed, 61-33.  
 The Kanjorski Amendment wasn’t a surprise. It is an
entirely reasonable reaction to the too-dangerous-to-fail
experience of 2008-2009. The surprise here is that the bank
lobbyists weren’t able to get it taken out or entirely watered
down. The supermajority decision-making at the level of the risk
council might seem like a weakening from the original Kanjorski
proposal, but it also helped keep political support for what is,
at its heart, a very radical idea.  
 ( Simon Johnson , co-author of “13 Bankers: The Wall Street
Takeover and the Next Financial Meltdown,” is a professor at
MIT’s Sloan School of Management, a senior fellow at the
Peterson Institute for International Economics, and co-founder
of BaselineScenario.com. The opinions expressed are his own.)  
 To contact the writer of this column:
Simon Johnson at  sjohnson@mit.edu   
          
          


  


        