-- Fortescue May Start Work on $9 Billion Solomon Iron Ore Project Next Year
-- Rebecca Keenan
-- 2010-07-09T06:33:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-09/fortescue-may-start-work-on-9-billion-solomon-iron-ore-project-next-year.html

          
          
             Fortescue Metals Group Ltd. ,
Australia’s third-largest iron ore producer, may start building
the $9 billion Solomon project in the first quarter next year.  
 The mines and railroad may take two years to build, with
 production  starting in the first quarter of 2013, Perth-based
Fortescue said today in a development  application . The company
put the project on hold on May 19 because of the nation’s
proposed mining tax, while saying existing development studies
would continue.  
 Fortescue may seek financing for Solomon once there is more
clarity on how Australia’s compromise minerals tax will be
implemented, said Paul Downie, from the company’s external media
advisers FD Third Person. The company said in March that it may
seek to raise as much as $8.9 billion from new and existing
 investors  in the U.S. and Asia to fund the project.  
 “We have not gone back to the financing market” because
there remains uncertainty about the implementation of the new
minerals tax, Downie said. “We remain committed to our
statement from May.”  
 Australia’s Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  last week agreed
to cut the tax to 30 percent from 40 percent, a week after
ousting  Kevin Rudd  as the nation’s leader to defuse a row with
mining companies. Fortescue said July 2 it was disappointed with
the new tax because it had no input from smaller companies.  
 Fortescue  gained  1.6 percent to A$4.42 at the 4:10 p.m.
Sydney time close on the Australian stock exchange.  
 Solomon, in the Pilbara region of Western Australia, will
have two mines, Firetail and Kings, which would produce as much
as 60 million metric tons a year in the first stage, Fortescue
said in the application submitted today to Australia’s
Department of the Environment, Water, Heritage and the Arts.  
 Fortescue,  controlled  by  Andrew Forrest , is due to make an
investment decision on Solomon either this year or next, it said
in a March presentation.  
 The first stage of Solomon will cost $3.24 billion. The
second stage expansion to add 100 million tons will cost $5.7
billion, including the development of a new port, it said in
March.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rebecca Keenan  in Melbourne at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net ;  
          
          


  


        