-- Fund Tax Break Needs to Go: Harold Bradley and Paul Kedrosky
-- Paul Kedrosky
-- 2010-07-09T01:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-09/fund-tax-break-needs-to-go-harold-bradley-and-paul-kedrosky.html

          
          
             Innovation is precious in any modern
economy. It creates jobs and economic growth, and can help
ameliorate or even eliminate intractable social problems.  
 But a flawed and misleading connection is being made in the
U.S. between innovation and favorable tax treatment of certain
investment partnerships, including venture capitalists, as well
as hedge funds and real-estate investment funds.  
 Partners in these funds are paid “two and 20.” They
receive income of roughly 2 percent (a management fee) of their
financial assets under management, plus 20 percent (called
carried interest) of any eventual gains once their investors
have been paid back their original capital. The management fee
is intended to cover base salaries and the cost of business,
while the carried interest is a bonus for performance.  
 At present, partners’ management fees are taxed as ordinary
income, or as much as 35 percent, while any gains on carried
interest are taxed at a lower capital-gains rate of 15 percent.
Some have proposed that this loophole be closed.  
 This proposed change has run into loud opposition, and
pending legislation is awaiting a Senate vote. Opponents, whose
self-interest is obvious, make two types of argument:  
 Narrow: What venture capitalists do is similar to what
others do who receive such favorable treatment.  
 Broad: We will see less venture capital, which will harm
innovation.  
 Favored Treatment  
 A principle of tax policy is that people who do similar
work should be treated similarly for tax purposes. Now, the fact
that many of the people whose work most resembles that of
venture capitalists -- mutual-fund managers, for example --don’t
get favored tax treatment is a problem for this argument.  
 A version of the broad argument was recently made by a
venture capitalist in the New York Times. He suggested that
partnerships’ investments in private companies using other
investors’ money resemble the transactions of consumers buying
homes with borrowed capital, in which, upon sale, any gains are
taxed as capital gains with no relation to the capital loaned.  
 This is a specious argument. First, the U.S. government has
decided for policy reasons to favor home ownership, a tax
distortion with many consequences that helped incubate the
economic pain we still endure.  
 Second, homeowners don’t earn a management fee from
lenders, while venture-fund general partners do. General
partners serve in a fiduciary role for their own investors. This
relationship illustrates that carried interest is a bonus and
not a share in partnership profits based on capital
contributions.  
 Loss of Capital  
 Finally, a homeowner’s equity may be reduced or eliminated
by declining prices, while poor investments made by venture-
capital general partners cause loss of capital only to the
investors and usually not to the managers of the fund’s
investments.  
 Let’s now turn to the innovation argument: that changing
carried-interest tax treatment will make less venture capital
available, thus damaging innovation and economic growth. There
are multiple arguments embedded here, so we need to unpack them.  
 It is true that venture capital is important in catalyzing
some kinds of innovations. No serious person argues that new
drug development would happen on credit cards; then again, it is
worth pointing out that less than 1 percent of all startups ever
receive venture capital.  
 PR Exercises  
 Yes, groups such as the National Venture Capital
Association make much grander claims for the total employment,
wealth and economic activity created by venture-backed firms,
but these are largely indefensible public-relations exercises.
It is simply wrong to say all the jobs at a huge company such as
 Cisco Systems Inc.  are attributable to a long-ago cash infusion
from a venture capitalist. One might as well make the same claim
for  PG&E Corp. , Cisco’s provider of alternating current.  
 As for the latter arguments: Will we see a tax-driven
venture-capital contraction? Almost certainly not.  
 First, the investors who provide the capital -- pension
funds, endowments, high-net-worth individuals -- will continue
to receive favorable tax treatment.  
 Second, arguing that many of the best and brightest will
leave venture capital runs counter to recent experience. Most
venture capitalists received zero carried interest over the last
decade, and that hasn’t materially shrunk the industry, so a
higher income-tax rate will hardly send it into collapse.  
 No Exception  
 Similarly, treating bonuses as  ordinary income  has done
nothing to slow the flow of people into other areas of money
management, so it is difficult to imagine why venture capital
would be an exception.  
 Finally, even if some of these people are dissuaded from
entering this business, it wouldn’t be entirely a bad thing, as
the industry’s negative 10-year results show that it must shrink
in order to produce competitive returns.  
 Won’t all of this hurt innovation? Don’t we want more
entrepreneurs being funded? Of course, and in a utopian world it
might be nice if every entrepreneur who needed money got it.  
 But we don’t live in that world. Venture capital is a
financial asset whose providers have choices and require
investments that produce competitive returns. We all want more
innovation and more entrepreneurs, and venture capital can play
a part. But we shouldn’t exaggerate venture capital’s role in
innovation, nor should we persist in tax policies that encourage
an overgrown and uncompetitive industry to remain so.  
 ( Harold Bradley  is chief investment officer at the Ewing
Marion Kauffman Foundation.  Paul Kedrosky  is a senior fellow at
the foundation. The opinions expressed are their own.)  
 To contact the writers of this column:
Harold Bradley at  hbradley@kauffman.org 
Paul Kedrosky at  paulk@kauffman.org   
          
          


  


        