-- Gaza Voyage Planned by Charity Headed by Qaddafi Son (Update1)
-- Caroline Alexander
-- 2010-07-09T16:46:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-09/gaza-strip-aid-voyage-planned-by-libyan-charity-headed-by-qaddafi-s-son.html

          
          
             An aid organization led by a son of
Libyan leader  Muammar Qaddafi  said it is sending a ship loaded
with food and medicine to the Gaza Strip in an effort to break
Israel’s blockade of the Palestinian enclave.  
 The vessel will leave today from the Greek port of Lavrio,
about 60 kilometers (37 miles) southeast of Athens, the Gaddafi
International Charity and Development Association said in a 
statement  on its website.  
 The ship is carrying about 1,000 tons of basic foods,
medicine and baby milk, along with people who want “to
participate in this humanitarian work,” said the charity, which
is chaired by  Saif Al-Islam Qaddafi  and based in Tripoli. The
organization didn’t give details of those who will be aboard.  
 Israel loosened its restrictions on the shipment of some
goods into Gaza by road after international criticism over a May
31 Israeli commando raid on a flotilla of aid ships trying to
breach the embargo. Nine pro-Palestinian activists from Turkey
were shot dead aboard one of the vessels during the operation in
international waters. Israel maintains a naval blockade of Gaza.  
 There was no immediate reply from the Israeli Foreign
Ministry to a telephone message seeking comment today on the
planned voyage. Greek Foreign Ministry spokesman Grigoris
Delavekouras declined to comment on the Libyan group’s trip.  
 Strained Relations  
 Israel said it had issued numerous warnings to the flotilla
to change course for the Israeli port of Ashdod and unload there
before the May raid.  
 The incident has severely strained Israel’s political and
military relations with Turkey, once its closest ally in the
Middle East. Israel rejected requests for an international
investigation into the incident, including calls from the  United
Nations Human Rights Council  and Turkey, and set up its own
civilian and military inquiries.  
 Israel announced new guidelines for imports into the Hamas-
controlled Gaza Strip on July 5, allowing in all foods and
limiting the shipment of construction materials to goods used in
internationally monitored projects. Israel says it restricts
imports of building supplies to Gaza because they can be used to
build rockets, bunkers or bombs.  
 The restrictions are necessary to prevent arms smuggling
into a territory ruled by Hamas, Israel says. The Islamic group
refuses to recognize the Jewish state or any agreements signed
with it.  
 Hamas’s charter calls for Israel’s destruction. Hamas
leaders say they will renounce violence when Israel withdraws
from territory occupied in 1967 and allows Palestinians to
return to areas in Israel from which they fled in 1948.  
 Blockaded in 2007  
 The Israeli blockade began after Hamas seized full control
of the Gaza Strip in 2007 after winning Palestinian
parliamentary elections the previous year. The group is
considered a terrorist organization by the U.S., the European
Union and Israel.  
 Human rights groups including Amnesty International say
Israel’s embargo has devastated local industries and caused
widespread suffering. Israeli officials have said there is no
humanitarian crisis in Gaza.  
 Israel fought a three-week war in Gaza starting in December
2008 that it said was meant to stop Hamas and other militant
groups from firing rockets into its territory. More than 400
rockets and mortars have been fired from Gaza into Israel since
the end of the operation, killing a foreign worker, the Israeli
army said.  
 Israeli bombing and ground operations during the war
destroyed more than 3,000 homes, and Israel’s restrictions on
construction materials have prevented Palestinians from being
able to rebuild, the UN said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Caroline Alexander  in London at 
 calexander1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        