-- GE's Immelt Says China Free Trade Will Always Face Challenges
-- Rachel Layne
-- 2010-07-09T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-09/ge-chief-executive-immelt-says-china-free-trade-will-always-face-obstacles.html

          
          
             General Electric Co.  Chief Executive
Officer  Jeffrey Immelt  said free trade in markets including
China will always face obstacles as globalization evolves.  
 “Free trade will always be challenged,” Immelt said in an
interview yesterday. “We have to constantly strive to drive
more free trade everywhere in the world, including China.”  
 Immelt was responding to a Financial Times story about
remarks he made at a private dinner in Italy last week. A
spokesman for the Fairfield, Connecticut-based company said at
the time that the July 1 article took some remarks out of
context and at times was inaccurate, including some comments on
China and others referring to President  Barack Obama .  
 A representative for the newspaper couldn’t be immediately
reached after regular business hours. Last week, the newspaper
said it stood by its story.  
 Immelt said he was echoing comments from his annual letter
to  shareholders  in March that called for business and government
cooperation as the world emerges from the financial crisis and
recession.  
 “I have high regard for President Obama, my comments were
not directed at him -- it was more about the relationship of
government and business,” Immelt said. “I think that the
export initiative is a great one. And I have great access. The
president and his team have always had an open ear to me.”  
 Immelt said he had relayed to the audience of executives in
Italy that he “was worried that the pendulum on regulation
would go too far in the U.S. and Europe.”  
 China Growth  
 GE got about $33 billion of its $157 billion in  revenue 
last year from emerging markets, with about $6 billion from
China. Sales in  China  should rise by at least 10 percent this
year, Immelt reiterated. That will fall short of a $10 billion
goal the company set earlier this decade.  
 “China is more than $6 billion and is going to grow
double-digits and is very important,” Immelt said by telephone.
“These things are never going to be in a straight line.”  
 The London-based FT paraphrased the executive last week as
having said “business did not like the U.S. president and the
president did not like business.”  
 Immelt said yesterday he had discussed government
regulation and trade policies as a whole, and that he supports
the U.S. administration’s plans to bolster exports. He has said
some competition from sovereign-backed entities in areas like
nuclear power generation also present competitive issues.  
 ‘Great Aspirations’  
 “I’m positive about China. I’ve said that consistently.
But what I’ve said is that globalization is ever-changing and
complicated,” Immelt said. “I always worry about
protectionism. I really have great aspirations for China.”  
 The company in November last year announced agreements for
partnerships in China that span the energy, aviation and rail
industries. Rivals including Siemens AG, Denmark’s Vestas Wind
Systems A/S and United Technologies Corp. also pursue business
in China.  
 GE’s November announcements included a memorandum of
understanding with China’s Ministry of Railways to pursue high-
speed rail projects in the U.S.; production of its more
efficient Evolution diesel freight locomotive in China with
venture partner CSR Qishuyan Locomotive Co. Ltd, a unit of China
South Locomotive and Rolling Stock Corp. and an agreement to
form a venture with China Aviation Industry Corp., known as
AVIC, to sell avionics systems.  
 “In many cases like AVIC, we’re going to have partners in
China, and in some cases we’re going to have competitors that
are Chinese competitors,” Immelt said. “That’s part of the
complexity of globalization.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rachel Layne  in Boston at 
 rlayne@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       General Electric Co. Chairman and CEO Jeffrey Immelt  
                       
                         
                           Jin Lee/Bloomberg 
                         
                         General Electric Co. Chairman and CEO Jeffrey Immelt pauses during a meeting in New York. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     General Electric Co. Chairman and CEO Jeffrey Immelt pauses during a meeting in New York. Photographer: Jin Lee/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
