-- Benchmark Stocks Gain; Fondiaria, Gemina, Lottomatica, MPS, Tenaris Move
-- Sonia Sirletti
-- 2010-07-09T15:49:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-09/gemina-intesa-sanpaolo-unicredit-may-move-today-italian-equity-preview.html

          
          
             Italy’s benchmark  FTSE MIB Index  rose
235.25, or 1.2 percent, to 20,478.98 in Milan.  
 The following stocks were among the most active in the
Italian market today.  
 Ansaldo STS SpA  (STS IM) rose 9 cents, or 0.8 percent, to
11.44 euros, a third gain this week. Exane BNP Paribas
reiterated an “outperform” rating on Finmeccanica SpA’s
railway-technology unit as it expects second-quarter results to
show a “strong top-line growth.”  
 Fiat SpA  (F IM) gained for a fourth session, rising 10
cents, or 1.2 percent, to 8.82 euros. Mediobanca Securities said
in a note that “the positive impact of the spinoff does not
seem to be reflected in the share price as consensus believed it
would have been derailed by current market conditions.”  
 Separately, the carmaker said in an e-mailed statement that
it agreed in Turin today with the CISL and UIL unions to
implement the accord regarding the “production continuity” at
Pomigliano plant.  
 Gemina SpA  (GEM IM) gained 1.4 cents, or 2.6 percent, to
54.8 cents, a second consecutive increase. The owner of Rome’s
airport operators was rated “overweight” in new coverage by
Barclays Capital. The brokerage set a price estimate of 80 euro
cents.  
 Gemina “will soon benefit from the implementation of a new
regulatory framework,” according to the brokerage, saying
“market concerns on a potential rights issue, which is to
follow long-awaited regulatory clarity, should not materialize
before the group finalizes its long-term capex plan.”  
 Lottomatica SpA  (LTO IM)) dropped 32 cents, or 2.9 percent,
to 10.59 euros, ending a three-day advance. BofA Merrill Lynch
Global Research downgraded the lottery company to
“underperform” from “neutral.” The brokerage cited “a
continuing slowdown in the core Italian lottery business and
higher tax and depreciation charges going forward.”  
 Luxottica Group SpA  (LUX IM) increased 29 cents, or 1.5
percent, to 19.63 euros, a fourth straight gain, as Natixis
Securities initiated coverage of the world’s largest maker of
eyeglasses with a “buy” rating.  
 Mediaset SpA  (MS IM) rose 3.8 cents, or 0.8 percent, to
4.71 euros, a fourth straight gain. Fidentiis Equities SV SA
upgraded the broadcaster to “buy.”  
 Tenaris SA  (TEN IM), the world’s biggest maker of seamless
steel tubes for oil and gas extraction, rose 32 cents, or 2.2
percent, to 15.09 euros. Crude oil rose for a third day as
equities gained on optimism that the global economic recovery
will accelerate.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Francesca Cinelli  in Milan at 
 fcinelli@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        