-- German Stocks Advance; BASF, K+S, HeidelbergCement Lead Gains in Frankfurt
-- Francesca Cinelli
-- 2010-07-09T15:48:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-09/german-stocks-advance-infineon-technologies-k-s-shares-lead-increase.html

          
          
             German stocks rose, sending the
benchmark DAX Index to its biggest weekly gain in almost two
months, as  BASF SE  and  K+S AG  advanced.  
 BASF followed chemical shares higher, rising 1.6 percent.
K+S AG climbed 1.3 percent as its competitors’ shares advanced
in U.S. trading.  
 The  DAX  rose 29.58, or 0.5 percent, to 6,064.47 as of 4:06
p.m. in Frankfurt. The gauge is set for the first weekly gain in
three weeks on optimism the world economy won’t stall and that
Europe’s banks will pass stress tests imposed by regulators. The
broader HDAX Index gained 0.5 percent today.  
 “Despite continued fears that the global economy might
slide back into recession, the markets expect the DAX to
register another high double-digit earnings increase in the
upcoming reporting season,”  Joerg Kraemer , chief economist at
Commerzbank AG in Frankfurt, wrote in a note today.  
 The DAX is still down 4.2 percent from its April 26 high on
concern that the sovereign-debt crisis in Europe and slowing
growth in China and the U.S. will hurt German companies.  
 BASF, the world’s largest chemicals company, advanced 1.6
percent to 45.75 euros. Chemical shares were among the best
performers in Europe today.  
 K+S, Europe’s biggest potash producer, gained 1.3 percent
to 38.77 euros. Cheuvreux highlighted in a note the increases in
share prices of peers such as Potash Corp. of Saskatchewan Inc.,
citing a “further rise in crop future prices.” Potash Corp.
advanced 1.8 percent in New York trading.  
 HeidelbergCement  
 HeidelbergCement AG  rose 1.7 percent to 39 euros.  
 “We are positive on HeidelbergCement ahead of the second-
quarter results,” due July 30, Credit Suisse Group AG said,
citing a “very attractive valuation,” positive growth and an
improvement in margins.  
 Qiagen NV  gained 3.8 percent to 16.01 euros. WestLB AG
upgraded the Dutch biotechnology company to “buy” from
“add,” citing the stock’s recent decline. The brokerage also
said “Qiagen has a significant first-mover advantage over its
competitors and its instruments are unmatched in terms of
throughput.”  
 Deutsche Lufthansa AG  increased 1.2 percent to 12.11 euros.
Europe’s second-largest airline said the number of passengers in
the first half rose by 1.8 percent to 27.2 million, helped by
gains in the Middle East and Africa.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Francesca Cinelli  in Milan at 
 fcinelli@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        