-- Glaxo Withheld Avandia Study, Ex-Regulator Said to Testify
-- Michelle Cortez
-- 2010-07-10T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-09/glaxo-withheld-avandia-study-former-fda-manager-said-to-testify-in-suit.html

          
          
             A former U.S.  Food and Drug
Administration  official said  GlaxoSmithKline Plc  withheld from
regulators a study showing its Avandia diabetes drug may cause
heart attacks, according to two people familiar with her
deposition in a lawsuit against the drugmaker.  
 Dr.  Rosemary Johann-Liang , a former manager in the FDA’s
drug-safety unit, told lawyers suing Glaxo that the 2001 study
found Avandia posed a greater heart-attack risk than rival
medicines, the people said. Glaxo also didn’t turn over an e-
mail from researchers who concluded Avandia “strengthens the
signals” of heart ailments, she testified in a pre-trial
deposition last month, according to the people.  
 Johann-Liang left the FDA in 2007 following her
recommendation that London-based Glaxo add more information
about health risks to Avandia’s label, the people said. Johann-
Liang stated that FDA officials provided the drugmaker with
details of internal agency discussions about beefing up the
warnings, according to the people, who also said she testified
the leaks “should not have happened” and violated FDA policy.  
 Johann-Liang’s deposition may be considered by an FDA
advisory panel meeting next week in Washington to consider
whether Avandia’s ability to control blood-sugar levels
outweighs a possible increase in heart attacks, strokes and
deaths from cardiovascular disease, the people said. They
declined to provide a transcript of the testimony.  
 No Proof  
 While Glaxo officials contend no studies have proven that
Avandia is dangerous, drug-safety advocates have called for the
medicine’s withdrawal from the market. Actos, a similar diabetes
drug sold by Tokyo-based  Takeda Pharmaceutical Co. , poses less
of a heart-attack risk, researchers have found. Glaxo withheld a
study on Actos from the FDA, Johann-Liang testified, according
to the people.  
 Glaxo disputes Johann-Liang’s claims that it didn’t turn
over a 2001 review of Avandia’s health risks to federal
regulators,  Mary Anne Rhyne , a company spokeswoman, said in an
e-mailed statement.  
 The company’s study “determined that there was no signal
of an increased risk for heart attacks associated with
Avandia,” Rhyne said. “GSK identified this internal review and
described its results in a Periodic Safety Update Report that
was submitted to the FDA.”  
 Full Disclosure  
 The company also has fully disclosed research findings on
whether Avandia causes heart illnesses, such as thickening of
the arteries, on the drug’s label since 1999, she said.  
 Erica Jefferson, an FDA spokeswoman, declined to comment
beyond confirming that Johann-Liang isn’t currently an FDA
employee. Johann-Liang didn’t return calls seeking comment.  
 Avandia was once the world’s  best-selling  diabetes pill,
generating annual revenue of $3 billion by 2006, including sales
of a combination pill called Avandamet. Sales plunged after a
May 2007 report in the  New England Journal of Medicine  linked
the drug to a 43 percent increased risk of heart attacks. That
prompted U.S. and European regulators to  order  Glaxo to
strengthen its warnings.  
 Glaxo, the U.K.’s biggest pharmaceutical company, faces
about  13,000 lawsuits  over Avandia and is in talks to resolve
about half of them, two people familiar with the litigation
said.  
 $1.1 Billion Liability  
 Glaxo agreed in May to pay about $60 million, or about
$86,000 per case, to resolve 700 Avandia suits, the people said.
Glaxo declined to comment on the settlements at the time.  
 The settlements suggest Glaxo faces a total liability of
$1.1 billion over the drug,  Gbola Amusa , a  UBS AG  analyst in
London, wrote in a May 11 note to investors. Amusa and other
analysts said earlier that the company might pay as much as
$6 billion to resolve all Avandia litigation.  
 Glaxo  set aside 2.3 billion pounds ($3.5 billion) for
“legal and other disputes” as of the end of March, the company
said April 28. It didn’t specifically mention litigation
relating to Avandia.  
 Glaxo faces its first U.S. trial over Avandia in
Philadelphia federal court in October, Rhyne said.  
 The people familiar with Johann-Liang’s deposition said her
FDA unit, which oversaw the safety of drugs already approved for
sale in the U.S., recommended in 2006 that labels for Avandia
and Actos be upgraded to the highest level, with stronger
warnings about the risk of heart failure listed in a black box.  
 17-Month Delay  
 FDA officials were upset with the recommendation and waited
17 months before implementing it, the people said. In the
meantime, they took away her power to make such recommendations
and excluded her from safety review meetings, the people said.
Johann-Liang, a pediatrician, left the FDA in June 2007 after
six years with the agency.  
 Johann-Liang gave her testimony to  Joseph Zonies , a Denver-
based lawyer who represents consumers alleging that Glaxo hid
Avandia’s health risks, the people familiar with the deposition
said. Glaxo’s lawyers were present during the deposition, they
said. Zonies didn’t return calls for comment.  
 During the deposition, Zonies asked Johann-Liang whether
she was pleased by the FDA’s decision to require the Avandia
black-box warning she had recommended, the people familiar with
the testimony said.  
 The doctor said she didn’t feel vindicated because “people
taking this drug got hurt” in the time between her
recommendation and the agency’s action, the people familiar with
her testimony said.  
 In their Avandia suits, consumers contend Glaxo officials
refuse to take the drug off the market even though studies have
shown it poses an increased risk of heart attack and stroke
compared with competing medicines.  
 Federal Suits  
 Federal lawsuits over the medicine are combined in federal
court in Philadelphia. Glaxo’s U.S. operations are based in the
Philadelphia area, with more than 5,000 employees in downtown
offices and suburban research facilities.  
 A report by two U.S. senators in February said FDA
regulators urged Glaxo to withdraw Avandia from the market in
2008 because it was causing 500 avoidable heart attacks a month.
The report, by Senators  Max Baucus , a Democrat from Montana, and
 Charles Grassley , a Republican from Iowa, also said Glaxo
officials sought to intimidate doctors who criticized the drug.  
 Glaxo pressed medical researchers who observed the
emergence of heart and liver problems in patients taking Avandia
to stop disseminating their findings and contacted the doctors’
superiors in several cases, according to the report.  
 Key Data  
 Allan Sniderman , a cardiology professor at  McGill 
University’s Health Center in Montreal, wrote the FDA last month
saying he had key data about Avandia’s risks that should be
presented to the advisory panel, said one of the people familiar
with Johann-Liang’s testimony who provided Bloomberg News with a
copy of the letter.  
 Because Sniderman has been hired as an expert witness in
lawsuits over the drug, the data is covered by a confidentiality
order, according to the letter. The doctor wrote that he is
asking a judge to lift the order barring his testimony.  
 “My position allows me access to data that has not
previously been available to any similar group considering these
issues,” Sniderman wrote in the letter. He didn’t return calls
seeking comment.  
 Rhyne said yesterday that Sniderman later withdrew his
request to address the advisory committee before the judge
decided whether to drop the confidentiality restrictions on his
testimony.  
 The case is In Re Avandia Marketing, Sales Practices and
Products Liability Litigation, 07-01871, U.S. District Court,
Eastern District of Pennsylvania (Philadelphia).  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jef Feeley  in Wilmington, Delaware, at   jfeeley@bloomberg.net  and;
 Michelle Cortez  in London at   mcortez@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       GlaxoSmithKline Plc's Avandia diabetes treatmen  
                       
                         
                           JB Reed/ Bloomberg 
                         
                         GlaxoSmithKline's Avandia diabetes treatment. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     GlaxoSmithKline's Avandia diabetes treatment. Photographer: JB Reed/ Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
