-- GM Said to Opt Against Credit Unit, May Team Up With Banks
-- David Welch
-- 2010-07-09T19:18:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-09/gm-is-said-to-decide-against-credit-unit-may-team-up-with-banks-for-loans.html

          
          
             General Motors Co. has decided
against creating its own finance unit and is instead talking
with banks including  JPMorgan Chase & Co. ,  Bank of America Corp. 
and  Wells Fargo & Co.  about bolstering its lending capabilities,
people with direct knowledge of the decision said.  
 The banks would write loans and leases on cars, helping to
spur sales, said four people with knowledge of the situation who
asked not to be named because the discussions are private.  
 Chief Executive Officer  Ed Whitacre  aimed to get the
automaker back into financing before its planned initial public
offering this year, people familiar with the situation have
said. The company considered buying back its former lending arm,
GMAC LLC, starting a bank or working with outside lenders to
offer customers more financing options, said three people with
knowledge of the discussions. Buying GMAC, now called  Ally
Financial Inc. , or starting a new, in-house banking unit proved
too difficult at this point, they said.  
 “They have to make sure they cover all of the credit
tiers,” said  Maryann Keller , president of consultant Maryann
Keller & Associates in Stamford, Connecticut. “They can’t
reacquire GMAC because its only basis for cheap capital is that
they own a bank. GM can’t legally own a bank.”  
 Selim Bingol , a GM spokesman, declined to comment. An Ally
spokeswoman, Gina Proia, declined to comment.  
 GM, based in Detroit, is looking for other banks to boost
its subprime-lending and leasing capabilities, the people said.
GM has missed out on some sales because GMAC, its primary retail
lender, doesn’t lend to subprime borrowers,  Mark Reuss ,
president of GM North America, has said.  
 The carmaker works with Fort Worth, Texas-based
 AmeriCredit Corp.  for subprime lending and Minneapolis-based
 U.S. Bancorp  for leasing deals. GM wants more lenders to compete
for the loans to lure customers with more options and better
rates, the people said.  
 Subprime Borrowers  
 About 7 percent of GM’s customers are subprime borrowers,
which is the same proportion as the overall U.S. new-car market,
said  Randy Arickx , a spokesman. Automaker-owned lenders have
17.1 percent of the business in subprime lending, according to
researcher Experian Automotive in Costa Mesa, California.  
 Most of GM’s major rivals own their own finance companies.
The captive lenders aid the parent company’s sales by taking
added risk and paying to reduce interest rates on subprime
borrowers’ loans and move them into near-prime loans.  
 With more competition among banks, the lenders may offer
car buyers better loan terms or lower monthly payments, helping
GM sell more cars, one of the people said.  
 In its research, GM has found that dealers have often had
to lengthen loan terms for subprime buyers to offer lower
monthly payments because the banks won’t lend at more attractive
interest rates.  
 Internal Debate  
 GM executives had debated whether the company should own a
lender, with some arguing that the automaker’s junk credit
rating would make it costly to raise capital for loans, said
three people.  
 Chief Financial Officer  Chris Liddell  said last month that
the company will consider a variety of sources for consumer car
loans rather than carrying the assets and liabilities of a
lending business on its books.  
 The automaker could enlist outside banks to make car loans
or write leases for consumers while branding the financing under
the GM name, Keller said.  
 In the longer term, GM may still have a chance of acquiring
GMAC, two of the people said. For now, GM doesn’t see a way to
do the deal, doesn’t want GMAC’s ResCap mortgage unit, and GMAC
also wasn’t interested in selling, they said.  
 The U.S. Treasury Department owns 61 percent of GM and 56
percent of GMAC. While some Treasury officials favor merging the
two, the government doesn’t want to get involved in forcing a
deal, the people said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Welch  in Southfield, Michigan, at 
 dwelch12@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Ed Whitacre, chairman and chief executive officer of General Motors Co., speaks about the Chevrolet Volt electric car in Austin, Texa. Photographer: Steven Noreyko/General Motors Co. via Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
