-- Goldman Sachs Sued by Liberty on Fannie Mae Offering
-- Andrew Frye
-- 2010-07-09T17:49:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-09/goldman-sachs-sued-by-liberty-mutual-over-2007-fannie-mae-stock-offering.html

          
          
             Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  was accused
in a lawsuit by Liberty Mutual Insurance Co. of misleading
investors in 2007 when it sold Fannie Mae preferred shares while
betting against the U.S. mortgage market.  
 Goldman Sachs misrepresented Fannie Mae’s  health  when it
underwrote the offerings, in which the insurer invested
$62.5 million, according to a complaint filed yesterday in
federal court in Boston. The investment bank misstated the
purpose of the sale by saying the offering was to raise  surplus
capital  when it was actually needed to help Fannie Mae sustain
its business, said Liberty Mutual, which accused Goldman Sachs
of securities fraud.  
 “As a knowledgeable and sophisticated investor in the U.S.
real estate financial  markets , and with access to Fannie Mae’s
financial records, Goldman Sachs knew or recklessly disregarded
the actual status of Fannie Mae’s capital structure,” Liberty
Mutual said in the complaint. The mortgage guarantor was seized
by the U.S. in 2008.  
 Michael DuVally , a spokesman for New York-based Goldman
Sachs, said the suit was without merit “and we will contest it
vigorously.”  
 Goldman Sachs has come under fire from Congress and
regulators for its underwriting and investments as mortgage
markets collapsed during the credit crisis. The U.S. Securities
and Exchange Commission sued Goldman Sachs in April, claiming it
sold a collateralized debt obligation without disclosing that a
hedge fund helped pick underlying securities and bet against the
vehicles. Goldman Sachs has denied wrongdoing.  
 Senate Probe  
 At the time that it was underwriting the Fannie Mae
offering, Goldman was aware that there were “significant
problems” in the real estate market and bet its own money
against subprime-mortgage-related securities, Liberty Mutual
said in the complaint, which drew on documents collected by the
U.S. Senate’s Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations.  
 The documents, including internal Goldman Sachs e-mails,
establish that during the time leading up to the disputed
offerings, “Goldman Sachs not only knew about the serious risks
in the  mortgage market , but it was urgently moving to short the
mortgage market,” the suit says.  
 Managing Risk  
 The offerings raised almost $8 billion and were completed
in September and December of 2007, according to the complaint.
Fannie Mae fell into U.S. conservatorship the following
September, leaving Liberty’s investment “virtually worthless,”
the suit says.  
 Goldman Sachs Chief Executive Officer  Lloyd C. Blankfein 
told the Senate panel in April that his firm is a market-maker,
a role that often puts the company on the opposite side of
customers as it tries to manage its own risk.  
 “We didn’t have a massive short against the housing market
and we certainly did not bet against our clients,” Blankfein
said.  
 Rich Angevine , a spokesman for Liberty Mutual, declined to
comment. The Boston-based company is owned by policyholders and
isn’t publicly traded. Goldman Sachs advanced $2.26, or
1.7 percent, to $137.72 at 12:05 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange
composite  trading . The stock has dropped 18 percent this year.  
 Liberty Mutual slashed its stake in Goldman Sachs by
80 percent in the six months ended March 31, 2009. That was part
of more than two years of stock sales that brought the insurer’s
stake in  Goldman Sachs  to 7,752 shares at the end of the first
quarter from 46,343 shares in September 2007.  
 Liberty Mutual dumped bank stocks after the 2008 financial
crisis, Chief Executive Officer Edmund “Ted” Kelly said in a
March 2009 conference call with policyholders and bond
investors. Citigroup Inc.,  Bank of America Corp.  and Wells Fargo
& Co. were among the financial firms sold in late 2008,
according to regulatory filings.  
 The case is Liberty Mutual v. Goldman Sachs, 10-cv-11150,
U.S. District Court, District of Massachusetts (Boston).  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Carlyn Kolker  in New York
at   ckolker@bloomberg.net ;
 Andrew Frye  in New York at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        