-- Google to Resume `Street View' Imaging After Removing Wi-Fi Scanning Gear
-- Robert Fenner
-- 2010-07-09T08:22:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-09/google-to-resume-street-view-imaging-after-removing-wi-fi-scanning-gear.html

          
          
             Google Inc. , the world’s largest Web-
search provider, is poised to resume dispatching cars in four
markets to collect imagery for its Street View mapping service
after it removed gear that scanned private information.  
 Street View driving will restart in Ireland, Norway, South
Africa and Sweden next week, with its fleet of cars no longer
collecting Wi-Fi information, Google said on its European Public
Policy blog. More countries will be added in time, it said.
Google began driving in San Francisco recently, said  Jessica Powell , a Tokyo-based spokeswoman.  
 Google is being investigated in Europe and the U.S. after
the company said in May that it had mistakenly gathered wireless
Internet data while photographing residential streets worldwide.
The Internet-search provider today apologized to its Australian
users and agreed to assess the impact on privacy resulting from
its collection of information.  
 “They had a hiccup over the wireless data, and I would say
that’s blown over for the time being,”  Sam Hart , a media
analyst at Charles Stanley in London, said by phone. “I think
it was more of a one-off than anything that will really impact
them over the longer term.”  
 Google, whose Street View service allow users to click on
maps to see 360-degree views of roads, is entangled in
regulatory disputes in several countries related to online
searches, advertising and maps. The Mountain View, California-
based company said June 4 it will provide French, German and
Spanish authorities with data that was inadvertently collected
from wireless networks.  
 More Time  
 Google wants more time before resuming Street View driving
in countries where the company is subject to ongoing
investigations and outstanding questions that still need
answering, Powell said in an e-mail.  
 “We decided to start driving in countries where we have
largely resolved our regulatory issues,” she said.  
 Google has agreed to consult Australia’s privacy regulator
about any “significant” new products in the country during the
next three years, Privacy Commissioner Karen Curtis said on her
office’s  website  today. Curtis said she was “satisfied that any
collection of personal information would have breached” the
nation’s privacy laws.  
 The commissioner said the existing law constrained her from
imposing any sanction in such cases and added the regulator
supports government plans to adopt tougher rules for breaches of
privacy.  
 “This was a mistake for which we are sincerely sorry,”
Google said on its Australian blog. “Maintaining people’s trust
is crucial to everything we do and we have to earn that trust
every single day. We are acutely aware that we failed badly.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Robert Fenner  in Melbourne 
 rfenner@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 8 (Bloomberg) -- David Drummond, chief legal officer of Google Inc., discusses the company's data-gathering activities and China strategy. 
     Drummond spoke yesterday at the Aspen Ideas Festival in Aspen, Colorado. Bloomberg's Erik Schatzker reports. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
