-- Google CEO Says He Expects China to Renew Web License
-- Brian Womack
-- 2010-07-09T02:33:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-09/google-chief-executive-schmidt-says-he-expects-china-to-renew-web-license.html

          
          
             Google Inc.  Chief Executive Officer
 Eric Schmidt  said he expects China to renew the company’s newly
revised application to deliver Web services in the country.  
 China, the world’s largest Internet market, threatened not
to renew the license after disapproving of  Google ’s attempts to
sidestep censorship rules, the company said. The timing of the
decision is up to Chinese authorities, Schmidt said yesterday at
an Allen & Co. conference in Sun Valley, Idaho.  
 “Our operations in China are completely at the discretion
of the Chinese government,” he said.  
 Google disagrees with Chinese rules that require companies
to limit public online access to information the government
deems inappropriate. The company’s ability to provide search and
other services rests on whether officials approve its
application. A decision may take some time, the China Daily
reported this week, citing the Ministry of Industry and
Information Technology spokesman  Wang Lijian .  
 The standoff with China began in January, when Google said
it would stop censoring search results, violating rules.  
 Google’s attempt to circumvent the strictures -- sending
Chinese users to its unfiltered site in Hong Kong -- didn’t sit
well with China either. To allay the concerns, Google last month
added an extra hurdle for Chinese Web surfers, directing them to
a landing page that in turn pointed them to the Hong Kong site.  
 Google, based in Mountain View, California, rose $6.36 to
$456.56 yesterday in Nasdaq Stock Market  trading . The shares
have fallen 26 percent this year.  
 Wi-Fi Snafu  
 In the event China opts not to renew the company’s Internet
license, “ Google  would effectively go dark in China,” Chief
Legal Officer  David Drummond  said in a June 28 blog posting.
“It’s clear from conversations we have had with Chinese
government officials that they find the redirect unacceptable.”  
 In other remarks at a press conference in Sun Valley,
Schmidt said buyers of  Motorola Inc. ’s new Droid X, which uses
Google’s Android software, face a one-month delay in getting the
phone.  
 “We have a supply problem, not a demand problem,” he said.  
 Schmidt also reiterated that the company regrets recent
collection of data delivered via Wi-Fi networks, moves that
brought the company under regulatory scrutiny in the U.S. and
parts of Europe. In May,  Google  said it mistakenly gathered
information from open wireless networks while it was capturing
images of streets and houses for its Street View service, a
product that lets users view photographs of an area online.  
 “This kind of mistake will never occur again,” Schmidt
said.  
 Turning to the broader economy, Schmidt said the U.S. and
Europe have a relatively long recovery ahead. Google plans to
announce its second-quarter financial results next week.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Andy Fixmer  in Los Angeles at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net ;
 Brian Womack  in San Francisco at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Google Inc. Chairman and CEO Eric Schmidt  
                       
                         
                           Matthew Staver/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Google Inc. Chairman and CEO Eric Schmidt speaks during a press conference in Sun Valley. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Google Inc. Chairman and CEO Eric Schmidt speaks during a press conference in Sun Valley. Photographer: Matthew Staver/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 8 (Bloomberg) -- David Drummond, chief legal officer of Google Inc., discusses the company's data-gathering activities and China strategy. 
     Drummond spoke yesterday at the Aspen Ideas Festival in Aspen, Colorado. Bloomberg's Erik Schatzker reports. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
