-- Google Says China Renews Its Internet License
-- Brian Womack
-- 2010-07-09T16:31:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-09/google-says-chinese-government-renewed-its-internet-license-in-blog-post.html

          
          
             Google Inc.  said it won the renewal
of its Web-service license in China, defusing a six-month
standoff with the government over censorship that threatened the
company’s operations in the world’s biggest Internet market.  
 “We look forward to continuing to provide Web search and
local products to our users in China,” the company said on its
 blog  today. Google’s license, which runs to 2012, will be
subject to annual renewal, company spokeswoman  Jessica Powell 
said, declining to say whether the Chinese government had
imposed any conditions on renewing the permit.  
 Google rose  in Nasdaq  trading as the company avoided
getting expelled by the government, which objected to the
company’s efforts to keep providing unfiltered search results.
The dispute began in January, when the operator of the world’s
most-used search engine said it was no longer willing to comply
with Chinese regulations to self-censor content.  
 “The surprising thing was that the process wasn’t longer,
there weren’t more concessions and that there weren’t more
headaches involved with it,” said  Heath Terry , who rates Google
“outperform” at FBR Capital Markets in New York. “It
signifies the importance of Google to China -- from the
candlelight vigils outside of the headquarters to the sheer
usage numbers of Google in China. Google is important to the
Chinese people and I think the government heard that.”  
 Chief Executive Officer  Eric Schmidt , who is in Sun Valley,
Idaho, at a conference for media executives, said he learned of
the renewal decision early today.  
 Overnight News  
 “This is the outcome we were hoping for, we just didn’t
expect a decision this soon,” Schmidt said in an interview. “I
didn’t know until this morning. Literally the good news came
overnight.”  
 Wang Lijian , spokesman at the Ministry of Industry and
Information Technology, said the government is likely to post a
statement on its website.  Schmidt  had said yesterday he expected
the license to be renewed.  
 Google  defied the government in March by ending self-
censorship of the Chinese search engine and redirecting users to
a Hong Kong site that shows search results deemed unacceptable
to Chinese censors. The dispute has cost the company
partnerships with  China Unicom (Hong Kong) Ltd.  and Tom Online
Inc., and lifted sales at local rival  Baidu Inc.    
 Google, whose shares had fallen 26 percent this year before
today, rose $6.36, or 1.4 percent, to $462.92 at 12:21 p.m., New
York time, on the Nasdaq Stock Market.  
 China Potential  
 “Google doesn’t really want to leave China, because it’s a
very big market and there is a lot of potential for them,”
 Bruno Lippens , a fund manager at Pictet Asset Management SA in
Geneva, said before the renewal. “It goes much broader than
just business issues. It’s about cultural differences and
fundamental beliefs like freedom of speech and privacy.”  
 Google last week resubmitted a license renewal application
on the grounds that the Mountain View, California-based company
would now point users to an unfiltered Hong Kong site instead of
redirecting them automatically.  
 “This is a reasonable move by the government,” said  Jake Li , an Internet analyst at Guotai Junan Securities in Shenzhen.
“Google has brought itself into compliance with regulations, so
there’s no good reason to deny them the license.”  
 Google in January said it would stop censoring content and
threatened to exit the Chinese market after cyber attacks
originating from the nation targeted its systems. The “highly
sophisticated” attacks were aimed at obtaining proprietary
information and personal data belonging to human-rights
activists who use the company’s Gmail e-mail service, it said.  
 Cyber Attacks  
 Adobe Systems Inc., Juniper Networks Inc. and Rackspace
Hosting Inc. said after Google’s announcement they were also
targeted by cyber attacks. The attacks may have targeted more
than 100 companies, according to security research firm ISEC
Partners Inc.  
 Google said last week it added a link to its unfiltered
Hong Kong site on the google.cn homepage, instead of directing
users automatically, and submitted a revised license application
to the government based on the practice. That allows the company
to “stay true” to a commitment not to self-censor search
results in China while adhering to local law, Chief Legal
Officer  David Drummond  said at the time.  
 Since it began redirecting Chinese users to the unfiltered
Hong Kong site in March, Google’s search results have been
screened by China’s so-called “Great Firewall,” the monitoring
system operated by government censors to block overseas services
such as Facebook Inc. and Google’s YouTube.  
 Losing to Baidu  
 The “Great Firewall” limits Chinese Web users’ access to
information on topics ranging from Tibet’s independence to the
1989 crackdown on democracy protesters in Tiananmen Square.  
 Google’s market share in China fell to 30.9 percent in the
first quarter from 35.6 percent three months prior, according to
data from research firm Analysys International.  Baidu ’s share
increased to a record 64 percent from 58.4 percent, according to
Analysys. Baidu fell $1.66, or 2.3 percent, to $70.76 today.  
 Bank of America Corp.’s Merrill Lynch estimated in April
Google would generate $160 million in sales this year from
China. That’s less than  1 percent  of the company’s projected
total revenue this year, according to the average of 29 analyst
 estimates  compiled by Bloomberg. It earned sales of about $335
million from China in 2009, according to Analysys.  
 China had 384 million Internet users at the end of 2009, the
government estimates. That’s more than the total U.S.
population. The number may grow to 840 million by 2013,
according to EMarketer Inc. in New York.  
 Google Advertisers  
 Baidu  in April said it benefited from Google’s “semi-
exit.” The Chinese company expects “healthy” growth in
customers and average spending by clients will continue, Baidu
Chief Executive Officer  Robin Li  said in a conference call on
April 29.  
 Google’s advertisers in China may have cut their spending
by as much as 30 percent on average, and shifted their business
mostly to Baidu, Credit Suisse Group AG analyst  Wallace Cheung 
wrote in an April 27 report. This has allowed Baidu to charge
higher prices, according to Cheung.  
 The Chinese government on June 8 announced topics it
censors on the Internet, including material that may damage
“state honor and interests” or “subverts state power.”  
 No organization can “produce, duplicate, announce or
disseminate information” on topics that may be “against the
cardinal principles set forth in the constitution,” China’s
State Council Information Office said in a 31-page policy paper
on the Internet.  
 Information which may incite ethnic hatred, jeopardize
state religious policy or spread “superstitious ideas” is also
subject to the restrictions.  
 The license renewal comes a day after the U.S. said China
took a “significant step” last month when it ended its peg to
the dollar and allowed markets to drive the currency higher. The
report, initially due April 15, concluded that no major U.S.
trading partner manipulated its currency and said it’s not yet
clear whether China’s policy shift will correct the yuan’s
undervaluation.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mark Lee  in Hong Kong at 
 wlee37@bloomberg.net ;
 Brian Womack  in San Francisco at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Google says Chinese government renewed internet license  
                       
                         
                           Matthew Staver/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Google Inc. CEO Eric Schmidt. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Google Inc. CEO Eric Schmidt. Photographer: Matthew Staver/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 9 (Bloomberg) -- Google Inc. said the Chinese government has renewed its Internet license after the company submitted a revised application to meet regulations in the world’s biggest Internet market by users. Bloomberg's Zeb Eckert reports. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
