-- Google Agrees to Assess Privacy of Street View Data Collected in Australia
-- Robert Fenner
-- 2010-07-09T06:21:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-09/google-agrees-to-assess-privacy-of-street-view-data-collected-in-australia.html

          
          
             Google Inc.  has agreed to assess the
impact on privacy of data collected in Australia for its Street
View service, the nation’s privacy regulator said after a probe.  
 The operator of the world’s most popular Internet search
engine apologized for collecting personal information from Wi-Fi
networks when rolling out Street View and has agreed to consult
with the regulator for any “significant” new products in
Australia during the next three years, Privacy Commissioner
Karen Curtis said on the official  website  today.  
 In May, Google said it “mistakenly”  took data  from Wi-Fi
networks as its vehicles drove through Australia for Street View,
which allows website users to click on maps to see 360-degree
views of roads. Curtis said she was “satisfied that any
collection of personal information would have breached” the
nation’s privacy laws, adding the company’s agreements are
expected to ensure protections are built into new products.  
 “This was a mistake for which we are sincerely sorry,”
Google said on its Australian blog. “Maintaining people’s trust
is crucial to everything we do and we have to earn that trust
every single day. We are acutely aware that we failed badly.”  
 The Privacy Commissioner said the existing law constrained
her from imposing any sanction in such cases and added the
regulator supports government plans to adopt tougher rules for
breaches of privacy.  
 Australian police are separately probing the Mountain View,
California-based company’s Street View service for possible
breaches of data-security laws Attorney-General  Robert McClelland  said last month. Communications Minister  Stephen Conroy  on May 24 accused Google of invading privacy by
photographing streets and using software to intercept data.  
 “Collecting personal information in these circumstances is
a very serious matter. Australians should reasonably expect that
private communications remain private,” Curtis said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Robert Fenner  in Melbourne 
 rfenner@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        