-- ICBC, CCB Deny Report That They Resumed Third-Home Mortgages in Shanghai
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-07-09T07:43:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-09/icbc-ccb-deny-report-they-resumed-making-loans-for-third-home-purchased.html

          
          
             Industrial & Commercial Bank of China
Ltd. , China Construction Bank Corp. and  Bank of China Ltd. 
denied a newspaper report that they resumed third-home mortgages
in Shanghai.  
 The companies are complying with a government order to
freeze lending for such purchases, spokespeople for the three
banks’ Shanghai branches said in interviews. Some Shanghai-based
commercial banks have resumed lending for third-home purchases
and eased policies for second-home buyers, the Oriental Morning
Post  reported  yesterday, citing people it didn’t identify.  
 China’s State Council on April 15 announced measures to
crack down on speculative property purchases, including
requiring a 50 percent down-payment and 1.1 times the benchmark
rate for second homes, and a ban on third mortgages.  Real-estate
prices  jumped 12.4 percent across 70 cities in May, the second-
fastest pace on record, heightening concern a bubble is forming.  
 Construction Bank  started taking applications for third-
home mortgages from borrowers with high credit ratings this week,
though none have been approved, said an executive at the
lender’s Shanghai branch who declined to be identified.  
 ICBC required down-payments of 60 percent and imposed
interest rates of 20 percent more than the benchmark on
applications for third-home loans, the Oriental Morning Post
said. Construction Bank required 50 percent as a down-payment,
according to the report.  
 The government plans to introduce additional measures in
the third quarter to strengthen enforcement of existing real
estate policies, the 21st Century Business Herald reported on
July 6, citing a person it didn’t name.  
 Sales of new homes in Shanghai fell 57 percent in the first
six months to a five-year low following the government’s
measures to cool the property market, Shanghai Uwin Real Estate
Information Services Co. said this week. An  index  tracking
stocks of 34 Shanghai-listed developers dropped 27 percent in
2010, even as home prices kept rising.  
 -- Luo Jun . Editors: Chitra Somayaji, Joost Akkermans  
 To contact Bloomberg News staff of this story:
Luo Jun in Shanghai at +8621-6104-7021 or
 jluo6@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        