-- Iceland Parliament Ombudsman Asks FSA to Explain Opinion on Indexed Loans
-- Omar R. Valdimarsson
-- 2010-07-09T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-09/iceland-parliament-ombudsman-asks-fsa-to-explain-opinion-on-indexed-loans.html

          
          
             Iceland’s parliamentary ombudsman
demanded the central bank and Financial Services Authority
explain their recommendations on interest rates after a court
ruled some foreign currency-linked loans were illegal.  
 The two agencies said June 30 that banks should recalculate
interest rates on loans affected by the Supreme Court decision
based on Icelandic central bank rates, rather than the lower
contractual rates charged on foreign currency loans. Higher
rates would help banks offset the June 16 decision, which the
finance minister estimates may cost lenders $4.3 billion.  
 The recommendation will help “create stability” in
financial markets and promote a “secure” financial system
until a conclusion has been reached on how the ruling should be
implemented, the central bank and FSA said. The ombudsman said
the ruling doesn’t apply to interest rates.  
 “In light of this, I request that the institution explains
further on what it bases its argument that “uncertainty” clouds
the terms of the loan agreements the recommendations are
directed at, in light of the Supreme Court rulings, especially
in regards to the interest rates,” the ombudsman said in a
letter posted on its website.  
 The recommendations from the FSA and central bank sparked a
demonstration by about 500 protesters outside Iceland’s
parliament on July 5. The ombudsman polices government agencies
to protect the rights of citizens.  
 Supreme Court Ruling  
 The Supreme Court ruled loans indexed to foreign-currency
rates were illegal in three cases involving car loans and a
corporate property loan. The decisions may mean that borrowers
with such loans are only obliged to repay the principal in
kronur, leaving lenders liable for currency losses on about $28
billion of debt after the krona lost a third of its value
against the Japanese yen and Swiss franc since September 2008.  
 Iceland’s 2008 financial crisis was exacerbated by banks
borrowing in foreign currencies to take advantage of lower
interest rates. The loans were then repackaged in kronur before
being passed on to clients. While foreign currency lending is
permitted, indexing krona loans to foreign exchange rates has
been banned since 2001.  
 After the collapse of Iceland’s financial system, the
central bank estimated that households had foreign currency debt
of 300 billion kronur to 350 billion kronur ($2.8 billion).
About 70 percent of corporate debt is foreign-currency
denominated, amounting to 3.2 trillion kronur in the middle of
last year, the bank said in a financial stability report
published June 2.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Omar R. Valdimarsson  in Reykjavik 
 valdimarsson@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        