-- Time Warner Sells $3 Billion of Debt as Weekly Issuance Volume Doubles
-- Sapna Maheshwari
-- 2010-07-09T22:12:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-09/time-warner-sells-3-billion-of-debt-as-weekly-issuance-volume-jumps-80-.html

          
          
             Time Warner Inc ., owner of the Warner
Bros. film studio and TBS cable-television channel, helped lead
$16.2 billion of U.S. corporate bond sales this week as issuance
more than doubled.  
 Time Warner sold $3 billion of debt in a three-part
offering on July 7, the New York-based company’s biggest issue
since November 2006, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Overall issuance rose from $7.69 billion last week.  
 Corporate bond sales jumped as a drop in jobless claims and
higher-than-forecast sales at retailers bolstered investor
confidence that the economy is stabilizing. The data, along with
reports that European Union regulators are carrying out stress
tests on 91 banks, was a “positive” for credit markets, said
 Anthony Valeri , a market strategist at LPL Financial.  
 Issuers “are taking advantage of a better tone this
week,” said Valeri, who is based in San Diego. “The same-store
sales kind of contradict the double-dip fears out in the
marketplace. With the upcoming stress tests, the fact they’re
moving forward and we got some additional clarity was a positive
for credit markets.”  
 Investment-Grade Sales  
 Investment-grade issuance more than doubled to $13.8
billion this week, while high-risk, high-yield debt rose 47
percent to $2.44 billion, Bloomberg data show. High-yield debt
is rated below Baa3 by Moody’s Investors Service and BBB- by
Standard & Poor’s.  
 The extra yield investors demand to own investment-grade
corporate bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries fell 4 basis points
to 204 basis points, according to the Bank of America Merrill
Lynch U.S. Corporate Master Index. Average yields dipped to 4.3
percent on July 6, the lowest since February 2004, the index
data show, before ending at 4.35 percent, down one basis point
for the week. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  
 Even as they increased from last week, investment-grade
corporate sales fell short of the $14.8 billion 2010 weekly
average, and junk bond sales were less than the $4.5 billion
mean, Bloomberg data show.  
 “On a net basis, there’s just not a lot of incremental
supply in the names that investors want,” said  Justin D’Ercole ,
head of investment-grade syndicate for the Americas at Barclays
Capital. The new-issue calendar “will remain active, but not
overwhelming.”  
 Forecast Cut  
 Bank of America Merrill Lynch cut its forecast for U.S.
investment-grade debt sales in 2010 to $700 billion from $800
billion, citing growth in company cash balances, according to a
report earlier this week.  
 In response to the recession, nonfinancial borrowers
boosted cash and equivalents to $1 trillion in the first quarter
of this year from $814 billion in 2008, according to Bank of
America data.  
 Spreads on high-yield, high-risk debt narrowed for the
first time in three weeks, tightening 25 basis points to 688
basis points, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch index
data. The absolute yield on the debt fell 18 basis points to
9.02 percent, the data show.  
 Initial claims for benefits decreased by 21,000 in the week
ended July 3 to 454,000, Labor Department figures showed
yesterday in Washington. Economists had forecast claims would
fall to 460,000, according to the median of 36 projections in a
Bloomberg survey.  
 Retail Sales  
 Sales at stores open at least a year rose more than
analysts projected at Nordstrom Inc., J.C. Penney Co. and Macy’s
Inc., according to estimates compiled by Retail Metrics Inc.
Same-store sales are a key indicator of a retailer’s growth
because they exclude results from new and closed locations.  
 The yield on  10-year Treasuries , the market bellwether,
rose above 3 percent for the first time this month yesterday and
ended at 3.05 percent, while the  Standard & Poor’s  500 index
rallied 5.4 percent for the week.  
 Time Warner divided its $3 billion offering evenly among
five-year, 10.5-year and 30-year securities, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The five-year debt yields 140 basis
points more than similar-maturity Treasuries, the 10.5-year
notes yield 175 basis points more than benchmarks, and the 30-
year bonds pay a 215 basis-point spread.  
 The company will use the proceeds to redeem as much as $1
billion of 5.5 percent notes maturing in November 2011, $2
billion of 6.875 percent debt due in May 2012, and $1 billion of
9.125 percent notes dated January 2013, according to a
prospectus filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission and data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 Net Volume  
 The planned repurchases show that net new issuance remains
low, D’Ercole said. “Even when borrowers issue new debt,
they’re taking bonds out of the market at the same time,” he
said.  
 Kreditanstalt fuer Wiederaufbau, the German development
bank, led investment-grade debt sales, issuing $5 billion of
securities, Bloomberg data show.  
 Fidelity National Information Services Inc. , the payment-
processor that private-equity firms including  Blackstone Group
LP  sought to buy, led junk sales this week, issuing $1.1 billion
of senior notes, the data show. The company previously planned
to sell $1.2 billion of the debt, according to a person familiar
with the transaction, who declined to be identified because
terms weren’t yet set.  
 Proceeds will be used to help repurchase stock and to repay
debt used to buy Metavante Technologies Inc., a technology
products provider, the company said in a July 6 statement.  
 Earnings Season  
 Speculative-grade borrowers may hold off on issuing debt as
companies begin reporting second-quarter earnings next week,
said  Sabur Moini , who manages $1.7 billion of high-yield debt at
Payden & Rygel in Los Angeles.  
 “Earnings season tends to create volatility,” he said.
“I don’t see the calendar growing dramatically in July and
August.”  
 The so-called earnings season typically begins with a
report from Alcoa Inc., the largest U.S. aluminum maker, which
is scheduled for the market close on July 12.  
 Gentiva Health Services Inc ., the U.S. home-nursing company
that is buying Odyssey HealthCare Inc., plans to sell $305
million of eight-year notes, the Atlanta-based company said in a
May 24 regulatory filing, without specifying the timing of the
transaction.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sapna Maheshwari  in New York at 
 sapnam@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        