-- Government Wins Time to Reply to Petition Seeking Ban on Foreign Law Firms
-- P.S. Patnaik
-- 2010-07-09T05:20:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-09/india-s-government-buys-time-to-respond-to-foreign-law-firm-ban-petition.html

          
          
             India’s government won a month to
respond to a petition in the southern city of Chennai for 31
foreign law firms including White & Case LLP and Clifford Chance
LLP to be banned from operating in the country.  
 The government hasn’t been able to consult with Bar Council
of India Chairman  Gopal Subramaniam , who is the country’s
Solicitor General, its lawyer Muthukrishna Ravindran said
yesterday. The next hearing is scheduled for Aug. 4, he said.  
 U.S., U.K., Dutch, Australian and Chinese law firms have
also been asked to respond to the  suit , according to Karthikeyan
N., the lawyer for the petitioner A.K. Balaji. His petition
claims that the firms are illegally practicing law in India in
hotels, seminars and through outsourcing operations, asking for
an interim injunction restraining them from commercial
transactions in the country.  
 “If this petition is successful, it could mean that top
Indian companies doing deals overseas won’t be able to get
international advice in their own offices,” said  Jeff Blount ,
Asia Pacific practice head of Fulbright & Jaworski LLP, a
Houston-based firm that’s not a target of the suit.  
 “That’s not what a globalizing country and corporate
sector needs,” Blount said.  
 Indian companies may have to take advice from foreign law
firms on their overseas operations by telephone, videoconference
and e-mail said  Pramod Rao , general counsel of ICICI Bank Ltd.,
India’s second-largest bank.  
 Reciprocity  
 Before foreign lawyers can be allowed into India, there
must be reciprocity for Indian lawyers in countries such as the
U.K. and U.S., Balaji said in his March 18 petition.  U.K. rules 
permitting Indian lawyers to practice are “far more cumbersome
as compared to the easy accessibility of the Indian legal
market” to English firms, he said.  
 India’s central bank shouldn’t have licensed White & Case
LLP, Ashurst LLP and Chadbourne & Parke LLP to open offices, the
Mumbai High Court ruled in December, affirming a 1995 interim
decision that stalled the entry of foreign law firms into the
country. White & Case and Ashurst are among the 30 firms named
in the writ.  
 Six government agencies including the  law ministry  and the
central bank, Integreon Inc., a legal and financial outsourcing
company, and the Indian and Tamil Nadu  bar councils  were also
named in the writ.  
 Singapore, Hong Kong  
 The foreign firms have set up alliances with Indian firms
and practices in other countries including Hong Kong and
Singapore to serve companies doing Indian deals.  
 “We’ll not be distracted by this suit and we’ll carry on
business as usual until the court rules otherwise,” Gubbins,
 Ashurst’s India Practice Head , said from London. “India’s a
huge legal market and there’s enough work for everyone.”  
 Ashurst lawyers including Gubbins who fly to India on work
matters have the “proper, legitimate” business visas, he said.
The London firm advised the government on the divestment of its
stake in state explorer  Oil India Ltd.  and the share sale of
Rural Electrification Corp.  
 India’s former law minister  H. R. Bhardwaj  had urged Indian
lawyers to stop opposing the entry of overseas firms, saying
that they would create new legal jobs in the country. Foreign
lawyers aren’t permitted to appear in Indian courts, and the
petition seeks to bar them further.  
 Balaji said in his petition he had made a similar request
on Jan. 18 to the government bodies, who chose to remain as
“mute spectators.”  
 The latest opposition by Indian lawyers is “more of an
annoyance,” said  Yash Rana , Hong Kong managing partner at
Goodwin Procter LLP, a Boston-based firm that isn’t named in the
suit. Rana, who is Indian born and has a  Person of Indian Origin
visa  which allows him to conduct business there, visits the
South Asian nation once every few weeks to meet clients.  
 “All they can seek to stop is lawyers flying in to
India,” Rana said. “This may mean many more meetings taking
place elsewhere in Hong Kong, Singapore and Dubai.”  
 The case is A.K. Balaji v. The Government of India, Ashurst
LLP, White & Case et al, WP5614/2010 in the High Court, Madras.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Andrea Tan  in Singapore at 
 atan17@bloomberg.net ;
 P. S. Patnaik  in New Delhi at 
 ppatnaik2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        