-- Infineon Shares Rise on Report of Talks to Sell Mobile-Chip Unit to Intel
-- Ragnhild Kjetland
-- 2010-07-09T10:03:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-09/infineon-shares-rise-after-die-welt-report-about-sale-of-mobile-chip-unit.html

          
          
             Infineon Technologies AG  rose as much
as 2.6 percent in Frankfurt trading after Die Welt reported that
the German semiconductor maker is close to selling its mobile-
chip unit to  Intel Corp.  for as much as $1.4 billion.  
 The two sides have met several times in the past few weeks,
though a contract has not yet been signed, the German newspaper
said, without saying where it got the information. Infineon
spokesman  Kay Laudien  and Intel spokesman  Martin Strobel  both
declined to comment when contacted by Bloomberg.  
 Infineon’s wireless solutions business had 917 million
euros ($1.13 billion) in sales in the 12 months ended Sept. 30,
or about 30 percent of the Neubiberg, Germany-based company’s
total revenue. Mobile-phone chip-manufacturing capacity is
becoming more important as devices such as  Apple Inc.’s  iPhone
drive demand for the specialized components.  
 “Intel is trying to build a strong strategy in the mobile
market and willing to invest massively in this landscape, and a
Infineon acquisition could be just another step towards that
end,”  Malik Kamal-Saadi , principal analyst at Informa Telecoms
and Media in London, said via phone today. “However, Intel
would face some technical and strategic issues while integrating
Infineon wireless with its mobile media processor portfolio.”  
 Infineon is weighing options for its mobile-chip unit that
could include a sale, two people familiar with the matter said
June 15. The chipmaker hired  JPMorgan Chase & Co.  and opened a
room for potential buyers to review its books, according to one
of the people, who declined to be identified because the
situation is private.  
 Strategy  
 “It will be crucial to see how management reinvests the
proceeds” if Infineon sells the mobile-phone unit, said  Bernd Laux , head of German equity research at Credit Agricole
Cheuvreux in Frankfurt. Infineon should use the possible
proceeds for acquisitions to bolster its industrial unit, he
said.  
 Infineon jumped as much as 13 cents to 5.14 euros and
traded at 5.05 euros as of 12:00 p.m. Before today, the stock
had risen 29 percent this year.  
 In the first six months of the current fiscal year, the
wireless unit’s sales rose 34 percent to 537 million euros. The
unit also returned to an operating profit of 26 million euros
from a loss of 73 million euros in the same period last year.  
 Customers of Infineon’s mobile-chip unit, which also makes
radio-frequency and power management chips and transceivers for
satellite radio, include Apple Inc. Ericsson AB, LG Electronics
Inc. and Samsung Electronics Co.  
 “The whole mobile chipset business is getting increasingly
commoditized, so the industry will definitely consolidate,”
Informa’s Malik Kamal-Saadi said. “It doesn’t really make sense
to have 10 to 15 players in this market landscape. The coming
years will definitely reveal more mergers and acquisitions to
leave the mobile chipset market with only 3 to 4 key players.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ragnhild Kjetland  in Frankfurt at 
 rkjetland@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        