-- Inpex Plunges on Plan to Sell $6.6 Billion of Shares to Expand Overseas
-- Shigeru Sato
-- 2010-07-09T07:38:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-09/inpex-poised-to-fall-on-6-6-billion-share-sale-plan-for-australia-project.html

          
          
             Inpex Corp. , the operator of a
proposed $20 billion natural-gas project in Australia, plunged
to a record low in Tokyo after announcing a $6.6 billion share
sale plan to finance the development.  
 The stock slumped 13 percent to close at 415,000 yen,
making it the  biggest loser  on the MSCI World Index.  
 Japan’s largest energy explorer said yesterday it’s
planning the country’s biggest share sale by a non-financial
institution this year to fund the Ichthys development. The
company delayed a final investment decision on the project in
May until as late as the fourth quarter of 2011, without giving
a reason. The stock has dropped 42 percent in six months.  
 “They could’ve done this three years ago when the share
 price  was more than 1 million yen,” said  Benjamin Wedmore , an
analyst at MF Global FXA Securities Ltd. in Tokyo. “Dilution
could take Inpex shares down.”  
 The company will issue 1.22 million shares of common stock
in Japan and abroad, it said in a filing to the Ministry of
Finance yesterday. Inpex has 2.36 million outstanding shares.
The offer price will be set between July 26 and July 28.  
 The news may drive the shares to a record low, said
 Tomohiro Jikihara , an analyst at Deutsche Securities Inc.  
 Overseas Investment  
 “The stock may bottom out around 400,000 yen in the next
two or three business days as share sales clearly dilute the
value,” he said by phone from Tokyo today.  
 “But the Ichthys LNG project will be luring new investors
to buy the stock and hold it until the global economic recovery
bolsters energy demand and Inpex shares in months ahead.”
Jikihara has a ‘buy’  rating  on the stock.  
 Inpex needs to strengthen its  finances  to boost investment
in overseas projects,  Kazuhiko Itano , a company spokesman, said
by phone from Tokyo yesterday. The company will spend 4 trillion
yen over seven years on the Ichthys project, the Abadi liquefied
natural gas development in Indonesia and the Kashagan oil field
in Kazakhstan, he said.  
 Inpex, the operator of the Ichthys venture, and partner
 Total SA  are seeking to capitalize on Asia’s growing demand for
the cleaner fuel. The plant will process gas from the WA-285-P
field, 850 kilometers (530 miles) off the coast of northern
Australia, and have an annual capacity of 8 million metric tons.  
 The venture is among more than 12 proposed LNG projects in
Australia and Papua New Guinea competing for customers and
seeking to tap a forecast increase in demand in North Asia for
cleaner fuels.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Shigeru Sato  in Tokyo at 
 ssato10@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        