-- Iran Cuts Crude Oil Stored in Supertankers by 40%, Signaling More Supplies
-- Alaric Nightingale
-- 2010-07-09T10:10:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-09/iran-cuts-crude-oil-stored-in-supertankers-by-40-signaling-more-supplies.html

          
          
             Iran, the second-largest oil producer
in the Middle East, released six supertankers from its fleet of
vessels storing crude oil, a 40 percent reduction that may mean
more oil heading to Europe, shipping tracking data show.  
 The National Iranian Tanker Co. has nine supertankers
stationed off the United Arab Emirates and its own coast,
according to data from the ships collected by AISLive Ltd. and
compiled by Bloomberg. That’s down from 15 of the vessels on
April 27. The six tankers that have been released can hold about
12 million barrels of oil.  
 European refiners, ending seasonal maintenance shutdowns,
will  increase production  2.5 percent in the third quarter to
12.4 million barrels a day, according to an International Energy
Agency report on June 10. Output in North America and parts of
Asia will decline in the same period, according to the report.  
 “Storage is the safety valve that blows from time to
time,”  Anders Karlsen , a shipping analyst at Nordea Securities
in Oslo, said by phone today. “It makes an impact most
certainly” on the tanker market, he said.  
 Rental income  from supertankers on the benchmark Saudi
Arabia-to-Japan route slumped 71 percent to $21,080 a day since
June 16, according to prices from the London-based Baltic
Exchange. The supply of vessels competing to haul 2 million-
barrel cargoes in the Middle East has declined in the past week,
according to the median estimate of six owners and brokers
surveyed by Bloomberg News on July 6.  
 Incentive Fades  
 The reduction coincides with a trend among international
oil companies to cut sea storage as the financial incentive to
do so fades. The amount of crude held on tankers hired for long-
term storage, excluding Iranian supplies, has fallen 60 percent
this year to 17 million barrels as of July 2, according to ICAP
Shipping International Ltd.  
 Out of Iran’s 28-strong fleet of vessels, eight are bound
for Ain Sukhna, a facility at the Red Sea entrance of the Suez
Canal that feeds a pipeline to storage tanks on Egypt’s
Mediterranean coast, according to the AISLive data. From there,
European refinery clients normally collect cargoes on smaller
vessels.  
 Most Iranian oil unloaded at Ain Sukhna will likely end up
in the European refining system, having been collected from the
Sidi Kerir terminal by smaller ships,  Per Mansson , managing
director of Nor Ocean Stockholm AB, said by e-mail today.  
 The carriers Najm, Dadgar, Nabi, Hohar, Davar, Hengam,
Hirmand, Marbat and Danesh have been in their present positions
for at least two weeks, according to their signals. All nine
vessels are sitting at 80 percent or more of their maximum
depths in the water, indicating they have full or partial
cargoes on board.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alaric Nightingale  in London at 
 Anightingal1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        