-- Iraq's Senior Shiite Clergy Offers to Help Break Post-Election Deadlock
-- Caroline Alexander
-- 2010-07-09T13:11:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-09/iraq-s-senior-shiite-clergy-offers-to-help-break-post-election-deadlock.html

          
          
             Iraq’s senior Shiite Muslim clergy
signaled it’s ready to intervene to help end a political
deadlock that’s hampering the formation of a new government four
months after inconclusive parliamentary elections.  
 “The higher religious  Marjaiyah  is closely watching the
current political situation,” Sheikh Abud al-Mahdi al-Karbalai
told thousands of Muslims gathered for Friday prayers at Imam
Hussein Square in the southern city of Karbala today. The
Marjaiyah is a council of senior scholars based in the holy city
of Najaf.  
 If the country’s political leaders aren’t able to resolve
their differences and talks “come to a dead end, then the
religious authority is ready to provide assistance and advice to
reach a solution,” said al-Karbalai, who is a representative of
Iraq’s top Shiite leader, Ayatollah  Ali al-Sistani .  
 The vote on March 7 left all parties scrambling in search
of allies to gain a majority in the 325-seat assembly, which is
due to reconvene on July 13. The maneuvering coincides with U.S.
preparations to cut its Iraq force to 50,000 from 86,000 by
September, before a full withdrawal next year.  
 Ayad Allawi , a former premier whose Iraqiyah bloc was
backed by Sunni Muslim and secular voters, won the most seats in
the elections, securing 91 to the 89 garnered by Prime Minister
 Nuri al-Maliki ’s Shiite-led State of Law bloc. Both men are
vying to be named prime minister and form a Cabinet.  
 Iranian-born Sistani has played a key role in Iraq since
the March 2003 invasion that ousted  Saddam Hussein , whose Sunni
Muslim-dominated Baath party persecuted Shiites and other
groups. Through his representatives, Sistani has called for
Iraqis to participate in the country’s elections and to build a
democratic state. His office says he has no partisan allegiance.  
 The delay in forming a government has created “feelings of
worry and discomfort among the people,” al-Karbalai said. “We
want flexibility from the political parties; they should put
higher interests above sectarian interests.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Caroline Alexander  in London at 
 calexander1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        