-- J&J Sued by Consumers Over Children's Cold Medicines
-- Meg Tirrell
-- 2010-07-09T21:19:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-09/j-j-is-sued-by-consumers-over-recalled-children-s-cold-allergy-medicines.html

          
          
             Johnson & Johnson , the world’s
largest health-products company, was sued by U.S. consumers
accusing it of fraud and racketeering, and demanding cash
refunds for recalled children’s cold and allergy medicines.  
 In five complaints seeking class-action, or group, status
filed yesterday in federal court in Chicago, the consumers
spurned an offer by J&J’s McNeil Consumer Healthcare and McNeil-
PPC Inc. units for refund coupons and demanded  cash .  
 The coupons are “worthless” because McNeil has stopped
making the medicines and “wrongly assumes that all consumers
will want to purchase the company’s children’s products at some
uncertain future date,” according to the  complaints .  
 The companies on April 30 recalled more than 40 types of
pediatric pain and allergy drugs saying their quality and
potency didn’t meet internal requirements. Among the products it
named were children’s formulations of liquid Tylenol, Motrin and
Benadryl. J&J’s over-the-counter medicines and nutritionals  unit 
had  revenue  of $1.21 billion in the first quarter.  
 Bonnie Jacobs , a spokeswoman for New Brunswick, New Jersey
based J&J, said consumers can request a refund or coupon at
 mcneilproductrecall.com . She declined to comment further, saying
that as a policy the company doesn’t discuss litigation.  
 January Recall  
 J&J recalled other over-the-counter medicines in January
that may have been contaminated by a chemical found on shipping
and storage materials. The U.S. Food and Drug Administration
sent a warning letter to the drugmaker at the time, saying it
had waited more than a year to notify regulators after getting
complaints of customers becoming sick.  
 J&J expanded that recall once in June to include lots it
“inadvertently omitted,” and then again yesterday after
identifying additional medicines that could have been affected.  
 “At some point investors are going to get fed up with the
continued recalls,” said  Les Funtleyder , an analyst with Miller
Tabak & Co. in New York, who recommends buying J&J stock and
doesn’t own any himself. “The dribble, dribble, dribble of
negative news is not helping the shares.”  
 J&J fell 84 cents, or 1.4 percent, to $60.54 at 4:15 p.m.
in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares have
lost 5.8 percent since the April 30 children’s medicine recall,
compared with a decline of 4.4 percent in that period for the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Pharmaceuticals Index.  
 ‘Phantom Recall’  
 The complaints say that purchasers who have used up or
thrown out the drugs without keeping receipts won’t be able to
avail themselves of the company’s recall.  
 U.S. Representative  Edolphus Towns , a New York Democrat, on
May 27 accused the company of having executed a “phantom
recall” of its Motrin products in August 2008, attempting to
retrieve large quantities of the 88,000 packages without
notifying regulators.  
 Towns’ comments came during a House oversight committee
investigation into J&J’s actions.  
 Echoing the congressman’s charge in their complaints, the
consumers said the defendants’ manufacture of substandard
products then hiring of contractors to retrieve them amounted to
a “cover up” by a “criminal enterprise,” warranting a
finding of racketeering and an award of punitive damages.  
 The suits seek to proceed on behalf of plaintiffs’ groups
for residents of Illinois, Texas and Florida, as well as
consumers in the U.S. and Canada, who have bought the drugs
since December 2008.  
 The cases are Burrell v. McNeil Consumer Healthcare,
10cv4252; DeGroot v. McNeil Consumer Healthcare, 10cv4253;
Michaud v. McNeil Consumer Healthcare, 10cv4254; Nguyen v.
McNeil Consumer Healthcare, 10cv4255; Roberson v. McNeil
Consumer Healthcare, 10cv4256, U.S. District Court, Northern
District of Illinois (Chicago).  
 -- With assistance from  Shannon Pettypiece  in New York, and  Drew Armstrong  and  Dan Hart  in Washington. Editors:  Andrew Dunn ,
 Andrew Pollack .  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew M. Harris  in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net ;
 Meg Tirrell  in New York at 
 mtirrell@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        