-- Japan's Bonds to Fall as Profits Rise, Yields May Reach 1.4%, Mizuho Says
-- Yumi Ikeda
-- 2010-07-09T01:26:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-09/japan-s-bonds-to-fall-as-profits-rise-yields-may-reach-1-4-mizuho-says.html

          
          
             Japanese  bonds  are poised to fall as
improving corporate earnings damp demand for yields near a
seven-year low, according to Mizuho Corporate Bank Ltd.  
 Benchmark 10-year yields may climb to 1.40 percent by the
end of September, matching this year’s high, as U.S. companies
report higher profits and the sovereign debt crisis in Europe
eases, said  Riichiro Fukahori , senior vice president of fixed
income investment at the unit of Japan’s second-largest bank.  
 “Corporate profits - a key gauge for micro-economic
conditions - remain solid,” Tokyo-based Fukahori said in an
interview. “Bond yields may rise a bit if the forthcoming
reporting season in the U.S. and Japan show hard evidence of
continued profit growth.”  
 The 10-year  yield  slid to 1.055 percent on July 1, the
lowest since August 2003, from this year’s high of 1.405 percent
on April 7 as concern the global recovery is waning boosted
demand for debt. The benchmark bond yielded 1.15 percent as of
9:43 a.m. in Tokyo, according to Japan Bond Trading Co.  
 As risk aversion increased, the yen climbed to 107.32 per
euro on June 29, the strongest since November 2001, and the
 Nikkei 225  Stock Average slid to a seven-month low on July 6.  
 Profit at  Standard & Poor’s 500  companies is projected to
increase 34 percent this year, compared with the 27 percent
estimated on March 29, according to estimates compiled by
Bloomberg as the second-quarter earnings season gets underway.
 State Street Corp. , the third-largest U.S. custody bank,
reported stronger-than-expected second-quarter profit July 7.  
 Stress Tests  
 Japanese bonds may also lose one of their key drivers as
the debt crisis in European nations such as Greece and Spain
eases, Fukahori said.  
 European regulators told banks this week their planned
stress tests of the region’s lenders may assume a loss of about
17 percent on Greek debt and 3 percent on Spanish bonds,
according to people briefed on the talks. Credit markets were
pricing in losses of about 60 percent on Greek bonds should the
government default.  
 “Ongoing fiscal consolidation in Europe will pose some
downside risks to the economy, but if stress tests show that
European banks can cope with bad debt, the sovereign woes can no
longer serve as a bond catalyst,” Fukahori said.  
 This weekend’s elections for the upper-house of Japan’s
parliament also poses a risk for bonds, Fukahori said.  
 If  Ichiro Ozawa , an advocate of higher spending,
“reemerges” as a key player in the ruling Democratic Party of
Japan following the election, “this could deal a heavy blow to
the debt market,” he said.  
 Ozawa , the DPJ’s top campaign strategist, stepped down as
secretary-general at the same time former Prime Minister  Yukio Hatoyama  resigned in June.  Naoto Kan  replaced Hatoyama and
called for an overhaul of Japan’s finances.  
 The DPJ is fielding 106 candidates for 121 seats in the
July 11 election. In order for the ruling coalition to keep its
majority, the DPJ and its ally People’s New Party must win 56
spots. Half the chamber’s 242 seats are up for grabs.  
 However, “in a situation where the DPJ seeks a coalition
with parties such as the Liberal Democratic Party, which is also
calling for fiscal reforms, this will avoid a negative scenario
for bonds,” Fukahori said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Yasuhiko Seki  in Tokyo at 
 Yseki5@bloomberg.net ;
 Yumi Ikeda  in Tokyo at 
 Yikeda4@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        