-- California to Be Next U.S. Destination for Japan High-Speed Rail Delegates
-- Kiyotaka Matsuda
-- 2010-07-09T07:13:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-09/japan-may-send-delegation-to-california-next-in-u-s-high-speed-rail-bid.html

          
          
             Japan may send a sales delegation to
California early next year, following visits to Washington and
Chicago, as it steps up efforts to win U.S. orders for
trainmakers that built the world’s first bullet train in 1964.  
 Japan may hold a seminar in the state as early as January,
 Akihiko Tamura , assistant vice-minister for international
affairs at the country’s Ministry of Transport, said in an
interview in Tokyo yesterday. The ministry is also considering
seminars in New York, Boston and Florida, he said.  
 California is aiming to issue a tender for a bullet-train
line linking  Los Angeles and San Francisco  by next year after
winning the biggest share of President  Barack Obama ’s $8 billion
in grants to link cities by fast trains.  East Japan Railway Co. ,
the world’s largest passenger rail operator by market
capitalization, will compete against makers such as  Alstom SA ,
which built Amtrak’s Acela, the fastest train in the U.S.  
 “Japan needs to be proactive in holding seminars in order
to make up for lost ground in promoting its high-speed trains,”
said  Ryota Himeno , an analyst at Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley
Securities Co. “The country needs to promote a united approach
that can quickly respond to the needs of projects.”  
 Japan’s Transport Minister  Seiji Maehara  is keen for the
nation’s companies to work together with the U.S. and its long-
distance passenger railroad operator on high-speed rail projects.
U.S. Transport Secretary  Ray LaHood  visited Japan earlier this
year to try out Japan’s bullet trains and encouraged Japanese
companies to visit his country.  
 ‘Strong Partnerships’  
 “I hope to form strong partnerships with not only the
state governments but also with Amtrak,” Japan’s Transport
Minister  Seiji Maehara  said at a seminar in Chicago last month.  
 Japan should also consider setting up a consulting company
similar to France’s  Systra , which is partly owned by rail
operator Societe Nationale des Chemins de Fer Francais, to help
it compete against  Alstom , Tamura said.  
 “It’s a problem that we don’t have a company like France’s
Systra,” he said. “Systra is involved in many projects in a
lot of countries and I think that’s a big help to Alstom.”  
 European trainmakers  Alstom  and  Siemens AG  and Asian rivals,
such as  China South Locomotive & Rolling Stock Corp.  and Hyundai
Rotem Co., are also keen to sell their technology in the U.S.
Alstom partnered with Canada’s  Bombardier Inc.  to build the
U.S.’s fastest passenger train, the  Acela Express , which is
capable of running at up to 150 mph.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Chris Cooper  in Tokyo at 
 ccooper1@bloomberg.net ;
 Kiyotaka Matsuda  in Tokyo at 
 kmatsuda@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Ray LaHood, U.S. transportation secretary, left, and Satoshi Seino, president and chief executive officer of East Japan Railway Co., speak to the media while the company's Shinkansen bullet train sits on the platform at Tokyo Station, in Tokyo, Japan. Source: Pool via Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
