-- Japan's Bonds Fall, Post First Weekly Loss in a Month, on Recovery Signs
-- Yasuhiko Seki
-- 2010-07-09T21:37:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-09/japan-s-bonds-fall-post-first-weekly-loss-in-a-month-on-recovery-signs.html

          
          
             Japanese  bonds  fell for the first
time in five weeks as signs the global recovery is intact damped
demand for the relative safety of government debt.  
 Ten-year yields rose as high as 1.165 percent during the
week, the most since June 23, as a sliding approval rating for
Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  fueled concern he will back away from
plans to cut the debt supply. Improved corporate earnings may
prompt Japanese investors to switch to stocks from government
bonds, said  Riichiro Fukahori , senior vice president of fixed-
income investment at Mizuho Corporate Bank Ltd.  
 “Extreme pessimism for the global economy is now receding,
as a series of economic data” signal the recovery is
continuing, said  Masahide Tanaka , a senior strategist in Tokyo
at Mizuho Trust & Banking Co., a unit of Japan’s third-largest
bank by market value. “Bond yields at the current levels are
too low from the fundamentals viewpoint.”  
 The  yield  on the benchmark 10-year bond advanced six basis
points this week to 1.155 percent at Japan Bond Trading Co., the
nation’s largest interdealer debt broker. That’s the first
weekly advance since the period ended June 4. Ten-year bond
futures for September delivery lost 0.39 this week to 141.21 on
the Tokyo Stock Exchange.  
 Bonds dropped this week as the International Monetary Fund
on July 7 raised its forecast for worldwide growth this year to
4.6 percent, from an April projection of 4.2 percent, and a U.S.
government report showed initial claims for jobless benefits
fell more than economists estimated.  
 Improving Earnings  
 Improving corporate earnings may spur investors to sell
government bonds, pushing up 10-year yields to 1.40 percent by
Sept. 30, Mizuho Corporate Bank’s Fukahori said. Companies on
the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index are projected to post a 34
percent increase in profit this year, according to analysts’
estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  
 “Corporate profits - a key gauge for micro-economic
conditions - remain solid,” Tokyo-based Fukahori said in an
interview. “Bond yields may rise a bit if the forthcoming
reporting season in the U.S. and Japan show hard evidence of
continued profit growth.”  
 Bonds also declined this week as the Ministry of Finance
sold a combined 2.8 trillion yen ($31.6 billion) of 10- and 30-
year debt. Thirty-year bonds dropped for a fifth day yesterday
after a 600 billion yen auction of the securities drew a lower
bid price than analysts had forecast.  
 The yield on the 30-year bond increased 14 basis points
this week to 1.965 percent.  
 Upper-House Election  
 The DPJ will win about 50 seats in tomorrow’s upper-house
election after the prime minister’s approval rating fell to 45
percent from 50 percent, the Nikkei newspaper reported
yesterday, citing its opinion poll. The ruling party holds 116
seats of the upper house, five short of half the total 242,
necessitating an alliance with the People’s New Party.  
 Kan, who is planning to double the nation’s sales tax to 10
percent, said last month his party aims to retain all 54 seats
in the upper house. In its medium-term economic plan released
last month, the government pledged to reduce corporate tax and
nurture environment and healthcare industries.  
 “There is deep-rooted speculation the government’s plan to
bolster the economy and fix finances won’t show much progress,”
said  Ayako Sera , a market strategist in Tokyo at Sumitomo Trust
& Banking Co., which manages the equivalent of $310 billion.
“With lukewarm appetite for capital spending among businesses,
domestic investors, especially banks, have no choice but have to
continue to buy bonds.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Masaki Kondo  in Tokyo at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net ;
 Yasuhiko Seki  in Tokyo at 
 Yseki5@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        