-- Japan Polls Say Kan May Lose Upper House Control in Election
-- Takashi Hirokawa
-- 2010-07-09T04:34:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-09/japanese-premier-kan-may-lose-upper-house-control-in-election-polls-show.html

          
          
             Japanese Prime Minister  Naoto Kan 
may fail in his bid to retain control of both houses of
parliament in this week’s election, polls showed, hindering his
ability to pass legislation and threatening his job security.  
 Many voters are undecided about who to support in the July
11 contest for half the 242 seats in the  upper house . The
electorate is divided over Kan’s suggestion to raise the
national sales tax, and his  Democratic Party of Japan ’s first 10
months in office were marred by the departure of his predecessor
after campaign finance scandals and a dispute with the U.S.  
 “This is a very difficult election,” said Yu Miyasaka, a
23-year-old university student watching a campaign speech in
Tokyo two days ago. “I haven’t decided who to vote for.”  
 Three newspaper polls published today said the ruling
coalition may fall short of keeping the 56 seats needed to
maintain its majority in the chamber. The main opposition
 Liberal Democratic Party , ousted from power last August in
elections for the more powerful  lower house , and the new  Your
Party  are likely to gain, the surveys showed.  
 Kan has said his primary goal is to keep all of the DPJ’s
54 seats. Failure to do so may increase the chances of a
challenge when his term as party leader is up for re-election in
September. DPJ powerbroker  Ichiro Ozawa  has critized Kan’s sales
tax proposal.  
 Won’t Step Down  
 Kyodo News quoted DPJ Secretary General  Yukio Edano  saying
Kan, who took over from  Yukio Hatoyama  as party head and premier
a month ago, won’t step down regardless of the results.  
 The Asahi newspaper said the Democrats may win fewer than
50 seats. The LDP may increase their seats from 38 to about 44,
while Your Party may go from zero to 11. Between 30 and 40
percent of voters haven’t made up their mind, the Asahi said.  
 The paper said coalition partner  People’s New Party  may not
win any of the three seats it is contesting, which would hamper
the government’s ability to get legislation smoothly through
parliament. The Asahi interviewed 49,653 people on July 6-7 and
didn’t provide a margin of error.  
 Kan has called for a debate on whether to as much as double
the 5 percent consumption tax, stressing that Japan must
confront a debt amounting to $80,000 per person to avoid the
kind of fiscal crisis that has made Europe a riskier bet for
investors. While saying any rise in the tax is “at least two to
three years off,” he casts the debate in terms of the need to
pay for Japan’s rising  social welfare  costs.  
 Voters ‘Puzzled’  
 “More voters are puzzled about which party to choose this
time compared with last year,” said Airo Hino, associate
professor of political science at Tokyo’s Waseda University.
“Voters are ambivalent, making results unpredictable and
possibly destabilizing Japanese politics as the ruling bloc may
fail to win a majority.”  
 The DPJ under Hatoyama last August defeated the LDP in the
lower house, ending more than 50 years of almost unbroken
control. Hatoyama quickly ran into trouble and resigned on June
2 over his broken promise to relocate a U.S. military base from
Okinawa as well as campaign finance scandals involving him and
Ozawa, who stepped down as chief party strategist.  
 Hatoyama shifted spending from public works to households,
passing legislation to give families a monthly stipend of 13,000
yen ($147) per child and eliminating public high school fees.  
 Stability or Confusion  
 “Do you want political stability or political confusion,”
Kan said at a July 3 campaign stop northwest of Tokyo. “If the
opposition wins many seats, then the two chambers of parliament
will be divided and political confusion will continue, and this
is not good for Japan.”  
 His approval rating dropped to 43 percent from 66 percent
after he took office on June 8, the Mainichi newspaper said
today. Thirty-six percent of those surveyed said they’ll vote
for the DPJ while 17 percent chose the LDP and 15 percent picked
Your Party. The newspaper polled 1,072 people on July 7-8 and
didn’t provide a margin of error.  
 While the world’s second-biggest economy continues to
recover from recession, it is still grappling with 12 years of
 deflation , and the  unemployment rate  reached a five-month high
of 5.2 percent in May. The  Nikkei 225 Stock Average  is down 9.6
percent this year.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Sachiko Sakamaki  in Tokyo at 
 Ssakamaki1@bloomberg.net ;
 Takashi Hirokawa  in Tokyo at 
 thirokawa@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Naoto Kan, Japan's prime minister. Photographer: Andrew Harrer/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 9 (Bloomberg) -- Bloomberg's Mike Firn reports on this weekend’s upper-house election in Japan.
     Many voters are undecided about who to support in the July 11 contest for half the 242 seats. The electorate is divided over Prime Minister Naoto Kan’s suggestion to raise the national sales tax, and his Democratic Party of Japan’s first 10 months in office were marred by the departure of his predecessor after campaign finance scandals and a dispute with the U.S. Bloomberg's Rishaad Salamat also speaks. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
