-- Jeweler Esmerian Asks Court to Reorganize, Not Liquidate His Business
-- Steven Church
-- 2010-07-09T20:00:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-09/jeweler-to-celebrities-ralph-esmerian-seeks-court-permission-to-reorganize.html

          
          
             Jeweler Ralph O. Esmerian, whose
pieces have adorned celebrities and appeared in museums, asked a
bankruptcy judge for permission to reorganize his New York-based
company.  
 Esmerian, the former owner of vintage jeweler  Fred
Leighton , is fighting an effort by creditors to liquidate R.
Esmerian Inc. in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in Manhattan. The jeweler
today asked the court to convert that case to a voluntary
reorganization under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code’s Chapter 11,
which is typically used by companies that expect to cut debt and
emerge from court protection.  
 “Its continued operation is critical to maximizing the
value of its assets and the recovery to its creditors,”
Esmerian said in court papers. He also asked U.S. Bankruptcy
Judge  Robert D. Drain  to appoint an examiner to oversee the
bankruptcy case.  
 In May, creditors including Stewardship Credit Arbitrage
Fund LLC, Stewardship Credit Arbitrage Fund Ltd. and Northlight
Fund LP filed an involuntary Chapter 7 bankruptcy petition
against R. Esmerian Inc., claiming they are owed a total of $40
million.  
 Creditor attorney Sean C. Southard didn’t immediately
return a call for comment.  
 Under Chapter 7, the court appoints a trustee who takes
over a company and liquidates its assets. When creditors file an
involuntary bankruptcy case against a company, the business has
the right to challenge the petition.  
 Previous Bankruptcy  
 U.S. retailers’ sales at stores open at least a year fell
1.6 percent in the year ended Jan. 30, after dropping 1.3
percent a year earlier, according to the International Council
of Shopping Centers, a New York-based trade group that tracks
more than 30 chains, excluding Wal-Mart Stores Inc. Sales at
luxury retailers dropped 9.1 percent and 8.3 percent in those
periods, respectively, the ICSC said.  
 Esmerian previously filed for bankruptcy in April 2008 on
behalf of the retail jeweler he owned, Fred Leighton Inc., in an
effort to block Merrill Lynch & Co. from auctioning his family’s
jewels to pay off a $178 million loan. Fred Leighton Holding
Inc. liquidated inventory and had its Chapter 11 reorganization
plan confirmed in November.  
 Esmerian no longer owns the company, Merrill attorney
 Howard R. Hawkins Jr. , with the law firm Cadwalader Wickersham &
Taft, said in an e-mail.  
 Fourth Generation  
 Fred Leighton jewelry has been worn by actress Nicole
Kidman and other stars attending the Oscars and other celebrity
events, according to the company’s website.  
 Esmerian, the fourth-generation leader of the family
business, became known for selling colored gemstones and rare
vintage brooches and necklaces by Cartier and  Tiffany & Co.  He
stocked the shelves at retailers around the U.S., including
Neiman Marcus and Van Cleef & Arpels. He’s also chairman
emeritus of New York’s American Folk Art Museum.  
 The case is In re R. Esmerian Inc., 10-12719, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Steven Church  in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        