-- KKR Prospects for Natural Gas After Leveraged Buyouts Dry Up
-- Zachary Mider
-- 2010-07-09T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-09/kkr-prospects-for-gas-in-renewed-bet-on-energy-as-leveraged-buyouts-dry-up.html

          
          
             KKR & Co. , which led the record
takeover of electricity provider TXU Corp. in 2007, is making a
new bet on rising energy prices, this time without the leverage.  
 The private-equity firm is teaming up with David
Rockecharlie, previously co-head of the energy group at New
York-based  Jefferies Group Inc. , and  Claire Farley , a former
adviser to the securities firm, to build an exploration business
for unconventional energy, according to a person briefed on the
plan. The business would prospect for fuel such as gas trapped
in shale and coal beds under parts of Appalachia and Texas, said
the person, who asked not to be named because the plan has yet
to be formalized.  
 KKR, which is sitting on $12.6 billion in unused capital
commitments, joins  Exxon Mobil Corp.  and  BP Plc , the biggest
owners of shale-gas deposits in the U.S., in betting that energy
prices will rise and make the costly method of extracting fuels
profitable. KKR’s first investment in shale gas returned a
fourfold profit in a year. Unlike the TXU deal, which struggled
under a $38 billion debt load, the latest energy bet will use
mostly equity to produce returns.  
 “The promise of shale and what it means to domestic oil
and gas production is significant, but the cost to get there is
very significant too,”  Marc S. Lipschultz , a partner at New
York-based KKR who oversees energy and infrastructure
investments, said in an interview. “That is going to present
opportunities for firms that have the right level of expertise
and commitment.”  
 Fourfold Gain  
 The asset manager is seeking alternatives to leveraged
buyouts after those deals came to a halt with the credit crisis.
Private-equity firms announced $32 billion of transactions for
the first half of this year, less than one-tenth the volume in
the same period in 2007, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  
 KKR, run by  Henry Kravis  and  George Roberts , started
investing in shale gas when it backed East Resources Inc. with
about $350 million a year ago. The company agreed on May 28 to
sell a majority stake to Royal Dutch Shell Plc, giving KKR a
fourfold return on its investment, said two people briefed on
the agreement who asked not to be named because the information
is private.  
 Shell’s $4.7 billion agreement with East Resources was the
biggest among 11 U.S. shale-gas transactions totaling $17.9
billion in the first half of this year, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  
 Last month, KKR said it plans to invest as much as $400
million in a partnership with closely held Hilcorp Energy Corp.
to develop a shale deposit in Texas. KKR will hold 40 percent of
the partnership, with Hilcorp owning the rest and managing
operations.  
 ‘Demand for Capital’  
 “We’re going to see a lot more private equity flow into
this space,”  Ralph Eads , chairman of energy investment banking
at Jefferies Group, said in an interview. “There’s huge demand
for capital and that capital’s not all going to come from the
public capital markets.”  
 Unconventional gas is an industry term for the fuel trapped
in shale formations, coal beds and sandstone rock. Tapping those
deposits helped lift U.S. gas output by 3.9 percent to 18.3
trillion cubic feet last year through October and make the
country the largest producer before Russia. Shale-gas production
will probably account for a third of the U.S. total by 2035,
compared with 17 percent in 2008, the U.S. Energy Information
Administration said in a May 11  report .  
 Shale gas “is a total sea changer to the domestic and
global energy industry,” said  Andy Safran , a senior energy and
utilities banker at Citigroup Inc.  
 Blackstone, Carlyle  
 KKR has been among the more active private-equity players
in unconventional energy. Funds managed by New York-based
Blackstone Group LP on July 6 announced a $200 million
investment in Bear Tracker Energy LLC, a Denver company that
focuses on the so-called midstream of transporting and
processing gas, according to a company statement on July 6.
Blackstone, the largest private-equity firm, has no direct
investments in shale producers.  
 Carlyle Group, based in Washington, manages energy
investments through partnerships with Riverstone Holdings LLC, a
private-equity firm that oversees $17 billion in six funds,
according to its website. On May 4, their funds contributed to a
$200 million investment in Enduro Resource Partners LLC, an
energy prospector led by the former chief executive of Encore
Acquisition Co., which  Denbury Resources Inc.  bought in March
for $4.5 billion.  
 ‘Energy Bubble’  
 KKR wants to form partnerships or buy stakes in independent
exploration and development companies, said a person briefed on
the plan who asked not to be named because the information is
private. These operations produce about 60 percent of U.S.
natural-gas output, according to  Ellen Hannan , an analyst at
brokerage Weeden & Co. in Greenwich, Connecticut.  
 Exploration of unconventional energy first caught KKR’s
attention when concerns about natural-gas supply caused prices
to surge to a two-and-a-half-year high of $13.577 per million
British thermal units on July 3, 2008. The fuel fell to a seven-
year low of $2.52 per million British thermal units by September
2009 as consumer demand declined during a recession, stockpiles
rose and output increased from new fields in Texas, Oklahoma and
Louisiana.  
 “During the energy bubble, we started questioning where
the world was going and how we could participate when pricing
got rational again,” said Lipschultz, who joined KKR in 1995.  
 $1 Billion Fund  
 KKR opened a Houston office last year and bought a non-
controlling stake in Warrendale, Pennsylvania-based East
Resources. The company had one well 11 months ago in the
Appalachian basin’s Marcellus Shale, an area the Department of
Energy estimates may have enough gas to supply U.S. needs for
more than a decade. By the time East Resources’ founder,
 Terrence M. Pegula , agreed to sell assets to Shell last month,
his company operated 75 wells.  
 KKR is also ramping up investments in more traditional oil
and gas businesses. In February, KKR agreed to back Premier
Natural Resources LLC, a Tulsa, Oklahoma-based startup that
plans to make energy investments in North America. The firm is
also seeking $1 billion in commitments for a natural-resources
fund, according to a person briefed on the plans.  
 Kristi Huller, a spokeswoman for KKR, declined to comment
on the fundraising.  
 TXU ‘Disaster’  
 KKR, which will begin trading on the New York Stock
Exchange on July 15, began making energy acquisitions in 1985
with its purchase of Union Texas Petroleum. The takeover of TXU
Corp., Texas’s biggest power producer, for $43.2 billion in 2007
was made at the peak of the buyout market, when financing was
easier to obtain and rising gas prices made TXU’s coal and
nuclear plants more valuable.  
 The electricity producer, which KKR acquired jointly with
firms including TPG Inc., lost value as the financial crisis
depressed asset prices and energy prices fell. KKR’s valuation
of the buyout, described last year as a “disaster” by  Dot Matthews , an analyst at CreditSights Inc., was marked down by 70
percent as of March 31, according to a regulatory filing by KKR
& Co. (Guernsey) LLP, a publicly listed unit of the firm.  
 Exxon Mobil  and BP are among the major energy companies
competing for resources. Irving, Texas-based Exxon in December
agreed to buy XTO Energy Inc. for $29 billion, 14 months after
abandoning its own drilling program in Texas’s Barnett shale,
where XTO got more than a fifth of its output.  
 First Reserve Corp., the energy industry’s biggest private-
equity firm, and Nabors Industries Ltd., the world’s largest
land-drilling contractor, have invested $1 billion through a
joint venture,  NFR Energy LLC , that has gas wells in the
Haynesville Shale formation under Texas and Louisiana.  
 “Only time will tell whether these deals are good values,”
Hannan said. “It is impossible to know until the fields are
developed and the price of natural gas rises. If it doesn’t, the
companies better drill a lot of wells.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Cristina Alesci  in New York at 
 Calesci2@bloomberg.net ;
 Zachary R. Mider  in New York at 
 zmider1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Henry Kravis, co-founder of KKR & Co. LP, walks during a conference in Sun Valley.  Photographer: Matthew Staver/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
