-- Natural-Gas Futures May Decline Next Week on Milder Weather, Ample Supply
-- Moming Zhou
-- 2010-07-09T19:30:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-09/natural-gas-futures-may-decline-next-week-on-milder-weather-ample-supply.html

          
          
             Natural gas futures may fall as
milder weather reduces demand and as gas supplies will be ample
to meet consumption, a Bloomberg News survey showed.  
 Seven of 15 analysts, or 47 percent, said gas futures on
the New York Mercantile Exchange will decline through July 16.
Five, or 33 percent, said gas will rise and three said there
would be little change in price. Last week, 64 percent of
participants said prices would rise.  
 “The hot weather will start to dissipate and there is
really nothing that would act as a catalyst to get gas moving,”
said  Scott Hanold , an energy analyst at RBC Capital Markets in
Minneapolis.  
 Cooler air bringing rain and thunderstorms is expected to
move through New York this weekend, according to the National
Weather Service. New York broke daily temperature records and
reached above 100 degrees for two days in a row for the first
time since 1999. Central Park posted 100 degrees on June 7 and
103 on June 6.  
 Natural gas for August delivery on the New York exchange
dropped 28.5 cents, or 6.1 percent, to $4.402 per million
British thermal units this week.  
 “A well-supplied market is keeping a lid on prices even as
temperatures, and power loads, are setting records in the
densely populated Northeast this week,”  Biliana Pehlivanova , an
analyst at Barclays Capital in New York, said in a note to
clients yesterday.  
 Production Forecast  
 The Energy Department on July 7 raised its forecast for
U.S. natural gas production this year, as increasing onshore
output offsets an expected decline in offshore production.  
 U.S. production will average 61.26 billion cubic feet a day
this year, up from 61.22 billion estimated in June. Gas output
will rise 2.1 percent from 2009.  
 Gas stockpiles gained 78 billion cubic feet in the week
ended July 2 to 2.762 trillion, the Energy Department said
yesterday. Analysts surveyed by Bloomberg expected an increase
of 70 billion. A deficit to year-earlier supplies narrowed to
0.8 percent from 1 percent in the previous week.  
 “Because you are not seeing a big impact to the storage
injection numbers from this hot weather, it disappointed people
and the outlook started to moderate again,” Hanold said.  
 The gas survey has correctly forecast the direction of
prices 47 percent of the time since its June 2004 introduction.  

 
     Bloomberg’s survey of natural-gas analysts and traders asks
for an assessment of whether Nymex natural-gas futures will
probably rise, fall or remain neutral in the coming week.
This week’s results were:

                   RISE   FALL   NEUTRAL
                     5      7       3
 
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Moming Zhou  in New York at 
 Mzhou29@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        