-- Nelson Mandela's Presence at Soccer World Cup's Closing Ceremony Uncertain
-- 
-- 2010-07-09T04:45:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-09/nelson-mandela-s-presence-at-the-world-cup-closing-ceremony-is-uncertain.html

          
          
              
     July 9 (Washington Post) -- The 2010 World Cup will close
Sunday evening much as it began: With Colombian pop star Shakira
performing to a packed house, and former South African president
Nelson Mandela's attendance the subject of intense speculation.
     The 30-minute closing ceremony will begin at 6:30 p.m. local
time (12:30 p.m. EDT) at Johannesburg's Soccer City Stadium and
be broadcast live to an estimated global audience of 500 million.
     Shakira is scheduled to perform the World Cup anthem "Waka
Waka (This Time for Africa)" with South Africa's Freshlyground, a
song she debuted at the June 10 opening concert. Other artists on
the bill: Ladysmith Black Mambazo, Jozi, Stoan Seate, Slikour,
Zuluboy, Nigeria's 2Face, Ghana's Samini and popular local
traditional group Ihashi Elimhlophe. The production is said to be
more edgy and youthful than the traditional production that
opened the tournament.
     After the ceremony, Spain and the Netherlands will kick off
in an all-European final that will produce a first-time World Cup
champion. The Netherlands has reached the final twice without
hoisting the trophy, in 1974 and 1978. Spain, the reigning
European champion, is making its first appearance in the final.
     The greatest source of speculation for Sunday is whether
Mandela, who turns 92 on July 18, will attend and possibly
present the World Cup trophy to the victors.
     It was unclear whether Mandela, who is in ailing health,
intended to attend the June 11 opening ceremony. But any notion
was ruled out following the death of his 13-year-old
great-granddaughter Zenani, killed in a car accident while
returning from the concert the night before.
     -- Liz Clarke
     Paul, the octopus oracle who has correctly predicted the
outcome of every World Cup match played by Germany, is branching
out. He will weigh in on the final between Spain and the
Netherlands.
     The Oberhausen Sea Life Aquarium confirmed Thursday that
Paul will cast his suction-cupped arms wider in his next
prognostication and for the first time pick a game in which his
home country is not involved.
     Aquarium spokeswoman Tanja Munzig said the floppy soccer fan
will make his choice on the Germany-Uruguay third-place match
Friday morning, then pick the winner of Sunday's final.
     -- Associated Press
     Robert Rosetti, the World Cup referee who wrongly awarded a
goal to Argentina in its second-round win against Mexico,
reportedly has retired from officiating. The Italian newspaper La
Repubblica reported he will take up a role directing referees in
the second-tier Serie B league.
     -- Associated Press
 
          
          


  


        