-- Newark, New Jersey's Booker Says U.S. Mayors Face `Gut-Wrenching' Choices
-- Paris Wald
-- 2010-07-09T17:38:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-09/newark-new-jersey-s-booker-says-u-s-mayors-face-gut-wrenching-choice.html

          
          
             Newark Mayor  Cory Booker , who runs
 New Jersey ’s largest municipality, said U.S. cities will be
forced to make “gut-wrenching” decisions to cut as much as 20
percent of their spending in the next year.  
 In Newark, that led Booker to propose firing “hundreds”
of city workers last month and to seek concessions from
unionized employees to help close a $180 million budget deficit.  
 “Government has to start shifting into this new era that
we’re in and dealing with the realities of this,” the mayor
said yesterday in a Bloomberg Television interview. He spoke in
Sun Valley,  Idaho , where he appeared on a media-industry
conference panel about the business of running a city.  
 “This is a story not just for the state of New Jersey,”
he said. “You’re seeing it in Sacramento. You’re seeing it
happen in Albany and you’re seeing it happen all over the U.S.”  
 About 70 percent of U.S. cities  plan  to fire workers,
freeze hiring or make workers take unpaid days off as they cope
with declining revenue because of the U.S. recession, the
Washington-based  National League of Cities  said in May.  
 Sixty-eight percent said they’ll trim capital budgets and
22 percent will cut public-safety spending to deal with gaps
that collectively may reach $83 billion over three years,
according to the group. Because municipal revenue often lags
behind economic trends, the deepest declines are forecast for
2010 and 2011, said Chris Hoene, the organization’s director of
research and innovation.  
 Center of Storm  
 “Cities are really in the eye of the storm right now as
far as shortfalls,” Hoene said today. “Pretty much all of them
are facing budget shortfalls and are in the second year so they
have to make personnel cuts.”  
 Some of the reductions are affecting areas “that are the
last places you want to go to,” Hoene said.  
 Booker, 41, who won a second term in May, also has said the
city may seek to convert its water system into a municipal
authority to raise as much as $100 million in three years. One
in four residents in the  city  of more than 260,000 people lives
in  poverty , according to U.S. Census data.  
 The credit-rating outlook on $500 million in outstanding
bonds was revised to negative on June 2 by  Moody’s Investors
Service . The company cited diminishing city reserves and the
loss of $16 million in state aid as reasons for the change.  
 Payments Decline  
 Since 2008, the state and the Port Authority of New York &
New Jersey have cut the amount they send to Newark by $121
million, Booker said. In addition to cutting the city workforce,
he is weighing a proposal to help close the city’s budget gap by
making workers take two unpaid days off each month, from July 31
through the end of the year.  
 Personnel costs account for 98 percent of the city’s
budget, said Booker, a Democrat. He has backed efforts by
Governor  Chris Christie , a Republican, to cap the growth of
property taxes and curb spending.  
 “It’s an extraordinary amount that’s eating away our
ability to do other things in government,” he said. “My only
focus has to be on doing what’s best for the residents of
Newark.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Terrence Dopp  in Trenton, New Jersey, at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net ;
 Paris Wald  in Sun Valley, Idaho, at 
 pwald3@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        