-- Nigerian President Gets Bill Creating Company to Buy Banks' Toxic Debt
-- Paul Okolo
-- 2010-07-09T12:49:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-09/nigerian-president-gets-bill-creating-company-to-buy-banks-toxic-debt.html

          
          
             Nigerian lawmakers sent a bill
creating a company to buy $10 billion in bad debts from the
country’s lenders to President  Goodluck Jonathan  for approval.  
 The company, the Asset Management Corp. of Nigeria, or
Amcon, is ready to start operations,  central bank  spokesman,
Muhammad Abdullahi, said in an e-mailed statement from the
capital, Abuja, today.  
 Jonathan is expected to sign the law “expeditiously,”
Abdullahi. The relevant agencies “have set in motion all
necessary arrangements for the commencement of operations of
Amcon in anticipation of the presidential assent.” The two
chambers of parliament agreed a harmonized version of the bill
last month.  
 The central bank fired the chief executive officers of
eight of the country’s 24 banks last year and spent 620 billion
naira ($4.1 billion) to recapitalize the lenders. The bank plans
to clear about $10 billion of toxic debts from the system by the
end of the year, Governor  Lamido Sanusi  said on July 1. The debt
purchases will cost about $5 billion, Sanusi said in an
interview in London.  
 The purchases will help improve the balance sheets of the
banks and encourage them to resume lending to customers, the
central bank says.  
 Reviving the banking system may also restore confidence to
the stock market which plunged 46 percent in 2008 and 34 percent
last year, making it one of the world’s poorest performers for
the period.  
 The main stock index, Africa’s second-best performer in the
first half of this year, may gain a further 20 percent as the
government absorbs the lenders’ bad debt, New York-based DaMina
Advisors said yesterday in an e-mailed note. The All-Share Index
closed at 24,775.04 yesterday, according to the Lagos-based
 bourse .  
 Nigeria, Africa’s most populous nation with 150 million
people, is the continent’s biggest oil producer.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Paul Okolo  in Abuja at 
 pokolo@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        