-- Nigeria's Biggest Bank Joins Battle to Buy Lenders Bailed Out Last Year
-- Renee Bonorchis
-- 2010-07-09T09:50:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-09/nigeria-s-biggest-bank-joins-battle-to-buy-country-s-bailed-out-lenders.html

          
          
             First Bank of Nigeria Plc , the
country’s largest lender by market value, wants to buy at least
one of the banks bailed out by the West African nation last
year, Chairman Oba Otudeko said.  
 “We are pursuing one or two of those on offer,” Otudeko
said in an interview in Johannesburg yesterday. A secondary
listing in London or Johannesburg for the Lagos-based bank “is
on the table,” he said.  
 Nigeria’s central bank is selling stakes in the 10 banks it
rescued last year, when it fired top managers and injected 620
billion naira ($4.1 billion) of capital to ease a debt crisis
that threatened to cripple the financial system. The market
potential of Africa’s most populous nation, with 150 million
people, is also attracting interest from overseas.  
 Standard Bank Group Ltd. ,  FirstRand Ltd. , and  Old Mutual
Plc , three of the largest financial institutions in South
Africa, said in January they may be interested in buying stakes
in Nigerian lenders. Nigeria’s  Fidelty Bank Plc  and  Ecobank
Nigeria Plc  yesterday said they wanted to buy  Afribank Plc .  
 Central Bank Governor Lamido Sanusi last month said he
expects three international lenders, a number of private-equity
firms and local lenders to submit offers by mid-July. The
interested parties are undertaking “detailed” due diligence,
he said. The central bank said last October that local banks can
only buy a 20 percent stake in rescued lenders.  
 “Our decision will be based on working with the government
and also protecting the best interests of our shareholders,”
Otudeko said. “If we acquire, we would acquire at value.”  
 Overseas Listing  
 While a listing in London or Johannesburg is being
considered, Otudeko declined to specify a timeframe.  
 “What we must not do is chew too much at one time,” he
said. “We have enough for now.”  
 First Bank has gained 1.1 percent in Lagos trading this
year, bringing its market value to 412.1 billion naira ($2.74
billion).  
 Nigeria may overtake South Africa to become the continent’s
biggest economy in little over a decade,  Standard Chartered Plc 
said last month. Investors have swarmed to Nigeria, drawn by
oil and gas reserves, the development of mobile phone networks
and the country’s untapped banking market.  
 First Bank will expand its loan book in step with economic
recovery, Otudeko said, after Nigeria’s 24 lenders accumulated
toxic assets of as much as $10 billion.  
 “I’m sure we’ll not compromise on our conservatism and
prudential lending,” he said. “It would be natural for us to
want to grow, but we will be much more careful.”  
 Nigeria’s rescued lenders are Afribank Nigeria Plc, Finbank
Plc, Intercontinental Bank Plc, Oceanic Bank Plc, Union Bank
Nigeria Plc, Bank PHB Plc, Spring Bank Plc, Equatorial Trust
Bank Plc, Wema Bank Plc and Unity Bank Plc.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Franz Wild  in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net ;
 Renee Bonorchis  in Johannesburg at 
 rbonorchis@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        