-- North Korea Will Continue Talks After Avoiding UN Censure
-- Saeromi Shin
-- 2010-07-10T01:15:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-09/north-korea-will-continue-six-party-talks-on-nuclear-program-kcna-reports.html

          
          
             North Korea will continue its
efforts to achieve a peace agreement and denuclearization
through the six-party forum, North Korea’s official Korean
Central News Agency reported, citing the Foreign Ministry.  
 The ministry commented after the  United Nations  Security
Council adopted a statement yesterday that didn’t explicitly
blame North Korea for the March 26 sinking of a South Korean
warship that killed 46 sailors.  
 A South Korea-led multinational team said on May 20 North
Korea torpedoed the 1,200-ton Cheonan off the peninsula’s west
coast near the disputed border. North Korea denies it had a role
in the incident.  
 The UN statement “clearly proves what a foolish
calculation the U.S. and South Korea made when they were
recklessly behaving in so great haste to do harm” to North
Korea, KCNA reported, citing an unidentified Foreign Ministry
spokesman.  
 North Korea asked South Korea to control the scene of the
incident until its inspection team reaches there, and said it
will probe the truth about the incident to the last.  
 ‘Diplomatic Victory’  
 The  Security Council  said it “condemns the attack which
led to the sinking of the Cheonan” and that it “takes note”
of North Korea’s denial of involvement in the incident. North
Korea’s UN Ambassador Sin Son Ho called the statement “a great
diplomatic victory.”  
 The Security Council’s response will help ease tensions in
the region, Li Baodong, China’s ambassador to the UN, said
yesterday. China’s Foreign Ministry said earlier yesterday the
UN statement represents an opportunity to “turn the page on the
incident.”  
 South Korea initially sought a Security Council resolution
explicitly condemning North Korea for sinking the Cheonan,
demanding an apology and a commitment there will be no repeat of
the attack, and calling for a return to stability in the region.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Saeromi Shin in Seoul at 
 sshin15@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        