-- Obama Briefed on Spy Case Nearly a Month Ago, Official Says
-- Kate Andersen Brower
-- 2010-07-09T21:53:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-09/obama-was-briefed-about-russian-spy-case-almost-a-month-ago-official-says.html

          
          
             The White House was considering a spy
swap with Russia almost a month ago, before the arrests of 10
members of a Russian spy ring, according to an administration
official.  
 President  Barack Obama  was alerted to the Russian spy ring
on June 11 during a briefing in the Oval Office, according to
the official, who spoke on the condition of anonymity.  
 On June 18, the president led a National Security Council
meeting to discuss the matter, and several meetings about the
case were held in the past few weeks.  
 Other members of the administration were first briefed on
the case in February, including details about specific
individuals, according to the official. The White House was
briefed by the FBI, the CIA and Department of Justice.  
 The arrests were made June 28 because there was
intelligence that at least one of the spies was planning to
leave the U.S. “imminently,” according to the official.  
 In his June briefing, the president was advised about the
program, individuals involved, what they had done over the past
decade and about concerns that some of the accused spies planned
to travel this summer.  
 The briefing preceded Obama’s meeting in Washington on June
24 with Russian President  Dmitry Medvedev . The White House
official said Obama didn’t raise the matter with the Russian
president.  
 Guilty Pleas  
 The idea of a swap was discussed among members of the
national security team before the Russians were arrested. The
members of the network, broken up with arrests in the New York
area, Boston and Arlington, Virginia, pleaded guilty yesterday
in Manhattan federal court to conspiring to work as unregistered
foreign agents.  
 The U.S. arranged a swap with four individuals held by
Russia. The trade took place today at the Vienna airport, where
aircraft from the U.S. and Russia parked next to each other for
about 90 minutes.  
 The plane from Russia’s Emergency Situations Ministry
delivering the returned Russians landed at Moscow’s Domodedovo
airport at about 5:50 p.m. Moscow time.  
 The U.S. plane flew to Brize Norton Airbase in England, the
British Broadcasting Corp. reported.  
 The plane then flew on from the base, bound for Dulles
International Airport outside Washington. It was arrived there
about 5:30 p.m. local time, according to flightaware.com.  
 U.S. Central Intelligence Agency Director  Leon Panetta  led
conversations on the swap with Russia, according to the White
House official. The United States came up with the names of the
four people it wanted Russia to release based on humanitarian
and health concerns, among others, according to the official.  
 The children of the Russian spies have either left the
United States or are in the process of leaving, the official
said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kate Andersen Brower  in Washington at 
 Kandersen7@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        