-- Obama Says Reid Will Help Continue Policies Fixing U.S. Economy
-- Lisa Lerer
-- 2010-07-09T02:17:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-09/obama-says-reid-will-help-continue-policies-fixing-u-s-economy.html

          
          
             President  Barack Obama  said  Harry Reid  will help continue policies that are turning around the
economy and helping working families as he campaigned in Nevada
for the top Senate Democrat’s re-election campaign.  
 At a campaign rally at the Aria Resort & Casino in Las
Vegas, Obama told supporters that Reid is a “straight shooter”
who “keeps on fighting” and is needed in Washington to counter
Republicans he said are responsible for many of the nation’s
problems.  
 “This is a choice between the policies that led us into
the mess or the policies that are leading us out of the mess,”
Obama said. “This is the choice between falling backward or
moving forward.”  
 Reid, the Senate majority leader, has become a top target
for Republicans after helping push Obama’s $862 billion economic
stimulus package and an overhaul of the U.S. health-care system
through Congress.  
 Obama lauded Reid for helping to “orchestrate one of the
most productive legislative sessions in the history of
America.”  
 To hold onto his seat, Reid is focusing less on his record
of guiding Obama’s priorities through the Senate and more on
benefits he’s delivered back home.  
 He trailed his Republican challenger, former state
legislator  Sharron Angle  by 7 percentage points in a Rasmussen
Reports poll of 500 voters conducted on June 22. The margin of
error was plus-or-minus 4.5 percent. Angle, 60, had led by 11
points in a similar poll two weeks earlier.  
 ‘Competitive Race’  
 “We have no doubt that this is going to be a competitive
race,” White House spokesman  Bill Burton  told reporters
traveling with Obama. “But of course we’re confident that he’s
going to come back and continue to be our leader come next
year.’  
 Reid, 70, has raised almost $18 million for his re-election,
according to the Center for Responsive Politics. His campaign
will raise about $800,000 from Obama’s visit.  
 The money has been used on television advertisements
attacking Angle’s statements in support of dismantling the U.S.
Department of Education, privatizing Social Security for younger
Americans and opposing an extension of unemployment benefits.  
 “On a lot of these issues she favors an approach that is
even more extreme than the Republicans we’ve got in
Washington,” Obama said. “That’s saying something.”  
 14 Percent Unemployment  
 Reid faces voter discontent over the economy in Nevada,
where the  unemployment  rate is 14 percent, higher than June’s
9.5 percent rate for the U.S. as a  whole . Nevada also has the
highest  home foreclosure  rate in the nation, roughly five times
the national average, according to Irvine, California-based
RealtyTrac Inc.  
 Nevada’s gaming revenue fell 10.4 percent last year,
according to the state  Gaming Control Board , the largest single-
year decline in state history. The decline followed a 9.7
percent decrease in 2008.  
 Obama said his administration has turned the economy around
so now that it is “headed in the right direction.”  
 “An economy that last year was shrinking by 6 percent is
now growing,” Obama said. “That’s because of policies Harry
Reid helped bring about.”  
 Obama is on a two-day trip to promote his economic policies
and raise money for Democratic candidates.  
 Earlier today in Kansas City, Missouri, Obama highlighted
government grants to small businesses that have encouraged job
growth and then helped raise about $500,000 for Democratic
Senate candidate  Robin Carnahan .  
 Republican Leaders  
 Obama has been singling out for criticism by name
Representatives  John Boehner  of Ohio and  Joe Barton  of Texas.  
 Boehner, the top Republican in the U.S. House, recently
compared the financial crisis to an “ant,” and Barton
apologized to  BP Plc  for government attempts to get it to pay
for the effects of the oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico.  
 In Kansas City, Obama said their statements show voters that
Republicans continue to side with Wall Street and oil companies
supporting policies that helped create the financial crisis and
the Gulf oil spill.  
 “What the other side is counting on is people not having a
very good memory,” Obama said.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Nicholas Johnston  in Las, Vegas, Nevada, at   njohnston3@bloomberg.net ;
 Lisa Lerer  in Las Vegas, Nevada, at 
 llerer@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid of Nevada listens during a news conference in Washington. Photographer: Jay Mallin/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
