-- Hockfield Sees Obama Converge With Immelt at MIT Energy Matters
-- John Lauerman
-- 2010-07-09T15:03:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-09/hockfield-gets-obama-to-converge-with-immelt-at-mit-over-matters-of-energy.html

          
          
             Being an expert on the nervous system
of leeches and fold-up, battery-powered cars is helping  Susan Hockfield  enlist  Barack Obama  and  Jeffrey Immelt  in her
improbable passion: a factory for alternative energy.  
 The 59-year-old biologist, who became president of the
Massachusetts Institute of Technology in 2005 and a year later
spearheaded the  MIT Energy Initiative , presides over a $300
million research program that’s developing new solar cells, wind
turbines and fuel-producing viruses.  
 “If only 10 percent of what I’ve seen here materializes,
this research will change the world,” said  Paolo Scaroni , chief
executive officer of  Eni SpA , the Rome-based energy company,
after a May 4 tour of the university’s laboratories, which
include a new center conceived to reduce the costs of solar
power.  
 Hockfield’s efforts at MIT, whose alumni and faculty have
won  73 Nobel Prizes , prompted President Obama in October to
extol the 168-acre, 10,000-student campus on the Charles River
in Cambridge, Massachusetts, as the launchpad for energy policy.
Hockfield was so persuasive on the topic most companies consider
a sideshow that Scaroni pledged $50 million to the energy
initiative and  Immelt , chairman and chief executive officer of
 General Electric  Co., put her on the GE board.  
 Obama emphasized the importance of developing jobs in
clean-energy industries with a visit yesterday to Smith Electric
Vehicles, which makes battery-powered trucks, in Kansas City,
Missouri.  
 Corporate Donors  
 Eni, which is funding the solar research labs, is one of 50
companies that have contributed money to MIT’s alternative
energy drive. Two other founding members, Masdar, Abu Dhabi’s
renewable energy company, and London-based  BP  PLC, each pledged
at least $30 million over five years. Donors get early access to
MIT energy-related research and opportunities to work with
faculty.  
 “When MIT turns its mind to a subject like this, it can
have a tremendous impact,”  Daniel Yergin , chairman of IHS
Cambridge Energy Research Associates in Cambridge,
Massachusetts, and author of the Pulitzer-winning “The Prize:
The Epic Quest for Oil, Money and Power,” said in a telephone
interview. “There’s no other place that’s as strong and has the
range of capability that MIT does for this kind of work.”  
 Hockfield wants MIT to shift U.S. energy research toward
alternative production techniques, efficiency and storage.  
 “We’ve been part of the force that has changed the
conversation in the U.S.,” about energy, Hockfield said.  
 Career Trajectory  
 Nothing in Hockfield’s background prepared her, the first
woman to be president of MIT, for the challenge of building a
program that is invigorating U.S. energy research with projects
that include long-range electric cars. She got her first
microscope in the fifth grade, sparking a lifelong passion for
biology that led her to work for James D. Watson , co-discoverer
of the structure of DNA, at Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory in
Cold Spring Harbor, New York.  
 “My career trajectory was to figure out how the brain
assembles itself, not how to change the world’s energy system,”
Hockfield, 59, said in an interview at the solar center’s
opening. “Would I ever have imagined playing this role? No, but
what a privilege.”  
 Watson, winner of the 1962 Nobel Prize in medicine for his
DNA work, said he was shocked in 2004 to learn that Hockfield
was going to lead MIT, home to  inventors  and developers of the
global positioning system, or GPS, the fax machine, and the
World Wide Web.  
 “I said, ‘Be president of anything except MIT,’” Watson,
who stepped down as chancellor of Cold Spring Harbor in 2007,
said in a telephone interview. “I thought it was too male-
dominated, too focused on engineering.”  
 Breaking Barriers  
 Hockfield’s life has been marked by ambition and breaking
barriers. She finished her undergraduate biology studies a
semester early and got her first scientific job by literally
knocking on laboratory doors at the University of Rochester’s
medical school. She has led MIT with a combination of a
collaborative style and decisiveness in a time of financial
crisis.  
 “She’s open to very frank discussions, she’s decisive at
the end of those discussions, and she carries though on those
decisions,” said  Phillip Sharp , MIT genetics professor,
cofounder of Biogen, now  Biogen Idec  Inc., and 1993 winner of
the Nobel Prize in medicine.  
 Even before assuming the MIT presidency, Hockfield traveled
from Yale University in New Haven, Connecticut, where she was
provost, and conducted interviews with faculty, staff and
students around the campus.  
 Listening Tour  
 “I went on a listening tour 1.0,” she recalled.  “The
question I asked was, what are MIT’s responsibilities and
opportunities? I got many different answers, but there was
almost a unanimous call for MIT to have a global impact on the
energy problem.”  
 Soaring demand for energy, along with environmental
concerns, made finding solutions urgent, Hockfield said.  
 “We’re on a track to double energy use across the world by
2050, and we can’t meet that demand with current energy
sources,” she said. “Moving forward in the energy innovation
space is important for our country, and all the countries of the
world.”  
 Hockfield’s personal attention to energy has fueled
enthusiasm and collaborative efforts across campus, said  Jarrod
Goentzel , executive director of the MIT Supply Chain Management
Program. Goentzel said the initiative helped him find energy
storage experts to advise him on a component of an economic
development program in Zaragoza, Spain. Hockfield visited the
program in 2007, met with the region’s highest official, and
stayed two days.  
 Vision, Leadership  
 “She was captivated by the impact MIT was having,”
Goentzel said. “It takes that kind of vision and leadership to
align people, and professors can be especially difficult to
align at times.”  
 MIT didn’t have a coordinated energy research effort prior
to Hockfield’s arrival. Now about 20 percent of MIT professors
are involved in energy-related research, she said. Hockfield
attends conferences and receptions, and helps arrange speakers
for the student-run  MIT Energy Club .  
 She’s “incredibly good at remembering students’ names,”
said Tim Heidel, a post-doctoral student and the club’s co-
president. Through Hockfield’s efforts, MIT’s researchers and
faculty routinely apply for grants together, he said.  
 Active Fundraiser  
 Hockfield also threw herself into fundraising for the
energy initiative. She met at least 10 times with top Eni
research and strategy executives, leading to a commitment from
Scaroni, said  Ernest Moniz , director of the MIT Energy
Initiative.  
 After hearing about Hockfield’s energy efforts, Immelt
called her and asked her to meet him for dinner. GE, based in
Fairfield, Connecticut, is the world’s biggest maker of power-
generation equipment, jet engines and locomotives.  
 “I was impressed with how she was trying to see around
corners,” said Immelt, whose 16-member board elected Hockfield
a director in December 2006. “It seemed like a unique and
refreshing perspective for a college president to take.”  
 GE has invested $70 million in  A123Systems  Inc., the
Watertown, Massachusetts-based company developing and making new
batteries based on MIT research. The startup has “broken
through many technical and engineering barriers to advance
lithium ion batteries to commercial applications,” Immelt said
last year, when GE gave $15 million to A123.  
 Following Tradition  
 Hockfield follows a long tradition of MIT presidents
playing a prominent role in the development of U.S. science and
technology. In 1961, MIT’s  Jerome Wiesner  took a leave from the
post to serve as chairman of President John F. Kennedy’s Science
Advisory Committee.  
 After touring laboratories to meet with students working on
solar, wind and battery projects last year, Obama praised
Hockfield’s vision.  
 “You just get excited being here and seeing these
extraordinary young people and the extraordinary leadership of
Professor Hockfield,” Obama said in October.  
 Faculty members expected that Hockfield’s biology
background would lead her to focus on areas closer to her
academic study, said Moniz, the initiative director.  
 “She surprised a lot of people by announcing her
commitment to energy in her inauguration,” he said in a
telephone interview.  
 Foldable Cars  
 As a result of work at the energy initiative, MIT
researchers are designing battery-powered, two-seat urban cars
that can fold up into storage spaces and after recharging in
minutes, can travel more than 100 miles. They’re studying how
viruses can split water into oxygen and hydrogen to be used in
fuel cells. The technique mimics how plants use the power of
sunlight to make fuel, and may help store solar energy. They’re
printing photovoltaic cells on sheets of paper that may make
solar power easier to access than ever before.  
 MIT’s new solar laboratories, called the  Solar Frontiers
Center , will house 21 researchers developing new panels that
stay clean and efficient in the desert, where dust and wind can
interfere with energy collection; contacts for solar cells made
from viruses; and mirrors that concentrate the sun’s rays for
power collection.  
 Leadership Needed  
 In choosing energy, Hockfield identified a field badly in
need of research leadership, said  Kevin Book , managing director
of research for Clearview Energy Partners LLC in Washington.
Energy companies typically have only been interested in
developing new technologies when oil prices spike, he said.  
 “It’s not that hard to shock an industry that’s pretty
stagnant,” Book said in a telephone interview. “The only
salable technology is one that produces the commodity more
cheaply than current sources.”  
 Government funding for energy research has followed a
similar pattern. Inflation-adjusted U.S. energy research funds
fell 92 percent to $505 million in 1998 from $6 billion in 1978,
the U.S. Government Accountability Office, Congress’s
investigative arm, said in a  2008 report . The inflation-adjusted
figure rose to $1.8 billion in fiscal 2008, according to the
report.  
 While MIT is taking a leading role in energy research, it’s
not the only university vying for energy dollars. Stanford
University launched the  Precourt Institute for Energy  in 2009 to
focus expertise on its campus near Palo Alto, California, on
environmental, scientific, and policy questions around power.
The University of Texas at Austin established its  Energy
Institute  last year.  
 Studying Leeches  
 Hockfield received an undergraduate degree in biology from
the  University of Rochester  and her doctorate from Georgetown
University in Washington.  
 At Cold Spring Harbor, she did pioneering research in the
use of immune proteins to study brain cells. Working in a
century-old building that had once served as a sheep shed,
Hockfield began studying the simple nervous system of the leech.
She was inspired by another female scientist at Cold Spring
Harbor,  Barbara McClintock , who won the 1983 Nobel in medicine
for her studies of DNA-packaging chromosomes.  
 At Yale, Hockfield became a successful administrator.
 Pasko Rakic , chairman of Yale’s neurobiology department,
promoted Hockfield to director of graduate studies in biology,
which was rare for a non-tenured faculty member, because of her
ability to deal with students, he said.  
 Point Person  
 Yale President  Richard Levin  made her dean of Yale’s
Graduate School of Arts and Sciences in 1998. That made her the
point person in negotiations with Yale students who wanted to
unionize and strike for better working conditions in the late
1980s, and led to an appointment as provost, the university’s
second-highest post.  
 Hockfield describes her leadership style, learned from
Levin, as “saying yes to the good ideas,” and cites the energy
initiative as the prime example.  
 MIT’s energy group is riding a funding wave. In the past
year, the U.S. Energy Department received $32.7 billion in
Recovery and Reinvestment Act funds to support efficient and
renewable energy, basic energy research and so-called smart grid
projects that make energy distribution more efficient. In May
alone, MIT got four U.S. energy grants worth $8.1 million from
the Advanced Research Projects Agency - Energy.  
 Moniz, who served as undersecretary of energy from 1997 to
2001 under President  Bill Clinton , watched research funds that
had been plentiful in the 1970s dry up in the following decades
as price shocks subsided. By attracting industry support to the
initiative, Hockfield has smoothed fluctuations in funding that
can put labs out of commission and discourage the interest of
young researchers, Moniz said.  
 “Susan has an important leadership skill, which is
listening to people,” Moniz said. “She was able to see a field
that was ripe, not just for pronouncements, but for real
action.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 John Lauerman  in Boston at 
 jlauerman@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Susan Hockfield, president of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. Photographer: Daniel Acker/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
