-- Oil-Contango Trade That Boosted BP Profit Fades: Energy Markets
-- Grant Smith
-- 2010-07-09T14:59:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-09/oil-contango-that-gave-bp-500-million-boost-is-vanishing-energy-markets.html

          
          
             The profit from stockpiling North Sea
crude, a strategy that helped boost  BP Plc ’s earnings by $500
million in last year’s first quarter, is evaporating amid rising
refiner demand and oil-field maintenance.  
 The price advantage for traders who buy and hold  Brent
crude  for a month instead of delivering it immediately has
shrunk 70 percent to its lowest in almost a year, ICE Futures
Europe exchange data show. Vitol Group, the world’s largest
independent oil trader, said on June 24 the trade no longer
makes sense.  
 Summer demand during the driving season has pushed current
Brent prices up 3.6 percent this week. Later-delivery prices
have been higher than those for front-month contracts for the
past two years, making it profitable to buy and store oil on
ships. The amount of crude held on tankers hired for long-term
storage has fallen 60 percent this year to 17 million barrels as
of July 2, according to ICAP Shipping International Ltd.  
 “The bulk of that excess inventory has been worked off,”  Paul Horsnell , head of commodities research at  Barclays Capital 
in London, said in an interview. “The incentive to add to
floating storage has disappeared.”  
 The discount, or contango, for August Brent futures versus
September fell to 19 U.S. cents a barrel on London’s ICE
exchange on July 2, the smallest difference in 11 months between
the two contracts nearest to expiration. It was at 22 cents
today, compared with an average 98 cents last year.  
 Brent crude for August settlement traded for $75.59 a
barrel as of 15:57 p.m. local time.  
 BP Profit  
 London-based BP said “interesting trading opportunities.”
helped it earn $500 million more than normal in the first
quarter of last year. The advantage offered by the contango
wasn’t as strong by the final three months of 2009, Chief
Financial Officer Byron Grote said in an interview on Feb. 2.  
 Storing oil at sea costs 65 cents a barrel a month, more
than the 29-cent premium on ICE futures, according to data from
 Simpson Spence and Young , the world’s second-largest shipbroker,
and Bloomberg. That compares with a storage cost of 84 cents a
barrel in January last year, when the spread reached $3.  
 Rental income from supertankers on the benchmark Saudi
Arabia-to-Japan route slumped 71 percent to $21,080 a day since
June 16, according to prices from the London-based Baltic
Exchange. As much as 100 million barrels of oil was kept at sea
in April last year, enough to supply  Europe  for five days,
according to Frontline Ltd., the world’s largest supertanker
operator.  
 ‘No Sense’  
 “You only store oil if it makes sense to do it and today
it doesn’t make sense,” Ian Taylor, chief executive officer of
Vitol, said in London on June 24. “All the major bits of
floating storage both in crude and distillates have disappeared
from the market.”  
 The increase in demand has soaked up much of the crude in
storage. U.S. refineries operated at 89.8 percent of capacity in
the week ended July 2, according to the Energy Department, the
highest level since January 2008. In Europe, operating rates
surpassed 80 percent for the first time in a year in recent
weeks, Vienna-based consultants JBC Energy GmbH said on July 1.  
 “You’re coming up toward the peak seasonal demand period
in the third quarter, where refineries are coming back from
maintenance,” said  Lawrence Eagles , head of commodities
research at JPMorgan Chase & Co. in  New York . “That is very
clearly having a tightening impact on the spreads.”  
 Inventories are also falling at Cushing,  Oklahoma , the
delivery point for New York Mercantile Exchange futures
contracts. Stockpiles fell 0.5 percent last week, the Energy
Department reported yesterday. Crude in New York ended
yesterday’s session at $75.44 a barrel, up 1.9 percent.  
 Loading Programs  
 Daily shipments of the four principal North Sea crude
grades that comprise Dated Brent were scheduled to drop 22
percent in June to their lowest in at least three years, as
fields close for maintenance, loading programs showed.  
 Combined loadings of Brent, Forties, Oseberg and Ekofisk
crude in the  North Sea  were scheduled to average 964,900 barrels
a day last month, compared with 1.235 million barrels a day in
May, according to the programs. The June loadings are the lowest
since August 2007, when Bloomberg began collecting the data.  
 While the Brent price spread has narrowed this year, it
widened to 31 cents a barrel this week, signaling some traders
are becoming less concerned about the availability of oil.  
 “You can’t expect this tightness to continue in
perpetuity,” said Eagles. “It could carry on for another two
or three weeks. As we get into September, October, you would
expect to see seasonal maintenance again hit the refining
sector, and that will ease some of the crude demand.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Grant Smith in  London  at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Ian Taylor, president and chief executive officer of Vitol  
                       
                         
                           Goh Seng Chong/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Ian Taylor, president and chief executive officer of Vitol Group, attends the 15th Asia Oil & Gas Conference in Kuala Lumpur. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Ian Taylor, president and chief executive officer of Vitol Group, attends the 15th Asia Oil & Gas Conference in Kuala Lumpur. Photographer: Goh Seng Chong/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
