-- Hong Kong Legislature to Meet as Scheduled on Henderson Land's Home Sales
-- Kelvin Wong
-- 2010-07-09T07:19:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-09/hong-kong-legislature-to-meet-as-scheduled-on-henderson-land-s-home-sales.html

          
          
             Henderson Land Development Co. ’s
refusal to meet Hong Kong lawmakers won’t stop legislators
discussing the collapsed sale of 20 luxury apartments worth
HK$2.67 billion ($343 million), the subject of a police
investigation.  
 “It is up to the company to decide whether to attend or
not, but we will hold the meeting even without their
participation,” Legislative Council housing panel Chairman  Wong Kwok-hing  said in a phone interview today.  
 Hong Kong’s government increased its scrutiny of property
developers after Henderson’s October announcement that one of
the apartments sold at 39 Conduit Road had fetched a record
HK$88,000 a square foot. Twenty of the 24 sales in the
development were later cancelled. The government has sought
details on the sale agreements.  
 Members of the housing panel on July 5 voted 7-to-1 to
invite the developer, controlled by billionaire  Lee Shau-kee , to
the July 12 meeting. Henderson said a Legco appearance is
“inappropriate” because it has “sufficiently disclosed”
details on the transactions and an investigation is still under
way, according to a press release last night.  
 Hong Kong police and other law enforcement agencies are
investigating the sales at the project, Transport and Housing
Secretary  Eva Cheng  told lawmakers during the Legco session.
Cheng declined to specify the other agencies and give a schedule
for the investigation.  
 The police declined to comment on the investigation,
spokesman Horace Chan said by phone today.  
 Failed Transactions  
 “This probably won’t hurt their reputation much as the
failed transactions themselves have already done enough
damage,” said  Raymond So , a professor at the Chinese University
of Hong Kong’s department of finance. “It’s now up to the
legislators whether they want to keep chasing this.”  
 The lawmakers have also invited representatives of the Land
Department, Hong Kong Housing Authority and Securities and
Futures Commission to attend the meeting next week, Wong said.
Henderson submitted its responses to the government’s queries on
the sales to the Council on July 5.  
 Henderson yesterday said it is a “common practice” in the
industry to sell flats to shell companies. When the sales
collapsed, it retained only 5 percent of the deposits and didn’t
seek the price difference because it wants to avoid legal claim
procedures and release the apartments back to the market
“immediately.”  
 Henderson rose 2.3 percent to HK$47.10 at 3:04 p.m. in Hong
Kong trading today, cutting its loss this year to 19 percent.  
 ‘Business Logic’  
 This treatment is more “in line with business logic,”
Henderson said in the release. Even if the claim is successful,
it is “hard to obtain anything” from a shell company, it said.  
 Henderson on July 2 took out full-page advertisements in
most local newspapers, claiming all transactions were
“genuine” and “buyers weren’t connected to the company.”  
 Henderson used standard contractual terms in the
transactions and booked the sales according to Hong Kong
accounting standards, the statement said.  
 Henderson was questioned last month for a seventh time by
the city’s government, which asked the company to provide copies
of title deeds and additional details on how it calculated the
interest penalty for late payments.  
 Hong Kong housing prices have risen 9 percent this year,
adding to 2009’s 29 percent advance. Financial Secretary  John Tsang  in February announced a higher stamp duty on luxury
properties and has pledged to raise the supply of land as it
seeks to reduce the risk of a property bubble.  
 The Democratic Party proposes to invoke Legco’s powers and
privileges ordinance to order the government to table all
correspondence with Henderson on the Conduit Road project, the
party’s lawmaker  Li Wah-ming  said by phone today.  
 “We will keep chasing the Henderson’s case,” Li said.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Marco Lui  in Hong Kong at 
 mlui11@bloomberg.net ;
 Kelvin Wong  in Hong Kong at 
 kwong40@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        