-- Moody's, S&P, Fitch Seek to Dismiss Investors' Negligence Suit On Ratings
-- David Watts Barton
-- 2010-07-09T21:12:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-09/moody-s-s-p-fitch-seek-to-dismiss-investors-negligence-suit-on-ratings.html

          
          
             Moody’s Investors Service Inc. ,
Standard & Poor’s and Fitch Ratings asked a judge today to
dismiss a lawsuit filed by two California investors who claim
the companies gave inflated ratings to inferior bonds.  
 Ronald Grassi, a retired California attorney, and his wife,
a retired teacher, sued the New York-based companies over claims
they had a conflict of interest in rating  Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc.  mortgage-backed bonds. The companies named the
bonds “investment grade” to achieve more sales of their rating
services and didn’t downgrade the bonds until Lehman filed for
bankruptcy in 2008, Grassi said.  
 U.S. Magistrate Judge  Dale A. Drozd  in Sacramento threw out
the case in a March ruling, saying Grassi’s negligence and fraud
allegations weren’t specific enough. Grassi filed a more
detailed complaint in April. A similar case in state court in
San Francisco survived the companies’ request for dismissal in
May, Grassi said in a filing.  
 “I’m claiming the ratings agencies who spent 60 to 70
years becoming the only expert in town convinced everybody that
they knew what was going on,” Grassi said in a phone interview.
“When they say ‘investment grade,’ they’re saying this is a
pretty safe bond; you’ll probably get your money back and
probably get your interest payments.”  
 ‘Duty of Care’  
 In court documents, the companies claim Grassi failed to
make a case that they owed him a “duty of care,” which is
required to support his negligence claim. Grassi’s second
complaint still lacks “substantive allegations about the
ratings of the Lehman bonds” and doesn’t include allegations
that the companies “made any false statements in connection
with the specific bonds at issue in this case,” they said in
court filings.  
 As with similar suits filed in other states, the companies
also argue that credit ratings are statements of opinion
protected by the Constitution’s First Amendment.  
 “Ratings are, by their nature, opinions about the
future,”  Floyd Abrams , a lawyer for the companies said at
today’s hearing. The ratings companies face no liability, he
said, “because there’s no such thing as a false opinion.”  
 “We are hopeful the case will be dismissed on the grounds
that there was no legal duty, and that the rating is an opinion
about the future, which cannot give rise to a claim such as
this,” Abrams said in an interview after the hearing.  
 Defrauding Investors  
 In January, Standard & Poor’s and Moody’s won dismissal of
a lawsuit seeking to hold them responsible for defrauding
investors who bought about $100 billion of mortgage-backed
securities. Connecticut and Ohio also sued the ratings
companies.  
 The Grassis said in court filings that they spent $40,000
on the Lehman bonds that carried A ratings and turned out to be
worthless.  
 Fitch is a unit of Paris-based  Fimalac SA  and Moody’s is a
unit of  Moody’s Corp . Standard & Poor’s is a unit of  McGraw-Hill
Cos.   
 The case is Grassi v. Moody’s, 09-00543, U.S. District
Court, Eastern District of California (Sacramento).  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Joel Rosenblatt  in San Francisco at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net ;
 David Watts Barton  in Sacramento, California, at   davidwattsbarton@gmail.com .  
          
          


  


        