-- Moonves, Iger Tell Moguls to Find Customers Who Will Pay
-- Sarah Rabil
-- 2010-07-09T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-09/moonves-iger-tell-moguls-to-find-customers-who-will-pay.html

          
          
             Media executives at Allen & Co.’s
annual conference have a message for websites and device makers
that want TV shows and films: Customers have to pay and new
deals can’t cannibalize existing profits.  
 “The overriding issue for all content-producing companies
is whether we are getting paid fairly, and does that hurt your
other businesses,”  CBS Corp.  Chief Executive Officer  Leslie Moonves  said in an interview at the Sun Valley, Idaho, event.  
 CBS, owner of the most-watched TV network, is experimenting
with outlets such as Google Inc.’s  YouTube  and its own  TV.com 
site and considering more, Moonves said. The holdup is ensuring
they don’t devalue existing businesses, he said. Device makers,
website owners and Hollywood executives say consumers will buy
new electronics and download more movies, TV shows, music and
video games if they are able to do so with many products.  
 “We’re looking for mass distribution under the most
effective circumstances, which means reaching people in easy-to-
use environments where we can create value and monetize,”  Walt
Disney Co.  CEO  Robert Iger  said in Sun Valley this week.  
 Disney, based in Burbank, California, already supplies
movies and TV shows to users of  Apple Inc. ’s iPod, iPhone and
iPad. Last week the company bought  Tapulous Inc. , a developer of
music-related games for Apple products.  
 Media companies are trying new ways to sell films, shows,
music and games as viewers migrate to the Internet and mobile
devices, and sales of older products such as DVDs tumble. Disney
has developed technology that lets people who buy its programs
access them on numerous products.  Time Warner Cable Inc.  and
 Comcast Corp.  are developing services that let pay TV
subscribers access watch on multiple devices.  
 Google Ready  
 Google  CEO  Eric Schmidt  said the owner of the world’s
largest search engine is willing to meet the needs of media
companies trying to figure out how to get the most money from
their products.  
 “All of the media companies will face the following
choice: Do I go for a global market with advertising? Or do I go
for a narrower more targeted market with a subscription?”
Schmidt said at a press conference in Sun Valley. “It will
eventually be a mixture of subscription and advertising. That’s
a fine choice for them and we want to enable both.”  
 Agreements take time because of complex ownership rights
and concerns that new revenue sources won’t be sufficient,
Schmidt said.  
 “The fundamental problem is that there’s a revenue valley
from the old model to the new model,” Schmidt said.  
 Last week, the Los Angeles-based Internet video company
Hulu LLC started a $9.99-a-month subscription service for new
and old prime-time TV shows from Disney’s ABC, General Electric
Co.’s NBC and  News Corp. ’s Fox. Programs can be viewed on
computers, TVs and mobile devices.  
 Wait-and-See  
 Viacom Inc. , based in New York, wants to see how the
service evolves before considering whether to provide shows, CEO
 Philippe Dauman  said in an interview.  
 The company pulled episodes of “The Daily Show with  Jon Stewart ” and “The Colbert Report” off of the ad-supported
Hulu.com in March after its contract with the website expired.  
 Dauman said it’s crucial for Viacom to continue testing new
devices and outlets for its programs.  
 “You don’t want to make a decision that will prove to be
totally wrong not just for you but for building the marketplace
for that particular product,” Dauman said. “If you start out
the wrong way, it can snuff out the product.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Andy Fixmer  in Los Angeles at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net ;
 Sarah Rabil  in New York at 
 srabil@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Leslie Moonves, president and chief executive officer of CBS Corp. at the Allen & Co. Media and Technology Conference in Sun Valley. Photographer: Matthew Staver/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
