-- Lloyd Robertson to Retire as Anchor of CTV's National News After 34 Years
-- 
-- 2010-07-09T02:57:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-09/lloyd-robertson-to-retire-as-anchor-of-ctv-s-national-news-after-34-years.html

          
          
             - Chief Anchor and Senior Editor to continue at anchor desk through mid-2011 -  
 TORONTO, July 8 /CNW/ - And that's the kind of day it's been: Lloyd Robertson 
will vacate his anchor chair at CTV News in 2011, the veteran anchor announced 
on tonight's broadcast of CTV NATIONAL NEWS WITH LLOYD ROBERTSON. North 
America's longest-serving network news anchor, Robertson will continue at the 
anchor chair through the middle of next year, making it 35 years as host of CTV 
NATIONAL NEWS, before moving on to other roles within CTV News.  
 "There comes a time and this is it! I want to leave a suitable period for my 
successor to have a smooth and seamless transition," said Robertson. "While 
I'll be hoisting anchor next year, I'll be continuing at CTV for some time."  
 "Lloyd is a great newsman, an institution and the most trusted anchor in 
Canada; all of which is why he's the ratings king," said Ivan Fecan, President 
and Chief Executive Officer, CTV Globemedia, and Chief Executive Officer, CTV 
Inc. "We are all sorry to see him step down as anchor, but we are buoyed by the 
fact that he will remain in the CTV family for as long as he likes and I 
personally hope that will be a very long time."  
 Although Robertson will step down from the CTV anchor desk, he will continue to 
be seen on the network post-2011 in a variety of roles, including as co-host of 
current affairs series W5.  
 Robertson will share anchor duties with his successor and immediate backup 
throughout the following 12 months. The new CTV News Chief Anchor will be 
announced tomorrow.  
 (xx) Media Note (xx) Download photos of Lloyd Robertson at 
 http://ctvmedia.ca/ctv/programs/photography.asp?id=476&nav=photo   

 
    <<
    About Lloyd Robertson
    ---------------------
    >>

 
 As Chief Anchor and Senior Editor of CTV News, Lloyd Robertson is the leader of 
the country's most-watched newscast, CTV NATIONAL NEWS WITH LLOYD ROBERTSON. 
One of the most accomplished journalists in North America, he has been 
broadcasting for more than 50 years. In 1998 Robertson became a Member of the 
Order of Canada. In 2007, Robertson was the first journalist inducted into 
Canada's Walk of Fame. Beloved by Canadians, Robertson, a three-time Gemini 
Award winner, was voted Canada's most trusted news anchor by TV Guide readers 
11 years in a row.  
 Robertson joined CTV in 1976 and became Chief Anchor and Senior Editor in 1983. 
He began his broadcasting career in 1952 at CJCS radio in his home-town of 
Stratford and then joined CJOY in Guelph in 1953. After moving into television 
in 1954 with CBC, he spent four years in Winnipeg and two years in Ottawa. 
Robertson went on to anchor CBC's national news from 1970 to 1976.  
 Throughout his illustrious career, Robertson has guided Canadians through such 
events as the Quebec Referendum, 9/11, Canadian and U.S. elections, budget 
specials, political and economic summits, the 50th anniversary of D-Day, 
Olympic Games, royal weddings, Expo '86, openings of Parliament, state 
funerals, papal visits and the Terry Fox Run. A veteran of live news coverage 
as well as news anchoring, Robertson also hosts CTV's awarding-winning 
investigative news series W5 and has helmed several of his own specials from 
Australia, Hong Kong, China, and Great Britain.  
 Read more about Lloyd Robertson here 
( http://www.ctv.ca/servlet/ArticleNews/story/CTVNews/20090811/bios_lloyd_roberts 
on_090811/20090828?s_name=noShare).  
 CTV, Canada's Olympic Network, is also Canada's largest private broadcaster. 
Featuring a wide range of quality news, sports, information, and entertainment 
programming, CTV is Canada's most-watched television network. CTV Inc. also 
owns radio stations across the country and owns or has interests in leading 
national specialty channels, featuring news, sports, factual, arts, 
entertainment, music, youth and fashion programming. Official broadcaster of 
the Vancouver 2010 Olympic and Paralympic Winter Games and London 2012 Games of 
the Olympiad, CTV Inc. is owned by CTVglobemedia Inc., Canada's premier multi-
media company, which also owns Canada's national newspaper, The Globe and Mail. 
More information about CTV may be found on the network's website at www.ctv.ca.  
 For further information: For more information: Scott Henderson, Vice-President, 
Communications, CTV Inc., (416) 303-5440, or  scott.henderson@ctv.ca   
 CO: CTV INC.
ST: Ontario
NI: TVNEWS 2575 WNEWS
-0- Jul/09/2010  2:57 GMT
  
          
          


  


        