-- Tesla to Deliver Prototype Electric Autos to Toyota This Month
-- Alan Ohnsman
-- 2010-07-10T04:05:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-09/toyota-says-tesla-partnership-key-to-strategy-for-developing-advanced-cars.html

          
          
             Tesla Motors Inc. , an electric
carmaker working with  Toyota Motor Corp.  on battery-powered
autos, said it will deliver two rechargeable prototypes to
Toyota this month as a first step in their alliance.  
 Toyota, the world’s largest seller of hybrid autos, in May
said it would invest $50 million in Palo Alto, California-based
Tesla and jointly develop electric models with the startup. Both
prototypes are modified Toyota vehicles, said  JB Straubel ,
Tesla’s chief technology officer.  
 “Since our announcement in May, Toyota and Tesla
engineering teams have made a lot of progress in a short amount
of time and it is exciting to start seeing some initial
results,” Straubel said today in an e-mail message. Tesla has
signed an agreement “to deliver two electric vehicle prototypes
to Toyota by the end of the month,” he said.  
 Toyota’s partnership with Tesla, maker of the  $109,000
electric Roadster  sports car, is the first of more such
alliances the Toyota City, Japan-based company wants to pursue
in advanced auto technologies, President  Akio Toyoda  told
reporters yesterday in Nagoya, Japan. Carmakers including Toyota
are under pressure in the U.S. and  other markets  to develop
models that consume little or no petroleum and emit fewer gasses
linked to global warming.  
 ‘Tesla Ahead’  
 “The relationship between Toyota and Tesla is definitely
not just for show. Both companies are going to benefit from
it,” said  John O’Dell , advanced vehicle researcher and senior
editor for Edmunds.com, an automotive data company in Santa
Monica, California. “Right now Tesla is ahead of everyone in
terms of electronic controls for battery vehicles because
they’re the only ones in the market.”  
 The project with Tesla is separate from a previously
announced electric car Toyota plans to sell by 2012, Toyoda said.
Toyota has said it’s working on a two-passenger “urban
commuter” electric car that will likely have range of 50 miles
(80 kilometers) or less per charge.  
 The prototypes Tesla is preparing are based on two current
Toyota vehicles that are being fitted with Tesla battery packs
and motors, Straubel said, without elaborating.  
 Ricardo Reyes , a Tesla spokesman, declined to provide
details of the two models.  
 Toyota is pursuing a multidirectional strategy for future
vehicles that includes autos powered by hydrogen, batteries and
other alternative fuels, Toyoda told reporters yesterday.  
 ‘Omni-Directional Approach’  
 “By having Tesla we think our omni-directional approach is
becoming even more robust,” Toyoda said. “How they use
batteries, how we use batteries, how the vehicles are used,
there are many things we can share in these areas.”  
 Toyoda, 54, said the companies were already working on
potential models, though he didn’t provide any details.  
 “We’re building a prototype which is equipped with an
electric vehicle unit,” Toyoda said. Toyota will provide
updates “at each stage of development,” he said, without
elaborating.  
 Tesla raised $260 million in an initial public offering
last month. Unlike Toyota,  Nissan Motor Co.  and other companies
planning battery models, Tesla vehicles use thousands of the
same type of small lithium-ion battery cells that power laptop
computers.  
 Toyota wants to study that approach to see if it offers
advantages over using larger types of battery cells, Toyota
Executive Vice President  Shinichi Sasaki  said.  
 The development program with Tesla will be led by Toyota’s
U.S. engineering group, said Masami Doi.  
 German Connection  
 Tesla is also working with Germany’s  Daimler AG  on electric
vehicles and has supplied battery packs for use in Daimler’s
Smart minicars. Daimler has also invested at least $50 million
in Tesla.  
 Toyota  fell  0.3 percent to close at 3,120 yen yesterday in
Tokyo Stock Exchange trading, extending its decline this year to
20 percent. Toyota’s American depositary receipts fell 14 cents
to $71.07 yesterday in New York Stock Exchange composite trading,
and have declined 16 percent this year.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alan Ohnsman  in Toyota City, Japan, at 
 aohnsman@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Elon Musk, chairman and chief executive officer of Tesla Motors, stands for a portrait with a Tesla Roadster electric car outside the Nasdaq Marketsite in New York, on June 29, 2010.  Photographer: Daniel Acker/Bloomberg *** Local Caption *** Elon Musk  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
