-- Toyota Chief Seeking to Rebuild Consumer Trust After Recalls
-- Alan Ohnsman
-- 2010-07-10T05:38:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-09/toyota-focused-on-restoring-consumers-confidence-president-toyoda-says.html

          
          
             Toyota Motor Corp.  is focused on
restoring customer confidence as the world’s biggest automaker
revamps quality control efforts following its worst recall
crisis, President  Akio Toyoda  said.  
 “Customers will make the judgment” as to whether Toyota
has solved concerns arising from recalls, Toyoda told reporters
yesterday in Nagoya, Japan. “We’re doing everything possible
to earn their continuing trust.”  
 Toyota seeks to regain a reputation as an industry leader
in quality even as it prepares to fix flaws in luxury Lexus
models and faces continued U.S. congressional inquiries over
recalls of more than 8 million cars and trucks for defects
linked to unintended acceleration. Toyoda told a House
committee this year the problems arose partly because of the
Toyota City, Japan-based company’s rapid expansion in the past
decade.  
 The automaker this week said it added 1,000 engineers to
an expanded quality assessment group, is extending vehicle
development time by about four weeks and is opening more
regional offices in the U.S. and Canada to more quickly
investigate customer complaints.  
 The announcements came as Toyota demonstrated its
engineering centers in Toyota City and Higashi-Fuji, Japan,
that are looking into potential sources of sudden acceleration.  
 Not Stepping Down  
 Toyoda, 54, grandson of the company’s founder, said he
hasn’t considered stepping down as  president  of the carmaker.  
 “I haven’t overcome the crisis yet,” he said. “Doing
the kind of work I’ve done for the past year, it’s no longer
whether I want to step aside or not. I want people to
understand the real Toyota.”  
 The House Energy and Commerce Committee on June 29 said it
needed more information from Toyota about the possible role of
electronics as a cause of unintended acceleration and asked U.S.
sales chief  Jim Lentz  to meet with the panel, a fifth
congressional inquiry this year.  
 The company was fined a record $16.4 million by the U.S.
Transportation Department for violating recall regulations.  
 Toyota, the world’s largest seller of hybrid autos, is
pursuing a multidirectional strategy that includes autos
powered by hydrogen, batteries and other fuel alternatives,
Toyoda said yesterday.  
 Tesla Prototypes  
 The company will take delivery of two rechargeable
prototypes from  Tesla Motors Inc.  this month. Both are Toyota
models fitted with Tesla battery packs and motors, according to
JB Straubel, Tesla’s chief technology officer. The Japanese
automaker said in May it would invest $50 million in Palo Alto,
California-based Tesla, maker of the $109,000  Roadster  electric
sports car.  
 Tesla vehicles are powered by thousands of the small
lithium-ion batteries used in laptop computers. Toyota wants to
study that approach to see if it offers advantages over using
larger types of battery cells, Toyota Executive Vice President
 Shinichi Sasaki  said.  
 Toyoda also said the carmaker will make “every effort”
to improve communication and relations with workers in China to
minimize unrest at factories there. Since May, at least nine
strikes at plants of Japanese carmakers and suppliers have
disrupted their production in the world’s biggest auto market.  
 Japanese-affiliated companies are “not necessarily being
singled out” for strikes in China, Toyoda said. “The workers
and the management of the companies have to share the same goal,
to create better cars.”  
 While higher wages may have some effect in China, workers
will also have more money to buy autos in the future, he said.  
 Toyota’s  American depositary receipts  fell 14 cents to
$71.07 yesterday in New York Stock Exchange composite trading.
They have declined 16 percent this year.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alan Ohnsman  in Toyota City, Japan, at 
 aohnsman@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Akio Toyoda, president of Toyota Motor Corp., speaks during an interview at the Toyota Commemorative Museum of Industry and Technology in Nagoya, Japan. Photographer: David Dewhurst/Toyota Motor Corp. via Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
