-- Parliamentary Battle Over Solar Subsidies in Germany Ends With Compromise
-- Anna Czajkowska
-- 2010-07-09T14:30:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-09/parliamentary-battle-over-solar-subsidies-in-germany-ends-with-compromise.html

          
          
                  July 9 (Bloomberg New Energy Finance) -- Both houses of the
German parliament approved a compromise agreement on feed-in
tariff cuts with full reductions not implemented until October.  
 This is a “final, final” solar-subsidy decision that
becomes effective immediately and retroactively from July 1,
said the spokesman for the coalition CSU party, Jens Teschke.  
 The compromise means the retroactive cuts will be 3
percentage points lower than originally proposed by the
government. Therefore, from July to Sept. 30, the subsidy
reduction rates are 13 percent for rooftop, 12 percent for open
space installations and 8 percent for land conversion projects.  
 Starting Oct. 1, the German cuts will increase to 16
percent for rooftop, 15 percent for open space and 11 percent
for land conversion projects.  
 The CSU party was satisfied with the agreement, which
represents a “workable compromise” that gives “enough time to
the industry to adjust, Teschke said. The solar power industry,
though, said the feed-in tariff cuts will increase pressure on
companies such as  Q-Cells SE  and S olarworld AG  as they face
competition from producers in China.  
 “German solar industry is facing a huge challenge,”
Carsten Koerning, managing director of the BSW solar industry
lobby group, said in an e-mailed statement. “It will now need
to reduce its production costs faster than previously planned
while retaining the efficiency and quality of the products.”  
 “The amendments to the government’s proposal are as
predicted very minor,” said Francesco D’Avack, a solar analyst
at Bloomberg New Energy Finance in London. “At best they have
allowed opposition members in the Bundesrat to keep face, after
a somewhat unilateral first proposal from the government.  
 “The main problem remains: the German PV market is
overheating and so far legislators and industry representatives
have shown little understanding of the fact that if the market
continues to grow like at the current pace, much more painful
tariff cuts or even capacity caps might become inevitable.”  
 To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
 Anna Czajkowska  in London at 
 aczajkowska4@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        