-- Peru's Monetary Policy Seeks Growth, Inflation Under Control, Armas Says
-- John Quigley
-- 2010-07-09T19:48:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-09/peru-s-second-quarter-gdp-growth-may-exceed-8-central-bank-s-armas-says.html

          
          
             Peru’s policy makers are seeking to
withdraw monetary stimulus gradually as a “rapid” recovery may
lead to  economic growth  of more than 8 percent in the second
quarter, the central bank’s research director,  Adrian Armas ,
said today.  
 The bank raised its  reference rate  for a third straight
month yesterday as a precautionary measure to induce sustainable
growth and avoid the need for aggressive monetary adjustments in
the future, Armas said in a conference call with reporters.  
 “The central bank wants to encourage the economy to move
toward high rates of growth with inflation under control,”
Armas said.  
 The seven-member board, led by bank President  Julio Velarde , increased its benchmark lending rate by a quarter point
to 2 percent, citing strong internal demand and “significant”
growth in public and private spending in the year to date. The
new level for the reference rate is still “highly
stimulative,” so the bank may continue raising borrowing costs
to reach 3.25 percent by year-end, said Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
economist  Alberto Ramos  in an e-mailed statement yesterday.  
 The central bank this month boosted reserve requirements
for the first time in two years. Policy makers are ready to make
new adjustments to the reserve mandate to prevent capital
inflows from pressuring the exchange rate, Armas said.  
 The central bank purchased $12 million dollars in the
foreign exchange market today, it said on its website. The bank
has purchased $3.8 billion in 2010 to reduce volatility in the
exchange rate and prevent a mismatch between assets and
liabilities denominated in different currencies, Armas said.  
 The sol was little changed at 2.8235 per dollar at 3:38
p.m. New York time.  
 South America’s sixth-largest economy grew 6 percent in the
first quarter from the same period a year earlier. The national
statistics agency is scheduled to issue its second-quarter
report Aug. 27.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 John Quigley  in Lima at 
 jquigley8@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        