-- Peugeot, Changan to Invest $1.2 Billion in Chinese Carmaking Joint Venture
-- Laurence Frost
-- 2010-07-09T09:57:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-09/peugeot-changan-to-invest-1-2-billion-in-chinese-carmaking-joint-venture.html

          
          
             PSA Peugeot Citroen  and China Changan
Automobile Group Co. pledged to assemble Citroen DS cars in
China by 2012 in a joint venture that will also introduce a new
brand to the fast-growing market.  
 The carmakers will together invest $1.2 billion to increase
and upgrade capacity at Changan’s plant in Shenzhen, creating
shared output of 200,000 vehicles a year, the companies said in
a  statement  today.  
 Peugeot Chief Executive Officer  Philippe Varin  and Xu Bin,
president of controlling Changan shareholder China South
Industries, signed the 50-50 venture agreement at a ceremony in
Paris today. The initial priority will be “introducing the
Citroen DS line in China and launching a dedicated new brand for
the venture,” the companies said.  
 Under Varin, Europe’s second-biggest carmaker is pushing to
expand overseas and reduce dependence on saturated western
European markets. The Paris-based company’s Chinese operations,
with a market share of 3.4 percent, are dwarfed by General
Motors Co. and European No. 1  Volkswagen AG , which had 16.3
percent and 13.5 percent of China’s passenger-car market
respectively last year, according to the China Association of
Automobile Manufacturers.  
 Range of Models  
 Peugeot is targeting a  Chinese market  share of 8 percent
after the venture starts, CEO Varin told reporters today,
without giving a firm date for achieving the objective.  
 The venture aims to introduce “several” models in 2012 for
Citroen DS and the shared  brand , which will have a Chinese name,
Peugeot’s Asia chief  Gregoire Olivier  said after the ceremony.  
 “Our objective is to roll out a complete range fairly
rapidly,” Olivier told reporters. The new brand may later export
to southeast Asian countries and the Middle East.  
 Only “the upper end” of the DS range will be assembled on
the production line to be built in Shenzhen, Varin said. An
existing Changan line will be upgraded to produce delivery
vehicles for the new brand.  
 The French company’s  shares  rose 1.6 percent to 23.02 euros
at 11:54 a.m. in Paris, giving it a market value of 5.39 billion
euros ($6.83 billion).  
 Peugeot already has one Chinese venture with  Dongfeng Motor
Group Co. , which is planning a third factory. Production is
reaching its limits at existing plants in Wuhan, eastern China,
that assemble models including the Peugeot 308, 408 and Citroen
C5 mid-sized car.  
 The Peugeot-Changan venture will produce passenger cars as
well as light trucks, allowing the French carmaker to enter
China’s surging delivery-vehicle market.  
 China Changan is the parent of  Chongqing Changan Automobile
Co. , Ford Motor Co.’s partner in China, which overtook the U.S.
as the world’s largest auto market last year.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Laurence Frost  in Paris at 
 lfrost4@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        