-- PGNiG Starts First Polish Shale Gas Well, Seeking to Cut Russia Dependence
-- Maciej Martewicz
-- 2010-07-09T14:00:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-09/pgnig-starts-first-polish-shale-gas-well-seeking-to-cut-russia-dependence.html

          
          
             Polskie Gornictwo Naftowe i
Gazownictwo SA , Poland’s dominant gas company, started hydraulic
fracturing at its first shale gas well as the central European
country seeks to tap “unconventional” resources, cutting
dependence on Russia.  
 Contractors from  Halliburton Co.  began the process known as
fracking, forcing water and chemicals underground to break up
rock formations and extract gas, at the Makrowola-1 drilling
site, 120 kilometers (74 miles) from Warsaw. The company known
as PGNiG expects to make an initial estimate of the deposit’s
size in about a month, said  Piotr Gliniak , head of exploration.  
 “We’ll know in a year or two whether it makes economic
sense to extract this deposit, and we could start production
five years from now,” he said. For the well to be profitable it
must hold “tens of billions” of cubic meters of gas, he said.  
 Poland has documented gas deposits of 92 billion cubic
meters. The country uses about 14 billion cubic meters a year,
two-thirds of which is imported from Russia.  
 Grupa Lotos SA , Poland’s second-largest oil refiner, may
“soon” get “several” exploration licenses, Deputy Treasury
Minister Mikolaj Budzanowski told reporters at the site today.  
 PGNiG will invest about 50 million zloty each in the
Makrowola well and one project other this year, from its 660
million-zloty 2010 domestic exploration budget.  
 PGNiG holds 13 of the roughly 60 shale-gas licenses issued
by Poland’s Environment Ministry and Lotos’s larger rival PKN
Orlen SA has five, with the rest held by foreign players
including Chevron Corp. and Exxon Mobil Corp.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Maciej Martewicz  in Warsaw at 
 mmartewicz@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        