-- Point Blank, General Growth, Tronox: Bankruptcy
-- Carla Main
-- 2010-07-09T11:10:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-09/point-blank-mgm-orleans-pasadena-playhouse-wamu-dyncorp-bankruptcy.html

          
          
               Point Blank Solutions Inc ., the
bankrupt maker of protective body armor, said it will explore
alternatives including a sale of the company while under court
protection.  
 The company is considering a sale as a way to “generate
the highest value for all constituents,”  Point Blank  said in a
statement issued yesterday along with a U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission filing. A sale would require bankruptcy
court approval.  
 Point Blank, based in Pompano Beach,  Florida , and three
units filed to reorganize on April 14 in Wilmington,  Delaware .
The bankruptcy court approved the company’s agreement to borrow
as much as $20 million to finance the Chapter 11 case, according
to the statement.  
 The case is In re Point Blank Body Armor Inc., 10-bk-11257,  U.S. Bankruptcy Court , District of Delaware (Wilmington).  
 Debt Waivers  
 MGM Studio Said to Seek New Debt Waiver Amid Creditor Talks  
 Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer Inc., the film studio up for sale after
falling behind on $3.7 billion in debt, will ask lenders to
extend a moratorium on interest payments, Bloomberg’s Ronald
Grover reported, citing two people with knowledge of the
situation.  
 The Los Angeles-based company will e-mail ballots to more
than 100 creditors this week, said one of the people, who asked
not to be named because discussions are private. The current
forbearance expires on July 14.  
 A payment waiver would be the sixth since October and give
a committee of MGM’s five largest creditors time to negotiate a
restructuring that would include a cash infusion. The lenders,
who control more than 50 percent of the debt, are in talks with
Spyglass Entertainment and “Twilight” producer Summit
Entertainment, to run MGM for them, people said in May.  
   Lions Gate Entertainment Corp ., which produces the Tyler
Perry films and distributes the “Saw” horror series, also has
held preliminary merger talks with MGM, people said last month.  
 Any proposal could be blocked by investor Carl Icahn, who
controls almost 38 percent of Vancouver-based Lions Gate and has
said he may seek control of its board.  
 MGM’s largest creditors had sought to put a restructuring
deal in place before seeking the forbearance, one of the people
said. The responses are due back by the middle of next week, the
person said.  
 Updates  
 General Growth Has Deal for New Loan from Barclays  
 General Growth Properties Inc., the second-largest mall
operator in the U.S., said it has an agreement for a new $400
million bankruptcy loan from  Barclays Plc .  
 The mall operator wants court permission to use the new
financing to replace its existing $400 million bankruptcy loan,
it said yesterday in papers filed with the U.S. Bankruptcy Court
in  Manhattan .  
 General Growth, based in  Chicago , said it will save $2.7
million per month in interest payments under the new agreement,
“preserving capital,” by paying the original loan.  
 General Growth filed for bankruptcy last year after
amassing a $27 billion debt load making acquisitions. It has
said it expects to file its plan to restructure its remaining
debt this week.  
 The new financing comes with a 5.5 percent interest rate
compared with a variable interest rate under the existing loan,
now at 13.5 percent, General Growth said.  
 The case is In re  General Growth Properties Inc ., 09-11977,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of  New York 
(Manhattan).  
 Rangers May Negotiate Sale Agreement with New Bidder  
 The  Texas  Rangers may reach a sale agreement with a new
bidder to lead off its auction, replacing a deal with a group
led by Chuck Greenberg and Nolan Ryan, the chief restructuring
officer for the team’s owners said.  
 The baseball team may scrap a sale agreement with the
Greenberg-Ryan group and make one with a new buyer that would be
subject to higher bids at an auction, William Snyder, the
restructuring officer, said yesterday in a phone interview.  
 The Rangers yesterday withdrew a request in the U.S.
Bankruptcy Court in Fort Worth, Texas, for permission to hold a
July 16 auction. The team said earlier this week that it would
hold an auction with the Greenberg-Ryan group acting as the lead
bidder.  
 The Rangers will seek court approval for a sales process
with new terms and conditions, Snyder said. He declined to name
other potential bidders or say how many are interested in buying
the baseball team. It’s possible the Greenberg-Ryan group could
remain the lead bidder at the auction, according to Snyder.  
 The Rangers initially hoped to win court approval of the
Greenberg-Ryan deal, valued at $575 million, without holding an
auction. On July 5, the team said in court papers that it agreed
to an auction following discussions with Snyder.  
 Snyder declined to comment yesterday on why the team had
withdrawn its request for the auction or why a new sale
agreement was possible.  
 Mark Seer, a spokesman for the Rangers, and Kevin Sullivan,
a spokesman for the Greenberg-Ryan group, declined to comment.  
 The case is In re Texas Rangers Baseball Partners, 10-
43400, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Northern District of Texas (Fort
Worth).  
 Tronox to Give Company to Creditors under Bankruptcy Exit Plan  
   Tronox Inc . would be taken over by noteholders and other
unsecured creditors under the chemical maker’s proposal for
exiting bankruptcy.  
 General unsecured creditors owed $470.6 million would split
all of the new stock Tronox will issue when it exits bankruptcy.
Pollution claims of as much as $5.2 billion would be resolved by
paying government agencies and other environmental creditors as
much as $145 million in cash and giving them 88 percent of the
proceeds from a lawsuit, new convertible, preferred stock and
insurance proceeds.  
 Tronox makes chemicals for paints, coatings, plastics,
paper, batteries, toothpaste, sunscreen and shampoo. The company
has disputed its responsibility for many polluted sites,
including more than 600 mining-related sites and 270 chemical
labs.  
 It sued Anadarko Petroleum Corp. and Kerr-McGee in May
2009, saying the companies’ 2006 spinoff of Tronox left it with
$550 million in environmental liabilities.  
 The bankruptcy case is Tronox Inc., 09-10156, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  
 Orleans Sued by Landscaping Company in Bankruptcy Court  
   Orleans Homebuilders Inc ., a bankrupt builder and seller of
homes and condominiums, was sued by  Eric’s Nursery Inc.  in
bankruptcy court in Wilmington, Delaware.  
 Eric’s Nursery, based in Mount Laurel, New Jersey, seeks
$45,000 in unpaid fees for landscaping services, court records
show. The vendor wants the court to find that the debt is non-
dischargeable, and seeks turnover of the money plus $13,000 in
interest, according to the complaint.  
 Eric’s Nursery claims that Orleans asked it to perform
landscaping services while insolvent, “unbeknownst to” Eric’s
Nursery. Section 523 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code lists
exceptions to the general rule of discharge in bankruptcy cases,
which include debts for services given “under false
pretenses.”  
 Orleans, based in Bensalem, Pennsylvania, hasn’t yet
responded to the complaint.  
 The bankruptcy case is In Re Orleans Homebuilders, Inc.,
10-bk10684, and the adversary proceeding is Eric’s Nursery, Inc.
v. Orleans Homebuilders Inc., 10-bk-10684, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  
 Pasadena Playhouse Emerges From Chapter 11, L.A. Times Says  
 The  Pasadena Playhouse, the State Theater of California 
exited Chapter 11 bankruptcy on July 7 after the U.S. Bankruptcy
Court in Los Angeles approved its reorganization plan, the  Los
Angeles  Times reported.  
 The theater filed for court protection on May 10, saying it
had $2.3 million in debt and about $102,000 in cash. Most of the
debt was money owed to subscribers, banks and vendors, the Times
reported on May 11.  
 The theater received a matching pledge of $1 million from
anonymous donors as part of its fundraising, and was given pro
bono legal and financial advice, the newspaper reported.  
 The case is In Re Pasadena Playhouse State Theater of
California, 2:10-bk-28586, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Central
District of  California  (Los Angeles).  
 WaMu Delays Hearing on Disclosure Statement, Examiner, AP Says  
   Washington Mutual Inc ., the former parent of the biggest
U.S. bank to fail, put off until July 20 a hearing on its
disclosure statement and a request by shareholders for the
appointment of an examiner, the Associated Press reported.  
 U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Mary Walrath in Wilmington, Delaware,
agreed to postpone the hearing scheduled for yesterday after
WaMu attorney Brian Rosen said the company needed more time to
negotiate with shareholders and creditors, AP reported.  
 WaMu, based in Seattle, has proposed splitting almost $10
billion in cash and tax refunds with JPMorgan Chase & Co. and
the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. in exchange for agreeing not
to sue them. The settlement is the cornerstone of WaMu’s
proposal to liquidate most of its assets and distribute the
proceeds to creditors. Shareholders would get nothing under the
proposal, according to AP.  
 Shareholders requested a court-sponsored investigation of
WaMu’s decision not to sue federal regulators and JPMorgan over
the bank failure and WaMu’s assets. Walrath denied the request
in June, ruling that WaMu and its official committee of
unsecured creditors should share the results of their
investigations.  
 The bankruptcy case is In Re Washington Mutual Inc., 08-
12229, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  
 Briefly Noted  
 Dykstra Bankruptcy Trustee Seeks Settlement Approval  
 The trustee for the bankruptcy estate of Lenny Dykstra, the
former Major League Baseball player who filed for protection
under Chapter 7 just over a year ago, asked the U.S. Bankruptcy
Court in San Fernando Valley, California, on July 7 to approve a
settlement with Index Investors, according to court files. Index
would receive $70,000 from the proceeds of an expected
settlement with Fireman’s Fund that is to be paid into the
estate. Index made loans to Dykstra of $370,000, $235,000 and
$165,000. The settlement also resolves a lawsuit brought by
Dykstra against Index, court files show. Dykstra played for the
New York Mets and Philadelphia Phillies.  
 The case is In re Lenny Kyle Dykstra, 09-bk-18409, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Central District of California (San Fernando
Valley)  
 Teamsters Object to U.S. Concrete Reorganization Plan  
 Teamsters Local 641  Pension Fund and Local 734 Fund
objected yesterday to  U.S. Concrete Inc. ’s reorganization plan,
saying it “provides, or appears to provide, improperly, that
withdrawal liability is discharged.” The funds argued in court
papers that withdrawal liability doesn’t arise “until a
contributing employer actually withdraws from an underfunded
multiemployer pension plan.”  The prepackaged plan of
reorganization, which reduces debt by $285 million, is scheduled
for a three-day confirmation hearing to begin July 23 and
continue on July 28 and 29. For details of the plan, click here.  
 The case is In re U.S. Concrete, Inc., 10-11407, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  
 Watch List  
   Skilled Healthcare  Rebounds After Bankruptcy Concern Abates  
   Skilled Healthcare Group Inc ., which had dropped the most
ever after a jury returned a $671 million verdict against it,
rebounded as Barclays Plc said the nursing-home operator can
avoid bankruptcy.  
 Shares of the Foothill Ranch, California-based company had
the second-biggest gain in the  Russell 2000 Index , rising 54
percent to $2.34 in New York, after analyst Brendan Strong said
a settlement may be reached during the next few weeks.  
 “Based on our discussions with one of the plaintiff’s
attorneys, we believe a negotiated settlement is likely and
believe there is a low likelihood that SKH would be forced into
bankruptcy,” Strong wrote in a note to clients yesterday,
referring to the company’s stock ticker.  
 Skilled Healthcare plunged 76 percent on July 7 after a
California jury said the company was liable for $613 million in
statutory damages, the maximum allowed by state law, and $58
million for restitution. The plaintiffs accused Skilled
Healthcare of improperly staffing 22 California facilities.  
 The verdict is the largest jury award in the U.S. this
year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Skilled
Healthcare said the award exceeds its insurance policy limits.  
 Statistics  
 Default Rate Slows to 6.1 Percent, Moody’s Reports  
 The global speculative-grade debt default rate fell to 6.1
percent at the end of June after nine companies missed interest
payments in the second quarter, Moody’s Investors Service said.
Moody’s expects the global rate to decline to 2.4 percent by the
end of the year and 1.8 percent by the second quarter of 2011,
according to the statement.  
 Ratings Changes  
 First Industrial Corporate Credit Downgraded, S&P Says  
 First Industrial LP yesterday had its corporate credit
ratings on units First Industrial Realty Trust Inc. and First
Industrial LP downgraded to B+ from BB- by Standard & Poor’s.  
 First Industrial and its units also saw their senior
unsecured notes cut to BB- from BB, and the rating for the
preferred stock lowered to CCC+ from B-, S&P said in a
statement. S&P said the outlook remains negative because of its
“belief that cash flow and coverage metrics will remain under
pressure.”  
 The ratings reflect “the company’s less-than-adequate
liquidity and reliance on executing asset sales, secured debt
financings, and possibly raising additional equity to meet its
2011 capital needs,” S&P credit analyst George Skoufis said in
the statement.  
 DynCorp International’s Ratings Withdrawn, S&P Says  
 DynCorp International LLC, the Falls Church, Virginia-based
government-services provider, yesterday had its ratings,
including its BB corporate credit, removed by Standard & Poor’s
Ratings Services.  
 S&P also removed the company’s ratings from CreditWatch,
where it had placed them “with negative implications” on April
12, the rating company said in the statement.  
 The ratings withdrawal followed the completion of Cerberus
Capital Management LP’s acquisition of the company’s parent,
DynCorp International Inc., and repayment of the company’s
existing debt.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in New Jersey at 
 Cmain2@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        