-- PTC in Talks With SAIF Partners, Others on Unit Stake Sale, Chairman Says
-- Archana Chaudhary
-- 2010-07-09T07:24:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-09/ptc-in-talks-with-saif-others-on-unit-stake-sale.html

          
          
             PTC India Ltd. , the nation’s largest
power trader, is in talks with investors including Hong Kong-
based  SAIF Partners Ltd.  on selling a stake in unit  PTC India
Financial Services Ltd. , Chairman Tantra  Narayan Thakur  said.  
 PTC India Financial Services, a company backed by  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc.  and  Macquarie Group Ltd. , may sell shares to
“private investors, through a public sale or both,” around
September, Thakur, who is also chairman of the unit, said today.  
 “We are in talks with a few investors including SAIF about
selling a stake but we haven’t finalized anything yet,” Thakur
said in a telephone interview from New Delhi. “We haven’t
received proposals from any of the investors.”  
 Parent PTC is trying to tap investors’ interests in India,
the world’s fastest-growing economy after China and Brazil.
Overseas investments in India’s stocks and bonds reached a
record 834.2 billion rupees ($17.8 billion) in 2009. PTC India
Financial Services is raising funds to invest in power projects.  
 India plans to double its installed electricity capacity in
the next seven years to meet energy demand and reduce blackouts.
The government has raised at least 102 billion rupees from
selling shares in three state-owned power-related companies
since January.  
 State-owned PTC has a 77 percent stake in PTC India
Financial Services, also known as PFS, and plans to retain a 51
percent holding after the sale, Thakur said on May 26. Goldman
Sachs and Macquarie currently hold 11.5 percent each, he said.
 JM Financial Ltd. , SBI Capital Markets Ltd. and ICICI Securities
Ltd. will advise the sale, Thakur had said.  
 PTC India’s  shares  rose 4.1 percent to 104.6 rupees a share
at 11:58 a.m. local time in Mumbai today  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Archana Chaudhary  in New Delhi at 
 achaudhary2@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        