-- Recall of Glaxo's Avandia Is One of Five Fates Considered by FDA Reviewers
-- Michelle Fay Cortez
-- 2010-07-09T15:53:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-09/recall-of-glaxo-s-avandia-is-one-of-five-fates-considered-by-fda-reviewers.html

          
          
             GlaxoSmithKline Plc ’s study of its
once best-selling diabetes pill Avandia doesn’t prove the drug
is safe, according to U.S. regulators considering whether to
recall it amid doctors’ concerns it causes heart complications.  
 The study, called  Record , “was inadequately designed and
conducted to provide any reassurance about the cardiovascular
safety” of the drug, said Thomas A. Marciniak, a medical team
leader at the Food and Drug Administration, in an agency review
of Avandia released today. “The results do confirm and extend
the recognized concerns regarding increased heart failure and
heart failure deaths.”  
 Avandia generated $1.1 billion last year for London-based
Glaxo, about one-third of the revenue it had before data emerged
in 2007 linking the medicine to a 43 percent increased risk in
heart attacks. An FDA panel agreed that year that the drug
carried risks though it should remain available. Almost a dozen
more clinical trials and studies have been completed in the past
three years, prompting the agency to re-examine the issue.  
 “We cannot rely upon Record to provide reassurances
regarding the effects of rosiglitazone upon cardiovascular
risk,” said Marciniak, using the chemical name for Avandia.  
 Glaxo shares were unchanged at 1,142 pence at the close of
trading in London. The stock has declined 13 percent so far this
year,  compared with  a 0.5 percent gain in the 17-member
Bloomberg Europe Pharmaceutical Index.  
 ‘Conflicting Views’  
 Outside advisers to the FDA will  meet  July 13-14 to
evaluate Avandia and vote on whether it should remain on the
market, be restricted to certain patients, or withdrawn. While
the agency usually follows the recommendations of its advisers,
it isn’t required to do so.  
 “The panel is going to presented with conflicting views
and conflicting data yet again, and all we can do is look at
what happened last time -- and that’s when they left Avandia on
the market,” said  Jeff Holford , a Jefferies International
analyst who has a buy rating on Glaxo shares, in a telephone
interview today. “Just discrediting Record is not enough to
take Avandia off the market.”  
 Glaxo conducted the Record trial at the behest of European
regulators to look at Avandia’s cardiovascular risks. The study
generated substantial controversy, and the U.S. agency conducted
multiple reviews and audits of the trial, said  Janet Woodcock ,
director of the FDA’s Center for Drug Evaluation and Research.
The European Medicines Agency said today that it’s conducting a
safety review similar to that of the FDA.  
 Doubled the Risk  
 Avandia more than doubled the risk of heart failure without
increasing the rate of hospitalization or death from
cardiovascular causes in the 4,447-person study, called Record,
which compared the drug with older diabetes medicines. The data,
presented in June 2009, are limited because more people in the
group receiving Avandia were taking cholesterol medications and
patients and doctors knew which diabetes drug was prescribed.  
 “There is no evidence of harm here, and this fact seems
incontrovertible,” said Ellis Unger, deputy director of the
FDA’s Office of Drug Evaluation, in the agency’s report today.
“I deem the results of Record to be reassuring.”  
 David Graham , from the FDA’s Office of Surveillance and
Epidemiology, and  Steven Nissen , head of cardiology at the
Cleveland Clinic in Ohio, will present the FDA panel next week
with findings from their recent research into Avandia linking
the drug to heart attacks and cardiovascular complications. The
studies were published last month by the Journal of the American
Medical Association and the Archives of Internal Medicine.  
 Glaxo will focus its presentation to the FDA panel on the
Record study, which ran for more than five years, said Jai
Patel, the company’s vice president in metabolic clinical
research.  
 ‘Important Medicine’  
 “Avandia may not be right for every single patient, but it
certainly is an important medicine that should be available to
patients,” Patel said yesterday in a telephone interview.
“When your disease progresses and other agents don’t work, the
long-term durable effect will potentially be useful in that
patient population.”  
 Measures used by the FDA to alert doctors and patients of
potential risks, or to control access to potentially dangerous
drugs, won’t work with Avandia, said  Harlan Krumholz ,
cardiologist and professor of medicine at Yale University, in a
telephone interview. The standard approach of a warning on a
drug’s prescribing information doesn’t go far enough, he said.  
 “You assume if you can go to a pharmacy and buy it, it
must be safe,” he said. “It’s hard to leave it on the market
and send a strong enough message about the concerns.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Catherine Larkin  in Washington at 
 clarkin4@bloomberg.net ;
 Michelle Fay Cortez  in London at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.com .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     A bottle of GlaxoSmithKline Plc's diabetes drug Avandia.  Photographer: JB Reed/ Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
