-- Reliance Industries Borrows $1 Billion for Five, Seven Years From Banks
-- Suprotip Ghosh
-- 2010-07-09T13:01:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-09/reliance-industries-borrows-1-billion-for-five-seven-years-from-banks.html

          
          
             Reliance Industries Ltd. , owner of
the world’s largest refinery, raised $1 billion to fund projects,
two people involved in the transaction said.  
 Reliance will pay 170 basis points over the London
interbank offered rate for $500 million borrowed for five years,
the people said, declining to be identified before a public
announcement. It will also pay 190 basis points over Libor for a
similar-sized loan over seven years, the people said. The so
called bullet loans have a fixed maturity. A basis point is 0.01
percentage point.  
 India’s biggest company by market value plans to invest $5
billion in a wireless internet venture. Reliance, which acquired
shale gas assets from two companies in the U.S. for $3 billion
this year, is drilling for oil and gas off India’s east and west
coasts. Chairman Mukesh Ambani, Asia’s richest man, said last
month he intends to double the company’s net worth by 2020.  
 “Oil and gas companies typically preserve cash for high-
risk exploration and production activities and borrow for less
risky ventures,” said  Rohit Ahuja , an analyst at Centrum
Broking in Mumbai. “This loan could be to balance borrowing
costs, since it is significantly cheaper than a rupee loan,”  
 Rupee loans cannot be lent at interest rates below seven
percent after July 1, following a central bank directive asking
Indian lenders to migrate to and announce a minimum lending rate,
known as the base rate.  
 Higher Rating  
 Anheuser-Busch InBev NV , the biggest beer maker, paid 97.5
basis points on an $8 billion five-year revolving loan,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg in March. The Belgium-
based company is rated BBB+, one notch higher than Reliance’s
BBB- by Standard & Poor’s. Anheuser-Busch will pay a maximum of
30 basis points as bankers’ fees added over that, taking the
total cost to 127.5 basis points.  
 Credit-default swaps, or the measure of default risk on
Reliance’s five-year senior unsecured debt closed at 177.34, up
from 135.7 on January 1, according to New York-based CMA
Datavision prices.  
 Bank of America Merrill Lynch, Sumitomo Mitsui Financial
Group Inc. and Credit Agricole Corporate & Investment Bank
helped the Mumbai-based company raise the funds, one of the
people said.  
 Reliance spokesman  Manoj Warrier  declined to comment.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Suprotip Ghosh in Mumbai at 
 sghosh47@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        