-- Rogoff Sees `Very, Very High' Chance European Aid Package Will Be Tapped
-- Shamim Adam
-- 2010-07-09T09:22:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-09/rogoff-sees-very-very-high-chance-european-aid-package-will-be-tapped.html

          
          
             Harvard University professor  Kenneth Rogoff  said European nations will likely draw on a regional aid
package after the International Monetary Fund urged the region
to take further steps to combat its debt crisis.  
 “The chances are very, very high they’ll need to draw on
the package because the adjustments are just too great and
private markets are closed basically to some countries,”
Rogoff, 57, a former chief economist at the IMF, told reporters
today after a conference in Singapore. “I think it’s pretty
high that they will draw on it.”  
 Euro-area governments are in the process of approving an
unprecedented aid package designed to end speculation that the
16-nation currency bloc might break apart. The IMF this week
urged policy makers to reduce  budget deficits , formulate plans
to wind down or recapitalize weak banks, and make the rescue
fund “fully operational” to backstop the euro.  
 Under the European Financial Stability Facility,
governments pledged 440 billion euros ($558 billion) in loans or
guarantees, with an additional 60 billion euros in lending
available from the European Union’s budget and as much as 250
billion euros from the IMF.  
 “I think particularly the IMF monies will get drawn on at
some point,” Rogoff said. “The timing of these things take
years to play up so the fact that nothing’s happened right away
doesn’t mean that nothing is going to happen.”  
 Volatility Persists  
 Europe’s economy will grow more slowly this year and next
than those of the U.S., Canada and Japan, hurt by financial
turmoil from its sovereign-debt crisis, the IMF said on July 7.
Sovereign and banking risks in the euro area could spill over to
other regions if actions aren’t taken, the Washington-based fund
said, recommending that the European Central Bank step up
purchases of government debt on the secondary market.  
 “There’s still a lot of volatility surrounding the
situation in Europe,” Rogoff said. “If we are talking about
growth, Europe’s having a recovery but there is tremendous
volatility around Southern Europe.”  
 The world isn’t likely to experience a double-dip
recession, and Asian central banks need to raise interest rates
before the U.S. as inflation may become a problem in the region,
he said in a speech at the Singapore conference. The U.S.
Federal Reserve may keep rates steady for a “very long time,”
Rogoff said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Shamim Adam  in Singapore at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        