-- Rothschild's Vallar IPO Raises $1.07 Billion in London
-- Zijing Wu
-- 2010-07-09T08:27:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-09/rothschild-s-vallar-initial-public-offering-raises-1-07-billion-in-london.html

          
          
             Vallar Plc,  Nathaniel Rothschild’s 
investment vehicle, raised 707.2 million pounds ($1.07 billion)
in an initial public offering in London to fund a mining
acquisition, beating a target announced last month.  
 Vallar  placed 68.7 million ordinary shares at 1,000 pence
apiece, the company said in a statement. So-called conditional
dealing will begin today and unconditional dealing on July 14 on
the London Stock Exchange, it said. Jersey, U.K.-incorporated
Vallar had sought to raise 600 million pounds, it said June 25.  
 Rothschild, former co-president of New York-based hedge-
fund firm Atticus Capital LLC and the only son of British
financier  Lord Jacob Rothschild , is tapping investors to help
fund an acquisition of a mining business or operation. Vallar’s
offering came after at least 50 companies postponed or shelved
IPO plans worldwide since April amid the European debt crisis.  
 “The prices of public and private market mining assets are
certainly cheaper than they were three months ago,” analysts
from Liberum Capital Ltd. in London said in a note to clients
today. Vallar plans to buy a mining asset with an enterprise
value of between 2 billion and 5 billion pounds, Liberum said.  
 Shares  in the company fell 0.4 percent to 996 pence in
conditional dealing at 9:13 a.m. London time.  
 The Vallar team is led by Rothschild and  James Campbell , a
former  Anglo American Plc  coal and base-metals chief. Investment
will focus on metals, coal and iron ore in the Americas, Russia,
eastern Europe and Australia, Vallar said last month.  
 ‘Compelling Fundamentals’  
 “The long-term fundamentals of the commodities sector are
compelling and Vallar will be able to react more quickly than
our competitors when targets become available,” Campbell said
in today’s statement.  
 Credit Suisse Group AG coordinated the sale with joint
bookrunner JPMorgan Cazenove Ltd. Evolution Securities Ltd. and
Liberum Capital Ltd. are co-managers for the IPO.  
 Rothschild, the youngest of four children of Jacob
Rothschild, ranks seventh in the Sunday Times list of the 25
wealthiest U.K.-based hedge-fund managers in an annual estimate
of net worth known as the “ Rich List .” He has an estimated
fortune of 330 million pounds, according to the list published
in April.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Zijing Wu in London at   zwu17@bloomberg.net ;
 Jesse Riseborough  in London at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        