-- Rum-Tax Bonds Attract $400 Million, Closing U.S. Virgin Islands Budget Gap
-- Justin Doom
-- 2010-07-09T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-09/rum-tax-bonds-attract-400-million-closing-u-s-virgin-islands-budget-gap.html

          
          
             The  U.S. Virgin Islands  will use the
proceeds of a $400 million bond sale backed by rum taxes to plug
a budget gap following the biggest tourism slump in a decade.  
 The debt, secured by excise taxes on rum sales in the U.S.,
will finance a loan to the territorial government, according to
preliminary offering documents. A 7.7 percent decline in
 visitors  to the Caribbean islands last year helped push the 2010
budget deficit to $170 million, the documents show.  
 A new distillery in St. Croix is poised to take over
production for the world’s second-most popular rum, Captain
Morgan, according to  Diageo Plc,  the biggest liquor maker.
American consumption of rum has risen for 15 consecutive years,
the offering documents show.  
 Rum-backed debt has “been the bulk of their bond
issuance,” said  Matt Dalton , who oversees $450 million in
municipal holdings as chief executive officer of Belle Haven
Investments in White Plains, New York. “They were priced to
move. We liked it.”  
 The week’s largest municipal offering came as yields on
top-rated tax-exempts due in 10 years fell 1 basis point, or
0.01 percentage point, to  2.94 percent , the lowest on record,
according to data from Municipal Mark Advisors going back to
January 2001. Yields have fallen for 12 straight days, the
longest streak since March 2003, data from Concord,
Massachusetts-based MMA show.  
 The Virgin Islands bonds are rated Baa2 by Moody’s
Investors Service and BBB by Standard & Poor’s, both the second-
lowest investment grades. Fitch Ratings graded the debt BBB+,
one level higher.  
 Rum-Backed Bonds  
 Fifteen-year debt sold yesterday was priced to yield 4.92
percent,  24 basis points below  comparable BBB general
obligations, according to Bloomberg Fair Market Value data.
Comparably rated, rum-backed bonds sold in October, maturing in
2025, were priced to yield 4.6 percent, 128 basis points below
the index.  
 “It was attractive,” Dalton said. “You’re looking at
choices now that are exempt on a state and federal level
anywhere. You don’t get a lot of opportunity.”  
 The so-called triple-tax-exempt bonds are backed by a
$13.50 federal excise tax paid by American consumers on every
so-called proof gallon of rum sold in the U.S. The program,
dating to 1917, rebates $13.25 to  Puerto Rico  and the U.S.
Virgin Islands. This revenue is split between the territories
based on the percentage of rum produced in each.  
 Captain Morgan  
 About 84 percent of it is produced in Puerto Rico, mostly
by Bermuda-based  Bacardi Ltd.  and Ponce-based  Destileria
Serralles Inc. , which currently manufactures Captain Morgan.
London-based  Diageo , the maker of Smirnoff vodka and Guinness
beer, will begin moving production of Captain Morgan to its new
St. Croix distillery in January.  
 The facility, under construction since 2009, will have the
capacity to make as much as 20 million proof gallons of rum for
the Captain Morgan brand per year, generating $130 million in
new tax revenue for the territory, Diageo said in a statement
June 24.  
 The expansion comes after total  visitors  to the Virgin
Islands declined 7.7 percent in 2009 to 2.25 million, the lowest
since 2000, according to data from the territory’s Bureau of
Economic Research.  Unemployment  this year through April jumped
to 7.9 percent from 6.7 percent in 2009, the bureau reported.  
 Cruzan International, which currently produces all the rum
distilled in the U.S. Virgin Islands, was acquired by  Fortune
Brands Inc. , maker of Jim Beam bourbon, in 2008. Cruzan is also
increasing its distilling capacity, boosting production 86
percent, preliminary offering documents show.  
 St. Croix, St. John  
 The U.S. Virgin Islands, with a population estimated at
about 110,000, was purchased from  Denmark  for $25 million in
1917. The territory, with a total area about twice the size of
Washington, D.C., comprises about 50 islands and cays in the
Lesser Antilles. The major islands are  St. Croix , St. John and
St. Thomas.  
 Diageo rose  24 pence  to 1,085 pence yesterday in London
trading. Deerfield, Illinois-based Fortune Brands rose  39 cents 
to $40.16 in New York Stock Exchange composite trading.  
 Following is a description of a pending sale of municipal
debt in the U.S.:  
 THE PORT OF SEATTLE , which manages the airport, cargo and
passenger marine terminals and related real-estate properties,
plans to offer about $395 million in bonds for capital
improvements and debt refinancing as soon as next week. The
securities are rated AA- by S&P, fourth-highest, and one step
higher by Moody’s and Fitch. The offering will be marketed by a
group led by Morgan Stanley. (Updated July 8)  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Brendan A. McGrail  in New York at 
 bmcgrail@bloomberg.net ;
 Justin Doom  in New York at 
 jdoom@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     A pedestrian walks past an advert for Captain Morgan rum at the offices of Diageo Plc in London. Photographer: Chris Ratcliffe/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
