-- Rupee Strengthens as Asia Interest-Rate Increases May Attract Investors
-- Anil Varma
-- 2010-07-09T11:45:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-09/rupee-strengthens-as-asia-interest-rate-increases-may-attract-investors.html

          
          
             India’s rupee rose the most in two
weeks on optimism rising interest rates in Asia’s developing
economies will spur the flow of funds from the U.S. and Europe.  
 India’s central bank a week ago raised its benchmark rate
for the third time this year, Malaysia had its third increase of
2010 yesterday and South Korea’s today boosted borrowing costs
from a record low. Policy makers in Taiwan lifted their key rate
last month and economists surveyed by Bloomberg predict Thailand
will do likewise next week. The  Reserve Bank of India  may
announce another increase this month, said  Sudarshan Bhatt ,
chief currency trader at state-owned Corporation Bank.  
 “The odds of the RBI raising rates again this month look
stronger following the Korean move, and that’s positive for the
rupee,” Bhatt said in Mumbai. “Economic fundamentals also
support the outlook for a stronger rupee in the medium term.”  
 The rupee appreciated 0.4 percent to 46.665 per dollar as
of the 5 p.m. close in Mumbai, adding to yesterday’s 0.4 percent
advance, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The currency
may climb to 46.50 in the coming days, Bhatt said.  
 Interest rates are rising in the Asia-Pacific region to
contain inflation as regional economies lead global growth.  
 India’s benchmark rates are 4 percent or more, compared
with a maximum 0.25 percent in the U.S. and 1 percent in the
euro region. Developing Asian economies may expand 9.2 percent
this year, outpacing 4.6 percent global growth, the
International Monetary Fund forecast this week. The Reserve Bank
will next review rates at a July 27 meeting.  
 Offshore forwards indicated India’s currency will trade at
47.28 to the dollar in three months, compared with expectations
of 47.44 yesterday. Forwards are agreements to buy or sell
assets at a set price and date. Non-deliverable contracts are
settled in dollars.  
 Rising Reserves  
 India’s foreign-exchange  reserves  climbed $1.29 billion to
$278.3 billion in the week ended July 2, helped by an increase
in the value of its gold reserves, the central bank said.  
 Foreign-currency assets climbed $746 million to $252.1
billion while the nation’s gold reserves rose $471 million to
$19.89 billion, the Mumbai-based  Reserve Bank of India  said in
an e-mailed statement.  
 For Related News and Information:
Stories on Indian currency research: TNI INB ANAFX BN <GO>
Most read Indian currency and bonds stories: MNI INB BN <GO>
For Indian rupee forecasts: FXFC INR <GO>  
          
          


  


        