-- Russian Spies Head Home in Swap Echoing Cold War
-- Patricia Hurtado
-- 2010-07-13T09:49:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-09/russian-spies-head-home-in-swap-echoing-cold-war-days-after-guilty-pleas.html

          
          
             (Corrects spelling of Skripal in seventh paragraph of story
published July 10.)  
 Four men jailed in Russia were
exchanged for 10 convicted members of a Russian spy ring, some
of whom posed as ordinary Americans for more than a decade.  
 The members of the network, broken up June 28 with arrests
in the New York area, Boston and Arlington, Virginia, pleaded
guilty July 8 in Manhattan federal court to conspiring to work
as unregistered foreign agents.  
 “The Russian Federation agrees to release four individuals
who are incarcerated in Russia for alleged contact with the
United States,” U.S. District Judge Kimba Wood said at the plea
hearing.  
 Wood sentenced the 10 spies to time served and ordered
their deportation. Prosecutors have since asked her to drop the
remaining charges against eight members of the ring since the
transfer was completed. The Russian spies landed in Moscow
yesterday on a flight from Vienna. A jet photographed near that
plane at Vienna International Airport landed at Dulles
International Airport outside Washington yesterday.  
 One by one, each of the foreign agents on July 8 admitted
carrying money or coded messages, secretly communicating with
Russian officials and instructing others on how to find
information useful to Russia. Their objective was to infiltrate
U.S. policy-making circles after constructing false American
identities in suburbs and cities along the East Coast.  
 ‘Sends a Message’  
 The case “sends a message to every other intelligence
gathering agency that if you come over here to spy, you will be
exposed and arrested,” said Preet Bharara, the U.S. Attorney in
Manhattan. The timing of the arrests wasn’t for the purpose of
obtaining a “bargaining chip” to trade for Russian prisoners,
Bharara said.  
 President Dmitry Medvedev pardoned four people convicted of
spying in Russia, spokeswoman Natalya Timakova said. She
identified them as Igor Sutyagin, Sergei Skripal, Gennady
Vasilenko and Alexander Zaporozhsky. The plane used in the swap
in Vienna landed at Dulles International Airport outside
Washington at about 5:30 p.m. yesterday.  
 U.S. State Department spokesman Mark Toner said the four
were chosen because “some of them were in poor health” and
“it was deemed in the vital national security interests of the
U.S. government.”  
 The White House was considering a spy swap with Russia
almost a month ago, according to an administration official. The
arrests occurred on June 28 because of intelligence that at
least one of the spies was planning leave the U.S.
“imminently,” according to the official.  
 American Operatives  
 Toner said the U.S. rejected Russian claims that they were
American operatives. The Russian Foreign Ministry and foreign
intelligence service have declined to comment.  
 The exposure of a so-called deep-cover operation --followed
by a prisoner exchange -- reprises a spy drama that has played
out repeatedly since the 1940s.  
 The agents who pleaded guilty July 8 follow a line of
networks the former Soviet Union planted to better understand
American society as well as obtain military and policy secrets,
intelligence experts said.  
 “This is exactly the same illegals program that has been
in existence since the beginning of the Cold War,” Vincent
Cannistraro, a former counter-terrorism chief with the Central
Intelligence Agency, said in an interview. “The assumed names,
their methodology is the same. It worked very well in the 1960s,
but the world has changed. I think you have an old-fashioned
mentality in Russia running things.”  
 The U.S. has conducted other spy swaps under similar
circumstances.  
 Emil Goldfus  
 In 1957, the U.S. charged Rudolf Ivanovich Abel with
espionage, saying the artist known to his neighbors in Brooklyn,
New York, as Emil Goldfus was really a colonel in the Soviet
Union’s intelligence service, or KGB. Abel was tried and
convicted of espionage and sentenced to 30 years in prison.  
 Abel was exchanged in 1962 for downed U-2 spy-plane pilot
Francis Gary Powers at Glienicke Bridge, the famed “Bridge of
Spies” that linked Berlin to Potsdam in the former East
Germany. Abel had been exposed by another “illegal” living in
a small house in Peekskill, New York, as Eugene Maki, a name
stolen from an American whose family had moved to Estonia. Maki
defected to the U.S.  
 In August 1986, Gennadiy Zakharov, a scientist with the
United Nations, was arrested on a Queens, New York, subway
platform by agents with the Federal Bureau of Investigation,
after paying $1,000 for secret documents about the design of jet
engines. Zakharov was indicted on espionage charges by federal
prosecutors in Brooklyn. A week later, the Soviet Union arrested
American journalist Nicholas Daniloff and accused him of
espionage.  
 Daniloff, Zakharov  
 After negotiations with the U.S. State Department, Daniloff
was allowed to leave the Soviet Union without standing trial.
The next day, Zakharov pleaded “no contest” to a count of
conspiring to commit espionage and attempting to transmit
national defense information to the Soviet Union.  
 He was sentenced to time-served by U.S. District Judge
Joseph McLaughlin and released immediately to the Soviet
government in the courthouse basement’s garage.  
 Andrew J. Maloney, the Brooklyn U.S. attorney at the time,
said Zakharov’s arrest on the eve of a summit meeting between
former President Ronald Reagan and Russia’s then-President
Mikhail Gorbachev in Iceland drew criticism.  
 Brooklyn Madman  
 “I remember a Washington D.C. columnist saying, ‘Who’s
that madman in Brooklyn arresting this guy on the eve of the
Icelandic meeting?” Maloney said in an interview.  
 He said the U.S. didn’t view the exchange as a “quid pro
quo,” because as part of the agreement other Soviet dissidents
were released later.  
 “If you think back to the Cold War, even when things were
very hot, what we’d do in the U.S. was catch these spies and
they’d end up in an exchange situation,” he said.  
 Maloney, now in private practice, said the current ring
nestled in affluent towns such as Montclair, New Jersey, and
Cambridge, Massachusetts, shouldn’t be dismissed as trivial.  
 “Who knows what they’re really doing?” he said. “It’s a
very serious threat. In the future, if we have a problem with a
new regime in Russia, these people could be called upon to do
sabotage or harm the country,” he said. “I don’t dismiss this
case at all.”  
 As part of the swap deal, the U.S. seized property of the
10 defendants and directed that any proceeds from “any
publication” or story about their lives as Russian agents will
be assigned to the American government. The plea agreements
don’t specify how that would be accomplished.  
 U.S. Bank Accounts  
 The New Jersey couple known as Richard and Cynthia Murphy,
who identified themselves in court as Vladimir and Lydia Guryev,
agreed to forfeit $80,000 in U.S. bank accounts and give up
their home at 31 Marquette Road in Montclair. The Massachusetts
couple known as Donald Heathfield and Tracey Foley, who
identified themselves as Andrey Bezrukov and Elena Vavilova,
agreed to give up their home on Trowbridge Street in Cambridge
and all funds in four bank accounts.  
 The Virginia couple known as Michael Zottoli and Patricia
Mills, who said they were really Mikhail Kutsik and Natalia
Pereverzeva, agreed to forfeit almost $105,000 in U.S. bank
accounts and two cars -- a 2010 Volkswagen and 2004 BMW.  
 Robert Baum, a lawyer for Anna Chapman, said his client
would be permitted to keep her on-line real estate business. He
said she had asked friends to pack up her belongings left behind
in her Manhattan apartment on Exchange Place near Wall Street.  
 “She has asked her friends to take care of her things for
her,” Baum said July 8 in an interview after court. “She has
no fear about going back to Moscow.”  
 The case is U.S. v. Metsos, 10-cr-00598, U.S. District
Court for the Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York federal court at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     A screen grab shows Anna Chapman, accused of being a Russian spy, on her facebook page. Source: facebook.com via Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
