-- Russian Coal Producer Kuzbassrazrezugol's First-Quarter Net Jumps Fourfold
-- Ilya Khrennikov
-- 2010-07-09T07:20:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-09/russian-coal-producer-kuzbassrazrezugol-s-first-quarter-net-jumps-fourfold.html

          
          
             OAO Kuzbassrazrezugol , Russia’s
second-largest coal producer, increased first-quarter profit
fourfold from a year earlier, according to a company report
obtained by Bloomberg News.  
 Net income at the company, which has attracted investors
including BlackRock Investment Management LLC, East Capital
Asset Management and Fidelity Investment Asset Management,
jumped to 1.81 billion rubles ($58 million) from 437 million
rubles a year earlier, the report showed.  
 Kuzbassrazrezugol  has previously used so-called transfer
pricing, or selling overseas shipments through a foreign trading
company owned by the producer’s parent, to strip out exports
from its earnings, Alfa Bank said in a research note in January.
The methodology shifts profits from the listed company to the
trading subsidiary owned by the main shareholders, it said.  
 “It seems the company, which used to consolidate most of
its profits at its trading companies in Europe, has now shifted
to posting more cash flows domestically,” Specialized Research
& Investment Group Vice President  Ilya Brodsky  said yesterday.  
 Kuzbassrazrezugol’s biggest Russian competitor is Moscow-
based OAO Siberian Coal Energy Co. Stepan Dubkov, a spokesman
for Kuzbassrazrezugol in Kemerovo, Siberia, declined to comment.  
 More than 80 percent of the coal exported from Russia is
sold via offshore units that allow producers to pay less tax,
Russia’s  Audit Chamber  said in July 2009.  
 Offshore trading companies accumulate “significant” coal
revenue as Russian producers sell to them at a discount of 30
percent to 54 percent to global prices, the state financial
watchdog  said on its website . “The Russian budget is losing
significant tax revenue,” it said.  
 Russia’s antitrust watchdog in 2008 ordered Moscow-based
 OAO Mechel , the country’s biggest coal supplier to steelmakers,
to cut domestic prices. The action came after Prime Minister
 Vladimir Putin  said Mechel sold to a Swiss unit at a quarter of
the price charged domestically.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ilya Khrennikov  in Moscow at 
 ikhrennikov@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        