-- Sell Nigeria Government Bonds, Buy Nibor on `Spike,' CSL Stockbrokers Says
-- Colin McClelland
-- 2010-07-09T09:18:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-09/sell-nigeria-government-bonds-buy-nibor-on-spike-csl-stockbrokers-says.html

          
          
             Banks should consider selling
Nigerian bonds and investing funds in the country’s interbank
lending market, where rates are set to gain because of a
possible decline in naira supply, CSL Stockbrokers Ltd. said.  
 Nigerian interbank offered rates may “spike” as a
potential drop in bank deposits by state departments causes
interbank rates to rise as liquidity dries up, said CSL, a unit
of London-based First City Group.  
 Monthly payments to government departments may be delayed
by budget debates in the Federal Account Allocation Committee,
which distributes funds to Nigeria’s three tiers of government.  
 The jumps “would provide opportunities to lessen exposure
to bonds and take Nibor,” CSL said in an e-mailed note dated
July 6. A fall in Nigeria’s Excess Crude Account, in which the
West African nation saves money during periods of high oil
prices, may also cut off liquidity.  
 Three-month Nibor  has retreated to 10.2 percent from 15.6
percent in January. A decline in bond prices raised the yields
on securities maturing in two, three, four, eight and 19 years
to an average of 5.86 percent at the end of June from 4.68
percent on March 1, and yields will probably rise to 6.4 percent
by the end of the third quarter because inflation remains
relatively high, CSL analyst  Guy Czartoryski  said yesterday by
phone from Lagos, the commercial capital.  
 Yields, Inflation  
 Nigeria’s inflation rate declined to 11 percent in May, the
lowest since September, National Bureau of Statistics said on
June 15. That’s the fourth-highest among 78 countries tracked by
Bloomberg after Venezuela at 32 percent, India at 13.9 percent
and Pakistan at 13.5 percent.  
 Inflation in the West African nation, the continent’s
biggest producer of oil, is expected to accelerate in the second
half of this year, Central bank Governor Lamido Sanusi said on
May 26.  
 Yields on Nigerian bonds compare with 7.4 percent for five-
year bonds in India and 14.6 percent on 10-year Venezuelan
bonds. The extra yield investors demand to own developing
nations’ bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries declined 3 basis
points to 3.17 percentage points, according to JPMorgan Chase &
CO.’s EMBI+ Index.  
 The Central Bank of Nigeria last year dismissed chief
executive officers of eight lenders that gave out non-performing
loans totaling 700 billion naira ($4.7 billion), and used 620
billion naira to bail the banks out.  
 Nigeria expects to clear $10 billion of lenders’ toxic
debts, and debt purchases through a state-owned Asset Management
Corp. of Nigeria, or Amcon, will cost “roughly” $5 billion,
central bank Governor Lamido Sanusi said July 1. Amcon will be
funded through government-guaranteed bonds, he said.  
 “Some fear that a flow of Amcon bonds will crowd out
government bonds,” CSL said. “We conclude such fears are
overdone” as the asset management company’s funding, estimated
by CSL to be as much as 1.1 trillion naira, will mainly be in
the form of cashless swaps for non-performing loans that
wouldn’t put immediate strain on bond markets.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Colin McClelland  in Toronto at 
 mcclelland1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        