-- Sell Bullish Santander Options as Stress Tests Will Curb Gains, RBS Says
-- Jeff Kearns
-- 2010-07-09T05:42:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-09/sell-bullish-santander-options-as-stress-tests-will-curb-gains-rbs-says.html

          
          
             Investors should sell bullish  Banco
Santander SA  options because Spain’s biggest lender is unlikely
to rally amid planned bank stress tests and a possible downgrade
of the nation’s debt, Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc said.  
 Equity derivatives strategists  Stephen Einchcomb  and  Bhavin Patel  recommended selling September 11.19 euro calls on the
lender, which will be examined as European regulators try to
determine whether banks have enough capital to withstand a debt
default. The shares gained 1.5 percent to 9.95 euros yesterday.  
 The Madrid-based lender has fallen 14 percent  this year  on
concern the country’s debt crisis may drag down its banks.
Spain’s debt was placed on review June 30 for a possible
downgrade by Moody’s Investors Service, which said
“deteriorating” growth prospects and challenges in meeting
fiscal targets mean Spain’s Aaa classification may be lowered by
as much as two grades.  
 “Sovereign debt concerns and the impending stress test
results continue to weigh on European banks,” the London-based
strategists wrote in a report today. “The focus in the
Mediterranean has increasingly shifted from Greece towards
Spain.”  
 Selling a call option is a bet the stock won’t exceed the
strike price before the contract’s expiration date, allowing the
seller to keep what the buyer paid. Santander’s gains will be
“limited” because stress tests won’t be rigorous enough to
sustain confidence in the company’s ability to weather the debt
crisis, the strategists wrote.  
 European Union banking regulators told lenders that the
planned stress tests may assume a loss of about 3 percent on
Spain’s bonds, according to two people briefed on the talks.
Spain was stripped of its AAA credit rating in May by Fitch
Ratings amid a euro-region deficit crisis that prompted
lawmakers to set up an almost $1 trillion rescue package to
protect the common currency.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Kearns in New York at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        