-- Semenya to Seek Compensation From Athletics South Africa Over Gender Tests
-- Garth Theunissen
-- 2010-07-09T08:14:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-09/semenya-to-seek-compensation-from-athletics-south-africa-after-ban.html

          
          
             Caster Semenya  plans to seek
compensation from  Athletics South Africa  for financial losses
she suffered after being barred from competing for 11 months
because of questions about her sex, her lawyers said.  
 South Africa’s world 800-meter champion was cleared by the
International Association of Athletics Federations on June 6 to
compete as a woman after being ordered by the sports body to
undergo gender tests. She hasn’t raced competitively since
winning gold at the world championships in Berlin in August.  
 “We’re not suing but we may consider how best she can be
compensated for runs and meets that she missed,”  Greg Nott ,
managing partner at the Johannesburg office of Dewey & LeBoeuf,
which represents Semenya, said in an interview in the city
yesterday. “It’ll be helpful to our client and their athlete in
ensuring that her lost earnings are properly compensated.”  
 South Africa’s Olympic body suspended ASA President  Leonard Chuene  on Nov. 5 after he admitted that he was aware Semenya had
undergone gender tests before the Berlin event, after earlier
denying knowledge of the examination. The ASA’s board members
were also suspended pending a disciplinary investigation.  
 Officials at ASA’s Johannesburg-based headquarters were
unavailable to respond to calls today seeking comment.  
 Semenya set a season-best time of 1 minute 55.45 seconds
with her victory at the 2009 athletics championship, shortly
after finding out that her gender had been questioned by the
IAAF because of her muscular build and sudden improvement.  
 “That travesty can never be repeated against any human
being,” Nott said.  
 The investigation into Semenya’s gender was carried out by
two teams of medical experts, one appointed by the IAAF and
another from the University of Pretoria in South Africa, Nott
said.  
 He didn’t know when Semenya may again start competing.
Semenya failed a fitness test on July 7, the South African Press
Association reported, citing her coach, Michael Seme. She may
still be able to compete at the five-day African Athletics
Championships that will be held in Nairobi from July 28, the
Johannesburg-based news service cited the coach as saying.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Garth Theunissen  in Johannesburg at 
 gtheunissen@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        