-- Sinking Amsterdam Houseboats May Dampen World Cup Victory Parade Spirits
-- Martijn van der Starre
-- 2010-07-09T11:54:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-09/sinking-amsterdam-houseboats-may-dampen-world-cup-victory-parade-spirits.html

          
          
             ING Groep NV  stands to gain from a
victory in the soccer World Cup after sponsoring the Dutch team.
As an insurer of Amsterdam houseboats, it may hope the
celebration stays under control.  
 A boat parade through the  city ’s canals will draw more
than double its normal population to its narrow cobblestone
streets to get a better look at the players. The city will hold
a canal tour if the Netherlands defeats Spain in Johannesburg
July 11 and honor the players on Museum Square if they lose.  
 In  1988 , the only time the Netherlands brought home a
football trophy for the European championships, fans jumped onto
the roofs of the houseboats, which can sell for more than
300,000 euros ($380,000), to catch a better view of star
players, such as  Ruud Gullit  and  Marco van Basten .  
 The image of tilted houseboats with dozens of supporters
hanging off the roof has been indelibly linked in the Dutch
psyche and become synonymous with football victory. “No, not
again!” screamed a headline in the Dutch national newspaper  De
Telegraaf  July 8, speaking to concerns of damage to houseboats.  
 Nationale Nederlanden, a unit of the biggest Dutch insurer
 ING , is already in talks with the city about how to minimize
damage to the boats, which range from converted cargo ships to
duplex vessels with gardens and patios.  
 ‘Keep Floating’  
 “We hope, of course, that they’ll keep floating and there
will be no damage,” said Stijn Wesselink, a spokesman for
Nationale Nederlanden. “Should a boat sink, then the owners
will be insured” through the company’s all-in policy, Wesselink
said.  
 Nationale Nederlanden insures several thousand houseboats
in the Netherlands, Wesselink said. Other insurers that offer
policies for floating domiciles include  Delta Lloyd NV , Aviva
Plc’s publicly traded Dutch unit.  
 About 2,300 houseboats are moored in  Amsterdam , whose
center was designed around four concentric canals in the
seventeenth century in a city partly reclaimed from the water.
The surplus waterfront and a housing shortage have made living
literally on water popular in one of Europe’s most densely
populated countries.  
 Boat Inspections  
 Amsterdam city officials are already touring boats along
the route to take note of their existing condition, spokeswoman
Hanane Lechkar said. Some houseboat owners are considering
hiring security guards to prevent people from climbing onto the
roofs, said Eric Blaauw, a board member of the National
Houseboat Organisation.  
 Delta Lloyd  is prepared for the possibility of a higher
number of claims for compensation, Iris van Rijk, a spokeswoman
for the Amsterdam-based insurer, said. Some damage was reported
in 1988, she said.  
 In the meanwhile, homeowners should be vigilant in trying
to limit the damage, said Blaauw. “You just have to be
watchful, try to shout ‘boo’ if someone does something illegal
and hope for the best,” he said.  
 According to at least one highly rated pundit, the Dutch
will have little to celebrate after the final.  
 Paul, an octopus in Germany that’s correctly predicted the
outcome of all of that country’s World Cup matches by choosing a
mussel from labeled glass tanks, was today asked to pick the
champion. After a minute’s procrastination, he went for Spain.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Martijn van der Starre  at 
 vanderstarre@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Ruud Gullit of Holland celebrates Holland's victory over Russia in the Final of the European championships in Munich in 1988. Photographer: Allsport UK/Getty Images  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
