-- Skadden Arps Retains Lead as Legal Adviser on Global Mergers, Acquisitions
-- Carlyn Kolker
-- 2010-07-09T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-09/skadden-arps-firm-keeps-lead-as-legal-adviser-on-mergers-acquisitions.html

          
          
             Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom 
held on to the top spot among U.S. legal advisers on global
mergers and acquisitions in the first half of this year, as
deal-making sputtered after a brief recovery.  
 The New York-based firm, second-highest grossing in the
U.S., was No. 1 last year and stayed there for the first six
months of this year, with $100 billion of deals, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Its work included  Qwest
Communications Inc. ’s $10.5 billion stock takeover by
 CenturyLink Inc. , the second-biggest announced deal of the year.  
 The six months saw a 2.7 percent rise in the value of
global takeovers compared with the same period last year, from
$890.6 billion to $914.52 billion.  
 “There are deals being done,” said  Stephen Arcano , leader
of the New York mergers and acquisitions practice at Skadden
Arps. “There are debt commitments being written. They are out
there. But they are not as plentiful as we might have
expected.”  
 Wachtell Lipton Rosen & Katz and Cleary Gottlieb Steen &
Hamilton LLP, both New York-based, were second and third,
respectively. Allen & Overy LLP, based in London, and  Latham &
Watkins LLP , with Los Angeles roots, were fourth and fifth.  
 “There was a strong optimism at the beginning of the year
based on a strong fourth quarter in 2009,” said Michael
Gilligan, a New York partner of  Allen & Overy . “I don’t think
anybody is as optimistic as they were at the end of 2009.”  
 The end of 2009 saw a pickup in deal work following the
credit crisis. The value of deals in the fourth quarter of 2009
increased 48 percent from the previous quarter, according to
Bloomberg data, signaling a possible recovery in the
marketplace.  
 First-Quarter Rise  
 The first quarter of this year saw a 3.5 percent increase
in transactions from the first quarter of 2009.  
 Allen & Overy represented  Novartis AG  in its acquisition of
 Alcon Inc. , the world’s largest eye-care company, announced
Jan. 4, and  Heineken NV  in the purchase of the beer unit of
 Fomento Economico Mexicano SAB , Latin America’s largest soft-
drink company.  
 “I think there is some consternation in the market as to
what the next six months will bring,” Gilligan said. “That
said, our pipeline is pretty robust.”  
 Life sciences have been an active area for deals this year,
said Arcano of Skadden Arps. The firm represented  Merck KGaA  in
the Darmstadt, Germany-based company’s $6 billion acquisition of
the biotechnology equipment supplier  Millipore Corp.  and
Melville, New York-based  OSI Pharmaceuticals  Inc. in its
purchase by  Astellas Pharma Inc. , Japan’s second-largest
drugmaker.  
 Health Care  
 “From my perspective, health care has been among the most
vibrant sectors,” Arcano said. Large companies are trying to
bolster their portfolio of drugs in the pipeline, he said.  
 Medical and drug companies were the fourth-most acquisitive
companies in the U.S. by industry volume, according to Bloomberg
data. Telephone companies were the first.  
 Natural-resource and energy-related deals were also busy,
said  M. Adel Aslani-Far , co-chairman of the mergers and
acquisitions practice at Latham & Watkins in New York.  
 Oil exploration and mining companies were among the most
frequent targets worldwide, along with telecommunications
companies, according to Bloomberg data.  
 Of the 10 largest announced deals Latham & Watkins handled
in the first half of 2010, five were energy or natural resource
related, including Norsk Hydro ASA, Europe’s third-largest
aluminum maker, in its bid to buy mining and smelting assets
from Vale SA, a deal valued at $4.9 billion.  
 Latham & Watkins added a Houston office this year, adding
lawyers for energy-related deals.  
 Clean Technology  
 “We have yet to see the big, big spending in the
alternative-energy space, but you are starting to see some deals
around clean technology and alternative energy,” Aslani-Far
said. “As a macroeconomic and political driver I think this is
an area to watch.”  
 One of the biggest questions in the marketplace is the
immediate future of private-equity deals, said  Ethan Klingsberg ,
a partner at  Cleary Gottlieb .  
 A private-equity deal unraveled in May when  Fidelity
National Information Services Inc. , the Jacksonville, Florida-
based payment-services provider, rejected a $15 billion takeover
bid led by New York-based  Blackstone Group LP .  
 Cleary Gottlieb represented a special committee of the
board of  Interactive Data Corp. , a unit of the London-based
holding company  Pearson Plc  that provides financial market data
and services, in its $3.4 billion takeover by Warburg Pincus LLC
and Silver Lake. It was the year’s biggest private-equity deal,
according to Bloomberg data.  
 Onetime ‘Modest’ Buyout  
 “A couple of years ago, that would have been considered a
modest-size leveraged buyout,” Klingsberg said.  
 Private-equity firms announced $1.6 trillion of deals for
the three-year period from 2005 to 2007 before credit markets
froze.  
 After the credit crisis this year in Greece, the high-yield
debt market became “choppy,” prompting a freeze in private-
equity deals, the lawyer said.  
 Leveraged-loan investors are demanding the highest premiums
in 2010. Borrowing costs have risen to the highest since Dec. 17
relative to benchmark rates since the 2010 low on April 15,
according to Standard & Poor’s  Leveraged Commentary and Data .  
 “The big driver on private equity is going to be where the
high-yield market is going to go,” Klingsberg said. “If it’s
going to be a choppy year in the high-yield market, I think it’s
going to be hard to see something bigger than the Interactive
Data deal.”  
 Private-equity groups may still do smaller, all-cash deals,
he said.  
 Firms’ Rankings  
 Cleary Gottlieb was ranked second in private-equity
announced deals, and  Simpson Thacher & Bartlett LLP , based in
New York, was first.  
 Deal volume for Latin American companies increased 133
percent, according to Bloomberg data. Total volume for Brazilian
announced deals almost doubled, from $33 billion to $65 billion.  
 The largest announced Brazilian deal is  Telefonica SA’s 
$8.93 billion offer for  Portugal Telecom SGPS SA’s  stake in
their 50-50 venture Brasilcel NV. The purchase is being
litigated in Europe.  
 “It really appears that Brazil in particular is a market
on the upswing and will be of increased importance in global
deal flow,” said Gilligan of Allen & Overy.  

 
Top-Ranked M&A Law Firms, January-June 2010

       Firm           Value of Deals (billions)

1. Skadden Arps             $99.7 
2. Wachtell Lipton          $78.6 
3. Cleary Gottlieb          $72.1 
4. Allen & Overy            $52.8 
5. Latham & Watkins         $50.7 
6. Simpson Thacher          $47.9 
7. Linklaters               $46.5 
8. Freshfields              $46.0 
9. Sullivan & Cromwell      $45.1 
10. Blake Cassels           $44.8
 
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Carlyn Kolker  in New York at 
 ckolker@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        