-- Soccer's World Cup Will Stay Italian, No Matter Which Team Wins the Final
-- Tommaso Ebhardt
-- 2010-07-09T06:05:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-09/soccer-s-world-cup-will-stay-italian-no-matter-which-team-wins-the-final.html

          
          
             No matter what happens in the World
Cup final between Spain and the Netherlands on July 11 in
Johannesburg, the trophy will remain Italian.  
 The cup that will be lifted for the first time by either
the Dutch or Spanish captain is made by  GDE Bertoni Srl , a
family-owned company based in a Milan suburb. Bertoni was
selected to produce the current trophy for FIFA, soccer’s ruling
body, after a 1972 contest.  
 Bertoni was selected among 53 bidders by  FIFA  to design and
manufacture a new trophy that was awarded at the 1974 World Cup
to the German captain  Franz Beckenbauer .  
 FIFA chose the model designed by Bertoni’s artistic
director at the time, sculptor Silvio Gazzaniga. Made with a
malachite base, it weighs  6.18 kilos  (13.6 pounds), with almost
5 kilos of pure gold, and stands 36 centimeters (14.2 inches)
tall. The  trophy  depicts two human figures holding up the Earth.  
 “The 1972 gold trophy is priceless,” Giorgio Losa, the
owner of GDE Bertoni, said in a telephone interview. “If you
melt the gold, you’ll get around 150,000 euros ($190,400), but
the real value is much, much higher.”  
 The first World Cup, won by Uruguay in 1930, was named in
honor of a FIFA president, Jules Rimet, and was last awarded to
Brazil in 1970. After winning the title three times, Brazil got
to keep the cup, which disappeared from an exhibition in Rio de
Janeiro in 1983.  
 Gold-Plated  
 FIFA did away with the rule allowing three-time champions
to keep the trophy. The FIFA trophy designed by Gazzaniga is
awarded to the winning team immediately after the match and then
is returned to FIFA for safekeeping at its Zurich offices.
Bertoni makes a gold-plated replica for the winning country to
keep on display. The company also cleans and maintains the real
trophy.  
 Bertoni already has made the copy for the 2014 tournament
that will be hosted by Brazil, and it probably will be shown
after the July 11 final, Losa said.  
 Bertoni, founded by Losa’s grandfather in 1920, employs 10
people and also makes the Champions League and the Europa League
trophies for UEFA, and medals for the International Olympic
Committee as well as cups for universities and companies.
Bertoni will have revenue of more than 2 million euros in 2010.  
 “The World Cup trophy gives us a lot of media attention but
we can’t monetize it because we are not allowed to produce any
copies of the trophy,” Losa said.  
 Italy’s team crashed out in the opening stages of this
year’s event in South Africa after failing to win any of its
three games. It was the first time since 1974 that the country,
a four-time champion, didn’t get beyond the first round.  
 It was different in 2006, when the Italian squad defeated
France in the final. More than one member of that team asked
Bertoni to make a replica of the trophy as a souvenir, Losa
said.  
 “They have to be happy with the photo of holding up the
trophy because we have rigid rules,” Losa said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tommaso Ebhardt  in Milan 
 tebhardt@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Soccer's World Cup will stay Italian  
                       
                         
                           Jewel Samad/AFP/Getty Images 
                         
                         The FIFA World Cup trophy is displayed at the end of the Kick-off Concert at the Orlando Stadium in Johannesburg ahead of the start of the 2010 football World Cup. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     The FIFA World Cup trophy is displayed at the end of the Kick-off Concert at the Orlando Stadium in Johannesburg ahead of the start of the 2010 football World Cup. Photographer: Jewel Samad/AFP/Getty Images  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
