-- Spain Said to Save $1.5 Billion With Cuts for Wind, Solar Thermal Power
-- Ben Sills
-- 2010-07-09T15:04:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-09/spain-said-to-save-1-5-billion-with-cuts-for-wind-solar-thermal-power.html

          
          
             Spain will save consumers at least
1.2 billion euros ($1.5 billion) through 2013 by cutting the
subsidies they pay to wind farms and solar thermal plants, a
person familiar with the government’s analysis said.  
 The reduction coming from a cut in the price paid for clean
energy may be as much as 1.3 billion euros, said the person, who
asked not to be named because the analysis is confidential.  
 Prime Minister  Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero  is attempting
to reduce the 4 billion euro gap between what consumers pay and
the price of power in the wholesale market. His plan would help
utilities including  Endesa SA  and hurt solar developers
including Actividades de Construccion y Servicios SA and  Abengoa
SA , which now sell power for above-market rates.  
 “The winners are those with the least invested in
renewables,” said  Miguel Llorente , who helps manage 3.8 billion
euros for Capital at Work in Madrid.  
 Endesa, the Spanish utility controlled by Enel SpA, has
risen 7.3 percent since the plan was announced on July 2 after
the markets closed.  
 The figures relate to subsidy cuts the government announced
last week for solar thermal plants and wind farms. They’re
sensitive because they reflect the amount of revenue that
operators of those plants will forego. The government plans to
announce cuts for solar photovoltaic plants by the end of July.  
 Lobbying Government  
 Spain’s conventional power producers have been lobbying the
government to rein in a subsidy system that rewards renewable
power producers with extra payments totaling 5 billion euros in
2009 even as consumer prices failed to cover the full cost of
electricity.  
 Under the current system, Endesa, Gas Natural and  Iberdrola
SA , the biggest power companies, borrow money from banks and
bond investors to cover the shortfall in consumers’ power
payments. They’re paid back over 15 years, effectively helping
the government finance its deficit.  
 The government under the law must eliminate the deficit
with power producers by 2013. The system has created debt of
about 16 billion euros for which the government is ultimately
liable.  
 Investors’ concern about the surge in Spanish public debt
adds to pressure on Zapatero to seal off his liabilities. The
extra yield demanded to hold Spain’s 10-year bond rather than
the benchmark German bund reached a euro-era record 2.33
percentage points last month.  
 The government will reduce the subsidies for wind energy by
35 percent over the period, delay solar plants’ access to more
profitable price programs for a year and limit the number of
hours in which generators earn above-market rates, according to
the plan detailed last week.  
 Sebastian’s Options  
 Industry Minister  Miguel Sebastian  may save another 1
billion euros a year by reducing payments to photovoltaic
plants, according to an industry group that met him last month.  
 The government’s aim is to curb the so-called tariff
deficit while limiting damage to the country’s renewable energy
industry. Spanish banks hold about 40 billion euros of loans to
clean-power projects that may be hurt by the changes, the
country’s banking association estimates.  
 HG Capital, a London-based private equity investor, and
Danish retirement fund AP Pensions, which both own Spanish solar
assets, have written to the Spanish government to say cutting
the prices existing plants receive may derail new investment.  
 “We would view a retroactive reduction in solar tariffs as
a failure of the Spanish government to abide by its
commitments,” AP Pension Deputy Chief Executive Officer Soren
Dal Thomsen said in a June 21 letter. Such a move will make
investors “extremely wary of investing in any assets that rely
directly or indirectly on Spanish public sector credit.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ben Sills  in Madrid at 
 bsills@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        