-- Russia: Spy Swap Protects Improved Relationship With U.S.
-- Patrick Henry
-- 2010-07-09T17:47:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-09/spy-swap-keeps-improved-relationship-with-u-s-on-its-course-russia-says.html

          
          
             Swift resolution of the U.S.-Russia
espionage scandal that culminated in a Cold War-style spy swap
will help prevent critics from derailing improved relations
between the two countries, Russia’s Foreign Ministry said.  
 Fourteen people convicted of spying in the U.S. and Russia
were exchanged today at Vienna International Airport, two weeks
after American officials broke up an alleged “deep cover”
operation on the U.S. East Coast. The swap included 10 men and
women who pleaded guilty yesterday in Manhattan federal court to
charges of conspiring to work as unregistered foreign agents.  
 “This agreement provides grounds for assuming that the
course agreed by the leaders of Russia and the U.S. will be
consistently implemented in practice and that attempts to divert
the two sides from this course will not succeed,” the ministry
said today on its website.  
 President  Barack Obama  on June 24 hailed Russian President
 Dmitry Medvedev  as a “reliable partner,” saying the U.S.-
Russia relationship should be about more than security and arms
control 20 years after the Cold War. The comments came after
Medvedev visited California’s Silicon Valley and the two
presidents pledged to expand commercial ties.  
 Since Obama called for a “reset” of relations last year,
the U.S. and Russia have signed a nuclear arms reduction treaty
and agreed to increase cooperation in Afghanistan. Russia also
backed a U.S.-led proposal for sanctions against Iran.  
 The spy swap underscores the strength of U.S. ties with the
Russian government, Obama administration officials said
yesterday. One official, who asked not to be identified, told
reporters on a conference call that the timing of the arrests,
four days after the Obama-Medvedev meeting, was a coincidence.  
 The espionage scandal was an attempt to weaken Obama’s
drive to improve relations, according to  Nikolai Kovalyov , the
former head of Russia’s domestic security agency.  
 Avoiding the Hawks  
 “It was an attempt to interfere in Obama’s reset and to
compromise Obama himself,”  Kovalyov  said today in an interview
in Moscow. “This was an attempt by the hawks to influence
policy toward Russia,” said Kovalyov, who headed the Federal
Security Service, the main successor to the Soviet-era KGB, from
1996 to 1998.  
 Fifty-three percent of Russians think U.S. security
services created the spy scandal to undermine relations with
Russia, according to a poll published yesterday.  
 Ten percent of respondents to the  Levada Center poll  said
the U.S. had uncovered real spies, while 37 percent had no
opinion. The poll of 1,600 people was conducted July 2-5, and
had a margin of error of 3.4 percentage points.  
 In exchange for the return of those arrested in the U.S.,
Russia agreed to turn over four men convicted of spying in
Russia. Medvedev pardoned  Igor Sutyagin , Sergei Skripal, Gennady
Vasilenko and Alexander Zaporozhsky as part of the deal,
spokeswoman Natalia Timakova said today.  
 Vienna Swap  
 The swap took place today at the Vienna airport, where
aircraft from the U.S. and Russia parked next to each other for
about 90 minutes. The plane from Russia’s Emergency Situations
Ministry landed at Moscow’s Domodedovo airport at about 5:50
p.m. Moscow time. The U.S. plane flew to Brize Norton Airbase in
England, the British Broadcasting Corp. reported.  
 The Russian agents admitted carrying money or coded
messages, secretly communicating with Russian officials and
instructing others on how to find information useful to Russia.
Their objective was to infiltrate U.S. policy-making circles
after constructing false identities in suburbs and cities along
the East Coast, prosecutors said.  
 U.S. District Judge  Kimba Wood  in Manhattan sentenced them
to time served and ordered their deportation.  
 Kovalyov said the U.S. was “wise” to drop espionage
allegations and allow them to plead guilty to a lesser charge,
“because there was no evidence whatsoever” they were spies.  
 Saving Face  
 “As the diplomats say, it’s very important to find a way
out of any scandal without losing face,” Kovalyov said. “Both
sides managed to do this.”  
 Preet Bharara , the U.S. Attorney in Manhattan, said
yesterday that prosecution of the agents “sends a message to
every other intelligence-gathering agency that if you come over
here to spy, you will be exposed and arrested.”  
 Bharara said the timing of the arrests wasn’t designed to
obtain a “bargaining chip” to trade for Russian prisoners.  
 The men turned over by Russia include Sutyagin, an arms
expert at the Moscow-based U.S.A.-Canada Institute who was
convicted of spying for the U.K. and the U.S. in 2004 and
sentenced to 15 years in jail.  
 Skripal, a colonel in military intelligence, was convicted
of spying for the U.K. in 2006 and given a 13-year sentence.
Vasilenko is a former KGB major, was convicted in 2006 for
illegal possession of arms, according to Interfax. Zaporozhsky,
a former foreign intelligence colonel, got 18 years in 2003 for
spying on behalf of the U.S.  
 For Related News and Information:
To see the complaints: NXTW NSN L4S3NL0YHQ0Z &lt;GO&gt; and
NXTW NSN L4S3KA0YHQ0X &lt;GO&gt;
Top stories: TOP &lt;GO&gt;
Top legal stories: TLAW &lt;GO&gt;
Bloomberg legal resources: BLAW &lt;GO&gt;
Russian crime stories: TNI RUSSIA CRIME &lt;GO&gt;  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Lyubov Pronina  in Moscow at 
 lpronina@bloomberg.net ;
 Patrick Henry  in Moscow at 
 phenry8@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     A screen grab shows Anna Chapman, accused of being a Russian spy, on her facebook page. Source: facebook.com via Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
