-- Russia Spy-Swap Handling Shows Better Ties, U.S. Says
-- Nicole Gaouette
-- 2010-07-09T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-09/spy-swap-handling-shows-strength-of-warming-ties-with-russia-u-s-says.html

          
          
             The spy swap with Russia underscored
U.S. counter-intelligence capabilities along with the strength
of improved American ties with the Russian government,
administration officials said yesterday.  
 One of the officials pointed to the quick resolution of the
case and praised Russia for moving to confirm the Russian
citizenship of the 10 suspects and to work out their exchange
for four prisoners held in Russia.  
 The operatives, whose real names were released for the
first time at a hearing in New York, pleaded guilty to failing
to register with the U.S. government as agents of a foreign
power. The group was part of a long-term, deep-cover spy
operation whose aim was to infiltrate U.S. policy-making circles
after creating American identities in New York, suburban New
Jersey, Virginia, and in the Boston suburbs.  
 The administration official, who asked not to be
identified, told reporters on a conference call that the timing
of the June 28 arrests, which came after Russian President
 Dmitry Medvedev ’s June 24 visit to Washington to confer with
President  Barack Obama , was a coincidence.  
 That visit capped a series of foreign policy collaborations
between the two countries, including the completion of a
nuclear-arms reduction agreement and the passage of a tougher
sanctions resolution against Iran at the United Nations Security
Council.  
 During the White House encounter, Obama expressed hopes
that Russia’s pursuit of World Trade Organization membership
would be realized this year in negotiations. And the president
treated his Russian counterpart to lunch at an area hamburger
eatery in a gesture of warmer ties.  
 No Benefit  
 State Department spokesman  Mark Toner  said in a statement
yesterday that the U.S. ended its multiyear, Justice Department
investigation of the Russians with their release because “no
significant national security benefit would be gained from the
prolonged incarceration in the United States of these 10
unlawful agents.”  
 Some of the Russian agents had children while in the U.S.
The administration official said the U.S. would allow the
children to leave the U.S. at any time, as long as the parents
agreed. The matter was between parents and their children, the
official said.  
 Obama was briefed on the case, though he didn’t make the
decision to have them arrested, White House Chief of Staff  Rahm Emanuel  said on the PBS Newshour program yesterday.  
 The U.S. also saw an opportunity to gain the release the
four individuals held by Russia, several of whom were in poor
health, Toner said. The administration official declined to
provide details on those health conditions.  
 Terms of Accord  
 The U.S. shaped the terms of the spy-swap agreement, the
official said.  
 U.S. District Judge  Kimba Wood , who presided over the New
York hearing, told the 10 defendants that the maximum penalty
for violating the Foreign Agents Registration Act is five years
in prison and a $250,000 fine.  
 Instead the operatives will forfeit all currency, assets
and property and agreed to be immediately deported from the U.S.
Another administration official, who also spoke on condition of
anonymity, said the agents also had to agree not to return to
the U.S. unless authorized by the U.S. attorney general.  
 The official wouldn’t comment on what circumstances would
lead the attorney general to approve such a request.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nicole Gaouette  in Washington at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        