-- Sri Lanka Unexpectedly Cuts Interest Rates After EU Denies Trade Benefits
-- Anusha Ondaatjie
-- 2010-07-09T13:40:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-09/sri-lanka-cuts-rates-to-support-growth-after-eu-withdraws-trade-benefits.html

          
          
             Sri Lanka’s central bank unexpectedly
cut its benchmark interest rates for the first time in eight
months to support economic growth after the European Union
withdrew trade concessions this week.  
 The Central Bank of Sri Lanka reduced the  reverse
repurchase  and  repurchase rates  by a quarter-point to 9.5
percent and 7.25 percent, respectively, according to a statement
on the Colombo-based bank’s  website  today. Only one of four
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News predicted the decision.  
 Governor  Ajith Nivard Cabraal  has room to keep borrowing
costs low as higher farm output helped slow  inflation  for a
fourth month in June. The EU on July 5 announced it will
temporarily deny preferential trade access to Sri Lanka from
Aug. 15, saying the country failed to respond to European pleas
to improve its human rights record. Exports make up about a
fifth of Sri Lanka’s $41 billion economy.  
 “The government wants to step up growth as risks to
exports emerge,” said  Saminda Weerasinghe , a research manager
at Acuity Stockbrokers Pvt. in Colombo. “Inflation is under
control and that helps boost consumer demand.”  
 The monetary policy decision was announced after the
nation’s financial markets closed. The benchmark  Colombo All-
Share Index  fell 0.4 percent to 4,505.69 today. It has climbed
33 percent this year and is the best performer after Mongolia
and Bangladesh in the Asia Pacific. The Sri Lankan rupee was
little changed at 113.43 against the dollar.  
 Bucks Trend  
 Cabraal’s move contrasts with his counterparts in South
Korea, India, Malaysia and Taiwan, who have raised rates in
recent weeks as Asia leads the global economic recovery.  
 Acuity’s Weerasinghe said Sri Lanka needs low borrowing
costs to rebuild the nation’s war-torn northern and eastern
parts after the Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam rebels were
defeated in May 2009, ending a 26-year separatist struggle.  
 Land recovered from the Tamil Tigers-controlled areas has
enabled farmers to expand cultivation, helping drive down the
inflation rate to less than half the average pace of the five
years through 2009.  
 Paddy  production in the September-to-March season rose 9
percent to an unprecedented 2.6 million tons, according to the
statistics department.  
 Consumer prices in the capital, Colombo, rose 4.8 percent
in June from a year earlier after a 5.3 percent gain in May.  
 “Going forward, inflation is expected to remain subdued,
at single digit levels, during the remainder of the year,” the
central bank said today.  
 Sri Lanka is aiming to accelerate  growth  to 7 percent in
2010, the fastest pace since 2006, to cut poverty in a country
where the World Bank estimates almost half the population lives
on less than $2 a day.  
 Prospects of faster growth are attracting overseas
companies to Sri Lanka.  
 HSBC Holdings Plc , earlier this year, opened the first
branch by any foreign bank in Jaffna, the former stronghold of
the Tamil Tigers. Minor International Pcl, Thailand’s biggest
hotel operator, announced plans in May to invest in Sri Lanka to
tap growing leisure and business travelers.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Anusha Ondaatjie  in Colombo at 
 anushao@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        