-- States May Face Pension Pressure as New GASB Rules Widen Funding Deficits
-- Dunstan McNichol
-- 2010-07-09T16:09:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-09/states-may-face-pension-pressure-as-new-gasb-rules-widen-funding-deficit.html

          
          
             States may face increased retirement-
fund deficits and pressure to stop skipping pension
contributions under  proposals  being reviewed by the  Governmental
Accounting Standards Board .  
 Pension-forecasting proposals from the rule-making
organization, released June 16, would revise methods for
projecting liabilities and investment returns. The changes mean
estimated investment income likely will be reduced from current
assumptions and unfunded liabilities will increase, Moody’s
Investors Service said July 6 in a report.  
 The proposed revisions may make states less likely to skip
pension payments,  Cliff Corso , the chief executive officer of
Cutwater Asset Management Corp., said yesterday in a telephone
interview. “That should shed a decent amount of light -- a
lightning rod -- to spur action.”  
 Estimates of the gap between the value of U.S. public-
pension plans and the amount needed to cover promised benefits
range from $500 billion to $3 trillion. The smallest projection,
from the  Pew Center on the States , is based on annual investment
returns of 7.25 percent to 8.5 percent. The higher figure was
 forecast  by George Mason University  researchers  using the
relatively risk-free 3.5 percent return on 15-year Treasuries.  
 The standards board, based in Norwalk, Connecticut,
proposes using the expected return on a basket of high-quality
municipal bonds, which would produce a deficit somewhere between
the high and low estimates. The Bloomberg Fair Market index of
 AAA-rated municipal bonds  ended yesterday yielding 4.38 percent.  
 Lower Estimated Returns  
 “The average discount rate will almost certainly be lower
than is being currently used,” Moody’s said, referring to the
proportion of projected liabilities forecast to be covered by
investment income. “For plans that are expected to be
underfunded, this lower discount rate will result in large
increases” in the reported deficits, Moody’s said.  
 Every percentage point drop in the assumed rate of return
would increase reported pension underfunding by between 8
percent and 12 percent, according to Moody’s.  
 “Shedding a light gets things out there and gets things
moving,” said Cutwater’s Corso. His Armonk, New York-based
company manages $5 billion of municipal bonds in a $44 billion
fixed-income portfolio.  
 The proposed accounting revisions, which are subject to
comment through October, come as states are reporting widening
pension liabilities following declines in asset values in the
year through June 2009. Wilshire Associates, based in Santa
Monica, California, has  estimated  the median investment loss at
17 percent that year.  
 As fiscal 2010 began, states had only 65 percent of the
amount needed to cover promised benefits, down from 85 percent a
year earlier, a Wilshire  analysis  of 125 retirement plans
showed.  
 8 Percent Benchmark  
 Public-pension plans in the U.S. held assets valued at $2.3
trillion on June 30, 2008, according to a February report from
Washington-based Pew. Most commonly, the funds project future
returns to average about 8 percent a year, Pew said. The
biggest, the California Public Employees’ Retirement System, or
Calpers, currently forecasts annual investment gains of 7.75
percent and is considering lowering that benchmark.  
 In  Illinois , the Senate is balking at a plan to borrow $3.7
billion to cover pension fund payments this year, after issuing
$3.5 billion in bonds in January to meet last year’s
obligations. Illinois shares an A1 debt rating from Moody’s with
California, the lowest among U.S. states.  
 Soaring Payments  
 Pennsylvania’s payments into its retirement plans are
projected to almost triple in two years, to $3.7 billion from
$1.3 billion in the current budget, Governor  Ed Rendell  said
July 6 in a statement.  
 In  New Jersey , the $29.4 billion budget passed last week
was balanced partly by skipping a scheduled $3 billion pension
payment this fiscal year. Public defined-benefit plans in the
Garden State were underfunded by $45.8 billion as fiscal 2010
began, according to a state bond-offering document in May. In
its June 23 report, George Mason’s  Mercatus Center  in Arlington,
Virginia, put the deficit at more than $170 billion.  
 The accounting standards board will take written comments
on its proposed changes through Sept. 17. Hearings on the
proposal are set for Oct. 13 at the Hyatt Regency DFW in Dallas;
Oct. 14 at the offices of KPMG LLP in San Francisco, and Oct. 27
at the Crowne Plaza New York-LaGuardia Airport in New York City.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Dunstan McNichol  in Trenton, New Jersey, at 
 dmcnichol@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        