-- Sugar Stocks Jump as Pawar Proposes Ending Controls Amid Rebound in Output
-- Pratik Parija
-- 2010-07-09T08:34:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-09/sugar-stocks-in-india-jump-as-farm-minister-pawar-proposes-ending-controls.html

          
          
             Bajaj Hindusthan Ltd. , India’s biggest
sugar maker, and its domestic rivals surged in Mumbai after the
farm minister said the time is right to scrap controls on the
producers amid forecasts for a rebound in the country’s output.  
 Bajaj advanced as much as 6.6 percent to 123.2 rupees, the
highest price in two months, and  Balrampur Chini Mills Ltd. , the
second-biggest, rose 5.7 percent to 88.8 rupees. The two stocks
were among the  biggest gainers  on the BSE200 Index today.  Shree
Renuka Sugars Ltd. , the largest refiner, rose 5 percent to 72.5
rupees, a three-month high.  
 Lifting controls would permit mills to sell their entire
production at market prices, boosting earnings at a time when
global supplies are forecast by Fortis Bank Nederland and VM
Group to exceed demand by 5.64 million metric tons this season.
The government sets the floor price for cane, the quantity of
sugar to be sold in the market every month and buys 20 percent
of the output at below-market costs for resale to the poor.  
 “Decontrol will help the market determine prices, which
will be good for the industry,” said  Arhant Jain , executive
president for finance at  Dhampur Sugar Mills Ltd.  “Demand and
supply forces will work.”  
 Last year, the government ended an import tax on sugar and
asked producers of cookies and beverages to pare their stocks to
bolster domestic supplies as reduced cane planting and a drought
slashed production. Limits on supplies held by bulk users will
be raised and a duty on overseas purchases is being “actively
considered,” Minister  Sharad Pawar  told a conference today.  
 “The time has come to give a second thought on government
control” because production is expected to increase, he said.
Pawar didn’t say when the restraints would be lifted.  
 Production in the country, the biggest consumer, may be 25
million tons in the year starting Oct. 1, from 18.7 million tons
estimated this season, the Indian Sugar Mills Association said
July 7. Output may total 23 million tons, matching demand, a
government official said last month.  
 Stockpiles will jump 53 percent in the year ending Sept. 30,
according to the association. Mills will end the season with 4.9
million tons, compared with 3.2 million tons a year earlier, the
group said June 14.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Pratik Parija  in New Delhi at 
 pparija@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        