-- Suicide Bomber Kills 46 People in Northwest Pakistan, Rescue Official Says
-- James Rupert
-- 2010-07-09T11:31:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-09/suicide-bomb-attack-kills-at-least-46-in-pakistan-s-northwestern-region.html

          
          
             Two bombs smashed a roadside bazaar
and killed at least 57 people in Mohmand Agency, the deadliest
guerrilla attack since January in Pakistan’s northwest.  
 Bombs built into a car and a motorcycle exploded at Yaka
Ghund, 40 kilometers (25 miles) north of the main northwestern
city of Peshawar, said the government administrator in the
village, Assistant Political Agent Rasul Khan. The  Edhi
Foundation  ambulance service counted 85 people killed and more
than 150 injured, its provincial coordinator, Mujahid Khan, said
by telephone from the site.  
 The attack, the biggest in the frontier region since a Jan.
1 bomb killed 105 people, underscored that 15 months of army
offensives have failed to end a string of Taliban insurgencies
in Mohmand and six other tribal agencies that form a semi-
autonomous border zone called the  Federally Administered Tribal
Areas  (FATA), said  Ashraf Ali , director of the FATA Research
Center in Islamabad, the capital. Guerrillas defeated in one
area have regrouped in another, he said.  
 “The government must use development work and dialogue
first to isolate the militants” rather than relying mainly on
military force, Ali said by phone. The Obama administration has
pressed Pakistan’s army to widen its offensives against the
Taliban, whose strongholds have hosted militants of al-Qaeda and
allied groups.  
 Lahore Attacks  
 Today’s bombings followed high-profile attacks in the
eastern city of Lahore, as militants in Punjab province broaden
their targets to include civilian and religious sites. A July 1
bombing killed 45 people at a Lahore shrine to a pacifist Sufi
Muslim saint and touched off nationwide protests demanding a
crackdown on violent militant groups.  
 Pakistani Prime Minister  Yousuf Raza Gilani  said this week
he would summon a multi-party conference to build a political
consensus on a national strategy against militant violence.
Pakistan’s military, which has backed guerrilla groups as proxy
forces in the conflicts over Kashmir and Afghanistan,
increasingly has lost control over them, according to scholars
such as Lahore-based author  Ahmed Rashid .  
 Today’s bombs struck near the office of Rasul Khan, the
government administrator, who has been organizing local Mohmand
tribesmen to fight the Taliban. The blasts smashed scores of
small shops, and Pakistani television showed residents digging
by hand in the rubble for residents trapped underneath.  
 Bombing Scene  
 “I was watching TV in my house when the explosion blew in
our windows,” said Yaka Ghund resident Navid Khan. “I ran out
and people were lying, bloody, in the street.”  
 While Mohmand has been one of the calmer Pakistani regions
along the Afghan border, guerrillas have been gathering there
after fleeing the army’s latest offensive, in the Orakzai Agency,
south of Peshawar, said Malik Naweed, the chief of police for
Pakistan’s northwestern province,  Khyber-Pakhtunkhwa . On June 15,
Taliban guerrillas seized an army post on the Mohmand frontier
with Afghanistan, forcing scores of soldiers to flee.  
 Taliban guerrillas claimed responsibility in February for a
series of bomb attacks that destroyed or damaged schools in
Mohmand and other tribal areas.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Anwar Shakir  in Peshawar at 
 ashakir1@bloomberg.net ;  James Rupert  in New Delhi at 
   jrupert3@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     A Pakistani security guard helps an injured blast victim as he arrives at a hospital in Peshawar following a suicide bomb attack in district of Mohmand. Photographer: Hasham Ahmed/AFP/Getty Images  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
