-- Swiss Franc Surge Versus Forint Compounds Hungary's Headwinds, Nomura Says
-- Agnes Lovasz
-- 2010-07-09T12:23:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-09/swiss-franc-s-surge-compounds-hungary-s-economic-headwinds-nomura-says.html

          
          
             The Swiss franc’s surge to a record
against the forint is compounding Hungary’s woes as the nation’s
borrowers, more than 80 percent of whose foreign loans are in
francs, struggle to service growing debt burdens, according to
 Nomura International Plc .  
 The franc touched a record intraday high against the forint
on July 1 as investors, concerned the global recovery is
faltering, turned to Swiss assets. The forint, in contrast,
became the victim of a selloff last month after government
officials raised the specter of a Greek-like crisis in east
Europe’s most indebted nation. The franc’s gains will help
reduce Hungarian growth by 1 percentage point next year, Nomura
estimates.  
 Investors are looking for signs of recovery from last
year’s 6.3 percent contraction. The government, in office since
May 29, will impose a bank tax and public sector cuts to comply
with the terms of a $25 billion  International Monetary Fund  and
European Union loan. Those measures threaten to hamper growth in
the EU member with the biggest proportion of franc debt.
Hungary’s economy relies more on a stable franc-forint rate than
on the euro, according to Nomura.  
 “If the Swiss franc-forint rate remains very weak, we’ll
continue to see pressure on consumption,” said Nomura’s London-
based emerging-market economist  Peter Attard Montalto  in a July
7 interview. “When you combine that with the job cuts the new
government is going to be doing, the tightening on lending that
is going to happen from the banking tax, there are quite a lot
of downside risks to growth.”  
 Deeper Recession  
 The surge in the franc, which has gained as much as 27
percent in the past year versus the forint, has deepened
Hungary’s recession by about 2.5 percentage points, Nomura
estimates. Gross domestic product will expand 0.5 percent this
year and 2.5 percent next year, Nomura estimate.  The economy
grew  0.1 in the first quarter.  
 “If there were no foreign-exchange mortgages, the consumer
would have recovered much, much faster,” Montalto said.  
 The franc was at 210.21 forint at 3:20 p.m. in Budapest,
from 210.72 yesterday. It reached a record 219 forint on July 1,
while during the past year it traded as low as 172.85, on July
31.  
 Moody’s Negative  
 Hungary’s financial system remains “one of the more
fragile in central and eastern Europe,” Moody’s Investors
Services, which maintains a negative outlook on the country’s
banks including the biggest lender  OTP Bank Nyrt. , said
yesterday. The forint’s volatility against the Swiss franc is
leading to a deterioration in asset quality and problem loans
will probably continue to rise until 2011, Moody’s said.  
 Prime Minister  Viktor Orban  on June 8 announced  public
sector spending cuts  to persuade investors and the IMF the
government can reach its 3.8 percent of GDP deficit target. He’s
also planning to raise 120 billion forint ($527 million) this
year from a new tax on banks, a move that’s likely to constrain
lending. Plans to reduce personal income taxes will offset some
of the impact on growth, according to Montalto.  
 Hungarians resorted to franc-denominated loans during the
boom years last decade to escape high  interest rates . That trend
echoed a wider shift across eastern Europe, where euro loans
grew in popularity for the same reasons.  
 Bailouts  
 During the 2008-09 financial crisis, the practice backfired
as a shortage of credit worldwide meant east European banks and
their parents in Austria, Italy, Germany and Sweden struggled to
refinance foreign-currency mortgages, car and consumer loans.
Hungary was the first country in the region to resort to an IMF
and EU bailout to stay afloat, followed by Latvia and Romania.  
 Total loans overdue by at least 90 days approached 8
percent at the end of 2009, twice the 2008 level, according to
the central bank’s April report on financial stability.
Provisions for bad loans at OTP rose 7 percent to 55.1 billion
forint in the first quarter.  OTP shares  dropped 1.2 percent at
1:40 p.m. in Budapest, after rising as much as 1.78 percent
earlier.  
 Outstanding household foreign-currency loans amount to 5.4
trillion forint, or 67 percent of total loans, with 4.4 trillion
forint, or 82 percent of them owed in the Swiss currency,
according to central bank data from the end of May. Household
loans total 8.06 trillion forint, the data showed.  
 Businesses owe 4.4 trillion forint in foreign currency, or
58 percent of the total, the data showed. The bank doesn’t have
Swiss franc loan data for businesses.  
 Foreign-currency loans account for 91 percent of total
lending in Latvia, 87.1 percent in Estonia and 71.8 percent in
Lithuania, according to London-based research company Capital
Economics. In Romania and Bulgaria, they represent about two-
thirds of borrowing.  
 Hedge  
 Investors can safeguard against a strong franc weighing on
Hungary’s growth by buying short-dated Hungarian bonds and
selling longer-dated ones to benefit from potential interest-
rate reductions by the central bank, or by  purchasing  insurance
against default, Montalto said.  
 “You can play it on the one hand assuming there will be
further cuts in interest rates,” Montalto said. “The other is
simply through credit-default swaps or a steepening of the yield
curve as people price in lower consumption growth, slower
recovery, and the impact that has on government finances, non-
performing loans and the creditworthiness of individuals.”  
 Hungarian notes due 2012 gained, pushing the yield down 10
basis points to 6.5 percent, while the benchmark 10-year bond
fell, with the yield rising 5 basis points to 7.35 percent,
widening the two-year, 10-year yield spread to 80 basis points.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Agnes Lovasz  in London at 
 alovasz@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        