-- Swiss Stocks Increase for Fourth Day; Syngenta, Transocean Lead Advance
-- Alexis Xydias
-- 2010-07-09T15:53:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-09/swiss-stocks-increase-for-fourth-day-syngenta-transocean-lead-advance.html

          
          
             Swiss stocks  rose for a fourth day,
extending the biggest weekly advance since February, on optimism
that a global economic rebound won’t be derailed. Syngenta AG
and Transocean Ltd. paced gains.  
 The  Swiss Market Index  of the biggest and most actively
traded companies advanced 0.9 percent to 6,210.49, for a 4
percent gain this week. The broader  Swiss Performance Index 
increased 0.8 percent.  
 Global stocks have rebounded in the past four days on
speculation a selloff last quarter was overdone given that the
global economy is still growing. The International Monetary Fund
this week raised its forecast for 2010 global economic growth,
reflecting a stronger-than-expected first half.  
 “The IMF’s statement was very good information,” said
Paris-based  Jacques Porta , a fund manager at Ofi Patrimoine who
helps oversees about $425 million in stocks. “Earnings start in
the U.S. next week. As everyone else, I have little visibility
of how that is going to pan out, but I am optimistic.  
 Syngenta, the world’s biggest maker of agricultural
chemicals, rose 3 percent to 236.4 Swiss francs. Transocean, the
Geneva-based company that leased the Deepwater Horizon oil rig
in the Gulf of Mexico to BP Plc, climbed 5.3 percent to 54.7
francs, its steepest jump since June 18.
       Straumann Holding AG , a maker of dental implants, rose 3.7
percent to 231.1 francs after Chief Financial Officer  Wolf- Ruediger Daetz  decided to leave the company.  
 “This resignation only four months after Mr. Daetz took up
the position was unexpected,”  Daniel Jelovcan , an analyst at
Helvea SA, wrote in the brokerage’s morning note. “We believe
that Mr. Daetz’s departure has absolutely nothing to do with the
forthcoming results or any financial-related matters.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alexis Xydias  at 
 axydias@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        