-- FTSE 100 Stocks Rise, Head for Biggest Weekly Gain in a Year; Rio Gains
-- Colm Heatley
-- 2010-07-09T11:14:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-09/u-k-stocks-fluctuate-head-for-biggest-weekly-gain-in-a-year-rio-gains.html

          
          
             U.K. stocks rose, with the benchmark
 FTSE 100 Index  poised for its biggest weekly gain in a year, as
investors speculated that equity prices already reflect possible
risks to the economic recovery.  
 Rio Tinto, the world’s third-biggest mining company,
climbed 2.4 percent as metals prices advanced. BT Group Plc
rallied 2.7 percent after agreeing a pay deal with workers.
William Hill Plc jumped 2.6 percent after Bank of America Corp.
recommended buying the shares. GlaxoSmithKline Plc slipped 1.4
as its diabetes drug Avandia is undergoing a safety review.  
 The FTSE 100 climbed 19.59, or 0.4 percent, to 5,125.04 at
12:11 a.m. in London, its fourth straight gain. The gauge has
rallied 5.9 percent this week on optimism the world economy
won’t slip back into recession and that Europe’s banks will pass
stress tests imposed by regulators. The  FTSE All-Share Index 
also climbed 0.4 percent today, while Ireland’s  ISEQ Index 
slipped 0.2 percent.  
 “The macro risks may not have disappeared, but we believe
they are amply discounted,” Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc’s
London-based analysts  Graham Bishop  and  Ian Richards  wrote in a
note. “Sentiment is seemingly all one-way and there are
tentative signs that the pessimism has reached saturation point.
We expect the upcoming earnings season to be a positive catalyst
for the next move up in equities.”  
 Austerity Measures  
 The FTSE 100 remains 12 percent below this year’s high on
April 15 amid concern that growth will be curbed by austerity
measures from European governments cutting their budget deficits
and as economic reports in the U.S. and China disappointed
investors.  
 U.K. producer prices unexpectedly dropped in June for the
first time in 1 1/2 years as lower costs of gasoline products
eased inflation pressures in the economy.  
 The cost of goods at factory gates fell 0.3 percent from
the previous month, the Office for National Statistics said
today in London. The median forecast of 12 economists in a
Bloomberg News survey was for a 0.1 percent gain. A separate
report showed Britain’s trade deficit swelled in May to the
largest in four months.  
 “This will be good news for those of us starting to worry
that inflation was stubbornly refusing to edge lower,” Will
Hedden, a sales trader at IG Index, said in a note today. “The
majority of stocks that make up the FTSE 100 index are trading
negative on the day, but strength in the heavyweight miners is
mitigating most of this.”  
 Rio Tinto  rallied 2.4 percent to 3146.5 pence. BHP
Billiton, the world’s biggest mining company, gained 0.96
percent to 1,836.5 pence. Eurasian Natural Resources Corp.
advanced 1.4 percent to 878 pence. Anglo American Plc, the
biggest miner of platinum, climbed 0.6 percent to 2,427.5 pence.  
 Metals Advance  
 Copper climbed in London for the fifth time in six days
after a decline in stockpiles to a seven-month low stoked
optimism demand is rising for the metal. Lead, nickel, and zinc
also advanced on the London Metal Exchange.  
 Antofagasta Plc, owner of copper mines in Chile, jumped 2.4
percent to 871.5 pence. Citigroup Inc. raised its recommendation
for the company to “buy” from “hold.”  
 BT rallied 2.7 percent to 139.6 pence. The U.K.’s biggest
fixed-line phone company agreed to a 39-month pay deal with the
Communication Workers Union after the labor group came close to
strike action.  
 William Hill Plc , the U.K.’s largest bookmaker by number of
outlets, climbed 2.6 percent to 180.3 pence. The stock was
raised to “buy” from “neutral” at BofA Merrill Lynch Global
Research, which cited “continuing strong trends in online and
an improvement in machines as key catalysts for the stock.”  
 Avandia Review  
 GlaxoSmithKline paced declining shares, falling 1.4 percent
to 1,126 pence. The company’s embattled diabetes drug Avandia is
undergoing a safety review by European regulators, and there
will be a similar analysis of the drug next week by the U.S.
Food and Drug Administration.  
 “This is not an automatic review,”  Monika Benstetter , a
spokeswoman for the European Medicines Agency, said in a
telephone interview. “It happens when there are new safety
concerns,” she said. Normally decisions are made “quite quickly,
though there is not really a timeline now,” she said.  
 Michael Page International Plc  gained 1.7 percent to 392
pence. The U.K.’s second-biggest recruitment company said
second-quarter profit rose 33 percent as business confidence
levels improved, leading to higher “job churn”. Xstrata Plc
rose 0.97 percent.  
 Bodycote Plc, a U.K. engineering company, surged 13 percent
to 215.4 pence after saying it seen a “steady and broad based
improvement in demand.”  
 SIG Plc, an insulation supplier, rose 2.6 percent to 107.2
pence. The company said profit was above market estimates.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Adam Haigh  in London at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        