-- U.K.'s Building Slump May Last Another Two Years, Rockwool's Nielsen Says
-- Gelu Sulugiuc
-- 2010-07-09T10:36:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-09/u-k-s-building-slump-may-last-another-two-years-rockwool-s-nielsen-says.html

          
          
             Rockwool International A/S , the
world’s second-largest insulation maker, sees the U.K.’s
building slump lasting two more years, lagging behind a recovery
elsewhere in Europe, executive  Henrik Frank Nielsen  said.  
 A rebound in Europe will not happen in the next 12 to 18
months, Nielsen said yesterday in an interview at the company’s
headquarters in the town of Hedehusene.  
 “In the U.K., it’s definitely not going to happen until
mid-2012 at the earliest,” Nielsen said. “It’s a complete
standstill.”  
 Rockwool needs a pick-up in building works to restart
mothballed capacity in Europe after an expansion program
backfired in the financial crisis. The maker of  stone wool  began
the largest capacity increase in its 100-year history in 2007
when construction demand was peaking, building  five new
factories  to boost global production by 25 percent.  
 Rockwool and competitors including its biggest rival in
insulation,  Cie. de Saint-Gobain SA , have slashed costs to cope
with the construction slowdown. U.K.  house prices  fell the most
in four months in June, the mortgage lending division of Lloyds
Banking Group Plc said on July 8. Even with borrowing costs at a
record low, U.K. mortgage approvals are at about half the level
they were at the peak of the housing boom.  
 “We still have capacity mothballed in mature markets after
the expansion when we built five new plants,” Nielsen said.  
 Russian Growth  
 With the new construction market far from recovery,
insulation makers are finding some support in Europe from
government subsidies for building refurbishments in some
countries, Rockwool said on May 26, forecasting sales would fall
5 percent this year compared with 2009.  
 The Danish company’s  biggest markets in 2009  were Germany,
France and the Netherlands. Construction in Russia, which was a
growth area for Rockwool before the crisis, is starting to
rebound as the economy benefits from higher oil prices.  
 “Russia went to a complete stop at the end of 2008 and was
really into dire straits last year,” Nielsen said. “Then in
May this year, it started going up again and has continued that
trend. Compared to last year it is really booming.”  
 Rockwool agreed to buy the Asian insulation operations of
 CSR Ltd ., Australia’s No. 2 building products maker, on July 6,
taking over plants in China, Malaysia and Thailand. Asia
accounted for less than 5 percent of Rockwool’s sales in 2009.  
 “The Asian market has a great potential for the future,”
said Nielsen, who is also responsible for Rockwool’s operations
in that region. “Especially the Chinese platform for growth is
very positive with a long perspective.”  
 Nielsen declined to disclose the turnover the acquired
business brings in, saying only that the CSR plants will more
than quadruple Rockwool’s production capacity in Asia to 115,000
tons of insulation per year. China will need to become more
energy efficient as its economy continues to grow at a fast
rate.  
 The deal was a “chance of a lifetime,” Nielsen said.
“It’s not an acquisition that will worsen our EBIT margin at
group level.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Gelu Sulugiuc  in Copenhagen at 
 gsulugiuc@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        