-- U.S Hawks Created Spy Scandal to Hurt Obama, Ex-Russian Security Head Says
-- Patrick Henry
-- 2010-07-09T13:57:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-09/u-s-hawks-created-russian-spy-scandal-to-hurt-obama-ex-fsb-head-says.html

          
          
             The U.S.-Russian espionage scandal
that culminated in a Cold War-style spy exchange was an attempt
by “hawks” in America to weaken President  Barack Obama , the
former head of Russia’s domestic security agency said.  
 “It was an attempt to interfere in Obama’s reset” of
relations with Russia, “and to compromise Obama himself,”
 Nikolai Kovalyov  said in an interview in Moscow today. “This
was an attempt by the hawks to influence policy toward Russia,”
said Kovalyov, who headed the Federal Security Service, the main
successor to the Soviet-era KGB, from 1996 to 1998.  
 Russia’s Foreign Ministry and the U.S. State Department
hailed the swift resolution of the spy situation as evidence of
improved ties between the two countries under Obama. Russia’s
Foreign Ministry said today the exchange of four convicted spies
for 10 Russian citizens should help to deter “attempts to
divert the two sides from this course.”  
 Russian state television reported that the spy exchange
took place at Vienna airport today. The  Rossiya 24 channel 
showed a Russian Emergency Situations Ministry plane parked next
to a jet from the U.S. and two groups of people walking in turn
from one plane to the other. The ministry plane landed at
Moscow’s Domodedovo airport at 5:50 p.m., RIA Novosti reported
from the airport.  
 Coded Messages  
 Veronika Smolskaya , a ministry spokeswoman, declined to
comment when contacted by Bloomberg News. The Foreign
Intelligence Service and the Foreign Ministry declined to
comment on the plane’s destination in Russia or the time of its
arrival.  
 The accused Russian agents admitted carrying money or coded
messages, secretly communicating with Russian officials and
instructing others on how to find information useful to Russia.
Their objective was to infiltrate U.S. policy-making circles
after constructing false American identities in suburbs and
cities along the East Coast, prosecutors said.  
 U.S. District Judge  Kimba Wood  in Manhattan sentenced them
to time served and ordered the accused deported.  
 Kovalyov said the U.S. was “wise” to drop espionage
accusations against the 10 Russians and allow them to plead
guilty to a lesser charge, “because there was no evidence
whatsoever” that they were spies.  
 ‘Deep-Cover’ Agents  
 “As the diplomats say, it’s very important to find a way
out of any scandal without losing face,” Kovalyov said. “Both
sides managed to do this.”  
 Preet Bharara , the U.S. Attorney in Manhattan, said the
prosecution and investigation of the Russian “deep-cover”
agents “sends a message to every other intelligence-gathering
agency that if you come over here to spy, you will be exposed
and arrested. Bharara said the timing of the arrests wasn’t
designed to obtain a “bargaining chip” to trade for Russian
prisoners.  
 Fifty-three percent of Russians think the U.S. security
services created the spy scandal as a “provocation” intended
to undermine relations with Russia, according to a poll
published yesterday.  
 Ten percent of respondents to the  Levada Center poll  said
the U.S. had uncovered real spies, while 37 percent had no
opinion. The poll of 1,600 people was conducted July 2-5, and
had a margin of error of 3.4 percentage points.  
 Mother’s Reaction  
 Three of the U.S. defendants operated without an alias,
including Anna Chapman, whose lawyer identified her as the owner
of a Manhattan online real-estate business worth $2 million.  
 The Life News  website  in Russia today cited Irina
Kushchenko, whom it identified as Chapman’s mother, as saying
the family expects her home soon. Kushchenko said Chapman
“didn’t do anything terrible,” and the family supports her
“entirely,” according to Life News.  
 The four men released by Russia had all been convicted of
espionage. President  Dmitry Medvedev  pardoned the four --  Igor Sutyagin , Sergei Skripal, Gennady Vasilenko and Alexander
Zaporozhsky -- before the exchange, his spokeswoman  Natalya Timakova  said today.  
 Sutyagin, an arms expert at the Moscow-based U.S.A.-Canada
Institute, was convicted of spying for the U.K. and the U.S. in
2004 and sentenced to 15 years in jail.  
 Sutyagin’s mother, Svetlana, said today that she hadn’t
heard from her son in several days. “The only reliable
information for us is a call from him to someone in the
family,” she said by telephone. “He hasn’t called.”  
 Skripal, a colonel in military intelligence, was convicted
of spying for the U.K. in 2006 and given a 13-year sentence.
Vasilenko is a former KGB major, was convicted in 2006 for
illegal possession of arms, according to Interfax. Zaporozhsky,
a former foreign intelligence colonel, got 18 years in 2003 for
spying on behalf of the U.S.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Lyubov Pronina  in Moscow at 
 lpronina@bloomberg.net ;
 Patrick Henry  in Moscow at 
 phenry8@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     A screen grab shows Anna Chapman, accused of being a Russian spy, on her facebook page. Source: facebook.com via Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
