-- U.S. Says No Country Manipulates Currency, Yuan `Undervalued'
-- Ian Katz
-- 2010-07-09T09:04:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-09/u-s-will-monitor-china-progress-on-allowing-for-faster-yuan-appreciation.html

          
          
             The U.S. pledged to monitor China’s
“undervalued” yuan in the next three months for signs that
Asia’s fastest-growing market is living up to its commitments to
help rebalance the global economy.  
 China took a “significant step” last month when it ended
its peg to the dollar and allowed markets to drive the currency
higher, the Treasury Department said yesterday. The report,
initially due April 15, concluded that no major U.S. trading
partner manipulated its currency and said it’s not yet clear
whether China’s policy shift will correct the yuan’s
undervaluation. The Treasury promised another review in October.  
 “What matters is how far and how fast the renminbi
appreciates,” Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  said,
using another name for China’s currency. “We will closely and
regularly monitor the appreciation of the renminbi and will
continue to work towards expanded U.S. export opportunities in
China that support employment in the  United States , in close
consultation with Congress.”  
 The report reflected Geithner’s effort to avoid a
confrontation with China over currency issues. The Treasury
chief has repeated that it will be “China’s choice” when to
let the yuan rise, deflecting pressure from lawmakers including
Senator  Charles Schumer  who call for more appreciation and
threaten to legislate trade sanctions.  
 Bought Time  
 “China has bought themselves some time by allowing the
yuan to become unstuck a few weeks ago,” said  Chris Rupkey ,
chief financial economist at Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd.
in New York. “Despite its critics, China will be careful with
its exchange-rate policy because the stakes are simply too great
if they get it wrong, both for China itself and increasingly it
could be a disaster for the world economy as well.”  
 The yuan traded at 6.7737 per dollar at 4:52 p.m. in
Shanghai. It has gained 0.8 percent since Chinese policy makers’
announcement June 19 that they would allow greater fluctuation.  
 U.S. lawmakers weren’t convinced that Geithner made the
right call. Senate Banking Committee Chairman  Christopher Dodd ,
a Connecticut Democrat, said he planned to hold a hearing on the
report, and Schumer said the Treasury missed its opportunity to
hold China accountable.  
 “This report is as disappointing as it is unsurprising,”
said Schumer, a New York Democrat. “It’s clear it will take an
act of Congress to do the obvious and call China out for its
currency manipulation.”  
 Lawmakers’ Calls  
 Other lawmakers reiterated calls for the Obama
administration to bring the currency issue to the World Trade
Organization. House Ways and Means Committee Chairman  Sander Levin  and Senator  Charles Grassley , the Senate Finance
Committee’s top Republican, both called for the U.S. to file a
trade complaint.  
 China’s currency has “appreciated only modestly” since
last month’s policy shift, he said. “There is no real question
that China’s exchange-rate policy is unfair, contributes to
global trade imbalances, and costs the United States jobs and
economic growth, particularly in the manufacturing sector.”  
 The report increases the chances of an October showdown,
while also pushing off calls for action until January, when a
new Congress may be less likely to press the issue, said  Derek Scissors , a research fellow at the Heritage Foundation in
Washington.  
 “The administration can more easily opt to call
manipulation in October, saying they gave Beijing every chance
to implement real policy change,” Scissors said. “But the
manipulator tag itself does nothing but trigger talks.”  
 Full Document  
 The Treasury said the report covers the second half of 2009
and includes some information from the first half of 2010. The
department said a full document on the first half of 2010 will
be included in the Treasury’s next report to Congress, which is
due in October.  
 Until last month’s shift, China had been holding its
currency at about 6.83 to the dollar since July 2008 to help
exporters. Authorities had allowed the yuan to rise 21 percent
in the three prior years.  
 “China’s exchange-rate reform must be reinforced by
macroeconomic policies that support domestic demand and other
structural reforms to create a strong foundation for
consumption-led growth,” the Treasury said. “Exchange-rate
appreciation should play an important role in rebalancing
China’s economy.”  
 U.S. Criticism  
 Companies in Asia and in the U.S. have called on China this
year to let the yuan rise. Chinese executives including  Yang Yuanqing , chief executive officer of Beijing-based computer
maker Lenovo Group Ltd., and Qin Xiao, chairman of China
Merchants Bank Co., said in March that China could benefit from
an appreciation of the currency.  
 U.S. companies have criticized what they view as favoritism
of Chinese firms over foreign competitors.  
 A January letter to the White House from the U.S. Chamber
of Commerce, the Business Software Alliance, and more than a
dozen other groups representing companies such as Microsoft
Corp., Boeing Co., Motorola Inc., Caterpillar Inc., and United
Technologies Corp. warned of “systematic efforts by China to
develop policies that build their domestic enterprises at the
expense of U.S. firms.”  
 Geithner opted to delay the report until after a series of
meetings between U.S. and Chinese officials in Beijing and as
part of Group of 20 policy discussions. After last month’s G-20
summit in Toronto, President  Barack Obama  said the U.S. will be
monitoring markets to make sure that China follows through.  
 Market Forces  
 “We do expect that as more and more market forces come to
bear, that given the enormous surpluses that China has
accumulated, that the renminbi is going to go up and it’s going
to go up significantly,” Obama said.  
 In its previous report in October, the Treasury criticized
China for the “lack of flexibility” of the yuan and a buildup
of foreign-exchange reserves while declining to call the nation
a manipulator of its currency. It said China’s yuan policies
were a “serious concern” and pledged to negotiate with China
at the G-20 and the bilateral meetings.  
 China’s  reserves  rose to a record $2.447 trillion in the
first quarter of 2010, according to the People’s Bank of China.
Holdings jumped $22.5 billion in March, after gaining $9.4
billion in February and $16 billion in January, data posted on
the central bank’s  website  in April showed.  
 Under a 1988 law, the Treasury is required to report to
Congress twice a year on international economic conditions and
exchange-rate policies. The Treasury is required to enter direct
talks with a country deemed to be manipulating its currency, and
also seek redress through the International Monetary Fund. The
last country labeled a manipulator was China, in 1994.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rebecca Christie  in Washington at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net 
 Ian Katz  in Washington at 
 ikatz2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     U.S. treasury secretary Timothy Geithner. Photographer: Andrew Harrer/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 9 (Bloomberg) -- Donald Straszheim, senior managing director of China research at International Strategy & Investment Group, talks with Bloomberg's Susan Li about China's currency policy.
     The U.S., stopping short of branding China a currency manipulator, said the yuan "remains undervalued" after the nation ended its peg to the dollar. China took a "significant step" last month when it began to allow markets to drive the currency higher, the Treasury Department said in a report to Congress released yesterday. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 9 (Bloomberg) -- Jamie Metzl, executive vice president of the Asia Society, discusses a U.S. Treasury report on exchange rates, China's currency policy and the political and economic relationship between the two countries.
      The U.S. pledged to monitor China’s “undervalued” yuan in the next three months for signs that Asia’s fastest-growing market is living up to its commitments to help rebalance the global economy. Metzl speaks with Betty Liu on Bloomberg Television's "In the Loop." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 9 (Bloomberg) -- Dariusz Kowalczyk, a senior economist and strategist at Credit Agricole CIB, talks with Bloomberg's Linzie Janis about China's currency policy.
     The U.S., stopping short of branding China a currency manipulator, said the yuan "remains undervalued" after the nation ended its peg to the dollar. China took a "significant step" last month when it began to allow markets to drive the currency higher, the Treasury Department said in a report to Congress released yesterday. Kowalczyk, speaking from Hong Kong, also discusses China's economy and central bank monetary policy. (Excerpt. Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
