-- U.S. Calls on North Korea to Free American After Report of Suicide Attempt
-- Seonjin Cha
-- 2010-07-09T22:41:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-09/u-s-calls-on-north-korea-to-free-american-after-report-of-suicide-attempt.html

          
          
             The U.S. called on North Korea to
release an American citizen sentenced to eight years of hard
labor after the government in Pyongyang said he’d attempted
suicide.  
 Aijalon Mahli Gomes, sentenced in April for illegally
entering the country, is receiving emergency hospital care after
attempting suicide because he felt his government hadn’t done
enough to obtain his release, the official Korean Central News
Agency said yesterday.  
 “We’re concerned about his welfare,” State Department
spokesman  Mark Toner  said in Washington. The U.S. is repeating
its call for North Korea to “release him on humanitarian
grounds.” Swedish diplomats visited Gomes yesterday at North
Korea’s request, Toner said, adding that he wouldn’t provide
details on Gomes’ health out of respect for his family.  
 North Korea threatened last month to further punish Gomes,
a Boston resident who KCNA says turned 31 on June 19, because
the U.S. accused it of sinking a South Korean warship. The
United Nations refrained from blaming North Korea for the attack,
which killed 46 sailors, according to a statement backed by the
U.S. and China and adopted by the Security Council yesterday.  
 The U.S. Embassy in Seoul has no information on the
reported suicide attempt and is unable to comment, spokesman
Aaron Tarver said by telephone yesterday. Nobody picked up the
phone at the Swedish Embassy in Pyongyang, and there was no
immediate reply to an e-mail. The Swedish Embassy in Seoul
didn’t pick up the phone, or respond to a fax seeking comment.  
 Swedish Visits  
 Since his incarceration, Swedish diplomats have visited
Gomes eight times including today, Toner said. Their previous
visit was on June 10. The U.S. doesn’t have an embassy in
Pyongyang.  
 South Korea had pushed for UN Security Council condemnation
of North Korea for allegedly torpedoing the warship. China,
which has veto power on the council, hasn’t accepted an
international panel’s finding that  Kim Jong Il ’s regime was
responsible for the March 26 attack.  
 North Korea yesterday proposed “colonel-to-colonel” talks
with the U.S. at the Panmunjom military post in the
Demilitarized Zone, where U.S. and South Korean forces face off
across the world’s most heavily armed border. KCNA said an
earlier offer to hold talks with South Korea was rejected.  
 It’s “an obvious move toward higher-level discussions,”
said  Yang Moo Jin , a professor at the University of North Korean
Studies. “The North seems to looking for an exit strategy from
the ship-sinking issue. It’s a positive move if it’s heading for
dialogue.”  
 Ship Sinking  
 South Korean President  Lee Myung Bak  said in May that North
Korea should be punished for sinking the Cheonan. North Korea
responded by threatening “all-out war” and stating its
innocence. As tensions escalated on the peninsula, the two sides
cut their channels of communication.  
 The U.S. made repeated requests for talks with North
Korea’s military to prevent a “recurrence of the tragic
incident,” KCNA said today.  
 Gomes was captured Jan. 25 for illegally crossing into
North Korea from China.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Seonjin Cha  in Seoul at 
 scha2@bloomberg.net ;
 Kyung Bok Cho  at 
 kcho7@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        