-- U.S., Russian Planes Taking Part in 14-Spy Swap Leave Vienna, AP Reports
-- Jonathan Tirone
-- 2010-07-09T12:00:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-09/u-s-russian-planes-taking-part-in-14-spy-swap-leave-vienna-ap-reports.html

          
          
             U.S. and Russian aircraft taking part
in the exchange of 14 convicted spies left Vienna International
Airport after parking nose-to-tail on a remote section of
runway, the Associated Press reported.  
 The two planes landed within minutes of each other and
spent about 90 minutes on the ground, the AP said. The Russian
Foreign Ministry and foreign intelligence service declined to
comment.  
 Ten members of a Russian spy ring pleaded guilty yesterday
in New York to conspiring to act as unregistered foreign agents.
U.S. District Judge  Kimba Wood  in Manhattan sentenced them to
time served and ordered them deported as Russia agreed to
release four people convicted of spying.  
 The case “sends a message to every other intelligence
gathering agency that if you come over here to spy, you will be
exposed and arrested,” Preet Bharara, the U.S. Attorney in
Manhattan, said yesterday. The timing of the arrests wasn’t for
the purpose of obtaining a “bargaining chip” to trade for
Russian prisoners, Bharara said.  
 One by one, each of the accused agents admitted carrying
money or coded messages, secretly communicating with Russian
officials and instructing others on how to find information
useful to Russia. Their objective was to infiltrate U.S. policy-
making circles after constructing false American identities in
suburbs and cities along the East Coast, prosecutors said.  
 Sending a Message  
 President  Dmitry Medvedev  pardoned four people convicted of
spying in Russia, presidential spokeswoman Natalia Timakova
said. She identified them as  Igor Sutyagin , Sergei Skripan,
Gennady Vasilenko and Alexander Zaporozhsky.  
 Sutyagin, an arms expert at the Moscow-based U.S.A.-Canada
Institute, was convicted in 2004 of spying for the U.S. and U.K.
and sentenced to 15 years in jail. Skripal, a former colonel in
military intelligence, was convicted of spying for the U.K. in
2006 and received a 13-year sentence. Zaporozhsky, a colonel at
the foreign intelligence service, got 18 years in 2003 for
spying on behalf of the U.S. Vasilenko, a former KGB major, was
convicted illegal arms possession in 2006, Interfax reported.  
 The U.S.’s exposure of a so-called deep-cover operation --
followed by a prisoner exchange -- reprises a spy drama that has
played out repeatedly since the 1940s.  
 The agents who pleaded guilty yesterday follow a line of
networks the former Soviet Union planted to better understand
American society as well as obtain military and policy secrets,
intelligence experts said.  
 Cold War Beginnings  
 “This is exactly the same illegals program that has been
in existence since the beginning of the Cold War,”  Vincent Cannistraro , a former counter-terrorism chief with the Central
Intelligence Agency, said in an interview. “The assumed names,
their methodology is the same. It worked very well in the 1960s,
but the world has changed. I think you have an old-fashioned
mentality in Russia running things.”  
 The U.S. has conducted other spy swaps under similar
circumstances.  
 In 1957, the U.S. charged Rudolf Ivanovich Abel with
espionage, saying the artist known to his neighbors in Brooklyn,
New York as Emil Goldfus was really a colonel in the Soviet
Union’s intelligence service, or KGB. Abel was tried and
convicted of espionage and sentenced to 30 years in prison.  
 Abel was exchanged in 1962 for downed U-2 spy-plane pilot
 Francis Gary Powers  at Glienicke Bridge, the famed “Bridge of
Spies” that linked Berlin to Potsdam in the former East
Germany. Abel had been exposed by another “illegal” living in
a small house in Peekskill, New York, as Eugene Maki, a name
stolen from an American whose family had moved to Estonia. Maki
defected to the U.S.  
 1986 Swap  
 In August 1986, Gennadiy Zakharov, a scientist with the
United Nations, was arrested on a Queens, New York subway
platform by agents with the Federal Bureau of Investigation,
after paying $1,000 for secret documents about the design of jet
engines. Zakharov was indicted on espionage charges by federal
prosecutors in Brooklyn. A week later, the Soviet Union arrested
American journalist Nicholas Daniloff and accused him of
espionage.  
 After negotiations with the U.S. State Department, Daniloff
was allowed to leave the Soviet Union without standing trial.
The next day, Zakharov pleaded “no contest” to a count of
conspiring to commit espionage and attempting to transmit
national defense information to the Soviet Union.  
 He was sentenced to time-served by U.S. District Judge
Joseph McLaughlin and released immediately to the Soviet
government in the courthouse basement’s garage.  
 ‘Madman in Brooklyn’  
 Andrew J. Maloney , the Brooklyn U.S. attorney at the time,
said Zakharov’s arrest on the eve of a summit meeting between
former President  Ronald Reagan  and Russia’s then-President
 Mikhail Gorbachev  in Iceland drew criticism.  
 “I remember a Washington D.C. columnist saying, ‘Who’s
that madman in Brooklyn arresting this guy on the eve of the
Icelandic meeting?” Maloney said in an interview.  
 He said the U.S. didn’t view the exchange as a “quid pro
quo,” because as part of the agreement other Soviet dissidents
were released later.  
 “If you think back to the Cold War, even when things were
very hot, what we’d do in the U.S. was catch these spies and
they’d end up in an exchange situation,” he said.  
 Maloney, now in private practice, said the current ring
nestled in affluent towns such as Montclair, New Jersey and
Cambridge, Massachusetts shouldn’t be dismissed as trivial.  
 “Who knows what they’re really doing?” he said. “It’s a
very serious threat. In the future, if we have a problem with a
new regime in Russia, these people could be called upon to do
sabotage or harm the country,” he said. “I don’t dismiss this
case at all.”  
 The case is U.S. v. Metsos, 10-cr-00598, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Patricia Hurtado  in New York federal court at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        