-- Venezuela to Exit Recession in Fourth Quarter, Central Bank's Leon Says
-- Daniel Cancel
-- 2010-07-09T18:53:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-09/venezuela-to-exit-recession-in-fourth-quarter-central-bank-s-leon-says.html

          
          
             Venezuela’s economy will emerge from
a recession in the last three months of the year as the
government ramps up spending, construction increases and
electricity rationing ends, said  Armando Leon , a central bank
director.  
 Gross domestic product, which  fell  5.8 percent in the first
quarter from a year earlier, should end the year little changed,
Leon told reporters today in Caracas.  
 “It appears as if we’ll be emerging from the recession in
the fourth quarter,” Leon said. “The second half will be much
better than the first.”  
 Venezuela, the largest oil producer in South America,
entered a recession last year after cutting crude output in line
with Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries’ production
quotas, reducing export revenue. President  Hugo Chavez ’s
nationalizations in the energy, food, metals and cement
industries have also dried up foreign investment. An energy
shortage earlier this year forced the government to halt
production lines at steel and aluminum plants.  
 Venezuela’s economy is the only one in the region forecast
to contract this year by the International Monetary Fund. The
IMF forecasts GDP will shrink 2.6 percent in 2010.  
 Venezuelan imports plunged last year as the government
attempted to save  dollar reserves . This year, Chavez closed the
unregulated currency market and transferred control over bond
trading to the central bank.  
 Currency Trading  
 Venezuelan currency trading volumes at the central bank
will remain at $20 million to $40 million a day, Leon said. The
system should be used by companies as a complement to the
Foreign Exchange Board, known as Cadivi, Leon said.  
 As part of currency controls installed in 2003, Venezuelans
must seek government approval to buy dollars at the official
rates of 2.6 and 4.3 bolivars per dollar. Operations at the
central bank’s currency market have averaged 5.3 per dollar.  
 Companies that aren’t registered in Cadivi won’t be able to
obtain foreign currency through the central bank’s market, known
as Sitme, and will have to formalize requests with the
government-run currency board first, Leon said.  
 The bank is still evaluating the norms of the currency
market to clarify the rules for companies and individuals
interested in taking part, he said.  
 The market, which opened June 9, has traded a total of $553
million, an average of $29.1 million a day. The unregulated
market, where importers paid as much as 8.2 bolivars per dollar,
traded $80 million to $100 million daily, according to
 Ecoanalitica .  
 “Productive companies that have been waiting for more than
90 days for currency from Cadivi can turn to the central bank,”
Leon said. “The bulk of the dollar sales will be through
Cadivi. This market is a complement that can’t attend to all the
needs of the economy.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Corina Rodriguez Pons  in Caracas at 
 crpons@bloomberg.net ;
 Daniel Cancel  in Caracas at 
 dcancel@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        