-- VTB Seeks TransCredit Stake to Control 35% of Russia's Ruble Bond Sales
-- Denis Maternovsky
-- 2010-07-09T12:26:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-09/vtb-seeks-transcredit-stake-as-russian-state-doubles-share-of-bond-deals.html

          
          
             VTB Group , Russia’s second-largest
lender, would control about 35 percent of ruble bond sales with
the purchase of a stake in the lending arm of OAO Russian
Railways.  
 Moscow-based VTB is in talks to buy a 20 percent stake in
 OAO TransCreditBank , an official at the bank said yesterday,
declining to be identified because the negotiations are
confidential. VTB, which is 85.5 percent owned by the state, is
the top underwriter of domestic corporate debt, with a 29
percent share last year, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. TransCreditBank had 6 percent, ranking fifth behind
OAO Gazprombank, Troika Dialog and OAO Sberbank.  
 The banks would dominate a market where new sales have more
than doubled since 2005, Bloomberg data show. Russian companies
have issued 329 billion rubles ($10.7 billion) of domestic bonds
so far this year, a 20 percent increase from same period in
2009. Last year was a record with 806 billion rubles, compared
with 302 billion in 2005.  
 “They will consolidate their leading position,”  Alex Kantarovich , head of research at JPMorgan Chase & Co. in Moscow,
said in a phone interview. “The government wants a model bank
and equity success story given their ambitions to develop a
global financial center.”  
 Dubai, Singapore, New York  
 Lenders controlled by the government arranged about 60
percent of the sales in 2009, up from 32 percent three years
ago, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. State banks have
led 54 percent of ruble deals in 2010. VTB received mandates to
organize Eurobond sales for the Russian and Ukrainian
governments and state-owned companies including Russian Railways
and  OAO Gazprom , the world’s largest natural-gas company,
Bloomberg data show.  
 VTB, the former Soviet bank for foreign trade, expanded to
China, India, Singapore and Dubai since raising $8 billion in
the largest initial public offering of 2007, and is opening an
office in New York. Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin , who urged
Russians to buy VTB shares in the “people’s IPO” and addressed
the bank’s investor conference last year, channeled more than
$200 billion of bailouts through state banks, boosting their
role during the debt crisis.  
 Herbert Moos , VTB’s chief financial officer, declined to
comment on TransCredit. A spokesman for Moscow-based TransCredit
declined to be identified citing company policy and didn’t
comment.  
 Foreign Banks  
 VTB Group Chief Executive Officer  Andrei Kostin  said in
March 2008 he would spend $500 million to build VTB Capital into
one of the top three investment banks in the former Soviet
Union. He started by hiring more than 100 people from Deutsche
Bank AG, including VTB Capital Chief Executive Officer  Yuri Soloviev .  
 The share of ruble bond deals organized by private Russian
lenders decreased to 33 percent this year from 57 percent three
years ago. Those managed by foreign banks shrank to 9 percent in
2009 from 11 percent three years ago, data compiled by Bloomberg
show.  
 Raiffeisen International Bank Holding AG  in Vienna and the
Russian unit of New York-based  Citigroup Inc.  are leading
overseas lenders. Raiffeisen’s share of the market is 7.1
percent this year, compared with 4.1 percent last year and 9.1
percent in 2008. Citigroup accounts for 2.6 percent this year,
from 2.3 percent last year.  
 A link between VTB and TransCreditBank may help
competitors, said  Dmitry Dudkin , the Moscow-based head of fixed-
income research at UralSib Financial Corp., the No. 8
underwriter of ruble debt with a 3.9 percent share.  
 Lower Yields  
 “I don’t expect any cumulative effect from the tie-up, it
just removes one competitor,” Dudkin said in an e-mailed
response to questions from Bloomberg. “TransCreditBank has a
good debt capital markets team. This will have to be merged with
that of VTB, and finding synergy here can be less than
staightforward.”  
 Russian companies are boosting sales as the country’s
economic rebound lures investors, helping to reduce borrowing
costs. The yield on Russian government dollar bonds due in 2020
sold in April rose 1 basis point, or 0.01 percentage point, to
5.334 percent.  
 The yield on ruble bonds sold by OAO Gazprom, Russia’s
biggest company, has dropped to 192 basis points over the same-
maturity Gazprom debt in dollars, down from a yield difference
of 600 a year ago, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The spread
narrowed to 115 on June 11.  
 Default Swaps  
 The ruble climbed 0.1 percent to 30.8225 per dollar in
Moscow trading yesterday. Non-deliverable forwards, which
provide a guide to expectations of currency movements as they
allow foreign investors and companies to fix the exchange rate
at a specific level in the future, show the ruble at 31.0166 per
dollar in three months.  
 Credit-default swaps linked to Russian debt fell 1 basis
point to 189 on July 7, the lowest since June 28. The contracts,
which investors use to hedge against losses on debt or speculate
on creditworthiness, pay the buyer face value if a borrower
reneges on its obligations.  
 Russia credit-default swaps cost 3 basis points more than
the same contracts for Turkey, which is rated four levels lower
at Ba2 by Moody’s Investors Service. That  difference  has
narrowed from 40 basis points on April 20.  
 The extra yield investors demand to hold Russian debt
rather than U.S. Treasuries fell 4 basis points to 259,
according to JPMorgan EMBI+ Indexes. That compares with 167
basis points for debt of similarly rated Mexico and 228 for
Brazil, which is rated two steps lower at Baa3 by Moody’s.  
 The so-called  yield  spread on Russian bonds is 55 basis
points below the average for emerging markets, according to
JPMorgan Indexes.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Jason Corcoran at 
 Jcorcoran13@bloomberg.net ;
Denis Maternovsky in Moscow at 
 dmaternovsky@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        