-- West Virginia Legislative Session Urged on Byrd Seat
-- James Rowley
-- 2010-07-09T22:33:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-09/west-virginia-legislative-session-urged-to-decide-on-vote-for-byrd-s-seat.html

          
          
             West Virginia Governor  Joe Manchin 
called the state’s legislature into an emergency July 15 session
to decide whether to hold a special election this year to pick a
successor to late Senator  Robert Byrd .  
 Manchin said in an e-mailed statement the state must make
certain the election process is valid to ensure there is no
delay in seating a new senator. The governor has said he may run
for the seat himself. He can name an interim senator to serve
until an election is held either this year or in 2012.  
 “We must have clarity in the law or we risk judicial
intervention” that “could delay West Virginians from having
representation,” said Manchin, a Democrat.  
 The confusion over choosing a successor to Byrd, a Democrat
who died at age 92 on June 28 after serving more than a half-
century in the Senate, has complicated his party’s efforts to
pass financial-regulation legislation. Senate Democrats need 60
votes to win passage of the most sweeping overhaul of financial
market regulations since the 1930s. After Byrd’s death,
Democrats control 58 Senate votes.  
 State Attorney General  Darrell McGraw  said yesterday an
election could be held in November, while the state’s top
election official, Secretary of State Natalie Tennant, has said
an interim senator appointed by the governor should serve until
2012, when Byrd’s seat was up for re-election.  
 ‘Last Thing’ He Wants  
 Manchin said today, “The last thing that I want is for a
citizen to go to the polls to cast a vote, only to realize that
his or her vote did not count because a judge had declared the
election process invalid.”  
 The governor has delayed naming an interim senator during
the dispute, and he has said he won’t appoint himself.  
 “It appears we’ve witnessed the start of Joe Manchin’s
delicate dance to a Senate candidacy,” Brian Walsh, a spokesman
for the National Republican Senatorial Committee, said in a
statement.  
 Walsh said that if Manchin runs for Byrd’s seat, he will
have to “balance his personal loyalty” to President Barack
Obama “with the unpopularity of the Obama agenda among West
Virginia voters.”  
 Manchin acted hours after his legal counsel, Jonathan Deem,
issued a statement advising the governor to call a special
legislative session to resolve the conflict.  
 Senate Action  
 When Congress returns next week from a week-long recess,
Senate Democratic Leader  Harry Reid , a Nevada Democrat, will
proceed with either the financial-regulatory measure or an
extension of federal jobless benefits, “whatever we have 60
votes to do,” Reid spokesman  Jim Manley  said in an e-mailed
message.  
 Democrats are courting four Republicans who voted in favor
of a previous version of the financial measure,  Scott Brown  of
Massachusetts,  Chuck Grassley  of Iowa and  Olympia Snowe  and
 Susan Collins , both of Maine.  
 Collins told reporters June 30 that she was “inclined to
support” the latest version that is the product of House-Senate
negotiations.  
 Brown and Snowe said they were reviewing the latest
changes. After Brown raised an objection to a fee on banks and
withdrew his support from the measure, House and Senate
negotiators reconvened to eliminate the provision. The House
voted June 30 to approve the changes.  
 Washington Senator  Maria Cantwell , one of two Democrats who
voted against the original Senate measure, said July 1 that she
would support the latest version.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 James Rowley  in Washington at 
 jarowley@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Senator Robert Byrd, a Democrat from West Virginia, in Washington. Photographer: Andrew Harrer/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
