-- Wheat Declines in Chicago, Trimming Biggest Weekly Advance Since November
-- Luzi Ann Javier
-- 2010-07-09T10:59:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-09/wheat-declines-in-chicago-trimming-biggest-weekly-advance-since-november.html

          
          
             Wheat fell in Chicago, trimming the
biggest weekly climb in eighth months as some traders locked in
gains from a six-session, 20 percent jump before the release of
a U.S. government update on global grain-supply estimates.  
 September-delivery wheat slid 1.2 percent to $5.4175 a
bushel on the Chicago Board of Trade at 12:31 p.m. Paris time.
The grain is set for a 7.7 percent weekly advance, the biggest
for the most-active contract since the week ended Nov. 13. The
U.S. Department of Agriculture will today announce its latest
estimates on global wheat, corn and soybean supply.  
 “People want to take profits before the announcement,”
 Tetsu Emori , a commodity fund manager at Astmax Co. Ltd., said
by phone from Tokyo. Wheat’s 14-day relative strength index, a
measure of whether a commodity is overbought or oversold, has
been above 70 since July 7, a signal to some traders that prices
are set to drop after rising too quickly.  
 Still, the market may resume its rally as dry weather
continues to threaten crops in some of the world’s biggest
exporters, Emori said.  
 “Very dry” conditions are expected in the Black Soils
region of Russia to western Kazakhstan, putting late winter and
spring grains under “significant stress,” Telvent DTN Inc.
said in a forecast yesterday. Fairly hot weather was expected to
develop through southwest and central France, it said.  
 French Wheat  
 France’s soft-wheat harvest will miss a government outlook
after hot, dry weather hurt the crop, Michel Portier, head of
farm adviser Agritel, said July 7. The government forecast July
6 that the nation’s soft-wheat harvest, the largest in the
European Union, will drop to 35.3 million tons this year from
36.2 million tons a year ago.  
 Milling wheat for November delivery traded on NYSE Liffe in
Paris fell 1.8 percent to 159.50 euros ($202.02) a metric ton,
the first decline in nine days. The contract has gained 6.2
percent this week, following a 7.7 percent climb the previous
week.  
 Russia’s wheat crop will be 3.5 percent smaller than
forecast at 55 million tons because of heat and drought, the
Institute for Agricultural Market Studies said July 7.  
 Ukraine’s grain harvest will probably be between 42 million
and 43 million tons, Nikolay Vernitsky, an analyst at
consultancy ProAgro, said yesterday. That’s smaller than the
government’s June forecast of 45 million to 45.5 million tons.  
 Kazakh Harvest  
 The nation’s wheat crop will total 20 million tons, and
barley will be 11.5 million tons this year, according to
Vernitsky.  
 The grain harvest in Kazakhstan, central Asia’s biggest
wheat exporter, may fall to between 14.5 million and 15.5
million tons from last year’s record, state-owned Kazinform
cited Deputy Agriculture Minister Arman Yevniyev as saying
yesterday.  
 Corn for December delivery was unchanged at the day’s high
of $3.9625 a bushel, erasing a drop of as much as 0.6 percent.
The grain is up 3.1 percent this week.  
 Soybeans for November delivery lost 0.2 percent to $9.4375
a bushel, paring the weekly gain to 4.2 percent.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Luzi Ann Javier  in Manila at 
 ljavier@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        