-- Wholesale Inventories in U.S. Increased 0.5% in May
-- Courtney Schlisserman
-- 2010-07-09T15:49:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-09/wholesale-inventories-in-u-s-increased-0-5-in-may-fifth-straight-rise.html

          
          
             Inventories at U.S. wholesalers rose
in May for a fifth month as companies ensured they had enough
goods on hand to keep pace with demand.  
 The 0.5 percent increase in the  value of stockpiles 
followed a revised 0.2 percent gain the prior month that was
smaller than previously estimated, the Commerce Department said
today in Washington. Sales at distributors dropped 0.3 percent,
the first decline since March 2009, after a 0.9 percent rise in
April.  
 The amount of goods on hand compared with sales was close
to a record low, indicating production will be sustained in
coming months. Corporate spending on equipment, export growth
and inventory rebuilding have contributed to growth since 2009
and may remain a source of strength for the rest of this year.  
 The inventory-to-sales ratio “suggests that firms are
likely to continue to rebuild stock levels in the coming
months,”  Peter Newland , an economist at Barclays Capital Inc.
in New York, said in a note to clients.  
 Economists forecast inventories would increase 0.4 percent,
following a previously reported gain of the same amount for
April, according to the median of 33 projections in a Bloomberg
News survey. Estimates ranged from a drop of 0.4 percent to an
increase of 0.8 percent.  
 Wholesalers make up about 30 percent of all business
stockpiles. Factory inventories, which comprise slightly more of
the total, declined 0.4 percent in May, the Commerce Department
said last week. Retail stockpiles, which make up the rest, will
be included in the July 14 business inventories report.  
 Durable Goods  
 Today’s report showed wholesalers’ stockpiles of durable
goods, or those meant to last several years, increased 0.7
percent in May. Machinery, computer equipment, electrical gear
and cars led the gain.  
 The value of unsold non-durable goods rose 0.1 percent,
while sales decreased 1 percent. Lower crude oil prices may have
weighed on the value of non-durable sales and stockpiles. The
average price of a barrel of crude oil traded on the New York
Mercantile Exchange rose to $74.12 in May, from $84.58 a month
earlier.  
 At the current sales pace, wholesalers had enough  goods on
hand  to last 1.14 months, up from 1.13 months in April that was
the lowest on record.  
 Reports for June suggest firms have built up inventories,
potentially to the detriment of future production. The Institute
for Supply Management said last week that its factory index fell
to 56.2 in June.  
 ‘In Sync’  
 Some manufacturers remain optimistic. Sales and inventories
“are very much in sync,” Samuel Allen, chief executive officer
of Deere & Co., said in an interview June 23 in a reference to
the manufacturer’s agricultural business. The Moline, Illinois-
based company also has started adding stockpiles on the
construction side in recent months, he said.  
 “We do believe the recovery is under way,” Allen said.
“We do believe it is moving slowly. We do believe it is on
stable ground at this time.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Courtney Schlisserman  in Washington at 
 cschlisserma@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 9 (Bloomberg) -- Inventories at U.S. wholesalers rose 0.5 percent in May, the fifth consecutive increase, as companies ensured they had enough goods on hand to keep pace with demand. Sales at distributors dropped 0.3 percent, the first decline since March 2009, after a 0.9 percent rise in April. Bloomberg's Michael McKee reports. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
