-- Stocks, Oil Rise on Economy; Canadian Dollar Gains on Jobs
-- Stephen Kirkland
-- 2010-07-09T14:58:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-09/won-copper-climb-as-rate-increases-spur-recovery-confidence-yen-weakens.html

          
          
             Stocks  rose, with the MSCI World
Index headed for its biggest weekly rally in a year, and copper
and oil gained on waning concern the global recovery will
falter. Canada’s dollar surged 1.1 percent versus the dollar
after the nation’s job growth topped forecasts.  
 The MSCI gauge of 24 developed nations climbed 0.4 percent
and the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  increased 0.2 percent at
10:51 a.m. in New York, with both extending their advances this
week to about 5 percent. Copper increased to a two-week high in
New York. The cost of insuring bank debt from losses fell to the
lowest in eight weeks. The 10-year Treasury yield climbed three
basis points to 3.06 percent  
 U.S. equities have rallied this week amid optimism that
second-quarter earnings will justify the S&P 500’s rebound from
a 10-month low on July 2. Profits at companies in the index are
projected to have increased 34 percent in the April-June period,
led by income growth at financial, energy and technology
companies. French manufacturing expanded in May, spurred by
improving global trade and a pickup in output at car plants  
 “There are tentative signs that the pessimism has reached
saturation point,”  Graham Bishop  and  Ian Richards , analysts at
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc in London, wrote in a note.
“The macro risks may not have disappeared, but we believe they
are amply discounted.”  
 Alcoa Inc., the largest U.S. aluminum maker, is due to
report earnings next week, the first company in the Dow Jones
Industrial Average to announce results for the second quarter.
Commodity, financial and industrial companies led gains in the
S&P 500 today among 10 groups. Caterpillar Inc., Alcoa and
DuPont Co. climbed at least 1.9 percent to lead the Dow above
its highest close since June 23.  
 Google China  
 Google Inc. rallied 2.5 percent to $467.84. The owner of
the world’s largest Web search engine said the Chinese
government renewed its Internet license, after the company
submitted a revised application to meet regulations in the
world’s biggest market by users.  
 The Stoxx 600 rallied for a fourth day. Michael Page
International Plc climbed 2.1 percent in London after the U.K.’s
second-largest recruitment company’s profit increased. Rio Tinto
Group climbed 4 percent. Copper producer Antofagasta Plc surged
4.6 percent after Citigroup Inc. recommended buying the shares.  
 Copper rose 1.5 percent to $3.062 a pound in New York and
2.1 percent to $6,755 a metric ton on the London Metal Exchange.
Crude oil for August delivery climbed 1 percent to $76.20 a
barrel.  
 Emerging Markets  
 The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index  climbed 1.1 percent, headed
for the biggest weekly advance in four months. China’s Poly Real
Estate Co. led gains by developers after the Oriental Morning
Post reported some Shanghai banks have resumed lending to third-
home buyers. South Korea’s won jumped 1 percent versus the
dollar after the Bank of Korea unexpectedly raised its benchmark
interest rate.  
 Emerging-market stocks will rally as much as 25 percent by
the end of the year as the global economy avoids a “double
dip” recession and attractive valuations lure investors,
Citigroup Inc.’s New York-based strategist  Geoffrey Dennis  wrote
in a research report dated yesterday.  
 The cost of insuring against losses on European financial
bonds fell to the lowest level in eight weeks on optimism stress
tests may boost confidence in the region’s banks.  
 The Markit iTraxx Financial Index of credit-default swaps
linked to 25 European banks and insurers fell nine basis points
to 131, the lowest since May 12, according to JPMorgan Chase &
Co. The yield on the 10-year German bund rose was little changed
at 2.63 percent, and the two-year note yield climbed four basis
points to 0.76 percent.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Stephen Kirkland  in London at 
 skirkland@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     ECB President Jean-Claude Trichet said that while the fiscal crisis isn’t over, the economic signs are 'encouraging.' Photographer: Hannelore Foerster/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 9 (Bloomberg) -- Bloomberg's Courtney Donohoe reports on the performance of the U.S. equity market today. 
     Stocks advanced, sending the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index to the biggest weekly gain in a year, amid optimism about earnings reports and a rally in metals that drove up shares of its producers. Bloomberg's Pimm Fox also speaks. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 6 (Bloomberg) -- Manpreet Gill, Singapore-based strategist for Asia at Barclays Wealth, talks with Bloomberg's Rishaad Salamat about his investment strategy for gold and other commodities. 
     Gill also discusses the outlook for the Australian dollar and stocks, and South Korean equities. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
