-- Euro Falls From Eight-Week High Versus Dollar as Stock Markets Fluctuate
-- Liz Capo McCormick
-- 2010-07-09T14:02:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-09/yen-advances-as-drop-in-u-s-stock-index-futures-revives-demand-for-safety.html

          
          
             The yen rose against the euro for the
first time in four days as U.S. stocks fluctuated, reviving
demand for relative safety.  
 “We’ve come up to some major resistance points to this
risk rebound, which has been the story of the week,” said  Brian Dolan , chief strategist at FOREX.com, a unit of online currency
trading firm Gain Capital in Bedminster, New Jersey. “This is
a little bit of profit taking to end the week based on still a
very low level of conviction in the market.”  
 Canada’s dollar advanced to its highest level this month
versus the greenback after a report showed job creation in June
was almost five times more than forecast. South Korea’s won rose
after the  central bank  unexpectedly raised interest rates for
the first time since the onset of the global financial crisis.  
 The yen appreciated 0.4 percent to 111.69 per euro at 10:01
a.m. in New York, from 112.18 yesterday, after reaching 112.67,
the weakest level since June 21. The yen slid 0.1 percent to
88.47 per dollar, from 88.36. The euro lost 0.6 percent to
$1.2621, paring its weekly gain to 0.5 percent. The shared
currency earlier touched $1.2722, the highest since May 12.  
 The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index , headed for a 4.5 percent
rally this week, were little changed today. The Stoxx Europe 600
Index gained 0.5 percent, extending this week’s advance to 5.3
percent.  
 The yen typically strengthens in times of financial
uncertainty because Japan’s trade surplus frees the nation from
dependence on overseas capital.  
 Canada’s currency  rallied as much as 1.1 percent to
C$1.0307 per U.S. dollar, the strongest level since June 23,
before trading at C$1.0310.  
 Canadian Hiring  
 Employers added 93,200 in June following an increase of
24,700 in the previous month, Statistics Canada reported today.
The median forecast of 23 economists in a Bloomberg News survey
was for a gain of 20,000. The jobless rate fell to 7.9 percent.  
 “The standout currency today is the Canadian dollar, as
their employment data was tremendously strong,” said  Adam Cole ,
head of global currency strategy at Royal Bank of Canada in
London.  
 Canada has restored most of its job losses since 2008,
bolstering the case for the central bank to raise borrowing
costs for a second month.  
 The Bank of Canada increased its target lending rate to
0.50 percent from a record low 0.25 percent on June 1 after the
nation’s economy grew at a 6.1 percent annualized pace in the
first quarter. Policy makers said future moves depend on the
balance of domestic growth and an uneven global recovery.  
 Stronger Won  
 The won climbed to a two-week high after the Bank of Korea
raised its  seven-day repurchase rate  to 2.25 percent from a
record low 2 percent. An increase was forecast by just 4 of 14
economists  surveyed  by Bloomberg.  
 The International Monetary Fund said three days ago that
South Korea needs to gradually boost borrowing costs as monetary
policy is currently “somewhat beyond what is necessary to
support the recovery.”  
 The won advanced 1.1 percent to 1,195.85 per dollar after
climbing to 1,194.93, the strongest since June 25.  
 The euro was poised for a weekly gain versus the dollar
after European Central Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet  said
at a press conference in Frankfurt yesterday that “indicators
suggest that a strengthening in economic activity took place
during the spring.” Inflation expectations “remain firmly
anchored,” he also said.  
 The shared currency was supported this week on speculation
stress tests for European banks assumed smaller losses on Greek
bonds than some investors anticipated.  
 Stress Tests  
 European regulators have told lenders their planned tests
may assume a loss of about 17 percent on Greek debt and 3
percent on Spanish bonds, according to two people briefed on the
talks. Credit markets are pricing in losses of about 60 percent
on Greek bonds should the government default.  
 “There is strong belief that stress tests will help ease
concerns about the health of the banking system in Europe,”
said  Tomohiro Nishida , a Tokyo-based foreign-currency dealer at
Chuo Mitsui Trust & Banking Co., a unit of Japan’s seventh-
largest banking group. “If this is the case, this will benefit
the euro.”  
 Demand for higher-yielding assets increased yesterday after
a U.S. report showed initial claims for jobless benefits fell
last week. Italian industrial output climbed by a more-than-
forecast 1 percent in May, a third monthly gain, and French
production expanded a greater-than-predicted 1.7 percent the
same month, reports showed today.  
 “Pessimism toward the global recovery is easing in line
with a solid performance from bourses,” said  Mike Jones , a
strategist at Bank of New Zealand Ltd. in Wellington.  
 The Chinese yuan was little changed at 6.7730 against the
dollar after U.S. Treasury Department pledged yesterday to
monitor what it called an “undervalued” currency in the next
three months, seeking signs that China is meeting commitments to
help rebalance the global economy.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Liz Capo McCormick  in New York at 
 emccormick7@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        