-- Hyundai Heavy Wins Court Approval for Hyundai Oilbank Purchase From IPIC
-- Shinhye Kang
-- 2010-07-09T04:21:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-09/hyundai-heavy-wins-court-ruling-to-purchase-70-oilbank-stake-from-ipic.html

          
          
             A South Korean court has given
 Hyundai Heavy Industries Co. , the world’s largest shipyard,
approval to buy Hyundai Oilbank Co. from International Petroleum
Investment Co., backing a ruling in Singapore last year.  
 Seoul Central District Court accepted Hyundai Heavy’s claim
to buy 70 percent of  Hyundai Oilbank  shares from IPIC, an Abu
Dhabi-government investment arm, Judge Chang Jae Yoon said today.
The shipyard currently owns 21.13 percent of the country’s
smallest refiner.  
 IPIC said in November 2009 a ruling by the International
Chamber of Commerce in Singapore confirming Hyundai Heavy’s
right to buy Hyundai Oilbank isn’t enforceable in South Korea.
Under an agreement in 1999, shareholders in Hyundai Group, the
former parent of Hyundai Heavy, have first priority to buy the
stake should IPIC want to sell.  
 Hyundai Heavy plans to buy the refiner by the end of this
month, the company said in an e-mailed statement after the
ruling. IPIC will decide whether to appeal after carefully
studying details of the ruling, the United Arab Emirates-based
company said in a separate e-mail.  
 Shareholder Agreement Breached  
 The International Chamber of Commerce in Singapore said Nov.
12 that IPIC breached a shareholder agreement with Hyundai Heavy
and ruled that IPIC should sell its 70 percent stake in Hyundai
Oilbank for 2.57 trillion won ($2.1 billion), based on 15,000
won a share, to Hyundai Heavy. The Abu Dhabi company said the
ruling has no legal effect unless the shipyard obtains a
judgment of final enforcement from South Korean courts.  
 In December, Hyundai Heavy filed a suit in Seoul. The
acquisition, potentially Hyundai Heavy’s biggest, would help the
company expand its energy business and cut its dependency on
building vessels.  
 Hyundai Heavy  fell 0.2 percent to 252,000 won as of 11:21
a.m. in Seoul trading. The stock has advanced 45 percent this
year, compared with a 1.4 percent gain in the benchmark Kospi
index.  
 IPIC had wanted to reduce its stake in the refiner since
2007. The company said in April 2008 that Hyundai Heavy failed
to make an offer for the shares before inviting bids from third
parties.  
 Hyundai Oilbank has a capacity to process 395,000 barrels a
day and is building a 2.1 trillion won unit to expand output of
higher-priced fuels.  Hyundai Motor Co.  also holds 4.35 percent
of the refiner and  Hyundai Steel Co.  2.21 percent.  
 Hyundai Heavy is seeking to raise 2 trillion won in loans
from lenders, including Korea Exchange Bank and Shinhan Bank.  
 In 2008, Hyundai filed a petition to the International
Court of Arbitration under the International Chamber of Commerce
in Singapore to resolve the dispute when IPIC failed to sell its
shares in South Korea’s oil refiner.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Shinhye Kang  in Seoul at 
 skang24@bloomberg.net ;
 Kyunghee Park  in Singapore at 
 kpark3@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        