-- Zloty to Gain 6.1% Versus by End of Year, Polish Stocks to Jump, RZB Says
-- Krystof Chamonikolas
-- 2010-07-09T13:30:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-09/zloty-to-gain-6-1-versus-euro-by-yearend-polish-stocks-to-jump-rzb-says.html

          
          
             Polish stocks are set to lead a
rallying emerging Europe and the zloty will gain 6.1 percent
against the euro by year-end as the country shows “strong”
economic growth, according to  Raiffeisen Zentralbank AG .  
 The main  WIG20  equity index will climb 17.3 percent in euro
terms during the second half, beating an estimated 17.1 percent
for Russia’s MICEX, a 13.8 percent gain for Hungary and a 12
percent gain for the Czech stocks, the Austrian lender wrote in
its quarterly strategy review. The zloty may strengthen to 3.85
per euro at the end of 2010 from 4.0839 at its close yesterday.  
 Stocks advanced worldwide this week, with the MSCI World
Index headed for its biggest rally in a year as concern waned
the global recovery will falter. Poland, the only European Union
nation to avoid recession during the global financial crisis,
had annual economic growth of 3 percent in the first quarter.  
 “Poland is posting solid economic growth rates,” Vienna-
based analyst  Josef Wolfesberger  wrote in the report. “We
expect outperformance by the financial sector, which accounts
for a large share of the Polish stock index. The bourse in
Warsaw should profit from both of these factors.”  
 Policy makers in South Korea, Malaysia, Taiwan and India all
raised interest rates in the past 15 days, signaling Europe’s
debt crisis won’t derail economic growth. European Central Bank
President  Jean-Claude Trichet  said yesterday that the recovery
is gaining momentum, while the International Monetary Fund
raised its estimate for global growth this year.  
 Attractive Valuations  
 Polish stocks tumbled 9 percent in the second quarter as
concern about Europe’s debt crisis drove investors from riskier
assets. The zloty had the second-biggest decline among global
currencies against the euro and dollar, after Hungary’s forint.  
 “The markets should start paying more attention to the
good corporate results in the central and eastern European
equity markets again” as the sovereign debt crisis eases, the
report said. “Thanks to the price declines in the second
quarter, valuations are also now back to attractive levels.”
The previous decline in the WIG20 “hardly reflects the good
fundamentals.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Krystof Chamonikolas  in Prague at 
 kchamonikola@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        