-- T. Rowe Price Profit Rises 27% as Funds Gain Assets
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   C o n d o n
-- 2010-10-22T15:08:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-22/t-rowe-price-earnings-rise-27-as-investors-deposit-8-billion-into-funds.html
T. Rowe Price Group Inc ., the asset
manager that hasn’t lost money since going public in 1986, said
third-quarter earnings climbed 27 percent, driven by rising
markets and growth in its retirement-related funds.  Net income  attributable to common shareholders increased to
$168.4 million, or 64 cents a share, from $132.4 million, or 50
cents, a year earlier, the Baltimore-based company said today in
a statement. Profit exceeded the average  estimate  of 60 cents a
share by nine analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. The stock rose as
much as 4.7 percent.  T. Rowe Price benefited as the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
gained 8.8 percent last month, the best September since 1939.
Investors poured a net $2.3 billion into the firm’s target-date
retirement funds during the quarter. Net deposits were $8
billion, helping increase assets under management by 12 percent
from a year earlier to $439.7 billion.  “They are a machine,”  Greggory Warren , an equity analyst
at Morningstar Inc. in Chicago, said in an interview before
results were announced. “They are more conservative and more
disciplined” than other asset managers, he said.  The firm has $53.5 billion, or 12 percent of assets, in
target-date funds, whose holdings become more conservative as
the investor nears retirement age.  “It’s a solution for a lot of people who don’t know what
to do in this market,” Chief Executive Officer  James Kennedy 
said today in a telephone interview.  Bond Appeal  Retail investors continued to favor bonds over stocks as
they poured a net $1.1 billion into T. Rowe mutual funds.
Clients deposited $1.8 billion into fixed-income funds while
withdrawing $600 million from stock and blended-asset funds, and
$100 million from money-market funds.  “I think that speaks more broadly about the uncertainty in
the market,” Kennedy said. “Retail investors are still sitting
on their hands.”  Outside mutual funds, investors deposited $6.9 billion,
mainly from institutional clients, including a transfer of $1
billion from T. Rowe’s target-date retirement funds into target-
date retirement trusts.  Fees Rise 20%  Market appreciation boosted assets by $40.6 billion.
Revenue rose 18 percent, driven by a 20 percent jump in
investment advisory fees, reflecting the higher assets.
Operating expenses rose almost 12 percent to $290.8 million as
advertising and promotional expenses increased 43 percent to
$18.6 million.  T. Rowe rose $1.96, or 3.7 percent, to $54.66 at 10:58 a.m.
in Nasdaq Stock Market trading, after climbing to as much as
$54.17 early in the day. The stock has gained 2.5 percent this
year, while the Standard & Poor’s 15-member  index  of asset
managers and custody banks is little changed.  T. Rowe said in the statement it will put capital into its
money-market mutual funds in the current quarter to offset
cumulative past losses “in order to allay any fund shareholder
concerns that might arise as a result of new SEC disclosure
rules.” The step will result in a $17 million pretax expense in
the fourth quarter.  Kennedy said the contribution represents less than one-
tenth of a penny out of the $1 net asset value of its money
market funds, which had $28 billion in assets as of Sept. 30.
The company didn’t identify the funds that had suffered losses.  New Rules  Money-market funds strive to maintain a $1 share price,
distributing earnings from investments each month to
shareholders in cash or new shares. The funds also round their
share price to the closest penny, meaning they can incur losses
of less than 0.5 percent while maintaining the $1 share price.  New rules approved by the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission in January require funds to disclose the mark-to-
market net asset values of funds, so-called shadow NAVs, to the
SEC beginning at the end of every month, beginning with
November, according to  Peter Crane , president of Crane Data LLC,
a money-fund research firm in Westborough, Massachusetts. The
data will then be made public 60 days later.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Christopher Condon  in Boston at 
 ccondon4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  