-- Vesuvius Garbage Crisis Will Be Solved Within 10 Days, Berlusconi Promises
-- B y   S t e v e   S c h e r e r
-- 2010-10-22T13:38:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-22/mt-vesuvius-garbage-crisis-will-be-solved-in-10-days-berlusconi-promises.html
Italian Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi , re-elected in 2008 after promising to clean up a
Naples garbage pileup, pledged to end the area’s latest trash
crisis on Mt. Vesuvius within two weeks.  “We think that in 10 days the situation can be returned to
normal,” Berlusconi, 74, told a press conference in Rome today.
“The odors that are rightly concerning the residents can be
alleviated.”  His government will take over management of a waste dump on
the slopes of Mt. Vesuvius, the volcano whose eruption more than
2,000 years ago destroyed the ancient Roman city of Pompeii.
Local residents opposed to the facility have protested for a
week, some smashing shop windows and burning garbage trucks in
rallies that have left thousands of tons of trash uncollected.  The crisis is the latest flare-up of a problem that helped
bring Berlusconi back to office. The premier, after campaigning
to end a five-month-long trash crisis in Naples, pushed through
measures to clean up the garbage in his Cabinet’s first meeting
in May 2008. While he eventually sent in the military to keep
dumps open and haul away trash, he said today that such a move
won’t be needed for now.  The Health Ministry has “guaranteed that at the moment
there are not any concerns for the health of the citizens” in
the town of Terzigno, Berlusconi said. He defended his plan that
took about two months to end the 2008 crisis, saying the current
problems are related to poor dump management and don’t reflect a
broader failure of his policy.  Guerrilla Scenes  For the past week, Italians have watched televised scenes
that resemble  guerrilla fighting  in the streets of the town
south of Naples. Residents including mothers and children have
sat in front of garbage trucks to stop them, while others have
battled police, thrown Molotov cocktails, wrecked shop fronts
and torched trash trucks and police cars. Twenty police officers
were hurt yesterday and property damages are estimated in the
tens of millions of euros,  Corriere della Sera  reported.  The European Commission, the European Union’s executive arm
in Brussels, expressed “concern” about the issue today,
calling it a “serious problem” that Italian authorities should
resolve as soon as possible, news agency Ansa reported, citing a
spokesman for Environment Commissioner  Janez Potocnik .  Italy will not receive 145 million euros ($202 million) in
EU funds that have been frozen because the Mt. Vesuvius dump is
in a national park, Ansa reported today, citing  Judith Merkies ,
a member of the European Parliament’s Industry, Research and
Energy Commission.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Steve Scherer  in Rome at 
 sscherer@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  