-- A&P Convertible Bonds Fall to Three-Month Low as Company Seeks Term Loan
-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e   a n d   K a t e   H a y w o o d
-- 2010-10-22T19:41:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-22/a-p-convertible-bonds-fall-to-three-month-low-as-company-seeks-term-loan.html
The  Great Atlantic & Pacific Tea
Co. ’s convertible bonds dropped to the lowest in almost three
months after the company said it’s seeking a loan that would
give lenders a priority claim on its assets in a bankruptcy.  The $165 million of 5.125 percent convertible notes due in
June 2011 fell 1 cent to 65 cents on the dollar as of 11:17 a.m.
in New York, according to Trace, the bond-price reporting system
of the Financial Industry Authority. The debt of the operator of
the A&P supermarket chain hasn’t traded that low since July 26.  The convertible bonds, which can be swapped for shares,
declined amid concern that the debt would be subordinate to the
term loan, said  David Marsh , a managing director and high-yield
analyst in Greenwich, Connecticut, at broker-dealer Odeon
Capital Group LLC. A&P is negotiating with lenders for a term
loan backed by unencumbered assets, the Montvale, New Jersey-
based company said yesterday in a statement.  “You’re talking about a company that’s trying to turn
itself around in the face of extraordinarily stiff competition
in their business,” Marsh said in a telephone interview.
“Until they can stem the tide in declining same-store sales, I
don’t know how they can turn this thing around.”  Revenue fell 9.5 percent in the second quarter from a year
earlier to $1.9 billion, the company said in the statement.
Same-store sales declined 6.6 percent, and A&P lost $45.1
million before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization
compared with a $42.1 million gain during the year-earlier
period.  ‘Needed Changes’  “When we do close and fund the transaction this loan will
create a significant amount of liquidity and provide us the time
necessary to make the needed changes to our business,”  Jake Brace , A&P’s chief administrative officer said today in a
conference call.  A&P’s $260 million of 11.375 percent secured notes due in
August 2015 fell to a mid-price of 68.5 cents on the dollar
today, according to broker-dealer RW Pressprich & Co. in New
York. The securities, which traded as low as 64 cents today,
closed yesterday at 71 cents.  The supermarket chain had $832.1 million of long-term debt
as of Sept. 11, according to a regulatory filing. A&P had $181
million available through a credit facility at the end of the
second quarter, the company said in the statement.  “From a cash-flow perspective, a new loan could tide them
over and provide more certainty that it can meet its debt
maturities next June,” said  Philip Emma , an analyst at RW
Pressprich. “But it doesn’t change the fundamental earnings
challenge.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 John Detrixhe  in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net ;
 Kate Haywood  in London at 
 khaywood@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  