-- Adelphia Trust Reaches $175 Million Deal With Banks
-- B y   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s   a n d   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2010-10-22T19:07:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-22/adelphia-communications-trust-reaches-175-million-legal-accord-with-banks.html
Citigroup Inc. ,  Bank of America
Corp. ,  JPMorgan Chase & Co.  and other banks agreed to pay
$175 million to settle a suit with a legal trust pursuing claims
on behalf of bankrupt  Adelphia Communications Corp.   The accord, filed Oct. 18 in federal court in Manhattan,
resolves claims by the  Adelphia  trust that the banks aided and
abetted a breach of fiduciary duty by the family of the cable
television company’s founder,  John Rigas , and aided and abetted
a fraud by Rigas and his son.  John Rigas, 85, is serving 12 years in prison, and his son
 Timothy  is serving 15 years after being convicted in 2004 of
looting Adelphia and lying about its finances. The company, once
the fifth-largest U.S. cable-TV provider, collapsed in 2002 and
its assets were sold to  Time Warner Inc.  and  Comcast Corp.   The deal “represents a fair and reasonable settlement”
and is “the product of substantial arm’s-length negotiation”
between the trust and the banks, according to a filing by
attorneys for the trust.  U.S. District Judge  Lawrence McKenna  has scheduled a Nov.
18 hearing in Manhattan to review the settlement. The agreement,
negotiated with the help of a mediator, averts a trial set for
Oct. 25.  In 2006, McKenna approved a settlement in which Adelphia’s
auditor Deloitte & Touche LLP agreed to pay $210 million to
investors and Bank of America and 38 other banks agreed to pay
$245 million. The amount each bank owed was confidential.  Company’s Collapse  Adelphia collapsed after disclosing that the Rigases owed
$2.3 billion in off-balance-sheet debt on three syndicated bank
loans taken jointly with the company.  In the litigation, the trust claimed the banks knew the
loans benefited the Rigas family businesses and not Adelphia.
The banks argued that they had no reason to believe the Rigases
would loot the company.  The settlement won’t end litigation by the Adelphia trust
against Goldman Sachs & Co. and HSBC Bank USA.  The case is Adelphia Recovery Trust v. Bank of America
N.A., 05-cv-9050, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New
York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Voreacos  in Newark, New Jersey,
at   dvoreacos@bloomberg.net ;
 Patricia Hurtado  in New York
at   pathurtado@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 