-- Malaysia's Inflation Slows, Reducing Pressure for Interest-Rate Increase
-- B y   S h a m i m   A d a m
-- 2010-10-22T09:00:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-22/malaysia-s-inflation-slows-reducing-pressure-for-interest-rate-increase.html
Malaysia’s  inflation  rate fell to a
three-month low in September, reducing pressure on policy makers
to raise interest rates at their next meeting.  Consumer prices rose 1.8 percent from a year earlier after
gaining 2.1 percent in August, the Putrajaya, Malaysia-based
statistics department said in a statement today. That compares
with the median forecast for a 2.1 percent gain in a Bloomberg
News  survey  of 14 economists.  Bank Negara Malaysia left its  benchmark overnight policy
rate  at 2.75 percent on Sept. 2 after three consecutive
increases, choosing to support growth as the global recovery
slows. The government said in a report last week inflation is
expected to be “moderate” and stay below 3 percent in 2011
after probably remaining in a “benign” range of between 2
percent and 2.5 percent this year.  “Higher food and transport costs continue to drive
inflation in Malaysia,”  Alvin Liew , a Singapore-based economist
at Standard Chartered Plc, said before the report. “Nonetheless,
it remains benign and unlikely to alarm central bank policy
makers.”  Central bank Governor  Zeti Akhtar Aziz  said this month
inflation is currently not a risk, providing policy makers with
“flexibility” before deciding on further interest-rate moves.
The central bank next meets to decide on rates on Nov. 12.  Malaysia’s monetary policy is accommodative and such a
stance will be maintained to support the economy, the finance
ministry said in a report last week.  Food prices, which account for about 31 percent of
Malaysia’s inflation index, rose 2.7 percent in September,
today’s report showed. The cost of housing, utilities and fuels
gained 1.3 percent. Transport increased 1.8 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Shamim Adam  in Singapore at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at   canstey@bloomberg.net  