-- Amazon.com Climbs After Analysts Recommend Stock
-- B y   J o s e p h   G a l a n t e
-- 2010-10-22T21:08:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-22/amazon-com-falls-after-profit-forecast-misses-analyst-estimates.html
Amazon.com Inc. , the world’s largest
online retailer, rose in Nasdaq trading after at least two
analysts recommended buying the shares, citing demand for Kindle
e-readers and the company’s electronic-commerce services.  Sandeep Aggarwal , an analyst at Caris & Co., raised his
recommendation to “buy” from “average,” while  Mark Mahaney ,
an analyst at Citigroup Inc., reiterated his recommendation that
investors purchase the stock. Yesterday, Amazon reported third-
quarter profit and sales that topped  analysts’ estimates .  “Amazon’s core business remains super strong,” Aggarwal
said in a research note to clients today.  The stock had declined in earlier trading amid evidence
that increased spending on marketing and warehouses was eroding
profitability. Still, third-quarter  net income  rose 16 percent
to $231 million, or 51 cents a share, and revenue climbed 39
percent to $7.56 billion, Amazon said. Analysts projected profit
of 48 cents and sales of $7.37 billion.  Amazon, based in Seattle,  rose  $4.16, or 2.5 percent, to
$169.13 at 4 p.m. New York time on the Nasdaq Stock Market.  Chief Executive Officer  Jeff Bezos  is spending more on
places to house the growing array of televisions, apparel and
auto parts sold via Amazon’s site. The company also stepped up
its use of TV commercials to promote the Kindle and increased
marketing for the Zappos.com shoe site.  “Amazon’s investment plans are heavy, but they remain from
a position of strength,” Mahaney wrote. Margin pressure
reflects “elective investments, not structural issues.”  Rising Costs  Operating income will be $360 million to $560 million,
Amazon said yesterday in a statement. Sales will be $12 billion
to $13.3 billion. Analysts surveyed by Bloomberg had forecast
operating profit of $621.6 million and sales of $12.2 billion on
average. Operating expenses rose 40 percent to $7.29 billion
last quarter.  Amazon  introduced a thinner version of the Kindle in July
that works with Wi-Fi and is $50 cheaper than the $189 Kindle
that runs over mobile-phone networks.  Amazon is expanding its warehouses and distribution centers
to take advantage of the economic and retail recovery. It’s also
spending more to promote Zappos.com, which it acquired last
year. The company has built 10 new warehouses and will finish
another three by the end of the year, Chief Financial Officer
 Tom Szkutak  said on a conference call.  “That -- combined with perhaps some other factors like
promotional activity and lower Kindle prices -- has perhaps
temporarily hindered margins,” said  Fred Moran , an analyst with
Benchmark Co. in Boca Raton, Florida.  Kindle Capabilities  The Kindle will generate $2.8 billion in revenue this year
for Amazon and $5.3 billion in 2012, according to estimates by
Caris & Co. Amazon doesn’t disclose Kindle sales. The company’s
ambitions for the Kindle may go beyond books, said  Aggarwal  in
San Francisco.  “Kindle device users will not only continue buying more e-
books but also subscriptions, accessories, hardware warranties,
and eventually use Kindle’s wireless and computing capabilities
for other data and content,” such as music and videos, he said
in a  note to investors .  Amazon got its start in 1995 as an online bookseller. It
has since expanded into dozens of categories -- from baby
products to DVDs. Amazon Web Services, which lets customers rent
servers to house data and run computer networks, may one day be
larger than the retail business, the company has said.  “They’re growing at a good three times e-commerce, and
that’s what’s causing them to look at continually investing in
the business,” said  Scot Wingo , CEO of ChannelAdvisor Corp.,
which helps merchants sell online. “That erodes the short-term
market picture, but sets them up for growing well into the
future.”  EBay reported profit and  sales forecasts  this week that
exceeded analysts’ projections, helped by the growth of its
PayPal payment processing unit and a revamped marketplace site.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joseph Galante  in San Francisco at 
 jgalante3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  