-- Greenberg Loses Bid to Toss Cuomo Case on AIG Fraud
-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n   a n d   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2010-10-22T20:45:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-22/hank-greenberg-loses-bid-to-toss-n-y-attorney-general-case.html
Maurice “Hank” Greenberg ,  American
International Group Inc. ’s former chief executive, lost a bid to
throw out a suit by New York that alleges a fraudulent insurance
transaction with  Warren Buffett ’s General Reinsurance Corp.  State Supreme Court Justice  Charles Ramos  in Manhattan
denied Greenberg’s motion seeking to end New York Attorney
General  Andrew Cuomo ’s lawsuit in an order dated yesterday,
clearing the way for trial.  “There is ample proof, exclusive of the e-mails and notes,
which warrant the conclusion that Greenberg was a participant,
and likely spearheaded, an illicit arrangement between Gen Re
and AIG to effectuate a transaction to artificially inflate
AIG’s loss reserves,” Ramos wrote.  The judge is presiding over a lawsuit filed in 2005 by
then-New York Attorney General  Eliot Spitzer  that accused
Greenberg, 85, and former AIG Chief Financial Officer  Howard Smith  of using sham reinsurance deals and other transactions to
distort the insurance company’s financial condition.  AIG, once the world’s largest insurer, ousted Greenberg in
March 2005, two months before Spitzer sued him and Smith,
alleging they misled regulators and investors.  Restated Earnings  AIG, based in New York, eventually restated its earnings,
lowering them by $3.4 billion, and agreed to pay $1.64 billion
to settle claims by Spitzer and other regulators, without
admitting or denying wrongdoing. In court papers filed in July
2006, Greenberg argued AIG’s 2005 restatement was unnecessary
and designed to force him to retire.  Four former Gen Re executives, including ex-Chief Executive
Officer  Ronald Ferguson , and one from AIG,  Christian Milton ,
were convicted in 2008 at a fraud trial focusing on AIG’s
transaction with Gen Re. The fraud cost AIG shareholders $544
million to $597 million, ruled the federal judge in Hartford,
Connecticut. Two other Gen Re executives pleaded guilty.  In his ruling, Ramos also denied a summary-judgment motion
by Smith seeking to throw out Cuomo’s case. Ramos denied Cuomo’s
motion for summary judgment in the state’s favor regarding the
Gen Re transaction, saying the claim should go to trial. The
judge did grant the attorney general’s request for summary
judgment on another transaction, known as CAPCO. Ramos wrote
that damages tied to that transaction, “if any,” will be
resolved at a hearing.  Appeal Plans  Greenberg will appeal the decision on CAPCO,  Lee Wolosky ,
an attorney at Boies, Schiller & Flexner LLP, said in a
statement. Smith’s attorney, Jeffrey Burke at Winston & Strawn
LLP, said in a statement that Ramos “properly denied” the
attorney’s request for summary judgment regarding the Gen Re
transaction. Ramos, he said, “misapplied the relevant law and
ignored the substantial evidence” regarding the CAPCO
transaction.  “We are confident that Mr. Smith will be fully vindicated
on appeal,” Burke wrote.  Richard Bamberger , a spokesman for Cuomo’s office, couldn’t
be reached for comment.  The case is State of New York v. Greenberg, No. 401720-
2005, New York state Supreme Court (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David McLaughlin  in New York at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net  