-- Apple App for French Strikes-Led Gas Shortage Tops Download List
-- B y   M a t t h e w   C a m p b e l l
-- 2010-10-22T10:42:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-22/apple-application-for-french-strikes-led-gas-shortage-tops-download-list.html
French protests this week have
spawned a new top-selling  Apple Inc.  application in the country:
one that lets drivers track fuel availability at gas stations.  Strikes and disruptions at French oil refineries to protest
against President  Nicolas Sarkozy’s  plan to raise the minimum
retirement age left as many as 50 percent of the country’s
12,000 service stations with shortages of some fuel products
this week. It resulted in serpentine lines at gas stations.  Mobicarbu, a fuel-price tracking iPhone app that’s been
modified to show where service stations are out of gas, surged
to third place on Apple’s most-popular downloads this week,
joining games such as “Angry Birds” and “Cut the Rope.”  “Users were obviously following the shortages very closely
over the weekend, so on Monday we decided to modify our server
to show where the shortfalls were,” Lionel Gueganton, the app’s
34-year-old creator, said from the southern city of Antibes.  The app’s success combines two French phenomena, labor
unrest and the popularity of iPhones --  France Telecom SA  is the
world’s second-largest seller of the Apple devices, after  AT&T
Inc.  Mobicarbu, which goes for 1.59 euros ($2.2) per download,
overlays the location of service stations and their prices over
Google Inc.’s mapping software for the iPhone.  The app’s continuing popularity may depend on how long the
strikes and protests drag on. Gueganton declined to comment on
the exact sales from downloads this week.  Energy Minister  Jean-Louis Borloo  said today on BFM
television that about 20 percent of the country’s service
stations still remain dry.  Sarkozy’s Bill  Sarkozy ordered striking refinery staff back to work today
to ease fuel shortages. Workers at  Total SA’s  Grandpuits
refinery southeast of Paris, one of the 11 that have been shut
in strikes, said they would challenge the order in court as
unions called for a walkout next week, extending protests
against his pension overhaul into an eighth week.  For Gueganton, the protests and fuel depot blockades have
been a boon.  The app’s popularity is “clearly an important success in
terms of its profile,” he said. He’s also designed apps called
Mobigarages and Mobiradars, which list repair shops and highway
speed traps.  “We hope there are a lot of drivers who will get to know
us because of this situation,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Matthew Campbell  in Paris at 
 mcampbell39@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at 
 vroot@bloomberg.net . 