-- Arena Rises as Much as 26% After FDA Letter on Obesity Drug Lorcaserin
-- B y   M o l l y   P e t e r s o n
-- 2010-10-22T18:50:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-22/arena-rises-as-much-as-26-after-fda-letter-on-obesity-drug-lorcaserin.html
Arena Pharmaceuticals Inc. rose as
much as 26 percent after the U.S. Food and Drug Administration
said it “regrets” the lack of an animal toxicity expert on an
advisory panel that rebuffed the obesity drug lorcaserin.  “In hindsight, FDA regrets that no toxicologist
participated in the meeting,” the agency said yesterday in a
letter to Arena shareholders who had complained about the Sept.
16 meeting.  Karen Riley , an agency spokeswoman, provided a copy
of the letter today in an e-mail.  Lorcaserin, licensed by Tokyo-based  Eisai Co. , would be San
Diego-based Arena’s first product. The companies are vying with
 Vivus Inc.  and  Orexigen Therapeutics Inc.  to introduce the first
prescription weight-loss drug in more than a decade.  The agency’s letter may provide optimism to investors that
the FDA “isn’t blindly wanting to reject the drug,”  Jon Lecroy , an analyst at Hapoalim Securities in New York, said
today in a telephone interview. “They’re trying to do a
balanced review of all the data,” he said.  Last month’s FDA advisory panel said in a 9-5 vote that the
drug doesn’t work well enough to justify risks over time in
overweight and obese patients.  Arena gained 21 cents to $1.67 at 2:45 p.m. New York time
in Nasdaq Stock Market trading, after climbing as high as $1.84.
 Forbes  reported on the letter earlier today.  Decision Pending  Arena has said it expects an FDA decision on lorcaserin
today. The agency usually follows its panels’ recommendations.  While the advisory panel didn’t include a toxicologist, a
“team of FDA toxicology experts” had reviewed Arena’s drug
application for lorcaserin, the agency said in yesterday’s
letter. The FDA staff review found that the drug was linked to
“a number of malignant tumor types” in studies of rats,
according to a Sept. 14 report. The staff’s findings were vetted
by the agency’s Executive Carcinogenicity Assessment Committee
and presented at last month’s advisory panel meeting, the FDA
said.  Lorcaserin, if approved, may generate $728 million in 2015,
according to the average estimate of two analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg.  The FDA hasn’t approved a prescription drug for long-term
weight loss since Swiss drugmaker  Roche Holding AG ’s Xenical in
1999. The agency is scheduled to decide on Vivus’s Qnexa by Oct.
28, and Orexigen’s Contrave by Jan. 31. Orexigen announced a
licensing agreement with Osaka, Japan-based  Takeda
Pharmaceutical Co. , Asia’s biggest drugmaker, on Sept. 2.  Two-thirds of American adults are overweight, raising their
risk of diabetes, heart disease, high blood pressure and cancer,
according to the 2008  National Health and Nutrition Examination
Survey . More than one-third of American adults are obese,
measured as a ratio between height and weight.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Molly Peterson  in Washington at 
 mpeterson9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 