-- Harmony, Newcrest to Start $150 Million Wafi Study
-- B y   C a r l i   L o u r e n s
-- 2010-10-22T16:01:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-22/harmony-newcrest-to-start-150-million-wafi-golpu-study.html
Harmony Gold Mining Co.  and joint-
venture partner Newcrest Mining Ltd. will proceed with a $150
million prefeasibility study at the Wafi-Golpu copper-gold
project in Papua New Guinea and expect it to be completed by
early 2012.  Studies so far indicate “another high-quality, world-class
operation in Papua New Guinea,” Harmony Chief Executive Officer
 Graham Briggs  said in a statement today. The deposit could
contain 30 million ounces of gold and 8 million metric tons of
copper, almost double earlier estimates, Harmony said. It could
cost as much as $3 billion to build a mine at the deposit,
Briggs said in August.  Harmony and Newcrest are expanding output to take advantage
of record gold prices. The metal, often seen as safer bet than
equities amid economic uncertainty, climbed to an all-time high
of $1,387.35 an ounce last week and could rise to $1,650 an
ounce in the next 12 months as the Federal Reserve takes action
to stimulate the U.S. economy, Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said on
Oct. 12.  “These results provide substantial upside potential” to
Harmony’s shares, HSBC said in a note today. “We will await
further drilling and delineation to incorporate it into our
target price.”  A mine at Wafi would reduce Harmony’s reliance on South
Africa, where the ruling political party is debating mine
nationalization.  ‘Welcoming Gold Region’  Most of Harmony’s gold is from South Africa, where mines
are getting deeper and where labor and power costs are rising
faster than inflation, making extraction of gold less lucrative
and more dangerous.  Papua New Guinea is “rapidly being seen as a significant
and welcoming gold region,” Harmony said in today’s statement.
Harmony and Newcrest plan to ramp up production at the open-pit
Hidden Valley mine to about 250,000 ounces of gold and 3.5
million ounces silver annually.  Harmony gained 80 cents, or 1 percent, to 77.56 rand at the
5 p.m. close in Johannesburg.  Newcrest , Australia’s largest gold
miner, closed little changed at A$40 on the Australian stock
exchange.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Carli Lourens  in Johannesburg at 
 clourens@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amanda Jordan at   ajordan11@bloomberg.net  