-- Harvard Meets Wall Street on Charles River for Three-Mile Party
-- B y   C u r t i s   E i c h e l b e r g e r
-- 2010-10-22T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-22/harvard-meets-wall-street-on-charles-river-for-three-mile-party.html
David Fuller got snow on his blazer
and tie when he guided Harvard University’s freshman eight in
the  Head of the Charles Regatta  a year ago, and maintained a
family tradition.  Fuller, whose older twin brothers rowed for the Crimson
before starting careers in the financial industry, may not be
sporting such an Ivy League wardrobe this weekend, when the 46th
edition of what bills itself as the world’s largest regatta
takes place on the Charles River near the Harvard campus in
Cambridge, Massachusetts.  Testing the chances of himself and his teammates to win
 varsity spots  in the Crimson crew next year, Fuller, a 19-year-
old coxswain, will be among 8,800 rowers -- including  Charles Pieper , a former Harvard hockey player and now a vice chairman
of  Credit Suisse Group AG , and  Dick Cashin , a former Crimson
rower and now a managing partner at  JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s One
Equity Partners  -- competing before 300,000 fans who turn the
riverbanks into a three-mile-long party.  “It’s an opportunity to see where our fitness is, and how
our development is coming along,” Fuller said in a telephone
interview. “But we try and have some fun with it, too.”  Started in 1965, the regatta has attracted crews ranging
from prep schools to Olympians. This year’s competition -- time-
trials, or so-called head races against the clock -- may focus
on college rowers, with national teams preparing for the World
Rowing Championships in New Zealand that start next weekend.  That won’t deter the racers and spectators, who gather on
blankets or in hospitality tents to eat, drink and connect, said
Fred Schoch, the regatta’s executive director who has run the
race for 20 years.  ‘Wedding Planner’  “I feel like the biggest wedding planner in all of New
England,” Schoch, 61, said in a telephone interview. “I do all
the planning all year for one great weekend.”  The regatta’s $2 million budget is financed by sponsors
including  EMC Corp. ,  Delta Air Lines Inc ., closely held  Retail
Brand Alliance Inc. ’s Brooks Brothers and Ford Motor Co.’s
Lincoln. Schoch’s non-profit committee wouldn’t disclose
advertising fees and said the regatta usually leaves a surplus
for the organization.  A financial loss was looming last year before Hopkinton,
Massachusetts-based EMC, a data-storage company, signed on in
August, according to Schoch.  “We were biting our nails,” he said. “We would have lost
money. We were cutting everything in sight to pare costs. The
economy was tough and sponsorship deals usually have a two- to
three-year incubation period.”  The regatta doesn’t award prize money. Winners in  56 races
receive a 3-inch diameter bronze medal.  Much of the two days are
about networking.  Free to VIP  Schoch said he sets up a  reunion village  with 40 tents that
are rented by schools, who serve food and wine and reconnect
with alumni. Admission is $3. Stanford University, Duke
University, Ivy League schools and even some private high
schools rent the tents, which are about midway up the course, he
said. There’s also a VIP area run by Delta near the  final bend 
of the course that charges $75 a day or $125 for the weekend.  Fuller, the Harvard coxswain, said the race is as much
about family and friends as about winning medals and preparing
for the spring season.  He said he hopes to spend time with his brothers, 22-year-
old  Mark  and  Chris , and their father, Joe. The twins work for
Credit Suisse, Switzerland’s second-largest bank, Chris in
mergers and acquisitions and Mark in financial sponsors. Dad, a
Harvard Business School graduate, is co-founder of the  Monitor
Group , a Cambridge-based consulting firm.  “When the weather is nice, it’s like a carnival on the
banks,” Joe Fuller, 53, said in an interview. “Everyone knows
each other and there is a respect among the oarsmen.”  Alumni Boats  Neither of the Fuller twins will be among the 75 alumni
teams returning to the Charles, such as Dartmouth College’s Ever
Green, Yale University’s Blue Cheese, Princeton University’s Fat
Cats and Williams College’s Purple Reign.  Harvard lets its student teams decide what to wear for the
race, and last year’s freshmen rowed in buttoned-down shirts,
blazers, ties and waterproof pants. Temperatures during the
regatta on Oct. 17-18, 2009, hovered around freezing and it
snowed the second day.  The forecast this year calls for temperatures in the
mid-50s to low-60s and sunny skies. David Fuller wouldn’t say
how much different his crew’s uniform will be from a year ago.  “It’s sort of a secret we keep until the day of the
race,” he said. “It’s just a lot of fun.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Curtis Eichelberger  in Washington at 
 ceichelberge@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  