-- Asian Stocks Decline for First Week in Two Months After China Raises Rates
-- B y   H a n n y   W a n   a n d   S h a n i   R a j a
-- 2010-10-22T21:38:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-22/asian-stocks-decline-for-first-week-in-two-months-after-china-raises-rates.html
Asian  stocks  fell for the first week
in two months after China, the world’s fastest-growing major
economy, unexpectedly raised interest rates and said it grew at
the slowest pace in a year.  Agile Property Holdings Ltd. and Shimao Property Holdings
Ltd. tumbled more than 10 percent in Hong Kong, leading Chinese
property companies lower.  Hana Financial Group Inc.  declined 11
percent after Temasek Holdings Pte sold its stake in South
Korea’s fourth-biggest financial company. Mitsubishi Corp. led a
drop by commodity-related shares as the price of crude retreated.  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index  slid 0.86 percent this week to
129.90, halting the gauge’s seven straight weekly gains.  “After such a run-up in risk assets, the market was
vulnerable to a correction,” said  Shane Oliver , Sydney-based
head of investment strategy at AMP Capital Investors Ltd., which
manages $85 billion. “A lot of the potential good news has been
factored in and investors may be thinking it’s not a bad time to
take profits.”  Japan’s  Nikkei 225 Stock Average  dropped 0.8 percent this
week. Hong Kong’s Hang Seng Index declined 1 percent, South
Korea’s Kospi Index slipped 0.3 percent. China’s Shanghai
Composite Index was little changed.  China raised borrowing costs on Oct. 19 for the first time
since 2007 as policy makers try to curb lending, and prevent
asset-price bubbles in a country that surpassed Japan in the
second quarter as the world’s No. 2 economy.  Chinese Property Developers  Shares of Chinese property developers led the drop among
Asian equities on concern higher borrowing costs will deter
demand for real estate. China’s central bank raised one-year
lending and deposit rates by 25 basis points on Oct. 19.  Agile Property, which builds villas and apartments in
China’s southern Guangdong province, sank 13 percent to HK$9.34.
Shimao Property, which receives all its sales from China,
tumbled 11 percent to HK$12.48. Guangzhou R&F Properties Co.,
the biggest real-estate company in the southern Chinese city of
Guangzhou, slumped 11 percent to HK$11.12.  “The perceived problem with China raising rates is it
limits economic growth from one of the higher growth
economies,” said  Tim Schroeders , who helps manage about $1
billion at Pengana Capital Ltd. in Melbourne. “Markets in Asia
have adopted a very cautious approach to today’s trading in
light of this news.”  Economy, Valuations  China’s economy grew 9.6 percent in the third quarter, the
smallest gain in a year, as inflation accelerated in September
to the fastest pace in 23 months. The increase in gross domestic
product from a year earlier topped economists’ median 9.5
percent estimate. Consumer prices rose 3.6 percent last month,
the statistics bureau said Oct. 21.  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index  has risen about 20 percent from
this year’s low on May 25 and has gained about 8 percent year-
to-date on speculation profit growth will weather Europe’s debt
crisis, China’s steps to curb property-price gains and concern
about the pace of the U.S. economic recovery. Shares in the
gauge are valued at an average of about 14.3 times estimated
 earnings , near their highest level since July.  Energy companies declined the most this week among the MSCI
Asia Pacific Index’s 10 industry groups.  Mitsubishi , Japan’s
largest commodities trader, dropped 4.9 percent to 1,985 yen in
Tokyo. Inpex Corp., the country’s No. 1 oil explorer, sank 4.8
percent to 431,000 yen. PetroChina Co., China’s biggest oil
company, dropped 3.4 percent to HK$9.76 in Hong Kong. Crude oil
futures fell about 3 percent in regular New York trading in the
past week, before Asian stock trading closed.  Hana, Sims, Daewoo  Hana Financial plunged 11 percent to 33,100 won. Temasek,
Singapore’s state-owned investment firm, sold its 9.6 percent
stake for 33,400 won a share, lower than its initial offer band
of 34,300 won to 35,550 won, two people with knowledge of the
deal said.  Sims Metal Management Ltd.  dropped 8.3 percent to A$15.91
on the Australian stock exchange. The world’s biggest recycler
of scrap metal announced Oct. 21 its profit in the first quarter
declined 75 percent from a year earlier to A$8.2 million ($8
million) as scrap flows and margins remain constrained.  Daewoo Securities Co. , a South Korean brokerage, fell 7.5
percent to 25,350 won after Morgan Stanley cut its
recommendation on the stock to “equal-weight” from
“overweight,” saying the stock is “fairly valued” following
a rally that started in June.  To contact the reporters for this story:
 Hanny Wan  in Hong Kong at 
 hwan3@bloomberg.net ;
 Shani Raja  in Sydney at 
 sraja4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net . 