-- Asian Stocks Rise as Corporate Earnings Boost Confidence; LG Display Gains
-- B y   S h a n i   R a j a
-- 2010-10-22T10:59:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-22/asian-stocks-rise-as-u-s-earnings-jobless-claims-boost-growth-optimism.html
Asian  stocks  rose, snapping the MSCI
Asia Pacific Index’s longest losing streak since May, as
corporate earnings and a drop in U.S. jobless claims boosted
confidence in a global economic recovery.  LG Display Co.  gained 4.6 percent in Seoul and India’s Tata
Consultancy Services Ltd. jumped 5.5 percent on better-than-
estimated profit. Brambles Ltd., the world’s biggest supplier of
wooden transport pallets, advanced 3.1 percent in Sydney amid
speculation U.S.-related earnings will increase.  Canon Inc. , a
Japanese camera maker that gets 28 percent of its sales in the
Americas, climbed 1.6 percent.  “With the economic data being quite mixed, corporate
earnings are going to be a key focal point,” said  Chris Hall ,
who helps oversee the equivalent of $3.3 billion at Argo
Investments in Adelaide, Australia. “People are looking for
outlook comments that reaffirm the view that hopefully the
recovery is under way. There’s obviously still a lot of caution
over that.”  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index  gained 0.2 percent to 129.98 as
of 7:53 p.m. in Tokyo as Group of 20 finance ministers began a
two-day meeting in South Korea that will focus on global
economic issues. About two stocks rose for each one that fell in
the MSCI gauge, which has lost 0.8 percent in the past five days.  Japan’s  Nikkei 225 Stock Average  advanced 0.5 percent and
South Korea’s Kospi Index gained 1.2 percent. Australia’s
 S&P/ASX 200 Index  rose 0.6 percent. New Zealand’s NZX 50 Index
climbed 0.8 percent.  Jobless Claims  Futures on the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  were little
changed. The index advanced 0.2 percent yesterday as earnings at
EBay Inc. and  McDonald’s Corp.  beat analysts’ targets. Initial
jobless  claims  fell by 23,000 last week, Labor Department
figures showed.  After the close of regular trading, American Express Co.,
the biggest credit-card issuer by purchases, said third-quarter
profit jumped 70 percent. Earnings at companies from American
Express to EBay have taken the percentage of companies in the
MSCI World Index that have reported better-than-estimated profit
in the past month to 72 percent.  “The improvement in company earnings is reducing the
number of U.S. jobless claims,” said  Juichi Wako , a senior
strategist at Tokyo-based Nomura Holdings Inc. “Investors don’t
expect jobless claims to recover, but at least they don’t have
to worry about a deterioration.”  Technology Share Gain  LG Display, the world’s second-largest maker of liquid-
crystal displays, advanced 4.6 percent to 41,250 won in Seoul,
leading Asia’s technology stocks higher. The company reported
third-quarter profit that beat analysts’ estimates.  Technology stocks advanced the most of the MSCI Asia
Pacific Index’s 10 industry groups.  Asustek Computer Inc. , which
makes low-cost computers, jumped 6.7 percent to NT$230.50 in
Taipei. Hynix Semiconductor Inc., the world’s second-largest
computer-memory chipmaker, gained 1.9 percent to 24,200 won.  Tata Consultancy, India’s largest software exporter, jumped
5.5 percent to 1,040 rupees. Second-quarter profit beat
analysts’ predictions as sales from North America set a
quarterly record of $1 billion.  In Sydney,  Brambles , which gets almost half of its revenue
from the Americas, climbed 3.1 percent to A$6.59. Canon advanced
1.6 percent to 3,785 yen in Tokyo. In Seoul, Samsung Electronics
Co., Asia’s No. 1 maker of semiconductors, increased 1.6 percent
to 777,000 won.  Leading Indicators  A gauge of the U.S. economy’s prospects rose in September
for a third month, signaling the recovery will extend into 2011.
The Conference Board’s index of leading economic indicators,
which was released yesterday, climbed 0.3 percent, matching the
median forecast of 57 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  Stocks gained as G-20 officials started their meeting in
Gyeongju, South Korea. U.S. Treasury Secretary Timothy F.
Geithner told his G-20 counterparts in a letter they should
commit to policies that reduce external imbalances below a
specific share of gross domestic product.  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index  has surged 20 percent from its
2010 low on May 25 on speculation growth in profits will weather
Europe’s debt crisis, Chinese steps to curb property-price
inflation and a faltering U.S. economy. Stocks in the Asian
benchmark are valued at 14.3 times estimated  earnings , compared
with 14.1 times at the year’s low.  Among other stocks that rose today,  Hyundai Motor Co. ,
South Korea’s largest automaker, gained 3.4 percent to 168,000
won in Seoul. The company plans to form a 500 billion won ($444
million) venture with  Ziyang Nanjun Automobile Co.  in China next
year to expand its market share in the world’s biggest auto
market.   ASX Ltd. , Australia’s main stock-exchange operator, gained
2.5 percent to A$34.96 before trading of its shares were halted
in Sydney ahead of a “possible business combination,” a
regulatory filing said.  To contact the reporters for this story:
 Shani Raja  in Sydney at 
 sraja4@bloomberg.net ;
 Toshiro Hasegawa  in Tokyo at 
 thasegawa6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net . 