-- Asia Currencies Post First Weekly Fall in Two Months as G-20 Holds Meeting
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   L u i
-- 2010-10-23T00:01:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-22/asia-currencies-drop-this-week-as-u-s-signals-stronger-dollar-before-g-20.html
Asian currencies had their first
weekly loss in two months after U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  signaled his government supports a stronger dollar
as officials from the Group of 20 nations met in South Korea.  Malaysia’s ringgit, Thailand’s baht and the Singapore
dollar retreated from last week’s highest levels in at least 13
years. Bank of Thailand Governor  Prasarn Trairatvorakul  said on
Oct. 21 the central bank is studying steps to curb excessive
volatility in the baht. South Korea’s Vice Finance Minister  Yim Jong Yong  said his government is discussing several measures to
control capital inflows.  G-20 finance officials will pledge today to avoid
competitive devaluations and endorse market-based exchange rates
in a fresh effort to defuse trade tensions before they hurt the
world economy. The policy makers are struggling to rally around
a U.S. proposal to set targets for current-account gaps as a way
of rebalancing global growth and realigning exchange rates.  “It’s really about the G-20 as the big theme is the focus
on currency wars,” said  Charles Han , Hong Kong-based head of
foreign-exchange trading at Newedge Financial HK Ltd. “It’s
such a mixed bag and a lot of issues need to be addressed. Ahead
of that, we will probably see some risk aversion and a stronger
 dollar  as people stay sidelined.”  South Korea’s won slumped 1 percent this week to 1,123.35
per dollar in Seoul, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Malaysia’s ringgit declined 1 percent to 3.1170 and Taiwan’s
dollar weakened 0.4 percent to NT$30.910. Singapore’s currency
dropped 0.5 percent to S$1.3032.  Make Commitments  G-20 finance ministers and central bankers will make the
commitments to avoid competitive devaluations and support market
exchange rates in a statement after talks end today in Gyeongju,
a G-20 official said on condition of anonymity. The group agreed
for now to pursue policies to reduce imbalances and asked the
International Monetary Fund to study the impact of exchange
rates and the persistence of some trade gaps, the person said.  Nations from Brazil to China are trying to limit gains in
their  currencies  through market intervention or capital controls
as investors seek higher-yielding emerging-market assets amid
near-zero U.S. borrowing costs. Capital flooding into Asia may
fuel exchange-rate volatility, asset bubbles and financial
instability, IMF head  Dominique Strauss-Kahn  said Oct. 18.  Japanese Finance Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  said in Seoul
yesterday that competitive devaluation is negative for the
global economy. Geithner told Brazil’s Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  on Oct. 21 that the U.S. won’t allow the dollar to
weaken, Mantega said.  Practical Results  “The G-20 needs to balance out all those issues,”
Newedge’s Han said. “But it all boils down to practicality.
Markets will be looking for practical results that can be
implemented.”  The won posted its first weekly loss in two months as
authorities signaled they will take tougher measures to curb
capital inflows. The government may reveal a round of measures
to ease volatility in capital inflows and outflows as early as
late November, the Maeil Business Newspaper reported yesterday,
citing a government official it didn’t identify.  “Regulations are coming up,” said  Ko Yun Jin , a currency
trader at Kookmin Bank in Seoul. “Over the weekend we have the
meeting of finance ministers. We want to see what they may come
up with. There’s a bit of caution.”  China’s yuan declined for the first week since early
September after the central bank increased interest rates for
the first time since 2007.  Gross domestic product advanced 9.6 percent in the third
quarter from a year earlier, the statistics bureau said on Oct.
21, the slowest pace in a year. The central bank on Oct. 19
lifted its benchmark one-year lending and deposit rates by a
quarter of a percentage point to 5.56 percent and 2.5 percent
respectively.  The yuan dropped 0.2 percent this week to 6.6572 per dollar.
Elsewhere, Indonesia’s rupiah declined 0.3 percent to 8,937 and
the Philippines peso fell 0.3 percent to 43.305. India’s rupee
slumped 1 percent for the week to 44.56 and the Thai baht
slipped 0.4 percent to 29.94.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Patricia Lui  at 
 plui4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 