-- Stocks Decline, Bonds Gain as G-20 Discusses Currencies; Dollar Fluctuates
-- B y   S t e p h e n   K i r k l a n d
-- 2010-10-22T11:26:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-22/asia-stocks-oil-rise-on-earnings-reports-dollar-gains-before-g20-meeting.html
Stocks in Europe fell from a six-
month high, bonds gained and the dollar fluctuated as Group of
20 finance ministers met to diffuse tensions in the currency
market that threaten to spark a trade war. The yen strengthened.  The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index  dropped 0.2 percent at 7:20 a.m.
in New York.  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  futures added 0.1
percent. The yield on the 10-year Treasury note fell two basis
points to 2.53 percent. The Dollar Index  rose  less than 0.1
percent, while the yen appreciated against all but two of its 16
most-traded peers. Gold fell as much as 0.8 percent to a two-
week low.  G-20 finance chiefs plan to say members will refrain from
“competitive undervaluation” of currencies, said an official
from a member country, citing a draft statement and speaking on
condition of anonymity. Eight companies in the S&P 500 that are
scheduled to report  results  today. About 73 percent of companies
in the  MSCI World Index  that have reported earnings since Oct. 7
have beaten estimates for per-share profit, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  “Markets will remain in a narrow range today as investors
wait to hear if the G-20 finance ministers meeting in Korea this
weekend agree any new measures to provide greater stability in
currency markets,”  Chris Weafer , chief strategist at Moscow-
based UralSib Financial Corp., said in an e-mailed note.  Geithner Proposal  Seeking a solution to ease currency tensions, U.S. Treasury
Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  proposed G-20 members pursue
policies to reduce trade imbalances “below a specified share”
of their economies, according to an Oct. 20 letter. That
suggestion today split the group of emerging and industrial
countries.  More than three stocks fell for every two that rose in
Europe’s Stoxx 600. Vedanta Resources Plc lost 2.3 percent as
BofA-Merrill Lynch Global Research cut its recommendation on the
shares. Alfa Laval AB, the biggest maker of heat exchangers,
lost 5.1 percent as sales missed analysts’ estimates.
 Ericsson AB , the world’s largest maker of wireless networks,
rallied 5.7 percent after profit beat estimates. Valeo SA,
France’s second-largest auto-parts supplier, soared 8.1 percent
after increasing its prediction for profit.  U.S.  futures  fluctuated after the S&P 500 yesterday closed
up 0.2 percent as earnings from EBay Inc. to McDonald’s Corp.
beat estimates. Amazon.com fell 3.7 percent in pre-market
trading after the world’s largest online retailer forecast
fourth-quarter operating income that fell short of analysts’
estimates. Honeywell International Inc. raised its 2010 profit
forecast after reporting earnings that beat analysts estimates.  Emerging Markets  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index  fell 0.3 percent, extending
its first weekly drop since August. Hungary’s BUX Index sank 2.1
percent, leading declines among benchmark equity indexes in
major emerging markets, as shares of oil and gas company Mol
Nyrt. sank. South Korea’s Kospi Index advanced 1.2 percent after
LG Display Co. jumped on third-quarter profit that beat
analysts’ estimates.  The yield on the 30-year Treasury bond fell two basis
points to 3.93 percent. The 10-year German bund yield dropped
two basis points to 2.46 percent.  Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis President  James Bullard 
proposed the central bank buy $100 billion in long-term
Treasuries next month and calibrate subsequent purchases based
on the course of economic recovery.  QE Guidance  “If we do decide to go ahead with quantitative easing, I
think there is a good program we could adopt, one I like, which
is to think in units of $100 billion between meetings” of the
Federal Open Market Committee, Bullard said yesterday at a
conference hosted by the district bank. “We could give forward
guidance for the next meeting that would suggest how likely the
committee thinks we would continue these purchases.”  The dollar was little changed at 1.3923 per euro after
gaining as much as 0.5 percent. The dollar fell 0.2 percent to
81.18 yen.  Gold for immediate delivery dropped as much as $10.23 to
$1,315.45 an ounce, the lowest compared with intraday prices
since Oct. 5. Silver for immediate delivery declined 36 cents to
$22.8325, the lowest since Oct. 8. Crude oil for December
delivery rose 0.8 percent to $81.23 a barrel in New York
trading.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Stephen Kirkland  in London at 
 skirkland@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Sillitoe in London at 
 psillitoe@bloomberg.net  