-- Singapore Bourse Said to Be in Merger Talks With ASX
-- B y   J o y c e   K o h   a n d   J o n a t h a n   B u r g o s
-- 2010-10-22T10:49:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-22/asx-singapore-exchange-in-merger-talks-sky-news-says-asx-shares-halted.html
Singapore Exchange Ltd.  is in talks
to combine with ASX Ltd., which runs the Australian stock
exchange, said a person with direct knowledge of the matter.  The Singaporean and Australian bourse operators, with a
combined market value of about $13.8 billion, haven’t determined
a final structure for the deal, said the person, requesting
anonymity because discussions are private.  Matthew Gibbs , an ASX
spokesman, had no comment beyond a statement today accompanying
a request for a stock-trading halt.  Magdalyn Liew , a spokeswoman
for Singapore Exchange, whose shares were also halted today,
declined to comment.  “SGX has been very active in the past year in developing
new products, increasing its distribution network, and in this
case strengthening their corporate structure with the potential
takeover of ASX,” said  Julien Le Noble , chief executive officer
of brokerage Newedge Group’s Japan unit. Singapore Exchange
Chief Executive Officer  Magnus Bocker  “is definitely a leading
force in SGX’s drive for expansion.”  Bocker, who joined the Singapore bourse in December 2009,
was formerly president of  Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. , the operator of
the world’s second-biggest stock exchange that he helped create
by combining Nasdaq Stock Market Inc. with Stockholm-based OMX
AB in 2008.  New Rivals  A possible merger between the operators of the Asia-Pacific
region’s fifth- and eighth-largest stock markets comes at a time
when competition is heating up from new rivals. Chi-X Global
Inc., an electronic-trading platform, has already won
preliminary approval to become a competitor to ASX and is
working toward starting Australian operations by March.  Singapore Commodities Exchange, a unit of the Singapore
bourse, faces competition from the Singapore Mercantile
Exchange, which started operating in the city-state in August.
SMX is backed by  Financial Technologies (India) Ltd. , which
operates the largest commodity exchange in India.  “Some of the new kids on the block pose a serious threat
to potential revenues and volumes,” said  Chris Weston , a
Melbourne-based institutional dealer at IG Markets. “ASX needs
to find ways to evolve, and tying up with one of the old legacy
exchanges would give them ideas, experiences, management and
infrastructure at a time when they may have to cut fees and
costs.”  ASX  shares climbed 2.5 percent in Sydney today before being
placed in a trading halt ahead of a “possible business
combination,” according to a regulatory filing from the
company. Singapore Exchange shares fell 2.8 percent before
trading in its shares was halted.  ‘Strategic Role’  The Singapore bourse may make a takeover bid for ASX on
Oct. 25, the Australian newspaper reported on its website today.
The Singaporean bourse and Chi-X Global, part owner of Europe’s
largest alternative trading system, agreed in August last year
to start the first exchange-backed dark pool in Asia.  “It’s all about economics and the strategic role the SGX
is playing in facilitating capital flows,” said  Geoff Howie , a
senior vice president in Singapore at MF Global Holdings Ltd., a
futures and options broker. “Singapore has to find ways to
channel rather than control capital flows that arrive on its
doorstep.”  Since Bocker took over from  Hsieh Fu Hua  last year, the
Singapore Exchange has announced new initiatives to enhance the
bourse’s position as an Asian capital markets hub. The exchange
today started trading 19 American Depositary Receipts of Chinese
companies to boost trading volumes.  In June, the bourse said it will invest S$250 million in a
new trading system that will be the world’s fastest when it goes
live in 2011. The following month, Singapore Exchange and the
London Metal Exchange said they will introduce cash-settled
metals futures contracts by the first quarter of next year year.  Australia’s stock market is worth about $1.36 trillion,
more than Singapore’s $554.4 billion, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. Even so, Singapore Exchange is the larger company,
with a market value of about $7.84 billion, compared with ASX’s
$6 billion.  To contact the reporters responsible for this story:
Jonathan Burgos in Singapore at 
 jburgos4@bloomberg.net ;
Joyce Koh in Singapore at 
 jkoh38@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net . 