-- AT&T Adds Handsets, Retrains Staff as End of IPhone Hold Looms
-- B y   G r e g   B e n s i n g e r
-- 2010-10-22T20:09:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-22/at-t-adds-handsets-retrains-staff-as-end-of-iphone-hold-looms.html
AT&T Inc. , facing the possible loss
of its hold on the iPhone, is adding handsets at an accelerating
clip and retraining store staff to help reduce reliance on its
top-selling smartphone during the holidays.  The company’s lineup this year will have ballooned by about
10 smartphones ahead of the holiday season to more than 20,
including ones running  Microsoft Corp.  and  Google Inc.  software.
Yesterday, AT&T reported the effort is showing early success,
saying more than half of new customers chose a device other than
the iPhone last quarter, up from 36 percent a year earlier.  “AT&T clearly has tried to diversify themselves away from
the iPhone, and that’s probably the right strategy since they’ve
relied so heavily on the iPhone these past few years,” said
 Chris King , a Stifel Nicolaus & Co. analyst in Baltimore. “This
handset strategy could shelter them from some customer losses.”  AT&T’s exclusive U.S. contract to carry the iPhone may end
in January, when Verizon Wireless will sell a version that works
on its network, two people familiar with the plans said in June.
AT&T, which has sold the  Apple Inc.  phone since 2007, risks
confusing customers if it tries to compensate by giving them too
much choice, said  Craig Johnson , president of New Canaan,
Connecticut, consulting firm  Customer Growth Partners .  “It’s a very fine line,” Johnson said. “If you stuff
your store with too much merchandise, you can overwhelm a
customer and that can turn them off.”  Android, Windows  While the expansion to new phones is bearing early fruit,
the iPhone is still Dallas-based  AT&T ’s main device to lure
users. The second-largest U.S. mobile carrier yesterday said it
activated about 1.25 million new iPhone customers in the third
quarter, nearly half its total of 2.6 million. A year earlier,
new iPhone users made up about 64 percent of AT&T’s additions.  Larger rival  Verizon Wireless  may sell as many as 9 million
iPhones a year, according to  Charlie Wolf , an analyst at Needham
& Co. in New York. AT&T activated about 10.3 million iPhones
last year.  The new AT&T devices include three smartphones each running
on Microsoft’s Windows Phone 7 and Google’s Android operating
systems. AT&T is now the only U.S. carrier to offer smartphones
with every operating system available on the market, including
Symbian, Palm and  Research In Motion Ltd. ’s BlackBerry. Its
website currently lists about 16 different smartphone models.  Revamping Stores  “We made a conscious decision to give our customers a
choice and let them decide what is best for them,”  Jeff Bradley , AT&T devices senior vice president, said in an
interview. “We’re probably there now, at a critical mass,” he
said.  The new devices aren’t intended as protection for the end
of AT&T’s exclusive hold on the iPhone, Bradley said. “We plan
to have the iPhone in our lineup for the foreseeable future”
even after the exclusive deal ends, he said, declining to say
when that will be.  To more effectively market its burgeoning device lineup, AT&T
is revamping stores and retraining some 25,000 salespeople,  John
Dwyer , senior vice president, sales operations and customer
experience, said in an interview.  AT&T has been training staff about the features of various
smartphones and has redesigned stores for a “cleaner” look, he
said. The stores will have differentiated sections for each
smartphone brand.  ‘Intensive Training’  Salespeople will take four-hour classes in urban centers
across the U.S. and the carrier is training employees in more
rural areas through live video programs, he said.  “This really intensive training we’ve been doing has been
just paramount,” Dwyer said. Salespeople will undergo an
additional one-hour class on how to best differentiate all the
operating systems for customers.  Dwyer said staff can also earn free devices by being among
the first few thousand to sell four of the latest models.  Most of the sales of the new smartphones should come from
customers upgrading from less-expensive or older phones within
AT&T’s network, said  Ralph de la Vega , head of AT&T mobility.  AT&T fell 5 cents to $28.29 at 4 p.m. in New York Stock
Exchange composite  trading . The shares have gained less than 1
percent this year.  Besides potentially losing its grip over the iPhone, the
competition for AT&T is intensifying as Verizon and smaller
rival  Sprint Nextel Corp.  roll out so-called fourth-generation
networks this year with faster data speeds, Stifel Nicolaus’s
King said.  With AT&T’s own 4G network due out months after Verizon’s,
the carrier’s smartphone lineup may help it hold customer
attention, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Greg Bensinger  in New York at 
 gbensinger1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at   pelstrom@bloomberg.net  