-- Italian Stocks Fall; CIR, Mediaset, Risanamento, STMicro, UniCredit Move
-- B y   F r a n c e s c a   C i n e l l i
-- 2010-10-22T16:00:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-22/atlantia-compagnie-riunite-and-fiat-might-move-italian-equity-preview.html
Italy’s benchmark FTSE MIB Index
ended a two-day gain, falling 80.22, or 0.4 percent, to
21,536.21 at the 5:30 p.m. close in Milan. The gauge gained 2.3
percent this week.  The following stocks were among the most active in the
Italian market today.  Amplifon SpA  (AMP IM) gained 2.7 percent to 3.75 euros, the
highest since Sept. 13. UniCredit Research upgraded the maker of
hearing aids to “buy” from “hold,” because the company is
“back on the ‘external growth lane.” The brokerage cited in a
note the acquisition in September of National Hearing Care in
Australia.  Autogrill SpA  (AGL IM) advanced 1 percent to 9.4 euros,
extending gains of 2.8 percent yesterday. Equita Sim SpA
reiterated a “buy” rating on the world’s biggest manager of
airport and highway restaurants, highlighting in a note “the
improvement in traffic.”  Banca Popolare di Milano Scrl  (PMI IM) declined for a third
day, losing 1.5 percent to 3.47 euros as shares of the lender
dropped below their 20-day moving average.  Compagnie Industriale Riunite SpA  (CIR IM) dropped 1
percent to 1.67 euros, a first loss in three days. The holding
company for  Carlo De Benedetti  said nine-month net income of its
health-services unit, KOS SpA, rose to 4 million euros ($5.6
million) from 200,000 euros. Intermonte Sim SpA said in a note
that KOS’s profit was below expectations.  Mediaset SpA  (MS IM) gained 1.7 percent to 5.08 euros,
rebounding from the lowest since reiterated an “outperform”
rating on Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi’s television
broadcaster, saying in a note it expects “the stock to re-rate
in light of the expected positive news flow from results,
supported by the attractive dividend yield.”  Risanamento SpA  (RN IM) advanced 5.6 percent to 30 euro
cents, a third gain this week. The company agreed to sell the
Falck area in Sesto San Giovanni near Milan for 405 million
euros to Sesto Immobiliare SpA, led by Davide Bizzi.  STMicroelectronics NV  (STM IM), Europe’s biggest chipmaker,
increased 1.9 percent to 5.82 euros, a third consecutive gain.
Technology shares were among the best performers in Europe, led
by Ericsson AB after the world’s biggest maker of wireless
networks reported third-quarter net income that beat analyst
estimates.  UniCredit SpA  (UCG IM) dropped 1.6 percent to 1.91 euros,
falling for a second day. The Libyan Investment Authority is
considering the sale of its 2.6 percent stake in Italy’s biggest
bank, daily Il Sole 24 Ore reported, without saying where it got
the information.  Separately, Evolution Securities reiterated a “sell”
rating on the stock.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Francesca Cinelli  in Milan at 
 fcinelli@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Merritt at   dmerritt1@bloomberg.net  