-- Mark Cuban Offers to Pay Lawyers to Help SEC Speed Document Review in Case
-- B y   W i l l i a m   M c Q u i l l e n
-- 2010-10-22T16:55:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-22/mavericks-owner-cuban-offers-to-hire-lawyers-for-sec-to-review-documents.html
Mark Cuban , the billionaire owner of
the Dallas Mavericks who’s accused by the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission of insider trading, offered to pay lawyers
to help the agency speed its review of documents in his case.  An attorney for Cuban,  Stephen Best , told U.S. District
Judge  Reggie Walton  in Washington that he was seeking a creative
solution to moving the case along, noting the federal government
often hired contractors.  “I have never heard about the government becoming
indignant about accepting” assistance, Best told Walton at a
hearing today.  Walton asked SEC attorneys to review whether bringing in
contract attorneys for the task would violate federal hiring
procedures or whether contractors would be allowed to review the
documents, some of which may be classified.  The judge last month said the SEC improperly withheld
documents that Cuban requested through the Freedom of
Information Act, and said the defendant should be granted
access. His lawyers complain that current schedules call for the
documents to be delivered in March 2012.  ‘Deep Pockets’  Melinda Hardy , an SEC attorney, said in court that Cuban’s
offer was unprecedented. She said the agency is concerned people
with “deep pockets would come in and go to the front of the
line.”  The Cuban file is so voluminous that an attorney assigned
to review it would have to spend more than eight months,
assuming a pace of four pages a minute and eight-hour days
without breaks, the SEC lawyers said.  The SEC alleges that Cuban traded on confidential
information when he sold his stake in Mamma.com Inc., a Canadian
Internet search company, just before it announced a private
placement of shares.  The proposal to pay for the document review was made after
Walton said he lacked authority to order the SEC to shift
resources to accommodate Cuban’s request, and that there was
little hope of additional funds from Congress.  “Contrary to popular belief, the federal government is
going broke,” Walton said.  The case is Cuban v. SEC, 09-cv-996, U.S. District Court,
District of Columbia (Washington). The insider-trading case is
SEC v. Cuban, 09-10996, 5th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals for
the Fifth Circuit (New Orleans) and SEC v. Cuban, 08-cv-2050,
U.S. District Court, Northern District of Texas (Dallas).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 William McQuillen  in Washington at 
 bmcquillen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 