-- Axa to Boost European Property Lending After Banks Retrench, Vaquier Says
-- B y   S i m o n   P a c k a r d
-- 2010-10-22T06:30:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-22/axa-to-boost-european-property-lending-after-banks-retrench-vaquier-says.html
Axa SA , France’s largest insurer,
plans to lend more money to property investors to fill the gap
left by Europe’s banks, the head of its real-estate asset
management unit said.  “There’s a lot of attraction to this kind of a product
from insurance companies,” said  Pierre Vaquier , chief executive
officer of  Axa Real Estate Investment Managers . Senior loans,
which take priority for repayments in the case of a default,
yield 2 to 3.5 percentage points more than other debt and so
provide a higher return, he said in an interview last week.  Axa has already made 1 billion euros ($1.4 billion) of
real-estate loans, which are managed by Paris-based Axa REIM on
behalf of the insurance company and its clients. Axa has the
capacity to lend 1.5 billion euros more, said Vaquier, whose
company is the world’s second-largest property asset manager.  Europe’s banks have been forced by regulators to lend less
money after amassing a record 970 billion euros in commercial
property debt in a five-year lending spree that ended in mid-
2007. Lenders will sell, foreclose or write down more than 200
billion euros of loans from their balance sheets over the next
decade, CB Richard Ellis Group Inc. estimates.  The reluctance of banks to lend and the trickle of loan
securitizations have made it harder for companies to finance
acquisitions and property developments.  Carlyle Purchase  Axa REIM was in the group of lenders that backed July’s 671
million-pound purchase by a Carlyle Group fund of six office
towers formerly owned by  Simon Halabi .  “It’s easier to do new loans than buy existing ones,”
Vaquier said, adding that most lending is at the senior-grade,
although there is some scope for mezzanine finance. None of the
existing loans is in default.  Axa REIM created its lending arm four years ago, focusing
on properties in the U.K., the euro zone and Scandinavia. The
financial crisis gave the company the chance to start selling a
new fund focused on development projects, since there is less
competition for sites and land values are lower.  Axa REIM is raising money for a 650 million-euro European
development fund that initially will target projects in central
London and the inner Paris suburbs, where rents may rise as the
supply of new office space diminishes, Vaquier said.  At the end of last year, Axa REIM managed 38.4 billion
euros of real estate. ING Real Estate Investment Management is
the only company in the industry that oversees more assets,
according to a ranking by  Property Funds Research , a data
collector based in Reading, England.  Expansion Plans  All these assets, apart from about $500 million of special
client accounts managed in Asia, are in Europe. Vaquier said Axa
REIM aims to expand in the Americas and Asia after establishing
offices in Japan and the U.S.  Axa REIM formed a venture in March with Sumitomo Trust &
Banking Co. and is raising money for a 50 billion-yen ($614
million) Japanese office fund. Next year, it aims to start
selling a residential real-estate fund focused on middle-tier
housing in China’s secondary cities after signing an agreement
with Ping An Insurance Group Co. of China Ltd.  In the U.S., Axa set up an office in New York in June to
expand its presence there and hopes to start selling funds in
the U.S. in 2012, Vaquier said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Simon Packard  in London at 
 packard@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at   ablackman@bloomberg.net . 