-- Baby Cribs Recalled by U.S. Agency After Injuries Tied to Drop-Side Design
-- B y   J e f f   P l u n g i s
-- 2010-10-22T18:54:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-22/baby-cribs-recalled-by-u-s-agency-after-injuries-tied-to-drop-side-design.html
Drop-side cribs sold by Kmart and
 Ethan Allen Interiors Inc.  are among 40,650 being recalled after
the U.S. Consumer Product Safety Commission received reports of
at least six injuries to children when the beds failed.  Victory Land Group Inc. of Bartlett, Illinois, is recalling
34,000 of its Heritage Collection cribs sold only in  Sears
Holding Corp. ’s Kmart stores, the CPSC said today in a
statement. The agency and the company have 17 reports of drop-
side rail detachments, resulting in three infant injuries.  Ethan Allen, based in Danbury, Connecticut, received
reports of five cases where parts came off of its drop-side
cribs, leading to one baby becoming trapped, two children
falling out and one child getting a pinched hand. The recall
covers 3,250 cribs sold for $550 to $900, the CPSC said.  Angel Line of Pennsville, New Jersey, is recalling 3,400
drop-side cribs sold through websites Ababy.com and Babyage.com
for about $140, the regulator said. The CPSC received one report
of a crib’s side detaching.  The safety agency is stepping up efforts to educate parents
on common risks that have led to deaths and injuries in drop-
side cribs. The CPSC is collaborating with the  American Academy
of Pediatrics  and New York-Presbyterian/Morgan Stanley
Children’s Hospital to distribute videos at hospitals and
doctors’ offices showing risks of strangulation and entrapment.  “Nurses will not allow newborn babies to leave the
hospital without parents having a safe car seat,” CPSC Chairman
 Inez Tenenbaum  said in a statement. “We need to make sure that
new parents provide a safe crib, bassinet or play yard for their
babies to sleep in.”  ‘Deadly Hazards’  In May, Tenenbaum said drop-side cribs are “deadly
hazards,” and said the agency has verified at least 32 deaths
in the models since January 2000. New crib requirements proposed
in July will ban the design.  Ethan Allen is working to resolve the potential safety
hazard,  David Callen , the company’s vice president for finance,
said in an interview. A repair kit offered by the company will
immobilize the rail, he said.  “We would never want to put any children in danger,”
Callen said. “One incident is too many.”  Larry Costello, a spokesman for Sears in Hoffman Estates,
Illinois, didn’t have any immediate comment.  The CPSC collaborated with the Food and Drug Administration
in September to warn consumers about infant sleep positioners,
which are unrelated to drop-side cribs, following reports of 12
fatalities.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jeff Plungis  in Washington at 
 jplungis@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  