-- Bahrain Votes for Parliament After Shiite Protests Against Discrimination
-- B y   G l e n   C a r e y
-- 2010-10-23T18:01:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-22/bahrain-votes-for-parliament-after-shiite-protests-against-discrimination.html
Bahrainis voted today in
parliamentary elections that occurred after campaign season
clashes between police and members of the country’s Shiite
Muslim majority who say they face discrimination.  The vote in the Persian Gulf island kingdom, home to the
U.S. Fifth Fleet, was the third since constitutional changes in
2001, with 146 candidates competing for 40 seats in the lower
house of parliament. About 318,000 people were registered to
vote. Results will start to be released Sunday.  Shiite parties say that representation in an assembly whose
legislation needs approval by the parliament’s upper house,
appointed by monarch  Sheikh Hamad bin Isa Al Khalifa , a Sunni
Muslim, hasn’t brought them equal treatment in areas such as
public jobs or housing. Since August, when a crackdown on
opposition activists led to 23 being charged with terrorism
offenses, protesters hurling Molotov cocktails and stones have
repeatedly clashed with security forces and several hundred have
been detained.  “Authorities here treat citizens based on their sect,
based on their origin,” Khalil Al Marzooq, a candidate with the
largest Shiite opposition group, Al-Wefaq, said in an interview
today. “We want a citizenship-centric country and development
so that whatever limited wealth we have in Bahrain will be
distributed among all people.”  Participation  Shiite parties returned to the assembly in 2006 after
boycotting it for four years on the grounds it was
unrepresentative and had little power. They currently hold 17
seats. Shiites make up between 60 and 70 percent of Bahrain’s
population.  “I am very happy to see participation everywhere and
commitment from every party whether they agree, disagree, like
or dislike the government,” the kingdom’s Foreign Minister
 Khalid bin Ahmed bin Mohammed bin Al Khalifa  said in an
interview today. “This is unprecedented.”  The vote “will make no difference for anyone,” Nabeel
Rajab, the Shiite president of the Bahrain Center for Human
Rights, said in an interview. “I am treated like a second- or
third-class citizen. We had a little hope in 2006, and now we
have none.”  The Bahraini government has said the election is intended
to give all citizens representation in government.  ‘Some Opposition’  “We tried to bring all people, from all cultures, from all
backgrounds, to come in and try to participate in this
process,” said Sheikh Khalid bin Ali Al Khalifa, the minister
of justice and Islamic affairs, in an Oct. 13 interview in
Manama, the capital.  While the main Shiite opposition was contesting today’s
election, other parties such as the Haq Movement, several of
whose leaders were arrested in August, have rejected it as
illegitimate and didn’t take part.  “There has been some opposition,” Abdullah al-Dosary, 57,
said after casting his vote. “Democracy doesn’t develop
overnight. The elections are something to our benefit.”
Officials from Western embassies were at the polling station
where al-Dosary voted.  At a polling station, Sayed Hassan Ali Azgar, 55,
complained that he wasn’t allowed to vote. “I was told that I
was not eligible to vote,” he said. “I feel terrible.”  Saudi Ties  Bahrain’s royal family has close ties with their neighbors
in Sunni-ruled Saudi Arabia, the largest Arab economy. Many
among Bahrain’s poor, mostly Shiite community retain cultural
and family ties with Shiite-dominated Iran, Saudi Arabia’s main
regional rival.  “I want to take part in the democratic process,” Taher
al-Jamal, 26, said. “I think it is my right.”  “The elections are a significant indicator of Sunni-Shiite
relations and will set the tone of the dynamic internal
discourse for the coming months over Shiite rights,”  Theodore Karasik , director of research at the Dubai-based Institute for
Near East and Gulf Military Analysis, said in response to e-
mailed questions.  The sectarian unrest came after a slowdown in Bahrain’s
oil-based economy during the global crisis. Growth slowed to 3.1
percent in 2009, less than half the previous year’s pace, and
government revenue fell to 1.7 billion dinars ($4.5 billion)
from 2.7 billion dinars. The International Monetary Fund
forecasts growth of 4 percent this year.  “We are in a transition period towards democracy,”
Abdulaziz Abul, 60, an independent member of parliament, who
wasn’t running in these elections, said at a polling station.
“We don’t have a democracy yet.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Glen Carey  in Riyadh at 
 gcarey8@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at  phirschberg@bloomberg.net . 