-- Baidu to Raise Capital Spending on Technology as Lead Widens over Google
-- B y   M a r k   L e e
-- 2010-10-22T11:54:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-22/baidu-will-raise-spending-after-profit-forecast-beat-analysts-estimates.html
Baidu Inc.  said it plans to raise
capital spending to upgrade technology, as the owner of China’s
most-used search-engine widened its lead over  Google Inc. ,
helping the company post earnings that beat analysts’ estimates.  “The step-up will continue, and we will be more aggressive
in the near term,” Chief Financial Officer  Jennifer Li  said
today in a conference call. Baidu is at an “early stage” of
its capital spending program, she said.  Baidu is offering new services including Internet shopping
and an online applications site, where users can download
content such as electronic books, after increasing its share of
the Chinese search-engine market. The Beijing-based company has
gained users from Google in China this year after the U.S. rival
closed its local site to avoid online censorship rules.  “They’ve been looking for the next growth driver,” said
 Eric Wen  who rates Baidu “hold” at Mirae Asset Securities in
Hong Kong. Baidu needs new sources of revenue as growth in its
search-engine business is expected to slow next year, he said.  Third-quarter net income more than doubled to 1.05 billion
yuan ($156.4 million), or 3 yuan per American depositary receipt,
compared with 492.9 million yuan, or 1.41 yuan, a year earlier,
Baidu said yesterday in a statement. That exceeded the 959
million yuan average of 11 analysts’ estimates compiled by
Bloomberg. Sales increased 76 percent to 2.26 billion yuan.  Baidu  ADRs rose to $103.50 on their first day of trading in
Singapore, compared with their closing price of $102.48 on the
Nasdaq Stock Market trading yesterday. The stock has  more than
doubled  this year, outperforming online rivals in China
including  Tencent Holdings Ltd. , the country’s biggest Internet
company by market value, and  Alibaba.com Ltd. , the leading local
e-commerce operator.  Capital Expenditure, Hiring  Capital spending rose to 246.3 million yuan in the third
quarter, from 181.6 million yuan in the previous three months,
Baidu said.  The company will continue to hire sales people and
engineers, after the company’s headcount increased by about
1,000 in the third quarter, bringing the total to about 10,000
as of the end of September, Li, the CFO, said.  Baidu now accounts for about 80 percent of China’s search-
engine market by traffic volume, a record high, Chief Executive
Officer  Robin Li  said on the call today.  New applications such as e-books offered as part of Baidu’s
“box computing” platform will “eventually translate into
financial benefits,” CFO Li said last month.  Revenue is expected to rise to 2.37 billion yuan to 2.44
billion yuan in the fourth quarter, Baidu said. That exceeds the
2.34 billion yuan average of analysts’ estimates compiled by
Bloomberg.  Phoenix Nest  The adoption of Baidu’s Phoenix Nest advertising system
boosted the company’s sales, CEO Li said in an interview in
August. In December, Baidu introduced Phoenix Nest, a program
designed to increase sales of online-search keywords to clients.  Baidu  accounted for 72.8 percent of China’s search-engine
market by revenue in the third quarter, rising from 71 percent
in the previous three months, according to research company
iResearch Inc. Google’s share dropped to 24.6 percent from 26.8
percent, iResearch said.  Google had been losing market share to Baidu since January,
when the owner of the world’s most-popular search engine said it
was no longer willing to comply with Chinese government
requirements for websites to self-censor content. The U.S.
company in March shut its Chinese search service and redirected
local users to its unfiltered Hong Kong site.  The change led to a shift in advertising spending to Baidu
from Google, James Hawkins, managing director at DGM Asia, which
buys advertising from Chinese Internet companies, said this
month.  License Renewed  In July, China renewed Google’s Internet license after the
Mountain View, California-based company changed the arrangement
used to point Internet traffic to the Hong Kong site. A month
earlier, Google stopped automatically redirecting users to the
Hong Kong site and put in place a so-called landing page that
requires users to opt for the alternative service.  China had an estimated 420 million Internet users at the
end of June, an increase of 36 million from six months earlier,
according to data from the government-sponsored China Internet
Network Information Center.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mark Lee  in Hong Kong at 
 wlee37@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at   ycho2@bloomberg.net  