-- Barney Frank Lends to His Campaign to Stay Afloat in Anti-Democratic Wave
-- B y   L a u r a   L i t v a n
-- 2010-10-22T15:50:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-22/barney-frank-lends-to-his-campaign-to-stay-afloat-in-anti-democratic-wave.html
Months after  House Financial
Services Committee  Chairman  Barney Frank  muscled an overhaul of
Wall Street rules through Congress, he is showing signs of
weakness in a Massachusetts re-election bid he says is his
toughest ever.  Frank this week loaned his campaign $200,000 for television
ads to counter any last-minute infusion of outside-group cash to
help his Republican opponent, Marine reservist and businessman
 Sean Bielat . The Tea Party Express appealed to donors Oct. 20 to
help defeat Frank, whom the political action committee called
“one of the worst liberals in Congress.”  “When I want to fight, I fight,”  Frank  said in an
interview yesterday. “When people lie about you and distort
things, if you don’t answer, it can be damaging.”  The nonpartisan Cook Political Report rates Frank a likely
winner. Still, he is being depicted as a poster child for the
nation’s economic woes and risks getting pulled into an anti-
Democratic wave, said  Paul Watanabe , a political scientist at
the  University of Massachusetts  in Boston. Bielat has $462,914
to spend from Oct. 15 until Nov. 2 against Frank, who faced
little or no opposition in some prior elections.  Significant Challenge  “There’s no question that Barney Frank is facing a
significant challenge with the best-funded opponent he’s ever
had,” Watanabe said.  Frank said at least three groups that support Tea Party-
backed candidates have said they want to spend money on ads and
mailings to defeat him. He said he is confident he will win
though the race is more challenging than the others he has faced
since he was first elected in 1980.  Asked whether he sees Democrats keeping control of the
House, allowing him to remain Financial Services Committee
chairman, he declined to say. Republicans need a net gain of 39
seats to win a majority.  “Don’t ask people when you’re not going to get an honest
answer,” said Frank, who is known for a caustic wit and
impatient manner. “Why would you do that?”  Frank has been chairman of the panel since Democrats took
over the House in January 2007. The following year he helped
negotiate the $700 billion bank bailout as well as legislation
to protect 400,000 homeowners from foreclosure and keep mortgage
giants Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac from collapsing.  Wall Street Regulation  He was the lead author of an overhaul of Wall Street
regulation approved in July. It created a consumer protection
bureau at the Federal Reserve, a council of regulators to guard
against risk to the system and a mechanism to liquidate large
failing firms.  Representing a heavily Democratic  district  that stretches
from the Boston suburbs south through the city of New Bedford,
Frank won his 2008 race with 68 percent of the vote against a
Republican rival who raised just $40,000. In 2006 no one ran
against him.  In this campaign, Bielat has raised $1.3 million, half of
that between Oct. 1 and Oct. 15.  Frank raised $3.1 million through Oct. 15 with $649,561
left to spend. He has drawn on the securities, insurance and
other industries affected by his committee, with the PACs and
individual employees of FMR LLC,  New York Life Insurance  and
Weiss Capital Management Inc. among his top donors.  Rhodes Cook , an independent analyst who follows
congressional races, said Frank likely will win re-election.  An Oct. 13-14 poll of 500 likely voters commissioned for
the Frank campaign showed him ahead, 56 percent to 37 percent.
The poll released by the campaign had an error margin of plus or
minus 5 percentage points.  ‘Big Chunk of Money’  Bielat said he believes that poll is skewed and that
Frank’s loan to his campaign shows the Democrat thinks the race
is tight.  “That’s a big chunk of money for him, and he clearly is
feeling in danger,” Bielat said in an interview.  Bielat said he tells voters that Frank is responsible for
the housing crisis because he didn’t work soon enough to rein in
Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac before their financial difficulties
set in.  Cook, editor of a nonpartisan political newsletter in
Virginia, said the fact that Frank is concerned reflects an
increasingly volatile campaign season. Also at risk are a number
of Democratic lawmakers who have long held power.  The Cook Political Report in Washington has rated House
Armed Services Committee Chairman  Ike Skelton  of Missouri and
House Budget Committee  John Spratt  of South Carolina’s races as
tossups.  Arizona Race  Also rated a tossup is the Arizona race between
Representative  Raul Grijalva , co-chairman of the House
Progressive Caucus, and Republican Ruth McClung, a Tea Party-
backed candidate and political newcomer. President  Barack Obama 
carried the district with 57 percent of the vote in 2008, and
Grijalva -- now in his fourth term -- has won all his elections
with at least 59 percent.  Frank’s district gave Obama 63 percent of its vote, though
Watanabe said the chairman must pay attention to political
changes taking hold in Massachusetts. Republican  Scott Brown  in
January won the Senate seat of the late Democratic Senator  Ted Kennedy , and Frank’s district includes areas Brown once
represented in the state Capitol. Those voters helped send Brown
to Washington, Watanabe said.  What is more, an anti-Democratic national mood appears to
be trumping everything, Watanabe said. That, he said, belies a
favorite phrase of former House Speaker  Tip O’Neill  of Boston
that “all politics is local.”  “This is a case where all politics is national,” Watanabe
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Laura Litvan  in Washington at 
 llitvan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net  