-- BG, Santos Win Approval for $29.5 Billion Australia Coal-Seam Gas Projects
-- B y   J a m e s   P a t o n
-- 2010-10-22T07:31:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-22/bg-santos-win-approval-for-29-5-billion-australia-coal-seam-gas-projects.html
BG Group Plc  and  Santos Ltd.  won
Australian government approval to build the first projects in
the world that will convert natural gas taken from coal seams
into liquid for shipment to overseas customers.  The Queensland ventures, which together may cost more than
A$30 billion ($29 billion), gained clearance from Environment
Minister  Tony Burke  today. The companies must comply with more
than 300 conditions to protect the environment and prevent gas
extraction from contaminating water, he said in Canberra.  “There’s no doubt these are tough conditions,” Burke said
at a news conference. “While there are significant economic
benefits, which must be a consideration in my decision, my focus
has been on protecting environmental matters.”  The Santos liquefied natural gas venture at Gladstone and
BG’s Queensland Curtis LNG project are among A$200 billion of
proposed developments in the country targeting Asian demand for
cleaner-burning alternatives to coal, the Australian Petroleum
Production and Exploration Association has said. The Queensland
LNG industry may generate 18,000 jobs and about A$1 billion in
annual state taxes, the organization said today.  “It’s show time,”  Graeme Bethune , chief executive officer
of Adelaide-based consulting firm Energy Quest, said by mobile
phone today from Qatar. “A conventional LNG project is large
and complex. An unconventional project with coal-seam gas is
even more so. Now the hard work begins.”  Korea Gas  Santos and BG, the U.K.’s third-largest oil and gas
producer, plan to commit by the end of 2010 to developing the
projects. BG’s venture may represent an investment of A$12
billion to A$15 billion, Resources Minister  Martin Ferguson  said
in June. Santos, Australia’s third-largest oil and gas producer,
is advancing with a project that may cost A$18 billion with two
production units, Citigroup Inc. said yesterday.  Korea Gas Corp. , the world’s biggest buyer of LNG, said
earlier this month that it’s in talks to acquire a 15 percent
stake in the Gladstone project. Korea Gas has likely agreed to
terms and is now waiting for South Korean government approval,
Citigroup’s Sydney-based analyst  Mark Greenwood  wrote.  Santos, partner in the project with Malaysia’s Petroliam
Nasional Bhd. and France’s  Total SA , said in a statement the
announcement adds “momentum toward a final investment decision
later this year.”  Environmental groups have said they are concerned about
coal-seam gas exploration on Australia’s east coast. The Hunter
Valley Protection Alliance held a protest outside  AGL Energy
Ltd. ’s annual shareholders meeting in Sydney yesterday against
the company’s plans for a coal-bed methane project in the region
of New South Wales state renowned for its wine and tourism.  Dugongs, Dolphins  Burke, who was named environment minister last month, also
approved the dredging of Gladstone Port’s western basin.  “The conditions I’ve imposed on the dredging project will
help to minimize any impact on the world and national heritage
values of the  Great Barrier Reef , as well as nationally
threatened and migratory species, including dugongs, turtles and
dolphins,” Burke said.  The Queensland Farmers Federation, based in Brisbane, said
in a statement after the decision it’s concerned “the rapid
expansion of the gas industry was outpacing the science and
planning.”  A rival venture in Queensland proposed by  Origin Energy
Ltd.  and partner  ConocoPhillips  found traces of banned
contaminants in eight exploration wells in the Surat Basin,
Sydney-based Origin Oct. 19. The project detected benzene,
toluene, ethylbenzene and xylene, together known as BTEX, Origin
said.  Well Samples  The Australia Pacific LNG venture doesn’t use BTEX to
extract the gas and is conducting an investigation that may last
“a number of weeks” to find the source,  Paul Zealand , Origin’s
executive general manager of exploration, said Oct. 20.  The chemicals were discovered in samples from wells where
the companies use a process known as hydraulic fracturing,
Origin said. In fracturing, chemically treated water is forced
into wells to break up rock and allow the gas to flow.  Queensland is committed to a ban on the use of BTEX, the
state government said earlier this month. Fluids used in
fracturing in Queensland are usually 99 percent sand and water,
while 1 percent is made up of additives, including sodium
hypochlorite and hydrochloric acid, the government said.  Origin and  ConocoPhillips  have said their project may cost
a total of A$35 billion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Paton in Sydney   jpaton4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at   aprakash1@bloomberg.net . 