-- BHP ‘Not Interested’ in Longer Review of Potash Bid
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   D o n v i l l e
-- 2010-10-22T20:50:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-22/bhp-says-little-separating-company-saskatchewan-in-potash-takeover-talks.html
BHP Billiton Ltd.  isn’t interested
in extending a deadline on a government review of its $40
billion takeover bid of Potash Corp. for Saskatchewan Inc., said
 Andrew Mackenzie , BHP’s head of non-ferrous businesses.  Under the  Investment Canada Act , the government can block
any transaction valued at C$299 million ($291 million) or more
if it finds it doesn’t provide a “net benefit” to the country,
based on factors such as economic activity and jobs. Canada has
until Nov. 3 to complete a review of the bid, unless BHP, the
world’s largest mining company, agrees to an extension.  “I’m not that interested, I want the whole thing done by
Nov. 3,” Mackenzie said today in a telephone interview from
Ottawa. “I think all the facts are on the table and it would
benefit from an early resolution.”  Saskatchewan Premier  Brad Wall  said yesterday that a
takeover would cut provincial revenue, lead to fewer jobs and
forfeit Canadian control of an important national resource. Wall
ruled out further talks with Melbourne-based BHP and said that
if the transaction was forced through, Saskatchewan would use
“the taxation tools of the province to make sure we are
protected.”  Mackenzie said if talks were to resume, BHP and the
province of Saskatchewan, where Potash Corp. is based, would
have little separating them on an agreement.  Kathy Young, a spokeswoman for Wall, didn’t immediately
return a call for comment.  Optimistic Outlook  “I’m optimistic because the premier has told us he is
committed to free markets,” Mackenzie said.  BHP has  said  it would make Saskatchewan home to its head
office for potash operations, continue developing its Jansen
potash mining project in the province, maintain current
employment levels and propose a Canadian nominee for election to
its board.  “If you walk away from a proposition like this you are
starting to send a signal that you’re not open for business and
that you will make it harder in the future to attract capital
both into Saskatchewan and Canada and you will make it harder
for Canadian companies to invest overseas,” Mackenzie said.  Saskatchewan has put pressure on BHP to commit to Canpotex,
an organization that handles potash exports to outside North
America, on concern its exit would reduce the region’s revenue.
Canpotex handles shipments for Potash Corp., Agrium Inc. and
Mosaic Co., which together account for as much as 40 percent of
global trade in the crop nutrient.  Not Head Waiter  Tony Clement , the Canadian minister in charge of reviewing
the hostile offer, reiterated today that he won’t be swayed
after Saskatchewan said the federal government should block the
bid.  “I’m neither the head waiter to the premier of
Saskatchewan, nor am I a butler to the president of BHP,”
Clement told reporters in Toronto today. Clement said he hadn’t
yet decided whether to approve the bid.  “It’s very difficult to prevent a sale,” said  Laurence Booth , a professor of finance at University of Toronto’s Rotman
School of Management. “We’ve allowed the sale of a number of
what were regarded as crown jewels of Canada.”  Potash Corp.  fell  $1.30, or 0.9 percent, to $141.79 at
4:15 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading.  BHP 
declined 13 pence, or 0.6 percent, to 2,199 pence in London.  Potash Corp. rejected BHP’s offer in August  as too low  and
said it was seeking alternative offers amid rising prices for
agricultural commodities.  Political Consequences  Leaders from Canada’s opposition parties yesterday urged
the government to reject the offer. Liberal Party Deputy Leader
 Ralph Goodale , who comes from Saskatchewan, said there will be
“consequences” for the government if it ignores Wall’s appeal.
New Democratic Party Leader  Jack Layton  said it was important
the country protect its “strategic jewels.”  Federal government leaders sought to stop national
sentiment from affecting the review.  John Baird , leader of the
governing Conservative Party in Parliament, told lawmakers that
51 percent of Potash Corp. is owned by non-Canadians and 38
percent by U.S. residents. A day earlier, Prime Minister  Stephen Harper  had said the proposed deal was a case of an Australian
company buying an “American-controlled” company.  In the past 25 years, Canada has only formally rejected one
takeover offer, Alliant Techsystems Inc.’s bid for MacDonald
Dettwiler & Associates Ltd.’s space business in 2008.  Saskatchewan is home to the world’s largest reserves of
potash, a form of potassium farmers use to boost crop yields.
Saskatoon-based Potash Corp. is the world’s largest maker of
potash by capacity and produces nitrogen- and phosphate-based
crop nutrients.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Christopher Donville  in Vancouver at 
 cjdonville@bloomberg.net .
To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at   scasey4@bloomberg.net . 