-- Biden Says Outside Groups' Money Jeopardizes Democrats' Control of House
-- B y   M i k e   D o r n i n g   a n d   P a t r i c k   O ’ C o n n o r
-- 2010-10-23T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-22/biden-says-outside-groups-money-jeopardizes-democrats-control-of-house.html
Vice President  Joe Biden  said
Democrats will maintain a majority in the Senate while he
worries that hundreds of millions of dollars in anonymous
donations to campaign groups backing Republicans could cost his
party control of the House of Representatives.  “We will keep control of the Senate for certain, and I
believe we’ll keep control of the House” in the Nov. 2 midterm
elections, Biden said in an interview on Bloomberg Television’s
“Political Capital with  Al Hunt ,” airing this weekend.  Still, he said, he has been “amazed” by the amount of
money flowing into outside campaign groups advertising against
Democratic candidates. “The only caveat I’d put in terms of the
House is how much impact” the funding has.  Biden brushed aside criticism of the handling of the $814
billion economic-stimulus package, saying “it’s the best-run
federal program there’s ever been.” He also said Republican
control of Congress would be bad for business and declared it’s
never morally acceptable for homeowners to walk away from a
mortgage they have the ability to pay.  He signaled a willingness to make small concessions in
accepting more of the Bush-era tax cuts when asked if the White
House would consider raising the $250,000 limit President  Barack Obama  wants on income that would still be taxed at lower rates.
Republicans want the lower rates continued for all taxpayers,
including the highest-income earners.  ‘Open’ to Talks  “We’re open to speak to the Republicans, if they really
mean it. If they’re talking about  deficit  reduction, if they’re
willing to move, I think there’s a possibility,” Biden said.  Senate Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell , while welcoming
Biden’s comments as a sign of movement from the Obama
administration, expressed skepticism.  “I would like to believe that the vice president’s
comments suggest a real conversion,” McConnell, a Kentucky
Republican, said in a statement. “But given this
administration’s record, it’s a real challenge to believe it’s
anything other than a pre-election attempt to distract voters
from the administration’s record -- and its oft-stated plan to
sock America’s job creators with a massive new tax hike.”  Biden rejected the idea that the Republican Party is
supportive of business, citing congressional Republicans’
opposition to investment tax credits that the Obama
administration has proposed.  Among the proposals is an expansion of a 30 percent tax
credit for clean-energy investments that was included in the
economic stimulus.  Tax Credit  “How are the Republicans pro-business when they vote
against tax stimulus for companies to build things here?” Biden
said. “How can you be against a 30 percent tax credit if you
come here and you build windmills?”  Biden also said education funding would suffer under a
proposal made by House Republican leaders to cut non-security-
related discretionary spending to its fiscal year 2008 level.  “They want to cut education by 20 percent,” Biden said.
“What do they think the Chinese are doing? You think the
Chinese are sitting around and saying we’re going to cut
education?”  An analysis by the  Center on Budget and Policy Priorities 
calculated the Republican proposal would require a 21 percent
cut in non-security-related discretionary spending, though aides
to House Minority Leader  John Boehner  of Ohio have said the cuts
wouldn’t necessarily fall equally across all programs.  Mortgage Defaults  Amid a slump in the housing market that has left many
Americans with more mortgage debt than their homes are worth,
Biden rejected the idea that it is acceptable for homeowners to
engage in strategic defaults, in which they stop making payments
on a loan they are capable of paying.  “I don’t think it’s ever really OK to do that,” Biden
said. “Look, you make a deal when you sign a mortgage. Bank
makes a deal, you make a deal. You meet the conditions.”  In a separate interview on “Political Capital,” U.S.
Representative  Darrell Issa  accused Obama of “playing faster
and looser with the rules” than former Republican President
 George W. Bush .  Issa, a Californian who’s poised to be chairman of the
House oversight committee if Republicans regain the majority,
made the comparison while defending earlier remarks made on  Rush Limbaugh ’s radio show in which he called Obama “one of the most
corrupt presidents in modern times.”  Pentagon Contractors  As evidence, Issa pointed to a Pentagon practice, under
Obama, of recruiting private contractors to work for the
government with promises of better benefits and higher salaries.
Issa said he plans to investigate it.  Issa singled out Biden for a failure to monitor spending,
saying neither he nor oversight committee Chairman  Edolphus Towns , a New York Democrat, has met with the vice president
about the stimulus spending.  “Vice President Biden was supposed to be the great
overseer of stimulus money,” said Issa, at the same time
praising  Earl Devaney , the inspector general for the Department
of Interior overseeing the stimulus spending.  Jenny Thalheimer Rosenberg, an aide to Towns, said late
Oct. 21 that Biden and the chairman met once at the White House
to discuss stimulus oversight.  The nonpartisan  Cook Political Report , which handicaps
congressional races, projects Republican gains of at least 40
seats in the House, enough to take control, and seven to nine in
the Senate. The 100-member Senate currently has 57 Democrats and
two independents who support the Democrats; Biden has the
ability to break a tie.  On South Korea, Biden declined to assess the chances that
Obama would return from his November trip to the Asian nation
with a free-trade agreement ready to send to Congress.  “The president does want to have a free and fair trade
agreement with Korea, and there’s a lot of work going on right
now,” Biden said. “I don’t want to handicap it.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Mike Dorning  in Washington D.C. at 
 mdorning@bloomberg.net ;
 Patrick O’Connor  in Washington at 
 poconnor14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net  