-- Blinder Says Fed `Making It Up' With New Stimulus: Tom Keene
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   S a l a s   a n d   T o m   K e e n e
-- 2010-10-22T18:02:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-22/blinder-says-federal-reserve-making-it-up-with-new-stimulus-tom-keene.html
Federal Reserve policy makers are
improvising as they debate embarking on a second round of
unconventional monetary stimulus, said  Alan Blinder , former vice
chairman of the U.S. central bank.  “They are making it up as they go along,” Blinder, a
Princeton University economist, said in an interview with
Bloomberg television’s “Surveillance Midday” with Tom Keene.  After lowering interest rates almost to zero and buying
$1.7 trillion of  securities , the Fed is considering expanding
its balance sheet further by purchasing more Treasury
securities, as well as strategies to boost inflation
expectations, according to the minutes of its Sept. 21 Federal
Open Market Committee meeting.  Blinder said he doesn’t project the central bank will
undertake a “shock and awe” approach after its Nov. 2-3
meeting, or one designed to quickly influence the market through
big asset purchases. Instead, the Fed will “dribble it out” by
buying in smaller increments, he said.  His thinking is in line with comments made by St. Louis Fed
President  James Bullard , who said yesterday that the central
bank should buy $100 billion in long-term Treasuries next month
and calibrate subsequent purchases based on the course of the
economic recovery. Bullard has been critical of starting a
program with big purchases of assets.  The central bank will need to buy more than $500 billion of
securities to successfully lower interest rates and stimulate
the economy, Blinder said. “It does take a lot of money to move
the prices of government bonds,” Blinder said. “$500 billion
for the total amount is too small.”  Dudley’s Estimates  New York Fed President  William Dudley  said in an Oct. 1
speech that further easing is “likely to be warranted.” Dudley
estimated that $500 billion of purchases, for example, would add
as much stimulus as reducing the Fed’s  benchmark rate  by 0.5
percentage point to 0.75 percentage point, depending on how long
investors expect the Fed to hold the assets.  The program of asset purchases that the Fed is “about to
embark upon is a lot like what the Japanese did,” Blinder said
in today’s interview. The U.S. bond market is “deeper and more
liquid a market,” which will make it harder for the Fed to
lower interest rates through their purchases, he said.  The central bank, confronted with inflation that’s failing
to reach its goals and an  unemployment rate  that has persisted
near 10 percent, is under extra pressure to try to stimulate
growth because the “American political system is paralyzed by
the election,” Blinder said. “It’s the only game in town in
terms of boosting the economy.”  While Blinder said he doesn’t expect the economy to slip
back into a recession, he said “there is much too large a
probability we get stuck around 2 percent growth for a while.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Caroline Salas  in New York at 
 csalas1@bloomberg.net ;
 Tom Keene  in New York at   tkeen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  