-- BNP Paribas Investment Buys Peso, Rupiah, High-Yielding Asian Dollar Bonds
-- B y   J u n g m i n   H o n g
-- 2010-10-22T01:13:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-22/bnp-paribas-investment-buys-peso-rupiah-high-yielding-asian-dollar-bonds.html
BNP Paribas Investment Partners, a
unit of France’s largest lender, bought the Philippine peso and
the Indonesian rupiah as relatively low debt levels and high
foreign-currency reserves support Asian currencies.  “Earlier this week, we added to our holdings of the peso
and rupiah,”  Adeline Ng , head of Asian fixed-income at BNP
Paribas Investment Partners in Singapore, said in an interview
in Seoul yesterday. It also favors the Malaysian ringgit and the
Indian rupee.  The peso and the rupiah have strengthened 6.3 percent and
5.1 percent respectively against the dollar so far this year,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The Philippine
government is targeting growth of 5 percent to 6 percent this
year and the economy should benefit from remittances from
overseas workers over the Christmas period, Ng said.  BNP Paribas Investment has also been adding to holdings of
Asian dollar-denominated, high-yield bonds, which have returned
18 percent this year, Ng said. Dollar debt in the region handed
investors an average return of 13.4 percent so far this year,
while local-currency notes gave a 13.2 percent return, according
to HSBC Holdings Plc.  BNP Paribas Investment Partners had 533 billion euros ($741
billion) of assets under management as of June 30, according to
the company. It had 54.2 billion euros of assets under
management in the Asia-Pacific region at the end of August, the
company said.  The fund manager doesn’t see much room for appreciation in
the Chinese yuan. “We have no position in the yuan,” she said.  The yuan has gained 2.7 percent this year, compared with
11.4 percent for the Thai baht and 10 percent for the ringgit,
the two best-performing major Asian currencies excluding the
yen, according to Bloomberg data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jungmin Hong  in Seoul at
   jhong47@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will McSheehy
at   wmcsheehy@bloomberg.net  