-- Boeing Sales Beat `New Normal' Pessimism as Fed May Act
-- B y   I a n   K a t z
-- 2010-10-22T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-22/boeing-sales-beat-new-normal-pessimism-as-fed-prepares-to-act.html
Rising sales at companies from
 Boeing Co.  to chipmaker  Intel Corp.  and railroad  CSX Corp.  show
U.S. businesses are growing even before a boost investors
predict from the next round of Federal Reserve monetary easing.  About 85 percent of companies in the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index have exceeded analysts’ per-share profit  estimates  so far
in third-quarter reports. The  S&P 500  gained 11 percent since
Aug. 27, when Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said the central bank
“will do all that it can” to keep the economy’s rebound alive.
General Electric Co., Delta Air Lines Inc. and retailers
including Kohl’s Corp. are planning to add workers.  The earnings and market enthusiasm run counter to pessimism
about the U.S. economy ahead of Nov. 2 congressional elections
in which Republicans are projected to gain seats from President
Barack Obama’s Democrats. The  jobless rate  was 9.6 percent in
September, exceeding the 5 percent rate as an 18-month recession
started in 2007. Foreclosures reached a record in September.  “The market is telling us it’s not all doom and gloom,”
said  Nariman Behravesh , chief economist at IHS Inc., a
consulting firm in Lexington, Massachusetts. “Earnings are very
good in many parts of the economy.”  The profit is driven in part by overseas growth that’s
outpacing the U.S. expansion. Caterpillar Inc., the world’s
largest maker of construction and mining equipment, and United
Parcel Service Inc., the largest package-delivery company, cited
international demand as they reported higher profit and raised
their forecasts yesterday.  New Normal vs. New Mix  As opposed to a so-called new normal environment  of
lowered consumer spending suppressing growth, a “new mix” of
increased productivity and exports may spur economists to raise
growth estimates for next year, said  Joe Carson , director of
economic research at AllianceBernstein LP in New York.  “The recovery that started out very narrow is beginning to
broaden out,” Carson said. For now, economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News this month forecast an average 2.7 percent gross
domestic product growth this year and 2.4 percent in 2011.  Boeing, the world’s largest aerospace company, raised its
full-year  earnings forecast  Oct. 20 and posted a third-quarter
profit on higher jetliner deliveries. There have been 472  orders 
so far this year, exceeding last year’s total, prompting the
company to make plans to boost production.  The orders are coming amid a “slow, steady kind of
recovery,” Chief Executive Officer  Jim McNerney  said on an Oct.
20 conference call. Most of the demand is from overseas.  Room for Earnings Growth  “Companies can still increase earnings beyond expectations
in this environment,” said  Lawrence Creatura , a Rochester, New
York-based fund manager at Federated Investors Inc., which
oversees about $350 billion. Corporations are spending to
improve efficiency and not on “irrationally expanding capacity
into a weak environment.”  Automobile production is aiding the recovery,  Michael Ward ,
CEO of Jacksonville, Florida-based CSX, said on Oct. 13. CSX,
the second-largest publicly traded U.S. railroad, reported
third-quarter profit that beat analysts’ estimates as a 44
percent increase in auto shipments boosted rail volumes.  Parker Hannifin Corp., the Cleveland-based maker of
motion-control products, said sales in its Industrial North
America division rose 36 percent in the three months ended in
September from a year earlier. The maker of valves and pumps
raised its annual forecast after fiscal first-quarter earnings
more than tripled.  GE is optimistic even after a 5 percent third-quarter sales
drop. Higher airline traffic, rail loadings and cargo freight
miles all are positive signs, Chief Financial Officer  Keith Sherin  said in an Oct. 15 interview. Fairfield, Connecticut-
based GE is the world’s biggest maker of power-plant turbines,
jet engines, medical imaging equipment and locomotives.  Monetary Policy  The Fed  may take no chances and move to add stimulus. About
90 percent of respondents to a Citigroup Inc. survey said they
expect another round of large-scale asset purchases by the Fed
to bolster the economy, a tactic known as quantitative easing,
after the central bank’s Nov. 2-3 meeting.  “Our monetary policy for the first time is not working,”
Coca-Cola Co. CEO  Muhtar Kent  said in an interview Oct. 19.
“Government needs to step in and borrow, and provide
intellectually stimulating incentives for innovation and
entrepreneurial spirit in the country.”  There’s a case to be made for additional stimulus because
inflation is too low and unemployment too high, Bernanke said
Oct. 15. Inflation rose 1.4 percent for the 12 months ended in
August. The Fed’s preferred range is 1.7 percent to 2 percent.  Until the U.S. economy manages a higher level of sustained
growth, companies are fortifying their earnings and sales with
overseas expansion.  Growth Overseas  Intel, the world’s biggest chipmaker, predicted fourth-
quarter sales may exceed some analysts’ estimates, helped by
demand in emerging economies. Revenue will range from $11
billion to $11.8 billion, Santa Clara, California-based Intel
said in a statement Oct. 12. That compared with analysts’
average projection of $11.3 billion in a Bloomberg survey.  Global economic growth will be “bifurcated” into two
groups, with the U.S., Europe and Japan growing less than 3.5
percent and emerging markets expanding 6 percent to 8 percent,
 Sandy Cutler , CEO of Eaton Corp., said in an interview. The
 shares  of the Cleveland-based maker of circuit breakers and
parts for factory equipment rose yesterday to the highest since
June 2008.  Caterpillar  has announced plans in the past five months to
build factories in Brazil and China, where economic growth is
stronger than in the U.S. Overseas demand will help sales
approach $50 billion next year, from $41 billion to $42 billion
in 2010, the Peoria, Illinois-based company said in a statement.  Spending to Expand  Atlanta-based shipper UPS yesterday said average daily
domestic volume rose 3.6 percent in the third quarter while
international surged 13 percent, led by Asia. The company raised
its full-year profit  forecast  to as much as $3.54 a share, from
$3.35 to $3.45 previously. The average estimate was $3.47.  Gap Inc., the San Francisco-based operator of more than
3,000 clothing stores, expects to spend $575 million on capital
expenditures this year. That’s an increase of 72 percent from a
year ago as it opens stores in China and Italy, expands online
sales outside North America and cuts back on U.S. retail space
by closing and shrinking locations.  The North American retail market has matured for the
company’s three brands -- Gap, Old Navy and Banana Republic --
Chief Executive Officer  Glenn Murphy  said in a presentation to
investors and analysts Oct. 14.  Atlanta-based Delta said Oct. 15 the airline will add 1,000
flight attendants, many of them to work on more profitable
international routes for the world’s second-biggest carrier, as
global demand for travel improves.  Retail Spending Rises  There are signs the American consumer may be starting to
revive.  Retail sales  rose 0.6 percent in September following a
0.7 percent gain in August that was larger than previously
estimated, the Commerce Department reported last week.  Wal-Mart Stores Inc., the world’s largest retailer, may
have “positive” fourth-quarter sales at U.S. stores open at
least a year after five consecutive quarters of decline, CEO
 Mike Duke  said.  “I feel good about our U.S. plans,” Duke said during an
investor conference Oct. 13. Bentonville, Arkansas-based Wal-
Mart has yet to release a detailed forecast for the period. Two
months ago, Wal-Mart said third-quarter same-store sales in the
U.S. would range from a 2 percent drop to a 1 percent gain.  Kohl’s , the fourth-largest U.S. department store chain,
plans to hire about 40,000 people this holiday season, 21
percent more than last year, to prepare for a projected uptick
in sales. They will work in Kohl’s 1,089 stores, as well as
distribution centers and credit operations, the Menomonee Falls,
Wisconsin-based company said in a statement.  Midwest Agriculture  Manufacturing and agriculture are boosting the U.S.
Midwest. Manufacturing activity in THE region that includes all
or parts of seven states rebounded last month, the Federal
Reserve Bank of Kansas City said. Producers’ expectations for
future activity also improved, the bank said in a statement
Sept. 30.  Cargill Inc., the Minnetonka, Minnesota-based grain
distributor that’s the largest closely held company in the U.S.,
said Oct. 12 that first-quarter profit rose 68 percent. Sales
climbed 6 percent to $27.8 billion.  While the growth has lowered the prospect of another
recession, that doesn’t mean everything is working as it should,
Caterpillar Chairman  Jim Owens  said.  “In the business community, there’s very little concern
about a double dip,” Owens said at an Oct. 14 meeting in
Chicago of the Business Council, a private group of corporate
executives. “We are concerned about slow growth, suboptimum
growth for a two-, three-year period with lingering very high
levels of unemployment.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ian Katz  in Washington at 
 ikatz2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kevin Miller at   kmiller@bloomberg.net . 