-- Bombardier Aims to Sell India-Made Subway Cars in Southeast Asian Nations
-- B y   S i d d h a r t h   P h i l i p
-- 2010-10-22T08:59:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-22/bombardier-aims-to-sell-india-made-subway-cars-in-southeast-asian-nations.html
Bombardier Inc. , the world’s biggest
trainmaker, intends to use a subway-car plant in India as an
export hub as economic development spurs investment in public
transportation across Southeast Asia.  The company plans to market cars made at the Savli, western
India factory in Thailand, the Philippines and Indonesia, Pierre
D. St-Onge, the plant’s general manager, told reporters at the
factory today. The plant is working through orders for 538 cars
from New Delhi.  The trainmaker has room to double the capacity of the
factory to help sustain the exports push, St-Onge said, without
giving a timeframe for expansion plans. Southeast Asian nations
are investing in subways and urban rail systems to ease road
congestion that has stymied growth and created pollution.  The Bombardier  plant , which has two production lines, was
opened in 2008 after the Montreal-based company won a contract
to supply cars to Delhi Metro Rail Corp. The factory builds 32
carriages a month, which could be increased to 38 through the
addition of more shifts and robots, he said.  The company has 288 cars left in its order backlog, all of
which will be delivered by October, 2011, St-Onge said. The
trainmaker is also targeting sales in other Indian cities, he
said.  The world’s second-most populous nation needs to spend $392
billion on mass rail and bus transport by 2030 as the urban
population may rise to 590 million from 340 million in 2008,
McKinsey & Co. said in a report in April. To meet the demand, 35
rail-based transit systems are required in cities over the next
two decades, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Siddharth Philip  in Mumbai at 
 sphilip3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at   ndenslow@bloomberg.net . 