-- Brazil’s Bovespa Falls, Caps First Weekly Decline Since August
-- B y   A l e x a n d e r   R a g i r
-- 2010-10-22T20:31:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-22/bovespa-stock-index-futures-strengthen-after-hrt-s-initial-share-offer.html
Brazil’s Bovespa fell, capping its
first weekly decline since August, on concern higher interest
rates in China and uncertainty in global currency markets may
curb economic growth, offsetting a rally for steelmakers.  ALL America Latina Logistica SA, Latin America’s largest
railroad company, slumped for a fourth day in Sao Paulo trading
amid concern its valuation is too high given earnings growth
potential.  Usinas Siderurgicas de Minas Gerais SA , Gerdau SA and
 Cia. Siderurgica Nacional SA  jumped, leading gains on the
Bovespa index, after Valor Economico reported the government
this month will set minimum prices for some types of steel
imports.  The  Bovespa  index fell 0.2 percent to 69,529.73, erasing an
earlier gain of as much as 1 percent. The  gauge  capped a weekly
decline of 3.2 percent. The  BM&FBovespa Small Cap index  fell 0.1
percent to 1,394.66. The real fell 0.5 percent to 1.7057 per
dollar.  Group of 20 finance ministers began talks to diffuse
tensions in the currency market as speculation builds that the
U.S. Federal Reserve will pump more cash into the world’s
largest economy to safeguard the recovery. Investors sold
emerging-market assets this week after China raised interest
rates and on concern over currency negotiations, wrote RBC
Capital Markets in a note today.  ‘Immediate Focus’  “The immediate focus in EM remains on how policy makers
respond to lingering FX appreciation pressures,” RBC analysts
wrote.  China’s consumer prices rose 3.6 percent last month, the
statistics bureau said at a briefing yesterday in Beijing. The
government has a full-year inflation target of 3 percent. The
inflation data spurred concern that more rate increases may be
coming after the central bank on Oct. 19 raised borrowing costs
for the first time since 2007 to avert asset bubbles. China is
Brazil’s biggest trade partner.  Fibria Celulose SA , the world’s largest pulp maker,
dropped 2.3 percent to 28.22 reais.  Usiminas surged 3 percent to 20.59 reais. Gerdau jumped 0.5
percent to 20.61 reais. CSN climbed 1.7 percent to 28.38 reais.
Brazil’s tax agency will set minimum prices for 16 types of flat
and long steel based on their costs of production, Valor
reported, without saying where it got the information.  Importers will also have to pay a tax of 12 percent on the
minimum prices rather than the actual value paid, which is often
well below international market prices, Valor reported.  “Concern about imports have been making the steel sector
suffer a lot recently and if the government takes measures along
these lines, it could help,” said  Roni Lacerda , who helps
manage 2.8 billion reais ($1.64 billion) at Rio de Janeiro-based
Mercatto Gestao de Recursos. “You’re still seeing strong
foreign inflows into emerging markets, especially Brazil.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alexander Ragir  in Rio de Janeiro at 
 aragir@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  