-- Brazil Coffee Crop Seen at Four-Year Low on Drought
-- B y   K a t i a   C o r t e s   a n d   L u c i a   K a s s a i
-- 2010-10-22T20:51:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-22/brazil-coffee-crop-seen-at-four-year-low-on-drought-growers-group-says.html
Coffee output in Brazil, the world’s
biggest producer, may drop to the lowest in four years in 2011
after a drought hindered flowering for the next crop, the head
of a grower’s group said.  Brazil may harvest about 36 million bags of coffee next
year, down from 47.2 million this year and 39.5 million in 2009,
 Gilson Ximenes , the head of the National Coffee Council, said in
a telephone interview. Brazil’s Agriculture Ministry will
release its first estimate for next year’s crop on Dec. 14.  Coffee trees in Brazil’s Southeast, which accounts about 85
percent of the country’s output, need adequate levels of soil
moisture to flower properly in October before developing beans
for the following year. Dry weather between August and September
reduced humidity and hindered flowering, Ximenes said. Output
will also fall because trees will enter the lower-yielding half
of a two-year cycle.  “Crops faced aggravating circumstances,” Ximenes said in
a telephone interview today from Minas Gerais. “We’ll certainly
have a smaller crop than in 2009.”  Ximenes’ estimate for next year’s crop is lower than the
market expects, said  Marcio Bernardo , a coffee analyst at
Newedge USA LLC in New York. Brazil may harvest about 38 to 40
million bags of the beans, he said.  “It’s still very early to estimate the size of the crop
because lots of weather impacts will still happen,” Bernardo
said in a telephone interview today. “But 36 million bags is a
low forecast.”  Drought Concern  Some members of Cooxupe, Brazil’s largest coffee
cooperative, are reporting losses of as much as 15 percent of
their crops because the flowers are falling off of trees without
producing beans, said  Joaquim Goulart de Andrade , a manager at
the group.  “We are seriously concerned,” Andrade, whose cooperative
is a member of the coffee council, said today in a telephone
interview from Guaxupe, Brazil.  Rainfall in the Guaxupe region, where the cooperative’s
11,500 growers produce about 13 percent of Brazil’s arabica
coffee, totaled 706.4 millimeters (28 inches) this year through
September, the least since 2001. That compares with a 49-year
average of 923.2 millimeters for the period, according to data
on  Cooxupe ’s website. Flowering runs from September through
November and the harvest starts in April.  Expected rains could help the harvest, Brazilian
Agriculture Minister  Wagner Rossi  said yesterday in an interview
in Santiago.  Rainfall Compensates  “We expect to have showers in the next months that will
compensate for the weakness in the last months,” said Rossi.  “Coffee has one strong harvest and then one weak one,” he
said. “The last weak year was 39 million. We will probably see
something close to that.”  The National Coffee Council represents the country’s
biggest growers, including cooperatives and regional
associations. A bag of coffee weighs 60 kilograms (132 pounds).  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Katia Cortes  in Brasilia at  at
 kcortes@bloomberg.net ;
 Lucia Kassai  in Sao Paulo at 
 lkassai@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at   dcrofts@bloomberg.net  