-- BRIC Stocks May Double, Return to 2008 High, on Fed's Easing, SocGen Says
-- B y   M i c h a e l   P a t t e r s o n
-- 2010-10-22T17:17:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-22/bric-stocks-may-double-as-fed-stimulus-spurs-asset-inflation-socgen-says.html
Stock markets in the biggest
developing nations may double as the Federal Reserve’s monetary
stimulus sends valuations back to their 2008 peak, according to
 Dylan Grice,  a global strategist at Societe Generale SA.  Investors have poured record amounts of money into
emerging-market equity funds this year as U.S.  benchmark
interest rates  near zero spurred demand for higher-yielding
assets abroad, EPFR Global data show. Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said last week more monetary stimulus may be warranted
after $1.7 trillion of debt purchases failed to spur growth.  Low interest rates under Bernanke’s predecessor  Alan Greenspan  helped fuel the U.S. housing boom and bust that
precipitated the global financial recession two years ago,
economists including  John Taylor  of Stanford University have
said. The  MSCI BRIC Index  of shares in Brazil, Russia, India and
China has surged 164 percent from its 2008 low, beating the 40
percent gain in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  “If central banks know anything, it’s how to blow
bubbles,” Grice, who is based in London and was ranked the No.
2 strategist behind SocGen’s  Albert Edwards  in Thomson Extel’s
Pan-Europe 2010 survey, wrote in a research report e-mailed
today. “Emerging-market valuations could go much further before
they could be considered seriously stretched.”  Equities in the BRIC markets trade at a discount to the
Standard & Poor’s 500 based on a measure of profits adjusted for
economic cycles, Grice said.  ‘Too Much Liquidity’  BRIC share prices may double from current levels if
valuations climb back to 2008 levels, when they were more
expensive than the  S&P 500 , he said. Emerging-market bond
valuations have already returned to their level two years ago,
Grice wrote.  The combination of healthy government finances, young
populations and hard-working people with low income levels makes
developing nations “compelling” investment destinations, Grice
wrote.  Developing nations will expand 6.4 percent next year as the
U.S. grows 2.3 percent, according to forecasts this month from
the International Monetary Fund. Brazil’s economy grew 9 percent
in the first quarter, the fastest pace in 15 years, while China
expanded 11.9 percent, the most since 2007.  “What happens when you have a compelling investment case
and too much liquidity?” Grice wrote. “You get rampant asset
price inflation.”  Emerging-market equity mutual funds attracted more than $60
billion this year and bond funds lured more than $40 billion, on
pace for record annual inflows, according to data compiled by
Cambridge, Massachusetts-based research firm EPFR.  Cheap Options  Buying call options on emerging-market equities may be a
cheap way to profit from a “nascent” emerging-market bubble,
Grice wrote.  Investors use options to guard against fluctuations in the
price of securities they own, speculate on share-price moves or
bet that volatility, or stock swings, will rise or fall. Calls
give the right to buy a security through a specific date for an
agreed price.  “The headache posed by bubbles depends on the asset
managers’ perspective; for skeptics the pain is on the way up,
for true believers it’s on the way down,” Grice wrote. “For
emerging-market skeptics, such a scenario represents a positive
tail risk. Options pricing currently suggests such a risk is
relatively cheap to hedge.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Patterson  in London at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net . 