-- Pound Trades Near Weakest in Month Versus Dollar Before G-20
-- B y   S t e p h e n   M o r r i s
-- 2010-10-22T16:54:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-22/british-currency-heads-for-weekly-drop-as-investors-cut-risk-before-g-20.html
The pound posted its biggest weekly
loss against the dollar since August amid speculation this
weekend’s Group of 20 meeting in South Korea may result in an
accord that will support the U.S. currency.  Sterling slid for a sixth week versus the euro, the longest
stretch since November 2004, as G-20 finance ministers and
central bankers ended today’s round of talks. The finance chiefs
plan to say members will avoid “competitive undervaluation” of
currencies, according to an official from a member country,
citing a draft statement and speaking on condition of anonymity.
The pound and dollar have both dropped versus the euro this
month on concern the Bank of England and Federal Reserve will
engage in asset purchases, known as quantitative easing.  “Investors have had short positions on the dollar betting
on further quantitative easing in the U.S., but there is a risk-
factor going into this weekend with the G-20,” said  Lauren Rosborough , a senior strategist at Westpac Banking Corp. in
London. “People are lightening their short positions by buying
back U.S. dollars to reduce their risk, so that if we do get any
surprises, it won’t hurt their portfolios as much.”  Sterling was 0.2 percent weaker at $1.5672 at 5:07 p.m. in
London, depreciating against the U.S. currency in four of the
last five days. The pound fell 0.2 percent to 88.74 pence per
euro and was little changed at 127.72 yen.  ‘Not a Chance’  Bank of England minutes released this week showed policy
makers were leaning toward a second round of quantitative easing
to boost the economic recovery, helping drive the pound to its
weakest level in more than six months versus the euro.  The Monetary Policy Committee split three ways as a
majority voted to maintain the key interest rate at 0.5 percent
and bond purchases at 200 billion pounds. Policy maker  Adam Posen  voted to boost QE by 50 billion pounds ($79 billion) and
yesterday said the recovery in the economy appears “patchy.”
 Andrew Sentance  was the only member who pushed for an increase
in the key rate to 0.75 percent.  In contrast, German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  said on Oct.
20 governments must find an “exit strategy” from stimulus
spending, and last week Bundesbank President  Axel Weber  called
for an immediate end of the ECB’s bond-purchase program.  “Does it seem likely that the BOE is going to sound as
fundamentally hawkish as the ECB anytime soon? Not a chance,”
said  Ray Farris , the London-based head of foreign-exchange
strategy at Credit Suisse Group AG. “It’s extremely unlikely
that we are going to get an innovation out of the BOE that
strengthens sterling to a meaningful degree in any sustainable
fashion against the euro.”  Gilts Rise  U.K. government bonds fell, pushing up the yield on the 2-
year gilt five basis points to 0.64 percent. The 10-year gilt
yield rose to 2.95 percent.  Gilts returned investors 9.5 percent since the end of 2009,
beating an 8 percent gain from German debt, and 8.9 percent from
U.S. Treasuries, according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and
the Federation of Financial Analysts Societies.  Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  on Oct. 20
detailed his plan to almost eliminate the nation’s record 156
billion-pound budget deficit.  Osborne proposes to slash 500,000 public-sector jobs,
impose a levy on banks and cut spending by 81 billion pounds
over five years. He aims to narrow a deficit the government
forecasts at 10.1 percent of gross domestic product this year to
2.1 percent of GDP in the 2014-15 fiscal year. Debt interest
costs would fall by more than 5 billion pounds by 2015.  The pound has depreciated 5.9 percent this year against a
basket of its developed-country peers, according to Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes, making it the worst
performing currency.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Stephen Morris  in London at 
 smorris39@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at   dtilles@bloomberg.net  