-- BSkyB Says `Rule of Law' to Decide Murdoch Takeover Bid Fought by Rivals
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g   a n d   M a r y a m   N e m a z e e
-- 2010-10-22T08:41:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-22/bskyb-says-first-quarter-operating-profit-increases-on-broadband-demand.html
News Corp’ s bid for full ownership
of  British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc  will be examined by U.K.
Business Secretary  Vince Cable  on the “rule of law” despite
the demands from other media companies to block the deal, BSkyB
Chief Financial Officer  Andrew Griffith  said.  The proposed 7.8 billion-pound ($12.2 billion) takeover bid
for the U.K.’s largest pay-television operator will be
considered by Cable based on legal considerations “rather than
the commercial noise and lobby of competitors,” Griffith said
today on Bloomberg TV’s “Countdown with  Maryam Nemazee .”  Opposition to the proposed offer has mounted with U.K.
newspapers, the British Broadcasting Corp. and  BT Group Plc 
signing a joint letter to Cable calling for the bid to be
challenged by the U.K. government.  Rupert Murdoch ’s News Corp. made its offer conditional on
winning regulatory approval. BSkyB said today the regulatory and
financial conditions of the bid added “considerable uncertainty
to when and whether any formal offer could be made.”  News Corp. is scheduled to formally notify the  European
Commission  in the “near term,” BSkyB Chief Executive Officer
 Jeremy Darroch  said today on a conference call with reporters.
BSkyB spent 2 million pounds on advisory fees during the three
months ended Sept. 30.  The broadcaster said today fiscal first-quarter operating
profit rose 25 percent as it shifted marketing toward its
broadband offering.  Rising Profit  Earnings before interest, taxes and exceptional items in
the three months through September increased to 255 million
pounds, the Isleworth, England-based company said in a statement
today. That beat the 240 million-pound average estimate of seven
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Sales rose 15 percent to 1.53
billion pounds.  BSkyB is nearing a target of 10 million subscribers by the
end of this year, after adding 96,000 net new subscribers in the
period, taking it to a total of 9.96 million. The company is in
“touching distance” of its full-year target, Darroch said.  The pay-television operator has sought to attract customers
to its high-definition services after cutting installation
prices for set-top boxes.  “BSkyB goes from strength to strength as it reported a
solid set of first-quarter numbers,” said  Manoj Ladwa , a senior
trader at ETX Capital. “The broadcaster is also reaping the
benefits of a strategy shift as it increasingly cross-sells to
its expanding customer base. Both are factors that are likely to
see News Corp. either raise its offer quite significantly or
walk away.”  Marketing Shift  The  broadcaster  may not set a further customer target after
2010 as the pay-TV market matures, analysts have said. The
company said today that 2.3 million customers now take all three
television, broadband and telephone services. BSkyB may shift
its focus to selling more products to its existing customers
once the 10 million client target has been reached, analysts
including  Nick Bell  of Jefferies International Ltd. have said.  BSkyB’s independent directors, led by  Nicholas Ferguson ,
chairman of SVG Capital, have said they may accept an offer of
more than 800 pence a share. There is a “significant gap”
between News Corp.’s 700 pence-a-share proposal and the value of
the company, Ferguson said in June.  The stock rose as much as 1.1 percent, or 7.5 pence, to 705
pence, and was up 0.4 percent at 700.5 pence as of 9:33 a.m. in
London trading.  The independent directors are “absolutely unanimous” in
wanting  James Murdoch , Rupert Murdoch’s son, to remain as non-
executive chairman, while the bid process takes place, Darroch
said today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jonathan Browning  in London 
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at 
 vroot@bloomberg.net . 