-- Buy Bursa, Brokers to Tap Rebound in Malaysian Stocks, Credit Suisse Says
-- B y   C h a n   T i e n   H i n
-- 2010-10-22T03:55:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-22/buy-bursa-brokers-to-tap-rebound-in-malaysian-stocks-credit-suisse-says.html
Investors should buy shares of Bursa
Malaysia Bhd. and brokerages that benefit from rising trading
volumes as the nation’s  stock market  has “come back to life,”
Credit Suisse Group AG said.  “This market activity is sustainable given that 62 percent
of the 936 stocks listed are trading below book value,”
according to a report by  Stephen Hagger , an analyst. “There are
two ways of playing this liquidity: buy the stock exchange and
buy one of the stockbrokers.”  Daily  trading volume  on the Kuala Lumpur stock market has
been above 1.3 billion shares this week, near the 1.7 billion
share level reached on Sept. 24, which was the highest mark
since Jan. 5, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The daily
average rose to 850 million shares in the third quarter, from
788 million in the second quarter.  Malaysian Prime Minister  Najib Razak  said in his Oct. 14
budget speech that the government plans a 100-floor tower and a
mass rail project to boost spending and spur growth. The
benchmark  FTSE Bursa Malaysia KLCI index  has surged 17 percent
this year, surpassing levels before the start of the global
financial crisis in 2008.  Bursa, Malaysia’s stock exchange operator, has
“underperformed and is the blue chip way to play the sector,”
given that most of its profit is linked to trading volume,
Hagger said.  OSK, TA Enterprise  Hagger, whose team was ranked second for Malaysian research
in Institutional Investor’s 2010 Asian poll, said investors
should also consider buying retail brokerage stocks such as  OSK
Holdings Bhd.  and  TA Enterprise Bhd. , being the two “more
liquid” securities companies, he said.  There’s “plenty of action among second-line stocks,”
Hagger said, referring to the smaller companies that have been
among the most active shares on the Kuala Lumpur stock exchange
this week. “If liquidity and pre-election confidence grow, this
could sustain due to low valuation.”  Hagger said last week the government’s budget was also
focused on garnering political support ahead of general
elections that must be held by 2013.  Among the heavily traded stocks this week are Karambunai
Corp. and Time dotcom Bhd. Karambunai, a resort operator, was
the most active stock today with 44 million shares traded.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Chan Tien Hin  in Kuala Lumpur at 
 thchan@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Linus Chua at 
 lchua@bloomberg.net  