-- California's Unemployment Rate Remained at 12.4% in September, U.S. Says
-- B y   A l i s o n   V e k s h i n
-- 2010-10-22T16:55:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-22/california-jobless-rate-stayed-at-12-4-in-september-u-s-s-third-highest.html
California’s  unemployment rate , the
nation’s third-highest, held at 12.4 percent in September,
according to the U.S. Labor Department.  The state lost 63,500 jobs last month, the largest decline
in the U.S., the Labor Department said today in a regional and
state employment  report .  “We had gains in employment and unemployment, so they kind
of balance each other out,” Dennis Meyers, principal economist
in the state Finance Department, said today in a telephone
interview. “It means we’re making very slow progress, like the
rest of the nation, to recover.”  The unemployment data come a little more than a week before
California voters choose between Democrat  Jerry Brown  and
Republican  Meg Whitman  for governor. Both have pledged to
increase jobs as the most populous U.S. state struggles to
recover from the longest recession since the Great Depression.  California’s jobless rate has been at least 12 percent
since August 2009, according to  data compiled by Bloomberg . The
state trails Nevada, which had the highest level at 14.4 percent
last month, and Michigan, with 13.1 percent, according to the
Labor Department. The national rate was 9.6 percent.  “California benefited disproportionately from the housing
boom, and is suffering disproportionately worse from the
collapse,” Meyers said. “We have a deeper hole to climb out of
than the nation as a whole.”  California’s jobless population climbed by 10,000 to 2.27
million last month from August, according to data released today
by the state’s  Employment Development Department . The September
figure was 69,000 more than a year earlier, the state said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alison Vekshin  in San Francisco at 
 avekshin@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net . 