-- Canada's Flaherty Says Geithner's Letter on Global Imbalances Is Helpful
-- B y   P a u l   B a d e r t s c h e r   a n d   P e t e r   C o o k
-- 2010-10-22T08:13:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-22/canada-s-flaherty-says-geithner-s-letter-on-global-imbalances-is-helpful.html
Canadian Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty  said he is siding with U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  and his proposal to have Group of 20 nations commit
to policies that reduce external imbalances below a specific
share of gross domestic product.  “I think it’s useful,” Flaherty said in a Bloomberg
Television interview in Gyeongju, South Korea today, where he is
meeting with his G-20 counterparts after weeks of wrangling over
whether nations are relying on weaker exchange rates to spur
growth. “It gets us directionally where we want to go which is
to create an action plan for our leaders that they can adopt”
when they meet in Seoul next month.  Geithner is proposing G-20 members pursue policies to
reduce trade imbalances “below a specified share” of their
economies in coming years, according to an Oct. 20 letter
obtained by Bloomberg News. Canada agrees with the idea
“because it fits with the strong, sustainable, balanced growth
that we need to accomplish,” Flaherty said.  Some policy makers have signaled their skepticism about the
idea. Japanese Finance Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  told reporters he
thought numerical targets weren’t realistic, and said, “I’ll
need to hear about it, including how it will be done.”  Root of the Problem  Still, a Canadian government official said the idea targets
the root of the problem of unbalanced global growth. The
official, who spoke to reporters on condition of anonymity, said
for example that China could allow its currency to be more
flexible and adopt policies to discourage saving, while the U.S.
and other developed nations could take steps to narrow fiscal
deficits.  Flaherty, who met with Chinese Finance Minister  Xuren Xie 
earlier today, said “China and some of the other Asian
economies realize that inflexibility of currencies is one of the
facets to global imbalances that needs to be addressed and we’ll
see how well we do on addressing that.”  The discussions are going “fairly well,” Flaherty said.
“No one wants to be confrontational here,” he told reporters.
“No one wants to walk away from here without an agreement on an
action plan.”  Recent moves by some countries to defend their economies
through currency policy are “protectionist-type measures that
we all agreed we would avoid,” he said.  “We’re trying to make sure we get back on track,”
Flaherty said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Paul Badertscher  in Gyeongju at 
 pbadertscher@bloomberg.net 
 Peter Cook  in Gyeongju at 
 Pcook6@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ; 