-- Canadian Dollar Heads Toward a Weekly Decline as G-20 Meetings Commence
-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s
-- 2010-10-22T19:28:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-22/canadian-dollar-little-changed-as-annual-inflation-accelerated-last-month.html
Canada’s dollar headed for its
weekly decline since August against its U.S. counterpart as
Group of 20 finance ministers and central bankers began talks in
Gyeongju, South Korea, damping price price fluctuations.  The loonie, as the currency is nicknamed, earlier
strengthened for the second day since reaching parity with the
U.S. dollar on Oct. 14. G-20 ministers have been wrangling about
whether nations from the U.S. to China are relying on weaker
exchange rates to spur growth. A measure of core inflation
slowed in September, suggesting less chance of central bank
interest-rate increases.  “The market doesn’t want to take unnecessary positions
through any potential major announcement that may come out of
the G-20, especially as yearend approaches,” Shane Enright,
executive director at Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce’s CIBC
World Markets unit, said by phone from Toronto. “The market is
weaker, as lack of inflation pressure will aid the Bank of
Canada in keeping rates where they are.”  The Canadian dollar declined 0.1 percent to C$1.0272 per
U.S. dollar at 3:22 p.m. in Toronto, from C$1.0267 yesterday,
after touching C$1.0224. For the week, the loonie is down 1.7
percent versus the greenback. One Canadian dollar buys 97.35
U.S. cents.  Price Measure  The core annual pace of inflation excluding eight volatile
items slowed to 1.5 percent in September from 1.6 percent in the
previous month. The rate won’t reach policy makers’ 2 percent
target until the end of 2012, the Bank of Canada said Oct. 19.  Canadian Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty  said he is siding
with U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  and his
proposal to have Group of 20 nations commit to policies that
reduce external imbalances below a specific share of gross
domestic product.  “I think it’s useful,” Flaherty said in a Bloomberg
Television interview in Gyeongju, where he is meeting with his
G-20 counterparts after weeks of wrangling over whether nations
are relying on weaker exchange rates to spur growth. “It gets
us directionally where we want to go which is to create an
action plan for our leaders that they can adopt” when they meet
in Seoul next month.  Finance chiefs and central bankers will say after G-20
talks conclude tomorrow that they want a “more market-
determined exchange rate system that minimizes adverse effects
of excess volatility and disorderly movements in exchange
rates,” an official from a G-20 member country said, citing a
draft statement and speaking on condition of anonymity. They
will refrain from “competitive undervaluation” of currencies,
the official said.  ’Jitters Ahead’  “There are going to continue to be jitters ahead of the
G-20 meeting on whether there will be any agreement for
competitive devaluation,” said  Maria Jones , a currency trader
in Toronto at Toronto-Dominion Bank’s TD Securities unit. “When
the weekend passes, the market will get a clearer picture of
that the future holds for the loonie.”  Canadian retail sales rose at the fastest pace in six
months in August, an unexpected gain led by products ranging
from gasoline to food and furniture.  Sales advanced 0.5 percent to C$36.1 billion ($35.2
billion), Statistics Canada said today in Ottawa. Economists
surveyed by Bloomberg anticipated a 0.1 percent decline,
according to the median of 15 estimates.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Cordell Eddings  in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  