-- Canada Mining Company Probe Bill May Fail in Vote, McKay Says
-- B y   A l e x a n d r e   D e s l o n g c h a m p s
-- 2010-10-22T16:25:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-22/canadian-mining-company-probe-bill-may-fail-in-vote-law-s-supporter-says.html
The Canadian lawmaker who proposed a
law that would force the government to probe allegations against
Canadian mining companies operating overseas said the
legislation may not pass its final vote next week after
succeeding in a preliminary vote.  The  legislation  proposed by  John McKay , a lawmaker with the
main opposition Liberal Party, would require the government to
look into human-rights and environmental allegations against
Canadian miners. Violations would force the government to
withdraw political support, export credits and investments by
the Canada Pension Plan, the country’s second-biggest fund with
C$130 billion ($127 billion) in assets.  “It’s a very tight vote,” McKay said in an interview.
“It’s by no means assured.”  Business and mining groups and companies such as Barrick
Gold Corp., the world’s largest gold producer, have  warned  that
the legislation, if it passes, will make it easy for competitors
and other groups to tarnish reputations and limit investment
opportunities. Canada’s  mining industry  accounts for about 18
percent of the Toronto Stock Exchange’s capitalization.  “The easiest way to avoid the implications of the bill if
you want to is simply to move your company out of Canada,”  John Manley , the head of the Canadian Council of Chief Executives,
said in an interview. Overseas competitors could “file a
complaint and object to a license being granted on the basis
that that company is under investigation by its own
government.”  High Cost  McKay’s legislation is a  private member’s bill  and the
Liberals and the New Democratic Party will let their lawmakers
vote as they wish instead of imposing a party line, making it
more difficult to predict the outcome.  “The cost could be high,” said Paul Hebert, vice-
president of government relations with the  Mining Association of
Canada . The vote is scheduled for Oct. 27.  “As far as being a deterrent to getting involved in
projects -- absolutely,” Hebert said of the potential law.
“Especially if you’re looking at buying an existing project,
because the purchasing company would then be exposed to
complaints based on what has come before.”  Canadian mining companies have already taken steps to
improve their corporate responsibility policies, said  Perrin Beatty , chief executive officer of the Canadian Chamber of
Commerce.  ‘False Accusations’  “We’re very concerned about it, because it would put
Canadian mining operations at a very serious disadvantage,”
Beatty said. “It would encourage groups, and particularly the
competitors of Canadian companies, to launch false
accusations.”  McKay said his legislation would give companies a chance to
clear their names when facing unfair allegations. It would also
bolster confidence overseas that the Canadian government holds
companies to high standards, he said.  Legislation in Canada must be approved by the House of
Commons and the Senate before being implemented. McKay’s bill
succeeded 137 to 133 in an April 2009  vote . The ruling
Conservatives will vote against it, Andrew MacDougall, a
spokesman for Prime Minister  Stephen Harper , said in an e-mail.  The Conservative government lacks a majority of seats in
the House of Commons, and the bill could pass if enough
opposition lawmakers vote for it.  About 60 percent of the world’s exploration companies are
Canadian,  according  to the Mining Association of Canada.  Manley, who was industry and finance minister under
previous Liberal governments, said the legislation would likely
be stopped by the Senate if it passes next week’s vote.  Still, “once it goes over one hurdle, you can never be
totally sure it won’t go over another,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alexandre Deslongchamps  in Ottawa at 
 adeslongcham@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net . 