-- Ceiops Plans to Publish Insurers’ Test Results Early
-- B y   O l i v e r   S u e s s
-- 2010-10-22T12:57:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-22/ceiops-plans-to-publish-european-insurers-solvency-ii-test-results-early.html
European insurers’ results in a test
of new regulations may be published earlier than scheduled, the
head of the supervisory body advising the European Commission on
the rules said.  “We want to send our final report on the fifth
quantitative impact study to the EU Commission in the first week
of March, one month earlier than expected,”  Carlos Montalvo ,
secretary general of the Committee of European Insurance and
Occupational Pension Supervisors, or  Ceiops , said in an
interview in Frankfurt. “We are really pushing for that date,
but it depends on the amount of late submissions.”  Frankfurt-based Ceiops is advising the EU Commission on
developing the Solvency II directive, a new risk-based capital
regime for insurers such as  Allianz SE  and  Axa SA  that’s set to
come into effect in 2013. The rules are being tested in a fifth
quantitative impact study, named  QIS5 , and results have to be
submitted to local regulators and Ceiops in November at the
latest. Ceiops was scheduled to publish results in April,
according to the EU commission’s  timetable .  “From the current point of view, there won’t be any delays
to the introduction of Solvency II,” Montalvo said, referring
to some demands for a later start. “If you cannot be prepared
by 2013, would you be so in 2014?”  Introducing the rules as of January 2013 “would be
aberrant for our business model,” France’s Groupama SA said in
September, asking for a six-year transitional period.  Tier 1 Capital  Ceiops, along with local regulators such as Germany’s
BaFin, is running QIS5 among Europe’s more than 5,000 insurance
companies, which generate more than 1.05 trillion euros ($1.47
trillion) in annual premiums, according to the European
insurance and reinsurance federation,  CEA . The EU Commission,
the  European Union ’s executive arm, and Ceiops have said they
expect a participation quote of 60 percent in the study.  Giving insurers an implementation period for Solvency II
comparable to the approach on new rules by the Basel Committee
on Banking Supervision won’t be an option as “it punishes those
insurers that have done their work,” Montalvo said. “We’ve
been working on Solvency II for 10 years now, it’s not Basel III
that started last year.”  Under Solvency II, insurers will have to hold a specified
amount of their own funds to cover risks they shoulder for
customers. Those funds will be classified in a three-tier
approach, where Tier 1 will represent an insurer’s most secure
capital, directly linked to loss-absorbency criteria. QIS5 is
adding expected profits included in future premiums to Tier 1
capital, while the EU Commission  has said  a final decision on
the matter hasn’t been made.  ‘Not Expected’  “You can’t recognize all this capital in Tier 1 as this is
no cash that is permanently available or fully loss absorbing”
should an insurer fail, according to Montalvo. “We have to work
on a compromise” that doesn’t reduce the protection of
consumers, he said.  The current impact study is likely to be the last Europe-
wide test for Solvency II, Montalvo said. “If some areas need
to be improved, we can easily launch an ad-hoc exercise or tests
by local regulators to follow, but a full, Europe-wide sixth
impact study is currently not expected and it would certainly
put the current timeframe in question,” he said.  Proposed Solvency II reporting requirements “are
exaggerated and need to be reduced” as they are too detailed
for smaller insurers in particular,  Joerg Schneider , chief
financial officer at reinsurer  Munich Re , said at a conference
in Munich today. “I would propose a gradual introduction,
especially for the reporting requirements.”  Other insurers, including Germany’s HUK-Coburg Holding AG,
have also criticized Ceiops on the matter.  “We are also testing complexity and we have the fear that
the current impact study may be too complex,” Montalvo said in
the interview. “After we have the results of QIS5, we all --
regulators, insurers and the EU Commission -- will have to work
together to reduce complexity.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Oliver Suess  in Munich at 
 osuess@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  