-- Chalco Shuts 10% of Aluminum Output Capacity on Energy Curbs, Analysts Say
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-10-22T10:40:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-22/chalco-shuts-10-of-aluminum-output-capacity-on-energy-curbs-analysts-say.html
Aluminum Corp. of China Ltd. , the
nation’s biggest maker, has shut 10 percent of its aluminum-
producing capacity after local governments implemented power
restrictions, according to analysts.  Smelting plants with a combined capacity of at least
400,000 metric tons were closed as local governments limit power
use for industrial producers,  Heng Kun , a Shanghai-based analyst
at Essence Securities Co., said by phone today. The plants are 
in Henan, Guangxi, Guizhou and Shanxi, he said.  Shen Hui, a spokeswoman for Beijing-based Aluminum Corp.,
known as Chalco, declined to comment when asked about cuts.  “Our calculations show they have shut about 400,000 tons,
around 10 percent of the company’s total output capacity,”
said Wan Ling, a senior consultant at CRU International Ltd.  China, the world’s largest aluminum maker, has started to
control production of energy-intensive industries such as steel
and aluminum in some regions, as Beijing aims to meet the
country’s energy-saving target set in its 11th “Five-Year
Plan,” which ends this year. Energy represents as much as half
the cost of making the metal used in cars, cans and airplanes.  Aluminum prices  in Shanghai have surged about 19 percent
since the end of June as smelters cut output on higher power
tariffs and falling prices. Chinese authorities raised power
surcharges for some smelters by as much as 100 percent from June
to curb overcapacity.  Output Reductions  Jiaozuo Wanfang Aluminum Manufacturing Co. , which is
controlled by Chalco, cut capacity by 140,000 tons, and the
output loss will be 30,000 this year, the Henan province-based
company said on Oct. 18.  Chalco’s Zunyi Plant and Guizhou Plant, both in Guizhou
province, halted a combined 200,000 tons of capacity, according
to CRU’s Wan. The Pingguo Plant in Guangxi halted 80,000 tons
and Shanxi Huaze Aluminum & Power Co. is also affected,
according to Essence Securities.  Shares of Chalco lost 1 percent to HK$7.85 today, and are
down 8.2 percent this year.  China will sell 96,000 tons of aluminum ingots from state
stockpiles on Nov. 1 and Nov. 2, the National Development and
Reform Commission said today on its website. This is about 20
percent of stockpiles reported by the Shanghai Futures Exchange,
according to Bloomberg calculations.  “The sales of state stockpiles may very well be timed to
counter lower supplies from Chalco and other producers,” said
Beijing Capital Futures Co. analyst Xiao Jing.  SRB Stockpiles  China’s State Reserve Bureau, the government’s stockpiling
agency which operates under the National Development and Reform
Commission, bought about 590,000 tons of aluminum last year from
domestic smelters. Commercial stockpiles of primary aluminum in
China are at 400,000 tons to 500,000 tons, according to Beijing
Antaike Information Development Co. estimates last month.  “It’s not a large amount given the current level of
inventories in China,” said Pang Ying, an analyst at Shenzhen
Rongtuo Trading Co. “The government probably wants to send a
signal they are serious about combating inflation. They probably
chose aluminum because that’s the metal they have most of.”  -- Xiao Yu  and  Glenys Sim . Editors:  Alan Soughley ,  Indranil Ghosh   To contact the Bloomberg News Staff of this story:
Xiao Yu in Beijing at   yxiao@bloomberg.net ;
 Glenys Sim  in Singapore at 
 Gsim4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at   ahobbs4@bloomberg.net . 