-- Chance for Victory in Wisconsin Stirs Republican Fervor Matching Packers
-- B y   J o h n   M c C o r m i c k
-- 2010-10-22T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-22/chance-for-victory-in-wisconsin-stirs-republican-fervor-matching-packers.html
The Green Bay Packers football game
against the Miami Dolphins had finished only about an hour
before Republican activists streamed into a vacant motel turned
into a party headquarters in rural Dodgeville, Wisconsin.  About 50 adults gathered over cheese and sausage to hear a
speech from  Ron Johnson , a Republican businessman challenging
Senator  Russ Feingold , a three-term Democrat trailing in most
polls.  “How many would have been here if the Packers had been
on?” asked state Senator  Dan Kapanke , a Republican running
against Democratic U.S. Representative  Ron Kind . In a state
where the Packers pre-empt most activities, hands shot up.  As in Wisconsin, where President  Barack Obama  won a 14-
percentage-point victory just two years ago, Republicans
nationwide say they are fired up to go the polls in the Nov. 2
midterm congressional elections.  “The people who are more conservative are stepping up and
putting in volunteer time,” said Tony Driscoll, 41, an
information technology manager who lives in Dodgeville and
volunteers for the Republican Party. “It’s gotten personal
because government has not listened to the people.”  Enthusiasm Gap  As the greens of Wisconsin’s rural scenery give way to
brown, orange and red hues, organizing the ground game to turn
out voters is gaining intensity amid polls that show an
enthusiasm gap between Republicans and Democrats.  A Pew Research Center  poll  found Republicans more
enthusiastic about casting a ballot than Democrats. The Oct. 13-
18 survey of 1,797 registered voters revealed “ominous signs”
for Democrats, the non-partisan research group said.  The survey found Republicans hold a double-digit advantage
among likely voters, 50 percent to 40 percent, little changed
from early September. Among a broader group, registered voters,
46 percent say they favor or lean toward a Republican candidate
in their district, compared with 42 percent for Democrats.  “Republican engagement continues at record levels, dwarfing
even improved Democratic showings on these indicators,” the
Washington-based organization said.  Democrats face a challenge motivating their voters to turn
out, if party primaries this year prove to be a predictor for
general election turnout. In 10 states where both parties held
Senate primaries, the collective Republican turnout was 32
percent of registered voters, compared with 23 percent for
Democrats, state election figures show.  Tea Party Activism  The difference in excitement between the two parties,
fueled by Tea Party activism and an economy that isn’t
recovering fast enough to reduce unemployment, is boosting
Republican optimism, while Democrats seek to reactivate a
superior get-out-the-vote operation that helped propel Obama to
the White House in 2008.  Feingold, 57, called the enthusiasm gap a “figment of the
Republicans’ imagination” when he spoke Oct. 18 to a rally of
about 200 supporters at the  University of Wisconsin Oshkosh .  “I do not see an enthusiasm gap here tonight,” he said to
cheers. “What they’re saying is, their people are going to
vote, and our people aren’t. I don’t think so.”  A  poll  conducted Oct. 12-15 by the  St. Norbert College
Survey Center  showed Republican Johnson ahead of Feingold, 49 to
47 percent, with a 5 percentage point margin of error.  Relying on Turnout  “It will depend on turnout,” Feingold told reporters
after his rally. “If it’s a low turnout, we have a tough
road.”  Turnout in midterm elections is historically lower than in
presidential election years. In 2008, 64 percent of voting-age
citizens cast ballots, according to the  U.S. Census Bureau . That
compares to 48 percent in 2006, the most recent midterm.  In an interview, Johnson, 55, said Republicans and
independent voters have been galvanized by opposition to  deficit 
spending and governmental growth. “Across the political
spectrum, people are incredibly concerned,” said Johnson, a
millionaire and first-time candidate.  Republican primary turnout was higher than for Democrats in
the 10 states reviewed: North Carolina, Kentucky, Pennsylvania,
California, Nevada, Kansas, Colorado, Alaska, Arizona and
Florida. This didn’t include states such as Illinois where voter
registration isn’t tallied by party.  Primary Advantage  A  study  released in September by American University’s
 Center for the Study of the American Electorate  found that for
the first time since 1930 Republican turnout in primary
elections for statewide offices exceeded Democratic turnout.  Republicans “had the biggest contests, so that doesn’t
surprise me,” Democratic Senator  Tom Harkin  of Iowa said in an
interview. “Most of that enthusiasm is with a certain band, the
Tea Party type people, who seem to be more inclined to the
Republican Party. A lot of that enthusiasm is geared toward sort
of the very far-out candidates and so I’m not certain that is
going to spread nationwide.”  The nonpartisan  Cook Political Report  in Washington  ranks 
the Wisconsin race as leaning Republican. Feingold and Johnson
are scheduled to hold their final debate today.  Outside groups not affiliated with the two campaigns or
political parties spent $29,000 to help Feingold Sept. 1 through
Oct. 17, compared to $2 million to help Johnson,  Federal
Election Commission  records show. Television commercials,
mailings and other advertisements have flooded Wisconsin in the
campaign’s closing weeks.  Calling Voters  Republicans in Wisconsin have made almost 1.5 million phone
calls to voters this year to boost interest in their candidates,
already outpacing the total number before the 2008 election,
said Andrew Welhouse, a spokesman for the state party.
Nationwide, the Republican National Committee said volunteers
have made more than 31 million calls so far, surpassing the
total two years ago.  Wisconsin’s  unemployment  was 7.9 percent in August, lower
than the national average of 9.6 percent. Still, there are areas
of greater economic stress, such as in the southern part of the
state, where a  General Motors Co.  assembly plant closed in 2008.  Ann Bosma, 43, a customer service representative for a
trucking company who lives in Menasha, said she’s a first-time
political volunteer, making phone calls for Feingold.  “It’s very close and it would be a shame for him not to be
our senator anymore,” she said. “I’m so anxious about it, but
making the calls makes feel better.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 John McCormick  in Dodgeville at 
 jmccormick16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  