-- Chemtura Bankruptcy Judge Confirms Chemical Maker's Reorganization Plan
-- B y   T i f f a n y   K a r y
-- 2010-10-22T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-22/chemtura-bankruptcy-judge-confirms-chemical-maker-s-reorganization-plan.html
Chemtura Corp. ’s reorganization plan
was approved by a bankruptcy judge who set aside shareholders’
arguments that the chemical maker was worth more than a
$2.05 billion estimate determined by an adviser.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge  Robert Gerber  in New York confirmed
the company’s Chapter 11 plan in a ruling filed yesterday. A
committee of shareholders argued during a trial that ended
Sept. 22 that  Chemtura  might be worth $2.3 billion to
$2.6 billion, which would give them a greater recovery.  “I find that the debtors’ total enterprise value
(“TEV”) is no higher than the valuation upon which the
settlement was based,” Gerber wrote in his order, referring to
a settlement in the plan that resolved creditors’ entitlements.
He rejected shareholders’ argument that there was extra value.
Shareholders said if there was, it would allow unsecured
creditors to be paid more than the full amount of their claims.  Chemtura  filed for bankruptcy in March 2009, citing falling
demand for resins, electronics and construction materials made
with the  chemicals  it manufactures.  The company’s Chapter 11 plan allocates recoveries to
creditors using the midpoint of a $1.9 billion to $2.2 billion
value range given by adviser Lazard Freres & Co. Shareholders
used a valuation prepared by  UBS AG .  In his ruling, Gerber analyzed the methodologies of the
valuations, and found that different  peer groups  were used to
predict the company’s worth. UBS compared the company to  DuPont
Co.  and PPG Industries Inc. without including  Solutia Inc.   Lazard’s Analysis  “I also believe that Lazard was right to take Solutia into
account in its analysis,” Gerber said, adding that he also had
an issue with some witnesses’ credibility.  Chemtura, based in Middlebury, Connecticut, agreed to $26
million in settlements to partly resolve environmental claims of
more than $2 billion by government agencies for the cost of
cleaning up contaminated sites around the U.S.  It also has settlements to cover tort claims related to
diacetyl, a flavor used to add butter flavor to foods like
microwave popcorn.  Natasha Labovitz , a lawyer for Chemtura, told Gerber Sept.
22 that, while there was no way to prove the exact value of an
entire enterprise, the company’s plan had a “mainstream”
structure often approved in bankruptcy to distribute returns.  “Judge, this has been a hard case,” Labovitz said. “But
the most complex issues are all but resolved, and we’re left
with a valuation dispute that’s hardly unique.”  Bondholders’ Argument  An ad hoc group of bondholders supported Chemtura’s
valuation. While the enterprise worth of the company might be
undervalued by as much as 10 percent, any static analysis of a
company in a fluid economic environment is bound to be flawed,
the group said.  The group urged the judge to let Chemtura’s plan go
forward, arguing that shareholders didn’t reveal any impropriety
that could have caused manipulation of the company’s valuation.  “Having caused the debtors’ estates to spend tens of
millions of dollars on wasteful discovery, and having failed to
locate its coveted smoking gun, this case ultimately comes down
to valuation,” lawyers for the bondholders wrote.  Shareholders ’ objections to Chemtura’s plan were filed
under seal. Shareholders were represented by the law firm
Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP.  According to an outline of the plan approved in July,
equity holders will get a pro rata share of 5 percent of stock
in the new company if they vote in favor of the plan. Secured
lenders and unsecured lenders will be repaid in full.  The case is In re Chemtura Corp., 09-11233, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tiffany Kary  in New York at 
 tkary@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 