-- Chilean Peso Completes Biggest Weekly Decline Since June on Rates, China
-- B y   S e b a s t i a n   B o y d
-- 2010-10-22T18:46:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-22/chilean-peso-heads-for-biggest-weekly-decline-since-june-on-rates-china.html
Chile’s peso completed the biggest
weekly slide against the U.S. dollar since June after the
central bank slowed the pace of  interest-rate rises  and China
unexpectedly raised its borrowing costs.  The peso lost 0.4 percent to 487.35 per dollar from 485.45
yesterday. It has fallen 1.7 percent from 479.26 on Oct. 15, the
biggest weekly drop since the five days ended June 4.  China, the biggest market for Chile’s largest export
copper, lifted its benchmark lending and deposit rates for the
first time since 2007 on Oct. 18. The U.S. dollar  strengthened 
and headed for its first weekly gain in six weeks against major
currencies including the euro and yen.  “The impact of China had an effect on the dollar
internationally,” said  Jorge Selaive , chief economist at Banco
de Credito e Inversiones in Santiago. “The dollar appreciated
and the peso depreciated.”  The peso’s 12 percent rally in the second half of this year
has mitigated the need to raise interest rates, central bank
President  Jose De Gregorio  said Oct.19. The bank slowed the pace
of increases on Oct. 14, increasing by 25 basis points after
four straight 50 basis point increases.  The peso has weakened in seven of the last eight trading
days amid speculation that the central bank may start buying
dollars or the government may take other steps such as easing
controls on investing overseas to stem currency gains.  Finance Minister  Felipe Larrain  said Oct. 19 that the
government would announce measures to help exporters hurt by the
appreciating peso. One of those measures, unveiled yesterday,
was centered on cutting red tape for exporters.  ‘Market Won’t Forget’  “What exporters are asking for is a measure to mitigate
the decline in the exchange rate, not to mitigate the impact of
that decline, ” Selaive said. “There’s a big difference. The
market won’t forget this.”  Traders may pay less attention to future attempts by the
government to talk the peso down, he said. The government may
still buy dollars for its offshore savings fund or lower the
currency hedging requirements for pension funds, Selaive said.  Foreign traders extended their net long position in the
Chilean peso versus Chilean banks, as the Chilean banking system
accumulated a $1.4 billion net long position in the U.S. dollar
versus the peso as of Oct. 21. That’s the highest since the
central bank began publishing daily data two years ago.  To contact the reporter responsible on this story:
 Sebastian Boyd  in Santiago at 
 sboyd9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos in New York at  