-- China's Stocks Fall on Higher Interest Rate Concerns; Banks, Brokers Drop
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-10-22T07:48:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-22/china-stocks-fluctuate-as-commodity-shares-drop-consumer-companies-gain.html
China’s stock index  fell for a
second day, narrowing this week’s gains, as banks and brokerages
dropped on concern quickening inflation may push policy makers
to boost interest rates further.  Industrial & Commercial Bank of China Ltd.  led a gauge of
financial stocks lower for a second day after data showed the
fastest inflation in 23 months. Citic Securities Co. dropped for
the biggest two-day loss in four months on concern this month’s
gains were excessive. Datong Coal Industry Co. paced advances
among coal producers on speculation cold weather will spur fuel
demand. GD Midea Holding Co. gained 3.3 percent as rival  Gree
Electric Appliances Inc. ’s higher profit bolstered its outlook.  “The market could be volatile in the short term after a
big rally this month,” said  Zheng Tuo , president of Shanghai
Good Hope Equity Investment Management Co. “Investors may come
to realize that inflation is still a major threat and asset
markets will be under scrutiny by the central bank as well.”  The  Shanghai Composite Index , which tracks the bigger of
China’s stock exchanges, dropped 8.49, or 0.3 percent, to
2,975.04 at the 3 p.m. close. It added 0.1 percent this week,
the fourth-straight gain. The  CSI 300 Index  rose 0.1 percent to
3,378.66.  The Shanghai gauge has jumped 12 percent this month and 26
percent from its 2010 low on July 5 after lagging behind rallies
in other emerging markets and as a rising yuan lured capital
inflows. Still, it’s down 9.2 percent this year after the
government tightened measures for property speculations and cut
the annual new lending quota by 22 percent.  Rate Outlook  China’s consumer prices rose 3.6 percent last month, the
statistics bureau said at a briefing yesterday in Beijing. The
government has a full-year inflation target of 3 percent. The
inflation data spurred concern that more rate increases may be
coming after the central bank on Oct. 19 raised borrowing costs
for the first time since 2007 to avert asset bubbles.  Eight of 12 economists surveyed by Bloomberg said the
benchmark one-year lending rate, used to set a minimum cost for
loans in the world’s fastest-growing major economy, will jump at
least half a percentage point by the end of 2011. Nomura
International Ltd. had the most aggressive estimate, predicting
a one percentage point increase for next year.  “The risk is inflation will remain an issue and that’s why
next year we have four more rate hikes” as our forecast,  Robert Subbaraman , chief economist for Asia excluding Japan at Nomura,
said in an interview yesterday in Hong Kong. “Administrative
measures are starting to lose their effectiveness.”  Cold Wave  A gauge of financial stocks dropped 0.9 percent today, the
most among the 10 industry groups of the CSI 300. It slid 2.4
percent yesterday to end an 11-day winning streak.  ICBC, the nation’s biggest listed lender, lost 0.7 percent
to 4.48 yuan.  Agricultural Bank of China Ltd. , the third largest,
retreated 1.1 percent to 2.81 yuan. Bank of China Ltd., the
fourth largest, slid 1.4 percent to 3.50 yuan.  Citic Securities, China’s biggest listed brokerage, fell
2.8 percent to 15.04 yuan after sliding 3.2 percent yesterday.
The stock had its biggest two-day decline since June 30 after
soaring 34 percent this month on speculation rising stock-market
transactions volumes will boost earnings.  Datong Coal, China’s third-largest coal company by capacity,
jumped 3.8 percent to 25.81 yuan.  China Coal Energy Co. , the
second largest, gained 1.5 percent to 12.82 yuan.  A cold wave will lower temperatures by as much as 16
degrees centigrade through the weekend in China’s northern and
southeastern regions, the National Meteorological Center said
yesterday. The spell of cold weather may persist until Oct. 26,
according to the center.  Midea, Gree  The Bohai-Rim Steam-Coal Price Index, or BSPI, climbed 1.4
percent to 735 yuan ($110.4) a metric ton as of Oct. 20 from a
week earlier, according to the Qinhuangdao Seaborne Coal Market
website.  Midea, China’s second-biggest publicly traded appliance
maker, advanced 3.3 percent to 18.60 yuan. Qingdao Haier Co.,
the air-conditioner and refrigerator unit of China’s biggest
appliance maker, climbed 5.5 percent to 27.03 yuan. Gree,
China’s largest maker of home air-conditioners, yesterday
reported a 73 percent increase in third-quarter earnings. The
stock was suspended today for a shareholders meeting.  Wuliangye Yibin Co. , the second-biggest maker of white
liquor by market value, added 0.6 percent to 36 yuan after
saying third-quarter profit rose 63 percent from a year earlier.  Ping An Insurance (Group) Co. fell 1 percent to 64.99 yuan.
The nation’s second-biggest insurer is diversifying into
property and private equity and increasing its holdings in
stocks to boost investment performance after its worst year
since 2005,  Timothy Chan , deputy chief investment officer of and
chairman of its asset management units, said in an interview
yesterday.  He favors insurers and banks, based on valuations, and said
machinery makers for industries related to environmental
protection will benefit as China reforms its economy to reduce
its reliance on fixed-asset investment and export-driven growth.  -- Zhang Shidong . Editors:  Allen Wan ,  Richard Frost   To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
 Zhang Shidong  in Shanghai at +86-21-6104-3040 or
 szhang5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Linus Chua at   lchua@bloomberg.net  