-- China to Sell 96,000 Tons of Aluminum From Reserves Through Public Auction
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-10-22T10:30:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-22/china-plans-to-sell-96-000-tons-of-aluminum-from-state-reserves-ndrc-says.html
China will release 96,000 metric
tons of aluminum ingots from state reserves next month through
public auctions, said the State Bureau of Material Reserve.
Aluminum prices in London declined.  The sales will be held on Nov. 1 and Nov. 2, the bureau
said in a  statement  on its website. The agency is also known as
the State Reserve Bureau and manages government stockpiles.  Aluminum sales by China, the largest producer and consumer,
may weigh on prices, which have gained more than 5 percent this
year. The government has sold paper pulp, magnesium, sugar,
cotton and corn this year in an effort to ease supply shortages
and curb price gains.  “Controlling inflation and inflation expectations has
become the government’s top priority recently,”  Wan Ling , an
analyst at CRU International Ltd., said by phone from Beijing.
“This is a pre-emptive measure to prevent an increase of
aluminum prices, following the news of production cuts by some
smelters due to energy conservation.”  China’s consumer prices rose 3.6 percent in September, the
fastest in 23 months, the National Bureau of Statistics said
yesterday. The People’s Bank of China increased deposit and
lending rates from Oct. 20 for the first time since the global
crisis, affirming policy makers’ confidence in the recovery and
concern at price pressures.  Output Cuts  China’s Henan province, the country’s largest aluminum
producing region, is going to cut output by nearly 20 percent in
the fourth quarter in an effort to meet Beijing’s energy-saving
targets. Smelters in Guangxi region, as well as Qinghai and
Guizhou provinces, have also started to shut down aluminum
production capacity.  The power restriction “has been greater and is likely to
be more long-lasting on aluminum than on steel,” Macquarie
Group Ltd. said in a report issued Oct. 16. Macquarie has a
“positive view” on aluminum prices for the fourth quarter,
according to the report.  China bought 235,000 tons of copper, 590,000 tons of
aluminum, 159,000 tons of zinc, 30 tons of indium and 5,000 tons
of titanium for reserves, Caijing magazine reported in June last
year, citing Yu Dongming, a metals industry official of the
National Development and Reform Commission, the country’s
economic planner.  Chinese state buying of raw materials for stockpiling in
the first half of last year helped lift commodity prices, with
copper and zinc doubling in 2009.  ‘Good Timing’  Aluminum for three-month delivery on the London Metal
Exchange fell as much as 0.4 percent to $2,340 a ton after the
announcement and traded at $2,353.50 a ton at 6:23 p.m. in
Shanghai. Prices have gained 26 percent since the end of 2008,
touching a 6-month high of $2,459 a ton on Oct. 14.  “For the regulator, it’s a good time to sell,” Peng
Lijuan, an analyst at Cofco Futures Co., said by phone from
Beijing. “When they bought the metal, it was very cheap, now
the price is relatively high, and if prices remain high, it’s
possible that they might sell more.”  China sold 216,803 tons of sugar from reserves in auctions
today, according to industry portal sugarinfo.net. The
government sold 2,739.7 tons of magnesium ingots this week,
pulling prices off a 21-month high.  The volume of the aluminum sale “isn’t small so it should
be enough to meet any shortfall due to the production cut this
year,” CRU’s Wan said.  -- Helen Sun . Editors: Richard Dobson, Matthew Oakley.  To contact the Bloomberg News staff on this story:
 Helen Sun  in Shanghai at 
 hsun30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  