-- China Starts Online `Map World' Service in Challenge to Google, Sohu.com
-- B y   M a r k   L e e
-- 2010-10-22T12:31:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-22/china-starts-online-map-world-service-in-challenge-to-google-sohu-com.html
China said a new state-sponsored
online map will offer the most comprehensive data about the
country’s geography, as the government seeks to draw users to
the service amid competition from  Google Inc.  and  Sohu.com Inc.   The “Map World” service “surpasses all other available
online map services” in the coverage of China, the State Bureau
of Surveying and Mapping, which oversees the project, said in a
 statement  on its website yesterday. The map service, unveiled
yesterday, also allows users to view overseas locations, though
in less detail, the government agency said.  The government will continue to supervise the development
of the “Map World” service, which uses proprietary technology,
the surveying bureau said. China, which prohibits pornography,
gambling, and content critical of the government, has blocked
access to foreign Internet services such as that of Facebook
Inc., and requires domestic websites to self-censor content.  “Web users don’t tend to think about whether a service is
sponsored by the government - they will use a service if they
think it’s good,” said  Edward Yu , chief executive officer of
research company Analysys International in Beijing. He said he
uses Google’s map service, and hasn’t tried “Map World.”  The map services of Google and Sohu are among the most-
popular in China, according to Yu.  Marsha Wang , a Beijing-based spokeswoman for Google, didn’t
immediately reply to e-mails and phone calls seeking comment.
“Map World” isn’t expected to have a big effect on Sohu’s
operations, said Li Mei, a spokeswoman at the Beijing-based
company.  “Map World” allows users to see photographs of roadsides
in cities such as Beijing, similar to the “Street View”
feature in Google’s map service.  Google offers its “Street View” feature when users select
locations in countries such as the U.S. and the U.K. The
function is not available for Google’s maps of China, Yu said.  Google, operator of the world’s most-popular Internet
search engine, this year shut its Chinese site and redirected
local users offshore to avoid online censorship rules.  The “Map World” service can be accessed on the
 http://tianditu.cn/  website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mark Lee  in Hong Kong at 
 wlee37@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at   ycho2@bloomberg.net  