-- Cholera Outbreak Has Killed 138 in Haiti as 1,500 Cases Reported, UN Says
-- B y   B i l l   V a r n e r
-- 2010-10-22T19:13:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-22/cholera-outbreak-has-killed-138-in-haiti-as-1-500-cases-reported-un-says.html
An outbreak of cholera in Haiti has
caused 138 deaths, and more than 1,500 cases of the infectious,
water-borne disease have been confirmed, the  United Nations 
reported.  The cases have occurred in the Artibonite region of
northwest Haiti that wasn’t directly affected by the Jan. 12
earthquake that killed 300,000, the UN said. No cases have been
reported in the camps for more than 1 million persons left
homeless by the damage.  “We don’t know yet” what led to the outbreak, Catherine
Bragg, UN assistant secretary-general for humanitarian affairs,
told reporters in New York. “I cannot say it is under control,
but we are doing everything to put it under control.”  Bragg said the UN has provided medical personnel and
supplies to the region, including 10,000 water purification
tablets. The UN has 300,000 doses of antibiotics in Haiti
available for distribution, Bragg said.  “Spread of the disease can be averted with clean water,
soap and by improving sanitation,” Bragg said.  Haiti, the poorest country in the Western Hemisphere, is
still recovering from the earthquake that caused $7.8 billion in
damage and crippled the nation’s government.  Bragg, who just returned from a trip to Haiti, said the
cholera outbreak “does not detract from my overall sense after
my mission that an enormous amount has been accomplished by the
government of Haiti, the humanitarian community, and all those
who have been involved in the relief effort.”  She said relief efforts prevented a “second wave of
mortality that everyone feared six months ago.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bill Varner  at the United Nations at 
 wvarner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net 
NI UN
NI HAITI
NI GEN
NI POL
NI GOV
NI LATAM 