-- CME Will Begin Trading 'On-the-Run' Treasury Futures Contracts Next Week
-- B y   L i z   C a p o   M c C o r m i c k
-- 2010-10-22T14:54:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-22/cme-will-begin-trading-on-the-run-treasury-futures-contracts-next-week.html
CME Group Inc., the world’s largest
futures market, will begin trading on-the-run Treasury futures
contracts next week that will provide investors exposure to
benchmark 2-, 5- and 10-year notes.  CME, which introduced a 30-year Ultra Treasury bond future
in January, is adding the contracts as the U.S. sells record
amounts of debt to finance economic stimulus. The latest
futures, which like many derivatives aren’t reflected on a
firm’s balance sheet, also come as regulators craft oversight
rules to avoid repeating the worst economic slump since the Great
Depression. Trading starts Oct. 25, CME said in a statement.  “These contracts should be successful, given investors’
current demand for off-balance-sheet exposure to duration in
high-quality assets such as U.S. Treasuries,” said  Joseph Shatz , a senior government bond strategist in New York at Bank
of America Merrill Lynch. “The 10-year could be especially
attractive because it will give investors exposure to the 10-
year sector of the yield curve, while the traditional 10-year
futures actually gives exposure to the seven-year area.”
Duration is a measure of price sensitivity to interest-rate
change expressed in years.  The cheapest-to-deliver Treasury for Chicago-based CME’s
current 10-year note futures is the 4.75 percent coupon note
maturing in August 2017, giving it an approximately seven-year
maturity. The cheapest-to-deliver securities are those eligible
Treasuries deemed to be the least costly to obtain and deliver
to holders of expiring contracts. Treasuries maturing in at
least 6.5 years, but no more than 10 years, are eligible for
delivery into the CME’s current 10-year contract.  Synthetically Derived Yield  The on-the-run futures will be cash-settled based on a
synthetically derived yield of the most recently auctioned
Treasury securities, CME said in its statement. These are
typically the most actively traded notes and serve as the
market’s benchmark yield for each maturity.  The yield used for settlement will be that implied by the
difference between the International Swaps and Derivatives
Association Inc.’s benchmark swap rate and the corresponding
ISDA swap spread.  The 2- and 5-year on-the-run contracts will begin trading
when the Treasury announces the auction date of a new security,
and the 10-year will begin the day following the auction
announcement. The contracts’ expiration will correspond to the
date of the next auction. Given the Treasury’s current auction
schedule, CME’s 2- and 5-year notes will be monthly contracts
and the 10-year will be quarterly.  Tracking Schedule  “These contracts give people who don’t have a lot of
balance sheet and don’t have easy access to the repurchase
agreement market for financing their cash purchases a way to
actually trade on-the-run Treasuries,” said  Robin Ross , CME
managing director of interest-rate products, said in an
interview. “Also, the new contracts will actually track the
Treasury department’s auction schedule, unlike our traditional
contracts, which all have quarterly maturities.”  The more than $4 trillion-a-day repo market is used by
dealers to finance their holdings of cash securities in
inventory. In a repo arrangement, a lender sends cash to a
borrower in return for collateral, which the borrower agrees to
repurchase as soon as the next day for the face value of the
securities plus interest.  The CME’s existing note and bond futures contracts have so-
called physical delivery, meaning an eligible cash note or bond
is delivered within a pre-set time period following contract
expiration.  Futures Contracts  Futures contracts are agreements to buy or sell a specific
amount of a commodity or security at a specific price and time.
Unless the contract is offset before the settlement date,
participants in the contract must purchase or sell the
underlying commodity.  Craig Donohue , CME Group chief executive officer,  said in
an interview on Feb. 17 that the Ultra Treasury bond future
contract was the best new interest-rate product the company had
created, based on open interest and average daily volume in its
first three to four weeks.  The 30-year bond was the benchmark Treasury security until
it was suspended and replaced by the 10-year note in 2001. The
Treasury reintroduced the so-called long bond in 2006.  Since the on-the-run 2- and 5-year futures “maturities are
so similar to that in the current 2- and 5-year contracts,
growth in the new contracts could very well be at the expense of
the existing one,” said  Amrut Nashikkar , an interest-rate
strategist at Barclays Plc in New York.  “Only the 10-year on-the-run offers exposure to a point on
the curve that differs significantly from any existing
contract,” said Nashikkar, whose firm is one of the 18 primary
dealers that trade Treasuries with the Federal Reserve. “So,
the 10-year contract may be the most likely to be successful in
terms of attracting new positions. But even here, the success of
the Ultra bond contract may be difficult to replicate.”  The new contracts will likely create new demand, given
features that include cash-settlement, Ross said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Liz Capo McCormick  in New York at 
 emccormick7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  