-- Commodities to Advance on Emerging-Market Demand, APG Asset's Houben Says
-- B y   C h a n y a p o r n   C h a n j a r o e n
-- 2010-10-22T09:26:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-22/commodities-to-gain-on-emerging-market-demand-apg-asset-says.html
Commodities will extend gains on
increased demand from emerging markets including China, where
the higher interest rates announced the week will help to keep
the economy stable, according to APG Asset Management.  “Emerging markets will keep on growing and consuming
commodities,” said  Olav Houben , senior portfolio manager
commodities at the Amsterdam-based company, which oversees
investments for the world’s third-largest pension fund. Oil may
climb as global inventories are “worked out,” he said by phone.  APG has 260 billion euros ($364 billion) under management,
most for  Stichting Pensioenfonds ABP , and the company is among
asset managers, insurers and banks seeking to profit from rising
prices of metals, energy and farm products. China’s growth in
metals demand will be “robust,” Rio Tinto Group said yesterday.  The increase in borrowing costs in China shows that the
government “are concerned about the potential overheating,”
said Houben, who has been at APG for a decade and became a
commodity portfolio manager five years ago. As China tries to
make its economy stable, “that’s bullish for commodities,” he
said yesterday, without identifying specific metals or grains.  APG’s commodities investments, which are actively managed,
returned more than 10 percent during the three months to Sept.
30, taking the year’s gain to just less than 4 percent, he said.
Investors in the S&P GSCI Index received 8.3 percent during the
quarter, and lost 3.9 percent over the first nine months.  Gold’s Record  Gold surged to an all-time high of $1,387.35 an ounce this
month and is set for a 10th annual gain. Tin, used in packaging,
also reached a record, trading at $27,338.50 a metric ton on
higher demand and supply disruptions. Soybeans have rallied 16
percent this year, while corn has surged 37 percent.  China, the top consumer of raw materials from aluminum to
soybeans, grew 9.6 percent in the third quarter and inflation
accelerated to the fastest pace in 23 months in September. The
People’s Bank of China announced the interest-rate increase on
Oct. 19, prompting a 1.9 percent fall in the Thomson
Reuters/Jefferies  CRB Index  of 19 commodities that day.  “This economy will keep on growing and has a lot of
potential,” said Houben. About 3 percent of the assets APG
manages is in commodity futures, and a further 1 percent is in
natural resources, including mines, farmland and oilfields. “In
the long run we expect good returns,” he said.  Metals Demand  Global assets under management in commodities soared to a
record $320 billion last month, according to Barclays Capital,
which forecast continued interest from institutional investors
in an October report.  Rio Tinto , the world’s third-largest
mining company, said urbanization in China would drive growth in
metals demand, according to  Ian Bauert , China managing director.  Demand for raw materials including oil is picking up as the
world economy recovers from the financial crisis, which started
in 2008, Houben said. Inventories of crude “are being worked
out at the moment,” he said.  Crude oil  stockpiles  in the U.S., the world’s largest user,
stood at 361 million barrels, or 3.7 percent below the peak
reached in May 2009, according to Department of Energy data.
Crude oil futures in New York traded today at $81.07 a barrel,
little changed over the past year.  Stichting Pensioenfonds ABP, based in Heerlen, the
Netherlands, is the world’s third-largest pension fund,
according to New York-based Towers Watson & Co. Japan and
Norway’s government pension funds rank first and second.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Chanyaporn Chanjaroen  in Singapore at 
 cchanjaroen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  