-- Corbett's Lead Over Democrat Onorato Narrows in Pennsylvania Governor Race
-- B y   D u n s t a n   M c N i c h o l
-- 2010-10-22T10:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-22/corbett-s-lead-over-democrat-onorato-narrows-in-pennsylvania-governor-race.html
Republican  Tom Corbett ’s lead over
Democrat  Dan Onorato  in the race for  Pennsylvania  governor has
narrowed to five percentage points, from 15 on Sept. 21,
according to the  Quinnipiac University Polling Institute .  Corbett, the state attorney general, led Onorato, the
Allegheny County executive in Pittsburgh, 49 percent to 44
percent, the poll of likely voters said. In a Sept. 21 survey,
the Republican topped the Democrat, 54 percent to 39 percent.  “Onorato has the momentum” with 11 days before the Nov. 2
election,  Peter A. Brown , assistant director of the institute in
Hamden, Connecticut, said today in a statement about the poll.  Corbett and Onorato seek to replace  Ed Rendell , a Democrat
who couldn’t run because of term limits. The governor’s office
in Pennsylvania, the sixth most-populous U.S. state, has changed
parties every eight years since 1955. With only 6 percent of
likely voters remaining undecided, 58 percent of independents
supported Corbett to 32 percent for Onorato, Quinnipiac said.  There are about 4.31 million  registered  Democrats in the
state, compared with about 3.13 million Republicans and 509,000
unaffiliated voters, according to the Department of State’s
website. Among Democrats, 87 percent backed Onorato, while 86
percent of Republicans supported Corbett, the poll said.  “As we get closer to Election Day, Democrats are showing
more interest in voting,” Brown said. “This is often the case
in off-year elections and that makes this a more competitive
race.”  Motivating Voters  President  Barack Obama  and Democrats in Congress are trying
to retain the seat held by departing U.S. Senator  Arlen Specter 
of Pennsylvania. A Quinnipiac poll released yesterday put U.S.
Representative  Joe Sestak , a Democrat, within two percentage
points of former Representative  Pat Toomey , a Republican, in the
contest to replace Specter, a Democrat who was elected to the
office as a Republican.  In the poll today, Corbett led among the 35 percent of
voters who think the economy is getting worse, with 71 percent
to Onorato’s 20 percent. The  county  executive was supported by
85 percent of the 14 percent of respondents who think the
economy is improving. For the 49 percent who see little economic
change, 48 percent backed Onorato to 45 percent for Corbett.  Men went for Corbett 55 percent to 38 percent, while women
supported Onorato 51 percent to 42 percent, Quinnipiac said.  The institute surveyed 1,046 likely voters from Oct. 13-17.
The poll has a margin of error of plus or minus 3 percentage
points.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Dunstan McNichol  in Trenton, New Jersey, at 
 dmcnichol@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  