-- Corn, Soybean Premiums Rise as Sales by Farmers Ebb After Futures Decline
-- B y   J e f f   W i l s o n
-- 2010-10-22T21:37:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-22/corn-soybean-premiums-rise-as-sales-by-farmers-ebb-after-futures-decline.html
Cash premiums for corn and soybeans
shipped to export terminals near New Orleans this month rose
relative to Chicago futures as U.S. farmers cut sales after
prices fell and shipments rose to the highest level this year.  The spot-basis bid, or premium, for corn delivered in
October rose to 57 cents to 58 cents a bushel above December
futures, compared with 54 cents to 57 cents yesterday, U.S.
Department of Agriculture  data  show. Soybean premiums increased
to 45 cents to 53 cents above November futures from 40 cents to
48 cents.  “Farmers have little interest in selling more crops until
they need cash,” said  Dave Marshall , a farm-marketing adviser
for Toay Commodity Futures Group LLC in Nashville, Illinois.  Corn futures for December delivery fell 4.25 cents, or 0.8
percent, to close at $5.60 a bushel on the Chicago Board of
Trade. The price dropped for the seventh time in eight sessions
after reaching a two-year high.  Soybean futures for November delivery declined 2 cents, or
0.2 percent, to $11.995 a bushel, the fifth drop in six
sessions.  Farmers will store supplies and wait for the government to
update crop forecasts on Nov. 9, Marshall said. Growers expect
the USDA to make additional cuts to projections.  On Oct. 8, the agency cut its corn-crop estimate for the
second time in as many months, predicting a 3.4 percent drop.
While farmers will collect the most soybeans ever, the total
will be 2.2 percent less than forecast in September, the USDA
said.  Total  shipments  of corn, soybeans and wheat inspected for
export rose to this year’s high at 2.65 million metric tons in
the week ended Oct. 14, up 2 percent from the previous week and
17 from a year earlier, the USDA said yesterday.  “We have the highest soybean export sales on the books
after the first seven weeks of the marketing year and corn sales
are the second-highest,” Marshall said. “It’s going to be a
persistent export-loading program the rest of this year.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jeff Wilson  in Chicago at 
 jwilson29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth in Chicago at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net . 