-- Cotton Futures Approach Record High After Hail, Storms Pound Texas Crops
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   C a m p b e l l
-- 2010-10-22T19:50:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-22/cotton-futures-approach-record-high-after-hail-storms-pound-texas-crops.html
Cotton futures jumped, approaching a
record, on concern that a hailstorm damaged crops in Texas, the
biggest U.S. grower. Orange-juice prices also climbed.  Severe storms yesterday swept through the heart of the
cotton belt from near Tokio to Lubbock, Texas, covering the
ground with hail as big as golf balls, said  Dale Mohler , a
senior meteorologist at AccuWeather Inc. in State College,
Pennsylvania. Cotton prices surged the most allowed by ICE
Futures U.S., bringing this year’s gain to 58 percent.  “There was at least moderate damage to any crops along
that path that haven’t been harvested,” Mohler said. “You
could have severe losses for individual farmers.”  Cotton for December delivery rose by the exchange limit of
4 cents, or 3.5 percent, to settle at $1.1971 a pound at 2:59
p.m. on ICE in New York.  On Oct. 15, the price surged to $1.198, the highest level
since the fiber started trading 140 years ago, as global demand
outpaced supplies. This week, the price climbed 9 percent, the
third straight gain.  “Cotton’s limit move is seen as an overreaction” to West
Texas weather,  Sharon Johnson , a senior analyst at First Capital
Group LLC in Roswell, Georgia, said today in a report. “But the
market is sensitive to any potential loss to supply, here or
abroad.”  U.S. stockpiles will drop 8.5 percent in the year that
began Aug. 1 from a year earlier, the U.S. government forecast
on Oct. 8.  ‘Punch in the Gut’  The severe weather will “definitely” cause some quality
loss with some production possibly “hailed out,”  Mike Stevens ,
an independent trader in Mandeville, Louisiana, said in an e-
mail yesterday. “This is like a punch in the gut, a bad dream
for the West Texas producer.”  The counties hit the hardest by the storm were eastern
Yoakum, Terry, southeast Hockley and Lubbock, Mohler said. All
are “prime cotton areas,” he said. In Lubbock, 1 inch (2.5
centimeters) to 3 inches of rain fell in an hour, he said. The
U.S. is the biggest cotton exporter.  “It’s not good to have a lot of hail this time of year,”
said  Sid Love , the president of Joe Kropf & Sid Love Consulting
Services LLC in Overland Park, Kansas. “That has had probably
an impact on some of the quality of the cotton, not so much the
quantity. We’ll see.”  Orange-juice futures for January delivery rose 1.65 cents,
or 1.1 percent, to $1.479 a pound, the biggest gain since Oct.
15. The price has climbed 15 percent in 2010.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Elizabeth Campbell  in Chicago at 
 ecampbell14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net . 