-- Crude Oil Rises in New York as Dollar Pares Gains; JPMorgan Predicts Rally
-- B y   R a c h e l   G r a h a m
-- 2010-10-22T12:18:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-22/crude-oil-rises-in-new-york-as-reports-show-improved-u-s-economic-outlook.html
Oil advanced as the dollar weakened,
increasing the investment appeal of commodities, while analysts
at JPMorgan Chase & Co. predicted a price rally as the U.S.
currency declines further.  Crude is headed for a second weekly decline as concern
persisted that the global economic recovery is slowing as fuel
stockpiles increase. Reports this week showed that China’s oil
processing grew the least in 18 months and  U.S. crude supplies 
rose in two of the last three weeks.  “We continue to believe that any setback in the crude
price should be bought,” Lawrence Eagles, JPMorgan’s head of
commodity strategy in New York, said today in a monthly oil
market report.  Oil for December delivery rose 76 cents, or 0.9 percent,
to $81.32 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange as of
1:05 p.m. London time. The contract has fallen 0.7 percent this
week. Brent crude for December settlement rose 93 cents to
$82.76 a barrel on the ICE Futures Europe exchange in London.  The  Dollar Index , which measures the greenback’s strength
against currencies including the Japanese yen and the euro, fell
0.1 percent. Crude has gained 13.1 percent since the beginning
of September, while the Dollar Index has fallen 7.1 percent.  JPMorgan said in its report it expects the dollar to weaken
by 4 to 5 percent over the next six months, giving oil a boost.
A declining dollar increases the appeal of energy as an
inflation hedge.  ‘Next Leg Higher’  The strength in crude is also bolstered by rising demand in
several regions, the bank said. A narrowing spread, when Dubai
oil rises closer to North Sea Brent, typically shows increasing
Asian demand.  “The signal that the next leg higher is imminent will be
tighter Dubai  forward  spreads and a narrower  Brent-Dubai 
spread,” Eagles said in the report.  The  Brent-Dubai  exchange for swaps, or EFS, for December
narrowed 12 cents to $2.40 a barrel today, according to data
from PVM Oil Associates. The EFS is the price difference between
Brent futures and Dubai swaps contracts and signifies Brent’s
premium relative to the Middle East grade. The December-January
Dubai spread shrank to minus 36 cents from minus 80 cents on
Sept. 27, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Technical analysis by Lind-Waldock in Chicago shows that
oil is poised to reach $90 a barrel by the middle of December.
The December contract has been trading in an uptrend, a pattern
of higher peaks and higher valleys, since touching a low of
$75.10 on Sept. 23,  Blake Robben , a strategist at Lind-Waldock,
a division of MF Global Ltd., said in an interview.  “Since then, the market has made higher highs and higher
lows,” Robben said.  A line drawn from the Sept. 23 low to the Oct. 20 low of
$79.90 projects to $90 by the middle of December, he said.  Fourteen of 30 analysts in a Bloomberg News survey, or 47
percent, forecast crude oil will fall through Oct. 29. Eleven
respondents, or 37 percent, predicted prices will be little
changed and five estimated an increase. Last week analysts were
split over whether futures would drop or climb.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rachel Graham  in London at 
 rgraham13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  