-- Cuba Lays Out Tax Rules for Entrepreneurs as Business Opportunities Expand
-- B y   B l a k e   S c h m i d t
-- 2010-10-22T18:56:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-22/cuba-lays-out-tax-rules-for-entrepreneurs-as-business-opportunities-expand.html
Cuba vowed to crack down on self-
employed tax evaders as the government laid out  new tax
regulations  as part of a “redesign” of the economy that will
allow more private enterprise.  The Communist Party newspaper  Granma  said the new tax rules
are aimed at “avoiding concentration of wealth.” It based its
information on interviews with tax officials including deputy
director of the tax administration, Vladimir Regueiro Ale.  The government of President  Raul Castro  last month
announced it will dismiss 500,000 state workers by March,
affecting 10 percent of the workforce, as the island faces its
worst economic slump since the former Soviet Union ended support
in the 1990s. Those dismissed are being encouraged to go into
business for themselves, and Granma said the central bank may
offer micro-credits to new entrepreneurs.  Self-employed in most of the 178 newly authorized fields,
ranging from wine makers to public bathroom janitors, will pay a
new monthly tax quota set by the  Finance Ministry , the newspaper
said, without giving further details. The quota tax will
supplement municipal budgets.  Others will be expected to pay income tax, social security,
and sales tax. Employers will pay an additional tax for
contracting workers, the newspaper said.  “With implementation of the new regulations and
strengthening of tax collection controls, ‘undocumented’ workers
or those who do not pay what is owed will submit to the power of
the law,” Granma said.  President Castro , 79, has initiated measures to open the
economy, including loosening of property laws and controls
prohibiting private enterprise such as taxi and mobile phone
companies, since his brother Fidel began handing over power in
2006.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Blake Schmidt  in Granada, Nicaragua at 
 bschmidt16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  