-- CWCapital Appoints Rose StuyTown Manager Amid Delay of Auction
-- B y   O s h r a t   C a r m i e l   a n d   J o n a t h a n   K e e h n e r
-- 2010-10-22T19:52:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-22/cw-said-to-appoint-rose-new-york-s-stuytown-manager-postpone-foreclosure.html
CWCapital Asset Management LLC today
appointed Rose Associates Inc. as property manager of
Manhattan’s Stuyvesant Town-Peter Cooper Village as it delayed a
planned foreclosure auction, the company said in a statement.  Rose Associates, former manager of the 80-acre apartment
complex, will take over as of 5 p.m., said Travis Ferber, a
spokesman for CWCapital. A foreclosure auction was moved to Oct.
29 from today, the third delay this month, he said.  The appointment of Rose Associates comes as CWCapital,
which represents holders of the $3 billion senior mortgage,
“moves toward full control of the property,”  Charles Spetka ,
chief executive officer of CW Financial Services, said in the
statement. CWCapital is part of CW Financial.  Ownership of Stuyvesant Town has been in question since
January, when a venture led by affiliates of Tishman Speyer
Properties LP and BlackRock Inc. defaulted on its mortgage and
ceded control of the property to lenders. CWCapital hired Rose
Associates in February to advise on a transition while Tishman
Speyer remained manager. The complex, on Manhattan’s east side,
is home to more than 25,000 tenants.  “The tenants are relieved to have new management in
place,” New York City Councilman  Daniel Garodnick , a resident
of Peter Cooper Village, said in a statement today. “There
should be no question of who is accountable for the day-to-day
upkeep of the 11,000 apartments and security on the grounds.”  Investor Group Talks  CWCapital had delayed foreclosure proceedings originally
planned for Oct. 4 as it negotiated with an investor group led
by William Ackman  to buy its $300 million share of junior debt
on property, people with knowledge of the talks said earlier
this month.  The tenants are “eager” to see the creditor dispute
resolved so that a new owner may emerge, Garodnick said Oct. 12.  A tenant meeting with elected officials including U.S.
Representative  Carolyn Maloney  and Manhattan borough President
 Scott Stringer  is planned for Oct. 30 at Baruch College,
according to fliers distributed to residents this week.  Rose Associates is an 80-year-old firm that manages about
22,000 apartments in the New York metropolitan area, according
to court papers filed by CW. The company managed Stuyvesant Town
for three and a half years under owner  MetLife Inc.  before the
property’s 2006 sale, according to the court papers.  CWCapital said in the papers that it has spent “millions”
on preparation plans that include updating the computer system
that governs rent, maintenance records and the private security
force; reviewing contracts with at least 89 vendors; and
recruiting new management to work on-site.  Working With Tishman  “Rose Associates has been working closely with Tishman
Speyer on all property management issues,” Spetka said in
today’s statement. “We are confident they now understand what
is necessary to assume full management responsibility.”  Tishman Speyer resigned as manager of the buildings on
Sept. 23, according to court papers filed that day by CWCapital.
Tishman Speyer agreed to stay on an “as-needed basis” but has
refused to manage the property once title is transferred to a
new owner. Sixteen members of the company’s Stuyvesant Town-
Peter Cooper Village management staff -- including those in
positions equivalent to CEO and chief operating officer -- will
leave when Tishman Speyer does.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Oshrat Carmiel  in New York at 
 ocarmiel1@bloomberg.net ;
 Jonathan Keehner  in New York at 
 jkeehner@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 