-- Stew’s Brooklyn, Guare’s Nawlins, Bambu’s Bye-Bye: N.Y. Weekend
-- B y   J e r e m y   G e r a r d
-- 2010-10-23T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-22/d-j-stew-s-brooklyn-guare-s-new-orleans-bye-bye-big-bambu-n-y-weekend.html
Since winning a  Tony Award  for his
remarkable autobiographical show “Passing Strange,” the
Southern California-bred rocker Stew has put down roots in
Brooklyn. The result is “Brooklyn Omnibus,’ a song cycle
written with his partner, Heidi Rodewald, about life in Kings
County.  Commissioned for the  Brooklyn Academy of Music ’s Next Wave
Festival, the 75-minute show features their band, the  Negro
Problem . The cycle gets its world premiere this weekend.  At the BAM Harvey Theater, 651 Fulton St., Brooklyn.
Information: +1-718-636-4100;  http://www.bam.org   Saturday  John Guare , a master of poetic realism, won an Oscar
nomination for his “Atlantic City” screenplay. With his latest
play, he focuses his attention on turn-of-the-19th century New
Orleans.  “A Free Man of Color” follows the unexpected twists and
turns of an American Don Juan in what already was the young
nation’s most risque city. The designs are by the inventive
 David Rockwell ;  Jeffrey Wright  stars and  George C. Wolfe 
directs.  In previews at the Vivian Beaumont Theater, Lincoln Center.
Information: +1-212-239-6200;  http://www.telecharge.com   When dance fans vote for their favorite contemporary
choreographer/performers, Ivy Baldwin is invariably at the top
of the list. Her latest work, “Here Rests Peggy,” pays homage
to Peggy Guggenheim, who used her fortune to support artists and
bedmates in Paris and, later, Venice. Accompanied by three other
dancers, Baldwin evokes a sensuous world inspired by elements as
disparate as the Ligurian Sea and German Expressionism.  At the Chocolate Factory, 5-49 49th Ave., Long Island City.
Information: +1-718-482-7069;
 http://www.chocolatefactorytheater.org   Sunday  As if “Boris Godunov” weren’t giving him enough of a
workout, indefatigable conductor  Valery Gergiev  brings his
Mariinsky Orchestra for a Mahler-thon at Carnegie Hall this
weekend. Today’s matinee program includes the ever-catchy
Symphony No. 1 and No. 4.  At Seventh Avenue and 57th Street. Information: +1-212-247-
7800;  http://www.carnegiehall.org   Stay up late tonight for laughs and a good cause when  Alan Cumming  (who plays the irresistibly slippery, charming political
strategist on “The Good Wife”) hosts a benefit for Fight Back
New York, which goes after homophobic candidates in the coming
elections. Expect chaos, odd guests.  Midnight at Joe’s Pub, 425 Lafayette St. Information: +1-
212-539-8778;  http://www.publictheater.org .  And Don’t Miss...  Stop by the  Metropolitan Museum of Art  and say goodbye to
twin brothers Doug and Mike Starn, and their fabulous rooftop
jungle, “Big Bambu.” Over the last few months their whimsical
palace in the sky, made of 5,000 interlocking bamboo poles,
lashed together with 50 miles of nylon rope, has been rising
some 50 feet over the museum’s roof.  Arrive at cocktail hour and have a drink at the bar as the
sun begins to set and leaves change color in Central Park.
Closes next weekend.  At the Iris and B. Gerald Cantor Roof Garden, 1000 Fifth
Avenue at 82nd Street. Information: +1-212-535-7710;
 http://www.metmuseum.org   Mark Rylance  has quickly achieved legend status for his
toothy, scenery-chewing, laugh-inducing performance in the title
role of “La Bete.” But he’s not the only reason to see David
Hirson’s comedy of art-versus-commerce written entirely in
firecracker rhyming couplets. There’s  Joanna Lumley  as the
exasperated countess and the wonderful set by Mark Thompson.  At the Music Box Theatre, 239 W. 45th St. Information: +1-
212-239-6200;  http://www.telecharge.com   (With assistance from  Manuela Hoelterhoff .  Jeremy Gerard  is
an editor and critic for Muse, the arts and leisure section of
Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Jeremy Gerard in New York at 
 jgerard2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 