-- Daewoo Ship Buys Angola Shipyard Stake to Tap Rising Exploration in Africa
-- B y   K y u n g h e e   P a r k
-- 2010-10-22T07:11:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-22/daewoo-ship-buys-30-stake-in-angolan-shipyard-on-africa-s-oil-production.html
Daewoo Shipbuilding & Marine
Engineering Co.  agreed to buy a 30 percent stake in an Angolan
shipyard, its first investment in an African shipbuilder, as oil
drilling off the continent’s coast spurs demand for rigs.  The Korean shipbuilder and Porto Amboim Estaleiros Navais
Limitada’s existing owners, Sonangol Holdings and  SBM Offshore
NV , plan to invest around $100 million in the Angolan yard by
2012 to add more piers and a 2,000-ton crane,  Daewoo  said today
in an e-mailed statement. It didn’t say how much it would pay
for the stake.  Daewoo has expanded in Africa as oil companies explore new
areas to meet rising global energy demand. Total SA, Eni SpA and
Exxon Mobil Corp. have all invested in Angola, helping turn the
country into Africa’s second-biggest oil producer since the end
of a 27-year civil war in 2002.  “The investment will help us obtain an advantage to win
offshore projects in the West Africa region,” Daewoo said in
the statement.  Sonangol Holdings, controlled by Angola’s state-owned oil
company, will hold 40 percent of the yard after the investment,
Daewoo said. SBM Offshore will own 30 percent.  Daewoo already has a shipping venture with state-owned
Nigerian National Petroleum Corp. In July, it reached a
preliminary agreement to buy 49 percent of Impinda, a shipping
company owned by Khulubuse Zuma, the nephew of South African
President  Jacob Zuma .  The  shipyard  gained 4.1 percent to 30,400 won at the 3 p.m.
close of trading in Seoul, the biggest advance since Sept. 27.
The stock has climbed 74 percent this year, the  third-best
performer  among 50 top companies on South Korea’s benchmark
Kospi index.  The company also has a ship-block plant in China,
shipbuilding ventures in  Romania  and Russia and is building a
ship-repair yard in Oman.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kyunghee Park  in Singapore at 
 kpark3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  