-- Dollar Gains for First Time in Six Weeks as Geithner Urges Trade Targets
-- B y   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t
-- 2010-10-22T21:22:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-22/dollar-heads-for-weekly-gain-as-geithner-urges-g-20-trade-deficit-targets.html
The  dollar  gained for the first week
since early September versus a basket of currencies including
the euro as Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  urged Group
of 20 members to set targets for current-account imbalances.  Brazil’s real dropped the most in a week since June after
the government raised taxes on foreign inflows to stem its gain.
The  dollar  fluctuated today as Geithner proposed that G-20
members meeting in South Korea resolve currency tensions by
lowering trade surpluses and deficits to “below a specified
share” of their economies.  “It’s a wait and see today if you hear any noise out of
the meeting that could stir things up next week,” said  Fabian Eliasson , head of U.S. currency sales at Mizuho Financial Group
Inc. in New York. “People are holding off and don’t want to be
on the wrong side of the market. Long term you’re still looking
at a dollar-weakness scenario.”  The  Dollar Index,  which IntercontinentalExchange Inc. uses
to track the dollar against the currencies of six major U.S.
trading partners including the euro, yen, pound and Canadian
dollar, increased 0.4 percent from Oct. 15 in its first weekly
gain since rising 0.7 percent during the five days ended Sept.
10. The index was little changed at 77.374 at 5 p.m. in New
York, from 77.418 yesterday.  G-20 finance ministers and central bankers began talks in
Gyeongju, South Korea, after weeks of wrangling over whether
nations from the U.S. to China are relying on weaker exchange
rates to spur economic growth.  Geithner’s Plan  Participants disagreed on Geithner’s suggestion that
nations set a target for current-account imbalances. Japan’s
Finance Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  told reporters “that setting
numerical targets would be unrealistic,” while his Canadian
counterpart,  Jim Flaherty , said in a Bloomberg Television
interview that the idea was a step in the right direction.  The dollar weakened 0.2 percent to $1.3954 per euro,
compared with $1.3920 yesterday. The dollar rose to 81.38 yen,
from 81.33 yen. The euro appreciated 0.3 percent to 113.53 yen.  The euro may struggle to “convincingly break above the
$1.40 level” as short-term Treasury yields stabilize before the
Federal Reserve’s Nov. 2-3 decision on whether to extend
quantitative easing, according to  Kathleen Brooks , research
director in London at Forex.com, a unit of the online currency
trading firm Gain Capital.  “It seems like the market is done with pricing in more
QE,” Brooks wrote in a research note to clients. “The dollar
may be stuck in a range, which will be frustrating for dollar
bears.”  Euro Versus Dollar  The only day the euro closed above $1.40 this month was
Oct. 14, when U.S. first-time unemployment claims unexpectedly
increased and the trade deficit widened. The two-year Treasury
yield has been little changed at 0.35 percent this week after
falling to the record low of 0.33 percent on Oct. 12.  The  Dollar Index  has dropped 3.8 percent since Sept. 21,
when the Fed said in a statement following its policy meeting
that it’s prepared “to provide additional accommodation if
needed” to support the recovery.  Policy makers need to be mindful of the effect their
actions are having on the dollar, said  Richard Fisher , president
of the Dallas Fed and a former deputy U.S. trade representative.  “We need to be aware of the impact whatever we do has on
other variables, and one of the variables is the dollar, the
value of the dollar against other currencies,” Fisher said in
an interview this week at Bloomberg’s headquarters in New York.  Weaker Real  Brazil’s real dropped 2.4 percent this week to 1.7057
against the dollar in its biggest weekly decrease since falling
2.6 percent during the period ended June 4. The real, which was
down 0.5 percent today, touched a two-year high of 1.6442 on
Oct. 14.  In part of what Brazilian Finance Minister  Guido Mantega 
has described as a global “currency war,” the government
raised taxes on foreign inflows on Oct. 18 for the second time
this month.  Mantega told reporters yesterday in Brasilia that Geithner
said to him the previous day by telephone that the U.S. won’t
weaken the dollar. Mantega said he agreed with Geithner to seek
at the G-20 meeting a means of preventing the dollar from
depreciating.  “The most likely outcome is a bland statement where
authorities agree to refrain from competitive devaluation,
promote more foreign-exchange flexibility and shy away from
disorderly movements in foreign exchange,”  Richard Franulovich ,
a senior currency strategist at Westpac Banking Corp. in New
York, said in an interview with  Betty Liu  on Bloomberg
Television’s “In the Loop” program. “Then probably we will
see some knee-jerk dollar selling in Asia. The downward path of
the dollar is set in concrete.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Allison Bennett  in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  