-- Dollar Index Heads for Weekly Gain on Bets Fed Bond Buying May Be Gradual
-- B y   P a u l   D o b s o n
-- 2010-10-22T11:49:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-22/dollar-rises-vs-euro-yen-on-bets-fed-asset-purchases-may-be-gradual.html
The Dollar Index headed for its
first  weekly  advance in six amid speculation the Federal Reserve
may expand U.S. monetary-easing measures gradually, slowing the
depreciation of the currency.  The U.S. currency rose against the Swiss franc after
Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis President  James Bullard  said
the size of asset purchases should start with $100 billion next
month. U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  proposed
nations with persistent trade surpluses reduce their imbalances
as Group of 20 officials meet in South Korea.  “Rather than announcing an upfront number, there are
suggestions of a more gradual approach” by the Fed, said  Ian Stannard , a senior currency strategist at BNP Paribas SA in
London. “That opens the door for discussions at the G-20. It’s
increasingly looking likely something is going to come out of
the meeting on foreign exchange, which is going to provide some
support for the dollar.”  The  Dollar Index , which IntercontinentalExchange Inc. uses
to track the dollar against the currencies of six major U.S.
trading partners including the euro, yen, pound and Canadian
dollar, was at 77.413 at 7:28 a.m. in New York, 0.5 percent
higher in the week.  The dollar was at $1.3928 per euro, from $1.3920 yesterday.
It strengthened 0.4 percent against the franc to 97.18 centimes.
The U.S. currency slipped to 81.17 yen, from 81.33 yen, while
the euro bought 113.08 yen, versus 113.22.  Dollar Index Slump  The Dollar Index has slumped 10 percent in the second half
amid speculation the Fed will increase asset purchases to boost
the economy, while developing nations take action to curb
inflows of capital that threaten to lift their currencies and
dent exports.  Philadelphia Fed President  Charles Plosser  speaks today,
and Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  and New York Fed President
 William Dudley  speak on Oct. 25.  “Some of the dollar weakness is beginning to look
overdone,” said  Stephen Gallo , head of market analysis at
Schneider Foreign Exchange in London. “The size of this
quantitative-easing package from the Fed might have been a bit
overestimated and it’s possible the Fed might temper the size of
QE in order to exert a degree of control over the dollar. Nobody
wants to look like a culprit for widening global imbalances.”  Finance chiefs and central bankers will say after G-20
talks conclude in Gyeongju, South Korea, tomorrow that they want
a “more market-determined exchange rate system that minimizes
adverse effects of excess volatility and disorderly movements in
exchange rates,” an official from a G-20 member country said,
citing a draft statement and speaking on condition of anonymity.
They will refrain from “competitive undervaluation” of
currencies, the official said.  ‘Targets Unrealistic’  In a letter to his G-20 counterparts, Geithner said
officials “should commit to undertake policies consistent with
reducing external imbalances below a specified share of GDP over
the next few years.”  “I think that setting numerical targets would be
unrealistic,” Japanese Finance Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  told
reporters. Canadian Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty  told Bloomberg
Television the idea was a “step in the right direction” and a
French official said the Group of Seven, which includes Japan,
was supportive of it.  The Swiss franc depreciated to its weakest level in two
months versus the euro after a measure of German business
confidence unexpectedly climbed, reducing demand for the Swiss
currency as a haven.  Ifo Data  The Munich-based Ifo institute said today its business
climate index rose to 107.6 from 106.8 in September, the highest
since May 2007.  The franc declined 0.4 percent to 1.3529 per euro after
weakening to 1.3577, the lowest since Aug. 12.  Australia’s dollar rose, paring its first weekly drop in
two months, after Geithner’s comments.  The so-called Aussie advanced 0.4 percent to 98.11 U.S.
cents, and gained 0.2 percent to 79.65 yen. The Australian
currency reached parity with the greenback for the first time
since 1983 a week ago.  Asian currencies, including Malaysia’s ringgit, Thailand’s
baht and the Singapore dollar had weekly declines. The ringgit
weakened 1.1 percent in the week to 3.1145 and the baht slipped
0.4 percent to 29.94.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Paul Dobson  in London at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at   dtilles@bloomberg.net  