-- Megadeals Go Missing From M&A Rebound
-- B y   A l e x   S h e r m a n   a n d   Z a c h a r y   R .   M i d e r
-- 2010-10-22T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-22/megadeals-go-missing-from-m-a-rebound-as-risk-averse-buyers-limit-spending.html
This year’s rebound in mergers and
acquisitions has one conspicuously large absence: the megadeal.  Announced takeovers of more than $25 billion are set to
make up the smallest percentage of total deal volume in any year
since 2002, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. BHP
Billiton Ltd.’s offer for  Potash Corp.  of Saskatchewan Inc. is
the only bid this year valued at more than $30 billion, and
there have been only two others valued at more than $25 billion,
including net debt.  Companies are spending stockpiled cash on smaller
competitors that complement their business rather than pursuing
transformational takeovers. While 73 percent of transactions
this year have been less than $5 billion, the purchases have put
dealmaking on pace to surpass last year’s $1.78 trillion in
volume and may portend the return of more sizeable acquisitions.  “The drop-off in the very large transactions is masking a
significant pickup in $1 billion to $5 billion deals,” said
 Gary Posternack , head of M&A for the Americas at Barclays Plc,
in an interview. “Companies are looking at transactions that
are lower risk, closer to the core business of the acquirer, and
perceived as being synergistic.”  The biggest deals so far this year account for just 5.8
percent of total volume, while acquisitions from $1 billion to
$5 billion have risen to 34 percent, the highest in at least a
decade, according to Bloomberg data. Transactions less than $1
billion account for 39 percent of the total, a six-year high,
the data show.  Cash Available  Many conditions for a comeback in bigger deals are in
place. The 1,000 largest non-financial companies have almost $3
trillion on their balance sheets, and financing rates are near
record lows. The Federal Reserve’s October Beige Book, released
Oct. 20, noted that M&A lending picked up in some areas.  There is pent-up demand for smaller deals even if banks are
unwilling to commit tens of billions of dollars in financing,
according to  Hiter Harris , managing director and co-founder of
Harris Williams Co. in Richmond, Virginia, whose firm
specializes in advising on transactions valued at less than $1
billion.  “The middle-market deal flow is a six- to nine-month
leading indicator for the rest of the market and the economy,”
said Harris, who expects more deals will top $25 billion in
2011.  Banks are willing to lend to creditworthy buyers, as
evidenced by the $45 billion of loans Melbourne-based BHP
Billiton obtained for its Potash bid. Potash rejected the $40
billion offer, excluding debt, as too low.  ‘Story of Ego’  Other potential targets may also be balking at offers
because they anticipate their valuations will rise, according to
 Sachin Shah , a special situations and merger arbitrage
strategist at Capstone Global Markets LLC in New York.  “This is a story of ego,” said Shah. “Boards are saying,
’I’m a $25 billion company, I’m not the prey, I’m a survivor,
I’m the predator.’”  Buyers don’t appear to be looking for transformational
opportunities, according to  Richard Hurowitz , chairman and chief
executive officer at Octavian Advisors LP, who invests in risk
arbitrage. Instead, they are actively seeking strategic deals
with more “reasonable” valuations, he said.  International Business Machines Corp.’s pending takeover of
Netezza Corp. for $1.67 billion and Unilever’s agreement to buy
Alberto-Culver Co. for $3.7 billion are two examples of same-
industry, all-cash deals announced since the beginning of
September.  Biggest Deals  While deals between $5 billion and $25 billion have
increased from last year, both in total number and in overall
value, they are still below levels from 2005 to 2008, data show.  None of the three biggest deals this year have involved a
U.S. company. The country’s  unemployment rate  is hovering at 9.6
percent and  consumer confidence  unexpectedly fell in October.  Aside from BHP, the other announced offers topping $25
billion this year are GDF Suez SA’s $25.8 billion bid for
London-based International Power Plc and America Movil SAB’s
$25.7 billion proposed purchase of Carso Global Telecom SAB.
Both of those companies are controlled by billionaire Carlos
Slim.  The compiled data include net debt and exclude terminated
deals, such as this year’s $35.5 billion bid by London-based
Prudential Plc to buy Hong Kong-based AIA Group Ltd.  A potential change in capital gains tax rates has also
fueled smaller acquisitions, said Harris. President  Barack Obama 
has proposed raising long-term capital-gain rates to 20 percent
from 15 percent for individuals who earn more than $200,000 and
couples that earn more than $250,000.  “The possible change in rates is a significant event for
middle-market companies, but if you’re a $25 billion company,
you’re probably not as focused on the changes,” Harris said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alex Sherman  in New York at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net ;
 Zachary R. Mider  in New York at 
 zmider1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at   jsondag@bloomberg.net . 