-- Legal & General Nine-Month Sales Rise 27% on Revenue From Savings Products
-- B y   K e v i n   C r o w l e y
-- 2010-10-22T08:36:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-22/legal-general-nine-month-sales-rise-27-on-revenue-from-savings-products.html
Legal & General Group Plc , the
U.K.’s fourth-biggest insurer, said sales rose 27 percent in
the first nine months of the year as revenue from savings
products increased.  Worldwide sales climbed to 1.35 billion pounds ($2.1
billion) in the period from 1.06 billion pounds a year earlier,
Legal & General said today in a statement. The insurer, which
was due to publish the figures on Nov. 9, released them early
after mistakenly sending them to analysts yesterday.  “These are pretty good numbers albeit coming off of a
cyclical low point,” said  Marcus Barnard , a London-based
analyst at Oriel Securities Ltd. with a “buy” rating on the
stock. “There’s a continuation of weak, dull sales in
protection and annuities, which is what we would have expected.
Retail investments are very strong.”  Legal & General, which boosted its first-half dividend
20 percent in August, is seeking to further increase payouts to
shareholders as it sells more retail savings products in place
of annuities and income protection, which require more capital
to be held in reserve. The insurer is focusing on selling more
mutual funds through its asset-management unit as Britons seek
higher returns on their savings amid record-low interest rates.  Investment business rose 67 percent to 431 million pounds
in the period, while assets under management increased 13
percent to 27.6 billion pounds. Individual annuity sales climbed
12 percent to 91 million pounds, and income protection and
housing insurance dropped 2 percent to 130 million pounds.  The stock dropped 0.7 pence, or 0.7 percent, to 103.6 pence
at 9:05 a.m. in London trading, valuing the insurer at about
6.1 billion pounds.  Dividend Increases  Finance director  Nigel Wilson  is seeking “substantial
headroom” for dividend increases, according the text of a
presentation he delivered at a Keefe, Bruyette & Woods Ltd.
conference in London last month.  Legal & General didn’t provide any comment on the nine-
month sales numbers. The insurer will update investors and
analysts as planned on Nov. 9, spokesman  Richard King  said.  “Actual 2009 numbers and a sub-set of working draft third-
quarter 2010 numbers were inadvertently e-mailed to several
analysts yesterday after 4 p.m., therefore we have decided to
release the actual numbers to the market,” the company said in
the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kevin Crowley  in London at 
 kcrowley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  