-- Lehman, JPMorgan, Bank of America, HP in Court News
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2010-10-22T10:24:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-22/lehman-jpmorgan-bank-of-america-mattel-hewlett-packard-in-court-news.html
U.S. Bankruptcy Judge James Peck
said he never approved the final details of how billions of
dollars of assets were to be distributed in bankrupt  Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc. ’s sale of its brokerage to Barclays Plc.  “Let me be clear about one thing, Mr. Boies,” Peck told
Barclays’ lawyer David Boies. “I never approved the
clarification letter,” one of about 12,000 documents filed in
the bankruptcy.  Peck had interrupted Boies as he began closing arguments in
the $11 billion trial. The lawyer said the judge had no legal
basis for reopening his own sale order because all details of
the deal were known at the time. That included a so-called
clarification letter allocating extra assets to Barclays. Lehman
rose as much as 76 percent.  “No hearings took place in this court to approve the
clarification letter,” said Peck, who didn’t indicate what
effect his statement would have on the details of the brokerage
sale. Peck may make a final ruling in January or February,
lawyers in the case have said.  Lehman, which accuses Barclays of making an $11 billion
“windfall” when it bought the brokerage in the 2008 financial
crisis, is trying to convince Peck that he has grounds for
overturning his own order approving the sale.  Kimberly Macleod, a Lehman spokeswoman, and Michael
O’Looney, a Barclays spokesman, declined to comment.  Peck may require Barclays to return to Lehman any assets
that were included in the deal as part of the clarification
letter because the letter wasn’t approved by the court, said
Chip Bowles, a bankruptcy lawyer at Greenebaum Doll & McDonald
PLLC in Louisville, Kentucky. Barclays also may lose its bid to
get additional assets, he said.  Peck could rule “the clarification has no effect
whatsoever,” Bowles said. “That what’s he signaling -- that
this is not sacrosanct, this is not a final order of the
court.”  The case is In re Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., 08-13555,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  For more, click here.  Terra Firma Employees Back Hands’s Testimony on Calls  Two Terra Firma Capital Partners Ltd. employees supported
the testimony of their boss, firm founder Guy Hands, that
 Citigroup Inc.  banker David Wormsley misled him about the 2007
auction for  EMI Group Ltd.   Hands, whose firm is suing Citigroup for fraud in an $8.3
billion suit on trial in Manhattan federal court, claims
Wormsley falsely told him in three phone calls the weekend
before the auction that Cerberus Capital Management LP planned
to submit a competing bid of 2.62 pounds per share for EMI.  “Guy called me up over the weekend and he said, ‘I’ve just
had a conversation with David Wormsley and he tells me that
Cerberus is in. They will be bidding tomorrow, and they will be
bidding a price of 262,’” the witness, Riaz Punja, told jurors
yesterday.  Terra Firma claims that if it had known Cerberus had
dropped out of the bidding before the May 21, 2007, auction, it
wouldn’t have submitted its own bid of 2.65 pounds for EMI, the
113-year-old music publishing and recording company based in
London. Instead, the firm claims, it would have taken more time
to study the transaction and negotiated a lower price.  Punja’s testimony comes after Hands said Oct. 20 on cross-
examination that he has no documents that prove Wormsley lied to
him on the weekend leading up to the Monday-morning auction.  Hands is scheduled to resume his testimony today.  The case is Terra Firma v. Citigroup, 09-cv-10459, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For the latest trial and appeals news, click here.  Lawsuits/Pretrial  JPMorgan May Lose Business, Face Suit on Wintek Report  JPMorgan Chase & Co.  may have lost a client’s business and
face a lawsuit after Taiwan’s  Wintek Corp.  objected to an
analyst’s report that said investors should sell the company’s
shares as it was poised to lose market share.  Wintek will “end global depositary receipt cooperation
with JPMorgan” because of an Oct. 19 research report by Taipei-
based analyst Narci Chang, the company said in a  filing  to the
Taiwan Stock Exchange Oct. 20. The company, which makes
components for Apple Inc.’s iPad and iPhone, may take legal
action against Chang, the statement said.  Display makers AU Optronics Corp. and Chimei Innolux Corp.
are a “serious threat” to Wintek because they’re eroding
orders from Apple, Chang said.  “The analyst report said new players will grab market
share, but this assumption couldn’t be accompanied by any
evidence,” Jay Huang, a spokesman for Taichung, Taiwan-based
 Wintek , said in a phone interview Oct. 20. “Without this event,
I think we still would have cooperated with them to conduct the
GDR offering.”  Marie Cheung, a Hong Kong-based spokeswoman for JPMorgan,
declined to comment.  For more, click here.  Bank of America Must Face Employees’ Overtime Suit  Bank of America Corp. must face a lawsuit claiming it fails
to pay overtime to retail branch and call center employees, a
federal judge ruled.  Judge John W. Lungstrum in Kansas City, Kansas, denied Oct.
20 Bank of America’s request to dismiss the case, which
consolidated separate employee lawsuits filed against the
biggest U.S. bank by assets in California, Florida, Texas,
Washington and Kansas.  Current and former hourly workers who were employed by the
bank within the past three years argue the lender violated
either the federal Fair Labor Standards Act or state wage and
hour laws. Bank of America, based in Charlotte, North Carolina,
asked Lungstrum to dismiss the case on grounds the employees
failed to prove that they are entitled under federal law to the
back pay they seek.  “The complaint here details numerous alleged ways in which
the bank routinely denied overtime compensation to its retail
branch and call center employees and details the nature of the
work that employees were allegedly required to perform off-the-
clock,” Lungstrum wrote in yesterday’s ruling.  The case is In re Bank of America Wage and Hour Employment
Litigation, 10MD2138, U.S. District Court, District of Kansas
(Kansas City).  U.S. Should Better Explain Bribery Settlements, Group Says  The U.S., while it still leads the world in battling
corruption, should better explain why cases against corporations
are settled, said an international group that combats
transnational bribery.  The Paris-based  Organization for Economic Cooperation and
Development  praised the U.S. for its commitment “at the highest
echelon of the government” to fighting bribery in overseas
business transactions. No country has investigated or brought
more criminal cases among parties to the OECD’s international
anti-bribery treaty, the group’s 38-country Working Group on
Bribery said in a  report  made public yesterday.  At the same time, the report said, the U.S. Justice
Department needs to do a better job of explaining why and how
cases against corporations are resolved.  “Publishing more detailed reasons” for the resolution of
cases “would give more insight into the DOJ’s choice of
settlement agreements and thus enhance accountability and
transparency of the process,” according to the 68-page report.  Most corporate cases in the U.S. are settled through
agreements to defer or forego prosecution of companies, the
group said. The U.S. government has reaped billions of dollars
in fines and penalties through such agreements.  U.S. officials welcomed the report, which praised the
government for creating specialized anti-bribery units in the
Justice Department, the Securities and Exchange Commission, and
the Federal Bureau of Investigation.  “The United States has risen to the forefront of enhanced
global efforts to combat foreign bribery,” Assistant Attorney
General Lanny Breuer said Oct. 20 in a statement.  For the latest lawsuits news, click here.  New Suits  Labor Department Sues Over Plans’ Madoff Investments  The U.S. Labor Department sued four investment firms for
allegedly failing to examine swindler Bernard Madoff’s business
practices before entrusting him with hundreds of millions of
dollars in pension funds.  Ivy Asset Management LLC, Beacon Associates Management
Corp., J.P. Jeanneret Associates Inc., Andover Associates
Management Corp. and their principals were named as defendants
in a complaint filed yesterday in federal court in Manhattan.  The lawsuit was brought under the Employee Retirement
Income Security Act on behalf of union-sponsored and single-
employer benefit plans, according to the complaint. The Labor
Department asked the court to order the defendants to “restore
to the plans all losses suffered” as a result of fiduciary
breaches by the defendants related to Madoff investments.  “These defendants chose their own financial interests over
those of the plans whose assets they were duty bound to manage
prudently,” Labor Secretary Hilda Solis said in a statement.  Madoff, 72, is serving a 150 years in prison after
admitting to orchestrating the biggest Ponzi scheme in history.
When he was arrested in December 2008, account statements
reflected 4,900 accounts with $65 billion in nonexistent
investments, according to Irving Picard, the trustee overseeing
the Madoff bankruptcy.  Ivy is a unit of New York-based  Bank of New York Mellon
Corp.  Craig Brown, a spokesman for Jericho, New York-based Ivy,
said he couldn’t immediately comment.  Steven Kaplan and Tab Rosenfeld, Manhattan attorneys who
represent White Plains, New York-based Beacon and principals
Joel Danziger and Harris Markhoff in other Madoff-related
litigation, didn’t immediately return a call to their law firm
seeking comment. Kaplan is listed as counsel to Andover in
another case, according to court records.  Brian Whiteley, a Boston-based lawyer who represents
Syracuse, New York-based J.P. Jeanneret and its principals, John
Jeanneret and Paul Perry, also didn’t return a call seeking
comment.  The case is Solis v. Beacon Associates Management Corp.,
10-cv-8000, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  HP Sued by Shareholders Over Kickback, Foreign Bribery Claims  Directors at Hewlett-Packard Co., the world’s largest
computer maker, were sued by shareholders over claims they
permitted or encouraged violations of federal kickback and
foreign bribery laws.  From 2007 to 2009, HP violated the federal anti-kickback
law by paying government vendors “influencer fees” to win
contracts to design information technology systems, according to
the complaint filed in federal court in San Jose, California.
The company is also under investigation for possible violations
of the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act.  Current and former directors at HP “consciously condoned
HP’s illegal and unethical marketing practices,” according to
the Oct. 19 complaint. The misconduct has “put the company at
risk of having its U.S. government contracts rescinded,” the
shareholders claim, adding that HP sales to U.S. agencies from
2007 to 2009 totaled more than $880 million.  The case relies in part on HP’s announcement in August that
it agreed to pay $55 million to settle a Justice Department
probe of whether the company overcharged taxpayers through a
General Services Administration contract. That settlement also
resolved a False Claims Act lawsuit, first filed by a
whistleblower and joined by the government, alleging that the
company paid kickbacks.  HP spokeswoman Mylene Mangalindan didn’t immediately return
a call seeking comment. John McCool, an outside spokesman for
the company, said HP is reviewing the complaint.  The case is Saginaw Police and Fire Pension Fund v.
Andreessen, 10-4720, U.S. District Court, Northern District of
California (San Jose).  For the latest new suits news, click here. For copies of recent
civil complaints, click here.  Verdicts/Settlement  Florida Money Manager Nadel Gets 14 Years for Fraud  Arthur Nadel, the Florida money manager accused of
defrauding investors of $168 million, was sentenced yesterday to
14 years in prison.  Nadel, the 77-year-old founder of Scoop Management Inc. in
Sarasota, Florida, pleaded guilty in February to a 15-count
indictment filed by U.S. prosecutors in New York. The charges
included securities fraud, wire fraud and mail fraud.  “This was a massive fraud perpetrated on vulnerable
victims who rightly deserve the protection of the law,” U.S.
District Judge John Koeltl said before imposing the sentence.  Koeltl rejected a defense request for a five-year sentence
as too low. He cited Nadel’s age and fragile health in
sentencing him to less than the 19 1/2 years sought by
prosecutors.  In addition to the prison sentence, Koeltl imposed three
years of supervised release and ordered Nadel to forfeit $162
million in proceeds from the crime. Koeltl said he will
determine later how much to order Nadel to pay in restitution to
his victims.  Nadel said yesterday he has spent his time in jail thinking
about the harm he caused his victims and read the letters they
sent to the court.  The case is U.S. v. Nadel, 1:09-cr-00433, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  Mattel Loses Bid for Review of Bratz Case Ruling  Mattel Inc. lost a bid for review of a federal appeals
court ruling that the company must retry its claims to MGA
Entertainment Inc.’s Bratz dolls.  The U.S. Court of Appeals in San Francisco denied Mattel’s
petition for rehearing and review by a larger panel of judges,
according to a filing yesterday.  In July, a three-member appeals panel overturned a December
2008 order that gave Mattel rights to most of MGA’s Bratz
products. A jury in the case found that the designer who created
the dolls was working at Mattel when he conceived of the idea
and the name and made the initial drawings for the pouty and
multiethnic dolls.  The case is MGA Entertainment Inc. v. Mattel Inc., 09-
55673, 9th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals (San Francisco). The
district court case is Bryant v. Mattel, 04-09049, U.S. District
Court, Central District of California (Riverside).  Hewlett-Packard Says EU Court Ruling May Stop Levies  Hewlett-Packard Co.  and other office electronics companies
said levies on printers and fax machines to compensate copyright
holders for copying may be ended across the European Union after
a court judgment on Spanish rules.  Spain’s “indiscriminate application of the private copying
levy” is illegal and shouldn’t be applied to digital equipment
used by businesses, the European Court of Justice in Luxembourg
said yesterday.  Irena Bednarich, HP’s European government affairs manager,
said the judgment would lead to the removal of levies paid in
Spain and other nations on office devices, allowing products to
“freely circulate in the European Union.”  Hewlett-Packard ,  Canon Inc.  and Seiko Epson Corp. are among
printer makers that have criticized national levies, saying they
distort the price of their products across the 27-nation EU. The
court yesterday set limits on the levies, intended to compensate
artists and composers for legal extra copies of their work made
by private users. It said charges on equipment used by private
individuals to make copies are in line with EU rules.  “What is very positive is that the court clearly gave
support to the compensation schemes that exist in most member
states,” said Veronique Desbrosses, secretary general of the
European Grouping of Societies of Authors and Composers.  In yesterday’s case, a Spanish maker of CDs and DVDs,
challenged the national system by not paying. The disc maker was
taken to court by Spain’s Sociedad General de Autores y
Editores, or SGAE, which manages authors’ intellectual property
rights.  The ruling “requires a radical adaptation of the old-
fashioned copyright levies systems,” said Bridget Cosgrave,
director general of Digital Europe, a Brussels-based electronics
industry group.  Spain’s Culture Minister Angeles Gonzalez-Sinde told the
state-owned television channel that the country would now “seek
an alternative” along “with other European countries that will
be affected.”  The case is C-467/08 Sociedad General de Autores y Editores
de Espana (SGAE) v. Padawan, S.L. and Entidad de Gestion de
Derechos de los Productores Audiovisuales (EGEDA).  For the latest verdict and settlement news, click here.  Litigation Departments  Chevron Wins Bid to Subpoena Lawyer for Ecuadoreans  Chevron Corp. , the second-largest U.S. energy company, can
subpoena an American attorney working for Ecuadorean villagers
suing the company in a multibillion dollar environmental
pollution case, a federal judge ruled.  U.S. District Judge Lewis Kaplan in Manhattan denied a
request Oct. 20 by New York attorney Steven Donziger and
plaintiffs in the lawsuit in Ecuador to block a subpoena by
company lawyers seeking testimony and documents.  The case is In re Application of Chevron Corp., 10-00002,
U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  For the latest litigation department news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Elizabeth Amon  in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 