-- Televisa Third-Quarter Profit Climbs on Internet, Phone Clients
-- B y   C r a y t o n   H a r r i s o n
-- 2010-10-22T21:26:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-22/televisa-third-quarter-profit-climbs-9-with-more-internet-phone-clients.html
Grupo Televisa SA , the world’s
largest Spanish-language broadcaster, said third-quarter profit
rose 9 percent as more clients turned to its cable-TV units for
phone and high-speed Internet services.  Net income climbed to 2.2 billion pesos ($177 million) from
2 billion pesos a year earlier, Mexico City-based Televisa said
yesterday in an e-mailed statement. Sales rose 12 percent to
14.8 billion pesos.  Televisa is luring customers of billionaire  Carlos Slim ’s
Telefonos de Mexico SAB with packages of cable TV, phone and
Internet service. The three cable carriers controlled by
Televisa added a total of 31,658 Internet users and 28,737 phone
customers in the third quarter.  The cable unit was Televisa’s second-biggest division and
its fastest-growing, climbing 37 percent from a year earlier to
3 billion pesos. The broadcasting business, Televisa’s largest
source of revenue, expanded 7.1 percent to 5.86 billion pesos,
in line with the forecast of  Michel Morin , an analyst with
Barclays Capital Plc.  Televisa boosted its forecast for broadcast-revenue growth
this year to as much as 6 percent, up from a projection of
5 percent, Executive Vice President  Alfonso de Angoitia  said
today on a conference call.  One of Televisa’s cable units,  Empresas Cablevision SAB , is
spending $240 million over three years to replace its older
cables with a fiber-optic network. In the next few months, the
company will begin adopting technology called Docsis 3.0 that
will allow it to add Internet services and boost download speeds
to as much as 20 megabits a second, more than double its current
fastest offer, de Angoitia said.  The satellite-TV division, called Sky, ended the quarter
with 2.75 million customers, up 52 percent from a year earlier.  Televisa fell 0.5 percent to 54.77 pesos at 4:10 p.m.
New York time in Mexico City  trading . The shares have risen
1 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Crayton Harrison  in Mexico City at 
 tharrison5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net . 