-- Elizabeth Hurley, Ferguson Join Investors in Highclere Racehorse Syndicate
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2010-10-22T10:31:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-22/elizabeth-hurley-ferguson-join-investors-in-highclere-racehorse-syndicate.html
Highclere Thoroughbred Racing , the
syndicate that owned the world’s top-rated horse Harbinger, will
sell out all its shares next year, Managing Director  Harry Herbert  said.  “We’ve had tremendous demand this year, having had the
success we’ve had with  Harbinger  but also with the (other) Royal
Ascot winners,” Herbert said in an interview at the annual
parade of yearlings in the grounds of  Highclere Castle , his
Victorian gothic family home in Newbury, England.  Highclere, which puts together ownership groups for
racehorses, this season produced a company record 41 winners,
including three at Royal Ascot. It has made more than 1.3
million pounds ($2.1 million) in prize money for its part-
owners, who include actress  Elizabeth Hurley  and Manchester
United manager  Alex Ferguson . The syndicate is currently ranked
fourth on the owners’ list for total prize money won this
season.  For the price of part-ownership of a horse, people have the
chance to participate in a sport dominated by  Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum , the ruler of Dubai and the world’s
biggest racehorse-owner, and Irish millionaires John Magnier and
J.P. McManus.  It costs about 20,000 pounds a year on average to train a
racehorse. Highclere offers shares ranging from 6,950 pounds to
36,950 pounds a year, which includes all the costs, including
training fees, vet and feed bills. Any prize money will be
shared by the syndicate owners, while further profits may be
made from stud fees and from sales.  Wealth Warning  It’s also possible to make no money at all.  “If your intention is to make money, then probably nobody
should ever invest in horses,” Bill Oppenheim, a bloodstock and
breeding expert who has followed the industry for more than 35
years, said in an interview.  “But if you like horses, then there are ways to manage
your investment -- given the economics of the business, which
are not great as far as owning racehorses is concerned,” said
Oppenheim, who is a columnist for the  Thoroughbred Daily News .  Census, a Highclere horse in which Hurley owns a share, won
his first race in Bath last weekend as the actress watched with
her family.  Harbinger was rated the world’s best racehorse after he won
the King George VI and  Queen Elizabeth  Stakes at Ascot in July
by 11 lengths in a record time. The colt, which cost 189,000
pounds three years ago and was owned by a syndicate of 12
people, accumulated more than 700,000 pounds in winnings during
his racing career. They included victory in the Hardwicke Stakes
in this year’s Royal Ascot meeting in June.  After winning the “King George,” Harbinger was hurt in
training and was sold to Japan to take up stud duties for “a
huge figure,” Herbert said in an interview in Newmarket,
England, on Oct. 6. “Twelve owners will have an enormous pay
day,” he said at the time.  Expert Eye  Herbert expects to sell all of Highclere’s 10 syndicates,
made up of 19 horses in total, by the end of this week.  “That’s probably half a million pounds worth of yearlings
more than in the previous year,” he said. “We haven’t seen a
downturn, maybe because we are at a level that is still very
affordable to people.”  Herbert said part of Highclere’s success is related to John
Warren, the company’s chief horse-buyer, who has been scouting
100 horses a day in the past six weeks to fill the 10
syndicates.  “I’m trying to find the champion out of very immature,
young horses,” Warren, who is also bloodstock adviser to Queen
Elizabeth II, said in an interview. “It’s a matter of trying to
put all of the pieces of the jigsaw together before I finally
make the decision.”  Warren said he selects horses on their temperament,
pedigree, coats, length and muscle tone.  Talent-Spotting  “In the business of talent-spotting, there are probably 50
to 100 people in the world that are quite accomplished at doing
that,” Oppenheim said. “John would rate among the very top
rung of them, he’s got a very good record.”  “Our horses cost an average of 100,000 pounds or so,”
Warren said. “It wouldn’t be impossible for Sheikh Mohammed or
John Magnier to spend 2 million pounds on three horses. If we do
one thing well, it is that we buy with caution. We take the view
that they are an expensive commodity and don’t want to make
mistakes. We spent a tremendous amount of time de-risking and
taking the negatives out.”  Erol Ezen, who buys and sells shops on London’s Oxford
Street, was one of dozens of potential part-owners who checked
out the yearlings at this week’s annual parade of young,
untrained racehorses at Highclere Stud, located a five-minute
drive from Highclere Castle.  Ezen spent 16,950 pounds on a stake in a 20-share syndicate
consisting of two horses that cost 105,000 pounds on average.  “I’ve always loved horseracing,” said Ezen, who owns
stakes in six different horses. “I haven’t actually sat down
and worked out the cost. But I don’t expect to make any money at
all. Being part of Highclere is an incredible experience. It’s
really good fun. If the horses win, then that’s a bonus.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Danielle Rossingh  at Highclere Stud, England, through the London
newsroom on   drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  