-- Emerging-Market Stocks Advance, Paring Weekly Loss, on Corporate Earnings
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-10-22T06:39:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-22/emerging-market-stocks-increase-paring-weekly-loss-on-corporate-earnings.html
Emerging-market stocks rose, paring
a weekly loss for the developing-nation benchmark gauge, as
corporate earnings fuelled confidence in the region’s economy.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index  added 0.2 percent to
1,107.98 at 2:19 p.m. in Shanghai. South Korea’s Kospi Index
gained 1.2 percent.  LG Display Co.  rose in Seoul after reporting
third-quarter profit that exceeded analysts’ estimates. The
Bombay Stock Exchange’s Sensitive Index, or Sensex, added 0.3
percent as  Tata Consultancy Services Ltd.  gained after reporting
higher net income.  “Earnings are one of the strongest market drivers,” said
 Apurva Shah , head of research at Prabhudas Lilladher Pvt. in
Mumbai.  The developing-nation index has lost 1.2 percent this week,
snapping a seven-week winning streak that was the longest since
May 2009, as China raised its benchmark lending rate for the
first time since 2007 and concern deepened that policy makers
will impose capital controls. Nations from Brazil to China are
trying to limit gains in their currencies as investors seek
higher-yielding emerging-market assets amid near-zero U.S.
borrowing costs.  Funds that invest in global emerging-market equities drew
record inflows in the third week of October, according to EPFR
Global. The funds took in $3.8 billion in the week ending Oct.
20, the Cambridge, Massachusetts-based research company said in
an e-mailed statement.  Indexes tracking technology stocks and companies reliant on
consumer discretionary spending rose the most among the 10
industry groups today.  Corporate Earnings  LG Display, the world’s second-largest maker of liquid-
crystal displays, gained 4.6 percent. The company had a net
income of 224.2 billion won ($198 million) in the three months
ended in September, according to a statement. That exceeded the
145 billion won average estimate of seven analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg News.  Tata Consultancy, India’s biggest software exporter,
climbed 5.1 percent to a record. Net income rose 32 percent to
21.7 billion rupees ($490 million) in the three months ended
September.  Stocks also gained after U.S. jobless claims dropped.  Samsung Electronics Co., which derived 22 percent of sales
from America last year, rose 1.6 percent.  Taiwan Semiconductor
Manufacturing Co. , the world’s largest custom manufacturer of
chips, added 1.3 percent.  U.S. initial jobless claims fell by 23,000 last week, Labor
Department figures showed and the New York-based Conference
Board’s index of leading economic indicators rose 0.3 percent in
September, signaling the economic recovery will extend into 2011.  -- Chua Kong Ho  in Shanghai. With assistance by Ruchika Tulshyan
in Mumbai. Editors:  Richard Frost , Linus Chua   To contact the reporters on this story:
 Chua Kong Ho  in Shanghai at 
 kchua6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Linus Chua at 
 lchua@bloomberg.net  