-- Emerging-Market Stocks Decline, Extending First Weekly Drop Since August
-- B y   M i c h a e l   P a t t e r s o n
-- 2010-10-22T15:45:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-22/emerging-market-stocks-decline-extending-first-weekly-drop-since-august.html
Developing-nation stocks fell,
extending the  MSCI Emerging Markets Index ’s first weekly drop
since August, as lower metals prices dragged down raw-materials
companies and  Wipro Ltd. ’s profit missed analysts’ estimates.  The MSCI gauge declined 0.2 percent to 1,104.39 at 11:38
a.m. New York time, bringing its weekly retreat to 1.5 percent,
the steepest since Aug. 27. Currencies were mixed as Group of 20
finance chiefs began talks in South Korea aimed at easing
tensions over global exchange rates.  “Markets will remain in a narrow range today as investors
wait to hear if the G-20 finance ministers meeting in Korea this
weekend agree on any new measures to provide greater stability
in currency markets,”  Chris Weafer , chief strategist at Moscow-
based UralSib Financial Corp., said in an e-mailed note.  South Africa’s benchmark equity index slid 1.1 percent as
falling prices for gold, platinum and silver reduced the outlook
for export earnings. Wipro, India’s third-largest software
exporter, tumbled 4.5 percent and helped send India’s  Bombay
Stock Exchange Sensitive Index  to a 0.5 percent decline.  Shares retreated even as global emerging-market equity
funds lured record inflows last week while initial public
offerings by Coal India Ltd. and AIA Group Ltd. attracted bids
for more stock than they offered to sell. The MSCI emerging
markets index has climbed 13 percent the past three months as
developing-nation companies attracted a record $141 billion from
stock sales last quarter, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  G-20 Meeting  The FTSE/JSE Africa All Shares Index headed for the biggest
decline since Sept. 7. AngloGold Ashanti Ltd. retreated 1.2
percent in Johannesburg trading as gold prices fell for a second
day in New York. Polyus Gold sank 2.6 percent in Moscow after
the shares were cut to “equal-weight” versus “overweight” at
Morgan Stanley, which cited an expensive valuation.  Wipro posted the  biggest drop  since January after saying
net income rose 9.4 percent to 12.8 billion rupees ($287.1
million) last quarter, compared with the 13.4 billion-rupee
average of 34 analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Group of 20 finance ministers plan to say members will
refrain from “competitive undervaluation” of currencies, said
an official from a member country, citing a draft statement and
speaking on condition of anonymity.  U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  proposed G-20
members pursue policies to reduce trade imbalances “below a
specified share” of their economies, according to an Oct. 20
letter. That suggestion today split the group of industrial and
emerging countries, which are trying to curb currency gains to
keep export industries competitive.  Global emerging-market equity funds took in $3.8 billion in
the week ending Oct. 20, Cambridge, Massachusetts-based research
company EPFR Global said in an e-mailed statement. Year-to-date
inflows into the funds now exceed the record $44.2 billion for
the whole of 2009, EPFR said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Patterson  in London at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net . 