-- Global Emerging-Market Equity Funds Draw Record Inflows as Dollar Weakens
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-10-22T03:46:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-22/emerging-market-equity-funds-took-in-5-8-billion-in-past-week-epfr-says.html
Global emerging-market equity funds
drew record inflows in the third week of October as investors
sought growth in developing nations and the dollar weakened,
according to EPFR Global.  The funds took in $3.8 billion in the week ending Oct. 20,
the Cambridge, Massachusetts-based research company said in an
e-mailed statement. Investors added $1.4 billion to emerging-
market bond funds and withdrew money from  Japan  stock funds for
the 16th week among the past 17. U.S. equity funds had net
outflows of $1.9 billion, EPFR said.  Year-to-date inflows to global emerging-market equity funds
exceed the record $44.2 billion for the whole of 2009, EPFR said.
Nations from Brazil to China are striving to restrain their
currencies to remain competitive as capital flow into emerging
economies amid near-zero U.S. borrowing costs.  “On the U.S. side, you have quantitative easing, which
Asia and the rest of emerging markets are becoming increasingly
uncomfortable with because it’s going to bring another wave of
capital around them and create asset bubbles here,”  Bill Belchere , global chief economist at Mirae Asset Securities Co.
in Hong Kong, said in a Bloomberg Television interview.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index  has rebounded 29 percent
from the May 25 low, compared to the 17 percent gain in the  MSCI
World Index , which tracks developed markets.  Weaker Dollar  The Dollar Index, used by IntercontinentalExchange Inc. to
track the dollar against the currencies of six major U.S.
trading partners including the euro and yen, has dropped 3.7
percent since Sept. 21, when the Federal Reserve said in a
statement following its policy meeting that it’s prepared “to
provide additional accommodation if needed” to support the
recovery. The Fed is next due to decide on monetary policy Nov.
2-3.  “Structurally, we think loose monetary policy and capital
flows are likely to keep driving up Asian asset prices,” UBS AG
strategists led by  Niall MacLeod  said in a report. “This is
good for domestic asset prices and consumption and by extension
Asian financials and consumer stocks.”  Investors committed more than $1 billion to funds dedicated
to commodities, EFPR said. Technology sector funds attracted the
most cash since the third quarter of 2009, driven by better-
than-estimated company earnings, it said.  -- Chua Kong Ho  in Shanghai,  James Regan  in Hong Kong. With
assistance from  Rishaad Salamat . Editors:  Reinie Booysen ,
 Richard Frost   To contact the Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Chua Kong Ho in Shanghai at 
 Kchua6@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Linus Chua at 
 lchua@bloomberg.net  