-- Ericsson Profit Beats Analysts' Estimates; Shares Soar
-- B y   D i a n a   b e n - A a r o n
-- 2010-10-22T16:00:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-22/ericsson-says-third-quarter-net-rises-to-550-million-as-demand-increases.html
Ericsson AB , the world’s largest
maker of wireless networks, beat analysts’ estimates for third-
quarter profit as phone operators in North America more than
tripled spending.  Shares had their biggest gain in six months after the
Swedish company said  net income  rose to 3.68 billion kronor
($553 million) from 810 million kronor a year earlier. Analysts
had predicted profit of 3.52 billion kronor, the average of 20
 estimates  compiled by Bloomberg. Sales rose 2 percent to 47.5
billion kronor, Stockholm-based Ericsson said today in a
 statement , below analysts’ estimate of 48.78 billion kronor.  “They are slightly short on expectations when it comes to
sales for the third quarter in a row, but that is more than
compensated by continued very strong margins in the quarter,”
said  Haakan Wranne , a Stockholm-based analyst at Swedbank.  North America, Ericsson’s biggest market, posted a 223
percent jump in sales as operators made investments on networks
for high-speed data access by smartphones and netbooks. Chief
Executive Officer  Hans Vestberg  said sales growth was capped by
component shortages even as revenue in China and Northeast Asia
grew 24 percent, led by Japan.  “The situation has gradually improved during the quarter
but it remains a challenge to fully meet the demand for mobile
broadband,” Vestberg said in the statement. “While the supply
chain bottlenecks have been resolved the industrywide component
shortage remains.”  Still ‘Cautious’  Ericsson closed 4.2 percent at 74.90 kronor in Stockholm,
giving it a market value of 244.7 billion kronor.  Chinese sales didn’t match the level reached during last
year’s 3G buildout. Vestberg said in a telephone interview that
further 3G spending was on track and that the decline was due to
“harder comparison.”  In some markets, “development is slow with continued
cautious operator investments,” Vestberg said. “Across the
world, operator focus is still on reducing operating expenditure
and outsourcing of operations.”  The wireless infrastructure market has experienced stop-
and-start growth in many countries as carriers cut spending on
old voice networks while increasing investments on so-called 3G
and 4G networks for high-speed data access mobile devices.  Shortages  “Sales still are hampered by component shortages and it’s
clear that the market for network equipment is still
shrinking,” Wranne said. “This negative trend is not a good
one and it would be good to see a quarter where Ericsson
actually grows its top line.”  The shortages are still affecting the network gear
business, especially in mobile broadband equipment, Vestberg
said in an interview on Bloomberg Television.  “Everything is relative depending on demand, because the
flexibility in the industry is quite low as it is full speed in
the components factories,” Vestberg said. “I think we’re going
to see a gradual improvement in the fourth quarter.”  Ericsson is the biggest supplier of wireless infrastructure
equipment globally, and has increased its market share to 40
percent from about 30 percent at the beginning of 2008,
according to research from Campbell, California-based Infonetics
Research Inc. Its share was boosted by the acquisition of Nortel
Networks Corp.’s North American wireless business.  Intensifying Competition  Rival Nokia Siemens Networks, the second-largest
infrastructure supplier with about 20 percent of the market,
yesterday reported an operating loss of 282 million euros in
spite of a 7 percent rise in sales. Results were hurt by
component shortages and inventory writedowns, the company said.  Espoo, Finland-based Nokia Siemens’ acquisition of  Motorola
Inc. ’s wireless network equipment business sets the stage for
competition with Ericsson for contracts from Verizon Wireless,
Sprint Nextel Corp. and other phone operators.  Alcatel-Lucent SA 
and Huawei Technologies Co. are currently battling for third
place globally, according to Infonetics.  Multimedia, Ericsson’s smallest unit, today reported 31
percent lower revenue and made an operating loss that pushed it
to a billion kronor in losses this year. A cost-cutting program
has been started, Ericsson said.  New Contracts  Services sales increased 3 percent with network management
outsourcing gaining 46 percent. Ericsson has signed 38 managed
services contracts so far this year, including extensions and
expansions, and is the largest provider of managed services for
networks globally.  The company is also counting on the growth of machine-to-
machine communications to buoy growth as wireless telephony
becomes saturated and competition from Asian vendors like Huawei
increases.  Ericsson is working with Intel Corp. and its joint venture
ST-Ericsson to produce chip modules for notebook computers,
tablets and other devices made by Dell Inc. and Lenovo Group
Ltd. among others.  Sony Ericsson Mobile Communications AB , the mobile-phone
venture with Sony Corp., reported third-quarter net income of 49
million euros, its third consecutive profit, even as sales were
trimmed by component shortages. ST-Ericsson, the semiconductor
business with STMicroelectronics NV, reported a third-quarter
loss of $121 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Diana ben-Aaron  in Helsinki at 
 dbenaaron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root in Paris at   vroot@bloomberg.net  