-- Estonia Plans to Split Gas Utility in Two to Reduce Gazprom Dependence
-- B y   O t t   U m m e l a s
-- 2010-10-22T09:24:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-22/estonia-plans-to-split-gas-utility-in-two-to-reduce-gazprom-dependence.html
Estonia plans to separate AS Eesti
Gaas’s natural gas sales and transmission divisions in two years
to reduce dependence on Russia’s OAO  Gazprom , the utility’s
biggest owner and its sole gas supplier.  A draft bill requiring Eesti Gaas to split the ownership of
sales and networks by Jan. 1, 2013, is “90 percent ready” and
passage would be in “a matter of weeks,” said Igor Grazin, a
lawmaker with Prime Minister  Andrus Ansip ’s Reform Party and a
co-author of the draft, in a phone interview in Tallinn
yesterday. The transmission unit would be sold to a company
based in the European Union company.  Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania are working to shift their
energy dependence to the EU, which they joined in 2004, after
they regained independence from the Soviet Union. Lithuania on
May 19 announced a similar plan at Lietuvos Dujos AB, spurring
criticism from Gazprom and Germany’s  E.ON AG , which also has a
stake in Eesti Gaas. Grazin said he expects Gazprom to take a
“rational approach” to the plan.  “Our main hope is that Gazprom will do something itself,
will put the unit up for sale or somehow unbundle it or will
change the gas price formula so that it would allow for a
monopoly-dictated profit,” Grazin said. “The threat of a
forced sale and fine is the stick to ensure good behavior.”  Eesti Gaas is 37 percent owned by  Gazprom . Germany’s  E.ON  
has a 33.7 percent stake and Finland’s biggest utility  Fortum
OYJ  has 17.7 percent, according to Eesti Gaas’s website. Itera
Latvija has a 9.9 percent holding.  Penalty Clause  The Estonian bill would include the requirement of a forced
sale for the Eesti Gaas transmission unit if a buyer is not
found and a fine of 500,000 krooni ($44,622), Grazin said.  Sergei Jefimov, the chief executive of the distribution
unit of Eesti Gaas, said nobody has informed the company about
the plan, according to a posting on the company’s website.  Jefimov also said it may be part of a political campaign
ahead of general elections due on March 6, according to comments
he posted on the company website. The grid’s value is about 4
billion krooni ($360 million) to 5 billion krooni, he said,
higher than an Economy Ministry estimates of between 600 million
krooni and 700 million krooni.  The EU Commission and its Baltic members signed the Baltic
Energy Market Interconnection Plan in June 2009 to unify the
Baltic electricity grid, which is still largely connected to
Russia and Belarus, and link it more tightly to the Nordic
region and the rest of the EU.  An earlier option to nationalize the distribution has been
dropped from the draft, Grazin said.  Taavi Veskimagi , the head
of Estonia’s power grid operator Elering and a former finance
minister, said earlier this week that putting grid ownership in
state hands would add efficiency and secure supplies.  ‘Neutral Operator’  “Without a neutral system operator, it is not possible to
build neither the Baltic Connector pipeline between Estonia and
Finland nor a liquefied natural gas terminal envisaged” by the
Baltic Energy Market Interconnection Plan, Veskimagi said in an
e-mailed comment.  Estonia pays $340 for a thousand cubic meters of gas,
compared with liquid natural gas spot prices and transport costs
of about $120, Veskimagi said. European customers paid an
average of $307 a thousand cubic meters in the first quarter,
Moscow-based Troika Dialog said in August.  “The situation where Gazprom has raised the prices of gas
sold to Estonia higher than those charged from western Europe is
unacceptable,” Rauno Veri, a spokesman for the junior
government partner, Isamaa ja Res Publica Liit, said in an e-
mailed comment. “We can resist an uncontrolled rise of gas
prices only by fighting the Gazprom monopoly.”  Gazprom Deputy Chief Executive Officer  Alexander Medvedev 
warned the EU on Oct. 14 that changes in pipeline ownership and
a move away from long-term contracts may lead to a drop in
supply and a shift in Russian gas exports to Asia.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ott Ummelas  in Tallinn at 
 oummelas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at 
 wmorris@bloomberg.net  