-- Estonia Needs ECB Opinion on Debt Restructuring Bill, Central Bank Says
-- B y   O t t   U m m e l a s
-- 2010-10-22T16:13:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-22/estonia-needs-ecb-opinion-on-debt-restructuring-bill-central-bank-says.html
Estonia should seek the European
Central Bank’s opinion before approving a bill designed to
protect people who are behind on debt payments to their
creditors, the country’s central bank said.  European Union rules require Estonia to consult with the
ECB on any legislation in its competency, including rules
governing financial institutions, according to an Oct. 19 letter
from the  central bank  posted on parliament’s website. Estonia’s
banks and employers have opposed the debt-restructuring bill,
saying it will increase borrowing costs and reduce lending.  “Considering that the implementation of the present draft
could have a serious effect on the financial institutions and
financial stability, it would be proper, in Eesti Pank’s
assessment, to carry out consultation,” the central bank said.  Estonia’s two ruling parties reached an agreement on the
principles of the legislation that would allow courts to
override creditors in restructuring debts of people who have
temporary payment difficulties, Ken-Marti Vaher, a co-author of
the draft, said in a phone interview yesterday.  The bill, mainly directed at those who are behind on
mortgage payments, may be passed within a month and take effect
in March or April, Vaher said. The measure, which applies to
current as well as future loans, would limit borrowers’
liability to the value of their collateral.  The bill “may motivate banks to discontinue the lowering
of interest margins and to  curb lending ,” the central bank said
in its letter. “If this threat becomes reality, economic growth
and reduction in unemployment will be slower than expected in
coming years.”  Competition Will Help  Vaher said the risks of higher interest rates and reduced
lending would be offset by competition between lenders, led by
Stockholm-based  Swedbank AB ,  SEB AB ,  Nordea AB  and Copenhagen-
based  Danske Bank A/S .  “Competition worked very well when the banks were pushing
out loans in 2005 and 2006, and I think it will work as well in
future,” Vaher said. “To say that the debt restructuring bill
will cause some major changes would go against the experience of
many EU countries that have such laws.”  About 7,000 of 158,000 mortgage borrowers were behind on
their payments at the end of February, Vaher said. The bill
wouldn’t affect all of those people because it applies only to
borrowers deemed to have temporary solvency problems, he said.  Swedbank, the biggest lender in Estonia, has asked for the
forced sales of about 300 homes this year, Priit Perens, the
bank’s country head, said in an interview with the Postimees
newspaper on Oct. 22.  Neighboring Latvia in July adopted a law requiring lenders
to forgive the debt of private borrowers 3 ½ years after they
are declared bankrupt. The bill won’t hurt Nordic lenders
because provisions set aside for bad loans will cover the impact
of the bill, Nordea Bank AB said in a comment then.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ott Ummelas  in Tallinn at 
 oummelas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at 
 wmorris@bloomberg.net  