-- EU Says Pension Accounting Change Sought by Poland, Hungary `Not Possible
-- B y   Z o l t a n   S i m o n   a n d   M o n i k a   R o z l a l
-- 2010-10-22T17:33:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-22/eu-says-pension-accounting-change-sought-by-poland-hungary-not-possible.html
The European Union said a request by
nine member states to account for the cost of pension overhaul
in debt and deficit calculations is “not possible” to
accommodate, which may spur countries to reverse changes.  European Union Economy and Monetary Affairs Commissioner
Olli Rehn in a letter to the countries said that while the
request is “justified,” it’s “not possible” to accept it
under the current accounting system.  “Although the commissioner acknowledges that the request of
member states seeking equal treatment is justified, he again
signaled that the current EU accounting system doesn’t allow for
such a solution,” Hungary’s Economy Ministry said in an e-mailed
statement today, citing the Rehn letter.  EU nations including Poland and Hungary asked to change the
way their public debt is calculated, saying countries shouldn’t
be penalized for funding pension systems that are “critical” to
ensure the long-term stability of Europe’s long-term public
finances. The 27-nation bloc is now cracking down on fiscal
delinquency, forcing governments to plug budget holes after the
global economic crisis swelled deficits across the region.  ‘Very Dissatisfied’  In July, the  European Commission  called on the bloc’s
nations to reform their pension systems as rapid ageing of the
population may increase the burden on public finances. Poland is
the only country where pension spending will probably shrink
within the next 50 years, according to commission estimates.  “Poland is very dissatisfied with the answer and maintains
its position on deficit and debt calculations,” said Magdalena
Kobos, spokeswoman at Poland’s Finance Ministry, adding that the
country will present its arguments at the next session of the
European Council. The Czech Republic, Romania, Slovakia,
Bulgaria, Lithuania, Latvia and Sweden also signed the letter.  Poland and Hungary have sought to change the way the EU
calculates debt since the late 1990s, when they allowed workers
to choose between state-run and private pension funds. The issue
resurfaced after the global financial slump swelled  budget
deficits  across Europe.  The current method “acts as a strong disincentive for
introducing such reforms, and would do so to an even greater
extent if sanctions for breaking deficit and debt levels were
strengthened,” the nine countries wrote in the August letter.  Roll Back  The inability to account for the cost of shifting pensions
to private managers may spur countries to roll back pension
overhauls to help them meet EU requirements to cut budget
shortfalls,  Simon Quijano-Evans , head of emerging-market
strategy at Credit Agricole Cheuvreux in Vienna, said in an e-
mailed note today.  Hungarian Prime Minister  Viktor Orban  said on Oct. 13 the
government would channel all social-security payments back to
the budget for the next 14 months. On Oct. 19, he told RTL
television in Budapest that the government is encouraging people
to switch back into the state system.  Bulgaria may transfer some of the private pension funds to
the state to bridge its deficit, Prime Minister  Boiko Borissov 
said yesterday.  “Yet another country is looking to tap the private pension
fund system, this time Bulgaria, following Hungary,“ Quijano- Evans  said in the note. “European Commission action is needed
soon in our view, lest we see this happen in more countries.”  Budget Deficits  Bulgaria has to bring its  budget  shortfall of 4.8 percent
of gross domestic product to the  EU  limit of 3 percent by the
end of 2011 or face penalties. The government may move the state
pension accounts held in nine private funds with total assets of
about 500 million lev ($358.5 million), Borissov said yesterday.  The EU is seeking tougher financial sanctions for repeat
offenders of fiscal-discipline rules in the euro region after a
debt crisis weakened Greek, Spanish and Portuguese bonds.
European finance ministers earlier this week left decisions to
sanction euro-area budget violators in political hands, stopping
short of the more automatic crackdown on runaway deficits
demanded by the European Central Bank.  The 27-nation EU requires member states to keep their
public debt below 60 percent of GDP and their budget shortfall
within 3 percent of GDP. The costs of pension reform can be
accounted for a limited period.  ‘Powerful Disincentive’  The current pension accounting rules are “a very powerful
disincentive,” for countries that are yet to introduce private
pension systems, Polish Finance Minister  Jacek Rostowski  said on
Sept. 30.  Countries that have yet to adopt the common currency,
including Poland and Hungary, won’t be allowed to join if their
public debt and deficit exceed the bloc’s limits.  Poland’s public debt will rise to 59.3 percent of GDP in
2011 from 53.9 percent this year, according to the commission.
Exempting debt attributable to the pension system would cut the
ratio to 35 percent by 2014, according to the Finance Ministry.
The budget deficit will widen to 7.9 percent of GDP this year,
according to a  ministry  forecast published today.  Hungary’s government debt will be 78.9 percent of gross
domestic product this year, the highest among the EU’s eastern
members, according to the commission.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
 Zoltan Simon  at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net 
 Agnes Lovasz  in London at 
 alovasz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at 
 wmorris@bloomberg.net  