-- European Stocks Rise for Third Week as Earnings Top Estimates; Nokia Gains
-- B y   S a r a h   J o n e s
-- 2010-10-22T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-22/european-stocks-retreat-as-alfa-laval-biomerieux-slide-ericsson-advances.html
European stocks  climbed for a third
week, the longest stretch of gains since June, as companies from
Nokia Oyj, the biggest maker of mobile phones, to Danone and
Ericsson AB reported results that topped analysts’ estimates.  Nokia gained 2.8 percent after posting its first profit to
beat forecasts since last year. Danone, the world’s biggest
yogurt maker, rallied 3.9 percent while Ericsson advanced 4.6
percent in Stockholm. Basic-resource stocks limited gains after
China unexpectedly raised interest rates.  The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index  rose 0.4 percent to 266.75 this
week. The gauge has advanced 2.7 percent so far this month on
better-than-expected earnings and optimism the Federal Reserve
will announce another round of asset purchases in November to
bolster the economic recovery.  “We are beginning to get some bullish noise from Europe,”
said London-based  Andrea Williams , who helps manage about $1.1
billion at Royal London Asset Management. “Earnings numbers are
being taken well by the market and valuations are supportive for
equities. The cloud overhanging the market is the fear of
slowing growth in China.”  National benchmark indexes rose in all 18 western European
markets except Iceland and the Netherlands this week. Germany’s
DAX Index rose 1.7 percent, the U.K.’s  FTSE 100 Index  increased
0.7 percent and France’s CAC 40 Index advanced 1.1 percent.  Beaten Estimates  Of the 46 companies in the  Stoxx 600  to have posted results
since Oct. 7, 32 have beaten estimates for per-share income,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. In the U.S., 113 of the
132 Standard & Poor’s 500 Index companies that have announced
results this earnings season topped predictions.  Nokia  reported third-quarter profit of 529 million euros
($740 million) and sales of 10.3 billion euros as the mobile
phone maker sold more smartphones. The Finnish company also
plans to cut 1,800 jobs globally.   Danone  reported a 15 percent rise in third-quarter sales to
4.35 billion euros, topping forecasts. The company also
announced it will buy back 500 million euros of stock.  Ericsson, the world’s largest maker of wireless networks
also exceeded analysts’ estimates, reporting third-quarter
profit of 3.68 billion kronor ($553 million) as phone operators
in North America more than tripled spending.  Raised Targets  Among auto-related stocks,  Valeo SA  soared 16 percent as
France’s second-largest auto-parts supplier increased its full-
year operating margin forecast after sales in the third quarter
jumped 22 percent.  Fiat SpA  also climbed after the Italian carmaker raised its
profit and sales targets for 2010. The shares gained 2.9 percent
in Milan.  Volkswagen’s preferred shares climbed 5 percent as Europe’s
largest carmaker more than tripled nine-month operating profit
to 4 billion euros, beating analyst projections.  Shares of  Porsche SE  limited gains in the industry,
slumping 9.5 percent, on concern Volkswagen may put on hold a
merger with the sports-car maker for next year to first resolve
U.S. lawsuits and German tax disputes.  Outokumpu Oyj led a selloff in basic resource companies,
slumping 10 percent after the Finnish steel maker reported a
wider-than-expected third-quarter loss of 56 million euros.  China Rates  Copper producers Vedanta Resources Plc, Kazakhmys Plc and
Antofagasta Plc all lost more than 2 percent after the People’s
Bank of China raised its lending and deposit rates for the first
time since 2007. China is the world’s largest user of the metal.  Credit Suisse Group AG fell 2.6 percent after Switzerland’s
second-largest bank reported a 74 percent decline in third-
quarter profit and a 41 percent slump in trading revenue.  Actelion Ltd.  dropped 11 percent after Chief Executive
Officer  Jean-Paul Clozel  said the drugmaker’s “future is to
remain independent.” The shares had soared more than 30 percent
prior to the announcement this month amid takeover speculation.  Stagecoach Group Plc  jumped 12 percent, leading a rally in
bus operators after the U.K. government retained fuel subsidies
for the companies amid the country’s deepest-ever budget cuts.  SKF AB surged 14 percent as the world’s largest ball
bearing maker more than tripped third-quarter profit and agreed
to buy Lincoln Industrial Corp. for $1 billion to tap demand for
equipment in North America and Asia.  BlueBay Asset Management Plc  soared 30 percent after Royal
Bank of Canada, the country’s biggest lender, agreed to buy the
U.K. firm for 963 million pounds ($1.5 billion) as it seeks to
become one of the world’s top 10 wealth managers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Jones in London at 
 sjones35@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Merritt at 
 dmerritt1@bloomberg.net . 