-- Hewlett-Packard, Mattel, Origio, Strawman, Fendi: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2010-10-22T11:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-22/hewlett-packard-mattel-origio-strawman-fendi-intellectual-property.html
Hewlett-Packard Co.  and other
office-electronics companies said levies on printers and fax
machines to compensate copyright holders for copying may be
ended across the European Union after a court judgment on
Spanish rules.  Spain’s “indiscriminate application of the private copying
levy” is illegal and shouldn’t be applied to digital equipment
used by businesses, the European Court of Justice in Luxembourg
said yesterday.  Irena Bednarich, HP’s European government affairs manager,
said the judgment would lead to the removal of levies paid in
Spain and other nations on office devices, allowing products to
“freely circulate in the European Union.”  Hewlett-Packard ,  Canon Inc.  and Seiko Epson Corp. are among
printer makers that have criticized national levies, saying they
distort the price of their products across the 27-nation EU. The
court yesterday set limits on the levies, intended to compensate
artists and composers for legal extra copies of their work made
by private users. It said charges on equipment used by private
individuals to make copies are in line with EU rules.  “What is very positive is that the court clearly gave
support to the compensation schemes that exist in most member
states,” said Veronique Desbrosses, secretary general of the
European Grouping of Societies of Authors and Composers.  In yesterday’s case, a Spanish maker of CDs and DVDs,
challenged the national system by not paying. The disc maker was
taken to court by Spain’s Sociedad General de Autores y
Editores, or SGAE, which manages authors’ intellectual property
rights.  The ruling “requires a radical adaptation of the old-
fashioned copyright levies systems,” said Bridget Cosgrave,
director general of Digital Europe, a Brussels-based electronics
industry group.  Spain’s Culture Minister Angeles Gonzalez-Sinde told the
state-owned television channel that the country would now “seek
an alternative” along “with other European countries that will
be affected.”  SGAE said in an e-mailed statement that it was “willing to
collaborate on the adjustment, if needed, of the current
system”  The case is C-467/08 Sociedad General de Autores y Editores
de Espana v. Padawan SL.  Mattel Loses Bid for Review of Bratz Copyright Ruling  Mattel Inc. lost a bid for review of a federal appeals
court ruling that the company must retry its claims to MGA
Entertainment Inc.’s Bratz dolls.  The U.S. Court of Appeals in San Francisco denied Mattel’s
petition for rehearing and review by a larger panel of judges,
according to a filing yesterday.  In July, a three-member appeals panel overturned a December
2008 order that gave Mattel rights to most of MGA’s Bratz
products. A jury in the case found that the designer who created
the dolls was working at Mattel when he conceived of the idea
and the name and made the initial drawings for the pouty and
multiethnic dolls.  The case is MGA Entertainment Inc. v. Mattel Inc., 09-
55673, U.S. Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit (San
Francisco). The district court case is Bryant v. Mattel, 04-
09049, U.S. District Court, Central District of California
(Riverside).  For more copyright news, click here.  Patents  Razor USA Accused of Infringing Three Duncan Yo-Yo Patents  Razor USA LLC , the closely held maker of aluminum scooters,
was sued for patent infringement by a maker of  Duncan yo-yos .  Flambeau Inc. , of Baraboo, Wisconsin, accused Razor of
infringing three U.S. patents with its  Pocket Pros Zombie Ultra
Pro yo-yo . According to the complaint filed yesterday in federal
court in Madison, Wisconsin, all three patents cover a yo-yo
with “engagement pads proximate to its axle.”  Razor’s product description for the Zombie Ultra Pro
specifies that it has “silicon brake pads for a quicker
response.”  In dispute are Flambeau’s patents 5,813,898, issued in
September 1998; 5,951,361, issued in September 1999; and
6,155,903, issued in December 2005. Flambeau said the patents
cover “unique, non-obvious improvements” upon previous yo-yos,
and that it suffered “irreparable harm and monetary damage”
because of the Razor product.  Flambeau asked the court to order Cerritos, California-
based Razor to quit infringing the patent and for awards of
attorney fees, litigation costs and money damages. The company
asked that damages be tripled to punish Razor.  Flambeau is represented by  Anthony A. Tomaselli ,  Bennett J.
Berson  and  Josephine K. Benkers  of  Quarles & Brady LLP  of
Milwaukee.  The case is Flambeau Inc. v. Razor USA LLC, 3:10-cv-00626,
U.S. District Court, Western District of Wisconsin (Madison).  Origio Beats Back Anonymous Challenge to European Patent  Origio AS , a Danish company that develops products to
assist with in-vitro human fertilization, said one of its
patents was upheld in oral proceedings in the European Patent
Office.  The patent covered the use of granulocyte macrophage colony
stimulating factor, a protein known as GM-CSF that’s naturally
found in female reproductive organs during early pregnancy.  The patent was opposed by a party that used the U.K.’s
 Strawman Ltd.  services to mount an anonymous opposition.
Companies typically chose to oppose patents anonymously when
they don’t want competitors to be aware of their interest in
their technology, or to know who may want to influence the terms
of a patent license.  According to Strawman’s website, the company “is not
interested in either the merits of the patent that is to be
opposed or the merits of the opposition that is to be filed.”  Origio said in an Oct. 20 statement that it just completed
enrollment for what it says is the world’s largest clinical
study of IFV media to show the effect of its patented GM-CSF.
Final results of the study are expected by the end of 2010, the
company said.  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  LMVH’s Fendi, Burlington Coat Factory Settle Trademark Case  LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton SA ’s Fendi unit settled a
trademark lawsuit against Burlington Coat Factory Warehouse
Corp. that dated back to sales of fake Fendi handbags in 1987,
the company said in a  statement .  Burlington agreed to pay Fendi $10.1 million, according to
the statement. The payment stems from a $4.7 million judgment
entered against Bain Capital LLC’s Burlington unit in February
and $5.6 million in tripled damaged, litigation costs and
attorney fees that were added in August for deliberate
infringement.  According to court papers filed by Burlington Oct. 8, the
Burlington, New Jersey-based company instituted a training
program for all its employees “to advise them as to the
absolute judicial prohibition of the sale of any Fendi
product.”  The company also will submit to inventory searches every
six months to check for compliance with court orders. The
company acknowledged that during a most recent inventory, the
only Fendi items found in its system were three tubes of Fendi
bath gel, located in the backroom of a Burlington Coat Factory
store in Bangor, Maine.  The case is Fendi Adele Srl v. Burlington Coat Factory
Warehouse Corp, 1:06-cv-00085-LBS-MHD, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more trademark news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Victoria Slind-Flor  in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 