-- Ex-BA Executive Shares Prison Tales to Sway Violators
-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 2010-10-22T16:36:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-22/ex-british-airways-manager-bets-his-prison-tales-will-scare-price-fixers.html
When Keith H. Packer returned to the
U.K. last year after eight months in prison in Pensacola,
 Florida , the ex-British Airways Plc cargo manager found work
telling executives how antitrust violations landed him in a
concrete cell with a one-eyed drug offender.  Anheuser-Busch InBev NV (ABI) ,  Deutsche Post AG (DPW) ’s DHL unit and
 Randstad Holding NV (RAND)  are among the companies that have asked
Packer to describe the circumstances around his 2008 guilty plea
to U.S. charges that he colluded with rivals to inflate fuel
surcharges paid by thousands of air-freight customers.  “Regulators go after people to make examples of them,”
Packer, 48, said in a phone interview from his home in Marlow,
 England , about 35 miles west of London. “Maybe there’s
something useful I can do with my unfortunate experience, to
help other executives avoid what happened to me.”  Companies are refining compliance training following global
probes that led to prison terms for executives and fines at
airlines and makers of vitamins and marine-hoses. The U.K. in
2002 introduced criminal antitrust sentences, while the U.S. has
raised the maximum penalty for such crimes to 10 years in jail.  “Packer’s contribution raises awareness in the sense that
it gives employees an idea of the potential consequences not
only for the company, but also on a personal level,”  Marianne Amssoms , a spokeswoman for Leuven, Belgium-based AB Inbev, said
in a statement.  Price-Fixing Cartel  Randstad, the world’s second-largest staffing company, used
Packer in its training after the company’s subsidiaries were
involved in a price-fixing cartel over recruiting for the
construction industry. Diemen, Netherlands-based Randstad was a
whistleblower in the case and escaped fines from the U.K. Office
of Fair Trading.  Marianne Honkoop, a spokeswoman for Randstad, declined to
comment, as did Deutsche Post spokeswoman Silje Skogstad.
Deutsche Post in February said it had received European Union
immunity in a price-fixing probe.  Packer attended competition law training in October 2004 at
a British Airways’ auditorium, where he viewed Power-point
presentations and various case studies. He said he had other
business-related matters on his mind that day, and the fuel
surcharge had already been in place since 2002.  Anthony Cane, a spokesman for London-based British Airways,
said the airline “has always had a well established compliance
program which included face-to-face training for managers.”  “Mr. Packer attended these sessions, which highlighted the
personal risks for individuals who failed to comply with the
law,” Cane said in an interview. Packer said he left the
company as part of a “compromise agreement.”  ‘Boring Subject’  “It’s a very dry, boring subject for commercial people who
have much higher priorities,” he said. “Looking back, I’m sure
that if someone like me had stood up and brought it to life with
a real-life experience, then people like myself and others would
have understood it better.”  Four years after the training session, the ex-British
Airways manager pleaded guilty to conspiring to “suppress and
eliminate competition” by fixing fees on shipments to and from
the U.S. between 2002 and 2006, court records show.  Packer’s case was overshadowed by a wider investigation of
dozens of air-cargo carriers since 2006, when U.S. and European
Union officials started their probe. The investigation expanded
to South Korea,  Canada  and  Australia , leading to settlements,
fines and plea deals by airlines and other executives.  Pleaded Guilty  Air France-KLM Group (AF) ,  Europe ’s biggest airline, in 2008
agreed to plead guilty in the U.S. case and pay a $350-million
fine. Last year, a former Martinair executive, Franciscus
Johannes de Jong, also pleaded guilty and agreed to serve eight
months in prison.  There was never a parallel court case in the U.K., and
Packer said he was advised that agreements between the country
and the U.S. would make extradition difficult to fight. He also
risked facing 10 years behind bars and a $1 million fine if he
fought the case and lost.  “Faced with those options, I felt that cooperation was the
only realistic option,” Packer said.  The threat of prison “has helped focus the minds of
executives on what competition law means for them and why they
need to take it seriously,” said  Suzanne Rab , a lawyer with
Hogan Lovells in London, which features Packer in video-training
sessions for clients.  Packer’s talks at companies include details about how he
felt after he arrived in  Pensacola , hailed a taxi to the prison
and turned himself in. He left the U.K. with only the clothes he
was wearing, a diary and few books, he said.  ‘Away From Home’  “I was pretty angry to be in an American prison, so far
away from home,” Packer said. “I remember standing by my bed
thinking ‘how did this happen?’ It took me three weeks to adjust
to not being in control of my day.”  From January to September 2009, Packer shared a cell with a
tattooed inmate with nine years remaining on a 14-year drug
sentence. Packer cut grass at a Navy hospital for 84 cents a day
as part of a prison-work program and used his free time to read
and watch episodes of “24” and “American Idol”.  The minimum-security prison, with its warm weather and jobs
for inmates that require time outside, is considered to be one
of the ten best prisons in which to do time in the U.S., Packer
said. He described the cells as “dormitory style” and said the
other inmates were mostly friendly and helpful. His family also
took advantage of the facility’s location by frequenting the
Walt Disney World Resort during trips to visit him in prison.  Potential Violations  Packer declined to go into detail about the specific events
that led to his guilty plea or the questions that are asked of
him by executives during training sessions. The discussions
often bring to light potential violations such as seemingly
innocent phone calls with competitors, he said.  Packer decided to approach companies that had recently been
raided or fined by the U.K. Office of Fair Trading, including
companies in the construction, recruitment and tobacco
industries, he said.  Since then, he has spoken at companies in the U.K., U.S.,
 Belgium  and the Netherlands. He has also participated in law-
firm training at  Hogan Lovells , Eversheds and one of Britain’s
biggest law firms, which he wouldn’t name.  British Airways in August 2007 was fined $300 million by a
U.S. court after pleading guilty to two criminal counts of
conspiracy. The Brussels-based EU, which can fine companies 10
percent of annual sales for antitrust violations, hasn’t yet
issued penalties against any carriers in the case.  Four current and former British Airways executives fared
better in a separate criminal case against them over alleged
price-fixing of fuel-surcharges for passengers. The case by the
U.K.’s OFT collapsed only after mistakes by the regulator
involving e-mail evidence came to light.  “I was envious that they had a chance to defend
themselves,” Packer said. “Under U.K. law, there wouldn’t have
been a case against me.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Larson in  London  at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 