-- Ex-Deutsche Telekom Chief Ricke Testifies He Was Unaware of Illegal Spying
-- B y   K a r i n   M a t u s s e k
-- 2010-10-22T12:12:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-22/ex-deutsche-telekom-chief-ricke-testifies-he-was-unaware-of-illegal-spying.html
Former Deutsche Telekom AG chief
executive officer  Kai-Uwe Ricke  told a court that he didn’t know
people at the company used illegal methods when trying to
identify a press-informant in 2005.  Ricke was testifying at the Bonn trial of a former security
manager Klaus Trzeschan who’s accused of taking part in illegal
corporate spying at the company. While Ricke asked the company’s
security unit to find out the perpetrator, the former CEO said
he didn’t know that phone records would later be examined.  “I can rule out 100 percent that we discussed any illegal
methods,” Ricke told the court. “Had I learned about it, I
would have stepped in. I spent my whole career in
telecommunications and knew what that would have meant.”  The case centers on allegations that managers at Europe’s
largest phone company obtained phone records for journalists and
supervisory  board members  to search for the sources of news
leaks. Prosecutors searched offices of Deutsche Telekom and its
T-Mobile unit in May 2008 after the company filed a criminal
complained over the issue.  Authorities also searched the homes of former chairman
 Klaus Zumwinkel  and  Ricke  10 months later. Bonn prosecutors in
June dropped their investigation of Ricke and Zumwinkel saying
they didn’t have evidence to prove the two knew about the phone-
record reviews at the time they took place. Ricke and Zumwinkel
have denied any wrongdoing.  Security Department  After confidential information about Deutsche Telekom
appeared in the press in January 2005, Ricke asked the security
department to find out who had leaked it.  Ricke said today he hadn’t had a private conversation about
the press leaks with Trzeschan at the time and said he first met
him only a month later. In subsequent discussions over the
course of 2005, Trzeschan never mentioned illegal phone-record
reviews, said Ricke.  “I never thought about how security would do its work, I
wasn’t an expert,” said Ricke. “This was their core
competence.”  Trzeschan, who was leading the probe into the leak within
Deutsche Telekom, hired outside firms to help in the issue. A
Berlin security company was asked to analyze the data concerning
about 60 people, including journalists and members of the
company’s  supervisory board , among them labor leaders.  Zumwinkel declined to appear as a witness in the trial.
He invoked the right not to be forced to testify in a matter
that could lead to his prosecution.  Trzeschan has been indicted for breach of trust and data-
protection law infractions.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Karin Matussek  in Bonn via 
 kmatussek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  