-- Ex-Delphi Chief Battenberg Accused of `Engineering Numbers' at SEC Trial
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k
-- 2010-10-22T20:56:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-22/ex-delphi-chief-battenberg-misled-investors-sec-lawyer-tells-detroit-jury.html
Former  Delphi Corp.  Chief Executive
Officer  J.T. Battenberg III  misled investors about the company’s
financial condition, a lawyer for the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission told a jury at the start of a trial.  The SEC sued Battenberg and three other ex-Delphi
executives in the trial in 2006, alleging they engaged in
“fraudulent accounting or disclosure schemes” before the auto-
parts supplier entered bankruptcy protection in 2005. The trial
began today before U.S. District Judge  Avern Cohn  in Detroit.  The defendants “had a responsibility to fairly and
accurately report the financial performance  of the Delphi
Corp.,” said Jan Folena, an SEC lawyer. “While the employees
at Delphi were engineering auto parts, their executives were
engineering numbers.”  Delphi, once the largest U.S. auto-parts supplier, filed
for bankruptcy after failing to win wage cuts and financial aid
from its former parent, General Motors Co. It emerged from
bankruptcy last year.  The jury began hearing the SEC’s claims against Battenberg;
 Paul Free , a former Delphi controller and chief accounting
officer;  Milan Belans , a former director of capital planning and
pension analysis; and  Catherine Rozanski , a former accounting
director.  The agency earlier settled cases against the company and
 John Blahnik , a former treasurer. The SEC is seeking fines and
disgorgement of any proceeds gained from the remaining
defendants’ alleged misconduct.  Agency’s Case  The SEC claims Delphi artificially inflated  share prices  by
issuing misleading statements in the years before the
bankruptcy. Battenberg, Free and Belans were responsible for
false statements or omissions of material fact in Delphi’s 10-K
for 2000, its filing for the third quarter of 2000 and an 8-K on
May 31, 2001, the government says.  Lawyers for the defendants said today there was no attempt
to mislead investors and their clients didn’t commit fraud.  The SEC says that Battenberg, Free and Belans violated
federal securities laws through improper accounting for a
$237 million payment Delphi made to General Motors as part of a
settlement agreement over warranty claims.  “Delphi improperly recorded $202 million of the total
amount” as a pension and other post-employment benefit payment
to the former parent company, “and only $35 million as a
warranty charge,” the SEC said in its complaint.  Warranty Claim  “The $202 million portion of the payment had no impact on
Delphi’s income statement because Delphi treated the
$202 million payment as an actuarial loss in its pension fund,”
the SEC said.  This enabled the company to report $148 million in net
income in the third quarter of 2000, instead of a net of $15
million, according to the SEC. Delphi later restated,
“recording the entire payment as a warranty charge,” the
agency said.  This wasn’t evidence of fraud, Battenberg’s attorney
 William H. Jeffress Jr.  said today.  Delphi believed GM’s warranty claims were inflated, the
lawyer said.  “The evidence will show that neither J.T. Battenberg or
anybody else believed that Delphi owed GM $237 million for these
warranty claims,” he said.  The $237 million settlement agreement with General Motors
explicitly covered retiree benefits and warranty claims,
Jeffress said.  Inventory, Sales  The regulators claim Free and Belans were responsible for
improper accounting of $270 million of inventory as sales,
despite agreements to buy back the material for the original
price.  Delphi reported a sale of $200 million of precious metals
used in catalytic converters to Bank One, later acquired by
JPMorgan Chase & Co., at the end of 2000, the SEC said.  “As agreed at the time of the sale, Delphi repurchased the
identical metals from the bank before the end of January 2001,”
the agency said in court papers. Delphi agreed to pay the bank a
fee, making it a financing transaction and not a sale, the SEC
said.  Through the transaction, “Delphi improperly recognized
$54 million in net income” and “improperly boosted its cash
flow from operations by approximately $200 million,” the SEC
said in the complaint.  Delphi sold $70 million in generator cores and batteries to
a consulting company at the end of 2000. The company bought back
the inventory nine days later, the SEC said.  Transactions Called Proper  There was nothing improper with these transactions, lawyers
for Free and Belans said today.  The precious metals transaction was used to free up funds
because “Delphi had too much inventory in 2000,” said Matthew
J. Lund, Free’s attorney. Delphi’s auditors were “fully aware
Delphi was selling the metals and agreeing on the same day to
purchase them back,” he said.  The buyback agreement enabled Delphi to reduce inventory
and receive money, while ensuring that the company would have
access to the metals when needed, Lund said.  “When Delphi sold the metals, it actually made $6 million
in profit in book value,” said attorney Charles E. Murphy, who
represents Belans. His client was a “junior level” level
employee who was “too remote” from any decisions made by
executives at the company, Murphy said.  Rozanski and Free were responsible for recording as income
a $20 million loan Electronic Data Systems made to Delphi, the
SEC said.  $20 Million Payment  The EDS payment wasn’t a loan, Rozanski’s attorney said.
EDS paid $20 million to Delphi to keep the company as a
customer, part of a custom within the auto industry of clients
requiring suppliers to pay “blood money” to retain business,
said lawyer  David F. DuMouchel . Delphi later paid EDS about
$20 million for services, not as a loan payment, he said.  The case is SEC v. Battenberg, 2:06-cv-14891, U.S. District
Court, Eastern District of Michigan (Detroit).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Margaret Cronin Fisk  in Southfield, Michigan,
at   mcfisk@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 