-- Ex-Illinois Governor Blagojevich Wins Delay in Retrial of Corruption Case
-- B y   A n d r e w   M .   H a r r i s
-- 2010-10-22T19:57:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-22/ex-illinois-governor-blagojevich-wins-delay-in-retrial-of-corruption-case.html
Rod Blagojevich , the former Illinois
governor whose criminal corruption trial ended in August with
the jury deadlocked on 23 of 24 counts, won a delay of his
retrial until April.  U.S. District Judge  James B. Zagel  in Chicago today granted
a defense request for a postponement. Zagel, who previously said
he wanted the trial to start in early January, set the case for
April 20. Blagojevich was convicted on a single count of lying
to federal authorities.  “The universe has changed a little,” Zagel told
prosecutors and the governor’s lawyers in court, noting the
departure from the case of lead defense attorney, Sam Adam Jr.,
uncertainty about who would represent Blagojevich, and how his
lawyers would be paid.  A twice-elected Democrat, Blagojevich, 53, was arrested in
December 2008 on charges that he tried to link official actions
by his office to campaign contributions.  He was also accused of seeking contributions or jobs for
himself and his wife, Patti, in exchange for an appointment to
the U.S. Senate seat vacated by President  Barack Obama .  Assistant U.S. Attorney Reid Schar opposed the
postponement, arguing that the remaining defense lawyers, who
worked on the first trial, already saw the government’s evidence
and cross-examined its witnesses.  “No retrial is exactly the same as the original trial,”
Zagel said, overruling Schar’s objection.  Guilty Verdict  Jurors were unable to agree on most of the counts
Blagojevich faced. On Aug. 17, the jury found him guilty of
lying to federal agents about whether he kept track of campaign
contributions and their sources.  Zagel today told defense lawyer  Sheldon Sorosky  and his co-
counsel that he was disinclined to grant Blagojevich’s request
for a retrial on that charge. He didn’t issue a formal ruling on
the matter.  Two days after the verdict, juror Stephen Wlodek said in an
interview that a single holdout prevented the governor from
being found guilty on additional counts related to the Senate
seat.  “We just could not sway her out of what her opinion was,”
said Wlodek, 36, a human resources manager living in Barlett,
Illinois.  The jury acquitted the ex-chief executive’s brother, Robert
Blagojevich, on the four counts he faced. Robert was chairman of
the Friends of Blagojevich campaign finance committee in 2008.  No Money  Blagojevich’s defense at his first trial was paid for using
campaign funds, since depleted. While Blagojevich has three
lawyers preparing his defense, only two will be allowed to
participate in the trial. They will be paid at the public
attorney rate of $125 an hour.  “In the interest of fairness, he gave us a continuance,”
Sorosky told reporters after the hearing.  “It’s like, let’s say, a football game ends in a tie and
it’s got to be replayed,” Sorosky said. “It wouldn’t be very
fair if one team could bring all 11 players back out to play and
the next team only has five players, and that’s what we have
here. We only have half our resources.”  Obama’s former White House chief of staff,  Rahm Emanuel ,
was subpoenaed by the defense to testify in the first trial
concerning an extortion-related charge against the ex-governor.
He didn’t testify.  A former U.S. congressman representing neighborhoods on
Chicago’s North Side, Emanuel has said he is contemplating a run
for mayor of the third-largest U.S. city. Six-term incumbent
 Richard M. Daley  has said he won’t seek re-election in February.  Sorosky today said he didn’t yet know whether he would
again seek to secure Emanuel’s trial testimony.  The case is U.S. v. Blagojevich, 08-cr-00888, U.S. District
Court, Northern District of Illinois (Chicago).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew M. Harris  in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 