-- Ex-Panelist Gieve Would Vote to Wait on BOE Stimulus as Recovery Persists
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n   a n d   A n d r e a   C a t h e r w o o d
-- 2010-10-22T10:36:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-22/ex-panelist-gieve-would-vote-to-wait-on-boe-stimulus-as-recovery-persists.html
Former Bank of England Deputy
Governor  John Gieve  said he would favor waiting instead of
restarting asset purchases as soon as November because the
U.K.’s economic recovery is showing signs of persisting.  “I’d be voting to give it a bit more time,” he said in an
interview on “The Pulse” with  Andrea Catherwood  on Bloomberg
Television in London today. “It’s not clear  the economy  is
faltering and it’s likely the recovery will continue.”  The nine-member Monetary Policy Committee split three ways
this month on the need to inject more stimulus in the economy in
a second round of so-called  quantitative easing . The biggest
public-spending cuts since World War II have left the government
reliant on central bank policy to stoke economic growth in case
the squeeze jeopardizes the recovery.  “If the economy is faltering or falters, then really QE2
is the only tool we’ve got,” Gieve said. “With  interest rates 
where they are and the fiscal policy set and regulatory policy
tightening, really there’s no other game in town.”  Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  this week gave
details on spending cuts to shrink the budget deficit to 2
percent of economic output by 2015 from more than 10 percent
currently. The plan may lead to the loss of half a million
public-sector jobs.  BOE Decision  The bank held its bond-purchase plan at 200 billion pounds
($314 billion) this month and the benchmark interest rate at a
record low of 0.5 percent. Though gross domestic product
expanded 1.2 percent in the second quarter, the fastest in nine
years, a slump in house prices and a jump in  unemployment 
benefit claims suggest the pace of recovery is moderating.  Gieve, who was deputy governor for financial stability at
the central bank from February 2006 to February 2009, said the
outlook for the economy had weakened, and a second round of bond
purchases may have less impact than the first tranche.  “It’s not clear that the economy is faltering and it seems
quite likely to me that the recovery will continue but there’s
no doubt that there’s more worry about that than there was a few
months ago,” he said. “A second round may have some impact but
not as much as the first round, it may have a diminishing impact
over time.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jennifer Ryan  in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net ;
 Andrea Catherwood  in London at 
 acatherwood@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net  