-- Ferrovial to Sell 10% Stake in Heathrow-Owner BAA to Cut Debt
-- B y   S t e v e   R o t h w e l l   a n d   P a u l   T o b i n
-- 2010-10-22T13:13:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-22/ferrovial-to-sell-10-stake-in-airport-operator-baa-to-fund-debt-growth.html
Ferrovial SA , the Spanish builder
that bought BAA Ltd. for 10 billion pounds ($16 billion) in
2006, plans to sell a 10 percent stake in the owner of London’s
Heathrow airport to pay down debt and fund other projects.  Ferrovial, which added BAA as part of a plan to expand
beyond construction,  rose  as much as 4.9 percent in Madrid
trading after saying it would reduce its 55.9 percent stake in
the U.K. business while remaining the largest shareholder.  The stake in BAA, which owns six U.K. airports including
Heathrow, the busiest in Europe, may be worth 400 million euros
($558 million), said  Robert Crimes , an analyst at Credit Suisse
in London, who expects bidders to include infrastructure funds.
Madrid-based Ferrovial is disposing of stakes in assets to pare
net debt of 24 billion euros, and this month agreed to sell 10
percent of a Toronto toll road for C$894 million ($869 million).  “Heathrow is one of the best infrastructure assets in the
world and its resilience has been proven by its performance in
the current economic circumstances,” Ferrovial Chief Executive
Officer  Inigo Meiras  said in a statement. The sale is part of a
strategy of establishing a market value for its assets, he said.  Ferrovial was trading 2.7 percent higher at 8.07 euros as
of 3:04 p.m. in the Spanish capital. The stock has declined 1.8
percent so far this year, giving the company a market value of
5.93 billion euros.  Record Total  Passenger numbers at Heathrow rose 7.6 percent to 6.2
million last month, making it the busiest September ever. The
airport ranks No. 2 worldwide, behind only Atlanta Hartsfield.  BAA last year sold London Gatwick airport to New York-based
Global Infrastructure Partners for 1.5 billion pounds under
pressure from the U.K. Competition Commission, which ordered a
breakup of the business. London Stansted and either Glasgow or
Edinburgh airport may also have to be sold as part of the same
process. BAA is also selling a terminal in Naples, Italy.  Ferrovial borrowed 9 billion pounds from banks to finance
the takeover of BAA. It retired the bulk of the most expensive
junior-ranking debt, for 1.57 billion pounds, last month using
proceeds from a bond sale and a credit line.  Attractive Asset  Credit Suisse’s Crimes estimates that the internal rate of
return at BAA is about 11 percent, making it an attractive asset
for infrastructure funds compared with U.K. government debt, on
which a 20-year bond currently yields 3.9 percent.  Former Ferrovial Chief Executive Officer  Joaquin Ayuso  said
in February last year that the company might sell a stake in BAA
if it received a “reasonable offer” and that he wanted the group
to carry less debt. Ayuso was replaced as chief by Meiras, the
head of the company’s airports division, two months later.  Ferrovial’s co-investors in BAA are Britannia Airport
Partners LP, which is run by Caisse de Depot et Placement du
Quebec, Canada’s biggest pension-fund manager, with a 26.5
percent stake and GIC Special Investments Pte Ltd., the
Singapore government’s sovereign wealth fund, with 17.6 percent.  BAA said today in a statement that Ferrovial had supported
it through “challenging times” and was committed for the long
term, while saying it would welcome a “new” shareholder.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Steven Rothwell  in London at 
 srothwell@bloomberg.net ;
 Paul Tobin  in Madrid at 
 ptobin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at   kwong11@bloomberg.net  