-- FIFA Warns World Cup Bidders Not to Contact Two Suspended Board Members
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2010-10-22T13:27:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-22/fifa-warns-world-cup-bidders-not-to-contact-two-suspended-board-members.html
Soccer’s governing body has told the
nine contenders bidding to stage the World Cup in 2018 or 2022
not to contact two executive committee members suspended as part
of a corruption investigation.  FIFA  two days ago told  Amos Adamu  of Nigeria and Tahiti’s
Renald Taemarii they couldn’t participate in any soccer-related
activities until the completion of an investigation into their
conduct. The Sunday Times newspaper alleged on Oct. 17 that the
duo told undercover reporters their votes for future World Cup
hosts could be exchanged for cash.  “Reference is made to the provisional suspension of the
two FIFA Exco members, Mr. Temarii and Mr. Adamu. FIFA is kindly
asking all bidders to respect the actual situation and not to
contact the mentioned FIFA Exco members in relation to the
bidding,” the organization said in a letter to bidders.  Both men have vowed to prove their innocence. FIFA said the
findings into its inquiry will be made public in mid-November.
The organization is also looking into speculation that Qatar’s
2022 bid committee has colluded with a joint Spain/Portugal 2018
candidature in an effort to share votes.  Adamu today told the  BBC  World Service he was “not
guilty.”  “I’m sure that by the time I come out of this they will
know that I’m a very credible person, and I still maintain that
I’m a very credible person and I believe this investigation will
prove it,” the Nigerian said.  Also today  Gilberto Madail , the head of Portugal’s soccer
federation, said the claims of collusion with Qatar weren’t
true.  Denials  “We categorically deny making any agreement or alliance
with another bid on the voting to decide the hosting of the 2018
and 2022 World Cups,” Madail was quoted as saying on his
 federation’s website.   Angel Maria Villar , a FIFA vice-president who is co-leader
of the Spain/Portugal bid, declined to comment when reached by
phone yesterday.  “It’s very nice to talk to you but I’m not going to make
any comment,” Villar said.  Vero Communications, Qatar’s London-based public relations
company, declined to comment, and Christian Fianco, a spokesman
for Qatar’s bid, couldn’t be reached for comment. Officials 
from both bids are meeting with FIFA.  The World Cup is sport’s most-watched event and is worth as
much as $5 billion to the hosts, according to a study by the
U.S., which is competing with Qatar, Japan, South Korea and
Australia to stage the 2022 tournament. Russia, England and a
joint Netherlands/Belgium offer are contending for 2018 along
with Spain/Portugal.  Other Suspensions  Four other officials -- Slim Aloulou, Amadou Diakite,
Ahongalu Fusimalohi and Ismael Bhamjee -- were also
provisionally suspended in relation to an alleged breach of  FIFA 
rules. They too were caught in the newspaper probe, telling
reporters that they could facilitate access to the men who’ll
decide where the tournaments will be held.  Bidders “are prohibited from entering into any kind of
agreement with any other member association or bid committee as
regards to the behavior during the bid process,” FIFA’s rules
state. Cash inducements to any of the 24 executive committee
members who’ll make the Dec. 2 decision where the competition
will be staged after Brazil in 2014 are also prohibited.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Tariq Panja  in London at   tpanja@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  