-- Fed's Fisher: Policy Makers Must Be Aware of Dollar Impact
-- B y   V i v i e n   L o u   C h e n
-- 2010-10-22T20:45:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-22/fisher-says-fed-policy-makers-must-be-aware-of-how-actions-affect-dollar.html
Federal Reserve officials need to be
mindful of the effect their actions are having on the dollar,
said  Richard Fisher , president of the Fed bank of Dallas and a
former deputy U.S. trade representative.  “We need to be aware of the impact whatever we do has on
other variables, and one of the variables is the dollar, the
value of the dollar against other currencies,” Fisher said in
an interview this week at Bloomberg’s headquarters in New York.  The U.S. currency has slumped more than 6 percent against
six major counterparts since Aug. 27, when Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said the Fed “will do all that it can” to keep the
recovery going and that more securities purchases may be
warranted. Fisher is one of four regional Fed presidents who
have questioned the effectiveness of further easing.  The central bank’s actions aren’t the only influence on the
dollar, said the 61-year-old regional bank chief, a former hedge
fund manager who votes on the rate-setting Federal Open Market
Committee next year. “It’s also perceptions of our long-term
fiscal health,” he said.  Fisher also expressed skepticism about so-called price-
level targeting, a strategy for raising the inflation rate
supported by  Charles Evans , president of the Chicago Fed. Some
policy makers are concerned that a declining inflation rate is
pushing up the cost of borrowing in real terms, threatening to
slow the economy.  Congressional Mandate  “Price-level targeting has only been attempted once
before, in Sweden in the 1930s,” Fisher said. “It will be
discussed, but it is very confusing to the American people.”  Because the Fed’s congressional mandate calls for keeping
inflation low and stable while also maximizing employment, a
price-level target could prompt calls from lawmakers for an
employment goal, Fisher said.  “Given that we operate under a dual mandate, Congress
might insist we also have an  employment -level target.
Personally, I would be happy with an inflation target, but I
don’t think Congress would tolerate it.”  Fisher has twice this month reiterated his view in speeches
that further monetary easing isn’t a certainty, telling a New
York audience on Oct. 19 that “no decisions have been made on
these fronts” and won’t be until after the FOMC’s next meeting,
on Nov. 2-3.  Investor’s View  That’s in contrast to views of investors such as  Scott Minerd , the Santa Monica-based chief investment officer at
Guggenheim Partners LLC, who helps oversee $76 billion. Minerd
wrote in a newsletter that the path to a second round of
quantitative easing “is clearly paved,” based on the “trail
of bread crumbs” left by other Fed officials’ statements.  The FOMC on Sept. 21 reinforced expectations that it will
restart large-scale asset purchases, saying it’s “prepared to
provide additional accommodation if needed to support the
economic recovery and to return inflation, over time, to levels
consistent with its mandate.”  Four Fed presidents -- Chicago’s Evans, Atlanta’s  Dennis Lockhart , New York’s  William Dudley  and  James Bullard  of St.
Louis -- in speeches this week reinforced the idea that a new
round of unconventional monetary stimulus is likely.  Bullard, speaking yesterday in St. Louis, proposed that the
Fed start buying $100 billion in Treasuries and calibrate
subsequent purchases based on the recovery’s course.  Fisher said in his speech in New York this week that “the
efficacy of further accommodation using nonconventional policies
is not all that clear.”  Concerns Shared  Similar doubts have been expressed since Sept. 21 by
Presidents  Thomas Hoenig  of Kansas City, Philadelphia’s  Charles Plosser  and  Narayana Kocherlakota  in Minneapolis.  Treasuries fluctuated amid speculation about how much U.S.
debt the Federal Reserve may buy if it resumes purchases.  The benchmark 10-year  note yield  rose one basis point, or
0.01 percentage point, to 2.56 percent at 4:06 p.m. in New York
after falling as much as two basis points. Its high for the year
was 4.01 percent in April.  The Dollar Index , used by IntercontinentalExchange Inc. to
track the dollar against six major U.S. trading partners
including the euro, yen, pound and Canadian dollar, was little
changed at 77.452. It has dropped 6.6 percent since Aug. 27.  “I want to be very careful not to read into short-term
movements longer-term trends,” Fisher said in response to
audience questions about the dollar’s decline after his speech
this week.  Perceptions of Strength  “The answer to any currency is that it’s going to be
valued according to perceptions of the strength of the
underlying issuer,” he said. “The dollar is the key currency
in the world.”  Fisher, president of the Dallas Fed since 2005, worked as
an assistant to former Treasury Secretary W. Michael Blumenthal
in the Carter administration during the dollar crash of 1978,
when high inflation and Blumenthal’s policy of “benign
neglect” toward the U.S. currency shook investor confidence.  The regional bank chief told Bloomberg Television in a 2004
interview that he’d been “conditioned” by the memory of being
a 29-year-old accompanying Blumenthal to a meeting with the
president on Nov. 1, 1978, the day that the Fed and Treasury
were forced to launch an emergency rescue package.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Vivien Lou Chen  in San Francisco at 
 vchen1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  