-- Prague Lists Fortuna, First IPO Since 2008 in Step From Warsaw's Shadow
-- B y   K r y s t o f   C h a m o n i k o l a s   a n d   P a w e l   K o z l o w s k i
-- 2010-10-22T15:47:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-22/fortuna-entertainment-raises-109-million-in-first-czech-ipo-since-2008.html
Prague’s stock exchange listed
Fortuna Entertainment Group NV after the Czech Republic’s first
initial public offering since May 2008, a boost for the bourse
as it strives to emerge from the shadow of its Polish rival.  Fortuna shares started conditional trading on the Prague
Stock Exchange after the Czech betting company said earlier
today it raised 78.3 million euros ($109 million) in a sale of
18.2 million shares, a 35 percent stake. Investors bid for
“nearly twice” the amount, the company said in a statement.  Fortuna takes the number of Prague-traded companies to 27
after listings fell from 151 a decade ago and the last initial
public offering took place in May 2008, before the bankruptcy of
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. roiled global stock markets.
Listings in Warsaw’s main market jumped to 388 from 225 in the
same period, including 19 additions this year and 13 in 2009.  “This event is significant for the stock exchange in that
it is a new IPO,” analyst  Ondrej Moravansky  at brokerage Cyrrus
in Brno, Czech Republic, said by phone today. “It’s not a big
company, but any story about the bourse will attract attention.
From a marketing point of view, every new listing is good.”  Prague fell behind Warsaw as the Czech government chose to
sell state-run assets such as carmaker Skoda Auto AS directly to
foreign owners while companies including lender Ceska Sporitelna
AS were delisted. Poland’s market has been helped by IPOs of
state assets and by laws that force pension funds to invest 95
percent of assets inside the country.  Last IPO  New World Resources raised 2.2 billion euros in its May
2008 IPO before listing in Prague, London and Warsaw. Czech
companies have since chosen Poland over Prague as a place to
raise funds and list their shares, with Photon Energy AS and BGS
Energy Plus AS joining the NewConnect, Warsaw’s small-cap
market, in 2008 and 2009, respectively.  The Czech government wants to change the rules on pension
savings to boost investment in domestic equities and Wiener
Boerse AG, owner of the Czech exchange, plans to adopt Deutsche
Boerse AG’s Xetra trading platform in Prague and its other
markets in Budapest and Ljubljana to increase trading.  The betting company, founded in 1990 and operating across
central Europe, said it sold shares at 4.3 euros apiece, near
the maximum price of 4.5 euros set by Fortuna on Oct. 11. The
stock gained 0.5 percent to 106 koruna at its 4 p.m. close in
Prague, valuing Fortuna at 5.5 billion koruna ($312 million).  “Czech investors can be grateful for every new stock and
any disruption from the lethargy that has agonized the Prague
bourse,”  Dusan Jilcik , a stock trader at Cyrrus, wrote in a
separate report today.  Czech Lottery  Prague-based analyst  Josef Nemy  at  Komercni Banka AS  valued
Fortuna at 4.25 euros (105 koruna) apiece in a report on Oct.
20. Interest from large investors and index trackers will likely
be “low” as the stock’s weighting within Prague’s PX index
will be around 0.5 percent, according to Nemy.  Fortuna trades at 13.3 times profit based on 2009 earnings,
according to calculations by Bloomberg News. U.K. bookmaker
 William Hill Plc  trades at 19.3 times reported earnings, while
Vienna-based  Bwin Interactive Entertainment AG  is valued 29.9
times profit, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The unit of Czech-Slovak company Penta Investments Ltd.
said today it will use the proceeds to start a lottery in the
Czech Republic and increase cash resources. It will also list
its shares on the Warsaw Stock Exchange on Oct. 28.  Fortuna will switch from conditional trading to standard
trading on Oct. 27 after the shares sold in the IPO reach
buyers’ accounts,  Jiri Kovarik , the bourse’s spokesman, said by
phone yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Krystof Chamonikolas  in Prague at 
 kchamonikola@bloomberg.net ;
 Pawel Kozlowski  in Warsaw 
 pkozlowski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at   gserkin@bloomberg.net  