-- Foster's Group Says Savings, Improvements at Treasury Wine Are `On Track'
-- B y   R o b e r t   F e n n e r
-- 2010-10-22T06:42:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-22/foster-s-wine-on-track-with-savings-improvements-update1-.html
Foster’s Group Ltd. , Australia’s
largest brewer, said it is “on track” with targeted savings
and quality improvements in its Treasury Wine Estates unit as
the company prepares to spin off the business next year.  The unit has cut costs for packaging, warehousing and
bottling,  David Dearie , head of Australian wines at the
Melbourne-based brewer, said today in Sydney. The company is
targeting A$100 million ($98 million) of annual savings by June.  Shorter production runs for brands such as  Wolf Blass 
enabled Foster’s to cut inventory holding expenses and lower
packing costs 35 percent in the past five years as it adapted
output for changing consumer demand, Dearie said. Foster’s is
considering a spinoff of Treasury, the maker of Beringer and
Penfolds, as grape gluts that depressed bottle prices combine
with an appreciating Australian dollar to crimp earnings.  “We’ve got to get a flexible approach, because styles
change and customer preferences change,” Dearie said. “We had
been geared up for big long runs of the same thing.”  Foster’s  was unchanged at A$6.10 at the 4:10 p.m. close of
trading in Sydney. The stock has gained 11 percent this year
compared with a 4.6 percent decline in the benchmark S&P/ASX 200
index.  After spending A$7 billion to create the world’s second-
largest wine company, trailing only Victor, New York-based
Constellation Brands Inc., the business is now worth about half
that amount following A$2.7 billion of writedowns. Chief
Executive Officer  Ian Johnston  announced plans for the split on
May 26 with a formal decision due in 2011.  Wine Bid  Foster’s last month rejected a bid worth as much as A$2.7
billion for Treasury, saying it “significantly undervalues” a
business that generates in excess of A$2 billion from annual
sales of more than 35 million cases of wine.  The company is discontinuing some cheaper bottled wines and
rearranging U.S. distribution as it seeks to take labels such as
Beringer into higher price ranges to boost profit margins,
 Stephen Brauer , managing director for the Americas, said today.  Foster’s is holding a two-day investor briefing as it
proceeds with the plans to split its beer and wine assets.  The company said yesterday its share of Australian beer
sales has “stabilized” at about 50 percent in a market that
may decline as much as 5 percent in the second half of 2010.  Fat Yak  New products such as  Fat Yak  have helped limit the decline,
while traditional brands such as Victoria Bitter, the nation’s
top-selling brew, continue to lose customers,  John Pollaers ,
head of the Carlton & United Breweries unit, said yesterday.  Victoria Bitter, which generates about A$845 million of
annual sales through retail outlets, is losing favor with
younger drinkers seeking sweeter and cheaper alternatives.
Foster’s will start selling three new labels next month,
including Fusion Black, a sweeter beer, as it seeks to stem the
customer switch.  While Foster’s has 65 percent of the traditional beer
market and 49 percent of  low-alcohol beers , both segments are
declining as drinkers switch to brews such as the low-
carbohydrate Hahn Super Dry, made by second-ranked Lion Nathan
Ltd., a unit of Tokyo-based  Kirin Holdings Co.   To contact the reporter on this story:
 Robert Fenner  in Sydney at 
 rfenner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  