-- Fox Content Blackout on Cablevision Heads Into Second Weekend
-- B y   K e l l y   R i d d e l l
-- 2010-10-23T04:00:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-22/fox-blackout-for-3-million-cablevision-viewers-heads-into-second-weekend.html
Cablevision Systems Corp. ’s
3 million subscribers in the New York and Philadelphia markets
face a second weekend without Fox programs as the cable operator
and  News Corp.  remain deadlocked in a fee dispute.  Viewers may be unable to watch today’s baseball playoff
game between the Philadelphia Phillies and San Francisco Giants
as well as tomorrow’s National Football League game between
Philadelphia and Tennessee. News Corp. cut its Fox signal to
Cablevision on Oct. 16 after the sides failed to reach a deal on
how much the cable company should pay for programming.  Broadcasters have recently pressed demands for fees from
pay-TV distributors for content that has long been available for
free over the air waves and the Web. While Cablevision and other
pay-TV companies have resisted paying, the networks have
succeeded in several markets.  Fox has urged Cablevision customers to switch providers or
purchase an over-the-air antenna if they want to watch the
games, according to a statement yesterday. Cablevision is
calling on News Corp. to enter into binding arbitration, which
would let the Fox signal be carried on its systems while the two
sides negotiate. Fox has refused arbitration, saying direct
negotiation is the only way to resolve the dispute.  The U.S. Federal Communications Commission Media Bureau
sent a letter to News Corp. and Cablevision yesterday saying it
is “deeply concerned” about the impact of the fee dispute on
consumers in Cablevision’s service area and requested the two
provide information on how they are satisfying their statutory
mandate to bargain in “good faith.”  “We welcome the FCC’s intervention,”  Charles Schueler , a
spokesman for Cablevision, said in a statement yesterday.
“Whether through FCC action, binding arbitration or any other
means, the time has come for News Corp. to end the Fox
blackout.”  Fox plans to respond to the FCC’s request, spokesman  Scott Grogin  said in an e-mail.  Cablevision, based in Bethpage, New York,  rose  21 cents to
$26.49 yesterday in New York Stock Exchange composite trading.
The shares have gained 24 percent this year. News Corp.  declined 
7 cents to $14.40 and has gained 5.2 percent in 2010.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kelly Riddell  in Washington at 
 kriddell1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at   pelstrom@bloomberg.net . 