-- Freeport, Lundin Reduce Their Stakes in Congo's Tenke Copper, Cobalt Mine
-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   K a v a n a g h
-- 2010-10-22T11:31:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-22/freeport-lundin-reduce-their-stakes-in-congo-s-tenke-project.html
Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc. 
and Lundin Mining Corp. cut their stakes in the Democratic
Republic of Congo’s biggest copper project to end a three-year
contract review by the government and allow the venture to
resume a planned expansion.  Freeport cut its stake in the $2 billion Tenke Fungurume
Mining project to 56 percent from 57.75 percent, while Lundin
reduced its holding to 24 percent from 24.75 percent, the
venture’s Director Mark Mollison told reporters in Kinshasa
today. The reductions allowed  Gecamines , Congo’s state-owned
mining company, to increase its share to 20 percent from 17.5
percent.  Tenke was the final unresolved contract after a review by
the Congolese government of all its mining deals that began in
2007. Freeport, the world’s biggest publicly traded copper
producer, delayed expanding the mine while the review continued.  The resolution of the contract will allow Tenke “to pursue
additional investments to develop this massive project to its
full potential,” Congo’s Mines Minister  Martin Kabwelulu  and
Freeport’s Chief Executive Officer  Richard Adkerson  said in a
joint statement today.  Revised Contract  As part of the contract revisions, the Tenke venture will
convert $50 million of loans into equity and pay as much as $30
million in installments as the project reaches certain
milestones. The venture will also pay a further royalty of $1.2
million for each 100,000 metric tons of copper reserves above
2.5 million tons, and $5 million in so-called surface area fees.  Production at Tenke began in March of last year and
Freeport expects the project to produce 290 million pounds of
copper and 18 million pounds of cobalt a year, starting in 2011.  Adkerson will discuss the revised contract on a company
conference call at 8 a.m. New York time.  Yesterday, Freeport reported better-than-expected third-
quarter profit and increased its dividend after output and metal
prices climbed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael J. Kavanagh  in Dubai at 
 mkavanagh9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amanda Jordan in London at 
 ajordan11@bloomberg.net  