-- Freeport May Build Railways to Ship Copper, Cobalt From Congo
-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   K a v a n a g h
-- 2010-10-22T15:56:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-22/freeport-may-build-rail-lines-to-ship-copper-from-2-billion-teke-project.html
Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc. ,
the largest publicly traded copper producer, may build rail
lines to transport ore from its $2 billion Tenke project in the
Democratic Republic of Congo after agreeing new contract terms
with the African nation’s government.  The resolution of the three-year contract dispute allows
the Phoenix-based miner to proceed with plans to expand Tenke
and eventually double production, Freeport’s Chief Executive
Officer  Richard Adkerson  said on a conference call today. Tenke
Fungurume Mining Sarl, a venture between Freeport, Lundin Mining
Corp. and state-owned Gecamines, is Congo’s largest copper miner
and currently exports production by road to the port of Durban
in South Africa.  “Restoring the rail system in the DRC would be something
that we’d jointly undertake with the country and perhaps other
miners,” Adkerson said by phone from Phoenix. The company is
also looking at improving the rail systems in Zambia and Angola
along Congo’s southern border, he said. Adkerson didn’t say how
much the rail plans might cost.  Congo holds 4 percent of world copper reserves and is one
of the largest suppliers of cobalt, according to the U.S.
Geological Survey. The Benguela railway, which used to connect
the Zambian and Congolese copper belts to the Atlantic Ocean via
Angola, was largely destroyed during Angola’s civil war. Zambia
is Africa’s largest producer of copper.  The opportunity presented by Tenke’s riches convinced
Freeport and Lundin to cut their stakes in the venture as part
of the agreement with Congo’s government, Adkerson said.  Series of Wars  Freeport now controls 56 percent of Tenke, down from 57.75
percent, while Lundin reduced its holding to 24 percent from
24.75 percent. The reductions allowed  Gecamines  to increase its
share to 20 percent from 17.5 percent.  Tenke was the final unresolved contract after a review by
the Congolese government of all its mining deals that began in
2007 and was originally supported by the World Bank. Many of the
contracts were signed during two wars that spanned almost a
decade or under a transitional government that ruled for three
years until 2006.  The most prominent casualty of the review process, Canadian
miner  First Quantum Minerals Ltd. , is in the process of seeking
international arbitration after Congo canceled its contract for
the $750 million Kolwezi copper project. Freeport delayed
expanding Tenke while the government’s contract review process
continued.  ‘Reasonable Compromise’  “This looks like a reasonable compromise for the
government and Freeport,”  Christopher Melville , Africa mining
consultant with Menas Associates, said by phone from London
today. “But it doesn’t detract from the fact that the review
process in general hasn’t had the positive impact that many of
the interested parties hoped it would.”  As the contract review dragged on, political risk insurance
premiums ballooned by 40 percent, according to the African Trade
Insurance Agency. Barclays Capital called the country a
“maximum risk” investment on Oct. 14, partly because of the
unresolved Freeport and First Quantum contracts.  The resolution of the Freeport contract proves that
multinational companies can be successful in Congo, government
spokesman and ambassador to South Africa  Bene M’Poko  said in an
e-mailed statement today.  As part of the contract revisions, the Tenke venture will
convert $50 million of loans into equity and pay as much as $30
million in installments as the project reaches certain
milestones. The venture will also pay a further royalty of $1.2
million for each 100,000 metric tons of copper reserves above
2.5 million tons, and $5 million in so-called surface area fees.  Production at Tenke began in March of last year and
Adkerson expects the project to produce 18 million pounds of
cobalt and 290 million pounds of copper a year starting in 2011,
up from 250 million pounds of copper this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael J. Kavanagh  in Dubai at 
 mkavanagh9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amanda Jordan in London at 
 ajordan11@bloomberg.net  