-- French Senate Passes Sarkozy Bill to Raise Retirement Age
-- B y   H e l e n e   F o u q u e t
-- 2010-10-23T11:31:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-22/french-senate-passes-sarkozy-bill-increasing-retirement-age-to-62-from-60.html
France’s Senate approved President
 Nicolas Sarkozy ’s bill to raise the retirement age by two years
as labor unions promised to maintain their protests for an
eighth week.  Lawmakers in the Sarkozy-controlled  upper house of
Parliament  voted 177 to 153 late yesterday, clearing the way for
final passage. A comparable measure was approved by the National
Assembly on Sept. 15. A panel comprising members of both
chambers is scheduled to meet Oct. 25 to merge the bills.  “Once a law is approved it must be applied,” Labor
Minister  Eric Woerth  told  Le  Figaro in an interview published
today as unions called for a seventh strike the day following
the Oct. 27 final vote. “The stakes goes beyond pensions: it’s
about France’s image and our ability to go pass our old demons,
get over immobility.”  Senate passage  of the bill won’t quell opposition to the
plan to raise the retirement age to 62 from 60 and the age for a
full pension to 67 from 65. Protests have disrupted transport
and shut oil refineries, leading to fuel shortages.  “We will never accept it,”  Jean-Claude Mailly , secretary
general of  Force Ouvriere  union, said on RMC radio. “Just
because a law has been voted through doesn’t mean we just say:
‘Oh, too bad.’”  Risk Premium  Sarkozy has refused to retreat from the plan that would
bring France closer to Germany and the U.S., which are moving
toward setting 67 as the full-retirement age, according to the
Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development.  The retirement overhaul is needed to balance the pension
system’s budget by 2018, Sarkozy says. The changes are part of
his effort to reduce the total deficit. This year, the gap will
stand at 7.7 percent of gross domestic product and Sarkozy plans
to cut it to 6 percent next year.  Since the unions’ first protest strike, the  risk premium  on
French bonds has increased. Investors demand 40 basis points
more to buy 10-year French bonds than comparable German
securities, against 30 basis points on Sept. 6.  Union spokesmen and the opposition  Socialist Party  said the
law should not be enacted and demanded the government craft a
new pension overhaul plan. Violence broke out at protests this
week, prompting Sarkozy to threaten a crackdown on “rioters.”  Speeding the Vote  Sarkozy also ordered striking staff at  Total SA’s 
Grandpuits refinery southeast of Paris, one of the 11 that have
been shut by protests, back to work yesterday.  Transport Minister  Dominique Bussereau  said today the Paris
region and western France are most hit, with about 35 percent of
the service stations being disrupted. He added, in an interview
with Europe 1 radio, that  highway stations are functioning
properly , as French people started yesterday the All Saints
week-long holiday.  Seeking to mute the disruptions, the government moved to
speed parliamentary passage of the bill, invoking a rule that
allows the Senate to cast a single vote on the legislation and
200 remaining amendments.  “See you at the next elections,” Socialist Senator  Jean- Pierre Bel  told the majority Union for a Popular Movement in the
debate. “What you are doing with pensions is going to stick to
you like glue.”  The effect of the disruptions on France’s economy “is not
significant,” said  Laurence Boone , an economist at Barclays
Capital in Paris.  ‘Very Difficult’  “For the moment nothing is dramatic but we’re at a
crossroad. If the protest continues, it will be very
difficult,” Jean-Francois Roubaud, the head of the small and
medium business group  told Le Parisien daily . “We can’t afford
being blocked by this social protest,” he said.  A 22-day strike in 1995 cut 0.2 percentage points from GDP
for one quarter. “To date, there have been only a few days of
strikes, and these were not observed 100 percent” as a result
of a law that requires minimum service levels in key industries
and that didn’t exist in 1995, Boone said.  The  French Chemical Industry Union  said in a statement it
is losing “100 million euros ($140 million) a day” because of
the strikes, without giving details.  Jean-Louis  Schilansky, head of the refiners’ group Union
Francaise des Industries Petroliers, said today that France is
currently importing about 100,000 tons of fuel daily, compared
with 20,000 to 25,000 tons in normal days. “The situation in
France starts having an impact on markets, costs a getting
higher,” he said,  Le Point  weekly’s website reported.  Environment and Energy Minister  Jean-Louis Borloo  told
reporters yesterday that “no refinery is working in France,”
forcing the state to order “massive imports.” The country’s 12
crude-processing plants have ceased working since Oct. 12.  Air France has lost 25 million euros in revenue. Thierry
Gregoire, president of hotel federation UMIH, said on BFM that
cancelations are running 50 percent above normal.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Helene Fouquet  in Paris at 
 hfouquet1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  