-- U.K. Stocks Decline, Led by Mining Companies; Reckitt Drops
-- B y   S a r a h   J o n e s
-- 2010-10-22T16:21:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-22/ftse-100-benchmark-retreats-led-by-mining-companies-vedanta-shares-drop.html
U.K. stocks  declined for the first
time in three days as analysts downgraded mining companies and
Reckitt Benckiser Plc announced the departure of its Chief
Financial Officer.  Vedanta Resources Plc , controlled by Indian billionaire
Anil Agarwal, and Lonmin Plc fell more than 1 percent in London.
Reckitt, the world’s largest maker of household cleaners,
dropped 4.6 percent. Betfair Group Ltd. paced advancing shares,
soaring 19 percent on its first day of trade.  The benchmark  FTSE 100 Index  lost 16.49, or 0.3 percent, to
5,741.37 at the 4:30 p.m. close in London, trimming this week’s
gain to 0.7 percent. The  FTSE All-Share Index  lost 0.3 percent
today, while Ireland’s ISEQ Index slid 1 percent.  The market “struggled to gain any upside traction as
economic and corporate announcements were thin on the ground,”
said London-based  Manoj Ladwa , a senior trader at ETX Capital.
“Weakness in the mining sector has capped any upside.”  Vedanta, which is planning to buy a controlling stake in
 Cairn India Ltd ., fell 1.9 percent to 2,157 pence as BofA-
Merrill Lynch lowered its recommendation for the copper producer
to “neutral” from “buy.”  “We now see the potential for delays to the proposed
petroleum transaction and recent court/government decisions put
the group’s metals growth plans in doubt,” wrote London-based
analyst  Jason Fairclough  in a report to clients. “We believe
that investors are increasingly concerned both with the group
strategy and management’s ability to deliver on its promises.”  Expansion Plan  Merrill Lynch upgraded the shares to “buy” from “sell”
following the company’s acquisition announcement on Aug. 16,
citing the deal as “transformational.” The Indian government
said on Oct. 6 that it will decide on the transaction in a “few
weeks.”  Yesterday, the Environment Ministry rejected Vedanta’s
separate proposed $8.5 billion aluminum expansion plan.  Lonmin Plc  fell 1.6 percent to 1,796 pence as a  gauge  of
mining companies trimmed two days of gains. Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. downgraded the platinum producer to “sell” from
“neutral,” citing valuations. The bank also added Randgold
Resources Plc to its “conviction sell” list, saying the stock
priced in the “greatest metal price increase” of all the
stocks they cover. The shares fell 1.2 percent to 5,970 pence.  Reckitt dropped 4.6 percent to 3,386 pence, the biggest
drop since February 2009, after the company said Chief Financial
Officer  Colin Day  will leave after 10 years to focus on “non-
executive positions and other career interests.”  Dan Dolev , an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein said Day,
alongside Chief Executive Officer  Bart Becht , has been
“instrumental” in the company’s growth. Since he joined in
2000, sales have almost tripled and operating profit has risen
about sixfold.  Betfair surged 19 percent to 1,550 pence on is first day of
trading after the British Internet gambling site raised 221
million pounds ($322 million) in its London initial public
offering.  The following stocks also rose or fell in the U.K. and
Irish markets. Stock symbols are in parentheses.  Abbey Plc  (ABBY ID) gained 25 cents, or 5.9 percent, to
4.50 euros in Dublin trading after the company said it will seek
authority to buy back shares when appropriate financial and
stock market conditions were in place.  Micro Focus International Plc  (MCRO LN) jumped 29 pence, or
7.6 percent, to 411.5 after the Daily Mail reported that
International Business Machines Corp. may be mulling a bid for
the software maker for as much as 600 pence a share.  “We can see why Micro Focus can be an attractive asset,”
wrote London-based Vijay Anand, an analyst at Execution-Noble,
in a note to clients. “‘Micro Focus’ migration software offers
an alternative to IBM’s mainframe, so IBM can acquire Micro
Focus in order to defend its mainframe business.” Anand also
cited advantages for  Hewlett-Packard Co . and Microsoft Corp.       Provident Financial Plc  (PFG LN) increased 35 pence, or 4.5
percent, to 808 as the U.K.’s biggest subprime lender said it
has maintained its growth rate for new customers. The company
also said the home credit growth rate was 4 percent to 5
percent.  Vitec Group Plc  (VTC LN) jumped 34.5 pence, or 7.2 percent,
to 515 after the company said business since its first-half
results had been stronger than expected. Vitec now anticipates
full year results to be ahead of its forecasts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sarah Jones  in London at 
 sjones35@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Merritt at 
 dmerritt1@bloomberg.net . 