-- G-20 Will Pledge to Refrain From Competitive Devaluations at Korea Meeting
-- B y   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e   a n d   S i m o n   K e n n e d y
-- 2010-10-23T04:07:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-22/g-20-to-pledge-to-refrain-from-currency-devaluations-as-sought-by-geithner.html
Group of 20 finance chiefs will
today pledge to avoid competitive devaluations and endorse
market-based exchange rates in a fresh effort to defuse mounting
trade tensions before they hurt the world economy.  The G-20’s finance ministers and central bankers will
probably make the commitments in a statement to be released
after talks end today in Gyeongju, South Korea, a G-20 official
said, citing a draft and speaking on condition of anonymity.  Policy makers are still wrangling over a U.S. proposal to
set targets for current account gaps as a way of rebalancing
global growth and realigning exchange rates, leaving further
debate to next month’s Seoul summit of leaders. The fragile
economic recovery is at stake as nations spur exports with
weaker currencies, raising the prospect of protectionism.  The first joint comment on exchange rates by G-20 finance
officials since leaders began meeting two years ago still
recycles language used at other summits and falls well short of
the currency accords of the 1980s. Such calls are unlikely to
stop countries such as China from controlling their currencies
to offset the sliding dollar, said  John Normand , global head of
foreign-exchange strategy at JPMorgan Chase & Co.  No ‘Better Option’  “The status quo, whereby countries manage a dollar decline
as best fits their circumstances as long as they don’t
deliberately strengthen the dollar, will probably persist for
lack of a better option,” said London-based Normand in a
research report yesterday.  The G-20 officials are meeting amid a so-called currency
war as nations from the U.S. to China are accused of using
cheaper exchange rates to support economic growth, forcing trade
partners such as South Korea and Brazil to temper gains in their
own currencies to remain competitive.  In a new bid to dilute the focus on currencies and make a
revaluation of the yuan more palatable to China, U.S. Treasury
Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  proposed countries set numerical
goals for their current account surpluses or deficits. While
South Korea, France and Canada were among those to back the
initiative, it was challenged by major exporters Germany and
Japan.  The G-20 members will work to flesh out details of the
current account initiative ahead of the Seoul summit, a U.S.
official told reporters today. The U.S. does not expect the G-20
to agree on fixed targets and instead may push for ranges or
guidelines, with an eye toward a 2015 deadline for sustainable
balances, the official said.  IMF Overhaul  The Group of Seven, Brazil, Russia, India and China also
agreed a plan to overhaul voting powers at the International
Monetary Fund after a disagreement between the U.S. and Europe
over how to increase the role of emerging markets, another G-20
official said. Europe will give up two seats on its executive
board and a majority of G-20 countries will shift just above 6
percent of the so-called quotas, or voting rights, from over-
represented to under-represented countries, officials said.  A current account is the broadest measure of trade because
it includes investment and transfer income, and it would be hard
to achieve any correction in one without a currency shifting.
Saudi Arabia, Germany, Russia and China all run surpluses larger
than 4 percent, while Turkey and South Africa have deficits
bigger than that, according to the IMF.  More Flexibility  The G-20 has long sought ways to restrain such imbalances
and pivot the world economy away from its reliance on excess U.S.
demand and Chinese savings. Limiting those talks to foreign
exchange is too inflexible for nations with trade surpluses and
refocusing them on current accounts would allow tools other than
currencies to be used, a South Korean official said yesterday.  Even as it runs a trade surplus and builds currency
reserves, China has curbed the yuan’s rise to about 2 percent
since a June pledge to introduce more flexibility, arguing
anything other than a gradual appreciation would cause social
and economic disruption. At the same time, the Federal Reserve
has sent the dollar tumbling by leaning toward the purchase of
more assets as officials struggle with unemployment near a 26-
year high and inflation they say is below levels consistent with
long-term economic growth.  Speculative Cash  Trapped in the middle, emerging markets are embracing
capital controls or intervening themselves to stay competitive
with China and limit the inflow of speculative cash. South Korea
is discussing several measures including a bank tax or levy on
financial transactions and Brazil this week raised taxes on
foreign capital for the second time this month.  The G-20 finance ministers previously avoided taking a
joint stance on currencies for fear of alienating China. Any
pledge against competitive devaluation would nevertheless echo
language the G-20 leaders used as recently as an April 2009
conference in London. They also said in Toronto in June that
they favored market-based exchange rates.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Rebecca Christie  in Gyeongju, South Korea at
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net ;
 Simon Kennedy  in Gyeongju, South Korea at
 skennedy4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net  