-- GDF Suez Plans to Bid for 100% of Polish Power Utility Enea, People Say
-- B y   M a r e k   S t r z e l e c k i
-- 2010-10-22T13:32:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-22/gdf-suez-said-to-plan-buyout-offer-for-100-of-polish-power-utility-enea.html
GDF Suez SA  plans to bid for 100
percent of Enea SA, the third-largest Polish power utility, if
it’s chosen to buy a stake from the government, said two people
familiar with the matter.  GDF, France’s largest utility, plans to make the offer
should the country’s Treasury Ministry accept its bid for a 51
percent stake, said the people, who declined to be identified
because the talks are private. Enea is valued at about 10
billion zloty ($3.5 billion) on the Warsaw Stock Exchange.  Enea climbed as much as 3.5 percent to 23.49 zloty today
following the report, reversing earlier losses.  “It seems logical to me that if GDF Suez were to buy the
company it would announce a bid to buy 100 percent,” Kamil
Kliszcz, an analyst at BRE Bank SA in Warsaw, said by phone.  The government will probably pick a buyer and sign a sale
agreement next week, one of the people said. Kulczyk Holding SA,
owned by Polish billionaire  Jan Kulczyk , is the other bidder.  The sale is part of a government plan to raise 25 billion
zloty to help finance the widening budget deficit. The Treasury
Ministry sold or agreed to sell stakes in three of its four
biggest power groups this year, potentially contributing 15.7
billion zloty toward the target.  Under Polish law an investor who buys 33 percent or more in
a publicly traded company must make a public bid to increase its
stake to at least 66 percent.  Kamil Socha, a spokesman for GDF’s Polish unit, didn’t
answer calls to his mobile and office phones seeking comment.
Marta Wysocka, a spokeswoman for Kulczyk Holding, declined to
comment on the company’s plans for the stake.  Vattenfall Stake  A tender to buy the entire company would create an
opportunity for Vattenfall AB to sell its 19 percent stake in
Enea, after the Nordic region’s largest utility said in
September that Poland was no longer one of its core markets and
that it would seek to divest minority shares.  Boo Ehlin, a spokesman for Vattenfall, declined to comment.  The ministry aims to get a 10 percent to 20 percent premium
over the market price for Enea, Deputy Treasury Minister  Jan Bury  said last month.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Marek Strzelecki  in Warsaw at 
 mstrzelecki1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jeff St. Onge at   jstonge@bloomberg.net ; 