-- GE to Buy Clarient to Expand in Cancer Diagnostics
-- B y   R a c h e l   L a y n e
-- 2010-10-22T22:10:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-22/ge-healthcare-to-acquire-cancer-diagnostic-company-clarient.html
General Electric Co. , the world’s
biggest maker of medical-imaging equipment, agreed to buy cancer
diagnostics company  Clarient Inc.  in a deal valued at about $580
million, speeding its expansion into tailored tests.  A tender offer will begin at $5 for each common share and
$20 for each preferred share of Aliso Viejo, California-based
Clarient, the companies said in a statement today. That’s a
premium of 34 percent for common shares, compared with
yesterday’s closing price.  Chief Executive Officer  Jeffrey Immelt  has been building
out GE’s health-care business, in part to make cancer diagnosis
more precise, boosting research and expanding cancer ventures
like one with Eli Lilly & Co. Clarient’s tests help determine
which blood cells are affected in the cases of blood cancer, and
whether certain gene variants are present in other cancers,
making it easier to tailor treatment precisely.  “We’re going into the next realm of diagnostic
technology,”  John Dineen , who runs GE Healthcare, said in an
interview. “This is something that’s happened in a very big way
at the pharma companies. We’re moving in the same direction.”  GE, based in Fairfield, Connecticut, fell 5 cents to $16.06
at 4:15 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite  trading .
 Clarient  rose $1.24, or 33 percent, to $4.98 in Nasdaq Stock
Market trading.  Premium Comparison  The purchase may boost  profit  within two years as GE adds
products, research and marketing resources, Dineen said. GE
Healthcare posted its third straight profit increase in the
three months ended in September and that performance is expected
to continue into 2011, he said. The division provided $16
billion of the parent company’s $157 billion in sales last year.  Over the past decade, the average premium for acquisitions
in the biotechnology, diagnostic imaging and diagnostic kit
industries was 35 percent, compared with the average closing
price of the target for 20 days before the deal announcement,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The data spans more
than 2,000 transactions, including about 1,200 in which
financial terms were made public.  GE is paying a premium of 43 percent for Clarient based on
the 20-day price, higher than the 21 percent average premium it
paid since 1986 for acquisitions across all its businesses,
including energy, aviation, media and appliances, according to
Bloomberg data.  Rich Deal  Some investors may consider today’s deal too expensive in
the broader GE context, said  Joel Levington , who follows the
company as a managing director of corporate credit at Brookfield
Investment Management Inc. in New York.  “We view the deal as quite rich and probably one, despite
its small size, that will put into question GE’s capital-
allocation decision process,” Levington said.  The transaction values Clarient at $580 million, net of
cash and investments as of June 30, according to the statement.
That includes common stock with dilution from potential
conversion of options, preferred stock and restricted stock, GE
said.  About 47 percent of Clarient stockholders have agreed to
the sale, GE said. Safeguard Scientifics Inc., which owns 26
percent of Clarient’s shares, said in a statement it expects
proceeds of $145 million from the transaction. Clarient would
pay GE an $18 million breakup fee under certain circumstances,
including if its board withdraws or changes a recommendation
to support the offer, Clarient said in a  regulatory filing .  Cancer Treatments  Global demand for cancer-profiling products and services is
estimated to grow to $47 billion by 2015 from $15 billion in
2009, according to the statement.  Knowing what markers are on certain blood cells lets
doctors know how to treat cancer patients. One type, acute
myelogenous leukemia, is often treated through chemotherapy and
a bone marrow transplant; another type, chronic myelogenous
leukemia, is treated with Novartis AG’s Gleevec.  Clarient also has a test for a gene variation called EGFR,
which is targeted by  Roche Holding AG ’s Tarceva.  GE Healthcare will continue to invest in molecular
diagnostics, including via  acquisitions  of about the same size,
Dineen said.  In May, GE invested $5 million in CardioDx, a maker of non-
invasive genomic cardiac tests, and in 2008, the division formed
a partnership with the University of Pittsburgh Medical Center
called Omnyx LLC to put pathologist slides into digital form.  Last year, Immelt began an initiative called
Healthymagination that targets $6 billion in spending by 2015 on
products, financing and partnerships.  Health-Care Expansion  Immelt is paring the GE Capital finance unit and expanding
other businesses as he invests some of the $20 billion in
discretionary cash the company expects by year-end following
recent acquisitions, including the $3 billion acquisition of
oil-field equipment maker Dresser Inc. on Oct. 6. GE raised its
 dividend  and resumed share buybacks in July.  GE is targeting health care and energy as two areas to
expand, Immelt has said. GE is also the world’s biggest maker of
power generation equipment, locomotives and jet engines.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rachel Layne  at   rlayne@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net  