-- G-20 Nations Split Over Geithner's Trade Plan
-- B y   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n   a n d   F r a n c e s   Y o o n
-- 2010-10-22T10:51:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-22/geithner-push-for-g-20-trade-gap-targets-opposed-before-g-20-talks-start.html
Group of 20 finance chiefs are
struggling to agree whether to set targets for their current
account imbalances as a way of defusing tension over currencies
before it sparks a trade war.  G-20 finance ministers and central bankers began talks in
Gyeongju, South Korea, today after weeks of wrangling over
whether nations from the U.S. to China are relying on weaker
exchange rates to spur growth.  Seeking a solution, U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  proposed G-20 members pursue policies to reduce trade
gaps “below a specified share” of their economies, according
to an Oct. 20 letter obtained by Bloomberg News. That suggestion
today split the emerging and industrial countries.  “Setting numerical targets would be unrealistic,” said
Japanese Finance Minister  Yoshihiko Noda , while German Economy
Minister  Rainer Bruederle  rejected a “command economy”
approach and Indian Finance Minister  Pranab Mukherjee  said caps
would be hard to quantify. In interviews with Bloomberg
Television, Canadian Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty  said the idea
was a “step in the right direction” and Australian Treasurer
 Wayne Swan  called it “constructive.”  Repeating themes he has pushed for the last month, Geithner
told his colleagues not to seek “competitive advantage by
either weakening their currency or preventing appreciation of an
undervalued currency.”  ‘Undervalued Currencies’  He urged countries with persistent current account
surpluses to “undertake structural, fiscal, and exchange rate
policies to boost” domestic demand and those with
“significantly undervalued currencies” to allow them to
“adjust fully over time.” In return, advanced economies will
pare their budget shortfalls, he said.  Geithner suggested to counterparts that current account
deficits or surpluses of no more than 4 percent of gross
domestic product be the aim, Noda said. The IMF this month
estimated China’s surplus will swell to 7.8 percent of GDP in
2015 from 4.7 percent this year. The U.S. wants the Washington-
based lender to monitor progress if goals are adopted.  Stocks in Europe fell from a six-month high, bonds gained
and the dollar fluctuated. The dollar strengthened to $1.3882
per euro as of 9:43 a.m. in London from $1.3920 in New York
yesterday. It was little changed at 81.27 yen from 81.33 yen.
The euro bought 112.84 yen from 113.22 yen.  ‘Trade Surplus’  The G-20 officials are meeting in a bid to end what
Brazilian Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  calls a “currency
war” as next month’s Seoul summit of leaders nears. China’s
restraint of the yuan even as it runs a trade surplus and the
recent slide of the dollar as the Federal Reserve shifts toward
easier monetary policy are in the spotlight.  Nations caught in the middle such as Brazil and South Korea
are embracing capital controls or intervening themselves to stay
competitive with China and limit inflows of speculative cash
from North America and Europe.  This has raised concern from policy makers and investors
that the friction will spark a round of devaluations and
retaliatory protectionism, derailing an already fragile global
economic recovery.  ‘Serious Risk’  “If we fail to reach an agreement now and delay it to next
time, the global economy will face a serious risk and it will
unnerve people,” South Korean President  Lee Myung Bak  told the
meeting. He joked he “may have to stop buses, trains or planes
on your way back home” if the officials failed.  Focusing on current account imbalances takes the debate
beyond the thorny topic of currencies and allows policy makers
to address excess U.S. demand and Chinese savings, according a
South Korean official.  Limiting talks to foreign exchange is too inflexible for
nations with trade surpluses and would make agreement less
likely, the official said. Looking at the current account allows
countries to decide on which tools to adopt to reduce them,
including exchange rate appreciation, he said.  “It’s fraught with difficulties, but a framework would be
an attempt at looking at currency revaluation and cooperation
without resorting to a shouting match,” said  Kit Juckes , head
of foreign exchange research at Societe Generale SA in London.  Draft Statement  The G-20 policy makers are also debating whether to make
their first joint comment on currencies since their leaders
began meeting in 2008, having previously resisted remarks for
fear of alienating China. A draft statement yesterday included a
pledge to avoid “competitive undervaluation” of exchange rates.
The final text is scheduled for release tomorrow and won’t be
finalized until then.  Leaders said as recently as an April 2009 summit in London
that they would “refrain from competitive devaluation” of
currencies and at June talks in Toronto said exchange rates
should avoid excess volatility and be made more flexible in
emerging markets.  Setting current account targets still leaves Asian
economies under pressure to allow their currencies to gain, said
 Win Thin , global head of emerging markets strategy at Brown
Brothers Harriman & Co. in New York. His estimates on the basis
of purchasing power have the yuan, Thai Baht and Philippine Peso
undervalued by at least 70 percent.  It may nevertheless provide a way of persuading such
nations to revalue in lock-step rather than be wary of acting
alone only to lose competitiveness as others hold back, said
Juckes.  Yuan Gains  China has limited gains in the yuan to about 2 percent
against the dollar since a June pledge to introduce more
flexibility, forcing other countries to try and control their
exchange rates to keep a trading edge with the world’s largest
exporter. South Korea is discussing several measures including a
bank tax or levy on financial transactions and Brazil this week
raised taxes on foreign inflows for the second time this month.  Geithner’s proposal leaves questions to be answered, said
Tim Adams, a former U.S. Treasury official. Among them is
whether governments will detail how and when they’ll meet the
goals and what happens if they’re missed. The risk is a repeat
of the euro-area budget deficit targets which were violated in a
third of the euro’s first decade, he said.  The G-20’s ability to carry out its own commitments has
also proved patchy. A regular vow to avoid protectionism hasn’t
stopped its members imposing about 400 measures that hurt
trading partners in the past two years, according to Global
Trade Alert.  Interest Rates  The skirmish over exchange rates tests the G-20’s ability
to strike consensus after it became the main body for shaping
international economic policy a year ago. After uniting to bail
out banks and cut interest rates and taxes to fight the credit
crisis, members have since clashed on the withdrawal of stimulus
and imposing taxes on financial speculation.  “It seems a bit of a stretch to look for some sort of
unified currency policy to come out of the G-20,” said Thin.
“It’s hard enough to get any sort of consensus in the G-7.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Simon Kennedy  in Gyeongju, South Korea at
 skennedy4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net  