-- General Motors to Sell Volt in China As Early As July 2011
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-10-22T04:12:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-22/general-motors-to-sell-battery-powered-volt-in-china-as-early-as-july-2011.html
General Motors Co.  will introduce
its battery-powered Chevrolet Volt car in China during the
second half of 2011 as automakers add more fuel-efficient models
in the nation.  “The volumes in China won’t be large,”  Kevin Wale ,
president of the U.S. automaker’s China business, said in an
interview in Shanghai yesterday. Many Chinese consumers are
first time buyers and aren’t environmentally conscious yet, Wale
said.  GM and its partner  SAIC Motor Corp.  join carmakers  Nissan
Motor Co.  and  Daimler AG  in planning to sell cars powered by
batteries in the world’s biggest auto market. China, the world’s
largest oil importing nation, is offering buyers of such
vehicles subsidies as the country seeks to cut its dependence on
the fuel.  GM, the biggest overseas automaker in China, didn’t specify
sales target or price for the Volt in China, which will cost
$41,000 in the U.S. before subsidies when it’s introduced next
month. The Volt, which can travel about 40 miles using batteries,
will be sold as the Opel Ampera in Europe from next year. The
models also include a gasoline engine that extends the driving
range to as much as 360 miles.  Given the lack of charging infrastructure in the country
and the high price of electric cars, China will be a tough
market for such cars, said John Zeng, an analyst from J.D. Power
& Associates.  “The Volt will serve more to enhance GM’s green image,”
Shanghai-based Zeng said.  China  China has overtaken the U.S. as GM’s largest market by
sales volume, as government subsidies boosted buying. Even so,
GM earns more profit in the U.S. than in China.  GM’s North America operations had profits before interest
and taxes of $1.59 billion in the second quarter, while the
company’s international operations, including China, earned $672
million.  Nissan , whose electric car Leaf goes on sale in December
in the U.S., may introduce electric cars in China, Chief
Executive Officer  Carlos Ghosn  said in September.  The Japanese carmaker is in talks with China’s  Dongfeng
Motor Group Co.  about the “best way” to do it, said Ghosn. The
Leaf runs only on battery power and can travel about 100 miles
on a charge, according to Nissan.  China said in June it would offer as much as 50,000 yuan
($7,510) toward the purchase of plug-in hybrid models and up to
60,000 yuan for vehicles that run only on batteries in five
Chinese cities on a trial basis. The nation may subsidize
purchases of at least 4 million energy-efficient vehicles by
2012, the National Development and Reform Commission, China’s
top economic planner, said in June.  Daimler, the world’s second-largest manufacturer of luxury
cars, and  BYD Co. , the Chinese automaker backed by billionaire
 Warren Buffett , set up a 50-50 joint venture in May to develop
electric cars in China.  -- Liza Lin . Editors:  Ian Rowley ,  Kae Inoue .  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Liza Lin in Shanghai at +86-21-6104-7010 or
 Llin15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kae Inoue at 
 kinoue@bloomberg.net  