-- Genzyme Says $89-a-Share Bid Would Reflect Forecast
-- B y   M e g   T i r r e l l
-- 2010-10-22T21:33:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-22/genzyme-sees-2011-adjusted-eps-4-30-4-60-est-3-85.html
Genzyme Corp. , the biotechnology
company fighting a $69-a-share hostile takeover by French
drugmaker  Sanofi-Aventis SA , said it is worth $89 a share based
on its forecast for profit growth.  Genzyme today  projected  earnings next year, excluding some
items, of $4.30 to $4.60 a share, above the $3.85 average
estimate of 16 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Sanofi said in
August its offer valued Genzyme at 20 times projected 2011
earnings, or $18.5 billion. On that valuation, Genzyme said it
would be worth about $22.7 billion, or $89 a share.  Sanofi’s offer, made public Aug. 29 and taken hostile Oct.
4, undervalues Genzyme’s stable of experimental medicines and
ignores expected revenue growth after fixing manufacturing flaws
that caused drug shortages, Genzyme Chief Executive Officer
 Henri Termeer told investors  at the Plaza Hotel in New York
today.  Ralph Whitworth , an activist investor who gained a seat
on Genzyme’s board this year, said directors are aligned in
their appraisal of Sanofi’s offer.  “There’s a very strong understanding of the value of the
company,” Whitworth told reporters today after the meeting.
“Is there the potential to drive wedges in the board room? I
don’t see that.”  Genzyme rose 49 cents to $72.45 at 4 p.m. New York time in
Nasdaq Stock Market composite trading. The shares have closed
higher than Sanofi’s bid each day since it was made.  ‘Not a Starting Point’  “We have been very clear in communicating to Sanofi that
$69 did not create a starting point for serious discussions to
open our books,” Termeer said today. “It does not recognize
anywhere close to the value we see in this company.”  Genzyme’s board has given the company’s management
permission to start discussions with other parties, Termeer
said. While Genzyme is not seeking an auction of itself to drive
up a sale price, there are no limitations on the discussions,
Whitworth said.  “We’re trying to understand the value of the Genzyme
assets, profile, businesses, in the context of other players,”
Termeer said. “It’s a probing process to get an idea of the
interest that’s out there -- not a selling process, not a
bidding process, not a ‘We want to compete with Sanofi’ process.
It’s a process about understanding what the interest is in
components and the overall picture of the Genzyme corporation.”  Meeting Shareholders  The CEO said he plans to meet personally with shareholders
over the next week to understand their positions on the Sanofi
offer. It has been a “new experience” for Genzyme to have a
shareholder base that includes many “very short-term”
investors who bought in based on the potential for a sale, he
said.  “We do not have any particular comment,” Jack Cox, a
spokesman for Sanofi, said by telephone today. Of Genzyme’s $89-
a-share suggestion, Cox said, “It seems totally unrealistic.”
He declined to comment further.  The French drugmaker is seeking new products to help
replace  medicines  accounting for more than 20 percent of revenue
that face generic competition by 2013. The company has spent
about $17 billion on 25 acquisitions since CEO  Chris Viehbacher 
took the helm in 2008, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Genzyme’s drugs are less likely to face generic competitors
because they’re made using biological processes and are harder
to copy than pills made from chemicals. The FDA designated the
therapies as orphan drugs because they’re for diseases without
other treatment options, giving them more patent protection.  Virus Contamination  A virus contamination at Genzyme’s Allston, Massachusetts,
plant last year forced rationing of some drugs, causing the
stock to drop as much as 43 percent from a 2008 high of $83.25.
The company, based in Cambridge, Massachusetts, agreed in May to
pay a $175 million penalty and start a remediation plan set by
the Food and Drug Administration.  Sanofi’s  Viehbacher  said Oct. 4 he would be willing to
raise his offer if Genzyme provided details to justify a boost.
Termeer asked for a higher bid when the two men met Sept. 20,
though he didn’t specify a price, Viehbacher said in an
interview with Bloomberg Television.  Genzyme will introduce three medicines in 2013 that aren’t
valued in Sanofi’s offer, the company said in an Oct. 7
regulatory filing. It plans to seek an additional indication for
its blood-cancer drug Campath as a remedy for multiple
sclerosis, and also anticipates U.S. regulatory clearance of
mipomersen to treat high cholesterol and the pill eliglustat for
Gaucher disease.  Campath Potential  Campath, also known as alemtuzumab, was shown to help
multiple-sclerosis patients in a five-year follow-up study
reported earlier this month. With an indication for multiple
sclerosis, Campath will be “the largest drug we’ve ever
commercialized,”  Bo Piela , a spokesman for Genzyme, said then.  The company said today that alemtuzumab may bring in peak
sales of about $3 billion by 2017, taking market share away from
other multiple-sclerosis medicines such as Biogen Idec Inc.’s
Tysabri.  Genzyme’s top-selling drug, with $793 million in 2009
sales, is Cerezyme, an enzyme replacement therapy for the
genetic disorder Gaucher disease. The medicine had sales of more
than $1 billion in 2007 and 2008 before shortages caused by the
plant contamination.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Meg Tirrell  in New York at 
 mtirrell@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 