-- German Business Confidence Unexpectedly Increased in October
-- B y   C h r i s t i a n   V i t s
-- 2010-10-22T10:21:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-22/german-october-business-confidence-unexpectedly-rises-to-three-year-highge.html
German  business confidence 
unexpectedly climbed in October to the highest level in three
and a half years, suggesting growth may not slow as much as some
economists forecast.  The Munich-based  Ifo institute  said its  business climate
index , based on a survey of 7,000 executives, rose to 107.6 from
106.8 in September. That’s the highest since May 2007.
Economists had expected a drop to 106.5, according to the median
of 38 forecasts in Bloomberg News  survey .  Surging exports helped Germany’s economy expand 2.2 percent
in the second quarter, the fastest pace in two decades. While
foreign demand for German goods may wane as the global recovery
stutters, falling unemployment is boosting consumer confidence
and spending at home. The government yesterday more than doubled
its 2010 growth forecast to 3.4 percent.  Today’s Ifo report “suggests that the euro zone’s largest
economy is defying the global gloom,” said  Jennifer McKeown , an
economist at Capital Economics Ltd. in London. “Germany will
continue to outperform for now, but it won’t be long before
exports slow sharply.”  The euro initially rose after the Ifo report before giving
up its gains. It traded little changed at $1.3913 at 12:10 p.m.
in Frankfurt.  Ifo’s measure of executives’ expectations climbed to 105.1
from 103.9. The gauge of current conditions advanced to 110.2,
the highest since March 2008, from 109.8.  More Jobs  German  factory orders  increased almost four times as much
as economists forecast in August,  unemployment  fell for a 15th
month in September and consumer confidence climbed to a three-
year high in October.  “The German boom is much broader than just exports,” said
 Simon Junker , an economist at Commerzbank AG in Frankfurt.
“Investment goods are also in demand domestically. It’ll be a
good year for profits.”  BASF SE , the world’s biggest chemical maker, this week
raised its profit goal for 2010 after third-quarter earnings
surged.  Germany’s benchmark  DAX stock index  has gained more than 10
percent this year, compared with a decline of 3 percent in the
Euro Stoxx 50 gauge of euro-area equities. At the same time,
 investor  confidence fell to a 21-month low this month.  European Weakness  Europe’s services and manufacturing industries expanded at
the weakest pace in a year in October, suggesting a global
slowdown is starting to undermine the region’s economies,
Germany’s biggest export market. Belt-tightening across the 16-
nation euro area, as governments try to rein in budget deficits,
may also crimp demand.  The euro has climbed 17 percent against the dollar since
June 7, making German exports more expensive outside the
currency bloc. Group of 20 finance chiefs meet in Gyeongju,
South Korea, today amid concern some countries are pursuing
weaker exchange rates to bolster their economies.  German economic growth slowed in the third quarter from the
second, the Finance Ministry said yesterday.  “The economic outlook is still fairly good,” said  David Milleker , chief economist at Union Investment in Frankfurt.
“However, unless domestic demand really kicks in, the German
economy is like a boat without a keel. If it faces a strong
headwind from the world economy, it could capsize.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Christian Vits  in Frankfurt at 
 cvits@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at   jfraher@bloomberg.net  