-- German Note Yield Stays Above 1 Percent as Ifo Adds to Recovery Signs
-- B y   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a   a n d   L u c y   M e a k i n
-- 2010-10-22T15:18:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-22/german-bonds-set-for-weekly-loss-on-indications-that-economy-is-recovering.html
The German two-year  government
note ’s yield stayed above 1 percent for a second day after a
report showed  business confidence  rose, giving the European
Central Bank ammunition to exit recovery stimulus measures.  The yield is also set for the biggest weekly gain in more
than a year. The  Ifo institute  said its business climate index,
based on a survey of 7,000 executives, rose to 107.6 from 106.8
in September. The median forecast of 38 economists in a
Bloomberg News  survey  was for a decline to 106.5. The Stoxx
Europe 600 Index was set for a third weekly gain.  “People are a lot less pessimistic” about the economy,
said  Marc Ostwald , a bond analyst at Monument Securities in
London. “Bunds have been underperforming pretty much everything
else the whole week. People know the German economy is doing
quite well.”  The two-year yield was at 1 percent as of 3:58 p.m. in
London, set for the biggest weekly increase since August 2009.
The 0.75 percent security maturing September 2012 traded at
99.525. The yield on a 10-year bund, Europe’s  benchmark 
security, was at 2.47 percent, up nine basis points on the week.  German industrial production accelerated in the later part
of the third quarter, signaling “the economy’s continued
expansion,” German Deputy Finance Minister Hans Bernhard Beus
said in a report yesterday. Governments must find an “exit
strategy” from stimulus spending as the global financial crisis
recedes, Chancellor  Angela Merkel  said two days ago.  Growing Optimism  German bonds have lost 0.99 percent this month, while those
of Spain have handed investors a 0.44 percent return, according
to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the European Federation of
Financial Analysts Societies. Germany’s notes, perceived to be
the safest in Europe, underperformed amid growing optimism that
the economic recovery will be sustained making it more likely
the European Central Bank will exit stimulus measures to
stimulate growth.  “The risk of falling prices remains intact,”  Viola Stork 
and  Ulrich Wortberg , economists at Helaba Landesbank Hessen-
Thueringen in Frankfurt, wrote in an investor note today.
“There are no signs of an oversold market.”  Spanish government bonds rose, with the 10-year yield
falling four basis points to 4.14 percent. The yield has risen
13 basis points this week. Portugal’s 10-year bond yield has
increased 11 basis points since Oct. 15, while Ireland’s rose 42
basis points.  Highest Deficit  Ireland had the highest euro-region budget deficit in 2009
followed by Spain and Portugal, the European Union’s statistics
office in Luxembourg said today in its second budget report for
2009. All 16 euro-region nations reported a shortfall last year,
with Ireland at 14.4 percent of gross domestic product, revised
from 14.3 percent in April, it said. Spain had 11.1 percent.  Bunds declined relative to U.S. Treasuries as policy makers
signaled the euro-area economy is improving at a pace that will
enable them to normalize monetary policy, while the Federal
Reserve is considering more bond purchases. The ECB mustn’t buy
government bonds in markets that are functioning, board member
 Juergen Stark  said, Germany’s Die Welt reported on Oct. 20,
citing an interview.  German two-year notes yielded 65 basis points more than
their U.S. counterparts today, the most since January 2009. As
recently as June, the German securities yielded less than
similar-maturity Treasuries.  “Basically the main reason is the ECB is pursuing a
different policy stance compared with the Fed,” said  Nicholas Stamenkovic , a strategist at RIA Capital Markets Ltd. in
Edinburgh. “They are committed to a gradual exit strategy so
you’ll see increasingly divergent rate expectations.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Lukanyo Mnyanda  in London at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net ;
 Lucy Meakin  in London at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at   dtilles@bloomberg.net . 