-- Google Adopts More Stringent Privacy Policies After Wi-Fi Snafu
-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 2010-10-22T21:06:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-22/google-adopts-more-stringent-privacy-policies-after-wi-fi-snafu.html
Google Inc . is strengthening
internal privacy controls after its mapping service mistakenly
gathered personal e-mails and passwords from unsecured wireless
networks.  The company is improving training for workers, including
engineers, in areas such as product management and legal
affairs, and strengthening compliance procedures, according to a
Google  blog post  today. In addition, the company appointed  Alma
Whitten , the company’s engineering leader on privacy, as
director of policy for engineering and product management.  Google, owner of the world’s most popular search engine,
has faced probes by authorities in the U.S. and many other
countries for the way it gathered data with its  Street View 
service. The company first disclosed the security breach in May.
Canada said this week that the feature violated the nation’s
privacy law by accessing personal information. Google wants to
delete all the data it collected as soon as it can.  “These changes will significantly improve our internal
practices (though no system can of course entirely eliminate
human error), and we look forward to seeing the innovative new
security and privacy features that Alma and her team develop,”
 Alan Eustace , senior vice president, engineering and research,
said in the blog. “That said, we’ll be constantly on the lookout
for additional improvements to our procedures as Google grows,
and as we branch out into new fields of computer science.”  Starting next month, Google will also require all employees
to go through an information security awareness program, Eustace
said.  Google, based in Mountain View, California, rose 54 cents
to $612.53 at 4 p.m. New York time in Nasdaq Stock Market
 trading . The shares have fallen 1.2 percent  this year .  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Brian Womack  in San Francisco at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  