-- Great Western, RareCo Could Revive Work at Rare-Earth Mine in South Africa
-- B y   B r i a n   L a t h a m
-- 2010-10-22T11:48:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-22/great-western-rareco-may-revive-output-at-rare-earth-mine-in-south-africa.html
Great Western Minerals Group Ltd. 
and the Rare Earth Extraction Co. Ltd., known as RareCo, said
they may revive production of rare earths at the Steenkampskraal
mine in South Africa’s Cape Province.  Great Western commissioned a study to assess prospects at
the mine, 400 kilometers (250 miles) north of Cape Town,  James Engdahl , the Toronto-listed company’s president and chief
executive officer, said yesterday in a phone interview from his
offices in Saskatoon, in the Canadian province of Saskatchewan.  The companies said the site, due to begin production in
2013, will be mined by Steenkampskraal Monazite (Pty) Ltd.,
which is 74 percent-owned by RareCo and 26 percent owned by
black South African investors. Great Western owns 20 percent of
RareCo and has factories in the U.K. and Canada that require
rare earths.  China, which produces more than 90 percent of the world’s
rare earths, reduced its second-half export quota for the
minerals by 72 percent in July. Prices have climbed sevenfold in
the last six months for cerium oxide, a rare earth used for
polishing semiconductors, and other elements have more than
doubled, according to Metal-Pages Ltd. in London, which tracks
rare-earth prices.  Rare earths are a group of 17 chemically similar metallic
elements, such as lanthanum, cerium, neodymium and europium. The
elements are used in radar, high-powered magnets, mini-hard
drives in laptop computers, catalytic converters for vehicles,
electric-car batteries and wind turbines.  The Steenkampskraal mine was forced to close more than a
decade ago after China "flooded the market, which cut prices,"
RareCo Chairman Trevor Blench said in a phone interview from
Cape Town today.  The mine has the greatest volume of rare earths per metric
ton of ore, Engdahl said, and can meet 1 to 2 percent of global
demand for the minerals.  Engdahl said early estimates suggest it will cost about $15
million to bring the mine into production. Great Western
Minerals may consider a secondary listing on the Johannesburg
Stock Exchange in the future, he said without giving a date.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Latham in Durban at 
 blatham@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 