-- Greece Must Spur Real-Estate for Economic Growth, Ex-Finance Minister Says
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2010-10-22T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-22/greece-must-spur-building-to-escape-bermuda-triangle-ex-minister-says.html
Greece’s government should consider
reducing the tax on house purchases to spur real-estate
development and bolster economic growth, former finance minister
 Nikos Christodoulakis  said.  “Large parts of Greece depend almost exclusively on the
construction of housing,” Christodoulakis said in an interview
in London yesterday. “The construction of housing is the
locomotive of quick growth.”  The Greek economy is in its first recession since 1993 and
Prime Minister  George Papandreou  has raised taxes, cut wages and
reduced spending as part of conditions imposed by the European
Union and International Monetary Fund for 110 billion euros
($153 billion) in loans. The economy is expected to shrink about
4 percent this year and 2.6 percent next year, according to
estimates from the Greek Finance Ministry.  “Greece is facing quite a few problems,” Christodoulakis
said in a speech at an event at the London School of Economics
organized by the college’s Hellenic Observatory. “Actually, it
has sunk in a Bermuda triangle.” He also said that Greece faces
“a mild recession next year.”  The former minister of economy and finance said the deficit
and debt levels the government now faces were due to “a one-off
fiscal catastrophe, not a systemic problem in Greece.” As a
result, authorities should target boosting growth just as much
as they’re targeting lowering debt levels and increasing tax-
collection efficiency, he said.  Growth Policies  The three ways authorities should spur growth in the short
term would be to increase public investment, privatize and sell
state enterprises, and provide incentives for real-estate
development, he said. The latter “is the quickest way for
Greece to recover,” Christodoulakis said.  “If such measures, to some extent, are successful and they
change the pattern of recession, then you may see a very
dramatic improvement in Greek indebtedness,” he said. “The
crisis in Greece can be faced, but in order to have viable
solutions we need not to only concentrate on reducing debt and
collecting revenues, but at the same time, with similar
priority, we have to think how growth can return to Greece.”  State revenue next year will be aided by a planned increase
in the so-called objective values for real estate, Finance
Minister  George Papaconstantinou  said on July 5. Taxes on real-
estate transactions in Greece are based on the government’s
assessment of the property’s value, which considers the area and
the amenities, rather than the actual market value, which is
generally higher.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Scott Hamilton  in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net  