-- Guinean Run-Off Rivals Pledge to Push Ahead With Mining Review
-- B y   E m i l y   B o w e r s   a n d   O u g n a   C a m a r a
-- 2010-10-22T06:20:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-22/guinean-run-off-rivals-pledge-to-push-ahead-with-mining-review.html
Guineans  vote in a delayed second-
round presidential election on Oct. 24 that pits two candidates
who have both vowed to overhaul mining laws in the world’s
biggest bauxite-exporting nation.  Former Prime Minister  Cellou Dalein Diallo , who received
43.7 percent of the June 27 first round, will compete against
opposition leader  Alpha Conde , who garnered 18.2 percent. The
vote will mark the transition from military to civilian rule.  An ongoing review of mining accords has already led to a
dispute with London-based  Rio Tinto Group  over ownership of the
Simandou iron-ore project. Other companies operating in the
country include Russia’s  United Co. Rusal , the world’s largest
aluminum producer,  AngloGold Ashanti Ltd. , Africa’s biggest gold
miner, and Brazil’s  Vale SA , the No. 1 iron-ore producer.  “Political and social pressures for a review of the legal
framework governing the mining industry are unlikely to go
away,” said Christopher Melville, a senior associate at Menas
Associates in London. That may bring the new government “into
further conflict with mining companies, many of which have
negotiated special terms for their projects.”  Guinea holds as much as half of the world’s reserves of
bauxite, an ore used to make aluminum, more than 4 billion
metric tons of “high-grade” iron ore and “significant”
deposits of diamond and gold, according to the U.S. State
Department.  Aluminum Corp. of China Ltd.  also operates in the
country.  ‘Defending Interests’  The election is being held almost two years after army the
seized power following the December 2008 death of President
 Lansana Conte , who ruled the country for two decades. Guinea
hasn’t had a democratic transfer of power since it gained
independence from France in 1958. General Sekouba Konate became
the leader in December after an aide shot the coup leader,
 Moussa Dadis Camara , in the head.  In the period since the first round vote, Conde has become
the favorite to win the run-off after at least two defeated
candidates pledged support to the 70-year-old leader of the
Rally for the Guinean People.  “The momentum has clearly shifted toward Alpha Conde
during the period of delay,” Melville said.  While beset with organizational difficulties, the June
election was held “freely,” a European Union observer mission
said after the vote. The run-off was then postponed for
“technical reasons,” Konate has said.  Mining Deal  Conde will “renegotiate mining deals” and develop
standard mining policies, Moustapha Naite, a spokesman for the
RPG, said in an interview from Conakry, the capital, on Oct. 18.
He also favors a stronger state role in the economy and plans to
replace the leadership of the  Central Bank of Guinea  and promote
economists who support lower interest rates, his adviser, Mamady
Sinkoun Kaba, said in an interview on Sept. 10.  Diallo said in August he would also review mining deals if
he wins the second round “to make sure that the interests of
Guinea are defended.”  The 58-year-old leader of the Union of Democratic Forces of
Guinea was prime minister of the country from 2004 to 2006.  In the run-up to this weekend’s vote, supporters of Conde
and Diallo were injured in clashes between the two groups. This
week, at least one person died when police fired upon backers of
Diallo at a rally in Conakry.  A plan announced on Oct. 12 by Conde and Diallo to form a
national union government may indicate that “none of these
candidates are confident of victory,” Rolake Akinola, West
Africa analyst at Eurasia Group, said in an interview on Oct.
15. The plan was reported by state-owned  Radio Television
Guineenne , which didn’t provide further details.  Growth Accelerating  Guinea’s political turmoil won’t prevent the economy
expanding 4.3 percent this year and 4.5 percent in 2011,
according to the  African Development Bank . Mining generates 24
percent of the nation’s total economic output, according to the
bank’s website.  Per capita income is less than half the sub-Saharan African
average of $861, according to the World Bank, and the country
ranks 170th out of 182 countries on the UN’s  Human Development
Index , which measures life expectancy, literacy and gross
domestic product per capita.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Emily Bowers  in Accra at 
 ebowers1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 