-- Millionaires, Illegal Immigrants Box in Wiseman’s Dingy ‘Gym’
-- B y   R i c k   W a r n e r
-- 2010-10-23T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-22/millionaires-illegal-immigrants-box-in-wiseman-s-dingy-gym-.html
Frederick Wiseman’s “ Boxing Gym ”
is as no-frills as its subject -- a dingy gym in Austin, Texas,
where members pay $50 a month to skip rope, toss medicine balls,
hit speed bags and follow other training techniques used by
fighters for ages.  The documentary, which opens today, contains no music, no
graphics, no narration and no interviews. Wiseman, who has made
35 other stripped-down nonfiction films in an eclectic career
spanning six decades, has no interest in the glitzier style
favored by  Michael Moore  and other modern documentarians.  “Adding those Hollywood elements separates the viewer from
the event and calls attention to the filmmaker,” Wiseman, 80,
said last month at the Toronto International Film Festival.
“Too many of these films are glib, superficial and obvious. I
think mine are very dramatic, but I hope they’re not obvious.”  Wiseman’s modus operandi -- setting up one lightweight 16mm
camera and shooting 100 hours or more of raw footage before
shaping the film in the editing room -- gives the viewer a fly-
on-the-wall perspective.  He’s been working this way since 1967, when his “ Titicut
Follies ” exposed horrendous conditions at a Massachusetts
mental hospital. The film was banned from theaters for 24 years
after a judge ruled that it violated patients’ privacy. Since
then, Wiseman has made documentaries on other institutions
(schools, prisons, hospitals), as well as places (Central Park
and Aspen, Colorado), professions (ballet, modeling) and
assorted topics such as horse racing and primate research.  Controlled Violence  With his wispy gray hair, rumpled sports jacket and black
open-collar shirt, Wiseman looked like a college professor when
we spoke at a Toronto hotel.  Warner: How is boxing related to your other film subjects?  Wiseman: Many of my films deal with violence, and boxing is
a form of ritualized violence. Violent instincts are present in
all of us, but boxers try to control and refine them.  Warner: The gym where you shot the film is a real melting-
pot whose clientele includes people of all ages, sexes, shapes
and professions. Was that part of the attraction?  Wiseman: Yes, it’s a very democratic place where you’ll
find everyone from millionaires to illegal immigrants. It also
has an old-fashioned look that I liked: the boxing posters on
the walls, the plaster peeling off the ceiling, the primitive
equipment.  Warner: You focus a lot on the movement of the boxers,
which reminded me of your ballet films.  Wiseman: Boxing demands complete control over the body,
just like ballet. And boxing, even though it’s a violent sport,
can also be beautiful. It’s like when people write about the
beauty of war.  Law School  Warner: So many documentaries these days have an
ideological point of view. Why do you avoid that?  Wiseman: I like to give the audience information and let
them make up their own minds. I assume that the viewer is as
smart or as dumb as I am. I’m not interested in diluting the
material to reach the lowest common denominator. I don’t like to
see movies like that, and I don’t want to make movies like that.  Warner: You went to Yale Law School and taught law for
several years before you became a filmmaker. Why did you change
professions?  Wiseman: I went to law school because I didn’t know what
else to do and I became a teacher because I needed a job. I
hated them both. When I turned 30, I figured it was time to do
something I liked. And I always liked movies.  Warner: What’s your next film about?  Wiseman: The Crazy Horse Saloon in Paris. It’s already shot
and I’m editing it now.  “Boxing Gym,” from  Zipporah Films , is playing in New York
and opens Nov. 5 in Washington and Los Angeles. Wiseman’s films
are being shown at New York’s  Museum of Modern Art  as part of a
yearlong retrospective of his work. Information:
 http://www.moma.org/visit/calendar/films/1028 .  To contact the writer on the story:
 Rick Warner  in New York at 
 rwarner1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 