-- Lilly's Diabetes Setbacks May Spur Shopping Spree Beyond Amylin
-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   L a r k i n
-- 2010-10-22T20:18:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-22/lilly-s-diabetes-setbacks-may-spur-shopping-spree-beyond-amylin.html
Eli Lilly & Co. , under pressure to
gain new products after setbacks this week with two diabetes
drugs, may try to acquire its partner  Amylin Pharmaceuticals
Inc.  or covet companies with more approved products.  With Amylin, Lilly would gain full control of the diabetes
drug Byetta and a longer-acting version called Bydureon delayed
Oct. 19 by U.S. regulators, said  Seamus Fernandez , a Leerink
Swann & Co. analyst. Lilly might try to acquire  Cephalon Inc.  or
 Endo Pharmaceuticals Inc.  to expand its painkiller business,
said  Bill Tanner , an analyst at Lazard Capital Markets.  By 2013, Lilly loses patents on medicines responsible for
almost half its revenue. The Bydureon rejection, which stalled a
new revenue source for at least two years, was compounded Oct.
20 when the company halted tests on a second experimental
diabetes medicine because it wasn’t effective. Lilly Chief
Executive Officer  John Lechleiter  yesterday ruled out “large-
scale combinations” while expressing interest in smaller deals.  “An outright acquisition of Amylin certainly could make
sense” if Lilly thinks Bydureon will be approved, Fernandez
said in a telephone interview from Boston. Amylin, based in San
Diego, lost half its market value on Oct. 20 after the Food and
Drug Administration requested a study of Bydureon’s effect on
heart rhythm.  Amylin fell 18 cents, or 1.6 percent, to $11.30 at 4 p.m.
in Nasdaq Stock Market composite  trading , after a 46 percent
plunge on Oct. 20. Indianapolis-based  Lilly  fell 10 cents to
$35.40 in New York Stock Exchange composite trading.  40 Percent Premium  The average premium paid in the last 12 months for
acquisitions of U.S. medical and biotechnology companies was 40
percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That suggests
Amylin may have cost $2.3 billion yesterday, excluding debt,
compared with $3.4 billion before shares plunged this week.
Lilly had $5.16 billion in  cash  to make deals as of June.  Other diabetes-drug developers led by  Pfizer Inc.  and
 Sanofi-Aventis SA , may also pursue Amylin at its bargain price,
Fernandez said.  Ray Kerins , a spokesman for New York-based
Pfizer, the world’s largest drugmaker, didn’t return calls for
comment.  Jean-Marc Podvin , a spokesman for Paris-based Sanofi,
said he doesn’t comment on market rumors.  “We are very satisfied with our current relationship with
Amylin and their management team,”  Mark Taylor , a Lilly
spokesman, said yesterday in an e-mail.  Shareholder Value  “Executing our current business strategy, including
working with the FDA to bring Bydureon to patients as quickly as
possible, is the best way to increase value for our
shareholders,” said  Alice Izzo , an Amylin spokeswoman, in an e-
mail.  While there is risk Amylin may be the target of an
opportunistic acquirer, it’s not likely the company would
solicit offers, said  Howard E. Greene  Jr., a co-founder who
resigned from the board last year, in an Oct. 20 telephone
interview.  “Whenever the stock gets whacked, you have to assume that
some people are going to sharpen their pencils,” Greene said.
“Two things happen: shareholders are mad, and companies with
bundles of cash are standing on the sidelines, waiting for an
opportunity.”  Lilly paid an undisclosed amount in July to buy closely
held Alnara Pharmaceuticals Inc., the maker of a drug for
pancreatic insufficiency. Lilly also said in March that it would
pay an undisclosed amount to buy European rights to certain
animal drugs from Pfizer and a manufacturing plant in Ireland.  ‘Fundamental Strategy’  “Our fundamental strategy remains intact,” Lechleiter said
during a conference call yesterday. “We’re not interested in
large-scale combinations. I think there are many other
opportunities that I think we could consider along the lines of
several that we have done this year.”  Lechleiter’s plan to stick to small purchases or licensing
deals won’t give investors much confidence, said  Barbara Ryan ,
an analyst with Deutsche Bank in New York, in a telephone
interview.  “A lot of those companies will just be adding to the
pipeline and they’re not going to be something that the market
will accrue much value to on Lilly,” Ryan said.  United Therapeutics Corp.  may also be a good fit because
Lilly has an 11 percent stake and the two companies are
partnered on Adcirca, a lung treatment made from the ingredient
in Lilly’s impotence pill Cialis, according to Fernandez.  Forest
Laboratories Inc.  would be another option to complement Lilly’s
research in antidepressants and arthritis medicines, he said.  ‘Takeover Target’  “It is not our expectation that we’re an imminent takeover
target for Eli Lilly,” said Andrew Fisher, a spokesman for
Silver Spring, Maryland-based United Therapeutics, in a
telephone interview. The 2008 Cialis marketing agreement
prevents Lilly from attempting a takeover before 2014, he said.  Cephalon doesn’t comment on rumor or speculation, said
Candace Steele, a spokeswoman for the Frazer, Pennsylvania-based
company.  Kevin Wiggins , of Chadds Ford, Pennsylvania-based Endo,
also declined to comment as a matter of company policy.  Frank Murdolo , a spokesman for New York-based Forest, didn’t return a
telephone message for comment.  The patent expires next year for Lilly’s top-selling
antipsychotic Zyprexa, which brought in $4.92 billion last year.
Generic copies of the antidepressant Cymbalta and insulin
product Humalog may be introduced in 2013. Had Bydureon been
approved this week, it could have generated sales of $420
million next year, said  Phil Nadeau , an analyst with Cowen & Co.
in New York.  Tanner, of Lazard, estimates a fair price for Amylin would
be as much as $15 a share, or about $2.16 billion based on 143.7
million shares outstanding as of June. He said Bydureon sales
will be limited because there are at least six competing
diabetes drugs in development -- including one from Lilly -- as
well as one approved product,  Novo Nordisk S/A ’s Victoza.  “The chances that this drug makes it to market are probably
pretty high, but you’re looking at almost two years from now,”
Tanner said. “If it didn’t make it, then somebody would have
massively overpaid for Amylin.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Catherine Larkin  in Washington at 
 clarkin4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 