-- Mining Tax Agreement May Face Test in Australia Courts, Constellation Says
-- B y   R e b e c c a   K e e n a n
-- 2010-10-22T05:42:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-22/mining-tax-agreement-may-face-test-in-australia-courts-constellation-says.html
Australia’s mining tax agreement may
face a High Court challenge on the grounds that it could be
unconstitutional, said Constellation Capital Management Ltd.,
which owns shares in  BHP Billiton Ltd.  and  Rio Tinto Group .  An “issue that could determine whether it goes through or
not is whether there is any high court objection,”  Peter Chilton , a investment analyst at Sydney-based Constellation,
said today in an interview with Rishaad Salamat on Bloomberg
Television’s “On the Move Asia.” “That’s an issue people are
beginning to talk about.”  BHP and Rio are considering abandoning the July mine tax
accord, claiming the government is seeking to renege on an
undertaking to refund future increases in state royalties, the
Australian newspaper reported yesterday. Resources Minister
 Martin Ferguson  has said increased state  royalties  won’t be
offset by cuts to the 30 percent levy on iron ore and coal.  The agreement is fundamentally flawed,  Colin Barnett , the
premier of Western Australia, said this week. The state is the
world’s largest export region for iron ore and the location of
BHP and Rio’s ore mines in Australia.  “There are clearly at least two major constitutional
issues that cast it in doubt,” Barnett said in Perth. “It is
discriminatory, it is poorly structured, it is very expensive
administratively. If a company were to take on the High Court,
the state would probably intervene in that case and present a
state point of view. I suspect the Commonwealth will abandon
this proposal and go back to square one.”  Treasury was advised that capping compensation for state
royalties, limiting it to those that applied on May 2, could be
discriminatory, Australian Government Solicitor Ian Govey told a
Senate committee on Oct. 18.  A company mining a resource in one state would receive a
different tax refund than a company mining the same commodity in
another state, Govey said. Imposing different tax regimes on the
nation’s state governments is prohibited by Australia’s
constitution.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rebecca Keenan  in Melbourne at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Keith Gosman at   kgosman@bloomberg.net  