-- Irish Government May Extend Banking Guarantee to Help Lenders Gain Funding
-- B y   J o e   B r e n n a n   a n d   D a r a   D o y l e
-- 2010-10-22T09:43:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-22/irish-government-said-to-consider-extending-bank-guarantee-to-ease-funding.html
Ireland’s government may seek to
extend its banking guarantee beyond the end of the year to ease
lenders’ access to funding, two people with knowledge of the
situation said.  The  Eligible Liabilities Guarantee  plan, covering
deposits and new senior bonds with maturities of up to five
years, is set to expire on Dec. 31. Unlike the country’s
original two-year guarantee, which expired last month, the ELG
does not cover subordinated bonds. The plan is subject to a
review every six months and the European Commission must approve
an extension.  Ireland was the first country to introduce a bank guarantee
in September 2008 as the country’s financial system came close
to collapse. Still, banks are struggling to raise funds and
Irish lenders’ borrowings from the European Central Bank rose 25
percent last month to 119.1 billion euros ($165.7 billion), the
Irish Central Bank said on Oct 8. The figures include
international and domestic institutions.  “The government will continue to support the banks through
a guarantee scheme as appropriate,” Ireland’s Finance Ministry
in Dublin said in an e-mail today.  Bank of Ireland Plc  last week paid a new issue premium to
sell 300 million pounds of government-backed bonds that’s more
than double similarly rated securities. It priced the three-year
notes to yield 440 basis points more than the benchmark mid-swap
rate. The Irish guarantee carries an AA- rating from Standard &
Poor’s and financial notes with a similar grade have an average
spread of 184 basis points, according to Bank of America Merrill
Lynch data.  No government-guaranteed lender has sold a benchmark bond
since April, when  Irish Life & Permanent Plc  found buyers for
1.25 billion euros of bonds.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Joe Brennan  at 
 jbrennan29@bloomberg.net ;
 Dara Doyle  in Dublin at 
 ddoyle1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  