-- IRS Auditing Build America Bonds Issued by San Antonio, Chicago District
-- B y   M i c h a e l   M c D o n a l d   a n d   W i l l i a m   S e l w a y
-- 2010-10-22T22:46:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-22/irs-auditing-san-antonio-build-america-bonds-texas-city-says.html
The U.S. Internal Revenue Service is
auditing $375 million in Build America Bonds issued by San
Antonio and $600 million from a Chicago sewer district, five
months after the agency said it would scrutinize sales of the
federally subsidized debt.  San Antonio officials notified bondholders this week that
the IRS will audit Build Americas the city sold in June 2009 for
its municipal utility,  CPS Energy . The agency, which routinely
audits tax-exempt bond issues, is seeking information on who
bought the taxable securities, the price they paid and how the
bonds subsequently traded, according to  a copy of a letter  to
the utility dated Oct. 14.  The IRS said in the letter that the examination was routine
and that it had “no reason to believe” that the Texas city’s
debt issuance failed to comply with applicable tax requirements.  “They’re being prudent and just making sure that people
have proper documentation and that they’re following the
guidelines,” said  Paula Gold-Williams , the chief financial
officer of CPS Energy, in a telephone interview today. The
letter from the IRS was addressed to her.  The Metropolitan Water Reclamation District of Greater
Chicago  posted  a one-page letter today to bond buyers, saying
the IRS sent it a letter Sept. 24 notifying it that its sale of
$600 million of Build America Bonds in August 2009 will be
audited. The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission is also
examining the bond sale. Brad Waterman, a lawyer for the
district, confirmed the letter and declined further comment.  Build Americas  Build America Bonds are the fastest-growing segment of the
$2.8 trillion municipal market. The program, set to expire at
year-end, was created by Congress last year as part of the
American Recovery and Reinvestment Act. The U.S. Treasury pays
35 percent of the annual interest cost if states and local
governments sell Build Americas instead of tax-exempt bonds for
new capital projects. There have been $148 billion of the
securities sold, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The disclosure of the audits follows a plan announced this
year by IRS officials that they would begin examining the sale
of the securities. The agency said in February it sent a
questionnaire to issuers asking whether they monitor the trading
of their Build America Bonds soon after they are issued and
whether any of the securities were purchased for the accounts of
underwriters, which could reap added profits if they were sold
at below-market prices.  Price Gains  Steven Chamberlin , compliance manager in the IRS’s tax-
exempt bond unit, said in a May 25 conference call organized by
the National Association of Bond Lawyers that the agency would
follow up the questionnaires with audits.  Dean Patterson , an IRS
spokesman, declined to comment.  The queries came after  prices  of some of the issues jumped
in initial trading, delivering potentially quick profits to
those who were let in on the offering.  San Antonio sold the $375 million of electric and gas
revenue bonds the first week of June last year. The securities,
which mature in 2039, were priced to yield 5.985 percent, equal
to the coupon rate, according to Bloomberg data. The bonds
initially traded at 100 cents on the dollar on June 2 and rose
to as much as $1.04 on June 4, which meant the yield fell to 5.7
percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The subsidy
the federal government pays is based on the coupon.  New York-based  Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  was the senior
manager of the seven-member banking team that underwrote the
securities.  Michael DuVally , a Goldman Sachs spokesman, declined
to comment immediately.  The sewer district’s Build America sale cost taxpayers $8
million in unnecessary interest and resulted in a bonanza for
bankers, Bloomberg News reported in December. The issue was
arranged by a 12-member banking team led by Mesirow Financial
Inc. and Loop Capital Markets LLC, which are both based in
Chicago.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Michael McDonald  in Boston at 
 mmcdonald10@bloomberg.net ;
 William Selway  in Washington at 
 wselway@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  