-- Stocks Advance for First Time in Three Days on Earnings, Economic Outlook
-- B y   N o r i e   K u b o y a m a
-- 2010-10-22T07:21:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-22/japan-s-stocks-rise-for-first-time-in-three-days-on-u-s-earnings-economy.html
Japanese  stocks  gained for the first
time in three days as higher-than-estimated company earnings and
a drop in U.S. jobless claims boosted confidence in a global
economic recovery.  Mitsui O.S.K. Lines Ltd., the world’s No. 1 merchant-fleet
operator, gained 2 percent after a report its earnings may beat
forecasts. Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group Inc., Japan’s second-
largest publicly traded bank, rose 1.4 percent as concerns eased
that global banks will raise capital.  Canon Inc. , a camera maker
that gets about 80 percent of revenue overseas, increased 1.6
percent after the dollar climbed against the yen.  The  Nikkei 225 Stock Average  rose 0.5 percent to 9,426.71
at the close in Tokyo. The broader Topix index gained 0.6
percent to 824.88, with more than twice as many stocks declining
as advancing. For the week, the Nikkei 225 lost 0.8 percent,
while the Topix dropped 0.2 percent. Stocks also climbed after
some U.S. earnings reports beat estimates.  “People in the stock market are optimistic, compared with
people in other markets such as currencies” said  Ayako Sera ,
who helps oversee about $310 billion in Tokyo as a strategist at
Sumitomo Trust & Banking Co.  The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  advanced 0.2 percent
yesterday in New York as better-than-estimated earnings from
EBay Inc. to  McDonald’s Corp.  and the drop in jobless claims
helped offset a slump in financial companies amid speculation
that banks face more losses from bad mortgages.  Shipping Lines  Initial jobless  claims  fell by 23,000 to 452,000 last week,
Labor Department figures showed yesterday in Washington. The
number of people receiving unemployment insurance fell, while
those getting extended payments rose.  “The improvement in company earnings is reducing the
number of U.S. jobless claims,” said  Juichi Wako , a senior
strategist at Tokyo-based Nomura Holdings Inc. “Investors don’t
expect jobless claims to recover, but at least they don’t have
to worry about a deterioration.”  Mitsui O.S.K.  gained 2 percent to 519 yen. The Nikkei
newspaper reported the shipping line and Nippon Yusen K.K. may
post pretax profit of about 80 billion yen each, topping a
forecast of 70 billion yen each.  Kawasaki Kisen Kaisha Ltd. , Japan’s third-biggest shipping
line by sales, rose 1.9 percent to 315 yen. Nomura boosted its
stock-price estimates on Mitsui O.S.K. and Kawasaki Kisen.  Banks Advance  Sumitomo Mitsui gained 1.4 percent to 2,406 yen, the most
active stock by value in Japan, and its smaller rival Resona
Holdings Inc. rallied 2.2 percent to 644 yen. The gains follow
two days of declines on concern banking regulations will be
tightened after a Group of 20 meeting under way in South Korea.  “Investors’ concern that G-20 talks will lead to capital
increases by banks has eased,” said Kazuhiro Takahashi, general
manager at Tokyo-based Daiwa Securities Capital Markets Co.  Global finance ministers are planning to say G-20 nations
will refrain from “competitive undervaluation” of currencies
to soothe trade tensions, according to an official from a member
nation, citing a draft statement and speaking on condition of
anonymity.  Fanuc Ltd., a maker of industrial robots that earns about
80 percent of its revenue outside of Japan, advanced 0.8 percent
to 11,310 yen and Canon, the world’s biggest camera maker, rose
1.6 percent to 3,785 yen. The companies were two biggest
contributors to a gain of the Nikkei.  The yen depreciated to as low as 81.37 against the dollar
today in Tokyo, compared with 81.15 at the close of stock
trading yesterday. A weaker yen boosts overseas income at
Japanese companies when converted into their home currency.  Light Trading  The  Topix  dropped about 17 percent from its high this year
on April 15 as Europe’s debt crisis, China’s steps to curb
property prices and concern about the pace of U.S. economic
growth weakened confidence in a global recovery. Stocks in the
index trade at 14.7 times estimated earnings on average,
compared with 14 times for the S&P 500 and 12.3 times for the
Stoxx 600.  Trading volume on the Tokyo Stock Exchange’s first section
was  light , with 1.49 billion shares changing hands at the close,
compared with a full-day average of 1.96 billion shares.  Many technology companies will report earnings next week,
and investors are waiting to see whether companies will revise
their second-half earnings’ forecasts because of a stronger yen,
said Daiwa’s Takahashi.  To contact the reporters for this story:
 Norie Kuboyama  in Tokyo at 
 nkuboyama@bloomberg.net ;
 Toshiro Hasegawa  in Tokyo at 
 thasegawa6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net . 