-- Japan Bonds Fall as Fed Comments Reduce Pressure for Bank Monetary Easing
-- B y   Y o s h i a k i   N o h a r a
-- 2010-10-22T21:11:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-22/japan-bonds-fall-as-fed-comments-reduce-pressure-for-bank-monetary-easing.html
Japanese government bonds fell for a
second week as U.S. policy makers mulled whether another round
of debt purchases was necessary, reducing pressure on the Bank
of Japan to ease monetary policy further.  Ten-year  yields  climbed toward a two-week high as stocks
advanced before a report next week forecast to show U.S.
existing home sales increased last month. Ahead of the BOJ’s
policy meeting on Oct. 28, Federal Reserve policy makers said
this week more Treasury purchases may not be needed.  “I don’t expect new action by the BOJ this time as I see
no new signs of danger looming,” said  Junichi Makino , a senior
economist at Daiwa Institute of Research Ltd. in Tokyo. “It’s
not the time to keep buying bonds.”  The yield on the 0.8 percent bond due September 2020 rose
1.5 basis points to 0.89 percent this week, after touching as
high as 0.9 percent, in Tokyo at Japan Bond Trading Co., the
nation’s largest interdealer debt broker. The price fell 0.134
yen to 99.181 yen. Yields haven’t been higher than 0.9 percent
since Oct. 8. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  Ten-year bond futures for December delivery declined 0.38
to 143.46 at the Tokyo Stock Exchange this week. The  Nikkei 225
Stock Average  rose 0.5 percent yesterday.  Japan’s central bank on Oct. 5 cut its overnight call rate
target to a range of zero to 0.1 percent, the lowest level since
2006, from 0.1 percent. Policy makers will set up a 5 trillion
yen ($61.7 billion) fund to buy government bonds and other
assets, expanding the balance sheet.  Yields Attract  Losses in Japan’s bonds were limited as yields, near a two-
week high, attracted buyers.  “Gains in 10-year yields have been snapped at 0.9 percent
a few times, setting up a pattern,” said  Katsutoshi Inadome , a
strategist in Tokyo at Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley Securities
Co., a unit of Japan’s largest bank. “Yields are likely to
remain in a tight range until new factors come up.”  The Federal Open Market Committee meets on Nov. 2-3 and is
considering whether to increase government debt purchases to
spur growth and keep prices in the economy from falling, a
strategy known as quantitative easing.  Richmond Fed President  Jeffrey Lacker  said on Oct. 20 a new
round of quantitative easing “would be a hard case to make,”
while his Philadelphia counterpart,  Charles Plosser , said he’s
“less concerned about deflation risks” than some officials.
Kansas City Fed President  Thomas Hoenig  said on Oct. 21 excess
liquidity can lead to “very bad outcomes.”  Fed, Elections  “Events in early November such as the Fed meeting and the
U.S. mid-term election will be a watershed for bond markets,”
said  Shinji Nomura , chief debt strategist at Tokyo-based Nikko
Cordial Securities Inc. “Investors are poised to buy on dips
rather than pushing up bond prices higher.”  U.S. existing home sales advanced 3.6 percent to a 4.28
million annual pace in September, according to a Bloomberg News
survey before the Oct. 25 report.  Japan’s 10-year bond yields may rise to 1.2 percent by
year-end, Nikko’s Nomura said.  Japan’s life insurers will buy government bonds dated 20
years or longer in the fiscal year ending in March, easing the
steepening of the yield curve, RBS Securities Japan Ltd. said.  Insurers tend to boost purchases of Japanese “super-long”
notes and shift to domestic from foreign debt in the second half
of the business year, said  RuiXue Xu , a strategist at the unit
of Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc.  Japan’s three biggest life insurers -- Nippon Life
Insurance Co., Dai-ichi Life Insurance Co. and Meiji Yasuda Life
Insurance Co. -- this month said they plan to buy Japanese bonds.  “It’s unlikely the yield curve will steepen further,”
Tokyo-based Xu said. “It wouldn’t be surprising if relatively
cheap super-long bonds will correct, supported by demand from
life insurers.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Yoshiaki Nohara  in Tokyo at 
 ynohara1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net . 