-- JPMorgan Expects Oil to Rally, Sees Any Price `Setback' as a Signal to Buy
-- B y   R a j   R a j e n d r a n
-- 2010-10-22T08:45:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-22/jpmorgan-says-any-setback-in-oil-price-is-buy-signal-as-100-barrel-looms.html
Any oil price fall should be seen as
an opportunity to buy the contract as the next move in the
market is likely to be a rally, JPMorgan Chase & Co. said.  “The signal that the next leg higher is imminent will be
tighter Dubai  forward  spreads and a narrower  Brent-Dubai 
spread,”  Lawrence Eagles , head of commodity strategy in New
York, said today in a monthly oil market report.  JPMorgan said it expects the dollar to weaken by four to
five percent over the next six months, giving oil a boost. A
declining dollar increases the appeal of energy as an inflation
hedge. The strength in crude is also bolstered by rising demand
in several regions, the bank said. A narrowing spread, when
Dubai oil rises closer to North Sea Brent, typically shows
increasing Asian demand.  The  Brent-Dubai  exchange for swaps, or EFS, for December
narrowed 12 cents to $2.40 a barrel today, according to data
from PVM Oil Associates. The EFS is the price difference between
Brent futures and Dubai swaps contracts and signifies Brent’s
premium relative to the Middle East grade. The December-January
Dubai spread shrank to minus 36 cents from minus 80 cents on
Sept. 27, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “The key risk is that we are being too cautious and that
the threat of $100 a barrel oil that is implicit in our fourth-
quarter 2011 oil forecast arrives much sooner than we expect,
driven by not only a weak dollar, but also by rampant Chinese
and emerging market demand, the rebuilding of French strategic
stocks, and an upward bias to food prices,” Eagles said in the
report.  ‘Should Be Bought’  “We continue to believe that any setback in the crude
price should be bought,” he said.  West Texas Intermediate oil for December gained as much as
81 cents, or 1 percent, to $81.37 a barrel in electronic trading
on the New York Mercantile Exchange, and was at $80.91 at 9:43
a.m. London time. Yesterday it declined $1.98 to $80.56 a
barrel. The contract is down 1 percent this week.  JPMorgan said it sees a growing supply deficit in oil
products in the fourth quarter. The resulting increase in
refinery runs will lead to a draw in global crude inventories
through February, it said.  “The recent fall in crude stocks in Cushing should soon be
reversed, widening the WTI contango and sending WTI back to a
heavy discount to dated Brent,” Eagles said in the report.  The nationwide strike in France, which has halted
refineries and led to fuel shortages, will lead to a six percent
drop in demand in October unless it “drags far beyond the end
of this week,” Eagles said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Raj Rajendran  in Singapore at 
 rrajendran4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  