-- Kaieda Signals Overseas Opposition to Yen Sales Won't Deter Intervention
-- B y   M a y u m i   O t s u m a   a n d   T a t s u o   I t o
-- 2010-10-22T10:17:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-22/kaieda-signals-overseas-opposition-to-yen-sales-won-t-deter-intervention.html
Japan is prepared to intervene in
currency markets to stem the yen’s advance, Economy Minister
 Banri Kaieda  said, signaling that overseas opposition shouldn’t
deter authorities from correcting abrupt moves.  “Japan stands ready to take action whenever it’s
necessary,” Kaieda said in an interview in Tokyo today.
“Intervention may cause tension with other countries, but I
believe those actions are allowed when currencies are moving in
a volatile way.”  Japan intervened in currency markets for the first time in
six years in September, action that failed to arrest the yen’s
advance to a 15-year high against the dollar. Limiting currency
gains to protect exporters has become an issue of contention
among Group of 20 nations, whose finance chiefs are meeting
today to discuss whether to set targets for their trade
imbalances to defuse tension over currency devaluation.  Japanese Finance Minister  Yoshihiko Noda , who is
participating in the G-20 gathering in Gyeongju, South Korea,
this week reiterated that the government stands ready to take
“bold” action on the yen, including intervention.  The yen has gained more than 5 percent since authorities
intervened on Sept. 15 and rose as high as 80.85 per dollar this
week, the strongest since April 1995, when a postwar high of
79.75 was reached.  Japan’s intervention “isn’t aimed at maintaining a certain
yen level,” Kaieda said. Asked about whether the yen will stay
strong, he said that he expects the current trend to continue.  Whenever Necessary  He said Japan can step into the currency markets whenever
it determines it necessary, even if it coincides with
conferences such as the Group of Seven or Group of 20 meetings.  Japan’s intervention drew criticism from European policy
makers and American politicians, with Luxembourg Prime Minister
 Jean-Claude Juncker , who chairs meetings of euro-region finance
ministers, saying the group was “insisting” Japan “step back
from unilateral interventions.” U.S. House Ways and Means
Committee Chairman  Sander Levin  called Japan’s move “deeply
disturbing.”  Preventing a too-sharp yen advance may help protect exports
in Japan, where overseas demand has driven the recovery. Slower
global growth is causing companies to pare industrial output as
stimulus measures that helped prop up consumer spending expire.  The Bank of Japan cut its key interest rate close to zero
on Oct. 5 and Prime Minister Naoto Kan will next week seek
approval for his 5.1 trillion yen stimulus package to help
jumpstart growth.  Kaieda also said the Cabinet Office wants to hold the first
meeting of its panel to discuss the yen’s globalization this
month. It will discuss measures to increase use of the Japanese
currency in global trade, he said.  “The first step is how to increase yen-denominated trade in
the Asian region,” he said.  He also said there is no alternative to the dollar as a
reserve currency.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mayumi Otsuma  in Tokyo  at
 motsuma@bloomberg.net ;
 Tatsuo Ito  in Tokyo at 
 tito2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  