-- Kan, Hatoyama to Meet Vietnam Leaders to Seek Rare-Earth Supply
-- B y   T s u y o s h i   I n a j i m a
-- 2010-10-22T03:39:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-22/kan-hatoyama-to-meet-vietnam-leaders-seek-alternative-rare-earth-supply.html
Japan is sending a delegation
including a former prime minister to Vietnam to discuss securing
rare earth supplies, before a possible meeting between leaders
of the countries on the subject at an Asean summit.  Yukio Hatoyama , who served as Japan’s premier for eight
months till June this year, travels to Vietnam today, Daisuke
Haga, his parliamentary secretary for policy said yesterday.
Nine lawmakers and ministerial officials are joining the
delegation, he said. Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  and his Vietnamese
counterpart,  Nguyen Tan Dung , will discuss rare earths at a
meeting of leaders the Association of Southeast Asian Nations in
Hanoi next week, Nikkei English News reported.  Japan is seeking alternative sources of rare earth metals
after China, which controls more than 90 percent of world supply,
cut export quotas of the materials used in  Toyota Motor Corp .
hybrid cars as well as disk drives and batteries. Kan’s
government set aside funds to find new sources of the metals in
a stimulus plan announced on Oct. 8.  “Vietnam would welcome Japan’s private investment in rare
earths and other resources,” said Shozo Sakata, a Vietnam
specialist at the Institute of Developing Economies at the Japan
External Trade Organization. “That said, I don’t think Vietnam
wants to get involved in Japan’s political games with China
because the country, which has had territorial disputes with
China, doesn’t want to provoke the Chinese.”  Yoshikatsu Nakayama , vice minister of economy trade and
industry, will travel to Vietnam tomorrow, the trade ministry
said in a statement on Oct. 20. The ministry wouldn’t confirm
who else was traveling to the southeast Asian nation.  Mineral Shortage  Japan’s stockpiles of rare earth mineral may run out as
early as March, Agence France-Presse cited Nakayama as saying
late yesterday.  The country may have a shortage of about 10,000 tons of
rare earths next year, or more than 30 percent of the country’s
annual demand, according to  Sojitz Corp ., a trading house that
imports most of the nation’s supply.  Toyota Tsusho Corp ., a trading company affiliated with
Toyota Motor, formed a joint venture with Sojitz and a
Vietnamese state-run mining company to import rare earths to
Japan from 2012, Katsutoshi Yokoi, a Tokyo-based spokesman, said.
Showa Denko K.K., the world’s second-biggest hard-disk maker,
opened a rare-earth plant in Vietnam in May this year.  “Companies typically stockpile around a half-year’s worth
of rare earth supply, so they should be okay for now,” said
 Shinya Yamada , a Tokyo-based equity analyst covering
manufacturing companies at Credit Suisse Group AG.  ‘Economic Friction’  “It is feasible they might not be able to get anything out
of China until the end of this year and if exports don’t resume
next year, we will see trade issues involving the World Trade
Organization, leading to economic friction,” he said.  Showa Denko declined to say how much rare earths they
stockpile. Shipments from China are “behind schedule,” Junichi
Tagaki, a Tokyo-based spokesman said.  The delegation will also be lobbying for companies led by
 Tokyo Electric Power Co.  to be awarded a contract to build an
atomic power station and for Vietnam to choose Japan’s bullet-
train technology for its planned high-speed railway network,
Haga said. Vietnam in August agreed to seek technical support
from Japan to conduct a feasibility study for bullet trains to
link major cities.  Tokyo Electric,  Toshiba Corp. ,  Hitachi Ltd. ,  Mitsubishi
Heavy Industries Ltd.  and partners will start a joint venture
today to supply atomic reactors to Vietnam and other developing
countries. Japan wants to boost a  stagnating economy  by
exporting technology for power generation, so-called smart power
grids and high-speed railways.  Nuclear Plants  Vietnam said on June 22 it plans to build as many as 13
nuclear power plants with a capacity of 16,000 megawatts by 2030.
Russia’s state-owned Rosatom Corp. was selected to build
Vietnam’s first atomic power station, the Vietnam Agency for
Radiation and Nuclear Safety said on June 17.  Hatoyama, who promoted Japanese nuclear and rail technology
while he was prime minister for eight months through June, wrote
to Dung in February to support Japanese companies bidding for
the next Vietnamese atomic power station. Dung responded in a
letter that Vietnam will give “maximum, serious consideration”
to Japan’s technology.  State Secretary for Foreign Affairs  Takeaki Matsumoto  is
among the officials visiting Vietnam, Haga said. Japan’s foreign
ministry and the Vietnamese National Assembly’s external affairs
department declined to comment.  A meeting is planned with Dung on Oct. 25 in Hanoi, said a
Vietnamese National Assembly official who can’t be named because
he isn’t authorized to speak to the media.  Meetings will be held at the ministries of transport, trade
and industry, science and technology, and natural resources and
environment, the Vietnamese official said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Tsuyoshi Inajima  in Tokyo at 
 tinajima@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash in Singapore at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net . 