-- KeyCorp Tops Analysts' Estimates on Smaller Loan-Loss Provision
-- B y   N i s h a d   M a j m u d a r
-- 2010-10-22T20:16:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-22/keycorp-tops-analysts-estimates-on-smaller-loan-loss-provision.html
KeyCorp , Ohio’s second-largest bank,
posted third-quarter profit of $219 million, beating analysts’
estimates as smaller loan-loss provisions helped the company
rebound from a loss last year.  Net income  was $219 million, or 20 cents a share, compared
with a $397 million loss, or 52 cents, in the same period a year
earlier, the Cleveland-based lender said today in a statement.
Adjusted earnings were 19 cents a share, compared with the 3-
cent average estimate of 26 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  “Key has returned to profitability,” Chief Executive
Officer  Henry L. Meyer , 60, said in the statement. “Our third-
quarter results reflect a higher net interest margin, continued
credit-quality improvement, well-controlled expenses, and
improvements in several fee-based businesses.”  The provision for loan losses dropped to $94 million from
$733 million in the same period a year earlier and $228 million
for the second quarter of 2010. KeyCorp, which has yet to repay
$2.5 billion in U.S. bailout funds, became profitable in the
second quarter after eight straight losses.  “Credit trends were encouraging, but it’s an uneven
economic recovery,” said  David Long , an analyst with Raymond
James & Associates Inc. in Chicago. “They’ve got considerable
credit exposure in some slow growth communities with relatively
high unemployment, so it’s going to be a long road until we get
back to a more normal charge-off and reserve level.”  M&A Business  National banking earnings of $130 million were helped by a
40 percent surge in non-interest income over the year-earlier
period. Improved liquidity boosted the bank’s mergers and
acquisitions advisory business, Meyer said in a conference call
with analysts.  Those gains more than offset a drop in the lender’s third-
quarter community-banking revenue, which fell 4.6 percent to
$601 million from the year-earlier period on declines in
commercial and home-equity loans.  Shares of KeyCorp fell 4 cents, or 0.5 percent, to $8.30 at
4:15 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The
lender is the  third-best  performer on the 24-company KBW Bank
Index this year, gaining 50 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nishad Majmudar  in New York at 
 nmajmudar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  