-- Korea Electric's Profit Beats Estimates as Stronger Won Cuts Value of Debt
-- B y   S h i n h y e   K a n g
-- 2010-10-22T04:11:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-22/korea-electric-s-profit-beats-estimates-as-stronger-won-cuts-value-of-debt.html
Korea Electric Power Corp. , the
supplier of most of the country’s electricity, posted third-
quarter earnings that beat analysts’ estimates as a stronger won
cut the value of its foreign-currency loans and debt financing.  Net income  was 845.8 billion won ($748 million) in the
three months ended Sept. 30, compared with 931.1 billion won a
year earlier, the Seoul-based company said in a regulatory
filing today. The mean estimate of five analysts compiled by
Bloomberg News was 728.7 billion won.  Gains in the South Korean won, Asia’s best-performing
currency in the third quarter, cut the cost of financing the
refiner’s foreign-currency debt. Still, operating profit slumped
71 percent to 462 billion won as fuel costs rose, offsetting the
first tariff increase in more than a year.  “The price hike was too small to counter the increase in
costs,” said  Kim Seung Woo , an analyst at Samsung Securities Co. 
in Seoul. “Demand for power is increasing on the economic
recovery, but the current pricing mechanism would be bad for
Korea Electric’s earnings.”  The government allowed the state-run utility to raise power
prices in August by 3.5 percent on average. Korea Electric’s
fuel expenses rose 34 percent in the third quarter from a year
earlier as the cost of gas imports increased in line with oil
prices, according to Eugene Investment & Securities Co.  Gas imports account for almost 40 percent of Korea
Electric’s raw-material spending, Eugene Investment said in a
report on Oct. 18.  Shares  of Korea Electric fell 0.3 percent to 29,950 won in
Seoul trading at 11:34 a.m. local time, while the benchmark
 Kospi  index rose 0.9 percent.  Power Tariffs  South Korea controls utility prices to curb inflation and
the increase in power tariffs in August was the first since June
27, 2009, when prices were raised by 3.9 percent on average.  Korea Electric ’s third-quarter power sales rose 17 percent
to 10.9 trillion won from a year earlier. By volume, sales
increased 10 percent as automakers and chemical producers used
more electricity to boost output, according to Eugene Investment.  Foreign-exchange losses fell 92 percent to 42.4 billion won
in the first nine months from a year earlier, according to Korea
Electric. The won rose 8 percent against the dollar in the third
quarter and 13 percent in the January-to-September period.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Shinhye Kang  in Seoul at 
 skang24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net . 