-- Swiss Stocks Fall; Credit Suisse, UBS Pull Benchmark SMI Down in Zurich
-- B y   A d a m   E w i n g
-- 2010-10-22T15:59:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-22/nestle-novartis-swiss-re-ubs-swiss-equity-preview.html
Swiss stocks declined, dragging the
benchmark Swiss Market Index lower for the first time in six
days, as Credit Suisse Group AG and UBS AG dropped.  Credit Suisse and UBS fell at least 0.9 percent after the
country’s financial regulator said Swiss banks may withdraw from
some markets to counter the risks posed by cross-border clients.
 Julius Baer Group Ltd.  rose 3.6 percent.  The SMI fell 0.5 percent to 6,477.13 at the 5:30 p.m. in
Zurich, retreating from its highest close since June 21 trimming
its weekly gain to 0.5 percent. The broader Swiss Performance
Index slipped 0.4 percent.  “We’ve had a massive up trend over the past few weeks and
we head into November with investors eager to hear about the
FOMC, mid-term elections in the U.S, and the G20,”  Neil Phillips , a fund manager at BlueBay Asset Management Plc in
London, which oversees about $38 billion, said today. “Many
will be taking risk off the table leading into this, but once
this pause is over, I expect the trend to continue.”  Stocks declined even after a report showed German business
confidence unexpectedly climbed in October to the highest level
in three and a half years, suggesting growth may not slow as
much as some economists forecast.  The Munich-based Ifo institute said its business climate
index, based on a survey of 7,000 executives, rose to 107.6 from
106.8 in September. That’s the highest since May 2007.
Economists had expected a drop to 106.5, according to the median
of 38 forecasts in Bloomberg News survey.  G-20 finance ministers and central bankers began talks in
Gyeongju, South Korea, today after weeks of wrangling over
whether nations from the U.S. to China are relying on weaker
exchange rates to spur growth.  Reduce Imbalances  Seeking a solution, U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  proposed G-20 members pursue policies to reduce trade
imbalances “below a specified share” of their economies,
according to an Oct. 20 letter. That suggestion today split the
group of emerging and industrial countries.  Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis President  James Bullard 
proposed that the U.S. central bank buy $100 billion in long-
term Treasuries next month and calibrate subsequent purchases
based on the course of economic recovery.  Good Program  “If we do decide to go ahead with quantitative easing, I
think there is a good program we could adopt, one I like, which
is to think in units of $100 billion between meetings” of the
Federal Open Market Committee, Bullard said yesterday at a
conference hosted by the district bank. “We could give forward
guidance for the next meeting that would suggest how likely the
committee thinks we would continue these purchases.”
      Credit Suisse  slipped 1.2 percent to 40.9 francs, its third
loss, while UBS fell 0.9 percent to 17.43 francs, erasing
yesterday’s 0.5 percent gain.  “The legal and reputational risks associated with cross-
border financial services have increased markedly in recent
years,” the Financial Markets Regulatory Authority, or Finma,
wrote today in a report. “They could threaten the continued
existence of some institutions and have a destabilizing effect
on the economy.”  Julius Baer, the 120-year-old Swiss private bank, climbed
3.6 percent to 39.01 francs, its second gain.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Adam Ewing  in Stockholm at 
 aewing5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Merritt at   dmerritt1@bloomberg.net . 