-- Nestle Nine-Month Sales Increase as KitKat Maker Raises Prices
-- B y   A n d r e w   R o b e r t s   a n d   T o m   M u l i e r
-- 2010-10-22T16:03:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-22/nestle-nine-month-sales-growth-beats-estimates-confirms-full-year-outlook.html
Nestle SA , the world’s largest food
company, reported nine-month sales growth that beat analysts’
 estimates , helped by price rises and gains in emerging markets.  Revenue excluding acquisitions, divestments and currency
shifts rose 6.1 percent, the maker of KitKat chocolate bars and
Purina pet food said today. The median of 10 analysts’  estimates 
gathered by Bloomberg News was 5.6 percent.  The Vevey, Switzerland-based company maintained its full-
year goals, despite a strong end to 2009 making comparative
growth more challenging in the fourth quarter. Higher prices
added 1.6 percentage points to nine-month sales growth, Nestle
said. Emerging markets such as China and Russia led the gain,
posting an 11 percent increase on a so-called organic basis.  “Nestle remains the epitome of strength and consistency,”
 Andrew Wood , an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein, said in a note.
“Any concerns that Nestle’s strong momentum from the first half
would subside have been shown to be unfounded.”  The  shares  lost 40 centimes, or 0.8 percent, to 52.65
francs, while the Swiss Market Index fell 0.5 percent.  Nestle said it expects organic sales growth at its food and
beverage business of about 5 percent this year, and forecast an
improvement in its operating margin at constant currencies.  The Swiss company gets about half its sales from retail
channels which normally don’t offer discounts, such as specialty
pet stores and direct distribution in emerging markets,  Marco Gulpers , an analyst at ING Wholesale Banking, estimates.
Unilever and Groupe Danone SA get about a third, he said.  ‘Challenging Comparatives’  “Although we see input cost pressures picking up, we
expect Nestle to be able to pass on these higher costs in most
regions and in most categories,” Gulpers said before the
results. He has a “buy” rating on the stock.  Total  revenue  rose 4.1 percent to 82.8 billion Swiss francs
($85.4 billion) from 79.5 billion francs a year earlier. That
compares with the 82.1 billion-franc median estimate.  “The first half’s growth momentum continued unabated in
the third quarter, providing a good base for the full year as we
face challenging comparatives in the final quarter,” Chief
Executive Officer  Paul Bulcke  said in the statement. The CEO
repeated that he expects an increase in the earnings before
interest and tax margin in 2010 at constant currency rates.  Volume rose 4.5 percent in the first nine months of the
year, Nestle said. Analysts expected 4.1 percent growth,
according to the median of five estimates.  Franc Strength  The strength of the Swiss franc against currencies such as
the euro cut 2.7 percentage points from sales growth, Nestle
said. The euro was on average 7.2 percent lower against the
Swiss currency in the first nine months of the year, compared
with the year-earlier period. The dollar was 3.7 percent lower.  “The strength of the Swiss franc in the third quarter was
much worse than consensus,” said  Warren Ackerman , an analyst at
Evolution Securities in London.  Acquisitions, net of divestitures, added 0.7 percentage
points to sales. The Swiss company has announced at least seven
purchases this year, including the frozen pizza business of
Kraft, Waggin’ Train, a maker of snacks for dogs, and Vitaflo, a
British maker of nutrition products for metabolic disorders.  By region, sales excluding acquisitions, divestments and
currency shifts rose 5.7 percent in the Americas, 2 percent in
Europe and 9.2 percent in the Asia, Oceania and Africa region.  Organic sales at the food and beverage unit, where more
than half of revenue comes from Europe and the Americas,
advanced 5.7 percent. Volume increased 4.2 percent.  Bottled Water  Bottled water sales rose 4.3 percent on the same basis,
helped by growth of at least 10 percent in emerging markets,
while nutrition sales increased 6.8 percent. Both categories
accelerated in the third quarter,  Jean-Philippe Bertschy , an
analyst at Bank Vontobel AG in Zurich, said by e-mail.  Nine-month sales at the other food and beverages unit
gained 9.5 percent, led by Nespresso, which surged more than 20
percent, excluding acquisitions, divestments and currency
shifts, the company said. Nespresso will have more than 220
boutiques around the world by the end of the year, Nestle said.  Petcare sales rose 4 percent on the same basis, the company
said. North American sales of these products will improve in the
fourth quarter,  Roddy Child-Villiers , head of investor
relations, said on a conference call.  Nestle’s share buyback plans are unchanged, Child-Villiers
also said. After repurchasing 5 billion francs of shares in the
first half of this year, Nestle will buy back another 5 billion
francs-worth in the second half and at least 5 billion francs of
shares in 2011, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Tom Mulier  in Geneva at 
 tmulier@bloomberg.net ;
 Andrew Roberts  in Paris at 
 aroberts36@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net . 