-- New Jersey's Christie Won't Make Hudson River Tunnel Announcement Today
-- B y   T e r r e n c e   D o p p
-- 2010-10-22T17:50:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-22/new-jersey-s-christie-won-t-make-hudson-river-tunnel-announcement-today.html
New Jersey  Governor  Chris Christie 
won’t say today whether he will cancel the construction of a
commuter-rail tunnel under the Hudson River to New York, his
spokesman said.  The governor halted the project Oct. 7, saying the initial
$8.7 billion cost might have reached $14 billion and the state
couldn’t afford it. Christie, a first-term Republican, then
agreed to delay a final decision two weeks at U.S.
Transportation Secretary  Ray LaHood ’s request.  “We do not anticipate making an announcement today,”
 Michael Drewniak , Christie’s press secretary, said in an
interview at the Statehouse in Trenton. “The governor expects
to receive all information from people on his working group.
He’s probably going to be working on this through the weekend.”  A decision may come next week, Drewniak said.  U.S. Senator  Frank Lautenberg , speaking to reporters at
Newark’s Penn Station, said federal officials told him that the
true tunnel cost estimate is $9.7 billion, about $4 billion
below the high end of Christie’s projection. Lautenberg said the
governor “fabricated” his estimates.  Drewniak declined to comment on Lautenberg’s remarks.  Expensive Hole  Federal Transit Administration staffers estimated the
project would cost between $10.9 billion and $13.7 billion,
according to an Oct. 7 memo to Christie from the tunnel’s
executive steering committee, which includes officials from the
state Department of Transportation, the Port Authority of New
York & New Jersey and New Jersey Transit.  Democrats, who control the state Legislature and New
Jersey’s two U.S. Senate seats, have said canceling the tunnel
project would be one of the worst decisions a governor has ever
made.  The 8.8-mile (14.2-kilometer) conduit was meant to double
the number of commuter trains to New York during peak times. It
would reduce round-trip commutes by as much as 30 minutes, and
boost the value of homes near transit stations by $18 billion,
according to the Regional Plan Association, a New York-based
transit-advocacy group.  Under the original plan, the federal government and Port
Authority each were to pay $3 billion for the work, and the
state $2.7 billion. Christie said state taxpayers would be “on
the hook” for anything more.  ‘Stop Fiddling’  Lautenberg said the latest federal estimate includes $1
billion for overruns on the project known as Access to the
Region’s Core.  “We now have a real figure of what the cost of the ARC
tunnel will be that includes overruns,” he said. “We’ve got to
get on with this because right now we are losing momentum.”  Assembly Majority Leader  Joseph Cryan  today called on
Christie to restart the project at once.  “People have been needlessly shoved onto the unemployment
line the last two weeks thanks to Governor Christie,” Cryan, a
Union Democrat, said in a statement. “Governor Christie needs
to stop fiddling and get this project moving again for the
benefit of New Jersey.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Terrence Dopp  in Trenton at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at   mtannen@bloomberg.net  