-- Nigerian Banks Index Rises Most in Week as Sanusi Says Amcon to Start Soon
-- B y   V i n c e n t   N w a n m a
-- 2010-10-22T14:26:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-22/nigerian-banks-index-rises-most-in-week-as-sanusi-says-amcon-to-start-soon.html
Nigeria’s banking stocks measure 
rose the most in more than a week after central bank Governor
Lamido Sanusi said a state company that will buy bad debts from
the nation’s lenders will start operating by next month.  The  Nigerian Stock Exchange Banking Index , which tracks
performance of the 10 biggest lenders, gained 3.3 percent to
close at 374.72 by the 1 p.m. close in Lagos. That’s the highest
since Oct. 13.  Asset Management Corp. of Nigeria, known as Amcon, will
start buying bad loans from the country’s lenders within three
weeks, Sanusi said from Abuja on CNBC Africa television
yesterday. Five or six of the lenders bailed out the central
bank last year “should be able to announce exclusive talks with
partners” soon, he said.  The central bank took stakes in some of the nation’s
lenders, spending 620 billion naira ($4.1 billion) to
recapitalize the industry following a debt crisis last year
caused by loans to stock speculators that weren’t repaid. The
regulator also fired the chief executive officers of eight of
the country’s 24 lenders.  The central bank plans to clear about $10 billion of toxic
debts from the system by the end of the year through Amcon,
helping the lenders improve their balance sheets and encouraging
them to resume offering credit to customers, Sanusi said July 1.  “These are positive comments and they have positive
effects on the market,”  David Adonri , chief executive officer
of Lambeth Trust and Investment Co., a Lagos-based brokerage,
said by phone today. “The expectation is that the market will
do well so investors are taking position,” he said.  Stocks  Bank stocks make up 42 percent of the Nigerian stock market
capitalization, according to figures published by the bourse.  First Bank Plc , the country’s biggest lender by market
value, gained 4 percent, its steepest increase since Oct. 18, to
close at 12.99 kobo.  Zenith Bank Plc , the second-largest, rose by 4.9 percent to
close at 13.61 naira, the highest in more than two months, while
 Guaranty Trust Bank Plc , Nigeria’s third-biggest, surged 5
percent to 16.54 naira, the biggest increase in more than five
months.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Vincent Nwanma  in Lagos via Accra at 
 vnwanma@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin in Johannesburg at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 