-- Nomura, Goldman Move Investment Bankers to Asia
-- B y   C a t h y   C h a n
-- 2010-10-22T05:23:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-22/nomura-goldman-move-bankers-to-asia-for-record-financial-firm-share-sales.html
Nomura Holdings Inc. , Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. and Bank of America Corp. are moving investment
bankers who specialize in advising financial-services companies
to Asia as banks and insurers sell record amounts of shares.  Nomura, Japan’s largest securities firm, is moving  Petter Sternby  to Hong Kong from London as a managing director at its
Asian financial institutions group, people with knowledge of the
matter said.  A surge in fundraising by banks and insurers, along with
competition for talent from smaller equity underwriters like
Barclays Plc and  Daiwa Securities Group Inc. , has led to a
shortage of financial institutions bankers in Asia. The region
is home to the world’s five biggest initial public offerings by
financial companies in the past 12 months, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  “These individuals are highly sought after and banks have
been competing against each other in the war for talent to bring
them in,” said  James Carss , executive general manager of
recruitment firm Hudson’s Hong Kong office.  Sternby, who previously was a financial institutions banker
for Europe, the Middle East and Africa, plans to relocate to
Hong Kong from London as early as this year, the people said,
asking not to be identified before an announcement. He will
report to  Dan McNamara , global co-head of the group.  Sundeep Tucker, a spokesman for Nomura in Hong Kong,
declined to comment.  AgriBank, AIA Sales  Financial firms are on course to raise record amounts of
money in Asia-Pacific this year, led by  Agricultural Bank of
China Ltd. ’s $22.1 billion initial public offering in July.
American International Group Inc. raised $17.8 billion for its
AIA Group Ltd. unit, according to a statement released by AIA
today, making it Hong Kong’s biggest-ever IPO.  Bankers who have been relocated include Goldman Sachs’s
 Peter Enns , who moved to Hong Kong from New York last month to
head the financial institutions group for Asia excluding Japan,
said spokesman  Edward Naylor . Enns replaced  Douglas Feagin , who
moved back to the U.S.  Chad Holm, the former Citigroup Inc. banker who joined Bank
of America this month, will move to Hong Kong from New York in
November to work in the Asia-Pacific FIG team.  Jeff Emmanuel ,
former head of equities for Australia and New Zealand at UBS AG,
moved to Hong Kong in May as managing director of the financial
institutions group, said  Chris Cockerill , a spokesman for the
Swiss bank.  Goldman FIG Expansion  Goldman Sachs has doubled the size of its financial
institutions group in Asia this year, and hired Bernard Teo from
Nomura in August as a managing director, a person with knowledge
of the matter said. Fred Hu and Kenneth Wong, former managing
directors at Goldman Sachs who advised financial institutions,
left this year to work in private equity, according to two
people familiar with the situation.  Financial institutions including banks, insurers and
securities firms have raised a combined $171 billion in Asia
outside Japan since 2006, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Barclays Plc  and Daiwa are hiring bankers to compete with
Goldman Sachs and Morgan Stanley for work managing stock sales
and advising on takeovers in the region.  Barclays hired former JPMorgan Chase & Co. banker  Helge Weiner-Trapness  as Asia-Pacific head of its financial
institutions group in September.  Thomas Jackamo , a former
financial institutions group banker at Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc, left to join Daiwa Securities last month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Cathy Chan  in Hong Kong at 
 kchan14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  