-- North Korea Circumventing UN Sanctions With China's Help, U.S. Report Says
-- B y   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 2010-10-22T21:51:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-22/north-korea-circumventing-un-sanctions-with-china-s-help-u-s-report-says.html
North Korea is circumventing United
Nations sanctions by routing trade and financial transactions
through China, a U.S. report said.  Flawed intelligence about  North Korean  actions and varying
interpretations of UN sanctions also allow the isolated
communist country to avoid the full weight of penalties meant to
push it to reconsider its nuclear weapons program, according to
a report by the nonpartisan Congressional Research Service.  President  Barack Obama  is pursuing a policy of sanctions
and engagement with North Korea to encourage it to rejoin
denuclearization talks. North Korea’s leaders have made ending
the sanctions a condition for returning to talks. Implementation
of those sanctions has been uneven globally and in cases has
diminished over time, the report said.  “Because China has taken a minimal approach to
implementation on North Korea, it has proven difficult to
strengthen measures any further in the UN context,” said the
report, requested by Senator  Richard Lugar  of Indiana, the top
Republican on the  Senate Foreign Relations Committee .  Calls to the Chinese Embassy in Washington weren’t
answered.  North Korea’s unpredictable behavior complicates U.S.
attempts to draw it into negotiations. South Korea is currently
monitoring North Korea for signs of a nuclear test, Han Min Koo,
chairman of South Korea’s Joint Chiefs of Staff, said today.  Retaliation Threatened  In August, North Korea threatened “physical retaliation”
against South Korean naval ships carrying out military drills.
An international tribunal found the North responsible for
torpedoing a South Korean vessel in March, killing 46 sailors.  The  CRS  report found that North Korea uses air and land
routes through China with little risk of inspection and that
luxury goods flow through China to Pyongyang’s elites “almost
unabated.”  China’s chief interest is in maintaining the status quo and
regional stability, and preventing a flood of North Korean
refugees over its northern border region, according to the
report.  “Clearly, China holds the key to implementing sanctions on
the DPRK,” the report said, using the acronym for the
Democratic People’s Republic of Korea. “It could arguably
devote more resources to detecting and stopping North Korean
violations.”  Lugar said in a statement that the findings are a reminder
that U.S. and Chinese interests regarding North Korea differ.  “While the United States presses for elimination of North
Korea’s nuclear weapons program, China’s primary focus is on
preserving regional stability,” Lugar said. China’s less than
rigorous approach “should be a wake-up call to this White House
in the ongoing development of its North Korea strategy,” he
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nicole Gaouette  in Washington at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net   To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net  