-- Norway Names Olsen as Central Bank Governor to Succeed Gjedrem
-- B y   J o s i a n e   K r e m e r   a n d   M e e r a   B h a t i a
-- 2010-10-22T11:43:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-22/norway-appoints-olsen-as-central-bank-governor-to-succeed-gjedrem-in-2011.html
Norway’s central bank is likely to
increase the role of the krone in decision making as Governor
 Svein Gjedrem ’s successor signals the bank can’t afford to raise
interest rates if policy makers abroad don’t do the same.  “Norges Bank cannot go alone for sure; international
developments including interest rate paths abroad will
potentially affect” policy “via the exchange rates,” said
 Oeystein Olsen , who today was appointed central bank governor
starting Jan. 1, in an interview in Oslo. Gjedrem completes his
second and final six-year term on Dec. 31.  Norges Bank, which last October became the first in Europe
to scale back crisis easing, has kept its main rate at 2 percent
since May as risks to the global recovery prompted the bank to
adjust policy to avoid fueling krone gains that hurt exporters.
The bank has said it may resume tightening at the “turn of the
year.” Olsen in an Aug. 25 interview said rate rises should be
delayed until summer 2011.  “It is part of the picture, also regarding future
inflation, to have a reasonably stable krone or to avoid too
strong movements in both directions,” Olsen said today.  The three-month  forward-rate agreement  due June 2011
slipped 3 basis points to 2.575 percent as of 1:27 p.m. in Oslo,
according to data available on Bloomberg. The krone rose 0.2
percent against the euro, after earlier weakening, to trade at
8.1318. Against the dollar, it was also up 0.2 percent at 5.8377.  Policy Balance  Olsen will need to balance policy to steer a recovery in
consumer demand in the economy of the world’s second richest
country per capita without hurting trade competitiveness.  Asked whether the country’s exporters can afford a stronger
currency, Olsen said “some can, some might be hurt already by
the present level, but in general the competitiveness for
Norwegian manufacturers and other competitors is important.”  Norges Bank’s three rate increases since October to 2
percent pushed up the krone by 13 percent against the euro from
a September 2009 low through a May high. That gain hurt
exporters, including  Norsk Hydro ASA , Europe’s third biggest
aluminum maker. Exports, which make up 42 percent of Norway’s
output, fell in the first two quarters of the year.  The bank has two more scheduled rate meetings this year,
one next week and one in December.  The  current rate path  indicates borrowing costs will rise
to an average 2.5 percent next year and 3.25 percent in 2012. By
contrast, the U.S. Federal Reserve plans to keep its rate
“exceptionally low” for an “extended period,” it said last
month. European Central Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet  said
on Oct. 12 the ECB’s 1 percent benchmark is “appropriate” as
some eurozone members remain mired in a sovereign debt crisis.  Norway’s  underlying inflation , which adjusts for energy and
taxes, has lagged behind the central bank’s 2.5 percent target
since August last year. The rate stood at 0.9 percent last month.
Norges Bank said last month that inflation is “low,” as it
left its benchmark rate unchanged.  Olsen will “perhaps be somewhat less concerned about
inflation, perhaps less believing in the risk of inflation,”
said  Knut Anton Mork , chief economist at Svenska Handelsbanken
AB in Oslo, in a phone interview today. “There is a chance over
time” he will focus more on the krone.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Josiane Kremer  in Oslo at 
 jkremer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  