-- Obama Names McDonough as Deputy Security Adviser After Donilon's Promotion
-- B y   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n
-- 2010-10-22T16:06:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-22/obama-names-mcdonough-as-deputy-security-adviser-after-donilon-s-promotion.html
President  Barack Obama  named  Denis McDonough  to be deputy national security adviser, replacing  Tom Donilon , who was promoted to national security adviser earlier
this month, the administration announced.  McDonough, a longtime Obama foreign policy aide, has served
as chief of staff on the White House National Security Council
and was named an adviser for strategic communications when Obama
became president in January 2009.  McDonough, 40, “possesses a remarkable intellect,
irrepressible work ethic and a sense of collegiality that has
earned him the respect of his colleagues,” Obama said in a
statement.  It marks the fifth time the president has reached into his
inner circle to fill a vacancy, after selecting  Jacob Lew  as
budget director,  Austan Goolsbee  for chief economist,  Peter Rouse  as chief of staff and Donilon as top security adviser.
Donilon today officially replaced retired General  James Jones ,
whose departure was announced Oct. 8.  McDonough, a native of Stillwater, Minnesota, north of
Minneapolis-St. Paul, has played a role in most foreign policy
decisions at the White House, including Obama’s decision to add
30,000 troops to Afghanistan and the monthly Situation Room
meetings assessing its progress. He advises the president on
foreign policy, helps craft positions and speeches and shapes
messages for domestic and overseas consumption.  Senior Adviser  McDonough was Obama’s senior foreign policy adviser during
the 2008 presidential campaign and during the transition.  He was a top foreign policy adviser to former Senate
Democratic Leader  Tom Daschle  of South Dakota and to Obama when
he was a senator from Illinois. McDonough also was a senior
fellow at the Washington-based Center for American Progress,
which describes itself as a progressive research and advocacy
group.  McDonough graduated from St. John’s University in
Collegeville, Minnesota, and earned his master’s degree from
Georgetown University.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Roger Runningen  in Washington at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net  