-- Obama Urges California Backers to Revive 2008 Spirit
-- B y   J u l i a n n a   G o l d m a n
-- 2010-10-22T21:46:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-22/obama-urges-california-backers-to-revive-2008-spirit-update1-.html
President  Barack Obama  sought to
energize California Democrats for elections in less than two
weeks that will decide control of Congress, saying the Nov. 2
vote will determine whether the ideas they supported in 2008 are
realized.  “In just 11 days you have the chance to set the direction
of this state and of this country,” Obama said at a rally at
the University of Southern California in Los Angeles. “Just
like you did in 2008, you can defy the conventional wisdom.”  The president is on the third day of a five-state western
campaign swing to defend his party’s congressional majorities
with stops today in California and Nevada, where Senator  Barbara Boxer  and Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid  are in tight races.  Today’s rally also aims to help Democratic state Attorney
General  Jerry Brown , who is running for governor against former
EBay Inc. Chief Executive Officer  Meg Whitman . The event is the
latest in a series of similar gatherings intended to revive some
of the enthusiasm for Democrats among the voting groups that
helped Obama win the presidency in 2008.  The president is raising money and campaigning in
Democratic-leaning states where he is likely to have the biggest
impact. Obama took all five states he is visiting this week in
the  2008 election  with majorities ranging from 54 percent in
Minnesota to 61 percent in California.  Senate Seats  Yesterday, the president stumped for Senator  Patty Murray 
of Washington. White House officials have said Washington and
California are must-wins for Democrats to keep control of the
Senate. Polls show Boxer, a three-term senator with a slight
lead over Republican  Carly Fiorina , the former chief executive
officer of Hewlett-Packard Co.  While in Los Angeles, Obama also is taping an interview for
the Piolin Show, a top-rated Spanish-language program broadcast
in Southern California on radio station KSCA, set to air Oct.
25. California, the most populous U.S. state, is about 32
percent Hispanic, according to the  Census Bureau .  Separately, the Democratic National Committee is spending
more than $1 million on television and radio advertisements, in
both English and Spanish, to encourage Hispanics to vote.  Falling Support  Hispanic support for Democrats has dropped in 2010,
according to  Gallup poll  data. Hispanics favored Democrats over
Republicans by 13 percentage points in September, down from 32
percent in July, according to the survey.  Obama will hold four more rallies the final weekend before
the election in states he and other top administration officials
have visited in recent weeks and where there are competitive
Senate, House and gubernatorial races. On Oct. 30, Obama will
stop in Philadelphia, Bridgeport, Connecticut, and Chicago and
Oct. 31 he will be in Cleveland, Ohio.  Obama and the Democrats are confronted with voter anger
over the state of the U.S. economy. An Oct. 7-10 Bloomberg
National Poll shows that almost two-thirds of voters believe the
country is on the wrong track, and unemployment is the top
concern for about half the electorate. The  deficit , which was
almost $1.3 trillion  for the fiscal year that ended Sept. 30,
ranks as the second most pressing issue, cited by 27 percent.  “I told you this was going to be hard,” Obama told his
audience. “Don’t let anyone tell you our fight hasn’t been
worth it.”  With approval ratings higher in California than elsewhere
around the country, Obama’s time there this week will provide a
significant boost to local candidates including Boxer and Brown,
said  Chris Lehane , a Democratic strategist based in San
Francisco who worked on  Al Gore ’s presidential campaign.  ‘Real Momentum’  “Given that one night of local news coverage translates
into a week of paid media, the president’s presence will allow
Brown and Boxer to dominate the campaign dialogue and generate
real momentum for the last 10 days,” Lehane said.  In California, 53 percent approve of Obama’s performance in
office, according to a Field Research Corp.  poll  conducted Sept.
14-21. Nationally, a Bloomberg poll showed that fewer than half
of likely voters approve of the president’s job performance and
likely voters are more apt to say Obama’s policies have harmed
rather than helped the economy.  The economic issue is underscored in the states Obama has
been visiting. California, Nevada and Oregon have unemployment
rates above the national average of 9.6 percent. In Nevada,
where Reid is struggling to hold onto his seat, the jobless rate
is 14.4 percent, the highest in the U.S., and the home
foreclosure rate is five times the national average, according
to RealtyTrac Inc. of Irvine, California.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Julianna Goldman  in Los Angeles at 
 jgoldman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net  