-- Locust Battle Enters Critical Stage as Crops Threatened, Commission Says
-- B y   W e n d y   P u g h
-- 2010-10-22T04:22:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-22/locust-battle-enters-critical-stage-as-crops-threatened-commission-says.html
Australia is entering the critical
period for controlling a locust plague forecast to be the worst
in decades, threatening crops as hatching accelerates in areas
where insect numbers may be highest, the government said.  “We will see more and more locusts becoming active and
evident within those areas in the coming two weeks,” Chris
Adriaansen, director at the Canberra-based  Australian Plague
Locust Commission  said by phone yesterday. “We are moving
toward a more critical time.”  Wheat shipments from Australia, the fourth-largest
exporter, may be curbed if locusts harm crops, New York-based
Commodore Research & Consultancy said in a report dated Oct. 14.
Aerial spraying will increase next week after wet weather slowed
insect development, delaying an outbreak expected to be the
worst in three decades nationally and the most serious for about
70 years in Victoria state, according to the commission.  “Now the weather is going to warm up a bit they will kick
on with that development,” Adriaansen said. Spraying is under
way to target locusts before they grow wings and start to swarm,
he said. The insects were about three to four weeks away from
swarming in central-west New South Wales and about six to seven
weeks away in Victoria’s central north, he said.  Australian wheat output this year is forecast at the lower
end of a 22 million-metric-ton to 23 million-ton range, Rabobank
Groep NV forecast this month. Risks include disease, locusts and
quality downgrades because of excess  rain  in the east and dry
weather in Western Australia, the bank said in a report.  Wheat Gains  Wheat for December delivery on the Chicago Board of Trade
rose 0.4 percent to $6.7125 a bushel at 2:34 p.m. Melbourne
time, taking this year’s advance to 24 percent.  Crop losses from a locust outbreak in Australia in 1973 to
1974 totaled 0.2 percent of total production, according to a
Citigroup report dated Oct. 15.  “Uncertainty remains over the impact of the current season
plague, given hatching will continue until late November,” the
report said. “However, we are confident crop losses will not be
significant given coordinated aerial spraying and farmer
preparedness.”  Hatchings have started in areas forecast to have the worst
infestations, such as the New South Wales southern Riverina
region and the state’s south-west, Victoria’s north and north-
west, and adjacent areas in South Australia, Adriaansen said.  The New South Wales government has treated about 70,000
hectares (173,000 acres) from the air and carried out
surveillance of more than 7.2 million hectares, a government
website  report  said Oct. 19. Aerial and ground spraying is also
under way by state agencies and farmers in Victoria and South
Australia.  The commission is working with the grains industry to try
to minimize problems at harvesting, Adriaansen said.  “It’s quite easy for the harvesters to pick up locusts as
they pick up the grain and that then requires further work to
clean and screen the grain,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Wendy Pugh  in Melbourne 
 wpugh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  