-- Hoenig Says Excessive Liquidity Can Lead to `Very Bad Outcomes'
-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 2010-10-22T04:04:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-22/hoenig-says-excessive-liquidity-can-lead-to-very-bad-outcomes-.html
Kansas City Federal Reserve
President  Thomas Hoenig  said that pumping excessive liquidity
into the banking system may harm the economy, potentially
causing higher unemployment.  “Monetary policy is about an environment that’s supposed
to be stable,” Hoenig said yesterday at an economic forum in
Albuquerque, New Mexico. “When you try to use it in a way that
floods the market with liquidity, you can in fact get very bad
outcomes,” including financial instability that leads to
increased joblessness.  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  and other policy makers will
meet in Washington on Nov. 2-3 to consider whether to stage a
new round of asset purchases, or quantitative easing, to boost
an economy stagnating with unemployment above 9.5 percent and
inflation at levels some policy makers consider too low.  “My experience tells me that if you wait until you’re
absolutely certain that everything is fine, you waited too
long,” said Hoenig, the Fed’s longest-serving policy maker, who
has dissented from every decision of the Federal Open Market
Committee this year. The FOMC said on Sept. 21 that it’s
prepared to take action “if needed” to spur growth and achieve
its mandate of stable prices and full employment.  Hoenig has said he opposes further asset purchases to boost
the economy and has argued that the Fed should begin taking
steps to lift interest rates from near zero. The benefits of
further purchases “are likely to be smaller than the costs,”
he said to the National Association for Business Economics this
month.  Core Rate  The Fed’s preferred price gauge, the core personal
consumption expenditures index, has risen at 1.4 percent on a
year-over-year basis in June, July and August -- lower than the
1.7 percent to 2 percent rate of inflation that Fed officials
favor over the long term.  Fed officials such as Chicago Fed President  Charles Evans 
have said the U.S. economy is in a liquidity trap, and raising
inflationary expectations could help the economy grow more
quickly.  “Fine tuning inflationary expectations with the blunt
instrument called monetary policy is a highly risky endeavor,”
said Hoenig, 64, who has led the Kansas City Fed since 1991.  “I don’t think we’re in a liquidity trap because we are,
in fact, growing and we will continue to grow unless we create
another crisis,” Hoenig said in response to audience questions.  The National Bureau of Economic Research said last month
that the worst U.S. recession since the Great Depression ended
in June 2009. Economic growth slowed to an annualized 1.7
percent rate in the second quarter from 3.7 percent in the first
three months of the year.  Temporary Workers  October is expected to be the first month since May in
which the U.S. economy adds jobs, now that the government is no
longer laying off large numbers of temporary census workers. The
Labor Department will report on Nov. 5, two days after the Fed’s
meeting, that the economy added 65,000 jobs in October,
according to the median of a Bloomberg Survey.  The Fed lowered interest rates to a range of zero to 0.25
percent in December 2008 and has pledged to keep them there for
an “extended period.”  Hoenig repeated his argument that interest rates should be
raised modestly above zero. “I am against high interest rates
while we’re in a fragile recovery,” he said, “I’m for non-
zero.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joshua Zumbrun  in Albuquerque, New Mexico at 
1984 or  jzumbrun@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz in Washington at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  