-- Oil Rises on Increasing French Fuel Imports, Storm Threat in Mexican Gulf
-- B y   M a r k   S h e n k
-- 2010-10-22T19:42:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-22/oil-rises-as-equities-climb-bolstering-outlook-u-s-economy-is-improving.html
Crude oil rose on speculation that
growing French demand for imported fuel because of a strike will
reduce stockpiles elsewhere and on concern that a tropical storm
may strengthen and head toward Mexican oil fields.  France is importing “massive” amounts of fuel and tapping
reserves to alleviate service-station shortages, Environment and
Energy Minister  Jean-Louis Borloo  said today. Tropical Storm
Richard, churning over Caribbean waters off the Nicaragua-
Honduras border, is forecast to strengthen to a hurricane.  “The French refinery strike is getting more attention, and
there’s a growing realization that U.S. supplies will have to
fill some of the void,” said  Phil Flynn , vice president of
research at PFGBest in Chicago. “We also are keeping an eye on
Richard, because there’s no way to know how it will develop over
the weekend.”  Crude oil for December delivery rose $1.13, or 1.4 percent,
to settle at $81.69 a barrel on the New York Mercantile
Exchange. The contract dropped 0.3 percent this week.  Brent crude oil for December settlement climbed $1.13, or
1.4 percent, to end the session at $82.96 a barrel on the
London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange.  The French government last week authorized the use of fuel
reserves after Total SA announced it would halt its five active
refineries in France and other refiners took measures to reduce
output. Workers at the country’s 12 crude-processing plants have
extended their labor action since Oct. 12 to protest a plan to
raise the minimum retirement age.  Senate Approval  The French Senate approved President  Nicolas Sarkozy ’s bill
to increase the age by two years to 62 today. Lawmakers in the
upper house of Parliament voted 177-153, clearing the way for
final passage. A comparable version of the legislation was
approved by the National Assembly on Sept. 15. A committee
comprising members of both chambers is scheduled to meet Oct. 25
to merge the bills.  France is also using “some part of their private sector
stock by swapping their strategic stock,”  Nobuo Tanaka ,
executive director of the International Energy Agency, said in
an interview today in Lisbon. “As far as I know they are not
using the strategic stockpile.”  Tropical Storm Richard, with maximum winds of 40 miles per
hour (65 kilometers per hour), is about 140 miles east-northeast
of Cabo Gracias a Dios, Nicaragua, near the Honduran border, the
National Hurricane Center reported on its website at 2 p.m. East
Coast time.  Tighter Range  “We have been moving in a tightening range,” said  Carl Larry , president of Oil Outlooks & Opinions LLC in Houston.
“The market seems most comfortable between $80 and $82.”  Oil in New York has traded between $79.25 and $84.43 a
barrel this month.  The Group of 20 finance ministers met today to try to ease
tensions in the currency market. The dollar was down 0.1 percent
against the euro at $1.3934. The correlation between movements
in oil and the euro has been 0.73 over the past year. A reading
of 1 would indicate they move in lock-step.  “There’s some angst about the G-20 but it doesn’t look
like there will be any major news emerging,” said  Gene McGillian , an analyst and broker at Tradition Energy in
Stamford, Connecticut.  JPMorgan Chase  & Co. projects the dollar to weaken by 4
percent to 5 percent over the next six months, giving oil prices
a boost,  Lawrence Eagles , JPMorgan’s head of commodity strategy
in New York, said today in a monthly report.  $100 Threat  “The key risk is that we are being too cautious and that
the threat of $100 a barrel oil that is implicit in our fourth-
quarter 2011 oil forecast arrives much sooner than we expect,
driven by not only a weak dollar, but also by rampant Chinese
and emerging market demand” and the rebuilding of French
strategic stocks, Eagles said in the report.  Technical analysis by Lind-Waldock in Chicago shows that
oil is poised to reach $90 a barrel by the middle of December.
The December contract has been trading in an uptrend, a pattern
of higher peaks and higher valleys, since touching a low of
$75.10 on Sept. 23,  Blake Robben , a strategist at Lind-Waldock,
a division of  MF  Global Ltd., said in an interview.  “Since then, the market has made higher highs and higher
lows,” Robben said.  Oil volume on the Nymex was 319,943 contracts as of 2:33
p.m. in electronic trading in New York. Volume totaled 615,815
contracts yesterday, 12 percent below the average of the past
three months. Open interest was 1.4 million contracts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mark Shenk  in New York at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net . 