-- Private-Home Completions in Hong Kong Climbs to Four-Year High of 11,100
-- B y   S o p h i e   L e u n g   a n d   M a r c o   L u i
-- 2010-10-22T08:24:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-22/hong-kong-home-completion-reaches-4-year-high-amid-market-cooling-measures.html
The number of private homes
completed in Hong Kong rose to a four-year high this year,
underscoring government efforts to boost the housing supply and
curb rising prices.  In the first nine months, 11,100 private homes were
completed, the  Transport and Housing Bureau  said in a quarterly
report on its website. That compares with the 7,200 homes built
in 2009 and 16,600 units in 2006.  The government will boost land supply and begin a rent-to-
buy program for first-time buyers, Hong Kong’s Chief Executive
 Donald Tsang  pledged last week in his policy address after a
public outcry over a surge in  home prices  of about 48 percent
since the beginning of 2009.  “The government is determined to boost land supply and we
can expect more plots up for auctions,” said  Buggle Lau , chief
analyst at Midland Holdings Ltd., Hong Kong’s biggest publicly
traded property broker. “It won’t impose an immediate pressure
on home prices as this would take time.”  Tsang said he expects sufficient land would be made
available for about 20,000 new homes in a year. The government
has held eight land auctions in the current financial year, with
the next one scheduled for Nov. 3.  Construction Starts  The number of private homes on which construction began
more than doubled in January through September to 11,700 from a
year earlier, according to the bureau’s report.  Lau said home prices may increase another 15 percent by the
end of next year should interest rates remain at current levels.  The Hong Kong Monetary Authority has kept its base rate at
a record-low 0.5 percent since December 2008, leading to reduced
home-loan costs. Monetary policy decisions track those of the
U.S. Federal Reserve because the city’s currency is pegged to
the dollar.  A housing bubble poses the biggest threat to financial
stability in Asia,  Norman Chan , chief executive of the city’s de
facto central bank, said Oct. 18.  Hong Kong will stop offering residency to foreigners who
buy properties in the city, Tsang said Oct. 13.  The latest curbs follow a series of measures announced this
year to rein in home prices that have surged on the back of
record-low mortgage rates and an influx of mainland Chinese
buyers. The government in August raised down-payment ratios and
said it will sell more land for development.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Sophie Leung  in Hong Kong at 
 sleung59@bloomberg.net ;
 Marco Lui  at   mlui11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  