-- Longest Peso Losing Streak Since 1992 Propels Exports: Argentina Credit
-- B y   B e n   B a i n   a n d   E l i a n a   R a s z e w s k i
-- 2010-10-22T02:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-22/longest-peso-losing-streak-since-1992-propels-exports-argentina-credit.html
Argentina is turning its currency
into the region’s worst performer to bolster exports, maintain
its trade surplus and spur growth to the fastest pace since
1992.  The peso has weakened 4.1 percent this year against the
dollar, the biggest decline among the six most-traded Latin
American currencies tracked by Bloomberg, and fell for a ninth
month in September, the longest streak since its inception in
1992. Argentina’s trade surplus probably widened to $915 million
in September from the year-earlier period, according to the
median of nine forecasts in a Bloomberg survey of economists.  Argentina’s central bank is weakening the peso through
daily dollar purchases as nations from Brazil to Korea engage in
competitive devaluations to offset record inflows that are
strengthening their currencies. Argentina’s central bank
reserves reached a record $51.7 billion last week. The peso is
the only major Latin American currency tracked by Bloomberg to
weaken against the real this year, sliding 6.7 percent.  “You’re depreciating vis-à-vis the Brazilian real and you
have a booming Brazilian economy,” said  Oscar Sanchez , senior
international economist at Scotia Capital Inc. in Toronto. “In
terms of exports, this is the best place you want to be.”  Argentina’s exports are helping fuel a bond rally, driving
benchmark  yields  last week down to the lowest since February
2008, by bolstering confidence in the government’s ability to
repay its foreign debt. Argentina’s dollar bonds have returned
27 percent this year, the most after debt from Ukraine,
according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI+ index.  ‘Currency War’  Brazilian Finance Minister  Guido Mantega , joining what he
described as a global “currency war” to protect exporters,
tripled a tax on foreigners purchases of fixed-income assets to
6 percent this month to arrest a two-year rally in the real.
Record-low interest rates in the U.S., Europe and Japan prompted
international investors to pour a record $41 billion into
developing-nation bonds this year, according to research firm
EPFR Global.  “Argentinean products are very, very cheap vis-à-vis
whatever you buy in Brazil, so they’ll continue to import from
Argentina,” Sanchez said.  Argentine exports rose 47 percent in August to $6.4 billion
after a record 55-million metric ton soybean harvest, according
to the national statistics agency. The central bank forecasts
South America’s largest economy after Brazil may grow as much as
9.5 percent this year, the most since 1992. Brazil is
Argentina’s biggest trade partner.  Yield Spread  The extra yield investors demand to hold Argentine dollar
bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries increased four basis points, or
0.04 percentage point, yesterday to 608. It’s down from 846 on
July 1, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  Warrants linked to economic growth dropped 0.08 cent to
12.30 cents, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The  cost  of protecting Argentine debt against non-payment
for five years with credit-default swaps fell one basis point to
745 yesterday, according to data provider CMA DataVision.
Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for
the underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a
government or company fail to adhere to debt agreements.  The peso was little changed at 3.9594 per U.S. dollar
yesterday.  Inflation  Quickening inflation means the peso is actually
strengthening in real terms, according to  Alberto Ramos , senior
economist at Goldman Sachs Group Inc. in New York. He estimates
consumer prices will rise 25 percent this year, more than double
the official of 11.1 percent.  Economists and politicians including Vice President  Julio Cobos  and former Economy Minister  Roberto Lavagna  began to
question official inflation statistics in early 2007, when then-
President  Nestor Kirchner  made personnel changes at the national
statistics institute. Kirchner and President  Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner  say government data is accurate.  “When the exchange rate depreciates less than the increase
in domestic inflation in real terms, we have actually seen an
appreciation,” Ramos said.  Soy exports, the largest source of dollar inflows into
Argentina, may rise $700 million this year to $8.4 billion,
according to Gustavo Lopez, a former director of the
government’s agricultural market office who is now an analyst at
Agritrend SA. Revenue from Argentine commodity exports,
including soybeans, corn, wheat and sunflower seeds, will
increase 8 percent to $28 billion during the 2011 harvest, Lopez
said.  “The nominal depreciation of the currency is a trigger for
Argentinean exporters to be more inclined to sell abroad,” said
 Diego Donadio , a Latin America strategist at BNP Paribas in Sao
Paulo. “Looking at the scenario for commodities and liquidity
in global markets, we expect that commodity prices are going to
remain at elevated levels and the central bank of Argentina will
continue to promote depreciation for the nominal peso.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ben Bain  in New York at 
 bbain2@bloomberg.net 
 Eliana Raszewski  in Buenos Aires at 
 eraszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  