-- Orix Aims to Double Mariner Hedge Fund Assets to $20 Billion in Five Years
-- B y   S h i g e r u   S a t o   a n d   T a k a k o   T a n i g u c h i
-- 2010-10-22T01:26:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-22/orix-aims-to-double-mariner-hedge-fund-assets-to-20-billion-in-five-years.html
Orix Corp. , a Japanese financial
services company, aims to double assets managed by the U.S.
hedge fund it is buying within five years to more than $20
billion to capitalize on rising demand from pension funds.  Orix USA Corp. said this week it agreed to buy a majority
stake in the holding company of Mariner Investment Group, an
$11.7 billion hedge-fund manager headed by  William Michaelcheck .
Orix USA expects to co-invest with New York-based Mariner and
help set up new funds for expansion, President  James Thompson 
said in an interview in Tokyo, without elaborating.  The deal followed Orix USA’s purchase in May of RED Capital
Group, a Columbus, Ohio-based commercial mortgage originator.
Orix has searched for potential acquisitions for several years
that would help expand its asset management businesses, betting
investor appetite for hedge funds will grow, Thompson said.  “Given the level of interest rates in the U.S. and
elsewhere, the low rate of returns is pushing pension investors
among others to invest more in hedge fund space,” Thompson, 55,
said at Orix’s headquarters in Tokyo on Oct. 20.  Hedge funds attracted a net $19 billion of new capital last
quarter, the most since the end of 2007, as they returned to
their peak asset value before the financial crisis. The funds
returned 5.2 percent on average in the quarter, bringing net
asset values to a record high and erasing the losses incurred
during the crisis, Hedge Fund Research Inc. said this week.  “Mariner’s management team believes they should expand a
range of fixed-income opportunities and they should also offer
certain types of equity products,” Thompson said. “Hedge fund
business is very much customer-driven so you have to find
products or designs of product that the customer wants.”  In 2006, Dallas-based Orix USA clinched a deal to buy
Houlihan Lokey Howard & Zukin, a merger-and-acquisition adviser
focusing on helping smaller companies restructure.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Shigeru Sato  in Tokyo at 
 ssato10@bloomberg.net ;
 Takako Taniguchi  in Tokyo at 
 ttaniguchi4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net . 