-- Horizonte Plans Canada Share Sale in Toronto to Fund Project With Teck
-- B y   F i r a t   K a y a k i r a n
-- 2010-10-22T12:45:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-22/horizonte-plans-canada-share-sale-in-toronto-to-fund-project-with-teck.html
Horizonte Minerals Plc , seeking
funds for a nickel project with Canada’s largest diversified
mining company  Teck Resources Ltd. , will sell shares on the
Toronto Stock Exchange in the first half of 2011.  Horizonte is in talks with brokers including Paradigm
Capital on the sale, Chief Executive Officer  Jeremy Martin  said
in an interview in London on Oct. 20. It may also consider bank
loans and offtake agreements with nickel refiners to finance the
project in Brazil, he said.  Horizonte is seeking to step up spending on exploration and
development as nickel demand climbs. Global consumption of the
silvery metal, used in stainless steel and batteries, outpaced
primary supply in August for the first time in five months,
according to the  International Nickel Study Group . Horizonte’s
Brazilian  Araguaia  project began a drilling program on Oct. 18.  The company wants to become a “major” producer with
annual volumes of at least 25,000 metric tons at Araguaia and an
“initial resource” of 60 million to 70 million tons, Martin
said.  Teck  sold the project in July in return for 50 percent of
Horizonte, and has the option to buy the remaining shares in
Horizonte when Araguaia is ready for construction, Martin said.  The project is scheduled to begin output within four years.
Annual production volumes and the cost of building the mine will
be established after resources at the site are determined next
year, the CEO said. The resource announcement will probably push
Horizonte’s  stock price  up by 60 percent to 20 pence, valuing
the company at about 50 million pounds ($78.6 million), he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Firat Kayakiran  in London at 
 fkayakiran@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amanda Jordan at   ajordan11@bloomberg.net  