-- Toronto Preps Municipal Bond Sales as Yields Top New York: Canada Credit
-- B y   H u g o   M i l l e r
-- 2010-10-22T16:57:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-22/toronto-preps-municipal-bond-sales-as-yields-top-new-york-canada-credit.html
Toronto, Canada’s biggest city, may
sell C$700 million ($683 million) in debt in 2011, almost double
last year’s total, tapping demand for municipal bonds as
candidates vow fiscal prudence ahead of the mayoral election.  The city plans to issue as much as C$500 million in 30-year
securities to finance streetcars, subways and roads, plus
another $200 million in 10-year debt to maintain existing
infrastructure, said  Martin Willschick , the city’s manager of
capital markets. He said any decisions will have to wait until
the city council meets after the Oct. 25 municipal election.  Canada’s business capital and North America’s third-largest
financial-services center weathered the recession better than
many U.S. cities and Ontario, where the manufacturing sector was
hurt by a slump in U.S. consumer spending. Canada’s five largest
banks, which are based in the city, took fewer writedowns than
their U.S. counterparts and laid off fewer employees.  That makes Toronto’s bonds appealing to investors because
they offer a higher yield than Ontario bonds, even though the
city’s economy is healthier than the province, he said. Toronto
also offers higher yields than New York-area credits even though
it’s considered less risky by rating companies.  “We don’t rely on manufacturing, the economy has come
back, housing prices have been very healthy,” Willschick said
in an interview. Investors “see us as double-A rated credit and
fairly safe and yet you can pick up extra yield or basis points
over Ontario at basically the same risk level.”  The spread, or extra yield investors demand to own 30-year
debt issued by the city over Ontario bonds of a similar
maturity, has widened since July by 7 basis points, or 0.07
percentage point, to 40 basis points. The city has an AA rating
from Standard & Poor’s, its second-highest rating, while Ontario
is rated AA-.  Provincial Bonds  Elsewhere in credit markets, the extra yield investors
demand to own the debt of Canada’s companies rather than federal
government securities narrowed yesterday by 1 basis point to 142
basis points, from 143 the day before, according to a Bank of
America Merrill Lynch index. The so-called spread was as wide as
154 basis points in June, and reached 401 basis points in
January 2009.  Corporate yields rose to 3.57 percent yesterday, from 3.54
percent on Oct. 19, the lowest level since Merrill Lynch started
tracking the data in June 1992. Yields were 3.63 percent at the
end of last week, compared with 3.68 percent for U.S. corporate
yields and 3.43 percent for an index of global corporate debt.  Bank of Nova Scotia  Bank of Nova Scotia paid 57.25 basis points over Treasuries
to sell $2.5 billion of 1.65 percent  covered bonds  denominated
in U.S. dollars. The debt matures in October 2015.  Today’s Bank of Nova Scotia sale raises annual U.S. dollar-
denominated issuance of the debt to the most on record,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Borrowers have sold
$28.9 billion of U.S. dollar covered bonds this year, surpassing
the $26.6 billion sold in 2007, Bloomberg data show.  In the provincial debt market, spreads were 1 basis point
narrower at 54 basis points, from 55 yesterday. The yield
dropped to 2.92 percent.  Ontario, Canada’s most-populous province, offered 71 basis
points over benchmarks in a C$1 billion reoffering of its 4.2
percent bonds maturing in June 2020, bringing the total
outstanding to C$8.35 billion.  Canadian government 10-year bonds yielded 2.75 percent, or
21 basis points higher than 10-year U.S. Treasuries, which
yielded 2.54 percent yesterday. The gap ended last week at 23
basis points.  CPI Report  The annual inflation rate in Canada quickened in September
to the fastest pace since January on energy and shelter costs,
data showed today.
energy and shelter costs.  The  consumer price index  rose 1.9 percent, after a 1.7
percent gain in August, Statistics Canada said. The core rate
that excludes eight volatile items such as gasoline slowed to
1.5 percent from 1.6 percent, the slowest pace since December.
Economists in a Bloomberg News survey forecast the inflation
rate would be 1.9 percent and the core rate 1.6 percent.  Canada’s provincial debt has returned 0.6 percent this
month, compared with 0.2 percent for federal debt.  Toronto offers higher yields than New York-area credits,
even though rating companies consider it less risky than the
U.S. financial capital. Toronto’s 5.2 percent bonds due in June
2040 yield 4.66 percent, compared with 4.20 percent for the Port
Authority of New York and New Jersey, which is financing the
reconstruction of Manhattan’s World Trade Center. Its 5 percent
bonds maturing in July 2039 are rated Aa2 by Moody’s, one rank
below Toronto’s Aa1 rating.  Financial-Services Strength  While Toronto lost jobs during the slowdown, “the
recession didn’t really impact the city in our opinion in terms
of output, and that’s largely because of the strength of the
financial-services sector,” said S&P analyst  Stephen Ogilvie .  Toronto’s debt burden should climb from C$2.7 billion, or
35 percent of operating revenue in 2008, to about C$4.2 billion,
or 44 percent, in 2013, as it overhauls the city’s transport
network, S&P estimates. “That will make their debt burden more
consistent with domestic and international peers at the double-A
category” such as Ottawa, Madrid and Auckland, he said.  City Councilor  Rob Ford  and former provincial politician
 George Smitherman  are vying for the lead to become the next
mayor. Ford has said he’d cut operating costs by 6 percent or
C$1.7 billion over four years by assuring competitive bidding on
contracts, outsourcing garbage collection and cutting the city’s
workforce by replacing half of retiring workers.  Balanced Budget  Smitherman has said  his plan  will save the city C$265
million next year to ensure a balanced budget, in part by
replacing fewer retired workers. Smitherman also said he can
generate C$298 million in new revenue from initiatives such as
selling underused city land.  Willschick, Toronto’s manager of capital markets, said he
expects the city’s 30-year debt to yield 40 basis points above
Ontario debt and its 10-year bond yields to be 30 basis points
higher.  The mayoral campaign has had little impact on Toronto’s
bond prices or yields, Willschick said.  “At this point it doesn’t look as if the markets have made
any judgments regarding to the mayoralty race,” he said.  The price of the bond is little changed since the beginning
of October.  The city in April sold C$600 million worth of 30-year
debentures and borrowed an additional C$100 million through the
Canada Mortgage and Housing Corp. as part of a fiscal stimulus
program led by the federal government. Overall borrowing of $700
million in 2010 was an increase from about C$400 million in
2009.  Toronto’s net debt represents about 40 percent of the
city’s operating revenue, compared with almost 100 percent for
Montreal, Canada’s second-biggest city, according to Moody’s.  “Toronto has a relatively low debt burden and high levels
of liquidity,” said  Jennifer A. Wong , an analyst at Moody’s
Investors Service in Toronto. “Their capital plans and
projected debt issuance is manageable.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Hugo Miller  in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net ; 