-- Lloyds, Barclays, RBS Win Appeal Over Debt Plan for European Directories
-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n   a n d   I s a b e l l   W i t t
-- 2010-10-22T14:12:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-22/lloyds-barclays-rbs-win-appeal-over-european-directories-revamping-plan.html
Lloyds Banking Group Plc , Royal Bank
of Scotland Group Plc and Barclays Bank Plc won an appeal over
part of the 2 billion-euro ($2.78 billion) loan restructuring
plan for  Macquarie Group Ltd. ’s European Directories SA.  The Court of Appeal in London today overturned a lower-
court decision blocking the senior-lenders, who hold 1.5 billion
euros of debt, from wiping out second-lien ranking creditors in
a bid to sell the directories company without any liabilities.
European Directories filed the appeal, along with Barclays, the 
security trustee, and the senior lenders.  The company, the banks and other senior lenders including
 Allied Irish Banks Plc  and  Bank of New York Mellon Corp. ’s
Alcentra, created the plan after London-based European
Directories, owned by the Australian financial-services firm
 Macquarie Group , missed loan payments earlier this year. The
turnaround involves placing the directories company in
bankruptcy and selling it to the lender group.  Junior investors AMP Capital Investors Ltd. and Hastings
Fund Management Ltd., both Australian money managers holding
17.7 million euros of second-lien debt, argued that the
mechanism used to implement the senior lenders’ plan would
breach loan agreements.  The three-judge panel declined to give the second-lien
creditors permission to appeal to the Supreme Court.  Possible Appeal  “We are obviously extremely disappointed at the Court of
Appeal’s judgment,” said Richard East, a lawyer at Quinn
Emanuel Urquhart & Sullivan LLP in London, who represents the
junior lenders. “The second lien lenders continue to think that
the lower-court’s decision is correct, and will seek permission
for further appeal to the Supreme Court,”  Del Jones, a London-based spokesman for European
Directories, declined to comment.  The judges agreed that the parties never would have signed a
contract that prevented them “from selling the business as a
going concern, clean of liabilities, in a way that would
maximize the value and benefit every creditor,” said  Yen Sum , a
lawyer with Linklaters LLP who represented the banks.  The part of the restructuring plan that was in dispute
concerns the way European Directories will release the assets
that guarantee the loans.  Macquarie, based in Sydney, and a group of mezzanine
lenders holding 75 million euros in debt proposed in April
swapping the mezzanine debt for equity in the company to infuse
it with cash. The senior lenders rejected the plan.  European Directories, whose business includes providing
local search functions for consumers and advertisers, was formed
in 2005 after the acquisition of the Yellow Brick Road Group by
a consortium led by Macquarie. The company has about 4,750
employees and more than 700,000 customers, according to its
website.  The case is: HHY Luxembourg SARL v. Barclays Bank, High
Court of Justice Chancery Division, Case No. HC10C02857.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Erik Larson  in London at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 