-- Green Bay Packers Legend Lombardi Tackles Broadway: John Simon
-- B y   J o h n   S i m o n
-- 2010-10-23T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-22/packers-legend-vince-lombardi-runs-from-gridiron-to-broadway-john-simon.html
It is not easy to put the biography
of a football coach on the stage. “Lombardi,” by Eric
Simonson, based on a book by David Maraniss, is just such a
temerarious enterprise, and Broadway’s arena-style  Circle in the
Square  theater makes things even that much harder.  Although fictionalized, the play deals credibly enough with
the efforts of sportswriter W.C. Heinz to write an article about
 Vince Lombardi , who turned the dubious  Green Bay Packers  into a
spectacular team. His first attempt, despite a week spent in the
Lombardi household, yielded little. A second shot, “a day-by-
day account of Lombardi as he prepared for an important game”
turned into a bestseller and remains a major book about
football.  But a book is one thing and a play quite another. And
theater in the round, where minimal scenery must come up from
below the stage and sink back again in order not to block
anyone’s view, is another tough nut to crack. Especially if
there are only three football players along with the journalist
and Marie, the coach’s stoical wife, to lend support to the
protagonist. There are some slide projections, to be sure, but
much -- perhaps too much -- is left to the imagination.  No Kids, Please  As for the domestic life -- we do not see the two Lombardi
children -- it is mostly Marie putting up with an 800-pound
gorilla who shuttles between the oft-repeated, stentorian
command, “Shut up, Marie!” and occasional moments of
tenderness. This Vince roars so much of the time that I wonder
how long before he is disqualified by hoarseness, however
capable Dan Lauria, the actor, may be.  Michael McCormick, as the reporter is named here, is also
shouted at much of the time, alternatingly tolerated and banned
from observing the practice sessions. As a house guest, too, he
must display considerable fortitude, which the actor, Keith
Nobbs, manages valiantly.  The three Packers we see are slippery Paul Hornung, from a
white-collar background; gruff working-class Jim Taylor; and
Dave Robinson, the patient players’ representative, who is
black. They are a trifle too typical, and Chris Sullivan, who
plays Taylor, could pass for Bret Favre’s elder brother. He,
Bill Dawes (Paul) and Robert Christopher Riley (Dave) make the
most of near-stereotypical roles under Thomas Kail’s apt
direction.  Fine Marie  The most interesting performance is the Marie of Judith
Light, who has a kind of irony in her aspect, intonation, and
even walk, which allow her to get laughs from lines that are not
particularly funny.  Not being a football aficionado myself, and left borderline
cold by the proceedings, I wonder whether there are enough
football fans eager to catch “Lombardi,” and whether even they
would feel they’re getting enough out of it. I, at any rate, was
surprised to learn that Lombardi had also worked in a bank and
that he was only 57 when the prostate cancer that long dogged
him finally delivered its lethal tackle.  David Korins’s spare scenery, Paul Tazewell’s persuasive
costumes and Howell Binkley’s appropriate lighting are all
eminently workmanlike. “Lombardi” never quite achieves the
greatness of the coach’s briefly invincible team.  At 235 W. 50th St. Information: +1-212-239-6200;
 http://www.telecharge.com  Rating: **  ( John Simon  is the New York drama critic for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
John Simon in New York at  jis1925@aol.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 