-- Pakistan Will Get $2 Billion of U.S. Aid to Fight Terrorists Along Border
-- B y   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n   a n d   V i o l a   G i e n g e r
-- 2010-10-22T13:42:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-22/pakistan-will-get-2-billion-of-u-s-aid-to-fight-terrorists-along-border.html
Pakistan will receive $2 billion
over five years in additional U.S. military aid to fight
terrorists more effectively along its Afghan border, Secretary
of State  Hillary Clinton  said today.  The financial support for the five-year period between 2012
and 2016 will enable Pakistan to buy weapons, helicopters and
defense equipment to fight off insurgents threatening U.S. and
NATO-led troops in Afghanistan. The package includes study
grants for Pakistani officers seeking training at military
academies in the U.S.  “The U.S. has no stronger partner when it comes to
counter-terrorism efforts against the extremists” than
Pakistan, Clinton said.  The announcement comes as Pakistan has been forced to focus
its military capacity on flood relief in the aftermath of the
country’s worst natural disaster in decades. Pakistan says its
army was already over-extended by taking on guerilla fighters in
the northwest part of the country for the past 1 1/2 years.  U.S. and Pakistani officials today concluded three days of
strategic talks in Washington on a range of issues, from flood
relief to ways Pakistan can do more to fight militants.  In the third such session by the two countries since March,
Pakistan pledged to play a constructive role in talks between
the Afghan government and Taliban leaders, some of whom are
believed by the U.S. to be hiding in Pakistan.  The U.S. has been pouring money into Pakistan since the
2001 invasion of Afghanistan to oust the Taliban regime that
harbored al-Qaeda leader  Osama bin Laden .  The funding has included $12.5 billion in security
assistance since fiscal 2002 as reimbursement for Pakistan’s
contribution to combating terrorism, according to figures
compiled by the nonpartisan Congressional Research Service.  Infrastructure Aid  Military aid aside, Congress last year approved $7.5
billion in aid to build Pakistani roads, schools, power
facilities and infrastructure for civilians.  The U.S. has also donated $387 million to Pakistan after
floods covering an area as large as Italy killed 1,800 people
and displaced 20 million. Some of that money came from the $7.5
billion infrastructure package and will be replaced, according
to  Richard Holbrooke , U.S. special envoy to Afghanistan and
Pakistan.  The U.S. administration, in addition to authorizing 30,000
more troops for Afghanistan in December, relies on Pakistani
military operations to prevent the Taliban and al-Qaeda from
crossing into eastern Afghanistan. President  Barack Obama  plans
to begin withdrawing forces from Afghanistan in July 2011.  Obama, who is visiting India in November, will travel to
Pakistan next year and he has invited Pakistan’s President  Asif Ali Zardari  to visit the U.S.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Flavia Krause-Jackson  in Washington at
 fjackson@bloomberg.net ;
 Viola Gienger  in Washington at 
 vgienger@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  