-- Payrolls Fall in 34 U.S. States, Led by California
-- B y   C o u r t n e y   S c h l i s s e r m a n
-- 2010-10-22T15:37:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-22/payrolls-fell-in-34-u-s-states-in-september-led-by-california-new-york.html
Payrolls dropped in 34 U.S. states
in September, led by California and New York, showing job losses
were dispersed throughout the country.  Employers in California cut 63,500 jobs last month, figures
from the Labor Department showed today in Washington. New York
followed with a loss of 37,600, while employment in
Massachusetts decreased by 20,900 and by 20,200 in New Jersey.  The labor market has been slow to improve as state and
local governments cut staff to repair budget shortfalls and
companies wait for an increase in  sales . The government said
earlier this month that U.S. companies added 64,000 jobs in
September, less than economists forecast, and total payrolls
dropped by 95,000.  Corporate job gains are “weaker than we’d all like, barely
enough to keep unemployment constant,”  Kurt Karl , chief U.S.
economist at Swiss Re in Armonk, New York, said before the
report. “The economy needs to strengthen more for businesses in
general to hire.”  Nevada’s jobless rate held at 14.4 percent in September,
the highest in the U.S.  Nationally, seven of eight employment categories showed
declines in payrolls, led by a loss of 83,000 government jobs
and a 45,000 drop in construction. Financial services had a
gain. More than half of California’s decrease, 37,300, reflected
cutbacks at government agencies, which may include reductions
due to the winding down of the decennial census and schools.  Unemployment Decreases  Unemployment decreased in 23 states, led by a 0.4
percentage-point drop in Massachusetts, and 0.3 point decreases
in Alabama, Maine and Rhode Island. Eleven states showed an
increase in the jobless rate, led by a 0.4 percentage point jump
in West Virginia. The jobless rate is derived from a survey of
households while the payroll figures are calculated from a
survey of employers.  Michigan, with a jobless rate of 13 percent, was second to
Nevada and California was third at 12.4 percent. Unemployment in
North Dakota remained the lowest in the nation at 3.7 percent.  Payrolls climbed in 16 states and in the District of
Columbia, which led all advances with a 16,500 jump in
employment. North Carolina followed with a 10,100 gain  and
Illinois with an 8,600 increase.  New York City  New York City’s unemployment rate dropped to 9.3 percent in
September, the lowest in 16 months, the state  Labor Department 
said yesterday. The states’ jobless rate held at 8.3 percent.  New Jersey’s  jobless rate decreased to 9.4 percent from 9.6
percent in August, the state labor department said on Oct. 20.
The state said most of the decline in the jobless rate was from
people leaving the labor force. The drop in payrolls reflected a
7,600 decrease in local government positions.  At the national level, the 14 months of unemployment at 9.5
percent or higher is the longest stretch since records began in
1948. Economists surveyed by Bloomberg News earlier this month
projected joblessness will average 9.6 percent this year and 9.3
percent in 2011.  State and local employment data are derived independently
from the national statistics, which are typically released on
the first Friday of every month. The state figures are subject
to larger sampling errors because they come from smaller
surveys, making the national figures more reliable, according to
the government’s Bureau of Labor Statistics.  Government Payrolls  State and local government employment cuts were part of the
reason national payrolls fell in September. While the $26
billion aid package approved in August to help states fill
budget gaps may have allowed municipalities to cancel firings or
rehire some laid off workers, tax collection shortfalls probably
will continue to prompt reductions.  U.S. cities expect their financial strains to worsen,
according to a survey by the National League of Cities that was
released Oct. 6. Eighty percent of city finance officers expect
to have more difficulty balancing their budgets in the 2011
fiscal year, which began in June for most municipalities, than
during the prior period, according to the survey. The survey was
conducted of 338 cities from April through June.  Some companies also continue to cut jobs to bring down
expenses.  Xerox Corp. , the printer and business-services
provider, yesterday raised its 2011 profit forecast and said it
plans to eliminate 2,500 jobs. The cuts, about 2 percent of the
workforce, will come in the next 12 months, spokesman  Carl Langsenkamp  said in an interview.  Others are seeing enough of a rebound in demand to start
hiring.  Delta Air Lines Inc. said Oct. 15 it is adding 1,000 flight
attendants, many of them to work on more profitable
international flights, as global demand for travel improves. The
company first offered the jobs to attendants who were on
furlough and 425 accepted, Chief Executive Officer Richard
Anderson said in his weekly recorded message to employees. About
600 of the positions will be filled by new hires, according to
spokeswoman Betsy Talon.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Courtney Schlisserman  in Washington at 
 cschlisserma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  