-- Phillies Stay Alive in NL Championship Series With 4-2 Win Over Giants
-- B y   R o b   G l o s t e r
-- 2010-10-22T04:15:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-22/phillies-stay-alive-in-nl-championship-series-with-4-2-victory-over-giants.html
The Philadelphia Phillies headed
home still clinging to their two-year reign as National League
champions after a 4-2 win in San Francisco.  Roy Halladay  overcame a mild groin pull to get the victory
as the Phillies pulled within 3-2 in the best-of-seven National
League Championship Series. Phillies manager  Charlie Manuel  said
Halladay hurt himself in the second inning last night.  “The velocity on his fastball kind of fell off and he was
having a hard time pushing off the mound,” Manuel said in a
news conference. “He was determined he was going to stay in
there. I think he gutted it out.”  Game 6 is set for tomorrow at the Phillies’ Citizens Bank
Park, which would host a decisive Game 7 the following day if
necessary. The Phillies have won on their past five visits to
the NL Championship Series, a streak that began in 1980.  Tim Lincecum  allowed three runs in seven innings for the
Giants, who are trying to reach the World Series for the first
time since 2002.  The Giants last won a World Series in 1954, when they were
based in New York and 23-year-old center-fielder  Willie Mays 
made one of the iconic catches in Major League Baseball history
off the bat of Cleveland’s Vic Wertz.  “We don’t do anything easy,” Giants manager  Bruce Bochy 
said in a news conference. “We’ll put this behind us and fly
out tomorrow and get ready for the next game.”  Yankees-Rangers  Game 6 of the American League Championship Series is
tonight in Arlington, Texas, with the Texas Rangers holding a 3-
2 lead against the New York Yankees.  Phil Hughes  will start for
the Yankees against the Rangers’  Colby Lewis . A decisive seventh
game, if necessary, would be tomorrow in Texas.  Lincecum won his pitching matchup with Halladay in Game 1
of the NL series in Philadelphia. Both are former Cy Young Award
winners -- Halladay won in the American League in 2003 for
Toronto and Lincecum has won the past two awards as the National
League’s best pitcher.  Halladay, who pitched a no-hitter in the first round of the
playoffs against the Cincinnati Reds, scattered six hits while
allowing two runs in six innings.  “Give him credit,” Bochy said. “It was a gutty effort by
him. We had him on the ropes a few times, and we were just
missing another hit.”  The Phillies managed only four hits off Lincecum this time,
three of them coming in a three-run third inning in which the
visitors were helped by an error.  The Giants scored in the first inning on a walk, a hit-and-
run single to center by  Freddy Sanchez  and  Buster Posey’s  run-
scoring groundout.  Two-Run Error  Philadelphia took a 3-1 lead in the third when two runs
scored on an error by San Francisco first baseman  Aubrey Huff 
and  Placido Polanco  added a run-scoring single.  “We were able to score some runs on some errors they
made,” Polanco said. “That’s what good teams do.”  Pat Burrell  and  Cody Ross  had consecutive doubles in the
fourth inning to pull the Giants within a run. Halladay left two
men on base in the fifth as a light rain became harder for about
20 minutes, and also left two Giants on base in the sixth.  Jayson Werth  hit a home run to right field leading off the
ninth for Philadelphia’s final run. It was his 13th career
postseason home run, tying him with three other players for the
most by a National League player.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rob Gloster  at AT&T Park in San Francisco at 
1397 or  rgloster@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  