-- Plosser Says Fed in `Difficult Spot' on Mortgage-Debt Buybacks
-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 2010-10-22T20:16:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-22/plosser-says-fed-in-difficult-spot-on-mortgage-debt-buybacks.html
The Federal Reserve’s effort to
recover taxpayer money used in bailouts while also ensuring the
stability of the financial system puts it in a “difficult
spot,” said  Charles Plosser , president of the Philadelphia Fed.  The New York Fed, which acquired mortgage debt in the 2008
rescues of Bear Stearns Cos. and  American International Group 
Inc., has joined a bondholder group that aims to force  Bank of
America Corp.  to buy back some bad home loans packaged into $47
billion of securities.  On the one hand, the Fed has “a duty to the taxpayer to
try to collect on behalf of the taxpayer on these mortgages,”
Plosser said today at an event in Philadelphia.  “At the same time, as a regulator, and as someone who’s
trying to preserve financial stability and manage the oversight
of banks and financial institutions, we’ve got another hat that
we wear that says, ‘Should we be in the business of suing the
financial institutions that we are in fact responsible for
supervising?’”  The Federal Reserve System, made up of 12 regional banks
plus the Washington-based Board of Governors, works with other
regulators to ensure the safety and soundness of the financial
system.  “It’s a very difficult spot for the Fed to be in,”
Plosser said. “It’s a little bit of a Catch-22, but it
reinforces my notion of what the challenges and difficulties are
for the Fed entering into the markets in this way.”  Concern that Bank of America may be forced to buy back
soured mortgages helped send its  stock  down 7.3 percent since
Oct. 18, the day before the New York Fed’s role was reported.  Wall Street Banks  The New York Fed oversees many of the biggest Wall Street
bank holding companies, including  JPMorgan Chase & Co. , Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. and Citigroup Inc. Bank of America, the largest
U.S. bank by assets, is based in Charlotte, North Carolina, and
overseen by the Richmond Fed.  The Fed owns assets from the Bear Stearns and AIG bailouts
in three holding companies. The New York Fed, which has policies
to manage conflicts of interest between its multiple units,
created its Special Investments Management Group in January to
oversee the assets.  Maiden Lane LLC, named for the street bordering the New
York Fed’s Manhattan headquarters, bought about $30 billion of
Bear Stearns assets that JPMorgan didn’t want when it acquired
the company. Maiden Lane II and III were created to hold the
assets from AIG’s rescue. BlackRock Inc., the world’s biggest
money manager, was hired to manage the assets and is also part
of the bondholder group.  “In terms of monetary policy, we should stick to buying
government securities and Treasuries and not venture outside
that for exactly these sorts of reasons,” said Plosser, a
former professor and business-school dean at the University of
Rochester in New York who joined the Philadelphia Fed as its
chief in 2006.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alex Kowalski  at in Washington or
 akowalski13@bloombeg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  