-- Pound May Fall on U.K. Data, Signs of Further Easing, Morgan Stanley Says
-- B y   M o n a m i   Y u i   a n d   R o n   H a r u i
-- 2010-10-22T02:48:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-22/pound-may-fall-on-u-k-data-signs-of-further-easing-morgan-stanley-says.html
The pound may fall to 93 pence per
euro should the U.K. economic recovery slow further or Bank of
England policy makers signal more credit-easing measures,
according to Morgan Stanley.  The British currency headed for a sixth weekly drop versus
the euro, its longest slide since November 2004, after U.K.
reports showed retail sales unexpectedly dropped in September
for a second month and mortgage approvals slid to the lowest in
1 1/2 years. Minutes of the BOE’s Oct. 7 meeting, released on
Oct. 20, showed officials may be leaning toward more bond
purchases, known as quantitative easing, to support the recovery.  “With very little QE seemingly priced into the pound right
now, the market is likely to be very sensitive to softer-than-
expected economic data and any dovish comments from members of
the Monetary Policy Committee,” Morgan Stanley strategists  Tim Davis  and  Calvin Tse , wrote in a research note yesterday. “An
eventual implementation of QE by the BOE would adversely affect
the pound significantly.”  The pound traded at 88.49 pence per euro at 11:33 a.m. in
Tokyo from 88.64 in New York yesterday, when it weakened to
89.08, the lowest level since March 31. The 93 level was last
seen on Oct. 15, 2009, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Retail sales  fell 0.2 percent from August, when they
declined 0.7 percent, the Office for National Statistics said
yesterday. Economists predicted a 0.3 percent gain, according to
a Bloomberg News survey of economists. Mortgages approved by the
six biggest banks dropped to 44,000 from 45,000 in August, the
Bank of England said in a separate report.  Bank of England  The Bank of England’s minutes of the last meeting showed
the nine-member Monetary Policy Committee split three ways.  Adam Posen  voted to boost the bank’s asset-purchase program by 50
billion pounds ($79 billion), while  Andrew Sentance  pushed for
an increase in the key rate to 0.75 percent from 0.50 percent.  The U.K.’s  gross domestic product  grew 0.4 percent in the
third quarter from the second quarter, when it expanded 1.2
percent, a separate Bloomberg News survey of economists showed
before the data are released on Oct. 26.  “The first read we get of GDP in the third quarter next
week will be key in the Bank of England’s decision of whether to
undertake QE or not,” Davis and Tse wrote. “If we see a
negative print, then QE is the most likely move by the Bank of
England.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Monami Yui  in Tokyo at 
 myui1@bloomberg.net ;
 Ron Harui  in Singapore at   rharui@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at   rswift5@bloomberg.net  