-- Treasury Gets 36% Return Buying Toxic Mortgages
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   C o n d o n
-- 2010-10-22T20:19:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-22/ppip-funds-surge-36-on-average-in-first-year-treasury-says.html
A U.S. government program aimed at
reviving the mortgage-backed securities market returned more
than triple what stocks or bonds gained in the past year.  The eight funds created under the Public-Private Investment
Program, or PPIP, reported net internal rates of return
averaging 36 percent through Sept. 30, the Treasury Department
said in a report this week. That compares with the 10 percent
return for the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  and 8.2 percent for
the  BarCap U.S. Aggregate Total Return Index  of bonds.  “The first year has been out of the ballpark,”  Jeffrey S. Phlegar , who heads the PPIP fund run by New York-based money
manager AllianceBernstein LP, said yesterday in a telephone
interview.  The Treasury is an equal equity partner in each of the
funds and provided debt financing for the $29.4 billion program.
The government has gotten $215 million of interest, dividend and
other payments, and the funds have more than $1.5 billion in
unrealized gains. Under the wider Troubled Asset Relief Program,
or TARP, the government has earned $25.2 billion on its
investment of $309 billion in banks and insurers, an 8.2 percent
return over two years, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “While the program is still in its early stages, we are
certainly pleased with its performance for taxpayers thus far,”
Treasury spokesman  Mark Paustenbach  said in an e-mailed
statement.  GE’s 52% Gain  The PPIP fund managed by GE Capital Real Estate, a unit of
Fairfield, Connecticut-based  General Electric Co ., and New York-
based Angelo Gordon & Co., had the best return at 52 percent,
the Treasury said. Oaktree Capital Management LLC, based in Los
Angeles, had the lowest return at 19 percent.  The 36 percent average isn’t asset weighted and represents
only the return on equity investments.  The government’s return on its contribution to PPIP is
around 5.6 percent when including the debt financing it provided
and considering only realized returns, said  Linus Wilson , a
finance professor at the University of Louisiana, in Lafayette.
Officials shouldn’t have allowed the funds to make $159 million
in equity distributions based on paper profits, he also said.  “This is irresponsible when taxpayers will be lending
$14.7 billion of extremely low-interest loans” to the funds,
Wilson said. “Dividends should not be paid until the private
investors’ debt to taxpayers is paid in full.”  The eight fund managers raised $7.4 billion from private
investors, which was matched by the Treasury. Government debt
financing totaled $14.7 billion.  Invested Capital  The figures reflect returns only on about $18.6 billion of
invested capital. The funds have yet to draw the remaining
money.  “Returns are not a function of better fundamental data,”
said Phlegar of AllianceBernstein. “It’s largely a function of
compression in yield premiums,” he said, meaning buyers are
willing to accept a lower return in the current bond market,
bringing prices up.  Phlegar’s fund, which targeted 12 percent to 15 percent net
returns, gained 41 percent.  Wilbur Ross , a PPIP fund manager and chairman of WL Ross &
Co., a unit of Atlanta-based  Invesco Ltd ., said the funds have
helped stabilize the market for mortgage-backed securities.  ‘Boost’ for Traders  “The funds gave the trading community a boost in knowing
there would be a buyer,” Ross, whose fund returned 34 percent,
said in a phone interview.  James Hirschmann , chief executive officer of Western Asset
Management, a Pasadena, California-based unit of Legg Mason
Inc., said his firm’s 37 percent return was “higher than anyone
was expecting.”  “It’s difficult to predict the markets, but we still think
the valuations are compelling,” he said in a phone interview.  The funds are in the early stages of their three-year
investment periods, and returns so far may be disproportionately
affected by structuring and transaction costs and each manager’s
pace of capital deployment, the Treasury said.  The Public-Private Investment Program was introduced by
Treasury Secretary  Timothy Geithner . It was aimed at helping
ailing U.S. banks by buying devalued mortgage securities
weighing down their balance sheets. Managers were selected in
July 2009 and the funds began investing as early as that
September.  The Treasury was criticized in an Oct. 7 report from a
government watchdog for unnecessarily favoring the biggest money
managers when it selected PPIP participants.  Neil M. Barofsky ,
special inspector general for TARP, said officials may have hurt
taxpayers by rejecting or deterring qualified, smaller managers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Christopher Condon  in Boston at 
 ccondon4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  