-- Princeton Endowment Plans to Cut Ranks of Private-Equity Managers in Half
-- B y   G i l l i a n   W e e
-- 2010-10-22T04:00:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-22/princeton-endowment-plans-to-cut-ranks-of-private-equity-managers-in-half.html
Princeton University, the third-
richest U.S. school, plans to drop half of its private-equity
managers as it shrinks investments in leveraged buyouts.  Private-equity stakes rose to more than 35 percent of the
university’s $14.4 billion endowment after the 2008 financial
crisis, exceeding the target of 23 percent, Chief Investment
Officer  Andrew Golden  said in an interview. He plans to commit
new money to 35 of the fund’s 70 private-equity managers.  “Our mantra is fewer, better, stronger relationships,”
Golden said. “It applies across the board but most
significantly to buyouts,” the largest piece of the
university’s private-equity holdings, he said. Golden wouldn’t
name firms to be dropped by the Princeton, New Jersey, school.  Golden is an acolyte of  David Swensen , chief investment
officer of Yale University, who pioneered the strategy of using
private equity, real estate and commodities to outperform stocks
and bonds. These infrequently traded stakes ballooned as a
percentage of big endowments when markets tumbled and stocks
were sold to raise cash following the September 2008 bankruptcy
of  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc .  Princeton’s investments gained 15 percent in the year ended
June 30, beating returns by its two wealthier peers, Harvard
University and Yale, whose funds gained 11 percent and 8.9
percent.  Private equity generated a 19 percent return for Princeton
in the past year, trailing the 43 percent gain by emerging-
market stocks and the 23 percent increase by U.S. equities. Real
assets, which include timber and real estate, was the worst-
performing category, losing 1.6 percent.  Staying the Course  “Private equity was a source of strength,” Golden said.
“The headline of the story is that sticking with your strategy
works.”  Golden worked under Swensen at Yale in New Haven,
Connecticut, and then at the endowment at Duke University in
Durham, North Carolina, before joining Princeton in 1995. Yale’s
$16.7 billion fund reported the worst performance among Ivy
League schools, hampered by a second straight year of losses on
real estate, timber, and oil and gas holdings.  The Ivy League consists of eight private schools in the
northeastern U.S. None of the institutions has recouped the
record losses incurred in the year ended in June 2009. Princeton
lost 24 percent that year, while Harvard, in Cambridge,
Massachusetts, fell 27 percent and Yale declined 25 percent.  As investments tumbled, universities cut jobs, froze
salaries and postponed building projects.  Second-best  Princeton was the second-best performing Ivy League
endowment in the past year, behind Columbia University, in New
York, whose fund jumped 17 percent to $6.5 billion.  Institutional funds, including public and corporate
pensions, endowments and foundations, returned a median of 13
percent in the past year, according to Wilshire Associates, a
consulting firm in Santa Monica, California. The firm’s Trust
Universe Comparison Service tracks 1,300 funds and $3 trillion
in assets. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index gained 12 percent in
the year ended June 30.  In addition to private equity, Princeton targets 25 percent
of its investments in hedge funds, 23 percent in real assets,
15.5 percent in international equities, with a bias toward
emerging markets, 7.5 percent in U.S. stocks and 6 percent in
fixed income, Golden said. The school had an average annual
return of 7.9 percent in the decade through June, beating
Harvard’s 7 percent gain and trailing Yale’s 8.9 percent gain.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Gillian Wee  in New York at 
 gwee3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net . 