-- Rare Earth in BlackBerry to Prius Underscores Alarm Over Supply
-- B y   G o p a l   R a t n a m
-- 2010-10-22T17:49:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-22/rare-earth-in-blackberry-to-prius-underscores-alarm-over-supply.html
Rare-earth elements help give
BlackBerrys their buzz,  Toyota  Priuses their battery power, and
computer hard drives their spin.  The rare earths, a group of 17 metals including neodymium,
lanthanum, cerium and europium, also have industrial and
national-security uses, such as in petroleum refining, fiber-
optics transmission, and military radar and missile-guidance
systems.  The range of uses explains why U.S. lawmakers, officials in
Japan and Germany and manufacturers of components that need
these materials say they are alarmed by steps taken by China,
which provides 97 percent of the world’s supply, to reduce
exports by about three-quarters.  Components made with rare earths are so ubiquitous that
they aren’t easily replaced, according to  Jack Lifton , founder
of Technology Metals Research LLC in Detroit, which advises
investors in specialty metals. “Without anyone noticing, the
rare-earth magnets have become overwhelmingly essential,” he
said yesterday.  Rare-earth magnets account for 80 percent of the market for
“permanent” magnets that retain their charge, up from zero in
1980, he said. They are in electric motors, small earphones and
mobile phones. When a BlackBerry vibrates, a high-powered magnet
made with neodymium is at work converting electrical power into
mechanical energy.  “They are pervasive in our technology, especially in
miniaturization of electronics,” Lifton said.  Automakers relying on neodymium-iron-boron magnets, used in
power-steering equipment, “are concerned about long-term access
to under-the-hood magnets because they import them from China
and Japan,” Lifton said in a phone interview.  Ford ‘Monitoring’ Situation  Todd Nissen , a spokesman for  Ford Motor Co ., said in an e-
mailed statement that “we’re monitoring the situation and do
not expect any impact on our production.” He declined to
comment on how any shortage of the minerals would affect
commodity prices or on Ford’s sources of rare-earth metals.  While the elements aren’t as rare in nature as the name
implies, they are difficult to find in profitable
concentrations, expensive for Western producers to extract and
often laced with radioactive elements. China has come to
dominate the market because it has been able to produce the
elements more cheaply and with fewer environmental restrictions
than its competitors.  Japan, the largest importer of Chinese rare-earth
materials, has said China halted shipments to Japanese users
last month after a collision in disputed waters between a
Chinese trawler and the Japanese Coast Guard led to the fishing-
boat captain’s detention. Chief Cabinet Secretary  Yoshito Sengoku  said Oct. 20 that the import situation “hadn’t
changed” weeks after the captain’s release.  Chinese Delays  China said this week that it hasn’t suspended shipments to
the U.S. and Europe, as reported on Oct. 20 by the New York
Times. Chinese customs officials are delaying shipments by
various means, such as imposing extra inspections, according to
industry participants who spoke on condition of anonymity
because of concern about Chinese reaction.  China’s 72 percent reduction in export quotas for the
second half of this year, which it announced in July, and the
customs delays since then are driving up prices. U.S.
Representative  Edward Markey , chairman of the House Select
Committee on Energy Independence and Global Warming, asked the
Obama administration on Oct. 21 to report on China’s export
restrictions and ramifications for the military and U.S. clean-
energy producers.  ‘Potential Threat’  China’s “apparent willingness” to use its supply for
leverage in wider international affairs “poses a potential
threat to American economic and national security interests,”
the Massachusetts Democrat said in a letter to four Cabinet
members.  China said in July that it cut export quotas to allow it to
close polluting and inefficient mines while continuing to meet
domestic needs. The nation will “continue to supply rare earth
to the world” while maintaining restrictions “to protect
exhaustible resources and ensure sustainable development,” the
Commerce Ministry said in a statement Oct. 20.  Prices have climbed sevenfold in the last six months for
cerium oxide, which is used for polishing semiconductors, and
other elements have more than doubled, according to Metal-Pages
Ltd. in London, which tracks rare-earth prices.  China accounts for about 36 percent of global rare-earth
reserves, the largest share, and the U.S. is second, with 13
percent, according to the U.S. Geological Survey.  Molycorp’s Mine  The uncertainty over Chinese supplies and rising prices are
encouraging efforts to produce new supplies.  Molycorp Inc.  is
seeking $280 million in U.S. government loan guarantees to help
finance restarting an open-pit mine in Mountain Pass,
California, in the Mojave Desert. The mine once met almost all
the world’s demand for rare-earth metals before closing down in
2002 due to competition from cheaper Chinese supplies. Molycorp
plans to resume production by the end of 2012.  Makers of catalysts for the oil-refining industry are among
the major users of rare earths in the U.S., Lifton said.
 Albemarle Corp.  of Baton Rouge, Louisiana,  W.R. Grace & Co.  of
Columbia, Maryland, and  BASF SE ’s catalysts unit in Iselin, New
Jersey, are three of the largest importers of lanthanum, used to
break down heavy crude into light crude, Lifton said.  Lanthanum also is used for nickel-metal hydride batteries
that power hybrid cars, such as  Toyota Motor Corp. ’s Prius.  Toyota said last month it created a special unit to ensure
its supply isn’t disrupted and recently announced a contract to
obtain rare-earth metals from India. The carmaker, the world’s
largest producer of gasoline-electric vehicles, also uses the
materials in electric motors.  Lanthanum, Samarium  With the exception of lanthanum and samarium imported by
Electron Energy Corp. of Landisville, Pennsylvania, the U.S.
“mostly imports finished products” made with rare-earth
materials, Lifton said.  Electron Energy uses the samarium to make samarium-cobalt
magnets that are used mostly in military applications, including
missile guidance systems, radar, and electronic warfare systems.  Commercial and military airplanes also use samarium-cobalt
magnets for power generation, Peter Dent, vice president for
business development at Electron Energy, said in a phone
interview.  “If you want to move an electron you need to have a
magnetic field to do it,” Dent said. Magnets made from rare-
earth materials do the job efficiently by “either converting
mechanical power to electrical energy or vice-versa,” he said.  Wind Turbines  Neodymium-based magnets also are used in wind turbines
“where they want as high a magnetic power as they can get,”
Dent said.  Sarah Howell, spokeswoman for the  American Wind Energy
Association  in Washington, said in a statement Oct. 21 that few
utility-scale wind turbines in the U.S. currently use rare-earth
metals.  “While their use in wind turbine technology is attractive,
the rate at which they will be adopted in the future will depend
in part on the cost, availability and reliability of supply,”
she said. “It’s also important to realize that the U.S. has
domestic rare-earth resources that it can develop with capital-
intensive investment, and that there is ongoing R&D on
substitutes.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gopal Ratnam in Washington at 
 gratnam1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  