-- Treasuries Head for Weekly Advance as Fed Prepares to Purchase Notes Today
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B r o w n   a n d   W e s   G o o d m a n
-- 2010-10-22T07:32:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-22/treasuries-head-for-weekly-advance-as-fed-prepares-to-purchase-notes-today.html
Treasuries  headed for a weekly gain
as Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis President James Bullard
said the size of asset purchases should be based on economic
conditions, starting with $100 billion next month.  Two-year yields were near a record low on speculation the
central bank will increase its purchases as soon as its Nov. 3
meeting. Investors have been debating how much the Fed will buy
and what maturities since Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said Oct. 15
that there appears to be a “case for further action.” The U.S.
cut the amount of two-, five- and seven-year notes being
auctioned next week, a sixth month of reductions.  “It seems likely the Fed is not going to set any limit on
how many Treasuries they buy,” said  Cyril Beuzit , head of
interest-rate strategy at BNP Paribas SA in London. “A lot of
quantitative easing has now been priced into the market and
unless the Fed surprises, it’s going to be difficult for yields
to move lower from here.”  The  yield  on the 10-year note fell one basis point to 2.54
percent as of 8 a.m. in London, according to BGCantor Market
Data. The 2.625 percent security due in August 2020 gained 1/8,
or $1.25 per $1,000 face amount, to 100 24/32.  Two-year notes yielded 0.36 percent, versus the record low
of 0.327 percent set Oct. 12.  Fed Purchases  The Fed announced Aug. 10 it would reinvest principal
payments from its holdings in mortgage debt in longer-term
Treasuries. The purchases ended up targeting a variety of
maturities, including the notes due from April 2013 to September
2014 that the central bank  plans  to buy today.  “Long-term Treasuries are attractive,” said  Hiromasa Nakamura , who helps oversee the equivalent of $36.9 billion as a
senior investor in Tokyo at Mizuho Asset Management Co., a unit
of Japan’s second-largest publicly traded bank. “They may buy
in the long end because they want to make yields go down.”  DZ Bank AG, Germany’s fifth-largest lender, is among the
companies that predict the central bank will target mid-term
securities. Consumer-credit rates are priced off five- to 10-
year Treasury yields, and policy makers will want to reduce
those benchmark borrowing costs, according to  Andy Cossor , the
bank’s Hong Kong-based chief market strategist for Asia.  Mortgage Costs  U.S. 30-year fixed mortgage  rates , which track U.S. 10-year
yields, fell to 4.21 percent this month, according to
Bankrate.com in North Palm Beach, Florida. It was the least
since the company’s data tracking the figure started in 1998.  The  rate  is 1.70 percentage points more than Treasury
rates, widening from 1.22 percentage points in March. The
average over the past year is 1.58 percentage points.  Bullard  proposed yesterday the central bank buy long-term
Treasuries next month and consider more purchases later.  “If we do decide to go ahead with quantitative easing, I
think there is a good program we could adopt, one I like, which
is to think in units of $100 billion between meetings” of the
Federal Open Market Committee, Bullard said at a conference
hosted by the district bank. “We could give forward guidance
for the next meeting that would suggest how likely the committee
thinks we would continue these purchases.”  Kansas City Fed Bank President  Thomas Hoenig  said
yesterday the U.S. economy is growing modestly. Hoenig has
dissented from every decision of the Federal Open Market
Committee this year.  Smaller Sales  The U.S. said yesterday it will sell $35 billion in two-
year notes, the same amount of five-year securities and $29
billion in seven-year debt in daily auctions that begin on Oct.
26. The $99 billion package is $1 billion smaller than the last
time the government sold this combination on September.  The Treasury will also auction $10 billion of five-year
inflation-indexed securities next week.  Some investors are betting Fed efforts to spur the economy
will lead to faster inflation, yields indicate.  The  difference  between rate on 30-year bonds and Treasury
Inflation Protected Securities, a gauge of trader expectations
for consumer prices, widened to 2.57 percentage points from 2.12
percentage points on Oct. 1. The spread widened past the five-
year average of 2.40 percentage points.  Thirty-year bonds  yielded  a record 2.83 percentage points
more than five-year notes on Oct. 18.  “There’s not much room for yields to fall,” said  Kazuaki Oh’e , a debt salesman in Tokyo at Canadian Imperial Bank of
Commerce, Canada’s fifth-largest lender. “There is an inflation
fear.”  Treasuries  fell yesterday as investors balked at low rates.  An index of Treasuries returned 0.3 percent this week as of
yesterday, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch. The gauge
rose 2.3 percent the past three months, versus 11 percent for
the  MSCI World Index  of shares, including reinvested dividends.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Matthew Brown  in London at 
 mbrown42@bloomberg.net ;
 Wes Goodman  in Singapore at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  