-- Reckitt Benckiser Chief Financial Officer Day to Step Down in March 2011
-- B y   P a u l   J a r v i s   a n d   C l e m e n t i n e   F l e t c h e r
-- 2010-10-22T16:27:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-22/reckitt-benckiser-chief-financial-officer-day-to-step-down-in-march-2011.html
Reckitt Benckiser Plc , the world’s
largest maker of household cleaners, said Chief Financial
Officer  Colin Day  will leave the company after 10 years, sending
the shares down the most in more than 20 months.  Day, 55, wishes to focus on his “non-executive positions
and other career interests,” the Slough, England-based company
said today in a statement. “The board has decided that now is a
good time to appoint a successor keen to focus on leading the
company’s finance function.”  Reckitt  fell  4.6 percent in London trading, the steepest
decline since Feb. 5, 2009. Day joined the maker of Lysol
cleaners in 2000, less than a year after it was created in a
merger, and alongside Chief Executive Officer  Bart Becht  has
been “instrumental” in the company’s growth, said  Dan Dolev ,
an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein. In that time, sales have
almost tripled and  operating profit  has risen about sixfold.  “Bart and Colin are the faces” of the company, said
Dolev. “Losing one of them is certainly not a good thing.”  The announcement of Day’s departure comes as Reckitt
prepares to complete the $3.9 billion acquisition of Durex
condom maker SSL International Plc. Reckitt said in July that it
planned to buy the maker of Scholl footcare as it seeks to
overcome slowing sales growth in Europe, its largest market.  ‘Smooth Transition’  Day’s successor will be announced “in the next few
months,” Reckitt said. The executive will remain with the
company until the end of March to ensure “a smooth transition
and an effective handover,” according to the statement. A
spokesman declined to comment on potential successors.  “The market never likes this kind of news,”  Martin Dolan ,
an analyst at Execution Holdings in London, said by e-mail.
“Reckitt probably had one of the best CEO, CFO double acts in
the FTSE 100 in the past six years. It’s going to be hard for
any manager to achieve the same growth performance the company
has seen over the last couple of years.”  Analysts expressed surprise over the timing of today’s
announcement. Being only a year older than 54-year-old CEO
Becht, Day is “surely too young to be concentrating on non-
executive directorships,” said  Carl Short , an analyst at
Standard & Poor’s in London. “It’s odd that, in the spirit of
smooth succession, a new finance director hasn’t been lined up.
No doubt all will become clear in due course.”  Day joined  Reckitt  in September 2000 from Aegis Group Plc,
where he had been finance director since 1995. Prior to that, he
had worked at companies including ABB Ltd. At Reckitt, he was
paid 432,000 pounds ($678,154) as a base salary and received a
1.15 million cash bonus in the last fiscal year.  Reckitt  shares  were down 164 pence, or 4.6 percent, at
3,386 pence as of the 4:30 p.m. close of trading in London. The
stock has risen fourfold since Day joined the company.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Paul Jarvis at   pjarvis@bloomberg.net ;
 Clementine Fletcher  in London 
 cfletcher5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net . 