-- Curbing Swaps Correlation Risk Vital, Regulators Told
-- B y   M a t t h e w   L e i s i n g   a n d   S h a n n o n   D .   H a r r i n g t o n
-- 2010-10-22T18:05:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-22/regulators-told-to-watch-correlation-risk-in-credit-default-swap-clearing.html
Regulators need to consider the
collective risk of the credit-default swap market when deciding
margin requirements for cleared trades, University of Houston
finance professor  Craig Pirrong  said today in Washington.  The correlation risk that much of the market -- or
companies within the same industry -- deteriorate in lockstep
must be taken into account, Pirrong said today at a public
roundtable on credit-default swap clearing sponsored by the
Commodity Futures Trading Commission and the Securities and
Exchange Commission.  “That’s another issue regulators have to be particularly
aware of going forward,” he said. Clearinghouses are accustomed
to thinking of margin, or the cash investors must put up to back
derivatives trades, on a contract by contract basis, Pirrong
said.  Unregulated over-the-counter derivatives complicated
efforts to solve the financial crisis two years ago when
regulators struggled to determined how connected banks had
become by trading the contracts and whether it could lead to a
chain reaction of failures. A measure of market perceptions of
default correlation soared in 2008 to record levels amid the
crisis, as did the cost to protect against bank defaults.  New Regulations  The Dodd-Frank bill, which became law in July, regulates
OTC derivatives such as credit swaps for the first time in the
market’s 30-year history. In most cases the CFTC and SEC have
until July 2011 to write new guidelines, under which most
interest-rate, credit-default and other swaps will be processed
by clearinghouses after being traded on exchanges or swap-
execution facilities.  Clearinghouse margins do account for correlation among
industry groups and concentration of trades within a specific
group,  Athanassios Diplas , global head of systemic risk
management for global credit trading at  Deutsche Bank AG  in New
York, said at the roundtable.  The clearinghouses so far are only backing swaps on
companies in industries that are the least volatile, Diplas
said. Industries where correlation and concentration risks are
greater -- such as with banks and sovereigns -- will need
further study, he said.  “That’s where a lot more work needs to take place,” he
said of clearing swaps on financial companies. “The same issue
exists with sovereigns. Deutsche Bank will not trade Germany
CDS. That’s a very obvious example.”  Correlation among financial firms is “by far the biggest”
among industries, Pirrong said.  Daily Margin  Clearinghouses , which are capitalized by their members, are
meant to reduce systemic risk by absorbing and sharing
responsibility if a member defaults on its payment obligations.
They use daily margin calls to keep accounts current and provide
regulators with access to prices and positions.  Intercontinental Exchange Inc.’s  ICE Trust , the largest
credit-default swap clearinghouse, has been clearing trades
since last year and has processed about $7 trillion in index
contracts and $467 billion in swaps linked to single companies.
LCH.Clearnet Group Ltd. and CME Group Inc. also offer credit
swap clearing.  Credit-default swaps contributed to the financial crisis
when they were used as a substitute for betting on pooled
mortgages after new home loans dried up. Losses from the swaps
totaled $66.7 billion from the third quarter of 2007 through
Oct. 18, according to data compiled by Bloomberg, or 3.7 percent
of the $1.83 trillion in writedowns.  Jump-to-Default Risk  Credit swaps pose a potentially unique challenge to
clearinghouses because of the jump-to-default risk associated
with single-name contracts written on corporations. Swaps on
Morgan Stanley soared 736 basis points in the three days after
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. filed for bankruptcy in September
2008.  That level of volatility has never been tested in a swaps
clearinghouse, which would have to put resilient margin systems
in place to keep investor positions current during such price
swings. Futures clearinghouses typically increase the amount of
margin required to back trades as volatility rises. Swings in
natural gas futures prices, another volatile cleared product,
have bankrupted investors who couldn’t meet margin calls.  Asked how the clearinghouses are dealing with jump-to-
default risk of credit swaps, Stan Ivanov, chief risk oficer of
the Clearing Corp., an Intercontinental unit, said in some cases
the margin could approach the total amount of notional value of
a credit swap. “We have very specific concentration charges,”
he said.  Different Approaches  Ananda Radhakrishnan, director of the CFTC’s Division of
Clearing & Intermediary Oversight, asked the panelists if margin
on the same product at different clearinghouses could be
different and whether the commission should set uniform margins
for all clearinghouses.  There is room for different approaches to margining the same
contract at different clearinghouses, said  Kim Taylor , president
of CME Group’s credit-swaps clearinghouse. Depending on how
varied the set of cleared products is, a clearinghouse could
choose to margin a trade at varying levels, for example, she
said.  Credit swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails
to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A
basis point, 0.01 percentage point, equals $1,000 annually on a
contract protecting $10 million of debt.  The market peaked at $62.1 trillion in notional value in
the second half of 2007, and totaled $30.4 trillion at the end
of last year, according to a  market survey  by the International
Swaps and Derivatives Association, a trade and lobbying group.
The notional amounts of OTC derivatives contracts are used to
calculate regular payments between trading parties and don’t
represent money that has changed hands.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Matthew Leising  in New York at 
 mleising@bloomberg.net ;
 Shannon D. Harrington  in New York at 
 sharrington6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net . 