-- Tribune CEO Resigns, Executive Council Takes Over
-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h   a n d   B r e t t   P u l l e y
-- 2010-10-23T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-22/tribune-ceo-resigns-as-memo-to-employees-cites-negative-media-attention.html
Tribune Co.  Chief Executive Officer
 Randy Michaels  resigned and was replaced by an executive council
to oversee the bankrupt publisher’s newspaper and television
operations, the company said.  Michaels’s resignation Oct. 22 came as creditors of Tribune
won a judge’s approval to sue real-estate billionaire  Sam Zell ,
who took the company private in 2007 for more than $8 billion,
and shareholders who benefited from the deal.  While the company didn’t explain the resignation, it sent
an e-mail to employees that referred to recent “media
attention, much of it negative.” The departure of Michaels
followed the resignation a week earlier of Lee Abrams, Tribune’s
chief innovation officer. Days before resigning, Abrams was
suspended for distributing an e-mail with video links that were
“offensive” to workers, Tribune told employees in an e-mail.  “The board took this action as a way of ensuring stability
and continuity for the company and its various media
businesses,” the four members of the new executive council said
in an Oct. 22 e-mail to employees.  Separately, U.S. Bankruptcy Judge  Kevin Carey  in
Wilmington, Delaware, said Oct. 22 he will let the official
committee of unsecured creditors use a lawsuit to recover some
of the more than $12 billion Tribune owes all creditors.  Fraudulent Transfer  The creditors have claimed that the Tribune buyout was a
so-called fraudulent transfer that loaded the media company with
too much debt and benefited only the shareholders, Zell and the
banks that helped arrange the sale. A court-appointed bankruptcy
examiner found in July that creditors may be able to recover
billions of dollars through litigation.  “There are claims here based in part on what the examiner
reports,” Carey said. “I think they should be pursued.”  Typically, such suits are brought by the bankruptcy estate.
Because the defendants in this instance may include Zell, who is
Tribune’s chairman, as well as other company advisers, the
committee sought legal authority to sue.  Under the proposal Carey said he will approve, the
committee will sue as many entities involved in the buyout as
possible, including Zell,  shareholders  such as the non-profit
McCormick Foundation, and the banks that arranged the financing,
including JPMorgan Chase & Co. Carey said he will sign an order
authorizing the suits once the creditors work out the final
wording.  Seven-Member Committee  This month, the seven-member committee voted 5-2 to support
Tribune’s plan to exit bankruptcy in part by settling potential
lawsuits against some shareholders and banks. Suits may be filed
in federal court and pursued after Carey holds a hearing to
decide whether to approve the bankruptcy-exit plan, said Graeme
W. Bush, an attorney for the committee.  Carey won’t approve the exit plan until after the two-year
deadline to file the lawsuits on Dec. 8 has already passed, Bush
said.  A complete list of the specific Tribune insiders who may be
sued hasn’t been made public.  Michaels, a former disc jockey and radio executive, had been
searching for ways to profit in the changing newspaper industry,
he said in an interview last month. “What we don’t have is a
business model that cannot change, and still be successful,”
Michaels said.  The four members of the new executive committee are:  Don Liebentritt , chief restructuring officer;  Nils Larsen , chief
investment officer;  Tony Hunter , publisher of the Chicago
Tribune; and  Eddy Hartenstein , publisher of the Los Angeles
Times.  Tribune has been operating under in bankruptcy since
December 2008.  The case is In re Tribune Co., 08-13141, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Steven Church  in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net ;
 Brett Pulley  in New York at 
 bpulley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 