-- Tribune Creditors Allowed to Sue Shareholders, Zell
-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 2010-10-22T21:19:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-22/tribune-creditors-win-approval-to-sue-shareholders-sam-zell-over-buyout.html
Creditors of  Tribune Co.  can sue
real-estate billionaire  Sam Zell , who took the newspaper
publisher private in 2007 for more than $8 billion, and
shareholders who benefited from the deal, a judge ruled.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge  Kevin Carey  in Wilmington, Delaware,
said today he will let the official committee of unsecured
creditors use a lawsuit to recover some of the more than $12
billion Tribune owes all creditors.  The creditors have claimed that the Tribune buyout was a
so-called fraudulent transfer that loaded the media company with
too much debt and benefited only the shareholders, Zell and the
banks that helped arrange the sale. A court-appointed bankruptcy
examiner found in July that creditors may be able to recover
billions of dollars through litigation.  “There are claims here based in part on what the examiner
reports,” Carey said. “I think they should be pursued.”  Typically, such suits are brought by the bankruptcy estate.
Because the defendants in this instance may include Zell, who is
Tribune’s chairman, as well as other company advisers, the
committee sought legal authority to sue.  Under the proposal Carey said he will approve, the
committee will sue as many entities involved in the buyout as
possible, including Zell,  shareholders  such as the non-profit
McCormick Foundation, and the banks that arranged the financing,
including JPMorgan Chase & Co. Carey said he will sign an order
authorizing the suits once the creditors work out the final
wording.  Long Supported  Lower-ranking bondholders owed at least $1.2 billion have
long supported a lawsuit to strip senior lenders of their status
as the creditors to be paid first.  Carey said it was important to give creditors the ability
to sue before the second anniversary of the buyout in December,
the deadline for filing lawsuits.  A court-ordered report released in July found that
shareholders who profited from the second stage of the two-part
deal may be sued succesfully. The McCormick Foundation, a
philanthropy started by former Chicago Tribune publisher Robert
R. McCormick, took in $422 million when it sold almost
12 million Tribune shares in the second stage, according to
court documents.  Disputes about a potential lawsuit intensified among
Tribune creditors after July 27 when a bankruptcy examiner,
 Kenneth N. Klee , released a report that bolstered the position
of lower-ranking creditors.  McCormick Foundation  Klee found in his report that former stockholders such as
the McCormick Foundation collected $3.92 billion in December
2007 when the buyout’s second stage was completed. A successful
lawsuit might recover about one-third of that, or $1.29 billion,
Klee estimated.  This month, the seven-member committee voted 5-2 to support
Tribune’s plan to exit bankruptcy in part by settling potential
lawsuits against some shareholders and banks. Suits may be filed
in federal court and pursued after Carey holds a hearing to
decide whether to approve the bankruptcy-exit plan, said Graeme
W. Bush, an attorney for the committee.  Carey won’t approve the exit plan until after the two-year
deadline to file the lawsuits has already passed, Bush said.  The case is In re Tribune Co., 08-13141, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Steven Church  in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 