-- Rooney's House Picketed by Angry United Fans, Sun Says: Soccer Roundup
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   E l s e r
-- 2010-10-22T09:06:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-22/rooney-s-house-picketed-by-angry-united-fans-sun-says-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. media, with clickable links to the Web.  Pickets  Manchester United supporters picketed  Wayne Rooney ’s house
last evening, demanding that the forward give more information
on why he wants to leave the club,  the Sun said .  After about 40 people went to the gate of the player’s home
and asked him to come out, Rooney called the police who sent
them away, the newspaper said. The group wanted to put a banner
saying “Sign for City and you’re dead” in front of the
driveway, but were stopped, the newspaper said.  New Negotiations  Rooney has opened new negotiations with United, just days
after saying he wanted to leave the club,  the Independent said .  Coach  Alex Ferguson  said Rooney would be making a mistake
if he left the Red Devils, and Chief Executive Officer  David Gill  is willing to pay him as much as 160,000 pounds ($250,000)
a week, the newspaper said. After meeting with Rooney’s agent,
the club hopes to conclude the situation before this weekend’s
matches, the Independent said.  Torres Talks  Liverpool’s new owners will meet with striker  Fernando Torres ’s agent in a bid to stave off interest from Barcelona and
Manchester United,  the Daily Star said .  The Spanish club has made the player its top priority, the
newspaper said, and although he has a long-term contract with
Liverpool, new owner  John Henry  wants to make sure the player
isn’t leaving.  QPR Plans  Queens Park Rangers are targeting Arsenal striker Jay
Emmanuel-Thomas on loan to add offensive firepower after a run
of one win and three scoreless draws,  the Daily Mail said.   Emmanuel-Thomas, 19, who went on loan to Blackpool and
Doncaster last season, has only gotten into Arsenal’s squad
twice this season, once as a substitute, the newspaper said. He
may make QPR’s team for tonight’s match against Bristol City,
the newspaper said.  England Bid  England’s bid to host the 2018 World Cup will probably
become the front runner when it’s picked as the most prepared
and less risky by FIFA’s inspection team, the Daily Mirror said.  A favorable report from the inspectors would put England in
front of joint bids from Spain and Portugal, and Holland and
Belgium, as well as one from Russia, the newspaper said. The
document is one of the major considerations for soccer’s
governing body’s executive committee, which will vote on the
award of the event, the Mirror said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Peter-Joseph Hegarty  in London at 
 phegarty@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net . 