-- Rooney Signs Five-Year Contract to Stay at Manchester United
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2010-10-22T15:35:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-22/rooney-signs-five-year-contract-will-stay-at-manchester-united-until-2015.html
Wayne Rooney  signed a new five-year
contract with Manchester United, two days after he said he
wanted to leave the 18-time English soccer champion.  The agreement will keep Rooney at Old Trafford through June
2015, the club said today in a statement on its website.
Financial terms weren’t disclosed, though the Observer reported
on its website the deal is “thought to be worth as much as
180,000 pounds ($282,000) a week.  ‘‘I’m delighted to sign another deal,’’ Rooney said in the
statement. ‘‘In the last couple of days, I’ve talked to the
manager and the owners and they’ve convinced me this is where I
belong.”  The signing ends a week of uncertainty over the England
striker’s future.  Manager  Alex Ferguson  said three days ago that Rooney
wanted to leave and the player confirmed that the following day,
saying the club lacked ambition in acquiring new players.  “It’s been a difficult week, but the intensity of the
coverage is what we expect at Manchester United,” Ferguson
said. “I said to the boy that the door is always open and I’m
delighted Wayne has agreed to stay.”  Rooney has been criticized by U.K. media, fans and even
opposing coaches for his wanting to leave with 18 months
remaining on his contract.  The Sun  reported today that about 40
people picketed outside his home last night before police were
called to disperse them.  “Sometimes when you’re in a club, it can be hard to
realize just how big it is and it takes something like the
events of the last few days to make you understand,” Ferguson
said. “I think Wayne now understands what a great club
Manchester United is.”  Apology  Ferguson added the Rooney apologized today to him and his
teammates.  “I always feel it’s a quality it’s a quality in a person
to say he’s sorry,” Ferguson said on the club’s website. “I
admire that in people. He realizes he made a mistake, and that
happens, particularly with young people.”  Rooney, 24, has struggled this season, scoring just one
goal, after injuries and media reports about his personal life
limited his playing time. He’s had disagreements with Ferguson
and said he wished to leave because he was worried about the
club’s ability to sign new players.  “I’m signing a new deal in the absolute belief that the
management, coaching staff, board and owners are totally
committed to making sure United maintains its proud winning
history, which is the reason I joined the club in the first
place,” Rooney said.  Last Start  Rooney’s last start came against Bolton on Sept. 26, when
he was substituted after 60 minutes. He then sat out two games
because Ferguson said he was injured.  The player contradicted the manager after playing in
England’s 0-0 draw with Montenegro on Oct. 12, saying he
“didn’t know” why Ferguson thought he was hurt. The coach said
he wanted to rest the striker, who hasn’t scored for United in
open play since March.  Rooney returned to the lineup last weekend against West
Brom, coming on as a substitute as United lost a 2-0 lead in
drawing 2-2.  Rooney’s been under scrutiny because of allegations about
his personal life. Ferguson left him out of a Sept. 11 game at
former club Everton rather than subject him to potential fan
abuse and said yesterday that he told Rooney he must “honor and
respect the club’s traditions.”  “I’m sure the fans over the last week have felt let down
by what they’ve read and seen,” Rooney said. “But my position
was from concern over the future. The fans have been brilliant
with me since I arrived and it’s up to me through my performance
to win them over again.”  Boyhood Team  Rooney has scored 132 goals in 289 games for United since
joining from boyhood team Everton for 27 million pounds ($42
million) in 2004. He enjoyed his most productive season during
the 2009-10 campaign with 34 goals for his club and one for 
England.  Rooney was injured in training Tuesday and didn’t play in
United’s Champions League match against Busaspor the following
day. His status for the Premier League game against Stoke in two
days hasn’t been determined. United is fourth in the Premier
League, five points behind leader Chelsea.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bob Bensch  in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at   celser@bloomberg.net . 