-- Tropical Storm Richard in Caribbean Off Honduras Is Forecast to Intensify
-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n   a n d   B l a k e   S c h m i d t
-- 2010-10-22T18:13:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-22/tropical-storm-richard-in-caribbean-off-honduras-is-forecast-to-intensify.html
Honduras issued a hurricane watch
and Nicaragua prepared for the deployment of hundreds of troops
as Tropical Storm Richard churned over warm Caribbean waters on
a track toward the Mexico-Belize border.  Richard, with maximum winds of 40 miles an hour (65
kilometers per hour), is about 140 miles east-northeast of Cabo
Gracias a Dios, Nicaragua, near the Honduran border, the
National Hurricane Center  reported  on its website at about 1:45
p.m. East Coast time. It was moving west at 3 mph.  “It does appear as though the environment is becoming more
conducive to strengthening,” the center said in a forecast
analysis. “Most of the intensity models respond to this by
intensifying Richard into a hurricane.”  There is a slight chance that Richard will become a concern
for Mexican oil and gas rigs and almost no chance it will
threaten U.S. platforms, said  Michael Schlacter , chief
meteorologist for Weather 2000 Inc. in New York.  The official hurricane center track shows the storm
strengthening into a hurricane and then going ashore in Belize
early next week. From there, it is likely to weaken as it
crosses the Yucatan Peninsula and enters the Bay of Campeche as
a tropical depression by midweek.  Track Shifting  Schlacter said the official track is drifting farther south
than originally forecast with every update and the storm’s
intensity is lagging behind initial estimates. The southerly
drift means it could follow a path similar to the one taken by
 Tropical Storm Matthew , which broke up over Belize, Guatemala
and Mexico.  Another scenario is that the storm will be swept off to the
northeast, toward western Cuba and Florida, he said.  Even if Richard manages to enter the Gulf of Mexico, it
won’t survive north of a line stretching from the southern tip
of Florida to southernmost Texas, he said. At this time of year
there is violent wind shear above that mark that will tear any
system apart, he said, making it “Death Valley” for storms.  “This isn’t August, this isn’t calm high pressure with
lovely doldrums across the Gulf of Mexico, this is mid-autumn
with vigorous weather systems,” he said. “It becomes a very
inhospitable environment for a storm to survive in.”  Season Records  Richard is the 17th named storm making 2010 the sixth-most-
active Atlantic hurricane season on records going back to 1851,
said  Dennis Feltgen , spokesman for the hurricane center in
Miami.  The most active season on record was 2005, which had 28
storms with winds of at least 39 mph.  Honduras issued a hurricane watch, meaning winds of at
least 74 mph are possible within two days, from its border with
Nicaragua to Limon, according to the center. A tropical storm
warning also covers the same area, meaning winds of at least 39
mph should be expected within 36 hours.  Authorities began preparing shelters and warned fishermen
against setting sail amid the possibility of heavy rain,
according to Copeco,  Honduras’s emergency response agency .
Jamaica’s meteorological service also posted a flash flood
warning on its website and said residents of low-lying areas
should prepare for evacuation.  Nicaraguan President  Daniel Ortega  declared an alert along
the Caribbean coast and prepared to deploy 1,500 troops and food
rations.  Hard-Hit Areas  Central America has endured one of the worst rainy seasons
in decades, with at least 300 deaths across the region in
landslides and floods since May.  The rain also triggered an outbreak in Nicaragua of
 leptospirosis , an infectious disease that strikes the liver and
kidneys, Ortega said, and caused a rat population boom that led
to 16 deaths in Nicaragua and four in Honduras.  Elsewhere, the hurricane center is tracking two systems
that may develop into storms. One, about 1,000 miles east of the
Lesser Antilles, has a 10 percent chance of becoming a cyclone
in the next two days, according to the center.  The other, 100 miles south of the Cape Verde Islands, has
about a 30 percent chance of becoming a storm.  Feltgen said this system “has a very narrow window of
opportunity” to become a tropical cyclone. It will move in a
few days into an area where strong wind shear will tear at its
structure, decreasing its chances of growth.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Brian K. Sullivan  in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net ;
 Blake Schmidt  in Granada, Nicaragua at 
 bschmidt16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at   dstets@bloomberg.net  