-- RBC Sells U.S. Insurance Unit to Apollo-Linked Entity
-- B y   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r ,   S e a n   B .   P a s t e r n a k   a n d   Z a c h a r y   R .   M i d e r
-- 2010-10-22T21:46:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-22/royal-bank-of-canada-sells-u-s-insurance-unit-to-athene-for-628-million.html
Royal Bank of Canada  agreed to sell
its U.S. life insurance business to an entity with ties to
Apollo Global Management LLC for $628.1 million, taking a loss
on a purchase the Canadian lender made a decade ago.  Royal Bank, Canada’s biggest bank, is exiting the U.S. life
and health business by selling Liberty Life Insurance to Athene
Holding Ltd., the Toronto-based bank said today in a statement.
Royal Bank expects to complete the sale by early 2011 and record
a loss of about $115 million under Canadian accounting rules, or
$405 million under U.S. rules.  “We view Royal’s decision to sell as culling a relatively
unproductive investment,” Desjardins Securities analyst  Michael Goldberg  said in a note to clients. “A key reason for selling
was that Royal saw no prospect of transforming U.S. life
insurance into a ‘scale operation.’”  Royal Bank  entered the U.S. insurance business in 2000 with
the $650 million takeover of Liberty Life and related units from
Liberty Corp. of Greenville, South Carolina. Liberty sells
insurance and retirement products through marketers, broker
dealers and the Web, and with about 200 agents, according to
Royal Bank’s website.  “Liberty Life lacks the scale required to build and
maintain a significant portfolio of insurance products in the
competitive marketplace,” bank spokeswoman Gillian McArdle said
in an interview.  Reorganization  Royal Bank Chief Executive Officer  Gordon Nixon  has been
reorganizing the U.S. banking and insurance businesses after a
decade of growth through takeovers. The sale doesn’t include
Royal Bank’s smaller U.S. travel-insurance business. Royal
Bank’s international unit, which doesn’t include U.S. insurance,
has posted nine straight quarters of losses.  Royal Bank’s loss on the sale is equal to almost 10 cents a
share, said Goldberg, who reduced his 2011 earnings-per-share
forecast for the bank to C$4.15 from C$4.25.  “Substantially all” of Athene Holding’s equity is owned
by Apollo Life Re Ltd., an entity “sponsored” by Apollo,
according to an Apollo-affiliated  website . AP Alternative Assets
LP, a closed-end fund managed by Apollo Global Management, holds
an investment in Apollo Life, a regulatory filing shows.  Charles Zehren , an outside spokesman for Apollo, declined to comment.  Money managers including Apollo Global, run by billionaire
 Leon Black , have been buying or building life insurance and
annuities businesses.  Philip Falcone ’s Harbinger Capital
Partners agreed to buy a U.S. life insurance unit of Old Mutual
Plc this year, and Guggenheim Partners LLC put together a
venture that will reinsure annuities.  ‘Major Step’  Athene CEO  James Belardi  said in a separate statement that
the acquisition is a “major step” in growing the fixed annuity
business of the Bermuda-based company. Liberty Life has a $2.8
billion block of fixed annuities, and insurance licenses in 49
U.S. states, according to the statement.  Royal Bank’s group head of strategy,  Barbara Stymiest , said
in August that the bank was reviewing “strategic options” for
the business. Goldman Sachs Group Inc. advised Royal Bank on the
transaction.  Royal Bank  fell  55 cents to C$55.76 today in trading on the
Toronto Stock Exchange.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Doug Alexander  in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net ;
 Sean B. Pasternak  in Toronto at +1-
   spasternak@bloomberg.net ;
 Zachary R. Mider  in New York at 
 zmider1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net  