-- HRT Raises $1.54 Billion in Share Sale for African Oil and Amazon Projects
-- B y   P e t e r   M i l l a r d
-- 2010-10-22T15:36:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-22/hrt-raises-1-54-billion-in-ipo-for-amazon-africa-oil-exploration-plans.html
HRT Participacoes em Petroleo SA , a
Brazilian oil and natural-gas exploration company, raised as
much as 2.62 billion reais ($1.54 billion) in an initial public
offering to finance oil exploration in Brazil’s Amazon and
offshore Southern Africa.  The company sold 2.18 million common shares for 1,200 reais
each, according to a regulatory filing yesterday. HRT had
planned to raise as much as 2.95 billion reais in the sale,
which included an overallotment and some stock sold in a
secondary offering, according to the Oct. 7 prospectus.  The HRT offer comes as oil companies in Brazil sell shares
and seek partners to cover exploration costs. State-controlled
 Petrobras  raised $70 billion last month in the world’s largest
share sale, while  Repsol YPF SA  sold 40 percent of its Brazil
unit this month to China Petroleum Corp. for $7.1 billion.  “After Petrobras raised so much money, you have to
consider it a success,”  Eric Conrads , who helps manage about $1
billion in emerging market funds at ING Investment Management in
New York, said yesterday after the results of the offering were
announced. “What you’re betting on is exploration over the next
two to three years.”  Brazil, Namibia Fields  HRT  is selling stock to finance the exploration and
development of fields in Brazil’s Solimoes Basin and offshore
Namibia. The company said it plans to invest $1.97 billion in
Brazil and $342 million in Africa through 2014, tapping a team
of former  Petroleo Brasileiro SA  officials as it seeks to boost
reserves.  Petrobras  has plunged 34 percent this year, while OGX
Petroleo & Gas Participacoes SA has rallied 31 percent and
Brazil’s benchmark Bovespa index has added 0.9 percent.  DeGoyler & MacNaughton, an oil auditing firm, calculated
HRT’s potential reserves at 1.5 billion barrels of oil and
equivalents in an August study, HRT said in its share sale
prospectus. HRT raised $479 million in late 2009 in two private
share offerings to finance the purchase of exploration acreage.  HRT agreed to buy 55 percent stakes in 21 Solimoes blocks.
Brazilian oil company Petra Energia owns the remaining 45
percent of the blocks. HRT said it may begin initial oil and
natural-gas production in Solimoes as early as 2011.  HRT also has two blocks in Namibia’s Walvis Basin and 40
percent stakes in three blocks in the Orange Basin.  Investors are betting that HRT’s team of former Petrobras
officials will discover oil and gas when the company begins
exploration drilling early next year, Conrads said.  Former Petrobras Executives  HRT Chief Executive Officer  Marcio Mello  worked at Rio de
Janeiro-based Petrobras for 24 years, according to HRT’s
website. Chief Financial Officer  Eduardo de Freitas Teixeira  was
Petrobras’s chief executive officer from 1990 to 1991.  “You’re really betting on management, which appears to be
solid,” said Conrads.  Brazilian billionaire  Eike Batista  hired former Petrobras
managers for OGX, an oil company that has had nearly 100 percent
exploration success since it began drilling last year. OGX
raised $4.1 billion in an initial public offering in 2008, and
its market capitalization has soared to $43.2 billion after it
made a series of discoveries in the offshore Campos Basin.  OGX Alternative  “HRT is going to be an alternative to OGX; it is an
investment play that is pretty similar,” said  Max Bueno , an
analyst at Spinelli in Sao Paulo. “The main driver of stock
performance, going ahead, is going to be discoveries.”  Solimoes produced 105,210 barrels a day of oil and
equivalents in August, according to Brazil’s oil regulator. The
area holds Urucu, Brazil’s largest natural-gas field.  Namibia offers the best potential for HRT to make oil
discoveries in line with what Petrobras has found in the so-
called pre-salt fields in deep waters of the Atlantic Ocean,
Conrads said.  HRT’s three blocks in Namibia’s Orange Basin border on the
Kudo field, which has proven reserves of 1.45 trillion cubic
feet. HRT plans to drill its first exploration well in Namibia
in late 2011.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  