-- Rusal Rebuffs Potanin's $9 Billion Offer for 25% Stake in Norilsk Nickel
-- B y   M a r i a   K o l e s n i k o v a   a n d   H e n r y   M e y e r
-- 2010-10-22T21:28:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-22/rusal-rebuffs-potanin-s-9-billion-offer-for-25-stake-in-norilsk-nickel.html
United Co. Rusal , the world’s
largest aluminum company, rebuffed a $9 billion offer from
billionaire  Vladimir Potanin  to buy its stake in Russia’s  OAO
GMK Norilsk Nickel .  Rusal’s investment “is not for sale at any price and is
viewed as a critical component of Rusal’s future strategy of
diversification,” said  Nathaniel Rothschild , chairman of EN+
Group, billionaire  Oleg Deripaska ’s investment company which
controls Rusal. Potanin’s offer “is derisory,” Rothschild said
today in an e-mailed statement.  Potanin said he wrote to Rusal Chairman  Viktor Vekselberg 
urging him to discuss selling Rusal’s 25 percent in Russia’s
biggest mining company. Potanin, whose Interros Holding Co. also
holds 25 percent of Norilsk, told reporters in Moscow that Rusal
should either sell out or merge with Norilsk.  “They are just taking a pause by doing this,” Potanin
said. “They just repeated what they’ve been saying all along.”  A feud between Potanin and Deripaska’s Rusal dating back to
2008 reignited after a June election of the Norilsk board that
gave Rusal three seats to Potanin’s four. A majority of Moscow-
based Norilsk’s investors yesterday voted against Rusal’s motion
to re-elect the board in a blow to Deripaska’s ambitions to
boost his influence.  Potanin has clashed with Deripaska over how Norilsk manages
cash and operations. Deripaska wants bigger dividends to help
Rusal pay off about $13 billion of debt and a management
overhaul, and has offered to buy Potanin’s Norilsk stake.  Proposed Buyout  Potanin backs Norilsk Chief Executive Officer  Vladimir Strzhalkovsky ’s team and wants to curb Rusal’s control. Potanin
said today that Interros, Norilsk and the mining company’s
pension fund were among investors were willing to work together
on the buyout.  Russian officials have said the government would intervene
should the shareholder conflict threaten operations at Norilsk,
which is the world’s biggest nickel producer and Russia’s
largest mining company.  The two sides should agree “between themselves,” Russian
Deputy Prime Minister  Igor Sechin  said Aug. 31 after a meeting
hosted by Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin  and attended by Potanin
and Deripaska in the Arctic city where the company is based.  “If the dispute affects the socioeconomic sphere in
Norilsk, then the state may interfere,” Sechin said.  Norilsk fell 90.34 rubles, or 1.6 percent, to close at
5,462.74 rubles in trading on Moscow’s Micex exchange, its
biggest drop since Sept. 15.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Henry Meyer  at   hmeyer4@bloomberg.net 
 Maria Kolesnikova  in Moscow at 
 mkolesnikova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Amanda Jordan at   ajordan11@bloomberg.net 
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter@bloomberg.net . 