-- Russia Extends Ban on Exports of Grain to July 1 After Drought, Putin Says
-- B y   M a r i a   L e v i t o v
-- 2010-10-22T17:24:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-22/russia-extends-grain-export-ban-to-july-1-putin-says-on-state-television.html
Russia, once the world’s third-
biggest wheat exporter, extended a ban on overseas sales of
grain until July 1 to ensure domestic supply after drought
damaged crops, Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin  said.  More than a third of Russia’s grain crop was ruined by the
worst drought in at least a half century, prompting the
government to impose a grain-export ban on Aug. 15. It was
originally scheduled to be reviewed Dec. 31.  “The stability of our internal food market and the feed
for livestock must be the priority,” Putin said today during a
government meeting in Roston-on-Don, which was broadcast on
state television. He signed the extension yesterday, he said.  Wheat prices in Chicago as much as doubled since June as
Russia’s drought, flooding in Canada and parched fields in
Kazakhstan and Europe decimated crops. Ukraine, once the world’s
biggest barley exporter, introduced export quotas this month
after a smaller-than-expected harvest.  Russian farmers reaped about 60 million metric tons of
grain this year, and the country has enough supply to meet
domestic demand, Putin said. Winter-grain plantings totaled
about 13.2 million hectares (32.6 million acres) as of Oct. 20,
almost 4 million hectares less than a year earlier, the prime
minister said.  Winter-grain plantings are almost 30 percent below
forecasts and “this lag will be impossible to overcome,” First
Deputy Prime Minister  Viktor Zubkov  said at today’s meeting.  Russian wheat exports are forecast to slump to 3.5 million
tons in the 12 months ending in June 2011, compared with 18.56
million tons a year earlier,  according  to the U.S. Department of
Agriculture.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Maria Levitov  in Moscow at 
 mlevitov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at   wmorris@bloomberg.net  