-- Salazar Says His Post in Obama’s Cabinet Safe After BP’s Spill
-- B y   J i m   E f s t a t h i o u   J r .
-- 2010-10-22T16:45:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-22/salazar-says-obama-cabinet-post-safe-following-criticism-tied-to-bp-spill.html
Interior Secretary  Ken Salazar , once
criticized by President  Barack Obama  for taking too long to
toughen regulation of offshore oil and natural-gas drilling,
said he expects to keep his job after the mid-term elections.  “I absolutely believe that I will stay on,” Salazar said
today in a phone interview. “The president and I talk about
what I do here at Interior. I think he’s pleased with the work
I’ve done. He’s told me so.”  Salazar’s performance drew criticism in the months after a
 BP Plc  well blew out in the Gulf of Mexico on April 20, setting
off the worst U.S. oil spill. The Interior secretary has been
among Obama Cabinet secretaries expected to depart after the
Nov. 2 elections, according to  Michael McKenna , president of MWR
Strategies, an oil-industry consulting firm in Washington.  “The perception is the administration didn’t handle the BP
spill terribly well and Salazar’s going to be the guy who pays
the price for that,” McKenna said in a phone interview today.
“He, for better or for worse, is going to be the fall guy.”  Salazar, a former Democratic senator from Colorado who
promised in 2009 to be the “new sheriff in town” when he took
over an Interior Department shaken by corruption cases, drew
criticism from Obama weeks after the BP spill. The president
said June 15 that the “pace of reform was just too slow” in
reversing “a philosophy that says corporations should be
allowed to play by their own rules and police themselves.”  The explosion at BP’s Macondo well was an “epidemic that
was about ready to take over the country,” Salazar said today.
It took BP, working with the administration, until July 15 to
cap the well after more than 4 million barrels of oil gushed
into the Gulf.  “From my point of view, we handled that as well as we
could within the resources and technology that we had available
to us,” Salazar said. “We have a lot of work ahead of us in
terms of reforming the Department of Interior to safely produce
oil and gas. Our work in that area of responsibility for
Interior has just begun.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jim Efstathiou Jr . in New York at 
 jefstathiou@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at   lliebert@bloomberg.net  