-- Santos Gas Project Approval to Carry Conditions, Citigroup Says
-- B y   J a m e s   P a t o n
-- 2010-10-22T02:15:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-22/santos-gas-project-approval-to-carry-conditions-citigroup-says.html
Santos Ltd.  is expected to win
Australian government approval for an A$18 billion ($17.6
billion) natural gas project in Queensland state with conditions
that shouldn’t be “overly onerous,” Citigroup Inc. said.  Santos may face increased water monitoring requirements and
closer scrutiny of its Gladstone liquefied natural gas venture,
 Mark Greenwood , a Sydney-based analyst at Citigroup, said in a
report. That may add as much as A$20 million to costs, “which
is small relative to total” capital expenditure, he said.  Environment Minister  Tony Burke  is due to announce today
whether he has approved projects planned by Santos and  BG Group
Plc . The companies intend to liquefy gas taken from coal seams
and export the fuel to Asia.  “We are not concerned” about the Santos development
getting clearance, “given that the Queensland government has
already provided environmental approval and we believe the
federal government wants to approve these projects to send a
message that Australia is open for business,” Greenwood wrote.  Australia has A$200 billion of proposed LNG projects
targeting rising demand for cleaner-burning alternatives to coal
to curb emissions, according to figures from the Australian
Petroleum Production and Exploration Association.  Santos  rose 1.8 percent to A$12.48 at 12:44 p.m. in Sydney
trading. The S&P/ASX 200 Index gained 0.2 percent.  Contaminated Wells  BG Group, the U.K.’s third-largest oil and gas producer,
and Santos plan to make investment decisions by the end of the
year to proceed. The  Santos  project may cost A$12 billion with
one production unit and A$18 billion with two units, Greenwood
estimated in his report, dated Oct. 21.  Santos, the country’s third-biggest oil and gas producer,
may seek to raise A$1.5 billion by selling shares if it proceeds
with two LNG processing units, or trains, and keeps a 40 percent
stake in the venture, he said. That number may be reduced if it
sells more of the project or disposes of assets, he said.  A rival venture in Queensland proposed by  Origin Energy
Ltd . and Houston-based partner  ConocoPhillips  found traces of
banned contaminants in eight exploration wells in the Surat
Basin, the Sydney-based company said on Oct. 19. The project
detected benzene, toluene, ethylbenzene and xylene, together
known as BTEX, Origin said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Paton in Sydney   jpaton4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at   aprakash1@bloomberg.net . 