-- Schlumberger Third-Quarter Profit Doubles on Onshore Drilling
-- B y   D a v i d   W e t h e
-- 2010-10-22T20:02:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-22/schlumberger-third-quarter-profit-climbs-on-north-america-work.html
Schlumberger Ltd. , the largest
oilfield services provider, said profit more than doubled as an
increase in onshore drilling in the U.S. and Canada offset a
slowdown in the Gulf of Mexico.  Net  income  in the third quarter increased to $1.7 billion,
or $1.38 a share, from $787 million, or 65 cents, a year
earlier, Schlumberger said in a statement today. Profit,
excluding one-time gains and charges related to its purchase of
Smith International Inc., was 70 cents a share, matching the
average of 32 analysts’  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  The number of rigs active in North America climbed 55
percent at the end of the third quarter from a year earlier,
according to  Baker Hughes Inc. , which tracks worldwide use of
the equipment. Oil prices rose 12 percent to average $76.21 a
barrel in the quarter, from $68.24 a year ago.  Drilling delays outside North America caused by “the
knock-on effect” of the BP Plc oil spill in the Gulf are
ending, “and the recent strength in oil prices gives us some
optimism that the rate of recovery overseas will accelerate
slightly,” Chief Executive Officer  Andrew Gould  said in the
statement.  Share Buyback  Schlumberger rose $3.49, or 5.4 percent, to $67.80 at 4
p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares,
which have 33 buy and 4 hold  ratings  from analysts, increased as
much as 6.1 percent after Gould told investors today on an
earnings conference call that the company is considering buying
back some of the 176 million shares it issued after agreeing in
February to buy Smith.  Gould declined to say how much the company would repurchase
if it did buy back more stock.  The company spent $396 million to buy back 6.8 million
shares during the third quarter, Chief Financial Officer  Simon Ayat  told investors and analysts on the call.  Schlumberger, based in Houston and Paris, said a U.S. ban
on new deep-water drilling after BP’s oil spill reduced per-
share earnings by about 2 cents to 3 cents during the quarter
and may reach 4 to 5 cents next quarter. The Obama
administration issued new safety regulations and ended the
moratorium last week.  “We do not expect any rapid return to deep-water drilling
in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico despite the lifting of the
moratorium,” Gould said. “Further clarification of the new
rules and liabilities under which activity will be conducted
will be necessary before any major increase takes place.”  Onshore Strength  “North America was the story,” said  Geoff Kieburtz , an
analyst at Weeden & Co. in Greenwich, Connecticut, who rates the
shares “buy” and owns none. “They have made a major
advancement in terms of profitability in their U.S. land
business.”  Sales climbed 26 percent to $6.85 billion. Pretax operating
income in North America climbed more than sevenfold compared
with a year earlier, the company said. A “major contributor”
to that was Schlumberger’s restructuring of its U.S. and
Canadian business, Kieburtz said.  Schlumberger completed its $10.8 billion purchase of Smith
International, the biggest drilling-fluids provider, in August.  Stephen Gengaro , an analyst at Jefferies & Co. in New York,
said North American sales were about 9 percent above his
estimates, while international revenue was about 4 percent below
his expectations.  Gas Demand  Gould said forecasts of higher oil demand next year will
support prices and drilling. For natural gas, further demand
increases “will be necessary to sustain the current level of
North American gas drilling activity beyond a certain point in
time,” he said.  Other oilfield servicers  Halliburton Co. , based in Houston,
and  Weatherford International Ltd. , based in Geneva,
Switzerland, reported third-quarter earnings earlier this week
that showed weaker-than-expected results outside of North
America.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Wethe  in Houston at 
 dwethe@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at   susanwarren@bloomberg.net . 