-- Scotia-Palco, Chemtura, GGP, Tousa: Bankruptcy
-- B y   B i l l   R o c h e l l e
-- 2010-10-22T13:13:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-22/scotia-palco-general-growth-tousa-tamarack-claim-jumper-bankruptcy.html
The U.S. Court of Appeals in New
Orleans penned a second important opinion this week in the
completed reorganization of Scotia Pacific Co. and affiliate
Pacific Lumber Co., telling purchasers of bankrupt companies
that they may end up paying more than they bargained.  Chief Judge Edith H. Jones from the U.S. Court of Appeals
in New Orleans ruled in an Oct. 19 opinion that reorganized
Scotia and Palco are obliged to pay an extra $29.7 million
because the bankruptcy judge made a mistake in calculating the
amount owed to secured lenders for use of their collateral
during the Chapter 11 case.  The case involved the Chapter 11 plan for  California 
timberland owners Scotia and Palco. Writing for the 5th Circuit
in New Orleans, Jones in September 2009 upheld most of the
ruling by the bankruptcy judge in Corpus Christi,  Texas ,
confirming the Chapter 11 plan. The plan in substance sold the
company to Marathon Structured Finance Fund LP and Mendocino
Redwood Co. in exchange for $580 million cash and the conversion
of $160 million of debt into equity.  This week’s opinion on a separate appeal appears to mean
that Marathon and Mendocino must somehow enable the reorganized
Scotia and Palco to pay $29.7 million to the pre-bankruptcy
secured lenders, who were owed about $800 million secured by
Scotia’s 210,000 acres of California redwood timberland.  The new decision follows up on Jones’s 2009 opinion by
pointing out another facet of a confirmed reorganization that
can be modified on appeal even though the plan was implemented.  In the new appeal, Jones ruled that the bankruptcy judge
incorrectly calculated how much the lenders were owed as the
result of the use of their collateral. She said the bankruptcy
judge committed error in concluding that the lenders didn’t have
a right to receive the $29.7 million generated during the case
from the sale of timber.  Jones said the appeal wasn’t moot because the purchasers
were “sophisticated investors” and an adverse result on the
cash collateral appeal was “foreseeable.” Quoting from her
2009 opinion, Jones said the buyers “opted to press the limits
of bankruptcy confirmation.”  Jones also said that the appeal from the lower court’s
ruling on cash collateral was “independent” and “unrelated to
confirmation.” The lower court’s cash collateral order “could
not have been raised in the appeal of the confirmation order,”
she said.  The $29.7 million owing to the lenders was a so-called
super-priority administrative claim that must be paid in full
for a plan to be confirmed. The claim represented a diminution
in the value of the lenders’ collateral during the Chapter 11
case.  Last year, Jones held that paying the noteholders $513
million cash in full satisfaction of their claims was proper
because the bankruptcy judge wasn’t “clearly wrong” in
deciding that the timberland was worth only that amount. The new
opinion this week means that the lenders are entitled to another
$29.7 million.  Even though the reorganization plan was implemented without
making the payment, this week’s ruling appears to mean that
Scotia and Palco must somehow make the $29.7 million payment or
give the lenders something of equivalent value, such as a
mortgage. Interest also may be owing to the lenders.  To read details of Jones’s 2009 ruling, click here for the
Sept. 30, 2009, Bloomberg bankruptcy report. Lawyers for
Marathon and the noteholders declined to comment on the new
opinion.  Mendocino, a family-owned operator of a sawmill and 230,000
acres of nearby redwood forests, was controlled by the late  Gap
Inc . founder Donald Fisher.  Scotia, Palco and four affiliates filed Chapter 11
petitions in January 2007 when a $27 million payment was coming
due on notes secured by the timberland. The bankruptcy judge
approved the Chapter 11 plan in a confirmation order in June
2008.  The opinion by Jones is Bank of  New York  Trust Co. v.
Pacific Lumber Co. (In re Scopac), 09-40307, U.S. 5th Circuit
Court of Appeals (New Orleans). The bankruptcy court case is In
re Scotia Pacific Co., 07-20027, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern
District Texas (Corpus Christi).  The prior appeals court
decision is  Bank of New York Trust Co. v. Official Unsecured
Creditors’ Committee (In re Pacific Lumber Co.), 08-40746, U.S.
5th Circuit Court of Appeals (New Orleans).  Updates  Chemtura Plan Confirmed, Value Under $2.05 Billion  Specialty chemical maker Chemtura Corp. will have an
approved reorganization plan thanks to a 78-page opinion handed
down yesterday where U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Robert E. Gerber
explained why he will sign a confirmation order.  Although creditors accepted the plan by large majorities,
shareholders voted it down, even after being offered a
guaranteed 5 percent of the new stock. Proposing to retain some
stock for shareholders was necessary because the reorganized
business should be worth enough to pay all claims in full with
interest, the company and creditors believed.  Gerber was required to hold a trial, which ended Sept. 22,
because the official shareholders’ committee contended that the
company will be worth 20 percent more than the company’s
valuation.  Chemtura’s valuation expert from Lazard Freres & Co. pegged
the total equity value after confirmation at between $1.9
billion and $2.2 billion. Gerber said he didn’t need to pick an
exact value because it was only necessary for him to conclude,
as he did, that the equity value will be below the $2.05 billion
midpoint value forming the basis for a settlement underlying the
plan. Were he to put a precise value on the reorganized
Chemtura, Gerber said it would be at the low end of the Lazard
valuation.  Gerber said that his conclusion on value was bolstered by
how holders of 78 percent of the bonds elected to receive cash
rather than stock, even though stock would give them a 20
percent or greater return if the equity committee were correct
in its valuation.  By voting as a class against the plan, existing
shareholders won’t receive the guaranteed 5 percent of the stock
they were offered for a “yes” vote. Instead, they will receive
whatever stock is left after claims are paid in full with
interest and after environmental-claim reserves are fully
funded.  Shareholders did achieve minor victories. Gerber didn’t
approve a provision in the plan that would have disbanded the
equity committee when the plan is implemented. Instead, Gerber
directed that the committee continue in existence for the
purpose of taking an appeal from the order confirming the plan.  Gerber also said that releases of third parties were too
broad. He described in his opinion how the plan must be changed
so releases for third parties don’t exceed what bankruptcy law
allows.  Gerber said that his rulings on the law “breaks no new
ground.”  The plan would reduce debt for borrowed money from $1.3
billion to about $750 million. For details of the plan, click
here for the June 18 Bloomberg bankruptcy report.  The Chapter 11 petition in March 2009 by Middlebury,
Connecticut-based Chemtura listed assets of $3.06 billion
against debt totaling $2.6 billion, including $1.02 billion
owing on three issues of notes and debentures. Sales in 2008 of
$3.5 billion declined to $2.5 billion in 2009. The subsidiaries
outside of the U.S. didn’t file.  The case is Chemtura Corp., 09-11233, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, Southern District of New York   Manhattan ).  Innkeepers Wants Fried Frank as Special Board Lawyers    Innkeepers USA Trust , a real-estate investment trust whose
first attempt at reorganization was rebuffed by the bankruptcy
judge, is seeking authority to retain law firm Fried Frank
Harris Shriver & Jacobson LLP to represent a newly formed
special committee of the board of directors.  In papers filed in bankruptcy court on Oct. 20, Innkeepers
explained how the committee was formed to analyze potential
reorganization proposals and make recommendations to the full
board. New York-based Fried Frank would be attorneys for the
committee. A hearing to approve the retention is set for Nov.
10.  Innkeepers also wants the judge to authorize increasing the
compensation of board members who serve on the special
committee. In addition to the reimbursement of expenses and
$75,000 a year, board members would receive $3,000 for each
meeting of the special committee.  In August, U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Shelley C. Chapman refused
to allow Innkeepers to lock in an agreement where the new equity
would have been split between the current owner,  Apollo
Investment Corp ., and Lehman Ali Inc., a subsidiary of Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc. that has $238 million in floating-rate
mortgages on 20 properties.  Fried Frank disclosed in a court filing that it currently
represents both Apollo and Lehman in other matters.  Palm Beach, Florida-based Innkeepers has 72 extended-stay
and limited-service properties with 10,000 rooms in 20 states.
Midland Loan Services Inc. is servicer for $825 million in
mortgage debt on 45 of Innkeepers’ 72 properties. Midland says
it’s developing its own reorganization plan financed by selling
the new stock for $236 million to Five Mile Capital Partners
LLC. For details of Innkeepers’ rejected plan and Midland’s
proposal for a competing plan, click here for the Aug. 31
Bloomberg bankruptcy report.  Apollo acquired the company in July 2007 in a $1.35 billion
transaction. The Innkeepers petition listed assets of $1.5
billion against debt totaling $1.52 billion.  The case is In re Innkeepers USA Trust, 10-13800, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  General Growth’s Last Reorganization Plans Confirmed    General Growth Properties Inc ., the subject of the largest
real estate reorganization in history, is set to emerge from
Chapter 11 around Nov. 8 after the bankruptcy judge at a hearing
yesterday said he would sign a confirmation order approving the
plan for the top-tier companies.  General Growth subsidiaries owning the properties already
confirmed Chapter 11 plans restructuring or paying creditors in
full on their $15 billion in claims. Creditors of General
Growth’s top-tier companies likewise receive full payment,
financed in part by $8.55 billion in debt and equity investments
from a group led by  Brookfield Asset Management Inc .  For Bloomberg coverage of the confirmation hearing, click
here.  The plan gives General Growth the flexibility to make a
public stock offering after bankruptcy so $2.15 billion in new
capital can be secured on terms more favorable than those
offered by the Brookfield group.  General Growth remains the second-largest mall owner in the
U.S. with more than 185 properties in 43 states. It began the
largest real-estate reorganization in history by filing under
Chapter 11 in April 2009. The books of Chicago-based General
Growth had assets of $29.6 billion and total liabilities of
$27.3 billion as of Dec. 31, 2008.  The case is In re General Growth Properties Inc., 09-11977,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  Old GM’s Disclosure Statement Tentatively Approved  Old General Motors Corp. can proceed with soliciting votes
by creditors on the Chapter 11 plan now that the bankruptcy
judge in Manhattan yesterday gave conditional approval to the
disclosure statement.  The plan will distribute stock and warrants in new GM
representing proceeds from the sale of the core assets. The
disclosure statement will be formally approved when changes are
made to include late-occurring events, such as a $773 million
settlement of environmental claims.  The bankruptcy judge said he would rule later on a dispute
between the creditors’ committee and the U.S. government over
who is entitled to proceeds from $1.5 billion in lawsuit claims.  To read Bloomberg coverage of the hearing, click here.  Old GM, now formally named Motors Liquidation Co., filed
the liquidating Chapter 11 plan in August. A trust for unsecured
creditors will distribute the stock and warrants issued by new
GM. For details on the plan, click here for the Sept. 1
Bloomberg bankruptcy report.  The sale of the core business produced a pot for old GM
creditors containing 10 percent of the stock of the new GM plus
warrants for 15 percent. The warrants will have value if the new
company is profitable enough to raise the new stock’s value to
specified levels. New GM, formally named  General Motors Co ., is
60.8 percent-owned by the U.S. government.  Old GM began the largest manufacturing reorganization in
history by filing under Chapter 11 on June 1, 2009. The sale was
completed on July 10, 2009. GM listed assets of $82.3 billion
against debt totaling $172.8 billion.  The case is In re Motors Liquidation Co., 09-50026, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Two Judges Hearing Tousa Fraudulent-Transfer Appeal  Whether homebuilder Tousa Inc. made fraudulent transfers by
bailing out and refinancing a joint venture in Transeastern
Properties Inc. in mid-2007 is the subject of three appeals
being argued today in U.S. District Court in  Florida .  The appeals are unusual because they are being heard
simultaneously by two district judges.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge John K. Olson ruled in October 2009
that the banks received fraudulent transfers in connection with
the bailout and refinancing because Tousa caused its operating
subsidiaries to guarantee the debt when they received no benefit
from the loans. Olson later required the lenders to post $700
million in bonds to hold up enforcement of the judgment pending
appeal. To read about Olson’s ruling last year, click here.  Three groups of lenders filed three separate appeals.
Ordinarily, three appeals from one ruling would be consolidated
and assigned to one district judge. In the Tousa case, U.S.
District Judges Adalberto J. Jordan and Alan S. Gold decided
they’d hear the appeals together, rather than have one of them
decide all three.  Presumably, although not necessarily, the two district
judges will reach consensus in their rulings on the appeals. If
they agree, the loser seemingly would have a slimmer chance of
success in taking another appeal to the U.S. Court of Appeals in
Atlanta. A disagreement by the judges on whether Olson was right
or wrong would be unique.  Also, one district judge might say that the outcome of his
appeal was governed by how the other judge ruled, given how the
bank groups are theoretically appealing from different parts of
Olson’s ruling.  Tousa scheduled a hearing on Oct. 27 for approval of a
disclosure statement explaining the Chapter 11 plan filed in
July. For a summary of the plan, click here for the July 20
Bloomberg bankruptcy report. The plan assumes appellate courts
uphold the judgment the creditors’ committee won in October 2009
against the lenders.  Tousa filed for bankruptcy reorganization in January 2008.
The Hollywood, Florida-based company listed assets of $2.1
billion against debt totaling $2 billion. At the outset of the
reorganization it was 67 percent-owned by  Technical Olympic SA .  The case is In re  Tousa Inc ., 08-10928, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, Southern District of Florida (Fort Lauderdale).  New York Mayor Opposes Reorganization Plan for NYC OTB  New York Mayor Michael Bloomberg came out yesterday in
opposition to the proposal made this week by Governor David
Paterson for reorganizing New York City  Off-Track Betting Corp.   Bloomberg objected because the proposal would put the city
“on the hook” for $100 million to $200 million in unfunded
retiree benefit costs. “Only in government can you run a bookie
operation and actually lose money every year,” the mayor said.  The mayor said the city would use “all available options”
to fight adoption and approval of the plan, which requires
action by the state legislature as well as the bankruptcy judge.
He said the governor was violating an agreement made two years
ago where the state would take over all liabilities of NYC OTB.  To read Bloomberg coverage, click here.  The bankruptcy judge ruled in March that NYC OTB is
eligible to reorganize in Chapter 9. The petition, filed in
December, said assets are less than $50 million while debt
exceeds $100 million.  Liabilities include $8 million in governmental statutory
claims, $43.7 million owing to the racing industry, and $6.3
million in claims held by general unsecured creditors. There is
almost no secured debt.  The mayor is founder and majority owner of Bloomberg News
parent Bloomberg LP.  The case is In re New York City Off-Track Betting Corp.,
09-17121, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  TriDimension Seeks to Auction Oil-Gas Assets Nov. 16  TriDimension Energy LP , an independent oil and natural gas
exploration and production company, has a buyer willing to pay
$28 million cash for substantially all of the assets.  The Dallas-based company is asking the bankruptcy judge to
hold an Oct. 27 hearing to approve auction and sale procedures.
TriDimension wants the auction on Nov. 16.  The company filed under Chapter 11 in its hometown in May.
It owes $37.5 million to secured lenders which are providing
financing for the reorganization. The lenders are owed another
$5.6 million on terminated hedges. Amegy Bank NA is agent for
the lenders.  The company has leases on 165,218 gross acres of oil and
gas properties in Louisiana and Mississippi with proven reserves
of about 5.1 million barrels.  The company signed 57 prospective buyers to confidentiality
agreements and received 11 bids, according to a court filing.
Before filing the motion for approval of a sale, there were
final discussions with two bidders.  TriDimension owes $6 million to general unsecured
creditors, not including the deficiency claim of the secured
lenders, Chief Financial Officer Kenneth A. Gregg said in a
court filing.  The case is In re TriDimension Energy LP, 10-33565, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Northern District of Texas (Dallas).  Siena Hotel & Casino in Reno Shuts Down Operations  The operator of the Italian-themed  Siena Hotel Spa and
Casino  in Reno, Nevada, closed the hotel on account of
“liquidity restraints” after having previously shut down the
casino, according to a bankruptcy court filing.  The casino hotel filed for reorganization on July 21 in
Oakland, California. Creditors, along with Nevada gaming
regulators, sought to transfer the case to Nevada. The
bankruptcy judge in California sent the Chapter 11 case to Reno
on Oct. 1.  The company says there are discussions with two possible
investors.  The petition said debt exceeds $50 million. The hotel has
185 rooms and 29 suites, according to the website. The casino
covers 23,000 square feet.  The case is In re Hi-Five Enterprises LLC, 10-54013, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, District of Nevada (Reno).  Creditors Voting on Three Plans for Meruelo Maddux  Creditors of  Meruelo Maddux Properties Inc . have the
opportunity to vote on three competing Chapter 11 plans to
reorganize the Los Angeles-based developer and manager of
commercial and multi-family properties.  The bankruptcy judge approved disclosure statements
explaining the reorganization plans filed by the company, along
with rival plans from lenders Legendary Investors Group No. 1
LLC and East West Bank and from shareholders Charlestown Capital
Advisors LLC and Hartland Asset Management Corp.  The confirmation hearing where the bankruptcy judge can
approve one of the plans will begin Jan. 26. Ballots from
creditors are due Nov. 22. A report about the vote will be filed
in bankruptcy court by Dec. 3. The U.S. bankruptcy judge in
Woodland Hills, California, will hold an initial conference on
Nov. 1.  Creditors, if they wish, can vote in favor of all three
plans. In addition, they may state their preferences among the
plans. The bankruptcy judge will confirm the plan found to be in
creditors’ best interests.  The official unsecured creditors’ committee recommends that
creditors vote in favor of all the plans, although support for
the company’s plan is qualified. All three plans would pay
unsecured creditors in full plus interest.  The bankruptcy court permitted the filing of competing
plans in May. The Chapter 11 petition filed in March 2009 listed
assets of $682 million against debt totaling $342 million.  The case is In re Meruelo Maddux Properties Inc., 09-13356,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Central District California (Woodland
Hills).  Tamarack Denied $2 Million Loan to Winterize Project  The bankruptcy judge disapproved a $2 million secured loan
for  Tamarack Resort LLC , a golf and ski resort in Valley County,  Idaho .  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Terry L. Myers in Boise, Idaho, wrote
a 41-page opinion this week concluding that the proposed loan
and the procedures used to gain approval didn’t meet the
requirements contained in bankruptcy law.  Myers said that the papers seeking approval of the loan
contained an inadequate description of the financing and lacked
required details. Disclosures about the loan weren’t made
sufficiently in advance of the hearing to comply with bankruptcy
and local rules of procedure.  The proposed loan was to be secured by a lien coming ahead
of existing secured creditors, including mechanics’ lien holders
who objected to the financing. The bankruptcy judge said the
loan didn’t give so-called adequate protection to the mechanics’
lien holders for the loss of their first-lien position.  The loan “would appear headed for default,” Myers said.
The chance of default was “high” because the existing bank
lender would control the sale and plan process, he said.  Myers also refused to approve the appointment of a so-
called chief restructuring officer. He said the proposal was
flawed because the company would have no control over its own
affairs while the CRO wouldn’t assume all duties of the company
as a debtor-in-possession.  Tamarack needed the financing in part to winterize the
property. The financing would have been provided primarily by
Candlewood Special Situations Master Fund Ltd. and an affiliate
of Credit Suisse AG, Cayman Islands Branch, the existing lender.  The Tamarack case began with an involuntary petition in
Chapter 7 that the company unsuccessfully opposed. The company
switched the case to Chapter 11 in April when Myers granted the
motion for conversion to reorganization, even though the Chapter
7 trustee had been named in March.  The project’s 27.5 percent owner, VPG Investments Inc.,
filed for Chapter 11 reorganization in 2008. The petition was
dismissed in October 2008. VPG was controlled by Mexican
businessman Alfredo Miguel Afif.  The new case is In re Tamarack Resort LLC, 09-03911, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, District of Idaho (Boise). The previous case
was In re VPG Investments Inc., 08-00253, U.S. Bankruptcy Court,
District of Idaho (Boise).  Prepack Coming  Icahn Offers Put to Bust Up MGM’s Prepacked Plan  Carl Icahn is offering to guarantee that lenders to Metro-
Goldwyn-Mayer Inc. won’t recover less than 45 percent on their
senior-secured loans if they join with him in voting against the
prepackaged reorganization where secured lenders would swap $4
billion in debt for 95.3 percent of the new stock.  Icahn’s put price is roughly equal to the current market.
It is dependent on acceptance by holders of $963 million in
debt, according Icahn’s statement. Icahn can accept more than
the minimum but isn’t required to do so. The offer expires on
Oct. 29, unless extended.  Under Icahn’s proposal, debt holders can have the up side
allowing them to take home more than 45 percent if the new stock
trades high enough after bankruptcy.  To read other Bloomberg coverage, click here.  The MGM prepackaged plan calls for Spyglass Entertainment
Group to acquire the remainder of the new equity in exchange for
contributing assets including Cypress Entertainment Group Inc.
and Garoge Inc.  The voting deadline for the so-called prepack is Oct. 29.
If the votes are favorable, MGM could file the Chapter 11
petition and attempt to emerge from Chapter 11 within about four
to six weeks, assuming no protracted confirmation fight.  Los Angeles-based MGM was acquired in April 2005 in a $4.8
billion transaction by a group including  Credit Suisse Group AG ,
Providence Equity Partners Inc.,  Sony Corp . and TPG Capital.  Involuntary Filing  Former Lawyer Files Involuntary Against Washington Times  Washington Times LLC was hit with an involuntary Chapter 11
petition filed yesterday by a lawyer named Richard A.
Steinbronn, who says his claim against the newspaper publisher
is $390. Steinbronn contends that the newspaper is generally not
paying its debts as they come due.  Steinbronn says in the involuntary petition that he was
“wrongfully removed” from his position in early 2009 as a
director, officer and legal counsel for Times Aerospace
International LLC and two subsidiaries with similar names:
Washington Times Aviation LLC and Washington Times Aviation USA
LLC.  To satisfy the requirement that there be three petitioning
creditors, Steinbronn signed the petition on behalf of
Washington Times Aviation LLC and Washington Times Aviation USA
LLC, saying he has “derivative or special standing.”  Steinbronn alleges that the two companies for which he
signed the petition together are owed $2 million on loans.  For the involuntary petition to be valid, the petitioners
must have debt that isn’t contingent and not disputed.  Bankruptcy law contains penalties for someone who
improperly files an involuntary petition.  If the involuntary petition is dismissed, the unsuccessful
petitioner can be required to pay the targeted company’s
attorneys’ fees. In addition, the bankruptcy judge can assess
ordinary damages and punitive damages if the involuntary
petition was found to be filed in bad faith.  Bloomberg reported in April that the family of Reverend Sun Myung Moon cut off funding for the newspaper and was looking for
a buyer.  The case is In re Washington Times LLC, 10-01041, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court for the District of Columbia.  Briefly Noted  Closing Arguments Held in Lehman-Barclays Trial    Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc . and  Barclays Plc  held closing
arguments yesterday in the trial that began in April where
Lehman contends the bank took $11 billion more than it was
entitled to receive when it purchased the brokerage business a
week after the Chapter 11 filing in September 2008.  Although the bankruptcy judge reminded Barclays’s lawyer
that he never approved a pivotal agreement where the bank
received additional assets in the sale, this writer has learned
from experience not to guess how a judge may rule based on
grillings given the lawyers during trial or argument.  To read Bloomberg coverage of closing arguments, click
here.  The Lehman holding company filed under Chapter 11 in New
York on Sept. 15, 2008, and sold office buildings and the North
American investment-banking business to London-based Barclays
one week later. The Lehman brokerage operations went into
liquidation on Sept. 19, 2008, in the same court. The brokerage
is in the control of a trustee appointed under the Securities
Investor Protection Act.  The Lehman holding company and its non-brokerage
subsidiaries filed a revised Chapter 11 plan and disclosure
statement in April. For details, click here and here for the
April 15 and 16 Bloomberg bankruptcy reports. Lehman said it
intends on amending the plan in the last quarter of the year and
have the plan approved in a confirmation order by March.  The Lehman holding company Chapter 11 case is In re Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc., 08-13555, while the liquidation
proceeding under the Securities Investor Protection Act for the
brokerage operation is Securities Investors Protection Corp. v.
Lehman Brothers Inc., 08-01420, both in U.S. Bankruptcy Court,
Southern District New York (Manhattan).  Claim Jumper Has Approval for $5 Million Financing  Claim Jumper Restaurants LLC, the operator of a chain of 45
western-themed restaurants in eight states, prevailed over
creditors’ committee objection and won final approval this week
for $5 million secured financing. The business goes up for
auction on Oct. 28 with an initial bid of $27 million from a
company formed by Black Canyon Capital LLC and Bruckmann Rosser
Sherrill & Co. Black Canyon is an affiliate of the unsecured
mezzanine lender, according to court papers. Restaurant operator
Landry’s Restaurants Inc. appeared at a hearing saying it was
willing to pay $27.5 million.  The hearing for approval of the sale will be Nov. 2.  In addition to $69.5 million in secured debt, Claim Jumper
owes $112.5 million on subordinated notes. The petition says
assets are worth more than $50 million while debt exceeds $100
million.  The case is In re Claim Jumper Restaurants LLC, 10-12819,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  New Filing  Awal Bank Switching from Chapter 15 to Chapter 11  Awal Bank BSC filed a petition for Chapter 11
reorganization yesterday although the Bahrain-based bank has
been in Chapter 15 since September 2009. The petition said
assets are less than $100 million while debt exceeds $1 billion.  The bank prevailed on the bankruptcy judge in New York to
declare in October 2009 that bankruptcy proceedings in the home
country are the “foreign main proceeding.” As a result,
creditor actions in the U.S. were halted.  Chapter 15 doesn’t give a bankrupt company or its officers
all the powers of Chapter 11. The ability to bring lawsuits is
limited in Chapter 15, for instance. Chapter 15 is designed to
assist a bankruptcy proceeding primarily pending elsewhere.  Consequently, a company in Chapter 15 isn’t prohibited from
filing a petition under Chapter 7 or Chapter 11. In Chapter 11,
the foreign representative of the bank can file lawsuits,
although the endgame in Chapter 11 is different from Chapter 15.
In Chapter 15, the presumption is that money collected in the
U.S. will be sent to the home country for distribution to
creditors under the law of the foreign country.  To deal with money collected in the U.S. in the Chapter 11
case, Awal presumably will be required to confirm a Chapter 11
plan.  Domestic banks are precluded from filing any form of
bankruptcy in the U.S. The preclusion doesn’t apply to foreign
banks like Awal. It began bankruptcy proceedings in the home
country in July 2009.  The new Chapter 15 case is In re Awal Bank BSC, 10-15518,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District New York (Manhattan).
The Chapter 15 case is In re Awal Bank BSC, 09-15923, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Downgrades  3G Acquisition Lowers Burger King to B Corporate  The acquisition of Burger King Corp. by 3G Capital Inc.
resulted in a two-notch downgrade, lowering the fast-food
operator’s corporate rating from Standard & Poor’s to B.  The acquisition, completed this week, saddled Burger King
with $2.65 billion in debt to fund the purchase of the stock.
S&P said that the company’s ratio of debt to lease-adjusted
earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization
doubled to 6.8.  Burger King is based in Miami.  Marshall & Ilsley Downgraded on Quarterly Net Loss  Marshall & Ilsley Corp. was downgraded yesterday by
Standard & Poor’s after the bank holding company reported a $169
million net loss for the third quarter. S&P lowered the
counterparty rating to BB+/B from BBB-/A-3.  While capital is “marginally adequate,” S&P said
liquidity is satisfactory.  Marshall & Ilsley is based in Milwaukee.  Container Maker Bway Downgraded on New Debt Offering  Bway Holding Co. and operating company Bway Corp. were
downgraded yesterday by Standard & Poor’s as the result of $125
million in new debt being sold by a holding company to finance a
dividend to the equity sponsor, Madison Dearborn Partners LLC.  The new debt isn’t guaranteed by the subsidiaries and is
structurally subordinated to the operating companies’ debt.  S&P said it expects Bway will exercise the option to pay
interest on the new debt in kind rather than in cash.  Atlanta-based Bway makes plastic and metal containers for
paints, solvents and household products. It also produces
aerosol cans. Revenue in fiscal 2009 was $904 million. For the
six months ended March 31, net revenue was $476 million.  New Bankruptcy Judge  Assistant U.S. Attorney Named Bankruptcy Judge in San Jose  Stephen L. Johnson, an assistant U.S. Attorney, was named a
U.S. bankruptcy judge San Jose, California. He fills the bench
vacated by the August retirement of U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Leslie
Tchaikovsky.  Johnson handled bankruptcy and civil matters for the U.S.
attorney in the Northern District of California. Before that, he
was a lawyer in the office of the U.S. Trustee in  San Francisco .  In announcing Johnson’s appointment, Chief Judge Alex Kozinski of the U.S. Court of Appeals in San Francisco said
bankruptcy filings have increased 55.8 percent this year in the
Northern District of California, which includes San Francisco
and San Jose.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bill Rochelle in New York at 
 wrochelle@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 