-- Sex Slaves Sold as Law Created Illegal Immigrants: Lewis Lapham
-- B y   L e w i s   L a p h a m
-- 2010-10-23T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-22/sex-slaves-sold-as-law-created-illegal-immigrants-lewis-lapham.html
The first major restriction of
immigration to the U.S. was directed at the Chinese, who came to
build railroads and dig gold. The Chinese Exclusion Act of 1882
created a brand new phenomenon -- the illegal immigrant.  Undocumented and beyond the reach of the legal system,
workers could be endlessly exploited, especially in the sex
trade. In China, Chun Ho was sold by her mother to a procuress
for 200 Mexican dollars. When she arrived in the U.S. in the
1880s, a criminal gang, or tong, bought her for $1,950 gold.  Prostitutes were nominally “contract workers,” who
exchanged a term of service for passage to the U.S., but in
reality they were sex slaves. Chun Ho made $300 a month for the
tong, but she was docked for food, lodging, sickness and much
else. After two years, her masters told her she was further in
debt than when she started.  Many of the prostitutes were savagely beaten with wooden
clubs, and Chun Ho said she knew four who were murdered. She
eventually escaped, though no one was brought to justice for
these crimes. “No one would dare testify,” she said.  I spoke with H.W. Brands, author of “ American Colossus:
The Triumph of Capitalism 1865-1900 ,” on the following topics:  1. Capitalism vs. Democracy  2. Capitalism Depends on Inequity  3. National Agenda Set by Business  4. Senate: “The Millionaire’s Club”  5. Democratic Promise Betrayed  To listen to the podcast, click  here . To buy this book in
North America, click  here .  ( Lewis Lapham  is the founder of  Lapham’s Quarterly  and the
former editor of Harper’s magazine. He hosts “The World in
Time” interview series for Bloomberg News.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Lewis Lapham in New York at 
 lhl@laphamsquarterly.org .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 