-- SocGen ‘Not Bullish’ on Ruble as Firms Buy Dollars
-- B y   E m m a   O ’ B r i e n
-- 2010-10-22T15:28:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-22/socgen-no-longer-bullish-on-ruble-as-companies-buy-dollars.html
The  ruble  is “no longer trading in
line with fundamentals” and will probably weaken toward the end
of this year as Russian companies’ demand for foreign currency
dominates trade, according to Societe Generale SA.  France’s second-largest bank is “no longer bullish” on
Russia’s currency and is questioning its forecast for the ruble
to gain 3.5 percent by the end of this year,  Benoit Anne , head
of global emerging markets at Societe Generale, said in a phone
interview from London.  The ruble surged against the dollar and the euro today,
rebounding from its weakest level this year against the common
currency, as Russian banks and companies sought to convert
foreign-currency earnings to make tax payments, said Anne, who
is based in London. Companies need to pay back more than $12
billion of debt denominated in dollars and euros in December,
according to data compiled by BofA Merrill Lynch Global
Research, and this demand for foreign currency will dominate the
ruble trade until the end of 2010, Anne added.  “There is very little interest among outside investors to
re-establish long ruble positions even though the fundamentals
are supportive,” Anne said, referring to bets on the currency’s
appreciation. “Why would they when the corporate flows mean
locals are effectively betting against the ruble?”  The ruble gained 0.8 percent to 30.37 per dollar by the 5
p.m. close of trading in Moscow, and added 1.2 percent to 42.3
per euro. Those movements left it 1.1 percent stronger at
35.7385 against the dollar-euro basket used by the central bank
to manage swings in the ruble that harm exporter
competitiveness. The basket rate is calculated by multiplying
the dollar-ruble rate by 0.55, the euro-ruble rate by 0.45, then
adding them together.  ‘Overly Aggressive’  Societe Generale’s current forecast, issued two weeks ago,
is for the ruble to strengthen to 29.50 per dollar by the end of
this year and 28.30 by the end of 2011. Those predictions, which
Anne says were based on rising oil prices and positive economic
fundamentals for Russia, are “overly aggressive at this
stage,” he said.  While crude, Russia’s chief export earner, has risen more
than 7 percent since the start of July to around $81 a barrel
today, the ruble has added 2.8 percent against the dollar and
slumped 11 percent versus the euro. Brazil’s real has jumped 6.1
percent against the dollar over the same period, and the South
African rand added more than 10 percent. The Czech koruna has
strengthened 4.6 percent against the euro. The ruble is the
worst performing European emerging market currency against the
euro in the second half.  Ruble ‘Disappointment’  Russia’s currency lost 0.5 percent to the dollar this week,
and added 0.7 percent against the euro, leaving it 0.2 percent
stronger versus the basket.  The ruble’s day-to-day movements are more often driven by
local demands for currency than investor positions, said Anne.
“I have suffered disappointment with my calls on the ruble,”
he said.  Companies need to pay 82 billion rubles ($2.7 billion) in
production tax to the government by Oct. 25 and 129 billion
rubles in profit tax by Oct. 28, according to estimates by
Moscow-based Alfa Bank.  More Bearish  Bank Rossii  is easing its control over the ruble and
targeting a 2012 free float as other emerging-market regulators,
including in Brazil, South Africa and South Korea, try to limit
their currencies’ strength. The bank widened the so-called
“floating corridor” it allows the ruble to trade within to 4
rubles from 3 on Oct. 13, and extended the weak end of the band
by 5 kopeks yesterday after selling $650 million stemming ruble
declines,  Sergey Shvetsov , a central bank board member, said
today in Moscow, according to the RIA Novosti news wire.  Commerzbank AG puts the new corridor at 32.90 to 36.95 as
of yesterday, from 32.90 to 36.9 after last week’s expansion.
The 5 kopek widening occurred at both ends of the corridor,
which is now 32.95 to 36.95, VTB Group said in an e-mailed note
today. Bank Rossii refuses to detail the parameters of the
basket corridor.  Non-deliverable forwards, known as NDFs, which provide a
guide to expectations of currency movements and interest-rate
differentials, show the ruble at 30.6150 per dollar in three
months.  Likely to Strengthen  Should Group of 20 finance ministers agree on a mechanism
to stabilize currency markets at their meeting this weekend in
South Korea “then the ruble is one of those emerging-market
currencies that should benefit,”  Chris Weafer , chief strategist
in Moscow at UralSib Financial Corp., wrote in a client note e-
mail today.  U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy Geithner  is proposing that
the G-20, which includes Russia, agrees to reduce trade
imbalances “below a specific share” of their economies as
emerging markets struggle to limit investment in their
currencies while interest rates in the U.S. and Japan remain
close to zero. Russia’s trade surplus narrowed in August to $8.3
billion, Bank Rossii said Oct. 12.  The ruble is more likely to strengthen by the end of the
year than weaken, the Interfax newswire cited Shvetsov as saying
today. The currency will strengthen more than 5 percent to 34.12
versus the basket by the end of this year, according to the
median estimate of five analysts’ estimates collated by
Bloomberg.  The yield on Russia’s dollar bonds due 2020 declined for a
seventh straight day, the longest falling streak since the notes
were issued in April, leaving the yield at 4.34 percent today,
up 11 basis points this week. Dollar bonds maturing 2015 rose,
pushing the yield down 2 points today to 3.06 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Emma O’Brien  in Moscow at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at   gserkin@bloomberg.net  