-- South Korea to Cut China Rare-Earth Dependency as Imports Drop
-- B y   B o m i   L i m
-- 2010-10-22T02:18:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-22/south-korea-to-cut-dependency-on-china-rare-earth-supplies-as-imports-drop.html
South Korea plans to reduce its
dependency on Chinese supplies of rare earths after cutting
overall imports of the materials used in hybrid cars and wind
turbines by almost two-thirds since 2005.  The government expects China to maintain an export cap on
rare earths and will increase stockpiles to meet higher demand,
said Kim Sang Woo, a deputy director at the Mineral Resources
Division of the  Ministry of Knowledge Economy .  China cut its second-half export quota by 72 percent in
July as the government shuts private mines to give larger state-
owned companies more control over pricing. It accounts for 97
percent of global supplies of rare earths, which are also used
in energy-saving devices and weapons systems.  “We expect China to maintain this kind of tight quota
policy for a while,” Kim said in a telephone interview
yesterday from Gwacheon, outside Seoul. “We plan to seek ways
to cooperate with countries beside China, like Japan and the
U.S., and see if we can jointly develop mines.”  South Korea  bought 2,655 metric tons of rare earths in
2009, almost all in processed materials, down from 7,398 tons in
2005, according to data from the ministry. Imports fell as
products that used the minerals, including cathode ray tube
televisions, grew outmoded and because companies switched to
substitutes such as steel and aluminum, Kim said.  Import Reliance  About 65 percent of South Korea’s rare-earth imports come
from China, and 28 percent from Japan, the ministry said. The
shipments, almost all of which are from processed materials,
made up 0.1 percent of South Korea’s imports of six key
“strategic minerals” including copper, coal and iron ore.  South Korea, reliant on imports for almost all its energy
and mineral needs, plans to increase rare-earth stockpiles 19-
fold to 1,200 tons in 2016, Kim said.  Japan said China halted shipments of rare earths last month
after a collision in disputed waters between a Chinese trawler
and the Japanese Coast Guard led to the fishing-boat captain’s
detention. Chief Cabinet Secretary  Yoshito Sengoku  said Oct. 20
that the import situation “hadn’t changed” weeks after the
captain’s release.  “As in the case between China and Japan, we expect
resources nationalism to continue,” Kim said. “Still, China
won’t be able to maintain this policy forever, given its
relatively low level of reprocessing technology.”  LG Display Co. , the world’s second-largest maker of liquid-
crystal displays, said it isn’t worried about a possible supply
shortage of rare earths.  “We are not using a huge amount, so it’s not a big issue
for us,” B.S. Lee, head of the company’s business support
center, told reporters yesterday in Seoul.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bomi Lim in Seoul at 
 blim30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Austin at 
 billaustin@bloomberg.net  