-- South African Minister Dismisses Criticism of State-Security Media Bill
-- B y   M i k e   C o h e n
-- 2010-10-22T10:54:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-22/south-african-state-security-minister-cwele-rejects-changes-to-media-bill.html
South African State Security
Minister Siyabonga Cwele dismissed criticism of a draft law to
protect state secrets, saying it complies with international
standards and is needed to safeguard national security.  The  Protection of Information Bill  proposes wide-ranging
powers for government officials to classify documents, and jail
sentences of as long as 25 years for anyone possessing them
without authorization. About 300 South African organizations and
thousands of individuals have joined the  Right2Know  campaign,
which opposes the bill on the grounds that it would violate
constitutional rights to free speech and hobble investigative
reporting and efforts to expose corruption.  The law’s critics “are basically of the view that South
Africa has no legitimate national security to protect,” Cwele
told lawmakers in Cape Town today. “Clearly this is far from
the truth. We are legislating for real problems and are not
seeking to cover up corruption.”  On Sept. 17, the government agreed to drop provisions in
the bill allowing documents to be classified on the basis that
they are in the “national interest” or to protect commercial
information.  Cwele today rejected calls for further amendments and
reiterated his opposition to the inclusion of a clause allowing
disclosure of secret information in the public interest. He also
dismissed calls for an independent body to oversee appeals
against the classification of information.  ‘Simply Reckless’  “To allow anyone to put national security information in
the public domain with a hope that such action may, in the
unlikely event, be deemed to be in the public interest would be
simply reckless,” he said. “Conceding to such a demand would
be tantamount to shredding this bill even before it becomes
law.”  A special parliament committee is currently debating the
legislation and will decide whether further changes are
necessary. The committee will take all objections to the law
into account and ensure it complies with the Constitution, its
chairman, Cecil Burgess, said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mike Cohen  in Cape Town at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net . 