-- South African Bonds Extend Weekly Decline as Rate Cut Speculation Fades
-- B y   G a r t h   T h e u n i s s e n
-- 2010-10-22T08:34:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-22/south-african-bonds-extend-weekly-decline-as-rate-cut-speculation-fades.html
South African bonds fell, pushing
yields to an almost two week high, as analysts continued to
reduce bets the central bank will lower its main interest rate
this year, reducing demand for assets paying a fixed return.  The benchmark 13.5 percent government security due
September 2015 declined for a fourth day, losing 21 cents to
125.33 rand by 10:11 a.m. in Johannesburg, raising the yield by
five basis points to 7.25 percent, the highest since Oct. 12.
That extended the biggest security’s biggest weekly slide since
the five days to Oct. 1.  Policy makers aren’t “soft on inflation” and a rate cut
shouldn’t “necessarily” be expected when the bank announces
its next decision on Nov. 18,  Reserve Bank  Governor  Gill Marcus 
was quoted as saying in an interview published yesterday in the
Financial Mail. The comments prompted a spike in money market
rates after they dropped to a record low at the start of the
week on speculation rates could be lowered.  “We’ve got some mixed signals coming through -- on the one
hand inflation is positive for bonds but on the other side there
are signs that the economy isn’t as weak as people thought,”
 Deon van Zyl , head of fixed-interest investment at Metropolitan
Asset Managers in Cape Town, said by telephone. “We’re very
close to the bottom of the rate cycle but it’s really going to
depend on what the data does from here that’ll determine what
the central bank does.”  South Africa’s monetary policy makers have lowered their
benchmark interest rate eight times since December 2008 to a
 record low 6 percent  to stimulate the economy. That still
compares with near-zero rates in developed nations, encouraging
investors to borrow cheaply in nations including the U.S. and
Japan and invest in higher-yielding emerging markets.  ‘Low Point’  The strategy, known as the carry trade, helped the rand to
surge more than 35 percent against the dollar since the start of
2009, reducing the cost of imported oil and helping to keep
inflation within the 3 percent to 6 percent target range since
February.  Inflation  slowed to an annual 3.5 percent in August.  Policy makers “should be focused on the data” and may
change their minds on interest rates “if the data changes,”
the Financial Mail quoted Marcus as saying. “We think this is a
low point in interest rates -- unless something happens,”
Marcus told the Johannesburg-based weekly magazine.  The rand weakened for a second day, losing 0.2 percent to
6.9612 per dollar, from a close of 6.9443 yesterday.  FRAs, or forward-rates agreements, showed money-market
investors reduced bets the  Reserve Bank  will lower its benchmark
rate when it announces its next decision next month. The cost of
 three-month contracts for cash in three months  rose one basis
point to 5.785 percent. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  The so-called 3x6 FRA fell to a record low of 5.69 percent
on Oct. 18.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Garth Theunissen  in Johannesburg 
 gtheunissen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  