-- Southeast Asia Floods Kill More Than 100 People, Damage Rice, Coffee Crops
-- B y   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e
-- 2010-10-22T09:10:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-22/southeast-asia-floods-kill-more-than-100-people-damage-rice-coffee-crops.html
Cyclones and higher-than-normal
monsoon rains have deluged parts of  Southeast Asia  this month,
killing more than 100 people and affecting millions in key rice-
producing regions.  The death toll from floods in central Vietnam rose to at
least 76, the Central Committee for Flood and Storm Control said
in a statement today. Rice and other crops were damaged as water
levels in rivers started to fall.  Thailand’s worst flooding in five decades has spread to a
third of the country, leaving 17 dead and one person missing
over the past two weeks as the monsoon season nears its end, the
Department of Disaster Prevention and Mitigation said today. At
least 1.3 million Thais have been affected and sections of 17
major roads have been closed.  “As long as no more cyclones come this way, we might be
safe for the rest of the season,” said Stefan Kuhne-Hellmessen,
Bangkok-based program coordinator for the  International
Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies , which has
given food and water purification kits to affected people.  Wet weather in Asia is hurting the harvesting of rice and
coffee beans as governments seek to bring relief to those
displaced by rising waters. The flooding adds to storms earlier
this year in Pakistan and the Philippines that cut supplies.  Thailand, the world’s biggest rice exporter, may cut
production from the nation’s main crop by as much as 20 percent,
likely extending a rally in prices, Thai Rice Mills Association
said two days ago. Flooding damaged 1.7 million rai (0.7 million
acres) of farmland, including 1.3 million rai of rice, according
to Farm Minister  Theera Wongsamut .  Coffee Production Suffers  Robusta coffee gained as the government of Vietnam, the
world’s biggest producer of the variety, worked to ease the
fallout in the central region where production has suffered.
Robusta, used in instant coffee, is harvested mostly in Asia and
parts of Africa.  In Cambodia, eight people have died in floods that caused
an estimated $70 million in damage and destroyed rice crops,
Xinhua reported, citing local reports. Myanmar authorities, who
earlier evacuated 11,000 people to relief camps as high waters
damaged roads and railways, is bracing for Tropical Cyclone Giri.  Thai Prime Minister Abhisit Vejjajiva warned that water
from the nation’s north will reach Bangkok within the next week,
coinciding with an expected rise in sea levels. The capital is
prone to seasonal flooding because much of the city of more than
6 million people sits less than 2 meters above sea level.  A La Nina weather event this year has brought heavier-than-
usual rainfall to parts of Australia and Asia.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Daniel Ten Kate  in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Austin at   billaustin@bloomberg.net  