-- Soybeans Fall as U.S. Livestock Producers Balk at Highest Prices in a Year
-- B y   J e f f   W i l s o n
-- 2010-10-22T20:19:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-22/soybeans-fall-as-u-s-livestock-producers-balk-at-highest-prices-in-a-year.html
Soybeans fell for a second straight
day, paring this week’s gain, on speculation that U.S. livestock
producers will curb purchases of soy-based livestock feed.  The profit margin for processors on the January futures
contract has fallen 27 percent since Sept. 1, based on the cost
of a bushel of soybeans crushed to make feed and cooking oil.
Soybeans surged last week to a 16-month high of more than $12 a
bushel. The cash-market  hog  prices has fallen 18 percent in
seven weeks.  “Twelve-dollar soybeans don’t make a profit for hog 
producers,” said  Mike Zuzolo , the president of Global Commodity
Analytics & Consulting in Lafayette, Indiana. “Processor demand
should slow down next month.”  Soybean futures for January delivery fell 1.5 cents, or 0.1
percent, to close at $12.115 a bushel at 1:15 p.m. on the
Chicago Board of Trade. Yesterday, the price reached $12.35, the
highest level for a most-active contract since June 5, 2009.  For the week, the commodity advanced 1.3 percent, the third
straight gain, on rising Chinese demand for U.S. supplies.  In the week ended Oct. 14, U.S. soybean  sales  surged 85
percent to 2.02 million metric tons from a week earlier, the
Department of Agriculture said yesterday. About 72 percent of
that total was to China. Since then, exporters reported sales of
1.38 million tons to China and unknown destinations, the agency
said. The U.S. is the world’s biggest grower and exporter.  “China is buying U.S. soybeans at a record pace, and that
probably won’t slow,” said  Joseph Vaclavik , a commodity broker
at Advantage Traders Group LLC  in Chicago.  Chinese  profit margins  on crushing soybeans have surge 79
percent in past year as livestock-feed demand rose, according to
data from Shanghai JC Intelligence Co.  “Chinese processors are making too much money to slow
imports,” Vaclavik said.  The soybean crop in the U.S. was valued at $31.8 billion
last year, second only to corn at $48.6 billion, government
figures show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jeff Wilson  in Chicago at 
 jwilson29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net . 