-- Soybeans Head for Third Weekly Gain on Speculation China to Sustain Buying
-- B y   T o n y   C .   D r e i b u s   a n d   L u z i   A n n   J a v i e r
-- 2010-10-22T13:01:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-22/soybeans-head-for-third-weekly-gain-on-speculation-china-to-sustain-buying.html
Soybeans rose in Chicago, heading
for a third weekly advance, on speculation that China will
sustain purchases as demand for cooking oil and livestock feed
expands in the world’s biggest importer.  U.S. soybean  sales  jumped 85 percent from a week earlier to
2.02 million metric tons in the week to Oct. 14, the U.S.
Department of Agriculture said yesterday. About 72 percent of
sales were to China, it said. Chinese imports may be 4.65
million tons this month, about the same as last month, the China
National Grain & Oils Information Center said yesterday.  “China’s voracious appetite for soybeans” is boosting
prices, said  Sudakshina Unnikrishnan , an analyst at Barclays
Capital in London. “Crushing margins remain in positive
territory, so that’s going to keep demand strong.”  Soybeans for January delivery added 6 cents, or 0.5
percent, to $12.19 a bushel at 1:14 p.m. London time on the
Chicago Board of Trade. The contract has climbed 1.9 percent
this week. Processors crush the oilseed to extract oil, and the
remaining meal is typically used to make animal feed.  China will increase imports by 23 percent this year, partly
to feed hogs as pork consumption rises, said  Roy Huckabay , an
executive vice president at the Linn Group in Chicago. Inbound
soybean shipments reached a record 50.5 million tons in the year
through September, up 28 percent from the prior period, USDA
data show.  ‘Strong Demand’  “What we’re seeing is strong demand for soybeans” from
China,  Jonathan Barratt , managing director at Commodity Broking
Services Pty, said by phone from Sydney. Any price declines
triggered by a stronger dollar will attract buyers, he said.
“We’ll add to positions” when soybeans drop to $12 a bushel,
he said.  The U.S. Dollar Index, a six-currency gauge of the
greenback’s strength, was little changed after climbing as much
as 0.4 percent. A stronger dollar makes crops priced in the
currency more expensive in terms of other monies and erodes
demand for commodities as an alternative investment.  May-delivery soybeans in Dalian fell 0.3 percent to 4,301
yuan ($646) a ton, the equivalent of about 1.4 tons of soybeans
at Chicago  prices , according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Wheat for December delivery rose 2.5 cents, or 0.4 percent,
to $6.7125 a bushel. The price has lost 4.7 this week on wet
weather in the U.S. southern Great Plains. Export sales from the
U.S. jumped 52 percent to 574,000 tons in the week to Oct. 14,
the USDA said.  Milling Wheat, Corn  Milling wheat for January delivery traded on NYSE Liffe in
Paris rose 50 cents, or 0.2 percent, to 207.75 euros ($289.45) a
ton.  Corn gained in Chicago even after the USDA said yesterday
export sales fell 77 percent to 212,500 tons in the week to Oct.
14, about 72 percent less than the five-year average.  “The fundamentals still remain constructive,” said
Unnikrishnan of Barclays. “Prices will be choppy around these
levels, but the fundamental outlook remains quite positive.”  Corn for December delivery rose 1.25 cents, or 0.2 percent,
to $5.655 a bushel. The price has gained 0.4 percent this week,
heading for a third weekly advance in a row. Most of the gains
came on Oct. 20 when the commodity jumped 5 percent.  Rice for January delivery added 9 cents, or 0.6 percent, to
$14.51 per 100 pounds. Prices are on course for a ninth weekly
gain, the longest such rally since a streak that ended in August
2003. The most-active contract by open interest rose for a ninth
session.  Rice Inventories  Stockpiles held by the world’s five biggest exporters will
likely decline in 2011 as they boost shipments this year,
tightening global supply and supporting prices,  Concepcion Calpe , senior economist at the United Nations’ Food and
Agriculture Organization, said from Rome on Oct. 20.  “The rally was driven by news on worries over declining
supplies,” Chookiat Ophaswongse, former president of the Thai
Rice Exporters Association, said in a phone interview.  Hot weather was forecast to curb yields in the U.S., the
world’s fourth-largest shipper last year, the National Weather
Service said. At the same time, excess rains and flooding hurt
rice crops in Thailand and Vietnam, the two largest exporters,
and the Philippines, the biggest buyer.  Crop damage in those countries comes amid production losses
in Pakistan, the third-largest exporter last year, where floods
destroyed 2.39 million tons of rice, Farm Minister  Nazar Muhammad Gondal  said on Sept. 28.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Luzi Ann Javier  in Singapore at 
 ljavier@bloomberg.net ;
 Tony C. Dreibus  in London at 
 tdreibus@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 