-- Spain's Bankinter Says Profit Plunges on Lending Income Slump
-- B y   C h a r l e s   P e n t y
-- 2010-10-22T12:24:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-22/spain-s-bankinter-says-profit-plunges-on-lending-income-slump.html
Bankinter  SA, the Spanish bank that
yesterday changed management, said third-quarter profit fell 34
percent as lending revenue declined.  Net income dropped to 43.8 million euros ($61 million) from
66.2 million euros a year ago, the Madrid-based lender said in a
filing to regulators today. Earnings compare with the average
39.9 million-euro result in a Bloomberg  survey .  Bankinter, which does two-thirds of its lending for home
loans, is fighting a decline in profit as it re-prices loans to
reflect a plunge in interest rates while its own funding costs
stay high. The bank said yesterday that  Jaime Echegoyen , its
 chief executive officer  for the past eight years, would step
down and that Vice-Chairman  Alfonso Botin  would assume executive
responsibility for strategy.  Net interest income plunged 40 percent to 128.1 million
euros from 215 million euros a year ago, the bank said.  Lending 
to clients climbed 5.1 percent from a year ago to 41.7 billion
euros as customer deposits rose 5.7 percent to 22.9 billion
euros.  Bad loans as a proportion of total lending rose to 2.77
percent from 2.69 percent in June and 2.22 percent a year ago,
the bank said.  Yesterday, Bankinter said  Maria Dolores Dancausa ,
previously head of its Linea Directa insurance unit, would take
over from Echegoyen as CEO. Alfonso Botin is the son of  Jaime Botin , the brother of  Emilio Botin , chairman of Banco Santander
SA.  Echegoyen said today at a news conference in Madrid he had
decided to leave Bankinter of his own accord and had no plans to
immediately take up an executive post in another lender. He said
he thought Bankinter would play an “active” rather than a
passive role in any further restructuring of Spain’s banking
industry.  “I do have a plan, which is to go home and have a period
of calm,” Echegoyen said. He said he wasn’t the sort of person
who would be found “working for the competition tomorrow.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Charles Penty  in Madrid at 
 cpenty@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly   fconnelly@bloomberg.net . 