-- Spansion Loses Ruling in Samsung Flash-Memory Case
-- B y   M a r k   D r a j e m   a n d   S u s a n   D e c k e r
-- 2010-10-22T20:20:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-22/spansion-loses-ruling-in-samsung-flash-memory-case-update1-.html
Spansion Inc.  lost a patent-
infringement ruling in its efforts to block imports of devices
that contain  Samsung Electronics Co.  flash-memory chips.  Samsung didn’t violate Spansion patent rights, U.S.
International Trade Commission Judge  Charles Bullock  found,
according to an agency website  posting  today. The decision is
subject to review by the full six-member commission.  A ruling in Spansion’s favor may have led to an order
banning products with Samsung chips, including Research In
Motion Ltd.’s BlackBerry devices and Lenovo Group Ltd.
computers. Spansion claimed that Suwon, South Korea-based
Samsung infringed its patent on flash memory, used to store
images and music on portable electronics, to “unjustly enrich
Samsung by many hundreds of millions of dollars.”  Spansion  dropped  $1.24, or 6.4 percent, to $18.14 at 4:15
p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares
have fallen 4.6 percent  this year .  “We are disappointed in the judge’s ruling,” Michele
Landry, a spokeswoman for Sunnyvale, California-based Spansion,
said in an e-mailed statement. “However, this is only a first
step in the decision process.”  “We will continue to fight any violations of our
technology patents,” she said. The company said it has four
other patent-infringement lawsuits filed against Samsung in
August at the ITC in Washington.  Samsung had no comment on the ruling, according to a
spokeswoman,  Chris Goodhart .  Scuttled Settlement  Samsung, Asia’s biggest maker of semiconductors, had agreed
in 2009 to pay Spansion $70 million to end the dispute. That
agreement was rejected by a U.S. judge who was presiding over
Spansion’s bankruptcy. Spansion, a former unit of Advanced Micro
Devices Inc., filed for Chapter 11 protection from creditors in
March 2009, and emerged from bankruptcy in May 2010.  Samsung has patent-infringement claims against Spansion at
the ITC, and a trial is scheduled to be held in December,
according to information on the ITC’s website.  Today’s case is In the Matter of Certain Flash Memory Chips
and Products Containing the Same, 337-664, U.S. International
Trade Commission (Washington).  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Susan Decker  in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net ;
 Mark Drajem  in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net . 