-- State Street to Purchase Bank of Ireland Asset Management for $79 Million
-- B y   J o e   B r e n n a n   a n d   C h r i s t o p h e r   C o n d o n
-- 2010-10-22T15:23:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-22/state-street-to-purchase-bank-of-ireland-asset-management-for-79-million.html
State Street Corp., the world’s
second-biggest money manager for institutions, agreed to buy
Bank of Ireland’s investment-management business, expanding its
actively managed assets by 36 percent.  The purchase, for 57 million euros ($79.3 million), of
Dublin-based Bank of Ireland Asset Management adds about $36
billion of assets, Boston-based State Street said in a statement
today. The company manages $1.9 trillion for clients, mostly in
investments that passively track indexes.  The European Commission ordered the sale of BIAM, where
assets under management have fallen from a peak of 57.5 billion
euros in 2004, as a condition of approving a government bailout
of Bank of Ireland last year. BIAM is primarily an active
manager, while State Street is the second-biggest U.S. provider
of index-based investments after New York-based  BlackRock Inc .  “Our passive business is the hallmark of our firm, but
we’re also focused on continuing to build our active
strategies,”  Scott Powers , chief executive officer of State
Street Global Advisors, the company’s fund unit, said in a
telephone interview.  Greg Ehret , the division’s head of Europe, Middle East and
Africa, said the company is interested in additional deals.  “Acquisitions, if they are additive to our capabilities,
that is really what we are looking for,” he said in a telephone
interview.  BIAM has 500 clients, mostly Ireland-based institutions. It
invests a majority of its assets in equities.  Expansion Sought  Powers said he hoped to expand BIAM’s client base
worldwide, especially with the firm’s active global equities
investment strategies.  “We have strong relationships with clients that we see
allocating assets to fundamental-driven, active and global
equity strategies,” Powers said.  The BIAM Global Equity Spotlight Fund with 108 million
euros, the retail version of a larger institutional strategy,
returned 12 percent in the past year, beating 80 percent of
rival funds.  State Street Global Advisors is expected to close the
purchase by the end of the first quarter. The price includes 14
million euros of net BIAM assets, the statement said.  More than 120 BIAM employees are expected to join the U.S.
company in Dublin.  Chris Johns , interim CEO and chief investment
officer of BIAM, will be named SSGA’s chief investment officer
for fundamental active equities, the statement said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joe Brennan  at   jbrennan29@bloomberg.net ;
 Christopher Condon  in Boston at 
 ccondon4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  