-- Stifel Financial Hires Cowen's Declan Quirke to Head Health-Care Banking
-- B y   J e f f   K e a r n s   a n d   S a s h a   D a m o u n i
-- 2010-10-22T12:25:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-22/stifel-financial-hires-cowen-s-declan-quirke-to-head-health-care-banking.html
Stifel Financial Corp. , the
brokerage that bought Thomas Weisel Partners Group Inc. in July,
hired  Cowen Group Inc. ’s head of health-care banking.  Declan Quirke  joined St. Louis-based Stifel this month
after nine years at New York-based  Cowen , according to Financial
Industry Regulatory Authority  data . He is based in New York,
Finra data show.  Stifel ranks 54th among merger and acquisition advisers
this year and 51st for underwriting U.S. debt, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Cowen is tied for 195th for mergers and
wasn’t ranked for debt. Cowen shares have plunged 42 percent in
2010, while Stifel has fallen 21 percent.  Quirke was asked to leave Cowen, said  Dan Gagnier , a
spokesman for the company at Sard Verbinnen & Co., a public-
relations firm.  Sarah Anderson , a spokeswoman for Stifel in San
Francisco, wouldn’t comment. Quirke and Stifel Chairman and
Chief Executive Officer  Ron Kruszewski  didn’t return phone
messages left at their offices.  Stifel’s hire follows its purchase this year of San
Francisco-based Thomas Weisel to expand investment banking. The
deal will help Stifel add clients in the technology and health-
care industries, the firm said.  Quirke was named head of health-care investment banking at
Cowen earlier this year, according to a March 4 statement from
the firm. He joined the company from Robertson Stephens in 2001
as a managing director and head of health care mergers and
acquisitions, according to a statement in May of that year.  Cowen, the company bought by Ramius LLC last year, said
yesterday that it promoted  Jeffrey Solomon  to head of investment
banking and  Kevin Reynolds  to head of capital markets.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jeff Kearns  in New York at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net ;
 Sasha Damouni  in New York at 
 Sdamouni2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 