-- Sukuk Spreads in Gulf Widen Most in Five Months on Supply: Islamic Finance
-- B y   K h a l i d   Q a y u m   a n d   S o r a y a   P e r m a t a s a r i
-- 2010-10-22T07:26:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-22/sukuk-spreads-in-gulf-widen-most-in-five-months-on-supply-islamic-finance.html
Spreads on Persian Gulf Islamic
bonds widened by the most in five months this week as investors
sold sukuk with lower debt ratings to raise funds for new
issuance from state-backed banks.  The difference between average yields over the London
interbank offered rate widened 41 basis points to 481, the
biggest increase since the week ended May 21, according to the
 HSBC/NASDAQ Dubai GCC US Dollar Sukuk Index , which tracks 19
corporate and sovereign bonds. The spread on global Islamic debt
rose 23 basis points to 377, the  HSBC/NASDAQ US Dollar Sukuk
Index  shows.  Global investors are demanding higher yields for emerging-
market debt after China’s interest-rate increase on Oct. 19
reduced appetite for risk, said  Shera Shah Shaharudin , a Kuala
Lumpur-based fixed-income portfolio manager at Nomura Asset
Management Malaysia Sdn. The yield premium on bonds in
developing economies over U.S. Treasuries widened 12 basis
points this week to 259, according to the  JPMorgan Chase & Co.
EMBI+ Index.   “In a risk-averse situation, investors switch from lower-
rated assets to safe havens,” Shera said in an e-mailed reply
to questions yesterday. “The huge influx of supply will have an
impact on overall prices, especially in the short term.”  Sukuk sales are picking up after Dubai World reached an
agreement with creditors to restructure $24.9 billion of
liabilities last month. Companies in the six countries that make
up the Gulf Cooperation Council have issued $1.25 billion since
the announcement on Sept. 10, which will bring the total for the
year to $3.7 billion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Temporary Decline  Abu Dhabi Islamic Bank PJSC , the United Arab Emirates’
second-biggest Shariah-compliant lender, is meeting investors
this week to sell debt that complies with religious principles.
The lender is rated A2 by Moody’s Investors Service, the sixth-
highest investment grade. Islamic Development Bank, a Jeddah-
based multilateral lender that has a top AAA rating from
Standard & Poor’s, sold $500 million of five-year sukuk Oct. 20.  “People sold and are keeping powder dry for the new
issuance,”  Abdul Kadir Hussain , who manages $2 billion of
mainly Persian Gulf assets as chief executive officer at Mashreq
Capital DIFC Ltd. in Dubai, said in an interview yesterday. “I
suspect you’ll see a reversal in the sell-off in a couple of
weeks.”  Sukuk yields on debt of DP World, the world’s fourth-
biggest container port operator, the Dubai government and Dar Al
Arkan Real Estate Development Co., Saudi Arabia’s largest
property company by market value, rose this week after the
higher-rated debt issues.  Diversify Holdings  The yield on the 6.25 percent dollar-denominated sukuk from
DP World due in July 2017 climbed 43 basis points to 6.96
percent this week, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
rate on Dubai Department of Finance’s 6.396 percent note due in
November 2014 increased 26 basis points to 6.37 percent. The
yield on Dar Al Arkan Real Estate’s debt rose 60 basis points to
11.12 percent.  DP World is rated BB by S&P, while Dar Al Arkan has a BB-
rating, both non-investment grades.  Qatar Islamic Bank SAQ, the country’s largest Shariah-
compliant bank that isn’t rated by S&P or Moody’s, received $6
billion in bids as it raised $750 million selling five-year
Islamic bonds on Sept. 30.  “There’s not much highly rated sukuk out there and as a
portfolio manager you need to diversify,” said  Zeid Ayer  at
Kuala Lumpur-based CIMB-Principal Islamic Asset Management Bhd.,
who helps manage $1.6 billion of Shariah-compliant assets at the
joint venture between U.S.-based Principal Global Investors and
Malaysia’s CIMB Group Holdings Bhd.  ‘Spectacular Run’  Shariah-compliant bonds returned 11.7 percent this year,
according to the  HSBC/NASDAQ Dubai US Dollar Sukuk Index , while
Islamic notes sold by issuers from the GCC have returned 12
percent, according to the  HSBC/NASDAQ Dubai GCC US Dollar Sukuk
Index . Debt in developing markets gained 15.8 percent, JPMorgan
Chase & Co.’s  EMBI Global Diversified Index  shows.  “Dubai-related issuers had a spectacular run of late and
we saw a few names give away some of their gains on account of
profit-taking and reducing exposure to risk,”  Ahmad Alanani ,
the Dubai-based director of fixed-income sales at investment
bank Exotix Ltd., said in an interview yesterday. “The bottom
line is we saw a sell-off across the spectrum this week.”  The yield on Malaysia’s 3.928 percent Islamic dollar note
due in June 2015 fell eight basis points to 2.47 percent this
week, according to prices provided by Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc. The extra yield investors demand to hold Dubai’s
sukuk rather than Malaysia’s has widened 31 basis points to 384
so far this week, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “You would still get a wider spread if you buy sukuk, not
in Malaysia but certainly in the Gulf,” said Zeid of CIMB-
Principal. “There’s been a lot of supply which appeared to be
well absorbed but investors are now taking profits.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Khalid Qayum  in Singapore 
 kqayum@bloomberg.net ;
 Soraya Permatasari  in Kuala Lumpur at 
 soraya@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at   shendry@bloomberg.net . 