-- Swap-Rate Wagers Push `Steepener' Structured-Note Sales to Three-Year High
-- B y   S a r f r a z   T h i n d
-- 2010-10-22T10:18:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-22/swap-rate-wagers-push-steepener-structured-note-sales-to-three-year-high.html
Speculation that longer-term
borrowing costs will rise faster than short-term rates is
driving global sales of so-called steepener notes to the highest
since 2007.  Sales of the structured notes jumped to $3.7 billion this
year, from $2.6 billion last year, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Issuance increased the most in the U.S. where banks
sold $1.4 billion of steepeners, the biggest amount since 2005
when offerings totalled $16 billion.  The securities pay returns based on the spread between
interest-rate swaps with different maturities, benefiting when
the gap increases. The spread between two- and 30-year euro
swaps has widened 5 basis points in the past two months to 1.39
percent. The gap is still below this year’s peak of 2.34 percent
in May and the 12-month average of 1.98 percent.  “We have been issuing the 30-year, two-year swap steepener
products on a regular basis, usually one or two of these per
quarter,” said  Marco Kleweken , an interest-rate structurer at
West LB. The Dusseldorf-based bank is the biggest issuer of
steepeners this year, accounting for 1 billion euros ($1.4
billion) of sales, mostly to retail investors in Germany.  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc sold 150 million euros of
10-year steepeners in June, Europe’s biggest deal this year. The
notes pay a coupon of 8 percent in the first two years, then
three times the difference between the 10-year euro swap rate
and the two-year euro swap rate for the remaining term. The
notes are targeted at Italian retail investors, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Retail investors think differently from institutions,”
said  Nicola Francia , head of public distribution for Italy at
RBS. “They look more to the expected coupons, the fixed rate
and the floor that you get on these notes. In terms of research
you can probably find both scenarios, both flattening and
steepening, depending from the view on the economic scenario.”  Flatter Spread  The spread between two- and 10-year euro swaps has
increased 14 basis points since August to 1.217 percent, though
it’s still down from this year’s peak of 1.947 percent in May
and the 12-month average of 1.62 percent.  Rate strategists expect the gap to narrow further as
investors seek the relatively high yields of longer-maturity
assets amid expectations inflation will stay low. Short-term
rates are more sensitive to changes in interest rates than
longer ones, which are hurt by inflation.  Two-year euro swap rates, currently 1.5745 percent, will
climb 175 basis points to 3.3282 percent by 2015, according to
swap forward rates. The 10-year rate of 2.781 percent will rise
93 basis points to 3.706 percent in the same period.  Well-Anchored  Regulators’ pressure for banks to hold more liquid assets
may spur demand for long-dated government bonds, which is likely
to push longer yields down further, according to  David Schnautz ,
fixed-income strategist at Commerzbank AG in London.  “The short-end of the curve is well-anchored,” Schnautz
said. “Yields on the 10-year are structurally low and likely to
stay this way for longer.”  Sales of steepener notes plunged in 2008 when short-term
euro swap rates jumped above longer rates, or inverted, amid
speculation central banks would lift borrowing costs to counter
the threat of inflation.  Structuring a note that benefits from a flattening yield
curve is difficult to replicate in a retail product and the
payout wouldn’t be very attractive, said Francia at RBS.  Steepeners may become less popular because of the
difficulty for banks in hedging the deals, said  Deryk Rhodes ,
senior vice president at Newbridge Securities Corp. in Fort
Lauderdale, Florida.  “These trades are hard to hedge and a lot of banks are
full on risk,” said Rhodes. “Banks already got hurt on these
deals at the beginning of the year, particularly on the 10s/30s
a lot of exotic desks lost money on these. It has been hard to
model these trades.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sarfraz Thind  in London at 
 Sthind3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Armstrong at 
 Parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  