-- Swiss Banks May Leave Some Markets to Reduce Cross-Border Risks
-- B y   W a r r e n   G i l e s
-- 2010-10-22T12:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-22/swiss-banks-may-leave-some-markets-to-reduce-cross-border-risks.html
Swiss banks, the biggest managers of
offshore wealth, may withdraw from some markets to counter the
risks posed by cross-border clients, the country’s financial
regulator said.  “The legal and reputational risks associated with cross-
border financial services have increased markedly in recent
years,” the  Financial Markets Regulatory Authority , or Finma,
wrote today in a  report . “They could threaten the continued
existence of some institutions and have a destabilizing effect
on the economy.”  Swiss banks, which manage about 27 percent of the world’s
cross-border wealth, must take measures to “mitigate or
eliminate risk,” Finma said. That may mean withdrawing services
from certain markets or categories of clients, it said.  Switzerland agreed in March 2009 to work with countries
investigating tax evasion to avoid being blacklisted as a tax
haven. That followed attacks on secrecy and an agreement by the
nation’s biggest bank, UBS AG, to pay $780 million to avoid
prosecution for helping wealthy Americans evade taxes.  Applying Finma’s recommendations will involve
“considerable effort and cost,”  Urs Zulauf , the regulator’s
general counsel, told reporters in Geneva. “A lot of the banks
do something already, but to differing degrees.”  Failure to respect the recommendations may lead to a bank
losing its license, he said. Banks and insurers with both
onshore and offshore businesses in the same market are
especially vulnerable, the regulator wrote.  Mitigating Risks  Credit Suisse Group AG , Switzerland’s second-biggest bank,
supplies its private bankers with guidebooks on approaching new
clients and managing their money in each of the countries it
does business. The Zurich-based bank limited travel to Germany
in March after Switzerland’s northern neighbor started probing
cases of suspected tax evasion based on stolen client data.  UBS and Credit Suisse told American clients last year to
move their money into specially created units registered in the
U.S., or close their accounts. Wegelin & Co., the country’s
oldest private bank, told its clients last year to sell U.S.
assets or leave because of concern over tax liabilities and
reporting requirements.  Taking such steps is “regrettable but understandable given
the risks and costs,” said Zulauf.  The burden of complying with regulations in different
markets may lead to greater specialization and mergers among
private banks, Zulauf said.  “All these measures have a cost which will, sadly, be
greater for smaller institutions,” Zulauf said. “That means
there will inevitably be more pressure and consolidation within
the wealth management industry.”  Outsourcing Insufficient  The regulator said that outsourcing the management of
clients’ funds to independent asset managers while keeping the
money in custody isn’t enough to mitigate the risk.  Switzerland treats tax evasion as a civil offense,
punishable by fines, and tax fraud as a crime. Under Swiss
commitments to the Organization for Economic Cooperation and
Development, the country agreed to help foreign authorities
trace tax evaders.  While a foreign tax offense committed by a Swiss
institution or banker isn’t necessarily punishable in
Switzerland, the country’s highest court has said that’s “not
an absolute rule,” according to Finma.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Warren Giles  in Geneva at 
 wgiles@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  