-- U.S. IPOs Seeking to Raise Most Since July as Market Rebounds
-- B y   C e c i l e   V a n n u c c i   a n d   L e e   S p e a r s
-- 2010-10-23T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-22/u-s-ipos-seeking-to-raise-most-since-july-as-market-rebounds.html
Companies are seeking to raise at
least $1.1 billion through U.S. initial public offerings in the
new week, the most since July, after a rebound in stocks lifted
IPOs from Vera Bradley Inc. to  TAL Education Group .  First Wind Holdings Inc. , the Boston-based developer and
operator of wind energy projects backed by D.E. Shaw & Co., will
offer as much as $312 million in shares in the week’s biggest
deal, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Shanghai-based
online retailer  Mecox Lane Ltd.  and  Le Gaga Holdings Ltd. , a
Hong Kong-based vegetable producer, are selling shares after
Chinese companies accounted for six of the ten biggest gains
among U.S. IPOs this year.  IPOs rallied this week, with five of six offerings posting
gains of at least 13 percent in their first day of trading, as
the  Dow Jones Industrial Average  climbed above its highest close
since the month that New York-based Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc. collapsed in 2008. U.S. stocks have advanced in seven of
the past eight weeks as companies from  Citigroup Inc.  to Google
Inc. reported earnings that beat analysts’ estimates.  “The market is coming back quite strongly,” said  Josef Schuster , the Chicago-based founder of IPOX Capital Management
LLC, which oversees $3 billion. “Earnings are coming out quite
well, and underneath some of these recent IPOs is a relatively
strong earnings picture, and that’s driving” gains, he said.  First Wind’s IPO  First Wind , which operates projects selling power from New
England to California, will offer 12 million Class A shares for
$24 to $26 each on Oct. 27, according to filings with the
Securities and Exchange Commission and data compiled by
Bloomberg. The company will use the proceeds to help pay down
 debt  and fund project development, the filing showed.  Credit Suisse Group AG  of Zurich, New York-based Morgan
Stanley and Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Deutsche Bank AG in
Frankfurt are leading the IPO. D.E. Shaw, the New York-based
hedge-fund firm started by  David Shaw , will see its stake of
Class A shares reduced to 52 percent from 100 percent after the
sale, the SEC filing showed.  Mecox Lane  is offering 11.7 million American depositary
receipts at $8 to $10 each in an Oct. 25 sale led by Credit
Suisse and Zurich-based UBS AG.  Le Gaga  will sell 10.9 million
ADRs at $7.50 to $9.50 apiece on Oct. 28. Charlotte, North
Carolina-based Bank of America Corp. and UBS are arranging Le
Gaga’s sale.  Six Chinese companies have rallied at least 80 percent
after their IPOs this year. The country’s economy will grow 9.6
percent in 2011, according to estimates from the Washington-
based International Monetary Fund. That compares with 2.2
percent for developed nations and 2.3 percent for the U.S.  Gene Mapping  Pacific Biosciences of California Inc. , the Menlo Park,
California-based maker of gene-mapping systems, is seeking to
raise $213 million in an offering led by JPMorgan Chase & Co.
and Morgan Stanley in New York on Oct. 26, SEC filings show.  ExamWorks Group Inc. , the Atlanta-based provider of medical
legal services, is selling 10.3 million shares at $16 to $18
each on Oct. 27. Goldman Sachs, Credit Suisse and Barclays Plc
of London are leading the offering.  SeaCube Container Leasing Ltd. , the Park Ridge, New Jersey-
based container leasing company, may raise $135 million the same
day. JPMorgan and Citigroup in New York, Deutsche Bank and San
Francisco-based Wells Fargo & Co. are arranging the sale.  Vera Bradley , the Fort Wayne, Indiana-based maker of
women’s handbags, and TAL Education, which offers after-school
tutoring services in Beijing, led this week’s rally in IPOs,
climbing more than 50 percent in their first day of trading.
NetSpend Holdings Inc., the Austin, Texas-based provider of
reloadable prepaid debit cards, advanced 18 percent.  Lipid Disorders  Aegerion Pharmaceuticals Inc. , the Bridgewater, New Jersey-
based biopharmaceutical company that develops drugs treating
lipid disorders, advanced 14 percent yesterday after pricing 5
million shares at $9.50 each, SEC filings show. Aegerion was
originally offering 4.7 million for $14 to $16.  The share-price gains were a sign that the IPO market may
be rebounding after at least 54 companies withdrew or postponed
initial sales this year amid concern that the recovery from the
longest recession since the Great Depression was deteriorating.
No American company has raised more than $700 million in an
initial offering this year, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The  S&P 500  has rallied 16 percent from its 2010 low in
July as investors speculated the Federal Reserve will pump more
cash into the economy and earnings topped analyst estimates at
 86 percent  of the companies in the index that have reported
third-quarter results since Oct. 7.  Companies from  Smart Technologies Inc.  of Calgary to
RealD Inc., the Beverly Hills, California-based the maker of 3-D
movie projectors used to show  James Cameron’s  “Avatar,” raised a
combined $1.15 billion excluding overallotment options in the
week ended July 16, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Cecile Vannucci  in New York at 
 cvannucci1@bloomberg.net ;
 Lee Spears  in New York at 
 lspears3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net . 