-- U.S. Stocks Fluctuate as Earnings Offset Currency Concerns
-- B y   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 2010-10-22T19:14:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-22/u-s-stock-index-futures-fluctuate-amazon-drops-in-germany-sandisk-gains.html
U.S. stocks swung between gains and
losses as the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index headed for its third
straight weekly gain amid improving corporate earnings, which
helped offset uncertainty about global currency markets.  Schlumberger Ltd. , the oilfield services provider, jumped
4.8 percent as profit more than doubled.  T. Rowe Price Group Inc. 
rose 4.4 percent as the asset manager reported earnings that
beat analysts’ forecasts.  Verizon Communications Inc.  fell 1.6
percent as new monthly wireless contracts trailed some estimates.
 American Express Co.  slid 2.8 percent after saying it remains
“cautious” about its outlook for the economy.  Seven stocks gained for every six that fell on U.S.
exchanges. The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  added 0.1 percent to
1,181.67 at 3:11 p.m. in New York. The  Dow Jones Industrial
Average  slipped 28.54 points, or 0.3 percent, to 11,118.03.  “On the currency front, there’s nervousness about capital
controls in emerging markets,” said  Russ Koesterich , the San
Francisco-based head of investment strategy for scientific
active equities at  BlackRock Inc ., which oversees $3.45 trillion
as the world’s largest asset manager. “In addition to that,
you’ve had this huge move from the lows. You’ve already
discounted a lot of what’s likely to happen in terms of
quantitative easing and corporate earnings. We need more
catalysts at this point.”  The S&P 500 has risen as much as 16 percent from this
year’s low in July on better-than-expected corporate earnings
and expectations that the Federal Reserve will buy bonds to
stimulate the economy, a tactic known as quantitative easing.  Earnings Season  Of the 132 companies in the S&P 500 that reported results
since Oct. 7, more than 85 percent have topped analysts’ per-
share earnings estimates, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Analysts surveyed by Bloomberg predict 26 percent
growth in third-quarter profit from a year earlier for S&P 500
companies, the fourth straight quarterly increase.  Concern about the path of the U.S. dollar as the G-20 talks
conclude today weighed on the equity market, according to  Frank Ingarra , a Stamford, Connecticut-based money manager at  Hennessy
Advisors Inc .  “It’s a wait-and-see attitude,” said Ingarra, who helps
oversee about $900 million. “People are concerned about what
will come out of the G-20 meeting. We are seeing companies
beating estimates. However, there’s a lot of that baked into
prices. Also, we’ve had a big run-up in stocks and we’d need
bigger catalysts for a rally.”  G-20 finance ministers and central bankers are meeting in
Gyeongju, South Korea, after weeks of accusations that countries
from the U.S. to China risk sparking a trade war by relying on
weaker exchange rates to spur economic growth.  Dollar  The  dollar  was headed for its first weekly advance in six
weeks versus currencies including the euro and yen as Treasury
Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  suggested that G-20 members set
targets for reducing trade deficits.  The  Dollar Index,  which IntercontinentalExchange Inc. uses
to track the dollar against the currencies of six major U.S.
trading partners, has increased 0.6 percent since Oct. 15 in its
first weekly gain since rising 0.7 percent during the five days
ended Sept. 10.  Federal Reserve policy makers are improvising as they
debate embarking on a second round of unconventional monetary
stimulus, said  Alan Blinder , former vice chairman of the U.S.
central bank.  “They are making it up as they go along,” Blinder, a
Princeton University economist, said in an interview with
Bloomberg television’s “Surveillance Midday” with Tom Keene.  Earnings  U.S. stocks rose for a second day yesterday as higher-than-
estimated earnings from  EBay  Inc. to McDonald’s Corp. and a drop
in jobless claims helped offset a slump in financial companies
amid speculation that banks face more losses from bad mortgages.  “Earnings are coming in well,” said  Michael Mullaney , who
helps manage $9.5 billion at Fiduciary Trust Co. in Boston. “In
addition to that, there’s a lot of cash on the sidelines. We’re
muddling through. Even as we get a technical pullback, I still
see the market strong by year end.  Schlumberger jumped 4.8 percent to $67.39. Profit more than
doubled to $1.7 billion as an increase in onshore drilling in
the U.S. and Canada offset a slowdown in the Gulf of Mexico as a
result of the moratorium following the  BP Plc  spill.  T. Rowe Price gained 4.4 percent to $55. The asset manager
that hasn’t lost money since going public in 1986 said third-
quarter earnings climbed 27 percent, driven by rising markets
and growth in its retirement-related funds. The 64 cents- a-
share profit exceeded the average estimate by 4 cents.  Verizon, American Express  Verizon lost 1.6 percent to $31.99. The company added
584,000 new wireless customers on monthly contracts. That fell
short of the 625,000 that analyst  Tim Horan  at Oppenheimer & Co.
had forecast.  Simon Flannery , an analyst at Morgan Stanley,
estimated 665,000.  American Express slid 2.8 percent to $39.15, the biggest
decline in the Dow.  Riverbed Technology Inc . soared 19 percent to $54.53. The
maker of computer backup and networking equipment reported
third-quarter adjusted earnings of 34 cents a share, beating the
28-cent average analyst estimate. The company was raised to
“outperform” from “neutral” at Wedbush Securities Inc.  Caterpillar Inc. dropped 0.9 percent to $78.22. The world’s
largest maker of construction and mining equipment agreed to buy
MWM Holding GmbH from  3i Group Plc . Caterpillar will purchase
the Mannheim, Germany-based manufacturer of combustion engines
for 580 million euros ($806 million), the Peoria, Illinois-based
company and London-based 3i said today in a joint statement.  Separately, the stock was cut to “market perform” from
“outperform” at Raymond James Financial Inc.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rita Nazareth  in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net  