-- H&R Block Default Swaps Tumble After ‘Panic Selling’ Over Loans
-- B y   M a r y   C h i l d s
-- 2010-10-22T22:26:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-22/u-s-company-credit-risk-index-falls-as-earnings-beat-estimates.html
Credit-default swaps on debt issued
by H&R Block Inc. fell for the first time in almost two weeks as
investors wagered the “panic” over soured mortgages may be
overdone.  The annual cost to protect the bonds of Block Financial
LLC, which issues all of Kansas City, Missouri-based parent H&R
Block’s public corporate debt, for five years dropped 94.1 basis
points to 737.8 at 4:30 p.m. in New York, according to data from
CMA.  The contracts had more than doubled from 409.3 basis points
on Oct. 11 through yesterday, after investors speculated the
company’s $188 million repurchase reserves for potential losses
on faulty mortgages would be inadequate. The tax preparer, which
originated home mortgages through January 2008, may be forced to
buy back bonds if loans were sold based on false or missing
information.  The company “faces no near-term liquidity crunch,”
according to a report by  Kathleen Shanley , senior investment-
grade analyst at Gimme Credit LLC, about the quality of Block
Financial debt. “If we were already a holder, we’d be inclined
to wait and see if the market stabilizes, rather than adding to
what appears to be panic selling of this credit,” Shanley said.  One-year swaps on Block Financial fell 324.9 basis points
to 737.8, after trading higher than the five-year contracts
since Oct. 18, CMA data show.  Gimme Credit, an independent research service on corporate
bonds, maintained its “underperform” rating on the company’s
debt, the report said.  Bank Swaps  Today’s drop may be because of investors exiting bets that
the company’s contracts will rise, according to  Andrew Kuan ,
senior trader at Primus Asset Management in New York. The credit
swaps aren’t frequently traded, which amplifies moves in both
directions, he said.  Bank swaps also declined after jumping last week by the
most since May. Contracts on Bank of America Corp. fell 5.4
basis points to 199.2 and those on Wells Fargo & Co. slipped 5
basis points to 116.5, according to CMA. Morgan Stanley swaps
eased 6.9 basis points to 166.9 and those on Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. fell 5.3 basis points to 136.9, CMA prices show.  “Mortgage putbacks have moved to the back burner for
now,”  Michael Reiner , a credit strategist at Societe Generale,
wrote in a note today.  Credit-default swaps on the Markit CDX North America
Investment Grade Index, which investors use to hedge against
losses on corporate debt or to speculate on creditworthiness,
fell 0.8 basis point to a mid-price of 96.2 basis points,
according to index administrator Markit Group Ltd. The index
fell 2.7 basis points this week as corporate earnings came in
better than forecast.  Beating Expectations  “For the most part, the earnings are much better than
expected,” beating estimates by an average of about 10 percent
said  Mikhail Foux , credit strategist at Citigroup Inc.  Of the 132 companies in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
that reported results since Oct. 7, 86 percent have beaten
analysts’ per-share earnings estimates, according to  data
compiled by Bloomberg . Analysts surveyed by Bloomberg predict 26
percent growth in third-quarter profit from a year earlier for
S&P 500 companies, the fourth straight quarterly increase.  The U.S. credit-swap index, which typically falls as
investor confidence improves and rises as it deteriorates,
touched the lowest in more than five months Oct. 13 at 95.5
basis points. Lows on the index may mean less room to turn a
profit, according to Foux.  “The tighter we go, the closer we get to our yearend
targets -- they’re within spitting distance,” Foux said. “We
see less and less value in credit the more we rally.”  Reassigning Employees  Swaps on BellSouth Corp. eased, dropping 1 basis point to
41.3, while those on Dallas-based AT&T Inc. declined 2.1 basis
points to 35, CMA data show. AT&T, the largest U.S. phone
company reported earnings yesterday that matched analysts’
estimates as demand for Apple Inc.’s iPhone helped offset
revenue declines in the traditional landline business.  Contracts on News America Inc., a unit of New York-based
 News Corp. , jumped 1.4 basis points to 62.5, CMA data show,
after the Post Chronicle reported the owner of the Twentieth
Century Fox film studio and Fox News will reassign employees
working on an online-subscription project, after failing to
attract enough interest from other news organizations.  A Mexico-based mortgage and construction lender missed an
interest payment on Oct. 15, bringing the total number of global
corporate defaults this year to 69, according to a report by
Standard & Poor’s.  Credit swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails
to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A
basis point, 0.01 percentage point, equals $1,000 annually on a
contract protecting $10 million of debt.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mary Childs  in New York at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  