-- UBS Tax-Fraud Charge Is Dropped by U.S. Prosecutors
-- B y   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s
-- 2010-10-22T16:44:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-22/u-s-ends-ubs-deferred-prosecution-accord-in-conspiracy-case.html
The U.S. Justice Department
dismissed a landmark criminal case against  UBS AG  that prompted
the bank to admit it helped Americans evade taxes.  Prosecutors said today that Zurich-based UBS, the largest
 Swiss bank , complied with an 18-month agreement signed in
February 2009 to defer prosecution on a charge of conspiring to
defraud the U.S. by helping 17,000 Americans hide accounts from
the Internal Revenue Service.  As part of the agreement, UBS paid $780 million, admitted
fostering tax evasion from 2000 to 2007 and handed over account
data on more than 250 U.S. clients, piercing the veil of Swiss
bank secrecy. UBS later turned over information on 4,450 more
accounts. Prosecutors said UBS honored its pledge to end its
cross-border business and cooperate with the government.  “The United States agreed that if UBS AG fully complied
with all of its obligations,” the case would be dismissed,
Justice Department lawyers said in a motion in federal court in
Fort Lauderdale, Florida. “The United State believes that
dismissal is appropriate.”  Karina Byrne , a UBS spokeswoman, declined to comment.  The UBS case has been a centerpiece in a U.S. crackdown on
offshore tax evasion. Since the deferred-prosecution agreement,
the Justice Department has filed criminal charges against 17 UBS
clients in the U.S., two UBS bankers and three others accused of
aiding tax evasion. At least 150 other people are under criminal
investigation, the Justice Department has said.  ‘End of Secrecy’  “This case was the end of bank secrecy in Switzerland,”
said tax attorney  Robert Fink  of Kostelanetz & Fink LLP in New
York. “It was the most significant tax case as far as revenues
are concerned in U.S. history.”  One day after signing the deferred-prosecution agreement,
the U.S. sued the bank, seeking data on 52,000 Swiss accounts.
UBS settled that case in August 2009, agreeing to hand over as
many as 4,500 names to the Swiss government to review before
passing them to the IRS.  About 15,000 Americans also voluntarily reported secret
offshore bank accounts to the IRS last year, after the tax
agency offered to reduce certain penalties and not seek criminal
charges.  The criminal probe of UBS gained steamed in 2007 when a
former private banker,  Bradley Birkenfeld , told U.S. authorities
how he and his colleagues came to the U.S. to woo rich
Americans, managed $20 billion of their assets, and helped them
cheat the IRS. Birkenfeld, who pleaded guilty after being
indicted, is serving a 40-month prison term.  UBS Payments  In settling the criminal probe, UBS paid $380 million to
disgorge  profits  from its cross-border business from 2001 to
2008, and $400 million in interest, penalties and restitution
for unpaid taxes.  Prosecutors said UBS earned $200 million a year managing
$20 billion a year in assets for American customers. UBS
admitted that as many as 60 Swiss-based private bankers came to
the U.S. annually to seek clients and help them set up sham
offshore companies in tax havens including Panama, Hong Kong and
the British Virgin Islands.  When the deferred-prosecution agreement was announced,
then-Chairman  Peter Kurer  said UBS “sincerely regrets” the
compliance failures.  “Client confidentiality, to which UBS remains committed,
was never designed to protect fraudulent acts or the identity of
those clients, who, with the active assistance of bank
personnel, misused the confidentiality protections,” he said.  The case is U.S. v. UBS AG, 09-cr-60033, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of Florida (Fort Lauderdale).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Voreacos  in Newark, New Jersey, at 
 dvoreacos@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 