-- UBS Appoints Miskovic as Chief Risk Officer, Lofts as CEO of the Americas
-- B y   E l e n a   L o g u t e n k o v a
-- 2010-10-22T10:21:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-22/ubs-names-philip-lofts-as-ceo-group-americas.html
UBS AG , Switzerland’s largest bank,
hired  Maureen Miskovic  as chief risk officer, the first woman to
join its 13-member group executive board.  Miskovic will replace  Philip Lofts , who was named chief
executive officer for the Americas, starting in January, the
Zurich-based bank said in a statement today.  Robert Wolf , who
has headed the Americas since 2007, will remain chairman of the
region and president of the investment bank, it said.  UBS has 36 percent of its more than 63,000 employees in the
Americas and generated 41 percent of its  revenue  in the U.S last
year. The bank, which escaped a U.S. criminal indictment in 2009
on charges of helping Americans evade taxes, hired  Robert J. McCann  to run its wealth management Americas unit a year ago to
boost profitability and stem client redemptions.  “Given the importance of the Americas region, which has
the largest concentration of UBS employees and is the world’s
largest wealth-management market and investment-banking fee
pool, we decided to broaden our senior leadership team,”  Oswald Gruebel , UBS’s 66-year-old CEO, said in the statement. The goal
is to “provide the momentum necessary to develop key areas in
the U.S., Canada and Latin America.”  State Street, Lehman  Lofts, 48, has been with UBS for more than 20 years and
took the post of chief risk officer in November 2008. Before
that, he worked for the investment bank in various business and
risk control positions in Europe, Asia Pacific and the U.S.  Miskovic, 53, was the chief risk officer of Boston-based  
State Street Corp.  until March. From 2002 to 2007 she chaired 
Eurasia Group, a New York-based political risk research and 
consulting company, and was the chief risk officer for Lehman 
Brothers Holdings Inc. between 1996 and 2002. She was the 
European treasurer for New York-based  Morgan Stanley  for a year
before that, and the group risk manager and treasurer for SG 
Warburg & Co. between 1988 and 1995.  Wolf, 48, will focus on client relationships and lead UBS’s
efforts in public policy in Washington, the bank said.  UBS accumulated more than $57 billion of writedowns and
credit losses during the financial crisis after amassing
holdings in U.S. subprime mortgage-related debt that collapsed
in value, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Switzerland rescued
UBS in 2008, investing 6 billion francs to help the bank spin
off $39 billion of toxic assets into a Swiss central bank fund.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Elena Logutenkova  in Zurich at 
 elogutenkova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net ; 