-- Hudson Tunnel May Cost $12.7 Billion, U.S. Transportation Secretary Says
-- B y   A n g e l a   G r e i l i n g   K e a n e   a n d   T e r r e n c e   D o p p
-- 2010-10-22T21:46:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-22/hudson-rail-tunnel-cost-estimated-at-9-8-billion-to-12-7-billion-by-u-s-.html
A commuter-rail tunnel between New
Jersey and Manhattan will cost $9.8 billion to $12.7 billion,
U.S. Transportation Secretary  Ray LaHood  said today.  New Jersey  Governor  Chris Christie  halted the Hudson River
tunnel project known as Access to the Region’s Core on Oct. 7,
saying the original $8.7 billion projected cost might have
reached $14 billion and the state couldn’t afford it. Christie,
a first-term Republican, then agreed at LaHood’s request to
delay a final decision.  “Secretary LaHood confirmed today what we knew two weeks
ago -- the ARC Tunnel project is over budget and puts New Jersey
taxpayers at risk of being saddled with billions of dollars in
added costs,” Christie’s spokesman,  Michael Drewniak , said in
an e-mailed statement.  The governor “is not willing to saddle New Jersey
taxpayers with a public-works project with such a large,
indeterminate cost-overrun projection with no way to fund it,”
he said. Drewniak said the governor will decide next week
whether to cancel the project.  The low-end range of the cost to build the 8.8-mile (14.2-
kilometer) path under the Hudson River is $9.775 billion; the
mid-range estimate is $10.9 billion and the high end is $12.7
billion, LaHood said in the statement.  Finding a Way  LaHood said the most recent projections don’t include $775
million to build a second span of the Portal Bridge, an aging
structure leading to the current tunnel. The federal government
will “discuss with New Jersey officials the simultaneous
construction” of a bridge, he said.  “We are committed to continuing the constructive dialogue
we have had for the last two weeks with New Jersey officials to
find a way to move forward on the  ARC tunnel project , which will
double commuter-train capacity between New Jersey and New
York,” LaHood said in an e-mailed statement.  He said his agency will work with the state to keep costs
at the lowest estimate.  Under the original plan, the federal government and the
Port Authority of New York & New Jersey each were to pay $3
billion for the work, and the state $2.7 billion. Christie said
state taxpayers would be “on the hook” for anything more.  ‘Disaster Scenario’  Democratic U.S. Senator  Frank Lautenberg , a tunnel backer,
today accused Christie of inflating the estimates to justify
killing it.  “As the secretary said, $9.7 billion is the cost
estimate,” said Caley Gray, his spokesman. “The other numbers
are if there is any type of disaster scenario,”  Lautenberg said he has asked the federal government about
assuming more unprojected costs.  “The whole argument by the governor that the project may
have cost overruns and therefore we shouldn’t do it is clearly a
red herring,” Assemblyman  John Wisniewski , chairman of the
Assembly Transportation Committee and head of the Democratic
State Committee, said. “The real question that has to be asked
is can we afford not to do it?”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Angela Greiling Keane  in Washington at 
 agreilingkea@bloomberg.net .
 Terrence Dopp  in Trenton at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at   mtannen@bloomberg.net  