-- Lula Tax Increase Spawns `Unreasonable' Yields in Sale Flop: Brazil Credit
-- B y   Y e   X i e   a n d   C a m i l a   R u s s o
-- 2010-10-22T21:23:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-22/lula-tax-increase-spawns-unreasonable-yields-in-sale-flop-brazil-credit.html
Brazilian President  Luiz Inacio  Lula
da Silva is squeezing his government out of the bond market.  Treasury officials rejected all bids on their longest
fixed-rate bonds at an auction yesterday for the first time in
three months after Lula tripled a tax on foreigners’ debt
purchases this month to stem gains in the currency. Treasury
Secretary  Arno Augustin  said in an interview yesterday that the
bids were “unreasonable” after the tax increase to 6 percent
drove yields on the securities 61 basis points higher this week,
the most since May, to 12.09 percent.  “They tax the investors that buy these bonds at 6 percent
and then they complain that bids are unreasonable,” said  Pablo Cisilino , who helps manage $14 billion in emerging-market debt
at Stone Harbor Investment Partners in New York. “They have
chosen to protect the foreign-exchange rate and it’s not a free
strategy.”  Lula is driving up his government’s borrowing costs by
limiting demand from international investors in a bid to curb a
two-year, 40 percent rally in the real that has swelled Brazil’s
annual  current account deficit  to a record $46 billion. The
government has boosted the tax in response to what Finance
Minister  Guido Mantega  says is a push by countries to weaken
their currencies and bolster exports as the global economic
expansion slows.  The government turned down all the bids on the 150,000
bonds due in 2021 offered at an auction yesterday, three days
after raising the tax rate on foreigners’ purchases for the
second time this month.  Seven-Month High  “Every time we feel that the market has excessive
volatility, offering prices we consider unreasonable, we don’t
sell,” Augustin, 50, said in an interview from Brasilia.  The government offered 450 million reais of fixed-rate
bonds, known as NTN-Fs, yesterday, the smallest amount since
June. It paid a yield of 11.87 percent, the highest since March,
on bonds maturing in 2017 and the same yield on debt due in
2015, up from 11.67 percent last week. Today’s secondary-market
yield of 12.09 percent on the bonds due in 2021 was the highest
since July.  “This is a price they are willing to pay,” said  Alejandro Urbina , who manages and advises on $790 million of emerging-
market debt at Silva Capital Management LLC in Chicago. “They
made the choice to put the foreign-exchange policy ahead of
their issuance program. They are successful in limiting interest
in the fixed-income market among the foreigners.”  Mantega boosted the tax rate for a second time this month
on Oct. 18 after a doubling of the rate to 4 percent on Oct. 4
failed to stem the real’s advance.  Rate Increases  Record-low borrowing costs in the U.S., Europe and Japan
helped spark the real’s surge as investors sought higher-
yielding assets in developing nations. Brazil’s bond and stock
markets lured a net $34.6 billion in the first eight months of
the year, the most since the central bank began collecting the
data in 1995.  Policy makers have boosted the  benchmark overnight lending 
rate 200 basis points, or 2 percentage points, since April to
10.75 percent to keep annual inflation near their 4.5 percent
target as the economy expands at the fastest pace in two
decades. Key lending rates in the U.S., Europe and Japan, by
comparison, are no more than 1 percent.  The yield on Brazil’s interest-rate futures contract due in
January 2012 increased 14 basis points this week to 11.36
percent today, indicating traders expect policy makers to raise
the overnight rate to about 12.25 percent by then.  The  extra yield  investors demand to own Brazilian
government dollar bonds instead of Treasuries rose 10 basis
points this week to 182 today, from a six-month low of 172 on
Oct. 15.  Default Swaps  The cost of protecting Brazilian debt against non-payment
for five years with credit-default swaps rose three basis points
this week to 99 basis points, according to data compiled by CMA
DataVision. Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in
exchange for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent
should a government or company fail to adhere to its debt
agreements.  The real fell 2.4 percent this week to 1.7057 per dollar,
paring its gain this year to 2.3 percent. The real has advanced
109 percent since Lula took office in 2003.  Yesterday’s failed debt sale was the first since the
 Treasury  rejected all bids for the bonds maturing in 2021 on
July 22 when the yields were at 12.13 percent. The Treasury also
turned down bids in three auctions in May and June, when
investors pulled back from emerging markets following credit-
rating downgrades in Greece, Spain and Portugal.  The Treasury reduced the size of the auction yesterday in
an attempt to stem declines caused by the tax increase, said
 Virgilio Castro Cunha , head of fixed-income strategy at Bank of
America Corp. in Sao Paulo.  Overseas Offering  “It’s natural that the Treasury backs off,” said Cunha.
“They don’t want to weigh on the market at a moment like this,
where the fixed-income market is accommodating after the
measures. The Treasury has always been very coherent in issuing
where there is good demand.”  Brazil is likely to sell more real-linked bonds overseas
this year, part of the strategy to slow the dollar inflows into
the domestic bond markets, said Augustin. Proceeds from the
sales will be added to the country’s reserves and are not needed
to finance spending, he said.  Longer Maturities  Brazil sold 1 billion reais of bonds due in 2028 to yield
8.85 percent on Oct. 20 in its first offering of local-currency
debt in international markets since 2007. Yields on the debt
rose 25 basis points this week to 8.97 percent, or 312 basis
points lower than the real-denominated bonds due in 2021,
according to data compiled by JPMorgan and Bloomberg.  “They don’t want to have a flux of dollars coming in,”
said Rodrigo Bittencourt, a fixed-income trader at Banco Modal
in Rio de Janeiro. “What they want to do is to offer bonds in
the offshore market. They can keep the money in the offshore
accounts until the currency gets back to a level they believe is
more acceptable.”  Brazil plans to extend the maturity of government bonds and
turn the notes due in 2021 into “the new 10-year benchmark,”
the Treasury said in its annual borrowing plan in January. The
government extended the average maturity on its fixed-rated debt
to 2.4 years in September from less than one year at the end of
2004, according to  the Treasury .  International investors owned 49 percent of the bonds due
in 2021 and 61 percent of fixed-rate bonds due in 2017 as of
April, according to the Treasury.  “The objective of the government is to alleviate the
inflow of the foreigners in this market,” said  Felipe Brandao ,
an emerging-markets analyst with ICAP Brasil SA, in an interview
from Rio de Janeiro. International investors were “out of this
auction,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ye Xie  in New York at 
 yxie6@bloomberg.net ;
 Camila Russo  in New York at 
 crusso15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  