-- Under Armour Plans to Dethrone Nike, Jordan in Basketball Shoes
-- B y   M a t t   T o w n s e n d
-- 2010-10-22T20:17:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-22/under-armour-ceo-plank-plots-to-dethrone-nike-jordan-in-basketball-shoes.html
Under Armour Inc.  Chief Executive
Officer  Kevin Plank  beat the odds in college when he walked on
the University of Maryland football team and eventually became a
captain. His next challenge could make that feat look easy.  Tomorrow, Under Armour is launching a basketball shoe line,
called Micro G, to take on  Nike Inc.  It’s all part of Plank’s
quest to become “the biggest, baddest brand on the planet.”
Plank has recruited three Nike veterans to help him succeed
after previous efforts to move into athletic shoes left
Baltimore-based Under Armour with 1.1 percent of the market,
according to the research group SportsOneSource.  If Plank harbors doubts about taking on Beaverton, Oregon-
based Nike, which dominates the $2.5 billion U.S. basketball
shoe market, he isn’t saying.  “Our goal for getting into basketball is to be number
one,” he said in a telephone interview. “I’m 38. I’ve got a
long time.” As for Nike, he added, “those guys are old.”  With his foray into basketball shoes, Plank confronts not
just  Nike’s  95 percent market share and the billions it spends
on marketing. Sales of basketball shoes in the U.S. have slid
for the past three years as fewer people play the sport, says
SportsOneSource analyst Matt Powell.  Another failure in athletic shoes could hurt Under Armour’s
long-term prospects, says  Nathan Brown , an Overland Park,
Kansas-based analyst for Waddell & Reed Financial Inc., the
second-largest holder of the company’s shares.  ‘Strike Two’  “If the basketball shoe doesn’t do well there will be
questions because now you’ll have strike two and critics will
say this company can’t ever be a footwear company,” Brown said
in an interview. “Then the probability of that dream of
eventually becoming an Adidas or Nike has to go down.”  Under Armour  has learned from its previous missteps, says
Plank, who calls the decision to buy a Super Bowl ad in 2008,
three months before a training shoes hit stores, “pretty
cocky.” The four-fold sales growth of Under Armour’s sweat-
wicking apparel over the past five years led the company to
underestimate the challenge of moving into footwear, he says.  Most of the company’s outlet stores didn’t carry the shoes
and they were hard to find on Under Armour’s website. “You look
back and think, ‘How did we make that mistake?’” Plank said.  This time, Plank reached outside the company for expertise,
hiring  Eugene McCarthy , who previously ran Nike’s Jordan brand,
to be senior vice president of footwear. McCarthy pushed the
reset button on the entire business.  Nike Veterans  McCarthy added Nike veterans Dave Dombrow as creative
director and Charlie Brown as sourcing chief and moved two-
thirds of the 90-member staff into new positions. He also
decided to revamp the running and training shoes and put a
priority on getting rid of unsold shoes at stores to make way
for new versions next year.  The release of the Micro G, promoted by  Brandon Jennings  of
the National Basketball Association’s  Milwaukee Bucks , will be a
less splashy affair, says Plank. There are no big ad buys. A
small number of pairs will land at national retailers, such as
 Foot Locker Inc. , and urban chains like  Jimmy Jazz  in New York
to create pent-up demand that the previous shoes lacked. Prices
for the lightweight Micro G basketball shoes will range from $80
to $110, the company says.  As Plank prepared for the Micro G launch, he exhorted his
employees to start thinking of Under Armour as a footwear brand
not just an apparel maker. He told them to cut the word
“apparel” from voicemail messages and trashed a mat in the
company’s headquarters featuring the word.  ‘Believe It’  “I called our marketing team and said go through this
building and find anything that says we are only an apparel
brand and throw it away,” Plank said. “We are Under Armour
performance. We are going to live it. We’re going to walk it.
We’re going to breathe it. We’re going to talk it and we’re
going to believe it.”  Founded by Plank in 1996, Under Armour has posted sales
growth for every quarter since going public in 2005. Last year,
the company posted a  profit  of $46.8 million on $856.4 million
in revenue. Under Armour reports third-quarter earnings on Oct.
26. The company rose $1.66, or 3.7 percent, to $47.07 at 4:15
p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite  trading .  Plank, who holds a controlling stake in the company with
his Class B shares, succeeded by identifying gaps in the
marketplace, specifically base-layer apparel and cleats, says
 Michael Baron , an analyst for New York-based Baron Capital Inc.,
the largest holder of Under Armour shares.  Getting into hoops is “a whole other level,” Baron said.  Nike’s All-Stars  Nike, founded in 1972, spent $2.4 billion on marketing in
its last fiscal year, or almost three times Under Armour’s
annual sales. Nike has enough top NBA players, including  Kobe Bryant  and  LeBron James , under contract to host an All-Star game
and financed a basketball festival last summer that featured the
U.S. National team playing inside New York’s Radio City Music
Hall.  “While our main focus is on fulfilling our own potential,
which is unlimited, we thrive on competition of any kind,” said
 Derek Kent , a spokesman for Nike, when asked about Under
Armour’s foray into basketball. “We expect to further expand
our leadership position.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Matt Townsend  in New York at 
 mtownsend9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  