-- Univision Communications Is Said to Boost Loan Extension to $5.6 Billion
-- B y   E m r e   P e k e r
-- 2010-10-22T14:56:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-22/univision-doubles-loan-extension-to-5-6-billion-amid-demand-from-lenders.html
Univision Communications Inc ., the
Spanish-language media company taken private in 2007, more than
doubled the size of the amount of loans it’s seeking to extend
on lender demand, according to a person familiar with the
negotiations.  The company will push out maturities on about $5.6 billion
of its term loan by 2.5 years to March 2017, said the person,
who declined to be identified because the terms are private.
Univision increased the capacity from $2.5 billion after lenders
committed to extend as much as $6.2 billion of the debt.  Univision joins companies including billionaire  Sheldon Adelson ’s Las Vegas Sands Corp. and the world’s biggest toy
retailer, KKR & Co.-owned Toys “R” Us Inc., in tapping
investor demand for leveraged loans to delay maturities and
refinance borrowings that fueled debt-funded expansions and
takeovers before the worst recession since the Great Depression.
The  S&P/LSTA US Leveraged Loan 100 Index  gained 7.1 percent this
year, extending a record 52.2 percent rally in 2009.  “Univision is a very highly levered company with great
growth prospects, so the further out it can push maturities, the
more time it has to pay down debt,” said  John Puchalla , an
analysts at Moody’s Investors Service. “They have a much better
chance of growing into the structure and reducing leverage” as
a result of the amendment, he said in an interview.  Leverage Levels  Moody’s rates the extended credit facility B2. Univision’s
leverage was at about 13 times as of June 30, Puchalla and
 Alexandra Parker  said in an Oct. 6 report. Leverage, which
measures debt to earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation
and amortization, will drop to 12 times by the end of this year,
they said.  Deutsche Bank AG and Bank of America Corp. are arranging
the amendment and the transaction is expected to close and fund
on Oct. 26, the person said. The New York-based company won’t
delay maturities on about $1 billion of its term loan.  The term loan backed the leveraged buyout of the company by
Madison Dearborn Partners LLC, Providence Equity Partners LLC,
Saban Capital Group Inc., Thomas H. Lee Partners and TPG
Capital.  The private-equity firms, which pool money from investors
and obtain debt to finance takeovers with the intention of
selling the companies later for a profit, bought the company for
$12.6 billion in a takeover completed March 2007, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Monica Talan , a spokeswoman for Univision, didn’t
immediately return a message left at her office.  Revolver Extension  Univision lenders also agreed to extend $546 million of its
revolving credit line, 25 percent of which will be converted to
term debt, the person said. In a revolving credit facility,
money can be borrowed again once it’s repaid; in a term loan, it
can’t.  Lenders will get an interest rate 4.25 percentage points
over the London interbank offered rate on the extended term
loan, which is 2 percentage points more than the existing spread
over the lending benchmark.  The margin over Libor, the rate banks charge to lend to
each other, would drop to 4 percentage points if Univision’s net
leverage drops below 8.5 times. Leverage is the measure of debt
to earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization.  Extending lenders will get an amendment fee of 5 basis
points, or 0.05 percent. Univision will also repay $750 million
of the term loan with the 7.875 percent notes it sold Oct. 19.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Emre Peker  in New York at 
 epeker2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net . 