-- UPS Chief Davis Sees Holiday Volume Up 7.5% as Shipper Adds China Flights
-- B y   M a r y   J a n e   C r e d e u r
-- 2010-10-22T20:32:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-22/ups-chief-davis-sees-holiday-volume-up-7-5-as-shipper-adds-china-flights.html
United Parcel Service Inc.  expects
to handle 430 million packages globally between Thanksgiving and
Christmas and has added flights in China to meet surging export
demand, Chief Executive Officer  Scott Davis  said.  The projected volume for the peak holiday season marks a
7.5 percent increase from a year earlier, when the world’s
largest package-delivery company had one fewer shipping day.
Retailers surveyed by  UPS  anticipate holiday sales rising about
3 percent, Davis said today in a Bloomberg Television interview.  “Our customers are cautiously optimistic,” Davis said.
“It doesn’t sound great, but last year we were flat, and the
year before that we were minus 4 percent.”  More consumers are buying gifts in the final seven or eight
days before Christmas, breaking from historical patterns of
about a month in advance, he said. That means UPS won’t know
until a few weeks before the holiday whether retailers will need
fresh express shipments of electronics such as  Apple Inc.’s 
iPads, iPhones and laptop computers, Davis said at Bloomberg’s
headquarters in New York.  Retailers are keeping inventory lean because it’s difficult
to predict whether customers will accelerate purchases at the
last minute, said Davis, 58. UPS presumes the pace of shipments
is “going to stay roughly where it is,” he said.  Hong Kong, Shanghai  UPS has added flights in Hong Kong and Shanghai to take
advantage of a jump in exports from China, and it has about 30
aircraft leased for the holiday season, the same as last year,
Davis said. Exports from Asia jumped 34 percent in the third
quarter, Atlanta-based UPS said yesterday.  UPS has the flexibility to add flights and lease more
planes if needed, Chief Financial Officer  Kurt Kuehn  said.  “Retailers this year, some of them shipped very early to
take advantage of ocean,” Kuehn said. “A lot have kept
inventories light because they didn’t want to commit. That’s
when you have to use air. If you have the newest gadget but
aren’t sure if it’s going to be upstaged before December, you
have to spend a few extra bucks” to send it by air.  This puts UPS in a “staging period” now, Kuehn said. “It
could be a very busy air season with goods coming over from Asia
at the last minute, or it could be steady as she goes.”  Average daily volume in the fourth quarter probably will
increase about 1.5 percent to 2 percent, muted in part by the
extra operating day this year, UPS forecast yesterday.  Currency ‘Extremes’  UPS will keep using so-called price collars to “minimize
wild extremes” in foreign-exchange fluctuations, Kuehn said.
About half of UPS’s non-U.S. revenue is denominated in euros,
the most of any currency.  The euro weakened 15 percent against the dollar in 2010’s
first half, then rebounded 11 percent in the third quarter and
has strengthened 2.1 percent this quarter through yesterday. UPS
has a rolling hedge program that stretches out about a year,
Kuehn said.  “It’s a little bit of a headwind now,” he said. “The
goal is so it’s not the headline” in any discussion of UPS’s
financial performance, he said.  Davis said his top priority for U.S. policy is continued
loosening of trade rules to help create jobs and speed the
economic recovery. President  Barack Obama  and U.S. Treasury
Secretary  Timothy Geithner  “are listening” on the topic, said
Davis, who sits on the  President’s Export Council .  UPS  rose 24 cents to $69.83 at 4:15 p.m. in New York Stock
Exchange composite trading. The shares have gained 22 percent
this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mary Jane Credeur  in Atlanta at 
 mcredeur@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net . 