-- Murchison Metals Says Mitsubishi Venture Signs Letters to Sell Iron Ore
-- B y   J a s o n   S c o t t
-- 2010-10-22T01:48:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-22/murchison-metals-says-mitsubishi-venture-signs-letters-to-sell-iron-ore.html
Murchison Metals Ltd. , developing an
iron ore project in Australia with  Mitsubishi Corp. , said the
venture signed non-binding letters of intent to sell 55 million
tons a year of the steelmaking material.  The Crosslands venture is “reviewing its potential
customer mix with a view to identifying the core customer group
for off-take discussions,” the Perth-based company said in a
statement today. It didn’t identify potential customers.  Murchison and Mitsubishi, Japan’s largest trading house,
are equal owners of Crosslands, which plans to build the A$3
billion ($2.9 billion) Jack Hills iron ore project in West
Australia’s Midwest region. First exports are expected in 2014
through the A$4 billion Oakajee port project, also being
developed by the two companies.  The signing of the non-binding letters is an indication of
demand for product from the Midwest. Oakajee Port & Rail Pty in
August sealed accords with Karara Mining Ltd., a venture between
 Gindalbie Metals Ltd.  and China’s Anshan Iron & Steel Group,
Sinosteel Midwest Corp. and Crosslands, setting the principles
for negotiating supply chain agreements. The port will allow
users to export 45 million metric tons a year.  The iron ore shipped from the port will mainly be magnetite,
a lower grade than the hematite product mined by BHP Billiton
Ltd. and Rio Tinto Group from the state’s Pilbara region. Jack
Hills now has a mineral resource of 3.22 billion tons, Murchison
said today.  Murchison’s  shares  fell as much as 4.1 percent to A$1.63
and traded at that price as of 12:43 p.m. Sydney time on the
Australian stock exchange.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jason Scott  in Perth at 
 Jscott14@bloomberg.net ;
To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@Bloomberg.net  