-- Murdoch Son Also Rises as Shareholders Study CEO Succession
-- B y   B r e t t   P u l l e y
-- 2010-10-22T04:02:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-22/murdoch-son-also-rising-as-shareholders-focus-on-news-corp-ceo-succession.html
News Corp.  Chairman and Chief
Executive Officer  Rupert Murdoch  was stepping onto an elevator
at the Allen & Co. media gathering in Sun Valley, Idaho, last
year, when he was asked about a $1.1 million settlement his
company had just paid. The money went to resolve a claim that
reporters at a News Corp. newspaper in London had illegally
listened to the voicemail messages of a British sports official.  He hadn’t heard of any such settlement, Murdoch said.  “If that had happened, I would know about it,” he told
Bloomberg News at the time.  Murdoch’s son, James, knew, according to two people
familiar with the situation.  James Murdoch , head of News Corp.’s
businesses in Europe and Asia, negotiated the settlement himself
in an effort to end the controversy, the people said.  “James Murdoch has been doing things to prove himself
beyond his father’s shadow,” said  Shahid Khan , chairman and
chief strategist at MediaMorph Inc., a New York-based digital
media-tracking service. “He’s been determined to show that he’s
his own man.”  The younger Murdoch is the leading contender to succeed his
father at the helm of News Corp., says  Hamilton Faber  of London-
based Atlantic Equities. The 37-year-old not only bears his
father’s name, he’s worked at the company for 14 years and run
many pieces of the business, including a group that now accounts
for about 20 percent of the company’s $32.8 billion in revenue.  ‘Groomed to be Successor’  No decision has been made on the next CEO and the timing is
unpredictable because it’s tied to how long 79-year-old Rupert
can keep running the company, two people familiar with the
situation said. Alternative candidates, such as Chief Operating
Officer  Chase Carey , may prove more palatable to the board if a
decision must be made in the near future, they said. Meanwhile,
James must show he’s capable of the top job and more than just a
Murdoch, Faber said.  “James Murdoch looks like he’s being particularly groomed
to be the successor,” the analyst said in an interview. “But
it appears that he has to kind of prove himself.”  James works out of London for New York-based News Corp. His
glass-enclosed office overlooked the newsroom of the company’s
Sunday Times, until employees were relocated this month to a new
site. A limited-edition Darth Vader replica, No. 147 from the
Empire Strikes Back series, stood guard.  For an interview there, he wore a grey suit, white shirt
and no tie. He handed out business cards with two hands, name
facing his visitors, the common practice in Asia where he used
to work.  BSkyB Controversy  James has plenty of opportunity to prove himself in his
current post, says analyst David Bank of RBC Capital Markets in
New York. News Corp. boosted revenue and profit last year on the
strength of films such as Avatar and television assets including
Fox News, helping shares gain 15 percent in the past year. James
oversees newspapers, pay-TV operations and broadband services
that generate about $7 billion in revenue -- and account for a
growing number of the company’s most-pressing challenges.  One paper in his portfolio, News of the World, sparked the
phone-hacking uproar. Rather than being resolved, it has
escalated in the past year, with two committees in Parliament
investigating. The political fallout has fueled opposition to
News Corp.’s bid for full control of  British Sky Broadcasting
Plc , the U.K.’s biggest pay-TV operator.  This month, the British Broadcasting Corp., BT Group Plc
and British papers issued a joint letter arguing that News Corp.
would gain too much control over British media with BSkyB. The
deal, which at 7.8 billion pounds ($12.4 billion) is already
News Corp.’s biggest and may go higher, would double the revenue
under the younger Murdoch’s command.  German Losses  As the fight heats up, James’ London newspapers are trying
to get Web readers to pay as traditional revenue slips. So far,
they’re losing more online readers than they’re keeping,
according to the research firm Experian Hitwise in New York.  A satellite-TV business in Germany is another obstacle on
James’ path to the CEO office, said RBC’s Bank.  Sky Deutschland ,
in which News Corp. has taken a 50 percent stake on James’ watch,
has already caused a $447 million writedown and continues to
lose money as Germans resist premium pay-TV services.  In the interview, James launched into a discussion of the
challenges before he was asked a question. He ticked through
issues in minute detail, offering strategies and solutions for
every problem.  Murdoch the son has taken on a role at  News Corp.  very
different from his father’s, according to analysts and people
who have worked with him. He’s become the pragmatic operator and
the realistic strategist to complement his father’s grand -- and
sometimes quixotic -- vision. He tunes up operations, culls
ancillary units and steeps himself in new technologies to help
ensure the company his father has built continues to flourish
long after the elder Murdoch is gone.  No Plans to Retire  “Learning from my father has been the greatest advantage
I’ve had in life,” James said in an e-mail following the
interview. “The way he runs the company has taught me the
dangers of being bound by conventional wisdom and the importance
of making our own way, despite the skeptics.”  He wouldn’t comment on succession issues.  Teri Everett , a
spokeswoman at News Corp., which also includes the Wall Street
Journal and 20th Century Fox movie studio, declined to comment.  Rupert Murdoch reiterated at News Corp.’s annual meeting
Oct. 15 that he has no plans to retire. In a November interview
with News Corp.’s Sky News, Murdoch said he is “sure” one of
his children will “emerge” to succeed him.  “ Every parent likes to see that,” he said.  Rupert has six children, including Prudence,  Lachlan , James
and  Elisabeth  from his first two marriages. He has two daughters,
7 and 8, with his current wife,  Wendi Deng , a former executive
from his Asia Star TV whom he married in 1999.  Elisabeth, Lachlan  The Murdoch family trust controls 38 percent of  News
Corp. ’s shares. The company’s second-largest individual
shareholder, Saudi billionaire  Prince Alwaleed bin Talal , who
holds 7 percent, said in an interview on “ Charlie Rose ” in
January he endorses James to succeed Rupert.  James is the only child now working at News Corp. Lachlan,
39, quit his job as deputy chief operating officer in 2005,
though he remains on News Corp.’s  board . Elisabeth, 42, left the
company in 2000, and is the founder and chief executive of Shine
Ltd., a television production company.  At one time, James seemed the least likely to succeed his
father, say friends and former colleagues such as  Dawn Airey ,
who worked with him at BSkyB. Born in London, James was raised
in New York City and went to Horace Mann School in the Bronx.  “The first day I met him, he was reading a book and
wearing a Smiths T-shirt,” said  Jason Hirschhorn , who went to
school with James and later worked as co-president of News
Corp.’s MySpace social network, referring to the Morrisey-led
rock band. “I remember him reading a lot, and he loved music.”  Earrings, Hip Hop  Though he got into Harvard University, James dropped out
and headed to Rome to study archeology, sporting earrings and
bleached blonde hair. He returned to New York and launched
Rawkus Records, a hip-hop music label that became home to
artists such as the Brooklyn rapper and actor  Mos Def .  James eventually sold the record label to News Corp. and
joined his father’s business. In 1998, while in his mid-20s,
James took charge of News Digital Media, where the company’s U.S.
Internet business was taking shape. With about 200 people
working out of a loft in New York City’s Flatiron district,
James led development of the websites for FoxNews.com and
FoxSports.com, and managed News Corp.’s stake in TV Guide Inc.  He also created a strategic investment unit and put money
into Web startups, including TheStreet.com, PlanetRx.com and an
early social-networking site called Sixdegrees.com.  “He was sort of a wild man at first,”  Uri Landesman ,
president of New York-based Platinum Partners, said in an
interview. “Then he became the company’s first new-media guy.”  Hong Kong, India  Still, it was his brother Lachlan who seemed most likely to
succeed their father, according to two former executives. In
1999, Lachlan took over the U.S. print business after running
the company’s Australian business, where Rupert got his start.
The older brother would visit the Flatiron office to see James
and look for costs to cut, according to one person who worked
with James at the time.  In 2000, James was named chairman and CEO of News Corp.’s
money-losing Star television businesses in Asia. He was based in
Hong Kong, and spent much of his time in India, developing the
nascent pay-TV market there. He helped make the business
profitable by launching the Indian version of “Who Wants to Be
a Millionaire,” which became a major Hindi television hit.  “The guy turns up here early in his career and is given a
big job,”  Rob Rankin , who got to know James while running
investment banking for UBS AG in Asia, said in an interview.
“He’s seen as undeniably having done a good job here,
especially in India.”  Youngest CEO  In 2003, when he was 30, James was named CEO of BSkyB, in
which News Corp. held a stake. He received a chilly reception
because of his age and lack of experience, said  Paul Richards ,
an analyst at Numis Securities Ltd. in London. James was the
youngest CEO ever of a FTSE 100 firm, and some investors argued
he hadn’t been tested, Richards said.  At the annual meeting that November, 18 percent of
shareholders voted against making James a director.  “There were eyebrows raised,” Richards said in an
interview. “There was a lot of muttering, cries of nepotism.”  During the meeting, an unidentified investor questioned
Rupert Murdoch about the selection of his son, according to a
Bloomberg reporter’s notes from the meeting. “If you don’t
believe in the company, if you don’t believe in the results, you
ought to sell the shares,” Murdoch responded.  Call-Center Visits  In August 2004, when James presented his first annual
results and a plan to spend 450 million pounds to spur growth,
investors did as Rupert suggested. In one day, BSkyB lost 19
percent of its value, as its shares had their biggest drop ever
to that point.  To quell concerns, James spent time in subsequent days
explaining his strategy to investors, and personally contacting
employees and customers, according to Airey, a former BSkyB
managing director.  To learn about the pay-TV operation, the young Murdoch flew
from London to Edinburgh each month to visit a call center where
5,000 employees were fielding queries from consumers. James
would talk with workers, answer their questions and take calls
from subscribers himself, Airey said.  “It isn’t easy being the son of Rupert Murdoch,” she said.
“But he’s the real deal.”  ‘Bits and Pieces’  James eventually won approval from investors, implementing
long-term growth strategies, improving content offerings for
subscribers and making key deals, including the 2006 purchase of
an 18 percent stake in the U.K. broadcaster ITV Plc for about
940 million pounds, Richards said. “He was very well regarded
by the end,” he said.  During his years at the company, James said he has been
guided by one of his father’s fundamental principles.  “The idea that you can’t change the game is something that
I, constitutionally, do not agree with,” he said. “Things we
supposedly couldn’t do, we did.”  These days, the younger Murdoch is trying to make similar
progress with his current portfolio. He’s restructuring
businesses in Europe and Asia, cleaning up what he calls “bits
and pieces” not integral to the company. He sold a free-to-air
TV business in Bulgaria this year for $400 million; an outdoor
advertising business in Russia is on the market.  Part of his focus is on Tata Sky, News Corp.’s still
emerging digital TV business in India, which he said is
“growing rapidly” and “could be a game changer.”  Papers and Paywalls  Newspapers are a tougher challenge. News Corp. was built on
print, dating to when Rupert inherited The Adelaide News from
his father and continuing through the $5 billion deal in 2007
for Wall Street Journal publisher Dow Jones & Co.  His four London papers, like many others, are struggling
with soft advertising and declining circulation. The Times, for
example, has seen circulation drop 15 percent to 486,868 in
September, according to the Audit Bureau of Circulation.  To revive the business, James set up so-called paywalls
around two papers’ websites in July, forcing readers to pay to
read stories. Within three weeks, two-thirds of the online
visitors disappeared, according to Experian Hitwise.  The initial loss of users was anticipated, James said, and
the goal is to build a relationship with devoted users of the
site. “We’re very encouraged in its early days,” he said.  Riots, Picketing  James’ earliest experiences with newspapers were different
than those of his father. James remembers visiting the
headquarters of News Corp.’s London newspapers as a young child
and finding crowds on the street, rioting, throwing stones and
picketing against his father’s management.  “It was not a typical ‘take your kid to work day,’” James
said in the interview.  Sky Deutschland , in contrast, is an investment he’s been
involved with from the start. News Corp. purchased its initial
15 percent stake in the company in January 2008, just after
James took over Europe and Asia. News Corp. has spent a total of
about $1 billion in raising its holding to 50 percent, according
to financial filings and company statements.  “It is his deal,” said RBC Capital’s Bank in an interview,
calling the results so far mixed.  Sky Deutschland’s net losses widened to 676 million euros
last year from 52 million in 2007.  Lachlan’s Return?  Germany is likely to follow other developed countries in
increasingly paying for premium TV services, James said. The
market is particularly attractive because 20 million households
have high-definition television sets and don’t yet receive the
crisper signal, he said. To attract subscribers, the company is
expanding its channel lineup, offering new services and revising
packaging and pricing.  “It’s a big turnaround, but a big opportunity,” James
said.  Faber of Atlantic Equities said that while he thinks James
is the leading contender to success his father, it’s far from
certain. Carey may be a stronger choice if a decision has to be
made soon, Faber said. Rupert Murdoch has even floated the idea
that Lachlan, who has been investing in media assets from
Australia, could return to News Corp.  “I hope he’ll come back one day,” the elder Murdoch told
Sky News in November.  Hirschhorn, who still consults for News Corp., said he
likes James’ chances for further success.  “From when I met James in high school to now, I certainly
wouldn’t bet against him,” he said.  News Corp. board member  Sir Rod Eddington  said the board is
considering James as a successor to his father, though directors
may be hesitant to promote him if he’s not deemed ready.  “James is very important and may well succeed Rupert in
the fullness of time,” Eddington, who is chairman of J.P.
Morgan Chase in Australia and New Zealand, said in an interview
several months ago. “There’s a lot of water yet to go under the
bridge.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Brett Pulley  in New York at 
 bpulley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  