-- Vancl.com 2010 Sales, Warehouse Space May Triple, Targets Nasdaq Listing
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-10-22T04:32:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-22/vancl-com-says-2010-sales-may-triple-aims-for-nasdaq-listing.html
Vancl.com, China’s biggest online
clothing retailer, expects sales to triple this year as more
people in the world’s largest  Internet market  use the Web to buy
apparel, the company’s chief executive officer said.  Sales may rise to 20 billion yuan ($3 billion),  Chen Nian 
said yesterday in an interview in Beijing, where the retailer is
based. Vancl.com has raised about $100 million from private
equity firms and aims to list shares on the Nasdaq Stock Market
in an initial public offering, he said.  Vancl.com plans to triple its warehouse space by the end of
2011 to defend its leading share of China’s online  retail  market,
Chen said. Industrywide sales more than doubled to $39 billion
last year, according to Beijing-based iResearch Inc., attracting
competition from China’s leading search engine Baidu Inc. and
Japan’s  Rakuten Inc. , which teamed up to start a retail website
in the country earlier this week.  “Internet business-to-consumer sales are growing at a much
faster pace than traditional shops,” said He Xiao, an analyst
at CCID Consulting in Beijing. “Online retail sales will
increase 60 to 70 percent this year in China.”  Vancl.com had a 28 percent share of China’s online garment
sales last year, according to iResearch. The company sells more
than 30,000 items ranging from shirts and shoes to home textiles.  “There will be a fierce battle in this area in 2011,”
Chen said.  Private Equity  As of June, China’s Internet users totaled more than 420
million, exceeding the combined populations of the United States
and Germany, according to data from the China Internet Network
Information Center.  Chen, a former executive at Amazon.com Inc.’s Chinese joint
venture, founded Vancl.com in October 2007 and has received
investments from private equity firms including Tiger Global
Management LLC, SAIF Partners Ltd. and IDG Capital Partners.  “Nasdaq would be an ideal place for a business like ours
to sell shares,” Chen said, without elaborating on a possible
timetable or fundraising target.  To contact the Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Michael Wei in Beijing at 
 mwei13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Longid at 
 flongid@bloomberg.net  