-- Ventas to Add Holdings in New York, California With $1.5 Billion Purchase
-- B y   B r i a n   L o u i s
-- 2010-10-22T22:01:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-22/ventas-to-add-holdings-in-new-york-california-with-1-5-billion-purchase.html
Ventas Inc ., the second-largest U.S.
health-care real estate trust, will expand its senior housing
portfolio in New York, New England and California with the $1.5
billion purchase of Atria Senior Living Group properties.  Ventas agreed to buy 118 facilities from Atria, which is
owned by private-equity funds managed by Lazard Real Estate
Partners, with $1.35 billion in stock and $150 million in cash,
the Chicago-based company said today in a statement. The
acquisition includes “substantially all” of Louisville,
Kentucky-based Atria’s real estate, Ventas said.  The purchase will diversify Ventas’s portfolio and boost
revenue and net operating income, the company said. It is the
landlord’s sixth major acquisition since 2004, Chief Executive
Officer  Debra Cafaro  said on a conference call today.  “This transaction increases our diversification and
reliability of our cash flows,” Cafaro said. “Atria is a
highly coveted company and a highly coveted asset pool.”  New York, New England, and California contribute 68 percent
of Atria’s net operating income, according to a presentation on
Ventas’s  website . Each company owns 26 senior-housing properties
in California, the most populous state, their websites show.  Lazard will become Ventas’s largest  shareholder  and  Matthew J. Lustig , chief executive officer and managing principal of
Lazard Real Estate Partners, will join Ventas’s board, Atria
said. Cafaro said 15 percent of the shares that Lazard funds
will receive have a lock-up period of 18 months.  ‘Large Shareholder’  “Lazard is becoming a large shareholder in Ventas because
they believe in the company,” Cafaro said on today’s conference
call.  Ventas will assume $1.6 billion of debt with the purchase,
which it expects to complete in the first half of 2011. The
company plans to pay off a “significant” portion of that debt
with unsecured borrowings of its own, Cafaro said. The interest
on the Atria debt is about 6 percent, she said.  Ventas  shares  fell $2.40, or 4.4 percent, to $52.35 at 4:15
p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The stock,
which reached an all-time high on Oct. 20, has gained 20 percent
this year, more than the 17 percent increase in the Bloomberg
Real Estate Investment Trust Healthcare Index.  The company is the largest U.S. health-care REIT by market
value after Long Beach, California-based HCP Inc.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Brian Louis  in Chicago at 
 blouis1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net . 