-- Verizon Profit Beats Estimates as Smartphone Popularity Grows
-- B y   A m y   T h o m s o n
-- 2010-10-22T20:20:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-22/verizon-third-quarter-profit-tops-estimates-as-smartphone-popularity-grows.html
Verizon Communications Inc. , the
second-largest U.S. phone company, reported third-quarter profit
that beat analysts’ estimates after more customers bought
smartphones and signed up for data plans to operate them.  Profit, excluding payments related to its pension fund and
charges from sales and acquisitions, was 56 cents a share, the
New York-based company said in a statement today.  Analysts  in a
Bloomberg survey had predicted 54 cents per share.  Verizon has added new mobile phones to its network to boost
growth as older businesses, such as home phones and wireless-
voice service, stagnate or decline. Verizon has increased the
number of smartphones under its Droid brand with Android
operating systems. Customers paid an average of $18.61 a month
for data plans, up 19 percent from a year ago.  “Verizon has been doing exceedingly well with its Android
launch,” said  Craig Moffett , an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein
& Co. in New York, who rates the shares “underperform” and
doesn’t own any. “They’ve had a pretty steady diet of sexy new
phones, and they’ve really closed the gap versus the iPhone.”  The company added 584,000 new wireless  customers  on monthly
contracts. That fell short of the 625,000 that analyst  Tim Horan 
at Oppenheimer & Co. had forecast.  Simon Flannery , an analyst at
Morgan Stanley, estimated 665,000.  Verizon  declined  43 cents, or 1.3 percent, to $32.09 in New
York Stock Exchange composite  trading  at 4 p.m. The shares have
gained 3.7 percent this year.  Improving Outlook  Revenue  for the quarter was $26.5 billion. Analysts had
forecast $26.3 billion, according to the Bloomberg survey. Sales
a year ago, which included landline operations sold to Frontier
Communications Corp., were $27.3 billion. Excluding those
operations, revenue from the third quarter of 2009 would have
been $25.9 billion.  Net income at Verizon, which co-owns its mobile-phone
business with Vodafone Group Plc, fell to $881 million, or 31
cents a share, from $1.18 billion, or 41 cents, a year earlier.  Earnings  in the second half of the year will improve by 5
percent to 10 percent over the first half of this year, Verizon
said. Earnings excluding some items will be as much as $1.11 a
share in the second half of the year, based on earnings per
share on that basis of $1.01 through the second quarter.  Sales  at the fixed-line business dropped 3.6 percent to
$10.3 billion in the third quarter from a year earlier. Verizon
is losing home-phone subscribers and broadband customers.  That side of the business, which contributed  42 percent  of
Verizon’s revenue last year, has gotten a boost from the FiOS
fiber-optic network. FiOS, which sells high-speed Internet
access and high-definition television service over the fiber
lines, added 226,000 Web and 204,000 video subscribers.  LTE, IPhone  Verizon will start selling service on a new wireless
network this quarter that will improve data speeds, making
applications like streaming, high-definition video and low-delay
online games possible. The fourth-generation technology, called
long-term evolution, will be introduced in 38 markets by the end
of the year, including Boston, New York, Washington and Miami.  LTE will give customers data speeds that are 10 times
faster than Verizon’s existing 3G service, Chief Operating
Officer  Lowell McAdam  has said.  Verizon will also start selling  Apple Inc. ’s iPhone early
next year, two people familiar with the companies’ plans said in
June. Rival  AT&T  Inc. has had sole domain over the popular,
touch-screen smartphone in the U.S. since its introduction in
2007. AT&T activated 5.2 million of the phones last quarter, the
company said yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Amy Thomson  in New York at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at   pelstrom@bloomberg.net  