-- ViroPharma Shares Tumble After FDA Delays Clearance of Manufacturing Plant
-- B y   T o m   R a n d a l l
-- 2010-10-22T14:13:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-22/viropharma-shares-tumble-after-fda-delays-clearance-of-manufacturing-plant.html
ViroPharma Inc.  fell as much as 11
percent after the U.S. Food and Drug Administration sought
additional information following a pre-approval inspection of
manufacturing facilities for its Cinryze treatment.  ViroPharma declined $1.39, or 8.6 percent, to $14.80 at
10:03 a.m. New York time in Nasdaq Stock Market Composite
trading. The shares earlier dropped to as low as $14.39 for the
biggest intraday decline since May. The Exton, Pennsylvania-
based company said in a statement that it will work
“immediately” to respond to the FDA.  Cinryze is administered by infusion every three to four
days to prevent swelling attacks in patients with hereditary
angioedema, a life-threatening disorder that affects about 6,500
people in the U.S. The drug sells for about $4,000 a dose and if
the new facilities are allowed to open, sales may top $250
million next year, said  Phil Nadeau , an analyst with Cowen & Co.
in New York.  “This is a disappointment, as the manufacturing expansion
was expected to be approved on its action date yesterday,”
Nadeau said in a note to clients today. “The expansion is
necessary to increase Cinryze’s capacity from 60,000 doses
annually today to 160,000 doses per year.”  ViroPharma said in the statement that it plans to start
manufacturing industrial-scale lots “at risk” in the first
quarter of next year.  “We remain committed to provide patients with an
uninterrupted supply of Cinryze,” said  Vincent Milano , chief
executive officer at ViroPharma, in the statement.  Kristina Broadbelt, a spokeswoman for ViroPharma, didn’t
immediately return a phone call for comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tom Randall  in New York at 
 trandall6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 