-- VW Increases Profit Sixfold on China, Forecasts Slower Growth This Quarter
-- B y   A n d r e a s   C r e m e r
-- 2010-10-22T15:55:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-22/vw-says-profit-triples-in-first-nine-months-sees-slowdown-this-quarter.html
Volkswagen AG , Europe’s largest
carmaker, said nine-month profit jumped more than sixfold,
beating analysts’ estimates, and forecast growth in the current
quarter will slow.  Net income was 4 billion euros ($5.6 billion), compared
with 655 million euros a year earlier, Wolfsburg, Germany-based
VW said today. Analysts predicted profit of 2.8 billion euros,
the average of four estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Sales 
gained 20 percent to 92.5 billion euros. VW didn’t break out
third-quarter figures.  Volkswagen  fell  as much as 3.2 percent from its intraday
high in Frankfurt after the surprise release. The carmaker,
whose profit is driven by the Audi luxury unit and emerging
markets such as China, said the pace of growth in the first nine
months won’t continue “as strongly” in the fourth quarter.  “They’re fairly cautious on the outlook,” said  Juergen Pieper , a Frankfurt-based analyst at Bankhaus Metzler who
recommends buying VW stock. “The results were extremely good
and VW is well positioned and faces no concrete risks for a
notable weakening of its business.”  Volkswagen’s preferred shares  rose  2.98 euros, or 3.2
percent, to 96.76 euros at the 5:30 p.m. close of trading in
Frankfurt. The shares have risen 48 percent this year, valuing
the carmaker at 41.6 billion euros.  Porsche Merger  Nine-month sales at VW’s seven passenger-car brands,
including Audi and Czech unit Skoda, rose 13 percent to a record
5.37 million vehicles. The numbers don’t include deliveries at
 Porsche SE , the sports-car manufacturer that is merging with VW.  China, western Europe, North and South America will
“continue to drive demand” as VW presents new models such as
the Audi A7 coupe, the VW Passat station wagon or Bentley’s new
Continental GT coupe, VW said.  The German carmaker aims to reach its sales goal of 10
million vehicles by 2015, three years earlier than planned, as
VW tries to pass  Toyota Motor Corp.  as the largest automaker, a
person with direct knowledge of the matter said this week. More
than 8 million deliveries are targeted by 2012, said the person,
who asked not to be identified discussing internal goals.  “The successful business growth of the Volkswagen group in
the first nine months of 2010 will not continue as strongly in
the fourth quarter,” VW said in its statement. “Sales revenue
and operating profit in 2010 will continue to perform
positively.”  Operating Profit  Nine-month operating profit more than tripled to 4.8
billion euros from 1.5 billion euros a year earlier, VW said.  The carmaker is targeting a second consecutive year of
record global sales as it adds about  70 models , including
upgraded versions of existing vehicles, across its brands. VW
sold 6.29 million cars, sport-utility vehicles and light
commercial vans in 2009, a gain of 1.1 percent.  VW increased nine-month sales of all brands in China by 39
percent to 1.48 million vehicles. Audi, already the largest
luxury-car maker in the country, boosted deliveries 61 percent
to 174,907.  The German company will add two factories in China as part
of a 6 billion-euro plan to double production there to 3 million
cars within four years. VW will also open a plant in
Chattanooga, Tennessee, next year to supply the U.S. market and
is expanding capacity in Russia.  Daimler AG , the world’s second-largest luxury-car maker,
forecast today that it will sell 120,000 vehicles in China this
year, up from a previous projection of 100,000. Chief Executive
Officer  Dieter Zetsche  said in an interview that deliveries will
increase by a “double-digit” percentage in 2011 and China is
set to become the Mercedes-Benz unit’s biggest market by 2015.  Effects of exchange-rate fluctuations will have a
“positive effect” on earnings in the current quarter, VW said
as it plans to maintain its “disciplined” cost management.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andreas Cremer  in Berlin at 
 acremer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at   kwong11@bloomberg.net  