-- Wal-Mart, PepsiCo Sell Bonds as Corporate Volume Accelerates
-- B y   S a p n a   M a h e s h w a r i
-- 2010-10-22T08:37:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-22/wal-mart-pepsico-sell-bonds-as-corporate-volume-accelerates.html
Wal-Mart Stores Inc. , the world’s
largest retailer, and  PepsiCo Inc.  helped lead $29 billion of
company bond sales this week, as issuance accelerated amid
better-than-expected earnings and sales forecasts.  Wal-Mart issued $5 billion of debt on Oct. 18, including
three- and five-year notes with the lowest interest rates on
record, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. PepsiCo sold
$2.25 billion of notes in its first offering since July.  Company bond offerings jumped 27 percent from the five days
ended Oct. 15, when volume was $22.9 billion, as per-share
earnings  topped estimates  at 106 of the 124 companies in the
 Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  that reported results since Oct. 7,
Bloomberg data show. Borrowing costs for investment-grade
companies have remained near the lowest on record this week,
according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data.  “There’s a dual reason for the success in the primary
markets, and strong earnings is clearly one,” said  Ron Quigley ,
Stamford, Connecticut-based head of fixed-income syndicate at
Aladdin Capital LLC. “There’s also still a huge wall of cash
out there, of institutional money.”  The extra yield investors demand to own investment-grade
debt instead of Treasuries was unchanged from Oct. 15 at 182
basis points yesterday, according to Bank of America Merrill
Lynch’s U.S. Corporate Master index. Yields were 3.63 percent
yesterday, down from 3.68 percent last week, and near the 3.56
percent on Oct. 8, the lowest since the daily index was made
available about 24 years ago.  “Every time we talk about historically low interest rates,
they seem to be getting tighter,” said Quigley, who said he
expects “hefty issuance in the tail-end of October into the
Thanksgiving holiday.”  Sales this week compare with $25.8 billion during the five-
day period ended Oct. 23, 2009, Bloomberg data show. Companies
have issued $77.7 billion of debt this month, compared with
$107.3 billion in the corresponding portion of September.
Companies issued $161.1 billion of debt in September, the
second-most on record after May 2008, the data show.  The  Dow Jones Industrial Average  yesterday moved above its
highest close since the week Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. filed
for bankruptcy in September 2008, as companies including EBay
Inc. and  Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc.  reported third-
quarter profit that topped analysts’ estimates. The New York-
based Conference Board’s index of leading economic indicators
climbed in September for a third month.  This week’s debt offering from Wal-Mart was the
Bentonville, Arkansas-based company’s biggest since it issued
$5.75 billion of debt in a three-part transaction in August
1999, Bloomberg data show. It ties $5 billion offerings by
Kreditanstalt fuer Wiederaufbau,  Novartis AG  and Lloyds TSB Bank
Plc as the third-largest in the U.S. this year, Bloomberg data
show.  Wal-Mart ‘Happening’  “Wal-Mart was the most obvious big happening this week,”
said  Guy LeBas , chief fixed-income strategist and economist at
Janney Montgomery Scott LLC in Philadelphia. The week’s issuance
“looks a little less impressive” without it, he said.  The company’s sale included $750 million of three-year,
0.75 percent notes and $1.25 billion of five-year, 1.5 percent
debt, coupons that are the least on the record for those
maturities, according to Bank of America Corp., which helped
manage the sale. Wal-Mart also sold $1.75 billion of 10-year
securities and $1.25 billion of 30-year bonds, Bloomberg data
show.  Kraft Foods Inc.  sold $9.5 billion of debt and  Warren Buffett ’s  Berkshire Hathaway Inc.  raised $8 billion in February
in 2010’s largest U.S. corporate bond offerings, Bloomberg data
show.  Wal-Mart issued bonds after Chief Executive Officer  Mike Duke  said on Oct. 13 that he expects “positive” fourth-quarter
sales at U.S. stores open at least a year, after five
consecutive quarters of decline.  ‘Definitely Attractive’  “If you’re even thinking about it, why not come and get
money while spreads are relatively attractive to you as an
issuer,” said  Lon Erickson , a money manager who helps oversee
$9 billion of fixed-income assets for Thornburg Investment
Management Inc. in Santa Fe, New Mexico. “Rates are definitely
attractive to them.”  PepsiCo, the world’s largest snack-food maker, sold $500
million of 3-year debt, $1 billion of 10-year notes and $750
million of 30-year bonds on Oct. 19, Bloomberg data show. The
Purchase, New York-based maker of Pepsi-Cola and Lay’s potato
chips plans to use proceeds to redeem up to $500 million of its
7.9 percent notes due in November 2018 and for general corporate
purposes, it said in a regulatory filing.  EBay Debut  EBay , owner of the second-most visited e-commerce site
after Amazon.com Inc., made its bond-market debut on Oct. 21 by
issuing $1.5 billion of notes, Bloomberg data show. Its offering
included $400 million of 0.875 percent, 3-year notes, whose
coupons that tie with bonds issued by Microsoft Corp. last month
and the PepsiCo issue this week, and were higher only than debt
sold by Wal-Mart, according to Bank of America Corp. data.  “People are better understanding the EBay story,” said
 David Trahan , head of investment-grade syndicate at Citigroup
Inc. in New York, which helped manage the deal. “It’s a great
story, it’s a unique product, it’s continuing to do well.”  Sales of junk bonds were $6.4 billion this week compared
with $7.07 billion last week, the data show. Investment-grade
issuance was $22.6 billion, compared with $15.8 billion in the
five days ended Oct. 15. High-yield debt is rated below Baa3 by
Moody’s and BBB- by Standard & Poor’s. A basis point is 0.01
percentage point.  Junk Bonds  Spreads on speculative-grade debt rose 5 basis points to
600 basis points yesterday, compared with 595 basis points on
Oct. 15, according to the Bank of America Merrill Lynch U.S.
High Yield Master II Index. Yields on the debt fell 1 basis
point to 7.76 percent from 7.77 percent last week.  LeBas said he doesn’t expect a “massive uptick” of
issuance next week.  “Many of the firms that have reported earnings have
reported heavy cash on their balance sheet, which reduces the
need to fund,” he said.  Rural/Metro Corp. , a provider of medical transportation and
fire protection, is among companies marketing dollar-denominated
debt. The company plans to issue $200 million of senior notes
due 2018 through a private offering, it said in an Oct. 18
statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sapna Maheshwari  in New York at 
 sapnam@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net . 