-- Washington Visitor Boom Fuels $250 Million Hotel Bond Issue: Muni Credit
-- B y   A l e x a n d r a   H a r r i s   a n d   B r e n d a n   A .   M c G r a i l
-- 2010-10-22T04:01:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-22/washington-visitor-boom-fuels-250-million-hotel-bond-issue-muni-credit.html
Washington Convention and Sports
Authority , the agency that owns and manages three sports
complexes in the U.S.’s capital, borrowed $249.2 million this
week to build a hotel next to its convention center as the city
seeks to boost its conference and tourism industry.  The 1,167-room  Marriott Marquis Headquarters Hotel  is a
private-public partnership among the District of Columbia, the
authority and Quadrangle Development Corp., and includes a
tunnel to the  Walter E. Washington Convention Center.  The
overall cost will be $516 million with the developer
contributing $310 million, said Henry Mosley, the agency’s chief
financial officer.  The  Washington  conference and tourism industry is the
second-biggest contributor to the local economy after the
government, according to the preliminary offering documents.
Events at the convention center have doubled since fiscal 2006,
to 214 in 2010. The hotel will enable the district to rival
 Boston  and Philadelphia, Mosley said.  “We’re already competitive with those markets,” Mosley
said. “The hotel will only serve to strengthen our position.”  Washington, D.C. is projected to attract 16.7 million
visitors this year, an 11 percent increase since 2005, when 15.1
million people visited the city, the offering statement said.  The authority sold a combination of taxable and non-taxable
bonds. About $90 million were sold as so-called Recovery Zone
Economic Bonds, with another $19.7 million in Build America
Bonds and $72.8 million in traditional taxables. Another $66.7
million were sold as tax-exempt.  Build Americas  The authority’s nine-year Build Americas were priced to
yield 4.61 percent, or 215 basis points above  10-year
Treasuries . That compares with the 175 basis point spread that
 Nashville and Davidson County , Tennessee, paid in April for
Build Americas, which were sold to finance the construction of a
convention center.  Both issuers carry A+ credit scores from Fitch Ratings,
fifth-highest, while the Washington authority’s A1 rating from
Moody’s Investors Service is two levels below Nashville’s Aa2.  Tax-exempts were priced to yield 4.95 percent for a bond
maturing in October 2040, which was  71 basis points  above 30-
year top-rated debt, according to data from Municipal Market
Advisors, a Concord, Massachusetts-based research firm.  Washington Convention Center sold 29-year tax-exempts in
January 2007 priced to yield 4.60 percent, or 13 basis points
above a  comparable maturity  MMA index. The offering, which
preceded the fall of municipal insurers at the outset of the
financial crisis, was backed by  Ambac Assurance Corp.   Dedicated Tax  The bonds are secured by the district’s dedicated sales tax
on hotel rooms, and sales taxes on car rentals and restaurant
meals. They will also be backed by a portion of property taxes
that the hotel will pay, Moody’s said in a report.  “The authority’s intent is that the bonds will be self-
supporting without need for the dedicated taxes to support debt
service,”  Nicholas Samuels  and  Lisa Cole  wrote.  Following are descriptions of pending sales of municipal
debt in the U.S.:  NEW YORK CITY TRANSITIONAL FINANCE AUTHORITY , the agency
that funds a portion of the city’s capital projects, will sell
$750 million in taxable and tax-exempt debt next week. The offer
includes $620 million in Build America Bonds, which will be
issued in a negotiated sale. Underwriters led by Morgan Stanley
will market the issue. TFA also plans to sell $100 million of
taxable bonds via competitive bid. The securities are top rated
by Standard & Poor’s and Fitch, and graded Aa1 by Moody’s,
second-highest. (Added Oct. 19)  PHILADELPHIA, the sixth most-populous U.S. city, plans to
sell $619 million in airport-revenue bonds, including $327
million subject to alternative-minimum tax as soon as next week
to refinance debt and fund terminal improvements. Underwriters
led by Bank of America Merrill Lynch will market the issue,
which is rated A2 by Moody’s, sixth-highest, and A+ by S&P, one
level higher. (Added Oct. 22)  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Alexandra Harris  in New York at 
 aharris48@bloomberg.net ;
 Brendan A. McGrail  in New York at 
 bmcgrail@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Tannenbaum  at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net . 