-- Wheat Prices Rebound as Putin Extends Ban on Russian Grain Exports to July
-- B y   W h i t n e y   M c F e r r o n
-- 2010-10-22T19:56:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-22/wheat-falls-as-rain-in-u-s-great-plains-improves-prospects-of-winter-crop.html
Wheat futures rebounded from a two-
week low after Russia extended its ban on grain exports to
preserve domestic supply.  Russia, once the world’s third-largest wheat exporter,
extended its ban until July 1, Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin 
said today. The country said in August it would halt exports
until the end of this year, after drought ruined crops. Global
wheat  stockpiles  will total 174.66 million metric tons on May
31, down 11 percent from last year, the U.S. Department of
Agriculture said Oct. 8.  Prolonging the shipment ban is “a little psychologically
supportive” to prices, said  Shawn McCambridge , the senior grain
analyst for Prudential Bache Commodities LLC. “Most people are
not expecting Russia even to consider coming back in until after
next year’s harvest,” he said.  Wheat futures for December delivery climbed 2 cents, or 0.3
percent, to settle at $6.7075 a bushel at 1:15 p.m. on the
Chicago Board of Trade. Futures still dropped 4.8 percent this
week, the second straight weekly decline. The grain is up 40
percent since the end of June because of the Russian drought.  Futures also rose after yesterday’s 2.1 percent slide,
which may have created a “buying opportunity” for end-users
and speculators, said  Larry Young , the president of Covenant
Trading LLC in Chicago.  Plains Rain  Earlier, futures slumped to $6.65, the lowest level since
Oct. 8, as rain improved prospects for winter crops recently
planted in the U.S. Great Plains.  Kansas, the biggest winter-wheat-producing state, may
receive 0.5 inch (1.3 centimeters) of rain today, according to
AccuWeather Inc. Some areas have had half of the normal amount
of  rainfall  in the past 30 days. Wheat farms in Oklahoma and
Texas also are expected to have thunderstorms today.  “It’s hard to get much of a rally out of wheat with this
system moving through the Plains, which we really needed,” said
 Darrell Holaday , the president of Advanced Market Concepts in
Manhattan, Kansas. “It’s a very slow-moving system at this
point that’s done a good job of giving west Oklahoma,
especially, some good rain.”  Wheat is the fourth-biggest U.S. crop, valued at $10.6
billion in 2009, behind corn, soybeans and hay, government data
show. The U.S. is the world’s largest exporter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Whitney McFerron  in Chicago at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  