-- Whistler Blackcomb, TransAxio Drive Canadian IPOs to Record Pace in 2010
-- B y   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r
-- 2010-10-22T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-22/whistler-blackcomb-transaxio-drive-canadian-ipos-to-record-year.html
The Whistler-Blackcomb ski resort
and an Ontario toll-road operator are among companies planning
to raise about C$1.8 billion ($1.75 billion) in initial public
offerings in the next four weeks, putting Canada on pace for a
record year in IPOs.  Tourmaline Oil Corp. and Teranga Gold Corp. are also
planning sales, adding to the $4.58 billion raised this year,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Record prices for gold
and higher rates for copper and other commodities may mean
Canadian firms will surpass the record $6.38 billion raised in
2006 if the planned deals get done by year-end.  “The market is getting healthier,” said  Neil Manji ,
national IPO services leader for PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP in
Toronto. “Confidence has come back and the volatility has
subsided.”  While IPOs in Canada have surged, U.S. offerings have yet
to return to the level of two years ago. Initial share sales on
American exchanges have raised $22.6 billion this year, 21
percent less than in the same period in 2008, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  Canada’s benchmark  S&P/TSX Composite Index  rose 9.5 percent
in the third quarter, its best performance in more than a year,
after rebounding from a 6.2 percent decline in the previous
quarter. The index rose another 1.9 percent in October.  “Canada has a very resource rich economy and there are
pockets of growth, such as oil sands and others, that drive
issuance,” said  Roman Dubczak , head of equity capital markets
for CIBC World Markets in Toronto. CIBC ranks sixth among banks
for managing IPOS this year, according to Bloomberg data.  Athabasca Sale  IPOs in Canada this year were led by the C$1.35 billion
sale of Calgary-based oil company Athabasca Oil Sands Corp. and
the C$700 million sale by  MEG Energy Corp.   TransAxio Highway Concession Inc., set up by  SNC-Lavalin
Group Inc.  to buy part of the 407 Express Toll Route near
Toronto, and Whistler Blackcomb Holdings Inc., operator of the
ski resort that hosted the 2010 Winter Olympics, may sell shares
as early as next week, people familiar with the sales said.  Other stock sales planned in the next few weeks include
Global Packaging Plus Inc. and Frontier Rare Earths Ltd. of
Luxembourg. The flurry of IPOs -- at least 10 companies are
being marketed to investors -- sets up an estimated C$5 billion
to C$6 billion in IPOS in 2011, Manji said.  IPOs Shut-Out  “There was a bit of a shut-out period from April until
recently where the market had gone down and the ability to
finance went down with it,” said  Ian Nakamoto , head of research
at MacDougall MacDougall and MacTier Inc. in Toronto, which
manages C$4 billion in assets. “There are probably pent-up
issuers out there looking for that window of opportunity.”  TransAxio aims to sell subscription receipts at C$15 to
C$16 each in an IPO worth as much as C$900 million to raise its
stake in Ontario’s 108-kilometer toll highway, three people
familiar with the deal said. CIBC, a unit of  Canadian Imperial
Bank of Commerce , is leading a group of banks on the sale. SNC-
Lavalin spokeswoman Claudia Martin declined to comment.  Whistler Blackcomb plans to raise C$300 million in its IPO,
according to two people familiar with the deal. The company aims
to sell shares for between C$14 and C$15 each to repay debt owed
to Intrawest ULC, the selling shareholder and a unit of New
York-based buyout firm  Fortress Investment Group LLC .  Whistler Blackcomb is expected to pay a dividend with a
yield between 6.5 percent and 7 percent. The sale is led by
CIBC, RBC Dominion Securities and eight other investment banks.
Whistler Blackcomb spokeswoman Tabetha Boot declined to comment.  Packaging Sale  Global Packaging Plus, a California maker of plastic
packaging, yesterday cut its offering to about C$92.5 million,
as part of a sale of the  business  by owner Berkley Industries
LLC, according to two people familiar with the deal.  Global Packaging Plus plans to sell 15.75 million shares
for C$5.75 to C$6 each, down from C$7 to C$8 apiece, in a sale
led by RBC. Packaging Plus Chief Financial Officer George Cohen
declined to comment.  Tourmaline, a Calgary-based energy explorer, plans to raise
C$125 million in its offering, with shares between C$20 and C$22
each, according to two people familiar. The sale is led by
Calgary-based Peters & Co. Tourmaline’s Scott Kirker didn’t
immediately return a call seeking comment.  Teranga aims to raise as much as C$120 million to expand a
gold plant in Senegal and fund exploration, according to an Oct.
13 filing. Cormark Securities Inc. and GMP Securities are
leading the sale for the Toronto-based gold miner.  Frontier plans to raise C$40 million to develop a South
African deposit of rare-earth metals used in car batteries and
computers. Chief Executive Officer James Kenny wasn’t
immediately available for comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Doug Alexander in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net  