-- Whooping Cough at Highest Level in California Since 1950, With 10 Deaths
-- B y   D a v i d   O l m o s
-- 2010-10-22T19:15:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-22/whooping-cough-deaths-reach-10-in-california-as-cases-highest-since-1955.html
California  reported  its 10th death
from whooping cough as the state’s total number of 2010 cases
reached its highest level since 1950, said  Mike Sicilia ,
spokesman for the California Department of Public Health.  A six-week-old infant who was born prematurely in San Diego
County was the most recent baby to die from whooping cough, or
 pertussis , this year, Sicilia said in a telephone interview.  As of Oct. 19, California has reported 5,978 confirmed
cases of whooping cough, a highly contagious disease that can be
prevented with a vaccine. The 10 deaths in California are the
most since 13 people died during one year in the late 1950s,
Sicilia said.  “Pertussis is a cyclical disease that has had a five-year
wave of historic patterns,” Sicilia said. “We are at the top
of the five-year pattern” in California, he said.  Nearly  17,000 cases  of pertussis were reported in the U.S.
in 2009, although many cases go unreported or undiagnosed,
according to the  U.S. Centers for Disease Control and
Prevention . The disease gets its name, whooping cough, from the
distinctive gasp between coughing spasms of patients.  Three Months Old  All 10 deaths in California have been among infants three
months old or younger, said Wilma Wooten, public health officer
for the San Diego County Health & Human Services Agency, in a
telephone interview. The CDC  recommends  that children get five
doses of vaccine through grade school, with the first dose given
at two months, she said. The agency also recommends booster
shots, known as Tdap, for adolescents and adults, she said.  Adults and caregivers of infants should check with their
doctors to make sure their vaccinations are up to date, Wooten
said. About 80 percent of infants who contract the disease get
it from a household member or caregiver, she said.  Nine of the 10 infant deaths in California have been
Hispanic children, according to the California health
department.  Thirty-seven new cases of pertussis have been reported in
San Diego County so far in October, suggesting a slowing rate of
cases, Wooten said. The county had 179 cases in September and
193 cases in August, the peak month this year, she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Olmos  in San Francisco at 
 dolmos@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 Rgale5@bloomberg.net  