-- Yankees Advancement May Bring Fox Fodder in Fight With Cablevision on Fees
-- B y   K e l l y   R i d d e l l
-- 2010-10-22T17:06:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-22/why-news-corp-s-fox-may-be-rooting-for-yankees-to-reach-series.html
Yankees fan Dave Wadsworth is
considering the options if he can’t watch his team in the World
Series on cable provider  Cablevision Systems Corp.  He doesn’t
like the idea of installing a rooftop antenna to get Fox’s
broadcast of the games or going to a neighbor’s house to watch.  “I could get killed or hurt falling off the roof,” said
Wadsworth, who lives about 50 miles north of New York City in
Central Valley. “But if I go to my neighbors I have to listen
to their kids howling at each other, sit on a lumpy couch and
avoid their dog racing around high on sugar.”  Wadsworth is one reason Fox-owner  News Corp.  may be pulling
for the New York Yankees to beat the Texas Rangers in the
American League playoffs, said  Brad Adgate , director of research
at Horizon Media Inc. If the Yankees advance, Cablevision will
get more pressure from its 3 million customers in New York and
Philadelphia to reach a deal with News Corp. to restore Fox
programming cut off in a fee dispute, he said.  “Texas in the World Series just isn’t as exciting,” said
Adgate. A Philadelphia Phillies victory in the National League
playoffs would also help News Corp. to a lesser extent, he said.  Scott Grogin , a Fox spokesman, declined to comment. Charles
Schueler, a spokesman for Cablevision, said if News Corp. agreed
to binding arbitration, which would restore Fox’s signal while
the two sides negotiate, the question of who gets to the series
becomes “moot.” Fox has refused arbitration, saying direct
negotiation is the only way to resolve the dispute.  The Yankees trail the Texas Rangers three-games-to-two in
the American League Championship Series and need a win tonight
to stay alive in the best-of-seven series. The Phillies are also
down three-games-to-two, to the San Francisco Giants. Fox will
start airing the World Series Oct. 27.  Subscriber Losses  News Corp. started blocking Fox broadcast signals on
Cablevision Oct. 16 after the two sides failed to reach a deal
on how much the cable company should pay for the programming.
The stalemate has already caused the longest-lasting blackout
for a major broadcast network for a million or more people in at
least a decade.  Sports, especially local sports, are the No. 1 reason
consumers continue to subscribe to pay-TV services, according to
a survey by finance firm BTIG LLC last month. Cablevision could
lose subscribers to rivals such as DirecTV or  Verizon
Communications Inc.  if it can’t show the New York team play for
the championship, according to BTIG analyst  Richard Greenfield .  “If the Yankees win the ALCS, the World Series on Fox will
lead to brutal sub losses at Cablevision,” Greenfield, based in
New York, wrote in a research note to investors.  The Yankees have a 22 percent chance of returning to the
World Series, according to RJ Bell, president of Las Vegas-based
 Pregame.com , the largest handicapping information website
compliant with U.S. laws.  ‘Hell to Pay’  Bell’s projection is based on Las Vegas betting lines for
today’s Game 6 in Arlington, Texas, and a possible Game 7. If
the Yankees force a decisive seventh game, they would face
Rangers pitcher  Cliff Lee , who is 7-0 all-time in eight career
postseason starts.  Customers have taken to Twitter Inc. to express their
frustration at the companies’ inability to strike a deal.  “There’s going to be hell to pay if the Yankees make it to
the World Series and we can’t watch,” Daniel Jalkut, a
Cablevision subscriber in Brooklyn, New York, tweeted this week.  Cablevision has a history of playing hardball in fee
negotiations, said  Chris Marangi , an analyst at Gabelli & Co. in
Rye, New York. In 2002, the cable operator kept YES Network, the
local sports channel owned by the Yankees, off its system for a
season until New York’s then-Attorney General  Eliot Spitzer  got
the two sides to make a deal.  Politicians are pushing both sides to reach a deal this
time too. This week,  Julius Genachowski , chairman of the U.S.
Federal Communications Commission, called on the chief executive
officers at both companies to come to an agreement.  Reaching a Deal  Back in Central Valley, New York, Dave Wadsworth is
considering calling  John Hall , a local Democratic congressman,
to put pressure on the two companies to reach a deal.  “But do I really want to ask for a favor when I want to
vote him out of office this November?” Wadsworth said. “I’m
going to have to make a decision if the Yankees keep winning.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kelly Riddell  in Washington at 
 kriddell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at   pelstrom@bloomberg.net . 