-- Wilmington Trust Said to Seek Buyers, Talk With Canadian Banks
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   R .   M i d e r ,   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n ,   a n d   N i s h a d   M a j m u d a r
-- 2010-10-22T20:27:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-22/wilmington-trust-said-to-seek-buyers-held-talks-with-two-canadian-banks.html
Wilmington Trust Corp. , the Delaware
bank founded by the du Pont family, has been contacting bigger
lenders in recent weeks to gauge their interest in buying the
company, said people with knowledge of the matter.  The bank  has told potential buyers it is aiming to reach a
deal by the end of the month, said the people, who spoke on
condition of anonymity because the talks are private. Canada’s
 Bank of Montreal  is among banks that have held talks with
Wilmington Trust, and  Toronto-Dominion Bank  has also been
approached, these people said. Lazard Ltd. is advising
Wilmington Trust, the people said.  Wilmington Trust rose 8.6 percent to $8.76 at 4:15 p.m. in
New York Stock Exchange composite trading. Transactions were
halted twice by volatility curbs implemented following the U.S.
stock market crash on May 6.  The company has plunged 75 percent in the past three years,
giving the bank a market value of $834.9 million. The 107-year-
old lender has reported five straight quarterly  losses , driven
in part by soured commercial real estate loans and investments
in pools of trust-preferred securities. It is scheduled to
report third-quarter results on Nov. 1.  The lender has also been working on a separate plan to
raise capital from private-equity investors, people with
knowledge of the situation said earlier this month.  ‘Tough’ to Raise Equity  “It would be very tough for them to raise common equity in
the public markets without a lot of due diligence, and if
private equity is out of the picture, then they’d probably have
to sell at this point,”  Stephen Moss , an analyst at Janney
Montgomery Scott LLC in Philadelphia, said today. “I find it
hard to believe that a bank with as many distressed assets as
they have can go at a substantial premium.”  Wilmington Trust said today in a statement that its policy
is to not comment on unusual market activity or speculation.  Paul Deegan , a spokesman for Bank of Montreal, and  Mohammed Nakhooda  of Toronto-Dominion declined to comment.  Monica Orbe , a
Lazard spokeswoman, also declined to comment.  Wilmington Trust said in an August regulatory filing that
despite a $116 million net loss in the second quarter, “our
capital position remained strong at June 30,” with a risk-based
capital ratio of 16.65 percent, compared with the 10 percent
minimum required by the U.S. Federal Reserve to be considered
“well capitalized.”  Bank of Montreal  For  Bank of Montreal , which has owned Chicago-based Harris
Bank since 1984, an acquisition of Wilmington would bolster its
U.S. private banking group.  The Canadian lender has spent the last seven years building
Harris Private Bank, which now has 22 offices in 15 U.S. cities,
 Gilles Ouellette , head of the lender’s private client group,
said during a Sept. 22 investor conference. Harris has about 30
percent of high net worth clients around Chicago, Ouellette
said.  Wilmington Trust’s wealth management unit, focusing on
customers across the U.S. with $10 million or more of liquid
assets, managed $25 billion as of June 30.  Edmund Clark , Toronto-Dominion’s chief executive officer,
said at a luncheon with investors in Toronto yesterday that
“the only kinds of deals we would look at in the U.S. are
smaller deals,” and added that the U.S. is “a pretty hostile
regulatory environment.”  Other banks that might take an interest in Wilmington
include  Northern Trust Corp. , PNC Financial Services Group Inc.,
Bank of New York Mellon Corp., and M&T Bank Corp., said  Andy Stapp , analyst with B. Riley & Co. in Haverford, Pennsylvania,
in an interview yesterday.  The U.S. Treasury, through its Troubled Asset Relief
Program, bought $330 million in preferred equity in Wilmington
Trust in December 2008.  T. Coleman du Pont, then president of E.I. du Pont Nemours
& Co., founded the bank in 1903. It’s now widely held.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Zachary R. Mider  in New York at 
 zmider1@bloomberg.net ;
 Jeffrey McCracken  in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;
Nishad Majmudar in New York at 
 nmajmudar@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net . 