-- Wilmington Trust Said to Seek Buyers, Talk With Canadian Banks
-- B y   N i n a   M e h t a   a n d   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 2010-10-22T18:57:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-22/wilmington-trust-said-to-seek-buyers-talk-with-canadian-banks.html
Wilmington Trust Corp.  was halted
 twice  by U.S. volatility curbs implemented following the May 6
market crash, becoming the second company for which takeover
speculation triggered multiple circuit breakers within minutes.  The  stock  reversed a 5.1 percent drop, gaining more than 10
percent to $8.44 at 2:21 p.m. in New York, when the first pause
began. Once transactions resumed, it jumped to $9.64, caused the
second halt.  The Delaware  bank  founded by the du Pont family has been
contacting bigger lenders in recent weeks to gauge their
interest in buying the company, said people with knowledge of
the matter. The Bloomberg News story on the potential takeover
drove the shares higher. Merger speculation in Genzyme Corp.
sent its shares rallying on July 23, also triggering the circuit
breaker twice.  “We’re going to have to live with it,” said  Art Hogan ,
chief market analyst at New York-based Jefferies Group Inc. “In
this environment, if you want to have fairly orderly markets,
you risk doing less damage by proceeding this way.”  Wilmington Trust, based in Wilmington, Delaware, became the
12th security paused by the volatility circuit breaker,
following Adobe Systems Inc. on Oct. 7, Progress Energy Inc. on
Sept. 27, Seagate Technology Plc on Sept. 21, Nucor Corp. on
Sept. 14, Intel Corp. on Aug. 27, Micron Technology Inc. on Aug.
5, Cisco Systems Inc. on July 29, Genzyme on July 23, Anadarko
Petroleum Corp. on July 6, Citigroup Inc. on June 29 and
Washington Post Co. on June 16.  Stocks, ETFs  Wilmington’s jump triggered a curb implemented by U.S.
exchanges after the May 6 stock market crash briefly erased $862
billion in less than 20 minutes. The pause lasts five minutes
for companies in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index and  Russell
1000 Index  as well as  344  exchange-traded funds once they rise
or fall at least 10 percent within five minutes.  “It’s important that exchanges and regulators have clear,
consistent standards on when to halt a stock,” said  Brett Mock ,
chairman of the Security Traders Association, based in Darien,
Connecticut. “The trading curbs are a work in progress. Some
halts are good examples for what regulators should look at as
they adjust the curbs so they work for the marketplace.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Nina Mehta  in New York at 
 nmehta24@bloomberg.net ;
 Rita Nazareth  in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Nick Baker  at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 