-- WTO Rejects Bulk of China's Complaints Over U.S. Steel-Pipe Import Duties
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   M .   F r e e d m a n
-- 2010-10-22T16:42:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-22/wto-rejects-bulk-of-china-s-complaints-over-u-s-steel-pipe-import-duties.html
World Trade Organization  judges
rejected eight out of 11 complaints by China against U.S. duties
on imports of steel pipes, some off-road tires and woven sacks.  The U.S. announced levies in July 2008 on $200 million of
steel pipe shipments from China, South Korea and Mexico. Chinese
exporters of the light, rectangular piping face countervailing
duties, used to offset subsidies, of as much as 200 percent of
the product’s price and anti-dumping duties, which compensate
for goods sold overseas at prices below those at home, of as
much as 265 percent.  Judges today upheld the right of the U.S. to impose both
sets of tariffs on the Chinese products, the U.S. Trade
Representative’s office said in a statement. It’s the second
time the U.S. has imposed duties on Chinese imports to
compensate for subsidies, after a similar case in June 2008
involving a different type of steel pipe.  “This was a major victory for the U.S.,” said  Alan Price ,
a lawyer at Wiley Rein LLP in Washington who has represented
 Nucor Corp.  in trade cases. “The WTO panel affirmed the right
to apply the antidumping- and countervailing-duty law
simultaneously to China, the panel affirmed the Commerce
Department’s findings that state-owned enterprises are public
bodies entrusted and directed by the government and the WTO
affirmed the use of non-Chinese benchmarks in subsidy cases.”  No one was available at China’s mission to the WTO in
Geneva to comment on the ruling.  Judges agreed with China, the world’s biggest steel
producer, that the duties themselves weren’t compliant because
one element ran counter to WTO rules.  “We recommend that the United States bring its measures
into conformity with its obligations” under the Agreement on
Subsidies and Countervailing Measures and the General Agreement
on Tariffs and Trade, the judges said in their 283-page  report 
published today on the WTO’s website.  Both China and the U.S. have 60 days to appeal the
decision.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jennifer M. Freedman  in Geneva at 
 jfreedman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  