-- Yankees Show Signs of Life Amid Lee: Scott Soshnick
-- B y   S c o t t   S o s h n i c k
-- 2010-10-22T18:35:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-22/yankees-show-signs-of-life-amid-specter-of-lee-scott-soshnick.html
(Corrects 12th paragraph to say Lee pitched Game 3.)  Game 4 of the American League
Championship Series, which the Rangers lead 3-2 heading back to
Texas, offered fans the chance to reminisce and ruminate on the
what-ifs of baseball.  A disputed home run by the Yankees’  Robinson Cano  sparked
thoughts of Jeffrey Maier, who as a 12-year-old coaxed  Derek Jeter ’s, ahem,  home run  over the fence in the opening game of
the 1996 ALCS. And a popup down the left-field line drew
comparisons to  Steve Bartman , the headphones-wearing Cubs fan
who got in the way at the worst of times.  Moises Alou  didn’t make that catch and the Cubs, who led
the 2003 NLCS 3 games to 1, never did get that fourth win. It’s
the hardest one, players in all sports say. Yankees reliever
 Kerry Wood  back then played for the Cubs who, to this day,
remain the sport’s loveable losers.  “We all thought it was going to happen,” Wood said of the
Cubs reaching the World Series, “but that’s why you go out to
play the game.”  Baseball is the quirkiest of games which, on most
occasions, offers even longtime followers something they’d never
seen before.  Funny bounces make it foolish to say a seven-game series,
even one in which one team leads, say 3-0, is over.  Yogi Berra ’s
take on when an athletic competition is over is spot on. It
takes 27 outs.  The Yankees said all the right things after their bats
awakened in Game 5, a 7-2 New York win behind CC Sabathia. Cano
hit a home run and so, too, did  Nick Swisher , the ebullient
outfielder who says the Yankees can’t wait to play the next one
and the one after that.  Looking Past Statistics  “We don’t feel like we’re out of anything,” said Swisher,
paying no mind to the statistical truth that 24 of the 30 teams
that have led 3-1 have gone on to win the series. “We have one
more game -- and one more after that.”  The Yankees did, indeed, show signs of life.  “We got some pitches to hit,”  said  Yankees captain Jeter,
“and we hit them.”  There’s the catch, though. The Yankees got pitches to hit.
That might not be the case in Game 7. Provided, of course, the
Yankees even get that far. First the Yankees must win tonight,
when  Phil Hughes  faces the Rangers’  Colby Lewis . It’s a rematch
of Game 2. Lewis won that one.  The Yankees are talking about signs of life. What they
aren’t talking about, at least not yet, is the specter of  Cliff Lee  -- the unflappable Texas ace who baffled the so-called Bronx
Bombers in Game 3. Strike one. Strike two. Strike three. Up,
down. Fast, slow. Slower. Lee is the definition of pitcher in a
sport awash in throwers. Think  Greg Maddux , whose brother, Mike,
just happens to be the Texas pitching coach.  Pressure Resistant  Lee, a 32-year-old left-hander, is rested and ready to
pitch a deciding Game 7 on Saturday night against  Andy Pettitte .
Most important, Lee probably isn’t the least bit nervous to
pitch in what amounts to the most important game in the history
of a franchise that’s never been to the World Series. He’s
impervious to the pressure of pitching to expectations.  Lee is keenly aware that wins and losses aren’t life and
death.  Taking the mound, even for a Game 7 against the most
storied franchise in sports, is easy after doctors in 2001 gave
4-month-old Jaxon Lee a 30 percent chance of surviving leukemia.  Jaxon is 9. And healthy. He pitched one inning in a recent
baseball game. He struck out the side.  Remarkable Postseason  Suddenly the defending World Series champions don’t seem so
scary. No team does. No batter does. No situation.  Lee is  3-0  this postseason, including a win in the decisive
Game 5 against the Tampa Bay Rays in the division series. His
earned run average is 0.75. No, that isn’t a typo. He’s tossed
24 innings, giving up just 13 hits while striking out 34 and
walking, get this, one.  The Rangers manager,  Ron Washington , was asked if, given
the two-chances-to-win-one scenario, he feels comfortable. He
channeled his inner Yogi.  “Comfort,” he said. “You’re never comfortable.”  Maybe not. But having Lee as a failsafe is enough to get
any manager pretty close to his comfort zone.  ( Scott Soshnick  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Scott Soshnick in New York at 
 ssoshnick@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  