-- Typhoon Megi Kills Seven People in Taiwan, Heads for Southern China Coast
-- B y   Y u - h u a y   S u n   a n d   S t u a r t   B i g g s
-- 2010-10-23T00:45:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-22/typhoon-megi-triggers-landslides-as-it-lashes-taiwan-traps-400-travelers.html
Typhoon Megi crossed Taiwan, killing
at least seven people at a temple complex, leaving a busload of 
Chinese tourists missing and causing power outages before heading
toward Xiamen in China’s southern Fujian province.  The deaths occurred when a house next to a Buddhist temple
in Suao township in Yilan county was covered in a landslide, the
National Fire Agency in Taipei said in a statement on its
 website . Nineteen Chinese tourists, their driver and guide were
missing as of 9 p.m. local time yesterday, the agency said.  The China National Tourism Administration said yesterday
that a mainland tour guide died as a result of the storm and a
tourist was injured. Megi dumped as much as 1,195 millimeters
(47 inches) of rain in northeast Taiwan since Oct. 21, Taiwan’s
Central Weather Bureau  said  on its website.  Megi was about 130 kilometers (81 miles) south of Xiamen at
8 a.m. local time today, moving north at 12 kilometers (7.5
miles) per hour toward the coast of Fujian province, according
to the Hong Kong Observatory. It is projected to make landfall
in southern China at about 2 p.m. local time with winds of 130
kph, the U.S. Navy Joint Typhoon Warning Center  said .  In China, where floods and landslides have killed more than
2,000 people this year, more than 160,000 people were evacuated
in Guangdong and Fujian provinces, the official Xinhua News
Agency  reported . In Shantou, eastern Guangdong, 42 flights were
canceled affecting 4,000 passengers, the agency reported.  Roads Closed  Megi, which left 26 people  dead  in the Philippines earlier
this week, trapped about 400 people in vehicles as roads were
closed, Taiwan’s Cabinet said in a faxed statement yesterday.
Search teams reached all 53 people who remained trapped at 7
p.m., the fire agency said later.  In the northeastern coastal county of Yilan, 2,742 people
were evacuated. A total of 2,987 households were still without
power in Taiwan at 9 p.m. yesterday and agricultural losses have
reached about NT$46 million ($1.5 million), the fire agency said.  In Hong Kong, which had braced for a possible direct hit,
the city’s observatory canceled all storm signals at 8:40 p.m.
local time last night.  The U.S. Navy Joint Typhoon Warning Center is also tracking
two tropical depressions over the Pacific Ocean east of the
Philippines.  Tropical Depression 16W was about 1,700 kilometers east of
Manila at 2 a.m. Philippines time today, according to the latest
 advisory . It is forecast to become a tropical storm within two
days and a typhoon in five days as it heads north toward the
Japanese islands of Okinawa and Kyushu.  Tropical Depression 17W was  located  northeast of Saipan and
moving northwest, away from land.  In the northeastern Indian Ocean, Tropical Cyclone Giri
weakened as it made landfall on Myanmar’s west coast late
yesterday, the U.S. center  said . The storm crossed the coast
near the city of Sittwe and shortly after midnight was heading
inland carrying winds of 148 kph, the center said in its final
advisory. Giri is forecast to weaken throughout today.  To contact the reporters on the story:
 Yu-huay Sun  in Taipei 
 ysun7@bloomberg.net ;
 Stuart Biggs  in Tokyo at 
 ssbiggs3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net ;
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net . 