-- Zealand, Danish Drugmaker, Said to Seek $190 Million in Initial Stock Sale
-- B y   J a c q u e l i n e   S i m m o n s
-- 2010-10-22T13:13:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-22/zealand-danish-drugmaker-said-to-seek-190-million-in-ipo.html
Zealand Pharma A/S  may raise as much
as $190 million in an initial public offering by selling up to a
third of the Danish drugmaker, according to a person with
knowledge of the matter.  Banks for Zealand, which developed the experimental
diabetes drug lixisenatide from the spit of the Gila monster,
are gauging investor demand for the shares, said the person who
declined to be identified because the process is confidential. A
sale of a third of Glostrup-based Zealand at $190 million would
value the whole company at about $575 million.  Zealand has a partnership with Paris-based  Sanofi-Aventis
SA  to develop and market lixisenatide, Zealand’s most advanced
drug. Sanofi last month said lixisenatide combined with the
French company’s Lantus helped patients to better control the
level of sugar in their blood. Lixisenatide belongs to a class
of drugs that imitate a hormone called GLP-1 to stimulate the
pancreas to produce more insulin after meals.  Jefferies International Ltd. and Danske Bank A/S are
arranging the sale. SEB Enskilda Banken AB and Bryan, Garnier &
Co. are co-managers. The company is about two weeks away from a
potential offering and the firm may use proceeds for research
and new drugs, the person said.  A final decision on the IPO hasn’t been made, the person
said. Executives at Zealand weren’t immediately available for
comment.  Zealand in 2005 scrapped plans for an IPO because investors
weren’t willing to buy at a price that management wanted. The
company has since introduced a new executive team, which
includes David Solomon, chief executive officer, Mats Blom,
chief financial officer, and Christian Groendahl, chief
scientific officer.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jacqueline Simmons  in Paris at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at   pserafino@bloomberg.net  