-- Zinc, Lead Smelter Closure in China to Have `Little Effect,' Antaike Says
-- B y   G l e n y s   S i m
-- 2010-10-22T08:32:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-22/zinc-lead-smelter-closure-in-china-to-have-little-effect-antaike-says.html
China’s zinc and lead market will be
little affected by the suspension of production at  Shenzhen
Zhongjin Lingnan Nonfemet Co.’s  Shaoguan smelter as the country,
the world’s largest producer of both metals, has ample supplies,
said Beijing Antaike Information Development Co.  “The halt in output will support prices in the short term
as disruptions tend to,”  Feng Juncong , chief zinc and lead
analyst at state-owned Antaike, said by phone. “If you take it
in the context of China’s total production, the impact is not
big.” Zhongjin is the nation’s third-largest zinc producer.  Zinc in London gained to the highest level since April as
operations at the smelter were halted yesterday after
authorities found that excessive levels of thallium were
discharged by the plant into a river. China’s  output  of zinc
jumped 24 percent in the first nine months and is set, along
with lead, to climb to a record this year.  “There is enough lead and zinc in China at the moment to
meet demand, so unless it’s an extended closure, there’s
unlikely to be much impact on domestic supplies,” said  Zhu Yiman , an analyst at Shanghai Metals Market.  Stockpiles  in warehouses monitored by the Shanghai Futures
Exchange were at 283,472 metric tons this week, up 65 percent
this year. Inventories were 295,454 tons at the start of June,
the highest level since futures started trading in 2007.  Production Expands  China’s production of zinc reached 3.83 million tons in the
first nine months, and lead output rose 4.5 percent to 3.06
million tons, the statistics bureau said yesterday. Both metals
should reach an annual production record, according to Pang Ying
at Shenzhen Rongtuo Trading.  Production at Shaoguan represents about six percent of
China’s total zinc output and around three percent of lead
output, according to estimates by Jinhui Futures Co. China.  High grade  zinc  for immediate delivery surged to a nine-
month high in Changjiang, Shanghai’s biggest cash market, while
 lead  jumped to the highest price since September 2008 as
operations at Shaoguan were stopped. The Shaoguan smelter in
Guangdong was shut for two months in 2005 after it discharged
excessive amounts of cadmium into a river during maintenance.  “The Shaoguan smelter is their largest operation so any
news about a stoppage gives speculators a chance to push prices
higher,” said Zhu.  Zinc gained by as much as 2.1 percent to $2,525 a ton on
the London Metal Exchange, the highest price since April. Lead
climbed as much as 1.4 percent to $2,519 a ton, the highest
level since January. Zinc and lead are the worst-performing
industrial metals this year as supplies outpaced demand.  Output Suspended  The Shaoguan smelter represented 256,200 tons, or 82
percent, of Zhongjin’s total output of 312,300 tons of lead and
zinc in the first nine months of this year, the company said in
a statement yesterday. It was slated to produce 350,000 tons of
lead and zinc this year, out of the company’s forecast total of
420,000 tons, the statement said.  “Other production units under the company are operating
normally and it will take appropriate measures to seek a
resumption of output as early as possible,” Zhongjin said
yesterday, without elaborating.  The stoppage is estimated to reduce the company’s net
earnings by about 27 million yuan a month, the company said
yesterday. The effects of the toxic spill into the Beijiang
River have been controlled and measures have been taken to
ensure the safety of drinking water, the company said.  Zhongjin Shares  Shares  of Zhongjin resumed trading today, jumping as much
as 9.8 percent to 23.30 yuan as zinc futures in Shanghai traded
above 20,000 yuan a ton for the first time since January. Zinc
is used to galvanize steel and lead is used in batteries.  The incident is the latest in a series of industrial
accidents that has plagued China, the world’s worst polluter,
this year.  Zijin Mining Group Co. , China’s largest gold producer,
was forced to shut a copper plant and limit production at a gold
mine in Fujian after acid-laced waste spilled into a local river.  Thallium is a highly toxic byproduct metal collected in
residues from smelting copper, zinc and lead ores and is used in
specialized glass and radiation detection equipment, according
to the  U.S. Geological Survey.   To contact the reporter on this story:
 Glenys Sim  in Singapore at 
 Gsim4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@Bloomberg.net  