-- No direct German stake in EADS planned: source
-- By  Gernot Heller
-- Thu Nov 23, 2006 6:58am EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2006/11/23/businesspro-transport-eads-germany-dc-idUSL2349511620061123

 

 BERLIN  (Reuters) - Germany does not expect to take a direct 
stake in aerospace group EADS ( EAD.PA ) via state bank KfW or 
other federal or state institutions, a senior government 
official told Reuters on Thursday. 

  Germany has been thinking about ways to safeguard its 
influence in EADS should core shareholder DaimlerChrysler 
DCXGn.DE cut its 22.5 percent holding by 7.5 percent as 
Daimler has said it wants to do.  Chancellor Angela Merkel has said Berlin wants to keep 
German-French parity in the group. Her government is concerned 
that a reduction of DaimlerChrysler's stake could diminish 
German influence at a time when Airbus is about to push through 
substantial cost cuts.  Under a model being discussed by the government, 
DaimlerChrysler would retain its current voting rights. Details 
of the plan have yet to be fully agreed.  "Taking a direct stake in EADS via KfW or similar 
institutions is not envisioned," the official said, requesting 
anonymity because of the sensitivity of the matter.  One option that has been discussed in German media is that 
Daimler unit Dasa AG would issue a convertible bond tied to the 
7.5 percent stake, which could be bought by a consortium of 
investors. This would enable the government as one of the 
investors to buy into EADS while avoiding the appearance of 
taking a direct stake.
  CONTRADICTION  Without disclosing details, German government spokesman 
Ulrich Wilhelm confirmed on Wednesday that a basic agreement on 
what to do about EADS had been reached several days earlier.  The comments by the unidentified German official on 
Thursday contradicted other comment on Wednesday from a 
separate official from the city-state of Hamburg, where the 
Airbus plane-making unit of EADS has a large plant.  The Hamburg official had said 51 percent of the stake in 
EADS that Daimler wants to unload would be taken over by a 
group of German states and the federal government, while the 
other 49 percent would go to a consortium of banks.  Ever since EADS was created in 2000, the company has 
maintained a delicate balance between German and French 
influence in its shareholder structure and management.  Delays in the Airbus A380 superjumbo have forced EADS to 
examine changes to the way it produces large commercial jets. 
Berlin fears this could lead to substantial job cuts in 
Germany.  Separately on Thursday, a source told Reuters that Manfred 
Bischoff, the German co-chairman of EADS, would give up his 
post at the firm next year if he becomes the chairman of 
Daimler as expected.  In France, a judicial source said the public prosecutor's 
office had begun a preliminary investigation into alleged 
insider trading in EADS shares.