-- European shares fall as energy, bank stocks weigh
-- By Marie Maitre
-- Thu Nov 23, 2006 7:57am EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2006/11/23/businesspro-markets-europe-stocks-dc-idUSL2326508920061123

 

 PARIS  (Reuters) - Weak energy and banking stocks pushed 
European shares lower on Thursday, while Air France ( AIRF.PA ) 
shares fell on news it was in tentative merger talks with 
ailing Italian airline Alitalia AZPIa.MI. 

  But takeover talk lifted shares in Imperial Chemical 
Industries ICI.L and French drinks group Remy Cointreau 
( RCOP.PA ), and a positive broker note on Spanish clothing 
retailer Inditex ( ITX.MC ) helped limit market losses.  The FTSEurofirst 300 index  .FTEU3  of top European shares 
was 0.4 percent lower at 1,460 points by 1150 GMT, having 
slipped from Wednesday's 5-1/2-year intra-day high of 1,476.5, 
but still 14.6 percent higher since the start of the year.  Volumes were lighter than usual as bank holidays in Japan 
and the United States kept many investors out of the markets, 
while a relatively thin earnings and economic agenda made 
investors reluctant to open new positions.  Hawkish comments by a European Central Bank official 
weighed on sentiment, adding to investors' worries about the 
toll that higher interest rates would take on euro zone 
economies.  ECB Governing Council member Miguel Angel Fernandez Ordonez 
said inflation risks were on the rise in the single currency 
bloc and that interest rates were still favorable for growth.  The ECB is widely expected to raise rates to 3.5 percent 
next month -- which would be the sixth increase since December 
last year -- in a bid to keep inflation in check.  Around Europe, London's FTSE 100  .FTSE  index and Paris's 
CAC 40  .FCHI  both shed 0.6 percent but Frankfurt's DAX 
 .GDAXI  dipped only 0.1 percent after a report showed an 
unexpected rise in German corporate sentiment in November.  The Munich-based Ifo research institute said earlier in the 
day that its business climate index, based on a monthly poll of 
around 7,000 firms, rose to 106.8 from 105.3 in October to 
equal a 15-year high as business expectations and firms' 
assessment of current conditions improved.  But the rest of the European markets were more negative, 
with London in particular weighed by heavily weighted energy 
stocks such as BP ( BP.L ), which fell along with oil prices.  Financials added to market woes, with Credit Agricole 
( CAGR.PA ) off more than 2 percent after Citigroup downgraded 
the stock to "hold," citing the bank's weaker-than-expected 
revenue trends in French retail banking, asset management and 
insurance.  Air France slipped more than 6 percent after Societe 
Generale downgraded the stock to "hold" and investors used 
in-line results and an announcement it was in exploratory talks 
with Alitalia as reasons to book profits on a stock that has 
rallied nearly 90 percent in the past four months alone.  On the upside, Imperial Tobacco ( IMT.L ) gained 1.7 percent 
after the top European Union court ruled that individuals must 
still pay duty on tobacco in their own country even if they 
order the product from another EU state.