-- FTSE down as commodities weigh, Cairn Energy leads
-- By Michael Taylor
-- Thu Nov 23, 2006 7:35am EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2006/11/23/businesspro-markets-britain-stocks-dc-idUSL2375979420061123

 

 LONDON  (Reuters) - Britain's FTSE 100  .FTSE  index of 
leading shares reversed early gains on Thursday as commodity 
stocks weighed, but Cairn Energy ( CNE.L ) topped the leaderboard 
after a successful share placement. 

  Oil explorer Cairn gained 3 percent after announcing it had 
completed the placing of Cairn India shares on the Bombay Stock 
Exchange and raised 37 billion Indian rupees ($822 million).  Other oil stocks weighed however, as U.S. crude oil prices 
fell to $58 after a buildup in crude stocks in the United 
States. BP ( BP.L ) was down 0.7 percent and Royal Dutch Shell 
( RDSa.L ) fell 0.6 percent.  Fresh concerns about a global economic slowdown in 2007 hit 
miners. Antofagasta ( ANTO.L ) dropped 1.1 percent and Vedanta 
( VED.L ) lost 2.8 percent.  The banking sector led the losers, as some traders said the 
Bank of England's November interest rate had finally begun to 
hit the markets. Barclays ( BARC.L ) dropped 0.5 percent and HBOS 
HBOS.L fell 1.5 percent.  But with little economic data expected throughout Thursday 
and the closure of Wall Street because of the Thanksgiving Day 
holiday, traders were predicting a slow day of trading.  "The rally really seems to have run out of steam for now, 
especially in light Thanksgiving volumes," said Chris Iggo 
strategist at Axa Investment Managers. "But I think we should 
wait until next week as some decent economic news could give it 
a kick."  "With signs of a slowing global economy the UK market 
suffers because it is weighted towards two sectors - oil and 
mining - which are heavily geared to the economic cycle," he 
added.  By 1152 GMT, the FTSE 100 was down 35.4 points or 0.5 
percent at 6,124.9.
  BROKER UPGRADES FEATURE  Chemical and paints company Imperial Chemical Industries 
ICI.L climbed 2.9 percent after an upgrade from three 
brokers, and on bid speculation and positive sentiment 
following the sale of its flavors and fragrance business Quest 
International on Wednesday.  Mobile phone company Vodafone ( VOD.L ) added 1.1 percent on 
news that Swisscom ( SCMN.VX ) is to enter talks to repurchase 
its 25 percent stake in Swisscom Mobile, potentially marking 
the British company's exit from the partnership. It also 
benefited from several broker upgrades.  Leisure firm Enterprise Inns ( ETI.L ) also added 1.6 percent 
on various upgrades.  British tobacco shares also featured on the upside, after 
the top European Union court ruled that individuals must still 
pay duty on tobacco in their own country even if they order the 
product from another EU state. Imperial Tobacco ( IMT.L ) climbed 
1.7 percent and Gallaher Group GLH.L added 0.8 percent.  Building materials firm Wolseley ( WOS.L ) dipped 2.3 percent 
on talk that a slowdown in the U.S. housing sector could be 
worse than feared, traders said.  "There is a growing realization that the U.S. housing 
downturn is going to be deeper and last for longer than had 
been expected," one trader added. Shares in rival Hanson 
HNS.L were down 2.4 percent.  Water utility Kelda Group KEL.L fell 2.7 percent on a 
Citigroup downgrade and after bid speculation subsided.  Among midcaps, kitchens and furniture maker Galiform 
GFRM.L was up 3.1 percent after it confirmed rising sales in 
a statement, following the disposal of its loss-making 
furniture retail unit MFI.