-- Italy, Britain Freeze Assets of Iran's Bank Sepah
-- Nandini Sukumar
-- 2007-03-30T10:43:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2007-03-30/italy-britain-freeze-assets-of-iran-s-bank-sepah-update1-.html

          
          
             Financial regulators in  Italy  and the
U.K. froze assets of Iran's Bank Sepah as tensions rise over an
Iranian nuclear program and the country's capture of British
sailors and Marines.  
 The  Bank of Italy  took control of the Rome branch of Sepah,
installing two of its administrators at the Iranian lender on
March 26, the central bank said in a faxed statement today.
Britain's Financial Services Authority seized assets in London,
the regulator said in a  statement  on its Web site dated March 21.  
 The Italian central bank said it was complying with a March
24 resolution by the  United Nations Security Council . That
decision toughens sanctions approved in December, giving Iran 60
days to suspend  uranium enrichment  before the new penalties are
imposed. If Iran continues to resist UN demands, more economic
penalties could be levied.  
 The FSA said it took the action to ensure the bank
``maintains sufficient assets in the U.K. to satisfy the claims of
U.K. depositors.''  
 Liam Brennan, compliance officer at Bank Sepah International
Plc in London, declined to comment.  Joseph Eyre , an FSA spokesman,
declined to elaborate on the regulator's statement.  
 The U.K. and Iran are currently embroiled in a dispute over
the capture of 15 U.K. sailors and Marines by Iranian forces on
March 23 in the Shatt al-Arab waterway, which runs between Iran
and Iraq. The U.K. has said the British crew's two boats were 1.7
nautical miles (3.1 kilometers) inside Iraqi waters at the time of
the seizure. Iran says the vessels were half a kilometer inside
its territorial waters.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Andrew Davis  in Rome at 
 abdavis@bloomberg.net ;
Nandini Sukumar in London at 
 nsukumar@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Riad Hamade at   rhamade@bloomberg.net 
Adrian Cox at   acox2@bloomberg.net ;
Frank Connelly (33) (1) 5365-5063 or  fconnelly@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        