-- Novolipetsk Sells Unprofitable Coal Unit for $1
-- Yuriy Humber
-- 2007-03-30T10:16:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2007-03-30/novolipetsk-sells-unprofitable-coal-unit-for-1-update2-.html

          
          
             OAO Novolipetsk Steel (NLMK) ,  Russia 's
most profitable producer of the metal, agreed to sell an
unprofitable coal unit for $1, a year after buying it for $62
million.  
 Novolipetsk will part with Prokopievskugol, Russia's
largest producer of high-grade coking coal, next month, it said
today in a statement distributed by the Regulatory News Service.
The city of Prokopievsk will pay the steelmaker $1 for an asset
it bought from billionaire Iskander Makhmudov in March 2006,
Novolipetsk said.  
 ``It's better for Novolipetsk to sell now and not carry on
losing the same $50 million, $60 million each year,'' said
Kirill Chuiko, analyst with Moscow-based Uralsib Financial Corp.
``I see this as a positive.''  
 Novolipetsk, owned by billionaire Vladimir Lisin, bought
the coal miner to secure its own supply of raw materials such as
coal and iron ore. Iron-ore prices will rise for a fifth
consecutive year in April.  
 ``The cost of production at Prokopievskugol mines are twice
as high as industry averages due to low-level mechanization,''
the Lipetsk-based company said in the statement. The unit made a
$50 million loss during Novolipetsk's ownership, it added.  
 The steelmaker invested $151 million in the central Russian
coal miner, including paying off tax liabilities, debts and
raising wages, Anton Bazulev, Novolipetsk's head of investor and
government relations, said last month. The unit can't be made
profitable without closing some mines and reducing staff,
Novolipetsk said. That goes against the region's social policy.  
 Novolipetsk bought the coal unit as part of a $626 million
deal that also included an 82.2 percent stake in coke-producer
Altai-koks. Novolipetsk has since raised its stake in Altai-koks
to 93.6 percent, it said.  
 The steelmaker's stock was up less than 0.1 percent on the
Micex exchange in Moscow at 14.06 p.m., at 75.68 rubles a share.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Yuriy Humber in Moscow at 
 yhumber@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Justin Carrigan at 
 jcarrigan@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        