-- AMD warns on revenue; pricing seen tough
-- By  Scott Hillis
-- Mon Mar 5, 2007 9:17pm EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2007/03/06/businesspro-amd-outlook-dc-idUSN0526763720070306

 

 SAN FRANCISCO  (Reuters) - Advanced Micro Devices Inc. 
( AMD.N ), the No. 2 microprocessor maker, warned on Monday that 
it will likely miss its quarterly revenue target as it loses 
market share among computer resellers, a traditional bulwark of 
its business. 


  It was the second quarter in a row that AMD has shown signs 
of trouble as it wages a bruising price war with Intel Corp. 
( INTC.O ), a fight that has eroded profits at both main rivals 
in the $30 billion processor industry.  The two Silicon Valley combatants said they expected 
competitive pricing to continue this year, with Intel Chief 
Executive Paul Otellini hinting he is ready to dig in his heels 
to stop AMD's overall recent market share gains.  "I've always been a market share guy," Otellini said in 
remarks Webcast from a Morgan Stanley investment conference. 
"In order to generate the scale at which we operate our 
business, having a very significant market share is critical."  Intel's total market share among desktop, laptop and server 
computers fell to 74.4 percent in the fourth quarter of 2006, 
while AMD's rose to a record 25 percent, according to market 
research firm Mercury Research.  However, AMD said on Monday that its first-quarter revenue 
would fall short of the $1.6 billion to $1.7 billion target it 
gave in January. Wall Street, on average, was expecting revenue 
of $1.65 billion, according to Reuters Estimates.  AMD Chief Executive Hector Ruiz, also speaking at the 
Morgan Stanley conference, said direct sales to PC makers had 
grown dramatically in a short time, but faulted his company for 
failing to focus on its traditional customers, the computer 
resellers -- smaller retailers and PC assemblers the industry 
refers to as "the channel."  "We let down our channel partners by not being able to 
support them as much as they wanted," Ruiz said. "I think going 
into second quarter that we can regain the position we had 
before."  Last quarter, AMD posted a surprise net loss as the price 
war with Intel took a heavier toll than expected.
  CHIP-RELATED FORECASTS  The AMD and Intel remarks were among a flurry of forecasts 
from chip-related companies on Monday.  Graphics chip maker Nvidia Corp. ( NVDA.O ) said it expected 
to grab "significant" market share in notebook computers, a 
market now dominated by AMD's ATI graphics unit.  Xilinx Inc. ( XLNX.O ), which makes programmable chips 
commonly found in telecommunications equipment, said quarterly 
revenue could be slightly better than previously expected.  Lam Research Corp. ( LRCX.O ), a supplier of tools for 
etching circuitry on microchips, said it expected to boost its 
market share to 50 percent from 46 percent, while Novellus 
Systems Inc. NVLS.O, another semiconductor equipment maker, 
said bookings would be soft in the first half but should pick 
up in the second half.  "The second half will be led by an improved rate of 
adoption of (Microsoft's Windows) Vista, and we see other 
positive signs, such as a stronger economy in 2008 and stronger 
semiconductor demand," Novellus Chief Financial Officer William 
Kurtz said.  AMD's Ruiz sounded a bullish tone on the prospects for the 
processor industry, saying the spread of computing into the 
entertainment, education and health industries meant demand 
could grow by 20 percent a year or more.  AMD shares closed down 23 cents, or 1.6 percent, at $13.95 
on the New York Stock Exchange, after falling as low as $13.53 
following the revenue warning.  Intel shares fell 0.6 percent to end at $19.11 on the 
Nasdaq.  Stifel Nicolaus analyst Cody Acree said the drop in AMD's 
share price may have been tempered by the fact that many 
investors already had low expectations.  "I think it's a continuation of share loss back to Intel 
and aggressive pricing in an effort to maintain share," Acree 
said. "I don't think anybody was expecting strength from AMD."  Also on Monday, the Semiconductor Industry Association said 
sales of all kinds of microchips rose more than 9 percent from 
a year earlier, data Citigroup analyst Glen Yeung cited as some 
evidence that the industry is set for a rebound.  Yeung said PC processor prices rose 4.6 percent in January, 
as calculated on a three-month moving average, while sales of 
processors rose half a percent, compared to a 5-year average 
decline of nearly 3 percent.  "While mix remains a main wild card, price trends we have 
observed do not portend a major price war," Yeung said.  (Additional reporting by  Sinead Carew  in New York)