-- ‘Angry Birds’ Fly High in Finland Quest for Nokia 2.0
-- B y   D i a n a   b e n - A a r o n
-- 2010-11-29T16:08:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-28/-angry-birds-spread-wings-as-finland-searches-for-nokia-2-0.html
At the Virtual Goods Summit at
London’s Chelsea Football Club this month,  Peter Vesterbacka 
told the gathered cyber geeks to prepare for a surprise follow-
up to “Angry Birds,” the Finnish megahit mobile-phone game.  With its arsenal of birds fired from slingshots at
fortresses of pigs who’ve stolen their eggs, the game raced up
the charts on  Apple Inc. ’s iPhone to become the bestselling app
in 61 countries. The more than 10 million paid iPhone downloads
at about $1 a pop have raked in profits for Espoo, Finland-based
 Rovio Mobile Oy , where Vesterbacka, dubbed the “Mighty Eagle,”
is chief marketing officer.  “No one has told the story from the pigs’ point of view,”
Vesterbacka told the summit attendees.  Rovio is a star Finnish start-up in a country struggling to
fill the gap left by the declining value of its best-known
company,  Nokia Oyj . Finland’s Act II to put the northernmost
euro-area nation back on the global technology map may result in
several small wins like Angry Birds and Web payment-tools
developer APE Payment Oy rather than a Nokia-sized triumph.  “We won’t get another Nokia,” said  Risto Siilasmaa , a
Nokia board member who founded software company  F-Secure Oyj  as
an engineering student in 1988. “But we should definitely get
10 or 100 F-Secures and a lot of Angry Birds and APE Payments.”  Nokia’s Decline  At its peak in 2000, Nokia accounted for 4 percent of
Finland’s gross domestic product. With advances by iPhones and
devices using Google Inc.’s Android software, analysts estimate
Nokia’s  profit  will shrink to 1.6 billion euros ($2.1 billion)
this year from 7.2 billion in 2007. Nokia’s share of Finland’s
economy diminished to 1.6 percent of GDP last year, according to
Helsinki-based economic research institute  ETLA .  The Finnish government, faced with Europe’s fastest-aging
population, needs to create jobs to pay for the growing costs of
pensions and healthcare. By 2015, three working Finns will be
supporting every pensioner, down from about four now. In Europe
as a whole, the change will take 10 years longer, according to
Eurostat, the European Union’s statistics agency. Finland’s
 economy shrank  8 percent last year.  To compensate for Nokia’s fading fortunes, the government
is boosting support for young innovators. The national research
funding agency, Tekes, doubled financing to promising ventures
to 30 million euros a year through 2014. Other programs put
total state funding at more than 60 million euros.  Start-Up Bootcamp  The first government-sponsored “Summer of Start-ups”
bootcamp was in full swing this year at Aalto University, the
nation’s flagship technology campus just down the road from
Nokia, drawing the likes of Timo Herttua, a 23-year-old with a
sales-force software company called  Deal Machine .  “This grassroots student stuff is what’s going to create
the 10 to 20 companies we need to replace the huge growth that’s
not going to happen from Nokia and other Finnish companies that
will primarily grow elsewhere,” says  Will Cardwell , who directs
the entrepreneurship center at the university. “Finland needs
to create multiple 100 million-euro-plus growth companies to
make the demographic math of the future work.”  U.S. companies like Apple, Intel Corp. and Hewlett-Packard
Co. were founded by people with an average age of about 26, he
said. Herttua and Tuomo Riekki, 22, who met in the army, had
both set up their own Web design businesses as teenagers. After
a few months of sales, they have a 30,000-euro grant from Tekes
and more than 560 customers for Deal Machine, which uses game
mechanics to push sales reps toward their goals.  California Calling  The Finnish environment isn’t always conducive to nurturing
and keeping start-ups, said Siilasmaa. High taxes, a lack of
incentives for investors and remote major markets have hampered
them, prompting entrepreneurs to leave or sell out.  The founders of software start-ups  Jaiku , a Twitter twin,
and  MySQL , a database system, sold to Google and Sun
Microsystems Inc. in 2007 and 2008, respectively. Finland’s
 Linus Torvalds , who  wrote  the Linux open software as a student,
moved to California in 1997.  Kristo Ovaska, the co-founder of the Aalto Entrepreneurship
Society, last month took a group including Riekki and Herttua to
California, where they practiced pitching their projects to tech
bloggers and investors.  “Young entrepreneurs need to go learn from the best in the
world,” Ovaska, 27, said. “Even if they leave, eventually some
of them would come back and help other young start-ups.”  The Deal Machine founders plan to move to Silicon Valley
next year to be closer to emerging technological developments.  ‘Lack Incentives’  “Traditionally in Finland entrepreneurs were considered
misfits who couldn’t get a job with the government or a big
company,” Siilasmaa said. “That’s changing, but we still lack
incentives that would encourage successful business people to
invest time and money in start-ups.”  Raising money for the start-ups won’t be easy. Finland’s
venture funding is meager. Finnish high-tech companies raised
about 50 million euros, or $70 million, in venture funding in
the first half, according to Technopolis Oyj, a firm that
“incubates” tech companies and helps them raise funds. That
compares with  $577 million  in Israel.  Fruugo Oy , which started a multinational European shopping
site in 2009, raised less than half the capital it aimed for in
Finland. It  merged  with Britain’s Directory Technology Ltd., in
September, taking over its partner’s ShoppingBank.com website.  Software is a popular choice for Finnish start-ups. Among
companies that may eventually help plug the Nokia deficit are
 Sulake Corp. Oy , a profitable game company that runs the virtual
“ Habbo Hotel ”;  Grey Area Oy Ab , whose “Shadow Cities” game
has soared on apps lists, and APE Payment, whose software allows
users to make payments of a fraction of a cent, to buy a letter
in a crossword puzzle, for example.  Venture Capitalists  Nokia “has been a very important source of new innovative
companies in Finland” through spinoffs and as its engineers
started their own companies, said  Esko Aho , a former Finnish
prime minister and now a Nokia executive vice president for
corporate relations and responsibility.  Although Finland hasn’t yet produced an iconic consumer
software product like Swedish-Danish-Estonian developed  Skype
SARL  or Sweden’s  Spotify Ltd. , Angry Birds comes close.  The Rovio team produced 51 other games, many for Nokia
handsets, before Angry Birds took flight with more than 36
million free and paid downloads.  “There are only a handful of venture capitalists in
Finland and to get the attention of foreign venture capitalists
has been quite challenging from here,” says Chief Executive
Officer  Mikael Hed .  Christmas Birds  Rovio, whose founders met at a local hacking contest in
2003, funded itself with family help, including from Hed’s
father. Hed’s brand empire for Angry Birds, which already has
stuffed toys and Youtube videos, is taking the company farther
away from its roots as a maker of games orbiting Nokia.  Rovio plans to announce versions for the holiday season,
for multiplayer game consoles and for Facebook. The company,
which celebrates the first year of Angry Birds on Dec. 10, today
said it will soon demonstrate “a brand new Angry Birds
experience.”  “Angry Birds is the perfect example of the challenge that
has faced Finland in the last five years,” says  Ben Holmes , a
London-based partner at Geneva venture capitalists  Index
Ventures . “It was porting game software to phones manufactured
by traditional manufacturers like Nokia and Motorola and then
along comes iPhone and they have that breakaway success.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Diana ben-Aaron  in Helsinki at 
 dbenaaron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root in Paris at   vroot@bloomberg.net  