-- ‘Harry Potter’ Tops Box Office Again With $49 Million
-- B y   M i c h a e l   W h i t e   a n d   Y i   T i a n
-- 2010-11-29T23:19:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-28/-harry-potter-tops-box-office-again-with-50-million-update1-.html
“ Harry Potter  and the Deathly
Hallows -- Part 1” was the top movie of the U.S. Thanksgiving
holiday weekend, taking in $49.1 million in ticket sales over
three days for Time Warner Inc.’s  Warner Bros.   “Tangled,”  Walt Disney Co. ’s animated update of the fairy
tale Rapunzel, opened with $48.8 million in sales at U.S. and
Canadian theaters, researcher  Hollywood.com Box-Office  said
yesterday in an e-mailed statement. The film was one of four new
movies in wide release this weekend.  The “Potter” films, Hollywood’s top-grossing franchise,
are expected to generate $7.5 billion in ticket sales by the
time the series ends in July with the release of an eighth
movie, “Deathly Hallows -- Part 2,” the estimate of Warner
Bros. Chief Executive Officer  Barry Meyer . The first seven,
based on the books by  J.K. Rowling , all opened in first place.  “‘Harry Potter’ is one of those cultural phenomena,” said
 Chad Hartigan , a box-office analyst at Los Angeles-based
Exhibitor Relations Co. “The movies have become more and more
mature, and they are able to hang on to audience and make new
fans. ‘Harry Potter’ will be the biggest movie of this holiday
season.”  “Deathly Hallows -- Part 1” was forecast to generate $50
million in sales from Nov. 26 through yesterday, according to
 Gitesh Pandya , editor of Box Office Guru. For the five days from
Nov. 24, sales totaled $75 million, according to Hollywood.com,
missing Pandya’s estimate of $80 million. “Tangled” took in
$68.7 million over the five-day holiday period.  ‘Tangled’  In “Deathly Hallows,” Lord Voldemort, played by  Ralph Fiennes , gains control of the magical world as Harry and his
pals, Ron Weasley and Hermione Granger, go into hiding. They try
to avoid capture while seeking artifacts that hold portions of
the evil wizard’s soul. The returning cast includes  Daniel Radcliffe  in the title role,  Rupert Grint  and  Emma Watson .  The first six “Potter” films took $5.44 billion in
worldwide sales, according to researcher  Box Office Mojo . The
“Star Wars” movies have grossed $4.48 billion, while the
“James Bond” franchise has produced $3.03 billion. The numbers
aren’t adjusted for inflation.  “Tangled” tells the story of Rapunzel, a girl whose
magical hair is 70 feet long. Locked away in a tower, she is
freed by a charming bandit.  Mandy Moore  provides the voice of
Rapunzel and Zachary Levi plays the bandit Flynn Rider.  ‘Burlesque’  “Tangled” will probably become the No. 1 movie next
weekend, as the “rush factor” of the “Harry Potter” movie
goes away, Hartigan said.  The animated comedy “Megamind,” featuring the voices of
 Brad Pitt  and  Will Ferrell , fell to third place from second,
taking in $12.6 million. The movie has generated $130.2 million
for  DreamWorks Animation SKG Inc.  and distributor Paramount
Pictures.  “Burlesque,” starring  Christina Aguilera  and  Cher , was
fourth with $11.9 million in ticket sales. The new release
follows a young woman, played by Aguilera, who tries to make it
as a dancer in a club run by Cher’s character. The movie is
distributed by Sony Pictures.  “Unstoppable,” an action film starring  Denzel Washington ,
fell to fifth from third with $11.4 million in its third week.
In the News Corp. film, Washington plays a veteran railroad
engineer and  Chris Pine  portrays an inexperienced conductor who
try to stop a runaway train.  ‘Faster’  “Love and Other Drugs,” featuring  Jake Gyllenhaal  and
 Anne Hathaway , was sixth, taking in $9.7 million in its first
weekend. Hathaway plays a free-spirited woman who is pursued by
a charming salesman, played by Gyllenhaal. The romantic comedy
was released by  News Corp. ’s Twentieth Century Fox.  CBS Films’ “Faster,” starring  Dwayne Johnson , opened in
seventh place with sales of $8.5 million. Johnson stars in the
movie as a former convict out to avenge the murder of his
brother.  Billy Bob Thornton  co-stars.  The weekend’s top 12 films grossed $171.4 million, down 2.1
percent from a year earlier, according to Hollywood.com. This
year’s domestic box-office sales total $9.66 billion, up 2.1
percent from a year earlier. Attendance is down 3 percent.  The amounts below are based on actual ticket sales for Nov.
26 to Nov. 28.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Michael White  in Los Angeles at 
 mwhite8@bloomberg.net ;
 Yi Tian  in New York at 
 Ytian8@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net . 