-- Labor Party Trails in Victoria's State Election as Vote-Counting Continues
-- B y   W e n d y   P u g h   a n d   G e m m a   D a l e y
-- 2010-11-28T01:44:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-28/labor-trails-in-australia-s-victoria-as-vote-counting-continues.html
The Labor Party may lose power in
Victoria, Australia’s second-most populous state, for the first
time in 11 years as the Liberal-National coalition leads
balloting with 12 percent of votes yet to be counted.  “We simply don’t have a clear result,” Labor leader  John Brumby  said late yesterday. The counting of some 550,000 votes
lodged before polling day will delay the outcome and there is
the likelihood of a hung parliament, he said.  Brumby, who became leader in 2007 after  Steve Bracks 
resigned, last year steered Victoria through Australia’s worst
wildfires, when 173  people  died in what has become known as
Black Saturday, and international criticism of attacks on Indian
students. Labor won state elections in 2002 and 2006.  Labor held 55 of the 88 seats in parliament, compared with
the Liberals’ 23, the Nationals with 9 and one independent
before the election. The coalition may have won 44 seats and
Labor 42, with two seats in doubt, the Herald Sun newspaper said.
A total of 45 seats is needed for victory.  “The final outcome may be unclear,” Liberal leader Ted
Baillieu said. “But what is clear is that there has been a huge
swing against the Labor government.”  The election was fought on issues including health care,
education, improving public transport and law and order.  General Election  The Victorian ballot was held three months after a general
election also failed to deliver a clear result on voting day.
Prime Minister Julia Gillard’s Labor Party formed a minority
government following the closest election in 70 years.  The number of early votes in Victoria doubled from the
previous election and made up 12 percent of the total. Those
votes won’t be counted until tomorrow, Victorian Electoral
Commission spokeswoman Sarah Jones said two days ago.  The Liberals had 38.3 percent of first preference votes,
Labor 36.9 percent, the Greens 10.6 percent and the Nationals
6.6 percent, according to the commission’s website as of 1:03
a.m. in Melbourne, with 68.5 percent of the vote counted.  Melbourne, Victoria’s capital, is home to BHP Billiton Ltd.,
the world’s biggest mining company, Foster’s Group Ltd.,
Australia’s biggest liquor maker, and Telstra Corp., the
nation’s largest phone company.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Wendy Pugh  in Melbourne 
 wpugh@bloomberg.net ;
 Gemma Daley  at 
 gdaley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  