-- Haitian Candidates Ask for Elections to Be Annulled Amid Fraud Allegations
-- B y   B l a k e   S c h m i d t
-- 2010-11-29T00:05:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-28/haitian-candidates-ask-vote-be-annulled-on-fraud-disorder.html
Twelve of 18 presidential candidates
called on Haiti’s electoral council to annul today’s election on
fraud allegations, as some people weren’t allowed to cast
ballots for a leader to spearhead the nation’s reconstruction
after January’s earthquake.  Michel Martelly, a pop star-turned-candidate who is among
the frontrunners, led a protest at the provisional electoral
council after most of the 18 candidates released a joint
statement demanding the vote be thrown out, a Martelly
spokeswoman said.  Ruling party candidate Jude Celestin didn’t back calls to
scrap the vote, as some opponents accused his supporters of
tampering with the vote and intimidating opponents. The
electoral council’s president, Gaillot Dorsinvil, denied fraud
charges and reminded unregistered voters they aren’t allowed to
vote, according to Radio Metropole.  Mirlande Manigat, a former first lady who led in polls
in the local press ahead of the vote, alleged “massive fraud”
and “unacceptable” irregularities, according to a
 statement  on her party’s website.  Results aren’t expected until at least Dec. 7. The vote
took place as the country struggles with a cholera epidemic that
has killed 1,648 and hospitalized 31,210, according to the
Haitian health ministry’s website. A Nov. 15 protest that left
at least one dead was triggered by claims that Nepalese U.N.
troops introduced the cholera outbreak.  Two Deaths  Metropole reported two deaths in a clash in the capital
between rival political factions. Voting was stopped early in
two northern Haitian towns on protests from voters alleging
irregularities.  Many voters are among the 1.3 million still living in tent
camps after they were left homeless by the quake that
killed 300,000. Some complained they were turned away from
polls, according to Leila Rusciani, a spokeswoman for Martelly’s
campaign.  About 4.5 million Haitians were eligible to cast ballots
for a new leader to replace President  Rene Preval , 11 of 30
senators and all 99 parliament deputies in a vote guarded by
U.N. troops.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Blake Schmidt  in Granada, Nicaragua at 
 bschmidt16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  