-- Thanksgiving Weekend Sales Rise as Shoppers Seek Jewelry, Toys
-- B y   L a u r e n   C o l e m a n - L o c h n e r   a n d   Y i   T i a n
-- 2010-11-29T21:50:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-28/thanksgiving-weekend-sales-total-45-billion-as-shoppers-scoop-up-deals.html
The average shopper in the U.S.
spent 6.4 percent more over Thanksgiving weekend than last year
as more people picked up jewelry and toys, heartened by the
economic rebound.  About 212 million shoppers went to stores and websites over
the holiday weekend, on average spending $365.34, the National
Retail Federation said yesterday. The proportion of sales online
rose to more than one-third of the total, the highest ever,
according to the Washington-based trade group.  Retailers lured people into stores with promotions like
 Wal-Mart Stores Inc.’s  $5 Barbie and J.C. Penney Co.’s $10
diamond-accented earrings. Customers such as Barb Capa, shopping
at  Saks Inc.’s  flagship store yesterday in New York, said
they’re ready to buy again as their fortunes improve.  “I just feel like spending more because of an increase in
my salary,” the 22-year-old nurse from New York said. In 2009
Capa spent $1,000 during the holiday season. This year she is
ready to “splurge” and drop five times as much on designer
bags, clothes and shoes.  U.S. retail sales during Thanksgiving weekend totaled about
$45 billion, the NRF said, citing a survey conducted by
BIGresearch. More people are scouring for deals earlier, with
the number of customers shopping on Thanksgiving Day more than  Rebounding Sentiment  doubling over the past five years, the group said.  “We all anticipated a strong Black Friday and initial
indication is that Black Friday was really, really strong,”
said Keith Jelinek, a director in the retail practice at
AlixPartners, which didn’t provide a specific forecast for the
holiday weekend period. He cautioned that the results aren’t an
“accurate predictor of overall holiday sales.”  For the Friday-to-Sunday period, sales were little changed
at about $20.5 billion, ShopperTrak reported today in a
statement. The Chicago-based consulting firm’s analysis doesn’t
include sales online. Many retailers attracted shoppers with
promotions earlier in the month, shifting spending way from the
holiday weekend, the group said.  The increase follows improvements in consumer sentiment.
Confidence among U.S. consumers increased more than forecast in
November to the highest level in five months, according to the
Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan index. Consumer spending
accounts for about 70 percent of U.S. gross domestic product.  “Consumers are more comfortable spending again, and that
trend has held up,”  Maggie Taylor , a vice president at Moody’s
Investors Service in New York, said yesterday. “I don’t think
people are as worried about losing their jobs anymore.”  Department-Store Visits  More shoppers surveyed said they visited department stores
this year, and fewer went to discounters as shoppers put more
emphasis on service and selection,  Ellen Davis , an NRF
spokeswoman, said on a conference call yesterday. Men outspent
women as they shopped for electronics and other big-ticket
items, often for themselves, Davis said.  The NRF predicts a gain of 2.3 percent to $447.1 billion
this holiday period after a rise of 0.4 percent last year and a
3.9 percent drop in 2008. The group may revise its forecast up
if the trends of the past weekend continue, Davis said.  Andy Bogats, a 38-year-old father of five, braved the
crowds and rain on the morning of Black Friday for the first
time in his life. He bought two 32-inch flat-screen Emerson
televisions for $198 apiece at a  Wal-Mart  location outside
Pittsburgh.  “We targeted these TVs, and were fortunate to get them,”
said Bogats, a former mortgage broker who now works in the
construction industry. “Things are getting better.” So much
so, that he and his wife may splurge on each other this year.
“We didn’t do that last year,” he said.  Better Budgeting?  While some shoppers plan to spend more this season, others
are trimming their budgets.  Shannon Parker, 39, and her sister-in-law Tracy Knapp, 42,
have made a Black Friday shopping marathon an annual tradition.
This year was no exception. The 12-hour shopathon took them from
Wal-Mart,  Target Corp.  and  Best Buy Co.  to  Kohl’s Corp . and  Bon
Ton Stores Inc.  Along the way, they snagged everything from a TV
to iPod docking stations to Christmas Eve pajamas for their
kids.  There was one difference, however. Parker, a school
administrator from Baltimore, put all of her purchases on
prepaid credit cards to avoid busting her budget.  “I’m still swiping the plastic, but it’s already paid
for,” said Parker, who was visiting her sister-in-law in
Allentown, Pennsylvania.  Some Americans plan to wait for the deals to improve. One
is Debbie Schwig, who declined to buy anything when she visited
 Apple Inc.’s  Fifth Avenue store in Manhattan on Nov. 27 with her
husband and dog.  Avoiding Bedlam  “We’re here to check things out today,” said the 47-year-
old nurse from Hoboken, New Jersey. “We’ll wait until vendors
get more desperate.”  Others opted to avoid the bedlam of Black Friday
altogether. Bridget Hujsa, a teacher from Bethlehem,
Pennsylvania, is buying nearly all of her gifts online at Target
and  Gap Inc.’s  Old Navy, where she found discounts on clothes
and baby toys for her 7-month-old son.  “I prefer online,” she said. “You don’t have to drive
and deal with the crowds.”  She may get her chance today by joining in on Cyber Monday,
known as the kickoff for the online holiday shopping season.
More than 106 million people are projected to surf the Internet
for deals, according to the NRF. Best Buy, for example, began a
two-day Cyber Monday sale yesterday with discounts on 32-inch
LCD televisions and  Dell  Inc. laptops.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Lauren Coleman-Lochner  in New York at 
 llochner@bloomberg.net ;
 Yi Tian  in New York at 
 ytian8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  