-- Arab Leaders Urged U.S. to Stop Iran, New York Times Says WikiLeaks Shows
-- B y   M i l e s   W e i s s
-- 2010-11-28T23:26:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-28/arab-leaders-urged-u-s-to-stop-iran-new-york-times-says-wikileaks-shows.html
Saudi Arabia and other Arab
governments sided with Israel in urging the U.S. to stop Iran
from developing a nuclear bomb, according to a New York Times
account of 250,000 classified U.S. embassy cables released by
WikiLeaks, the non-profit website.  In the documents, American officials say that Iran obtained
19 advanced missiles from North Korea, potentially giving the
Islamic Republic the capability to attack Moscow and cities in
Western Europe, the newspaper said in articles published online
today. At the request of the Obama Administration, the New York
Times agreed not to publish the text of the Feb. 24 cable that
reported the Korean missile deal with Iran.  U.S. officials denounced the release as jeopardizing the
nation’s ties with foreign governments and endangering
individuals. WikiLeaks plans to publish the actual cables on its
website in stages, with the first batch set to go online today,
the New York Times reported.  “I can’t provide veracity of anything WikiLeaks has
released to the media,” Nicole Thompson, a State Department
spokeswoman, said in an interview, adding the agency’s policy is
to refrain from commenting on specific leaked materials. “It’s
reprehensible for any person to leak classified information
because of the risk that it puts to so many individuals, so many
international relationships,” she said.  Cable Designations  The New York Times articles are based on 251,287 cables
first obtained by WikiLeaks, including 11,000 that were
classified as “secret,” and 9,000 that were listed as
containing information too sensitive to be shared with a foreign
government, the newspaper said. None were listed as “top-
secret,” and many are unclassified, according to the Times.  The Guardian of the U.K., France’s Le Monde, Spain’s El Pais
and Der Spiegel of Germany also obtained the documents for
publication. The papers were originally obtained by WikiLeaks
and provided to the Times through “an intermediary” who
insisted on anonymity, according to one of the articles
published today.  The documents reveal details about many foreign governments
and officials, including an episode last year in which
Afghanistan’s then-vice president,  Ahmed Zia Massoud , was found
carrying $52 million in cash while visiting the United Arab
Emirates. Massoud denied taking any money out of Afghanistan,
according to the Times, which is planning to publish more on the
issue.  China, Google  According to another cable, a Chinese contact told the
U.S. embassy in Beijing in January that China’s Politburo
directed an “intrusion” into  Google Inc. ’s local computer
networks. The Google hacking was “part of a coordinated
campaign of computer sabotage carried out by government
operatives, private security experts and Internet outlaws
recruited by the Chinese government,” the New York Times said
in its account of the WikiLeaks cables.  The documents shed light on the views that Arab leaders
hold on Iran as well as the inner workings and deliberations of
U.S. foreign policy in the Middle East, the New York Times said.  For instance, Saudi Arabia’s 86-year-old ruler, King
 Abdullah Bin Abdulaziz , frequently called for an attack on Iran,
urging the U.S. to “cut off the head of the snake” while there
was still time, the newspaper reported. In July 2009, Crown
Prince Mohammed bin Zayed  Al Nahyan  of Abu Dhabi, then the
defense supreme commander for the United Arab Emirates, declared
that Iranian President  Mahmoud Ahmadinejad  “is Hitler,”
according to the newspaper’s description of the embassy cables.  The Obama Administration said in a statement today that
embassy reporting to Washington “is candid and often incomplete
information,” not an expression of policy.  ‘Compromise’ Diplomacy  “Nevertheless, these cables could compromise private
discussions with foreign governments and opposition leaders,”
according to the statement from the White House Press Secretary,
 Robert Gibbs . “When the substance of private conversations is
printed on the front pages of newspapers across the world, it
can deeply impact not only U.S. foreign policy interests, but
those of our allies and friends.”  Republicans also condemned the release of the cables, with
Senator  Lindsey Graham  of South Carolina stating on Fox News
Sunday that “the people at WikiLeaks could have blood on their
hands.” The top Republican on the House Foreign Affairs
Committee,  Ileana Ros-Lehtinen  of Florida, called the revelation
of the documents “extremely irresponsible.”  Ros-Lehtinen’s Reaction  “This critical and highly sensitive information must be
managed carefully,” said Ros-Lehtinen, who is set to become
chairman of the committee in January, when her party takes the
House majority as a result of this month’s elections. “These
leaks come at the expense of U.S. security and, potentially,
American lives.”  Since May, people in the government and media have been
discussing the possible release of a “large number” of embassy
cables, the New York Times said in one of today’s articles. The
same month, an Army intelligence analyst named Bradley Manning
said in an online chat that he had downloaded classified
documents from a military computer system, including “260,000
State Department cables from embassies and consulates all over
the world,” the newspaper said.  Private First Class Manning said he had delivered the
cables to WikiLeaks during an online discussion with a computer
hacker named Adrian Lamo, who subsequently reported the
information to authorities. Manning was arrested in June at age
22 and charged with illegally releasing classified information.  The Pentagon announced today that it will take a “series
of actions” to prevent future reoccurrences, such as developing
procedures to monitor user behavior that is similar to steps
taken by credit-card companies to detect fraud. The military
will also conduct security oversight inspections at forward
bases and remove the ability of classified computers to download
information onto removable disks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Miles Weiss  in Washington at 
 mweiss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net  