-- Bridas Agrees to Buy BP Stake in Pan American for $7.1 Billion
-- B y   K a r i   L u n d g r e n   a n d   R o d r i g o   O r i h u e l a
-- 2010-11-28T16:27:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-28/argentina-s-bridas-agrees-to-buy-bp-stake-in-pan-american-for-7-1-billion.html
Bridas Corp., the oil company owned
by Argentina’s billionaire  Bulgheroni  family and China’s Cnooc
Ltd., agreed to pay  BP Plc  $7.06 billion for the 60 percent it
doesn’t already own of Pan American Energy LLC.  Bridas and Beijing-based  Cnooc  will each pay $2.47 billion
to finance the acquisition, with the remaining $2.12 billion to
come from third-party loans or additional funds from the two
companies,  Cnooc  said today in a statement. The deal will likely
be completed in the first half of next year.  The Chinese company is building on the $3.1 billion
acquisition of 50 percent of Bridas in March to expand its oil
resources in Latin America. Pan American produces about 240,000
barrels per day and has proven reserves of 1.54 billion barrels.
Since 2001,  the company  has invested $6.7 billion on exploration
and production, enabling it to boost output by about 70 percent.  The sale price is “probably a fair deal for that asset
base,”  Jason Kenney , an Edinburgh-based oil and gas analyst at
ING Commercial Banking, said in a telephone interview today.  BP  is aiming to conserve capital and avoid risk after the
spill at its Macondo well in the Gulf of Mexico left it facing a
bill projected to reach $40 billion and forced the resignation
of Chief Executive Officer  Tony Hayward . The oil company said in
July it was planning to sell $30 billion in assets by the end of
2011. Including today, it has sold about $21 billion’s-worth.  “Slowly but surely  BP  are doing the divestments as they
said they would,” ING’s Kenney said. “That sets them on course
to having a smaller business but more importantly a high-graded
business.”  Latin America Entry  Cnooc’s acquisition of a stake in Bridas marked the
company’s entry in Latin America and topped the $2.7 billion it
paid in 2006 for a share in a Nigerian oilfield.  In July, BP agreed to sell assets in North America and
Egypt to Apache Corp. for $7 billion, while in August the
company disposed of fields in Colombia to  Ecopetrol  SA and
 Talisman Energy Inc . for $1.9 billion. BP has also sold
operations in Vietnam and Venezuela to its Russian joint venture
partner TNK-BP for $1.8 billion.  Pan American had sales of $2.8 billion last year and is
Argentina’s largest oil exporter. The country’s largest producer
is YPF SA, the local unit of Madrid-based  Repsol YPF SA .  “This accord is a clear sign of the confidence that CNOOC
and Bridas has in the Argentine energy sector,” Bridas President
 Carlos Bulgheroni  said in the statement. The agreement will
enable the company to “take on new challenges,” Bulgheroni said.  Africa Sales  BP also agreed earlier this month to sell its fuels
marketing businesses in Namibia, Botswana and Zambia to Puma
Energy, as well as 50 percent interests in BP Malawi and BP
Tanzania to a Trafigura Beheer BV unit for $296 million in cash.
Last month, BP sold stakes in four Gulf of Mexico deepwater oil
and gas fields for $650 million, following the sale of its role
as operator of the Tubular Bells fields.  Bridas will pay BP a cash deposit of $3.53 billion and the
remainder upon completion of the sale, BP said today.  “We now have agreements in place that should secure the
majority of our divestment target,”  Robert Dudley , who replaced
Hayward as BP CEO, said in a statement today. “We will continue
to identify further assets that may be strategically more
valuable to others than to BP as we complete the program.”  Cnooc said last month third-quarter revenue rose 64 percent
as the company stepped up acquisitions and output to meet fuel
demand in the world’s fastest-growing major economy. The company
spent more than $4 billion so far this year for oil and gas
assets in Argentina and North America.  Overall Production  Overall production may reach 329 million barrels of oil
equivalent this year, surpassing Cnooc’s target of as much as
290 million. Output growth in the third quarter benefited from
contributions from Bohai Bay in northeastern China and overseas
fields, Chief Financial Officer  Zhong Hua  said Oct. 28.  China’s oil demand may rise to 11.63 million barrels a day
by 2015 from 9.16 million barrels a day this year, according to
the International Energy Agency.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kari Lundgren  in London at 
 Klundgren2@bloomberg.net ,
 Rodrigo Orihuela  in Buenos Aires at 
 rorihuela@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net 
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net . 