-- Australian Regulator to Seek Injuction Blocking Metcash's Franklin Buy
-- B y   J o e   S c h n e i d e r
-- 2010-11-29T00:47:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-28/australian-regulator-to-seek-injuction-blocking-metcash-s-franklin-buy.html
Australia’s competition regulator
plans to seek a court order to block  Metcash Ltd. ’s
proposed acquisition of the Franklins chain of supermarkets,
Metcash said.  A hearing on the Australian Competition and Consumer
Commission’s request for an injunction will likely be heard in
Federal Court in Sydney Dec. 10, Tim Allerton, an outside
spokesman for Metcash, said in a phone interview.  Pick n Pay Stores Ltd.,  South Africa’s second-biggest food
retailer, owns 80 Franklins stores in Australia and eight
franchised stores and is seeking to sell the money-losing
operation. Metcash, Australia’s biggest wholesaler and
distributor to independent grocery retailers, offered on July 1
to buy the Franklins chain for A$215 million ($208 million).  Franklins is Metcash’s only competitor in supplying
independent retailers in New South Wales and the acquisition
would give Sydney-based Metcash a monopoly on the service in the
state, the ACCC said Nov. 17 in  announcing  plans to block the
purchase.  Metcash said Nov. 23 it would proceed with the purchase and
extended the closing date for the acquisition to June 30, 2011.
It had been set to expire at the end of September.  “We clearly have different views to the ACCC regarding the
Australian grocery market,”  Andrew Reitzer , Metcash’s chief
executive officer, said in a statement today. “We consider it
will be in all parties’ interests for these issues to be
authoritatively determined by the Federal Court as soon as
possible.”  Franklins had a first-half operating loss of A$11.3
million, Pick n Pay, based in Cape Town, said Oct. 21.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joe Schneider  in Sydney at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  