-- Australia Must Decide in 2011 How to Place a Price on Carbon, Gillard Says
-- B y   J a m e s   P a t o n
-- 2010-11-29T03:04:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-28/australia-must-decide-in-2011-how-to-place-a-price-on-carbon-gillard-says.html
Australia, the world’s biggest coal
exporter, must decide in 2011 on a way to make polluters pay for
their carbon emissions, Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  said.  “I promise you, no responsible decision maker will be able
to say next year that they need more time or more information on
climate change -- in 2011 there will be nowhere to hide,”
Gillard said in a speech in Sydney today. Her ruling Labor Party
in April shelved a plan to curb carbon emissions until after
2012 because of opposition in the upper-house Senate.  Gillard pledged to restart an effort to tackle climate
change when she replaced  Kevin Rudd  in June, seeking to reduce
greenhouse gas emissions in a country that burns coal to
generate more than 80 percent of its electricity.  A committee set up by Gillard in September to study ways to
impose a carbon price has met twice and will hold regular
discussions next year, Gillard said today. She assembled the
multi-party group as part of an accord with the Greens Party,
which received a surge in voter support in the August election.  “It is incredibly rare to have a second opportunity at a
hard reform which fails in the parliament,” Gillard said in her
speech. “We have one on a carbon price.”  Gillard’s comments today signal that the Australian
government wants to introduce a carbon price more quickly than
previously targeted, said  Anthony Hobley , a Sydney-based lawyer
and climate change specialist at Norton Rose LLP.  ‘Tough’ to Win  “It’s going to be tough one to win, but they’re quite
determined about bringing this forward and bringing this forward
quickly,” Hobley said in a phone interview today.  A delegation of 35 Australian government officials will
attend United Nations climate change talks that begin today in
Cancun, Mexico. More than 80 countries have promised to cut
emissions since discussions last year in Copenhagen, Australian
Climate Change Minister  Greg Combet  said in a statement today.  “Australia will play its full and fair part in
contributing to international climate change efforts,” he said.  Australian legislators need to decide on a plan in 2011
that wins broad enough support to pass in parliament, Gillard
said in her speech. “Climate change was first discussed in our
parliament in the 1980s,” she said. “It’s been central to
public debate in two successive federal election campaigns, but
a working consensus for action has eluded us.”  More than 30 nations have introduced a price on carbon with
an emissions-trading system, while Asian trading partners such
as China also are advancing with climate change plans, Norton
Rose’s Hobley said. Continued delays to imposing a price will
discourage investments in the power industry, he said.  “The reality is Australia risks being last in the world to
do anything and being stigmatized accordingly,” he said. “Not
to mention the investment uncertainty that this creates.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Paton in Sydney   jpaton4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at   aprakash1@bloomberg.net . 