-- Bonds Gain Most Since May as 8%-Plus Growth Reduces Deficit: India Credit
-- B y   K a r t i k   G o y a l
-- 2010-11-29T05:52:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-28/bonds-gain-most-since-may-as-growth-cuts-deficit-india-credit.html
India’s bonds are headed for the
best month since May as a third consecutive quarter of economic
growth above 8 percent allows the government to cut its budget
deficit and provide subsidies to commodity producers.  The government will say tomorrow that gross domestic
product rose 8.2 percent in the three months ended September,
according to the median forecast of 30 economists in a Bloomberg
survey. Finance Minister Pranab Mukherjee sought parliament’s
approval on Nov. 15 to pay fertilizer makers an extra 50 billion
rupees ($1.09 billion) to cap prices after adding 140 billion
rupees to oil subsidies in August.  The yield on the 10-year government bond has dropped 14
basis points this month to 7.97 percent, the only debt among the
so-called BRIC nations to rally in the period. Wholesale-price
inflation slowed to 8.58 percent in October from this year’s
high of 11 percent in April. The government aims to reduce the
budget deficit to 5.5 percent of GDP from 6.9 percent last year.  “They will meet the target given strong revenue
collections,”  Rohini Malkani , a Mumbai-based economist at
Citigroup Inc., said in an interview on Nov. 23. “But the
additional spending raises concerns.”  Deficit Progress  The government trimmed the deficit in the first six months
of the financial year, helped by the 1.06 trillion rupees from
selling mobile-phone and Internet-service permits. The budget
shortfall between April and September was 34.9 percent of the
full-year target, compared with 49 percent in the year-earlier
period,  official estimates show .  India’s bonds, which underperformed earlier this year,
returned 0.8 percent this month as inflation slowed, indexes
compiled by HSBC Holdings Plc show. The advance was the best
performance among 10 Asian local-currency debt markets outside
Japan tracked by Europe’s largest bank. Increases in food prices
moderated to a 17-month low in the week ended Nov. 13, the Trade
Ministry said on Nov. 25.  As securities in Asia’s third-biggest economy rallied,
yields in the other BRIC markets of the largest emerging nations
climbed. The rate on Brazil’s benchmark three-year notes rose 67
basis points to 12.56 percent. The yield on similar-maturity
bonds increased 49 basis points, or 0.49 percentage point, to
3.34 percent in China and 32 basis points to 6.95 percent in
Russia.  Rupee Gains  The rupee appreciated 1.6 percent this year as the Reserve
Bank of India raised the benchmark repurchase rate by 150 basis
points to 6.25 percent, attracting fund inflows. The currency is
Asia’s worst performer this month with a 3 percent decline to
45.81 per dollar, after federal investigators arrested eight
Indian bankers and brokers on Nov. 24 amid allegations of
improper loan disbursals.  The cost of protecting the debt of government-owned State
Bank of India, which some investors perceive as a proxy for the
nation, rose nine basis points to 172 this month, according to
CMA prices. It has decreased 67 basis points from a one-year
high reached in May on optimism the government will meet its
budget-deficit target.  The gap between India’s benchmark 10-year  notes  and
similar-maturity securities in the U.S. shrank to 509 basis
points today from 551 at the start of the month. The difference
is up from 375 at the end of last year.  Quota Auction  India will hold its first auction of corporate and
government-debt quotas to foreign investors in almost four
months on Dec. 2, the Securities & Exchange Board of India said
on Nov. 26. The decision comes two months after the Ministry of
Finance raised the cap on foreign investors’ holdings of debt by
50 percent to $30 billion.  “Inflation is under control and the fiscal deficit won’t
be a problem due to robust economic growth resulting in higher
revenues,”  Debendra Kumar Dash , a fixed-income trader at
Development Credit Bank in Mumbai, said in an interview on Nov.
25. “We expect the yield on the 10-year bond at 7.75 percent by
March.”  While the government increased subsidies on food and
fertilizers this year, it decided on June 25 to free prices of
gasoline and diesel to limit losses of state-run refiners. The
changes for fuel prices pose a threat to the inflation outlook
this year, according to  D. H. Pai Panandiker , president of the
RPG Foundation, an economic policy group in New Delhi.  Inflation Target  “In the short term, price decontrols will add to inflation,
but are good from a long-term perspective,”  Panandiker  said in
an interview on Nov. 24. He predicts inflation could be as much
as 6.5 percent by March, higher than the central bank’s estimate
of 5.5 percent.  The government may miss a target to raise 400 billion
rupees in the current financial year by selling stakes in state-
run companies should a proposed share sale in Oil & Natural Gas
Corp. not happen, Disinvestment Secretary  Sumit Bose  said in New
Delhi on Nov. 24. A shortfall wouldn’t stop the government from
meeting its fiscal-deficit goal, according to  N. R. Bhanumurthy ,
an economist at the New Delhi-based National Institute of Public
Finance and Policy.  Tax  revenues  rose 25.7 percent between April and September
from a year earlier to 2.33 trillion rupees. Prime Minister
 Manmohan Singh  predicts the economy will expand 8.5 percent this
year, the fastest pace in three years. The acceleration in
growth is enabling policy makers to create more jobs, spend more
and keep the deficit in check, according to  Krishnamurthy Harihar , a treasurer at the Indian unit of Johannesburg-based
FirstRand Ltd.  “I think the government has done a fine balancing act of
controlling inflation and curbing fiscal deficit by pulling back
subsidies in a gradual manner,” Mumbai-based Harihar said in an
interview on Nov. 25. “The market view is that the spending is
very well controlled.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kartik Goyal  in New Delhi at 
 kgoyal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at   canstey@bloomberg.net  