-- BP Sells Interest in PAE to Bridas for $7.06 Billion
-- B y   K a r i   L u n d g r e n
-- 2010-11-28T13:06:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-28/bp-sells-60-stake-in-pan-american-energy-to-bridas-corp-for-7-1-billion.html
BP Plc , seeking to cover clean-up
costs in the Gulf of Mexico, agreed to sell its 60 percent
interest in Pan American Energy to Argentina-based oil and gas
company Bridas Corp.  Bridas will pay $7.06 billion in cash for the holding,
making it the sole owner of PAE, BP said in a statement today.
The transaction is expected to be completed in 2011.  BP is aiming to conserve capital and avoid risk after the
spill at its Macondo well in the Gulf of Mexico left it facing a
bill projected to reach $40 billion and forced former Chief
Executive Officer  Tony Hayward  to resign. The oil company said
in July it was planning to sell $30 billion in assets by the end
of 2011. Divestments to date, including the PAE sale, total
around $21 billion.  “We now have agreements in place that should secure the
majority of our divestment target,” BP CEO  Robert Dudley  said
in a statement today. “We will continue to identify further
assets that may be strategically more valuable to others than to
BP as we complete the program.”  Colombia, Tanzania  In July, BP agreed to sell assets in North America and
Egypt to Apache Corp. for $7 billion, while in August the
company disposed of fields in Colombia to Ecopetrol SA and
 Talisman Energy Inc.  for $1.9 billion. BP has also sold
operations in Vietnam and Venezuela to its Russian joint venture
partner  TNK-BP  for $1.8 billion.  The company agreed earlier this month to sell its fuels
marketing businesses in Namibia, Botswana and Zambia to Puma
Energy, as well as 50 percent interests in BP Malawi and BP
Tanzania to a Trafigura Beheer BV unit for $296 million in cash.
Last month, BP sold stakes in four Gulf of Mexico deepwater oil
and gas fields for $650 million, following the sale of its role
as operator of the Tubular Bells fields.  Bridas will pay BP a cash deposit of $3.53 billion and the
remainder upon completion of the sale, BP said. PAE controls
holdings in four hydrocarbon basins in Argentina, where it is
the second largest producer of oil and gas.  Bridas is 50 percent owned by China’s  Cnooc Ltd. , which
spent $3.1 billion to acquire the stake in March. The deal
marked Cnooc’s entry in Latin America and topped the $2.7
billion it paid in 2006 for a share in a Nigerian oilfield.  Cnooc and Bridas Energy Holdings will contribute $4.94
billion to Bridas to finance 70 percent of the acquisition, the
company said in a statement today. The remaining 30 percent will
be paid with third party loans, Cnooc said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kari Lundgren  in London at 
 Klundgren2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  