-- Rio Gets Army Help Amid Unrest as Police Occupy Slums
-- B y   C a r l o s   C a m i n a d a
-- 2010-11-28T05:01:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-28/brazil-police-troops-advance-into-rio-slums-as-drug-traffickers-resist.html
Rio de Janeiro police squads are
advancing further into the city’s biggest crime stronghold and
hundreds of soldiers are guarding access to the slums as drug
traffickers resist a two-day siege amid shootings.  Security forces urged the besieged gangs to capitulate as
tanks and armored cars made their way into streets of the
cluster of  shanty towns  known as Complexo do Alemao. About 800
soldiers are patrolling the surroundings. The criminals,
including hundreds who fled from a neighboring area occupied by
police, have exchanged shots with security forces for two days.  “We’re all set to retake the territory,” Military Police
General Commander Mario Sergio Duarte said yesterday. “We are
ordering the criminals to surrender while there’s time.”  The biggest security operation in Rio’s history is part of
a drive to end organized crime’s control of the slums, or
favelas, ahead of the 2014 soccer World Cup and the 2016 summer
Olympics. More than 21,000 police are securing the streets in
Rio. Gangs have set about 100  cars and buses  on fire across the
city in the past week and the conflict has claimed 35 lives,
according to police reports.  The Rio de Janeiro state government has restored security
at 15 favelas in the past two years and set up 12 police
departments in these communities. Taking over Complexo do Alemao
is the state security force’s biggest challenge so far.  “It will be difficult,” Jose Beltrame, the state’s
security secretary, said. “It calls for a lot of strategy and a
lot of patience.”  Fifty Cent  The mother of 25-year-old trafficker Diego Raimundo Santos,
nicknamed ‘50’ because he’s a fan of U.S. rapper Fifty Cent,
said she convinced him to surrender and followed him to a nearby
police department.  “I’ve never accepted my son’s involvement in this thing,”
Nilsa Maria dos Santos told TV reporters.  In Rio’s southern  beachside neighborhoods  of Ipanema and
Copacabana, tourists and residents took to the sand to play
volleyball, sunbathe and swim as the number of attacks on cars
fell to four yesterday, down from 11 the day before and 45 on
Nov. 25. Streets in Ipanema and Copacabana were blocked by
police on Nov. 24 because of boxes suspected of containing bombs
and later proven not to hold any explosives.  Mountains including the Corcovado, where the Christ the
Redeemer statue stands, separate the city’s wealthiest
neighborhoods from the northern area where Complexo do Alemao is
located.  Rio’s Special Police Operations Squad, also known as Bope,
started moving into Complexo do Alemao two days ago under
gunfire after occupying neighboring Vila Cruzeiro the previous
day.  ‘Elite Squad’  Bope, depicted by Brazilian director  Jose Padilha  in his
2007 film “Elite Squad” and a sequel released this year, is
using military weaponry including snipers and  Navy tanks  to
overpower the traffickers.  Officers have arrested more than 200 people in raids,
seizing homemade bombs, grenades, guns, military weapons,
dynamite and bottles filled with gasoline, police said.  Authorities have sent 20 drug traffic leaders to a maximum
security prison in Brazil’s southern Parana state in the past
few days.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Carlos Caminada  in Rio de Janeiro at 
 ccaminada1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Francisco Marcelino in Sao Paulo at 
 mdeoliveira@bloomberg.net  