-- McCain Says China Not Behaving Responsibly on Restraining Ally North Korea
-- B y   M i l e s   W e i s s
-- 2010-11-28T17:15:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-28/mccain-says-china-not-behaving-responsibly-on-restraining-ally-north-korea.html
U.S. Senator  John McCain  said
China’s response to North Korea’s deadly shelling last week
shows that the Beijing government isn’t taking on the
responsibilities of a world power.  China is not doing enough to restrain its ally North Korea
following the Nov. 23 artillery attack on the island of
Yeonpyeong that killed four South Koreans, McCain, a member of
the Senate Armed Services Committee, said today on CNN’s State
of the Union. China is North Korea’s biggest trading partner.  “We have to understand that China is not behaving in a
responsible fashion as a world power,” McCain said. “We have
to make adjustments to our policies regarding China.”  Until now, Chinese Premier  Wen Jiabao  has pushed for
stability without ascribing any blame to North Korea for the
shelling, which also wounded 20 South Koreans, mostly soldiers.
China today called for emergency talks during December among the
six countries that have been discussing relations in the region:
the two Koreas, China, Japan, Russia and the U.S.  McCain, a Republican from Arizona who lost to  Barack Obama 
in the 2008 campaign to become U.S. president, said on CNN that
the six-party talks would be “a fine first step.” McCain then
went on to suggest that North Korea’s “long history of
confrontation” wouldn’t end until the Communist nation is hit
with “significant penalties.”  Graham on China  Senator  Lindsey Graham , a Republican from South Carolina
who also serves on the armed forces panel, said today on Fox
News Sunday the U.S. “should push China hard” to get North
Korea to refrain from aggressive actions. Senator  Claire McCaskill  said on the same show that China’s bid for a
resumption of the six-party talks was an “important”
development. McCaskill, a Missouri Democrat, is also a member of
the Armed Services Committee.  Obama, along with Japanese Prime Minister Naoto Kan and
South Korean President Lee Myung Bak, has called on China to use
its influence on  Kim Jong Il ’s government to temper North Korean
acts of aggression. China, having fought alongside North Korea
against U.S.-led United Nations forces during the 1950-53 Korean
War, now serves as that country’s main economic and political
benefactor.  As a show of force in the wake of the Nov. 23 shelling, the
U.S. sent the aircraft carrier USS George Washington to take
part in joint military exercises in the waters west of the
Korean Peninsula. North Korea has warned that the U.S.-South
Korea drills, scheduled to last until Dec. 1, could take the
region to the “brink of war.”  McCaskill and Graham both voiced support for the naval
exercises on Fox News Sunday.  “You go forward with the exercises, you don’t flinch,”
Graham, said. “We need to take a very strong stand, as this is
brazen and this is belligerent,” McCaskill said of the North
Korean shelling.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Miles Weiss  in Washington at 
 mweiss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net  