-- Ancelotti Calls for Chelsea `Character' as Winless Run in League Extends
-- B y   J a m e s   C o n e
-- 2010-11-29T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-28/chelsea-ties-1-1-at-newcastle-in-league-to-extend-winless-run-to-3-games.html
Chelsea coach  Carlo Ancelotti  called
for “character” from his team after the defending champion’s
winless run in the Premier League was extended to three matches.  The Blues drew 1-1 at Newcastle yesterday for a first point
in three games in English soccer’s top league. They now trail
leader Manchester United by two points.  “It is an opportunity to show our character, our
personality, and it will be a good motivation to do better,”
Ancelotti told reporters. “Experience shows that during a
season these things happen.”  United has 31 points, with Chelsea on 29, ahead of Arsenal
on goal difference. Manchester City is three points further
back, with Spurs moving to 25 points after rallying to beat
Liverpool 2-1 yesterday. Newcastle rises three places to ninth,
with Liverpool dropping one place to 10th.  There’s been speculation in U.K. newspapers about
Ancelotti’s position at Chelsea, with the Sunday Telegraph
reporting yesterday that the Blues will attempt to hire
Barcelona’s  Pep Guardiola  if their coach leaves.  Ancelotti is unhappy at the firing of assistant manager  Ray Wilkins  and will lose another ally when Sporting Director  Frank Arnesen  leaves after this season, the Telegraph said. On Nov.
22, Ancelotti denied he’s considering quitting.  The Italian said the return of England internationals  John Terry  and  Frank Lampard  will lift his team.  “They are very important, not just as technical players
but they have personality, character and at this moment we need
this kind of player,” he said, adding that they may even play
against Everton next weekend.  Carroll Scores  Yesterday,  Andy Carroll  gave Newcastle a sixth-minute lead,
with  Salomon Kalou  tying the game just before halftime.  Newcastle almost took a second-minute lead when Steven
Taylor headed a Danny Guthrie cross toward goal, although  Petr Cech  was able to push the ball clear. Shola Ameobi was unable to
score from the rebound.  Taylor was making his first start of the season, while his
partner in central defense,  Sol Campbell , was playing for only a
third time as Newcastle was without suspended duo Mike
Williamson and  Fabricio Coloccini .  A mistake by Chelsea center-back Alex gave the home team an
early advantage. His attempted back-pass was hit past Cech and
Carroll reacted quickest to steer the ball into the net.
Newcastle goalkeeper  Tim Krul  stopped a powerful shot from
 Didier Drogba  and fullback Jose Enrique cleared off the line
from Alex.  A deflected Kalou shot tied the game, but neither team was
able to find a winner in the second half. Chelsea’s  Ashley Cole 
headed clear from  Wayne Routledge  on the line, while Newcastle
withstood a barrage of Chelsea pressure late on.  ‘Top-Class’ Chelsea  “Chelsea is a top-class team and they would have wanted to
bounce back after recent results and the game was as tough as we
thought,” Newcastle manager  Chris Hughton  told reporters.  Aaron Lennon ’s first goal in a year secured Tottenham’s
comeback at White Hart Lane. The England winger ran onto a flick
from  Peter Crouch  before firing into the net.  Martin Skrtel  gave Liverpool a 42nd-minute lead, but then
deflected the ball into his own team’s net midway through the
second half as he attempted to cut out a cross from  Luka Modric .  Both teams created a host of chances, with Tottenham
striker  Jermain Defoe  also missing a second-half penalty five
minutes before his team’s first goal.  “When you play Liverpool it’s not easy, we showed everyone
what we can do and I hope we can carry on,” Tottenham defender
 William Gallas  told Sky Sports.  Two days ago,  Dimitar Berbatov  scored five goals as
Manchester United beat Blackburn 7-1. Arsenal won 4-2 at Aston
Villa, Manchester City drew 1-1 at Stoke City, while Bolton and
Blackpool tied 2-2.  Last-place West Ham defeated Wigan 3-1, Wolverhampton
Wanderers beat Sunderland 3-2, Fulham and Birmingham City tied
1-1, and West Bromwich Albion won 4-1 at Everton.  It is the first time all 20 teams have scored in the same
round of Premier League games.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 James Cone  in London at 
 jcone@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at   celser@bloomberg.net . 