-- China Proposes `Emergency' Six-Party Talks on Korean Tensions in December
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-11-28T09:54:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-28/china-proposes-emergency-six-party-talks-on-korean-tensions-in-december.html
China proposed that “emergency”
six-nation talks be held early month in Beijing to address
increasing military tensions following North Korea’s Nov. 23
artillery attack on a South Korean island.  “A series of complicated factors have recently emerged on
the Korean peninsula,”  Wu Dawei , China’s top envoy for the
negotiations, told reporters in Beijing today. “The six-party
talks play an important role in strengthening communication
among the parties, advancing denuclearization on the peninsula
and safeguarding peace and stability on the peninsula and in
Northeast Asia.”  North Korea pulled out of the discussions with China, South
Korea, the U.S., Japan and Russia in April 2009 and expelled
international arms inspectors after the United Nations said a
rocket launch that month violated a Security Council resolution.  Beijing has played host to the six-party talks in the past.
The U.S. and South Korea have said they want to see more
concrete actions by North Korea to dismantle its nuclear program
before restarting talks. South Korean President  Lee Myung Bak 
today told visiting Chinese State Councilor  Dai Bingguo  that the
time was not right for negotiations to resume, Yonhap News
Agency reported. Lee and Dai both agreed that the situation on
the Korean peninsula was “worrying,” Wu said.  U.S. Ambassador to China  Jon Huntsman  was called in to
China’s foreign ministry earlier today to discuss Korea issues,
embassy spokesman Robert Raines said. Raines didn’t have an
immediate reaction to the Chinese proposal.  -- Michael Forsythe : Editor:  James Regan .  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Forsythe  in Beijing at 
 mforsythe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  