-- China Huaneng to Pay $1.2 Billion for Stake in U.S. Power Company InterGen
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-11-29T09:42:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-28/china-huaneng-to-buy-intergen-stake-for-1-23-billion-update1-.html
China Huaneng Group, the nation’s
largest electricity producer, will pay $1.23 billion for a 50
percent stake in Massachusetts-based power utility InterGen in
its biggest overseas acquisition in more than two years.  State-controlled Huaneng will buy  GMR Group ’s entire share
in the utility in a deal expected to close in the first half of
2011, the Indian company, whose assets range from airports to
highways, said in a statement yesterday. GMR bought the stake
for $1.1 billion in October 2008.  Chinese electricity companies are expanding overseas as
state-controlled prices prevent them from passing on fuel costs
to consumers.  Huaneng  is building on its $3.1 billion
acquisition of Singapore’s Tuas Power Ltd. in March 2008 with
the InterGen purchase, gaining access to 12 plants in the U.K.,
Mexico, the Netherlands, Australia and the Philippines.  “GMR was talking about $1.5 billion at one point, so the
current value is clearly positive for Huaneng,”  Michael Parker ,
senior analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co., said by telephone
from Hong Kong.  China Huaneng is also among potential bidders for A$8
billion of power assets being sold by Australia’s New South
Wales, according to a report by the Australian Financial Review
on Aug. 18. The state said on Nov. 15 it has closed bids for the
assets, without identifying potential buyers.  Huaneng Power International Inc. , a China Huaneng unit
listed in Hong Kong, rose 0.7 percent to close at HK$4.24. The
benchmark  Hang Seng Index  gained 1.3 percent.  Decision to Sell  GMR had bought its share of InterGen from a fund owned by
American International Group Inc. The rest of the utility is
held by the Ontario Teachers’ Pension Plan.  The stake sale will raise $225 million that can be used to
fund GMR’s projects, said G.M. Rao, chairman of the Bangalore-
based group.  The decision to sell “is in line with the strategy to
focus more on the Indian market where GMR is already a market
leader,” Rao said, adding that InterGen’s overseas holding
company has $1 billion in debt.  “After paying down the debt, there will be a cash inflow
of around $225 million to GMR,” Morgan Stanley analysts  Akshay Soni  and  Pratima Swaminathan  said in a note to clients dated Nov.
29. “Importantly, this also cuts out the annual interest burden
on the debt, around $50 million by our calculations.”  GMR Infrastructure Ltd. , a unit of GMR, rose 5.1 percent to
46.05 rupees in Mumbai trading at 3:06 p.m. local time, beating
the 1.6 percent gain in the benchmark Bombay Stock Exchange
Sensitive  Index .  Bank of America Corp.  and White & Case LLP acted as
financial advisers and legal counsel to GMR, the company said.
Credit Suisse Group AG also advised Huaneng on the transaction,
according to  Josephine Lee , a Hong Kong-based spokeswoman for
the bank.  -- Ruth David  in Mumbai,  Chua Baizhen  in Beijing and  Cathy Chan .
With assistance from  James Paton  in Sydney. Editors:  Ryan Woo ,
 John Viljoen .  To contact the Bloomberg staff on this story:
 Ruth David  in Mumbai at 
 rdavid9@bloomberg.net ;
Baizhen Chua in Beijing at 
 bchua14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net ;
Clyde Russell at 
 crussell7@bloomberg.net . 