-- Argentina's Bridas Agrees to Buy BP Stake in Pan American for $7.1 Billion
-- B y   R o d r i g o   O r i h u e l a   a n d   K a r i   L u n d g r e n
-- 2010-11-29T12:11:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-28/cnooc-venture-to-buy-bp-s-pan-american-stake-for-7-1-billion.html
Bridas Corp., the oil company owned
by Chinese crude producer Cnooc Ltd. and Argentina’s billionaire
 Bulgheroni  family, agreed to pay  BP Plc  $7.06 billion for the 60
percent it doesn’t already own of Pan American Energy LLC.  Bridas Energy Holdings Ltd. and  Cnooc , which each own 50
percent of Bridas Corp., will pay $2.47 billion apiece to
finance the acquisition, with the remaining $2.12 billion to
come from third-party loans or additional funds from the two
companies,  Cnooc  said in a statement yesterday. The deal will
probably be completed in the first half of next year.  The Beijing-based company is building on the $3.1 billion
stake purchase in Bridas in March to expand its oil resources in
Latin America as demand surges. Pan American, Argentina’s
largest crude exporter, produces about 240,000 barrels a day and
holds 1.54 billion barrels of proven reserves.  “The valuation is fairly attractive,”  Neil Beveridge , a
Hong Kong-based analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co., said in a
telephone interview. “They are buying fairly mature oil and gas
assets, so the question is how much Cnooc can squeeze out of
these in the coming years,” he said.  The Pan American reserves will last about 16 years, said
Beveridge, who estimates Cnooc is paying about $9.10 a barrel of
oil equivalent. That compares with about $10.60 a barrel that
the Chinese energy explorer paid for the Bridas stake.  Reasonable Return  Cnooc takes into consideration the prospect of a
“reasonable” return on investment when acquiring overseas
assets, Chief Financial Officer  Zhong Hua  told reporters today.  Shares  of Cnooc advanced 1.7 percent to close at HK$17.16,
compared with the 1.3 percent increase in the benchmark Hang
Seng Index.  BP  is aiming to conserve capital and avoid risk after the
spill at its Macondo well in the Gulf of Mexico left it facing a
bill projected to reach $40 billion and forced the resignation
of Chief Executive Officer  Tony Hayward . The oil company said in
July it was planning to sell $30 billion in assets by end-2011.
Including Pan American, it has sold about $21 billion of assets.  Pan American E&P Bolivia Ltd., a branch of the company
which operates gas fields in the South American country, wasn’t
included in the sale announced yesterday, Bridas said in an e-
mailed statement. Bridas also owns rights over fields in
Turkmenistan and Northern Africa.  “The market probably wrongly assumed that 60 percent was
worth $9.3 billion, but that included the Asia options” and
Bolivia, said  Jason Kenney , an Edinburgh-based oil and gas
analyst at ING Commercial Banking, who had valued BP’s 60
percent stake at $9.3 billion. Citigroup Inc. estimated the
asset to be worth $10.2 billion, according to a Sept. 28 report.  BP Urgency  The agreement values Pan American’s reserves at $8.5 a
barrel of oil equivalent, Bank of America Merrill Lynch analysts
 Alejandro Demichelis , Hootan Yazhari and  Eyad Faraj  said today
in a note to investors.  “Given the urgency of BP to sell and the limited list of
potential suitors, it is clear that the bargaining power was on
Bridas’ side,” according to the report.  The Cnooc acquisition takes total Chinese investments in
the South American oil industry to more than $13 billion this
year after China Petroleum & Chemical Corp., known as Sinopec,
in October agreed to pay $7.1 billion for a 40 percent stake of
Repsol YPF SA’s Brazilian unit. In March, Ecuador announced a
$500 million deal with Sinopec to develop an oil bloc.  North America Assets  In July, BP agreed to sell assets in North America and
Egypt to Apache Corp. for $7 billion, while in August the
company disposed of fields in Colombia to  Ecopetrol SA  and
 Talisman Energy Inc.  for $1.9 billion. BP has also sold
operations in Vietnam and Venezuela to its Russian joint venture
partner TNK-BP for $1.8 billion.  BP also agreed earlier this month to sell its fuels
marketing businesses in Namibia, Botswana and Zambia to Puma
Energy, as well as 50 percent interests in BP Malawi and BP
Tanzania to a Trafigura Beheer BV unit for $296 million in cash.
Last month, BP sold stakes in four Gulf of Mexico deepwater oil
and gas fields for $650 million.  Cnooc has spent more than $4 billion so far this year on
oil and gas assets in Argentina and North America to help meet
demand from the world’s fastest-growing major economy. The stake
purchase in Bridas earlier this year marked Cnooc’s entry in
Latin America, and topped the $2.7 billion it paid in 2006 for a
share in a Nigerian oilfield.  Total production may reach 329 million barrels of oil
equivalent this year, surpassing Cnooc’s target of as much as
290 million. The company’s proven reserves will rise 14 percent
and daily production will gain about 10 percent, following the
Pan American deal, Cnooc said in a presentation on its website.  Increased Efforts  “Cnooc has increased its effort to expand operations
overseas, particularly in countries with high sovereign risks,”
Standard & Poor’s Ratings Services said today, adding that such
a move exposes the company to legal, tax and regulatory risks.
“Nevertheless, even if the proposed transaction with Bridas
goes through as planned, 64.3% of Cnooc’s proven reserves and
69.9% of its production will still be from China.”  China’s oil demand may rise to 11.63 million barrels a day
by 2015 from 9.16 million barrels a day this year, according to
the International Energy Agency.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kari Lundgren  in London at 
 Klundgren2@bloomberg.net ;
 Rodrigo Orihuela  in Buenos Aires at 
 rorihuela@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net ;
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net . 