-- Coty Said to Be Close to Deal to Buy Nail Polish Maker OPI for $1 Billion
-- B y   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n   a n d   S e r e n a   S a i t t o
-- 2010-11-29T13:20:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-28/coty-said-to-be-close-to-deal-to-buy-nail-polish-maker-opi-for-1-billion.html
Coty Inc., the seller of perfumes by
 Sarah Jessica Parker  and  Vera Wang , is close to buying nail-care
company  OPI Products Inc.  for about $1 billion in cash, said two
people with knowledge of the situation.  The two closely held companies may announce the deal by
today, said the people, who asked not to be identified because
the matter is private. Private-equity firms Bain Capital LLC and
Advent International Corp. were among the companies that also
made bids, people close to the situation said last month.  OPI, founded almost three decades ago by Chief Executive
Officer George Schaeffer, sells polish used in nail salons,
hand-and-foot care products and body lotion. Coty has bolstered
its cosmetics business with acquisitions this month, agreeing to
buy skin-care maker Philosophy and Dr. Scheller Cosmetics AG.  Cysette Burset, a spokeswoman for New York-based Coty,
wasn’t reachable for comment, nor was Harris Shepard, a
representative for OPI, which is based in North Hollywood,
California.  Moelis & Co. served as financial adviser to Coty, while
Lazard Ltd. advised OPI. Gibson Dunn & Crutcher LLP provided
legal counsel to Coty and Skadden Arps Slate Meagher & Flom did
the same for OPI.  Coty agreed to buy Philosophy on Nov. 23 from private-
equity firm Carlyle Group, without disclosing the terms. Less
than two weeks before that, Coty said it agreed to buy Dr.
Scheller Cosmetics AG from Russia’s OAO Concern Kalina. It also
purchased Unilever Cosmetics International in 2005 for 632.6
million euros ($860.6 million).  Financial Performance  OPI has annual sales of about $300 million and earnings
before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization of about
$80 million, the people said last month. The company is seeking
11 to 12 times its earnings for the sale, they said.  Coty distributes perfumes such as “Lovely” from Parker,
star of “Sex and the City,” and “Princess” from designer
Wang.  A purchase of OPI would be at least the second acquisition
of a nail-care company this year. In April,  L’Oreal SA  agreed to
buy Essie Cosmetics to expand in the nail color market in the
U.S. Terms weren’t disclosed.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jeffrey McCracken  in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;
 Serena Saitto  in New York at 
 ssaitto@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net  