-- Dubai Shares Drop Most in Middle East on Share Sale Plans, European Debt
-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r
-- 2010-11-28T15:38:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-28/dubai-shares-drop-most-in-two-months-amid-stock-sale-plans-european-debt.html
Dubai shares fell to the lowest in
more than two months, leading a drop in the Middle East, as the
emirate said it plans to sell shares of large companies and on
concern an Irish financial bailout won’t stem Europe’s crisis.  Emaar Properties PJSC , builder of the world’s tallest
skyscraper, closed at the lowest level in almost three months.
 Aramex PJSC,  the United Arab Emirates-based courier company,
decreased 4.3 percent. The  DFM General Index  fell 1.4 percent to
1,659.5, the lowest level since Sept. 16, at the 2 p.m. close in
Dubai. The  Bloomberg GCC 200 Index  of Gulf stocks lost 0.3
percent. Egypt’s gauge also declined.  Dubai plans to sell shares of some of the emirate’s large
companies, Sheikh Ahmed Bin Saeed  Al Maktoum , chairman of the
Dubai Supreme Fiscal Committee, said at a conference today. The
emirate racked up $109.3 billion of debt to transform into a
tourism, trade and financial-services hub, according to the
International Monetary Fund. Dubai World last year sought to
alter terms on $24.9 billion of debt.  “At present, there is very little confidence in U.A.E.
exchanges leading to low volumes and sharp volatility,” said
 Shehzad Janab,  head of asset management at Dubai-based Daman
Investments PSC. “That’s hardly a recipe for successful initial
public offerings.” Investors are also cautious given Irish debt
woes, he said.  The average number of shares traded daily in Dubai has
dropped 65 percent in 2010 from the year-earlier period,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. About 77 million shares
were bought and sold today. Volumes plummeted after the world’s
worst recession since the Great Depression and a collapse in
property values in Dubai, the Gulf’s financial hub.  Ireland  Global markets declined last week, with Europe’s  Stoxx 600 
falling 1.1 percent on concern Ireland’s bailout will fail to
stem Europe’s sovereign debt crisis and China will step up
efforts to tame inflation. Standard & Poor’s lowered the long-
term counterparty credit rating on Irish banks including Allied
Irish Banks Plc and Bank of Ireland Plc.  Crude oil for January delivery slipped 0.1 percent to
settle at $83.76 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange on
Nov. 26. The six Gulf Arab nations, including the U.A.E., supply
about a fifth of the world’s oil.  Emaar  decreased 1.4 percent to 3.60 dirhams, the lowest
since Sept. 5. Aramex fell the most since Sept. 30 to 1.99
dirhams.  Israel Bonds  Abu Dhabi’s  measure  slipped 0.3 percent, Qatar’s  QE Index 
and Bahrain’s  All Share Index  decreased 0.8 percent. Kuwait’s
 gauge  fell 0.9 percent to the lowest in two months. Saudi
Arabia’s  Tadawul All Share Index  rose 0.2 percent and Oman’s
benchmark stock  index  increased 0.5 percent.  In North Africa, Egypt’s  EGX 30 Index  lost 0.7 percent.  Israel’s TA-25 Index  lost less than 0.1 percent. The
benchmark Mimshal Shiklit bond due January 2020 fell, pushing
the yield 4 basis points higher to 4.55 percent, the highest
level since Nov. 14. The shekel fell 0.8 percent to 3.6777 per
dollar on Nov. 26.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Zahra Hankir  in Dubai at   zhankir@bloomberg.net  or  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net . 