-- Dubai May Sell Shares in Some Large Companies to Public Amid Restructuring
-- B y   A r i f   S h a r i f   a n d   V i v i a n   S a l a m a
-- 2010-11-28T16:30:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-28/dubai-may-sell-shares-of-some-large-companies-to-public-sheikh-ahmed-says.html
Dubai may sell stakes in some
companies to the public to reduce debt as the Persian Gulf
emirate alters loan terms and restructures two of its main
investment groups, Dubai World and Dubai Holding LLC.  “We are working on opening up the capital of leading
companies to our public,”  Sheikh Ahmed bin Saeed Al Maktoum ,
chairman of the Dubai Supreme Fiscal Committee, told a
conference in the emirate today. The sheikhdom needs to
“regroup, review and reconsider some of our investments and re-
challenge our competitive edge,” he said. The committee is the
top decision-making body for Dubai’s financial affairs.  Dubai and its state-controlled companies are struggling to
repay debt that Barclays Capital estimated in September at about
$112 billion. The second-largest of seven sheikhdoms that make
up the United Arab Emirates roiled global markets last year when
Dubai World sought to freeze payments on $24.9 billion of loans.
Dubai World’s creditors have since agreed to a restructuring
plan, a person familiar with the matter said in October.  Dubai allowed property to be sold to foreigners in some
parts of the emirate in 2002, triggering a building boom and a
quadrupling of home prices until mid-2008. The credit crunch,
which drove away speculators and squeezed mortgage lending,
caused home prices to plunge by more than half.  No Fire Sale  “There might be a privatization plan, which is something
that we are working on with the government,”  Mohammed Ibrahim al-Shaibani , director-general of the Dubai ruler’s court and
chief executive officer of the Investment Corp. of Dubai, said
at the conference, adding there would be no fire sales. The
government is evaluating such a plan and may use it as a
“mechanism of reducing some of our debt,” he said.  ICD , the third of the main state-controlled holding
companies, owns stakes in companies including Emirates, the
world’s biggest airline by international passengers, Emirates
National Oil Co., Dubai Aluminium Co. and stock-market operator
Borse Dubai Ltd. Companies owned by ICD had a market value of
73.7 billion dirhams ($20 billion) at the end of December last
year, according to a government bond prospectus issued in
September.  A share sale by Emirates “may be a reality one day, not
now,”  al-Shaibani  said. “Dubai is very rich in good quality
assets and we have been chased by so many friends, bankers and
investment bankers to really do something with our assets.” The
government is reviewing options in one company and may announce
a stake sale in the “near future,” al-Shaibani said.  Dubai Shares Decline  Dubai shares fell to the lowest in more than two months,
with the  Dubai Financial Market’s DFM General Index  dropping 1.4
percent to 1,659.5 at the 2 p.m. close.  “At present, there is very little confidence in U.A.E.
exchanges leading to low volumes and sharp volatility,” said
 Shehzad Janab,  head of asset management at Dubai-based Daman
Investments PSC said in an e-mail today. “That’s hardly a
recipe for successful initial public offerings.”  Companies in the Persian Gulf aren’t benefiting from record
demand for share sales in emerging markets as debt concern hurts
investor confidence. Omani mobile-phone operator  Nawras  and
 Aluminium Bahrain BSC  sold shares this month at the bottom of
the range used to canvas investor interest in the stocks.  IPOs in the six-member Gulf Cooperation Council region,
which includes the U.A.E., generated $1.91 billion this year
compared with $2.27 billion in the same period a year earlier,
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Sovereign debt  Dubai government debt, excluding that of state-controlled
companies, is $30 billion today, al-Shaibani said. “If I had a
choice, I would like to see the government debt at zero and this
is something that we are aiming for, but at the end, there is a
reality on the ground that we also need to deal with.”  After announcing a successful restructuring of Dubai World
debt in September, the government is progressing with the
restructuring of Dubai Holding, Sheikh Ahmed told the conference
today.  The government has injected $2 billion into Dubai Holding,
which has interests spanning property, telecommunications and
investments, over the last 12 months to support its
restructuring, al-Shaibani told reporters after the conference.  Talks with creditors are under way to alter the terms on
$2.6 billion of loans at Dubai International Capital LLC and $6
billion of debt at Dubai Group LLC, two investment companies
owned by Dubai Holding, people familiar with the talks said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Arif Sharif in Dubai at 
 asharif2@bloomberg.net 
To contact the reporter on this story:
Vivian Salama in Abu Dhabi at 
 vsalama@bloomberg.net  