-- Durbin Says U.S. Debate to Go Beyond Bush Tax Cuts
-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 2010-11-29T18:03:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-28/durbin-says-debate-in-u-s-congress-to-go-beyond-bush-tax-cuts.html
(Corrects Senator Dorgan’s state in 11th paragraph in story
published on Nov. 28.)  Senator  Dick Durbin  of Illinois, the
senate’s No. 2 Democrat, said negotiations over extending the
Bush-era tax cuts also will include prolonging emergency
unemployment benefits and other tax credits.  “I want to put a couple other things on the table,”
Durbin said today on NBC’s “Meet the Press.” “We do have
unemployment running out,” he said, and “I also want to make
sure the earned-income tax credit, the childcare tax credit, and
the ‘Making Work Pay’ tax credit are part” of the discussion.  At issue are tax cuts passed in 2001 and 2003 that are set
to expire Dec. 31. Obama is scheduled to meet with Democratic
and Republican congressional leaders Nov. 30 at the White House
to discuss the legislative agenda.  Additionally, emergency jobless benefits that kick in after
the initial 26-weeks of payments end will expire at the end of
this month. Without congressional action, about 2 million
Americans will lose the federally funded benefits, according to
a Labor Department estimate.  Arizona Senator  Jon Kyl , the chamber’s second-ranking
Republican, said there is “an opportunity for us to sit down
and negotiate a resolution to this that’s good for the
economy.” Kyl also repeated a key sticking point for
Republicans: “We don’t believe taxes should be increased on
anyone.”  Obama has argued the country can’t afford indefinitely
extending tax cuts for the wealthiest Americans, defined by the
president as individuals making more than $200,000 and couples
earning more than $250,000.  Obama on Tax Cuts  “I believe it is a mistake for us to borrow $700 billion
to make tax cuts permanent for millionaires and billionaires,”
Obama told reporters Nov. 14. “It won’t significantly boost the
economy and it’s hugely expensive, so we can’t afford it.”  Republicans, who won a majority of House seats in the Nov.
2 elections and narrowed the Democratic margin in the Senate,
are pushing to permanently extend all the current tax rates.
While Obama has said he wants to permanently extend just the tax
cuts on earnings up to $200,000 for individuals or $250,000 for
households -- about 97 percent of all taxpayers, according to
the Internal Revenue Service -- he has indicated he’s open to
negotiations on achieving that goal.  “We should be focusing on what it takes to move this
economy forward,” Durbin said. “We should not be worried about
the discomfort of the wealthy.”  Expiring Legislation  Unless Congress acts, marginal rates will increase for all
income-tax payers. Tax credits benefiting families will be cut
in half. The so-called married penalty that forces some couples
to pay more than if they were single will be reinstated. Rates
will rise on most dividends and capital gains, and a levy on
estates valued over $1 million will be resurrected.  “What’s likely to happen is there will be an extension of
the tax cuts for everybody for a period of time,” Senator  Byron Dorgan  of North Dakota, a Democrat who is retiring, said in an
interview today on CNN’s “State of the Union” program.  Extending only the current rates for individuals earning
less than $200,000 and couples making under $250,000 would add
more than $3 trillion to the national debt over the next decade.
Sustaining tax cuts for those with higher incomes would add an
additional $700 billion to the debt over the next decade,
Treasury Secretary  Timothy Geithner  has said.  An across-the-board extension of all Bush-era tax policies
would cost the government about $5 trillion in foregone revenue
and interest cost on the debt, the Congressional Research
Service estimated last month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joshua Zumbrun  in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  