-- Egypt's Ruling Party Set to Prevail in Vote Amid Crackdown on Opposition
-- B y   A l a a   S h a h i n e   a n d   A b d e l   L a t i f   W a h b a
-- 2010-11-28T19:34:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-28/egyptians-vote-in-parliament-poll-as-government-cracks-down.html
Egypt’s ruling party is set to
tighten its grip on power after today’s parliamentary election,
dealing a blow to its main Islamist rival whose candidates
accused authorities of rigging the vote.  Groups including  Human Rights Watch  have accused President
 Hosni Mubarak ’s  National Democratic Party  of undermining free
elections by cracking down on other candidates including members
of the Muslim Brotherhood, the country’s biggest opposition
group. The NDP, which fielded more than six times as many
candidates as its rival, has denied charges of any fraud.  Analysts, including Amr El-Shobaki at the Cairo-based Al
Ahram Center for Political and Strategic Studies, say the
government wants to drive the Brotherhood out of politics ahead
of next year’s presidential election that could see the first
change of leadership in three decades.  “The NDP brings whoever it wants to power,” Ibrahim
Sabri, a 46-year-old mechanic, said in an interview outside a
polling station in central Cairo. “There is nothing that makes
me want to vote.”  The lack of a designated successor to  Mubarak , 82, who has
ruled Egypt since 1981 and hasn’t said whether he’ll seek
another six-year term, has fueled concern that a succession
crisis may lead to political unrest. That could endanger foreign
investment needed to create jobs and expand output in the most
populous Arab country.  Keeping Control  “One reason for the crackdown is that the regime wants to
keep things under control before the presidential election,”
said Moustafa El-Husseini, a political commentator and author of
the coming book “Egypt on the Brink of the Unknown.”  Police rounded up hundreds of  Muslim Brotherhood  supporters
ahead of the vote. The Islamist group, which fields candidates
as independents to bypass an official ban on its activities,
said last week that 1,200 of its supporters have been detained.  The group accused authorities of barring its candidates and
their staff from entering polling stations, as well as using
violence to deter their supporters from voting. Mohamed Kamal, a
senior ruling party official, told reporters that the charge was
“totally untrue.”  Initial results will start trickling in tomorrow, while the
final outcome will be announced on Nov. 30, according to the
 High Election Commission .  Grooming Son  Stocks plunged in March when Mubarak underwent surgery to
have his gallbladder removed, sending the benchmark EGX30  index 
down 6.7 percent in a week. The index’s 4.6 percent gain in
dollar terms this year is less than half of the increase in the
 MSCI Emerging Markets benchmark .  Mubarak’s opponents say the president is grooming his son
 Gamal  to succeed him, a charge both men deny. The younger
Mubarak has been among the drivers of economic policy since 2004
as Egypt cut income tax rates and sold state-owned companies to
buyers including Turin-based Intesa Sanpaolo SpA, Italy’s
second-biggest bank.  The resulting increase in foreign investment helped the
economy grow at an average pace of 7 percent in the three years
before the onset of the global financial crisis in 2008.  Gamal Mubarak ’s critics say the changes have widened the gap between
rich and poor and left the latter grappling with an inflation
rate that has exceeded 10 percent in the past two years.  Muslim Brotherhood supporters credit the group with helping
poor Egyptians by providing them with affordable services
including health and education through a network of charities
nationwide.  Garbage Piles  In the Cairo district of Boulak El-Dakrour, garbage is
piled in the narrow, unpaved streets. Resident Nader El-
Husseini, a 27-year-old interpreter, said he voted for two
Brotherhood candidates because “they are the only people who
offer services and look after the interests of their
constituents.”  “Nobody else helps the people,” he said. “Look around
you, Boulak is all garbage.”  The Muslim Brotherhood has about 130 candidates vying for
seats in the 508-member house. The NDP has fielded more than 800
candidates.  “We have been told, and it seems to be true, that monitors
of opposition candidates, especially independents representing
the Muslim Brotherhood, have been barred from entering the
polling stations to observe,” Daniel Williams, a researcher for
Human Rights Watch, said by telephone from Alexandria, in
northern Egypt.  Rejected Call  The Egyptian government has rejected a call from the
administration of U.S. President  Barack Obama  to allow
international observers, saying it is capable of running a fair
and free election, monitored by domestic civil society groups  Sameh El-Kashef, a spokesman for the High Election
Commission, the body in charge of running the vote, told
reporters that violations during the day didn’t have “any
impact on the electoral process.”  Supporters of one candidate fired shots in the province of
Gharbiyyah, north of Cairo, forcing officials to briefly shut
the polling station, he said. Other acts of violence included an
attempted attack with two Molotov cocktails on a polling station
in southern Egypt that left one man injured, said Interior
Ministry spokesman Tarek Attiya.  The Brotherhood won one-fifth of parliament seats in 2005,
in a vote that coincided with U.S. calls for President Mubarak
to expand political freedoms, pressure that has since waned.  Constitutional Amendments  After the 2005 ballot, the government passed constitutional
amendments that human rights groups say limited judicial
supervision over polls. The amendments also banned the use of
religion for political ends, in what the Brotherhood says was an
attempt to drive it out of politics and pave the way for a
succession of power from Mubarak to his son.  Intelligence chief  Omar Suleiman  has been mentioned by many
analysts, including the London-based Economist Intelligence
Unit, as a presidential contender.  Over the past two months, Gamal Mubarak, 47, a former
investment banker, has campaigned to promote the party’s
economic program for the next five years. The pledges include
doubling the wages of public-sector workers. The government
agreed this month to raise the minimum wage to 400 pounds ($69)
from 35 pounds.  Other NDP policies, such as reducing subsidies, may prove
less popular. Discontent about the rising cost of living and low
wages sparked riots in 2008.  The government’s main aim will be “to achieve economic
growth to generate enough jobs as well as to implement anti-
poverty policies,”  Reham El-Desoki , senior economist at Cairo-
based investment bank Beltone Financial, said by e-mail. “You
will see a lot of social spending until the presidential
election.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alaa Shahine  in Cairo at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net . 