-- EU Backs Franco-German Debt Plan Retreating From Merkel Call for Writeoffs
-- B y   B r i a n   P a r k i n   a n d   G r e g o r y   V i s c u s i
-- 2010-11-28T20:37:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-28/eu-backs-franco-german-debt-plan-retreating-from-merkel-call-for-writeoffs.html
European finance leaders endorsed a
Franco-German compromise on post-2013 sovereign bailouts that
waters down calls by German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  for
investors to assume losses and share the costs with taxpayers.  The plan asks investors to take writeoffs on a “case-by-
case” basis, according to a statement issued today by euro-
area finance ministers after a meeting in Brussels to ratify a
bailout for Ireland. The proposal is designed to address
“collective action clauses” for debt issued after temporary
crisis facilities expire in 2013. Such clauses allow bondholders
to change terms of their contracts.  Merkel has been at odds with  Jean-Claude Juncker , the head
of a group of euro finance chiefs, and European Central Bank
President  Jean-Claude Trichet  as she sought to ensure what she
calls the “primacy of politics” over markets. Leaders in Spain
and Ireland blamed her for spooking investors and raising
borrowing costs. Merkel said Nov. 18 she was “absolutely
convinced” creditors had to share bailout costs.  Trichet embraced today’s compromise, saying it was “very
necessary that there would be a full clarification of the
doctrine.” He said the ministers view was “a useful
clarification from our standpoint.”  “Doubtless Merkel will tout this accord as a victory after
getting the ECB, France and the Commission on board,” said
 Irwin Collier , a professor at Berlin Free University’s Institute
of Public Finance, in an interview. “But the compromise would
imply that automatic cuts for bondholders have been dropped.
That’s quite a step down.”  Merkel Consultations  Before the meeting today, Merkel spoke with French
President  Nicolas Sarkozy , European Union President  Herman Van Rompuy , Juncker and European Commission President  Jose Barroso ,
as well as Trichet.  The leaders accelerated their effort to reach a compromise
after markets slumped last week, said an aide to Sarkozy who
briefed reporters in Paris. The Irish bailout is forcing
Portuguese and Spanish politicians to quell speculation that
they are next in line for rescue. The average yield investors
demand to hold 10-year debt from Greece, Ireland, Portugal,
Spain and Italy reached a euro-area record of 7.57 percent on
Nov. 26. By contrast, Germany pays 2.73 percent.  Merkel’s stance “hasn’t been helpful,” Irish Prime
Minister  Brian Cowen  said in an interview with the Irish
Independent newspaper that was published Nov. 12, nine days
before Ireland sought the bailout.  Ireland’s banking system and national finances collapsed
after a decade-long property bubble burst, the country fell into
a recession and the unemployment rate rose close to 14 percent.  “The proposed clauses for investors are nothing that
markets do not know in other currency areas,” said Seibert.
“The plan holds no surprises for markets.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Brian Parkin  in Berlin at 
 bparkin@bloomberg.net ;
 Gregory Viscusi  in Paris at 
 gviscusi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  