-- EU Ministers Race to Complete Aid Package for Ireland
-- B y   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r   a n d   S t e p h a n i e   B o d o n i
-- 2010-11-28T13:24:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-28/eu-ministers-race-to-complete-aid-package-for-ireland-before-markets-open.html
Ireland’s  negotiations  over an 85
billion-euro ($113 billion) aid package came down to setting the
interest rate it will pay on emergency loans as European finance
ministers battled to contain the fiscal crisis.  A “staff-level” accord on Ireland’s aid will be endorsed
today, European Union Economic and Monetary Commissioner  Olli Rehn  said today in Brussels. French Finance Minister  Christine Lagarde  said Ireland’s interest rate is the only “little
detail” to be nailed down.  With 10-year bond yields averaging over 7.5 percent in
Greece, Ireland, Portugal, Spain and Italy on Nov. 26, European
leaders are fighting to prevent the spread of Ireland’s fiscal
woes from threatening the survival of the 12-year-old euro.  “We have to discuss the broader ramifications of the
current crisis and we have to discuss a systemic response to
this crisis,” Rehn told reporters as the officials gathered in
Brussels for a meeting that was only announced this morning.  European Central Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet  made no
comment on the way in to today’s meeting, which is slated to end
in late afternoon. Spain, the fourth-largest economy in the 16-
nation euro region, doesn’t need a bailout, Spanish Economy
Minister  Elena Salgado  said.  Leaders including Trichet, EU President  Herman Van Rompuy ,
European Commission President  Jose Barroso ,  Jean-Claude Juncker ,
head of the euro-area finance ministers group, German Chancellor
 Angela Merkel  and French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  held
telephone consultations before today’s meeting, the EU said in a
statement.  ‘Under Threat’  “The euro is under threat here,” said  Alan McQuaid , chief
economist at Bloxham Stockbrokers in Dublin. “The market has
got it into its head that it is going to pick off one country at
a time.”  Ireland wants to stamp out the “uncertainty” that’s
unsettling euro-area investors, Energy Minister  Eamon Ryan  told
Dublin-based broadcaster RTE yesterday as more than 50,000
people took to the streets of Dublin to protest budget cuts.  As the crisis that began in Greece engulfs Ireland and
threatens to pull down  Portugal  and  Spain , investors are looking
for today’s meeting to provide details on Ireland’s interest
rate and the fate of senior bondholders in the country’s banks.  Ryan said yesterday that a Nov. 25 report by RTE that
Ireland may pay as much as 6.7 percent interest for nine-year
loans was “inaccurate.”  The Irish government is “confident” it can conclude a
“substantial package” with the EU and the IMF today, John
Curran, a government spokesman, said in an interview with RTE.  Property Bubble  Prime Minister  Brian Cowen  has overseen the collapse of
Ireland’s banking system and national finances after a 10-year
property bubble burst, the economy tumbled into recession and
unemployment surged close to 14 percent. Cowen’s government is
also unraveling. The Green Party, a junior coalition partner,
wants January elections and some lawmakers from his own party
are slamming his leadership.  Ireland is set to become the second euro country to seek a
rescue after the Greek debt crisis earlier this year
destabilized the currency and forced the EU to set up a 750
billion-euro rescue fund backed by the International Monetary
Fund.  “Ireland must not dance to the tune of the ECB and IMF and
run the risk of squandering our future by rushing any decision
regarding borrowings or repayment terms in the next 24 hours,”
Ned O’Keefe, a lawmaker from Cowen’s ruling Fianna Fail party,
said in a statement yesterday.  Budget Deficit  Ireland’s government plans to cut spending by about 20
percent and raise taxes over the next four years to reduce its
budget deficit to 3 percent of gross domestic product by 2014,
from 32 percent this year, when 31 billion euros in capital
support for banks are included. The government expects tax
revenue for this year to be 31.5 billion euros, it said on Nov.
24.  Protesters cheered yesterday on Dublin’s O’Connell Street
when Siobhán O’Donoghue, director of Migrants Rights Center
Ireland, tore up a copy of the government’s four-year tax and
spending plan, and called for a general election before the
announcement of next year’s budget on Dec. 7.  Ireland has been brought “to its knees” by the government
and bankers,  Jack O’Connor , head of Ireland’s umbrella
organization for labor unions, told the crowd.  “Several
generations of Irish men and women” will have to foot the bill,
he said.  Irish Banks  The need for a pact is intensifying as Irish banks’ capital
dwindles.  Allied Irish Banks Plc  and Bank of Ireland Plc bonds
fell Nov. 26 on concern the government will abandon a pledge to
protect senior bondholders and force them to share the bailout
costs. Ireland’s Sunday Business Post and the Sunday Tribune
newspapers today reported that the ECB vetoed hurting senior
bond holders.  Britain, the largest EU country not using the euro, plans
to offer aid to Ireland because “it’s in everyone’s national
interest and it’s in Britain’s national interest that we get
some economic stability in Ireland and indeed across the euro
zone,” Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  said in
Brussels.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 James G. Neuger  in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net ;
 Stephanie Bodoni  in Brussels at 
 sbodoni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  