-- EU Supports Change in Debt Rule After Retreat From Merkel Writeoff Demands
-- B y   B r i a n   P a r k i n   a n d   G r e g o r y   V i s c u s i
-- 2010-11-29T10:54:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-28/eu-supports-change-in-debt-rule-after-retreat-from-merkel-writeoff-demands.html
European finance leaders backed a
Franco-German compromise on post-2013 sovereign bailouts that
waters down calls by German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  for
investors to assume losses and share the costs with taxpayers.  The plan will ask investors to take write-offs on a “case-
by-case” basis, according to a statement issued late yesterday
by euro-area finance ministers after a meeting in Brussels to
ratify a bailout for Ireland. The proposal is designed to
address “collective action clauses” for debt issued after
temporary crisis facilities expire in 2013. Such clauses allow
bondholders to change terms of their contracts.  Merkel has been at odds with  Jean-Claude Juncker , the head
of a group of euro finance chiefs, and European Central Bank
President  Jean-Claude Trichet  as she sought to ensure what she
calls the “primacy of politics” over markets. Leaders in Spain
and Ireland blamed her for spooking investors and raising
borrowing costs. Merkel said Nov. 18 she was “absolutely
convinced” that creditors had to share bailout costs.  Trichet embraced the compromise, saying it was “very
necessary that there would be a full clarification of the
doctrine.” He said the ministers’ view was “a useful
clarification from our standpoint.”  “Doubtless Merkel will tout this accord as a victory after
getting the ECB, France and the Commission on board,”  Irwin Collier , a professor at Berlin Free University’s Institute of
Public Finance, said in an interview. “But the compromise would
imply that automatic cuts for bondholders have been dropped.
That’s quite a step down.”  Merkel Consultations  Before yesterday’s meeting, Merkel spoke with French
President  Nicolas Sarkozy , European Union President  Herman Van Rompuy , Juncker and European Commission President  Jose Barroso ,
as well as Trichet.  The leaders accelerated their effort to reach a compromise
after markets slumped last week, said an aide to Sarkozy who
briefed reporters in Paris.  German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said that
Merkel’s government achieved its aims at the meeting, and denied
that Germany had bowed to France on the debt mechanism’s shape.
Anything other than a case-by-case approach “would be complete
nonsense,” and “that’s why it isn’t contradictory to say as we
have that there must definitely be participation by creditors as
well,” Schaeuble said today on Deutschland radio.  ‘Art of Leadership’  “The art of leadership in Europe -- the chancellor does a
very good job of it -- is that one achieves common solutions,”
he said. “Many thought it wouldn’t be possible.”  The Irish bailout is forcing Portuguese and Spanish
politicians to quell speculation that they are next in line for
rescue. The average yield investors demand to hold 10-year debt
from Greece, Ireland, Portugal, Spain and Italy reached a euro-
area record of 7.57 percent on Nov. 26. Germany pays 2.73
percent.  Merkel’s stance “hasn’t been helpful,” Irish Prime
Minister  Brian Cowen  said in an interview with the Irish
Independent newspaper that was published Nov. 12, nine days
before Ireland sought the bailout.  Ireland’s banking system and national finances collapsed
after a decade-long property bubble burst, the country fell into
a recession and the unemployment rate rose close to 14 percent.  “The proposed clauses for investors are nothing that
markets do not know in other currency areas,” said  Steffen Seibert , Merkel’s chief spokesman. “The plan holds no surprises
for markets.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Brian Parkin  in Berlin at 
 bparkin@bloomberg.net ;
 Gregory Viscusi  in Paris at 
 gviscusi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  