-- Euro Gains Against Dollar After EU Ministers Agree on Ireland Rescue Plan
-- B y   M o n a m i   Y u i   a n d   R o n   H a r u i
-- 2010-11-29T00:21:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-28/euro-gains-against-dollar-after-ireland-receives-aid-from-european-union.html
The euro rebounded from a near a
two-month low against the dollar as European governments handed
Ireland an 85 billion-euro ($113 billion) aid package.  The euro gained against 11 of its 16 major counterparts
after European finance ministers scaled back proposals to saddle
bondholders with losses in future budget crises, seeking to
reverse the market selloff menacing the region. The dollar
traded near a two-month high against the yen as concerns
military action on the Korean peninsula will escalate boosted
demand for the U.S. currency as a refuge.  The bailout package is “generally positive,” said  Joseph Capurso , a currency strategist at Commonwealth Bank of Australia
in Sydney. “But it’s a pretty modest kick up in the euro and it
will be a little bit more when London opens.”  The euro gained to $1.3255 as of 8:55 a.m. in Tokyo from
$1.3242 in New York last week. It touched $1.3201 on Nov. 26,
the weakest since Sept. 21. The common currency was at 111.54
yen from 111.37 yen. The dollar was at 84.16 yen from 84.10 yen
on Nov. 26, when it reached 84.19 yen, the strongest since Sept.
28.  Ireland said it will pay average interest of 5.8 percent on
the package, which breaks down into 45 billion euros from
European governments, 22.5 billion euros from the International
Monetary Fund and 17.5 billion euros from Ireland’s cash
reserves and national pension fund. The European finance
ministers agreed a future crisis-management system won’t
automatically cut the value of bond holdings.  ‘Easing Concerns’  “There may be easing concerns over Ireland,” said  Phil Burke , chief dealer for global foreign exchange and rates at
JPMorgan Chase & Co. in Sydney. “But it looks more like stop-
losses that’s pushed the euro up.” A stop loss is an automatic
instruction to either buy or sell a currency at a certain level
to limit losses in case bets go the wrong way.  The  Dollar Index  was close to a two-month high as South
Korea resisted China’s call to resume six-party talks with North
Korea, as its navy began maneuvers with U.S. warships amid
threats of a “merciless” response by the North.  North Korea “will deal a merciless military counter-attack
at any provocative act of intruding into its territorial
waters,” according to a Rodong newspaper commentary carried
yesterday by the North’s official Korean Central News Agency.
U.S. and South Korean warships led by the aircraft carrier USS
George Washington have begun four days of drills in the region.  “Geopolitical risks centering on the Korean peninsula are
likely to prevail early this week,” said  Yuji Saito , director
of the foreign-exchange department at Credit Agricole Corporate
and Investment Bank in Tokyo. “Given that Japan is
geographically close, the yen may be sold while the dollar may
be bought as a safe-haven currency.”  The  Dollar Index , which tracks the greenback against the
currencies of 6 major U.S. trading partners including the euro
and the yen, was at 80.329 from 80.357 on Nov. 26.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Monami Yui  in Tokyo at 
 myui1@bloomberg.net ;
 Ron Harui  in Singapore at 
 rharui@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net . 