-- Greg Park, Former Deutsche Bank Asia Securitization Head, Plans Asia Fund
-- B y   B e i   H u
-- 2010-11-28T22:17:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-28/former-deutsche-bank-asia-securitization-head-greg-park-plans-credit-fund.html
Gregory Park , former Asia head of
securitized products at  Deutsche Bank AG , the largest German
bank, plans to start a fund to finance the region’s high-growth
consumer finance and consumer-related companies.  Park’s Hong Kong-based team aims to raise at least $250
million for the Northstone Peak Capital Asia Credit Opportunity
Fund in the next six months, he said in an interview. The hybrid
hedge and private equity fund will buy mainly bonds, including
convertibles and others with attached warrants sold by companies
ranging from automobile finance companies to cinema operators.  Asia’s young population and expanding middle class are
driving consumption growth and raising demand for consumer
finance. Yet banks have tightened balance sheets and exited
higher-risk businesses such as mezzanine financing, leaving
consumer and consumer financing companies which cannot take
deposits starved for capital to support growth, said Park.  “With the introduction of Basel III, banks will become
even more selective in lending just as the region’s most
exciting companies demand growth capital,” Park said.  The 27-nation Basel Committee on Banking Supervision
adopted standards in September, known as Basel III, that will
more than double the ratio of capital banks must hold in
relation to the amount of risk on their balance sheets.  Raising Money  Pacific Investment Management Co., manager of the world’s
largest mutual fund, is among those raising money for funds to
buy assets expected to be sold by banks to meet the tighter
capital requirements.  Northstone Peak hopes to eventually raise as much as $2
billion from institutions and wealthy individuals, said Park. It
may seek co-investments with multinational lenders such as the
World Bank, its International Finance Corp. unit, and global
funds, Park said.  Park, 38, left Deutsche Bank a month ago and previously
worked at Credit Suisse Group AG, and Credit Agricole SA. He
helped arrange asset-backed and residential mortgage-backed
securities issuances by companies including Korea’s LG Card,
 Korea First Bank , Taiwan’s Hsinchu International Bank.  The investment team at the fund’s Kong Kong-based manager
includes partner Peter Tsao, a former vice chairman of Deutsche
Bank’s global technology group who helped secure $26 billion of
investment banking deals for the bank in the industry, according
to the marketing materials.  Clean Energy  Another partner Carol Lee was most recently partner of
 Entropy Ventures , a fund focused on clean energy in Asia, and
has had 13 years’ experience managing private equity investments
for JPMorgan Chase & Co., Merrill Lynch & Co. and Henderson
Global Investors.  Chris Werner, a fourth partner, was northeast Asia regional
head of consumer banking for Standard Chartered Bank. He worked
with Park on the first international cross-border credit-card
asset-backed securities sale by KEB Card in 2001.  The Northstone Peak fund will make 20 to 25 investments
which can return 15 percent to 25 percent annually before fees,
said the document. More than 75 percent of the capital will be
used to buy new bonds and bonds with warrants issued by
companies already generating cash, familiar to the investment
team, and set to be among the top five market players, it said.  The fund will also buy residential mortgage and asset-
backed securities, secured loans, and collateral debt
obligations sold by financial institutions at a discount.  Potential Deals  Potential deals may include mezzanine loans or equity
investment secured with pools of auto loans in China, where car
ownership per 1,000 people more than quadrupled to 31 in the
five years to 2010, Park said. Mezzanine financing is debt that
gives the lender the right to convert to an equity stake in the
borrower if the loan isn’t repaid in time or in full.  It may also buy bonds with warrants sold by companies, such
as Chinese automobile fleet rental companies, within two years
of going public, said Lee. In Korea, the fund may co-invest $25
million with a multi-billion-dollar U.S. hedge fund in bonds
with warrants sold by a large consumer finance company,
according to the document.  The fund will have a three-year life, which can be extended
by another two years, according to a marketing document.
Northstone plans to start distributing returns to investors as
early as six months into each investment, said Lee.  Past Crises  The fund will charge 2 percent of the total capital
commitment a year as management fee. It will levy 20 percent of
the annual return in excess of 7 percent as performance fee,
said the document.  “Asia has witnessed a number of consumer finance crises,
which are symptomatic of the issues of explosive growth of
consumer credit in emerging economies,” said Emmanuel Pitsilis,
a Hong Kong-based senior partner at  McKinsey’s & Co. ’s financial
services practice.  Such issues often include a lack of experience among first-
time borrowers in managing their finances, the absence of
consolidated credit records, and some level of adverse selection
where consumers who cannot obtain credit from banks resort to
consumer finance companies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bei Hu  in Hong Kong at 
 bhu5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  