-- France, Germany Forge EU Debt-Crisis Plan to Share Burden With Investors
-- B y   B r i a n   P a r k i n   a n d   G r e g o r y   V i s c u s i
-- 2010-11-28T16:38:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-28/france-germany-forge-eu-debt-crisis-plan-to-share-burden-with-investors.html
Germany and France have forged
revamped crisis rules for the euro that aims to make investors
share some of the burden of any post-2013 bailout, German
government spokesman  Steffen Seibert  said.  The proposal, presented at a meeting of European finance
ministers today in Brussels, would introduce “collective action
clauses” for debt issued after a temporary crisis facility
expires in 2013, said a French official who briefed reporters in
Paris. Such clauses allow bondholders to change terms of bond
contracts.  Bondholders wouldn’t automatically be required to take
losses, a position that contrasts with recent calls by German
Chancellor  Angela Merkel  demanding that investors share rescue
costs with taxpayers. Losses would be determined on a case-by-
case basis with involvement of the International Monetary Fund,
the French official said.  “The proposed clauses for investors are nothing that
markets do not know in other currency areas,” said Seibert.
“The plan holds no surprises for markets.”  Merkel spoke earlier today with French President  Nicolas Sarkozy , European Union President  Herman Van Rompuy ,  Jean-Claude Juncker , head of the euro-area finance ministers’ group,
European Commission President Jose Barroso and European Central
Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet .  Trichet and Juncker previously criticized Merkel’s demand
that investor losses be required in a bailout. Her comments
helped spark a sell-off of bonds from Ireland to Portugal.
Merkel also drew criticism from Spain and Greece, who said her
comments risked derailing indebted euro nations’ deficit-cutting
efforts.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Brian Parkin  in Berlin at 
 bparkin@bloomberg.net ;
 Gregory Viscusi  in Paris at 
 gviscusi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  