-- Greece Wins EU Pledge for 4 1/2-Year Extension to Repay Emergency Loans
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   S t e a r n s
-- 2010-11-29T13:05:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-28/greece-wins-eu-pledge-for-4-1-2-year-extension-to-repay-emergency-loans.html
Greece is set to get an extra four-
and-a-half years to repay emergency loans to match the seven-
year term for the rescue Ireland received yesterday. Greek bonds
and stocks gained.  Greece in May got a three-year aid package of 110 billion
euros ($146 billion) from the euro area and the International
Monetary Fund to prevent a debt default. Ireland yesterday won
an 85 billion-euro package for seven-and-a-half years at a
meeting where European finance ministers said they would
“rapidly examine the necessity of aligning the maturities of
the financing for Greece to that of Ireland.”  “This should now kill off any remaining doubt over
Greece’s ability to repay aid,” European Union Economic and
Monetary Affairs Commissioner  Olli Rehn  said after the meeting
in Brussels. He said the step, which will be preceded by talks
with the Greek government, would be “very important” in
helping to ensure the  “debt sustainability”  of Greece.  Prime Minister  George Papandreou ’s government may be unable
to respect the original timeframe for repaying quarterly aid
installments as tax revenue slumps in an economy forecast to
contract 4.2 percent this year and 3 percent in 2011. Higher EU
estimates for Greece’s 2009 debt and deficit in mid-November
forced the government to announce extra austerity measures to
reach targets set as a condition for receiving the funds.  Budget Deficit  Greece’s budget deficit last year was 15.4 percent of gross
domestic product, a record for the euro area, according to the
EU statistics office. The gap will be 9.4 percent of GDP this
year -- above an original 8.1 percent goal agreed to in May --
and 7.4 percent next year, according to the Greek government.  Greek bonds rose today, sending the 10-year yield down 13
basis points to 11.78 percent. Greek stocks advanced for the
first time in seven sessions, led by banks including EFG
Eurobank Ergasias SA and National Bank of Greece SA.  Greece’s first aid repayment is due in 2013. The country’s
gross borrowing needs will rise to 70.8 billion euros in 2014
from 53.2 billion euros in 2013 on repayments to EU states and
the IMF, IMF documents show.  IMF Managing Director  Dominique Strauss-Kahn  said in
October that he would be ready to give Greece more time to pay
back its aid from the Washington-based lender, which provided 30
billion euros of the Greek bailout, if European nations decide
to do so first.  The government of German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  reacted
the same month by saying it was “not in favor of extending the
 repayments schedule ” for Greece and any such move would be
“premature.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jonathan Stearns  in Brussels at 
 jstearns2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  