-- Michelin Can Keep Its Stars, This Is Way Cooler: William Pesek
-- B y   W i l l i a m   P e s e k
-- 2010-11-28T21:47:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-28/michelin-can-keep-stars-this-is-way-cooler-commentary-by-william-pesek.html
Michelin just added to its roster of
three-star eateries in Tokyo. More insights can be gleaned at
the other end of Japan’s food scene: the bento.  Rather than go the posh route last week, I met with  Makiko
Itoh , the popular blogger who boasts more than 360,000 daily
readers worldwide. Her new “Just Bento Cookbook” is aimed at
aficionados of home-packed meals common in Japan. Its release
dovetails with an explosion of interest in Japanese culture and
hints at an underappreciated recipe for ending deflation.  Itoh’s  book  is the latest wave of “Cool Japan,” which
economists are realizing could have more commercial punch than
once believed. Japan has few growth industries, and
manufacturing giants like Toyota Motor Corp. are being squeezed
by global competition. Why not do more to create jobs, wealth
and tax revenue around Japan’s unique qualities?  “We are realizing more and more that there are big, big
opportunities here that will help the economy,” says Akihiko
Tamura, a  Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry  official who
works on bolstering ties with Asia-Pacific nations.  The concept of Cool Japan isn’t new. Yet earlier this year,
Japan set up a creative-industries office to accelerate things.
Data show fast-growing interest in Japanese food, fashion,
animation, comics, films and music. There is also growing
determination to make Japan’s image about more than Hello Kitty
and Pokemon -- and to make lots of money in the process.  Japan’s Model  Okay, this may sound like a reach.  Sony Corp . coming out
with the next Walkman or automakers rolling out affordable
electric cars would seem to make more sense given Japan’s
economic model. And efforts to promote Japan overseas haven’t
been without their awkward moments.  In April 2009, the government of then-Prime Minister  Taro Aso  thought the way to do it was sending three mini-skirted
teenage girls around the world. One dressed as a Japanese
schoolgirl, one in the doll-like “Gothic Lolita style” and one
showing off the funky “Harajuku style.” The campaign had
creepy written all over it.  “There is so much more Japan can do to market itself
overseas, and food may be a perfect way,” says Itoh, 47.  Sushi, after all, has transcended fish-bait jokes and is
now served even at U.S. sporting events.  Itoh’s book is also timed for a recessionary world. The big
news in Japan last week was Michelin naming four new three-star
restaurants, taking the nation’s tally to 26, the same number as
France.  Economical Recipes  Itoh’s focus is in the opposite direction: economical
recipes. That’s fitting not only for Japan but America, where
high unemployment has consumers cutting back. The bento lunch is
catching on fast around the globe, as evidenced by a
proliferation of newspaper articles and blogs.  And it’s as good an example as any of the business
opportunities that are slowly, but surely coming to light. The
government hopes to increase Cool-Japan revenue to 57 trillion
yen ($678 billion) by 2020 from 49 trillion yen in 2007. That’s
more than the annual gross domestic product of Turkey.  It’s a conservative estimate. It doesn’t account for how
government policies could encourage a wave of entrepreneurship.
Tax tweaks aimed at spurring the creation, marketing and export
of cultural industries could go a long way toward fostering the
ground-up energy so lacking here.  Market Share  South Korean names like Samsung Electronics Co. and Hyundai
Motor Co. are grabbing Japan’s market share. Sky-high labor
costs also are undermining its competitiveness in the age of
China. Just wait until the Communist Party in Beijing loosens up
and moves to support startup companies. That would put more
pressure on Japan Inc.  Even after a dozen years of deflation, Japan remains an
expensive property in a relatively cheap neighborhood. Low-cost
China is now Asia’s dominant trading power, and India won’t be
far behind. The only way Japan can compete is innovating and
cultivating new industries. Green technologies hold obvious
potential. So do cultural  exports .  J-culture is hip, and it’s spreading. The trick is to
excite a new generation of innovators to get aboard this
potential bullet train of profits. The timing is somewhat
serendipitous, too, given the difficulty young Japanese are
having on the job front. Times are tough, and more and more 20-
somethings are eschewing the 9-to-5, gray-suit drudgery of their
parents’ generation.  Hip J-Culture  Japan’s best-seller lists show interest in Japan is growing.
Take Itoh’s publisher,  Kodansha International Ltd . Its recent
titles include “The Otaku Encyclopedia: An Insider’s Guide to
the Subculture of Cool Japan,” “Japanese Schoolgirl
Confidential: How Teenage Girls Made a Nation Cool” and
“Arcade Mania: The Turbo-charged World of Japan’s Game
Centers.”  All things Japanese also will be in the news come Dec. 11,
when a film based on  Haruki Murakami ’s best-selling 1987 novel
“Norwegian Wood” hits theatres.  Cool Japan isn’t the answer to all of Tokyo’s problems. It
alone won’t pay down a public debt that’s double the size of the
economy, address demographic challenges or get interest rates
away from zero. Yet in a nation lacking growth industries or
clear recipes for ending deflation, the phenomenon is more than
just food for thought. It offers a ray of hope.  ( William Pesek  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
 William Pesek  in Tokyo at 
 wpesek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  