-- EU Ministers Meet to Find Agreement on Irish Bailout
-- B y   F i n b a r r   F l y n n   a n d   S t e p h a n i e   B o d o n i
-- 2010-11-28T11:27:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-28/ireland-seeks-aid-accord-before-markets-open-as-investors-flee-bank-bonds.html
European finance ministers are
racing to conclude an international rescue package for Ireland
before markets open to stop the country’s  financial crisis  from
spreading to the rest of the euro region.  The Irish government wants to reach an agreement to stamp
out the “uncertainty” that’s unsettling euro region investors,
Energy Minister  Eamon Ryan  told Dublin-based broadcaster RTE
yesterday. Finance ministers from the 16 euro nations meet at 1
p.m. in Brussels before a meeting of all 27 EU ministers.
European Central Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet  will also
attend.  Prime Minister  Brian Cowen ’s government is finalizing a
bailout agreement that may amount to 85 billion euros ($113
billion) after more than 50,000 people took to the streets of
Dublin yesterday to protest budget cuts. As Ireland’s crisis
spreads to  Portugal  and  Spain , investors are looking for details
on the interest rate Ireland will pay on its loans and the fate
of senior bondholders in the country’s banks.  “The euro is under threat here,” said  Alan McQuaid , chief
economist at Bloxham Stockbrokers in Dublin. “The market has
got it into its head that it is going to pick off one country at
a time.”  An Irish Finance Ministry spokesman rejected a Reuters
report that an agreement has been reached on a bailout.  The average yield investors demand to hold 10-year debt
from Greece, Ireland, Portugal, Spain and Italy climbed above
7.5 percent on Nov. 26. The yield on German 10-year bonds was
2.73 percent.  Cowen’s Woes  Cowen has overseen the collapse of Ireland’s banking system
and national finances after a 10-year property bubble burst, the
country fell into a recession and unemployment surged close to
14 percent. Cowen’s government is also unraveling. The Green
Party, a junior coalition partner, wants January elections and
some lawmakers from his own party are slamming his leadership.  Ireland is set to become the second euro country to seek a
rescue after the Greek debt crisis earlier this year
destabilized the currency and forced the EU to set up a 750
billion-euro rescue fund. Ryan yesterday said a Nov. 25 report
by RTE that Ireland may pay as much as 6.7 percent interest for
loans over nine years was “inaccurate.”  “Ireland must not dance to the tune of the ECB and IMF and
run the risk of squandering our future by rushing any decision
regarding borrowings or repayment terms in the next 24 hours,”
said Ned O’Keefe, a lawmaker from Cowen’s ruling Fianna Fail
party, in a statement yesterday.  Spending Cuts  Ireland’s government plans to cut spending by about 20
percent and raise taxes over the next four years to reduce its
budget deficit to 3 percent of gross domestic product by 2014,
from 32 percent this year, when 31 billion euros in capital
support for banks are included. The government expects tax
revenues for this year to be 31.5 billion euros, it said Nov.
24.  Protesters cheered yesterday on Dublin’s O’Connell Street
when Siobhán O’Donoghue, director of Migrants Rights Center
Ireland, tore up a copy of the government’s four-year budget
plan, and called for a general election before the announcement
of next year’s budget on Dec. 7.  Ireland has been brought “to its knees” by the government
and bankers,  Jack O’Connor , head of Ireland’s umbrella
organization for labor unions, told the crowd. “Several
generations of Irish men and women” will have to foot the bill,
he said.  Irish Banks  The need for a pact is intensifying as Irish banks’ capital
dwindles.  Allied Irish Banks Plc  and Bank of Ireland Plc bonds
fell Nov. 26 on concern the government will abandon a pledge to
protect senior bondholders and force them to share the bailout
costs. Ireland’s Sunday Business Post and the Sunday Tribune
newspapers today reported that the ECB vetoed hurting senior
bond holders.  U.K. Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  is
attending the meeting euro-area finance ministers today, a
British spokesman said. Britain intends to make a bilteral loan
to Ireland and not join the euro-area financing.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Finbarr Flynn  in Dublin at 
 fflynn3@bloomberg.net 
 Stephanie Bodoni  in Luxembourg at 
 sbodoni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at   jfraher@bloomberg.net  