-- Ireland Gets $113 Billion Bailout as EU Ministers Seek to Halt Debt Crisis
-- B y   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r   a n d   S i m o n   K e n n e d y
-- 2010-11-29T12:58:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-28/ireland-wins-eu85-billion-aid-germany-drops-threat-on-bonds.html
European governments sought to quell
the market turmoil menacing the euro, handing Ireland an 85
billion-euro ($113 billion) aid package and diluting proposals
to force bondholders to bear some cost of future bailouts.  European finance chiefs ended crisis talks in Brussels
yesterday by endorsing a Franco-German compromise on post-2013
rescues that means investors won’t automatically take losses to
share the cost with taxpayers as German Chancellor  Angela Merkel 
initially proposed to the consternation of bond traders.  The twin decisions were not enough to placate investors
today that the crisis is now contained. Irish 10-year bonds
erased an early advance, European stocks and the euro declined
and the cost of insuring the debt of Spain and Portugal against
default soared to record highs.  “The notion that a rescue package for Ireland would create
a firewall and stop the fear of contagion is clearly
discredited,” said  Preston Keat , director of research at
Eurasia Group, a political consultancy, in London. “Portugal
and Spain are already facing pressures in the markets.”  Six months after the Greek rescue exposed flaws in the
euro’s makeup and fueled doubts whether 16 countries belong in
the same currency union, policy makers again found themselves
meeting on a Sunday racing to calm markets. In a third move
yesterday, Greece was told it could have an extra four-and-a-
half years to repay emergency loans totaling 110 billion euros
to match the seven-year term under Ireland’s deal.  Weaker Euro  The euro depreciated against all but one of its 16 major
counterparts after sliding 3.2 percent against the dollar last
week. The Stoxx Europe 600 Index retreated 0.8 percent to 264.54
at 12:52 p.m. in London.  The yield on Spanish 10-year bonds rose 14 basis points to
5.35 percent, the highest since 2002. That pushed the premium
over German bunds to 261 basis points, within 4 basis points of
the euro-era record. Portuguese 10-year yields climbed 9 basis
points to 7.23 percent and similar-maturity Italian bond yields
rose 11 basis points to 4.54 percent. The return on Irish bonds
increased 6 basis points to 9.42 percent.  Germany, which built the euro on the principle of budgetary
rigor, unleashed the latest phase of the crisis by demanding a
“permanent” system as of 2013 that would enable fiscally
troubled countries to restructure their debts and cut the value
of bond holdings.  Mistimed Policy  The German push ran into criticism from policy makers
elsewhere, who called it mistimed, and from  European Central
Bank  President Jean-Claude Trichet, who warned it would unsettle
bondholders. Merkel, who has faced domestic criticism for aiding
EU neighbors, yesterday backed away from the pitch for an
automatic penalty, agreeing to give the International Monetary
Fund a role in determining losses on a case-by-case basis.  The new proposal, fast-tracked from a debate set for
December, would introduce “collective action clauses” for debt
sold as of 2013, enabling fiscally hard-hit governments to
renegotiate bond contracts. EU governments aim to enshrine it in
the bloc’s treaties by mid-2013 and pair it with a new emergency
liquidity fund to replace the one expiring then.  Trichet yesterday called the compromise a “useful
clarification” and the ECB’s Governing Council said that the
Irish program will “contribute to restoring confidence and
safeguarding financial stability in the euro area.”  ‘Herd Behavior’  “There’s plenty of herd behavior in the market,” EU
Economic and Monetary Affairs Commissioner  Olli Rehn  said. “We
want to clarify any possible confusion.”  Germany’s export-led economy has powered through the euro
crisis, with  business confidence  at a record high in November
and the government projecting expansion of 3.7 percent this
year, the fastest pace in more than a decade. That resilience
contrasts with recession in Greece and Ireland, splitting the
euro region between better-off countries in Germany’s economic
slipstream and poorer ones on the continent’s fringes.  Yesterday’s decisions bring “hope of preventing contagion
spreading to other countries but do not address long-term
solvency issues,” said  Andrew Bosomworth , a Munich-based fund
manager at Pacific Investment Management Co. “It’s a kick-the-
can-down-the-road solution as opposed to acknowledging and
confronting the here-and-now insolvency problems.”  Ireland said it will pay average interest of 5.8 percent on
the loans, which break down into 45 billion euros from European
governments, 22.5 billion euros from the IMF and 17.5 billion
euros from Ireland’s cash reserves and national pension fund.  Real Options  “I don’t believe there were any other real options,”
Irish Prime Minister  Brian Cowen  told reporters in Dublin.  A day after more than 50,000 protesters marched through
Dublin to denounce Cowen’s budget cuts to stave off financial
ruin, the EU gave Ireland an extra year, until 2015, to get its
budget deficit to the euro limit of 3 percent of gross domestic
product.  Including the bill for propping up Irish banks, the deficit
is set to reach 32 percent of GDP this year, the highest in the
euro’s 12-year history.  Cowen has overseen the collapse of Ireland’s banking system
and public finances, leading to recession and unemployment near
14 percent. Cowen’s government is also unraveling. The Green
Party, a junior coalition partner, wants elections in January,
his party last week lost a special election for a vacant
parliamentary seat and some of his own colleagues are slamming
his leadership.  British Loan  Close banking links led Britain, a non-euro user that
didn’t contribute to Greece’s 110 billion-euro rescue in May, to
contribute 3.8 billion euros to Ireland’s package.  “That is money we fully expect to get back,” Chancellor
of the Exchequer  George Osborne  told reporters in Brussels.
“It’s in everyone’s national interest and it’s in Britain’s
national interest that we get some economic stability in Ireland
and indeed across the euro zone.”  The deal for Ireland shifts attention to Portugal, which
last week passed the deepest spending cuts in more than three
decades with the goal of getting back under the EU’s deficit
limits by 2012. HSBC Holdings Plc estimates it needs to find
51.5 billion euros over the next three years to meet its likely
budget and bond redemption needs.  While Greece let the budget get out of hand and Ireland
fell prey to a housing bust, Portugal suffers from a lack of
competitiveness that kept average  economic growth  below 1
percent in the past decade. Its government has also been slower
to cut its deficit than others, with the central government’s
shortfall widening 1.8 percent in the first ten months of the
year as Spain’s fell 47 percent.  Portugal’s Lag  Like Ireland, Portugal doesn’t immediately need money to
run the government. It has completed this year’s bond sales and
doesn’t face a redemption until April. The government debt
agency plans to hold an auction of 12-month bills on Dec. 1.  “Portugal doesn’t see a need to ask for help,” German
Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said yesterday.  Spanish Economy Minister  Elena Salgado  also reiterated that
her economy -- the euro zone’s fourth-largest and almost twice
the size of Portugal, Ireland and Greece combined -- won’t need
aid either. As well as slashing its budget gap, the country has
brought regional spending under greater control and half of its
debt is held at home, limiting the threat of a withdrawal by
foreign investors. It too doesn’t face the first of its 45
billion euros in bond redemptions next year until April.  Spain Concern  Investors have nevertheless expressed worry that the EU’s
bailout pot may be smaller than advertised and so not large
enough to save Spain. HSBC’s sums show the country needs 351
billion euros over the next three years.  In practice, the EU may only be able to deploy 255 billion
euros of the 440 billion-euro European Financial Stability
Facility, according to Nomura International Plc. That’s because
the rescue fund is financed by issuing bonds and to secure a AAA
rating, governments agreed to set aside cash and to link lending
to the creditworthiness of donors.  The rest of the bailout pool consists of 60 billion euros
from the  European Commission  and 250 billion euro pledged by the
IMF.  The reigniting of the crisis means the ECB may again
postpone its exit from emergency measures just as it did at the
height of the Greek turmoil. It’s likely to also provide more
help to banks in Spain and Portugal and could ultimately extend
its bond-purchase program to Spanish securities and maybe even
conduct broader asset purchases, said  Janet Henry , chief
European economist at HSBC in London.  “We removed doubts and uncertainty and we must keep
removing reasons to panic; we aim to take away speculators’
tools,” Finnish Finance Minister  Jyrki Katainen  told reporters
in Helsinki today. Still, “there is no guarantee the crisis
won’t continue, or even spread, despite the Irish loans.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 James G. Neuger  in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net ;
 Simon Kennedy  in London at  skennedy4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  