-- Ireland's Banks Get $46 Billion as Senior Bondholders Escape Bailout Costs
-- B y   J o e   B r e n n a n
-- 2010-11-29T18:09:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-28/ireland-s-banks-get-46-billion-as-senior-bondholders-escape-bailout-costs.html
Irish banks soared in Dublin trading
as the government said it will make junior bondholders pay some
of the cost of the 35 billion-euro ($46 billion) rescue package.  “The risk of immediate shareholder-dilutive wipe-out has
been averted,”  Ciaran Callaghan , an analyst at Dublin-based NCB
Stockbrokers, wrote in a note to clients today.  Bank of Ireland Plc , the country’s largest lender, soared
16 percent to 30.7 euro cents at the 5:10 p.m. close of trading,
while  Allied Irish Banks Plc , the second-largest, gained 3.8
percent to 35.5 cents and Irish Life & Permanent Plc surged 59
percent to 81.9 cents. The five-member  ISEQ Financial Index  is
still down about 98 percent from its peak in February 2007.  Finance Minister  Brian Lenihan  told state broadcaster RTE
the government needs to impose “big haircuts” on banks’ junior
bondholders after the rescue. Ireland met its two-year-old
pledge that senior bondholders, typically the last investors to
lose out when a bank or company founders, wouldn’t lose money.  There “wasn’t political or institutional” support in
Europe for forcing losses on to senior bondholders, Prime
Minister  Brian Cowen  told reporters in Dublin yesterday after
European Union finance ministers backed the plan at a meeting in
Brussels. Existing legislation requiring subordinated
bondholders to share the costs can be used in “wider
application,” he said.  Bank of Ireland Bonds  Bank of Ireland’s 1.47 billion euros of senior floating-
rate notes due September 2011 rose 8.25 cents on the euro to
91.6 cents, a 10 percent increase, at 4:22 p.m. in London,
according to composite prices compiled by Bloomberg. Allied
Irish’s 1.5 billion euros of senior floating-rate securities due
in September 2011 climbed 8.2 cents to 87.7 cents, a 10 percent
rise, the data show.  “It is positive for senior debt holders, as any burden-
sharing at senior level was deemed by EU authorities to
potentially jeopardize EU-wide financial stability by imposing
unsustainable wholesale borrowing costs on weaker peripheral
banks,” said  Jose Mosquera , who manages $41 million as a
Madrid-based asset manager at Breogan Global Financial Fund.  Ireland will receive 67.5 billion euros in total from the
European Union and International Monetary Fund, Cowen said. The
government will meet about half the cost of the 35 billion-euro
banking bailout from its own resources, including the National
Pension Reserve Fund.  Capital Injections  Lenders will get an immediate 8 billion euros to bolster
capital and will raise a further 2 billion euros by shedding
assets, the central bank said in a statement yesterday. Banks
will be able to draw on a further 25 billion euros depending on
how they fare in a round of stress tests in the first half of
next year, the government said in a statement.  The banks are getting the money after rising  loan losses 
and shrinking deposits forced the government to seek the rescue.
The state pledged to back all deposits in Irish banks two years
ago, requiring the government to inject 33 billion euros into
the lenders. The estimated cost of rescuing the banks rose to as
much as 50 billion euros in September after losses from the
collapse of the country’s decade-long real estate boom jumped,
fueling concern Ireland couldn’t fund a rescue itself.  Lenders will use the money to boost their core capital
ratios, which gauge financial strength, to at least 12 percent.
Bank of Ireland and Allied Irish will also be able to transfer
all their remaining “vulnerable” commercial real estate loans
to the National Asset Management Agency, the so-called bad bank
set up to take over lenders’ risky loans, by the end of March.  Liability Management  Ireland is “exploring” further deeply discounted
liability management exercises by its banks, after Anglo Irish
Bank Corp.’s “very successful” debt exchange,  Ajai Chopra ,
deputy director of the European Department of the IMF, said at a
press conference yesterday.  By buying back and exchanging their debt at prices lower
than its face value, lenders can book a gain. Anglo Irish, which
the government nationalized in January 2009, may raise about 1.7
billion euros from buying back  subordinated debt , Dublin-based
Glas Securities wrote in a note to clients on Oct. 22. Allied
Irish and Bank of Ireland have generated a combined 3.37 billion
euros of gains over the past 21 months from such transactions.  Bank of Ireland’s 420 million euros of subordinated 4.625
percent notes due 2019 rose 8 cents, or 20 percent, to 47.5
cents, according to composite prices on Bloomberg. Allied
Irish’s 419 million euros of 10.75 percent subordinated notes
due 2017 climbed 0.75 cent to 30.3 cents.  ‘Marginally Improved’  The situation for subordinated bondholders holding dated
securities has “marginally improved,” Mosquera said. “Burden-
sharing by subordinated debt holders would take place when
capital needs arise, after the initial injection provided by the
package,” Mosquera said. Any potential buyback may “very well
follow a non-coercive route, such as a tender at market
prices,” he said.  Further capital injections will take place in the first
half as needed, and a “substantial downsizing of the banking
system will be achieved,” Cowen said. The government said it
expects to increase its stakes in the country’s lenders as they
raise capital to meet the 12 percent regulatory minimum.  “It looks like the banks will be given some leeway to
raise the capital themselves,” said  Emer Lang , an analyst with
at Dublin-based securities firm Davy, said a note to clients.  Bank of Ireland, which is 36 percent-owned by the
government, signaled yesterday it will seek to avoid majority
state ownership. The Dublin-based lender needs to raise an
additional 2.2 billion euros of capital by the end of February
to reach the new regulatory target.  Allied Irish  “The bank intends to seek to generate the required capital
through a combination of internal capital management
initiatives, support from existing shareholders and other
capital markets sources” before relying on further government
support, the Dublin-based lender said in a statement.  The Irish government may increase its 19 percent stake in
Allied Irish to about 96 percent as the bank raises 5.3 billion
euros more capital, according to NCB’s Callaghan. The government
had said since late September it expects to take a significant
majority stake in Allied Irish.  Irish Life said today it will raise capital on its own to
meet the target. That will require the company’s Permanent TSB
Bank unit to raise about 100 million euros in additional
capital, the lender said today.  Chief Executive Officer  Kevin Murphy  said the new capital
targets “would reassure international investors as to the
ability of the Irish banks to withstand the impact of the
current recession.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joe Brennan  in Dublin at 
 jbrennan29@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net . 