-- Irish Emergency Loan Details Published by EU Ministers: Text of Statement
-- B y   J o h n   F r a h e r
-- 2010-11-28T20:33:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-28/irish-emergency-loan-details-published-by-eu-ministers-text-of-statement.html
Following is a statement issued
today in Brussels by European Union finance ministers:  “Ministers unanimously agreed today to grant financial
assistance in response to the Irish authorities’ request on 22
November 2010. Ministers concur with the Commission and the ECB
that providing a loan to Ireland is warranted to safeguard
financial stability in the euro area and the EU as a whole.  “Euro-area and EU financial support will be provided on
the basis of a programme which has been negotiated with the
Irish authorities by the Commission and the IMF, in liaison with
the ECB.  “Ministers welcome the staff-level agreement on a three
year joint EU/IMF financial assistance programme for Ireland.
The Irish Government approved the programme on 28 November.
Ministers unanimously endorse the measures announced today.  “Building on the strong fundamentals of the Irish economy,
the programme rests on three pillars:
- An immediate strengthening and comprehensive overhaul of the
banking system
- An ambitious fiscal adjustment to restore fiscal
sustainability, including through the correction of the
excessive deficit by 2015
- Growth enhancing reforms, in particular on the labour market,
to allow a return to a robust and sustainable growth,
safeguarding the economic and social position of its citizens.  “The financial package of the programme will cover
financing needs up to 85 billion euros, including 10 billion
euros for immediate recapitalisation measures, 25 billion euros
on a contingency basis for banking system supports and 50
billion euros covering budget financing needs. Half of the
banking support measures (17.5 billion euros) will be financed
by an Irish contribution through the Treasury cash buffer and
investments of the National Pension Reserve Fund.  “The remainder of the overall package should be shared
equally amongst: (i) the European Financial Stabilisation
Mechanism (EFSM), (ii) the European Financial Stability Facility
(EFSF) together with bilateral loans from the UK, Denmark and
Sweden, and (iii) the IMF (22.5 billion euros each).  “The main elements of policy conditionality, as endorsed
today, will be enshrined in Eurogroup and Council Decisions to
be formally adopted on 6 and 7 December. The Eurogroup will
rapidly examine the necessity of aligning the maturities of the
financing for Greece to that of Ireland.”  
To contact the reporter on this story:
John Fraher at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net  