-- Israel May House Next Pixar as Margalit Sees Virtual Future for Start-Ups
-- B y   G w e n   A c k e r m a n
-- 2010-11-28T23:01:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-28/israel-may-house-next-pixar-as-margalit-sees-virtual-future-for-start-up.html
For Israeli investor  Erel Margalit ,
keeping the country’s start-up nation status means delving into
the virtual world.  The 49-year-old entrepreneur’s $830 million  Jerusalem
Venture Partners  is the main investor in movie studio  Animation
Lab . Margalit says the country, with the world’s largest number
of start-ups per capita, needs to build on its traditional high-
tech industry to develop virtual offerings -- from films and
online games to social media and mobile advertising.  “The new era needs to go beyond the engineering club to
work with different disciplines, like  King Arthur ’s 12 knights
at the round table, each representing a different discipline:
film, Web, storytelling, medicine,” he said in an interview at
his office in Jerusalem.  Margalit, whose investments include AnyClip, a service that
helps movie buffs find and view their favorite film moments,
says the country’s media industry could one day create a rival
to Walt Disney Co.’s Pixar studios. The push into newer
technologies may help revive Israeli exports, which declined 9.6
percent in the third quarter.  After Margalit backed Israel’s largest sale ever -- he
disposed of his investment in fiber optics company Chromatis
Networks Inc. to  Lucent Technologies Inc.  for $4.5 billion in
2000 -- he started investing in start-ups like Animation Lab.
Founded in 2006, the movie company is working on its first
animated feature film, “The Wild Bunch,” a story of flowers
defending their meadow from genetically modified corn stalks.  Virtual Worlds  Margalit has greater ambitions for Animation Lab, whose
sister company Funtactix is developing Web products for movies.  “Children experience animation passively,” he said. “In
a few years, children will be able to participate as the
characters themselves just as they do in an on-line game.”  “The Wild Bunch” producers want to capitalize on the
attention Israel’s film industry got when “ Waltz With Bashir ,”
an animated film about a soldier’s experience fighting in the
1982 Lebanon war, was nominated for an Oscar in 2009.  Koby Simana, head of the venture-capital center in Tel
Aviv, said Margalit’s direction not only sets the investor apart
from other Israeli funds, it appears to be succeeding.  “The others mostly focus on Internet communication
technology,” Simana said. “Erel took a different direction and
meanwhile it looks like he is on the right path.”  Overcrowded Market  Not everyone is convinced Margalit’s animation movie push
will pay off.  David Simon , former head of  DreamWorks Animation
SKG Inc. ’s television studio in Los Angeles, said the Animation
Lab project isn’t unique.  “There are many animation companies in the U.S., Canada,
the United Kingdom, Australia, China and Korea, who have
attempted and fallen short of their goals,” he said. “The
computer graphics film business is overcrowded, with too many
new players competing with each other, not only for a finite
fickle audience, but also with DreamWorks and Pixar.”  Computer animation company Pixar, whose first film, “Toy
Story,” was the top box office hit of 1995, was bought by
Disney in 2006 for $8.06 billion from Apple Inc.’s Steve Jobs.  Still, Margalit’s investment track record has helped him.
JVP, as his fund is known, this year raised $145 million. Since
its inception in 1993, the fund has enabled investors to make 21
investment exits, 11 of them through initial public offerings.
Its current portfolio includes several companies with revenue in
the hundreds of millions of dollars.  Venture Industry  Margalit’s start-up  Qlipso  bought the assets of video-
delivery website  Veoh Network  in April for an undisclosed sum,
giving the two-year-old content platform access to millions of
users and an advertising revenue stream.  His latest exit was business analysis software company  Qlik
Technologies Ltd. , an investment made with Accel Partners.
Qlik’s July 16 IPO was the eighth-largest by a venture-backed
company in the U.S. this year. It has since risen 87 percent and
is valued at about $1.9 billion. The return on the investment
was one of the highest out of Israel, according to the fund.  Margalit’s success comes at a time when Israel’s venture
capital industry, largely dependent on foreign investment, has
been hit by the global slowdown. Some $229 million was raised by
Israeli venture funds in 2009, a 71 percent drop from the $803
million raised a year earlier, according to  Israel Venture
Capital Research Center .  Fundraising this year is expected to be $500 million, or
the second-lowest since 2004, the center’s figures show. Only
2009 was lower.  New Media  Technology products accounted for about 51 percent of the
$3 billion in Israel’s industrial exports in September. The jump
from the traditional Israeli focus on infrastructure and
security technologies to new media offerings may have come
easier to Margalit, said  Saul Singer , co-author of best seller
“Start-up Nation.”  “This is not your average guy, even in Israeli high-tech
terms,” Singer said. “He is a guy who has reinvented himself a
few times and is very creative.”  Margalit was born and spent his early childhood in a
kibbutz, a collective farm based on socialist values. He has a
doctorate in philosophy from New York’s Columbia University and
his office is adorned with oil paintings by his artist wife.  “Margalit will push people very hard to do things they may
not be thinking about doing or comfortable doing,” said  Dave Schaeffer , chief executive officer of the Washington, DC-based
 Cogent Communications Group Inc ., a company that JVP helped take
public in June 2005 for $69 million. “But his pushing will get
you to where he feels you should be and ultimately it proves to
be successful.”  To contact the reporters responsible for this story:
 Gwen Ackerman  in Jerusalem at 
 gackerman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net . 