-- Ivory Coast Finishes Voting in Presidential Run-Off Election
-- B y   P a u l i n e   B a x   a n d   O l i v i e r   M o n n i e r
-- 2010-11-28T19:23:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-28/ivory-coast-votes-in-election-that-threatens-to-aggravate-political-divide.html
Ivory Coast  voted today in a
presidential run-off election that has inflamed political
tensions in the world’s top cocoa grower, pitting a candidate
backed by the rebel-held north against the incumbent who draws
support from the south.  At least six people were killed in clashes in the build up
to the vote, prompting the government to impose a nighttime
curfew for six days to Dec. 2. The curfew delayed the start of
voting beyond 7 a.m. in many areas of the capital, leading
authorities to allow polling stations to stay open late.  “I feel a bit scared,” said Celestine N’dja, a civil
servant, as she queued up to vote in the commercial capital,
Abidjan. “We have suffered in the past 10 years, we’re tired of
the crisis.”  Ivory Coast has been divided between the rebel north and
the government-controlled south since an uprising in 2002.
Supporters of President  Laurent Gbagbo , 65, hold opposition
leader  Alassane Ouattara , 68, responsible for the revolt, while
rebels blame the government for treating northerners as second-
class citizens. Growth has averaged 1.1 percent since the
uprising as the country missed out on the wave of investment in
Africa from nations such as China.  Gbagbo, who has ruled for a decade, received 38 percent of
the first-round vote on Oct. 31, winning 10 of 13 regions in the
south. Ouattara, a former prime minister, got 32 percent of the
ballot and dominated in five of six northern regions. A third
candidate,  Henri Konan Bedie , got 25 percent of the vote.  ‘Unique Opportunity’  “This presidential election presents Ivorian politicians
with a unique opportunity to end a decade of crisis,” Brussels-
based International Crisis Group said in an e-mailed statement
on Nov. 25. “Since the announcement of the results of the first
round, the climate has deteriorated.”  Both campaigns have stepped up negative rhetoric, prompting
the Atlanta-based Carter Center, a non-governmental
organization, to urge candidates to halt “personal attacks made
in a threatening tone.”  Both Gbagbo and Ouattara “have extremists in their ranks
and there is no guarantee that the loser will accept the
results,” said Dominique Assale Aka, vice-chairman of the
Ivorian Civil Society Convention, in an interview Nov. 22.
“It’s all or nothing for them.”  Still, during a televised debate on Nov. 25, the two
candidates pledged to respect results announced by the electoral
commission. Ouattara called for the count to be released within
24 hours of the end of voting today.  ‘One Meal a Day’  The European Union observer mission estimated voter turnout
at about 65 percent. Cristian Preda, the mission chief, said
they were investigating reports that opposition supporters
weren’t allowed to vote in the southwest of the country,
Gbagbo’s native region.  Boosting development might be the best way to avoid a
future of ethnic tensions, said Rolake Akinola, West Africa
analyst with Eurasia Group.  “I live on one meal a day and I can’t get married because
I don’t have the means to feed a family,” said Moussa Fofana,
an unemployed 30-year-old as he queued to vote in Attiecoube, a
poor neighborhood of Abidjan. “A lot of youth in Ivory Coast
live like me, a life without prospects, without hope. We really
need change.”  The percentage of Ivory Coast’s 21 million people living in
poverty rose to 49 percent in 2008 from 38 percent in 2002,
according to a United Nations survey.  The situation is worse in the north, the International
Monetary Fund said in a  report  in 2009. Annual income per capita
in the North was 191,540 CFA francs ($390) and 281,660 francs in
the Center-North, compared with 348,247 francs in the South-
West.  Development  “The promise of infrastructural development and economic
opportunities for the population has to be fulfilled in order to
keep ethnic tensions at bay in the longer-term,” said Akinola.  Ivory Coast, which neighbors Africa’s second-biggest gold
producer Ghana, is in talks with companies including  BHP
Billiton Ltd.  and  ArcelorMittal  over investment projects, Mines
and Energy Minister  Augustin Comoe  said Oct. 5. Channel Islands-
based  Randgold Resources Ltd.  poured its first gold from its
Tongon mine in the country on Nov. 8, the company said.  During the televised debate, Gbagbo said Ivory Coast should
cooperate with Liberia and Guinea to mine natural resources,
while aiming to double cocoa production within 20 years.
Ouattara said he wanted to reduce taxes to attract investors and
lower tax evasion.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Pauline Bax  and  Olivier Monnier  in Abidjan via Accra at
   ebowers1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 