-- Japan's Bonds Gain, Yields Fall from Three-Month High, After Retail Sales
-- B y   M a s a k i   K o n d o
-- 2010-11-29T07:07:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-28/japan-bonds-may-rise-before-data-to-show-u-s-home-price-growth-is-slowing.html
Japanese  bonds  advanced, pushing 10-
year  yields  down from the highest level in almost three months,
after a government report showed domestic retail sales
unexpectedly fell in October.  Benchmark bonds snapped a two-day loss before a U.S. report
that economists said will show home prices rose at a slower
pace. Government debt also rallied as a technical indicator used
by traders to predict prices changes signaled recent increases
in yields were too rapid.  “The economy isn’t good, consumer-price growth is negative
and the central bank is easing monetary policy," said  Akitsugu Bandou , a senior economist in Tokyo at Okasan Securities Co.  The  yield  on the 10-year bond fell 1.5 basis points to
1.175 percent as of 3:53 p.m. in Tokyo at Japan Bond Trading
Co., the nation’s largest interdealer debt broker. The 1 percent
security due September 2020 climbed 0.13 yen to 98.462 yen. The
yield increased to 1.19 percent on Nov. 26, the highest level
since Sept. 6.  Ten-year bond futures for December delivery gained 0.28 to
140.85 as of the 3 p.m. close of the Tokyo Stock Exchange. The
 yield  on two-year notes climbed to as high as 0.21 percent, a
level not seen since Dec. 1.  Retail sales  slipped 0.2 percent last month from a year
earlier, the first decline this year, the Trade Ministry said
today in Tokyo. Economists forecast a 0.7 percent increase,
according to a Bloomberg News survey.  BOJ Fund  The Bank of Japan last month unveiled a 5 trillion-yen
($59.5 billion) fund to buy assets such as exchange-traded funds
and real-estate investment trusts, to shore up prices.  Consumer
prices  excluding fresh food fell 0.6 percent in October from a
year earlier, the government said Nov. 26.  Expanding the fund is a ‘‘probable option” if the
policy’s merits exceed demerits and the economy worsens more
than the central bank has expected, BOJ Governor  Masaaki Shirakawa  said today in Nagoya, central Japan.  The  S&P/Case-Shiller  index of U.S. home prices rose 1
percent in September from a year earlier, the smallest gain
since February, according to another Bloomberg survey before
tomorrow’s report.  The U.S. economy may slip into deflation as unemployment
stays high and consumption stagnates, Japan’s Cabinet Office
said in an annual report published on Nov. 27. There’s a risk of
U.S. deflation “in the not-distant future,”  Tomoko Hayashi , an
economist at the Cabinet Office, told reporters.  The U.S. is Japan’s second-biggest export market after
China by the value of products shipped overseas during the first
half of this year, according to Japan’s Ministry of Finance.  Bonds also snapped their losing streak as the 14-day
 relative strength index  on 10-year yields climbed to 71 on Nov.
26, above the level of 70 that some traders an asset’s value is
poised to reverse course.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Masaki Kondo  in Tokyo at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net . 