-- New Zealand Mine Blast Inquiry May Determine Future for Industry, Key Says
-- B y   W e n d y   P u g h
-- 2010-11-29T00:44:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-28/new-zealand-mining-future-rests-on-mine-blast-probe-key-says.html
New Zealand Prime Minister  John Key 
will today propose a Royal Commission into the causes of deadly
explosions at the Pike River Coal Co. mine, a probe that may
determine the future of underground mining in the country.  “The future of Pike River and actually underground coal
mining in New Zealand rests on this,” Key told Television New
Zealand’s Q + A  program  yesterday. “We can’t put people into
environments that are dangerous.”  The first blast at Wellington-based Pike River’s mine on
the West Coast of the South Island occurred on Nov. 19, followed
by a larger explosion on Nov. 24 that prompted police to say
none of the missing 29 workers would have survived. Rescuers
weren’t able to enter the mine because of toxic gases and the
risk of explosions. The mine won’t restart until it’s understood
what caused the build-up in methane, Key said in the interview.  New Zealand’s West Coast has 13 coal mines, including four
underground operations, according to the Ministry of Economic
Development’s website. Mining employs about 6,000 people,
according to the government’s  http://www.beehive.govt.nz  website.
The industry earned about NZ$1.1 billion ($820 million) in
export receipts in 2009.  The mine “can’t reopen until we at least get answers to
those questions and one would assume the Royal Commission would
be the body that would determine that,” Key said. The proposal
for a three-person panel to conduct the inquiry will be taken to
Cabinet today, he added.  Fourth Explosion  A fourth explosion occurred at the mine just before 2 p.m.
local time yesterday, New Zealand police said in a statement.
There were no injuries and people working near the entrance were
moved away from the area, according to the  statement . The third
explosion was on Nov. 26.  The fourth blast has resulted in a fire involving coal and
gas, the company said in a statement sent to the stock exchange.
Preparations are underway to inject inert gas to extinguish the
fire and enable access to recover bodies, it said.  The fatalities this month were the country’s worst mining
disaster in 96 years.  The inquiry into the explosions is also expected to
consider the response and would “hopefully” take less than a
year to complete, Key told Q + A.  “It’s about the quality of answers that are received and
the questions that are asked, and those answers, as opposed to a
specific timeframe,” he said.  Insurance Claim  Pike River will also conduct an internal inquiry, Chairman
 John Dow  said in today’s statement. The company has issued force
majeure notices to parties involved in its coal transport
arrangements and will be discussing commercial relationships
with other contractors, he said.  The company has material damage and business-interruption
insurance cover of NZ$100 million ($75 million) and has begun
preparing a claim, Dow said, without saying who provided the
insurance.  Much of the claim work will require damage assessment that
isn’t possible until the mine can be entered.  The company has agreed a stand-still arrangement with Bank
of New Zealand Ltd. and has received funds from 30 percent
shareholder New Zealand Oil & Gas Ltd. which, with coal
stockpiled and available for sale, allows it to pay its workers
and plan its next steps, Dow said.  Pike River had agreed sales contracts with international
customers for as much as 90 percent of output for the life of
the mine, Chief Executive Officer  Peter Whittall  said in a
presentation this month. The company is part-owned by India’s
Gujarat NRE Coke Ltd. and Saurashtra Fuels Pvt. New Zealand Oil
& Gas Ltd. is the biggest investor with a 30 percent stake.  Drilling Delays  The mine was forecast to produce 320,000 tons to 360,000
tons of coal in the year through June, the company said Oct. 19.
That almost halved an April forecast because of delays with
drilling equipment and road construction.  Key said mines such as the Solid Energy New Zealand Ltd.
Spring Creek project had a very good safety record and he wasn’t
considering closing other sites while inquiries were underway
into the fatalities.  “I haven’t had any advice to do that and I would be
reluctant to do that,” he said. “That’s one of the reasons why
we need to understand very quickly, if we can, what happened at
Pike River.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Wendy Pugh  in Melbourne 
 wpugh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  