-- New Zealand Mine Blast Inquiry May Determine Future for Industry, Key Says
-- B y   W e n d y   P u g h
-- 2010-11-28T03:32:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-28/new-zealand-mine-blast-inquiry-may-determine-future-for-industry-key-says.html
The future of underground mining in
New Zealand is likely to be determined by a Royal Commission
that will investigate the cause of deadly explosions at the Pike
River Coal Co. mine, Prime Minister  John Key  said.  “In the end, the future of Pike River and actually
underground coal mining in New Zealand rests on this,” he told
Television New Zealand’s Q + A  program  today. “We can’t put
people into environments that are dangerous.”  The first blast at Wellington-based Pike River’s mine on
the West Coast of the South Island occurred on Nov. 19, followed
by a larger explosion on Nov. 24 that prompted police to say
none of the missing 29 workers would have survived. Rescue teams
were unable to enter the mine because of toxic gases and
potential explosions. The mine won’t restart until it is
understood what caused the build-up in methane and the
explosions, Key said in the interview.  “It can’t reopen until we at least get answers to those
questions and one would assume the Royal Commission would be the
body that would determine that,” he said. The proposal for a
three-person panel to conduct the inquiry will be taken to
Cabinet tomorrow, he added.  A fourth explosion happened at the mine just before 2 p.m.
local time today, New Zealand police said in a statement. There
were no injuries and people working near the entrance to the
mine were moved away from the area, the  statement  said. The
third explosion was on Nov. 26.  The fatalities this month were the country’s worst mining
disaster in 96 years.  Inquiry Timeframe  The inquiry into the fatal explosions was also expected to
consider the response afterwards and would “hopefully” take
less than a year to complete, Key told Q + A.  “It’s about the quality of answers that are received and
the questions that are asked, and those answers, as opposed to a
specific timeframe,” he said.  New Zealand’s West Coast has 13 coal mines, including four
underground operations, according to the Ministry of Economic
Development’s web site. Mining employs about 6,000 people,
according to the government website www.beehive.govt.nz. The
industry earned about NZ$1.1 billion ($820 million) in export
receipts in 2009.  Pike River had agreed sales contracts with international
customers for as much as 90 percent of output for the life of
the mine, Chief Executive Officer  Peter Whittall  said in a
presentation this month. The company is part-owned by India’s
Gujarat NRE Coke Ltd. and Saurashtra Fuels Pvt. New Zealand Oil
& Gas Ltd. is the biggest investor with a 30 percent stake.  The mine was forecast to produce 320,000 to 360,000 tons of
coal in the year through June, the company said Oct. 19. That
almost halved an April forecast because of delays with drilling
equipment and road construction.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Wendy Pugh  in Melbourne 
 wpugh@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  