-- NFL Stands Up for Socialism in Clash With Players: Albert Hunt
-- B y   A l b e r t   R .   H u n t
-- 2010-11-28T16:00:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-28/nfl-stands-up-for-socialism-in-clash-with-players-albert-hunt.html
Professional football, the most
popular American sport, appears to be riding high.  Television ratings are at an all-time high, with four
networks and the  National Football League ’s own innovative
network flourishing. Competition is keener than ever: The season
is three-quarters over and more than one-third of the teams
still are legitimate Super Bowl contenders. And the stars have
never been greater; two of the half-dozen greatest quarterbacks
in the history of the game,  Peyton Manning  and  Tom Brady , are at
the peaks of their careers, and there are several not far
behind.  At the top of the heap at home, the NFL has set its sights
across the pond. After drawing big crowds for games in  London ,
pro football sees that as a new location in the future.  Dig a little below this dazzling picture and there are
tensions that threaten to roil the $8 billion-a-year business:
labor unrest, perhaps leading to a lockout of players by the
owners next season, an alarming level of physical violence and
sluggish attendance at some games.  Most serious is the potential impasse between the players’
union and the teams over the current contract, which expires
March 3. The owners appear intent on a lockout if the players’
association doesn’t agree to a deal.  DeMaurice Smith , the new
executive director of the National Football League Players
Association, says such a shutdown of the football season, which
he believes would drain more than $4 billion from the  U.S.
economy , appears a “near certainty.”  Revenue Sharing  The financial situation facing many of the 32 teams, the
owners say, has soured, impairing the construction of new
stadiums and other improvements for the fans. Thus, they say
they can no longer afford to give 60 percent of the revenue to
the players.  The  union  says the privately owned teams refuse to disclose
their financial data -- the one publicly owned team, the  Green
Bay Packers , in the smallest city in the league, continues to
show a healthy profit -- that their health-care coverage is a
disgrace for an injury-prone profession that affords athletes an
average tenure of only three-and-a-half years, and that the
players actually get only about half the revenue.  One solution the owners want is to expand the number of
regular season games to 18 from 16. Players, fearing more
injuries, are resisting. The union suggests that would only be
possible with other concessions such as more weeks off and
additions to rosters. There have been two work stoppages before,
in 1982 and 1987. The stakes are bigger this time, and the
owners face a tougher adversary in Smith.  Divide and Conquer  The owners desire a divide-and-conquer strategy, with the
well-known players and fan favorites resisting a strike. Smith,
however, has shrewdly lined up visible support from superstars.
Brady is the  New England Patriots ’ team representative;  Drew Brees , the quarterback who led the  New Orleans Saints  to the
 Super Bowl  last season, is on the union’s executive committee;
and Manning of the  Indianapolis Colts  has voiced strong support
for the union.  Smith  and his players have another weapon: the threat to
decertify. The 32 NFL teams years ago were granted an antitrust
exemption. If the union decertifies, the individual players
would no longer be bound by collective-bargaining agreements and
the NFL could be open to antitrust lawsuits. The sort of anti-
competitive legal action that has succeeded in professional
sports in recent decades could place the teams in financial
peril.  Semi-Socialistic Enterprise  NFL owners such as the Patriots’ Robert Kraft and  Jerry Jones  of the  Dallas Cowboys  see themselves as individualistic,
tough capitalists. In reality, the NFL is a semi-socialistic
enterprise. The teams equally share all the sizeable national
television revenue and agree to salary caps, and the squads with
the worst records get to draft the best college players.  The owners have tremendous leverage in these negotiations,
with $4 billion a year in television contracts, which are paid
out even if a lockout or strike prevents games from being
played. The union and players’ leverage is the public; Brady is
more popular than Kraft.  Given the huge popularity of the NFL, it’s hard to imagine
that an impasse wouldn’t throw the dispute into the political
arena. Both sides already have spoken to the White House and are
lobbying Congress.  The conventional wisdom is that the new Republican House is
good news for the owners and the Obama White House would be more
empathetic to the players. Yet some owners believe that a White
House preoccupied with war, a struggling economy and daily shots
from congressional opponents doesn’t need a football strike that
would fuel more anger among Americans.  Republican Majority  On the other side, the union realizes the sport is
particularly popular among Republican constituents, especially
white males. Moreover, they see a potential ally in
Representative  Darrell Issa , the California Republican who will
take over as head of the House oversight and investigations
committee in January.  Another threat to pro football’s popularity may be
increased violence and long-term injury. Very few medical
specialists not on an NFL payroll doubt the huge risks
associated with the game. Studies suggest football veterans face
far higher incidences of Alzheimer’s and other  brain damage .  As players get faster, stronger and larger, violent
collisions are more lethal. There are now more than 400 players
in the league who weigh 300 pounds and above; 30 years ago there
were three.  Clash of Gladiators  After years of denial, the league is now penalizing brutal
hits and researching more long-term chronic conditions. There is
a question, however, about how much of the game’s appeal rests
on the violent clash of gladiators.  A final concern is slumping attendance in some of the
smaller markets. That may be attributable to the economy. Demand
remains high; on Sundays, most stadiums are sold out.  Still, the league would be playing a dangerous game if it
tries to bluff the players and the union. The lessons from
previous labor ruptures in professional sports is that if there
is an immediate and real backlash, fans sour and find
alternative activities.  That might impair the lucrative socialism these capitalists
enjoy.  ( Albert R. Hunt  is the executive editor for  Washington  at
Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Albert R. Hunt in Washington at 
 ahunt1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net . 