-- Nigeria Oil Clashes Threaten Production in Challenge to Jonathan
-- B y   D u l u e   M b a c h u
-- 2010-11-28T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-28/nigeria-oil-region-fighting-threatens-production-in-challenge-to-jonathan.html
A surge of violence in Nigeria’s
delta region is threatening output in Africa’s biggest oil
producer and may thwart President  Goodluck Jonathan ’s ambition
to win next year’s election.  A year after thousands of fighters laid down their arms
under a government amnesty program, militants this month struck
an  Exxon Mobil Corp.  offshore platform,  Afren Plc ’s shallow
water field and a pipeline supplying crude to two refineries.
They also clashed with government troops and vowed more raids.  “Any increase in violence is likely to affect oil
output,” Mark Schroeder, director of Africa analysis at
 Strategic Forecasting Inc. , an Austin, Texas-based global
intelligence group, said in a telephone interview. “And the
impact of that is felt not only in the country but globally in
terms of higher oil prices, even here in the U.S.”  The attacks have undermined the ability of Jonathan, 53,
the nation’s first leader from the Niger River delta, to
guarantee security for an industry that is the fifth-biggest
source of U.S. crude imports and provides 80 percent of
government revenue.  Total SA , Europe’s third-largest oil
company, said it may consider quitting the region if the
violence worsens.  “The easiest solution is to say that each time we are
confronted with a security problem we should leave, but then
there won’t be any more oil,” Total Chief Executive Officer
 Christophe de Margerie  said at an investor conference in Paris
on Nov. 19. “If it gets worse, we may have to leave.”  OPEC Producer  More than 90 percent of the country’s oil is pumped by
Irving, Texas-based Exxon Mobil, The Hague-based  Royal Dutch
Shell Plc ,  Chevron Corp.  of San Ramon, California, Total and
Rome’s  Eni SpA  in joint ventures with state-owned Nigerian
National Petroleum Corp. in Abuja, according to the Petroleum
Ministry. Afren, a U.K. oil and gas explorer focused on West
Africa, is based in London.  Nigeria was the seventh-biggest producer in the
Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries as of October,
with output of about 2.05 million barrels a day.  Shell doesn’t “speculate or comment on security issues,”
said spokesman  Precious Okolobo  by phone in Lagos.  This month’s attacks were claimed by the Movement for the
Emancipation of the Niger Delta (MEND), the main group
responsible for Nigeria’s oil output being cut by more than 28
percent between 2006 and 2009. The organization says the
region’s resources should be exclusively controlled by the
people of the delta, who would then pay taxes to the national
government.  ‘Major Operation’  “In the coming weeks, MEND will launch a major operation
that will simultaneously affect oil facilities across the Niger
Delta,” MEND spokesman  Jomo Gbomo  said in a Nov. 16 e-mailed
statement.  Jonathan, an ethnic Ijaw like most of MEND’s fighters,
responded by ordering the army to take the offensive. The
military task force in charge of security in the region raided
rebel camps on Nov. 17 and freed 19 hostages, including two
Americans, two French nationals, two Indonesians and a Canadian,
and 12 Nigerians seized in the recent attacks. The military said
it arrested 60 militants responsible for the abductions.  MEND announced its return to violence with two bomb blasts
that killed 12 people in the capital, Abuja, on Oct. 1, as
Nigeria celebrated 50 years of independence from the U.K. A day
later, South African police arrested  Henry Okah , whom the
Nigerian government says is the leader of the militant group.  ‘Extreme Deprivation’  The political ascent of Jonathan, a southern Christian, was
partly spurred by the insurrection in the delta, according to
Schroeder. The Ijaws and other ethnic minorities in the area say
they are oppressed by central governments working with
international oil companies in a region that the United Nations
Development Programme said suffers from “extreme deprivation.”  “In many cases, the conditions of rural communities where
crude oil is produced are deplorable, with severe environmental
degradation, and no access to safe drinking water, electricity
and roads,” UNDP said in a 2006 report. “The results have been
disillusionment, frustration about their increasing deprivation
and deep-rooted mistrust.”  Jonathan, who was chosen as vice president in 2007, became
president after his predecessor, northern Muslim  Umaru Yar’Adua ,
died in May. His decision to run for the presidency is contrary
to an unwritten agreement in the ruling  People’s Democratic
Party  to rotate the office between the mainly Muslim north and
the predominantly Christian south.  Northern Opposition  Opposition to his candidacy by party members from the north
prompted the choice of former Vice President  Atiku Abubakar  to
run against Jonathan in the PDP party primaries next year.  Jonathan can’t “afford to be seen to be weak,”  Bergen
Risk Solutions , a Fantoft, Norway-based risk adviser
specializing in Nigeria’s oil region, said in a Nov. 24 note to
clients. “These factors undoubtedly shaped Jonathan’s decision
to unleash” the military “on his ethnic brethren in the
delta.”  Jonathan had assumed that since he is from the Niger delta,
his presidency would assuage grievances in the region, Anyakwee
Nsirimovu, a member of a government committee that recommended
amnesty for militants, said by phone from Port Harcourt.  “Jonathan is confusing his presidency with the solution to
the Niger delta problem,” he said.  Nigerian presidency spokesman Ima Niboro didn’t answer
calls on his mobile phone seeking comment.  The government has put more emphasis on giving fighters
money to lay down their arms, known as “settling” in Nigeria,
than tackling the development problems and the social crises
that sparked the unrest, Godwin Ojo, a director of  Environmental
Rights Action , the Nigerian affiliate of  Friends of the Earth ,
said by phone from the southern city of Benin.  “People will always be left out and they will surely fight
to be settled, they will fight to be recognized,” he said.
“That’s what is happening now.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dulue Mbachu in Abuja at 
 dmbachu@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 