-- No. 1 Nadal Faces No. 2 Federer in Title Showdown at ATP Tennis Finals
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2010-11-28T00:12:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-28/no-1-nadal-faces-no-2-federer-in-title-showdown-at-atp-tennis-finals.html
Four-time champion  Roger Federer 
and top-ranked  Rafael Nadal  meet today for the trophy at the
 ATP World Tour Finals  in London.  Second-ranked Federer yesterday eased past  Novak Djokovic 
6-1, 6-4 in the semifinals at the  O2 Arena  in east London.
Nadal advanced to his first final at the season-ending tennis
tournament by defeating  Andy Murray  of Britain, 7-6 (7-5), 3-6,
7-6 (8-6) in a match that lasted three hours, 10 minutes.  “He’s the best player in the world and I am looking
forward to playing him,” Federer, who won in 79 minutes, said
in a courtside interview. “I’m looking forward to a really
good final.”  Nadal and Federer have only played one match so far this
year, with the Spaniard winning the final of the Madrid Masters
clay court tournament in May in straight sets.  The two last met in London in July 2008, when Nadal
defeated Federer in five sets at Wimbledon in what seven-time
Grand Slam singles champion  John McEnroe  called the greatest
match he’d ever seen. Many of the 13,800 Centre Court
spectators that day were on their feet as both men produced
winners from seemingly impossible angles.  “It’s the same city, a few miles away,” Federer told a
news conference. “Honestly, I didn’t even think about that for
one second so far preparing for the match. It’s more of a broad
approach thinking back of what has all happened the last few
months in my game, the Madrid finals possibly, even though that
was clay, what caused him trouble so far this tournament, what
have I done well. Try to put all those pieces together and
hopefully find the right game plan for tomorrow.”  Five Titles  Federer, 29, is trying to join  Pete Sampras  and  Ivan Lendl 
as the only men to win the event five times. Nadal, 24, has yet
to win the tournament that is contested by the best eight
players in the world. He lost to Federer in the 2006 and 2007
semifinals and didn’t win a single set last year.  Although Nadal yesterday said he was physically “very
tired” after the long match against Murray, he emphasized he
was still “mentally fresh.” He’s won 14 of 21 meetings with
Federer.  Djokovic, who beat Federer in the semifinals of the U.S.
Open after he saved two match points, said the Swiss may be
coming close to his peak.  “He’s maybe playing the best tennis in 2010,” said
Djokovic, who now trails Federer 13-6 in career meetings.
“He’s really stepping in, hitting the backhands and forehands
all over the court, winners. Every ball kind of listens to him.
Comes in, just close to the line. It’s very hard. He doesn’t
give you a lot of free points.”  Djokovic wouldn’t call the winner.  “If Roger is playing the way he played throughout the
whole tournament, he has a good chance,” the Serb said.
“Nadal, on the other side, has been playing great. It’s going
to be interesting.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Danielle Rossingh  at the O2 arena through the London sports
desk at   drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  