-- Okinawa Voters Choose Between Opponents of U.S. Base in Governor Election
-- B y   S a c h i k o   S a k a m a k i
-- 2010-11-28T05:30:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-28/okinawa-voters-choose-between-opponents-of-u-s-base-in-governor-election.html
Okinawa voters will today choose a
governor who opposes relocating a U.S. Marine base on the island
in an election that may affect Japan’s key defense alliance and
the fate of Prime Minister  Naoto Kan ’s government.  Hirokazu Nakaima , governor since 2006, and Yoichi Iha both
say they want Marine Futenma Air Station moved out of the
prefecture. Nakaima changed his mind after once approving a plan
to move the helicopter base to a different site within Okinawa.
Iha is a former mayor of Ginowan, the city of 93,000 people that
surrounds the base, and a longtime advocate of ending the U.S.
military presence.  The election may hurt Kan’s effort to win local support for
an  agreement  with the U.S. to move the base within the island,
at a time when his approval rating has fallen below 30 percent.
It comes as the prime minister deals with security threats
including disrupted relations with China over disputed territory
and rising tensions between North Korea and South Korea.  “Kan can probably negotiate if Nakaima wins because he
used to support the relocation,” said  Kazuhisa Kawakami ,
professor of political science at Meiji Gakuin University in
Tokyo. “But if Iha wins, it will absolutely damage the alliance
with the U.S. because he’s a hardcore left-winger who can’t
possibly be persuaded.”  The administration of President  Barack Obama  has pushed
Japan to uphold a 2006 agreement to move the helicopters base
out of densely populated Ginowan to the island’s rural Henoko
area, as part of a $10 billion plan that would also transfer
8,000 Marines to Guam.  Hatoyama’s Failure  That plan was disrupted last year when  Yukio Hatoyama  led
the Democratic Party of Japan to a general election victory. As
prime minister, Hatoyama sought to reopen talks to move the base
out of Okinawa, one of his campaign pledges. He resigned in June
after less than nine months in office when that effort failed
and the two countries in May confirmed a move to Henoko.  Kan, Hatoyama’s successor, and Obama affirmed the
importance of their alliance two weeks ago at their meeting
during the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation summit in Yokohama.  Criticism of Kan’s leadership intensified after a collision
in disputed waters roiled relations with China and eroded public
support for his government. Two of his ministers were censured
yesterday by the opposition-controlled upper house over their
handling of the affair. Earlier last week, Kan’s justice
minister resigned over a verbal gaffe.  Boycott Threatened  The Liberal Democratic Party, the largest opposition force,
has threatened to boycott parliament, while the current
legislative session may end Dec. 3 with about a dozen bills left
unapproved.  Kan’s approval rating fell 9.1 points from earlier this
month to 23.6 percent, according to a Kyodo News survey
published on Nov. 24.  Okinawa, an island 950 miles (1,530 kilometers) south of
Tokyo, hosts 75 percent of the U.S. bases in Japan, and
opponents of that presence argue it has led to increased crime,
pollution and noise.  The Social Democratic and Communist parties are endorsing
Iha in the election. Kan’s Democratic Party didn’t endorse any
candidate.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Sachiko Sakamaki  in Tokyo at 
 Ssakamaki1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  