-- Londoners Face Travel Chaos as Subway Strike Begins Amid Forecast Snowfall
-- B y   C h r i s   S p i l l a n e
-- 2010-11-28T22:37:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-28/londoners-face-more-travel-chaos-as-24-hour-tube-strike-looms.html
London Underground subway workers
began a 24-hour strike today over a plan to cut 800 jobs,
disrupting travel for the city’s 3.5 million users of the
network known as the Tube.  The walkout, the last of four scheduled to protest against
the reductions, started at 6:30 p.m. today, Transport for London
confirmed by phone  The strike is likely to cost the economy at least 48
million pounds ($75 million),  London Chamber of Commerce and
Industry  spokesman Andrew Horne said last week, and will be
exacerbated by heavy snowfall expected in the capital.  “It might well be the case that it has that cost to the
economy of London, but the long-term cost to public safety we
think is even higher,”  Rail, Maritime and Transport Union 
spokesman  Geoff Martin  said in a telephone interview Nov. 26.
“The action is on.”  The stoppage, the seventh to shut the Tube since 2002,
involves around 10,000 employees. More than 100 additional buses
and capacity for more than 10,000 extra river crossings have
been organized for the strike,  Transport for London  spokesman
Ben Pennington said by phone.  The timing of the strike “is terrible, with icy conditions
taking hold and the possibility of snow,” LCCI Chief Executive
 Colin Stanbridge  said in an e-mailed statement.  TfL condemned the RMT and  Transport Salaried Staffs’
Association  for refusing to continue constructive talks,
according to an e-mailed statement.  “We have been consulting with the union leaderships for
six whole months to try to establish what specific safety
concerns they may have,” London Underground Chief Operating
Officer Howard Collins said in the statement. “If they are
serious about resolving this issue, they should call off their
totally unnecessary strike immediately.”  The strike action “is about safety,” RMT General
Secretary  Bob Crow  said in an e-mailed statement today. “We
will be taking that message to passengers as we build the
campaign against the tube cuts.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
{ Christopher Spillane } in London at 
 cspillane3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge at 
 ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  