-- Payrolls, Manufacturing Probably Grew as U.S. Recovery Picked Up Into 2011
-- B y   T i m o t h y   R .   H o m a n
-- 2010-11-28T05:00:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-28/payrolls-manufacturing-probably-grew-as-u-s-recovery-picked-up-into-2011.html
Payrolls and manufacturing probably
expanded in November as the U.S. recovery showed signs of a
pickup heading into 2011, economists said before reports this
week.  Employment increased by 145,000 workers this month after a
151,000 gain in October that marked the biggest advance since
May, according to the median forecast of 67 economists surveyed
by Bloomberg News ahead of Labor Department data on Dec. 3. A
report from factory purchasing managers may show assembly lines
kept churning as  exports  and business spending climbed.  More jobs and bigger paychecks are giving consumers the
confidence and means to spend, brightening the outlook for
retailers like Lord & Taylor and  Macy’s Inc.  during the holiday
season. At the same time, payrolls aren’t growing fast enough to
lower the  jobless rate , one reason why Federal Reserve policy
makers have said they will keep priming the monetary pump.  “We’re still in the early stages of the labor-market
recovery,” said  Guy LeBas , chief fixed-income strategist at
Janney Montgomery Scott LLC in Philadelphia. “We’re seeing a
lot of strength in the retail sector and we’re certainly seeing
a string of consistency in private payroll growth.”  The jobless rate was 9.6 percent for a fourth consecutive
month in November, according the  survey  median. It would be the
16th month of joblessness at 9.5 percent or higher, the longest
such stretch since records began in 1948. The worst recession
since the 1930s caused the loss of 8.4 million jobs.  Fed Action  Fed policy makers this month began buying Treasury
securities as part of a plan to pump as much as $600 billion
more into the financial system in a bid to keep interest rates
low and spur growth. Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  has been among
those saying the recovery has been too slow, keeping
unemployment too high and leading to a deceleration in inflation
that raises the risk of deflation, or sustained and damaging
price decreases.  The central bank’s report on regional economic activity,
known as the Beige Book, will be released on Dec. 1. The
anecdotal information will help policy makers frame the
discussion of the economy when the central bank next meets on
Dec. 14.  The economy feels “a lot more stable this year,”  Brendan Hoffman , chief executive officer of department-store chain Lord
& Taylor, said in a Nov. 26 interview with Betty Liu on
Bloomberg Television’s “In the Loop” program. “We definitely
hired more people for this season, and our hope is that we’ll
keep a lot of them as we go into next year.”  More Hiring  Employment for the holiday-shopping season at Lord &
Taylor, which is owned by the buyout firm NRDC Equity Partners
LLC, is up 16 percent this year from last, Hoffman said.  The improving spending outlook has helped boost retailer
shares. The Standard & Poor’s Supercomposite  Retailing  Index,
which includes Amazon.com Inc. and Macy’s, has climbed 6.9
percent this month and reached a three-year high on Nov. 24. The
broader  S&P 500 Index  gained 0.5 percent since Oct. 29.  Manufacturing, the industry leading the U.S. recovery that
began in July 2009, expanded in November for a 16th consecutive
month, economists said ahead of a Dec. 1 report from the
Institute for Supply Management. The group’s  factory index  this
month was little changed at 56.5, with readings greater 50
signaling expansion.  The Tempe, Arizona-based ISM’s gauge of  services , which
represent almost 90 percent of the economy, climbed in November
to the highest level in six months, the Bloomberg survey showed
ahead of the Dec. 3 report.  Gaining Confidence  Employment gains are helping to boost consumer sentiment.
The Conference Board’s confidence  index  climbed to 52.6 this
month from 50.2 in October, economists said ahead of a Nov. 30
report from the New York-based research group.  Housing is among the areas still struggling. Home prices in
20 cities over the 12 months through September climbed at the
slowest pace since the year ended in February, according to the
Bloomberg survey. The S&P/Case-Shiller home-price  index  is due
Nov. 30.  Pending sales  of U.S. existing homes fell 1 percent in
October after declining 1.8 percent the previous month,
economists said ahead of a Dec. 2 report from the National
Association of Realtors.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
 Timothy R. Homan  in Washington at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  