-- Polish Central Bank Needs to React `Early Enough' With Rates, Hausner Says
-- B y   M o n i k a   R o z l a l
-- 2010-11-29T12:18:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-28/poland-needs-to-react-early-enough-with-rates-hausner-says.html
The Polish central bank will need to
react with its rate policy “early enough” to prevent capital
inflows from igniting inflation as low U.S. borrowing costs
drive up global prices, rate setter  Jerzy Hausner  said.  The Narodowy Bank Polski must take into account the impact
of U.S. quantitative easing and a widening budget deficit
forcing the government to raise more debt, which strengthen the
zloty, he said in a Nov. 23 interview in Warsaw.  “Policy interventions suffer from longer time lags and are
less effective,” Hausner, 61, said. “If we don’t react early
enough and allow certain developments to gather momentum and
upset our relatively fragile economic equilibrium, then getting
things back under control will be much more costly and take much
longer.”  Policy makers have kept the  benchmark seven-day rate  at a
record-low 3.5 percent since June 2009 to avoid undermining
economic growth, helping Poland become the only European Union
country to avert a recession last year. The central bank last
week held borrowing costs for a 17th month as core inflation,
excluding food and energy prices, remained at a 34-month low.  Rates at Record Low  Central banks in Poland, Hungary and Czech Republic, three
of four largest economies in the region, kept their borrowing
costs at record lows for most of this year. All three have
signaled that they may start increasing interest rates within
the next 12 months to ward off accelerating inflation.  Investors’ rate-increase expectations in Poland have
climbed in the past three months. The six-month forward-rate
agreement was 0.64 percentage point higher than the benchmark
three-month  Warsaw Interbank Offered Rate  today, compared with
0.44 percentage point on Aug. 31, signaling a bet for the main
rate rising at least half a percentage point.  The timing of a potential Polish rate increase to prevent
accelerating growth from boosting inflation has divided policy
makers. Rate setter  Andrzej Bratkowski  in August voted for an
increase to 4 percent and earlier this month said it was too
late to increase borrowing costs.  “I don’t think anyone can declare with certainty that we
missed the right moment to increase rates,” said Hausner.
“It’s evident the economy is doing well with borrowing costs at
current levels. We haven’t made any mistakes that can be
construed as damaging to the economy.”  Irish Bailout  Investors increased their bets that interest rates will
rise according to forward contracts today as Ireland’s 85
billion-euro ($112 billion) bailout failed to ease concern about
the European Union’s finances. The one-month forward rate
agreement that traders use to wager on changes in borrowing
costs within a month rose to 3.98 percent, or 12 basis points
above the 3-month Warsaw Interbank Offered Rate at 3.86 percent.  The  consumer-price index  rose in October to an eight-month
high of 2.8 percent, driven by food and energy costs.  With inflation remaining at “this relatively fast pace,
second-round effects could appear due to stronger wage growth”
as “demand for labor is growing,” Hausner said.  The central bank last month increased the mandatory reserve
rate for banks by half a percentage point to 3.5 percent, which
signals that “tightening is on the way,” Hausner said. Raising
other interest rates may attract capital inflows, boosting the
zloty and threatening an export-led  recovery , Governor  Marek Belka  said after the Nov. 23 rate decision.  ‘Deal With a Change’  “In the short term, U.S. monetary policies aren’t hurting
the situation in Poland,” Hausner said. “In the long term, we
will have to deal with a change in the economic environment,
which will become inflationary and will hamper conducting
monetary policy.”  The zloty appreciated to its strongest in more than six
months after the U.S. Federal Reserve said it will expand
measures to boost the economy and maintain low  rates  for an
“extended period.” The currency advanced 3.6 percent to the
euro and 12 percent against the U.S. dollar over the past six
months.  “Given the large interest-rate disparity and the faster
economic growth in emerging markets, liquidity will flow to
those countries, including Poland,” Hausner said. “The higher
the government’s borrowing needs and sales of debt securities,
the more the currency will gain. So the risk is large. This is a
situation that must ignite inflation.”  ‘Doomed to Failure’  The “real” general government deficit will widen this
year to 120 billion zloty ($40.2 billion) from about 96.7
billion zloty in 2009, Hausner said. The government has planned
for this year’s borrowing needs to rise 19 percent to 193.5
billion zloty.  Public debt  may rise to 55.4 percent of GDP from
50.9 percent last year, according to the European Union, using
the bloc’s accounting rules.  “Our dilemma is how to handle excessive currency
appreciation due to portfolio capital inflows caused mainly by
sales of Treasury securities,” Hausner said. “Monetary policy
can’t effectively react in such situations and any attempt to do
so via monetary instruments is doomed to failure.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Monika Rozlal  in Warsaw 
 mrozlal@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at 
 wmorris@bloomberg.net  