-- Polish Mergers May Double by 2013 as EU Banks Sell Assets to Raise Capital
-- B y   M a c i e j   M a r t e w i c z
-- 2010-11-28T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-28/polish-mergers-may-double-by-2013-as-eu-banks-sell-assets-to-raise-capital.html
Polish mergers and acquisitions may
more than double by 2013 as the European Union’s debt crisis
forces foreign banks to sell stakes in the country’s lenders,
according to KPMG International.  The value of transactions, which now equals about 3 percent
of the country’s gross domestic product, will rise to western
European levels of 8 percent to 10 percent in the next three to
five years, said Krzysztof Rozen, head of corporate finance at
KPMG’s Warsaw-based unit. KPMG has advised on eight Polish deals
this year, more than any competing firm.  M&A in the country tripled this year to a record $13.9
billion from 2009, with KPMG accounting for almost two-thirds of
the volume. The sale of  Bank Zachodni WBK SA  by  Allied Irish
Banks Plc  was the biggest of 2010. Divestitures by Irish, Greek
and Portuguese are likely to continue as companies struggle to
shore up their finances.  “The fiscal crisis that’s now spreading across Europe may
definitely speed up such sales,” said  Marek Juras , head of
equity research at UniCredit SpA’s Polish unit in Warsaw. “If
banks ask for state aid, they may be forced to sell their
units.”  KPMG, which offers tax, audit and advisory services, is
ahead of Nomura Holdings Inc., AIB Corporate Finance and Morgan
Stanley in the Polish M&A market this year, according to
Bloomberg data. KPMG was involved in helping arrange Zachodni’s
sale to  Banco Santander SpA , valued at 16.6 billion zloty ($5.6
billion), and state-controlled PGE SA’s agreement to acquire
utility Energa SA for 7.53 billion zloty.  ‘Critical Mass’  “The M&A market has now reached certain critical mass and
will keep growing,” Rozen said. “Poland started to be very
well perceived after it was the only country in the European
Union to keep expanding during the crisis.”  Poland, the largest of the European Union’s eastern
members, was the only one of the bloc’s 27 countries to avoid a
recession last year. The country’s GDP grew during each quarter
of 2009 for an annual increase of 1.7 percent. The  government
forecast  the economy will expand to 1.72 trillion zloty in 2013
from 1.41 trillion zloty this year.  EFG Eurobank Ergasias SA  of Greece is looking for investors
for its Polbank unit, while Germany’s  WestLB AG  and  Allianz SE 
agreed to sell their banking businesses in the country this
year. Foreign-owned lenders held 63 percent of the industry’s
total assets at the end of 2009, according to figures provided
by Poland’s  financial regulator .  Government Selling Assets  “I expect further rationalization on the Polish banking
market next year, which will lead to more deals,” Rozen said.
It’s possible that Portugal’s fiscal woes will lead  Banco
Comercial Portugues SA  to sell  Bank Millennium SA , he said.
 Commerzbank AG  and  KBC Groep NV  also may seek buyers for their
respective units,  BRE Bank SA  and  Kredyt Bank SA .  Another driver behind the increase in transactions is the
government, which is selling stakes under a 55 billion-zloty
program that ends in 2013. By March, the government plans to
sell its third-largest utility,  Enea SA , that’s valued at 10.6
billion zloty at current stock exchange prices.  KPMG estimates the sale of Polkomtel SA, Poland’s largest
mobile phone company valued at 12 billion zloty to 16 billion
zloty, may be the biggest transaction in 2011. Four Polish
owners and the U.K.’s  Vodafone Group Plc , which has a 24 percent
stake in Polkomtel, plan to complete the deal in the first half.  “We’ll sure have a lot of work,” Rozen said, adding that
KPMG “hopes” to take part in seven transactions next year. The
company entered the Polish market 12 years ago.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Maciej Martewicz  in Warsaw at 
 mmartewicz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Gomez at   jagomez@bloomberg.net  