-- Repsol Seeks to Raise as Much as $2.4 Billion in Argentine Unit Share Sale
-- B y   R o d r i g o   O r i h u e l a
-- 2010-11-29T19:00:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-28/repsol-plans-to-raise-as-much-as-2-4-billion-in-ypf-share-sale.html
Repsol YPF SA , Spain’s largest oil
company, plans to raise as much as $2.36 billion through the
sale of a 15 percent stake in its Argentine YPF SA unit as it
seeks to reduce its holdings in the Latin American nation.  Repsol, based in Madrid, will sell as many as 59.9 million
shares of YPF in New York as American depositary receipts, to be
priced at a maximum of $39.93 each, according to a U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission filing from Buenos Aires-
based YPF after the market closed on Nov. 26. The size and
timing of the sale will depend on “market appetite,” Repsol
spokesman  Kristian Rix  said in an e-mailed statement.  Repsol  owns  84 percent of YPF and wants to reduce its stake
“sooner rather than later,” Chief Executive Officer  Antonio Brufau  said April 29. The Spanish company is seeking to cut its
stake to about 51 percent as Argentine oil fields mature and the
company boosts spending on prospects located off Brazil.  Another 15.4 percent of YPF, Argentina’s largest crude
producer, is owned by the billionaire Eskenazi family, the
unit’s operator. The Eskenazis have an option to buy another 10
percent of YPF by 2012 and may exercise it as early as next
month, a person familiar with the situation said Nov. 16.  YPF is planning to return to global markets for the first
time since 1998 by selling as much as $600 million worth of
bonds, the company  said  earlier this month.  ‘Increase Liquidity’  “We are selling some YPF shares to increase their
liquidity, and the size and timing of the share sale will depend
on market appetite,”  Rix  said in a response to questions.  Repsol fell 54 cents, or 2.9 percent to 18.29 euros at 5:30
p.m. in Madrid. The stock is little changed this year, compared
with a 21.9 percent decline for Spain’s benchmark Ibex 35 index.  Repsol  is seeking to develop the offshore Guara and Carioca
fields in Brazil, located near Rio de Janeiro-based Petroleo
Brasileiro SA’s Tupi field, one of the largest discoveries in
the Western Hemisphere since Mexico’s Cantarell in 1976.  YPF’s crude production rose in the first nine months of
this year, the first gain in the period since 2003. Prior to
this year, YPF’s annual oil and gas output fell every year since
1999, except in 2003. The biggest decline was in 2002, when
Argentina had its worst economic recession on record.  YPF may  spend  $3 billion to $3.5 billion a year to boost
operations in Brazil, Colombia, Mexico and Canada, Chief
Executive Officer  Sebastian Eskenazi  said in a May interview in
New York. Overseas sales will account for 50 percent of total
revenue in 10 years, up from 30 percent now, he said.  Biggest in Argentina  YPF, the biggest Argentina-based  company  by market value
and the country’s largest employer, produces and processes about
50 percent of the South American nation’s oil and controls about
as much of the domestic fuel market.  China Petrochemical Corp., the country’s second-largest oil
and gas producer, is investing $7.1 billion in Repsol’s
Brazilian unit. Sinopec Group, as the company is known, will buy
new shares in the Brazilian unit and hold 40 percent of that
division after the capital increase,  Repsol  said Oct. 1  Repsol wants to invest in exploration in Brazil’s offshore
Santos Basin and elsewhere to increase reserves and output. The
company forecasts annual production growth of as much as 4
percent through 2014 as projects in Brazil and Peru come on
stream. Repsol plans to invest a total of 28.5 billion euros in
the period.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Rodrigo Orihuela  in Buenos Aires at 
 rorihuela@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net . 