-- Rio Police, Army Take Over Crime Stronghold as Traffickers Hide in Slums
-- B y   C a r l o s   C a m i n a d a   a n d   F r a n c i s c o   M a r c e l i n o
-- 2010-11-28T14:57:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-28/rio-police-army-take-over-crime-stronghold-as-traffickers-hide-in-slums.html
Rio de Janeiro police and armed
forces are occupying the city’s biggest crime stronghold after
two days of shootings as traffickers hide within the besieged
cluster of slums.  Hundreds of police are searching the 30,000 houses in the
dozen hillside shanty towns known as  Complexo do Alemao  as
civilians walk past Army tanks and soldiers. People waved white
flags to celebrate the occupation. One banner saying “Peace”
hanged from a window near an Army checkpoint. The 2,600-strong
security force in the area includes 800 soldiers patrolling 44
access points to prevent criminals from escaping.  “We won and brought freedom to the population of Alemao,”
Military Police General Commander Mario Sergio Duarte said on
TV. “There isn’t a single place that we won’t search.”  The biggest security operation in Brazil’s history ends
three decades of drug traffickers’ control in Complexo do Alemao
and is part of a drive to restore order in Rio slums, or
favelas, ahead of the 2014 soccer World Cup and the 2016 summer
Olympics. More than 21,000 police are securing the streets.
Gangs set about 100  cars and buses  on fire across the city in
the past week and the conflict has claimed at least 35 lives.  The Rio de Janeiro state government has restored security
at 15 favelas in the past two years and set up 12 police
departments in these communities.  Fifty Cent  Some drug-trafficking leaders surrendered, Military Police
spokesman Colonel Henrique Lima Castro told reporters today,
without disclosing numbers. Authorities have sent 20 drug
traffic leaders to a maximum security prison in Brazil’s
southern Parana state in the past few days.  The mother of 25-year-old trafficker Diego Raimundo Santos,
nicknamed ‘50’ because he’s a fan of U.S. rapper Fifty Cent,
said yesterday she convinced him to surrender and followed him
to a nearby police department.  “I’ve never accepted my son’s involvement in this thing,”
Nilsa Maria dos Santos told TV reporters.  In the southern  beachside neighborhoods  of Ipanema and
Copacabana, tourists and residents took to the sand to play
volleyball, sunbathe and swim after the number of attacks on
cars across Rio fell to four yesterday, down from 11 the day
before and 45 on Nov. 25. The attacks included two cars set on
fire in Ipanema and Copacabana two days ago.  Mountains including the Corcovado, where the Christ the
Redeemer statue stands, separate the city’s wealthiest
neighborhoods from the northern area where Complexo do Alemao is
located.  ‘Elite Squad’  Rio’s Special Police Operations Squad, also known as Bope,
started moving into Complexo do Alemao two days ago under
gunfire after occupying neighboring Vila Cruzeiro the previous
day. Hundreds of criminals from Vila Cruzeiro had fled to
Complexo do Alemao.  Bope, depicted by Brazilian director  Jose Padilha  in his
2007 film “Elite Squad” and a sequel released this year, is
using military weaponry including snipers and  Navy tanks  to
overpower the traffickers.  Officers have arrested more than 200 people in raids,
seizing homemade bombs, grenades, guns, military weapons,
dynamite and bottles filled with gasoline, police said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Carlos Caminada  in Rio de Janeiro at 
 ccaminada1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Francisco Marcelino in Sao Paulo at 
 mdeoliveira@bloomberg.net  