-- Roger Federer Beats Rafael Nadal to Win Fifth ATP Finals Trophy
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2010-11-28T19:51:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-28/roger-federer-beats-no-1-rafael-nadal-at-atp-s-year-ending-tennis-finals.html
Roger Federer  beat  Rafael Nadal  in
three sets to win the  ATP World Tour Finals  for a fifth time.  The second-ranked Swiss defeated the top-ranked Nadal 6-3,
3-6, 6-1 at the O2 arena in London. Federer is the first man
since  Ivan Lendl  and  Pete Sampras  to have won the year-end
championship five times.  “Thanks very much for a standing ovation,” Federer told
the crowd at the trophy presentation after he had won the title
with a forehand on the line for his 32nd winner. Nadal had 11
winners. “I really enjoyed playing here this week.”  Although Federer trails Nadal 14-8 in career meetings, he’s
now won all of their three matches played on indoor courts. He
also beat his Spanish rival at the ATP semifinals in 2006 and
2007 when the event was held in Shanghai.  “Congratulations Roger, you played unbelievable during all
the week, well done for everything,” Nadal said.  Nadal leaves London after his most successful season,
during which the lefthander from Majorca won the French Open,
Wimbledon and became the youngest man since tennis turned
professional in 1968 to win all four majors with his first
trophy at the U.S. Open in September.  Federer, 29, started the season with a record-extending
16th Grand Slam title after he beat fifth-ranked  Andy Murray  at
the finals of the  Australian Open . He lost his top-ranking to
Nadal in June after he was defeated in the quarterfinals of
Roland Garros by  Robin Soderling  of Sweden, a loss that ended
his record streak of 23 consecutive Grand Slam semifinals
appearances.  Earlier Losses  At  Wimbledon , six-time champion Federer was ousted from the
quarterfinals by  Tomas Berdych  of the Czech Republic. After
hiring  Paul Annacone , who used to work with Sampras, as his
coach shortly after Wimbledon, Federer reached the semifinals of
the U.S. Open, where he lost to third-ranked  Novak Djokovic  of
Serbia despite holding two match points.  Federer had an easier path to the London finals than Nadal.
The righthander needed only 79 minutes to ease past Djokovic, 6-
1, 6-4 last night. After the match, the Serb said Federer may
have been playing his best tennis of the season.  Nadal, 24, had advanced to the title match in London by
defeating Britain’s  Murray , 7-6 (7-5), 3-6, 7-6 (8-6) in a match
that lasted three hours, 10 minutes yesterday.  Watched by a sellout crowd of 17,500 spectators including
Rolling Stone band member  Ronnie Wood , actor  Kevin Spacey  and
French soccer star  Thierry Henry , Federer dominated the rallies
against Nadal in the first set. He created his first break
chance with a forehand winner in the eighth game, taking it for
a 5-3 lead with a backhand crosscourt winner to Nadal’s forehand
side. Another forehand, his 14th winner, handed the Swiss the
first set.  The Spaniard, who only produced two winners in the first
set, improved in the second. He broke serve for a 3-1 lead as
Federer struggled to get a first serve in. Nadal tied the score
at one set all as Federer failed to pick up a forehand aimed at
his feet as he rushed to the net.  Final Set  In the final set, Nadal failed to hold serve at 2-1 down in
spite of holding two game points. Instead, Federer attacked his
serve, breaking for a 3-1 lead as Nadal sent a forehand wide.
Nadal continued to struggle, also losing next service game.
Serving for his fifth title at 5-1, Federer screamed and raised
both arms as he won the match.  It was only the second time Nadal and Federer have played
each other this year. The Spaniard beat Federer in straight sets
in the final of the Madrid Masters clay court tournament in May.  Before today, the two had last met in London in July 2008,
when Nadal defeated Federer in five sets at Wimbledon in what
seven-time Grand Slam singles champion  John McEnroe  called the
greatest match he’d ever seen.  In the doubles final, Canada’s  Daniel Nestor  and  Nenad Zimonjic  of Serbia beat India’s  Mahesh Bhupathi  and  Max Mirnyi 
of Belarus, 7-6(8-6), 6-4.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Danielle Rossingh  at the O2 arena through the London sports
desk at   drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  