-- Truste Aims to Safeguard Mobile World From Application Scammers
-- B y   R y a n   F l i n n
-- 2010-11-28T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-28/truste-aims-to-safeguard-mobile-world-from-application-scammers.html
After more than a decade of
certifying that websites were safeguarding users’ privacy,
 Truste Inc.  is moving into an area that it says is even riskier:
mobile-phone applications.  People take their phones for granted, says Chris Babel,
chief executive officer of San Francisco-based Truste. The
trouble is, mobile applications can tap into the phone’s
capabilities to monitor your every move. “With the wrong app,
you realize that it’s a GPS tracking device,” he said.  Truste, which began as a nonprofit in 1997 and then
switched to a for-profit business two years ago, wants to
reassure users that apps are safe -- while opening up a
lucrative new market for itself. It announced plans in September
to sell certificates to companies that vouch for an app’s
privacy protection. Truste has since signed up more than a dozen
customers, including GoDaddy.com Inc., Weather Channel
Interactive Inc. and Yelp Inc.  Until now, Truste and rivals such as  Symantec Corp.  and
 VeriSign Inc.  have focused on personal-computer websites. The
companies offer seals of approval that customers place on their
sites -- something like a Better Business Bureau certificate --
to show that consumers can safely shop there and share their
personal information.  Mobile Scams  The growth of smartphones and mobile apps has attracted
scammers, who once stuck mostly to PCs, said  Maribel Lopez ,
founder of San Francisco-based  Lopez Research LLC , which tracks
the mobile industry. That includes phishers, who try to coax
people into revealing personal information by making a message
or website look like it came from a real company, such as a
bank.  “The people that do malware, or phishing, haven’t been
bothering with mobile to the same extent as they had with other
PC platforms,” she said. “Well, all that’s changing now,
because everyone has a mobile device, if not several.”  More than a third of Americans now access the Internet on
their mobile phones, according to an October survey by the
 National Cyber Security Alliance  and Symantec. Less than half of
respondents said they felt very or somewhat safe. Almost a
quarter said they used apps that track their location,
and 12 percent regularly use their mobile phones for banking.  While Truste provides a seal of approval for an app’s
privacy policies, it doesn’t offer a guarantee of security. That
means a user’s credit card could still be stolen. It also isn’t
alone in verifying that apps protect users.  Apple Inc. , which
runs the biggest app store, does its own vetting of software
developers.  Apple’s Approval  “We have a very thorough approval process and review every
app,” said  Natalie Harrison , a spokeswoman for Cupertino,
California-based Apple. “We also check the identities of every
developer and if we ever find anything malicious, the developer
will be removed from the iPhone Developer Program and their apps
can be removed from the App Store.”  Apple has more than 300,000 apps, and users have downloaded
more than 7 billion of them to their iPhones, iPod Touches and
iPads, Harrison said.  Microsoft Corp.  and Google Inc., which also run app stores,
have their own approaches. Microsoft uses a multistep process
that requires app publishers to get their identity verified,
said  Todd Brix , a senior director at the company. Then Microsoft
reviews and tests the app for five days before publishing it.  ‘Self-Signed Code’  Symantec provides the identify verification and code-
signing  certificates  for Microsoft, through a business it
purchased from VeriSign this year for $1.28 billion.  “That’s what we believe is good practice,” said Tim
Callan, head of Symantec’s trust-services product marketing. The
store for Google’s Android apps doesn’t require that, he said.  “The Android platform allows what we call self-signed
code,” meaning the app publishers themselves vouch for it,
Callan said. That makes it more vulnerable to outside attacks,
he said. “That is a bad model, an untrustworthy model.”  Randall Sarafa , a spokesman for Mountain View, California-
based  Google , declined to comment.  Certain types of apps are riskier than others, said Mandeep
Khera, chief marketing officer of Santa Clara, California-based
 Cenzic Inc. , a seller of security software for Web applications.  “It’s OK to play games,” he said. “But when you’re
dealing with your personal finances, and very confidential
information that hackers are drooling over, I would stay away
from those applications for now.”  Scanning Software  Some apps promise to scan programs on phones for
potentially harmful software. Symantec’s  Norton Mobile Security 
app, for instance, works with Android. The free program has been
downloaded 40,000 times.  San Francisco-based  Lookout Inc. , which has raised more
than $15 million since its founding a year ago, also offers such
an app. It works on Android, BlackBerry and Windows Mobile
phones. The company has more than 3 million registered users.  Truste may be able to carve out its own niche, so long as
it can assure users that apps keep tight control over their
personal information, said Chenxi Wang, an analyst at Cambridge,
Massachusetts-based Forrester Research Inc.  “There is a value to be added there,” she said.  Babel, who was named CEO of Truste almost a year ago, came
from VeriSign’s worldwide authentication services business.
Truste will generate $10 million or more in revenue this year,
he said.  The closely held company, which raised $12 million in
funding in June, will continue to provide seals to websites.
Prices for certification seals depend on the size of the
organization, and can range from $500 to more than $100,000,
Babel said. Truste has certified 3,000 websites.  Yelp, a review site for local businesses, signed up for
Truste’s app certificate because it gives users an easier way to
see its privacy policy, said company spokeswoman  Stephanie Ichinose . Among other things, its policy prohibits unauthorized
access of users’ data.  “It helps people understand pretty clearly and quickly,”
she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ryan Flinn  in San Francisco at 
 rflinn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  