-- Saudi Petrochemical Makers to Take India Polypropylene Duty Dispute to WTO
-- B y   W a e l   M a h d i
-- 2010-11-28T15:26:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-28/saudi-petrochemical-manufacturers-plan-to-take-indian-duty-dispute-to-wto.html
Saudi Basic Industries Corp. , the
world’s biggest petrochemical maker, plans to ask the World
Trade Organization to pressure India to lift an anti-dumping
duty it imposed on Saudi polypropylene, an official said.  India last week levied a duty of 6.5 percent per ton on
Saudi exports of polypropylene products, in an effort to protect
its own producers of the chemical. Other Saudi manufacturers
affected by the duty include  Advanced Petrochemicals Co.  and
 National Industrialization Co.   “This is an unjust decision by India, and we can’t
tolerate it,” Abdulrahman al-Zamil, a trade representative 
for Saudi petrochemical makers, said today in a telephone 
interview. “The next stop for Saudi petrochemical producers 
will be the World Trade Organization.” Al-Zamil heads the Riaydh
-based Export Development Center, which promotes Saudi exports other
than crude oil.  He said the Indian decision will not have a great financial
impact on the kingdom’s producers, as total petrochemical
exports from Saudi Arabia to India amount to what he described
as a “modest” $200 million a year. Saudi suppliers can easily
shift their exports to China and other markets to avoid losses,
he said.  The kingdom’s largest markets for non-oil products in terms
of value in the second quarter of 2010 were the United Arab
Emirates followed by China, Singapore, and then India, according
to the government’s  central department of statistics .  “The only people who are going to be seriously damaged now
from this decision are the 600,000 Indian manufacturers who are
looking forward to importing cheap polypropylene from Saudi
Arabia,” al-Zamil said.  ‘Lucrative’ Markets  Saudi polypropylene makers only began exporting to India a
few years ago, and the duty will hinder producers from expanding
sales there, he said, adding that the Indian market has
promising potential. Saudi Arabia’s  Al-Rajhi bank  said in a
report issued in August that India, together with China and
Brazil, has “huge underserved petrochemicals markets” that
offer a “lucrative” opportunity for Saudi suppliers.  The Chinese government, after a yearlong investigation,
decided last month not to impose anti-dumping duties on Saudi
methanol producers.  “We had so many claims against us in the past from many
countries such as Turkey and China, and not a single country was
able to prove that Saudi petrochemical makers were dumping their
products in their markets,” al-Zamil said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Wael Mahdi  in Khobar   wmahdi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  