-- Virility, Mental Ability Restored in Aged Mice in Gene Study, Nature Says
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 2010-11-28T18:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-28/scientists-restore-virility-mental-might-in-aged-mice-in-study.html
Scientists have reversed signs of
aging in mice by manipulating a gene crucial to the health of
chromosomes that wither over time, suggesting new routes to
treatments for age-related conditions.  Researchers started by breeding mice with tissue damage and
signs of advanced age, including dysfunctional  telomeres  that
sit on the ends of chromosomes and protect them from
degeneration. The mice had shriveled testes, atrophied spleens,
damaged intestines and shrunken brains. The scientists then
activated the rodents’ dormant telomerase gene, which makes the
enzyme needed for healthy telomeres, and monitored the animals,
according to the study published today in the journal  Nature .  The experiment reversed infertility in the mice, restored
their sense of smell, improved brain function and led to longer
life. The findings suggest a potential path to therapies for
syndromes marked by premature aging and damaged telomeres,
though any human use remains years in the future, said  Ronald A. DePinho , senior author of the paper and director of applied
cancer science at the Boston-based  Dana-Farber Cancer Institute .  “When we flipped the telomerase switch on and looked a
month later, the brains had largely returned to normal,” said
DePinho, professor of genetics at Harvard Medical School. “It
was akin to a  Ponce de Leon  effect,” he said, referring to the
Spanish explorer who scoured Florida for the fountain of youth.  Damage to the telomeres causes cells to stop dividing, stem
cells to become dormant, organs to atrophy and brain cells to
die, the researchers said. Reinvigorating them may allow the
body to revive stem cells, rejuvenate tissue and maintain good
health during the aging process, DePinho said.  The mice had increased levels of telomerase, longer
telomeres, new neurons and additional protection around their
nerve cells, the study found. The  National Institutes of Health 
and the Belfer Foundation helped fund the research.  It’s not yet clear whether manipulating the telomerase gene
may ease the signs and symptoms of normal aging, DePinho said in
a statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michelle Fay Cortez  in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  