-- Lee Vows to Make North Korea Pay for Military Attack as China Urges Talks
-- B y   B o m i   L i m   a n d   S u n g w o o   P a r k
-- 2010-11-29T08:46:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-28/south-korea-resists-china-calls-for-talks-as-naval-drills-begin.html
South Korean President  Lee Myung Bak 
vowed to make  Kim Jong Il ’s regime pay for military attacks
as China sought talks to defuse tension on the Korean peninsula.  “It’s become clear that more patience and tolerance only
leads to bigger provocations,” Lee said today in a national
address from Seoul in which he apologized for the government’s
weak response to the Nov. 23 shelling. “North Korea will be
made to pay for any further provocation no matter what.”  South Korea has doubled its artillery strength on the
disputed island of Yeonpyeong that was hit by shells fired from
North Korea last week, and asked journalists to leave, Yonhap
News reported. The North Koreans have installed surface-to-air
missiles in the area, it said. South Korea’s defense ministry
declined to comment on the reports today.  “Emergency” discussions involving the two Koreas, China,
the U.S., Russia and Japan should be held next month in Beijing,
 Wu Dawei , China’s top envoy, said yesterday. The time isn’t
right for a meeting, Lee told visiting Chinese State Councilor
 Dai Bingguo  the same day in Seoul, Yonhap said.  “The six-party talks cannot substitute for action by North
Korea to comply with its obligations,” Nicholas J.C. Snyder, a
spokesman at the U.S. Embassy in Beijing, said in an emailed
response to questions today. “Clear steps by North Korea are
needed to demonstrate a change of behavior.”  Shock Absorbed  The Korean won rose 0.6 percent to 1,152.46 won per dollar
at the 3 p.m. market close in Seoul, after dropping as much as
0.4 percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
benchmark  Kospi index  fell 0.3 percent.  The shock to financial markets has been mostly absorbed,
South Korea’s Finance Minister  Yoon Jeun Hyun  said today.
Moody’s Investors Service said in an e-mailed statement that
geopolitical risk has already been taken into account in
assessing South Korea’s credit ratings.  South Korea will consider China’s proposal for talks “very
cautiously,” the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade in Seoul
said in a commentary posted on its  website . Ministry spokesman
Kim Young Sun told reporters today that the government won’t
endorse “talks for the sake of talks.”  More than 80 percent of South Koreans said their government
should have displayed a “stronger military response,”
according to a survey by the Seoul-based  Asan Institute for
Policy Studies . The Nov. 27 telephone poll of 1,000 people aged
19 or older had a margin of error of 3.1 percentage points.  Willing to Risk War  While 65 percent of respondents said they opposed war, 33
percent said they were willing to risk one in delivering a
strong military response to further provocations by North Korea.
About 92 percent said they were dissatisfied with China’s
reaction to the attack.  Lee visited the U.S. and South Korea combined forces
command today in central Seoul in a show of support for joint
drills this week off the peninsula’s west coast, his office said
in a statement on its website.  North Korea “will deal a merciless military counter-attack
at any provocative act of intruding into its territorial
waters,” said a Rodong newspaper commentary carried yesterday
by the North’s official Korean Central News Agency. U.S. and
South Korean warships led by the aircraft carrier USS George
Washington have begun four days of exercises in the region.  China Initiatives  In calling for the six-party talks, China wants to look
like it’s taking “some initiatives on this important matter,”
said  Li Cheng , the head of research at the John L. Thornton
China Center at the Brookings Institution in Washington.  Residents of Yeonpyeong, where the artillery bombardment by
the North also left 20 people injured, were temporarily ordered
to take refuge in bomb shelters yesterday after more firing was
heard on the North Korean mainland.  U.S. Admiral  Michael Mullen , chairman of the Joint Chiefs
of Staff, said the U.S. is trying to prevent tensions from
escalating into a more significant confrontation.  “We’re very focused on restraint and not letting this
thing get out of control,” Mullen told CNN in an interview.  The U.S. is also concerned that North Korea presents a
proliferation threat. Secret American intelligence assessments
have concluded that Iran obtained 19 advanced missiles from
North Korea, the New York Times reported, citing diplomatic
cables obtained by Wikileaks and made available to the
newspaper.  Cheonan Sinking  The shelling of Yeonpyeong revived tensions that flared
after an international inquiry concluded that North Korea
torpedoed the South Korean warship Cheonan in March.  The naval drills, which include four smaller American
warships as well as the George Washington, six South Korean
vessels, jets, helicopters and more than 7,000 personnel, are
“defensive in nature” the U.S. military said. They were
initially planned before the shelling of Yeonpyeong.  The nuclear-powered carrier, which holds about 75 aircraft,
was last in waters off the Korean Peninsula in July as part of
drills after the Cheonan’s sinking, which killed 46 sailors.  China’s Xinhua News Agency said  Choe Tae Bok , chairman of
North Korea’s Supreme People’s Assembly, will visit China from
Nov. 30 to Dec. 4.  Shipping was warned to avoid an area of the Yellow Sea
parallel to China’s northeastern city of Qingdao while gunnery
exercises take place until Dec. 3, according to the U.S.
 National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency . Qingdao lies about 615
kilometers (382 miles) west of Seoul and the designated area is
in the middle of the sea between the two countries.  China’s Foreign Ministry warned against holding the
exercises in China’s 200 kilometer “exclusive economic zone”
without its authorization, Xinhua reported. The Pentagon
reiterated that the U.S. military notified China of the planned
exercise in keeping with past practice.  The western sea border, demarcated by the UN after the war
and never accepted by North Korea, was the scene of deadly naval
skirmishes in 1999 and 2002.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sungwoo Park in Seoul at 
 spark47@bloomberg.net ;
Bomi Lim in Seoul at 
 blim30@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Bill Austin at 
 billaustin@bloomberg.net ;
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  