-- U.S. State Department Says Planned WikiLeaks Release Will Endanger Lives
-- B y   R i c h a r d   F r o s t
-- 2010-11-28T14:48:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-28/u-s-state-department-says-wikileaks-release-to-endanger-lives.html
The U.S. State Department warned
WikiLeaks founder  Julian Assange  that the planned release of
government documents will endanger the lives of “countless
individuals” and threaten cooperation with allied countries.  WikiLeaks has provided The New York Times, The Guardian and
Der Spiegel newspapers with about 250,000 documents for
publication, State Department Legal Adviser  Harold Koh  wrote in
an e-mail yesterday to Assange’s attorney Jennifer Robinson.  The Pentagon last week warned the U.S. Senate and House
Armed Services Committees that the website  WikiLeaks.org 
“intends to release several hundred thousand” classified U.S.
State Department cables.  Publication of classified documents would “place at risk
the lives of countless innocent individuals” from journalists
to soldiers; threaten ongoing military operations; and undermine
“cooperation between countries,” the U.S. State Department
said according to its e-mail.  The State Department will “not engage in negotiation”
regarding a request by Assange to provide information on
individuals who may be “at significant risk of harm” because
of the publications’ release.  “Despite your stated desire to protect those lives, you
have done the opposite and endangered the lives of countless
individuals,” Koh wrote.  The State Department demanded Assange return classified
U.S. government documents leaked to the website and purge all
copies from the organization’s records.  Advance Access  “If any of the materials you intend to publish were
provided by any government officials, or any intermediary
without proper authorization, they were provided in violation of
U.S. law,” Koh wrote. “As long as WikiLeaks holds such
material, the violation of the law is ongoing.”  Assange said today the planned release will cover “every
major issue” in the world today, Agence France-Presse reported.  “The material that we are about to release covers
essentially every major issue in every country in the world,”
AFP cited Assange as saying in Jordan by a video link.  The New York Times, The Guardian and Der Spiegel were given
advance access to two earlier WikiLeaks releases of U.S.
military documents: almost 400,000 related to the Iraq war dated
between 2003 and 2010 and about 75,000 from the same period on
the Afghanistan war. The Iraq documents were published Oct. 22
and the Afghanistan documents July 25.  National Security Risk  When the Iraq documents were released, a Pentagon
spokesman, Marine Colonel  David Lapan , described them as “raw
observations from the tactical level of combat operations” and
said their publication posed a risk to national security.  State Department spokesman  Philip J. Crowley  said Nov. 23
that the U.S. was preparing for the release of additional
classified documents. The department is “assessing the possible
impact on our on-going diplomatic activity and notifying both
Congress and other governments what may occur,”
he said.  Launched in 2007, WikiLeaks receives confidential material
that governments and business want to keep secret and posts the
information on the Internet “so readers and historians alike
can see evidence of the truth,” the group says on its website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Richard Frost  at 
 rfrost4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  