-- Yields Converge in Moscow With VTB Seeking Bank Acquisition: Russia Credit
-- B y   J a s o n   W e b b   a n d   M a r i a   L e v i t o v
-- 2010-11-29T15:47:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-28/yields-converge-in-moscow-with-vtb-seeking-stake-russia-credit.html
Growing expectations for bank
consolidation in Russia are driving yields on Bank of Moscow
bonds to the lowest in 11 weeks compared with VTB Group.  The gap between five-year yields on Bank of Moscow and VTB
bonds shrank 19 basis points, or 0.19 percentage point, to 40.6
basis points since Finance Minister  Alexei Kudrin  said the
purchase of Moscow city government’s 46 percent stake by VTB is
“under discussion” on Nov. 24. Home Credit & Finance Bank
bonds traded within 30 basis points of an all-time low yield
relative to OAO Sberbank after reports the nation’s biggest bank
and VTB, the No. 2, were seeking to buy the Moscow-based lender.  Bonds of smaller Russian banks are converging with larger
lenders as the government pursues a goal announced by Kudrin
last year to cut the number of banks by 50 percent to about 500
by lifting capital requirements. The purchase of a stake in Bank
of Moscow by VTB may be the largest acquisition ever of a
Russian bank, according to  Leonid Slipchenko , an analyst at
UralSib Financial Corp. in Moscow, who estimates the deal will
be worth more than 80 billion rubles ($2.6 billion).  “It’s natural smaller banks will consolidate as the credit
markets tighten up and as the cost of capital goes up,” said
Tom Mundy, chief strategist at Otkritie Financial Corp. in
Moscow, said by phone on Nov. 26. “Consolidation of the banking
sector is necessary.”  Investors are braced for an increase in Russian bank
mergers and acquisitions after the value of takeovers fell to
$180 million so far this year from $3.8 billion in 2009,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Brazilian bank mergers
this year total $5.7 billion and deals in China amounted to $14
billion, the data show.  Orient Express  The number of lenders in Russia has shrunk to 1,030 from
1,106 at the start of 2009, according to central bank data.  Baring Vostok Capital Partners, a private equity firm based
in Moscow, agreed to buy 30 percent of Orient Express Bank OJSC,
a lender based near the Russia-China border in Khabarovsk,
Vedomosti reported on Nov. 25, citing  Michael Calvey , a senior
partner at Baring Vostok, and Orient Express Chairman  Sergey Vlasov .  Sberbank in Moscow is seeking to buy a one-third stake of
Moscow-based Troika Dialog, the oldest Russian investment bank,
for $500 million, RBC Daily reported on October 1, citing people
it didn’t identify.  MDM Bank completed its merger with Ursa Bank in August in a
deal that created the second-largest private bank in Russia.
Otkritie Financial Corp., the brokerage 20 percent owned by
Moscow-based VTB, said in July it is seeking to raise as much as
$375 million in an initial public offering to fund further
acquisitions.  ‘Early Stage’  VTB said in a statement on Oct. 5 that it plans to buy a
controlling stake of Moscow-based  OAO TransCreditBank  from
Russian Railways and minority shareholders by the end of the
year.  VTB Chief Executive Officer  Andrei Kostin  declined to
comment on acquisition talks. A Bank of Moscow official also
declined comment and asked not to be named in accordance with
company policy.  “The potential deal with VTB bank is at a very early
stage” so “if it happens, it won’t be this year,” Deputy
Finance Minister  Alexei Savatyugin  told reporters in Moscow on
Nov. 26. “It could be the biggest merger in the banking sector
in recent years.”  Gains in Bank of Moscow 2015 dollar bonds reduced the yield
by 12 basis points to 6.06 percent since Nov. 23. The VTB bond
yield was little changed at 5.7 percent.  Extra Yield  A fall in Russia government dollar bonds due in 2020
increased the yield by 2 basis points today to 4.98 percent. The
country’s ruble notes due August 2016 fell, pushing the yield up
1 basis point to 7.4 percent.  The extra yield investors demand to hold Russian debt
rather than U.S. Treasuries rose 24 basis points to 244,
according to JPMorgan Chase & Co. EMBI+ indexes. The difference
compares with 152 for debt of similarly rated Mexico and 188 for
Brazil, which is ranked two steps lower at Baa3 by Moody’s.  The  yield   spread  on Russian bonds is 27 basis points below
the average for emerging markets, down from a 15-month high of
105 in February, according to JPMorgan indexes.  The cost of protecting Russian debt against non-payment for
five years using credit-default swaps rose 13 basis points to
173, according to data provider CMA. The contracts pay the buyer
face value in exchange for the underlying securities or the cash
equivalent should a government or company fail to adhere to its
debt agreements.  Negative Outlook  Credit-default swaps for Russia, rated Baa1 by Moody’s
Investors Service, its third-lowest investment grade rating,
cost 24 basis points more than the same contracts for Turkey,
which is rated four levels lower at Ba2. Russia swaps  cost  as
much as 40 basis points less on April 20.  The ruble rose 0.2 percent to 31.3575 per dollar. Non-
deliverable forwards, or NDFs, which provide a guide to
expectations of currency movements and interest rate
differentials and allow companies to hedge against currency
movements, show the ruble at 31.7425 per dollar in three months.  VTB would need to buy a stake from the government of Moscow
and additional shares from New York-based Goldman Sachs Group
Inc., Credit Suisse Group AG of Zurich or the bank’s management,
Trust Investment Bank in Moscow said in a research note on Nov.
26.  Bank of Moscow, which is  rated Baa1  by Moody’s Investors
Service, the third-lowest investment grade rating and the same
level as VTB, had its ranking outlook cut to negative by Fitch
Ratings on Sept. 29, the day after Russian President  Dmitry Medvedev  fired  Yury Luzhkov  as Moscow mayor. Fitch cited concern
that companies affiliated with the Luzhkov administration that
had backed the bank may no longer provide support.  Zero Spread  “Should the deal with VTB go ahead, the spreads to VTB
might tighten close to zero level,” said  Marina Vlasenko , a
credit analyst at Commerzbank AG in London. “Given the very
strong credit profile of Bank of Moscow we do not see any
downsides for VTB in the deal.”  Both banks are facing higher borrowing costs than lower
rated lenders in Brazil. State-run Banco do Brasil’s 2015 dollar
bonds, ranked two levels lower than VTB and Bank of Moscow at
Baa3, yielded 3.25 percent today.  The yield on Bank of Moscow’s 2013 Eurobonds dropped 32
basis points below similar-maturity Eurobonds from OAO
Gazprombank today, from 40 basis points more on Oct. 29. The
lender part-owned by OAO Gazprom, the world’s largest natural
gas producer,  is rated Baa3 , the lowest investment-grade level,
by Moody’s.  License Revoked  Russia’s largest 30 banks have more than 70 percent of
market share and further consolidation may reduce
competitiveness within the industry, said  Richard Hainsworth ,
head of RusRating, an independent bank-rating company in Moscow.  “It’s not necessarily a good thing that a smaller number
of larger banks control a larger share of the market,”
Hainsworth said in a phone interview in Moscow. “There should
be big banks, small banks and medium-sized lenders. The market
and the customer should decide on the optimum number and it’s
not right for economic theoreticians to suggest the right number
of banks.”  Russia’s central bank revoked the license of Moscow-based
ZAO International Industrial Bank on Oct. 5, three months after
the lender controlled by lawmaker  Sergei Pugachyov  defaulted on
foreign currency bonds. Kudrin said the same day that the
government was seeking more consolidation to make the system
stronger and might revoke more licenses from weak institutions.  The outperformance by smaller banks in the bond market
narrowed the yield gap between five-year bonds of Moscow-based
Nomos Bank and Sberbank to 285 basis points today from 320 on
Nov. 4. The yield spread between Home Credit & Finance Bank’s
2011 dollar bond and Sberbank’s 2013 Eurobond tightened to 14.5
basis points from 66 basis points on Nov. 9, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Maria Levitov  in Moscow at 
 mlevitov@bloomberg.net 
 Jason Webb  in London at 
 jwebb25@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at   gserkin@bloomberg.net .
MMBM RM <Equity>
VTBR RX <Equity> 