-- Yuan-Hungry Investors Urge Companies to Sell Dim-Sum Bonds: China Credit
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   L u i
-- 2010-11-29T09:22:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-28/yuan-hungry-investors-urge-companies-to-sell-dim-sum-bonds-china-credit.html
Chinese bonds sold in Hong Kong are
in such short supply that banks and fund managers helping manage
record yuan savings are approaching potential issuers and asking
them to offer more renminbi debt.  Hong Kong’s pool of yuan  deposits  more than doubled to 149
billion yuan ($21 billion) in the six months through September,
according to the city’s monetary authority. The amount compares
with less than 41 billion yuan of so-called dim sum bonds,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Demand for the debt is driving down borrowing costs for
Chinese issuers at a time when the central bank is raising
interest rates to fight inflation and bonds are slumping in most
emerging nations. The yield on China’s one-year Treasury bond in
the offshore market dropped 26 basis points in the past three
months to 1.48 percent as of Nov. 26, while the yield on similar
onshore debt jumped 54 basis points to 2.49 percent.  “The biggest problem facing the offshore yuan bond market
is supply,” said  Emil Nguy , chairman of Income Partners Asset
Management (HK) Ltd., which is setting up a fund to invest in
the securities. “We are working with several banks to approach
issuers and ask them to issue the bonds. Instead of raising
funds and then waiting for the supply to come, we take a more
proactive approach.”  Targets would be limited to investment-grade issuers, Nguy,
one of two founders of the 17-year-old hedge fund, said in an
interview from Hong Kong on Nov. 23. The fund may approach
companies such as Cheung Kong Holdings Ltd., billionaire Li Ka-
shing’s holding company, Samsung Electronics Co., South Korea’s
biggest electronics manufacturer, and Reliance Industries Ltd.,
India’s largest company.  Strong Demand  China is selling 8 billion yuan of securities this week,
the government’s first sale of yuan debt in Hong Kong in more
than a year. Fund managers will be offered 5 billion yuan of
notes, with 3 billion yuan earmarked for individuals. The
Ministry of Finance’s only previous sale in Hong Kong raised 6
billion yuan in October 2009.  The yield on China’s benchmark 3.29 percent bond maturing
in September 2020 fell five basis points to 4.02 percent in
Shanghai today. Demand will be so strong in Hong Kong that China
will be able to sell 10-year offshore bonds “in the low 2
percent” range, Nguy said.  The yield on China’s 2.25 percent offshore bond due Oct.
27, 2011, rose six basis points to 1.48 percent on Nov. 26,
according to Hong Kong’s Treasury Markets Association. Similar-
maturity onshore debt added one basis point. In the past three
months, the yield on one-year Brazilian debt increased 64 basis
points to 11.98 percent and India’s climbed 72 basis points to
7.37 percent.  ‘Fertile Market’  Standard Chartered Plc is working with several funds and
issuers to spur trade in dim sum bonds, said  Sundeep Bhandari ,
the bank’s head of global markets Northeast Asia. Average daily
turnover may rise as much as six-fold to 300 million yuan by the
end of 2011, from 50 million this month, the bank estimates.  “The market is very fertile,” he said Nov. 26 in an
interview from Hong Kong. “We are planning four road-shows in
the first week of January to explain the details of these
renminbi bonds to investors.”  China Development Bank this month sold 3 billion yuan of
bonds in Hong Kong at 2.7 percent, 38 basis points cheaper than
a 20 billion yuan sale inside China in October. Caterpillar
Inc., the world’s biggest maker of construction equipment, sold
1 billion yuan of 2 percent notes due in December 2012 in the
city on Nov. 24.  Beating Deposits  Yuan bonds offer greater returns than deposits in Hong
Kong. HSBC, which controls two of the city’s three biggest
banks, offers interest of 0.71 percent on deposits of 500,000
yuan or less placed with it for 12 months. The bank forecast
this month yuan deposits will almost triple to 400 billion yuan
in three years from now.  An investor who bought China’s one-year offshore bond a
year ago would have earned a return of 2.7 percent, according to
Bloomberg calculations. Adding expectations for the yuan to gain
5 percent a year and the appeal of the debt is clear, said Nguy,
whose IP Renminbi Credit Fund is due to start trading on Dec.
16.  Haitong Securities Co.’s Hong Kong unit set up a 5
billion yuan fixed-income fund in September that invests in
offshore renminbi bonds.  Auction Failure  Onshore bonds slumped in the past month after the central
bank raised its benchmark one-year deposit rate by a quarter of
a percentage point on Oct. 19, the first  increase  since 2007, to
help contain inflation. Consumer prices rose 4.4 percent from a
year earlier in October, the biggest gain since September 2008.  The Finance Ministry failed on Nov. 26 to draw enough
demand at a bill sale for the first time since June, reflecting
a shortage of cash at banks after policy makers raised reserve
requirements twice this month. The ministry sold 11.55 billion
yuan of three-month securities, less than its 20 billion yuan
target. The average winning yield was 2.7372 percent, compared
with 2.52 percent on outstanding 91-day debt on Nov. 25.  China may sell more bills to drain cash from the financial
system as central bank data signals that the nation’s world-
record $2.65 trillion foreign-exchange reserves are climbing.
“We can sell bills to soak up liquidity,” Ma Delun, a deputy
governor at the central bank, said today, adding that other
tools included interest rates and reserve requirements.  Five-year credit-default swap contracts on Chinese
government bonds rose seven basis points to 70.5 on Nov. 26, CMA
prices in London show. They have risen 10 basis points this
month. The contracts pay the buyer face value in exchange for
the underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a
government or company fail to adhere to debt agreements.  Planned Sales  Expectations for the fastest currency gains among the so-
called BRIC nations of Brazil, Russia, India and China are also
adding to the allure of yuan assets. The yuan, which traded at
6.6647 per dollar as of 4:40 p.m. in Shanghai, has risen 2.4
percent since a two-year dollar peg ended on June 19. The
offshore rate in Hong Kong of 6.6435 was 0.3 percent stronger.
The yuan will advance 1.8 percent in 12 months to 6.5506 per
dollar, non-deliverable forwards indicate.  The currency will gain 6.3 percent by the end of 2011,
compared with 5 percent for the Indian rupee, 4.2 percent for
Russia’s ruble and a 0.2 percent decline for Brazil’s real,
according to the median estimate of analysts in Bloomberg
surveys.  International Finance Corp., the World Bank’s private
investment arm, plans to sell about 100 million yuan of five-
year bonds in Hong Kong,  Nina Shapiro , the agency’s treasurer,
said last month. United Co. Rusal, the world’s largest aluminum
producer, has met bankers to learn about the yuan-denominated
market,  Oleg Mukhamedshin , the company’s capital markets chief,
said in a Sept. 15 interview.  “It is easier, faster and cheaper to issue yuan bonds in
Hong Kong as, being a financial center, the market is more
efficient, so pricing for these bonds will be more attractive
too,” said  Suan Teck Kin , an economist at United Overseas Bank
Ltd. in Singapore. “In China, it can be tedious as you have to
jump through all the hoops on regulatory requirements.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Patricia Lui  at 
 plui4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net ; 