-- NYSE Euronext to acquire American Stock Exchange
-- By  Mark McSherry
-- Thu Jan 17, 2008 7:41pm EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2008/01/18/businesspro-amex-nyse-dc-idUSWEN346020080118

 

 NEW YORK  (Reuters) - Transatlantic exchange NYSE Euronext 
NYX.PANYX.N said on Thursday it agreed to acquire the 
American Stock Exchange (Amex) for $260 million in stock to 
boost its options business, exchange traded funds (ETFs) and 
cash products. 

  Exchanges worldwide have embarked on a consolidation spree 
to expand into new markets.  NYSE Euronext operates the New York Stock Exchange and runs 
bourses in Paris, Amsterdam, Brussels, Lisbon and operates the 
Euronext.Liffe derivatives exchange.  Both the NYSE and Nasdaq Stock Market Inc ( NDAQ.O ) have 
been keen on expanding to the options markets, which offer 
higher margins than stock markets.  Nasdaq recently agreed to buy the Philadelphia Stock 
Exchange for about $652 million and to pay about $61 million 
for the Boston Stock Exchange.  "I think the overall consolidation game within the U.S. 
exchange market will continue following the trend of 2007 and I 
would be surprised if any of the regional exchanges remain 
independent by the end of 2008," said Sang Lee, managing 
partner of Aite Group in Boston.  Thursday's deal is expected to close in the third quarter 
of 2008 and to boost NYSE Euronext's 2009 earnings. The 
transaction has to be approved by Amex members and regulators.  The deal comes a decade after Amex's doomed tie-up with the 
National Association of Securities Dealers, or NASD, then-owner 
of Nasdaq, creating the Nasdaq-Amex Market Group. In 2004, Amex 
members bought out the NASD to regain control of the stock 
exchange.  Amex members will be entitled to receive extra shares of 
NYSE Euronext based on the net proceeds from the expected sale 
of Amex's lower Manhattan headquarters.  Management of both NYSE and Amex, which was known as the 
New York Curb Exchange until the 1920s, declined to say what 
price could be expected in the sale of the American Stock 
Exchange building, which is listed as a national historic 
landmark.
  SAVINGS SEEN  NYSE Euronext said the deal will realize "annualized run 
rate cost synergies" of over $100 million within two years of 
closing.  Amex operating revenues for the year to December 31, 2007 
were $178 million with a pre-tax net loss of $36 million for 
that period.  "It's a good deal for both parties," said Adam Sussman of 
consultants Tabb Group. "Any owner of Amex equity is probably 
just happy that they're getting paid.  "NYSE Euronext was doing a good job of attracting options 
and ETF business from the Amex. This acquisition just speeds up 
that process."  In a conference call, NYSE Euronext CEO Duncan Niederauer 
said the Amex acquisition will make NYSE Euronext the 
third-largest U.S. options marketplace.  Diego Perfumo, analyst at Equity Research Desk LLC, an 
advisory firm that specializes in exchanges, said Thursday's 
deal means NYSE Euronext is acquiring about 700 more stock 
listings in the second tier market.  Perfumo said these smaller and medium-size companies will 
give NYSE a starting point to compete with Nasdaq in the 
smaller-sized IPO market.  The NYSE intends to invite qualified Amex-listed issuers, 
of which there are more than 900, to transfer their listings to 
NYSE, or NYSE's Arca.  Lehman Brothers advised NYSE Euronext and Morgan Stanley 
advised Amex.  (Additional reporting by  Lilla Zuill ,  Doris Frankel  and 
 Jonathan Keehner ; Editing by Tim Dobbyn/Andre Grenon)