-- Banking economists put recession odds near 50 percent
-- 
-- Fri Jan 18, 2008 12:39pm EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2008/01/18/businesspro-usa-economy-growth-forecast-idUSN1832118620080118

 

 WASHINGTON  (Reuters) - A panel of banking economists has 
put the odds of a recession near 50 percent as the economy 
works through a housing slump this year. 

  The American Bankers Association's Economic Advisory 
Committee, a panel of nine banking economists, on Friday 
projected that the economy will slow to roughly 1.25 percent 
gross domestic product growth during the first half of this 
year, picking up to about 2.25 percent in the second half. But 
the risks of a recession are growing, the panel said in its 
outlook.  "Falling home prices, elevated energy prices, and strains 
in financial markets will continue to pose significant 
challenges to the economy," said Peter Hooper, chief economist 
at Deutsche Bank Securities in New York, who chairs the ABA 
panel.  The panel, which meets twice a year, met with Federal 
Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke earlier this week to present its 
latest growth outlook for the year, Hooper said.  In its outlook, the ABA panel is expecting the Federal 
Reserve to cut its short-term interest rates by 50 basis points 
at its next meeting this month and by another 25 basis points 
in both March and April, lowering the federal funds target rate 
to 3.25 percent from 4.25 percent.  "Rate cuts are justified because of the continuing turmoil 
in the financial markets and a weakening economy," said Hooper, 
who added that an economic stimulus package from the president 
and Congress is badly needed.  He said that it would be something that must be in place by 
the end of this year to be effective in keeping the economy 
from going into recession.  The panel's forecast came out just ahead of President 
George W. Bush's announcement earlier on Friday calling for a 
stimulus package that would boost GDP by 1 percent. The 
president indicated that this plan must be put in place 
quickly.  Meanwhile, in the ABA outlook, economists noted that 
continued problems in the housing sector -- which are not 
likely to bottom out until the second half of this year -- 
along with funding challenges are causing banks to be much more 
cautious when it comes to lending.  Inflation is expected to remain on the higher end of the 
Federal Reserve's unofficial comfort range, but Hooper said 
boosting the economy is more of a concern for the Fed at this 
time, rather than curbing inflation.  (Reporting By Joanne Morrison; Editing by  Diane Craft )