-- Equity One Appoints Olson Chief Executive Officer
-- Daniel Taub
-- 2006-12-04T22:46:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2006-12-04/equity-one-appoints-olson-chief-executive-officer-update3-.html

          
          
             Equity One Inc. (EQY) , a U.S. owner of
neighborhood shopping centers, said Jeffrey Olson has become chief
executive officer, succeeding Chaim Katzman, who resigned from the
position four months earlier than originally planned.  
 Katzman will continue to serve as Equity One's chairman, the
 North Miami Beach , Florida-based company said today in a
statement. Katzman also is chairman of Israeli real estate
developer  Gazit-Globe Ltd. (GLOB) , which is proposing a $1.2 billion
investment in Mills Corp., a  Chevy Chase , Maryland-based shopping
mall developer.  
 Equity One, which owns about 200 shopping centers anchored by
supermarkets, drug stores and other retailers, had said in August
that Olson would join Equity One in January and become CEO in
April. Olson ended up joining Equity One four months early and was
named the company's president a month ago.  
 ``Jeff Olson was only supposed to join us Jan. 1,'' Katzman,
57, said in a telephone interview. ``Everything got pushed forward
three or four months.''  
 Katzman said leaving the CEO position will leave him ``more
time to spend on other Gazit initiatives,'' such as real estate
holdings in  Canada  and the pursuit of the Mills investment. ``My
term was up at year-end, and I felt after 15 years it was time for
someone else to come in.''  
 Gazit-Globe, the second-largest shareholder in Mills, the
subject of a U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission accounting
investigation, last month made a bid to buy $1.2 billion of Mills
shares at $25.50 a share after its first proposal, for a dollar
less a share, was rejected. Equity One is about 41 percent owned,
directly and indirectly, by Gazit-Globe.  
 Came From Kimco  
 Olson joined Equity One after four years as president of the
eastern and western shopping center regions of  New Hyde Park , New
York-based Kimco Realty Corp., the largest U.S. owner of community
shopping centers.  
 Equity One shares rose 58 cents to $28.05 as of 4 p.m. in  New
York  Stock Exchange composite trading. They have gained 21 percent
this year, less than the 33 percent increase in the Bloomberg REIT
Index.  
 Equity One also said Deborah Cheek has joined the company as
vice president and director of finance. Before joining Equity One,
Cheek was chief financial officer at closely held Landex Corp. and
regional finance director at Kimco.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Daniel Taub in  Los Angeles  at 
 dtaub@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rob Urban at   robprag@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        