-- Lula Sees Petrobras' Ecuador Investment at $1 Billion
-- Ines Cavalcanti
-- 2007-04-04T21:46:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2007-04-04/lula-sees-petrobras-ecuador-investment-at-1-billion-update1-.html

          
          
             Brazilian state-controlled oil
company  Petroleo Brasileiro SA (PETR4) 's investments in Ecuador will
reach $1 billion by 2010, Brazilian President  Luiz Inacio Lula da
Silva  said.  
 ``We are confident this state company, recognized for its
efficiency and environmental standards, will continue to
contribute to the development of oil resources in the neighboring
country,'' Lula said in Brasilia today.  
 Lula, as part of efforts to bolster Brazil's influence in
Latin America and counter the growing clout of Venezuela's
president Hugo Chavez, today met Ecuador's President  Rafael Correa . Under Chavez, Venezuela has used its oil revenue to
eclipse Brazil as a regional leader, giving aid to Cuba, Bolivia
and Ecuador.  
 Correa and Bolivia's  Evo Morales , who rose to power with
Chavez's support, have posed hurdles to Brazilian oil
investments. Correa in February said the government may nullify
its contract with Petrobras if it finds the company is violating
an environmental agreement.  
 Marco Aurelio Garcia, Lula's aide for international affairs,
said Petrobras has already invested $500 million in Ecuador. Lula
and Garcia spoke after the meeting with Correa.  
 Castro's Criticism  
 Garcia also rebutted Cuban Leader  Fidel Castro 's criticism
of a U.S.-led drive to foster crop-based fuels production in the
region to reduce reliance on oil and curb Venezuela's regional
influence. He said Castro was mistaken to say biofuel production
will curb food supplies as Brazil isn't planting sugarcane to
make ethanol in land that was previously used to grow cereals.  
 Castro, in his first signed article since he had intestinal
surgery in July, last week accused U.S. President  George W. Bush 
of condemning billions of people to ``premature death'' by
promoting the use of biofuels.  
 Brazil's Petrobras today signed a memorandum of
understanding with Ecuador's state-owned PetroEcuador to propose
plans to explore the Ishpingo-Tiputini-Tambococha oil fields, the
Rio de Janeiro-based company said in an e-mailed statement.  
 Chilean state oil company Empresa Nacional de Petroleo and a
unit of  China Petroleum & Chemical Corp. (386) , Asia's largest oil
refiner, will bid with Petrobras to develop the ITT fields.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Carlos Caminada in Sao Paulo at  at
 ccaminada1@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robert Dieterich at   rdieterich@bloomberg.net ;
Steve Stroth at   sstroth@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        