-- U.S. gasoline over $3 looms this summer
-- By  Haitham Haddadin
-- Wed Apr 11, 2007 5:14pm EDT
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2007/04/11/businesspro-market-gasoline-outlook-dc-idUSN1122797020070411

 

 NEW YORK  (Reuters) - Looks like deja vu this summer for 
American motorists, with $3-plus gasoline pump prices looming 
again as a double whammy of refinery outages and slow imports 
collide with strong demand. 

  Analysts say supplies of gasoline -- now at the lower end 
of a five-year average -- will keep falling while demand grows 
1 to 2 percent, by far outpacing last year's 0.5 percent 
growth.  "People will complain about it but will probably keep 
driving," said David Pursell, an analyst at Pickering Energy 
Partners, Inc. in Houston.  Government data from the Energy Information Administration 
(EIA) on Wednesday showed gasoline stockpiles in the United 
States, the world's largest consumer, fell sharply last week at 
a time of year refiners normally build inventory. <EIA/S>  "A surprisingly massive gasoline inventory draw is likely 
to push up gasoline contract prices and prices at the pump," 
said Jason Schenker of Wachovia, in Charlotte, North Carolina.  "Gasoline imports were down, while demand remained just shy 
of the 9.5 million barrel-per-day level. With dynamics like 
these, $3 retail gasoline looks to be right around the corner," 
he said.  U.S. gasoline stocks fell for the ninth straight week, 
shrinking more than 12 percent since early February to under 
200 million barrels, EIA said.  Gasoline futures on the New York Mercantile Exchange rose 
more than 2 percent to an eight-month high of $2.17 a gallon 
after the data was issued. Refinery snags also have pushed up 
U.S. wholesale gasoline prices.  "The current wholesale price is going to translate into $3 
or better at the pump this summer; you are almost there already 
depending on where you are," said Pursell of Pickering Energy 
Partners.  U.S. retail gasoline prices averaged $2.80 a gallon 
Wednesday, up 25 cents from a month ago, according to the AAA's 
daily survey of more than 85,000 service stations.
  RAFT OF OUTAGES  U.S. refineries have been operating below 90 percent of 
capacity since mid-January.  Among refiners hit by snags or that recently announced 
maintenance plans, Valero Energy ( VLO.N ) reconfirmed this week 
it will shut units at three U.S. refineries this spring for 
maintenance, while Alon USA has cut rates at several units at a 
Texas refinery.  Also, Total and Motiva had glitches at refineries in Port 
Arthur, Texas and problems were reported at BP's two giant 
refineries in Whiting, Indiana, and Texas City, Texas.  "U.S. refinery capacity utilization rates need to recover - 
both planned and unplanned outages are probably the main reason 
behind the recent surge in gasoline prices," noted Paul Crovo, 
an energy analyst at PNC Wealth Management in Philadelphia.  Gasoline imports from Europe were also "mildly 
disappointing" this year, he said, as a strike by dock workers 
in France led to production cuts at European refiners, and less 
incentive to ship cargoes.  "Depending upon the resiliency of gasoline demand, prices 
could stay high into the early summer months before possibly 
weakening once the driving season peaks," Crovo told Reuters.  He said gasoline prices also may be lifted by forecasts of 
a more intense hurricane season.  "You can add a price premium given the damage we saw to the 
refining infrastructure in the (U.S.) Gulf Coast in 2005," from 
hurricanes Katrina and Rita, Crovo added.
  BEEN THERE  Any new refinery problems could raise prices further, Garry 
Peiffer, a senior vice president with Marathon Oil ( MRO.N ), 
told Reuters last week. He said U.S. gasoline demand may rise 1 
to 1.5 percent in 2007.  Tesoro Corp. ( TSO.N ) is even more bullish on gasoline. Its 
chief economist Lynn Westfall said recently the independent 
refiner sees U.S. gasoline demand growth of 1.7 to 2 percent 
this year from the current 9.2 million bpd consumed while 
domestic supply lags behind at 8.1 million bpd.  Analysts say motorists' appetite for gasoline remains 
healthy, and they probably will adjust to higher prices.  "$3 gasoline causes behavior change but doesn't cause 
people to drive less. They buy cheaper beer or go to fewer 
movies but keep driving ... like we say here in Texas 'I've 
been to this rodeo before'," said Pickering's Pursell.