-- Fed's Plosser: Clear policy keeps inflation in check
-- 
-- Tue Apr 10, 2007 8:26pm EDT
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2007/04/11/businesspro-usa-fed-plosser-dc-idUSN1035542720070411

 

 NEWARK, Delaware  (Reuters) - Philadelphia Federal Reserve 
Bank President Charles Plosser said on Tuesday committing to a 
policy goal and providing more information about the central 
bank's aims would help keep inflation expectations in check. 

  "It is important to be transparent so that the public's 
expectations and the objectives of monetary policy are better 
aligned," he told business and economic students at the 
University of Delaware.  "Achieving this alignment ultimately furthers the central 
bank's objective of maintaining stable prices while fostering 
full employment."  Plosser's remarks were similar to those he gave in a speech 
titled "Credibility and Commitment" on March 6.  The Philly Fed president has long been an advocate of 
inflation targeting, although he did not explicitly argue for 
it in his speech.  The Fed is currently debating whether to adopt an inflation 
target as part of discussions to improve its communications 
with the public and financial markets.  Some Fed policy-makers, including Fed Chairman Ben 
Bernanke, have said they would like to have a specific target, 
such as core inflation measured by the non-food, non-energy 
price index for personal consumption expenditures.  But others are wary of adopting a strict target on concerns 
that it may hinder the Fed's ability to act flexibly.  Plosser argued in his speech that sticking to a clear 
policy goal would help keep inflation expectations in check and 
give policy-makers greater leeway to buffer the economy from 
shocks.  "Commitment actually gives the monetary authority 
additional flexibility," he said.  "Specifically, because commitment ensures that inflation 
expectations are well anchored, policy-makers can respond to 
shocks with less fear that expectations will become unhinged, 
thus enhancing the potential effectiveness of policy to respond 
to short-term disturbances," he said.  Authorities must remain committed to their goal to remain 
credible, he added.  "Suffice it to say, there is a realization in monetary 
policy-making circles, gained through recent advances in 
monetary theory and the experience of the last 30 years, that 
maintaining credibility for low inflation is an important 
aspect of good monetary policy."  At its most recent rate-setting meeting on March 20-21, the 
Fed kept benchmark interest rates steady for the sixth 
consecutive time since raising rates last June, as it gauges 
whether inflation will come down as the economy slows.  Markets largely expect the Fed to keep policy steady at the 
next rate-setting meeting in May but to begin cutting rates 
later this year.  Plosser is not a voting member on the Fed's rate-setting 
committee this year. He will be a voting member in 2008.