-- Billions of dollars of sales slam muni bonds
-- 
-- Fri Feb 29, 2008 12:28pm EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2008/02/29/businesspro-municipals-tobs-dc-idUSN2920801820080229

 

 NEW YORK  (Reuters) - Tender option bond programs on Friday 
were selling "multiple billions" of dollars of U.S. municipal 
bonds, a money manager said, which is accelerating a market 
slide that experts call the worst in decades. 

  Prices have dropped for the past 12 days, partly due to the 
problems borrowers and investors are having with short-term 
municipal markets.  Two of these markets, auction rate and variable demand note 
obligations, have frozen because investors fear some bond 
insurers that backed this debt are no longer credit-worthy as a 
result of their bad bets on subprime mortgage investments.  These dislocations have hurt tender option bond trusts, 
which buy long-term muni bonds and finance them by selling 
floating notes. But now they are losing money -- or are about 
to -- because their borrowing costs have skyrocketed.  At the same time, the value of their long-term municipal 
bonds has plunged.  "Tender option bond selling is in the multiple billions," 
said Gary Pollack, a managing director at Deutsche Bank Private 
Wealth Management. Tender option bond programs are created by 
both hedge funds and dealers, and they typically are highly 
leveraged, which intensifies their influence on the market.  Dealers have been struggling to cope with the flood of 
supplies from these trusts because they must save their cash.  Banks and dealers have turned into cash-hoarders because 
they face billion-dollar write-downs from the sinking subprime 
sector and need to dress up their balance sheets because they 
are so close to end of the financial quarter.  And municipal bond issuers, from states to cities to 
agencies, are abandoning short-term muni markets and 
transforming these issues into long-term debt. This source of 
new supply -- expected to hit soon -- also is hurting prices.  (Reporting by  Joan Gralla ; Editing by  Andrea Ricci )