-- AvtoVAZ Says Renault Accord Signing Set for Nov. 27
-- Anastasia Ustinova
-- 2009-11-20T15:56:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2009-11-20/avtovaz-says-renault-accord-signing-set-for-nov-27-update1-.html

          
          
             OAO AvtoVAZ (AVAZ) ,  Russia ’s biggest
carmaker, said it plans on Nov. 27 to sign a partnership accord
with shareholder  Renault SA (RNO)  as the government demands help with
overhauling the unprofitable manufacturer.  
 The agreement will include terms of support for the
Togliatti-based company, Igor Burenkov, a spokesman for AvtoVAZ,
said in a phone interview. Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin  may
sign documents related to the carmakers during a trip to Paris
next week as long as the companies reach a “relevant” agreement,
Dmitry Peskov, Putin’s spokesman, said by telephone today.  
 AvtoVAZ is 25 percent-owned by Renault,  France ’s second-
biggest carmaker, with Russia’s government and Moscow-based
investment bank Troika Dialog each holding another 25 percent.
Russia would “welcome” Renault taking a controlling stake in
AvtoVAZ, while the state may seek other partners should the
French investor fail to join a rescue, First Deputy Prime
Minister  Igor Shuvalov  said on state television Nov. 15.  
 Putin said on Nov. 5 that, in addition to 54.8 billion
rubles ($1.9 billion) of state aid that Russia has already
pledged, AvtoVAZ needs investments of 5 billion rubles to
produce “competitive” models. Christian Esteve, a Renault
executive on AvtoVAZ’s board, said on Nov. 2 that the French
company had an agreement in principle to maintain its holding by
transferring technology in lieu of cash.  
 Burenkov, confirming an Interfax news agency report citing
AvtoVAZ marketing chief Maxim Nagaitsev on the planned signing,
declined to provide further details. Axelle de Ladonchamps, a
spokeswoman for Boulogne-Billancourt-based Renault, couldn’t
immediately be reached for comment.  
 Renault paid $1 billion for 25 percent of AvtoVAZ in 2007,
when the Russian manufacturer’s stock cost about 50 rubles a
share. AvtoVAZ  fell  as much as 84 kopeks, or 5 percent, to 15.95
rubles, and was down 2.3 percent as of 6:38 p.m. in Moscow
trading, valuing the carmaker at about $790 million.  
 -With assistance from Yuriy Humber and Laurence Frost in Moscow.
Editors: Tom Lavell,  Kenneth Wong .  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Anastasia Ustinova in Moscow via 
 austinova@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Eddie Buckle at   ebuckle@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        