-- A Little Deflation Is Recipe for Price Stability: Caroline Baum
-- Caroline Baum
-- 2010-06-22T01:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-22/a-little-deflation-is-recipe-for-price-stability-caroline-baum.html

          
          
             What’s so bad about a little
deflation?  
 As Federal Reserve policy makers gather today and tomorrow
in Washington to take the economy’s pulse and assess their
policy course, prices will be on their mind. Specifically
falling prices.  
 Not that deflation is a reality right now. The core
consumer price index, which excludes food and energy, rose 0.9
percent year over year in both April and May, the smallest
increase in 44 years. The Fed’s preferred inflation measure, the
core personal consumption expenditures price index, rose 1.2
percent in the 12 months ended in April.  
 What the U.S. economy is experiencing is disinflation, a
slower rate of price appreciation, not deflation, or falling
prices. A little bit of the latter wouldn’t be the worst thing.  
 For starters, if the Fed wants to make good on its pledge
of price stability, one of its dual mandates, it will have to do
better than its 1.5 percent to 2 percent unofficial target. A 2
percent annual rate of inflation equates to a 48.6 percent
increase in the price level over 20 years. In 35 years, the
price level would double.  
 Anyone doubting the math should take a look at the effect
the Great Moderation in inflation has had on the  U.S. dollar .
Every month, the Bureau of Labor Statistics includes the
purchasing power of the consumer dollar at the bottom of  Table 1 
of the CPI report, using either 1982-1984 or 1967 as the base
year.  
 Less Bad News  
 Let’s start with the good news. A  1982-1984 dollar  bought
46 cents of goods and services in May. Granted, inflation was
still high in 1982 and didn’t drop to 2 percent until 1986.
Still, a loss of more than half of the dollar’s purchasing power
doesn’t constitute price stability.  
 The bad news is that a  1967 dollar  buys 15 cents today.  
 For every year inflation overshoots its target, the Fed
should allow an undershoot if it is serious about price
stability. Otherwise, its price policy is asymmetric.  
 “There’s nothing wrong with a little deflation if it stays
a little,” says  Marvin Goodfriend , professor of economics at
Carnegie Mellon University in Pittsburgh. “The problem is, a
little deflation will drag down  inflation expectations . That’s
what the Fed’s afraid of in a nutshell.”  
 With the Great Depression and Japan’s lost decade as its
model, who wouldn’t be frightened?  
 In the Great Depression, the Fed allowed the money supply
to contract by one-third. Currently, the broadest measure of the
money supply, M2, is growing, albeit at a snail’s pace.  
 Japan as Model  
 Following the collapse of a stock market and real estate
 bubble  in 1989, Japan failed to address its zombie banks. And
Japan is “a bank-centric economy,” says  Michael Bordo ,
professor of economics at Rutgers University in New Brunswick,
New Jersey.  
 The Fed justifies targeting a positive rate of inflation to
achieve price stability on the grounds that the CPI and PCE
price index overstate inflation. That’s what they tell us. I’m
not so sure. Neither is Goodfriend.  
 “To avoid raising prices, firms have made use of modern
administrative technology to offload price increases to the
customer,” he says.  
 That’s another way of saying that the art of buying
something or following up on a service may entail navigating
endless automated phone menus. The degradation of some services
-- air travel comes to mind -- is completely subjective and
therefore can’t be captured by the BLS’s quality-adjustment
process. That doesn’t mean it’s costless to us.  
 Mixed Up  
 At the Fed’s last meeting in April, the assessments of the
risks to inflation were “mixed,” according to the  minutes .
Some members saw inflation risks as “tilted to the downside”
because of  excess slack  in the economy. Others were concerned
about rising inflation expectations, which have eased since then
as commodity prices softened and Europe’s fiscal crisis punched
another hole in the recovery story.  
 So much for Fed credibility. If financial markets had faith
in the Fed to deliver price stability, inflation expectations
wouldn’t ebb and flow from one day to the next in response to
economic data or global events.  
 In the U.S., with housing struggling,  bank credit  declining
and consumers still cautious, it’s far from clear the economy
has reached a self-sustaining phase where it can comfortably be
weaned from exceptionally low interest rates. If inflation
expectations aren’t at zero, maybe the Fed needs to get more
serious about price stability. And that would entail tolerating
a little bit of deflation in the policy mix.  
 ( Caroline Baum , author of “Just What I Said,” is a
Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions expressed are her own.)  
 To contact the writer of this column:
Caroline Baum in New York at 
 cabaum@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        