-- Labor Board Full for First Time Since '07 as U.S. Senate Confirms Nominees
-- Holly Rosenkrantz
-- 2010-06-22T18:37:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-22/labor-board-full-for-first-time-since-07-as-u-s-senate-confirms-nominees.html

          
          
             The National Labor Relations Board
reached its full five-member size for the first time since
December 2007 after the U.S. Senate confirmed two of President
 Barack Obama ’s nominees.  
 Brian Hayes, a Republican Senate aide, was confirmed by the
Senate as it approved a package of almost 70 of Obama’s stalled
nominees. The Senate also confirmed Mark Pearce, a Democrat
Obama appointed to the board in March, for a full term.  
 The NLRB, which remedies unfair labor practices and
certifies union elections, traditionally requires a majority of
three to overturn controversial decisions. The board has three
Democrats and two Republicans.  
 The NLRB operated for 27 months with two of its five seats
filled, and the U.S. Supreme Court ruled last week that it needs
at least three members to issue any decisions. The two members
were one Democrat and one Republican, who said they didn’t act
on divisive issues.  
 The term of the Republican, Peter Schaumber, expires in
August.  
 In March, Obama bypassed the Senate confirmation process
and appointed two Democrats to the board. One of those was  Craig Becker , a lawyer for the AFL-CIO and Service Employees
International Union.  
 Becker, opposed by Republicans and business groups for his
ties to labor unions, wasn’t confirmed by the Senate today. That
means he will serve on the board only until the end of 2011,
less than the full five-year term.  
 March Appointments  
 Obama’s March appointments of Becker and Pearce provided
the labor board with a quorum to clear a case backlog, including
disputes with casino owner MGM Mirage and auto-parts maker  Dana
Holding Corp.   
 Business groups have raised concerns that a Democratic
majority may push rule changes that would reduce the time
between when organizers file to hold an employee election and
the vote. Employers would have less opportunity to counter a
unionization effort.  
 The NLRB this month began exploring electronic-voting
methods for union elections, which business groups said could be
used to skirt the current secret-ballot process to favor unions.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Holly Rosenkrantz  in Washington, at   hrosenkrantz@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        