-- Abu Dhabi's Masdar to Announce Revised Master Plan For $22 Billion Venture
-- Ayesha Daya
-- 2010-06-22T13:15:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-22/abu-dhabi-s-masdar-will-announce-revised-master-plan-fairly-imminently-.html

          
          
             Masdar, the Abu Dhabi government-
backed renewable-energy company, plans to announce its revised
master plan “imminently,” the head of supply-chain management
at the zero-carbon Masdar City project said.  
 “We’ll finalize the revised Masdar plan fairly imminently,
in the next two to three weeks,” Richard Reynolds said at a
conference in Dubai today. “We’d only built part of it, so it
made sense to stop and revisit.”  
 Founded in 2006, the $22 billion venture undertook a
strategic review towards the end of last year after the
financial crisis tightening spending. The initial strategy
envisioned for Masdar was “very ambitious,” Chief Executive
Officer  Sultan al-Jaber  said earlier this month.  
 Masdar  is the showpiece of Abu Dhabi’s pursuit of
alternative energy. Holder of most of the oil and gas reserves
in the United Arab Emirates, the fifth-biggest producer in the
Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, Abu Dhabi is also
building nuclear power plants and successfully lobbied to host
the headquarters of the  International Renewable Energy Agency .  
 One of the issues being considered in the review is “how
to make Masdar economically viable,” Reynolds said.  
 “Yes, we made staff cuts,” to eliminate an overlap of
roles, he said. “We’re revisiting the choice of design and the
commercial mix of the city.”  
 Electric Transport  
 The venture includes a university, the  Masdar Institute of
Science and Technology , as well as units that plan to invest in
solar power and carbon capture and storage in a country that is
one of the world’s biggest per capita producers of carbon-
dioxide emissions.  
 Masdar City itself will house all the renewable energy
initiatives. Designed by London-based architects  Foster &
Partners Ltd ., the initial proposal intended to eliminate cars
and trucks at street level and include shaded walkways in a
nation that endures temperatures of more than  100 degrees 
Fahrenheit (38 Celsius) during summer months.  
 The plan to leave conventional cars at the city’s entrance
and drive around the 6-square-kilometer (2.3-square-mile)
location in electric driverless vehicles known as pods, is being
reconsidered, Reynolds said.  
 “Having 3,000 pods running around the city would be great,
but those were vehicles that couldn’t go outside Masdar,” he
said. “So now, maybe we will have electric trains, or electric
cars that can be used everywhere.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ayesha Daya  in Dubai 
 adaya1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        