-- Ace Greenberg's Tips Drowned Out by Bear Collapse: Book Review
-- Norman Pearlstine
-- 2010-06-22T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-22/ace-greenberg-s-great-tips-drowned-out-by-bear-collapse-norman-pearlstine.html

          
          
             “You can read about it in my
book.”  
 That was  Ace Greenberg’s  tart reply to the New York Times
when asked, in May 2008, what advice Bear Stearns chief
executive officer  Jimmy Cayne  ignored prior to the firm’s
collapse two months earlier.  
 Alan C. “Ace” Greenberg, the trader who, over a career
spanning more than six decades, built Bear into a powerhouse,
has now written that book, “ The Rise and Fall of Bear
Stearns ,” with Mark Singer, a writer for the New Yorker
magazine. The book is long on diatribe and gossip. Its analysis
of Bear’s demise -- covered in very few pages -- is more cursory
than one would have hoped.  
 During the years Greenberg ran  Bear Stearns , he mentored
James E. “Jimmy” Cayne. Their relationship grew strained as
early as 1988, when Cayne became Bear’s president. It
deteriorated further as Cayne gained power from Greenberg. In
addition to blaming Cayne for creating the environment that led
to Bear’s collapse, Greenberg’s book seeks to rebut  William D. Cohan ’s “ House of Cards ,” which portrays Ace as sometimes
ruthless and small-minded. He asserts that Cohan accepts Cayne’s
“fanciful history of (Cayne’s) career” at Greenberg’s expense.
Greenberg is more successful in attacking Cayne than Cohan,
whose well-balanced, exhaustive analysis remains the definitive
study of Bear’s epic fall.  
 Laying the Blame  
 Greenberg says the firm’s profits grew sharply under
Cayne’s leadership. He also says Cayne was a dope-smoking
megalomaniac more interested in his bridge game than in
supervision of the firm. He downplays Cayne’s assertion that
Bear Stearns was the victim of a “bear raid” by short-sellers
who had spread false rumors of its imminent bankruptcy. Instead
he blames Bear -- especially the fixed-income department -- for
using too much leverage to build its mortgage-backed securities
portfolio.  
 Despite his reputation as a highly adept risk manager,
Greenberg says his warnings to Cayne that the firm was
overleveraged were ignored. Greenberg admits, however, that he
failed to raise the alarm with  Warren Spector , who headed Bear’s
fixed-income department. His explanation -- that Spector
“insisted upon being 100 percent in control of his department”
-- is unconvincing, given Greenberg’s well-known enthusiasm for
his own opinions.  
 In an interview with Cohan, Cayne dismissed his former
mentor: “There isn’t anybody that would tell you they choose
him as their best man, or best friend, or one who they would
have lunch with, or go on a trip with, or socialize with, or
whatever. They don’t exist. He had one friend -- me.”  
 Viagra Donation  
 Cayne also told Cohan that Greenberg’s “narcissism” was
behind his more eccentric charitable donations, including his
1998 gift of $1 million to provide poor men with Viagra
prescriptions. Greenberg says that most people reacted favorably
to his gift, and chronicles several of Cayne’s grandiose
moments. “Why was it that a single elevator in the lobby had to
be reserved for one person?” he asks. When Cayne agreed to
limit his reservation of the elevator to an hour a day,
Greenberg notes that the hour was from 8 to 9 a.m., “just when
everybody needs to use it.”  
 Greenberg also recalls Cayne’s absence from executive-
committee deliberations over a proposed $10.7 billion
commitment, because, he writes, it conflicted with a regular
summer golf date that he reached every Thursday afternoon by
helicopter. “This particular example of Jimmy’s egotism, tone
deafness, and clueless contempt for the rest of us still
provokes my outrage,” he says.  
 Bear Stock  
 Greenberg and Cayne differed over whether Bear’s executives
should have held on to the stock they received as part of their
compensation. Greenberg had sold millions of shares over the
years, enabling him to withstand the firm’s collapse, while
Cayne, who considered such sales inconsistent with leadership,
held on to his and suffered paper losses of almost $1 billion
when Bear was sold to JPMorgan Chase in March 2008.  
 The Cayne-Greenberg dogfight that ensued overwhelms the
book’s back story: Bear Stearns’s rise to prominence and power
and Greenberg’s remarkable role in building it. That story is
also worth remembering.  
 Ace grew up in Oklahoma City, where he was a high-school
track and football star. After graduating from the  University of
Missouri , he came to New York. He joined Bear Stearns, then an
investment firm with 125 employees, in March 1949. By the time
he turned 40 he was effectively running it, his power confirmed
in 1978, shortly after the death of Salim L. “Cy” Lewis.  
 Arguing With Lewis  
 During Lewis’s last years in control at Bear, he and
Greenberg argued about many things -- including Lewis’s son,
Sandy, whom Cy wanted to hire despite a firm rule that
prohibited nepotism. Greenberg prevailed. Sandy Lewis told Cohan
that his father “hated” Greenberg, a man “so cold my father
used to say he pissed ice water.”  
 Under Greenberg’s control, Bear’s profits grew quickly. At
its peak it employed almost 15,000 people. While most Wall
Street firms preferred to hire Ivy Leaguers, Greenberg looked
for people with “PSD” degrees, by which he meant “poor, smart
and a deep desire to become rich.” Along the way, he developed
a disciplined style of investing -- “unload losers, ride
winners” -- that served him and hundreds of loyal individual
clients well over the years.  
 I became one of those clients 11 years ago as an executive
and editor at  Time Warner Inc . I had accumulated vested stock
options that, if exercised, would represent the majority of my
net worth. The options gave me nightmares. Should I hold? Should
I sell?  
 Meeting Greenberg  
 My tax accountant -- the now-notorious  Kenneth I. Starr ,
who was recently indicted for allegedly bilking his customers --
arranged for me to call Greenberg. Ace, who answered his own
phone, told me to meet him in his office, a desk on the Bear
trading floor, the next day at 7 a.m. Over coffee he asked why
Time Warner used Ebitda (earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation, and amortization) when reporting results instead
of “Ebitdare.” “What’s ‘Ebitdare?’” I asked. I had never
heard the term during a long career in business journalism.
“What do ‘R’ and ‘E’ stand for?”  
 “Rent and electricity,” he replied. “If they are going
to mask their lack of earnings with all that other stuff, why
don’t they throw in rent and electricity as well? Exercise every
option and get out of the stock.”  
 I followed his succinct advice. A couple years later, Time
Warner merged with AOL, destroying Time Warner’s share value and
the value of its options. Ace’s counsel, dispensed over a few
seconds, was typical of the wisdom that made him a hero to
satisfied customers like me.  
 If Ace’s story ended then, his autobiography would have
justly celebrated one of Wall Street’s greatest stock pickers
and executives. That, alas, was not to be. Instead, his and our
bitter memories of Bear Stearns’s collapse define his coda.  
 “The Rise and Fall of Bear Stearns” is published by  Simon
& Schuster  (224 pages, $17.95). To buy this book in North
America, click  here . This review originally ran in Bloomberg
Businessweek’s June 21-27 issue.  
 ( Norman Pearlstine  is chief content officer of Bloomberg
News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  
 To contact the writer on the story:
Norman Pearlstine in New York at 
 npearlstine@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       "The Rise and Fall of Bear Sterns"  
                       
                         
                           Simon & Schuster via Bloomberg 
                         
                         The cover of "The Rise and Fall of Bear Sterns," by Alan "Ace" C. Greenberg. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     The cover of "The Rise and Fall of Bear Sterns," by Alan "Ace" C. Greenberg. Source: Simon & Schuster via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 22 (Bloomberg) -- Norman Pearlstine, chief content officer of Bloomberg News and chairman of Bloomberg Businessweek, talks with Julie Hyman about former Bear Stearns Cos. Chief Executive Officer Alan "Ace" Greenberg's memoir, "The Rise and Fall of Bear Stearns."
     Greenberg wrote the book with Mark Singer, a writer for the New Yorker magazine. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Alan "Ace" C. Greenberg  
                       
                         
                           Simon & Schuster via Bloomberg 
                         
                         Alan "Ace" C. Greenberg. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Alan "Ace" C. Greenberg. Source: Simon & Schuster via Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
