-- Airline Passenger Bumping in U.S. May Be Highest Since 2001
-- Mary Jane Credeur
-- 2010-06-22T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-22/airline-passenger-bumping-may-reach-highest-since-2001-as-traffic-picks-up.html

          
          
             U.S. airlines  may bump the most
passengers in nine years as business travelers resume flying
following the deepest cuts in  seats  since World War II.  
 Almost 220,000 passengers couldn’t get on flights in the
first quarter even though they bought tickets, 25 percent more
than a year earlier, U.S. Transportation Department  data  show.
At that pace, so-called denied boardings in 2010 would surpass
2009’s 762,400 and reach the highest total since 2001.  
 “It’s more than inconvenience,” said  Kevin Mitchell ,
chairman of the Business Travel Coalition, which represents
about 300 corporate travel buyers. “There’s the risk of lost
sales opportunities and lost productivity.”  
 The increase stems from a traffic revival at carriers led
by  Delta Air Lines Inc.  and AMR Corp.’s  American Airlines , which
haven’t yet restored reductions in capacity made during the
recession.  Continental Airlines Inc.  and  Southwest Airlines Co. 
said their planes flew fuller than ever in May.  
 Pent-up demand for summer vacations means there won’t be
many empty seats in the coming months, probably resulting in
more bumping, said  Rick Seaney , chief executive officer of
Dallas-based ticket-research firm FareCompare.com.  
 Airlines routinely sell more coach tickets than they have
available, betting that not all passengers will show up.
“Unless there’s a new law or something, it’s not going to
change,” said  George Hamlin , president of Hamlin Transportation
Consultants in Fairfax, Virginia.  
 No Room  
 About 89 percent of first-quarter bumpings were voluntary,
with travelers accepting inducements such as vouchers to switch
flights. The rate of involuntary bumpings jumped 37 percent from
a year earlier to 1.73 for each 10,000 passengers, according to
the DOT. The full-year 2009 rate of 1.19 was a 13-year high.  
 Anita Gunnoe, 42, said she and her husband were bumped
twice in the past year on  United Airlines  flights -- once while
returning home to Charleston, West Virginia, from Las Vegas in
2009, and again in May when heading to Seattle on the travel
certificates they received after the first trip.  
 “We have gotten to the point where we won’t fly,” said
Gunnoe, a respiratory therapist.  
 On June 2, U.S. Transportation Secretary  Ray LaHood 
proposed raising the maximum compensation by 63 percent to $650
if passengers bumped against their wishes arrive at their
destination within two hours of their intended schedule, and to
$1,300 if not.  
 “If you go to a concert and there are 1,000 tickets, they
don’t sell 1,100 tickets, they sell 1,000,” said  Alan Bender ,
professor of airline economics at Embry-Riddle Aeronautical
University in Daytona Beach, Florida. “It’s completely in the
hands of the airlines.”  
 Top Travelers  
 Carriers try to shield first- and business-class travelers,
elite frequent fliers and unaccompanied minors from involuntary
bumpings. Most airlines charge as much as $150 to change to
another flight, depending on the type of fare purchased. The
Washington-based trade group for large U.S. carriers defends
overbooking as crucial to airlines’ revenue.  
 “Based on the disappointing recent lack of profitability
in the airline industry, airlines cannot allow reserved seats to
be unfilled when an aircraft leaves the gate,” said Victoria
Day, a spokeswoman for the  Air Transport Association .  
 Southwest, the largest discount carrier, typically sells
tickets to as many as 3 to 5 more passengers than it can
accommodate on a flight with 137 seats, said  Teresa Laraba , vice
president of customer services.  
 “It’s fine to have some overbooking, and you need it to a
point or you’re going to go out with empty seats and lose
revenue,” Laraba said. “As our overall load factor rises, our
denied boardings are going to rise as well.”  
 ‘Extremely Rare’  
 Involuntary denied boardings are “extremely rare,” said
 Anthony Black , a spokesman for Delta, the world’s largest
airline. On average, 15 of Atlanta-based Delta’s 239,000 daily
customers are bumped involuntarily, he said.  
 The six biggest U.S. airlines cut 2.8 percent of their 2010
capacity through May on top of a 6.9 percent reduction in 2009,
the largest slash since 1942. That’s helping carriers boost
fares after industrywide losses in seven of the past nine years.  
 Average domestic fares rose on a per-mile basis each month
this year through May, after dropping throughout all of 2009,
according to the ATA. Airlines are in a “dramatic recovery” in
business travel,  US Airways Group Inc.  President  Scott Kirby 
told investors in New York on June 15.  
 Carriers can generate $5,000 or more on some flights by
selling an extra 5 or 10 tickets even when the plane is already
booked full, said FareCompare.com’s Seaney.  
 The extra tickets often are sold to walk-up business
travelers willing to pay the highest fares, said  Brett Snyder , a
former analyst and manager at UAL Corp.’s  United   and  America
West Airlines  who is now president of the  CrankyFlier  travel
blog.  
 “Airlines are deciding whether it’s worth taking on one
more person paying a much higher fare versus the cost of a
bump,” Snyder said. “The higher fare usually wins.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Mary Schlangenstein  in Dallas at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net ;
 Mary Jane Credeur  in Atlanta at 
 mcredeur@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     The increase stems from a traffice revival at carriers led by Delta Airlines Inc. Photographer: Chris Rank/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 22 (Bloomberg) -- U.S. airlines may bump the most passengers in nine years as business travelers resume flying following the deepest cuts in seats since World War II. Bloomberg's Deirdre Bolton reports. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
