-- Airlines Operating in U.K. Escape Immediate Change to Taxes on Passengers
-- Reed V. Landberg
-- 2010-06-22T15:49:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-22/airlines-operating-in-u-k-escape-immediate-change-to-taxes-on-passengers.html

          
          
             Airlines operating in the U.K.
escaped an immediate switch in the way the government taxes
passengers, with Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne 
saying he will consult the industry on any major changes.  
 Osborne today reiterated his desire to move toward a levy
on each plane that flies instead of on passengers. The
Conservative-led government says that would encourage airlines
to fill aircraft to capacity and cut greenhouse-gas emissions.  
 British Airways Plc  and other large carriers have expressed
concerns about a per-plane levy, which would benefit budget
carriers including  Ryanair Holdings Plc  and  easyJet Plc  that try
to pack their aircraft. The duty currently raises about 2.3
billion pounds ($3.4 billion) for the Treasury.  
 “They’re taking time to think about it,” said  Mark Schofield , an expert on green taxes at PriceWaterhouseCoopers in
London. “There’s a lot of arguments to listen to. If you
penalize international carriers, they’ll fly from another hub.
You don’t reduce emissions that way. You just shift them to
another city.”  
 In his budget statement today to Parliament, Osborne said
he would “explore changes to the aviation tax system, including
switching from a per-passenger to a per-plane duty, and consult
on major changes.”  
 Green Taxes  
 PWC said a  survey it conducted  in 2007 showed only 9
percent of executives believe air passenger duty is an effective
form of taxation to clean up the environment.  
 Osborne, without providing further detail, also reiterated
plans for a Green Investment Bank that would help fund
environmental projects and for legislation to help individuals
make efficiency improvements to their homes. Those measures are
due to be pushed through Parliament in an  “Energy Security and
Green Investment Bill,”  which has yet to be drafted.  
 The Treasury on Oct. 20 will release a spending review,
which may give an update on ministers’ thinking about how to tax
airlines.  
 “I imagine we might see some proposals by the end of this
year,” said Daniel Lyons, a tax consultant at Deloitte LLP in
London.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Reed Landberg  in London at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        