-- Taiwan to Assess Yuan Shift, May Hold 1.25% Benchmark Interest Rate Steady
-- Jay Wang
-- 2010-06-22T16:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-22/taiwan-may-keep-interest-rate-at-1-25-as-central-bank-gauges-yuan-impact.html

          
          
             Taiwan’s central bank may keep its
benchmark interest rate unchanged tomorrow as it gauges the
potential impact of China’s exchange-rate shift and the fallout
from Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis.  
 Governor  Perng Fai-nan  will leave the discount rate on 10-
day loans to banks at a record-low of 1.25 percent when his
board meets at 3 p.m. tomorrow in Taipei, according to all 13
economists  surveyed  by Bloomberg News. The central bank will
monitor neighboring currencies including the South Korean won
and Singapore dollar after China’s move,  Spencer Lin , head of
its foreign exchange department, said by telephone yesterday.  
 The decision by China, Taiwan’s biggest trading partner and
investment destination, to allow a more flexible yuan may boost
sales to the mainland. Policy makers across Asia are monitoring
the end of the yuan’s 23-month fixed peg to the dollar, with
officials in the Philippines and Thailand saying it will boost
trade, while South Korea warned it may hurt its economy.  
 “The yuan’s movement will become a factor for the central
bank when it considers its rate decision,” said  William Dong ,
head of UBS AG’s Taiwan research team. “A stronger yuan will
boost other Asian currencies too, and that isn’t welcomed by
Taiwan’s central bank. Raising interest rates will add
additional pressure to the local currency to appreciate.”  
 Dong said he doesn’t expect a move on rates until December.  
 Taiwan’s dollar rose to its strongest level in a month
after China’s June 19 announcement, reaching 31.72 per dollar
two days ago before closing at 31.83 yesterday in Taipei.  
 Deepest Recession  
 The Central Bank of the Republic of China (Taiwan) has kept
the benchmark rate at a record low since March 2009 after
cutting it at seven consecutive meetings to boost investment and
consumption. The economy exited its deepest recession on record
last year and expanded 13.3 percent in the first quarter, the
most in more than 30 years, as demand from China spurred sales
at the nation’s manufacturers.  
 Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Co. , the island’s
biggest company by market value, reported record monthly sales
of NT$33.8 billion ($1.1 billion) in May. Chairman and Chief
Executive Officer  Morris Chang  last week raised his forecast on
the growth of global chip-industry sales to “nearly 30
percent” this year from an April estimate of 22 percent.  
 A stronger Chinese currency will boost the purchasing power
of the world’s fastest-growing major economy and the top export
destination for countries from Japan to South Korea. At the same
time, South Korean central bank Governor  Kim Choong Soo  said a
higher yuan may pose a risk for the country by spurring gains in
the won.  
 Unemployment Falls  
 Taiwan last month raised its 2010 GDP growth projection to
6.14 percent from 4.72 percent, and its annual inflation
forecast to 1.4 percent from 1.27 percent. A government report
yesterday showed the jobless rate fell to a 17-month low.  
 “Subdued inflation and gradually tightening liquidity are
providing room for Taiwan’s central bank to focus on sustaining
economic growth,” said  Cheng Cheng-mount , a Taipei-based
economist at Citigroup Inc. “Europe’s debt problem is an
uncertainty to the recovery, so policy makers will be cautious
in moving rates in the near term.”  
 The European Union last month announced a 750 billion-euro
($923 billion) rescue package to shore up the finances of the
region’s weakest economies amid concern governments will
struggle to rein in their budget deficits.  
 Taiwan’s  export orders , an indication of shipments in the
coming one to three months, advanced 34 percent from a year
earlier in May, rising for an eighth consecutive month, a report
showed this week.  
 Trade With China  
 President  Ma Ying-jeou  is aiming to sign a trade accord
with China at the end of this month that will cut tariffs as he
seeks to bolster export-dependent Taiwan’s economy after a
Chinese trade agreement with the Association of Southeast Asian
Nations began this year. Ma, who took office in May 2008, is
also seeking better relations with the mainland.  
 China and Taiwan have been ruled separately since
Nationalist troops fled to the island after losing a civil war
to  Mao Zedong ’s Communist forces in 1949. China has threatened
to invade Taiwan if it declares formal independence, and in 2006
carried out a weeklong series of missile tests near the island.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Chinmei Sung  in Taipei at 
 csung4@bloomberg.net .
 Jay Wang  in Singapore at 
 jwang298@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Perng Fai-nan of the Central Bank of the Republic of China  
                       
                         
                           Maurice Tsai/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Perng Fai-nan, governor of the Central Bank of the Republic of China (Taiwan), speaks during a news conference. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Perng Fai-nan, governor of the Central Bank of the Republic of China (Taiwan), speaks during a news conference. Photographer: Maurice Tsai/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
