-- Taiwan Unemployment Rate Falls to 17-Month Low as Recovery Boosts Hiring
-- Chinmei Sung
-- 2010-06-22T09:31:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-22/taiwan-unemployment-rate-falls-to-17-month-low-as-recovery-boosts-hiring.html

          
          
             Taiwan’s  jobless rate  fell in May to
the lowest level in 17 months as stronger international demand
prompted manufacturers and retailers to hire.  
 The seasonally adjusted rate declined to 5.22 percent last
month from 5.43 percent in April, the statistics bureau said
today in Taipei. That compared with a median estimate of 5.33
percent in a Bloomberg News  survey  of 12 economists.  
 Taiwan’s economy expanded 13.3 percent last quarter, the
most in more than 30 years, as demand from China boosted sales
at companies including  Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Co. 
President  Ma Ying-jeou  is aiming to sign a trade accord with
China at the end of this month that will cut tariffs on
Taiwanese products.  
 “More and more companies, particularly manufacturers, are
hiring as they expand or fill jobs that were vacant since the
financial crisis, as they get more and more confident on the
economic outlook,”  Ma Tieying , a Singapore-based economist at
DBS Group Holdings Ltd., said before the release. “The job
market will likely continue to improve.”  
 The number of unemployed people declined to 576,000 in May
from 599,000 in April, on a seasonally adjusted basis. Without
adjusting for seasonal factors, the jobless rate fell to 5.14
percent from 5.39 percent in April.  
 Export Orders  
 Growing demand for Taiwan’s computers and flat-television
screens spurred a 34.03 percent increase in May  export orders ,
an indication of shipments in the next one to three months, a
report showed yesterday. Taiwan this week may join neighboring
Asian central banks in keeping interest rates unchanged as it
gauges the fallout from Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis.  
 Morris Chang , chairman of  Taiwan Semiconductor,  the world’s
largest maker of chips designed by other companies, last week
raised his forecast on the growth of global chip-industry sales
to “nearly 30 percent” this year, compared with an April
estimate of 22 percent.  
 The chipmaker, Taiwan’s biggest company by market value,
said in April it plans to increase its headcount to 29,000 by
the end of the year from 25,000.  
 President Ma is pushing for the trade accord to bolster
export-dependent Taiwan’s economy after a Chinese trade
agreement with the Association of Southeast Asian Nations took
effect this year.  
 Taiwan and China reached an initial agreement on tariff
reductions for a total of 750 items after a third round of talks
in Beijing on June 13 on the so-called Economic Cooperation
Framework Agreement.  
 Ma, who took office in May 2008, is also seeking better
relations with China, the island’s  biggest trading partner  and
No. 1 investment destination.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Chinmei Sung  in Taipei at 
 csung4@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        