-- Aluminum Production Cuts Loom in China on Record Output, End of Yuan's Peg
-- Glenys Sim
-- 2010-06-22T04:56:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-22/aluminum-production-cuts-loom-in-china-on-record-output-end-of-yuan-s-peg.html

          
          
             Chinese aluminum producers may cut
 output  from a record if the price slump persists and after the 
world’s third-largest economy signaled an end to its currency’s
fixed rate to the dollar.  
 China, the largest maker of the metal, produced 1.42 million
metric tons in May, the highest ever monthly total, said China 
International Futures (Shanghai) Co. analyst  Wang Zhouyi, as escalating power costs were offset by tumbling prices of alumina,
the raw-material ingredient.  
 Aluminum prices have slumped 15 percent in Shanghai this
year, while London Metal Exchange prices dropped 12 percent, on
concern Europe’s debt crisis will slow the global recovery and
lending curbs in China will cool demand. The average cost of
aluminum production in China is 15,300 yuan ($2,247) a ton,
according to CRU International Ltd. That compares with today’s
Shanghai Futures Exchange price of 14,845 yuan a ton.  
 “We will see production curtailments in China unless the
government rescues them, and the rhetoric from the government up
till now has been precisely the opposite,” said  Alan Heap ,
managing director of global commodity analysis at Citigroup Inc.  
 An appreciation of the Chinese currency will put “further
upward pressure” on costs, said Heap.  
 The People’s Bank of China said on June 19 it will allow
greater “flexibility” in its currency, signaling it would
abandon the 6.83 yuan peg to the dollar adopted during the
global crisis to shield exporters. The central bank ruled out
“large changes” in the exchange rate and said it will prevent
“excessive” moves.  
 ‘Little Upside’  
 “Exports are expected to increase if production continues
to rise,” said China International’s Wang. “However, a
stronger yuan will hurt exporters, so there’s little upside for
the aluminum industry at the moment.”  
 China, also the world’s largest user of the metal used in
cars and airplanes, resumed being a net importer in May,
according to data from the Beijing-based Customs General
Administration. In April, it  exported  more aluminum than it
 imported  for the first time since the end of 2008 as supply
outpaced demand.  
 “These sort of circumstances, where the prices fall to the
global industry average cash cost, that’s what you see in a
full-on global recession,” Citigroup’s Heap said in a phone
interview from Sydney. “So the aluminum industry is telling us
the world is in economic recession, which I don’t think it is.
Output cuts will protect the downside.”  
 There’s little evidence of output cuts so far, even though
more than 40 percent of the Chinese aluminum industry is
incurring losses, Barclays Capital said yesterday.  
 Power Costs  
 The Chinese government last month ended discounts on
electricity charges and doubled surcharges for high-consumption
companies. CRU expects 1.3 million tons of capacity in the
country to be affected by the surcharge. Energy represents as
much as half the cost of producing aluminum.  
 “It’s unprofitable to make aluminum but it will cost
producers even more to stop making it, so unless the price holds
below the cost of production in the next few months, it’s
unlikely we’ll see output fall,” said Zhou. “Even if some of
the smaller producers shut, there’s still new capacity coming on
stream.”  
 China is expected to add about 3 million tons of annual
smelting capacity this year, Zhou said.  
 The country is cutting overcapacity as  stockpiles  of the
metal in warehouses monitored by the Shanghai exchange jumped 67
percent this year after smelters raised output on expectations
demand will improve as the global economy recovers.  
 “They’ve removed the power tariff discounts, they’ve
introduced more measures to curtail capacity growth, but we’ve
been down this route so many times in the past and it’s
failed,” said Heap. “It’s failed every time for the same
reason, which is that the provincial governments are not on
board.”  
 To contact the reporter for this story:
 Glenys Sim  in Singapore at 
 gsim4@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Aluminum products are for sale at a store in Shanghai  
                       
                         
                           Kevin Lee/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Aluminum prices have slumped 15 percent in Shanghai this year, while London Metal Exchange prices dropped 12 percent, on concern Europe’s debt crisis will slow the global recovery and
lending curbs in China will cool demand. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Aluminum prices have slumped 15 percent in Shanghai this year, while London Metal Exchange prices dropped 12 percent, on concern Europe’s debt crisis will slow the global recovery and
lending curbs in China will cool demand. Photographer: Kevin Lee/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
