-- Aluminum May Rally on Tight Supply, Investor Demand, Citigroup, Morgan Say
-- Millie Munshi
-- 2010-06-22T18:15:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-22/aluminum-may-rally-on-tight-supply-investor-demand-citigroup-morgan-say.html

          
          
             Aluminum prices will rebound in the
next year as supplies tighten and investor demand increases,
according to analysts from Citigroup Inc., Morgan Stanley and
Societe Generale SA.  
 The metal, used in cars and construction materials, will
reach $2,500 a metric ton next year, Citigroup’s  David Thurtell 
said today at a conference in Chicago. The price yesterday
closed at $1,961 on the London Metal Exchange. Morgan Stanley’s
 Mark Liinamaa  said the metal may gain to $2,200 by yearend, and
 David Wilson  at Societe Generale forecast $2,295 in 2011.  
 As much as 80 percent of  inventories  monitored by the LME
are tied up by investors, making the supplies inaccessible to
manufacturers and parts makers, Wilson said in Chicago. New
exchange-traded funds backed by the metal may take up 1 million
tons this year, Thurtell said.  
 “Prices have to move higher,” Morgan Stanley’s Liinamaa
said at the annual Harbor Intelligence aluminum outlook
conference. “We are optimistic about the longer-term demand
prospects.”  
 Before today, aluminum was down 12 percent this year. As
much as 70 percent of smelters are unprofitable and vulnerable
to production cuts,  Oleg Deripaska , the chief executive officer
of United Co. Rusal, the world’s largest producer, said in an
interview this month.  Carlos Ghosn , CEO of Renault SA and Nissan
Motor Corp., has said global car production will gain to a
record this year.  
 Long, Steady Climb  
 “We see a long, steady climb for aluminum,” said  Andrew Karsh , who helps manage $4.8 billion for the Credit Suisse Total
Commodity Return Strategy team in New York. “We’ve been having
a reactionary market instead of one that is driven by the
fundamentals. The fundamentals are still strong.”  
 Aluminum for delivery in three months rose 0.1 percent to
$1,963 a ton at 6:29 p.m. in London. The metal, down 16 percent
from March 31, is headed for a third straight monthly decline.  
 Traders will shift their focus on the prospect for tighter
supply, after Europe’s debt crisis this year elevated investor
concern over demand, Morgan Stanley’s Liinamaa said. The recent
slump has the left the price about 7 percent below the marginal
cost of production, which is “unsustainable,” he said.  
 Inventories that are near record levels do not signal “a
wave of metal” is available, mostly because so much is held by
investors or tied up in financial arrangements, Liinamaa said.
LME stockpiles are at 4.46 million tons, five times the average
since 1980 and more than Europe makes in a year.  
 Investor Demand  
 The possible introduction of a physically-backed ETF will
add to demand from investors, which has grown “spectacularly,”
since 2002, Citigroup’s Thurtell said. Rusal has said it’s in
talks to supply metal to banks for the possible funds.  
 “We’re interested in supporting new channels of demand for
the metal,”  Oleg Mukhamedshin , Rusal’s deputy chief executive
officer and head of capital markets, said in an interview on
April 21.  
 Still, gains for aluminum will lag behind other base metals
as production “surges” 9.5 percent this year, said Societe
Generale’s Wilson, who doesn’t expect “significant” output
cuts even as some producers remain unprofitable.  
 “Smelters will generally absorb negative margins for some
time,” Wilson said. “The work involved in shutting down
smelters is very intensive. We are not going to see a pullback
in production any time soon.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Millie Munshi  in Chicago at 
 mmunshi@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        