-- Boeing Calls for More Inspections After 767 Engine-Pylon Cracks
-- Mary Schlangenstein
-- 2010-06-22T20:07:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-22/american-air-awaiting-test-results-on-cracks-in-boeing-767-engine-pylons.html

          
          
             Boeing Co.  will recommend more
frequent inspections of pylons holding engines onto the wings of
its  767  aircraft after  AMR Corp. ’s American Airlines found
cracks on  two planes .  
 The revised guidelines will cover more than 900 767s in
operation worldwide,  Peter Conte , a spokesman for Chicago-based
Boeing, said today. While Boeing can’t require airlines to adopt
the change, its recommendations often are the basis for mandates
issued by the  U.S. Federal Aviation Administration .  
 American’s mechanics were performing unrelated work when
they discovered the cracks on one jet fewer than 500 cycles
after its last inspection, said  Lynn Lunsford , an FAA spokesman.
Inspections now are required after 1,500 cycles, each of which
consists of one takeoff and one landing.  
 “These parts are monitored very closely because they are
high-stress items and there is fatigue cracking that does
occur,” said  Hans Weber , president of aviation consulting firm
 Tecop International Inc.  in San Diego. “My guess is the FAA
will make a mandate” out of the Boeing recommendation.  
 Conte couldn’t immediately say when Boeing would issue its
recommendation or the new interval between inspections.  
 “Boeing is working with the operator and has been in
contact with the FAA about this finding,” he said.  
 Damage to an engine pylon  as it was reattached to a plane
at American’s Tulsa, Oklahoma, maintenance facility contributed
to the crash of an American DC-10 in Chicago on May 25, 1979,
the  National Transportation Safety Board  determined.  
 The crash occurred shortly after takeoff, killing all 271
onboard and two on the ground. Sections of an engine pylon came
off the plane, allowing the left engine to fall off, cutting
critical control lines and causing the DC-10 to roll on its back
before hitting the ground.  
 American Inspections  
 American began inspecting its 767s about two weeks ago
after cracks were found on a 767-300,  Tim Wagner , a spokesman
for the Fort Worth, Texas-based carrier, said today. The airline
checked 15 767-200s and 41 767-300s, and found cracks on one
additional 767-300, he said.  
 “Any crack, obviously, needs to be looked at carefully,
especially in a pylon assembly,” said  Fred Mirgle , retired
chairman of the aviation maintenance science department at
Embry-Riddle Aeronautical University in Daytona Beach, Florida.
“They’re taking the right steps to determine if there’s any
problem there.”  
 The FAA hasn’t yet decided whether to require other 767
operators to inspect their planes, Lunsford said. The 767 is a
widebody aircraft used most often on flights between the U.S.
and Europe. It seats 181 to 245 passengers in three classes,
depending on the model.  
 Additional Action  
 “We are working with the carrier and the manufacturer to
identify the source of the cracking and to develop remedies,”
Lunsford said. “We are considering additional action, including
requiring more frequent inspections of the engine pylon area.”  
 The agency said cracks were found on three American planes.
The carrier and agency haven’t resolved the discrepancy.  
 “This is why you do inspections,” Wagner said.
“Essentially, we found them when we should have. The cracks are
something the FAA and Boeing are looking into.”  
 The pylon from the first plane where American found cracks
is undergoing metallurgy tests, Wagner said.  
 AMR fell 32 cents, or 3.9 percent, to $7.92 at 4 p.m. in
New York Stock Exchange composite  trading . Boeing dropped $1.69,
or 2.5 percent, to $66.28.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mary Schlangenstein  in Dallas at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        