-- Lan May Generate 30% Cargo Traffic Increase This Year on Economic Growth
-- John Quigley
-- 2010-06-22T20:18:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-22/lan-may-generate-30-cargo-traffic-increase-this-year-on-economic-growth.html

          
          
             Lan Airlines SA , Latin America’s
largest airline by market value, may increase its regional
traffic this year on stronger economic growth, Chief Executive
Officer  Enrique Cueto  said today.  
 Lan may boost cargo traffic 30 percent while passenger
traffic may grow 15 percent, Cueto told reporters in Lima. The
airline industry could see a 15 percent rise in passenger
traffic in the region, and a 20 percent rise in Brazil, Cueto
said.  
 “Traffic growth for the region in general is very strong,
save for Venezuela,” said Cueto. “Chile has recovered from the
fall in passenger traffic following the earthquake.”  
 Demand for passenger travel in Latin America offset a
decline in cargo traffic following last year’s recession, Cueto
said. Air traffic rose 0.3 percent in the region last year,
according to the International Air Transport Association. Global
air traffic contracted 3.5 percent.  
 Lan plans to start domestic cargo flights June 22 between
the Brazilian cities of Sao Paulo, Recife and Fortaleza, the
Santiago, Chile-based company said June 17. Growth in cargo
traffic is “very strong, especially in Brazil,” Cueto said.  
 Lan is seeking to enter a Brazilian airline market that Sao
Paulo-based  Gol Linhas Aereas Inteligentes SA  estimates will
grow as much as 18 percent this year. Finding a partner in the
region’s largest economy is an important step for Lan, Cueto
said in a May 6 interview. Brazilian law restricts foreign
ownership of airlines, forcing Lan to seek a partnership with a
Brazilian company.  
 Restrictions on foreign investment in the airline industry
are “problematic,” Cueto said today. Controls on foreign
capital can make it more difficult for airline operators in
small countries to obtain funds needed to upgrade their fleet,
he said.  
 Lan shares trading in Santiago fell 0.8 percent to 10,350
pesos at 4:12 p.m. New York time.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 John Quigley  in Lima at 
 jquigley8@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        