-- Anadarko, BP May Use Cheaper Arbitration Process to Resolve Clash on Spill
-- Edward Klump
-- 2010-06-22T20:13:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-22/anadarko-may-use-arbitration-to-resolve-dispute-with-bp-about-spill-costs.html

          
          
             Anadarko Petroleum Corp.  may address
its dispute with  BP Plc  over who should pay for the biggest oil
spill in U.S. history through a private proceeding intended to
resolve the issue faster and more cheaply than litigation.  
 BP says Anadarko, which has a 25 percent stake in the
leaking Gulf of Mexico well, should pay its share of the costs
associated with the disaster. Anadarko said in a statement June
18 BP should pay the full tab because BP’s decisions on the well
“likely represent gross negligence or willful misconduct.”  
 As much as 60,000 barrels of oil a day is pouring from the
leak, according to a June 15 government estimate, some of which
BP is capturing and diverting to ships on the surface. The
partnership agreement on the well includes a provision that
requires the companies to resolve disputes involving more than
$500,000 through a binding arbitration process, according to a
regulatory filing yesterday from Anadarko.  
 “On the face of it, it would seem that this would be
headed toward arbitration, not litigation,” said  Jeff Rensberger , a professor of law who specializes in civil
litigation at the South Texas College of Law in Houston.
“Generally before an arbitrator, you get a judgment quicker and
it is less expensive to do.”  
 John Christiansen , a spokesman for The Woodlands, Texas-
based Anadarko, declined yesterday to answer questions about the
agreement. “We are assessing our contractual remedies,” he
said in an e-mail.  
 Robert Wine , a BP spokesman, declined to comment yesterday
on potential legal or arbitration proceedings.  
 Different Conclusion  
 Since the partnership agreement appears to require
arbitration, the issue may reach a different conclusion from
other investigations that are under way, JPMorgan Chase & Co.
said yesterday in a note to clients.  
 “The context and arbitrators involved in the arbitration
process likely would be different than those involved with the
ongoing investigations, so that process could lead to a
different conclusion,” said JPMorgan, which has an
“overweight” rating on  Anadarko  shares.  
 The leak was triggered by an April 20 explosion on a
drilling rig leased to BP by Transocean Ltd. BP has spent $2
billion responding to the spill, it said in a statement
yesterday. Costs may climb to as much as $50.8 billion if the
well is capped at the end of August, according to a June 16
research note from ClearView Energy Partners LLC, a Washington-
based policy analysis firm.  
 Notice of Dispute  
 Mitsui Oil Exploration Co., which is 70 percent-owned by
Japan’s second-biggest trading house,  Mitsui & Co. , has a 10
percent  stake  in the well. A U.S. unit of Mitsui Oil Exploration
is part of the same agreement as Anadarko and declined to
comment. BP owns 65 percent of the well.  
 Once a notice of dispute is delivered, each party is to
appoint a management representative, according to the agreement
filed yesterday by  Anadarko . If the representatives cannot
settle the dispute, either party can initiate arbitration.  
 Each side will choose an arbitrator, and those arbitrators
will select the last member of their panel, or ask the  American
Arbitration Association  to appoint the third member.  
 “With all the uncertainty hanging over all these companies
here, arbitration has the advantage of being decided more
quickly,” said  Philip Weiss , an analyst with Argus Research in
New York who has a “hold” rating on Anadarko and BP. “In some
ways, a decision that I don’t like might be better than clouds
of uncertainty hanging out here.”  
 Confidential Process  
 The agreement calls for the panel to issue a final decision
in writing after presentations. Either side can ask to modify
the decision. The agreement requires court approval of the
award.  
 Arbitration clauses are becoming more common in commercial
contracts, said Richard Frank, a visiting lecturer at the
University of California, Davis,  School of Law . He said Anadarko
might prefer a public case rather than a confidential process
given the negative coverage of BP.  
 “I think someone seeking to prove that BP was grossly
negligent might be relatively more interested in pursuing that
in court because they have an opportunity to get to a jury
instead of a dispassionate arbitrator,” Frank said.  
 The companies may also choose to settle the case outside of
court, he said.  
 BP Chief Executive Officer  Tony Hayward  said in a June 18
statement that his company expects other parties that may have
responsibility for costs and liabilities to meet their
obligations.  
 Preventable Disaster  
 BP said the co-owners of the well have also filed documents
with the U.S. government certifying that each would be “jointly
and severally liable” along with any other responsible parties
for oil-spill removal costs and damages in accordance with the
Oil Pollution Act of 1990.  
 Anadarko CEO  Jim Hackett  said in a June 18 statement that
evidence shows the Gulf disaster was preventable and the result
of BP’s “reckless decisions and actions.” The company said BP
is responsible for the cost of damages in such a situation.  
 Anadarko fell $1.75, or 4 percent, to $41.70 as of 4:01
p.m. in composite trading on the New York Stock Exchange. BP’s
American depositary receipts dropped 65 cents, or 2.1 percent,
to $29.68.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Edward Klump  in Houston at 
 eklump@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Boom is deployed to contain oil in Perdido Bay in Orange Beach, Alabama. Photographer: Kari Goodnough/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
