-- Anti-Washington Trend Threatens South Carolina Lawmaker Inglis in Runoff
-- Catherine Dodge
-- 2010-06-22T04:01:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-22/anti-washington-trend-threatens-south-carolina-lawmaker-inglis-in-runoff.html

          
          
             Representative  Bob Inglis , a six-
term lawmaker who wants to curb government spending and cut the 
budget deficit , would seem a perfect fit for his South Carolina
congressional district, among the nation’s most Republican.  
 He’s been endorsed by  Bob Jones III , chancellor of Bob
Jones University, a Christian school in the district where
students can’t drink, smoke, dance or wear jeans to class. His
voting record is rated 100 percent by  National Right to Life ,
an anti-abortion group. And he has a 93 percent  favorable
rating  from the American Conservative Union, which describes
itself as the largest grassroots conservative group.  
 Still, Inglis is struggling for survival. An underdog in
today’s runoff election against fellow Republican  Trey Gowdy ,
Inglis may become the fifth U.S. lawmaker to lose re-nomination
this year at the hands of an anti-Washington electorate.  
 His trouble: a willingness to deviate from his party, as
well as his vote for the $700 billion bank-rescue plan.  
 “This is just one of those years where that’s a
problem,” said  Charles Finocchiaro , a political scientist at
the University of South Carolina in Columbia. “Like you’re
seeing in lots of races around the country, the challenge for
him is to fend off the challenge from the right.”  
 South Carolina has two other runoffs today, including one
to pick the Republican gubernatorial nominee. In other states,
voters will choose the Republican Senate nominee in Utah and
the Democratic Senate nominee in North Carolina.  
 Voting Against Bush  
 Inglis stirred anger in his district when he voted against
President  George W. Bush ’s Iraq troop surge in 2007, then
backed the Troubled Asset Relief Program a year later, said
 Linda Abrams , a political scientist at Bob Jones University in
Greenville.  
 And his support of a tax on carbon dioxide emissions --
offset by a cut in payroll taxes -- to combat global warming
didn’t sit well with voters in the “very, very conservative”
district, Abrams said.  
 Voters “think Bob has left them,” Abrams said.  
 Inglis, 50, drew boos at a town hall meeting last year
when he told attendees to stop watching Fox News television
commentator  Glenn Beck , who he said was “trading on fear.”  
 “In bomb-throwing times, I’m offering solutions,” Inglis
said in an interview. “That’s what has caused me to land in
this spot.”  
 Primary Results  
 Voters made their dissatisfaction with Inglis clear in a
June 8 primary. Gowdy, a county prosecutor, won 39 percent of
the vote, while the incumbent ran second with 28 percent.  
 “If you want change in Washington, you have to change who
you send there,” Gowdy said in an interview.  
 Gowdy, a former federal prosecutor, has cut the backlog of
criminal cases in two counties by more than 40 percent,
according to his office’s website. “He’s a tough prosecutor,”
said Abrams. “That always gets high marks.”  
 For Inglis, overcoming an 11-point deficit in the runoff
won’t be easy, said  Nathan Gonzales , an editor for the
Rothenberg Political Report, a nonpartisan, Washington-based
publication.  
 “It’s extremely difficult for an incumbent to move a
large number of voters from a primary to a runoff,” Gonzales
said. Going from 28 percent to a majority “would be
breathtaking.”  
 An Inglis loss would be more the result of an ideological
battle than a case of anti-incumbent sentiment, Gonzales said.
Inglis “has a wider image problem that he’s too moderate.”  
 ‘Doesn’t Add Up’  
 Inglis said the notion he’s not conservative enough
“doesn’t add up,” citing endorsements from the  National Rifle
Association  and Jones.  
 Running behind is an unfamiliar position for a lawmaker
who has won all but one of his previous general election races
with at least 60 percent. He served three House terms before
making an unsuccessful bid for the U.S. Senate in 1998 against
then-incumbent  Ernest Hollings , a Democrat.  
 The district in South Carolina’s northwest corner is the
49th most Republican of the House’s 435, according to the  Cook
Political Report  in Washington, which bases its ratings on
presidential election results.  
 In South Carolina’s runoff for the Republican
gubernatorial nomination, state lawmaker  Nikki Haley  faces U.S.
Representative  Gresham Barrett . Haley, an Indian-American, won
49 percent of the vote in the primary to Barrett’s 22 percent.  
 Black Republican  
 In another South Carolina runoff for a U.S. House
nomination,  Tim Scott  is vying to become the first black
Republican in Congress in eight years. He faces Republican  Paul Thurmond , the son of the late U.S. Senator  Strom Thurmond , once
one of America’s foremost segregationists.  
 An Inglis defeat would make him the third House member to
lose a primary this year, after Democrat  Alan Mollohan  of West
Virginia and Republican  Parker Griffith  of Alabama. Senators
 Bob Bennett , a Utah Republican, and  Arlen Specter , a
Pennsylvania Democrat, have also been denied re-nomination.  
 Utah voters today will choose the Republican nominee to
replace Bennett, who was rejected for a fourth term at the
party’s convention. Businessman Tim Bridgewater faces lawyer
Mike Lee.  
 The race for the Democratic Senate nomination in North
Carolina pits Secretary of State  Elaine Marshall  against former
state Senator  Cal Cunningham . The winner will challenge
incumbent Republican  Richard Burr  in November.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Catherine Dodge  in Washington at 
 Cdodge1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        