-- Argentina's Lionel Messi Plots World Cup Win to Match Maradona's Success
-- Alastair Reed
-- 2010-06-23T01:17:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-22/argentina-s-lionel-messi-plots-world-cup-win-to-match-maradona-s-success.html

          
          
             Argentina’s “perfect player” led
his team to a perfect start to its World Cup yesterday.  
 Lionel Messi  guided Argentina to a 2-0 victory over Greece
in Polokwane, South Africa, last night, 24 years after his
coach’s “Hand of God” goal helped the South Americans to their
second title. Yesterday’s win allowed manager  Diego Maradona’s 
side to progress to last 16 of the tournament after three wins
in as many games.  
 Argentina have “the perfect player” in Messi, said
Maradona, now coach of the team. “He’s small, he’s fast, he’s
skilful and he can run through the legs of opposition players.”  
 Messi last night became Argentina’s youngest-ever captain,
two days before his 23rd birthday. He was voted man-of-the match
after shrugging off tough tackles from Greece to play a decisive
role in his side’s win.  
 “They were pushing him the whole game,” Maradona told
reporters at a news conference. “Every time Messi got the ball
they fouled him, they tackled him hard or they brought him down.
But Messi can still really play.”  
 While the Barcelona forward didn’t get score, he crashed
the ball against the Greek post after beating goalkeeper
 Alexandros Tzorvas . He was involved in both his team’s goals,
scored by defender  Martin Demichelis  and forward  Martin Palermo .  
 “I’m not worried about not scoring,” Messi said. “Of
course I’d like to, but it’s not important, especially when I
had a man clinging to me for 90 minutes.”  
 ‘Clearly Superior’  
 Argentina’s victory means they finish at the top of Group B
with nine points, ahead of South Korea, which secured the second
qualifying spot with four points after a 2-2 draw with group
rivals Nigeria.  
 “Argentina were clearly superior,” Greece’s coach  Otto Rehhagel  told reporters. “They were the better team, and this
was a deserved win for Argentina.”  
 Argentina are  ranked seventh  in the world, six places above
Greece and ten places above their next opponents, Mexico, who
they play on June 27.  
 “We’re now showing what we’re able to do,” said Maradona,
who was voted the greatest player ever in a poll of supporters
by soccer’s governing body FIFA.. “My players are making my
people and my country happy.” Argentina, which won the World
Cup in 1978 and 1986, finished fourth in qualifying for the
tournament, after Brazil, Chile and Paraguay.  
 Messi has been compared with Maradona, who in 1986 punched
the ball into the net as Argentina beat England 2-1 in the
quarterfinals on the way to winning the World Cup. Maradona
later referred to the “Hand of God” scoring the goal.  
 The coach said the team will continue to try to entertain
while winning.  
 “We have all the reasons to be relaxed now,” Maradona
said. “The past errors don’t really count anymore.”  
 While Argentina will respect Mexico, “we will play the
best we can, as we did now,” Maradona said. “Above all I want
the Mexicans to respect my players because I can tell the
Argentine people we have a great team.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alastair Reed  in Bloemfontein on  at
 areed12@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        