-- Harvard's Former Quarterback Priore Now Faces SEC Fraud Suit
-- Christine Richard
-- 2010-06-22T04:00:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-22/harvard-s-former-quarterback-priore-facing-sec-fraud-suit-at-icp-capital.html

          
          
             Thomas Priore  was about to play the
biggest football game of his life. The Harvard University
quarterback, who’d lost his starting job earlier in the season,
was given a second chance and would take the field against rival
Yale University.  
 “I knew when I got my opportunity again, I wasn’t going to
waste it,” he told the Boston Globe the day before kickoff in
November 1990. “I was going to make everything I could out of
it. I always knew my time would come.”  
 Harvard lost, 34-19, as Priore  fumbled twice .  
 Priore, 41, went on to earn an MBA from Columbia Business
School, and four years ago, he got another big chance. He and
colleagues acquired a controlling stake in  ICP Capital , the
investment company they had started as an affiliate of Bank of
New York. They turned it into a leader in the market for
collateralized debt obligations, or CDOs, which package pools of
assets such as mortgage bonds into new securities.  
 Now, federal regulators allege that Priore and his firm
have defrauded investors since 2007. The U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission said in a lawsuit filed Monday that Priore
and New York-based ICP “improperly obtained tens of millions of
dollars in fees and undisclosed profits at the expense of
clients and investors” by inflating bond prices, making
unauthorized trades and self-dealing.  
 In an e-mailed statement, Priore denied the charges and
said he would fight.  
 Clients’ Best Interests  
 “We at all times acted in the best interest of our clients
and intend to vigorously defend ourselves against these
allegations,” said Priore, who lives in the New York suburb of
Chappaqua. He owns 76 percent of ICP’s holding company,
according to the SEC.  
 The SEC said in its complaint that CDOs managed by ICP with
the name Triaxx issued more than $11 billion of notes and other
obligations to investors. When it created CDOs, ICP handled all
the work, said  Thomas Adams , a partner with the law firm Paykin
Krieg & Adams LLP in New York.  
 “They didn’t do that many CDOs, but the ones they did
tended to be top to bottom,” said Adams, a former executive
with bond insurer FGIC Corp., which also sold protection against
the default of a Triaxx CDO.  
 Priore’s investment business grew to $5 billion under
management by September 2006. The firm focused on asset-backed
securities and mortgage debt. By October 2008, assets under
management rose to $25 billion, according to the ICP website.  
 The SEC’s complaint centers on mortgage-backed securities,
and the agency alleges that some fraudulent trades were made to
meet a margin call. In a March 2007 interview with Bloomberg
Television, Priore was already anticipating a reversal in the
real estate market.  
 ‘Day of Reckoning’  
 “There will eventually be a day of reckoning” for CDOs
from mortgage defaults, he said, predicting ratings companies
would look more closely at assets as investors try to sell
holdings.  
 Priore has encountered legal conflicts before. He ran an
investment fund called ICP Strategic Credit Income Fund, started
in 2007. The fund, which had about $170 million in total assets,
was wiped out by the end of 2009, said an investor who spoke on
condition he not be identified because it is privately held.  
 Investors included Wilton, Connecticut-based  Commonfund , a
money manager for colleges and nonprofit organizations, and the
 University of North Carolina’s endowment .  
 Jonathon C. King , president and CEO of UNC Management Co.,
said in a statement Monday that the endowment filed a suit in
the Cayman Islands in March, seeking to involuntarily wind-up
the fund and freeze its assets.  
 Commonfund  
 Keith Luke, a Commonfund managing director, said his firm
filed an affidavit in support of that suit. Both Luke and King
said that their investments were small relative to assets under
management.  
 According to the SEC complaint, ICP withdrew $36.5 million
from the fund to repay a counterparty for unrelated
transactions, and the fund lost about $119 million from notes it
held in another entity, Triaxx Funding.  
 ICP has also been embroiled in a dispute with Toronto-based
insurer Fairfax Financial Holdings Ltd. Fairfax filed a lawsuit
in 2006 against a group of hedge funds including ICP.  
 Fairfax is seeking damages under New Jersey racketeering
laws against the funds for what it said was a conspiracy to
drive down  Fairfax’s shares  with false statements after taking
short positions on the company.  
 Shouting Match  
 Industry newsletter Asset-Backed Alert described a
“shouting match” earlier this year between Priore and the head
of his capital-markets operations,  Carlos Mendez . Mendez left
ICP and Priore agreed to sell the unit to PrinceRidge Holdings
LP, in March. Messages left on Mendez’s cell phone yesterday
weren’t returned.  
 PrinceRidge abandoned the deal within a week as it learned
about the CDO investigation, a person familiar with the matter
said.  
 Back in 1990, Priore told the Boston Globe before the big
Yale game that he liked to look forward.  
 “I’m not the type of person who looks back and regrets
things,” he said. “I’m here and I’m going to play life as it
comes.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 James Sterngold  in New York at 
 jsterngold2@bloomberg.net ;
 Pierre Paulden  in New York at 
 ppaulden@bloomberg.net ;
 Christine Richard  in New York at 
 crichard5@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Thomas Priore, chief executive officer of ICP Capital, is seen in this screen grab photo taken of the Michael Magro Foundation web site, as seen in New York. Photographer: Daniel Acker/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
