-- Global Stocks End Longest Rally in 11 Months
-- Esme Deprez
-- 2010-06-22T20:55:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-22/asian-stocks-fall-for-first-time-in-nine-days-on-europe-concern-yen-gains.html

          
          
             Stocks  slid, with the  MSCI World
Index  halting the longest rally in 11 months, as a drop in U.S.
home sales underscored concern the recent advance in equities
may have overshot prospects for the economy. Treasuries jumped
as a sale of two-year notes produced a record low yield.  
 The MSCI gauge of 24 developed nations lost 1.4 percent at
4 p.m. in New York, ending a 10-day streak of  gains . The
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index declined 1.6 percent, with energy
shares leading the drop as the White House said it would appeal
a judge’s ruling to lift a deepwater drilling moratorium.  The 
MSCI Emerging Markets Index  slid 1.1 percent, halting its 
longest rally since 2005. Oil fell for the first time in three 
days. Ten-year Treasury yields retreated to 3.16 percent.  
 U.S. benchmark indexes fell the most in almost three weeks 
amid concern the housing market may struggle to recover in the
absence of government incentives. Losses accelerated as the S&P
500 retreated below levels monitored by investors who base
trading decisions on chart patterns. The pullback in stocks came
before leaders of the Group of 20 industrialized nations meet
June 26 to consider ways to reduce deficits.  
 “The market is constantly trying to figure out if the
world is going back down into a double dip or if the economic
expansion can be sustained,” said  Rod Smyth , chief investment
strategist at Riverfront Investment Group in Richmond, which
manages $2 billion. Today’s housing numbers “are fodder for the
bears.”  
 Energy Shares Tumble  
 Energy  shares in the S&P 500 sank 2.7 percent as a group
after the Obama administration said it will appeal a New Orleans
federal judge’s ruling to lift the White House’s six-month
moratorium on deepwater drilling. Alcoa Inc., Caterpillar Inc.
and Home Depot Inc. had the biggest declines in the Dow Jones
Industrial Average, losing at least 2.6 percent, as the 30-stock
gauge tumbled 148.89 points to 10,293.52.  
 Purchases of existing houses decreased 2.2 percent to a
5.66 million annual rate, the National Association of Realtors
said. To receive a government incentive worth as much as $8,000,
buyers must have signed contracts by the end of April and need
to complete deals by the end of this month.  
 “The recovery in housing remains very fragile,” said Alan
Gayle, senior investment strategist at RidgeWorth Investments in
Richmond, Virginia, which oversees $63 billion. “The market will
reflect lack of conviction particularly if the economy starts to
lose momentum. We’re treading water.”  
 200-Day Average  
 The S&P 500 slid below its average level over the past 200
days today, after climbing above it on June 15 for the first
time in almost a month. The level, currently at about 1,111, is
watched by investors and analysts who make trading decisions
based on chart patterns. The S&P 500 has climbed 4.3 percent
from a seven-month low on June 7 as concern over Europe’s debt
crisis eased.  
 In the U.K., Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne 
today lowered the country’s economic forecast and announced
spending cuts and some tax increases to narrow the budget gap.  
 Germany, France and the U.K. jointly called for levies on
banks’ balance sheets in an attempt to overcome opposition to
the proposal by other members of the Group of 20 nations before
this week’s summit.  
 The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index  of equities in 18 western
European countries fell 0.5 percent, snapping a nine-day rally,
the longest winning streak in 11 months. Commodity producers led
the retreat, with  BHP Billiton Ltd. , the world’s biggest mining
company, falling 2.1 percent in London.  BNP Paribas SA  led
declines in banks, falling 1.9 percent in Paris after Fitch
Ratings cut its credit rating on France’s biggest lender.
‘  
 Canon , Mitsui  
 The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index  slipped 0.8 percent, its first
drop in nine days. Newcrest Mining Ltd., Australia’s biggest
gold producer, declined 1.8 percent in Sydney. Canon Inc., a
Japanese camera maker that counts Europe as its biggest market,
dropped 2.7 percent in Tokyo.  
 The yuan, which rallied 0.4 percent against the dollar
yesterday, fell 0.2 percent today on speculation China’s central
bank will intervene to limit gains after dropping a two-year peg
to the dollar.  
 “With the gains we had in markets in recent days, and
given that the ongoing economic problems are still very much
around us, there’s room for profit taking at these levels,”
said  Francisco Salvador , co-strategist at Iberian Equities in
Madrid. “The yuan revaluation has not come with the strength
that many expected, nor it will have the wide effect many hoped
for.”  
 Emerging Markets  
 The MSCI Emerging Markets Index retreated for the first
time in 11 days, dropping 1.1 percent. The  Dubai Financial
Market General Index  lost 1.4 percent after index provider MSCI
Inc. kept the United Arab Emirates as a frontier market,
disappointing some investors who anticipated an upgrade to
emerging market status.  
 The yen and dollar strengthened against 13 of 16 major
counterparts, while the Swiss franc rose to a record against the
euro. The euro weakened to $1.2271.  
 Crude oil for July delivery fell 61 cents, or 0.8 percent,
to settle at $77.21 a barrel on the New York Mercantile
Exchange. Oil has risen 15 percent in the past year. July crude
expired at the close of floor trading. The more active August
contract lost 76 cents, or 1 percent, to $77.85 a barrel.  
 Copper rose for a second day in New York on speculation
that a stronger yuan will boost demand from China, the world’s
largest metals consumer. Copper futures for September delivery
climbed 1.7 percent to $3.0105 a pound in New York.  
 Gold futures for delivery in August rose 10 cents to
$1,240.80 on the Comex in New York. Gold for immediate delivery
gained $3.15, or 0.3 percent, to $1,236.85.  
 Treasuries rose after the sale of $40 billion in two-year
notes drew a record low yield of 0.738 percent. The average
yield forecast was 0.751 percent in a Bloomberg News survey of 8
of the Federal Reserve’s 18 primary dealers. The bid-to-cover
ratio, which gauges demand by comparing total bids with the
amount of securities offered, was 3.45, compared with an average
of 3.10 for the previous 10 sales. The amount of the sale was $2
billion less than the prior sale, the second straight reduction.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Esmé E. Deprez in New York at 
 edeprez@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     The MSCI Asia Pacific Index lost 0.4 percent to 118.68 as of 11:48 a.m. in Tokyo, following an eight-day rally that boosted the value of global equities by $3 trillion. Photographer: Kimimasa Mayama/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 23 (Bloomberg) -- David Kelly, chief market strategist for JPMorgan Funds, talks with Bloomberg's Rishaad Salamat about his strategy for U.S. stocks and fixed-income investments.
     U.S. stocks sank yesterday, with benchmark gauges declining the most in almost three weeks, as home sales unexpectedly dropped and the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index slipped for a second day below chart levels monitored by analysts. Kelly, speaking from Cleveland, Ohio, also discusses Federal Reserve policy, the outlook for the U.S. economy, and China's shift in currency policy. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 22 (Bloomberg) -- Clyde Prestowitz, president of the Washington-based Economic Strategy Institute and a former Commerce Department international trade official, talks with Bloomberg's Rishaad Salamat about China's shift in currency policy and its implications for the U.S. economy.
     President Barack Obama called China’s decision to increase the flexibility of the exchange rate of the yuan "a constructive step that can help safeguard the recovery and contribute to a more balanced global economy."  (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
