-- Asian Stocks Fall for First Time in Nine Days on Europe Concern
-- Masaki Kondo
-- 2010-06-22T10:31:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-22/asian-stocks-decline-for-first-time-in-nine-days-on-renewed-europe-concern.html

          
          
             Asian stocks  fell, snapping the MSCI
Asia Pacific Index’s longest winning streak in 11 months, on
renewed concern Europe’s debt crisis will hurt the global
economy after rating companies downgraded France’s biggest bank
and said Spanish lenders face difficult years.  
 Canon Inc. , a Japanese camera maker that counts Europe as
its biggest market, dropped 2.7 percent in Tokyo. Samsung
Electronics Co., South Korea’s biggest exporter, dropped 1.7
percent. Newcrest Mining Ltd., Australia’s biggest gold producer,
declined 1.8 percent in Sydney after the price of the metal
retreated from a record yesterday.  Lee & Man Paper Manufacturing
Ltd.  sank 3.9 percent in Hong Kong after its controlling
shareholder agreed to sell a stake.  
 The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index  fell 0.9 percent to 118.07 at
7:30 p.m. in Tokyo. The decline ended an eight-day, 8.5 percent
advance, the longest streak since July 2009. The gauge has
fallen 7.7 percent from its high this year on April 15 amid
concern Chinese measures to curb property prices and Europe’s
debt crisis will hurt global growth.  
 “Europe’s problems still haven’t been solved and people
are in no mood to take on risk,” said  Hiroshi Morikawa , a
strategist in Tokyo at MU Investments Co., which manages about
$14 billion. “Investors are worried that developed nations
won’t be able to support their economies with any large-scale
loosening of monetary and fiscal policies.”  
 Japan’s  Nikkei 225 Index  and Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 Index
both fell 1.2 percent. Hong Kong’s Hang Seng Index slid 0.5
percent and China’s Shanghai Composite Index gained 0.1 percent.  
 South Korea’s Kospi Index lost 0.5 percent as MSCI Inc.
kept the country’s status as an emerging market, skipping a
possible upgrade for a second year.  
 European Banks, Growth  
 Futures on the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  fell 0.5 percent.
The gauge lost 0.4 percent in New York yesterday as declining
retail and technology shares outweighed China’s decision to
relax its currency’s fixed rate to the dollar.  
 Fitch Ratings yesterday cut its credit rating on BNP
Paribas SA, France’s largest bank, citing a “deterioration” of
the company’s asset quality. Standard & Poor’s Ratings Services
said Spanish lenders face difficult years as credit losses mount.  
 Investor sentiment also worsened as European Central Bank
governing council member  Christian Noyer  said some banks are
facing funding problems. Economists surveyed by Bloomberg
predict Germany’s Ifo institute will say today its business
climate index fell in June.  
 “We have to remain vigilant about Europe’s situation,”
said  Fumiyuki Nakanishi , a strategist at SMBC Friend Securities
Co. in Tokyo. “A country’s fiscal position doesn’t turn around
in just one or two days.”  
 Canon, Samsung, Nintendo  
 Computer-related companies and raw-material shares dropped
the most today among the 10 industry groups on the MSCI Asia
Pacific Index, all of which declined.  
 Canon, the world’s largest maker of digital cameras, sank
2.7 percent to 3,780 yen.  Samsung Electronics Co. , which got
21.5 percent of sales from Europe last year, slipped 1.7 percent
to 816,000 won. They were the second- and third-biggest drags on
the MSCI Asia Pacific.  
 Nintendo Co. , the world’s largest maker of video-game
machines, fell 3.3 percent to 28,300 yen, following an eight-day,
21 percent advance. Hon Hai Precision Industry Co., a supplier
of Apple Inc., declined 2.4 percent to NT$123.50 in Taipei.  
 The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index  surged 2.6 percent yesterday to
the highest close since May 14 after China’s central bank said
on June 19 that the exchange rate will be allowed increased
“flexibility.” The advance boosted the average price of shares
in the gauge to 15 times estimated  earnings , compared with 13.8
times on May 18, the lowest level in almost 17 months.  
 Gold, Shipping Lines  
 Shares of gold producers declined today after the metal’s
price retreated by the most in a month yesterday in New York,
falling from a record. Newcrest slid 1.8 percent to A$35.09.
Lihir Gold Ltd., the second-largest gold producer on the
Australian stock exchange, lost 2.1 percent to A$4.31. Real Gold
Mining Ltd. dropped 4.1 percent to HK$13.20 in Hong Kong.  
 Shipping stocks declined after the  Baltic Dry Index  of
rates to transport commodities fell 3.5 percent in London
yesterday, taking its 17-day loss to 38 percent. That was the
gauge’s longest losing streak since April 2009.  
 Mitsui O.S.K. Lines Ltd., the operator of the world’s
largest merchant fleet, retreated 1.8 percent to 659 yen.  China
Cosco Holdings Co. , the world’s largest operator of dry-bulk
ships, slid 1.3 percent to HK$8.62 in Hong Kong. Pacific Basin
Shipping Ltd., Hong Kong’s biggest bulk carrier, declined 0.9
percent to HK$5.25.  
 Chinese Ban  
 Takeda Pharmaceutical Co. , Asia’s largest drugmaker,
dropped 1.7 percent to 3,865 yen after the company released data
showing greater risk of cardiovascular problems among some
kidney patients taking its experimental anemia drug.  
 Lee & Man Paper declined 3.9 percent to HK$6.43. The
company said its controlling shareholder, Gold Best Holdings
Ltd., agreed to sell a 12 percent stake to Nippon Paper Group
Inc. for HK$3.55 billion ($457 million), cutting its holding to
51 percent upon completion of the sale.  
 Tencent Holdings Ltd. , China’s biggest Internet company by
market value, slipped 4.7 percent to HK$126, the biggest decline
on the MSCI Asia Pacific Index. China’s Ministry of Culture said
it ordered a ban on Internet game operators offering virtual-
currency services to minors.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jonathan Burgos  in Singapore at 
 jburgos4@bloomberg.net ;
 Masaki Kondo  in Tokyo at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     The MSCI Asia Pacific Index lost 0.4 percent to 118.63 as of 9:25 a.m. in Tokyo. Photographer: Kimimasa Mayama/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 21 (Bloomberg) -- Donald Straszheim, senior managing director of China research at International Strategy & Investment Group, talks about the People's Bank of China's decision to end the two-year currency peg to the dollar and the impact on the stock market.
     Straszheim talks with Margaret Brennan and Scarlet Fu on Bloomberg Television's "In Business." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
