-- Mauritius Reduces Growth Forecast on Euro Crisis; Lowers Deficit Estimate
-- Kamlesh Bhuckory
-- 2010-06-22T12:50:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-22/mauritius-reduces-growth-forecast-on-euro-crisis-lowers-deficit-estimate.html

          
          
             Mauritian Finance Minister  Pravind Jugnauth  cut the Indian Ocean island nation’s economic growth
forecast for 2010 to between 3.5 percent and 4 percent, citing
the euro crisis.  
 The growth rate will depend on “the depth and duration of
the currency crisis in Europe, how far the euro will slide
against the U.S. dollar and the rupee, and the impact on growth
in the euro zone countries, which are our main markets,”
Jugnauth said in response to a question by opposition leader
 Paul Berenger  in parliament today in the capital, Port Louis.  
 Mauritius’s Central Statistics Office in December forecast
the economy would grow 4.3 percent in 2010. That estimate was
revised to 4.6 percent in March.  
 Europe accounted for 61 percent of Mauritius’s exports in
the first quarter of this year, while two thirds of visitors to
the island nation are from Europe, according to the CSO. The
euro weakened 14 percent against the U.S. dollar so far this
year on concern Europe’s debt crisis will slow the economic
recovery. Against the Mauritian rupee, the euro has weakened 8
percent, according to Bloomberg data.  
 Jugnauth also lowered the estimated budget deficit for 2010
to 4.1 percent from 4.5 percent. Spending is expected to be 3.2
billion rupees ($98.6 million) below the 80.4 billion rupees
projected in the budget, he said.  
 “Such under-spending would arise mainly because of delays
in filling of posts and in implementation of capital projects,”
Jugnauth said.  
 Revenue is expected to be 1.5 billion rupees lower than the
66 billion rupees forecast, leaving a budget deficit of 1.7
billion rupees, he said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kamlesh Bhuckory  in Port Louis via Johannesburg at
   pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        