-- Australian Dollar Declines for Second Day on Global Slowdown, Stock Losses
-- Yasuhiko Seki
-- 2010-06-23T04:18:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-22/aussie-kiwi-dollars-advance-on-speculation-fed-will-keep-rates-near-zero.html

          
          
             Australia’s dollar traded near the
lowest level in almost a week against the U.S. currency as
concern Europe’s debt crisis will damp global economic growth
reduced demand for higher-yielding assets.  
 The Australian and New Zealand currencies fell versus the
yen as Asian stocks dropped before a report today that
economists said will show sales of  new U.S. homes  declined to
the lowest level since February. Australian bonds advanced
after U.S. Treasuries rallied yesterday on heightened concern
over the sustainability of the global recovery.  
 “A slew of economic data now signal a soft patch in the
recovery,” said  Kazumasa Yamaoka , a senior analyst in Tokyo at
GCI Capital Co., an investment advisory firm. “Risk-off trades
mean that investors shun riskier assets and are shifting
allocation back to the dollar and yen.”  
 Australia’s dollar traded at 87.18 U.S. cents at 2:05 p.m.
in Sydney from 87.16 yesterday in New York after touching 86.88,
the lowest since June 18. The currency was at 78.90 yen from
78.94. New Zealand’s dollar was little changed at 70.43 U.S.
cents and weakened 0.1 percent to 63.73 yen.  
 The MSCI Asia Pacific Index  of regional shares fell 1.1
percent after the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index slid 1.6 percent.  
 Sales of new U.S. homes declined 19 percent to a 410,000
annual pace last month, according to a Bloomberg News survey.
Purchases of existing houses dropped 2.2 percent to a 5.66
million annual rate, the National Association of Realtors said
yesterday.  
 Fed Statement  
 The Federal Reserve will alter language in its policy
statement at this week’s meeting to reflect a “sluggish”
economy, said  Richard Clarida,  global strategic adviser at
 Pacific Investment Management Co.   
 “The economy softened since the last meeting and
inflation is very well behaved,” Clarida said in an interview
with  Deirdre Bolton  on Bloomberg Television’s “InsideTrack.”
The Fed will “adjust the language to reflect more sluggish
conditions for the economy.”  
 The Federal Open Market Committee will keep its benchmark
interest rate at a record low range of zero to 0.25 percent at
the end of its two-day meeting today, according to all 97
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  
 “There is a good chance that the statement will sound
more cautious on the economic outlook, which could weigh on
investor risk-appetite,”  John Kyriakopoulos , head of currency
strategy at National Australia Bank Ltd. in Sydney, wrote in a
note to clients. The 20-day moving average at 85.01 U.S. cents
“will be a key support” for the Aussie dollar, he said.  
 CDS Prices  
 The cost of protecting Asia-Pacific corporate and
sovereign bonds from default rose after Credit Agricole SA,
France’s largest bank by branches, said yesterday will take a
400 million euro ($491 million) writedown on its stake in
Emporiki Bank of Greece SA.  
 Standard & Poor’s Ratings Services said on June 21 that
 Spanish banks  face “difficult years” in 2010 and 2011 as
credit losses mount and revenue generation comes under
“substantial strain.”  
 The Markit iTraxx Asia index of 50 investment-grade
borrowers outside Japan rose eight basis points to 131 basis
points, Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc prices showed. Credit-
default swap indexes are benchmarks for protecting debt against
default and traders use them to speculate on credit quality.  
 N.Z. Economy  
 New Zealand’s dollar pared earlier losses after a
government report showed the current-account deficit shrank to
the narrowest in more than 21 years as the profits of foreign-
owned companies declined.  
 The shortfall fell to NZ$4.46 billion ($3.14 billion) in
the 12 months ended March 31, from a revised NZ$5.31 billion in
the year through December, Statistics New Zealand said.  
 New Zealand’s  economy  expanded for a fourth quarter,
according to a Bloomberg survey before a report tomorrow. Gross
domestic product rose 0.6 percent in the three months to March
from the prior quarter, the  survey  showed.  
 “We expect the recovery to gather momentum,” said  Nick Tuffley , chief economist at ASB Bank Ltd. in Auckland. “That
will give the Reserve Bank confidence to continue with its
policy normalization by lifting the cash rate steadily.”  
 Reserve Bank of New Zealand Governor  Alan Bollard  on June
10 raised the  official cash rate  a quarter-point, the first
increase in three years. There’s an 80 percent chance of a
further quarter-point increase at the July 29 review, according
to a Credit Suisse AG  index  based on swaps.  
 Australian bonds rose for a second day. The yield on the
benchmark 10-year note fell six basis points to 5.33 percent,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 New Zealand’s two-year swap rate, a fixed payment made to
receive floating rates, fell one basis point to 4.27 percent.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Yasuhiko Seki  in Tokyo at 
 yseki5@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Australian banknotes  
                       
                         
                           Ian Waldie/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Australia’s currency traded at 87.30 U.S. cents as of 8:42 a.m. in Sydney from 87.16 cents in New York. It climbed to 88.59 on June 21, the highest since May 17. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Australia’s currency traded at 87.30 U.S. cents as of 8:42 a.m. in Sydney from 87.16 cents in New York. It climbed to 88.59 on June 21, the highest since May 17.  Photographer: Ian Waldie/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 22 (Bloomberg) -- Gary Shilling, president of A. Gary Shilling & Co., talks about the implications of China's move to relax its currency peg to the dollar and the European debt crisis.
     Shilling talks with Erik Schatzker on Bloomberg Television's "InsideTrack." (This is an excerpt of the full interview. Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
