-- Australian Dollar Gains for Fourth Day After China Strengthens Yuan Rate
-- Yasuhiko Seki
-- 2010-06-22T05:34:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-22/australian-new-zealand-dollars-advance-after-china-strengthens-yuan-rate.html

          
          
             Australia’s dollar rose for a
fourth day as China’s central bank raised its daily yuan
reference rate by the most in five years, boosting demand for
currencies of nations that sell products to the Asian country.  
 The currency reversed an earlier decline after the
decision by the People’s Bank of China boosted confidence the
global economy is recovering. New Zealand’s dollar traded near
a one-month high against the greenback after a survey showed
economists increased their forecast for the nation’s gross
domestic product growth.  
 “The rate action shows the Chinese government’s
confidence in a sustained recovery,” said  Yousuke Hosokawa , a
senior currency dealer in Tokyo at Chuo Mitsui Trust & Banking
Co., a unit of Japan’s seventh-largest bank. “The move boosted
demand for commodity currencies tied closely to growth in China,
such as Australia’s.”  
 Australia’s dollar rose to 87.79 U.S. cents as of 3:05 p.m.
in Sydney from 87.65 cents in New York yesterday, when it
advanced to 88.59, the strongest since May 17. The currency was
unchanged at 79.85 yen.  
 New Zealand’s dollar traded at 70.79 U.S. cents from 70.82
cents yesterday, when it climbed to 71.53 cents, the strongest
since May 14. It was at 64.39 yen from 64.52 yen.  
 The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index  of regional shares fell 0.7
percent, snapping an eight-day gain.  
 Yuan Fluctuations  
 China’s central bank  said  on June 19 it would allow
greater currency “flexibility,” while maintaining the trading
band, curbing inflows of short-term speculative capital and
preventing “excessive” fluctuations.  
 Gains in the two South Pacific currencies were tempered as
the yuan weakened after it began trading, falling 0.2 percent
to 6.8094 versus the dollar.  
 “Fluctuations of the yuan dominated the market as well as
the direction of cross currencies,’” said  Hiroshi Maeba ,
deputy general manager of foreign-exchange trading in Tokyo at
Nomura Securities Co., Japan’s biggest securities broker.  
 The kiwi approached one-month high after a survey by the
 New Zealand Institute of Economic Research Inc.  found
economists forecast New Zealand’s GDP would grow in excess of 3
percent over the next two years on stronger international
demand for the nation’s commodities.  
 The economy will grow by 3.2 percent in the year ending
March 31, 2011, according to the average estimate of 10
economists surveyed by the Wellington-based company. Three
months ago, they forecast a 3.1 percent expansion.  
 Economic Data  
 New Zealand’s currency also “should garner any strength
as it awaits the challenge of key first quarter economic
releases due over the next few days,”  Alex Sinton , a senior
dealer at ANZ National Bank Ltd. in Auckland, New Zealand,
wrote in a note to clients.  
 Gross domestic product  in New Zealand rose 0.6 percent in
the first quarter following a 0.8 percent growth, according to
a Bloomberg News survey of economists before Statistics New
Zealand releases the data on June 24.  
 The Australian and New Zealand dollars pared gains on
speculation European banks will struggle to raise money amid
the debt crisis.  
 European Central Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet  said
nations in breach of European Union fiscal rules may face
tougher punishments and ECB member  Christian Noyer  said some
banks in the 16-nation region are facing funding problems.  
 ‘Downside Risks’  
 “Fiscal consolidation may pose some downside risks to the
global economy,” said  Masahide Tanaka , a senior strategist in
Tokyo at Mizuho Trust & Banking Co., a unit of Japan’s second-
largest banking group. “Receding optimism about the global
recovery may weigh on commodity currencies” such as the
Australian and New Zealand dollars.  
 The  Ifo institute ’s  business climate index , based on a
survey of 7,000 executives, decreased to 101.2 from 101.5 in
May, according to the median of 38 forecasts in a Bloomberg
News  survey . The index hit a two-year high of 101.6 in April.
Ifo releases the report in Munich today.  
 New Zealand’s two-year swap rate, a fixed payment made to
receive floating rates, fell four basis points to 4.31 percent.  
 Australian government bonds rose. The yield on the
benchmark 10-year note fell four basis points to 5.40 percent,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Yasuhiko Seki  in Tokyo at 
 yseki5@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        