-- Australia to Maintain 20% Renewable Energy Target in Amended Legislation
-- Marion Rae
-- 2010-06-22T05:14:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-22/australia-to-maintain-20-renewable-energy-target-in-amended-legislation.html

          
          
             The Australian government will keep
a target of generating 20 percent of the nation’s energy from
renewable sources by 2020 while amending planned legislation,
Climate Change Minister  Penny Wong  said.  
 “The amendments will ensure the long-term, sustainable
growth of both the small-scale and large-scale renewable energy
sector and will support new jobs and investment,” Wong said in
an e-mailed statement today after putting the amendments to the
upper house Senate.  
 With an election due by April 2011, Labor Prime Minister
 Kevin Rudd  slumped in opinion polls after he scrapped carbon-
trading plans on April 27. Action on climate change was a
mainstay of Rudd’s election campaign in 2007 and he announced on
his first day in office that Australia would ratify the Kyoto
accord. Rudd plans to reopen the climate debate at the end of
2012.  
 The legislation, aimed at supporting large-scale projects
and the supply of clean energy to homes, has two parts. The
first supports households using solar panels and solar hot water
systems, while the development of wind farms, commercial solar
and geothermal projects will deliver the majority of the 2020
target, according to the government.  
 The amendments include temporarily increasing the target in
2012 and 2013 and adjusting it in later years, regulatory powers
to adjust credits for solar panels and reviewing the price of
so-called renewable energy certificates.  
 The changes address issues raised in the Senate by  Tony Abbott ’s opposition Liberal-National coalition, the Greens and
independent Senator  Nick Xenophon , Wong said. Their support is
needed to pass the laws in the upper house.  
 “It is imperative for the ongoing growth of the renewables
sector that the legislation passes the parliament this week,”
Wong said. The laws are scheduled to take effect from Jan. 1.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Marion Rae  in Canberra at 
 mrae3@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        