-- Senators Agree to Exempt Auto Dealers in Finance Bill
-- Alison Vekshin
-- 2010-06-22T19:50:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-22/lawmakers-reject-efforts-to-limit-u-s-consumer-agency.html

          
          
             Senate negotiators have agreed to a
House proposal to exempt auto dealers from oversight by a
proposed consumer financial protection bureau.  
 The exemption for auto dealers was included in the House
version of the financial-regulatory overhaul. It is opposed by
the Obama administration and was not part of the Senate bill.  
 House-Senate negotiators, meeting for a third week to
resolve differences between the two versions, devoted much of
today to discussion of the powers of the new consumer bureau.
The bureau, which would be housed in the Federal Reserve, would
have independent powers to write and enforce rules banning
abusive practices in credit-card and mortgage lending.  
 Auto dealers have been lobbying lawmakers to be excluded
from oversight. The senators’ offer released today said they
would accept the House exemption.  
 Senator  Christopher Dodd  and Representative  Barney Frank ,
who are leading the negotiations and wrote the House and Senate
versions of the legislation, had opposed the exemption. Frank
said today he included the exemption in his offer to Senate
negotiators because it “has strong support in the House.”  
 “The political reality is that those of us who have fought
against an auto dealer carve-out can’t prevail,” Representative
 Luis Gutierrez , an Illinois Democrat, said today during the
meeting.  
 House Democrats defeated Republican efforts to scale back
other powers of the bureau. Negotiators considered a series of
Republican amendments, including one offered by Representative
 Jeb Hensarling  to prevent the bureau from banning a financial
product or service. His plan was defeated 7-12.  
 ‘Flaws’  
 “There are many flaws with the underlying creation of this
new expensive, immense, powerful bureaucracy,” Hensarling of
Texas said.  
 The committee of lawmakers is considering changes as they
work to merge the bill the House approved in December with the
version the Senate approved last month. The consumer bureau is
based on an idea offered last year by President Barack  Obama  to
create a standalone Consumer Financial Protection Agency as part
of a package of proposals aimed at preventing a repeat of the
2008 economic crisis.  
 The proposed agency became the main sticking point as
senators crafted their version of the bill and derailed
bipartisan talks in February. Dodd, a Connecticut Democrat who
is chairman of the Senate Banking Committee, offered to house
the agency at the Fed in response to Republican concerns.  
 Volcker Rule  
 Negotiators tomorrow will take up proposed changes related
to the so-called Volcker rule, language that’s included in the
Senate bill to ban proprietary trading at U.S. banks. They said
they plan to focus on June 24 on the section of the legislation
dealing with derivatives oversight.  
 Frank, a Massachusetts Democrat, said it was important that
lawmakers finish talks by June 24 so they can hold final votes
in the House and Senate next week. He pointed out that Congress
will be in recess the week of July 4.  
 “If we are not able to finish by Thursday, then this bill
cannot pass until the middle of July,” said Frank. “We think
that would be unwise from the standpoint of economic
stability.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alison Vekshin  in Washington at 
 avekshin@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Senator Christopher "Chris" Dodd, chairman of the Senate Banking Committee. Photographer: Andrew Harrer/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
