-- Layton Says Canada Parliament Needs to Debate Potential Budget Windfalls
-- Alexandre Deslongchamps
-- 2010-06-22T19:48:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-22/layton-says-canada-parliament-needs-to-debate-potential-budget-windfalls.html

          
          
             New Democratic Party leader  Jack Layton  urged Prime Minister  Stephen Harper  to have a debate
about any potential budget windfall generated by stronger
growth, instead of automatically applying extra funds to the
country’s deficit.  
 “If we find ourselves with additional resources, there
needs to be a debate in Parliament,” Layton, 59, said today in
an interview at Bloomberg’s Ottawa bureau.  
 Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty  yesterday  released  an updated
economic outlook that showed the country’s nominal  gross
domestic product  will be higher than projected in the budget
over the next five years, with a C$30 billion ($29.4 billion)
gain in output in 2010 and a C$24 billion improvement for 2014.  
 The government should look at “strategic” investments
“to ensure that we have a strong economy coming out of this
recessionary time,” Layton said. “It might be that we need
more investment, while at the same time looking at how we can
reduce some of the indebtedness by bringing down the deficit.”  
 Harper’s ruling Conservative party lacks a majority of
 seats  in Parliament and must get support from at least one party
to pass budgets and other legislation. The New Democrats are the
smallest opposition party with 36 of the 308 seats in the House
of Commons.  
 Canada Election  
 Layton, who sports a trimmed silver moustache and typically
rolls up the sleeves of his shirts, has almost tripled his
party’s number of seats in Parliament since becoming leader in
2003. His wife,  Olivia Chow , is also a New Democratic Party
lawmaker.  
 Asked whether his party is ready for an election, Layton
said, “more than we ever have been in our history.”  
 “We’re financially very strong,” Layton said, citing the
party’s C$5 million “self-financing” building in downtown
Ottawa.  
 Layton in February announced he had prostate cancer and
last week said “everything is shaping up to be very, very
optimistic.”  
 In a show of support for Layton’s fight, lawmakers from all
parties on March 31 wore a  blue striped tie  or scarf, which are
sold to promote the Prostate Cancer Foundation of Canada.  
 Speaking on the possibility of oil companies operating in
the country’s Arctic region, Layton said he’s “skeptical” a
safe method for off-shore drilling can be found. The government
should only permit exploratory projects if the issue is “very
thoroughly studied” in public and all concerns alleviated, he
said.  
 “We’re deeply concerned about the prospect of drilling in
the Arctic, because there is literally no way to clean up a
disaster in that environment,” Layton said. “Once the oil is
under ice or locked in the environment there, it just simply
wouldn’t be possible to mobilize either the technologies or the
individuals, such as they’ve been able to do in the gulf.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alexandre Deslongchamps  in Ottawa at 
 adeslongcham@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        