-- Bank of Canada's Lane Says Country's Rebound Has Been Faster Than Expected
-- Greg Quinn
-- 2010-06-22T19:09:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-22/bank-of-canada-s-lane-says-country-s-rebound-has-been-faster-than-expected.html

          
          
             Bank of Canada Deputy Governor
 Timothy Lane  said the country’s economic recovery has been
faster than expected, and future  interest-rate  decisions will
weigh domestic strength against the risks posed by Europe’s debt
crisis.  
 Policy makers, including Lane and Governor  Mark Carney , may
raise their benchmark interest rate at the next decision July
20, trading in  overnight index swaps  suggests. Canada raised the
rate to 0.5 percent from a record low 0.25 percent on June 1,
the first such move in the Group of Seven since July 2008.  
 “Because of the uncertainties - particularly those
emanating from Europe - we’ve been careful to emphasize that the
extent and timing of any additional withdrawal of monetary
stimulus would depend on how the outlook for economic activity
and inflation evolves,” Lane, 55, said in the text of a speech
he’s giving today in Winnipeg, Manitoba. He also said the
current benchmark rate is still “very stimulative.”  
 Canada’s  economy  expanded at a 6.1 percent annual pace last
quarter, and the central bank predicts  inflation  will exceed its
2 percent target over the next year. Carney said in two speeches
last week that the biggest risks to Canada’s recovery are global
and there could be C$7 trillion ($6.83 trillion) of lost global
output by 2015 without measures by emerging markets to boost
domestic demand and make exchange rates more flexible as
developed countries pare deficits.  
 European Rescue  
 Soaring bond yields in nations including Greece, Ireland
and Portugal on concern about unsustainable deficits forced the
European Union to craft a 750 billion-euro rescue package on May
10.  
 China’s signal last weekend that it will relax a two-year-
old policy of fixing the currency at about 6.83 per U.S. dollar
is “an important step forward,” Lane said. “Its full
implementation will contribute to strong, sustainable, and
balanced global economic growth.”  
 Canada’s  economic growth  is being slowed by “the
persistent strength of the Canadian dollar, our poor relative
productivity performance, and the low absolute level of demand
in the United States.” So far, the impact of Europe’s debt
crisis is having “limited effects” on Canada, he said.  
 The Canadian dollar traded for C$1.0245 per U.S. dollar at
2:05 p.m. in Toronto, versus C$1.0243 yesterday. It has
strengthened 13 percent over the past 12 months. The rate on the
two-month overnight index swap, a bet on what investors predict
the central bank’s rate will average over that time, rose to
0.6020 percent today from 0.5958 percent yesterday.  
 Growth to Ease  
 Canada’s recovery “is proceeding somewhat more rapidly
than expected,” Lane said, supported by stimulus measures,
higher commodity prices and consumer spending. He added the
expansion will probably “moderate” this quarter. The January-
to-March gain in gross domestic product was the biggest in a
decade.  
 Inflation  has remained below the bank’s 2 percent target
according to the latest Statistics Canada report. The inflation
rate slowed to 1.4 percent in May from 1.8 percent in April. The
core rate that excludes eight volatile items, and which is used
by policy makers for clues about future price trends, slowed to
1.8 percent from 1.9 percent.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Greg Quinn  in Ottawa, at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net ;  
          
          


  


        