-- Bankers in Hungary Find Prime Minister's `New Politics' Comes With Strings
-- Balazs Penz
-- 2010-06-23T12:05:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-22/bankers-in-hungary-find-prime-minister-s-new-politics-comes-with-strings.html

          
          
             Hungarian Prime Minister  Viktor Orban  promised “a new system” after winning elections two
months ago. Bankers are finding out what he means the hard way.  
 Orban announced a tax on the financial industry on June 8,
a week before European Union leaders agreed on plans for similar
levies. Hungary, which aims to raise 200 billion forint ($880
million), may end up being the most punitive for bankers in the
region based on the size of the country.  
 “They need money and the bank sector is an easy place,”
said  Pedro Fonseca , an analyst at Macquarie Research in London,
who today cut his price estimate for OTP Bank Nyrt., the
nation’s largest lender, by 18 percent. “This is still a big
sector which is making a good deal of money and the government
is going to take money from it.”  
 Banks in Hungary are now in talks with the government about
how the payments will be set. Budapest-based  OTP  was downgraded
also by Bank of America Merrill Lynch, UBS AG, Deutsche Bank AG
and Citigroup Inc. because of the tax, which equates to about
$88 for every Hungarian.  
 U.K. Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  yesterday
announced plans to tax banks in his first budget since May
elections. He is seeking 2 billion pounds ($2.9 billion) in
annual revenue starting in 2011 with a new levy on balance
sheets. That works out at about $48 per head.  
 Unhappy Bankers  
 Orban, 47, unveiled his plan along with a package of
spending cuts to bolster market confidence after his spokesman,
 Peter Szijjarto , spooked markets with comments about the “grave
state” of the economy. The talk sent the euro to a four-year
low against the dollar.  
 “We are not particularly happy about the decision for the
tax,” said  Federico Ghizzoni , head of UniCredit SpA’s east
European operations, which has about  255,000 clients in Hungary .
“It’s important to be treated in a fair way. This is a quite
expensive tax if you look at the number itself. This is not
touching the long-term positive approach.”  
 Officials at OTP declined to comment on the tax because
talks are continuing with the government.  
 Shares  in the bank, which had a monopoly during four
decades of communism in Hungary, are down 23 percent over the
past three months compared with a drop of 2.5 percent for
Warsaw-based PKO Bank Polski SA, its Polish counterpart. OTP
fell 1.5 percent to 5,170 forint by 2 p.m. in Budapest.  
 Healthier Banks  
 The prime minister’s office has no information that would
suggest that Orban’s 200 billion-forint target won’t be
attainable this year, Szijjarto said in Budapest on June 18.  
 At the same time, banks in Hungary required relatively
little help to weather the financial crisis of the past two
years. Europe’s biggest bank rescue was  Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc , which cost the British taxpayer 45.5 billion pounds.
By comparison, OTP in March repaid the last of the 400 billion-
forint government loan it got in 2009.  
 European Union leaders vowed June 17 to push for global
taxes on banks and financial transactions to clamp down on
speculation. The Group of 20 nations will discuss the regulation
of the industry later this week.  
 France, Germany and the U.K. may vary the terms of new
taxes on banks depending on their economic situation, the
governments said in a joint statement yesterday.  
 It shows that Hungary is “at a competitive advantage” by
being at the fore of the proposals, Szijjarto said.  
 Tax Estimates  
 Hungary’s banks may be taxed an extra 160 billion forint
this year, with the rest of the funds raised from insurance and
leasing companies, analysts at Merrill Lynch estimate. Banks
have combined loans and securities of 29 trillion forint,
according to the  Hungarian Banking Association  in Budapest.  
 OTP, the nation’s most profitable bank, may be saddled with
25 percent of the tax burden should the levy be based on assets,
to as much as 63 percent if it’s related to pretax profit,
Merrill Lynch’s  Cristina Marzea  and  Ivan Bokhmat  wrote in a
research note on June 14.  
 Vienna-based Raiffeisen International Bank-Holding AG is
the foreign lender with the most at stake in Hungary, followed
by Austria’s Erste Group Bank AG and KBC NV of Belgium,
according to JPMorgan Chase & Co. Raiffeisen spokesman  Peter Klopf  said in a June 8 statement that “additional pressures on
banks” can hinder developing the economy.  
 ‘Wrong Assumption’  
 “We thought that the new government would be banking-
sector friendly,” UBS analysts  Daniele Brupbacher  and  Alastair Ryan  wrote in a report. “This turned out to be a wrong
assumption and a real surprise to us. The new government’s plan
reminded people that there could be more regulation ahead.”  
 Hungary was the first European Union country to receive an
international bailout in the 2008 financial crisis as demand
dried up for the country’s debt, threatening a default.  
 The government, elected in April on a promise to end five
years of austerity, pledged to meet a budget deficit target
approved by the  International Monetary Fund  and the EU, which
provided the bulk of the 20 billion-euro ($24 billion) lifeline.  
 Orban will probably use the money to plug budget holes and
finance tax cuts promised in the election campaign, said  Gernot Jany , an Erste Group Bank AG analyst in Vienna.  
 “The new government promised tax cuts,” Jany said. “This
tax reduction has to be financed some way.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Balazs Penz  at   bpenz@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Hungary's Prime Minister Viktor Orban speaks at a news conference in Budapest. Photographer: Balint Porneczi/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
