-- Barclays Wealth to Quadruple Assets in South, Southeast Asia, Hire Bankers
-- Joyce Koh
-- 2010-06-22T03:19:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-22/barclays-wealth-to-quadruple-assets-in-south-southeast-asia-hire-bankers.html

          
          
             Barclays Plc  plans to quadruple the
amount of money it manages for rich clients in South and
Southeast Asia in the next five years by injecting capital and
adding staff at its private-banking unit in the region.  
 The number of bankers covering non-resident Indians from
Singapore and Hong Kong, as well as Malaysia, Singapore and
Indonesia, will rise by 60 percent by year-end and more than
double by the end of 2011,  Srinivas Siripurapu , head of
Southeast Asia and South Asia at London-based Barclays Wealth,
said in an interview in Singapore yesterday.  
 Barclays, the U.K.’s third-largest lender, said in February
it will invest 350 million pounds ($517 million) in its wealth
management unit. In Asia, Barclays is entering a battle for
private-banking assets and managers that the regional head of
 Credit Suisse Group AG ’s Clariden Leu unit last week warned may
drive up compensation costs.  
 Barclays has “these huge plans and vision of growing to a
certain level, that’s what makes it exciting,” said Siripurapu,
who joined the bank last August. “Everybody is growing I agree,
but we are trying to grow much more than others.”  
 The bulk of the hires will be in Southeast Asia, he said.
Barclays has about 40 private bankers covering South and
Southeast Asia, said a person with knowledge of the matter who
declined to be identified.  
 Barclays’s private-banking unit in the Asia-Pacific, headed
by  Didier von Daeniken , plans to quadruple assets under
management and triple its number of bankers within five years,
Siripurapu said. The company has almost 100 wealth managers in
Asia, the person familiar with the matter said.  
 Demanding Clients  
 Wealth in the Asia-Pacific region, excluding Japan, is
expected to rise at almost double the global rate, and the
region will increase its share of global riches to almost 20
percent in 2014 from 15 percent last year, the Boston Consulting
Group said this month.  
 UBS AG  and  Standard Chartered Plc  are among companies that
have announced plans to expand in private banking in Asia to
keep up with that growth.  
 Siripurapu said he wants to hire private bankers with
experience from corporate and investment banking who are able to
cater to increasingly demanding customers.  
 “Clients are quite different now,” he said. “Giving away
control over the management of their wealth is something they’re
hesitant about, so when we have these engaged investors who
understand the financial markets, we understand we have to
upscale the skill sets of our bankers.”  
 Barclays Wealth, which together with the corporate and
investment banking units is overseen by  Bob Diamond , managed
151.2 billion pounds of assets globally as of March 31, and
employed 7,400 people.  
 Team Move  
 Siripurapu joined Barclays from  UBS , where he was country
head for India private banking. He left for Barclays with nine
members of his team. In February, three other UBS bankers joined
Siripurapu’s South Asia group, including  Vikram Malhotra , who
had succeeded Siripurapu at the Swiss bank.  
 Clariden Leu’s Asia head  Jimmy Lee  said last week in an
interview that turnover among advisers in the region is
antagonizing clients concerned about privacy. Banks touting
expansion plans are undermining the industry by driving up pay
expectations, he said.  
 Siripurapu, who was at UBS for almost eight years and said
he expanded his team there ten times to about 40 people, said
his move to another firm is “pretty healthy” for the market.  
 “They can manage there, and we can start from scratch here,
so in the process, we have developed the industry,” he said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joyce Koh  in Singapore at 
 jkoh38@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        