-- Barclays Bought Lehman in `Riskiest Week of My Life,' CEO Says
-- Linda Sandler
-- 2010-06-22T16:42:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-22/barclays-bought-lehman-brokerage-in-riskiest-week-of-my-life-ceo-says.html

          
          
             Barclays Plc ’s purchase of  Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc. ’s brokerage in the falling markets of
September 2008 occurred in “the riskiest week of my life,” the
U.K. bank’s chief executive said.  
 “Markets were collapsing,” Barclays Group Chief Executive
 John Varley  told a federal judge today in Manhattan. “We needed
to ensure there was a buffer between assets and liabilities. We
needed to be able to look regulators in the eye and say the deal
would be capital accretive.”  
 Varley is the second witness today in a U.S. Bankruptcy
Court trial over Lehman’s claim that the U.K.’s third-biggest
bank should pay it as much as $11 billion for an allegedly
undisclosed “windfall” on the defunct brokerage. The deal was
approved by Judge  James Peck  and closed a week after Lehman’s
Sept. 15, 2008, bankruptcy, the biggest in U.S. history.  
 Earlier today, Barclays President  Robert Diamond  said the
bank had qualms about acquiring Lehman’s brokerage after Bank of
America Corp. balked at buying it.  
 “BofA walked away from an opportunity to do a deal with
Lehman at some distressed price,” said Diamond, who runs
Barclays’s corporate and investment banking operations. “But
they paid $50 billion for Merrill Lynch. That created real
concern for us. What had they seen?”  
 Diamond was responding to questions from Barclays’s lawyer
 David Boies  about the bank’s concerns when it bought Lehman and
why it sought to buffer itself from risk by staking claim to
assets in the brokerage business.  
 Risky Environment  
 “BofA could have bought it for about $1 billion,” Diamond
said. “They walked away and paid $50 billion for Merrill. It
reinforced in Varley and myself and our board what a risky
environment we were working in.”  
 “When JPMorgan bought Bear Stearns it got government
help,” Diamond said. “Barclays wasn’t able to get help. So it
was especially important to get the values and commitments we
had received or we couldn’t go forward. There were hours when we
were expecting not to execute on the deal.”  
 Lehman, which wants money to pay off creditors, has accused
the London-based bank of making a “secret” asset raid on
Lehman that wasn’t disclosed to the court. The brokerage’s
trustee,  James Giddens , has said changes were secretly inserted
in the sale contract without notice to him or Lehman’s lawyers.
He wants $6.7 billion from Barclays to pay hedge funds and other
institutional clients of Lehman.  
 Lehman’s lawyers are beginning to wrap up their case after
more than two weeks of testimony by former Lehman executives,
advisers and Barclays officials.  
 Key Facts  
 The U.K. bank’s lawyers have tried to show when questioning
Lehman’s witnesses that all the key facts of the deal were known
by the main players. They are scheduled to present Barclays’s
side of the story starting Aug. 23. Barclays, which announced a
gain on its purchase on Sept. 17, 2008, has said it owes Lehman
nothing and wants $3 billion that is being withheld by the
trustee.  
 Lehman spent $794 million on lawyers, advisers and managers
in 19 months through April, with $277.4 million going to Lehman
CEO  Bryan Marsal ’s restructuring firm, Alvarez & Marsal. Marsal
has said he will spend five years selling assets to pay
unsecured creditors as little as 14.7 cents on the dollar. Any
proceeds from litigation would add to the payout.  
 The cases are In re Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., 08-
13555, and Giddens v. Barclays Capital Inc., 09-01732, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Linda Sandler  in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in New York
at   lsandler@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 22 (Bloomberg) -- David Barse, chief executive officer of Third Avenue Management LLC, talks about his strategy for investment in the debt of distressed companies.
     Barse speaks on Bloomberg Television's "In Business With Margaret Brennan." (This report is an excerpt. Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
