-- BNP Paribas Chief Warns G-20 New Capital Rules Risk Economic `Car Crash'
-- Mark Deen
-- 2010-06-22T10:07:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-22/bnp-paribas-chief-warns-g-20-new-capital-rules-risk-economic-car-crash-.html

          
          
             BNP Paribas SA  Chief Executive
Officer  Baudoin Prot  urged Group of 20 leaders not to raise
capital requirements on banks too quickly because doing so would
risk choking off lending to the European economy.  
 “We’ve tightened our liquidity norms a lot and increased
our capital base,” Prot said in a speech in Paris today. “But
if you ask us to do it again in the next two years, given the
state of the economy, we’re headed for an economic car crash.”  
 The warning comes as the G-20 and the Basel Committee try
to agree on new global capital standards for lenders in an
effort to avoid a repeat of the 2008 financial crisis. G-20
leaders, whose economies represent 85 percent of the world
economy, gather in Toronto later this week.  
 BNP already raised its capital on hand to 65 billion euros
($80 billion) from 42 billion euros at the end of 2008, Prot
said. The bank’s Tier 1 capital ratio has climbed to 8.3 percent
from 5.4 percent at the end of 2008, while its liquidity buffer
has grown to 200 billion euros from 50 billion euros, he said.  
 “What we’re saying is that, fundamentally, we must take
great care,” Prot said. Otherwise, “credit will be more rare
and more expensive. With a convalescent European economy that is
already affected by government budget tightening, the stakes are
very high.”  
 Within the G-20, the U.S. is pushing for faster
implementation of new rules while European governments want a
phasing-in period. Banks provide about 75 percent of financing
to the economy in Europe, while 70 percent of lending in the
U.S. comes from markets rather than from banks themselves.  
 U.S. ‘Agenda’  
 “In no case should Basel III requirements be introduced in
Europe before they are in America,” Prot said. “The Americans
have their own agenda.”  
 He also dismissed the possibility of any of the 16 euro-
area countries defaulting on their debt, saying budget cuts and
a 750 billion-euro support package that was approved last month
to stem a surge in Greek, Spanish and Portuguese government bond
yields will prevent that from happening.  
 “We’re convinced that all the countries of the euro zone,
because of their own measures and the support they’re getting,
will avoid default,” Prot said. “This situation will be easily
avoided. I don’t believe it at all.”  
 Banks in Germany and France alone have a combined exposure
of $124 billion to Greece and $777 billion more to Ireland,
Portugal and Spain, according to an estimate by the Basel,
Switzerland-based Bank for International Settlements.  
 Yesterday, Fitch Ratings cut BNP Paribas’s long-term rating
one step to AA-, the fourth-highest investment grade, from AA.
Fitch cited a “deterioration” of the bank’s asset quality,
saying BNP Paribas “remains exposed to many of the asset
portfolios which are currently proving to be vulnerable.”  
 “We remain one of the best-rated banks in the world,”
Prot said. “We retain our advantage in terms of funding costs.
There has been an overreaction among a certain number of
investors to the sovereign-debt crisis. That will normalize, but
it will take time.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mark Deen  in Paris at   markdeen@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        