-- BP Adds Lobbyists With Gulf Lawmaker Ties to Washington Team
-- Kristin Jensen
-- 2010-06-22T22:24:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-22/bp-adds-lobbyists-with-gulf-lawmaker-ties-to-team-of-washington-advisers.html

          
          
             BP Plc , coping with congressional
investigations and criticism over its oil spill in the Gulf of
Mexico, added lobbyists with ties to lawmakers from the region
to the company’s growing team of Washington advisers.  
 Eris Group  registered with Congress to lobby on energy and
environment issues in May, according to records  made public  on
June 18.  Jennifer Bendall , a former policy adviser to Republican
Senator  Richard Shelby  of Alabama, and Jesse McCollum, a former
chief of staff to Democratic Representative  Ron Klein  of
Florida, are representing BP within the Eris Group.  
 The firm’s regional connections bolster a BP lobbying
network that includes  Ken Duberstein , a former chief of staff to
President Ronald Reagan;  Tony Podesta , brother of  John Podesta ,
who managed President Barack Obama’s transition team; and  Hilary Rosen , a former head of the Recording Industry Association of
America who once worked for Democratic Senator  Dianne Feinstein 
of California.  
 “Gulf coast connections confirm the old adage about all
politics being local,” said  Ross Baker , a political science
professor at Rutgers University in New Brunswick, New Jersey.
“They know the territory,” he said. “They don’t have to be
brought up to speed on the issues.”  
 Anadarko Hires  
 Anadarko Petroleum Corp. , which owns a 25 percent stake in
the ruptured well and has criticized BP’s operation of it, also
has hired a Washington law and lobbying firm.  
 Hogan Lovells lobbyists  Michael House , a former Democratic
Senate staff aide;  Candida Wolff , President George W. Bush’s
former chief lobbyist; and Reid Stuntz, a former Democratic
staff director to the House Energy and Commerce Committee, are
lobbying for the Texas oil company, according to records
released yesterday.  
 BP and Obama agreed June 16 that the company will create a
$20 billion fund for claims from the spill that followed an
April 20 explosion on the Deepwater Horizon drilling rig in the
gulf. BP Chief Executive Officer  Tony Hayward  was accused of
“stonewalling” by Representative  Henry Waxman , a California
Democrat, when he told lawmakers at a hearing on June 17 that he
had no knowledge of decisions made before the explosion.  
 ‘Boutique’ Lobbying  
 Eris Group, which calls itself “a boutique government
consulting firm” on its website, notified the offices of Shelby
and Klein that it was representing BP and hasn’t lobbied the
lawmakers on the company’s behalf, according to Shelby spokesman
 Jonathan Graffeo  and Klein spokeswoman Melissa Silverman.  
 Shelby said June 20 that Hayward should step down after
attending a yacht race in the U.K. Shelby called the move as the
spill continues “the height of stupidity” in comments on the
CBS program “Face the Nation.”  
 Anadarko CEO  Jim Hackett  said in a June 18 statement that
BP’s actions leading up to the explosion on the rig likely
represent “gross negligence or willful misconduct.” BP is
therefore responsible for the damages from the spill, Anadarko
argues.  
 BP said it “strongly disagrees” with Anadarko’s
contention.  
 BP spent more than $3.5 million lobbying Congress and the
Obama administration during the first three months of the year,
the latest records available. The London-based company spent
almost $16 million in 2009, ranking it among the biggest
spenders in Washington.  
 Transocean, Nalco  
 “Lobbyists are very effective at influencing public
policy,” said  Craig Holman  of Public Citizen, a Washington-
based advocacy group. “The most effective are people who have
direct ties with government officials in Congress or in the
administration.”  
 Thirty-five of the 49 lobbyists who have worked for BP
since 2009 have worked for the federal government, according to
Public Citizen.  
 Transocean Ltd. , the Swiss company that owned the Deepwater
Horizon rig, has retained  Capitol Hill Consulting Group , a firm
started by former Representative Bill Brewster, a Democrat from
Oklahoma. Jack Victory, who served as an energy adviser to
former House Majority Leader  Tom DeLay , a Texas Republican, is
also lobbying for Transocean.  
 Nalco Holding Co. , of Naperville, Illinois, which
manufacturers a chemical dispersant whose use by BP in the spill
was questioned by the Environmental Protection Agency, hired
Ogilvy Government Relations in Washington.  Drew Maloney , who
also was an aide to DeLay, and Gordon Taylor, who worked for
former Representative Chris John, a Democrat from Louisiana, are
lobbying for Nalco.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jim Snyder  in Washington at 
 jsnyder24@bloomberg.net ;
 Kristin Jensen  in Washington at 
 kjensen@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        