-- BP Default Swaps Rise on Concerns Storm May Disrupt Oil Cleanup in Gulf
-- Craig Trudell
-- 2010-06-22T21:14:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-22/bp-credit-default-swaps-increase-on-concerns-storm-may-disrupt-oil-cleanup.html

          
          
             The cost to protect  BP Plc ’s bonds
against default climbed as the first storm of the Atlantic
hurricane season threatens to disrupt efforts to clean up the
worst oil spill in U.S. history.  
 Credit-default swaps tied to BP surged 61 basis points to
539.3 basis points, according to CMA DataVision prices. The
first storm of the Atlantic hurricane season may enter the Gulf
of Mexico as soon as next week, a Planalytics Inc. meteorologist
said, and forecasters including AccuWeather Inc. are predicting
the season may be among the worst on record.  
 “Once you start trading bonds based on what the weather
might do, you might as well give up,”  Guy Lebas , chief fixed-
income strategist at Janney Montgomery Scott LLC in
Philadelphia, said in a telephone interview. “It’s almost not
possible to be able to account for that situation. The hurricane
season is just one more factor you have to be concerned about.”  
 The price of swaps on London-based BP, which rises as
investor confidence in the company’s creditworthiness
deteriorates, has soared more than 12 times the level of April
20, the day of the rig explosion that triggered the spill that
has cost BP $2 billion in cleanup costs.  
 Contracts tied to BP,  Anadarko Petroleum Corp.  and
 Transocean Ltd.  extended climbs after the Obama Administration
said it would appeal a New Orleans federal judge’s lifting of a
six-month moratorium on deepwater drilling imposed in May.  
 Markit Index Rises  
 Swaps on the Markit CDX North America Investment Grade
Index, which investors use to hedge against losses on corporate
debt or to speculate on creditworthiness, rose 7.3 basis points
to a mid-price of 115 basis points as of 4:30 p.m. in New York,
according to Markit Group Ltd. The index had dropped eight
straight sessions to a three-week low yesterday, Markit end-of-
day prices show.  
 A system of thunderstorms in the Caribbean may strengthen
into a tropical storm this week before heading into the Gulf
between Mexico and Cuba, said  Jim Rouiller , a senior energy
meteorologist at Planalytics in Berwyn, Pennsylvania. The storm
currently has a 40 percent chance of developing, according to
the  National Hurricane Center .  
 Forecasters are predicting this year’s Atlantic hurricane
season, which runs from June 1 through Nov. 30, may be among the
most active on record. AccuWeather yesterday boosted its
forecast for the season to 18 to 21 named storms, up from 16 to
18, and said at least three will move through the region
affected by the oil spill. There have been five seasons with 18
or more storms in 160 years of record-keeping, AccuWeather said
in an e-mailed statement.  
 BP Containment Response  
 BP is developing a new containment response that will help
clean-up operators to connect and disconnect oil-recovery
systems faster, allowing the company to capture more oil before
and after a storm sweeps through, said John Pack, a BP spokesman
in London. Some of the changes will be ready before July, he
said.  
 BP shares closed today in London at the lowest since
February 1997,  falling  4.4 percent to 334.2 pence. The company’s
American depositary receipts fell  2.1 percent  to $29.68, the
lowest since June 9.  
 Contracts on Anadarko, which owns 25 percent of BP’s
Macondo well, climbed 20.2 basis points to 629.6 basis points.
Swaps tied to Transocean, which leased the Deepwater Horizon
drilling rig that exploded and sank, increased 12.6 basis points
to 529.4 basis points.  
 Judge Lifts Ban  
 Oil companies and contractors that work in the Gulf of
Mexico are likely to wait to restart drilling operations until
there’s more clarity on how Judge  Martin Feldman ’s decision
today to lift a ban will play out. Feldman granted a preliminary
injunction, halting the moratorium, and “immediately
prohibited” the U.S. from enforcing the ban.  
 “No one’s going to go back to work,” said  Brian Uhlmer ,
an analyst at Pritchard Capital Partners in Houston, citing new
federal standards that allow the government to recall drilling
permits and require new filings. “You can have a non-moratorium
moratorium.”  
 Credit swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails
to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A
basis point equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10
million of debt.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Craig Trudell  in New York at 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        