-- BP Oil Disaster Costs U.S. State Pensions $1.4 Billion in Value
-- Dunstan McNichol
-- 2010-06-22T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-22/bp-gulf-oil-disaster-costs-u-s-state-pension-funds-1-4-billion-in-value.html

          
          
             The California Public Employees’
Retirement System lost $284.6 million in value as the largest
oil spill in U.S. history erased more than $1.4 billion from  BP
Plc  shares held by 42 state retirement accounts, data compiled
by Bloomberg show.  
 BP, the biggest producer of oil and gas in the U.S., has
lost 47 percent of its value since a Gulf of Mexico well blew
out April 20, destroying the Deepwater Horizon drilling rig,
killing 11 of its crew and polluting beaches from Louisiana to
Florida.  
 The declines come as public pension funds are struggling to
recover from investment losses that averaged 21 percent last
year, according to  Wilshire Associates  of Los Angeles. U.S.
public pension systems held more than 300 million shares of
London-based BP, according to Bloomberg data through May 1.  
 Calpers, the largest U.S. public pension at $210 billion,
held 58.2 million shares of BP on April 20, more than any other
state pension, and saw the value fall to $301 million from
$585.7 million, according to Bloomberg data.  
 “Calpers has a well-diversified portfolio and long-term
investment strategy to weather these ups and downs, even those
caused by unusual circumstances such as this one,” said  Brad Pacheco , a spokesman. “We will be engaging BP on corporate
governance to discuss the impact of the crisis on the value of
the company.”  
 Stock Price  
 The Gulf of Mexico oil spill sent BP’s  stock price  to 349.5
pence in London trading yesterday from 642.5 on April 19.  
 The $1.4 billion in value lost by the pensions is a
fraction for funds that manage more than $2.4 trillion, the
estimate for the 100 largest public pensions at the end of 2009,
according to the  Census Bureau . The top 100 funds account for
more than 89 percent of total public pension value, the bureau
reported.  
 “This will be less than one-half of a percent of our
international holdings,” said  Laura Ecklar , spokeswoman for the
$58 billion Ohio State Teachers’ Retirement System, referring to
the $59 million in BP shares in that fund’s $14 billion
international portfolio. “If we put it against all holdings,
we’re into a lot of decimal points.”  
 Among public retirement funds with large holdings of BP,
the California State Teachers’ Retirement System, known as
Calstrs, ranked second in value lost, at $104.8 million,
followed by Florida at $87.8 million and the Texas Teachers
Retirement System at $84.5 million, according to Bloomberg data.  
 Texas Holdings  
 The Texas fund, which reported a market value of $96.7
billion and record investment returns of 35 percent for the year
ending March 31, said in a statement that sales of 8.1 million
BP shares before and after the Deepwater accident lowered the
total loss of value to $39.7 million since September, 2009.  
 “The $39.7 million reduction in the market value of its BP
holdings is the equivalent of 0.04 percent of the total TRS
fund,” spokesman  Howard Goldman  said in an e-mail response to
questions from Bloomberg. “Developments related to BP have had
no material impact on the fund.”  
 New Jersey’s  Division of Investment  gained $5.2 million on
its BP holdings because it began selling off its 52 million-
share stake in January, according to Treasury Department
spokesman  Andrew Pratt .  
 New Jersey Profit  
 The state realized profits of about $12 million before the
Deepwater Horizon explosion. New Jersey sold its last 20 million
shares at a loss of $9.1 million between April 29 and May 11,
Pratt said.  
 Calpers last week asked for a $600 million increase in the
state’s contribution toward benefit costs during the fiscal year
that starts July 1.  
 Other affected funds, such as New York state’s $129 billion
 Common Retirement Fund , which holds 17.5 million BP shares
according to spokesman  Robert Whalen , and the Pennsylvania
School Employees Retirement System, whose BP holdings declined
in value by about $30 million, according to spokeswoman  Evelyn Tatkovski , are planning to cut retirement benefits and seek
higher payments from taxpayers to offset investment losses.  
 The 100 largest public funds lost a total of $165 billion
in the nine months that ended March 31, 2009, according to the
Census Bureau.  
 Concerns about BP’s share value and prospects prompted
funds such as New Jersey and the $26 billion Retirement Systems
of  Alabama  to sell all their BP holdings.  
 ‘Moving Parts’  
 “We’re headed in that direction,” said  Marc Green ,
Alabama’s director of investments, who said the system has been
selling off its 6.25 million BP shares as opportunities arise,
because of uncertainty about BP’s liability in the spill.
“There’s a lot of different moving parts that we can’t get our
arms around.”  
 In New Jersey, the Deepwater accident accelerated a sales
pattern that was already under way, Pratt said.  
 The Division of Investment “took their profits at a
reasonable level and when they started to have problems, they
got rid of the shares,” Pratt said in a telephone interview
June 14. “This is conservative, responsible portfolio
management, combined with some luck.”  
 The collapse of BP’s shares highlights the importance of a
broad portfolio, said  Keith Brainard , a researcher for the
Louisiana-based National Association of State Retirement
Administrators.  
 “There’s a great lesson that public pension funds are
learning, and that’s the importance of diversification,” he
said. “I would expect the effect on public pension funds to be
minimal.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Dunstan McNichol  in Trenton, New Jersey, at 
 dmcnichol@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Public pension funds are struggling to recover from investment losses since BP's oil spill. Photographer: Chris Ratcliffe/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
