-- BP's Gulf Oil Spill Costs Accelerate as Cleanup Work Peaks: Chart of Day
-- Brian Swint
-- 2010-06-22T23:01:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-22/bp-s-gulf-oil-spill-costs-accelerate-as-cleanup-work-peaks-chart-of-day.html

          
          
             BP Plc’s expenses for stopping and
cleaning up the worst oil spill in U.S. history have accelerated
as it prepares to strengthen its capture system for the
hurricane season.  
 The CHART OF THE DAY shows how costs have risen to $2
billion so far from $450 million on May 13, the first day BP
published its expenses. On a daily basis, they have accelerated
to $33 million from $20 million since the April 20 accident that
started the leak. Sanford C. Bernstein Ltd. expects the bill to
rise to $3.5 billion by the time relief wells are scheduled to
stop the flow of oil and gas from the sea floor in August.  
 “The current cost run-rate is likely to be near the peak
rate, as BP drills relief wells and the operation to contain and
collect oil is at its height,” Bernstein’s  Neil McMahon  and
 Iain Pyle  said in a note. If this rate “continues until the
relief wells are completed, and then costs decline for a further
year, we would estimate total cleanup cost at $9.3 billion.”  
 Meteorologists predict this year’s hurricane season may be
the worst on record, and the first tropical storm may enter the
Gulf of Mexico as soon as next week. BP is preparing to upgrade
its system, expanding capacity and allowing it to shut down if a
storm arrives.  
 It collected 25,830 barrels of oil June 21, the biggest
quantity diverted since the well started leaking on April 20. It
aims to bring as much as 53,000 barrels a day to the surface by
the end of the month.  
 BP agreed last week to set aside $20 billion for spill
cleanup and litigation costs. The damaged well is gushing as
much as 60,000 barrels a day, according to a government
estimate.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Brian Swint  in London at 
 bswint@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        