-- Brazilian, Hong Kong Bourses in Talks About Offshore Initial Public Offers
-- Hanny Wan
-- 2010-06-22T10:57:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-22/brazilian-hong-kong-bourses-in-talks-about-offshore-initial-public-offers.html

          
          
             Hong Kong Exchanges & Clearing Ltd. 
has held talks with Brazil’s bourse over potential listings,
according to Hong Kong Exchanges’ Chairman  Ronald Arculli .  
 The discussions have revolved around the listing of
Brazilian companies in Hong Kong as well as Hong Kong companies
in the South American country, Arculli said. He was speaking
along with Chief Executive Officer  Charles Li  at a cocktail
reception in Hong Kong today to celebrate the  10th anniversary 
of the trading debut of Hong Kong Exchanges’ shares.  
 “We’re exchanging views,” said Arculli, who plans to
visit Brazil in December. “There’s no decision made yet. We are
interested in the same direction and agree it’s something
doable.”  
 Arculli said the Hong Kong exchange had received more than
60 applications for initial public offerings. In addition to
Hong Kong and Chinese firms, the exchange has been courting
companies from Russia, Mongolia and Australia as well as Brazil
and Nigeria, executives have said this year.  
 Li said the exchange is working toward becoming a venue for
the trading of products denominated in yuan, the Chinese
currency also referred to as the renminbi or RMB.  
 “No matter for what kind of products, we need massive fund
flow,” said Li. “The key to success is to secure enough RMB
flow in Hong Kong. Such flow can only come from China.”  
 Li said while Hong Kong is able to offer a suitable
environment for such trades, the major challenge is convincing
mainland Chinese policy makers that the risks of
internationalizing the yuan are manageable.  
 “The key is to get the train going,” Li said. “The
initial stage is going to be slow. So we need to be patient.”  
 Arculli said he was hopeful the exchange would be able to
develop an “active” yuan debt market.  
 Shares in Hong Kong Exchanges closed at HK$126.40 today, up
33 times since its debut by way of introduction on June 27, 2000.
The stock had a nominal debut price of HK$3.88 back then.  
 Editors: Nick Gentle, Dirk Beveridge.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Hanny Wan  in Hong Kong at 
 hwan3@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        