-- Brazil Bets on 4% Borrowing Costs Under Next President as Spending to Ease
-- Gabrielle Coppola
-- 2010-06-22T15:56:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-22/brazil-bets-on-4-borrowing-costs-under-next-president-as-spending-to-ease.html

          
          
             Brazil is aiming to cut inflation-
adjusted borrowing costs to 4 percent under the next president,
less than half the level in 2006, as the economy expands and the
government reins in spending.  
 The country’s real interest rate is “still high,” Deputy
Treasury Secretary  Paulo Valle  said in an interview at
Bloomberg’s headquarters in New York. “We want to bring it to 4
percent.”  
 Government bonds due in 2020 linked to Brazil’s consumer
price index yielded 6.39 percent yesterday, down from 10.2
percent on similar-maturity debt four years earlier, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. The rate will fall further as the
administration that takes office after October elections to
replace President  Luiz Inacio Lula  da Silva withdraws stimulus
measures,  Rubens Sardenberg , chief economist at Febraban, the
country’s banking federation, said in an interview.  
 Spending cuts  would help increase the savings rate in
Brazil, which at about 15 percent of  gross domestic product ,
half that of China’s, is too low to meet borrowing needs and
keeps interest rates high, said  Tony Volpon , Latin America
strategist at Nomura Holdings Inc. The two candidates leading in
polls ahead of the election, former Sao Paulo Governor  Jose Serra and ex- Cabinet Chief  Dilma Rousseff , say lower spending
may help push down borrowing costs.  
 “If the new government in Brazil makes a clear sign in
terms of fiscal policy, you can have in the short term a very
aggressive reduction of interest rates,” Sardenberg said in the
interview yesterday in New York.  
 ‘Lot of Value’  
 Real rates in Latin America’s biggest economy compare with
a 4.26 percent yield on Colombia’s inflation-linked bonds due in
2023, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Yields on
Mexico’s inflation-linked bonds maturing in June 2019 yielded
2.83 percent. Brazil’s BBB- credit rating from Standard &
Poor’s, the lowest investment grade, matches Colombia’s ranking
and is one level below Mexico’s BBB.  
 Based on Brazil’s benchmark overnight Selic rate, now at
10.25 percent, and annual inflation of 5.2 percent in April, the
nation’s real interest rate is about 5 percent, down from 10.9
percent when Lula took office in 2003 and the third-highest
among 53 economies tracked by Bloomberg. Croatia has the highest
real rate, at 6.6 percent, followed by Latvia’s 5.8 percent.  
 ‘Value’  
 “In fixed income in the whole world, I don’t see a better
investment than” in Brazil, said  Luis Roberto Zaratin Soares ,
the head of fixed-income and hedge funds at Bradesco Asset
Management, Brazil’s third-largest fund manager by assets.
“I see a lot of value in inflation-linked bonds.”  
 The yield on Brazil’s 6.2 billion reais ($3.5 billion) of
2020 notes, whose principal increases in line with the  consumer
price index , rose two basis points, or 0.02 percentage point,
yesterday from 6.37 percent on June 18, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. It has dropped 20 basis points from 6.59 percent
at the end of 2009.  
 Brazilian fixed-rate bonds due in 2021 yielded 12.37
percent today at 11:45 a.m. New York time, down from 12.44
percent at the end of last week.  
 The yield premium on the country’s dollar government bonds
over U.S. Treasuries widened three basis points today to 225,
according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI+ index. The difference
has narrowed from a nine-month high of 251 on June 8. Valle said
today at an event in New York that the government may sell bonds
due in 2021 and 2041 on international markets should market
conditions remain favorable for Brazil.  
 Default Swaps  
 The cost of protecting Brazilian debt against non-payment
for five years with credit-default swaps fell two basis points
yesterday to 126, according to data compiled by CMA DataVision.
Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for
the underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a
government or company fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  
 The yield on Brazil’s overnight interest-rate futures
contract due in January, the most active in Sao Paulo trading,
fell 1 basis point to 12.13 percent today. The real strengthened
0.3 percent today, a sixth straight day of gains, to 1.7667 per
dollar. The currency has weakened 1.1 percent this year.  
 Banco Cruzeiro do Sul SA , a Sao Paulo-based bank, is
marketing three-year notes in dollars that may yield 7 percent
to 7.25 percent, said investor relations officer Fausto
Guimaraes. The offering, which is being arranged by BCP
Securities, may take place the week of July 5, he said.  
 Bank Lending  
 Banco Cruzeiro canceled a planned 10-year dollar bond
offering in May after the European debt crisis drove up
borrowing costs on emerging-market debt. No Brazilian company
has borrowed on international markets since the end of April.  
 Brazilian  bank lending  rose for a 14th straight month in
April, with outstanding loans up 18 percent from the year-
earlier period, according to central bank data. Brazil’s  economy 
expanded 9 percent in the first quarter from the same period a
year ago, the fastest pace in 15 years, government data show.
Growth will end the year at 7.1 percent, according to a central
bank survey of about 100 financial institutions published
yesterday.  
 Government spending rose 18.5 percent to 203.2 billion
reais in the first four months of the year, according to the
Treasury. The budget deficit widened to the equivalent of 3.2
percent of GDP in the 12 months through April from 3 percent in
the year-earlier period, central bank data show.  
 The central bank has raised the  benchmark lending rate  150
basis points, or 1.5 percentage points, from a record low 8.75
percent in April to curb inflation as economic growth
accelerates. Annual inflation is above the government’s 4.5
percent target, and economists expect the rate will end the year
at 5.6 percent before falling to 4.8 percent in 2011, according
to the central bank  survey .  
 Higher Rates  
 The yield on Brazil’s overnight interest-rate futures
contract due in January implies traders expect policy makers to
raise the benchmark lending rate to about 12.2 percent by year-
end, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 Rousseff, Lula’s chosen successor, told Veja magazine she
would aim to reduce the government’s net debt-to-GDP ratio to 28
percent by 2014. The ratio, a measure of a country’s ability to
pay its debt, was at 42 percent of GDP in April, central bank
data show. Serra has said Lula’s government has carried out a
spending spree, according to a JPMorgan report dated May 27.  
 “Because Brazil saves very little, the price of money, the
price of resources to invest is very high,” Volpon said in a
telephone interview from New York. “I only think we’re going to
see real interest rates fall if the government begins to save
more. And there are hopes that this will happen” in the next
administration, he said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Fabiola Moura  in New York at 
 fdemoura@bloomberg.net 
 Gabrielle Coppola  in New York at 
 gcoppola@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Brazil's deputy treasury secretary Paulo Valle says he wants to cut interest rate to 4 percent. Photographer: Daniel Acker/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
