-- FSA Fragmentation Risks Disruption of Prosecutions, Enforcement Chief Says
-- Erik Larson
-- 2010-06-22T16:49:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-22/breakup-of-fsa-shouldn-t-disrupt-insider-trading-case-pipeline-cole-says.html

          
          
             The Financial Services Authority’s
planned breakup shouldn’t be allowed to disrupt the regulator’s
“pipeline” of criminal cases and record fines, said  Margaret Cole , the FSA’s enforcement director.  
 The watchdog has four criminal insider-trading trials
scheduled through next year and is prosecuting 18 people in four
other cases, Cole said today at an FSA enforcement conference in
London. The pipeline has taken years to build and “quick wins”
in court aren’t possible, she said today.  
 “It’s important, if we are to continue to get results,
that this pipeline isn’t disrupted, especially because these
complex matters have a long investigatory period before charging
and a lengthy court process before trial,” Cole said. “We must
build on this progress -- not lose it.”  
 Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  said June 17 he
will abolish the FSA and give most of its power to the Bank of
England. The move comes as the London-based watchdog has stepped
up its regulation activity and won three of the four insider-
trading prosecutions it has brought to trial after complaints it
did little to block the financial crisis.  
 The agency has transformed itself by hiring top quality
workers who can “do battle” with those it regulates and end
the perception that financial-industry professionals enjoy a
two-tier system of justice, Cole said.  
 Mix of Powers  
 Cole also said that a mix of civil and criminal powers is
important for a regulator, allowing some people to be prosecuted
while others involved in the same investigations may receive
civil fines.  
 “It’s an implicit argument that an agency with only
criminal powers would lack flexibility,”  Carlos Conceicao , a
lawyer at the firm Clifford Chance LLP in London who used to
work for the FSA, said in an interview.  
 The FSA’s enforcement unit, which prosecutes insider
trading and market abuse, will be combined with the U.K. Serious
Fraud Office and the  Office of Fair Trading  to create an
economic crime agency.  
 A former trader at AKO Capital LLP, a London-based hedge
fund, was ordered today to pay about 287,000 pounds ($421,000)
in fines and restitution after being the first person to plead
guilty to U.K. insider-trading charges.  
 The FSA had its first loss in an insider-trading case on
June 3 when a jury cleared two lawyers and the former chief
financial officer at a pharmaceutical company on eight counts of
insider trading.  
 “Some of the failures are successes,” because they still
deter illegal behavior, Daniel Schwarzmann,  a
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP partner, said at today’s conference.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Erik Larson  in London at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        