-- British Airways Advertises for 1,250 Cabin Crew as Labor Dispute Goes On
-- Louisa Fahy
-- 2010-06-24T15:55:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-22/british-airways-reaches-agreement-with-trustees-on-pension-deficit-plan.html

          
          
             British Airways Plc  began an
advertising campaign to recruit 1,250 cabin crew over the next
year as a 17-month dispute with its 12,000 existing flight
attendants shows no sign of nearing a resolution.  
 Europe’s third-largest airline placed a full-page ad for
cabin crew and onboard customer services managers in today’s
edition of the  Daily Mail  newspaper, saying it is seeking to
build a “new cabin crew team” at its London Heathrow base.  
 “We have suffered back-to-back record financial losses and
need to continue making permanent changes to our cost base to
ensure our long-term survival,” British Airways said in a
statement. “Heathrow cabin-crew costs are way out of line with
our competitors. We can no longer afford this difference.”  
 A series of stoppages by cabin crew has already disrupted
flights on 22 days since March 20 in a dispute centered on cuts
to staffing levels. The Unite union will ballot members starting
June 29 on a further walkout over the removal of travel perks,
the suspension of strikers and the use of volunteer crews.  
 British Airways fell 2 percent to 208.2 pence in London
today, reducing the stock’s gains this year to 11 percent.  
 Gatwick Wages  
 The airline said Unite is fully aware of the hiring plans
and that the changes won’t affect contract terms for existing
staff. New crew will receive similar wages to those at London
Gatwick airport, who have a starting salary of about 18,000
pounds ($27,000), spokesman  Richard Goodfellow  said by phone.  
 The plan will help “make further improvements to customer
service and position us for growth,” British Airways said in
the statement.  
 The recruits will be deployed across both European and
long-haul operations in what will amount to a “new fleet,”
according to the newspaper advertisement, and will receive
performance-related awards.  
 “This will do nothing to persuade cabin crew that British
Airways management is looking to resolve the dispute, and
nothing to dissuade our members from voting for further
industrial action,”  Tony Woodley , Unite’s joint general
secretary, said today in a statement in response to the ad.  
 London-based British Airways remains “available for
talks” with Unite, Goodfellow said. The state-funded Advisory,
Conciliation and Arbitration Service also “remains available”
to facilitate negotiations, according to a spokeswoman.  
 The last discussions between the two sides failed on June
15 with no progress reported. Negotiators sat down in separate
rooms with Acas acting as a mediator.  
 British Airways said June 22 that it intends to fly all
long-haul services from Heathrow during any further strike, with
services from Gatwick and London City remaining unaffected.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Louisa Fahy  in Dublin at 
 lnesbitt@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        