-- Buffett Wins World Cup Bet as France Falls to Host South Africa
-- Hugh Son
-- 2010-06-22T19:03:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-22/buffett-wins-30-million-world-cup-bet-as-france-falters-in-tournament.html

          
          
             Warren Buffett  won his bet against
France in the World Cup when the 1998 champion was eliminated by
South Africa.  
 France fell 2-1 to the host nation today, after drawing
Uruguay and dropping 2-0 to Mexico.  Berkshire Hathaway Inc.  had
sold insurance requiring the Omaha-based company to pay a client
if France won the tournament, Buffett told CNBC in March.  
 “I think we’re going to lose 30 million bucks or something
like that” if France wins, Buffett, Berkshire’s 79-year-old
chief executive officer, said at the time. He didn’t say who
purchased the coverage. An assistant to Buffett had no comment.  
 Ajit Jain , who runs one of Berkshire’s insurance units,
sold the contract, Buffett told the business news channel in
March. Berkshire has previously guaranteed against the potential
cancellation of a college basketball tournament and a possible
payout of $1 billion in a contest sponsored by PepsiCo Inc. The
firm also sells coverage on natural disasters.  
 Jain “is known as the man to call when something both very
large and unusual needs to be insured,” Buffett said in his
annual letter to shareholders released Feb. 27.  
 “The odds of any one team out of 32 winning is very small,
so you could determine the odds and see what the payoff would
be,” said  Gerald Martin , a finance professor at American
University’s Kogod School of Business in Washington. “From a
numerical standpoint, it was probably in his favor to take this
bet. I’m sure he’ll smile when he sees the results.”  
 Consumer Refunds  
 Martin said Berkshire’s client could be any company that
wanted to hedge against costs that would have been tied to a
French victory.  
 Carrefour SA , Europe’s biggest retailer, had a promotion in
which customers buying flat-screen televisions would have been
reimbursed if France won the tournament, according to its
 website . Customers would have gotten half of the purchase
refunded if the team made the final without winning the
tournament. A spokeswoman for the Paris-based retailer declined
to comment.  
 Jordan’s Furniture, a Massachusetts-based chain owned by
Berkshire, repaid about 30,000 customers for purchases after the
Boston Red Sox won baseball’s World Series in 2007. The firm had
an insurance policy to cover costs of the promotion, CEO  Eliot Tatelman  said at the time.  
 Lloyd’s of London is also among insurers with coverage tied
to soccer, CEO  Richard Ward  said today in an interview at
Bloomberg headquarters in New York. Lloyd’s, the three century-
old insurance market, has insured “a lot of the players”
including former England soccer captain  David Beckham , he said.  
 The  World Cup  is an international soccer competition that
takes place every four years and is the most-watched sporting
event.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Andrew Frye  in New York at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net ;
 Hugh Son  in New York at   hson1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                     June 22 (Bloomberg) -- Richard Ward, chief executive officer of Lloyd’s of London, talks about the insurance market's exposure to claims from the BP oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico and insurance rates for offshore drilling rigs in the region.
     Ward, speaking on Bloomberg Television's “InBusiness With Margaret Brennnan,” also discusses U.K. Prime Minister David Cameron's plan to impose a levy on banks and raise the sales tax in what the government called its biggest peacetime deficit cut. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
