-- Bunds Advance, Spanish Bonds Decline as Stock Drop Outweighs Confidence
-- Keith Jenkins
-- 2010-06-22T15:52:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-22/bunds-climb-before-ifo-confidence-report-stocks-drop-risk-aversion-rises.html

          
          
             German government bonds rose as
weakening equity markets spurred demand for the safest assets
amid concern that banks’ credit quality may be deteriorating.  
 The gains pushed the 10-year bund  yield  down by the most in
more than two weeks, while Spanish bonds dropped after the
nation auctioned new debt. The MSCI World  Index  of shares fell
for the first time in 11 days as BNP Paribas SA was downgraded
by Fitch Ratings and a European Central Bank policy maker said
some banks face funding problems.  
 “Bunds gained as the rally in equities faded,” said  Peter Chatwell , an interest-rate strategist at Credit Agricole
Corporate and Investment Bank in London. “The selloff in
equities was led by financial stocks, which is a recipe for risk
aversion, pushing bunds higher.”  
 The yield on the 10-year bund, Europe’s  benchmark 
government security, fell six basis points to 2.71 percent at
4:32 p.m. in London, the biggest drop since June 4 based on
closing prices. It reached 2.79 percent yesterday. The 3 percent
security maturing July 2020 rose 0.5, or 5 euros per 1,000-euro
($1,230) face amount, to 102.47. Two-year yields fell six basis
points to 0.59 percent.  
 Bonds also surged in the U.K., where Chancellor of the
Exchequer  George Osborne  announced an emergency budget that
slashed spending. The yield on the 10-year  gilt  sank as much as
11 basis points to 3.41 percent, the lowest since October.  
 Pessimism about the outlook for riskier assets, such as
stocks, outweighed a report that showed improving business
confidence. Bunds rose even as the  Ifo institute ’s  business
climate index , released earlier today, reached a two-year high
of 101.8 in June from 101.5 in May, above economists’  estimate .  
 “The Ifo numbers made little impact,” Chatwell said.  
 Record Low Yield  
 The ECB’s  Christian Noyer  said yesterday that funding
problems at “some banks” create uncertainty that “could have
significant consequences on financial stability.” BNP was cut
one step yesterday to AA- as Fitch said France’s largest bank
“remains exposed to many of the asset portfolios which are
currently proving to be vulnerable.” BNP Chief Executive
Officer  Baudouin Prot  today said the bank has a “very strong”
balance sheet.  
 The 10-year bund yield reached 2.50 percent this month, a
record low, amid concern Europe’s debt crisis may hamper the
economic recovery. Increased demand at debt auctions last week
from nations including Spain renewed confidence in so-called
peripheral countries’ ability to finance their budget deficits.  
 German Deficit Surprise  
 While tighter fiscal policy may damp economic growth, the
crisis has also pushed the euro down 13 percent against the
dollar this year, boosting German exports outside Europe.  
 “With its export strength, Germany is very well-positioned
to profit from the recovery in Asia and increasingly in the
U.S.,” said  David Milleker , chief economist at Union Investment
in Frankfurt.  
 Germany’s funding requirements for this fiscal year may be
lower than previously estimated, according to the Bild Zeitung
newspaper. The nation will need to borrow 60 billion euros to
finance its budget, less than the 80 billion euros originally
projected,  Bild  reported, without saying where it got the
information. The economic recovery means tax revenues are higher
than anticipated, reducing the debt need, the newspaper said.  
 Spanish Auction  
 Spanish bonds snapped three days of gains, pushing the 10-
year yield four basis points higher to 4.55 percent. The  extra
yield  investors demand to hold Spanish 10-year debt rather than
benchmark German bunds widened 12 basis points to 182 basis
points, according to Bloomberg generic data.  
 The nation raised 4.02 billion euros, more than it sought,
at an auction of three-and six-month bills today in Madrid.
Yields rose from their levels at an auction a month ago of
similar securities. The Treasury had set a target range for
today’s sale of 3 billion euros to 4 billion euros.  
 Spain’s refinancing risk is “relatively low, compared to
peers” and “manageable,” the nation’s debt agency said today.
The nation’s average funding cost for outstanding debt was 3.53
percent as of May 31, matching a record low. The agency is
lengthening the average life of Spanish debt, “even if it
entails higher cost,” it said.  
 The nation’s central bank plans to release the results of
stress tests “as soon as possible,” Bank of Spain governor
 Miguel Angel Fernandez Ordonez  said today.  
 The spread between Greek and German 10-year yields widened
36 basis points to 708 basis points. That’s the most since May
7, before the ECB and the European Union unveiled a rescue
package worth 750 billion euros.  
 Greek Bonds  
 Fitch lowered Greece’s sovereign rating to BBB- from BBB+
on April 9. Fitch will assess the progress and impact of
Greece’s fiscal plan before deciding on its next move on the
country’s credit rating, head of global economics  Brian Coulton 
said in Seoul today.  
 Petros Christodoulou , head of the nation’s debt agency,
today said ratings actions forced investors to cut holdings of
Greek bonds, creating a market where there are only sellers of
the securities. He told an investor conference in London today
that he’s optimistic Greece’s austerity program will succeed,
though investors won’t be lured back “overnight.”  
 The head of France’s debt agency,  Philippe Mills , said the
nation’s funding costs declined in the first half as investors
sought the safest securities. France may also reduce the amount
of outstanding Treasury bills by at least 5 billion euros this
year, Mills said in an interview yesterday.  
 The Netherlands sold 1.16 billion euros of securities due
in 2018 and 2023 today. Some 500 million euros of the 4 percent
Dutch State Loan maturing in 2018 were sold at an average yield
of 2.639 percent, and 660 million euros of the 3.75 percent DSL
due 2023 were sold at an average yield of 3.171 percent,
according to the Dutch State Treasury Agency.  
 Portugal, Italy  
 Dutch 10-year securities gained after the auctions, with
the  yield  falling five basis points to 2.93 percent. Similar-
maturity  Portuguese  yields rose four basis points to 5.76
percent. Italian 10-year bonds fell, pushing the yield higher by
four basis points to 4.03 percent.  
 Portugal plans to sell up to 800 million euros of a 3.35
percent security due 2015 tomorrow. Italy will sell up to 1.5
billion euros of an inflation-protected bond maturing September
2021 on June 24.  
 Bunds have returned 5.9 percent this year, compared with a
4.5 percent gain for U.S. Treasuries, according to
Bloomberg/EFFAS indexes. Dutch debt gained 5.6 percent and
Italian securities advanced 1.5 percent this year, while
Portuguese and Spanish bonds declined 5.3 percent and 2 percent
respectively, the indexes showed.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Keith Jenkins  in London at 
 Kjenkins3@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        