-- Bureau Veritas Agrees to Pay $665 Million for 3i's Commodity-Testing Unit
-- Anne-Sylvaine Chassany
-- 2010-06-22T07:00:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-22/bureau-veritas-agrees-to-pay-665-million-for-3i-s-commodity-testing-unit.html

          
          
             Bureau Veritas SA , the world’s
second-largest goods inspection company, agreed to buy
Inspectorate to become one of the three biggest commodity-
testing businesses.  
 Bureau Veritas is purchasing the Witham, England-based
company for 450 million pounds ($663 million) from Inspicio, a
company owned by U.K. private equity firm  3i Group Plc , the
French company said today in a statement.  
 “In addition to leadership positions in its seven
businesses, Bureau Veritas now attains a critical size in the
very promising commodities testing and inspection market, in
which the group will now become a key player,” Chief Executive
Officer  Frank Piedelievre  said in the statement.  
 Bureau Veritas , controlled by French investment firm
Wendel, is seeking to expand in northern Europe, the U.S.,
emerging markets and Japan to provide about 500 million euros
($615 million) in extra revenue by the end of 2011, Piedelievre
said in March. With Inspectorate, the company enters a market
that it estimated today at more than 5 billion euros.  
 The  transaction , which Bureau Veritas aims to complete in
the third quarter, will add to earnings per share in the first
year, Piedelievre said today on a conference call.  
 Inspectorate is the U.S.’s second-largest inspection
company in the oil and petrochemical industries, and the world’s
second-largest for metal and minerals inspection, according to
Bureau Veritas. It also provides agricultural and food
inspection services.  
 Bureau Veritas, based in Neuilly-sur-Seine near Paris, said
it will fund the purchase with existing and new credit lines.
Net  debt  following the acquisition will be about double the
company’s earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization, or “well below the groups’ banking covenants,”
Bureau Veritas said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Anne-Sylvaine Chassany in Paris at 
 achassany@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        