-- Cameron Wins Markets' Backing for Budget Cuts That May Cost Voter Support
-- Kitty Donaldson
-- 2010-06-23T08:01:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-22/cameron-wins-markets-backing-for-budget-cuts-that-may-cost-voter-support.html

          
          
             U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron 
won the endorsement of bond investors and Fitch Ratings for the
biggest budget squeeze in 50 years. The risk now is that voter
discontent and a renewed economic slump foil his plans.  
 Fitch, which said June 8 that the U.K. faced a
“formidable” fiscal challenge, yesterday said the
“ambitious” plan ensured Britain would keep its AAA credit
rating. The pound and gilts rose for a second day after
Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  outlined the spending
reductions and tax increases to lawmakers in London.  
 The deficit cuts planned by Osborne and measures proposed
by the previous Labour government total 113 billion pounds ($167
billion), 15 percent of the 737 billion-pound budget foreseen
for 2015, the Treasury says. Agencies outside the National
Health Service and overseas aid budgets face a 25 percent cut
over four years. Sales taxes were raised, public workers’ pay
frozen and subsidies for housing and children were trimmed.  
 “The Conservative-Liberal Democrat coalition is now very
vulnerable among voters,” said  Andrew Hawkins , chairman of
pollster ComRes Ltd. “It’s critical that they try to retain
electoral support. The government could be under some serious
pressure by the end of the year.”  
 Next Election  
 Every income group will suffer because of Osborne’s effort
to slash the deficit, the highest among Group of 20 nations. The
cuts deepen as Cameron gets closer to the next election in 2015.
Osborne said he’d eliminate the structural deficit by then.  
 “I’m not going to hide hard choices from the British
people,” Osborne, at 39 the youngest chancellor since 1886,
said. “This is an emergency budget, so let me speak plainly
about the emergency that we face.”  
 Osborne increased value-added tax, a levy on sales, to 20
percent from 17.5 percent, which will raise 13 billion pounds a
year. Opposition Labour Party lawmakers shouted “shame” across
the floor of the House of Commons in protest.  
 The chancellor will save 3.2 billion pounds a year by
reducing the number of families eligible for tax credits. He’ll
also recoup 5.8 billion pounds by imposing tougher checks on
those claiming disability benefits and cut 1.8 billion pounds
from rent subsidies to the poor.  
 The pound climbed 0.4 percent to $1.4875 at 9 a.m. in
London, and yields on 10-year gilts fell 3 basis points to 3.43
percent.  
 Pay Freeze  
 Osborne told lawmakers he tried to spread the pain evenly.
While he announced a two-year pay freeze for public-sector
workers, he also imposed a 2 billion-pound levy on banks and
increased the rate of capital-gains tax for higher earners.  
 Labour and its allies in the unions accused the government
of trying to shrink the size of the state for ideological
reasons.  
 Mark Serwotka , general secretary of the Public and
Commercial Services union, which represents 300,000 workers,
said the budget was “regressive” with “attacks on the low-
paid, the unemployed, pensioners, the welfare state and the
public sector as a whole.” He said the union would help
organize “joint union action” to fight Osborne’s plans.  
 Labour’s acting leader,  Harriet Harman , focused much of her
fire on the Liberal Democrats, who opposed raising VAT during
the election campaign.  
 ‘Let Down Everyone’  
 “How could they let down everyone who voted for them?”
she asked, accusing them of betraying supporters in exchange for
a place in the coalition government.  
 “Of course we can’t get everything we want, but we’ve
protected the vulnerable,” Liberal Democrat deputy leader  Simon Hughes  said.  
 Yesterday’s policy changes, amounting to about 40 billion
pounds a year by 2015, would almost erase a deficit that reached
11 percent of gross domestic product in the last fiscal year.
About four-fifths of the correction will be based on spending
cuts, with tax increases accounting for the rest.  
 Employers’ groups such as the Confederation of British
Industry and the Institute of Directors welcomed the measures
and said they would create a healthier economy. Osborne wooed
companies with steps such staged cuts in corporation tax.  
 Bank of England Governor  Mervyn King  last week backed
retrenchment and said monetary policy could respond if the
prospects for growth subsequently deteriorated.  
 ‘Very Loose’  
 “The government will be looking to the Bank of England to
keep monetary policy very loose to offset the aggressive fiscal
tightening that has now been put in place,” said  Howard Archer ,
chief European economist at IHS Global Insight in London.  
 Some economists, though, warned that sucking 40 billion
pounds out of the economy might imperil the recovery from
recession and ultimately push borrowing higher as tax receipts
decline and welfare costs mount. The independent Office for
Budget Responsibility revised down its forecasts for employment
by 100,000 for each of the next four years as a result of the
budget.  
 “The great danger is that the economy turns out to be
weaker than anticipated, both because of the budget and for
other reasons, causing government borrowing to be
correspondingly higher,” said  Roger Bootle , founder of London-
based research company Capital Economics and a former Treasury
adviser.  
 While Liberal Democrat lawmakers spoke out in favor of the
budget, party supporters may be less satisfied with policies
such as reducing welfare benefits.  
 ‘Trajectory and Tone’  
 “Like  Margaret Thatcher ’s first budget in 1979 this will
set the trajectory and tone for this government,” said  Mark Wickham-Jones , professor of politics at Bristol University.
“The danger for the Liberal Democrats is that they get caught
up in this trajectory and this will lead to an unraveling of
their support at grassroots level, unhappy at the possibility of
continued cuts.”  
 The budget came days before Cameron flies to Canada for
meetings of world leaders. The Group of Eight is split over how
fast deficits should be pared, with President  Barack Obama 
focusing on bolstering growth and German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  joining Cameron in containing debts.  
 “Will it cost our coalition some popularity? Possibly?”
Cameron said of the budget in an e-mail to party members. Still,
the prime minister said, he believes “passionately” that it
was “the right thing to do.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Gonzalo Vina  in London at 
 gvina@bloomberg.net ;
 Kitty Donaldson  in London at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Cameron wins market support for cuts that may lose voters  
                       
                         
                           Jock Fistick/Bloomberg 
                         
                         U.K. Prime Minister David Cameron. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     U.K. Prime Minister David Cameron. Photographer: Jock Fistick/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 23 (Bloomberg) -- Roger Bootle, founder of London-based research company Capital Economics and a former Treasury adviser, talks about the government's emergency budget and its effect on economic growth.
     Bootle speaks with Andrea Catherwood on Bloomberg Television's "The Pulse." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 23 (Bloomberg) -- Ian Williams, chief executive officer of Charteris Portfolio Managers, talks about the planned spending cuts outlined in the U.K.'s emergency budget and his gilts strategy.
     He speaks with Maryam Nemazee on Bloomnberg Television's "Countdown." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
