-- Canada to Discuss First Quantum Expropriation of Congo Mine at G-8 Meeting
-- Colin McClelland
-- 2010-06-22T22:12:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-22/canada-to-discuss-first-quantum-expropriation-of-congo-mine-at-g-8-meeting.html

          
          
             Canadian officials will discuss a
move by the Democratic Republic of Congo to expropriate a  First
Quantum Minerals Ltd.  copper project when world leaders meet
this week.  
 Canada, which hosts Group of Eight and Group of 20 summits
in the province of Ontario, will also protest the African
nation’s actions in talks with international lenders such as the
World Bank, said an official in the office of Prime Minister
 Stephen Harper  who spoke on the condition of anonymity.  
 First Quantum’s copper and cobalt project, located near the
town of Kolwezi, was shuttered last year after a two-and-a-half-
year review of Congo’s mining contracts. The Vancouver-based
company said it and its partners brought the case to the
International Chamber of Commerce’s International Court of
Arbitration in Paris on Feb. 1.  
 Canada’s finance ministry said it had raised the case at
several World Bank and International Monetary Fund meetings,
hoping to tie it to the DRC’s debt negotiations.  
 “We have repeatedly expressed Canada’s serious concerns
about the impact of the DRC’s government mismanagement of the
country’s all-important resource sector during discussions on
the DRC in various international forums,”  Chisholm Pothier , a
ministry spokesman, said in e-mailed comments.  
 First Quantum fully supports the Canadian government’s
efforts,  Sharon Loung , a company spokeswoman, said today in an
e-mailed response to questions.  
 “It is outrageous that a country asking for billions of
dollars of debt relief is habitually expropriating assets from
the World Bank itself and companies that have legitimate
government approvals and permits,” Loung said.  
 International Finance Corp., a partner of First Quantum in
the Kolwezi project, is a member of the World Bank.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Colin McClelland  in Toronto at 
 cmcclelland1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        