-- Canada Says Hogs at Pork Plant in Alberta Test Negative for Foot and Mouth
-- Whitney McFerron
-- 2010-06-22T20:28:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-22/canada-says-hogs-at-pork-plant-in-alberta-test-negative-for-foot-and-mouth.html

          
          
             Preliminary tests at a Canadian pork
plant closed since yesterday have ruled out the presence of foot
and mouth disease, said Guy Gravelle, a spokesman for the
Canadian Food Inspection Agency in Ottawa.  
 Final test results on hogs from the  Olymel L.P.  plant in
Red Deer, Alberta, will be available tomorrow, Gravelle said
today in an interview.  Foot and mouth  is one of the most
contagious livestock diseases and can have high mortality rates
in young animals, according to the Paris-based World
Organization for Animal Health.  
 “We are still investigating the animal-health situation”
in Red Deer, Gravelle said. “Preliminary test results are
showing no indication of the presence of a  reportable animal
disease  there, which would include foot and mouth.”  
 Foot and mouth disease was last reported in Canada in 1952
and in the U.S. in 1929, according to CFIA. The disease has
spread in Asia in recent months, spurring Japan to cull more
than 158,000 animals. Japan is the  second-largest importer  of
Canadian pork and the largest buyer of the meat from the U.S.  
 “There have been no indications of a human-health risk”
at the Red Deer plant, Gravelle said.  
 Richard Vigneault, a spokesman for privately held Olymel in
Montreal, said in an interview that the CFIA began investigating
the Red Deer plant yesterday. He said the company is “fully
cooperating” with inspectors and declined to comment further.  
 ‘Normal Procedure’  
 Gary Stordy, a spokesman for the Canadian Pork Council in
Ottawa, said in an interview that the plant shutdown may have
been a “routine” precaution after one or more animals caught
the attention of government inspectors.  
 “We are an industry that has dealt with H1N1 recently, and
everyone is really sensitive,” Stordy said, referring to a
strain of swine flu. “What is taking place at the Red Deer
plant could just very well be a normal procedure. The fact is,
the inspectors had some questions about one animal or a few
animals, and are following procedures. It’s just another
demonstration of them doing their jobs.”  
 The Olymel plant is one of Canada’s two largest pork-
processing operations, along with a Maple Leaf Foods Inc.
facility in Brandon, Manitoba, said Darcy Fitzgerald, the
executive director of Alberta Pork, an Edmonton-based producer
group. Olymel’s Red Deer plant processes about 45,000 hogs a
week, he said.  
 The plant will reopen once final results are available,
CFIA’s Gravelle said. That would be “tomorrow at the
earliest,” he said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Whitney McFerron  in Chicago at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        