-- Canada's Harper Says He Will Keep Pressing China on Currency as G-20 Host
-- Theophilos Argitis
-- 2010-06-22T04:01:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-22/canadian-prime-minister-harper-g-20-host-to-keep-pressing-china-on-yuan.html

          
          
             Canadian Prime Minister  Stephen Harper  said China’s plan for a more flexible currency may help
sustain a global recovery that remains fragile, and he will keep
pressing the Chinese government to move ahead with its pledge as
world leaders prepare to meet in Toronto later this week.  
 “In some of these announcements you know instantly what’s
going to happen, in other cases, such as exchange rate
movements, the proof will be in the pudding over time,” said
Harper, who will host a meeting of leaders from the Group of 20
nations June 26-27, in an interview with Bloomberg in Ottawa
yesterday. “I do think this is a positive announcement.
Obviously we’ll be continuing to press the Chinese on this and
another number of matters.”  
 China said three days ago it will allow a more flexible
yuan, signaling an end to the country’s two-year-old policy of
fixing the currency at about 6.83 per dollar. The yuan yesterday
rose the most since a July 2005 revaluation and forwards jumped
after China’s central bank made the announcement.  
 Canadian officials, including Bank of Canada Governor  Mark Carney , have said the North American country is bearing a
disproportionate share of global adjustment because it has a
flexible exchange rate. Canada, which had a three-decade run of
 trade surpluses  until December 2008, posted record deficits last
year amid slumping sales to the U.S. The Canadian dollar has
advanced 11 percent against the U.S. dollar over the past 12
months, the fifth-most among 31 major currencies tracked by
Bloomberg. Canada is the U.S.’s largest trading partner, ahead
of China.  
 ‘Significant’ Impact  
 Harper said that a Chinese currency revaluation would
benefit Canada by easing pressure on the Canadian dollar.  
 “The potential positive impact of this for Canada is quite
significant,” said Harper, 51, leader of Canada’s governing
Conservative Party. “Particularly with the limitations on the
Chinese currency, Canada’s currency has really carried its
proportion of burden of deprecation of the American and other
Western currencies.”  
 China’s announcement shows the Asian country is prepared to
take more leadership in sustaining global growth at a time when
the recovery remains “very weak,” he said.  
 “It sends a strong signal that China and other emerging
economies are looking at how they are going to do their part to
grow global demand as we go forward,” Harper said. “We aren’t
going to have the same kind of growth levels from the American
or the Western consumer that we’ve seen over the past decade.”  
 Maintain Stimulus  
 Asked if a revaluation of the yuan would ease pressure on
the dollar, Harper said: “that’s obviously something that we
would be hoping for.”  
 Harper said it’s still too soon for many countries to end
government stimulus programs, because the economic recovery is
fragile, and the focus on deficits should be “medium-term.”  
 “Most countries I don’t think are in a position where we
would want to take the foot off the gas pedal of stimulus quite
yet,” Harper said.  
 In a sign of tension among G-20 countries, U.S. officials
have flagged concern that others may become too vigilant on
fiscal restraint, leaving their rebounds reliant on U.S. demand
rather than domestic buyers.  
 “These differences obviously have to do with some of the
particular circumstances that countries face,” Harper said,
citing “sluggish” employment growth in the U.S. and sovereign
debt concerns in Europe. “Broadly speaking, you have got
agreement, which is that we do need to continue to deliver
stimulus now.”  
 Tax Cuts  
 Harper, who studied economics at the University of Calgary
in the 1980s and wrote a thesis on the economic cost of rising
government spending ahead of elections, cut sales, personal and
corporate taxes in his first three years in power even as his
government paid down C$37 billion  in debt  over that time.  
 While joining global economic stimulus efforts in 2008 that
have built up the country’s debt, Harper has continued to press
ahead with  corporate tax cuts  and balked on global efforts to
impose taxes on banks, with his government saying the measures
allow the country to build a global advantage and fuel a quick
recovery.  
 Harper’s government has pledged to erase its deficits in
five years.  
 Canada will lead the G-7 in economic growth over the next
two years, Carney said last week, helped by a banking industry
that largely escaped the financial crisis.  
 Canada’s Banks  
 Canada’s 21 banks weathered seizures in credit markets
without government bailouts partly because Canada’s higher
capital requirements and loan limits helped lenders avoid most
of the writedowns and losses that crippled global competitors,
even as the nation’s economy slipped into a recession.  
 G-20 leaders in Toronto also will discuss new rules
requiring banks to hold more and better capital and liquidity
reserves, and Harper has held up Canada’s banking industry as a
model. Harper, who has led efforts in the G-20 against a global
bank tax, has cautioned against “excessive” rules for banks,
as the country’s lenders warn the costs of too much regulation
could choke off growth.  
 Canadian Bankers Association Chief Executive Officer  Nancy Hughes Anthony  said in a June 8 interview with Bloomberg that
proposals by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision last
December were too “onerous”.  
 At a meeting of finance chiefs in Busan, South Korea,
earlier this month, officials agreed to design new capital rules
by November, while keeping the timing of the implementation
open. The  statement  issued by finance chiefs in Busan said
countries would “aim” to have the new rules in place by
December 2012.  
 Asked whether the 2012 deadline was a hard target, Harper
said banking reforms will be another “balancing act.”  
 “In the short-term you can’t do it in a way that would
severely contract credit around the globe,” Harper said.  
 “We want to bring in higher quality capital standards, we
want to see leverage ratios,” he said. “At the same time they
are going to have to be achieved in an environment where we are
trying to encourage the financial sector to continue to provide
new credit.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Theophilos Argitis  in Ottawa at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Stephen Harper, prime minister of Canada  
                       
                         
                           Pawel Dwulit/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Stephen Harper, prime minister of Canada, said that a Chinese currency revaluation would
benefit Canada by easing pressure on the Canadian dollar. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Stephen Harper, prime minister of Canada, said that a Chinese currency revaluation would
benefit Canada by easing pressure on the Canadian dollar. Photographer: Pawel Dwulit/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
