-- Canada's Annual Inflation Rate Slows to 1.4% in May on Gasoline, Clothing
-- Greg Quinn
-- 2010-06-22T12:56:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-22/canada-s-annual-inflation-rate-slows-to-1-4-in-may-on-gasoline-clothing.html

          
          
             Canada’s annual  inflation rate 
slowed in May because of a moderation in gasoline costs and
lower prices for clothing.  
 The  consumer price index  rose 1.4 percent in May after a
1.8 percent gain in April, Statistics Canada said today. The
core rate that  excludes eight volatile items  slowed to 1.8
percent from 1.9 percent. Economists forecast the inflation rate
would be 1.3 percent and the core rate 1.7 percent, according to
the median of 20 estimates in a Bloomberg News survey.  
 The Bank of Canada said in an April  forecast  paper that
inflation will be “slightly higher” than its 2 percent target
over the next year. Governor  Mark Carney  raised the bank’s key
lending rate to 0.5 percent June 1 and said last week that
future moves aren’t “preordained” because events abroad,
including Europe’s debt crisis, could dampen future inflation.  
 “The base case view is that the situation in Europe has
stabilized and the Bank of Canada is on track to raise rates
again on July 20,” said  Sal Guatieri , a senior economist at BMO
Capital Markets in Toronto.  
 The bank needs to raise lending rates to “normalize policy
and get rates to a level that’s more consistent with a healthy
fully employed economy a year or two down the road,” he said.  
 Global Strains  
 Carney said June 16 he must “balance the competing
influences on Canadian activity and inflation of momentum in
domestic demand and the increasingly uneven global recovery.”
Canada’s economy grew at a 6.1 percent annualized pace in the
first quarter, the fastest in a decade.  
 Yesterday, the bank said that Canada’s financial system
faces a higher level of risk because of global strains,
including concerns that countries are taking on too much debt
and an unbalanced economic recovery.  
 The rate on the  two-month overnight index swap , a bet on
what investors predict the central bank’s rate will average over
that time, fell to 0.5936 percent today from 0.5958 percent
yesterday. The Canadian dollar rose 0.2 percent to C$1.0227 per
U.S. dollar at 8:14 a.m. in Toronto from C$1.0243 yesterday. One
Canadian dollar buys 97.78 U.S. cents.  
 Retail gasoline prices rose 6.9 percent in May from a year
earlier, compared with a 16 percent rate the previous month,
Statistics Canada said today in Ottawa. The transportation index
advanced 4.1 percent in May after April’s 6.2 percent increase.  
 Food costs rose 0.8 percent, the smallest increase since
March 2008, as restaurant prices gained while fresh fruit and
potato prices fell, the report said.  
 Clothing and footwear prices fell 1.3 percent because of
lower prices for women’s and children’s items, the agency said.  
 On a monthly basis, consumer prices rose 0.3 percent in
May, the same pace as in April. Core prices also rose 0.3
percent for a second month. Economists predicted an advance of
0.2 percent in the monthly overall rate and a 0.3 percent rise
in the monthly core rate.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Greg Quinn  in Ottawa at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        