-- Canadian Dollar Declines From Near Five-Week High on U.S. Growth Concern
-- Chris Fournier
-- 2010-06-22T20:08:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-22/canada-s-dollar-remains-higher-as-annual-inflation-rate-slows-in-may.html

          
          
             Canada’s dollar fell from near its
strongest level in five weeks as equities and oil slumped after
a report showed a decline in U.S. housing sales, stoking concern
growth in the nation’s biggest trading partner may stall.  
 The Canadian currency has appreciated 10 percent this year,
the second-best performance among its developed-world
counterparts, Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indices show, as
Europe’s debt crisis drove investors toward havens like the yen
or currencies backed by relatively strong balance sheets.  
 “The risk-aversion trade is weighing on the Canadian
dollar,” said  Steve Butler , director of foreign-exchange
trading in Toronto at Bank of Nova Scotia. “Canada is going to
continue to be an outperformer. When we read stories about
Russia adding the Canadian dollar it is encouraging. Still, talk
is cheap. If we are going to see Canada gain ground, we are
going to need central banks buying the currency.”  
 Canada’s dollar fell 0.4 percent to C$1.0288 per U.S.
dollar at 4:06 p.m. in Toronto, from C$1.0243 yesterday. It
earlier reached C$1.0182, the strongest level since May 13. One
Canadian dollar buys 97.22 U.S. cents.  
 The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  fell 1.6 percent as
purchases of existing homes in the U.S. decreased 2.2 percent in
May. Crude oil fell 0.8 percent. The loonie tends to track
movements in stocks and commodities.  
 Reserve Currency  
 “Canada’s economy is firing on all cylinders,” said  Sal Guatieri , a senior economist at Bank of Montreal in Toronto.
“The talk about Canada being a safe haven destination for
capital speaks to its fiscal backdrop and lends support to the
currency. We think the Canadian dollar will climb above parity
in coming months as the Bank of Canada should continue raising
rates.”  
 The loonie has emerged as a reserve currency for central
bankers seeking alternatives to debt-laden governments in
Europe, the U.S. and Japan. Canada, the last member of the group
of Seven industrialized nations to enter the global recession,
was the first to recover, thanks partially to its having the G-
7’s lowest debt-to-GDP ratio and the world’s soundest financial
system, according to the World Economic Forum.  
 Russia may add Australian and Canadian dollars to its
international reserves for the first time after fluctuations in
the U.S. currency and euro,  Alexei Ulyukayev , the first deputy
chairman of the nation’s central bank, said in an interview in
Moscow on June 15. The International Monetary Fund may include
the Canadian and Australian dollars in a basket of currencies it
uses in transactions, strategists at UBS AG, the world’s second-
largest foreign-exchange trader, predict.  
 ‘Very Stimulative’  
 Bank of Canada Deputy Governor  Timothy Lane  said the
country’s economic recovery has been faster than expected, and
future interest-rate decisions will weigh domestic strength
against the risks posed by Europe’s debt crisis.  
 Policy makers, including Lane and Governor  Mark Carney , may
raise their benchmark interest rate at the next decision July
20, trading in  overnight index swaps  suggests.  
 “Because of the uncertainties - particularly those
emanating from Europe -- we’ve been careful to emphasize that
the extent and timing of any additional withdrawal of monetary
stimulus would depend on how the outlook for economic activity
and inflation evolves,” Lane, 55, said in the text of a speech
he’s giving today in Winnipeg, Manitoba. He also said the
current benchmark rate is still “very stimulative.”  
 Canada’s economy expanded at a 6.1 percent annual pace last
quarter, and the central bank predicts inflation will exceed its
2 percent target over the next year.  
 ‘The Chatter’  
 The nation’s annual inflation slowed to 1.4 percent from
1.8 percent in April because of a moderation in gasoline costs
and lower prices for clothing, Statistics Canada reported today
in Ottawa. Economists forecast the rates would be 1.3 percent
according to the median in a Bloomberg News survey.  
 “The chatter had been about the risk to the downside for
CPI potentially affecting the outlook for the Bank of Canada in
July,”  David Watt , senior currency strategist at Royal Bank of
Canada, the nation’s biggest bank, said by instant message from
Toronto. “But the numbers were pretty well in line with
expectations.”  
 Canada’s dollar gained yesterday after China said it may
allow the yuan to move higher, encouraging confidence in the
global economic recovery. Canada hosts meetings that begin June
25 of Group of Eight and Group of 20 countries.  
 Canadian Prime Minister  Stephen Harper  said yesterday
China’s plan for a more flexible currency may help sustain a
global recovery that is fragile, and benefit Canada by easing
pressure on its currency.  
 Government bonds rose, pushing the yield on the 10-year
lower by eight basis points, or 0.08 percentage point, to 3.25
percent. The 3.5 percent security due in June 2020 rose 66 cents
to C$102.10.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Cordell Eddings  in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net ;
 Chris Fournier  in Montreal at 
 cfournier3@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        