-- Carbon Spread Narrows as Traders Bet On Fewer UN Credits: Energy Markets
-- Catherine Airlie
-- 2010-06-23T16:13:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-22/carbon-spread-narrows-as-traders-bet-on-fewer-un-credits-energy-markets.html

          
          
             The  gap  between carbon permits in
the European Union and United Nations markets reached the
narrowest in three months on speculation that the world
organization will restrict credits for hydrofluorocarbons.  
 A UN panel meets this week in Bonn to consider limits on
how many credits are provided to investors who pay to reduce so-
called HFCs, which can trap about 12,000 times more heat per
molecule than carbon dioxide, after allegations of misuse.  
 EU carbon permits for 2012 have advanced 17 percent this
year as the economic recovery leads to greater demand for power
from utilities and factories, which must simultaneously curb
greenhouse gas emissions. The cheaper UN credits have risen at a
faster pace since the end of May, narrowing the gap between the
two to 3.05 euros a metric ton today on London’s European
Climate Exchange. The spread tightened 27 percent from this
year’s high of 4.20 euros on May 13.  
 “HFC credits account for a big part of UN issuance,” said
 Niels von Zweigbergk , chief executive officer at Tricorona AB, a
Stockholm-based investor that has registered 114 projects to
reduce emissions so far in countries including China and India.
“The supply concern is impacting their price.”  
 While EU carbon permits for delivery in 2012 are up 1.1
percent this month to 16.25 euros in London, UN credits have
risen eight times as much, gaining 9.4 percent to 13.17 euros.  
 The European cap-and-trade program requires about 12,000
factories and utilities to curb emissions and allows trading of
permits between those emitting more or less than their quotas.
UN credits can also be used to comply with EU rules.  
 Changing Methods  
 The regulator of the UN Clean Development Mechanism is
considering changes in the way it calculates the number of
credits that projects deserve for reducing emissions from
hydrofluorocarbon-23 combustion plants. The review may finish in
August, CDM board chairman  Clifford Mahlung  said yesterday.  
 Mahlung, speaking in an interview at the Carbon Markets
Asia conference in Singapore, declined to say if the changes
reflect allegations that developers are misusing HFC-23 projects
to secure credits. The Bonn-based environmental group CDM Watch
said in a June 14 statement that operators of HFC plants are
manipulating emissions to win “bogus credits.”  
 The EU said in a May 26 report that HFC-based projects may
create “significant windfall profits” for carbon developers.
It may limit or ban some UN credits in the EU program after
2012, Yvon Slingenberg, head of the emissions-unit for the
European Commission, said in a May 27 interview.  
 ‘Perverse Incentives’  
 There are safeguards to “prevent perverse incentives”
from HFC projects to cause more pollution, UN spokesman David
Abbass in Bonn said in a June 14 e-mail. “The question now is
whether the safeguards need to be adjusted or added to.”  
 Investors and CO2-trading funds are purchasing UN credits
for 2012 because HFC-based offsets may be jeopardized,  Emmanuel Fages , a Paris-based analyst with Orbeo, said yesterday in an e-
mail. Orbeo is the carbon-trading venture of Societe Generale SA
and Rhodia SA.  
 The EU-UN spread is narrowest for 2012, the last year in
the current five-year phase of Europe’s cap-and-trade program,
meaning emitters have fewer options than in other years to meet
their CO2 quotas.  
 “If the methodologies panel decides to push it ahead and
recommend changes this week, the spread could tighten further to
around 2.5 euros in the short term,” Fages said. “If they
drop the case, it may widen back to around 3.7 euros.”  
 HFCs, emitted in the production of chemicals for air
conditioning and refrigeration, gained favor in the 1970s as an
alternative to chlorofluorocarbons, which scientists linked to
depletion of the ozone layer. While HFCs don’t interfere as much
with the earth’s shield against damaging sunrays, they trap heat
and contribute to global warming.  
 Retroactive?  
 “Until 2012 the impact on the carbon market will be minor
provided the CDM Executive Board sticks to its fundamental
principle that methodologies should not be changed retroactively
for projects which have already been registered,” said Urs
Brodmann, board member at First Climate, a carbon asset
management company. “A retroactive change could have a material
impact and greatly undermine the confidence in the market.”  
 The value of global carbon market expanded 6 percent last
year to $144 billion, according to a World Bank report. The
value of transactions in the EU program rose to $118 billion,
while the CDM contracted 59 percent to $2.7 billion, mainly
because of complex regulations and administrative bottlenecks.  
 Immediate changes in the HFC rules may curtail the global
supply of UN carbon credits by as much as 662 million units, or
24 percent of the amount that Barclays Capital forecast would be
available through 2020, according to a June 21 report from
 Trevor Sikorski , a London-based analyst at the firm.  
 In other markets, proposed climate-change legislation in
the U.S. Senate may allow utilities and industries to use 2
billion tons of carbon offset credits to mitigate their
emissions. As much as 25 percent may be sourced from non-U.S.
projects, said Stanley Boots, a foreign legal consultant at
Hogan Lovells.  
 For Related News and Information:
Emission market news: NI ECREDITS <GO>
Today’s top energy stories: ETOP <GO>
European power-markets home page: EPWR <GO>
Sustainability, environmental indexes: SEI <GO>  
          
          


  


        