-- Obama May Gain `Breathing Room' on Afghan Strategy
-- Viola Gienger
-- 2010-06-24T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-22/mcchrystal-offers-resignation-after-disparaging-remarks-on-afghanistan-war.html

          
          
             President  Barack Obama  may have
bought time to carry out a counterinsurgency strategy that has
faced resistance in Afghanistan amid concern that his timetable
to begin withdrawing U.S. troops by next year may be set back.  
 The president appointed General  David Petraeus , a winning
warrior and seasoned diplomat, to lead the military mission in
Afghanistan, a move that may make it harder for critics to
challenge the war strategy.  
 The appointment of Petraeus “will allow us to maintain the
momentum and leadership that we need to succeed,” Obama said
yesterday at the White House.  
 Obama named Petraeus, who led a surge of American troops in
Iraq that helped defeat an insurgency there, to replace General
 Stanley McChrystal  as head of U.S. forces in Afghanistan after
McChrystal and unnamed aides belittled administration officials.  
 McChrystal has been commanding 142,000 troops from the U.S.
and 45 allied nations and was in the midst of leading the
biggest, and possibly most decisive, military offensive of the
war in Kandahar Province, the Taliban’s heartland. Joint Chiefs
of Staff Chairman Admiral  Michael Mullen  told a Senate panel
last week, “As goes Kandahar, so goes Afghanistan.”  
 The U.S. plans to reassess the strategy in December and
train enough Afghan soldiers to allow a drawdown to begin in
July 2011. That date has drawn criticism from Republicans, while
some Democrats have voiced concern it won’t be met.  
 The appointment of Petraeus “will give the president
breathing room during what could have been a tumultuous time,”
said  Mackenzie Eaglen , a national security analyst for the
Heritage Foundation in Washington.  
 Threat to Unity  
 Petraeus, 57, commander of American forces in the Middle
East and Central Asia, must be confirmed by the Senate. The
Armed Services Committee is likely to hold hearings as early as
June 29, said panel chairman  Carl Levin , a Michigan Democrat.  
 Obama’s decision to remove McChrystal, 55, was triggered by
an article in Rolling Stone magazine that quoted the general and
aides who weren’t identified criticizing the president and other
civilian leaders of the war. The uproar threatened to fracture
the unified front Obama has sought to build for the war and the
international coalition doing the fighting.  
 The profile, “The Runaway General,” quotes McChrystal and
aides mocking Vice President  Joseph Biden  and criticizing
special envoy for Afghanistan  Richard Holbrooke  and U.S.
Ambassador to Kabul  Karl Eikenberry . Most of the critical
comments were attributed to the unnamed aides.  
 Angry President  
 Obama reacted with anger upon reading the article, said
spokesman  Robert Gibbs , and officials from the White House to
the Pentagon to Congress called McChrystal’s remarks a serious
lapse in judgment.  
 Afghan President  Hamid Karzai , who had urged Obama to
retain McChrystal, accepted the president’s decision to remove
him, spokesman Waheed Omar said in a telephone interview.  
 “President Karzai respects his decision,” Omar said in
Kabul.  
 “General Petraeus is a very experienced soldier who knows
Afghanistan and the region and has a great understanding of the
situation here,” Omar said.  
 Petraeus has been head of U.S. Central Command, which
includes oversight of operations in Afghanistan, since October
2008. He took over there after his predecessor, Admiral  William Fallon , resigned amid a controversy over his comments in an
Esquire magazine article that exposed differences with then-
President  George W. Bush  over U.S. policy toward Iran. Prior to
that, Petraeus commanded U.S. and allied forces in Iraq, where
he carried out Bush’s revised strategy for that conflict.  
 Praise From Lawmakers  
 Petraeus’s name first came up as a replacement for
McChrystal on Tuesday night during talks with Pentagon
representatives, an administration official said. He was offered
the job after Obama met with senior White House and military
advisers, following the president’s morning meeting with
McChrystal, said the official, who briefed reporters on
condition of anonymity.  
 McChrystal’s deputy, British Lieutenant General Nick
Parker, will lead the coalition in Afghanistan and Lieutenant
General  David Rodriguez , who runs day-to-day operations, will be
top U.S. commander until the Senate confirms Petraeus.  
 Obama’s decision on Petraeus won praise from Democrats and
Republicans in Congress. Republican Senators  John McCain  of
Arizona and  Lindsey Graham  of South Carolina and Senator  Joe Lieberman , a Connecticut independent, said at a joint news
conference that McChrystal had left Obama with no choice.  
 ‘Right Decision’  
 Obama “made the right decision,” said Lieberman. “We
have a higher probability” of success “with David Petraeus in
charge.”  
 The lawmakers, all members of the Armed Services Committee,
said the administration must now work on making non-military
efforts in Afghanistan more effective.  
 Obama has staked a major piece of his foreign policy on the
outcome in Afghanistan. He reconfirmed his commitment to the war
in December, when he authorized the deployment of 30,000
additional troops, even as support from the public and other
nations flagged.  
 The president stuck with that strategy in his announcement
yesterday. “This is a change in personnel, but it is not a
change in policy,” he said.  
 In removing McChrystal, Obama ousted a man he entrusted a
year ago with salvaging the war effort.  
 “As difficult as it is to lose General McChrystal, I
believe it is the right decision,” Obama said. The belittling
comments the general and aides made do “not meet the standards
that should be set by a commanding general.”  
 McChrystal issued a statement after Obama spoke, saying he
backed the president’s approach in the conflict.  
 “I strongly support the president’s strategy in
Afghanistan and am deeply committed to our coalition forces, our
partner nations, and the Afghan people,” McChrystal said. “It
was out of respect for this commitment -- and a desire to see
the mission succeed -- that I tendered my resignation.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Julianna Goldman  in Washington at 
 jgoldman6@bloomberg.net ;
 Viola Gienger  in Washington at 
 vgienger@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       U.S. President Barack Obama  
                       
                         
                           Chris Kleponis/Bloomberg 
                         
                         U.S. President Barack Obama makes remarks on the resignation of Army General Stanley McChrystal, in the Rose Garden of the White House in Washington. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     U.S. President Barack Obama makes remarks on the resignation of Army General Stanley McChrystal, in the Rose Garden of the White House in Washington. Photographer: Chris Kleponis/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 23 (Bloomberg) -- Jamie Metzl, executive vice president of the Asia Society, talks with Bloomberg's Lori Rothman about Army General Stanley McChrystal's resignation.
     President Barack Obama stripped McChrystal of his command of U.S. troops in Afghanistan for making disparaging remarks about administration officials just over a year after he was entrusted with salvaging the war effort. Obama named General David Petraeus, commander of American forces in the Middle East and Central Asia and the architect of U.S. counterinsurgency strategy, to replace him. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
