-- McChrystal Summoned Back to U.S. With Job on Line
-- Roger Runningen
-- 2010-06-22T17:43:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-22/mcchrystal-said-to-be-called-back-to-u-s-to-explain-remarks-in-magazine.html

          
          
             General  Stanley McChrystal ,
commander of U.S. forces in Afghanistan, has been summoned to
Washington to explain disparaging remarks he made in a magazine
interview.  
 Defense Secretary  Robert Gates  said in a statement that
McChrystal “made a significant mistake and exercised poor
judgment” in the comments quoted by Rolling Stone magazine. He
said McChrystal has apologized to him and that he recalled the
general to Washington to discuss the matter in person.  
 The article, in the magazine’s latest edition, quotes the
general and his aides as criticizing Vice President  Joseph Biden , special envoy for Afghanistan  Richard Holbrooke , and U.S.
Ambassador to Kabul  Karl Eikenberry .  
 Presidential spokesman  Robert Gibbs  said the president read
the Rolling Stone article in the White House residence last
night and “was angry.”  
 As the top U.S. civilian and military officials in
Afghanistan, Eikenberry and McChrystal are required to jointly
implement U.S. policy in the country.  
 The Rolling Stone profile, titled “The Runaway General,”
mentions the first meeting that McChrystal had with President
 Barack Obama  the week after he took office. They met with a
dozen senior military officials in a Pentagon room known as The
Tank. The reporter of the article cites a source familiar with
the meeting saying that McChrystal thought Obama appeared
“uncomfortable and intimidated” by the room filled with
military brass.  
 ‘Photo Op’  
 The article also describes the first one-on-one meeting
McChrystal had with Obama in the Oval Office four months later,
which an adviser to McChrystal called “a 10-minute photo op.”  
 McChrystal is described by an aide as “disappointed” in
this first meeting with the president. While McChrystal voted
for Obama, the two didn’t connect from the start, the article
says.  
 The general today apologized for his remarks. He issued a
five-sentence statement after news organizations published
excerpts from the Rolling Stone article.  
 “I extend my sincerest apology,” McChrystal said in the
statement e-mailed by the press office of his command, the
International Security Assistance Force, in Afghanistan. “It
was a mistake reflecting poor judgment and should never have
happened.”  
 Aide Resigns  
 Duncan Boothby, a civilian communication adviser to the
general who was responsible for arranging the Rolling Stone
interview, submitted his resignation today, a defense official
said.  
 McChrystal will meet separately tomorrow with both Gates
and Obama. Asked if the general’s job is “safe,” Gibbs said,
“We’ll have more to say after that meeting” with the
president.  
 “All options are on the table,” Gibbs said. “There
clearly has been an enormous mistake in judgment to which he is
going to have to answer.”  
 McChrystal commands 142,000 troops in Afghanistan from the
U.S. and 45 partner nations. Their aim is to reverse Taliban
gains and make room for newly trained Afghan soldiers and police
and their civilian counterparts to begin taking charge as the
U.S. begins a drawdown planned to start in July 2011.  
 Afghan Strategy  
 McChrystal is executing a strategy that took the White
House months to approve. The approach involves adding 30,000
U.S. troops to carry out a counter-insurgency, which includes
convincing Afghans to resist the Taliban’s takeover of parts of
the country. The general said recently that this would take more
time than expected.  
 McChrystal’s second in command is his deputy, General  David Rodriguez , who oversees day-to-day military operations in
Afghanistan.  
 The article about the general was being read far beyond
Washington. The Afghan people “will be witness of more division
among the U.S. and other nations’ commanders or their civilian
officials,” said Zabiullah Mujahid, a Taliban spokesman.  
 McChrystal has been in trouble before with the
administration. Obama met privately with the general in 
Copenhagen Oct. 2, the day after the commander delivered a
speech in London in which he said the U.S. and its allies will
have to “do things dramatically differently, even uncomfortably
differently” to succeed in Afghanistan.  
 The administration was in the midst of debating its strategy
in Afghanistan, and McChrystal was perceived to be lobbying
publicly for his position that more U.S. and international
troops would be needed to provide security and train Afghan
forces.  
 Implicit Rebukes  
 Gates and National Security Adviser  James Jones  both issued
implicit rebukes of McChrystal, saying the U.S. military’s
advice to the president should be given privately.  
 In the Rolling Stone article, one aide calls retired four-
star General Jones “a clown” who is “stuck in 1985.”  
 McChrystal also has been at odds over the Afghan war
strategy with Biden, who originally opposed McChrystal’s plan
for increasing U.S. troops in Afghanistan, and with Eikenberry,
who was reported by Bloomberg News in November to have expressed
reservations to Obama about a military buildup before Afghan
President  Hamid Karzai  and his government took steps to fight
corruption and mismanagement.  
 The Rolling Stone article says at one point that McChrystal
wondered aloud what Biden question he might face that day. “I
never know what’s going to pop out until I’m up there, that’s
the problem,” he is quoted as saying.  
 ‘Who’s That?”  
 “Are you asking about Vice President Biden?” McChrystal
says with a laugh, according to the article. “Who’s that?”  
 “Biden?” a top adviser to the general is quoted as
saying. “Did you say: Bite Me?”  
 The Rolling Stone article says McChrystal spoke of feeling
“betrayed” by an Eikenberry memo leaked to news organizations
last year in which the ambassador criticized Karzai as an
inadequate partner for the war effort McChrystal was leading.  
 McChrystal spoke with exasperation upon getting a
BlackBerry message from Holbrooke during the Rolling Stone
interview. “Oh, not another e-mail from Holbrooke. I don’t even
want to read it,” the article quotes McChrystal as saying.  
 The article also quotes a McChrystal aide as comparing
Holbrooke to a “wounded animal.”  
 “Holbrooke keeps hearing rumors that he’s going to get
fired, so that makes him dangerous,” the aide said.  
 A statement from the U.S. embassy in Kabul said Eikenberry
is “fully committed” to working with McChrystal.  
 ‘Working Together’  
 “As Ambassador Eikenberry has said on many occasions, he
and General McChrystal are both are fully committed to the
president’s strategy and to working together as one civilian-
military team to implement it,” said Caitlin Hayden,
spokeswoman for the U.S. Embassy in Kabul.  
 She said Eikenberry planned to make no statement on the
controversy.  
 McChrystal was ordered to appear in person at the monthly
meeting on Afghanistan and Pakistan, rather than over a secure
video conference from Afghanistan, as is the custom, a U.S.
defense official said. The meeting is scheduled tomorrow, the
official said, speaking on condition of anonymity.  
 Geoff Morrell , a spokesman for Gates, said the general will
meet separately with Gates.  
 Gates, in his statement, said, “I believe that General
McChrystal made a significant mistake and exercised poor
judgment in this case.”  
 “We are fighting a war against al-Qaeda and its extremist
allies, who directly threaten the United States, Afghanistan and
our friends and allies around the world,” he said. “Going
forward, we must pursue this mission with a unity of purpose.”  
 Senators’ Comments  
 The chairman of the Senate Armed Services Committee,
Democrat  Carl Levin  of Michigan, called McChrystal’s remarks
“inappropriate” and told reporters on Capitol Hill he was
“very troubled.”  
 Levin stopped short of calling for McChrystal to be fired.
If the comments reflected a policy disagreement, the president
would have “no alternative” but to fire him, Levin said.
McChrystal’s comments reflect more of a “personality problem,”
the senator said.  
 Three other members of the committee said McChrystal’s
statements were “inappropriate.”  
 John McCain  of Arizona, the panel’s ranking Republican,  Joe Lieberman , an independent from Connecticut, and Republican
 Lindsey Graham  of South Carolina said in a statement, “General
McChrystal’s comments, as reported in Rolling Stone, are
inappropriate and inconsistent with the traditional relationship
between commander-in-chief and the military.”  
 “The decision concerning General McChrystal’s future is a
decision to be made by the president,” they said.  
 Analyst’s View  
 Anthony Cordesman , a military analyst at the Center for
Strategic and International Studies in Washington, said he
didn’t know if McChrystal would survive in his position.  
 “Politics are politics, and we are in the middle of an
extraordinarily difficult war, and we don’t have anyone with the
same skills and leadership, and people do make mistakes,”
Cordesman said in a telephone interview.  
 Still, he said, “You are caught up in the problem that a
president and an administration are dealing with a war that’s
politically uncertain while his popularity is diminishing.”  
 The North Atlantic Treaty Organization issued a statement
calling the Rolling Stone article “rather unfortunate, but it
is just an article.  
 “We are in the middle of a very real conflict, and the
Secretary General has full confidence in General McChrystal as
the NATO commander and in his strategy,” the statement said.  
 Captain  John Kirby , spokesman for Admiral  Michael Mullen ,
chairman of the U.S. Joint Chiefs; Colonel Eric Gunhus,
spokesman for General  David Petraeus , commander of U.S. forces
in the Middle East, and Pentagon spokesman  Geoff Morrell  did not
respond immediately to e-mailed requests for comment.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Roger Runningen  in Washington at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     General Stanley McChrystal is scheduled to visit the White House tomorrow to discuss his comments with President Barack Obama. Photographer: Shah Marai/AFP/Getty Images  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
