-- Charges Dropped in South Africa Against `Ambush Marketers' at World Cup
-- Maud van Gaal
-- 2010-06-22T15:06:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-22/charges-dropped-in-south-africa-against-ambush-marketers-at-world-cup.html

          
          
             South African prosecutors dropped
charges against two women from the Netherlands accused of
participating in a so-called ambush marketing campaign for Dutch
brewer Bavaria NV at a soccer World Cup match.  
 FIFA , soccer’s governing body, “indicated they are no
longer interested in pursuing the matter because they have
reached a settlement with Bavaria,” National Prosecuting
Authority spokesman Mthunzi Mhaga said today in a telephone
interview from Johannesburg. “The terms of the settlement will
not be disclosed by us.”  
 FIFA complained after 27 South Africans and three Dutch
citizens donned orange dresses, which Bavaria distributes free
with its beer, during the Netherlands’ opening tournament game
against Denmark in Johannesburg on June 14. Orange is the
official color of the Dutch team.  
 “All parties have agreed to drop any claims and also not
to make any further comments related to this matter,” FIFA and
Bavaria said in a joint statement. “Bavaria NV has agreed to
fully respect the integrity of FIFA’s commercial program until
the end of the year 2022.”  
 Bavaria previously said it paid for Barbara Castelein and
Mirte Nieuwpoort to fly to South Africa and for tickets for them
and 28 other women recruited to wear the dresses to the match.  
 “We are happy to go home and that the situation has been
resolved”, Castelein and Nieuwpoort said in the statement
issued on FIFA’s website today.  
 Orange Lederhosen  
 During the last World Cup, in Germany, Bavaria encouraged
fans to wear “Leeuwenhosen,” orange lederhosen with a tail and
the brewer’s logo on it. Supporters were ordered to take off the
trousers before entering the stadiums.  
 Sponsors including Budweiser have paid around $1.2 billion
to have the right to be associated with the World Cup, sport’s
most-watched event. FIFA lawyers have filed more than 2,500
cases globally against parties it accuses of ambush marketing.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Mike Cohen  in Cape Town at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net ;
 Maud van Gaal  in Amsterdam at 
 mvangaal@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        