-- Chiba Bank Says Likely to Beat Annual Profit Forecast, May Buy Back Shares
-- Shingo Kawamoto
-- 2010-06-22T03:01:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-22/chiba-bank-says-likely-to-beat-annual-profit-forecast-may-buy-back-shares.html

          
          
             Chiba Bank Ltd. , Japan’s third-
largest regional lender by assets, will probably exceed its
profit forecast this year as bad-debt costs decline and demand
for loans increases, said President  Hidetoshi Sakuma.     “The economy is recovering, particularly in the
manufacturing and export sectors, and new home building is also
up,” he said yesterday in an interview in Chiba City, Japan.
“Credit costs are falling following a spike caused by the
bankruptcy of several Tokyo apartment developers in fiscal
2008.”  
 Sakuma declined to say by how much the bank may  exceed  its
net income forecast of 41.5 billion yen ($457 million). Chiba
prefecture, home to Japan’s biggest international airport and
suburbs that house workers employed in neighboring Tokyo, is
benefiting from a rebound in exports and production, helping the
world’s second-largest economy extend its recovery.  
 Sakuma more than tripled net income in the year ended March
31 to 37.6 billion yen, as bad-loan costs fell 48 percent to
19.4 billion yen. Such charges are likely to be lower than the
bank’s forecast 17 billion yen this fiscal year, he said.  
 Chiba Bank , based about 30 miles (50 kilometers) east of
Tokyo, expects to boost profit even as about 40 percent of the
nation’s 84 listed regional lenders forecast income to fall this
year as benchmark interest rates remaining close to zero,
according to data from Nomura Holdings Inc.  
 The bank will consider  buying back  shares to boost returns
to investors, after the details of international capital rules
are announced later this year, Sakuma said. The bank has
“absolutely no need” to raise capital to meet new capital
guidelines to be detailed by the Basel Committee on Banking
Supervision this year, he said.  
 Chiba Bank  had a core Tier 1 capital ratio of 10.17 percent
at the end of March, according to the bank’s financial
statements. The ratio is a measure of a bank’s ability to absorb
losses and excludes preference shares, hybrid securities,
deferred tax assets and other intangible assets.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Finbarr Flynn  in Tokyo at 
 fflynn3@bloomberg.net ;
 Shingo Kawamoto  in Tokyo at 
 skawamoto2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        