-- China Yuan Policy Shift Lures Pengana, AMP Capital to Commodity Shares
-- Anna Kitanaka
-- 2010-06-22T08:06:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-22/china-yuan-policy-shift-lures-pengana-amp-capital-to-commodity-producers.html

          
          
             China’s move to relax its currency
peg to the dollar is luring  Pengana Capital Ltd.  and AMP Capital
Investors Ltd. to commodity stocks as they bet on rising demand
in the world’s third-largest economy.  
 Pengana Capital has been buying iron-ore producers, said
 Tim Schroeders , who helps manage about $1.1 billion in Melbourne,
declining to be more specific. AMP Capital, with more than $90
billion of assets, is considering increasing its holdings
of commodity stocks, strategist  Nader Naeimi  said.  
 China’s yuan gained the most in five years yesterday after
the central bank pledged on June 19 to make the currency more
flexible. The global economy is “gradually recovering and the
upturn in the Chinese economy has become more solid,” the
People’s Bank of China said in a statement announcing its yuan
action. An appreciation makes it cheaper for Chinese companies
to buy iron ore and other metals priced in other currencies.  
 “Increased purchasing power by China would be good for
raw-material producers,” Pengana’s Schroeders said. “We’ve
just been continuing to accumulate iron-ore producers in
particular through periods of price weakness, and other
commodity producers generally.”  
 In its statement, the PBOC ruled out a one-time revaluation
of the currency that’s been held at about 6.83 yuan per dollar
since mid-2008. The currency advanced 0.42 percent to 6.7976 per
dollar yesterday, the most since July 2005, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. It weakened 0.2 percent today to 6.81,
the most since December 2008. The yuan may climb to 6.7 per
dollar by Dec. 31, according to a Bloomberg analyst survey on
June 20.  
 Flexible Currency  
 An appreciation of the yuan, also known as the renminbi,
will benefit exporters and Chinese employment more than it hurts
them, the central bank said in its statement. A more flexible
currency would also help to curb  consumer-price gains , asset
bubbles and dependence on exports for growth, it said.  
 The policy shift may relieve pressure on the Chinese
government to step up measures to control  economic growth , AMP
Capital’s Naeimi, who’s based in Sydney, said yesterday. He
declined to name specific commodity companies his firm may buy.  
 A gauge of raw-materials stocks in the MSCI Asia Pacific
Index climbed 3.5 percent yesterday, the most of 10 industry
groups. The materials measure is the  worst-performing  sub-index
this year with a 6.2 percent decline. It declined as much as 1.2
percent today.  
 World’s Largest Consumer  
 “Commodities will benefit the most out of this because
commodity sectors are most leveraged to Chinese growth,” said
Naeimi. “They were lagging a bit because of the hesitation or
fears over Chinese tightening.”  
 The London Metal Exchange Index has tumbled 11 percent this
year amid speculation global demand will drop as property curbs
in China and Europe’s debt crisis will slow the global economy.
China is the world’s largest consumer of materials including
iron ore, copper and soy beans, and is the second-biggest energy
consumer. The index climbed 2.2 percent yesterday.  
 The shift in China’s yuan policy drove the Shanghai
Composite Index up by 2.9 percent yesterday, the most since May
24. It rose 0.1 percent today. The Hang Seng China Enterprises
Index, which tracks the so-called H shares of 40 mainland
companies in Hong Kong, jumped 4.4 percent yesterday and lost
0.6 percent today.  
 Shanghai Stocks  
 The Shanghai Composite, which tracks the bigger of China’s
stock exchanges, has tumbled 21 percent this year, the third-
largest decline of major benchmark indexes tracked by Bloomberg.
Stocks on the gauge trade at 15.1 times  estimated earnings ,
compared with 24 times at the start of 2010.  
 Pengana Capital’s Schroeders favors Brazil’s Vale SA,
Canada’s Consolidated Thompson Iron Mines Ltd., and Australia’s
 Rio Tinto Group  and BHP Billiton Ltd.  
 Shares of BHP, the world’s largest mining company, have
fallen 8 percent this year in Sydney, while Rio Tinto’s have
slumped 3.7 percent. Vale SA dropped 0.8 percent in Sao Paulo.
Rio and Vale both count China as their biggest market.
 Consolidated Thompson  has gained 16 percent in Toronto.  
 China’s new yuan policy is “positive not only for China
but for trading partners as well,” Schroeders said. “It
definitely shows a willingness by the Chinese authorities to
undertake currency revaluation. That can be good in terms of
lessening imbalances elsewhere in the global economic system.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Anna Kitanaka  in Tokyo at 
 akitanaka@bloomberg.net ;
 Kana Nishizawa  in Tokyo at 
 knishizawa5@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 22 (Bloomberg) -- Boris Schlossberg, director of research at online currency trader GFT Forex in New York, talks with Bloomberg's Rishaad Salamat about changes to China's currency policy.
     China’s yuan gained the most in five years yesterday after the central bank pledged on June 19 to make the currency more flexible. Schlossberg also discusses the outlook for the U.S. economy. (Source: Bloomberg)
  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
