-- China's Domestic Economy Stocks Best Bets on Yuan, Principal Global Says
-- Chan Tien Hin
-- 2010-06-22T04:23:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-22/china-s-domestic-economy-stocks-best-bets-on-yuan-principal-global-says.html

          
          
             Investors should favor Chinese
consumer and infrastructure stocks as the ending of the yuan peg
signals the government’s determination to boost domestic
consumption, said  James McCaughan , chief executive officer of
Principal Global Investors.  
 The currency shift “is part of a very consistent process
the Chinese administration have had of repositioning their
growth away from being export-led and towards more of the
domestic economy,” McCaughan said in an interview at Bloomberg’s
Kuala Lumpur bureau today. Principal Global, based in Des Moines,
Iowa, manages $222 billion in assets for institutional investors
and retirement plans. “You would go for the domestic economy,
whether it is infrastructure or consumer related.”  
 The People’s Bank of China pledged on June 19 to make the
yuan more flexible, while ruling out a one-time revaluation of
the currency that’s been held at about 6.83 yuan per dollar
since mid-2008. An appreciation in the currency will help curb
inflation and bolster purchasing power in the world’s fastest-
growing major  economy , according to reports from China
International Capital Corp. and Societe Generale SA.  
 The Shanghai Composite Index gained 0.3 percent to 2,593.98
at the 11:30 a.m. break, led by consumer stocks and extending
yesterday’s 2.9 percent rise that was the biggest since May 24.  
 China’s central bank said it was prepared to resume
appreciation because the “upturn in the Chinese economy has
become more solid” and that a stronger yuan would help curb
gains in consumer prices. Gross domestic product expanded 11.9
percent in the first quarter from the same period of 2009.  
 “We like the Chinese market long term,” McCaughan said.
“It’s going to be volatile short term but long term we want to
be in the Chinese market.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Chan Tien Hin  in Kuala Lumpur at 
 thchan@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        