-- China Divides Australia Into `Two-Speed Economy' as BHP Quashes Retailers
-- Jacob Greber
-- 2010-06-23T05:15:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-22/china-divides-australia-into-two-speed-economy-as-bhp-quashes-retailers.html

          
          
             China’s demand for metals and energy
is splitting Australia in two, pitting resource-rich Western
Australia and mining companies from  BHP Billiton Ltd.  to Xstrata
Plc against the rest of the country.  
 Coal and metal sales to the fastest-growing major economy
prompted Reserve Bank of Australia Governor  Glenn Stevens  to
 raise interest rates  six times in seven months, fuelling a 26
percent gain in the Australian dollar since the first quarter of
2009 that hurt exporters like wheat farmer John Springbett.  
 “We’re going broke by the minute,” said Springbett, who
ships about 4,000 tons of grain a year to Indonesia, India and
the Middle East from his farm, 100 kilometers east of Perth.  
 Prime Minister  Kevin Rudd , facing an election within 10
months, has reacted by proposing a 40 percent tax on mining
income and reducing levies on other businesses in an effort to
redistribute profits. BHP, the world’s biggest mining company,
and Xstrata, the top thermal coal exporter, are fighting the tax,
saying it undermines the competiveness of Australia, the world’s
largest shipper of coal and iron ore.  
 “It’s very much a two-speed economy that’s emerging,”
said  Saul Eslake , an economist at the Melbourne-based Grattan
Institute, a non-partisan state-supported research group. “If
the mining tax has the incidental effect of slowing down the
rate of investment in the resources sector, it might lessen the
role monetary policy has to play.”  
 Currency Effect  
 Australia’s challenges managing the mining industry’s
impact show how China’s economic expansion is skewing growth in
trading partners, forcing policy makers to find alternatives to
the blunt instrument of interest rates to control their
economies. The effect may escalate with an appreciating Chinese
currency that will increase the nation’s purchasing power toward
U.S. dollar-denominated commodities; China four days ago ended
its 23-month 6.83 yuan peg to the American currency.  
 Iron ore prices will increase an average of 12.4 percent in
2011, after surging 93.5 percent this year, Morgan Stanley
analyst  Peter Richardson  said in a report today.  
 Rio Tinto Group , based in London, and Melbourne’s BHP are
among mining companies that say the higher taxes may force them
to shelve some projects. Zug, Switzerland-based Xstrata said
June 3 it was halting spending on ventures worth A$6.6 billion
($5.8 billion) because of the tax.  
 “Investors will not invest where there is uncertainty to
this degree -- they are pulling back their funds and doing it in
force,” said  Peter Reed , who helps oversee about A$500 million
at Sydney-based PPM Private Portfolio Managers, which holds
fewer mining shares than benchmark weightings in funds that have
returned an average of more than 11 percent since 1996,
 outpacing  the All Ordinaries Index’s 9.7 percent gain.  
 Share Prices  
 BHP shares fell as much as 8.2 percent in the weeks after
the government announced the tax on May 2, with Rio Tinto’s
biggest drop reaching 11 percent. Their shares then rebounded as
concern about the threat to the global recovery from the
European crisis eased and China moved to allow a stronger yuan.  
 The  Materials Index  group in the  Standard & Poor’s/ASX 200 
has outperformed the broader market since the start of 2009 as
the world recovered from the crisis. The gauge, which includes
Rio Tinto, BHP and other natural-resource extractors and
processors, has climbed 37 percent, compared with a 21 percent
gain for the S&P/ASX 200.  
 Decade-Long  
 The mining expansion, which the government and central
bank predict will last more than a decade, hurts Australia’s
non-minerals exporters by driving up the nation’s currency. The
Australian dollar has appreciated 10 percent in the past 12
months, to 87.05 U.S. cents as of 3:13 p.m. in Sydney.  
 “The farming industry is battling,” said Springbett, 53,
from his 2,800 hectare farm. “We’re looking at getting A$190 a
ton for wheat this year. Four years ago we got A$400.”  
 Springbett said when the Australian dollar rises above 70
U.S. cents, it puts many farmers in the area at risk.  
 “Last year most farmers in Western Australia would have
made a loss,” he said. “We don’t want another one of those
years, otherwise there will be a lot of farms for sale.”  
 Exports of wheat are forecast by the Australian Bureau of
Agricultural and Resource Economics to drop 21 percent in the 12
months through June 30. Australia is the world’s fourth-largest
exporter of the grain.  
 By contrast, exports excluding farm goods surged the most
in almost three decades in April, led by shipments of iron ore
and coal, figures published June 3 showed.  
 Raising Rates  
 RBA policy makers said they had no choice but to return
borrowing costs back to their “average” level in May, after
they slashed the benchmark rate to a half-century low of 3
percent early last year following the crisis.  
 The 1.5 percentage-point jump in borrowing costs spurred
complaints from the nation’s retailers. Gains in  retail sales ,
vulnerable to changes in borrowing costs as more than 90 percent
of home buyers have variable-rate mortgages in Australia, slowed
to 0.1 percent last quarter from 1 percent the previous period.  
 Woolworth’s Ltd., Australia’s biggest retailer, cut its
annual sales growth forecast in April, and Virgin Blue Holdings
Ltd., the nation’s No. 2 passenger air carrier, cut its profit
forecast last month on a drop in leisure travel.  
 “In an ideal world you don’t have a two-speed economy,”
said  Gerry Harvey , chairman of Sydney-based Harvey Norman
Holdings Ltd., Australia’s biggest furniture and electronics
seller. “It’s good for some and bad for others.”  
 Stevens, who assumed his post in 2006 after a three-decade
career at the central bank, has indicated he has few options.  
 Little Choice  
 “There are structural adjustment implications of this for
our economy,” Stevens told lawmakers in February. “We cannot
really make it any easier.”  
 Three of Australia’s four previous mining booms, starting
with a gold rush in the 1850s, triggered inflation above 10
percent, central bank research shows.  
 “From the viewpoint of the whole economy, the best thing
that could happen is for one of the big projects to fall over,”
RBA Deputy Governor  Ric Battellino  said, according to a May 11
report in the Australian Financial Review. The central bank said
it won’t confirm remarks made in private settings.  
 The miners have warned the proposed super-tax would hurt
the country. Due to start in 2012, it “demonstrates a lack of
understanding about the role of the mining industry, which
supported Australia’s economy through the global financial
crisis,” said  James Rickards , an Xstrata spokesman in Sydney.  
 Spending Review  
 BHP Chief Commercial Officer  Alberto Calderon  said at a
conference in Melbourne last week the tax may force the company
to review its daily budget of more than $30 million for
exploration and expansion.  David Peever , a managing director at
Rio Tinto, urged dialogue on tax reform and said “a thriving
mining sector keeps the Australian economy strong and creates
prosperity for all Australians.”  
 Mining has also affected the labor force, luring workers to
higher-paid jobs in regions such as the Pilbara, source of one-
third of the world’s iron ore. Wages at mining companies
eclipsed the earnings of staff at Australian banks, brokers and
insurers by 37 percent in November, according to the most recent
Australian Bureau of Statistics figures.  
 In the Snowy Mountains town of Tumbarumba, 500 kilometers
southwest of Sydney, Hyne & Son Pty Ltd., the southern
hemisphere’s largest softwood timber mill, is short of
electricians, saw doctors, wood machinists and clerical staff,
the local shire council told a parliamentary enquiry in April.
Many apprentices in those trades leave for higher-paying jobs in
mining “on reaching qualification,” the council said.  
 Car Industry  
 Also among the losers are Australia’s car plants. Already
buffeted by the global recession, which saw U.S. and Mideast
demand fall for Pontiacs built at General Motors Co. factories
in Adelaide and Melbourne, local brands now face increased
competition from imports that benefit from the exchange rate.  
 “These are symptoms of Dutch disease,” said National
Australia Bank Chief Economist  Alan Oster , referring to a 1960s
income surge from natural-gas fields in the Netherlands that
triggered a currency gain that eroded other exporters’ earnings.  
 More appreciation may also be in store for the Aussie.  
 “The stronger yuan will mean a stronger purchasing power
for the Chinese consumers,” said  Nizam Idris , a Singapore-based
currency strategist at UBS AG, which projects the Australian
dollar will gain to 95 cents by the end of 2011.  
 To contact the reporters for this story:
 Jacob Greber  in Sydney at 
 jgreber@bloomberg.net ;  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     BHP Billiton Ltd.'s iron ore operations at Port Hedland in the Pilbara region of Western Australiaa. Source: BHP Billiton Ltd. via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Reserve Bank of Australia Governor Glenn Stevens  
                       
                         
                           Ian Waldie/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Reserve Bank of Australia Governor Glenn Stevens speaks during a congress, in Sydney. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Reserve Bank of Australia Governor Glenn Stevens speaks during a congress, in Sydney. Photographer: Ian Waldie/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
