-- China Sets Daily Reference Rate 0.43% Stronger, Biggest Advance Since 2005
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-06-22T01:43:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-22/china-sets-daily-reference-rate-0-43-stronger-biggest-advance-since-2005.html

          
          
             China’s central bank set its daily
reference rate for yuan trading 0.43 percent stronger, the
biggest gain in five years, reflecting appreciation in the
currency’s exchange rate yesterday.  
 The daily rate was set at 6.7980 per dollar, compared with
6.8275 yesterday, and the yuan’s close of 6.7976. The 12-month
non-deliverable yuan forward climbed 0.5 percent to 6.6095 as of
9:39 a.m. in Hong Kong, implying traders are betting on a 2.9
percent appreciation. The yuan’s exchange rate weakened 0.08
percent to 6.8030.  
 “The fixing was at yesterday’s spot close, which indicates
that true to their word, they are allowing market forces to
play a greater role in determining the renminbi’s value,” said
 Mirza Baig , a Singapore-based currency strategist at Deutsche
Bank AG, the world’s largest foreign exchange trader. “It also
indicates that ahead of the G-20, they are willing to tolerate a
more rapid appreciation of the yuan.”  
 China’s central bank  said  over the weekend it will allow
greater currency “flexibility,” while maintaining the trading
band, curbing inflows of short-term speculative capital and
preventing “excessive” fluctuations.  
 Chinese authorities had prevented the currency from
strengthening against the dollar since July 2008 to help
exporters cope with the global financial crisis. The currency
appreciated 21 percent in the three years after a managed float
against a basket of currencies was introduced in 2005. Gains
this time around may be more moderate because the yuan has
already strengthened 16 percent against the euro this year,
eroding earnings for Chinese exporters in the European Union,
the nation’s largest market.  
 -- Judy Chen ,  Patricia Lui . Editors:  Sandy Hendry ,  James Regan   
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Patricia Lui  at 
 plui4@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 22 (Bloomberg) -- Clyde Prestowitz, president of the Washington-based Economic Strategy Institute and a former Commerce Department international trade official, talks with Bloomberg's Rishaad Salamat about China's shift in currency policy and its implications for the U.S. economy.
     President Barack Obama called China’s decision to increase the flexibility of the exchange rate of the yuan "a constructive step that can help safeguard the recovery and contribute to a more balanced global economy."  (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 22 (Bloomberg) -- Boris Schlossberg, director of research at online currency trader GFT Forex in New York, talks with Bloomberg's Rishaad Salamat about changes to China's currency policy.
     China’s yuan gained the most in five years yesterday after the central bank pledged on June 19 to make the currency more flexible. Schlossberg also discusses the outlook for the U.S. economy. (Source: Bloomberg)
  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
