-- China Stocks Rise as Yuan Outlook Spurs Rally for Automakers, Steelmakers
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-06-22T07:37:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-22/china-s-stock-futures-drop-on-concern-european-debt-may-stall-yuan-gains.html

          
          
             China’s stocks  rose to the highest
this month on the prospect that the yuan will strengthen,
increasing domestic consumption and reducing raw-material import
costs for commodity producers.  
 FAW Car Co. , which makes passenger cars in China with
Volkswagen AG, climbed 2.2 percent on speculation consumers will
have more purchasing power as the currency gains. Baoshan Iron &
Steel Co. paced an advance for metal producers on the outlook
for lower import costs.  China Vanke Co.  led a drop for some
property developers after the nation’s planning body said home
prices are poised to drop.  
 “Stocks related to domestic demand may outperform the
broader market as the government is taking advantage of the yuan
move to boost domestic spending,” said  Zhang Ling , a fund
manager at Shanghai River Fund Management Co.  
 The  Shanghai Composite Index , which tracks the bigger of
China’s stock exchanges, added 2.49, or 0.1 percent, to 2,588.70
at the close, after changing direction more than 10 times. The
gauge closed at its highest since May 31. The  CSI 300 Index  rose
0.1 percent to 2,783.72.  
 The Shanghai gauge has lost 21 percent this year, Asia’s
worst performer, on concern government measures to rein in
housing prices and the European debt crisis will damp growth.  
 China’s stocks and the yuan rose yesterday after the
central bank pledged on June 19 to make the currency more
flexible. In its statement, the central bank ruled out a one-
time revaluation of the currency that’s been held at about 6.83
yuan per dollar since mid-2008.  
 Currency Plays  
 Investors should favor Chinese consumer and infrastructure
stocks as the ending of the yuan peg signals the government’s
determination to boost domestic consumption, said  James McCaughan , chief executive officer of Principal Global Investors.  
 The currency shift “is part of a very consistent process
the Chinese administration have had of repositioning their
growth away from being export-led and towards more of the
domestic economy,” McCaughan said. Principal Global, based in
Des Moine Iowa, manages $222 billion in assets for institutional
investors and retirement plans. “You would go for the domestic
economy, whether it is infrastructure or consumer related.”  
 A gauge of  consumer discretionary stocks  jumped 1 percent,
the most among the 10 industry groups in the CSI 300 Index. FAW
Car gained 2.2 percent to 16.93 yuan.  Anhui Jianghuai Automobile
Co. , a unit of China’s biggest light-truck exporter, advanced
3.2 percent to 7.16 yuan.  
 “Share prices have declined to a reasonable level and it
is a good time to buy,” said  Bai Yu , an analyst from Shanxi
Securities Co. “The sales and profits of automakers went well
in the first half of the year. The cost pressures are also
reduced with declining steel prices.”  
 ‘Substantial Upside’  
 “We’re basically expecting a 4 percent to 5 percent
appreciation annually from 2010 into the next decade,”  Jing Ulrich , chairwoman for China equities and commodities at
JPMorgan Chase & Co., said in a Bloomberg Television interview.
“There is a substantial upside to Chinese equities in the
future years.”  
 Ulrich said Chinese companies that will benefit from a
stronger yuan include those that import “a lot of raw
materials.”  
 Baoshan Steel added 1 percent to 6.25 yuan.  Wuhan Iron &
Steel Co.  rose 0.8 percent to 4.78 yuan. Shandong Huatai Paper
Co. jumped 6.2 percent to 10.34 yuan, the biggest gain since
September. The stock was suspended yesterday.  
 China’s move to relax its currency peg to the dollar is
luring  Pengana Capital Ltd.  and AMP Capital Investors Ltd. to
commodity stocks as they bet on rising demand in the world’s
third-largest economy.  
 Share Purchases  
 Pengana Capital has been buying iron-ore producers, said
 Tim Schroeders , who helps manage about $1.1 billion in Melbourne,
declining to be more specific. AMP Capital, with more than $90
billion of assets, is considering increasing its holdings
of commodity stocks, strategist  Nader Naeimi  said.  
 Vanke, the nation’s biggest listed property developer, fell
0.7 percent to 7.29 yuan. Gemdale Corp., the fourth-largest,
slid 1.1 percent to 7.08 yuan.  
 Chinese property prices in larger cities are poised to
steadily decline as government measures start to take effect,
the National Development and Reform Commission said in a report
relating to 36 large and medium-sized cities. It didn’t name the
cities.  
 The following companies were among the most active in
China’s markets. Stock symbols are in brackets after companies’
names.  
 Shenzhen Topraysolar Co.  (002218 CH) jumped the 10 percent
daily limit to 21.56 yuan. The company produced its first batch
of photovoltaic solar-energy glass on June 18 and mass
production is expected to start next month, according to an
exchange filing.  
 Tangshan Jidong Cement Co.  (000401 CH) gained 8.6 percent
to 15.60 yuan, the biggest gain since November 6, on resuming
trading after announcing plans to raise 1.9 billion yuan ($279
million) in a private placing to reduce its debt.  
      Wuhu Token Science Co.  (300088 CH) jumped 4.7 percent to
30.94 yuan, the biggest gain since May 26. First-half profit may
increase between 50 percent and 100 percent from a year earlier
on increased sales and improved profit margin, Wuhu Token said
in a statement to the Shenzhen Stock Exchange.  
 -- Zhang Shidong . With assistance from  Chan Tien Hin  in Kuala
Lumpur. Editors:  Allen Wan ,   Richard Frost   
 To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
 Zhang Shidong  in Shanghai at +86-21-6104-7014 or
 szhang5@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        