-- China Said to Buy Six More Corn Cargoes in Past Two Weeks to Cool Prices
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-06-22T09:12:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-22/china-said-to-buy-six-more-corn-cargoes-in-past-two-weeks-to-cool-prices.html

          
          
             China, the world’s second-largest corn
consumer, bought six cargoes from the U.S. in the past two weeks,
or 360,000 metric tons, bringing purchases to 16 cargoes, or almost
1 million tons, two executives familiar with the transactions said.  
 State-owned Cofco Ltd. bought three shipments to sell to feed
mills, while Jilin Grain Group Co. and two private buyers in southern
China bought one each, they said. Each cargo weighs about 60,000 tons,
they said, declining to be identified as the trade wasn’t public.  
 China, the third-biggest economy, has booked the most corn  imports 
in 14 years, and is draining domestic stockpiles to cool an 18 percent
gain in local prices in the past year. The gap between local and global
prices is narrowing, signaling imports may slow, the executives said.  
 “A reasonable assumption for this year’s imports is between 1
million and 2 million tons,” said Yu Xiaomeng, an analyst at private
Beijing-based researcher Shennong Net. “The overseas market had
initially exaggerated purchases.”  
 The country is unloading its first shipment of U.S. corn at Longkou
port in Shandong province, two people with direct knowledge of the
matter said. The 60,000 metric-ton shipment, sold by Louis Dreyfus
& Cie SA to Liuhe Group Co., may take several days to discharge because
of delays caused by rain, said the people. Authorities are testing
samples during the unloading, they said.  
 Cash Price Drops  
 Local prices had “risen too wildly” and the government has
reduced them to a more acceptable level for policymakers and livestock
farmers, Shennong’s Yu said. The outlook for improved crops and the
regular offering of state stockpiles have kept users from seeking
to boost inventories, she said.  
 Corn for December delivery in Chicago, currently the most active
contract, has increased 5.3 percent in the past two weeks, while the
benchmark cash price in the biggest grain port  Dalian  dropped more
than 2 percent to 1,950 yuan ($286) a ton as of yesterday.  
 Heilongjiang province sold 56 percent of corn offered at auction
today, down from 71 percent on June 11. Jilin province sold 94 percent,
while Inner Mongolia offloaded 36 percent, according to the National
Grain and Oil Trade Center.  
 The government has started inspections of participants in local
auctions to prevent hoarding and curb speculation, according to
researcher grain.gov.cn, run by the state-administered National Grain
& Oils Information Center.  
 Crop Progress  
 The auctions showed “buyers are becoming sidelined,” Yu said.
Farmers and traders have also increased sales of corn to create storage
space for this year’s wheat which was just harvested, she said.  
 Buyers are waiting to see how the new corn crop, which has shown
accelerated growth because of sunny and warm weather, may develop,
Yu said. How the crops fare by August will be critical in determining
production and whether it makes sense to import more, Yu said. “Still,
there isn’t much more room for prices to fall,” she said.  
 Outstanding sales of U.S. corn to China were 655,100 tons as of
June 10 and accumulated exports were 60,000 tons, according to U.S.
Department of Agriculture data. Exporters sold 120,000 tons to the
Asian nation, the USDA said June 14.  
 Chen Baomin , a trading manager at Jilin Grain, declined to comment
when reached by phone.  
 -- William Bi ,  Feiwen Rong . Editor:  James Poole   
 To contact the reporter on this story:
William Bi in Beijing at 
 wbi@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        