-- China Plans Credit Derivatives Soon to Limit Bond Risk, Investor Body Says
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-06-22T07:29:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-22/china-plans-credit-derivatives-soon-to-limit-bond-risk-nafmii-chief-says.html

          
          
             China plans to introduce credit
derivatives soon to control risks in the nation’s growing
domestic bond market, according to the National Association of
Financial Market Institutional Investors.  
 “We will make this a true risk-hedging instrument for the
growth of the financial market,” unlike how the derivatives
were used during the financial crisis, Shi Wenchao, secretary-
general of the government-backed body, said at a briefing in
Beijing today.  
 China is working with the International Swaps and
Derivatives Association, said Shi, whose group monitors the
country’s inter-bank market and promotes innovation in financial
products.  
 Chinese bond sales surged to 1.96 trillion yuan ($288
billion) last year from 981 billion yuan as the government urged
companies to reduce reliance on bank loans, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. U.S. and European regulators are
reviewing ways to tighten oversight of derivatives, which have
been blamed for exacerbating the global financial crisis.  
 Derivatives are financial instruments derived from stocks,
bonds, loans, currencies or commodities, or linked to specific
events such as changes in interest rates. Shi’s association held
a conference on derivatives in Beijing on June 2. China will
only introduce derivatives on bonds for now, Shi said.  
 Treasury bonds, central bank bills and policy bank bonds
made up 78 percent of bond issuance in China last year,
according to the website of Chinabond, the nation’s largest debt
clearing house.  
 In the first quarter, 346 billion yuan of corporate bonds,
medium-term notes, and financing bills were issued, compared
with 317 billion yuan in the same quarter last year, according
to China Lianhe Credit Rating Co.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Henry Sanderson  in Beijing at 
 hsanderson@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        