-- Colombia President Elect Santos Seeks to Mend Ties With Ecuador, Venezuela
-- Matthew Bristow
-- 2010-06-22T00:28:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-22/colombia-president-elect-santos-seeks-to-mend-ties-with-ecuador-venezuela.html

          
          
             Colombia’s president-elect  Juan Manuel Santos  spoke to Ecuador’s President  Rafael Correa  about
improving the countries’ relations and thanked Venezuela for its
“positive gesture” in congratulating him on his victory.  
 Santos made the comments to reporters today in Bogota.  
 Colombia’s next president has said he wants to mend ties
with Venezuela and Ecuador and revive trade links severed by
diplomatic disputes. Relations between Colombia and its
neighbors have been strained since March 2008 when Santos, as
minister of defense, ordered a raid into Ecuador that killed
 Raul Reyes , the second-in-command of the Revolutionary Armed
Forces of Colombia, or FARC, Colombia’s largest guerrilla group.  
 An Ecuadorean prosecutor in April ordered Santos’ arrest
for his role in the raid, while Venezuelan President  Hugo Chavez 
has called the president-elect a “warmonger” for the cross-
border attack. Santos has accused Chavez of allowing the FARC to
stage attacks from across the border.  
 The dispute has damaged trade. Exports to Venezuela,
traditionally Colombia’s biggest export market after the U.S.,
plunged 69 percent in April from the same month a year ago.  
 The International Monetary Fund is forecasting growth of
2.3 percent for the Colombian economy this year, slower than all
other regional economies except Venezuela. Colombia is lagging
behind the region partly due to the fall in demand from
Venezuela, said  Julian Marquez , an analyst at Corp. Financiera
Colombiana SA in Bogota.  
 “We estimate Colombia lost between 0.5 and 1 percentage
point of growth last year as a result,” Marquez said, speaking
by telephone from Bogota.  
 Venezuela’s Foreign Ministry congratulated the Colombian
people and Santos for his victory in Colombian presidential
elections yesterday, according to an e-mailed statement.  
 “The Venezuelan government will closely observe not only
the declarations of spokespeople from the new government, but
also the actions that profile the type of relations we can have
with sincerity and respect,” the statement said.  
 During the election campaign, Chavez said it would be
“very hard” to have good ties with a Santos government.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Helen Murphy  in Bogota at 
 hmurphy1@bloomberg.net ;
 Matthew Bristow  in Bogota at 
 mbristow5@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        