-- Colombia's Uribe Says Canada Trade May Jumpstart Other Commerce Accords
-- Helen Murphy
-- 2010-06-22T15:25:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-22/colombia-s-uribe-says-canada-trade-may-jumpstart-other-commerce-accords.html

          
          
             Colombia’s President  Alvaro Uribe 
said today that Canada’s approval of a free trade accord with
the South American country may convince other nations to move
forward with similar agreements.  
 Canada’s Parliament last night gave its final approval to
the agreement with Colombia, a move that may give agricultural
producers an advantage over U.S. competitors in the Latin
American country. The two countries began negotiations in 2007
and signed the agreement in 2008.  
 “This is something that may be persuasive for other
accords that are under way,” Uribe, who leaves office on Aug.
7, said in a  statement.   
 Uribe is hoping the Canada accord may ease the way for a
similar agreement with the U.S., which was reached in 2006 but
never ratified. U.S. critics of free trade with Colombia say the
government must improve the country’s human rights record before
any deal can be approved.  
 Labor unions and many Democrats in the U.S. Congress say
there’s a history of unpunished violence against Colombian trade
union organizers.  
 Colombia’s President-elect  Juan Manuel Santos , who was
overwhelmingly voted into office in June 20 elections, has said
his vice presidential choice of  Angelino Garzon , a former trade
union leader and human rights advocate, shows his commitment to
improving human rights and may help advance the accord.  
 In 2008, two-way trade between Canada and Colombia was more
than C$1.3 billion ($1.28 billion), according to Canada’s  trade
department . About 80 percent of Colombian exports are already
duty-free and include goods such as coal, coffee, banana, cut
flowers and sugars.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Helen Murphy  in Bogota at 
 hmurphy1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        