-- Commodity Gains on Changes to Yuan May Be `Knee-Jerk' Move, StanChart Says
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-06-22T09:35:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-22/commodity-gains-on-changes-to-yuan-may-be-knee-jerk-move-stanchart-says.html

          
          
             The biggest jump in commodities in
a week after China signaled it will relax the yuan’s peg to the
dollar is a “knee-jerk” reaction and investors should focus
on prospects for slower  growth , Standard Chartered Bank said.  
 Copper rose as much as 4.6 percent in London yesterday,
leading gains in industrial metals, while crude advanced as
much as 2.3 percent in New York and soybeans added 1.8 percent
in Chicago. China is the biggest consumer of copper and
soybeans and the second-largest user of oil. A stronger yuan
would lower the price of dollar-denominated commodities for
Chinese buyers.  
 “People’s knee-jerk reaction is always: a yuan
appreciation will lead to more imports of bulk commodities, but
our analysis of empirical data showed there’s no firm causal
relation between the two,”  Judy Zhu , an analyst at Standard
Chartered Bank, said in a phone interview from Shanghai
yesterday. Economic growth will continue to drive consumption
and a stronger yuan may only stoke demand from speculators, she
said.  
 China growth, the engine of the global economic recovery,
will slow to 9.6 percent in the third quarter and 9 percent in
the following three months, from 10.5 percent in the second
quarter, according to as many as 21 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg. The government wants to cool real-estate speculation
and imports of copper,  aluminum  and nickel fell in May from a
year earlier, customs data yesterday showed.  
 Demand Concern  
 “A modest and gradual appreciation of the Chinese yuan is
unlikely to lead to a sharp increase in Chinese commodity
imports in the coming months,” Royal Bank of Scotland Group
Plc analysts  Nick Moore  and  Daniel Major  said in a report
yesterday.  
 “We remain concerned about the sustainability of the
recovery in U.S. commodity demand, weaker than anticipated
demand in Europe, the impact of a slowdown in the Chinese
construction sector and reactivation of idle production
capacity,” they said. RBS expects gradual yuan appreciation of
3 percent by end of this year, they said.  
 The yuan rose yesterday by the most since a July 2005
revaluation and forwards jumped after China’s central bank
ended a two-year peg. The People’s Bank of China said June 20
that a stronger currency will help curb inflation in the
world’s third-largest economy and shift investment toward
service industries from export-manufacturing.  
 ‘Fading Enthusiasm’  
 “As the yuan appreciation is also a tightening policy for
the economy, the initial enthusiasm will likely fade” in
commodities,  Wang Tao , an analyst at UBS AG in Beijing, said in
a report June 20.  
 China’s yuan declined the most since December 2008 today
on speculation the central bank will encourage more two-way
fluctuations in the exchange rate after it pledged to expand
flexibility.  
 The currency weakened 0.2 percent to 6.8110 per dollar as
of 3:49 p.m. in Shanghai, according to the China Foreign
Exchange Trade system. The 12-month non-deliverable forward
climbed 0.1 percent to 6.6347, after the central bank set the
reference rate 0.43 percent stronger, reflecting appreciation
yesterday.  
 “As the ultimate revaluation in the yuan is likely to be
less than 5 percent at best in 2010, we see the impact on
commodity demand as marginal in the short-term,”  Hussein Allidina , head of commodity research at Morgan Stanley said in
a report today.  
 ‘No Impact’  
 Chinese authorities had prevented the currency from
strengthening against the dollar since July 2008 to help
exporters cope with the global financial crisis. The currency
appreciated 21 percent in the three years after a managed float
against a basket of currencies was introduced in 2005.  
 The  Standard & Poor’s GSCI Total Return Index  of 24
commodities advanced as much as 1.9 percent yesterday, the
steepest gain since June 14.  
 “Some commentators say this move is positive for
commodities. We disagree,”  Qu Hongbin , chief China economist
at HSBC Holdings Plc, said in a June 20 note. “This is all
about resuming flexibility rather than quick appreciation, so
it should not have any meaningful impact on the Chinese demand
for commodities and resources in the near-term.”  
 Chinese demand accounts for 41 percent of the world total
for cotton, 36 percent for lead, 35 percent for zinc, 33
percent for aluminum and 23 percent for soybeans, according to
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. It’s 9 percent of the total for oil,
the New York-based bank estimates.  
 Economic Fallout  
 Refined-copper imports by China declined 9.7 percent in
May from April, falling for a second month, according to
 Bloomberg data .  
 “China is still an economy in transition which relies on
exports as its main driver, so a revaluation may hurt the
economy and affect the government’s efforts to fine-tune
growth,” said  Dong Shuzhi , an analyst at Jinshi Futures Co.,
said by phone from Shanghai yesterday.  
 Copper on the London Metal Exchange dropped as much as 2
percent to $6,470 a ton today after yesterday gaining by the
most since May 18 on an intraday basis. It traded at $6,540 at
5:16 p.m. in Shanghai.  
 -- Feiwen Rong . With assistance from Li Yanping in Beijing and
Haslinda Amin in Singapore. Editors: Richard Dobson, John Liu,
Matthew Oakley.  
 To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Feiwen Rong in Beijing at +86-10-6649-7563 or
 frong2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        