-- Company Bond Risk Rises From Six-Week Low as Bank Funding Concerns Return
-- Abigail Moses
-- 2010-06-22T09:13:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-22/company-bond-risk-rises-from-six-week-low-as-bank-funding-concerns-return.html

          
          
             The cost of insuring against losses
on European corporate bonds rose amid renewed concern that some
of the region’s banks will struggle to fund themselves and
France’s largest lender was downgraded.  
 The Markit iTraxx Crossover Index of credit-default swaps
on 50 mostly junk-rated companies climbed from a six-week low,
rising 10.4 basis points to 512.4, according to Markit Group
Ltd. prices at 9:39 a.m. in London. The index, a benchmark for
the cost of protecting bonds against default, had fallen nine
straight days from 633 on June 8.  
 The cost of protecting bank bonds rose after Fitch Ratings
cut its ranking on BNP Paribas SA one step, citing deterioration
in the bank’s asset quality, while Standard & Poor’s said
Spain’s lenders face mounting credit losses. Sentiment had
worsened after European Central Bank member Christian Noyer said
yesterday that some banks face funding difficulties in the wake
of Europe’s sovereign debt crisis.  
 The Markit iTraxx Financial Index tied to the senior debt
of 25 banks and insurers rose 1.5 basis points to 149.5 and the
subordinated index was 2 higher at 227, according to JPMorgan
Chase & Co. Contracts on BNP Paribas rose 3 basis points to 105,
CMA DataVision prices show. Banco Santander SA, Spain’s biggest
lender, increased 6 basis points to 166 and Banco Bilbao Vizcaya
Argentaria SA climbed 9 basis points to 222.  
 BNP Paribas’s long-term credit rating was to AA-, the
fourth-highest investment grade, Fitch said yesterday. Both
Moody’s Investors Service and S&P rank it one step higher.  
 The Markit iTraxx Europe Index of 125 companies with
investment-grade ratings increased 2 basis points to 115, Markit
data show.  
 A basis point on a credit-default swap contract protecting
10 million euros ($12.3 million) of debt from default for five
years is equivalent to 1,000 euros a year.  
 Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange
for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a
company fail to adhere to its debt agreements. An increase
signals deterioration in perceptions of credit quality.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Abigail Moses  in London at 
 Amoses5@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        