-- Congressmen Dodd, Berman Reach Agreement on Iran Gasoline, Bank Sanctions
-- Viola Gienger
-- 2010-06-22T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-22/congressmen-dodd-berman-reach-agreement-on-iran-gasoline-bank-sanctions.html

          
          
             U.S. House and Senate leaders said
yesterday they had resolved differences on legislation to
penalize companies selling gasoline to Iran and had added new
banking prohibitions.  
 In addition to targeting providers of refined petroleum
products and services to Iran, the measure would allow the Obama
administration to bar financial violators from the U.S. banking
system.  
 “The act would present foreign banks doing business with
blacklisted Iranian entities a stark choice,”  U.S. Senate
Banking Committee Chairman  Christopher Dodd  and House Foreign
Affairs Committee Chairman  Howard Berman  said in a statement.  
 The legislation is intended to add to sanctions adopted by
the United Nations Security Council earlier this month
restricting financial transactions, tightening an arms embargo
and authorizing cargo seizures. The U.S. invoked the UN
resolution last week in leveling sanctions against an Iranian
bank, shipping companies and elements of Iran’s Revolutionary
Guard Corps it accused of involvement in nuclear and missile
development.  
 White House spokesman  Robert Gibbs  called the measure a
“strong bill” that would strengthen “a multilateral strategy
to isolate and pressure Iran.” In a statement, Gibbs said the
Obama administration “will continue to work with the Congress”
on passing a bill.  
 While Iran is the second-biggest crude oil producer in the
Middle East, it depends on imports to fill domestic demand for
gasoline because of limited refining capacity. The gap may
shrink. Iran aims to be self-sufficient in gasoline production
within two years as upgrades to refineries are finished, deputy
petroleum minister Shahnazi Zadeh said last month.  
 ‘Critical Access’  
 Under the congressional measure, violators would have to
cease business with designated Iranian enterprises “or be
denied critical access to America’s financial system,” Dodd and
Berman said. The measure targets financial institutions doing
business with certain Iranian banks or with the Revolutionary
Guard, a branch of the country’s military with extensive
business interests.  
 In its June 16 sanctions action, the U.S. targeted two
Iranian companies it said are subsidiaries of the Guard’s
engineering arm.  
 Other lawmakers on a joint panel must still review the
proposed House-Senate legislative agreement.  
 “Our legislation will provide the administration with
powerful new tools to press Iran to change course, including a
full range of tough new energy and financial sanctions,” said
Dodd of Connecticut and Berman of California in their statement.  
 Crafting Penalties  
 Lawmakers and the Obama administration had tussled over how
to craft penalties that pressure Iran without undermining
support from countries such as China and Russia with sanctions
that may affect their companies.  
 “It gives the administration some time to reach out to key
entities and say, look, this is coming down the pike, now is the
time to change behavior,” said  Matthew Levitt , a former U.S.
deputy assistant Treasury secretary for intelligence and
analysis now at the  Washington Institute for Near East Policy .  
 The Berman-Dodd measure would invoke a provision of the
2001 Patriot Act to potentially bar foreign financial
institutions from using the U.S. banking system should they
persist in doing business with targeted Iranian companies,
Levitt said.  
 That would effectively carry out years of threats by U.S.
Treasury officials who have sought to persuade foreign banks to
voluntarily stop engaging with sanctioned Iranian institutions,
he said.  
 The legislation tightens restrictions on foreign
subsidiaries of U.S. companies. It also bars the award of U.S.
government contracts to bidders that don’t certify they are
avoiding sanctioned business partners and to providers of
technology to Iran used to restrict freedom of speech.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Viola Gienger  in Washington at 
 vgienger@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        