-- Copper Fluctuates as China Ends Metal Export Rebates, Yuan Holds Advance
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-06-23T07:53:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-22/copper-declines-after-jumping-most-in-month-on-optimism-over-china-demand.html

          
          
             Copper, little changed, earlier
fluctuated between gains and losses after China removed export
rebates and the country’s currency held gains against dollar.  
 Three-month delivery copper was at $6,611 a metric ton on
the London Metal Exchange at 2:50 p.m. in Shanghai. The
contract rose as much as 0.5 percent and fell as much as 1.1
percent earlier. Zinc advanced 1.4 percent to $1,819.50 a ton
after losing as much as 1.3 percent earlier.  
 Rebates on some copper, zinc, lead, nickel and tin
products such as tubes and wires will be removed from July 15,
the Ministry of Finance said in a  statement  yesterday on its
website. The tariff change, announced amid increasing trade
complaints from the U.S. and the European Union, also affects
steel products, of which China is the largest producer.  
 “Both the yuan shift and the export tariffs change are
set to curb exports of metal products from China” and this may
lift prices overseas, Xu Liping, an analyst at HNA Topwin
Futures Co., said from Shanghai. Still, “we also have to
expect China’s purchases of refined metals and their raw
materials may fall if export demand for downstream products is
curbed.”  
 Copper for September delivery in Shanghai closed 0.6
percent up after falling as much as 1 percent to 52,340 yuan
($7,680) a ton earlier. Shanghai zinc climbed 1.6 percent to
15,050 yuan, erasing earlier declines of 2 percent.  
 ‘Immediate Pressure’  
 “The rebates removal puts immediate pressure on Chinese
prices,” Xiao Jing, an analyst at Beijing Capital Futures Co.,
said today. Copper and zinc may be the most affected as  exports 
of the metals and their products have started to recover, she
said.  
 Chinese prices may follow the gains in London even though
the policies are “bearish” for the country, HNA’s Xu said.
“How the prices will react to the news depends on how you want
to interpret it at this moment,” Xu said.  
 Copper advanced by as much as 4.6 percent on June 21, the
most since May 18, after the People’s Bank of China signaled an
end to the yuan’s fixed rate to the dollar, making commodities
priced in other currencies less expensive for Chinese consumers.
The metal, used in wires and pipes, plunged more than 20
percent from an April peak on concerns that the global economic
recovery may slow, hurting demand.  
 The biggest jump in commodities in a week after the yuan
announcement was a “knee-jerk” reaction and there’s “no firm
causal relation between” yuan appreciation and more imports,
Standard Chartered Bank said.  
 China’s yuan held this week’s gains today against the
dollar on speculation the central bank is allowing a stronger
currency to curb inflation.  
 Aluminum in London lost 0.3 percent to $1,953 a ton.
Global demand for primary aluminum may almost double in the
next decade led by growth in China, leading to a supply
shortage of about 8 million tons, the Japan Aluminium
Association said today.  
 Lead lost 0.2 percent to $1,825 a ton, nickel increased
0.6 percent to $19,760 a ton and tin was unchanged at $18,150 a
ton.  
 -- Li Xiaowei . With reporting by Rong Feiwen in Beijing, Aya
Takada and Yasumasa Song in Tokyo. Editors: Richard Dobson,
Jarret Banks.  
 To contact the Bloomberg News staff on this story:
 Li Xiaowei  in Shanghai at 
 Xli12@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        