-- Corn, Soybean Prices Decline as China Demand May Fail to Meet Expectations
-- Tony C. Dreibus
-- 2010-06-22T19:35:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-22/corn-prices-fall-as-chinese-demand-may-be-weakening-soybeans-also-slide.html

          
          
             Corn fell to a one-week low and
soybeans halted a four-session rally on speculation that demand
increases from China may not be as big as expected, after the
country signaled it will end the yuan’s peg to the dollar.  
 “This China policy is more psychological than anything,”
said  William Bayer , a partner at PTI Securities Inc. in Chicago.
“As far as the grains, it’s not going to have that much of an
effect. The yuan needs to appreciate at least 40 to 50 percent
to have an effect on commodities.”  
 Dollar-priced commodities may be cheaper for China as its
currency strengthens. Corn jumped as much as 1.7 percent
yesterday and soybeans rose 0.9 percent after the central bank
said June 19 that it will end the dollar peg. China also may
have enough supply for now, after buying 360,000 metric tons of
corn in the past two weeks.  
 Corn futures for December delivery fell 2.75 cents, or 0.7
percent, to $3.72 a bushel on the Chicago Board of Trade, after
touching $3.68, the lowest level since June 11. The price has
dropped 10 percent this year, partly on sagging demand.  
 Soybean futures for November delivery slipped 3 cents, or
0.3 percent, to $9.36 a bushel in Chicago, the first decline
since June 15. Futures gained 2.3 percent last week as wet
weather delayed seeding in the U.S.  
 China’s yuan announcement was a symbolic concession before
the Group of 20 summit in Canada, which starts tomorrow, Bayer
said.  
 “The Chinese don’t give anything away,” Bayer said.
“Given that the G20 meetings are coming up this weekend, it’s
important they did something. They’re smart people. They see the
writing on the wall.”  
 Lower energy prices also may have hurt corn and soybeans
today, which are used to make biofuels, Bayer said. Crude oil
fell as much as 1.7 percent after a New Orleans judge lifted a
six-month moratorium on deepwater drilling imposed by President
 Barack Obama . Gasoline futures dropped as much as 1 percent in
New York.  
 “If the outside markets continue to break, the grain
markets are vulnerable” to further declines, Bayer said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tony Dreibus  in Chicago at 
 tdreibus@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        