-- Crude-Oil, Gas-Extraction Costs Starting to Rebound, IHS-CERA Indexes Show
-- Grant Smith
-- 2010-06-22T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-22/crude-oil-gas-extraction-costs-starting-to-rebound-ihs-cera-indexes-show.html

          
          
             Costs of extracting oil are starting
to rebound after bottoming at the end of last year as prices of
building materials such as steel rose, according to indexes
produced by  IHS Cambridge Energy Research Associates .  
 IHS CERA’s Upstream Operating Costs Index rose 3 percent
during the six months to the end of March, while the Upstream
Capital Costs Index slipped 0.3 percent, it said today. The oil
spill in the Gulf of Mexico, the worst in U.S. history, from a
rig leased by BP Plc will “very likely place downward pressure
on costs” over the coming year, the consultants said.  
 “We did have some increases,” IHS-CERA analyst  Pritesh Patel  said in a telephone interview. “We track upstream steel,
so things like piping, casing, tubular goods, structural steel
actually used on facilities - we did actually see a 5 percent
increase within that market.”  
 The Upstream Operating Costs Index advanced to 172, and the
index for capital costs dropped to 201. Both are indexed to
2000. That means that an oilfield which required $100 million
per year to operate in 2000 would now need $172 million, and
capital requirements of $1 billion during that year would now be
equivalent to $2.01 billion.  
 Operating costs increased because of “an upswing in
onshore service rates, increased material input prices and
escalating manpower costs,” IHS-CERA said in the statement.
Upstream capital costs had sustained a “precipitous” drop of 9
percent in 2009, its chairman  Daniel Yergin  said.  
 Staff costs for oil companies gained 5 percent “as demand
for skilled production personnel remained firm, particularly for
highly skilled managers and engineers,” the report said.  
 Oil Prices Jump  
 Oil futures surged 19 percent in the six-month period,
protecting companies such as  Exxon Mobil Corp.  and  Royal Dutch
Shell Plc  against any extra expense. Crude traded for around $78
a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange yesterday.  
 President  Barack Obama ’s six-month ban on new offshore
drilling may lead to lower costs as semi-submersible drills
become more easily available, according to the report.  
 “The immediate impact you’ll have over the next six to 12
months is more supply onto the market, and that will actually
lead to a decrease,” Patel said. “With the longer term
implications with further regulations, further procedures to
follow, it could have potentially an increase.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Grant Smith  in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        