-- Czech Central Banker `Scared' by Vows Euro Will Be Defended at Any Cost
-- Peter Laca
-- 2010-06-22T12:41:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-22/czech-central-banker-scared-by-vows-euro-will-be-defended-at-any-cost.html

          
          
             The European Union risks paying a
higher price for defending the euro when its representatives
declare that the common currency project will be sustained “at
any cost,” Czech central bank Vice Governor Mojmir Hampl said.  
 The  EU  is trying to contain pressure on the currency
stemming from concerns over the ability of some of the euro area
members to finance debts. The 27-member bloc designed a 750-
billion-euro ($920 billion) rescue package to prevent countries
such as Spain and Portugal from succumbing to debt woes after a
separate 110 billion-euro lifeline for Greece failed to contain
the crisis.  
 European Union President  Herman Van Rompuy  said the rescue
package would be expanded if it doesn’t quell the debt crisis,
according to a report in Belgium’s Trends magazine on June 10.
Greece’s Finance Minister  George Papaconstantinou  said on April
25 that Europe will defend the common currency “at any cost.”  
 Declarations that the euro project “will be sustained at
any cost, increases the cost of any steps needed at any given
time to save it,” Hampl said at a seminar in Prague today.
“There are many people from the Brussels elite declaring that
this project will be sustained at any cost,” and that “scares
me as an economist,” Hampl said, without naming the officials.  
 Prodded by the U.S. and Asia to stabilize markets, European
governments approved the rescue fund on May 9-10 in a bid to end
speculation that the euro area might break apart because of the
debt crisis. The turmoil has pushed the euro down 14.4 percent
against the dollar in 2010.  
 The currency slid to as low as $1.1877 on June 7, the
weakest since 2006, before recovering to trade at $1.2280 at
1:39 p.m. in London today.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Peter Laca  in Prague at   placa@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        