-- Daiichi Sankyo `Energetically' Seeking Cancer Deals, Biotech Partners
-- Naomi Kresge
-- 2010-06-22T22:01:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-22/daiichi-sankyo-energetically-seeking-cancer-deals-biotech-partners.html

          
          
             Daiichi Sankyo Co.  is seeking deals
to broaden the line of experimental cancer therapies it built
with the purchase two years ago of German biotechnology company
 U3 Pharma AG .  
 “We’re still looking energetically for venture capital
companies or biotechnology companies that could lead to
acquisitions or partnerships,” said  Reinhard Bauer , the
company’s head of European operations, in a telephone interview
yesterday.  
 Daiichi Sankyo will look for deals similar to the 150
million euro ($184.6 million) U3 Pharma acquisition, which
brought it antibody treatments for breast, colon and lung
cancers, Bauer said. The third-largest Japanese drugmaker
doesn’t need revenue from acquisitions to meet its European
sales target, he said.  
 The Tokyo-based company aims to increase sales in Europe
more than 50 percent to 1.2 billion euros a year by the fiscal
year ending in March 2013, driven by the hypertension drug
Benicar and Effient blood thinner. Daiichi expects that
operating income will increase more quickly than sales.  
 The experimental blood thinner edoxaban has the potential
to bring more than $1 billion a year in sales, Bauer said. The
final stage of clinical trials required for the company to
submit the drug for regulatory approval in the U.S. will likely
be completed next year, he said. The blood thinner would be a
rival to  Bayer AG ’s Xarelto and to Pradaxa, a product from
closely held German drugmaker Boehringer Ingelheim GmbH.  
 The Japanese drugmaker isn’t interested in buying existing
products or in generic-drug acquisitions, Bauer said.  
 Daiichi Sankyo decided against acquiring German generic-
drug maker Ratiopharm GmbH because pricing pressure in the
country outweighs the appeal of the company’s brand name, he
said.  Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd.  agreed to pay 3.63
billion euros for Ratiopharm in March.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Naomi Kresge  in Zurich at 
 nkresge@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        