-- Democrat Brown Pushes for U.S. Loans to Manufacturers in Energy Measure
-- Jim Snyder
-- 2010-06-22T16:59:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-22/democrat-brown-pushes-for-u-s-loans-to-manufacturers-in-energy-measure.html

          
          
             Senator  Sherrod Brown , an Ohio
Democrat wary of the impact of climate legislation on U.S.
manufacturers, says he is pushing to include billions of dollars
of loans and tax credits in any energy measure.  
 Brown said he  wants  the Senate to add $30 billion in
government-backed loans for manufacturers, and is asking the
Obama administration for an  additional  $5 billion in tax credits
for companies that invest in clean-energy facilities.  
 Those provisions might help struggling U.S. manufacturers
expand, and induce companies in China, Japan and Europe to open
up factories in the U.S., he said.  
 “There are certainly ways to encourage companies to invest
here, and hire Americans,” Brown said in an interview at
Bloomberg’s Washington office. “We can’t continue to be a
prosperous, middle-class society if we don’t keep making
things.”  
 Brown has organized a bipartisan group of Midwestern
lawmakers worried that climate legislation would undercut local
manufacturers and give an advantage to overseas competitors in
countries such as China. Brown has proposed including a Buy
America provision in any climate bill and helped frame a letter
to lawmakers drafting the legislation saying it must include
import tariffs to protect domestic producers.  
 If pollution limits are imposed without providing help to
manufacturers, climate-change legislation will be “a self-
defeating effort” by moving jobs to countries with lower
environmental standards, Brown and other senators wrote in a
letter to Senators  John Kerry  of Massachusetts and  Joe Lieberman 
of Connecticut in April.  
 Cap-and-Trade  
 Cap-and-trade legislation creating a market for companies
to buy and sell a declining number of pollution rights hasn’t
advanced in the Senate after passing the House last year.
President Barack Obama is scheduled to meet with lawmakers to
discuss the measure tomorrow.  
 Brown said today he wasn’t assuming that Buy America
provisions in an energy bill would pass. He didn’t discuss the
issue of tariffs on imports.  
 Instead he said government-backed loans and tax credits
could be used to boost American manufacturers and create green
jobs in the U.S.  
 Last year’s economic stimulus provided $2.3 billion in tax
credits, for investments in new or expanded U.S.-based advanced
energy manufacturing facilities. Those credits have run out, and
Brown said he wants the administration to provide $5 billion in
new funding.  
 Brown said he was encouraged by the reaction of Kerry and
the Obama administration to his proposal for a government-backed
fund that would provide credit help to small manufacturers who
improve energy efficiency or expand clean energy operations.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Mark Drajem  in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net ;
 Jim Snyder  in Washington at 
 jsnyder@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        