-- DIC Fund Plans to Restart Buying of Real Estate for First Time Since 2006
-- Komaki Ito
-- 2010-06-22T01:55:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-22/dic-pension-fund-plans-to-restart-investing-in-property-in-japan-abroad.html

          
          
             DIC Corp. ’s pension fund, which
manages 87 billion yen ($959 million) of assets, plans to invest
in real estate at home and abroad for the first time since 2006.  
 The manager of retirement savings for about 6,200 employees
is taking a look at real estate after it stopped investing in
the asset class as the subprime mortgage crisis was emerging,
said Hideo Kondo, the asset management director of the fund. The
plan comes after Japan’s commercial land prices dropped to the
lowest in at least 36 years.  
 “One of the best investment decisions we made was to exit
all our real estate investments in 2006 on the view that
property prices worldwide were expensive,” Kondo, 55, said in
an interview in Tokyo yesterday. “But now, we’re now starting
to see some investment opportunities in the real estate
market.”  
 The pension fund of the world’s biggest ink maker currently
invests 55 percent of its assets in  domestic bonds  and the rest
in domestic and overseas equities, Kondo said.  
 Japanese pension plans are adjusting their investments
after two decades of slumping markets, an aging population and a
dependence on retirement packages immune to investment
performance. About 37 percent of Japanese pensions surveyed by
JPMorgan Chase & Co. said they expect to boost allocations to
alternative investments.  
 Alternative Investments  
 Alternative investments, under which real estate falls,
currently account for about 16 percent of the portfolio, Kondo
said. In the category the pension also invests in private equity
with a focus in Asia and emerging markets, as well as
infrastructure in developed markets including in the U.S. and
the U.K., he said.  
 DIC pension has invested mostly in overseas single-manager
hedge funds with strategies including long-short, which bet on
rising and falling stock prices, to hedge against its equity
holdings, Kondo said. It also invests in a macro strategy as a
hedge against its bond investments, he said.  
 “When you think about diversifying your investments,
you’ve got to use hedge funds,” Kondo said. “Otherwise, it’s
difficult to achieve your targeted returns.”  
 DIC’s fund targets a yearly return of 3.5 percent, he said.  
 Hedge funds are mostly private pools of capital whose
managers participate substantially in the profits from their
speculation on whether the price of assets will rise or fall.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Tomoko Yamazaki  in Tokyo at 
 tyamazaki@bloomberg.net ;
 Komaki Ito  in Tokyo at 
 kito@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        