-- DiPascali, Admitted Madoff Accomplice, Free on Bail
-- Bob Van Voris
-- 2010-06-23T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-22/dipascali-admitted-madoff-accomplice-is-released-on-bail-after-10-months.html

          
          
             Frank DiPascali Jr. , who pleaded
guilty to helping  Bernard L. Madoff  carry out history’s biggest
Ponzi scheme, was released on bail on the conditions that he
stay at home and wear a monitoring device.  
 DiPascali, 53, the former chief financial officer for
Madoff’s company, had been in federal custody since pleading
guilty on Aug. 11, 2009, and has cooperated with prosecutors in
a bid for leniency at sentencing. Both he and his lawyer,  Marc Mukasey , declined to comment yesterday as they left a federal
courthouse in Manhattan.  
 Among the 11 conditions for bail U.S. District Judge
 Richard Sullivan  set in February were posting a $10 million bond
secured by $2 million in cash or property, including $600,000 in
equity in three New Jersey homes; 24-hour house arrest except
under escort; and wearing an electronic monitoring device.
DiPascali had been held at the Westchester County Jail in
Valhalla, New York.  
 Sullivan’s order requires DiPascali to forfeit all of his
family’s assets, except about $300,000. His release comes after
Sullivan signed a $170 billion order of forfeiture for DiPascali
on June 18.  
 DiPascali has turned over to the government his home in
Bridgewater, New Jersey, a yacht, watches and jewelry, a Jet
Ski, cars, two motorcycles, two minibikes, a scooter and a
snowblower.  
 He pleaded guilty to 10 counts, including conspiracy, fraud
and money laundering. He admitted misleading thousands of
clients at Bernard L. Madoff Investment Securities LLC, saying
no securities trades took place in their accounts. Investors
lost billions of dollars.  
 In December, U.S. prosecutors told Sullivan they would seek
leniency for him in exchange for “substantial assistance to the
government in its investigation and prosecution of others” in
the Madoff case. Sullivan hasn’t set a sentencing date.  
 Madoff, 72, pleaded guilty on March 12, 2009, and is
serving a 150-year prison term.  
 Prosecutors yesterday filed civil forfeiture suits against
two other former Madoff employees,  Annette Bongiorno  and Joann
Crupi, who worked as back-office staff for more than 25 years,
according to the U.S. Attorney’s office in Manhattan. The
government is seeking $5 million from the two, claiming the
money is traceable to Madoff’s fraud.  
 ‘Knowingly Participated’  
 Neither of the employees, whom prosecutors claim
“knowingly participated in the fraud,” has been criminally
charged.  
 “We just received the complaint,” said Crupi’s lawyer,
 Eric Breslin  of the firm Duane Morris LLP. “We’re in the
process of reviewing it.”  
 Bongiorno’s lawyer,  Roland Riopelle , declined comment.  
 U.S. Attorney spokeswoman Yusill Scribner declined to
comment on the possibility that the two women will be charged
criminally. In a statement, U.S. Attorney  Preet Bharara  called
the suits “another step in this still active and very much
ongoing investigation.”  
 Prosecutors are seeking from Bongiorno $1.1 million held in
several bank accounts, $1.3 million paid toward a luxury
condominium, a 2005 Bentley Continental and a 2007 Mercedes
Benz. They are also seeking forfeiture of a house in
Mantoloking, New Jersey, for which prosecutors claim Crupi paid
$2.23 million in cash, and $26,500 in rental income from the
house.  
 The U.S. Attorney’s Office said in a statement yesterday
that it will seek to have the forfeited property sold and used
to benefit the victims of Madoff’s fraud.  
 The cases are U.S. v. DiPascali, 09-cr-764, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan); U.S. v.
$304,041.01 on Deposit at Citibank N.A., 10-CV-4858, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan); U.S.
v. 1081 Barnegat Lane, Mantoloking, New Jersey, No. 10-CV-4857,
U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  
 To contact the reporters responsible for this story:
 Patricia Hurtado  in U.S. District Court in Manhattan
at   pathurtado@bloomberg.net ;
 Bob Van Voris  in U.S. District Court in Manhattan
at   pathurtado@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 23 (Bloomberg) -- Bloomberg's Deirdre Bolton reports on major newsmakers in today's Movers & Shakers. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
