-- Du Sells 1 Billion Dirhams in New Stock for Investment in Wireless Network
-- Anthony DiPaola
-- 2010-06-22T15:25:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-22/du-plans-to-expand-operations-as-it-completes-272-million-rights-offering.html

          
          
             Du , the phone company also known as
 Emirates Integrated Telecommunications Co. , sold 1 billion
dirhams ($272 million) in new stock to existing investors,
raising cash to expand.  
 Public shareholders asked to buy more stock than Du made
available in the sale, the company said in a statement today,
without specifying how much stock they asked to buy.  
 Most of the planned investment by the second-largest phone
company in the United Arab Emirates will go to its mobile
network to provide faster service and better Internet
connections, Chief Executive Officer  Osman Sultan  said in April.
Fixed-line investment will be in partnership with larger rival
 Emirates Telecommunications Corp. , or Etisalat, he said.  
 “Our focus remains on delivering on our plans to become
the U.A.E.’s preferred integrated telecommunications provider,”
Sultan said in the statement.  
 The number of shares will rise 14 percent to 4.57 billion
and trading is expected to start about June 27, Du said.  
 Du’s founders, including Abu Dhabi state-owned investment
fund Mubadala Development Co., had pledged to buy all the stock
their holdings entitled them to and any shares not sold to the
public investors, who own about 20 percent of the Dubai-based
company. Du’s founders exercised all their rights to stock.  
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. acted as the rights offer coordinator
and book runner and  Mashreqbank PSC  was the lead receiving bank
collecting orders from investors, Du said. National Bank of Abu
Dhabi and Abu Dhabi Commercial Bank were receiving banks, the
company said.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Arif Sharif  in Dubai at 
 asharif2@bloomberg.net ;
 Anthony DiPaola  in Dubai at 
 adipaola@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        