-- Dubai Shares Drop most in 2 Weeks as MSCI Keeps U.A.E. as Frontier Market
-- Zahra Hankir
-- 2010-06-22T13:46:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-22/dubai-shares-drop-most-in-2-weeks-as-msci-keeps-u-a-e-as-frontier-market.html

          
          
             Dubai shares declined for the first
time in four days, leading a drop in the Gulf, as index provider
MSCI Inc. kept the United Arab Emirates and Qatar as frontier
markets, citing the countries’ dual account structures.  
 The  DFM General Index  lost 1.4 percent, the most since June
6, to 1,542.07, led by  Emaar Properties PJSC,  builder of the
world’s tallest skyscraper.  Air Arabia PJSC  retreated 1.6
percent. Dubai’s measure had gained 5.1 percent in the previous
three days. Abu Dhabi’s  gauge  dropped 0.4 percent and the
 Bloomberg GCC 200 Index  slid 1 percent.  
 The MSCI decision not to upgrade the U.A.E. and Qatar to
emerging markets “was reflected negatively as most foreign
buying over the previous three days was in anticipation of the
announcement,” said  Mohammed Ali Yasin , chief executive officer
at Shuaa Securities in Abu Dhabi.  
 The U.A.E. and Qatar will remain under review for a
potential reclassification to emerging markets, the index
provider said. “The need to set up and operate with a dual
account structure is still a major concern to a number of
international institutional investors and is incompatible with
general emerging markets standards,” MSCI said in reference to
the U.A.E. Qatar’s gauge fell 0.5 percent.  
 Global stocks retreated, with the  MSCI World Index 
declining 0.4 percent as of 5:41 p.m. in Dubai and the  MSCI
Emerging Markets Index  dropping 1.1 percent on renewed concern
Europe’s debt crisis will hurt the global economy. Fitch Ratings
yesterday cut its credit rating on BNP Paribas SA, France’s
largest bank and Standard & Poor’s Ratings Services said Spanish
lenders face difficult years as credit losses mount.  
 Volumes Fall  
 Crude for July delivery dropped 0.1 percent to $77.77 a
barrel in electronic trading on the New York Mercantile
Exchange. The six nations of the Gulf Cooperation Council supply
about a fifth of the world’s oil.  
 A total of  83.3 million shares  traded on the Dubai exchange
today, compared with the six-month daily average of 199 million.  
 Emaar retreated 3 percent, the most since June 6, to 3.29
dirhams. Air Arabia, the U.A.E.’s biggest low-cost carrier,
decreased to 86.5 fils.  
 Aabar Investments PJSC  gained 2.4 percent to 1.68 dirhams,
the highest in almost three weeks. Earlier the shares had
tumbled as much as 5.5 percent. The largest shareholder in
Daimler AG said its board will meet on June 24 to consider
calling a shareholders’ meeting to approve converting into a
private joint-stock company and canceling the listing of shares
on the Abu Dhabi exchange. About 24.7 million shares traded, the
most since January.  
 Saudi Arabia’s  Tadawul All Share Index  retreated 1.4
percent, the most in three weeks, to 6,363.55 and Oman’s  MSM30
Index  dropped 0.7 percent. Kuwait’s benchmark rose 0.4 percent
and Bahrain’s gauge advanced 0.8 percent.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Zahra Hankir  in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        