-- Dutch Court Says Utility Unbundling Conflicts With European Union Laws
-- Fred Pals
-- 2010-06-22T13:29:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-22/dutch-court-says-utility-unbundling-conflicts-with-european-union-laws.html

          
          
             Legislation enacted by the Dutch
government in 2006, splitting the country’s four largest energy
companies into commercial and transmission operations, is in
conflict with European law, a court in The Hague ruled today.  
 “The unbundling law impedes the free flow of capital,”
the court said in an e-mailed statement today. The court in The
Hague declared non-binding the provisions to the national
Electricity and Gas Laws, Jurgen Roos, the court’s press
officer, said by telephone.  
 Dutch utilities began separating commercial operations such
as production, trading and sales from grid units in 2008 after
parliament approved the law and had until Jan. 1, 2011, to
complete the process. Shareholders of the two biggest utility
companies, Essent NV and Nuon NV, have since sold their
commercial operations to RWE AG of Germany and Sweden’s
Vattenfall AB, respectively.  
 The government plans to appeal the decision, said  Jan van Diepen , a spokesman for the Economic Affairs Ministry. The court
ruling was in response to a lawsuit brought by Essent, Eneco
Holding NV and Delta NV. Nuon wasn’t a party to the case.  
 “We will talk with the board and our shareholders to see
what to do with the unbundling process,” Peter Couwenberg, a
Middelburg, Netherlands-based spokesman of Delta, said in a
phone interview today. “We may seek compensation from the State
as this has been a very costly process.”  
 Studying Ruling  
 Essent is studying the ruling and declined to comment,
Jeroen Brouwers, an Arnhem, Netherlands-based spokesman, said in
an e-mailed statement. Eneco didn’t immediately return a phone
call seeking comment.  
 EU lawmakers in April last year approved legislation
forcing member nations to choose one of three options to ease
access to the power and gas grids of such producers as
Electricite de France SA and E.ON AG. The choices are to force
the companies to sell or spin off the transmission business;
require them to hand over management of the grid to an
independent operator; or oblige them to make the unit more
independent through internal actions.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Fred Pals  in Amsterdam at 
 fpals@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        