-- Le Monde Won't Consider Russian Billionaire Fetisov's Bid If It Gets One
-- Maria Kolesnikova
-- 2010-06-22T12:49:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-22/le-monde-says-it-won-t-consider-any-bid-from-russian-billionaire-fetisov.html

          
          
             Le Monde, the French newspaper of
record that’s seeking funds to avert a cash crunch, said it
hasn’t received a formal offer from Russian billionaire  Gleb Fetisov , and wouldn’t consider it if one arrived.  
 The deadline for offers to recapitalize the newspaper has
passed, and new bids aren’t being taken, Le Monde spokeswoman
 Anne Hartenstein  said.  
 Fetisov, ranked by Forbes magazine as Russia’s 42nd richest 
man, said in a statement on his  website  dated yesterday that he 
was bidding for control of the afternoon daily and pledged to 
make it profitable and not interfere in editorial policies.  
 “I have a clear vision how to restructure the debt and
make money without interfering with the journalism,” he said  
 Le Monde, founded in 1944, has become the subject of a
political tug-of-war as it tries to find new investors. The
paper is the most politically centrist of Paris’s three major
dailies, driving politicians to covet its support. President
 Nicolas Sarkozy  expressed opposition to a bid by a group of
investors that includes Socialist Party backer  Pierre Berge , the
business partner of fashion designer Yves Saint Laurent.  
 The newspaper said yesterday it received two bids, one from
a trio of investors that includes Iliad SA founder  Xavier Niel 
and Berge. The other bidder is a group that includes France
Telecom SA, Promotora de Informaciones SA, and Groupe SFA PAR,
the parent of the Nouvel Observateur weekly.  
 French dailies, like their U.S. counterparts, are cutting
costs and seeking new ways of making money as they sell fewer
newspapers and advertising sales shrink.  
 Falling Readership  
 Circulation declined last year at all three major Paris
newspapers. Readership fell 9.5 percent at Liberation, 4.14
percent at Le Monde and 1.76 percent at Le Figaro, according to
circulation statistics office OJD.  
 Le Monde, based in Paris’s 13th arrondissement, cut 130
jobs after a 2008 cost-cutting exercise that aimed to save 15
million euros ($18.3 million) annually.  
 The group including France Telecom is offering about 100
million euros ($123 million) for control of the newspaper, a
person familiar with the matter said yesterday.  
 Le Monde SA is about 60 percent owned by Le Monde et
Partenaires Associes, 17.3 percent by Lagardere, 15 percent by
Prisa, 2.9 percent by Stampa SAS, 1.8 percent by Nouvel Obs and
2.7 percent by other smaller holders. Le Monde et Partenaires
Associes in turn is 52 percent owned by internal shareholders
and 48 percent by a small group of partner companies.  
 Fetisov, whose net worth is $1.6 billion, controls Russian
lender My Bank Ltd. and a stake in Altimo, a unit of Alfa Group,
which in turn owns stakes in mobile operators OAO VimpelCom and
OAO Megafon.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Matthew Campbell  in London at 
 mcampbell39@bloomberg.net ;  
          
          


  


        