-- Tea Shortage to Worsen as Pests Damage Crop in India, Biggest Grower Says
-- Thomas Kutty Abraham
-- 2010-06-22T11:02:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-22/tea-shortage-to-worsen-as-pests-damage-crop-in-india-biggest-grower-says.html

          
          
             A tea shortage in India may worsen
as pest attacks damage plantations, lowering output and boosting
prices, according to the world’s biggest tea-growing company.  
 Output in India, the top grower after China, may be less
than last year’s 979 million kilograms after excess rain hurt
tea shrubs in northeast states, which account for more than 70
percent of production,  Aditya Khaitan , managing director, of
 McLeod Russel India Ltd.,  said in an interview today.  
 Reduced supplies may increase costs for companies including
 Unilever Plc  and  Tata Tea Ltd.,  owner of Tetley brands, and lift
earnings at producers McLeod and  Jayshree Tea & Industries Ltd .
Prices reached a record at the world’s biggest  auction  centers
last year after dry weather in Kenya and Sri Lanka cut output.  
 “It may be a good time to get into tea stocks for short-
term gains as prices of good quality tea will start to inch up
now,” said  Anup Ranadive , an analyst with Tower Capital &
Securities Ltd. “Last year it was drought that pushed up prices
and this year its rain.”  
 Mcleod’s  shares  rose 2.6 percent to 194.75 rupees in Mumbai,
the highest price since May 31. The stock has slumped 27 percent
this year, after surging more than five times in 2009.  Jayshree 
shares jumped 10.9 percent to 274.75 rupees, the biggest one-day
gain since Aug. 21.  Harrisons Malayalam Ltd.  gained 4.4 percent
to 123.1 rupees, a one-month high.  
 A smaller harvest may increase the domestic shortage by 25
percent to as much as 75 million kilograms by the end of 2010,
Khaitan said. A 100 percent tax on imports curbs supplies to the
market where demand is growing at 3.5 percent annually, he said.  
 ‘Positive Trend’  
 “The market will feel the shortage in the coming months
and the trend is looking positive for prices,” he said. “We’ve
seen the high point of production and low point of prices.”  
 The average tea price was $2.43 per kilogram at the weekly
auction held in Kenya’s port city of Mombasa on June 14 and 15,
18 percent more than the $2.06 per kilogram a week earlier,
African Tea Brokers Ltd. said June 18.  
 In India, prices have risen by 15 rupees to 20 rupees a
kilogram from a year ago as producers cover their future needs
by purchasing at auctions, Khaitan said. Overseas sales may fall
by 10 million kilograms to 15 million kilograms from last year’s
191 million kilograms as local demand and prices gain, he said.  
 Production in the four months through April has risen 12
percent to 162.3 million kilograms and the trend will reverse in
the coming months, Khaitan said.  
 “Whatever increase we had until the end of April has been
nullified because of the rain and pest attacks,” he said. “We
are in fact going to be way down.”  
 Northeast India, including Assam and Darjeeling, got rain
for 78 of 90 days, causing so-called tea mosquitoes to destroy
the leaves, Khaitan said.  
 Production from Kenya and Sri Lanka, the biggest exporters,
may decline in the coming months after a surge in the first five
months of the year, he said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Thomas Kutty Abraham  in Mumbai at 
 tabraham4@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        