-- East Timor Proposes $3.8 Billion Gas Hub in Sunrise Dispute With Woodside
-- James Paton
-- 2010-06-22T04:42:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-22/east-timor-proposes-3-8-billion-gas-hub-in-sunrise-dispute-with-woodside.html

          
          
             East Timor, opposed to  Woodside
Petroleum Ltd. ’s plan to develop the Sunrise gas project using a
floating plant, said it proposes a $3.8 billion oil and gas
development hub on its southern coast.  
 Negotiations with Australia over the venture in the Timor
Sea continue, government spokesman Agio Pereira said in an e-
mailed statement today. The southeast Asian nation said it
expects to put forward its plan later this year.  
 Australia’s second-largest oil and gas producer and its
partners, including  Royal Dutch Shell Plc , have opted to rely on
floating liquefied natural gas technology for the development,
saying that it will deliver the most revenue to both Australia
and East Timor. The government of East Timor objects to any plan
that doesn’t include a gas processing plant in the country.  
 Woodside has fulfilled all obligations governing the
Sunrise project, the Perth-based producer said earlier this
month. The company said it ruled out piping the gas to East
Timor because it was more expensive and that floating LNG is the
best commercial option for converting the gas to liquid form.  
 Roger Martin , a spokesman for Woodside, declined to comment.  
 Woodside dropped 0.4 percent to A$45.49 at 2:35 p.m.
in Sydney trading, while the benchmark  S&P/ASX 200 Index  fell
0.9 percent.  
 ‘Technical Risks’  
 Piping the gas to East Timor for processing would cost
about $5 billion more than the floating LNG option and
“presents significant technical risks,” Woodside Chief
Executive Officer  Don Voelte  said earlier this month.  
 East Timor’s petroleum regulator last month refused to
accept Woodside’s plan, insisting on more detailed analysis of
alternatives, including building a plant in East Timor.  
 The Sunrise resources straddle a boundary between
Australian waters and an area jointly managed by the two
countries. The countries agreed to share royalties.  
 Woodside and its partners have exclusive rights to develop
the fields and sell the gas, the company said. Woodside has a 33
percent stake in Sunrise, while  ConocoPhillips  has 30 percent
and Shell has 27 percent. Osaka Gas Co. owns 10 percent.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 James Paton  in Sydney   jpaton4@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        