-- EBay Liable for Leading Users to Fakes, L'Oreal Says
-- Stephanie Bodoni
-- 2010-06-22T16:18:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-22/ebay-liable-for-leading-users-to-fakes-l-oreal-says.html

          
          
             EBay Inc.  is actively involved in
the process of selling fake  L’Oreal SA  cosmetics on its auction
site, the Paris-based company told the European Union’s highest
court.  
 EBay, the most-visited U.S. e-commerce site, is liable for
trademark breaches due to its active involvement in the pre-
sale, sale and after-sale processes on its online platform,
lawyers for L’Oreal told the  European Court of Justice  today.
EBay uses L’Oreal trademarks as sponsored links to lead users to
infringing perfumes and other cosmetics, according to L’Oreal.  
 “In no way can EBay’s role be described as either passive
or neutral,” L’Oreal’s lawyer Henry Carr said to a 13-judge
panel of the Luxembourg-based EU court. “EBay is just like a
large car-boot sale on the Internet and should face the same
sanctions if fake products are sold there.”  
 A ruling by the EU court may help settle pending trademark
disputes between the two companies in France, Belgium and Spain.
The EU court ruled earlier this year, in a dispute between
 Google Inc.  and LVMH, that Internet hosts may benefit from an
exemption under the  EU’s e-commerce law  only if their role in
processing potentially infringing data is neutral.  
 Courts in France and Belgium so far have sided with EBay in
the lawsuits brought by L’Oreal, Europe’s largest cosmetics
company.  
 Guidance  
 Today’s case stems from a dispute in the U.K., where the
High Court in London last year decided EBay could do more to
reduce the sale of copies on its site by installing filters,
imposing restrictions on sellers or applying its policies more
consistently. Before giving its final decision, the court
referred a number of questions to the EU tribunal for guidance.  
 “Even if EBay itself is not liable for trademark
infringement, L’Oreal must have the possibility to require an
injunction against EBay because the company has the knowledge
that’s tied to the infringement on its site,” said Carr.  
 EBay’s lawyer  Thierry Van Innis  today said an injunction
was a “disproportionate sanction” that would impede the
functioning of e-commerce. He also rejected the idea of
installing control mechanisms, such as a filters to help
early detection of counterfeits sellers “because these clearly
don’t have the capacity to block what’s illegal and ensure that
everything offered is legal.”  
 The case dates back to 2007 when L’Oreal sent a letter
expressing its concerns about the “widespread” sale of fake
products on EBay’s European websites and asking it to address
those concerns. L’Oreal sued, saying EBay hadn’t done enough.  
 ‘Jockeying’ for Position  
 “L’Oreal seems less comfortable with e-commerce and seems
to be jockeying for a position where its rights would be broader
than they are in the real world,” said Geert Glas, one of the
two lawyers representing EBay at the EU court today.  
 Trademark-protected words that EBay bought to bring
visitors on search engines to its site via so-called sponsored
links were another point of contention raised by L’Oreal today.  
 While  L’Oreal  argues this practice helps guide people
faster to fake products on EBay’s site, EBay and the U.K.
government argued that it’s meant to act as an advertisement for
EBay.  
 “The sponsored links in this case act as a hook to draw
the user to the EBay site and they don’t act as a hook to draw
the user to any particular goods,” Charlotte May, a lawyer for
the U.K. government, told the court.  
 Niilo Jaeaeskinen, an advocate general at the EU court,
said he’ll publish a non-binding opinion on December 9. The
court’s ruling on average follows about six months later.  
 The case is C-324/09, L’Oreal SA, Lancome parfums et beaute
& Cie SNC, Laboratoire Garnier & Cie, L’Oreal (UK) Limited v
eBay International AG, eBay Europe SARL, eBay (UK) Limited.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Stephanie Bodoni  in Luxembourg at 
 sbodoni@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        