-- EDF Says Sales to Rivals Will Bring Zero Profit Under New Power-Market Law
-- Tara Patel
-- 2010-06-22T16:10:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-22/edf-says-sales-to-rivals-will-bring-zero-profit-under-new-power-market-law.html

          
          
             Electricite de France SA , Europe’s
biggest power generator, said a law being examined in France’s
Senate may leave its margin on the power it’s forced to sell to
rivals unchanged from existing regulated prices.  
 The legislation would require EDF to sell about a quarter
of the power from its 58 nuclear reactors to GDF Suez SA and
other competitors in France. The law, approved by the National
Assembly last week, follows probes by European Union regulators
into EDF’s dominance in the French market.  
 Under existing rules, a wholesale power rate for French
industry is set at 42 euros a megawatt-hour and the legislation
under debate says the price will be “in line” with that rate.  
 “If we get about 42 euros a megawatt-hour, this law will
be neutral for EDF compared to what exists now,” Chief
Financial Officer  Thomas Piquemal  said in an interview,
referring to the system for industry known as Tartam.  
 “If we don’t get 42, it will be a loss of margin, which
means that the existing margin will be transferred from EDF to
competitors.”  
 EDF will just cover costs if the price is set at 42 euros
a megawatt hour, Chief Executive Officer  Henri Proglio  said
today at an energy conference in Paris.  
 Production Costs  
 Production costs vary between 42 and 45 euros a megawatt
hour when spending on maintenance, operations and extending the
lifetime of existing reactors are included, Proglio said. This
price doesn’t include what EDF would have to spend to build new
reactors to replace the old ones, he said.  
 Almost three years after EDF lost its monopoly, the company
still has about 92 percent of domestic customers,  Philippe de Ladoucette , the head of regulator the Commission de Regulation
de l’Energie, said last month. The new law is the only option to
opening up the market, he said.  
 “Setting the wholesale rate at 42 euros a megawatt-hour
will allow competition on the power market for industry but not
for households or small businesses,”  Charles Beigbeder ,
chairman of competitor Poweo SA said in an interview today.
“The market won’t be completely opened.”  
 Rivals including GDF Suez, Poweo and Direct Energie are
urging the government to set a lower wholesale power price that
will allow them to compete in the household and industrial
markets.  
 Regulated Rates  
 French regulated rates for households are based on the cost
of EDF nuclear power of about 34 euros a megawatt-hour, which
competitors say means EDF will make a profit selling the
wholesale power for more.  
 “We want competition in all markets in France,”  Henri Ducre , head of French energy operations for GDF Suez, said in an
interview today. “We need energy sourced at 34 euros a megawatt
hour. At 42 euros a megawatt hour only the Tartam market will be
opened and we don’t agree with this.”  
 The wholesale rate will be set by the government in
consultation with the regulator for the first three years,
according to a version being considered by the Senate.  
 “The law seems to evolve with each debate,”  Francois Brottes , an opposition Socialist lawmaker, said at a power
conference in Paris today. “We’re far from reaching a level of
harmony on this law.”  
 Proglio has said any wholesale price below 42 euros a
megawatt-hour would amount to a “pillage” of the utility.
Today, he said if the law results in a price below that level he
will reject it.  
 Below Costs  
 “We can’t be forced to sell below our costs” of
production, he said. Whether competitors can compete for French
household customers “isn’t the issue,” he said, adding that
“rivals can sell to whoever they want.”  
 French consumers paid about 36 percent below the European
average when adjusted for purchasing power, according to figures
published in May by Eurostat. EDF, which supplies power to about
28 million customers, can’t raise prices for households beyond
the rate of inflation under a public service contract with the
government that runs out this year.  
 Under the proposed law, EDF will sell as much as 100
terawatt-hours a year to competitors who will be allowed to
resell it only to French customers and forced to invest in
future generation capacity.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tara Patel  in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        