-- Egypt Investigates the Source of Red Sea Resort Oil Spill, May Limit Rigs
-- Daniel Williams
-- 2010-06-22T15:32:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-22/egypt-probes-source-of-red-sea-oil-spill-may-limit-rigs-in-gulf-of-suez.html

          
          
             Gobs of oil floated to the shore of
Egyptian Red Sea resorts for a fifth day as the government said
it had yet to discover the source of the pollution and may
reduce the number of rigs operating in the nearby Gulf of Suez.  
 Petroleum companies, government agencies and local
authorities are cleaning up the “limited” spill and four ships
were sent to the waters near Hurghada, a tourist hub, to prevent
any more crude from reaching the beaches, the  Oil Ministry  said
in a faxed statement.  
 “Everything will return to normal in a very short period,”
the ministry said, without giving further details on the impact
of the spill or its origin.  
 Egypt has been developing its eastern coastline to
encourage tourism, which earned the country $15.4 billion last
year and is its biggest source of foreign exchange revenue,
according to the Tourism Ministry. More than 180 rigs also
operate in the Red Sea and the Gulf of Suez, according to the
Oil Ministry, although production from the area has declined in
the past decade.  
 Total Egyptian oil output averaged 742,000 barrels a day in
2009, compared with a peak of 941,000 barrels a day at the end
of 1993, according to the BP Annual Statistical Review of World
Energy.  
 Environmental activists and private tourism companies say
they are mystified by the government’s inability to find the
source of the spilled oil. Amr Ali, managing director of the
 Hurghada Environmental and Conservation Association , a non-
governmental organization, said his group videotaped oil in the
waters surrounding a drilling platform in the northern Red Sea
run by Petrogulf Misr, a state-run company formerly known as
Geisum Oil Co.  
 Responsibility  
 “No one is taking responsibility for this,” Ali said in a
telephone interview from Hurghada. Ehab Yosri, an official at
Petrogulf, said by phone in Cairo he could not discuss the
matter and referred inquiries to the Oil Ministry.  
 The source of the spill could not be Petrogulf because its
rig was continuing to produce oil, Hamdi Abdel Aziz, an Oil
Ministry spokesman, said today by telephone in Cairo. Officials
from the environment and oil ministries are analyzing samples of
the oil, he said.  
 More than 20 kilometers (12 miles) of coastline, from El-
Gouna in the north to Sahi Hashish in the south, had been
polluted by the oil, Al Masry Al Youm newspaper reported on June
19. Only 30 barrels of crude washed ashore near the resort of
Hurghada, according to the ministry.  
 “We are trying to examine all the reasons that could have
led to the pollution,” said Abdel Aziz, adding that more than
90 percent of the spill had been cleaned up.  
 Four Possibilities  
 The ministry gave four possible explanations for the spill
in its statement. The oil could have leaked from an offshore rig
or a tanker passing in the Gulf of Suez, 10 kilometers from
Hurghada, it said, or a leak may have been caused by an
attempted sabotage of rig equipment. The crude could have also
erupted from rocks on one of the islands off the coast due to
high temperatures, it said.  
 The oil has been visible on- and offshore since June 17,
Ali said. Hoteliers and provincial government workers are
cleaning the white sand beaches along the Hurghada shore though
no effort has been made to collect the oil at sea floating atop
coral reefs that are a magnet for visiting divers, said Ali.  
 “This is a vital area for tourism,” said Mohamed
Shobaghi, general manager for Aquanaut, a dive center in
Hurghada. “I suppose the authorities expect the oil to clean up
itself.”  
 Safety issues surrounding offshore drilling have come under
scrutiny worldwide following the ongoing oil spill in the Gulf
of Mexico on a rig operated by  BP Plc , which also operates in
Egypt and other Middle Eastern countries.  
 Offshore Drilling  
 Libya’s top oil official, Shokri Ghanem, said today the
reaction to BP’s oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico was “somewhat
exaggerated.” Ghanem, chairman of Libya’s National Oil Corp.,
said at a conference in London that the North African country
would allow BP to proceed with offshore drilling.  
 Egypt’s Oil Ministry said today in the statement that by
reducing the number of oil rigs in the Gulf of Suez it might be
able to monitor those that remain more effectively. Egyptian Oil
Minister  Sameh Fahmy  has called for the establishment of a fund
to fight pollution, the ministry said.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ola Galal  in Cairo at 
 ogalal@bloomberg.net ;
 Daniel Williams  in Cairo at 
 dwilliams41@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        