-- Emerging-Market Stocks Drop, Halting Longest Rally Since 2005; Yuan Falls
-- Shiyin Chen
-- 2010-06-22T07:10:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-22/emerging-market-benchmark-stocks-slide-halting-longest-rally-since-2005.html

          
          
             Emerging-market stocks fell for the
first time in 11 days on renewed concerns Europe’s debt crisis
will hurt the global economy.  
 The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index  lost 0.8 percent to 970.42
as of 3:10 p.m. in Singapore, snapping a 10-day, 10 percent
rally that had lifted the gauge to a seven-week high. The yuan
fell the most since December 2008 after yesterday strengthening
the most in five years.  
 Developing-nation stocks snapped their longest rally since
September 2005 after European Central Bank governing council
member  Christian Noyer  said some banks are facing funding
problems and Standard & Poor’s Ratings Services said Spanish
lenders face difficult years as credit losses mount. Economists
surveyed by Bloomberg predict Germany’s Ifo institute will say
today its business climate index fell in June.  
 “I don’t think the euro crisis is even close to over given
that there are fundamental solvency issues,”  James McCaughan ,
chief executive officer of Principal Financial Investors, said
in a Bloomberg Television interview from Kuala Lumpur.  
 Poly (Hong Kong) Investments Ltd.  paced a drop among
Chinese developers after the National Development and Reform
Commission said property prices in larger cities are poised to
steadily decline. The  Kospi index  fell 0.5 percent, the most in
two weeks, after MSCI Inc. kept South Korea as an emerging
market in an annual review. OAO Lukoil paced a 1.2 percent drop
in Russia’s Micex index after crude oil prices declined.  
 Poly (Hong Kong) Investments, a developer of residential
and commercial properties, fell 2.1 percent in Hong Kong
trading.  China Overseas Land & Investment Ltd. , a developer
controlled by the Chinese construction ministry, dropped 1.9
percent.  
 Yuan Weakens  
 The stocks surged yesterday after the People’s Bank of
China said June 19 it would increase the yuan’s flexibility,
spurring speculation a stronger yuan will tame inflation and
reduce the need for interest-rate increases.  
 The yuan declined 0.17 percent to 6.8095 per dollar after
climbing 0.4 percent yesterday.  
 The end of the yuan’s peg may not be “enough for a
turnaround” in property stocks as the benefits from a stronger
currency will be countered by the outlook of government policy
and supply, Morgan Stanley analysts led by  Derek Kwong  said in a
report today.  
 Fitch Ratings cut its long-term credit rating on BNP
Paribas, France’s largest bank, citing a “deterioration” of
the company’s asset quality. The report came as Standard &
Poor’s lowered its economic growth forecast for Spain to an
average of 0.7 percent a year through 2016 from 1 percent,
saying Spanish banks face mounting credit losses and
“substantial strain” on revenue generation.  
 Samsung Electronics  
 Samsung Electronics Co. , an electronics maker that gets
more than a fifth of its sales from Europe, retreated 1.7
percent in Seoul.  
 The stock also fell after MSCI said it will skip upgrading
South Korea to developed-market status for a second year, citing
the “rigidity” of its investor identification system and the
lack of an active offshore market for the country’s currency, as
well as anti-competitive practices relating to stock market
data.  
 “There may be disappointment in the short term,” said  Chu Moon Sung , a Seoul-based fund manager at Shinhan BNP Paribas
Asset Management Co., which manages $26 billion.  
 Lukoil, Russia’s second-largest oil producer, lost 0.6
percent while  OAO Tatneft  declined 1.2 percent. Crude oil prices
fell as much as 1.1 percent to $76.97 as optimism faded that
China’s yuan policies would strengthen the global economic
recovery and after Goldman Sachs Group Inc. reduced its crude
price forecasts today.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Shiyin Chen in Singapore at 
 schen37@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     China may allow the yuan to strengthen to deflect criticism from its trading partners and curb inflation, while protecting a recovery in its exports. Photographer: Nelson Ching/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
