-- Emirates Growth Splurge Rattles Long-Haul Rivals
-- Andrea Rothman
-- 2010-06-23T18:18:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-22/emirates-splurging-on-45-000-seat-fleet-rattles-lufthansa-singapore-air.html

          
          
             Emirates, the biggest international
airline, is rattling rivals in Europe and Asia with a growth
splurge that may be as game-changing for long-haul carriers as
the expansion of  Ryanair Holdings Plc  and Southwest Airlines Co.  
 The 25-year-old company is building up a fleet of 90  Airbus
SAS A380  aircraft with 45,000 seats and operating costs the
manufacturer says are lower than rival Boeing Co.’s latest 747.
That poses a threat to European carriers that specialize in the
same long-distance transfer traffic,  British Airways Plc  Chief
Executive Office  Willie Walsh  said in an interview.  
 Emirates’ latest order for 32 A380s valued at $11 billion,
announced this month, will give it 70 more superjumbos than any
other airline, funneling price-sensitive passengers through its
Dubai base in a challenge to network carriers including Deutsche
Lufthansa AG, Air France-KLM Group and  Singapore Airlines Ltd. 
Competitors say the company is benefiting from government
ownership and that they can’t compete with its purchasing power.  
 “It’s a miracle that Emirates already has more inter-
continental seats than Air France and British Airways
combined,” said  Wolfgang Mayrhuber , CEO of Cologne, Germany-
based Lufthansa. “It took us 40 years to get 30 747s in the air
in one of the biggest global economies, so one must assume that
this is an investment for the world.”  
 Traffic Surge  
 Emirates ranked only 24th among international airlines as
recently as 2000, putting it on a par with Sabena SA, the state-
owned Belgian carrier that went bust a year later.  
 In the intervening period the Gulf carrier has achieved a
sixfold increase in traffic -- or passengers carried multiplied
by the distance flown --  overtaking Lufthansa  last year to
become the biggest carrier on international flights. British
Airways, ranked top in 2000, has suffered a 5 percent drop and
stands fourth according to the International Air Transport
Association, which counts Air France and KLM as two airlines.  
 “We always planned to grow, we were just never able to put
our finger on how quickly,”  Maurice Flanagan , the founding CEO
at Emirates in 1985 and currently executive chairman, said in an
interview. “Now we’re short of capacity all the time.”  
 Rivals should follow the Emirates example in buying more
large planes to reduce expenses per head, the executive said.  
 “I can’t understand why other airlines have been so slow
to pick up on the A380,” Flanagan said. “The economics are
fantastic. It has given us a huge advantage because the seat-
mile costs are much lower than on any other aircraft.”  
 Alliance Challenge  
 Emirates, which reported net income of $964 million for the
year through March 31, has reached top spot while remaining
outside the three main airline groupings, opting instead to
build Dubai into a transfer hub to compete with alliance bases
in London, Frankfurt, Amsterdam, Paris, Singapore and Hong Kong.  
 Chris Tarry , an independent analyst who has followed the
airline industry for two decades, said the model is largely the
result of improved jetliner range and Dubai’s location midway
between Europe and Asia.  
 “First, there’s now the technological capability to join
any two places on the globe with just one stop,” Tarry said
from London. “Second, Dubai is very well placed to capture
those inter-continental traffic flows from North America to Asia
and Europe to Asia and Australia and so on.”  
 The Emirates route network offers several waves of flights
from the carrier’s end destinations all converging on Dubai at
similar times to maximize opportunities to change planes in the
sheikdom, the analyst said.  
 Emirates has 14 daily services from six U.K. airports,
including five from London Heathrow, Europe’s busiest hub, and
three from London Gatwick. From September one of two daily
flights from  Manchester  in northern England will be operated by
an A380, the plane’s first service to a secondary city.  
 California Flights  
 Weight reductions and improved fuel loads should allow the
superjumbo to reach the west coast of the U.S. from Dubai by
2014, Flanagan said. Airbus Chief Operating Officer  John Leahy 
predicts more long-haul airlines will buy the plane to defend
market share from Europe to Asia and across the Pacific.  
 “Airlines are discovering that it takes an A380 to compete
with an A380,” Leahy said in an interview.  
 While Flanagan estimates that 40 percent of traffic from
the U.K. connects to other cities via Dubai, British Airways CEO
Walsh says that the Gulf carrier is a bigger threat to Lufthansa
and Air France-KLM because of the greater proportion of transfer
passengers who travel through Frankfurt, Paris and Amsterdam.  
 ‘Challenging’  
 “It’s definitely going to have an impact on the
business,” Walsh said on June 17. “It’s challenging a segment
of the market that is important for BA. But there are other
European hubs where the reliance on transfers is bigger.”  
 British Airways  fell  0.9 percent to 212.4 pence in London.
Air France slid 0.1 percent in Paris and Lufthansa  gained  2.3
percent on the Frankfurt exchange.  
 The U.K. carrier’s  Oneworld  alliance partner  Cathay Pacific
Airways Ltd.  will aim to counter the expansion of Emirates with
“enhanced connectivity” from its Hong Kong hub, a spokeswoman
said in an e-mail. The shares closed 1.5 percent lower today.  
 The Emirates model, which will be supplemented by further
aircraft orders next month, according to a statement today, is
eroding network carriers’ long-haul traffic in the same way that
discount airlines have eaten into their short-haul operations.  
 The impact could be even greater, since much of the success
of Dublin-based  Ryanair , which has lifted sales eightfold to 3
billion euros ($3.7 billion) in a decade to become Europe’s
biggest low-cost airline, came from linking cities with no air
service, whereas Emirates is confronting established carriers
more directly on some of their most profitable routes.  
 Refueling  
 Key to the strategy is the use of so-called sixth-freedom
treaties that permit flights between two nations by an airline
from a third via its home country. The model works best on long-
haul routes requiring refueling, on which Emirates doesn’t lose
out to competitors by stopping in Dubai, and for passengers who
care more about ticket prices than the duration of a journey.  
 As the  Emirates fleet  has grown, so has opposition from
European carriers which say the company benefits either directly
from government funding or indirectly through less-costly access
to state-owned airport and air-traffic control services.  
 Aviation ranks as one of Dubai’s fastest-growing industries
after other sectors were hurt by the debt crisis that roiled
global markets in 2009, wiping more than 50 percent off property
values and leading to a 2.5 percent contraction in the economy.  
 Dubai airport’s passenger total rose 9.2 percent to 41
million in 2009, according to industry group ACI. The terminal
ranked fourth on international flights in March, behind London
Heathrow, Paris Charles de Gaulle and Hong Kong, and traffic
jumped 14 percent in May, according to figures published today.  
 No Advantage  
 Flanagan said Emirates has gained no unfair advantage and
that cash received since the company’s foundation is dwarfed by
payments to formerly state-owned British Airways and Air France.  
 Lufthansa says Emirates will be further aided by Chancellor
 Angela Merkel ’s plans to introduce a tax on passengers departing
from German airports in an effort to raise 1 billion euros a
year for the federal government.  
 “The ascendancy of Emirates shows we need to come up with
a new plan,” Lufthansa spokesman  Peter Schneckenleitner  said in
a phone interview. “Unfortunately, our government’s proposal
does nothing to support us. If anything, it suppresses us.”  
 CEO Mayrhuber said separately that “the words ‘ticket tax’
haven’t been translated into the Arabic language yet.”  
 Emissions Factor  
 The introduction of carbon-emissions trading in Europe from
2011 will extend the inequality, Schneckenleitner said, with a
trip from India to New York via Frankfurt incurring charges on
both legs while being tax-free when operating via Dubai.  
 “Other airlines will say Emirates has gone beyond its fair
share of traffic, but the consumer will always go where they
perceive the best value to be,” said Tarry.  
 Still, the chances of European countries blocking route
applications from Gulf carriers are slim because of the impact
that would have on Airbus, said  Richard Aboulafia , vice
president at Fairfax, Virginia-based consultant Teal Group.  
 The planemaker, which has plants in France, Germany, Spain
and the U.K., has 280 orders for its A380 and A350 models from
Emirates, Qatar Airways Ltd. and Etihad Airways of Abu Dhabi,  
 “The Middle East is grabbing market share from legacy
airlines and European governments seem willing to make that
sacrifice,” Aboulafia said.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Steve Rothwell  in London at 
 srothwell@bloomberg.net ;
 Andrea Rothman  in Paris at 
 aerothman@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Emirates Airline President Tim Clark speaks at a news conference at JFK International Airport in New York. Photographer: Jeremy Bales/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
