-- China Government Bans Online Virtual-Currency Dealing Platforms for Minors
-- Mark Lee
-- 2010-06-22T13:45:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-22/tencent-shares-fall-after-china-announces-virtual-currency-ban-for-minors.html

          
          
             China, the world’s biggest Internet
market, said it will prohibit companies that operate platforms
for online virtual-currency transactions from providing services
to minors in an effort to prevent abuses.  
 The ban will be implemented Aug. 1, according to a Ministry
of Culture  statement  on its website today. Online game operators
that issue virtual currencies for use in their titles won’t be
affected by the ban.  
 The Chinese government has tightened control of the
Internet as the number of web users rose 29 percent last year to
more than 384 million, the most of any nation. China, which
prohibits pornography, gambling and content critical of the
government, has blocked access to foreign websites such as that
of Facebook Inc. and closed local sites.  Google Inc.  cited
increased censorship as one reason for closing its China search
site in March.  
 The ban will affect platform providers including 5173.com
and uu898.com, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co. analyst  Dick Wei . The restriction won’t have “a meaningful impact” on game
operators, he wrote in a report sent to clients today.  
 Virtual currencies from online games in China are traded on
the Internet among players and used to buy swords, armor and
other items for use in titles. Individuals earn virtual
currencies as they play games and can also buy the virtual
currencies with yuan.  
 Currency Regulation  
 The official Xinhua News Agency reported in November 2006
that the Chinese central bank may begin supervision of virtual
currencies as they could affect the value of the yuan.  The
People’s Bank of China  would put Q-coins issued by  Tencent
Holdings Ltd.  under its oversight if they entered wider
circulation, Xinhua reported at the time.  
 Virtual currency may only be used to buy online game items,
the Ministry of Culture said in today’s statement. Game
operators must provide the ministry with information about their
virtual currencies, according to the statement.  
 Tencent , China’s biggest Internet company by market value,
fell as much as 5.3 percent  today  in Hong Kong trading before
closing down 4.7 percent at HK$126.00. The Shenzhen-based
company is the country’s leading provider of online-game virtual
currency, said  Jake Li , an analyst at Guotai Junan Securities.  
 The ban on minors won’t affect Tencent, the company said in
an e-mailed statement today.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mark Lee  in Hong Kong at 
 wlee37@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        