-- Yuan's Gain to Boost Asian Currencies, Industries, Markets, Citigroup Says
-- Akiko Ikeda
-- 2010-06-22T07:58:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-22/end-of-yuan-dollar-peg-will-boost-asian-currencies-stocks-citigroup-says.html

          
          
             China’s decision to end the yuan’s
peg to the dollar will boost Asian currencies and benefit the
region’s natural resource producers, tourism companies and
property developers, said  Citigroup Inc .  
 “China’s renminbi policy shift could spark a rally in
Asian currencies and markets as investors positioned in
anticipation of the currency gains,”  Chua Hak Bin , head of
research at Citigroup in Singapore, wrote in the report dated
yesterday.  
 The policy change will likely boost China’s domestic
consumption, commodity demand, overseas investment and spending
on tourism, according to the report.  
 When China let the yuan float between 2005 and 2008, the
currency jumped 19 percent against the U.S. dollar, according to
Chua. The currencies of member economies of the Association of
Southeast Asian Nations tracked that gain, and Asian equity
markets fared even better, with the Jakarta Stock Price Index
climbing 92 percent and China indices soaring by more than 300
percent, he said.  
 As commodity prices were strongly correlated with the
yuan’s appreciation between 2005 and 2008, natural resource
producers including Indo Tambangraya Megah PT, Kuala Lumpur
Kepong Bhd and  Golden Agri-Resources Ltd.  should benefit from
stronger commodity demand, Chua said in the report.  
 Developers, Banks  
 Managers and developers of properties such as  CapitaLand
Ltd.  and CapitaMalls Asia Ltd. should benefit from revaluation
of Chinese assets, the report said. Increasing overseas
investment by China should raise bank loan demand in affected
regions, benefiting banks, including PT Bank Mandiri and  Bangkok
Bank Pcl , according to the report.  
 With a stronger yuan and increasing wealth, Chinese
tourists will likely increase and that should contribute to
profits of carriers including Malaysian Airlines and other
tourism-related companies, Chua said in the report.  
 The People’s Bank of China announced on June 19 it will
allow increased flexibility in its currency exchange rate,
marking an end to the policy of pegging to the dollar.  
 Economists at Citigroup expect the yuan will strengthen 2
percent against the U.S. dollar through the end of 2010 and
nearly 3 percent within a year, compared with a 19 percent
appreciation between 2005 and 2008.  
 To contact the reporter on the story:
 Akiko Ikeda  in Tokyo at 
 iakiko@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        