-- ENI to Raise $1.2 Billion From Sale of 10-Year Bonds Denominated in Euros
-- Sonja Cheung
-- 2010-06-22T12:39:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-22/eni-is-said-to-hire-five-banks-to-sell-1-year-bonds-denominated-in-euros.html

          
          
             Eni SpA  is marketing 1 billion euros
($1.2 billion) of bonds, the first issue by Italy’s biggest
energy company in almost 10 months.  
 The 10-year securities will be priced to yield 108 basis
points more than the benchmark swap rate, according to a banker
involved in the sale. Eni last tapped bond markets in September,
raising 1.5 billion euros from 10-year notes yielding 75 basis
points over swaps, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. A
basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  
 “The new deal looks like it’s priced fairly, with a
premium over the 2019 bond, and it’s likely to attract good
investor interest,” said  Charles Stephens , a debt capital
markets specialist at Matrix Corporate Capital LLP in London.
“There has been very little supply from energy names.”  
 Bond sales are picking up in Europe with borrowers raising
4.9 billion euros yesterday, almost triple the daily average for
the year, Bloomberg data show. Volkswagen AG, Europe’s largest
automaker, sold 1 billion euros of three-year bonds, while
France’s PSA Peugeot Citroen raised 500 million euros from five-
year notes.  
 The extra yield investors demand to buy investment-grade
company securities narrowed 4 basis points this week to 200
basis points over government debt, Bank of America Merrill
Lynch’s EMU Corporate index shows. The spread had widened to 209
in May, the biggest gap since August 2009.  
 Energy bonds in Europe have lost 0.25 percent this month,
compared with a loss of 0.14 percent for investment-grade
corporate debt, Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data show.  
 Better Balance  
 Eni’s bonds will be sold under its euro medium-term notes
program and will provide a “better balance between Eni’s short-
and long-term debt,” the Rome-based oil and gas company said in
a statement, without providing details of the deal.  
 Eni  is rated Aa2 by Moody’s Investors service, the third-
highest investment grade, and two levels lower at A+ by Standard
& Poor’s.  
 Banca IMI SpA, Barclays Capital, BNP Paribas SA, ING Groep
NV and UniCredit SpA are managing the Eni’s issue.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Sonja Cheung  in London 
 scheung58@bloomberg.net ;  
          
          


  


        