-- Merkel Tells Obama Spending Cuts to Boost Economy, Not Put Brake on Growth
-- Tony Czuczka
-- 2010-06-22T15:15:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-22/merkel-tells-obama-spending-cuts-to-boost-economy-not-put-brake-on-growth.html

          
          
             Chancellor  Angela Merkel  championed
German export strength as “the right thing” for her country,
spurning President  Barack Obama ’s call to boost private spending
as both leaders prepare for Group of 20 talks.  
 Merkel, addressing a business audience in Berlin today,
said she told Obama in a phone call that cutting government  debt 
is “absolutely important for us,” exposing a second point of
contention ahead of the June 26-27 G-20 summit in Canada.  
 Reducing the  budget deficit  by 10 billion euros ($12
billion) per year “won’t put a brake on the world’s economic
growth,” Merkel said, relating what she told Obama yesterday.
Germans are more likely to spend money if they feel the
government “is taking precautions” to ensure solid finances,
she said.  
 Four days before world leaders meet in Toronto, Germany is
heading for conflict with the rest of the G-20 over tighter
financial regulation, a banking levy and U.S. calls to boost
growth rather than cut debt.  
 The G-20 must “safeguard and strengthen” the economic
recovery and promote “global demand growth that avoids the
imbalances of the past,” Obama said in a June 16 letter to
fellow G-20 leaders. He expressed concern about “heavy reliance
on exports by some countries,” which he didn’t name. Treasury
Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  called on June 5 for “stronger
domestic demand growth” in European countries like Germany that
have trade surpluses.  
 ‘Export Strength’  
 The German government is ready to consider measures to
strengthen the service industry and help  the jobless  back into
work to bolster consumption, Merkel said.  
 “But what we certainly can’t do is influence our export
strength,” she said. “It’s a fact. It’s the right thing.”  
 Asian countries are driving economic growth and “ an export
nation  like Germany benefits from that very nicely,” she said.
“But that doesn’t mean we can let up on the issue of
competitiveness.”  
 Merkel said on June 11 that she expects to have a “hard
time” from fellow leaders at the G-20 meeting, where Germany
and France are leading Europe’s push for a global commitment to
impose bank levies and a tax on financial transactions.  
 The G-20 faces a test of unity on the banking levy, a
German government official said earlier today, warning that
leaders can either pull together or split into two camps over
the tax. The official spoke to reporters on condition of
anonymity.  
 ‘I Will Fight’  
 Merkel pointed out that countries such as Canada are
resisting a bank levy and said it’s uncertain whether the G-20
will agree on a financial-transaction tax. “I will fight, but I
also have to say that I can’t say anything about the outcome
today,” she said.  
 Obama’s letter urged the G-20 to reaffirm its “unity of
purpose to provide the policy support necessary to keep economic
growth strong,” saying order to public finances should be
restored in the “medium term.”  
 Obama’s appeal “isn’t anything that goes against what we
are doing,” Merkel told reporters yesterday. “If we don’t get
onto a path of sustainable economic growth but have rather a
growth bubble, then if the next crisis comes we won’t be able to
pay for it.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tony Czuczka  in Berlin at 
 aczuczka@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        