-- EU Data-Protection Laws Need Revamping for Internet Privacy, Reding Says
-- Stephanie Bodoni
-- 2010-06-22T13:25:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-22/eu-data-protection-laws-need-revamping-for-internet-privacy-reding-says.html

          
          
             European Union data-protection
rules, which have triggered probes of online companies including
 Google Inc.  and Facebook Inc., need revamping to meet the needs
of Internet users and give them more control over personal data.  
 While the 27-nation EU’s privacy rules have so far “stood
the test of time,” social networking sites, Internet-connected
mobile phones and targeted advertising on the Internet create
the need for a “shift of focus,” EU Justice Commissioner
 Viviane Reding  said.  
 “We need to find ways to empower web surfers,” Reding
said in a  speech  in Brussels today. “Internet users must have
effective control of what they put online and be able to
correct, withdraw or delete it at will.”  
 Google and Facebook are among several Internet companies
that have come under the EU’s scrutiny in the past few months
for possible privacy-rule breaches for the way they use personal
data. A group of data-protection officials from 30 European
countries in a letter last month criticized Facebook, the
largest social-networking site, for putting users’ personal
information and privacy at risk with recent policy changes.  
 The same group has been pushing search-engine operators
including  Google ,  Microsoft Corp.  and  Yahoo! Inc.  to limit the
amount of time they store search records to no more than six
months. Because the companies rely on users’ queries to target
advertising, shortening the time that search engines keep such
records may cut into advertising revenue.  
 “European regulators need to ensure that Internet users
can trust online operators with their personal information,”
said Reding. “Operators of all online tools and services must
be very clear that they are obliged to respect the fundamental
right of protection of personal data.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Stephanie Bodoni  in Luxembourg at 
 sbodoni@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        