-- EU to Weigh Bond Levy on High-Debt States, Draft Says
-- James G. Neuger
-- 2010-06-23T07:57:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-22/eu-to-weigh-levy-on-bond-sales-by-high-debt-states-draft-document-shows.html

          
          
             European governments will consider
imposing a charge on bond sales by countries that violate debt
rules in the wake of the Greece-driven fiscal crisis, a draft
document showed.  
 Countries that flout debt-reduction pledges could face “a
levy in the form of a predefined percentage (number of basis
points) on any issuance of government debt,” according to a
 European Commission  proposal obtained by Bloomberg News.  
 The extra interest would be paid into a blocked account and
confiscated if the debt doesn’t come back into line. The
proposal, to be discussed by economic officials from the 27
European Union nations today and by finance ministers on July
12, adds sanctions on debt to the bloc’s deficit penalties,
which no country has suffered in the euro’s 11½-year history.  
 Finance ministers are under pressure to tighten the
coordination of budgets to prevent a repeat of the debt shock
that prompted European governments to pledge as much as 860
billion euros ($1.1 trillion) to defend the euro.  
 While the ministers agreed in principle on June 7 to
introduce a wider range of sanctions on fiscal misbehavior, it
may take months to map out the details. The debt penalties could
be passed as EU law, without an amendment to EU treaties.  
 Feasibility Questioned  
 Carsten Brzeski, an economist at ING Group in Brussels,
doubted whether a debt levy would be an effective sanction,
saying it might encourage speculation against countries
subjected to it.  
 “Putting more emphasis on debt is a good thing and is
necessary, but this levy rather seems to be a train of thought
from some officials without checking on its feasibility,”
Brzeski said.  
 Other punishments floated by the commission in the draft
include forcing debt-laden governments to issue additional
information in bond prospectuses or cutting their access to
lending by the  European Investment Bank , the EU’s
infrastructure-financing arm.  
 European Central Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet  said
two days ago that governments in breach of EU fiscal rules could
face tougher punishment including the withdrawal of  voting
rights .  
 “A wider spectrum of financial sanctions needs to be
considered, along with non-financial and procedural sanctions,
such as more stringent reporting requirements or even a
limitation or suspension of voting rights,” Trichet told
lawmakers in Brussels on June 21.  
 ‘Degree of Judgment’  
 In the draft paper on debt-related sanctions, the Brussels-
based commission, the EU’s economic watchdog, said the euro
region’s limit on debt of 60 percent of gross domestic product
requires a “considerable degree of judgment” to be policed.  
 Ten of the 16 euro countries were over the limit in 2009,
topped by Italy at 115.8 percent of GDP. The excessive-debt
group included  Germany  at 66 percent of GDP, the country with
the lowest 10-year bond yields in  Europe , now at 2.68 percent.  
 The group under the debt limit included Spain at 53.2
percent, which fell prey to speculation last month that it might
need to tap the EU’s bailout fund.  Spain ’s bonds now yield 180
basis points more than Germany’s, more than double a year ago.  
 Echoing language of the 1991 Maastricht Treaty that laid
out the path to the euro, the commission’s paper said sanctions
could kick in for countries that fail to cut debt at a
“satisfactory pace.” Defining “satisfactory” is difficult,
the commission said in the draft. It also proposed starting
disciplinary action against countries under the 60 percent limit
if they are on “an inadequate debt trajectory.”  
 Debt Burden  
 In a nod to  Italy ’s protest against an exclusive focus on
government debt, the paper proposed including factors such as
private borrowing as well as accumulated reserves and the costs
of aging when analyzing each country’s debt burden.  
 The commission draft also spelled out a proposed timeline
for coordinating the annual budget-setting process across
Europe, starting with an economic assessment by the commission
to be published each January. EU leaders would issue budget
guidelines in March, to be followed by each country announcing
its economic forecasts and rough fiscal outline by mid-April.  
 A separate commission paper also sketched a competitiveness
scoreboard featuring eight economic indicators that could be
used as an early warning of imbalances such as the high external
debt that eventually led  Greece  to seek EU and  International
Monetary Fund  aid.  
 Economic Indicators  
 The indicators are current-account balance, net foreign
assets, real exchange rates as deflated by gross domestic
product and unit labor costs, construction output, real  house
prices , private-sector credit and the government debt ratio.  
 While the scoreboard would catch signs of strength such as
Germany’s 4.9 percent current-account surplus in 2009, the
“urgency of action” lies in deficit countries due to pressure
from the financial markets, the commission said.  
 EU leaders plan to map out the revamped euro management
system by October.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Meera Louis in Brussels at 
 mlouis1@bloomberg.net ;
James G. Neuger in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     European Central Bank President Jean-Claude Trichet gestures during a press conference in Frankfurt. Photographer: Hannelore Foerster/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
