-- `Attractive' Europe Insurers Cheaper Than Banks Amid Sovereign Debt Crisis
-- Oliver Suess
-- 2010-06-23T15:44:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-22/european-insurers-are-attractive-versus-banks-amid-sovereign-debt-crisis.html

          
          
             European insurers dropped to the
 cheapest valuations  versus banks since at least 2002, even as
they may have less to lose amid the sovereign-debt crisis.  
 The  Stoxx Europe 600 Insurance Index  is priced at 10.7
times its companies’ reported earnings, 35 percent below the
ratio for banks, weekly data compiled by Bloomberg show. The
insurance gauge’s  five biggest  firms by market value hold about
21 billion euros ($26 billion) in government bonds from Greece,
Spain and Portugal, compared with 34 billion euros for the  five
largest banks , according to separate data.  
 Bank of America Corp. and Morgan Stanley strategists are
telling clients insurers are too cheap to pass up after dropping
on concern widening budget deficits may trigger debt defaults
and hurt the economic recovery, and ahead of new regulation that
will probably force financial firms to hold more capital.  
 “There are more opportunities today in terms of valuations
to buy insurers,” said  Sofia Nevrokoplis , senior fund manager
at BNP Paribas Asset Management in Paris, which had 542 billion
euros as of March 31. “Overall, we are overweight on insurers
with a preference for non-life and reinsurance stocks. The
sovereign crisis has changed the way I look at some banks, but
hasn’t changed the big picture on the insurance sector.”  
 Allianz SE  and Axa SA, Europe’s largest insurers, are
trading at 6.5 and 9.2 times their respective profits.  Munich 
 Re , the world’s biggest reinsurance company, has a ratio of 7.8,
near the lowest since 2008. That compares with 28.1 for London-
based HSBC Holdings Plc, Europe’s largest bank by market value.  
 Market Volatility  
 “The bark from sovereign debt weakness is worse than its
bite, in our view,” Bank of America Merrill Lynch analysts,
including  Blair Stewart  and  Brian Shea , wrote in a note on
insurers this month. “Direct exposure to the most worrisome
countries is extremely small.”  
 They said valuations offer an “attractive entry point”
and that “the regulatory threat for insurers seems far lower
than for the banking sector.” Morgan Stanley lifted its stance
on the group to “overweight” from “neutral” in a May 24
European strategy report, also citing “attractive” price-to-
earnings ratios.  
 The Stoxx 600 Insurance declined 1.4 percent, while the
 banks index  retreated 1 percent today.  
 May Turmoil  
 Concern the debt crisis may worsen wiped more than $4
trillion from the value of global equities in May. The VStoxx
Index, which measures the cost of using options against declines
in the Euro Stoxx 50 Index, a benchmark measure for the euro
region, has climbed 19 percent in 2010, after surging to its
highest level in 15 months on May 20. The Euro Stoxx 50 has
declined 8.7 percent this year.  
 “With capital market volatility remaining at a high level,
people are only focusing on insurers’ investments to make sure
they don’t miss the next bomb that might explode,” said  Moritz Rehmann , who helps manage the equivalent of about 10 billion
euros at DJE Kapital AG in Munich.  
 Regulators are seeking to restore stability to the
financial system after the industry’s worst crisis since the
Great Depression, triggered by the bursting of the U.S. housing
bubble and exacerbated by the collapse of Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc. Writedowns and losses at financial firms worldwide
amounted to more than $1.4 trillion.  
 Solvency II  
 The European Commission is developing a framework of rules
in the 27-member bloc -- dubbed  Solvency II  -- that’s designed
to align insurers’ risks with the capital they hold to protect
policyholders. Banks will also be required to hold more and
better capital and liquidity reserves under planned rules.  
 The U.K. government yesterday announced a bank levy as part
of that country’s biggest peacetime deficit reduction. France
and Germany are also finalizing details of their own bank taxes,
according to a joint statement issued by the German government.  
 “We expect the regulatory impact to be milder on insurers
than on banks,” said BNP’s Nevrokoplis. “European governments
have no interest in putting insurers in a position where they
have to raise more capital.”  
 Carlos Montalvo , secretary general of the Committee of
European Insurance and Occupational Pension Supervisors, which
is advising the EU Commission on the new rules, said in April
that insurers may not need to raise capital as a result of the
new regime.  
 Dividend Yields  
 Insurance companies are also trying to lure investors by
increasing their dividend payouts. Allianz, Germany’s biggest
insurer, raised its  dividend  for 2009 by 17 percent.
Assicurazioni Generali SpA, Italy’s largest, more than doubled
its cash  payout , while Switzerland’s Zurich Financial Services
AG announced the biggest dividend in 10 years. The Stoxx 600
insurance gauge’s dividend yield of 3.9 percent compares with
2.7 percent for banks.  
 “A company raising its dividend is a sign of huge
confidence,” said  Paul Vrouwes , who helps oversee about 362
billion euros of assets at ING Investment Management in The
Hague, Netherlands. “I expect this element to play an important
role in stock picking in the near future. At the moment I have a
neutral stance on insurers, but I will likely shift my portfolio
towards insurance companies and particularly non-life insurers
in the longer term.”  
 Life insurers have been hurt by low interest rates, which
weigh on returns they can offer clients for retirement products.
In contrast, prices in some of the biggest property and casualty
insurance segments, including motor insurance, are expected to
rise in European countries such as Germany following a year-long
price war and higher claims seen in the first quarter.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Julie Cruz  in Frankfurt at 
 jcruz6@bloomberg.net ;
 Oliver Suess  in Munich at 
 osuess@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        