-- Salzgitter's Europipe Nears Landmark Deal to Share Cost Risks With Clients
-- Nicholas Comfort
-- 2010-06-23T16:48:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-22/europipe-nears-landmark-deal-to-share-iron-ore-coal-swings-with-clients.html

          
          
             Europipe GmbH , a supplier of steel
pipes to the 7.4 billion-euro ($9 billion) Nord Stream natural-
gas line linking Europe to Russia, is near a landmark accord to
share the risk of swings in raw-material costs with customers.  
 “We can’t take all the risk,” Chief Executive Officer
Michael Graef said at Europipe’s base in Muelheim an der Ruhr,
Germany. “We’re close to concluding an agreement with a large
pipeline operator on a price-adjustment clause.”  
 Costs may be increasingly volatile after  Vale SA ,  Rio Tinto
Group  and BHP Billiton Ltd., the biggest iron ore exporters,
ended a 40-year custom of agreeing on annual deals with steel
producers. ArcelorMittal, the world’s largest steelmaker, is
among producers passing on higher iron ore and coal costs to
clients, according to CEO  Lakshmi Mittal .  
 “We’re in talks with several gas companies,” Graef said.
Their “readiness” to consider sharing the risks “has changed
dramatically over the last six months,” he said.  
 Salzgitter AG, the German steelmaker that  owns  50 percent
of Europipe, told its shareholders on June 8 that it won’t make
any money on the second of two tenders for the Nord Stream link
under the Baltic Sea because of higher input costs.  
 Shares Gain  
 Salzgitter  fell 0.4 percent to 52.20 euros in Frankfurt,
valuing the company at about 3.1 billion euros. The  Stoxx Europe
600 Basic Resources Index  dropped 1 percent.  
 Iron ore prices rose about 90 percent for the quarter from
April 1, and coking coal, another steelmaking ingredient, jumped
55 percent in March, according to the  German Steel Federation .  
 OAO Gazprom , the biggest gas producer and lead investor in
Nord Stream, is building pipelines bypassing countries such as
Ukraine, where price disputes have disrupted flows of the fuel
to Europe. Declining output within Europe means the region will
raise imports from 2015, with about 70 percent of its needs
coming from such supplies by 2030, industry group  Eurogas  said.  
 Under Europipe’s proposals, the company would set a cap, to
which the price for clients could rise should raw-material costs
increase. The customer would get money back if costs fell, Graef
said, without giving specific figures or identifying companies.  
 “We’ve never booked an order with a price-adjustment
clause but it will happen,” Graef said. “We’re talking with
several companies. It will happen for the next large projects.”  
 Steel Hedging  
 The system would allow pipeline companies to calculate
potential budgets before starting work on projects, he said. The
alternative, with steelmakers hedging against commodity price
swings, may fail to fully protect the business, Graef said.  
 Voestalpine AG , Austria’s largest steelmaker, said today
that its heavy-plate unit is demanding raw-material price
indexation for projects with “longer” time spans.  
 While that’s new for the energy industry and has met
resistance, there is increasing comprehension among clients that
quarterly prices for iron ore will affect the supply of
products, Voestalpine spokesman Claus Geiger wrote in an e-
mailed response to questions. He declined to comment further.  
 The steelmaker said in December 2007 that its Voestalpine
Grobblech GmbH unit won an order to deliver as much as 200,000
tons of heavy plate to Russian pipemaker United Metallurgical
Co. for the Nord Stream project.  
 ThyssenKrupp AG , Germany’s largest steelmaker, said in
April that it’s considering using derivatives to fix future
iron-ore costs after the collapse of annual pricing.  
 “I can’t imagine that it would all go via hedging,” Graef
said. “The steelmakers won’t be able to do it all. For this
transition period, we’ll work with price-adjustment clauses.”  
 German steel company  AG der Dillinger Huettenwerke  owns the
other half of Europipe, which buys steel plates from its parents
and makes as many as 400 12-meter (39-foot) pipes a day for Nord
Stream at its Muelheim plant.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nicholas Comfort  in Frankfurt at 
 ncomfort1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        