-- European Consumer Confidence Holds Near Nine-Month Low on Cloudy Outlook
-- Simone Meier
-- 2010-06-22T14:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-22/european-consumer-confidence-holds-near-nine-month-low-on-cloudy-outlook.html

          
          
             European  consumer confidence 
remained near the lowest in nine months in June as rising
unemployment and a fiscal crisis clouded the growth outlook.  
 An index of consumer sentiment in the 16-nation euro region
rose to minus 17.3 from minus 17.8 in May, the Brussels-based
 European Commission  said today in an initial estimate. The May
reading was the lowest since September 2009. The commission is
scheduled to publish its monthly report on  economic confidence ,
which includes the consumer-confidence gauge, on June 29.  
 European consumers may keep spending plans on hold after
 unemployment  rose to the highest in 12 years in April and
 inflation  accelerated to the fastest pace in more than a year in
May. While the economy is showing signs of  strengthening ,
governments have been forced to step up spending cuts to restore
investor confidence and counter a European debt crisis.  
 “We don’t have many positive impulses for consumption at
the moment,” said  Christoph Weil , a senior economist at
Commerzbank AG in Frankfurt. “Households will only start to
pick up spending once the labor market recovers.”  
 Hermes International SCA  Chief Executive Officer  Patrick Thomas  said on June 7 that “many questions remain” about the
outlook for 2010. The Paris-based maker of Birkin bags expects
revenue to rise at least 5 percent this year, he said.  
 The European Central Bank on June 10 forecast the euro-
region economy to expand about 1 percent this year and around
1.2 percent in 2011. It previously forecast the economy to grow
around 0.8 percent this year and 1.5 percent next year.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Simone Meier  in Zurich at 
 smeier@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        