-- Ex-AKO Trader Must Pay $421,000 After Guilty Plea
-- Lindsay Fortado
-- 2010-06-22T16:07:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-22/ex-ako-capital-trader-ahmad-ordered-to-pay-421-000-in-u-k-insider-case.html

          
          
             A former trader at AKO Capital LLP,
a  London  hedge fund, must pay about 287,000 pounds ($421,000) in
fines and restitution after being the first person to plead
guilty to U.K. insider-trading charges.  
 Anjam Ahmad, 39, was sentenced at a London court today for
conspiracy to commit insider dealing related to as many as 22
different companies in 2009, in a case brought by the U.K.
 Financial Services Authority . Judge Geoffrey Rivlin suspended
his sentence and Ahmad will serve no jail time.  
 “You cooperated immediately with the authorities and were
very frank about the part you played in all this,” Rivlin said
at the sentencing hearing.  
 The FSA’s enforcement unit, which never prosecuted a case
of insider trading before January 2008, may become part of an
economic crime agency in two years, the coalition government has
said. The FSA has won three of the four  insider-trading 
prosecutions it has brought to trial after complaints it did
little to stop the crime.  
 Ahmad admitted to passing information on AKO’s block trades
to a co-conspirator who placed spread bets before the hedge
fund’s trades, FSA prosecutor Sarah Clarke said.  
 Ahmad approached the FSA in February, seven days after his
arrest, to cooperate, the prosecutor said.  
 ‘Hard to Prove’  
 “This type of offense is enormously hard to prove,”
Ahmad’s lawyer, Vivienne Tanchel, said at the hearing. Ahmad
informed the FSA of “the timing, the nature and the type of
agreement in place.”  
 AKO Capital, where Ahmad worked until September, hasn’t
been accused of wrongdoing. Ahmad was an  investment adviser  at
Citigroup Inc.’s London unit until 2007, according to the FSA
register.  
 Ahmad was one of three men arrested in January after
searches at four London addresses. One of those men has been
cleared of wrongdoing based on Ahmad’s cooperation, Clarke said.  
 “This is the first time that we have used our powers” to
enter “into an agreement with a co-operating defendant,” said
 Margaret Cole , director of enforcement and financial crime at
the FSA. “Ahmad’s decision to co-operate with the FSA has
resulted in a significant reduction to his sentence. This may
encourage others to provide the FSA with information that could
assist in the investigation and prosecution of suspected cases
of insider dealing and market abuse.”  
 Ahmad was ordered to pay back the 106,000 pounds he made
from the scheme and a 50,000 fine. The FSA fined him 131,000
pounds separately for pushing trades to an equity broker and
receiving commission in return while he was at AKO. He must also
serve 300 hours in community service.  
 In the insider-trading case, Ahmad was told he would
receive 40 percent of the profit from his accomplice, who he
communicated with using unregistered mobile phone SIM cards,
Clarke said. Ahmad believed the total profit of the scheme was
265,700 pounds, when the actual profit was 590,000, the FSA
said.  
 To contact the reporter for this story:
Lindsay Fortado in London at 
 lfortado@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        