-- Texas Rangers, Lenders Agree on Restructuring Officer to Monitor Team Sale
-- Thomas Korosec
-- 2010-06-22T23:56:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-22/texas-rangers-lenders-agree-on-restructuring-officer-to-monitor-team-sale.html

          
          
             The Texas Rangers and lenders
opposing a proposed sale of the Major League Baseball team
agreed on the selection of a chief restructuring officer who may
decide whether the $575 million deal will go forward.  
 The bankrupt team and its bank lenders, led by  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. , agreed to name  William Snyder  to oversee the
Rangers’ equity owners and decide whether to support the sale,
according to  Andrew Leblanc , a lawyer for the lenders, and
 Martin Sosland , the Rangers’ bankruptcy lawyer.  
 Judge  D. Michael Lynn  in Fort Worth, Texas, decided today
that the Rangers’ equity owners -- Ranger Equity Holdings LP and
Rangers Equity Holdings GP - must approve the sale.  
 “We agree with the judge’s decision to appoint a fiduciary
to consider whether this sale is in the best interests of the
creditors,” Leblanc said in an interview after today’s court
hearing. “It brings transparency in a process where that has
been lacking.”  
 Texas Rangers Baseball Partners filed for bankruptcy May 24
after the lenders refused to consent to the team’s sale to a
group led by  Chuck Greenberg  and team President  Nolan Ryan , the
eight-time  All-Star pitcher  who holds the all-time  Major League
record  of 5,714 strikeouts. The lenders say the team rejected a
higher offer for the team from Houston businessman Jim Crane.  
 Sosland said in an interview after today’s hearing that
both sides agreed to Snyder’s appointment during mediation.
Snyder, a managing partner at CRG Partners Group LLC, worked as
the chief restructuring officer for Pilgrim’s Pride Corp. during
its bankruptcy case.  
 Snyder must consider whether the sale is in the best
interests of creditors, including the lenders, said Adam McGill,
a spokesman for the lenders group.  
 Equity Owners  
 Snyder will be able to make decisions for the two equity
owners and decide whether to support the sale, Sosland said. The
equity owners are indirect subsidiaries of  Tom Hicks ’s HSG
Sports Group LLC.  
 Kimberly Kriger , a Rangers spokeswoman, said in an e-mail
that the team “supports an independent review of the Greenberg-
Ryan transaction.”  
 “During the review, Nolan Ryan and the Rangers management
team will continue to direct and administer the club under Mr.
Hicks’ ownership,” Kriger said.  
 The Rangers and the lenders have clashed over whether the
lenders should be able to vote on the team’s bankruptcy plan and
the proposed sale. The Rangers argued that the lenders weren’t
entitled to vote because their rights aren’t impaired in the
plan and the sale will pay in full a $75 million guaranty. The
lenders, which provided $525 million in loans to HSG Sports
Group, disagreed and demanded a vote. The team guaranteed $75
million of that debt.  
 Vote Change  
 In his decision today, Lynn sided with the lenders, saying
that if the team’s plan isn’t modified, it can’t win court
approval without acceptance by the lenders. The judge also said
that, while the equity owners consented to the sale before the
team’s bankruptcy filing, they must have a chance to reconsider
their support.  
 Sosland said the plan could be easily fixed so that the
lenders won’t have the right to vote on the plan. He called that
part of the judge’s ruling “a minor issue.”  
 The case is In re Texas Rangers Baseball Partners,
10-43400, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Northern District of Texas
(Fort Worth).  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 David McLaughlin  in New York at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        