-- Mexico Vows `Revenge' on Unbeaten Argentina for 2006 World Cup Elimination
-- Franz Wild
-- 2010-06-22T23:04:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-22/mexico-vows-revenge-on-unbeaten-argentina-for-2006-world-cup-elimination.html

          
          
             Mexico has a chance to gain revenge
on Argentina, after yesterday’s 1-0 defeat to Uruguay put the
team up against the two-time champion in the last 16 of the
World Cup.  
 Argentina beat Mexico 2-1 with an extra-time goal at
exactly the same stage in the 2006 tournament. The team and its
followers say they haven’t forgotten that night in Leipzig,
Germany. Argentina finished atop Group B last night with its
third victory in the group stage, a 2-0 win over Greece.  
 “This is a nice possibility to get even with what happened
four years ago,” coach  Javier Aguirre  told reporters after last
night’s match at the Royal Bafokeng Stadium in Phokeng, South
Africa.  
 Uruguay won Group A with seven points after holding off
Mexico after Luis Suarez’s first-half header. Mexico qualified
ahead of South Africa thanks to a better goal difference, though
the hosts were 2-1 winners over 1998 champions France, which
went home without a victory.  
 With South Africa leading France 2-0 at halftime and their
team trailing Uruguay, Mexican fans fretted during the break,
discussing the potential tiebreakers needed to qualify for the
next stage.  
 After France’s goal, thousands of green-shirted Mexicans
cheered wildly. South Africa was unable to get the five goal
swing it needed.  
 Revenge  
 “We knew the next phase would be Argentina but in Mexico
we’ve been thinking of revenge,” said Alejandro Loredo, a 39-
year-old supporter with his nation’s flag painted on his cheeks
and a Mexico bandana strapped across his forehead.  
 Argentina and Mexico were tied 1-1 when  Maxi Rodriguez 
scored the goal of the 2006 World Cup in the eighth-minute of
extra time to seal the win. The midfielder controlled a long
pass by  Juan Pablo Sorin  on his chest before thumping a left-
footed volley beyond goalkeeper  Oswaldo Sanchez  from outside the
penalty area.  
 Argentina, which was captained last night by current world
player of the year  Lionel Messi , won all three of its qualifying
matches, scoring seven goals and conceding just once.  
 Facing a team playing as well as the South Americans isn’t
something to fear, said current Mexican national team goalkeeper
 Oscar Perez .  
 “If we’re going to play Argentina why should we wait, we
might as well play them now,” he said. “Whoever the opponent
is, we need to win.”  
 Uruguay’s Run  
 Uruguay plays South Korea. Its unbeaten run in the
tournament has sparked national celebrations, coach Oscar
Tabarez said, after calling his family from the dressing room
after the match.  
 “In the old town of Montevideo there’s a huge celebration
going on with car convoys in the streets,” Tabarez said.  
 Uruguay, which needed to beat Costa Rica in a playoff to
reach the finals, hasn’t conceded a goal at the tournament and
its 3-0 victory against South Africa’s Bafana Bafana on June 16
was the first time the team scored more than twice in 56 years
of World Cup play.  
 “It was very important for us (to finish top),” striker
 Diego Forlan  said in an interview. “We are not afraid of any
team.”  
 Mexico will meet Argentina at Soccer City in Johannesburg
on June 27. Uruguay plays South Korea in Port Elizabeth a day
earlier.  
 Editor: Christopher Elser  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Tariq Panja  at the Royal Bafokeng Stadium at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net ;  Franz Wild  the Royal Bafokeng Stadium at
   fwild@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Uruguay's striker Diego Forlan drives the ball past Mexico's defender Rafael Marquez on June 22, 2010 at Royal Bafokeng stadium in Rustenburg. Photographer: Pedro Ugarte/AFP/Getty Images  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
