-- Fannie Mae Mortgage Bond Yields Decline to Lowest in a Year
-- Jody Shenn
-- 2010-06-22T21:53:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-22/fannie-mae-yields-that-guide-mortgage-rates-fall-to-lowest-level-in-a-year.html

          
          
             Yields  on Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac
mortgage securities that guide U.S. home-loan rates fell to the
lowest in more than a year and many of their notes reached
record high prices as investors seeking safe debt wager
prepayments will stay manageable.  
 Fannie Mae’s current-coupon 30-year fixed-rate mortgage
bonds, or those trading closest to face value, dropped to about
3.87 percent, narrowing to less than 0.66 percentage point more
than 10-year Treasuries, the least since April 16, before
widening to about 0.7 percentage point as of 5 p.m. in New York,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 Spreads on agency mortgage bonds, whose principal can be
returned to investors faster than they expect if borrowers
refinance or move and slower if financing costs rise, have been
rallying toward the record lows set when the  Federal Reserve  was
still buying the debt, as markets get roiled by Europe’s
sovereign debt crisis and signs of a slowing U.S. economy.  
 “In a world where investors can take on various risks such
as sovereign risk, credit risk, liquidity risk and prepayment
risk, prepayment risk seems the least distasteful at the
moment,” JPMorgan Chase & Co. analysts led by  Matthew Jozoff  in
New York wrote in a June 18 report.  
 Yields on Fannie Mae current-coupon bonds fell about 0.05
percentage point today to the lowest since April 2009, as their
spreads widened about 0.02 percentage point and benchmark
Treasury yields declined as an  industry  report showed sales of
existing U.S. homes unexpectedly dropped in May. Yields on those
agency mortgage securities have tumbled from 4.67 percent on
April 5,  Bloomberg data  show.  
 Refinancing Risk  
 Fannie Mae’s 6 percent securities, backed by loans with
higher rates, climbed to 108.3 cents on the dollar, an all-time
high, and almost 2 percent higher than on March 31, when the
Fed’s purchases ended, according to Bloomberg data. Also
climbing to a record were 5 percent mortgage bonds guaranteed by
the Washington-based company, which reached 105.8 cents.  
 Investors are betting that refinancing will remain low even
as the lower yields drive down potential lending rates, after
government-supported Fannie Mae and  Freddie Mac  boosted
prepayments earlier this year by buying delinquent loans out of
their securities to reduce their expenses.  
 ”As the prices of MBS keep climbing, the market obviously
becomes more leveraged on all the factors keeping prepayments
low -- soft home prices, negative equity, persistent
unemployment and tight underwriting,”  Steve Abrahams , the New
York-based head of mortgage-backed securities research at
Deutsche Bank Inc., wrote in a June 18 report.  
 The  average rate  on a typical 30-year fixed-rate mortgage
fell to 4.75 percent last week, near the record of 4.71 percent.
This year’s high of 5.21 percent occurred in early April.  
 Applications to Refinance  
 Mortgage rates have been falling more slowly than yields on
home-loan securities because of a shift in the lending business
away from loan brokers and “toward channels that strengthen
lenders’ pricing power over borrowers,” Abrahams wrote.  
 Applications for  mortgage refinancing  in the week ended
June 11 climbed to the highest this year, though they remained
53 percent below last year’s high, according to the latest data
from the Washington-based Mortgage Bankers Association.  
 Higher-than-projected prepayments typically return more of
investors’ money when new investments carry lower yields, and
may cause losses if they bought bonds above face value. Lower-
than-expected  refinancing  and home sales cause investors to
receive their money back slower than expected, as higher market
yields make their investments less attractive.  
 The Fed’s $1.25 trillion of purchases of agency mortgage
bonds guaranteed by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac or federal agency
Ginnie Mae helped narrow the spread on the Fannie Mae securities
to a record low of 0.59 percentage point on March 29.  
 Current-coupon bonds in the $5.4 trillion market for agency
mortgage securities are guiding rates on almost all new U.S.
lending following the collapse of the non-agency market almost
three years ago and a retreat by banks.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jody Shenn  in New York at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Fannie Mae headquarters  
                       
                         
                           Joshua Roberts/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Fannie Mae headquarters stands in Washington. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Fannie Mae headquarters stands in Washington. Photographer: Joshua Roberts/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
