-- FCC Discussing Consensus on Google vs. AT&T Web-Access Rules
-- Todd Shields
-- 2010-06-22T04:01:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-22/fcc-seeks-compromise-in-google-at-t-comcast-internet-dispute-aide-says.html

          
          
             The Federal Communications
Commission, seeking consensus on Web-access rules sought by
Google Inc. and opposed by AT&T Inc., has started talks to craft
a legislative proposal, Chief of Staff  Edward Lazarus  said.  
 The discussions may lead to a measure that would establish
the FCC’s power to regulate providers of high-speed Internet
service, or broadband, Lazarus said yesterday in an interview.  
 “It seemed the time was right to see if this could be
pushed to a real consensus position,” Lazarus said. He declined
to identify those involved in the talks, which are private.  
 The agency is seeking to regain power over the Internet
after a U.S. court in April ruled the FCC lacked authority to
regulate companies that provide Web access. Chairman  Julius Genachowski  last week sought comment on how it may impose rules,
a step opposed by Republicans and AT&T and Comcast Corp. It
would need such power to adopt net-neutrality rules, which
forbid companies from interfering with subscribers’ Web traffic,
and use subsidies for more home Internet connections.  
 Google, Skype Technologies SA and the Open Internet
Coalition, with members led by Google,  Amazon.com Inc.  and  EBay
Inc. , told Lazarus on June 18 they support net-neutrality rules,
according to a  disclosure filing .  
 AT&T,  Verizon  and the  National Cable & Telecommunications
Association,  a trade group with members led by Comcast and  Time
Warner Cable Inc. , last month asked FCC officials whether
“targeted legislation” would help clarify the agency’s
authority.  
 “I certainly hope the FCC is not trying to retreat” from
Genachowski’s proposal,  Art Brodsky , spokesman for the
Washington-based advocacy group Public Knowledge, which backs
net-neutrality rules, said in an interview. “We see absolutely
no reason for these closed-door, minimal-participation talks.”  
 Congressional Meetings  
 Phone and cable-television companies are seeking to build
support in Congress for legislation in place of FCC action,  Paul Gallant , a Washington-based analyst with Concept Capital’s
Washington Research Group, said in a note on June 16.  
 Members of Congress are to begin meetings with
representatives from the communications industry on June 25 to
discuss topics including the FCC’s authority, according to a
June 18 announcement from Senator  Jay Rockefeller , a West
Virginia Democrat and chairman of the Commerce Committee.  
 House and Senate Democrats last month said they will
consider proposals to update the communications law that has
regulated telephone, cable and broadcast companies for the past
14 years.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Todd Shields  in Washington at 
 tshields3@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        