-- Fed to Adjust Outlook Language to Reflect `Sluggish' Economy, Clarida Says
-- Deirdre Bolton
-- 2010-06-22T13:46:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-22/fed-to-adjust-outlook-language-to-reflect-sluggish-economy-clarida-says.html

          
          
             Richard Clarida,  global strategic
adviser at  Pacific Investment Management Co. , said the Federal
Reserve will alter language in their policy statement at this
week’s meeting to reflect a “sluggish” economy.  
 “The economy softened since the last meeting and inflation
is very well behaved,” Clarida said in an interview with
 Deirdre Bolton  on Bloomberg Television’s “InsideTrack.” The
Fed will “adjust the language to reflect more sluggish
conditions for the economy.”  
 Fed officials after the last policy meeting on April 28
restated their intention to keep the benchmark interest rate
near zero for an “extended period” and saw signs of life in
the job market. The Federal Open Market Committee will hold the
benchmark interest rate at a record low range of zero to 0.25
percent at its two-day meeting that ends on June 23, according
to all of the 96 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  
 The Fed will not adjust policy until at least the spring of
2011, Clarida said in a radio interview today with  Tom Keene  on
“Bloomberg Surveillance.”  
 European problems “helped the Fed,” said Clarida, who is
also a professor of economics at Columbia University. “Because
of the flight to quality, interest rates have fallen, which has
been supportive of the recovery,” “Broadly, we are in an
environment where there is more uncertainty. Right now safety is
in government bonds.”  
 Ten-year note yields fell to 3.06 percent on May 25, the
lowest level since April 2009, on concern Europe’s sovereign-
debt crisis will slow global economic growth. The Dow Jones
Industrial  Average  fell 7.9 percent last month, its worst May
since 1940.  
 The rally in bonds continued as a government report on June
4 showed employers added fewer jobs in May than economists
forecast, stoking speculation that the economic recovery will be
weaker than anticipated.  
 The yield on the  10-year note  today declined one basis
point, or 0.01 percentage point, to 3.23 percent. Two-year note
yields rose one basis point to 0.72 percent.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Cordell Eddings  in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net ;
 Deirdre Bolton  in New York at 
 dbolton@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        