-- Foreign Investors May Set a Record for Canadian Bond Buys: Canada Credit
-- Chris Fournier
-- 2010-06-22T04:00:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-22/foreign-investors-may-set-a-record-for-canadian-bond-buys-canada-credit.html

          
          
             Foreign investors, lured by Canada’s
surging resource-driven economy and a financial system deemed
the world’s soundest, are on course to buy a record amount of
Canadian  bonds  this year.  
 Foreigners bought a net C$29.1 billion ($28.4 billion) of
Canadian bonds in the first four months of 2010, 64 percent more
than in the same period last year, Statistics Canada reported
June 18. The tally for the four-month period is the highest
since 1988, when Bloomberg started collecting the data.  
 Canada, the last member of the Group of Seven
industrialized nations to enter the global recession, was the
first to recover, thanks partially to its having the G-7’s
lowest debt-to-GDP ratio and the world’s soundest financial
system, according to the World Economic Forum. The nation’s
economy expanded at a 6.1 percent annual pace in the first
quarter of 2010, and the Bank of Canada on June 1 became the
first G-7 central bank to raise interest rates since July 2008.  
 “Foreign investors are beating down the door for Canadian
fixed-income assets,”  Warren Lovely , CIBC World Markets’ head
of government debt research, said by telephone from Toronto.
“Internationally, on a relative scale, Canada looks very good
and investors are voting with their dollars. They’re more than
happy to put their money to work in Canada.”  
 Elsewhere in credit markets,  Bank of Montreal , Canada’s
fourth-biggest bank, sold $1 billion of three-year notes,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The 2.125 percent debt
yields 2.145 percent, or 95 basis points more than similar-
maturity Treasuries, Bloomberg data show.  
 Reserve Currency  
 The appeal of Canadian debt has been boosted by the
nation’s currency. Known as the loonie, it has emerged as a
reserve currency for central bankers seeking alternatives to
debt-laden governments in Europe, the U.S. and Japan. The
currency has gained 10.3 percent this year, the best performance
among its developed-world counterparts, Bloomberg Correlation-
Weighted Indexes show.  
 Russia may add Australian and Canadian dollars to its
international reserves for the first time after fluctuations in
the U.S. currency and euro,  Alexei Ulyukayev , the first deputy
chairman of the nation’s central bank, said in an interview in
Moscow on June 15. The International Monetary Fund may include
the Canadian and Australian dollars in a basket of currencies it
uses in transactions, strategists at UBS AG, the world’s second-
largest foreign-exchange trader, predict.  
 Foreign interest in Canadian fixed-income assets is
“helping Canadian governments fund their programs more easily,
at spreads that wouldn’t otherwise be possible,” Lovely said.  
 ‘Basket Case’  
 The extra yield investors demand to own Canadian provincial
debt rather than federal debt held steady at 64 basis points
yesterday, according to a Bank of America Merrill Lynch index,
down from 104 basis points in October 2008. The spread has
averaged about 39 basis points since January 2001, the data
show. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  
 Spreads on Merrill’s broad Canadian corporate index ended
yesterday at 150 basis points, versus an average of 113 basis
points since the end of 2000.  
 Starting June 25, Canada will host a meeting of Group of 20
nations leaders to work on financial reforms designed to prevent
another global credit crisis, while promoting economic growth
and paring back government deficits.  
 The meeting comes after a sovereign-debt crisis that
originated in Greece spurred euro-region leaders to pledge 750
billion euros ($924 billion) in loans to calm markets and
stabilize the European currency.  
 “Foreigners are very comfortable with the Canadian
story,” CIBC’s Lovely said. “You look at the risk to
investment in other areas. Obviously Europe is a basket case.
The U.S., the U.K. are countries saddled with much heavier debt
loads, with much, much larger deficits, particularly in the
U.K.’s case, with reduced growth prospects relative to Canada.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Frederic Tomesco  in Montreal at 
 tomesco@bloomberg.net ;
 Chris Fournier  in Montreal at 
 cfournier3@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        