-- France Telecom Sells First Europe Company Samurai Bonds Since Greek Crisis
-- Takashi Ueno
-- 2010-06-22T05:31:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-22/france-telecom-sells-first-europe-company-samurai-bonds-since-greek-crisis.html

          
          
             France Telecom SA  raised 52.3
billion yen ($575 million) from the first Samurai bond sale by a
European company this year as investor demand began to recover
from Greece’s debt crisis.  
 The Paris-based company sold 46.1 billion yen of 1.23
percent, five-year bonds priced to yield 52 basis points more
than the yen swap rate, and 6.2 billion yen of similar-maturity
floating-rate notes yielding 67 basis points more than the
London interbank offered rate, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  
 As a state-backed utility France Telecom’s debt is “easy
to buy among overseas names,” said  Mana Nakazora , chief credit
analyst at BNP Paribas Securities Ltd. in Tokyo. The “credit of
France and Germany is much better than that of other European
sovereigns.”  
 Global corporate bond sales climbed to $52.4 billion last
week, the most since the period ended April 16, Bloomberg data
show. Issuance had faltered amid concern that budget crises in
Greece, Portugal, Ireland, Italy and Spain would escalate into a
credit freeze similar to the subprime-mortgage meltdown that
pushed Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. to bankruptcy in 2008.  
 The extra yield  investors demand to own Samurai bonds
instead of similar-maturity Japanese government debt averaged
1.62 percentage points yesterday, according to an index compiled
by Nomura Securities Co. It rose to as much as 1.8 percentage
points on June 9 from a low of 1.19 percentage points on April
16, the index shows.  
 French Borrowers  
 The French government owns 27 percent of France Telecom,
which is the first European company to sell Samurai bonds since
GDF Suez on Dec. 8, according to Bloomberg data. The Paris-based
operator of Europe’s largest natural-gas network raised 65
billion yen from five-year 1.17 percent bonds priced at a 40
basis-point spread, the data show.  
 Japanese corporate bond sales dropped 29 percent to 4.36
trillion yen this year compared with the same period of 2009,
while Samurai sales fell 20 percent to 481 billion yen this year.  
 “Investors are struggling with lack of investable bonds,
so this sale matched their needs,” Nakazora said.  
 Samurai bonds are yen-denominated debt sold by overseas
borrowers in Japan. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Yusuke Miyazawa  in Tokyo at 
 ymiyazawa3@bloomberg.net 
 Takashi Ueno  in Tokyo at 
 tueno@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        