-- French Debt Chief Says Funding Costs Dropped, Crisis Boosted Safety Demand
-- Anchalee Worrachate
-- 2010-06-22T14:48:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-22/france-s-funding-costs-drop-as-deficit-crisis-boosts-demand-for-safer-debt.html

          
          
             France’s funding  costs  declined in
the first half as investors sought the safest securities amid
Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis, according to the head of the
country’s debt agency.  
 The government paid an average of 2.67 percent to borrow
money in the first six months of the year compared with 2.95
percent during 2009,  Philippe Mills , chief executive officer of
Agence France Tresor, said in an interview. The agency has
raised 126 billion euros ($155.9 billion) from bond sales so far
in 2010, or 67 percent of its planned funding this year,
compared with 63 percent during the same period a year before.
The country may also reduce the amount of outstanding Treasury
bills by at least 5 billion euros this year, he said.  
 “We are comfortable with the pace of issuance and the
funding costs that we are able to achieve,” Mills said by phone
yesterday. “Despite some  volatility  in the market, the degree
of liquidity, flexibility and predictability of the French
sovereign-debt market works in our favor.”  
 Concern Europe’s-most indebted nations would struggle to
repay investors has helped send their yields soaring, leaving
the region’s AAA issuers relatively unscathed. While the  yield 
premium investors demand to hold Greek 10-year debt rather than
benchmark German bunds widened 464 basis points this year to 701
basis points, the difference for French bonds nudged 16 basis
points higher to 37 basis points.  
 Bond Yields  
 The yield on the 3.5 percent French bond maturing in April
2020 fell two basis points to 3.08 percent as of 3 p.m. in
London.  
 France sold a 10-year bond on June 3 at a yield of 3.05
percent, the lowest on record, according to the debt agency.
France’s average funding cost between the advent of the euro in
1999 and mid 2007 when the credit crisis started was 4.15
percent, Mills said.  
 France’s central government deficit fell 22 percent to 56.2
billion euros in April from 71.6 billion euros a year earlier,
the Paris-based Finance Ministry said on June 8.  
 President  Nicolas Sarkozy  said on May 20 that he intends to
freeze spending for three years and will consider a
constitutional amendment introducing binding deficit limits. He
is also trying to push through an overhaul of the pension system
that will include increasing France’s retirement age.  
 Improving Finances  
 The improvement in the country’s finances may help with the
reduction in bills outstanding. That amount was 214 billion
euros at the end of December, Mills said.  
 France may also issue 15-year  inflation  bonds linked to
European consumer prices in the second half of the year, he
said. The 15-year breakeven rate, a gauge of inflation
expectations derived from the yield difference between regular
and index-linked bonds, has fallen to 203 basis points from 232
basis points at the start of the year.  
 “It depends on market conditions,” Mills said. “Although
there’s some uncertainty about the inflation outlook in the
region, the need is still there for companies to hedge against
inflation risk. We expect demand for this type for product to
increase this year compared with last year.”  
 France has issued around 13 billion euros of index-linked
bonds this year and that’s about 11 percent of the funding
programme, which is “very close to our target of around 10
percent,” Mills said.  
 Bond Returns  
 French bonds handed investors a 9 percent return in the
past 12 months, the same as for German debt, according to
indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the European Federation of
Financial Analysts Societies. Greek bonds lost investors 17
percent.  
 The 10-year yield  spread  between German and French bonds
widened to 56 basis points on June 8, the most in 14 months.
Agreements among European governments have now alleviated some
concern that they are struggling to contain the debt crisis,
Mill said.  
 “The degree of cooperation within the euro area to manage
the different elements of the crisis has become clearer in the
past few weeks,” said Mills. “The French government is also
committed to fiscal consolidation. With all these elements, we
should be okay if we do our job well.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Anchalee Worrachate  in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     A cameraman records Nicolas Sarkozy, France's president, speaking during the St. Petersburg International Economic Forum. Photographer: Alexander Zemlianichenko Jr/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
