-- Free-Money Tsunami Provokes Rush to Control Cash: William Pesek
-- William Pesek
-- 2010-06-22T19:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-22/free-money-tsunami-provokes-rush-to-control-cash-william-pesek.html

          
          
             Last week was an interesting one to
spend in South Korea.  
 Not because of North Korea’s war threats, nor the triumphs
and disappointments of South and North teams in the World Cup.
It was about the unsexy topic of capital controls.  
 Seoul officials invited a tsunami of criticism by
tightening rules on currency derivatives. They acted to reduce
volatility caused by another surge -- capital flows putting
stress on Korea’s markets.  
 Let’s focus less on what Asian governments are doing and
more on why they’re doing it. If you want to blame anyone,  Ben Bernanke  over at the Federal Reserve in Washington makes a good
target, as do  Masaaki Shirakawa  in Tokyo and  Jean-Claude Trichet 
in Frankfurt. The heads of the three biggest central banks are
running the easiest money policies in history and, for better or
worse, that liquidity is surging Asia’s way.  
 Korea’s efforts to tame the won are both a sign of things
to come in Asia and a cautionary tale. Policy makers must tread
very carefully on capital controls lest they unnerve investors
and do more harm than good.  
 The trouble? Such actions are always a slippery slope.  
 “These measures are not particularly worrisome, but
introducing or discussing such measures at a time of great
uncertainty and fear in global markets may end up being more
destabilizing than stabilizing,” says  Win Thin , a New York-
based senior currency strategist at Brown Brothers.  
 Curbs Are Coming  
 Make no mistake about it -- capital curbs are coming.
Indonesia’s central bank set a one-month minimum holding period
for investors in its bills last week, while India proposed a
capital-gains tax on stock trades. India’s move was similar to
one by Pakistan on June 5.  
 We can respond with the usual free-markets-are-always-best
tirade or look at the real problem. Central banks have entered
into a new era of near-zero interest rates, limitless liquidity
and no sign of exit strategies in sight. It’s requiring a huge
adjustment in economic thinking.  
 Gone are the days when central banks were truly
independent. Can you imagine if the Fed raised short rates this
month? U.S. lawmakers would probably send a SWAT team to bring
in Bernanke. Imagine if Trichet tightened policy at a time when
 Greece  is being downgraded to junk and Spain is on the brink.
The United Nations might have to get involved to save the euro
zone from itself.  
 Get Used to Zero  
 Nor does anyone expect the Bank of Japan to surprise
markets. Central bankers are stuck near zero for some time.
That’s the problem with using all your ammunition. It’s hard to
reload when credit markets are still malfunctioning and demand
for credit is scarce.  
 The 34 percent rally in gold during the past year is one
manifestation of how disoriented markets have become. Most are
loading up on gold because they worry the financial world is
coming to an end.  
 As investors sort out what they fear most, they’re eyeing
the most attractive opportunities. And for many Asia bulls, that
means economy’s like Korea. It’s growing 8 percent year-over-
year, it’s well positioned to ride China’s rise and its stocks
are arguably cheap.  
 Yet Korea faces too much of a good thing. As capital rushes
its way, the risks of losing control and overheating increase.
Hence Korea’s move to join Taiwan, Brazil, Colombia and Russia
in tightening rules on capital. Even China is shifting toward a
stronger yuan amid inflation risks.  
 Excesses Abound  
 It’s volatility rather than mercantilism that’s at issue.
This is about regaining some control over financial systems
being swamped by too much liquidity chasing too few good
investments.  
 Korea has its unique qualities. One is how the lessons of
mid-2008 are still reverberating around Seoul. Executives can
give you an earful about the events leading up to the collapse
of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. Many small and medium-size
businesses entered into currency contracts with banks they
couldn’t understand.  
 Many of the deals, known as knock-in/knock-out, or KIKO,
options, went sour as the won unexpectedly plummeted against the
dollar in early 2008. U.S. investors were repatriating funds
from overseas assets amid the credit crisis at home. It
triggered a massive margin call many couldn’t meet. Lots of
Koreans side with Warren Buffett’s characterization of
derivatives as “ weapons of mass destruction .”  
 Hot Money  
 Korea ’s geopolitical status is also worth noting. Here,
North Korea’s World Cup performance last week offered a useful
metaphor. There was never any doubt Brazil would win, as it did
2-1. Yet it was just like North Korea to stick one in the back
of your net along the way. It’s not unlike the risks of pinning
the North back militarily.  
 Korea’s challenges are coming to a head amid fast-
increasing hot-money flows. Yes, governments should be careful
not to overdo efforts to tame markets. It’s still important to
recognize why policy makers see such steps as necessary in the
first place.  
 The costs of ultralow rates among Group of Seven economies
are becoming all too clear. Monetary largess in Frankfurt,
London, Tokyo and Washington is putting unprecedented pressure
on open, less-developed economies like Korea. Think of them more
as messengers of what’s wrong than as perpetrators.  
 ( William Pesek  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  
 To contact the writer of this column:
 William Pesek  in Seoul at 
 wpesek@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        