-- French Team Faces Fight to Improve Its Image After World Cup `Disaster'
-- Gregory Viscusi
-- 2010-06-23T17:28:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-22/french-team-faces-fight-to-improve-its-image-after-world-cup-disaster-.html

          
          
             The French soccer team must fight to
regain the respect of fans and the public after ending a World
Cup campaign marked by a squad mutiny and the failure to win a
single match, players said.  
 France’s second consecutive failure at a major tournament
has become a political issue. President  Nicolas Sarkozy  met with
cabinet members today and will meet tomorrow with  Thierry Henry ,
France’s top international goal scorer.  
 “The image we’ve shown to the world, the way they see
France right now is a disaster,” France midfielder  Florent Malouda  told reporters after yesterday’s 2-1 loss to tournament
host South Africa in Bloemfontein. “We as players are the first
responsible for that.”  
 The defeat followed a 0-0 draw with Uruguay and 2-0 loss to
Mexico to ensure that France, runner-up four years ago, exited
in the first round by finishing last in its group. It last won a
game at an international tournament in 2006, and was eliminated
at the group stage of the 2008 European Championship.  
 Having already lost control of its destiny in South Africa
going into the final round of pool matches, the campaign was
further derailed during the weekend when the players refused to
train after striker  Nicolas Anelka  was sent home for insulting
coach  Raymond Domenech  at halftime of the defeat to Mexico.  
 Evra Demoted  
 National team captain  Patrice Evra , demoted to the
substitutes’ bench yesterday, said he wanted to apologize to the
nation for the players’ refusal to train and was prevented from
doing so by Domenech.  
 Evra said he’ll make a statement on his return to France to
“tell everything I lived, everything that I saw.”  
 “Everybody needs to hear the reasons for this disaster,”
he told reporters. “There’s nothing to hide. The French team
doesn’t answer to one person, it answers to all the French
people.”  
 The Manchester United defender added that the squad will
refuse any financial bonuses related to their performance in
South Africa.  
 “We won’t accept one centime,” Evra said.  
 The French Football Federation said in a statement that the
players weren’t due any bonuses, having failed to meet the
minimum objective of qualifying for the second round.  
 French-Belgian hamburger chain Quick and French bank  Credit
Agricole SA  suspended advertising campaigns involving the squad.  
 Henry Meeting  
 Sarkozy met today with Prime Minister  Francois Fillon ,
 Roselyne Bachelot-Narquin , minister of health, who also counts
sports in her portfolio, and under-secretary for sports  Rama Yade .  
 “The head of state asked his ministers to make sure that
those responsible rapidly draw the necessary conclusions from
this disaster,” Sarkozy’s office said in a statement.  
 He called for a meeting of football industry executives in
the autumn “to contribute in all transparency” to an overhaul
and a “more general reflection on the governance of sports
federations.”  
 Jean-Pierre Escalettes, the president of the French
Football Federation, last night repeatedly avoided questions
from television journalists about whether he’d resign.  
 Parliamentary Debate  
 “The government should never have had to get involved in
the World Cup,” Bachelot said during a parliamentary debate
today. “But you have all seen the disaster that results from
immature thugs leading frightened players, a coach without
authority, and a federation that’s out of its depth. That’s why
the government has decided to take charge.”  
 Tomorrow’s meeting between Sarkozy and Henry, who has
scored 51 goals in 122 appearances for France, was at the
request of the player, said  Franck Louvrier , a spokesman for
Sarkozy. He wouldn’t say what the meeting is about.  
 Henry only appeared as a substitute during this World Cup.  
 The players may have underestimated the reaction to their
mutiny ahead of such a crucial match, according to Malouda.  
 “I don’t know if it’s going to be possible but we have to
work hard to restore the image of the French national team,” he
said. “We realize that we hurt a lot of people.”  
 The World Cup failure will face further examination back
home, according to Bachelot, the health minister.  
 “We are returning to France distraught,” she said last
night. “This match was a catastrophe.”  
 Under Scrutiny  
 The French team had been under scrutiny before the
tournament, after former national team captain  Laurent Blanc  was
appointed to replace Domenech a month before the start. The 1998
world champion scraped into the finals with a playoff victory
over Ireland that was earned after Henry admitted to handling
the ball to set up the decisive goal.  
 Domenech described his six-year tenure in charge of the
national team as a “splendid adventure,” adding that “there
have been great times and bad for everyone.”  
 “I think we need to be dignified both in victory and
defeat,” Domenech said at a post-match news conference.  
 Even so, Domenech didn’t shake the hand of South Africa
coach  Carlos Alberto Parreira , who guided Brazil to the 1994
World Cup title, at the end of the match.  
 While Domenech refused to answer questions about the snub,
Parreira offered an explanation at his press conference.  
 “I believe it was because I had criticized his team after
they qualified, but I really don’t remember,” the Brazilian
said. “This is what his assistants told me.”  
 The incident may have done more damage to the squad’s
current standing back home, said  Fabien Barthez , the goalkeeper
on France’s 1998 World Cup-winning team.  
 “It’s appalling, the game is over, you shake hands,”
Barthez said on France’s TF1 channel. “It’s Parreira, it’s not
some nobody. You be a gentleman about it, you be a man about it.
There are children watching. What message is he sending?”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Dan Baynes  in Bloemfontein through the Johannesburg newsroom
   dbaynes@bloomberg.net ;
 Gregory Viscusi  in Paris at 
 gviscusi@Bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     France's supporters react at the end of France vs. South Africa on June 22, 2010. Photographer: Vincenzo Pinto/AFP/Getty Images)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 22 (Bloomberg) Bloomberg's Maryam Nemazee and Rachel Brookes report on the French players' strike following Nicolas Anelka’s expulsion for insulting coach Raymond Domenech at halftime of the 2-0 loss to Mexico.
     Credit Agricole SA, France’s largest bank by branches, ended its advertisement campaign featuring members of the national soccer team amid the group’s mutinous behavior and as the team’s World Cup fate hung in the balance. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       France the runner-up four years ago  
                       
                         
                           Vincenzo Pinto/AFP/Getty Images 
                         
                         France's midfielder Florent Malouda waves to supporters at the end of the World Cup football match France vs. South Africa. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     France's midfielder Florent Malouda waves to supporters at the end of the World Cup football match France vs. South Africa. Photographer: Vincenzo Pinto/AFP/Getty Images  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
