-- G-20 Faces Test Case of Unity Over Banking Levy, Government Official Says
-- Tony Czuczka
-- 2010-06-22T09:53:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-22/g-20-faces-test-case-of-unity-over-banking-levy-government-official-says.html

          
          
             The Group of 20 faces a test case
over unity on a global banking levy, a German government
official said, warning that leaders can either pull together or
split into two camps over the tax.  
 Four days before world leaders meet in Toronto, the G-20
has yet to agree on the twin issues of a bank levy and a
financial-transaction tax, the official said in Berlin today on
condition of anonymity. Germany, France and other European Union
states will push the levies in the face of potential opposition
from countries that didn’t suffer as badly in the financial
crisis, the official said. Germany will seek to bring in EU-wide
levies if the G-20 fails to agree.  
 Germany is steering a course for conflict with the rest of
the G-20 over tighter financial regulations, limits on banking
pay and U.S.-led calls to focus on growth over debt reduction.
Chancellor  Angela Merkel  said June 11 that she expects to have a
“hard time” from fellow leaders at the June 26-27 summit.  
 Merkel and President  Barack Obama  talked about G-20
preparations in a phone call late yesterday, the German official
said. They discussed Obama’s letter to his G-20 counterparts,
the official said. In it, Obama urged the G-20 to reaffirm its
“unity of purpose to provide the policy support necessary to
keep economic growth strong,” saying order to public finances
should be restored in the “medium term.”  
 Obama’s appeal “isn’t anything that goes against what we
are doing,” Merkel told reporters yesterday. “If we don’t get
onto a path of sustainable economic growth but have rather a
growth bubble, then if the next crisis comes we won’t be able to
pay for it.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tony Czuczka  in Berlin at 
 aczuczka@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        