-- Gaps in Health Data, Suspicions About BP Worry U.S. Panelists at Hearing
-- Neil Gross
-- 2010-06-22T20:14:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-22/gaps-in-health-data-suspicions-about-bp-worry-u-s-panelists-at-hearing.html

          
          
             There are “large gaps” in data now
being gathered on the health of the 34,000 workers cleaning up
the largest oil spill in U.S. history and growing concern that
 BP Plc  will fail to publicize problems if they arise.  
 Linda McCauley, dean of the Emory University’s school of
nursing in Atlanta, said, “It’s kind of scary” that the
cleanup workers are hired by “the people who are actually at
fault” and not the local government, “where we know there can
be transparency.” She led a panel on health effects of
the Gulf spill at a U.S. Institute of Medicine hearing today.  
 Eight panel members interviewed before the meeting said the
U.S. government needs to fund years of monitoring of cleanup
workers to adequately assess exposure risks to toxic chemicals
as a result of the Gulf of Mexico spill. Several likened the
lack of coordination in monitoring to the Sept. 11, 2001, World
Trade Center attack when the government failed to foresee health
fallout that left thousands with long-term illnesses.  
 The  Institute of Medicine , a nonprofit body based in
Washington, convened the  workshop  at the behest of Health and
Human Services Secretary  Kathleen Sebelius . Volunteer members of
the IOM, part of the United States National Academies, have been
asked to supply guidance on what types of programs her agency
should consider funding.  
 Deadly Explosion  
 The oil spill was caused by an April 20 explosion aboard
the Deepwater Horizon rig, which London-based BP leases from
Switzerland’s  Transocean Ltd.  The blast killed 11, and the
wellhead may be leaking as much as 60,000 barrels a day,
according to a government-sponsored panel.  
 Children are among the most-vulnerable population after the
spill workers, said  Irwin Redlener , a member of the National
Commission on Children and Disasters and director of Columbia
University’s  National Center for Disaster Preparedness .  
 “This is Round 2 for these children,” Redlener told the
workshop. These are children who are recovering from the damage
caused by 2005’s Hurricane Katrina and now face the oil spill,
he said.  
 Redlener said children are more susceptible to inhalation
problems associated with a spill, absorption through the skin
and ingestion, given that many put things in their mouths and
fail to follow public health guidelines. Children in the region
are suffering psychologically, emotionally and academically from
the combined effects of Katrina and the spill, he said.  
 More Vulnerable  
 Scientists also are seeing “large gaps in the data” on
the health impact of the spill, said Paul Lioy, vice chairman of
the Department of Environmental and Occupational Medicine at
UMDNJ-Robert Wood Johnson Medical School in Piscataway, New
Jersey.  
 Lioy spoke at the panel today on routes of exposure and at-
risk populations. In an earlier phone interview, he said the
data haven’t shown “large exposures, but I don’t know where it
was taken, or if it was in the places of most-significant
concern.”  
 None of the eight researchers interviewed set a cost for
large-scale federal monitoring of worker health. The government
must track the extent of exposure, gather consistent and clear
data, and routinely test cleanup workers to detect early signs
of problems, the researchers said in interviews over the past
several days.  
 NIH’s $10 Million  
 National Institutes of Health Director  Francis Collins  said
$10 million had been set aside to study the public health impact
of the oil spill, focusing on cleanup workers and coastal
residents.  
 While there are relatively few studies on the long-term
ramifications of exposure to crude oil toxins, the workshop
heard a report from Blanca Laffon, a toxicologist at the
Universidad de A Coruna in Spain, on research on cleanup workers
at the 2002 Prestige Oil spill off the Galician Coast.  
 The research found biomarkers that indicate these workers,
coastal residents and fishermen faced a higher risk of cancer
than the rest of the population, Laffon said in an e-mail before
her panel appearance.  
 “We analyzed some genotoxicity biomarkers that are early
indicators of an increase in the risk of cancer and observed
that their values were higher than those in the non-exposed
control population,” said Laffon. “This does not mean that
these people are going to develop cancer in several years, but
that their risk is increased.”  
 Not Well Coordinated  
 Even with the formation of registries for such groups as
spill workers, which are a post-9/11 innovation, activities are
not yet well coordinated and information is incomplete, Lioy
said.  
 “Oil is a complex mixture containing substances like
benzene, heavy metals, arsenic, and polynuclear aromatic
hydrocarbons -- all known to cause human health problems such as
cancer, birth defects or miscarriages,” said  Kenneth Olden ,
founding dean of New York’s CUNY School of Public Health at
Hunter College, who is monitoring a panel on possible delayed
effects. “The potential here is huge and we have to be diligent
about protecting the public health and these workers.”  
 For the public at large, the threat is less clear because of
the uncertainty about the degree of exposure, Lioy said in a
telephone interview.  
 “I don’t think the levels are high enough for concern,”
he said. “But this is an ongoing event. Every day is Day One.
Every place can be Ground Zero.”  
 The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, working
with the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, has issued health
warnings to certain groups.  
 Unborn Babies  
 “Although the oil may contain some chemicals that could
cause harm to an unborn baby under some conditions, the CDC has
reviewed sampling data from the EPA and feels that the levels of
these chemicals are well below the level that could generally
cause harm to pregnant women or their unborn babies,” the CDC
said on its  website .  
 While they suggest there is no threat, the CDC
simultaneously advised “everyone, including pregnant women” to
avoid spill-affected areas.  
 The Atlanta-based CDC also has alerted spill workers to the
potential of heat stress from working in temperatures more than
90 degrees Fahrenheit and sometimes above 100. Among the
workshop participants’ first priorities is to make sure workers
are given adequate protective gear, something that didn’t happen
for first responders to the World Trade Center attack, said
Hunter College’s Olden.  
 Gloves, Respirators  
 “These workers don’t need only rubber gloves and boots,
they may need respirators to protect against inhalation of some
pretty toxic fumes,” said Olden, who is also a former director
of the  National Institute of Environmental Health Sciences .
“The one thing I keep hearing is that many workers were not and
are not wearing protective gear. That concerns me.”  
 Some oil spill workers have experienced nausea, headaches
and other symptoms associated with exposure to toxins, Emory
University’s McCauley said.  
 There is also the threat of mental disorders and stress-
related health problems, said David Abramson, director of
research for Columbia’s National Center for Disaster
Preparedness in New York and a panel speaker.  
 “We’re seeing indications that people are drinking more,”
said Howard Osofsky, a psychiatrist from Louisiana State
University in Baton Rouge.  
 Risks Downplayed  
 While some 9/11 first responders exhibited post-traumatic
stress disorders, Abramson said the curve for this disease
related to the spill won’t look the same because the Gulf
disaster isn’t an event with an end. “This is an event that
keeps unfolding,” he said. “There is a loss of culture that
the entire region will feel.”  
 Shira Kramer, an epidemiologist who has conducted research
for the petroleum industry on the health consequences of
exposure to petroleum, said she is concerned that the risks are
being downplayed.  
 “It’s completely scientifically dishonest to pooh-pooh the
potential here when you are talking about some of the most toxic
chemicals that we know,” said Kramer, who is founder and
president of consulting firm Epidemiology International in Hunt
Valley, Maryland. She isn’t involved with the Institute panels.  
 “When you talk about community exposure, you are talking
about exposures in unpredictable ways and to subpopulations that
may be more highly susceptible than others, such as those of
reproductive age, people who are immuno-compromised, children or
fetuses.  
 ‘With the World Trade Center, there have been unpredictable
adverse health effects to the populations that were exposed and
not just the workers,” she said. “In this case, we have a soup
of chemicals from the crude, chemicals from the dispersants and
pollutants that were already in the water. Who can say how they
will interact?”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Pat Wechsler  in New York at 
 pwechsler@bloomberg.net ;
 Neil Gross  in New York at 
 ngross@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        