-- Belarus Says Gazprom Declared `Gas War' on Neighbor by Lowering Supplies
-- Maria Kolesnikova
-- 2010-06-22T15:36:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-22/gazprom-reduces-belarus-gas-supplies-by-30-this-morning-ceo-miller-says.html

          
          
             Belarus  President  Aleksandr Lukashenko  ordered Russian gas transit to the European Union be
halted, accusing  OAO Gazprom  of starting a “gas war” by
cutting flows to his country by 30 percent amid a debt dispute.  
 Lukashenko demanded Gazprom pay about $260 million in
transit fees at a meeting with Russian Foreign Minister  Sergei Lavrov  today shown on Belarus state television, saying Russia
was insulting his country with its demands for cash.  
 Belarus told Gazprom that it’s taking gas meant for
customers beyond its borders, said  Sergei Kupriyanov , a
spokesman for the Russian export monopoly. Gazprom will fulfill
its contracts, he told reporters in Moscow.  
 Russia, which supplies a quarter of Europe’s gas via
Belarus and Ukraine, has raised concerns it uses energy as a
political tool after it cut flows to Ukraine, whose then
president sought to join the North Atlantic Treaty Organization,
disrupting deliveries to Europe during freezing weather in 2006
and 2009. A threatened gas cut to Belarus in January 2007 was
averted by a last-minute accord, more than doubling its price.  
 “Russia’s new gas war is likely to tarnish its image as a
reliable energy supplier,” Lilit Gevorgyan, a political analyst
at IHS Global Insight, wrote in a research note today. “It also
highlights the problems for Russia likely to occur in the future
due to mixing energy business with foreign policy.”  
 Widening Cut  
 Gazprom widened the supply cut today from 15 percent
yesterday, while seeking $192 million from Belarus for past
deliveries, Chief Executive Officer  Alexei Miller  said on the
Gazprom-controlled NTV television channel. As much as 85 percent
of daily shipments may be cut, he said.  
 Gazprom’s transit debt is “comparable” to what Belarus
owes for supplies because the country refused to sign invoices
this year, blocking payments, Kupriyanov said yesterday.  
 The dispute may affect a maximum 6.25 percent of the
European Union’s gas supply, European Commission spokeswoman
 Marlene Holzner  said today in Brussels. The EU doesn’t expect a
decline in its gas supplies, and Russia has assured the EU it
will stick to its contracts, she said.  
 “It is a non-issue given the time of year and the low
supply environment,” said  Adrian Callinan , director of European
Gas Trading at London-based Noble Clean Fuels, part of Noble
Group Ltd. “It is a localized problem to that region compared
with a year ago when it affected the U.K.”  
 Flows of Russian gas through the Yamal pipeline across
Belarus remain unchanged, Polish Prime Minister  Donald Tusk  said
today at a news conference in Warsaw.  
 Strained Union  
 Belarus was set to carry more than 20 percent of Gazprom’s
Europe-bound exports of the fuel this year, according to the
company. Gazprom may ship fuel via Ukraine, use gas in storage
and access spot markets, Kupriyanov said.  
 Relations between Russia and Belarus are souring as a
customs union yoking the two countries and Kazakhstan falters.
Belarusian Premier  Sergei Sidorsky  boycotted a meeting with his
Russian and Kazakh counterparts,  Vladimir Putin  and  Karim Masimov , last month. Putin has said the troika will miss a
planned July 1 start date, citing Belarus’s push for subsidized
energy as a stumbling block.  
 “Lukashenko needs cheap energy to run the uncompetitive
economy,” Gevorgyan said. “Lukashenko, however, has learned
that maintaining his political independence and occasional loud
spats with the Kremlin have so far helped him to get favorable
deals for his country.”  
 Miller said Belarus has taken no steps toward settling the
debt, which arose as it continued to pay for gas at last year’s
price. Belarus said it paid for May deliveries in full, Interfax
reported today. Gazprom’s Kupriyanov wasn’t immediately able to
provide the price of the latest payment.  
 Ukraine has sufficient capacity to boost transit shipments,
Deputy Prime Minister  Mykola Azarov  told reporters in Kiev
today. Russia pledged Ukraine $40 billion in gas subsidies in
exchange for an extended lease on a Black Sea naval base in
April. Russian-Ukrainian relations have warmed this year since
former President Viktor Yushchenko was voted out of office.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Anna Shiryaevskaya  in Moscow at 
 ashiryaevska@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        