-- Geithner Says Credit Access Improving, May Aid Growth
-- Ian Katz
-- 2010-06-22T16:58:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-22/geithner-says-access-to-credit-improving-may-fuel-increased-u-s-growth.html

          
          
             Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  said  credit  availability is improving and companies are
building up unprecedented cash reserves, signs that the U.S.
economy may be poised for increased growth.  
 “Credit conditions overall, which dragged our economy into
a deep recession in 2007, no longer pose an obstacle to
growth,” Geithner said today in testimony to the Congressional
Oversight Panel. Corporations are raising money in capital
markets “and have built up record cash reserves, which will
eventually be reinvested and fuel growth.”  
 Geithner defended the government’s management of the $700
billion Troubled Asset Relief Program, which he said “played a
critical role” in loosening access to credit. The program,
criticized by both Democratic and Republican lawmakers as
favoring Wall Street over small businesses, will cost taxpayers
$105 billion by Geithner’s latest estimate, down from an
estimate of $341 billion in August.  
 Congress authorized TARP in October 2008 to prevent a
collapse of the U.S. financial system. Companies including
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  and  Bank of America Corp.  that took
funds have since repaid the government.  
 Elizabeth Warren , the panel’s chairman, told Geithner at
today’s hearing she is concerned that “many banks still haven’t
digested the toxic mortgages on their balance sheets.” The
challenges firms face “are straining their ability to lend to
the small businesses that might otherwise be driving an economic
recovery and reducing unemployment.”  
 Small Businesses  
 The House voted June 17 to authorize a $30 billion fund
proposed by the Obama administration to help small businesses.
The program may not be enough to help the economic recovery, the
oversight panel said in a report last month.  
 Geithner said the Treasury plans to sell the remainder of
its stake in  Citigroup Inc.  in an “orderly fashion” by year
end.  
 Prospects for the government’s investments in the auto
industry have improved, and Treasury plans to begin to recover
its stake in General Motors Co. after the company has an initial
public offering later this year or in 2011, he said. Losses from
government investments in GMAC Inc. “will be less than forecast
last year,” he said.  
 Geithner said the Obama administration doesn’t plan to
extend TARP past its Oct. 3 expiration and called today’s
hearing “a eulogy” for the program.  
 Balance Sheets  
 Geithner pointed to what he said were signs the economy is
rebounding. “The business sector as a whole has very, very
strong balance sheets and is sitting on a lot of cash,” he
said.  
 Panel member  Damon Silvers  said he didn’t share Geithner’s
optimism.  
 “Most economists would say that the fact that businesses
are sitting on a lot of cash is not necessarily a good thing in
relation to our recovery,” said Silvers, director of policy and
special counsel at the AFL-CIO, the largest U.S. labor
federation.  
 Geithner, 48, also said the U.S. planned a “fundamental”
overhaul next year of mortgage-finance companies Fannie Mae and
Freddie Mac, which were placed under federal conservatorship in
September 2008.  
 The U.S. may continue to have a “limited” role in housing
finance after the revamp, he said. Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac
posted combined  losses  of $18.2 billion in the first quarter.  
 Government Guarantee  
 “There is going to be a good public policy case where the
government is still promoting the objectives of access to
reasonable housing options for low-income Americans,” Geithner
said. The administration likely will determine that “there’s
going to be an appropriate role for the government to provide
some form of guarantee to help make sure that the broader
housing-finance markets are able to provide credit to housing in
recessions and downturns,” he said.  
 The Treasury has disbursed $386 billion of the total amount
of funds Congress authorized for TARP, and $194 billion of it
has been repaid, Geithner said.  
 Bailed-out insurer  American International Group Inc.  is
“making progress in restructuring its operations, in order to
repay taxpayers and reduce its risk to our economy,” Geithner
said. TARP investments in AIG “will likely still result in some
loss,” he said.  
 In a June 10 report, the oversight panel said the bailout
of AIG had a “poisonous” effect on the U.S. financial system
because it demonstrated that the government would protect Wall
Street firms from their own risk-taking.  
 The bailouts “did what they were supposed to do,” he
said. The economy wouldn’t have started to rebound “without the
dramatic actions we took, however unpopular, to bring down the
cost of credit and stabilize the system.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ian Katz  in Washington at 
 ikatz2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Geithner says credit access improving  
                       
                         
                           Brendan Hoffman/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Timothy Geithner, U.S. treasury secretary, testifies at a hearing of the Congressional Oversight Panel in Washington, D.C. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Timothy Geithner, U.S. treasury secretary, testifies at a hearing of the Congressional Oversight Panel in Washington, D.C. Photographer: Brendan Hoffman/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
