-- Germany, France, U.K. Propose Levy on Banks Before G-20 Summit
-- Patrick Donahue
-- 2010-06-22T17:29:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-22/germany-france-u-k-propose-bank-balance-sheet-levy-ahead-of-g-20-summit.html

          
          
             Germany, France and the U.K. jointly
called for levies on banks’ balance sheets in an attempt to
overcome opposition to the proposal by other members of the
Group of 20 nations before this week’s summit.  
 U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s government today
announced a bank levy as part of that country’s biggest
peacetime deficit reduction. France and Germany are also
finalizing details of their own bank taxes, according to a joint
statement issued by the German government.  
 “All three levies will aim to ensure that banks make a
fair contribution to reflect the risks they pose to the
financial system and wider economy and to encourage banks to
adjust their balance sheets to reduce this risk,” the e-mailed
statement from the Finance Ministry in Berlin said.  
 G-20 ministers failed this month to agree on a global bank
levy that’s promoted by the U.S. and European countries and
opposed by countries whose banks fared better in the financial
crisis, such as Canada and Brazil. The European Union has
promised to push for the plan at the G-20 summit in Toronto.  
 A unified position isn’t necessary to make progress on the
issue of bank levies at the G-20, a senior U.S. official said
yesterday. U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  has
backed an overarching agreement among the G-20 to make banks pay
for the cost of government support, while allowing countries to
differ on implementation.  
 ‘Financial Fires’  
 “We’re trying to establish the basic principle that, where
governments are exposed to risk and putting out financial fires
like this, that taxpayers don’t bear the burden of paying for
the costs of those actions,” Geithner said in April after G-20
meetings in Washington.  
 The U.K. government said today it will impose a tax on bank
balance sheets from next year that will generate 2 billion
pounds ($3 billion) in annual revenue. The levy would tax banks’
balance sheets starting next year and be set at 0.04 percent in
2011, before increasing to 0.07 percent.  
 Germany laid out its framework in March for a bank levy
that would generate more than 1 billion euros ($1.2 billion) for
a dedicated fund. France has said it will channel whatever
revenue is raised from levy into the budget.  
 ‘Domestic Circumstances’  
 Today’s joint statement said that while the three nations’
bank levies will differ according to “domestic circumstances,”
the amount of revenue generated from the various plans “will
take into consideration the need to ensure a level playing
field.”  
 The British Bankers’ Association said the U.K. levy needs
to be internationally coordinated to prevent banks being “taxed
multiple times for the same thing.”  
 Germany’s BdB lobby group, which represents more than 220
banks including Deutsche Bank AG and Commerzbank AG, said it
supports the German government’s plans and welcomes the
coordination with European partners. A spokeswoman for the
Paris-based French Banking Federation, which represents about
400 banks, said a levy is “not good news for the economy.”  
 “It’s a measure that is going to weigh on French banks’
capacity to lend to companies and households,” she said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Patrick Donahue  in Berlin at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     U.K. chancellor of the exchequer George Osborne announced a levy on banks today . Photographer: Simon Dawson/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
