-- German Business Confidence Unexpectedly Increases
-- Christian Vits
-- 2010-06-22T10:54:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-22/german-business-confidence-unexpectedly-increased-in-june.html

          
          
             German business confidence
unexpectedly rose to a two-year high in June as the euro’s
depreciation and a global economic recovery brightened the
outlook for exports.  
 The  Ifo institute  in Munich said its  business climate
index , based on a survey of 7,000 executives, increased to 101.8
from 101.5 in May. That’s the highest since May 2008. Economists
expected a decline to 101.2, according to the median of 38
forecasts in a Bloomberg News  survey .  
 Governments across the 16-nation euro region are cutting
spending after Greece’s near default sparked investor concern
that budget deficits are spiraling out of control. While tighter
fiscal policy may damp economic growth, the crisis has also
pushed the euro down 13 percent against the dollar this year,
boosting German exports outside the currency bloc.  
 “We’re in a period of very, very strong economic growth,”
said  Joerg Kraemer , chief economist at Commerzbank AG in
Frankfurt. “Driven by foreign demand, the recovery will
continue in the second half of the year -- albeit at a slower
pace.”  
 Ifo’s measure of executives’ expectations declined to 102.4
from 103.7, while its gauge of the current situation increased
to 101.1 from 99.4. The  benchmark DAX share index  dropped 50
points after the Ifo report to 6,242 at 12:50 p.m. in Frankfurt.
The euro eased to $1.2279 from $1.2320.  
 Growth Engine  
 The Bundesbank on June 11 raised its growth forecasts for
Europe’s largest economy even as the government agreed to reduce
spending by 80 billion euros ($99 billion) over the next four
years. The German central bank predicted expansion of 1.9
percent this year and 1.4 percent in 2011, up from 1.6 percent
and 1.2 percent respectively.  
 “At the moment, it looks like Germany could become the
engine for economic growth” in Europe, Ifo economist  Gernot Nerb  said in a Bloomberg Television interview. “Investment is
picking up and giving some additional momentum.”  
 Volkswagen AG , Europe’s largest carmaker, said last week
operating profit and deliveries may rise “significantly” this
year as demand increases in major markets and the euro’s decline
against the dollar helps sales abroad.  
 The DAX has rallied 10 percent in the past month and is up
almost 5 percent this year, outperforming the other main
European bourses. Still, German  investor confidence  plunged this
month on concern that the sovereign debt crisis will undermine
demand for the country’s good within the euro area, its biggest
export market.  
 “The Europe-wide consolidation efforts have certainly
damped companies’ outlook,” said  Joerg Lueschow , an economist
at WestLB AG in Dusseldorf. “Economic growth will weaken around
year-end after very strong second and third quarters.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Christian Vits  in Frankfurt at 
 cvits@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       The euro is down 13% against the dollar this year  
                       
                         
                           Guenter Schiffmann/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Bayerische Motoren Werke AG 5-series automobiles await export from the company's factory in Dingolfing, Germany. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Bayerische Motoren Werke AG 5-series automobiles await export from the company's factory in Dingolfing, Germany. Photographer: Guenter Schiffmann/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 22 (Bloomberg) -- Gernot Nerb, chief economist at the Ifo research institute, talks about the unexpected rise in German business confidence to as two-year high during June.
     Nerb speaks from Munich with John Dawson on Bloomberg Television's "The Pulse". (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
