-- Gilt Sales Will Decline 28% in Next Fiscal Year as Osborne Lowers Deficit
-- Paul Dobson
-- 2010-06-22T15:24:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-22/gilt-sales-to-fall-28-as-osborne-cuts-deficit-to-preserve-top-debt-rating.html

          
          
             U.K. Chancellor of the Exchequer
 George Osborne ’s spending cuts will lower gilt sales 28 percent
from the previous fiscal year, the first decline since 2007, as
the government aims to save Britain’s top credit rating.  
 The government will issue 165 billion pounds ($243
billion) of gilts in fiscal 2010/2011, down from the 185.2
billion pounds projected in April, the London-based Debt
Management Office said today after Osborne presented today’s
emergency budget. The Treasury sold a record 227.6 billion
pounds of debt last fiscal year.  
 Gilts surged as Osborne made his presentation, pushing 10-
year yields to the lowest since Oct. 14, on optimism his pledge
to balance the budget by the end of the government’s first term
will help the U.K. preserve its top AAA debt rating. Fitch
Ratings called the budget a “strong statement of intent.” The
new issuance matched the 165-billion-pound median forecast in a
Bloomberg survey of 15 financial institutions.  
 “This budget helps to improve the prospects that the U.K.
will be able to retain its credit rating,” said  Richard Kelly ,
a senior strategist at Toronto-Dominion Bank in London, one of
the 17 financial institutions that deal directly with the debt
agency. “The Chancellor might not go as far as some might have
expected in certain areas, but at the end of the day, it brings
the deficit down. That’s all that matters.”  
 The government is tackling the largest budget deficit in
the Group of 20 nations. Sterling rebounded as Osborne rejected
suggestions the government needed to choose between growth and
fiscal order as a “false choice.”  
 Bond Outperformance  
 “The 20 billion-pound reduction was fairly consensual,”
said  John Wraith , a fixed-income strategist at Bank of America
Merrill Lynch in London, referring to the difference between
this year’s and last year’s issuance totals. “There might be
some profit-taking on the recent outperformance of gilts.”  
 U.K.  government bonds  outperformed both their U.S. and
German counterparts following the May 6 election that ousted
former Prime Minister  Gordon Brown ’s Labour Party after 13 years
in power. Gilts returned 2 percent, compared with a gain of 0.4
percent from German bonds and 0.8 percent for U.S. Treasuries,
according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch Indexes.  
 Gilt issuance swelled in the previous fiscal year as the
global recession prompted Brown’s government to fund stimulus
programs when tax revenue slid. Britain has a bigger budget hole
than the previous government forecast, the country’s fiscal
watchdog said in an initial report on June 14.  
 Pound Rises  
 The Treasury will sell 52.6 billion pounds of securities
maturing in as long as seven years, and 38.2 billion pounds of
bonds coming due between seven and 15 years. It will sell 40.4
billion pounds of securities with a maturity of longer than 15
years. Of the total, 33.8 billion pounds will be in inflation-
protected bonds, the agency said.  
 The pound rose 0.2 percent to $1.4787, erasing earlier
losses. The government imposed a levy on banks’ balance sheets
starting next year, which will be set at 0.04 percent in 2011,
before increasing to 0.07 percent. The tax will apply to British
institutions as well as the subsidiaries and branches of
overseas banks.  
 “What really caught the currency market’s attention is
the fact that levy on banks was smaller than expected and that
there’s no further reduction on capital spending,” said  Adam Cole , global head of currency strategy at Royal Bank of Canada
in London. “There was concern ahead of the budget that the levy
will be big and it will erode competitiveness of the U.K.
banking sector. There’s a sense of relief.”  
 All the 15 primary dealers in the survey expect Britain to
retain its top AAA rating in the next 12 months.  
 Fitch said on June 8 that the scale of the country’s fiscal
challenge is “formidable.” Standard & Poor’s affirmed its
“negative” outlook on the U.K. on March 29 “in the absence of
a strong fiscal consolidation plan.” Prime Minister David
Cameron has warned that the squeeze will “affect every single
person in our country.”  

 

To contact the reporters on this story:
Anchalee Worrachate in London at 
aworrachate@bloomberg.net;


 
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     U.K. chancellor of the exchequer George Osborne holds the Gladstone dispatch box containing the emergency 2010 budget outside 11 Downing Street in London. Photographer: Chris Ratcliffe/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
