-- GM's Opel Passes Fiat as Biggest Discounter in Germany After Sales Tumble
-- Sara Gay Forden
-- 2010-06-22T22:27:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-22/gm-s-opel-passes-fiat-as-top-german-discounter-autohaus-pulsschlag-says.html

          
          
             General Motors Co.’s money-losing
Opel brand overtook  Fiat SpA  with the steepest discounts in
Germany last month as the unit seeks to halt a drop in sales.  
 Opel dealers’ discounts in May averaged 12.8 percent off
the list price, topping the 12.4 percent savings from Fiat, the
traditional incentive leader in Germany, according to trade
publication Autohaus PulsSchlag. The industry averaged rebates
of 10.9 percent, the researcher said in its monthly survey.  
 Opel’s uncertain future as the unit sought government aid
led to a 41 percent slide in German sales through May even after
introducing a new version of its best-selling Astra. GM, working
toward an initial public offering, decided last week to fund
Opel’s restructuring on its own after failing to win 1.8 billion
euros ($2.2 billion) in aid from European countries.  
 “The Opel brand, which was already weakened by quality
issues, has suffered considerable damage in the year-and-a-half-
long aid pursuit,” said  Stefan Bratzel , director of the Center
of Automotive Research at the University of Applied Sciences in
Bergisch Gladbach, Germany. “The withdrawal of the aid request
offers a chance for a new beginning, but it will be a long
road.”  
 The survey, based on responses from dealers, isn’t
representative of Opel’s sales activities, said an Opel
spokesman,  Ulrich Weber . He added that Opel didn’t increase
incentives or offer special financing conditions as some of its
competitors did.  
 ‘Average’ Discounts  
 Discounts are running about “average,” GM Europe
President  Nick Reilly  said yesterday in an interview at an
industry conference in Bilbao, Spain. Heavy discounting is a bad
idea after last year’s government incentives, he said.  
 “You’ve got to be careful in a market that’s not really
there,” he said. “We are not scaling back, but we’re not being
really aggressive either. In a year following the end of
scrappage schemes, offering incentives is like putting money in
the wastebasket.”  
 The decline in sales last month partly reflects the model
changeovers, said Weber, who is based in Ruesselsheim, near
Frankfurt. The new Astra’s wagon version will arrive in
showrooms in the fall, while the revamped Meriva minivan went on
sale earlier this month, he said. The new models should boost
Opel’s market share in the second half, Reilly said.  
 Sales Decline  
 The Astra starts in Germany at 15,900 euros, compared with
16,825 euros for the segment-leading Golf from  Volkswagen AG  and
16,290 euros for rival Fiat’s Bravo, according to the
manufacturers’ websites.  
 Auto sales in Europe are running at a 17.4 million annual
pace, 1 million higher than expected, largely because of
surprisingly good sales in Russia, Reilly said.  
 Opel will be close to break-even this year and should be
profitable in 2012, Reilly said. Some restructuring actions may
not be completed until next year, he said. The plan includes
eliminating 8,300 jobs from a European workforce of 48,000.  
 GM Europe is recruiting 250 new engineers for its
operations, and Opel may use 100 percent of its remaining
production capacity after the reorganization, Reilly said in a
speech at the conference.  
 During the 18-month fight over Opel’s future, which
included bids from Fiat and RHJ International SA, Opel and its
U.K. brand Vauxhall have struggled to retain customers. GM last
November backed out of a German government-brokered agreement to
sell the majority of the unit to Canadian parts maker  Magna
International Inc. , deciding to keep the unit instead.  
 Market’s Decline  
 Opel’s decline in German deliveries in the first five
months exceeded the 28 percent drop for the overall market,
according to the country’s  Federal Motor Vehicle Office . Opel
and Vauxhall’s five-month market share in Europe slid to 6.9
percent from 7.6 percent a year earlier, the European Automobile
Manufacturers’ Association said.  
 “The only way for Opel/Vauxhall to sell anything is to
slash prices,”  Simon Empson , managing director of U.K. discount
car website Broadspeed.com, said in a telephone interview,
adding that Vauxhall is offering discounts of more than 25
percent, including on the new Astra. “They’re not selling.
There’s no interest.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Chris Reiter  in Berlin at 
 creiter2@bloomberg.net ;
 Sara Gay Forden  in Milan at 
 sforden@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       GM's Opel withdraws state-aid applications in Europe  
                       
                         
                           Hannelore Foerster/Bloomberg 
                         
                         An Opel logo is seen on an automobile as a German flag flies nearby in Russelsheim, Germany. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     An Opel logo is seen on an automobile as a German flag flies nearby in Russelsheim, Germany. Photographer: Hannelore Foerster/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
