-- Goldman Says Shanghai's Markets Will Retain Domestic Focus, Like New York
-- Hanny Wan
-- 2010-06-22T07:23:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-22/goldman-says-shanghai-s-markets-will-retain-domestic-focus-like-new-york.html

          
          
             Shanghai will have more than half of
Asia’s stock market liquidity in 2020 as China gradually moves
to full currency convertibility and opens yuan-denominated A
shares to foreign investors, Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said.  
 “As a financial centre, we expect Shanghai to develop more
along the lines of the New York model -- that is, primarily
dedicated to its domestic market -- rather than as a regional
financial centre like London or Singapore,” Goldman Sachs
analysts  Christopher Eoyang ,  Jason Lui  and  Sunil Koul  said in a
research report released today. “In many ways, we think
Shanghai may partially emulate the development of Hong Kong
during the 1980s and 1990s, when manufacturing was gradually
replaced by higher value added services.”  
 Shanghai currently accounts for 25 percent of the region’s
daily cash equity and futures turnover, the analysts wrote. The
city will benefit “disproportionately” as China’s financial
markets grow deeper and more sophisticated, they said.  
 China’s central government has a goal of making Shanghai an
international financial center by 2020. The city’s economy,
which already surpassed Hong Kong’s in size last year, grew 8.2
percent in 2009. In comparison, New York City’s expanded 0.9
percent in the fourth quarter after seven straight quarterly
declines.  
 Daily Trading  
 The Goldman Sachs report comes after the People’s Bank of
China pledged June 19 to make its currency more flexible, a move
that drove the yuan up by the most since July 2005. The  Shanghai
Composite Index  climbed 2.9 percent yesterday. U.S. President
Barack Obama said the policy action will “contribute to a more
balanced global economy.”  
 Goldman forecast that with a gradual liberalization, the
value of equities and futures traded daily in China could reach
$455 billion in 2020, about 70 percent of the regional total, up
from the current $58 billion, or 36 percent of the liquidity in
Asia, according to the report.  
 Under the same scenario, trading turnover in Shanghai could
increase to more than $350 billion per day in a decade from the
current $47 billion, Goldman Sachs estimated. That means
Shanghai would account for more than 75 percent of China’s
liquidity, and as much as 53 percent of Asia’s, they said.  
 “Despite Shanghai’s image as a modern commercial centre
and its notable achievements, China’s equity capital markets are
relatively immature,” the Goldman analysts wrote. “Although
the government is on the path towards full currency
convertibility and the opening up of the domestic equity market,
the process will probably be very gradual, and this could
potentially benefit Hong Kong.”  
 Ownership of yuan-denominated or A-shares is limited to
Chinese citizens and approved overseas investors under the
qualified foreign institutional investor, or QFII, program. The
analysts estimated current foreign ownership of A shares at
about 0.5 percent of market capitalization, compared to 25
percent in Japan and about 30 percent in Korea and Taiwan.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Hanny Wan  in Hong Kong at 
 hwan3@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Buildings rise out of the Pudong Financial District as seen from the top of the Shanghai World Financial Center in Shanghai, China. Photographer: Qilai Shen/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
