-- Gold to Be Best-Performing Asset for the Rest of the Year, UBS Poll Finds
-- Nicholas Larkin
-- 2010-06-22T11:36:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-22/gold-to-be-best-performing-asset-for-the-rest-of-the-year-ubs-poll-finds.html

          
          
             Gold will be the best-performing
asset for the rest of the year as investors seek to protect
wealth from sovereign debt risks and economic turbulence,
according to about 30 percent of respondents in a UBS AG survey.  
 The survey was conducted last week at a UBS seminar in
Wolfsberg, Switzerland, of central bank reserve managers,
multilateral institutions and sovereign wealth funds, the bank
said in a report dated June 18. More than 25 percent said global
equities would be the best performer, followed by U.S.
Treasuries. Gold was the most popular response. Representatives
of some 80 institutions attended.  
 Bullion reached a record $1,265.30 an ounce yesterday and
has climbed 13 percent this year as investors bought the metal
to protect wealth amid Europe’s sovereign debt crisis. Gold has
outperformed other commodities as global equities declined, and
holdings in exchange-traded funds backed by the metal reached
all-time highs, while coin sales from mints accelerated.  
 “So long as fears about global debt sustainability and
sovereign risk remain heightened, gold will continue to rise,”
London-based UBS analyst  Edel Tully  said today in a separate
report. “Against this backdrop, it is little wonder that nearly
a quarter of respondents expect gold will be the most important
reserve currency in 25 years’ time.”  
 Almost 50 percent of respondents said the dollar would be
the most important reserve currency in 25 years. In third place,
about 15 percent said an Asian currency will fulfill the role,
UBS said. The euro came last at 6 percent.  
 Sovereign Default  
 The  MSCI World Index  of equities is down 4.7 percent this
year, and raw materials as measured by the Reuters-Jefferies CRB
Index have slid 7 percent. Returns on benchmark U.S. Treasuries
have gained 4.5 percent this year. The euro has dropped 14
percent against the greenback this year.  
 Gold for immediate delivery traded at $1,235.03 an ounce at
11:17 a.m. in London. The commodity is headed for a 10th
consecutive annual gain, the longest winning streak since at
least 1920, amid speculation that debt-cutting measures by
European nations will slow growth.  
 Sovereign default is the main risk to the global economy in
the next year, according to about 35 percent of those surveyed.
European recession worries came second with more than 20 percent
of responses.  
 Credit Products  
 Asked about the biggest change to their institution’s asset
allocation over the next 10 years, respondents favored adding
more credit products, buying more Asian currencies and cutting
dollar holdings over either acquiring more gold or reducing
holdings of the precious metal. More said they would buy gold
than cut it.  
 “Our expectation for 2010 is that the official sector will
be a net buyer of gold,” Tully said. “In many ways this is one
of the largest fundamental shifts that the gold market has
experienced in the recent past.”  
 Central banks and governments added 425.4 metric tons last
year to 30,116.9 tons, the most since 1964 and the first
expansion since 1988, data from the World Gold Council show.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nicholas Larkin  in London at 
 nlarkin1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        