-- Google Named in Criminal Filing by U.K. Privacy Group
-- Erik Larson
-- 2010-06-22T16:17:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-22/google-named-in-u-k-criminal-complaint-by-privacy-group-over-wifi-data.html

          
          
             A U.K. privacy group asked London
police to investigate whether  Google Inc.  should face criminal
charges for collecting wireless Internet data from homes while
photographing thousands of residential streets.  
 Privacy International , which has received funding from the
 European Parliament  and the American Civil Liberties Union, said
today it formally asked London’s  Metropolitan Police  to
investigate why Google gathered unsecured Wi-Fi data while
scanning neighborhoods for its  Street View  service.  
 “Police have commenced the investigation,” Privacy
International Director  Simon Davies  said today in an interview.
“The fraud squad has it at the moment. They’ll conduct the
first level of investigation to determine the essential facts.”  
 Google, whose images allow website users to click on maps
to see 360-degree views of roads, is being investigated in
Europe and the U.S. On June 4, the company said it would give
European regulators data it mistakenly collected from unsecured
wireless networks, while the U.S. Federal Trade Commission said
last month it would look at Google’s data collecting.  
 “This matter is now under consideration and it is yet to
be determined what, if any, offenses may have occurred,” said a
London police spokesman who declined to be identified. “The
complaint alleges illegal access “to online activities
broadcast over unprotected home and business Wi-Fi networks.”  
 Crown Prosecution  
 The police may choose to forward the complaint to Britain’s
Crown Prosecution Service for further investigation, Davies
said.  
 “As we have said before, this was a mistake,” a Google
spokeswoman who declined to be identified said in an e-mail
today. “We are working with the relevant authorities to answer
their questions and concerns.”  
 Google, operator of the world’s largest search engine, last
month halted operation of the vehicles that gather images by
driving through neighborhoods with a camera and equipment for
locating wireless data hubs.  
 European governments including Germany, France and Spain
began probes of Google after the Mountain View, California-based
company said  last month  its cars had inadvertently recorded
information from Wi-Fi networks while photographing roadsides.  
 Australian Attorney-General  Robert McClelland  on June 6
said complaints by members of the public had raised issues that
required a police investigation.  
 Google’s collection of the data was also the subject of a
conference call among law enforcement officials from 30 U.S.
states, Connecticut’s Attorney General  Richard Blumenthal  said
earlier this month. Authorities in Italy, Canada, the Czech
Republic and Hong Kong also raised queries about Street View.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Erik Larson  in London at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 21 (Bloomberg) -- Connecticut Attorney General Richard Blumenthal talks about a multi-state investigation into Google Inc.'s collection of data from wireless computer networks.
     Google said last month it mistakenly gathered data from open wireless networks while it was capturing images of streets and houses for its Street View service, a product that lets users view photographs of an area online. Blumenthal speaks on Bloomberg Television's "In the Loop With Betty Liu." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
