-- Grockit Takes on Kaplan, Princeton Review in $1 Billion Test-Prep Market
-- Douglas MacMillan
-- 2010-06-22T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-22/grockit-takes-on-kaplan-princeton-review-in-1-billion-test-prep-market.html

          
          
             Grockit Inc.  wants to bring test
preparation to the Facebook generation.  
 The San Francisco startup is taking on companies like
Kaplan and the  Princeton Review Inc.  by undercutting their
prices, offering more custom features and using social
networking to appeal to students.  
 The site lets users collaborate and socialize while
studying, giving them more reasons to keep coming back. The
challenge is winning the trust of parents, who may be more
comfortable relying on established names to get their kids into
top colleges. A handful of players dominate test preparation and
course supplements, a market worth more than $1 billion,
according to research firm  Outsell Inc.   
 The summer months are a good opportunity for taking a new
approach to the market, said Farb Nivi, who founded Grockit in
2007 after working at  Kaplan  and  Princeton Review . In May the
company started the Summer Enrichment Academy, a program that
lets students hop in and out of a website on their own time,
working through problem sets in language arts, calculus,
probability and other common high school core subjects.  
 Along with readying high schoolers for college entrance
exams, the academy is designed to reduce the “memory loss”
that students suffer when they’re away from school, said Nivi,
who serves as chief executive officer. Kids typically lose the
equivalent of 2.6 months of grade-level ability during the
summer, he said, citing academic research.  
 Step Back  
 “Every year a kid takes one step forward and over the
summer the kid takes a quarter-step back,” Nivi said. “You can
avoid that with a minimal amount of exposure to the material.”  
 Grockit also is trying to get its service into school
districts. The company says it’s in talks to offer one or more
of its online programs to schools in San Francisco Unified
School District and  Mount Diablo Unified School District .  
 The challenge for Grockit and other test-prep startups is
their lack of name recognition, which is an important
consideration for schools and parents, said Kate Worlock, an
 analyst  at Burlingame, California-based Outsell.  
 “If you’re a parent trying to ensure their kid passes the
test they need to pass, you are very often going to go for an
established player,” she said. Rather than eat into chunks of
the market owned by Kaplan and other large companies, these
startups are likely to “nibble away at the edges” and
potentially become acquisition targets, Worlock said.  
 Range of Services  
 Grockit’s Nivi has grander ambitions. To that end, he
offers different tiers of services, ranging from free to more
than $100 per student. He’s also donating subscriptions to
nonprofit organizations and talking to school administrators
across the country about using Grockit.  
 The basic Grockit service is free for anyone to use. It
lets students play learning games with others on the site.  
 To unlock customized features -- such as one-on-one tutors,
algorithms that learn a student’s strengths and weaknesses, and
detailed progress reports -- Grockit has started charging a fee.  
 At $99.99 per student, the Summer Academy subscriptions
will play a “critical part” in spurring revenue at the three-
year-old company, Nivi said. Grockit, which isn’t profitable,
has raised $17.7 million in venture capital investments,
including a $7 million round closed in May led by Atlas
Ventures. It also counts LinkedIn Corp. Chairman  Reid Hoffman 
and Zynga Game Network Inc. CEO  Mark Pincus  among its investors.  
 Dot-Com Reprise?  
 Even so, Kaplan has overcome competition from Internet
startups before, said Carina Wong, a spokeswoman for the
company, a unit of the  Washington Post Co.  in Washington.  
 “What we’re seeing in test prep is similar to the early
days of the dot-com boom, when investors rushed to fund
seemingly innovative startups only to recognize, after losing a
great deal of money, that sustained and profitable execution is
far more challenging than coming up with a good concept,” Wong
said.  
 Princeton Review , based in Framingham, Massachusetts,
didn’t immediately respond to a request for comment.  
 John Flannery, a 17-year-old high school senior in
California, will use Grockit to improve his  SAT  and ACT scores
this summer. He’ll spend a few hours a week studying math and
reading online, with a class of hundreds of like-minded students
from around the world.  
 His mother, Marylou Flannery, says the ability to customize
the program was a big draw.  
 “If you wanted to put your kid into an SAT prep class,
they don’t really have the ability to adapt or change that
curriculum for individual needs,” said Flannery, an assistant
principal at a high school in  Richmond, California . She decided
to enroll her son in the summer academy after trying out Grockit
with her students.  
 ‘Billions of Bits’  
 Kaplan also is developing more personalized approaches to
test preparation, Wong said.  
 “ Kaplan , because of our size and history, is the only test
prep company capable of leveraging an extensive student database
of test information -- over a billion bits of data -- necessary
to deliver truly personalized learning for each of its
students.”  
 Mitch Lasky , who serves on Grockit’s board, sees room to
grow. The average college-bound student “takes something like
21 standardized tests in a 10-year education period that all
have economic meaning,” he said.  
 “We felt like there was a good base market,” said Lasky,
a general partner of Menlo Park, California-based  Benchmark
Capital , which was an early investor in the startup. And because
a weekly SAT prep course can cost more than $1,000 per student,
Grockit looks cheap.  
 Startup Rivals  
 The test-preparation incumbents aren’t the only competition
for Grockit, which has about 18 employees. A field of online
education startups are vying for outside-the-classroom learners.
That includes Chicago-based  PrepMe LLC , an online aid for takers
of the SAT, PSAT and ACT, and  Brightstorm Inc. , a San Francisco-
based service with troves of online tutorials and practice
tests.  
 “There is a shift in more and more students learning
outside of the school in informal spaces,” said Cheryl Lemke,
president and  CEO  of the  Metiri Group , an educational-technology
consulting firm based in Culver City, California.  
 Summer business is just getting started for Grockit. Only
1,000 students have enrolled in the academy so far, but Nivi
expects more than 20,000 by the end of August. Grockit also has
donated subscriptions to the  Magic Johnson Foundation , which
provides the service free to needy kids.  
 Nivi is talking to school administrators about ways to
incorporate the service into their normal budget this fall.  
 “Some curriculum directors at schools have said, ‘I’m
going to spend my textbook dollars on Grockit,’” he said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Douglas MacMillan  in New York at 
 dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        