-- ICP, Once Among AIG's `Best' Managers, Opens New SEC Front
-- Jody Shenn
-- 2010-06-22T13:41:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-22/icp-once-in-aig-s-very-best-is-new-front-in-sec-s-search-for-cdo-fraud.html

          
          
             A U.S. lawsuit against  ICP Asset
Management LLC  opens a new front in the government’s probe of
collateralized debt obligations, focusing on managers of
instruments that in some cases wiped out investors in less than
a year.  
 ICP and Chief Executive Officer  Thomas Priore , 41, arranged
more than $1 billion in trades that defrauded clients or broke
rules limiting risks in CDOs whose insurers included  American
International Group Inc. , the Securities and Exchange Commission
said in a complaint yesterday. The case stems from scrutiny of
more than 50 structured-product managers, and it continues, said
 George Canellos , head of the SEC’s New York office.  
 “This was by no means isolated,” said  Janet Tavakoli ,
founder of Chicago-based Tavakoli Structured Finance Inc.,
referring to the broader collateral-management industry. Some
investment advisers “were just raping their CDOs for the
benefit of their hedge funds.”  
 The lawsuit is the SEC’s first from the global credit
crisis to target a manager of CDOs, which pool assets such as
mortgage bonds, bank capital notes and buyout loans into new
securities with varying risks. Collateral managers often pick
the initial assets and sometimes select replacements as the
original underlying debt pays down.  
 Starting in late 2007, some mortgage-bond CDOs overseen by
other managers were liquidated at complete losses to all but the
senior-most investors, Standard & Poor’s said at the time.  
 Inflated Prices  
 ICP favored itself and certain clients in its trading, for
example, by having CDOs purchase assets at inflated prices from
other CDOs or accounts, the SEC said. The dealings helped the
firm generate tens of millions of dollars in fees and
undisclosed profits, according to the lawsuit. The agency is
seeking fines and disgorgement of gains.  
 The case underscores “the dangers of opaque markets,”
Enforcement Director  Robert Khuzami  said today in an interview
on CNBC. “All the safeguards that you rely upon to make sure
that investors are protected are often not there in those
markets, and so that’s why a strong enforcement presence is
critical,” he said.  
 Priore, who the SEC says has a majority stake in the New
York-based firm, denied wrongdoing.  
 ‘Best Interests’ of Clients  
 “We at all times acted in the best interest of our clients
and intend to vigorously defend ourselves against these
allegations,” he said in an e-mailed statement.  
 ICP oversaw $8.8 billion of CDOs filled with asset-backed
securities as of Sept. 30, 2007, according to S&P data. It was
the second-largest manager of CDOs taken over by the Federal
Reserve Bank of New York after the government in 2008 initiated
a bailout of AIG that swelled to $182.3 billion, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 In a November 2007 conference call, AIG executives
including  Joseph Cassano , then head of its derivatives unit, and
 Andrew Forster , an executive vice president, tried to reassure
investors about AIG’s insurance of mortgage-linked instruments
that could be reshaped over time by collateral managers.  
 “We are aligning ourselves with the very best managers,”
Forster said at the time. “There is a huge amount of due
diligence that goes on.”  
 New York-based AIG and its former executives weren’t
accused of wrongdoing. Company spokesman  Mark Herr  declined to
comment. The SEC didn’t specify what losses, if any, AIG
incurred from CDOs managed by ICP.  
 Triaxx  
 The CDOs managed by ICP, known as Triaxx, invested
primarily in mortgage-backed securities, and unlike most of the
vehicles insured by AIG, eschewed  subprime debt .  
 In August 2008, an ICP portfolio manager caused a Triaxx
CDO to purchase about $22 million of mortgage-backed bonds in
the open market at a price of 63.5 cents on the dollar. The
CDO’s trustee rejected the trade because the vehicle was
prohibited from purchasing bonds priced below 75 cents, a rule
aimed at limiting risk and ensuring that ICP didn’t add highly
distressed bonds.  
 After conferring with Priore, a portfolio manager bought
the bonds through an account jointly owned by Priore and “an
important client of ICP,” and sold them to the Triaxx CDO at 75
cents, the SEC said, without identifying the client. The
transaction resulted in an immediate, risk-free profit of about
$2.5 million for the account.  
 ‘Off-Market Trade’  
 “When you look at a trade like that, nothing could be
clearer,” the SEC’s Canellos told reporters on a conference
call yesterday. “You don’t need to be too scientific in
studying the market to know that was an off-market trade.”  
 Most managers of mortgage-bond CDOs also oversaw other
types of investment funds, had affiliates that did or started
doing so once the housing market soured. Those firms include the
largest money managers, such as  BlackRock Inc.  and TCW Group
Inc., as well as specialists such as Ellington Management Group
LLC and Tricadia Capital Management LLC.  
 ICP differed from most managers in that it also had a
brokerage business. The SEC’s complaint described instances when
that unit handled allegedly fraudulent trades between its funds
and CDOs.  
 The practices described by the SEC  may be “the tip of the
iceberg” in the industry, said  Thomas Adams , a partner with the
law firm  Paykin Krieg & Adams LLP  in New York and a former
executive with bond insurer  FGIC Corp. , which also sold
protection against the default of a Triaxx CDO.  
 ‘Market Stress’  
 Most of the largest debt brokers also managed some types of
investment funds or CDOs. Bear Stearns Cos., which was among the
largest managers of mortgage-bond CDOs and traders of home-loan
securities, almost collapsed in 2008, before being bought by
 JPMorgan Chase & Co . Credit Suisse Group and Merrill Lynch &
Co., which was later bought by  Bank of America Corp. , were also
among investment banks that managed CDOs.  
 Spokespeople for the companies either didn’t return
messages or declined to comment.  
 “Our examination of collateral managers in this industry
has been going on for a number of months,” the SEC’s Canellos
said, without identifying any firms. The inquiry, disclosed by
SEC Chairman  Mary Schapiro  in January, focuses on possible
conflicts of interest and whether managers appropriately priced
assets at times of “market stress,” he said.  
 Goldman Sachs Case  
 The question is whether regulators will accuse additional
firms of moving assets among entities they influence or having
one enter the opposite side of another’s bets, said Tavakoli.  
 “This is something I call CDO hawala,” she said,
referring to informal, unregulated cash-transfer networks used
mainly in the Middle East, Africa and Asia. “The abuse was
widespread and massive.”  
 The SEC has already sued other companies and executives for
misconduct associated with the housing crisis. The agency sued
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  in April, claiming it didn’t disclose
to investors the role played by hedge fund Paulson & Co. in
devising a CDO, along with manager ACA Management LLC, that the
fund then bet against. Goldman Sachs has denied the allegations.  
 AIG, which partly insured two Triaxx CDOs, was supposed to
sign off on purchases by the vehicles, providing comfort to
investors, the SEC said. The insurer wasn’t given a chance in
many cases, according to the agency’s complaint.  
 In an attempt to get around those rules by selling the CDOs
bonds similar to ones they had purchased in the past, ICP in
some cases sold securities from a client account into the
market, bought new debt in that account and then sold it to the
CDOs at inflated values under a so-called forward-sale agreement
that didn’t reference the new debt, the SEC said.  
 Forward Sales  
 Priore bought about $1.3 billion in bonds from Bear Stearns
in June 2007 after two of its hedge funds collapsed, according
to the lawsuit. He used a forward agreement -- a contract
forbidden in the Triaxx investment guidelines because it could
increase risk by setting prices before actual purchases -- to
buy most of the bonds because ICP didn’t have enough funds
available for the deal, the SEC said. He didn’t get AIG’s
approval, nor did he inform the CDOs directors, the SEC said.  
 Priore later arranged to have that sale amended, acquiring
the bonds for ICP and its affiliates, the SEC said. He then
resold the bonds at higher prices to a client’s account,
misappropriating a $14 million profit, the agency said.  
 ‘Smart Guys’  
 ICP kept some bonds in one of AIG’s CDOs after the insurer
rejected them in October 2007, the SEC said. “In late 2008,
after AIG complained about unauthorized trades, ICP was
compelled to stop nearly all reinvestments by the Triaxx CDOs,”
the complaint said.  
 The value of the $5.5 billion of ICP’s CDO slices insured
by AIG fell to $3.2 billion by the time the Fed bought them from
the insurer in 2008 as part of its bailout, according to the
insurer’s disclosures.  
 TCW was the largest manager of AIG-insured CDOs, which were
placed in the New York Fed’s Maiden Lane III, overseeing $10.2
billion, according to the data. After ICP, the next managers
were Vanderbilt Capital Advisors, Ellington’s Duke Funding unit
and Aladdin Asset Management, the data show.  
 Adams, the former bond-insurance executive who met with
Priore and others from ICP when they sought insurance on one of
the Triaxx CDOs, said that “they seemed like smart guys who
wouldn’t do this type of thing.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Joshua Gallu  in Washington at 
 jgallu@bloomberg.net ;
 Jody Shenn  in New York at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Head of the SEC's New York Office George Canellos. Source: Milbank, Tweed, Hadley & McCloy via Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
