-- Millionaires' Riches Return to Pre-Crisis Levels, Study Finds
-- Warren Giles
-- 2010-06-23T06:47:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-22/millionaires-riches-return-to-near-pre-crisis-levels-led-by-asia-pacific.html

          
          
             Asia-Pacific’s number of
millionaires equaled Europe’s for the first time last year as
the region powered the global economy’s recovery, according to a
report by  Capgemini SA  and  Merrill Lynch & Co .  
 The number of individuals with at least $1 million of
investable assets in Asia-Pacific rose 26 percent to 3 million
in 2009, matching Europe and almost overhauling North America’s
3.1 million, according to the 14th annual World Wealth Report
published yesterday.  
 Asia “continues to lead the global economic recovery and
this has benefited many of the markets in the region in terms of
both growth and wealth creation,”  Ong Yeng Fang , market
managing director for Indonesia, Philippines and Thailand at
Merrill Lynch Wealth Management, said at a conference in
Singapore today. Given Europe’s debt crisis, “there is a very
high possibility that their numbers will be surpassed.”  
 Millionaires in Asia-Pacific -- home to 60 percent of the
world’s population and the two fastest-growing major economies -
- boosted combined assets 31 percent to $9.7 trillion, the
fastest regional increase, according to the survey. The MSCI
Asia-Pacific Index posted its  biggest annual gain  in six years
as stimulus spending in China reignited economic growth.  
 Barclays Plc, Morgan Stanley and UBS AG are rushing to
expand their private banks in Asia-Pacific as rich people from
Indonesia to China invest more money. Wealth in the region,
excluding Japan, is expected to rise at almost double the global
pace, the Boston Consulting Group said this month.  
 “This region has the best economic growth, the highest
levels of wealth creation, and many players are coming to this
part of the world, or are expanding,”  Charles Mak , Morgan
Stanley’s head of private wealth management, said in an
interview this month.  
 Global Wealth  
 The number of millionaire households, or those with at
least $1 million in investable assets excluding primary
residences, expanded to 10 million globally from 8.6 million a
year earlier, according to Merrill Lynch and Capgemini. North
America’s number of millionaires grew 17 percent, the second-
biggest regional increase.  
 Worldwide, global wealth held by millionaires rose by 19
percent to $39 trillion after falling more than 19 percent in
2008 following the credit crisis that sent stock indexes to
their worst annual losses since the Great Depression and slashed
the value of real-estate holdings, hedge-fund and private-equity
investments.  
 Assets in North America advanced 18 percent in 2009 to
$10.7 trillion. The U.S. had 2.87 million millionaires, followed
by 1.65 million in Japan and 861,500 in Germany, the report said.
The three countries accounted for 53.5 percent of the world’s
millionaires in 2009. The number of millionaires in Hong Kong
soared 104 percent and in India, 51 percent to 126,700.  
 ‘More Cautious’  
 “High-net-worth investors have emerged more cautious and
conservative, but they have emerged,”  Lyle LaMothe , head of U.S.
wealth management for Merrill Lynch global wealth management,
said in New York.  
 Last year’s gains were driven by market recovery and
government stimulus efforts, the survey said. The  Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index  rose more than 20 percent in 2009 after falling
38 percent in 2008, its steepest annual drop since 1937.  
 Ultra-high-net-worth individuals with more than $30 million
to invest saw their wealth rise by almost 22 percent in 2009,
faster than other millionaires, according to the report, which
attributed the gain to a “more effective re-allocation of
assets.”  
 Allocations  
 Millionaire investors “warily returned to markets in
cautious pursuit of returns,” LaMothe said. Equity holdings
worldwide rose to 29 percent from 25 percent and fixed-income
investments increased to 31 percent from 29 percent as cash and
deposits dipped to 17 percent from 21 percent.  
 Portfolio allocations to real estate stayed the same at 18
percent as residential real estate assets’ increase balanced out
commercial real estate holdings’ decrease.  
 Wealthy investors in all regions except Latin America
increased their relative share of holdings in markets outside
their home regions, reversing a trend that began in 2006 of
increasing investments in home countries.  
 “What the markets and economy destroyed in 2008 was
reconstructed in 2009,”  Patrick Ramsey , chief executive officer
of Merrill Lynch Bank (Suisse) SA, told reporters in Zurich.
“Volatility is now part of our world, and we have to learn to
live with it.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joyce Koh  in Singapore at 
 jkoh38@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     A gold fountain stands at the entrance of a residential housing estate in central Beijing. Photographer: Stephen Shaver/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 23 (Bloomberg) -- The number of individuals with at least $1 million of investable assets in Asia-Pacific region rose 26 percent to 3 million in 2009, matching Europe and almost overhauling North America’s 3.1 million, according to the 14th annual World Wealth Report published yesterday. Bloomberg's Deirdre Bolton reports. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 22 (Bloomberg) -- Lyle LaMothe, head of U.S. wealth management at Merrill Lynch & Co. Inc, speaks about the rebound in millionaires' assets close to pre-crisis levels as the number of rich people in Asia equalled those in Europe for the first time, according to a report by Capgemini SA and Merrill Lynch & Co.
     LaMothe talks on Bloomberg Television's "InBusiness with Margaret Brennan." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
