-- Incoming Czech Central Banker Singer Says the Euro Has Lost Some Allure
-- Peter Laca
-- 2010-06-22T14:13:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-22/incoming-czech-central-banker-singer-says-the-euro-has-lost-some-allure.html

          
          
             Joining the euro area has become
less attractive for the Czech Republic as the currency region’s
credibility has suffered during Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis,
incoming central bank Governor  Miroslav Singer  said.  
 The  Czech Republic , which must adopt the euro at some point
as part of its agreement to enter the European Union in 2004,
doesn’t have a target date for the currency switch. Czech policy
makers have said that an independent monetary policy and
currency helped the country cope with the impact of the global
economic crisis better than the 16 euro-region nations.  
 Singer, who will move up to governor from vice-governor on
July 1, said the euro area changed during the crisis and
membership in the region is now less appealing.  
 “The euro zone isn’t what it was or appeared to be just
recently,” Singer said in a  presentation  posted on the central
bank’s  website  today. “The euro zone’s credibility has suffered
significantly during the crisis, and its attractiveness for the
Czech Republic has decreased.”  
 The Czech Republic doesn’t meet the fiscal qualification
for adopting the euro yet as its public-finance  deficit  swelled
to 5.9 percent of  gross domestic product  last year, double the 3
percent limit.  
 Urged by the U.S. and Asia to stabilize markets, European
governments approved a 750 billion-euro ($920 billion) rescue
package last month in a bid to end speculation that the euro
area might break apart because of the debt crisis. The turmoil
has pushed the euro down 14.4 percent against the dollar in
2010.  
 The currency slid to as low as $1.1877 on June 7, the
weakest since 2006, before recovering to trade at $1.2289 at
2:05 p.m. in London today.  
 European taxpayers are forced to accept “false
solidarity” and the euro area should stop excusing
undisciplined  members  that consciously break the rules if it
wants to improve its credibility, Singer said.  
 “The current nature of the euro zone isn’t trustworthy and
the method of solving problems during the crisis signals the
need for fundamental changes in institutions and decision-
making,” he said. “If the changes don’t occur, the euro zone
faces a risk of long-term stagnation or, at best, slow
growth.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Peter Laca  in Prague at   placa@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        