-- India Said to Plan 5 Million Tons of Grain Sales to Cool Prices
-- Pratik Parija
-- 2010-06-22T10:12:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-22/india-said-to-plan-5-million-tons-of-wheat-rice-sales-to-contain-prices.html

          
          
               India , the world’s second-biggest
consumer of rice and wheat, may sell 5 million metric tons from
state grain reserves over the next nine months to damp prices,
two government officials involved in the planning said.  
 A preliminary decision was taken earlier this month by a
group of ministers led by Finance Minister Pranab Mukherjee,
said the officials, who didn’t want to be identified as the
information hasn’t been announced publicly. A final plan may be
approved at a meeting on June 25 in New Delhi, they said.  
 A drought in India last year damaged crops of rice, sugar
cane and oilseeds, creating shortages that have kept the food
inflation rate above 15 percent since November. Wheat prices
have increased 10 percent in the past 12 months, while lentils
and sugar cost 30 percent more than a year earlier, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 “We require 8 to 9 million tons of wheat until March when
the next crop arrives,” Veena Sharma, secretary at the Roller
Flour Millers Federation of India, said by telephone from  New
Delhi , where the group representing 800 millers is based. “The
quantity to be released is not enough.”  
 Manoj Pandey, a spokesman for food ministry in New Delhi,
declined to comment on the sale proposal.  
 July-delivery wheat fell 0.4 percent to 1,267 rupees per
100 kilograms on the National Commodity & Derivatives Exchange
in Mumbai. Rice futures are not traded in India.  
 Inflation is also gaining strength in  China , the third-
biggest economy, as consumer demand rises. The country has
booked the most corn imports in 14 years, and is paring its
stockpiles to cool an 18 percent gain in local prices of the
grain in the past year.  
 Biscuit Makers  
 India’s government may sell 3 million to 3.5 million tons
of wheat and 1.5 million to 2 million tons of rice at prices it
paid growers, the officials said. Bulk users including biscuit
makers may be sold a total of 1.5 million tons at rates that are
slightly above prices paid to farmers, they said.  
 State warehouses had 35.16 million tons of wheat and 25.3
million tons of rice on June 1, according to the food ministry.  
 The government, the biggest buyer of food crops, purchases
grains at guaranteed prices from farmers and sells grain to the
poor at below market rates through a chain of fair-price shops.
The assured prices are meant to protect farmers from forced
sales in the open market.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Prabhudatta Mishra at 
 pmishra8@bloomberg.net ;
Pratik Parija in New Delhi at 
 pparija@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:  James Poole  at   jpoole4@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        