-- Insurance Rates Offshore Will Climb After BP Gulf Spill, Lloyd's CEO Says
-- Kevin Crowley
-- 2010-06-22T18:10:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-22/insurance-rates-offshore-will-climb-after-bp-gulf-spill-lloyd-s-ceo-says.html

          
          
             The  BP Plc  oil spill in the Gulf of
Mexico will push up the price of insurance on offshore drilling,
said  Lloyd’s of London  Chief Executive Officer  Richard Ward .  
 “Rates have to go up quite significantly,” Ward said in
an interview on Bloomberg Television’s “In Business With
 Margaret Brennan ” today. “Rates had fallen to quite a low
level in the Gulf of Mexico for offshore energy. We’d been
questioning the profitability of insurance in that region for
quite some time.”  
 Insurers are charging 50 percent more for policies covering
oil rigs after an explosion on the Deepwater in the Gulf of
Mexico triggered the worst spill in U.S. history, Moody’s
Investors Service said on June 3. London-based BP has spent $2
billion to respond to the disaster.  
 Lloyd’s estimates its insurers will pay $300 million to
$600 million in claims related to the Deepwater Horizon rig.
Lloyd’s underwriters insured the rig, owned by Transocean Ltd.,
and has caps on the coverage it provided for environmental
damage caused by the spill. BP, which didn’t buy insurance, will
cover the majority of the costs, forecast to be at least $20
billion by the U.S. government.  
 ‘More Capital’  
 “We should see more capital come in,” Ward said of the
capacity of insurers to cover greater risks in the Gulf. “With
these major catastrophes, you always get a rate adjustment after
the catastrophe,” Ward said in a separate interview at
Bloomberg headquarters in New York before his TV appearance.  
 Lloyd’s, the three-century-old insurance market, is
composed of more than 80 syndicates that underwrite risks on
commercial property, marine risks and celebrity assets. The
syndicates that insured Transocean have already contributed
about half of a $570 million payment tied to the rig’s
destruction, Ward said.  
 Lloyd’s underwriters have sued BP in U.S. district court,
asking the judge to declare that they have no obligation to
cover pollution-related liability claims resulting from the
spill because contracts between BP and Transocean stipulated
that the rig owner wouldn’t be responsible for contamination
that originates below the surface. BP made an attempt to provide
the insurers with a notice of claims in May, Lloyd’s
underwriters said in their complaint.  
 ‘Not as Clear Cut’  
 “Policies are not as clear cut as you might expect,
there’s always a bit of ambiguity,” Ward said of the dispute
with BP. “No one, I don’t believe, has a good understanding at
this point in time as to what the cause was. And until you do
have a good understanding of the cause, it’s difficult to know
where are the liabilities.”  
 Judge  Melinda Harmon  called a pretrial conference for Sept.
9 in Houston.  
 Lloyd’s insurers reported record profits last year on a
benign North Atlantic hurricane season and higher investment
returns. The market keeps about a third of its assets in
corporate bonds, a third in cash and a third in government
obligations, mostly from the U.S. and U.K., Ward said.  
 “We have significant exposure to the U.S. and significant
exposure to the U.K., and we’re comfortable with that,” Ward
said. “We are not going to shift that portfolio significantly
in the next few years.”  
 Insured losses tied to natural disasters have increased
this year as carriers pay claims tied to rainstorms in the U.S.
Northeast, the earthquake in Chile and windstorms in Europe.
Yesterday, AccuWeather Inc. boosted its forecast for the 2010
Atlantic hurricane season to 18 to 21 named storms, up from 16
to 18. Climate change, Ward said, is pushing up catastrophe
risk, while increases in global trade are raising the cost of
disasters.  
 ‘Reassess the Risk’  
 “Everyone is having to reassess the risk arising from
climate change and recognize that severity and frequency is
increasing,” Ward said. “We now suddenly discover we are
exposed to risks around the world. Supply chains are getting
more complex. Supply chain risk is a big issue. With greater
wealth comes greater risk.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Andrew Frye  in New York at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net ;
 Kevin Crowley  in London at 
 kcrowley1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Lloyd's CEO Richard Ward  
                       
                         
                           Daniel Acker/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Ward said the BP Plc oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico will increase the price of insurance on offshore drilling. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Ward said the BP Plc oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico will increase the price of insurance on offshore drilling. Photographer: Daniel Acker/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                     June 22 (Bloomberg) -- Richard Ward, chief executive officer of Lloyd’s of London, talks about the insurance market's exposure to claims from the BP oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico and insurance rates for offshore drilling rigs in the region.
     Ward, speaking on Bloomberg Television's “InBusiness With Margaret Brennnan,” also discusses U.K. Prime Minister David Cameron's plan to impose a levy on banks and raise the sales tax in what the government called its biggest peacetime deficit cut. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
