-- Investors Not Involved in Making Sustainability Decisions, Survey Says
-- Mark Scott
-- 2010-06-22T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-22/investors-not-involved-in-making-sustainability-decisions-survey-says.html

          
          
             A minority of the world’s largest
companies include investors in making decisions on
sustainability issues, according to a United Nations-sponsored
survey of 766 chief executive officers.  
 Twenty-two percent of the CEOs said investors were a major
factor in their attempts to bring sustainability into business
decisions, the report released today by the UN Global Compact
program and Accenture concluded. Alcoa Inc.’s  Klaus Kleinfeld ,
Unilever NV’s  Paul Polman  and Enel SpA’s  Fulvio Conti  were among
those polled, the study said.  
 One-third of executives said a lack of recognition by the
financial markets was a barrier to including concern for the
environment, social issues and other sustainability objectives
into their strategic planning.  
 “If investors aren’t interested, it’s hard for CEOs to
focus on long-term issues like sustainability,” said Peter
Lacy, a managing director at Accenture, said in a phone
interview. “It’s the role of executives to take this idea to
investors, to explain sustainability can add value to brands.”  
 To convince investors, 48 percent of executives now discuss
the topics with financial analysts, the United Nations-backed
study found. That compares with 31 percent in 2007.  
 These discussions haven’t changed companies’ business
practices, said Georg Kell, executive director at the United
National Global Compact, the body that sponsored the report.  
 Supply Chain  
 While 88 percent of companies say sustainability concerns
should be included in their supply chains, 54 percent of those
polled said they actually did so.  
 Similarly, 91 percent of businesses believe environmental
and social issues should be incorporated into their
subsidiaries’ operations. That compares to 59 percent of
companies that put the ideas into practice, according to the UN
report.  
 Almost 75 percent of executives in the survey said they
acted on sustainability issues for branding, trust, and
reputational grounds. The potential for cost savings and revenue
growth was the second-highest motivator, with 43 percent of CEOs
saying they invested for this reason.  
 “The investing structure for most companies isn’t
supportive of responsible conduct,” the United National Global
Compact’s Kell said in a phone interview. “Chief executives are
missing tools to translate sustainability into financial
valuations.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mark Scott  in London at 
 mscott50@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        