-- Iran Red Crescent Plans to Send Gaza Strip Aid Ship June 27 With 10 People
-- Ladane Nasseri
-- 2010-06-22T09:11:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-22/iran-red-crescent-plans-to-send-gaza-strip-aid-ship-june-27-with-10-people.html

          
          
             A ship that will carry aid from the
 Iranian Red Crescent Society  will leave June 27 on a voyage
through the Suez Canal to the Gaza Strip, said Abdolrauf
Adibzadeh, the relief group’s head of international affairs.  
 The vessel will depart from the southern port city of
Bandar Abbas, loaded with 1,100 tons of supplies, Adibzadeh told
reporters in Tehran today. Five Red Crescent representatives and
five journalists also will be aboard, he said.  
 The trip’s organizers aren’t looking for a confrontation
with Israel, Adibzadeh said. The ship, which the group rented
from a private Iranian company, “will respect international
laws,” he said. “We aren’t seeking adventurism.”  
 The mission was announced after nine pro-Palestinian
Turkish activists, including one who also held U.S. nationality,
were shot dead May 31 when Israeli commandos raided their boat
in international waters. The vessel was one of six in a flotilla
attempting to breach Israel’s three-year-old blockade of Gaza,
the coastal strip ruled by the Palestinian militant group Hamas.  
 Iranian President  Mahmoud Ahmadinejad  condemned the Israeli
raid on the flotilla ship as “shameful“ and “criminal.” The
Iranian government doesn’t recognize Israel.  
 Israel said it issued numerous warnings to the flotilla to
change course for the port of Ashdod and unload there, before it
seized the vessels.  
 Red Cross List  
 The Iranian ship’s cargo has been chosen from a list of
goods needed in Gaza as determined by  International Committee of
the Red Cross , Adibzadeh said. There will be 50 tons of
medication and the rest is food and hygiene goods, he said.  
 “Providing people in Gaza with aid is one aspect but it is
not sufficient,” Adibzadeh said. “Most important is to help
them by seeking to end the blockade on Gaza.”  
 Israel agreed two days ago to allow all food items and a
wider range of building supplies into Gaza while banning
materials that might be used for attacks on Israeli territory.
The shipments are entering by road, while the naval blockade
remains in place.  
 Israeli officials say they must prevent shipments from
entering Gaza without first checking them for weapons that may
be used against the country’s southern towns and cities, which
have come under attack from rockets.  
 Middle East envoy  Tony Blair  said yesterday that
humanitarian aid groups have no reason to try to reach the Gaza
Strip by sea, after the Israeli government agreed to loosen the
blockade following international criticism.  
 For the past three years, Israel has allowed only about 100
basic food products and consumer items into Gaza, while banning
such goods as chocolate, jam, potato chips and shaving cream. It
started letting those items in two weeks ago as it began to ease
the restrictions.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ladane Nasseri  in Tehran at 
 lnasseri@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        