-- Iraq Will Increase Power Supplies as Minister Quits After Deadly Riots
-- Caroline Alexander
-- 2010-06-22T12:53:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-22/iraq-will-increase-power-supplies-as-minister-quits-after-deadly-riots.html

          
          
             Iraq’s government said the center
and south of the country will get more electricity after power
cuts led to deadly riots and the resignation of a minister.  
 More electricity will be granted to Basra and other
deprived regions, funded by revenue from oil production,
government spokesman  Ali al-Dabbagh  said in an e-mailed
statement today after a Cabinet meeting in Baghdad.  
 Al-Dabbagh didn’t say whether Prime Minister  Nuri al-Maliki 
had accepted the resignation of Electricity Minister  Karim Wahid 
or provide any further details.  
 Wahid offered to resign yesterday in a news conference
carried by state-sponsored al-Iraqiyah television, after two
people died and dozens were hurt in three days of street
protests over power rationing. Temperatures in Iraq soared to
about 49 degrees Celsius (120 degrees Fahrenheit) last weekend.  
 “I am ready to do whatever the prime minister wants me to
do to serve the Iraqi people,” Wahid said. He accused
politicians of trying to exploit public anger as they compete to
form a new government, more than three months after the March 7
parliamentary elections produced no clear winner.  
 Speaking today at a press conference broadcast by al-
Iraqiyah, al-Maliki said he didn’t ask Wahid to resign and is
still considering the offer. “I don’t know anyone in Iraq who
is more capable than he is at the technical level,” he said.
The premier said it will take two years for power plants being
built by  General Electric Co.  and Siemens AG to come online and
resolve the power shortages.  
 Earlier this month, the Finance Ministry said it would
issue bonds to finance agreements signed in 2008 with GE and
Siemens to add almost 9,000 megawatts of capacity over the next
few years.  
 Lack of Funds  
 Wahid yesterday cited the impatience of Iraqis as another
reason for his resignation, and said his efforts to fix the
national grid had been thwarted by a lack of funding and fuel.
He was appointed electricity minister when al-Maliki came to
power in 2006.  
 Iraq, holder of the world’s third-largest oil reserves, has
struggled to raise electricity production, which stood at about
8,000 megawatts in April. Iraqis currently receive power for
about one hour in five, according to local news agencies.  
 The two protesters died in Basra on June 19 after police
opened fire to disperse a crowd gathered outside a provincial
government office. Yesterday, 12 riot police officers were
wounded in Nasriyah when demonstrators hurled stones at them.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Caroline Alexander  in London at 
 calexander1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        