-- Israeli Economy One of World's `Happy Stories,' Nobel Winner Krugman Says
-- Calev Ben-David
-- 2010-06-22T17:43:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-22/israeli-economy-one-of-world-s-happy-stories-nobel-winner-krugman-says.html

          
          
             Israel’s economy is one of the
“happy stories” in the world today and the country isn’t in
need of fiscal stimulus, Nobel Prize-winning economist  Paul Krugman  said.  
 Israel was one of the small number of advanced countries,
such as Canada and Australia, that were able to weather the
crisis well, Krugman said today at an economic conference in Tel
Aviv. Part of Israel’s success was due to a “boring” banking
system, which wasn’t engaged in any “wild stuff,” he said.  
 Israel’s rebound from the global financial crisis has been
powered by exports, which make up almost 50 percent of gross
domestic product. Bank of Israel Governor  Stanley Fischer  said
on June 18 that the bank expects economic growth of 3.7 percent
this year.  
 “Israel’s economy is one of the happy stories,” Krugman
said. “The case for fiscal stimulus is not necessary. Israel
has been able to manage the crisis with monetary policy.”  
 Israel’s economy expanded an annualized 3.6 percent in the
first quarter, led by exports. Unemployment is likely to drop to
an average of 7 percent from 7.7 percent in 2009, according to
the bank’s forecast.  
 The recovery began in the second quarter of last year, when
the economy expanded 1.4 percent. Growth picked up to 3.9
percent in the third quarter and 4.5 percent in the fourth
quarter.  
 Fischer has raised rates by 1 percentage point since August
as Israel emerged from the global recession. He left the
benchmark interest rate unchanged for a second month at 1.5
percent on May 24, as growth slowed and the European debt crisis
threatened to hinder the global recovery.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Alisa Odenheimer  in Jerusalem at 
 aodenheimer@bloomberg.net ;
 Calev Ben-David  in Jerusalem at 
 cbendavid@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        