-- Istanbul Bomb Kills Four on Army Bus in City's First Attack for Two Years
-- Benjamin Harvey
-- 2010-06-22T14:41:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-22/istanbul-bomb-kills-four-on-army-shuttle-bus-in-first-attack-in-two-years.html

          
          
             Four Turkish soldiers and a 17-year-
old woman were killed in Istanbul today by a roadside bomb that
targeted a bus carrying army personnel, in an attack claimed by
Kurdish militants.  
 The Kurdistan Freedom Falcons said on its  website  that it
carried out the bombing and warned of intensified future
attacks. Turkey and the U.S. say the group is linked to the
Kurdistan Workers’ Party, or PKK, which the Turkish military has
been fighting for more than two decades in a conflict that has
left about 40,000 people dead, mostly Kurds.  
 The deaths are the first in a bomb attack in Istanbul,
Turkey’s largest city, since July 2008, when Kurdish rebels
killed 17 people on a busy shopping street. They come as
fighting intensifies in the largely Kurdish southeast between
the army and the PKK.  
 Turkish troops killed three Kurdish militants in the
southeastern town of Gumushane today, NTV television reported,
and another five militants and one soldier died in fighting in
Diyarbakir last night. A PKK attack on Turkish troops in the
Semdinli region near the Iraqi border on June 19 killed 11
soldiers.  
 Addressing lawmakers in parliament today, Prime Minister
 Recep Tayyip Erdogan  rejected calls from opposition parties for
the reimposition of the state of emergency in the southeast that
was lifted in 2002 after 15 years.  
 ‘No Surrender’  
 “We will not surrender to this violence,” he said.
Emergency rule “victimizes people, it strengthens terror.”  
 Turkey is calling on the U.S. to provide more intelligence
about Kurdish militant activities in northern Iraq. The U.S. is
“ready to review urgently” any request for help, U.S.
Ambassador James Jeffrey said in an e-mailed statement
yesterday.  
 Turkey has also warned Iraqi Kurdish leader  Massoud Barzani 
to take control of the border to keep the rebels from crossing
into Turkey from their camps in northern Iraq. Turkish troops
have entered Iraqi territory to pursue militants in recent
weeks, and the army says it will continue to do so if Iraqi
officials don’t act to stop the attacks.  
 The bombing marks the latest setback for Erdogan’s efforts
to ease tensions in the southeast by broadening cultural rights
and boosting the economy.  
 Kurdish Opening  
 His so-called “Kurdish opening” includes the launch of a
state-run Kurdish-language television channel last year as well
as measures to improve irrigation and encourage investment in
the region, one of Turkey’s poorest.  
 The project has come under attack from opposition parties
who say it is divisive and amounts to capitulation to terrorism.
The PKK, and legal pro-Kurdish parties, say the measures haven’t
gone far enough.  
 Erdogan told lawmakers in parliament today that he won’t
abandon the plan.  
 “Whenever democracy is increased, whenever there is
economic development, the terror organization intervenes,” he
said. “Unfortunately, in the past, when this happened,
governments have taken steps back. We will not take a step
back.”  
 The PKK, labeled a terrorist organization by the U.S. and
the European Union, has been fighting for autonomy in the
southeast since 1984.  
 The benchmark  ISE National 100 Index  of stocks fell 0.9
percent at 5:10 p.m. in Istanbul, tracking declines on most
European markets.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Steve Bryant  in Ankara at 
 sbryant5@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     A man inspects the wreckage of a military bus after a roadside bomb blew up the bus killing two soldiers and a girl and wounded six people, in Istanbul. Photographer: Bulent Kilic/AFP/Getty Images  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
