-- Lithuanian Prime Minister Says Nation Is on Track to Join Euro in 2014
-- Maryam Nemazee
-- 2010-06-22T06:23:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-22/lithuania-s-euro-target-on-track-as-premier-says-he-trusts-in-currency.html

          
          
             Lithuania, which suffered the
European Union’s second-deepest recession last year, is on
course to adopt the euro by its target date of 2014, Prime
Minister  Andrius Kubilius  said.  
 The Baltic nation is also “on track” to cut its deficit
to 3 percent of  gross domestic product  by 2012, which will
require further spending reductions of about 5 percent of gross
domestic product, Kubilius said in an interview on Bloomberg
Television today. “Joining the euro is a very clear strategic
goal,” he said.  
 Lithuania pushed through one of Europe’s toughest austerity
programs last year and in 2010, with budget cuts averaging a
combined 12 percent of GDP, to bring down the deficit and
qualify for the euro. The measures exacerbated last year’s
recession, when output shrank 14.8 percent.  
 Kubilius called for more coordinated fiscal and economic
policies in Europe to prevent future crises.  
 “We’d like to see more calmness and stability in euro but
we hope that Europe will manage it,” Kubilius said. Lithuania
“trusts in” Europe and the euro.  
 The decline of the euro brought “positive results” for
Lithuania, which pegs the litas to the euro, by helping the
nation become “more competitive,” Kubilius said. Exports
surged 36.2 percent in April from a year ago.  
 Economic “recovery is on its way,” he said. “We saw
good numbers in the first quarter, exports are recovering in a
rapid way.”  
 The GDP decline slowed to 2.8 percent in the first quarter
from a 12.1 percent drop in the final three months of 2009. The
Finance Ministry says the economy may resume growth this
quarter.  
 Kubilius said he hopes to see a “good development” in
unemployment data as the government liberalizes labor rules.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Tasneem Brogger  in London at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net 
 Maryam Nemazee  in London at 
 mnemazee@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        