-- Japan's Fiscal Plan Fails to Show Ability to Curtail Debt, S&P, Fitch Say
-- Toru Fujioka
-- 2010-06-22T07:16:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-22/japan-s-fiscal-plan-fails-to-show-ability-to-curtail-debt-s-p-fitch-say.html

          
          
             Japan’s fiscal strategy released
today has yet to demonstrate to debt-rating companies that the
country is on a path toward curtailing the world’s largest
public debt.  
 Today’s statement “does not have enough details for us to
reach a firm conclusion or for us to say that we have
confidence that Japan has a detailed fiscal consolidation
plan,”  Andrew Colquhoun , director at Fitch Ratings’ Asia-
Pacific sovereign group, said in an interview in Tokyo today.  
 Takahira Ogawa , director of sovereign ratings at Standard
& Poor’s in Singapore, said that while the strategy is “better
than nothing,” the country’s credit quality is “still eroding
slowly” and it would be difficult to earn investors’
confidence with the plan. He said Standard & Poor’s maintains
its “negative” outlook on Japan’s AA credit rating.  
 Colquhoun said Fitch’s AA- rating on Japan’s debt remains
on a “stable outlook for the moment, supported by the
sovereign’s exceptional financing flexibility.”  
 Under the plan, Prime Minister  Naoto Kan ’s administration
pledged to balance its books in 10 years, restrict bond sales
and overhaul the tax system. Annual spending will be capped at
71 trillion yen ($781 billion) over the next three years, and
the government will decide changes to the tax regime “soon.”  
 Both analysts said they were waiting for the outcome of an
upper house election next month to gauge Kan’s ability to rein
in the  record  public debt. Ogawa said he would also watch a
vote on the leadership of Kan’s ruling Democratic Party of
Japan in September.  
 “Perhaps it’s unrealistic to expect too much detail ahead
of the elections,” Colquhoun said. “Therefore, we look for a
detailed plan to be put in place for more flesh to be put on
the bones of the fiscal consolidation strategy, perhaps by the
end of this year.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Keiko Ujikane  in Tokyo at 
 kujikane@bloomberg.net 
 Toru Fujioka  in Tokyo at 
 tfujioka1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        