-- Japan Targets Balanced Budget by 2020 to Contain Debt
-- Keiko Ujikane
-- 2010-06-22T09:07:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-22/japan-pledges-spending-cap-balanced-budget-by-fiscal-2020-to-contain-debt.html

          
          
             Japanese Prime Minister  Naoto Kan 
pledged to balance the budget in 10 years and reduce bond sales,
moving to bolster investor confidence he can contain the
world’s largest public debt. Bonds rose.  
 Annual spending will be capped at 71 trillion yen ($781
billion) over the next three years and tax changes will be
unveiled “soon,” the government said in its fiscal strategy
released in Tokyo today. Kan last week said the government will
consider an increase in the country’s 5 percent sales tax.  
 Yields  on Japan’s 10-year bonds fell three basis points to
1.19 percent after the announcement, even as Fitch Ratings and
Standard & Poor’s said the plan lacked details on how the
administration will achieve its goals. Kan, who took office
this month and faces upper house elections in July, has pledged
to avert a crisis in confidence amid growing voter concerns
about the nation’s record 887 trillion yen debt.  
 “The government deserves recognition for setting up
concrete targets,” said  Susumu Kato , chief economist for Japan
at Credit Agricole CIB and CLSA in Tokyo. “But the focus will
be on the feasibility of the plan -- how the government will
act to achieve the goals.”  
 The strategy calls for balancing the budget, excluding
interest payments on bonds, by the year ending March 2021.
Ministries will follow a “pay-as-you-go” principle when
compiling the budget, meaning policy makers must secure funds
before seeking extra spending. New  bond sales  will be kept
within the current period’s 44.3 trillion yen next fiscal year
and beyond, the plan said, without specifying how long.  
 ‘Very Vulnerable’  
 “We need to have more numbers and more specific
policies,”  Takahira Ogawa , director of sovereign ratings at
Standard & Poor’s in Singapore, said in a phone interview.
“Japan is still in a very vulnerable position.”  
 Ogawa said there is a “possibility” that Japan’s AA
credit rating, on negative outlook since January, will be
downgraded at some point, depending on prospects for economic
growth and policies to cut spending and raise revenue.  
 Both he and  Andrew Colquhoun  at Fitch said they were
waiting for the outcome of the July 11 upper house election
next month to gauge Kan’s ability to rein in the debt.  
 “Perhaps it’s unrealistic to expect too much detail ahead
of the elections,” Colquhoun, who is director at Fitch’s Asia-
Pacific sovereign group, said in an interview. He expects
“more flesh to be put on the bones of the fiscal consolidation
strategy, perhaps by the end of this year.” Fitch maintains a
stable outlook on Japan’s AA- rating, he said.  
 Spending, Revenue  
 Finance Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  told reporters in Tokyo
that the government will achieve the targets “by conducting
reforms of spending and revenue.” National Strategy Minister
 Satoshi Arai  said the plan will restore investor confidence.  
 A private-sector panel that advises the Finance Ministry
today said the government should consider raising taxes on
goods and services as well as high-income earners.  
 The ruling Democratic Party of Japan last week called for
cross-party talks over raising the sales tax as part of its
election platform. Kan said he will consider the opposition
Liberal Democratic Party’s proposal to double the tax to 10
percent. Yesterday he said it will probably take “at least two
to three years” to raise the levy.  
 Japan still needs to decide how to bolster tax revenue to
meet the goal of balancing the budget, Moody’s Investors
Service said today. “The key element for an effective and
credible plan is still missing,’’ Thomas Byrne, senior vice
president at Moody’s in Singapore, said in an interview,
maintaining a stable outlook on the Aa2 rating.  
 Public Support  
 Some 48 percent of voters support an increase in the sales
tax to 10 percent, according to a Yomiuri newspaper survey
published today. The Finance Ministry estimates a 1 percentage
point increase would generate  revenue  of about 2.5 trillion yen.  
 “We have to get working right away,” Kan said in his
inaugural policy address on June 11. “We can see from the
euro-zone confusion that began in Greece that our finances can
go bankrupt if we don’t address our rising public debt.”  
 Japan racked up its liabilities as it tried to spend its
way out of  economic stagnation  and deflation following the
bursting of an asset-price bubble 20 years ago. Borrowings are
approaching 200 percent of GDP, the highest ratio in the
Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development.  
 Today’s strategy comes less than a week after the
government released a plan to end deflation and achieve faster
 growth . Kan aims for 2 percent annual growth over the next 10
years, a rate that exceeds the 1.1 percent average expansion
since 1990, by lowering corporate tax and nurturing business in
areas such as the environment and health care.  
 ‘Pie in the Sky’  
 “The fiscal reform plan remains a pie in the sky until
they can detail credible measures to achieve higher economic
growth,” said  Yoshimasa Maruyama , a senior economist at Itochu
Corp. in Tokyo.  
 The Cabinet Office today raised its  growth  forecast for
the year ending March 31 to 2.6 percent from 1.4 percent, as
spending by companies and households picks up and exports grow.
That would be the biggest expansion in 10 years.  
 Koji Miyahara , president of the Japanese Shipowners’
Association, said last week that corporate tax rates must be
cut to make firms more competitive. “We must think of this as
a complement to raising the sales tax,” said Miyahara, who is
chairman of Nippon Yusen K.K., Japan’s biggest shipping line.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Toru Fujioka  in Tokyo at 
 tfujioka1@bloomberg.net ;
 Keiko Ujikane  in Tokyo at 
 kujikane@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Naoto Kan, Japan's prime minister, is exploring an increase in the country’s 5 percent sales tax. Photographer: Tatsuyuki Tayama/Pool via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                     June 21 (Bloomberg) -- Andrew Colquhoun, director at Fitch Ratings Asia-Pacific sovereign group, talks with Bloomberg's Rishaad Salamat about the outlook for Japan's credit rating and fiscal policy.
     Colquhoun, speaking from Tokyo, also discusses China's shift in currency policy, and its implications for the nation's economy. The People’s Bank of China two days ago indicated it’s abandoning the 6.83 yuan peg to the dollar adopted during the global crisis to shield exporters. The central bank said while there’s no basis for “large scale” moves in the currency, the exchange rate will be allowed increased “flexibility.” (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
