-- Japan's Bonds Advance as Government Announces Plan to Reduce Debt Levels
-- Yoshiaki Nohara
-- 2010-06-22T06:57:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-22/japan-s-bonds-advance-as-government-announces-plan-to-reduce-debt-levels.html

          
          
             Japan’s  bonds  rose the most in two
weeks as the government pledged to balance its books within 10
years, restrict debt sales and overhaul the tax system.  
 Ten-year yields dropped to a one-week low after the
government said in its fiscal strategy released today that
annual spending will be capped at 71 trillion yen ($782
billion) over the next three years. Bonds also gained as stocks
fell after Fitch Ratings downgraded BNP Paribas SA and Standard
& Poor’s said Spanish lenders face “difficult years.”  
 “The government is clearly paying attention to fiscals,
which should reduce risk premiums and push down yields,” said
 Shinji Hiramatsu , senior investment manager in Tokyo at Sompo
Japan Asset Management Ltd., which oversees the equivalent of
$15 billion. Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  “is taking more
initiative to tackle the issue than his predecessor.”  
 The yield on the 1.3 percent bond due June 2020 fell three
basis points to 1.19 percent as of 3:39 p.m. in Tokyo at Japan
Bond Trading Co., the nation’s largest interdealer debt broker.
The price rose 0.269 yen to 100.981 yen. The yield was the
lowest since June 10. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  
 Ten-year bond futures for September delivery climbed 0.34
to 140.82 at the Tokyo Stock Exchange.  
 Fiscal Plan  
 The Democratic Party of Japan’s fiscal strategy represents
its conversion to deficit reduction as Europe’s fiscal crisis
prompts a shift in public perceptions on the need to rein in a
record 883 trillion yen of debt. Fitch Ratings said yesterday
the plan must be “credible” to avoid risking the country’s
AA-credit rating.  
 “As the government shows realistic measures about the
fiscal situation, people in bond markets are gaining
confidence,” said  Takashi Nishimura , an analyst in Tokyo at
Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley Securities Co., a unit of Japan’s
largest lender by assets. “Political sentiment has been
shifting toward sound fiscals.”  
 Fitch yesterday cut its long-term credit rating on BNP
Paribas, France’s largest bank, by one step to AA-, citing a
“deterioration” of the company’s asset quality. Standard &
Poor’s slashed its economic growth forecast for Spain to an
average of 0.7 percent a year through 2016 from 1 percent,
saying Spanish banks face mounting credit losses.  
 “As concerns about Europe linger, Japan’s bonds should be
supported,” said  Satoshi Yamada , chief quantitative analyst in
Tokyo at Nikko Cordial Securities Inc., a unit of Japan’s
third-largest banking group. “Stock losses are prompting
investors to buy bonds.”  
 The  Nikkei 225  Stock Average fell 1.2 percent, its third
decline in four days. The Nikkei and 10-year yields had a
correlation of 0.74 in the past month, according to Bloomberg
data. A value of 1 would mean the two moved in lockstep.  
 ‘Abundant Capital’  
 “Domestic investors with abundant capital are pushing
down yield levels under good supply-demand conditions,”
 Akihiko Inoue , chief market analyst in Tokyo at Mizuho
Investors Securities Co., a unit of Japan’s second-largest bank,
wrote in a research note today.  
 The Ministry of Finance will sell 2.6 trillion yen of two-
year notes on June 24. The previous two-year sale in May drew
bids for 3.68 times the amount on offer, compared with a so-
called bid-to-cover ratio of 4.73 at the April auction.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Yoshiaki Nohara  in Tokyo at 
 ynohara1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        