-- Jordan, Indonesia, Islamic Development Bank Plan Sales: Islamic Bond Alert
-- Soraya Permatasari
-- 2010-06-22T01:49:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-22/jordan-indonesia-islamic-development-bank-plan-sales-islamic-bond-alert.html

          
          
             The following borrowers are expected
to sell Islamic bonds, which use asset returns to pay investors
to comply with the religion’s ban on interest.  
 Global sales of so-called sukuk fell 26 percent to $6.3
billion so far this year, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Issuance totaled $20.2 billion last year, up from
$14.1 billion in 2008.  
 NATIONAL BANK OF ABU DHABI PJSC: The United Arab Emirates’
second-largest lender by assets, plans to sell about 500 million
ringgit ($157 million) of five-year sukuk in Malaysia as early
as this month, the Malaysian Business Times reported. HSBC
Holdings Plc, Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc and Maybank
Investment Bank Bhd. will arrange the sale, it said.  
 JORDAN: Jordan may sell conventional or Islamic bonds
internationally to help the government with its finances and
take advantage of low borrowing costs, Finance Minister Mohammad
Abu Hammour said.  
 INDONESIA: The Southeast Asian country plans to sell as
much as $650 million of Islamic bonds in October, having scaled
back and delayed an original proposal to raise $750 million in
July. The government may pick three of 11 shortlisted foreign
investment banks as joint lead managers for the sale, said
Dahlan Siamat, the ministry’s director of Islamic financing.
Indonesia also plans to sell rupiah-denominated sukuk to
individual investors in the first quarter of next year, he said.
The nation is rated Ba2 by Moody’s Investors Service and BB by
Standard & Poor’s.  
 ISLAMIC DEVELOPMENT BANK: The Jeddah-based bank plans to
raise $1 billion from the sale of Islamic bonds to finance
projects in member countries, the  Saudi Press Agency  reported,
citing President  Ahmed Mohammed Ali . The bank is currently
working on raising funds for a $12 billion program for the
development of Africa, initiated in 2008, SPA said, citing Ali.  
 PT PERUSAHAAN LISTRIK NEGARA: Indonesia’s state utility
company plans to sell 500 billion rupiah ($55 million) of
Islamic bonds and 2.5 trillion rupiah of conventional bonds in
July to fund expansion of its electricity transmission network.  
 CAGAMAS BHD.: The Malaysian national mortgage company hired
Al-Rajhi Bank and RHB Capital Bhd. to help it sell around 1
billion ringgit of Islamic bonds this month, according to people
familiar with the plan. The Kuala Lumpur-based company is
developing a new type of sukuk acceptable to investors in the
Middle East, Chief Executive Officer  Steven Choy  said last month.
The bonds are being developed in conjunction with Al-Rajhi Bank
and a total of 10 billion ringgit may be sold, Choy said.  
 AHMED SALEM BUGSHAN GROUP : The Saudi Arabia-based company,
known as ASB, plans to raise as much as $100 million selling
five-year Islamic bonds to fund projects including a mega-steel
plant and a real-estate development, the Arab News reported on
its website, citing Mohamed H. Zakaria, senior vice president of
the group. The bond will offer a semi-annual return of 125 basis
points over Libor, the rate banks charge each other on loans,
according to the report. ASB may ask Fitch Ratings or Standard &
Poor’s to rate the bonds, the report said.  
 KHAZANAH NASIONAL BHD.: Malaysia’s state investment agency
may raise as much as S$500 million ($353 million) selling
Singapore dollar-denominated Islamic bonds to help fund its
offer to double its stake in hospital operator Parkway Holdings
Ltd., according to two people familiar with the plan. The sale
may take place this month, according to one of them, who
declined to be identified because the discussions are private.  
 MALAYSIA AIRPORTS HOLDINGS BHD.: The state-controlled
airport operator may sell ringgit- or dollar-denominated bonds
to meet its funding needs, it said in a stock exchange filing.
The company may sell 1 billion ringgit of sukuk and $500 million
of conventional bonds to fund its second low-cost airport
project near Kuala Lumpur, Reuters said. It hired CIMB Group
Holdings Bhd. and Citigroup Inc. for the sale, the report said.  
 QATAR ISLAMIC BANK SAQ: The Gulf state’s biggest Shariah-
compliant bank plans to sell as much as $750 million of sukuk in
the second half, Chief Executive Officer  Salah Mohammed Jaidah 
said. Talks with rating service providers have been completed
for the company’s first Islamic debt offering, he said.  
 SAUDI ELECTRICITY CO.: The Arab world’s largest utility
company may issue global sukuk bonds in 2011 after April’s sale
of 7 billion riyal ($1.9 billion) of Islamic notes, according to
Executive Director of Treasury Fahad Alsudairy.  
 CAHAYA JAUHAR SDN.: The unit of Malaysian developer  UEM
Land Bhd.  plans to sell 114 million ringgit of Islamic bonds,
according to a statement from RAM Holdings Bhd., a Malaysian
rating service company. RAM assigned a preliminary rating of AAA,
its highest, to the bond. Proceeds will be used to repay loans
and pay contractors and suppliers working on the first phase of
the project, RAM said.  
 GENERAL ELECTRIC CAPITAL CORP.: The  unit  of General
Electric Co. plans to issue its second Islamic bond in late 2010
or 2011, Reuters reported, citing  Aris Kekedjian , chief
executive of GE Capital Middle East and Africa. It sold $500
million of Shariah-compliant bonds in November.  
 NAKHEEL PJSC: The property unit of Dubai World, which is
restructuring $10.5 billion of debt, plans to sell Islamic bonds
that will give an annual return of 10 percent to trade creditors,
two people familiar with the proposal said in April. The deal is
conditional on trade creditors representing at least 95 percent
of the value of all claims agreeing to the deal. On May 13, the
company reached agreement with trade creditors for more than 50
percent of the claims and repaid 3.6 billion dirham ($980
million) of bonds due on the same day.  
 QATARI DIAR REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT CO.: The Qatari
developer may raise $1.5 billion selling 10-year conventional
bonds and five-year Islamic securities, said a person familiar
with the plan. HSBC Holdings Plc and Barclays Capital are among
banks expected to manage the sale, which could be completed in
the next three months, the person said.  
 LUXEMBOURG: The country is considering selling Islamic
bonds, central bank Governor  Yves Mersch  said at a conference in
Bahrain without disclosing the size.  
 SUDAN: Sudan expects to raise $300 million selling Islamic
bonds by the end of this year to fund development projects,
central bank Governor  Sabir Mohamed Hassan  said. Sudan had
initially planned the bond sale last year.  
 KENCANA PETROLEUM BHD.: The Malaysian oil and gas
contractor plans to sell 250 million ringgit of Islamic bonds to
help finance vessel purchases. State bond insurer Danajamin
Nasional Bhd. agreed to guarantee the notes, allowing them to
have the highest AAA rating for local bonds.  
 WAHA CAPITAL PJSC: The Abu Dhabi-based investment and
leasing company said its shareholders approved a plan to issue
mandatory convertible bonds or sukuk worth 1 billion dirhams
($272 million) to strengthen its finances and support expansion
plans.  
 VTB BANK OJSC: VTB Bank plans to sell Islamic bonds worth
about $200 million in the second half of the year, Reuters
reported in April, citing an unidentified person familiar with
the plan.  
 EMIRATES INTEGRATED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CO.: The Dubai-based
phone operator known as Du,, may consider selling Islamic bonds
in coming years to fund expansion, Chief Executive Officer  Osman Sultan  said in April without disclosing the amount.  
 PAKISTAN: Pakistan plans to sell Islamic bonds in the local
debt market in the next three months to help plug its budget
deficit, said  Asad Qureshi , executive director of financial
markets and reserve management at the central bank. The country
also may sell $500 million of global sukuk in the coming months,
according to the finance ministry in February. Pakistan is rated
B3 at Moody’s and B- at S&P.  
 AXIATA GROUP BHD.: Southeast Asia’s second-biggest mobile
phone operator plans to sell between 1 billion ringgit and 1.5
billion ringgit of Islamic bonds this year to refinance debt,
according to Chief Executive Officer  Jamaludin Ibrahim .  
 LAFARGE MALAYAN CEMENT BHD.: Malaysia’s largest cement
maker plans to sell as much as 350 million ringgit of Islamic
bonds under a seven-year program to fund expansion, the company
said March 26. The debt is rated AA2 by RAM Rating Services Bhd.,
its third-highest ranking for long-term corporate debt
instruments.  
 SAUDI ARABIAN OIL CO.: Saudi Aramco, the world’s largest
state-owned oil company, and Total SA expect to raise $8 billion
in debt financing for a joint refinery and petrochemical project
in the “coming months,” according to Saleem Shaheen, chief
executive officer of Saudi Aramco Total Refining and
Petrochemical Co. The debt package will include the sale of
Islamic bonds, he said.  
 KAZAKHSTAN: Kazakhstan has drafted a bill to allow it to
sell Islamic bonds this year for the first time, Finance
Minister Bolat Zhamishev said. The funds will be used to help
finance the budget deficit, he said. The central Asian country
is rated Baa2 by Moody’s and BBB- by S&P.  
 LEBANON: Lebanon may sell Islamic bonds in 2011, according
to the central bank in February. The country has more than $2
billion of dollar-denominated debt maturing this year, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. It is rated B2 by Moody’s, five
levels below investment grade.  
 KUVEYT TURK KATILIM BANKASI AS: The Islamic lender owned by
 Kuwait Finance House KSC  plans to sell sukuk worth between $100
million and $150 million, Sabah newspaper reported, citing Chief
Executive Officer  Ufuk Uyan . The bonds will be based on the
bank’s leasing receivables and have a maturity of between three
and five years, according to the Istanbul-based newspaper.  
 THAILAND: The government plans to sell as much as 50
billion baht ($1.5 billion) of Shariah-compliant debt to help
finance its infrastructure projects, according to state-owned
Islamic Bank of Thailand, which will help arrange the sale. The
bonds may be sold in the third quarter, said Dheerasak
Suwannayos, the bank’s president.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Soraya Permatasari  in Kuala Lumpur at 
 soraya@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        