-- JPMorgan Shuffles Senior Executives as Part of Succession Plan
-- Dawn Kopecki
-- 2010-06-22T17:09:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-22/jpmorgan-names-miller-international-president-as-dimon-shuffles-managers.html

          
          
             Jamie Dimon , the chief executive
officer of  JPMorgan Chase & Co. , named longtime associate  Heidi Miller  to the new post of president of JPMorgan International as
part of a management shuffle to groom an eventual successor.  
 Miller, 57, who had been executive vice president for
Treasury and Securities Services, will be replaced by Chief
Financial Officer  Michael Cavanagh , 44.  Doug Braunstein , 49,
head of Investment Banking Americas, will succeed Cavanagh as
CFO, the company said in a statement today.  
 Dimon, 54, said in March that he planned to rotate senior
executives across business lines as part of a succession plan.
Miller’s working relationship with Dimon spans about two
decades, including stints at Travelers Group Inc.,  Citigroup
Inc. , Bank One Corp. and JPMorgan.  
 “This is someone who has the capability of staring Jamie
Dimon down, so that’s obviously served her well,” said Duff
McDonald, author of “Last Man Standing: The Ascent of Jamie
Dimon and JPMorgan Chase.” “The fact that he’s chosen her to
take on this new and expanded role should surprise nobody.”  
 The move gives Cavanagh, who has never run a business
division at JPMorgan, operational experience as a possible
successor to Dimon, McDonald said. Cavanagh worked with Dimon at
Primerica and Citigroup before joining Bank One, where Dimon had
become CEO, in 2000. He was named CFO of JPMorgan after Dimon
sold his lender to the bank in 2004.  
 Dealmaker  
 Braunstein has been one of JPMorgan’s most prolific
dealmakers for corporate clients. He is also Dimon’s go-to
banker for his own acquisitions after working across the
negotiating table from him during the Bank One sale. Braunstein
helped JPMorgan seal a deal to buy Bear Stearns Cos. during a
weekend of frenzied negotiating in 2008. The company said it
will announce Braunstein’s replacement soon.  
 “He’s grooming multiple potential successors,” said
 Bradley Hintz , an analyst at Sanford Bernstein & Co. “Jamie
hasn’t made a decision about who’s going to take over, and he’s
got time to see how they do in their new roles.”  
 Since 2004, Miller has run JPMorgan’s Treasury & Securities
Services unit, which provides clients with payment-processing
and cash-management services.  
 Miller turned around the business and generated stable
returns throughout the economic crisis, Hintz said. JPMorgan
credited her with producing “record increases in net revenue
and net income” during her tenure at the unit, which processes
an average of $3.7 trillion in transfers daily and has $15.3
trillion in assets under custody.  
 Competing With Citigroup  
 As head of JPMorgan’s Global Corporate Bank, Miller will
lead the company’s expansion plans in emerging markets like
China, Brazil, India and Russia, regions where JPMorgan will
battle Citigroup for business, said  Anthony Polini , a banking
analyst at Raymond James & Associates Inc. More than half of
Citigroup’s total revenue comes from overseas, compared with
about a quarter at JPMorgan, Polini said.  
 “This is a key play to get a piece of the pie that Citi
has a bigger slice of right now,” Polini said. “The projected
growth rate for those economies are two or three times greater
than the projected growth rates of the U.S.”  
 Shares of JPMorgan, which have fallen 6 percent this year
 compared with  a 3 percent advance in the S&P 500 Financials
Index, were little changed as of 12:53 p.m. in New York trading
at $39.19.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Dawn Kopecki  in New York at 
 dkopecki@bloomberg.com   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     New president of JPMorgan International Heidi Miller. Source:  Bank One/ via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 22 (Bloomberg) -- Paul Miller, analyst at FBR Capital Markets, talks with Bloomberg's Mark Crumpton about executive changes at JPMorgan Chase & Co. and the outlook for financial regulatory overhaul. 
     Miller says JPMorgan Chief Executive Officer Jamie Dimon wants a "deep bench" of executives. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
