-- JPMorgan Said Barclays Misled Judge in Lehman Deal
-- Linda Sandler
-- 2010-06-22T20:52:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-22/jpmorgan-s-dimon-said-barclays-misled-judge-in-lehman-deal-lawyer-says.html

          
          
             JPMorgan Chase & Co.  accused
 Barclays Plc  of misleading a federal judge when it bought  Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc. ’s defunct brokerage in the falling
markets of September 2008, said a Lehman lawyer, citing a letter
from JPMorgan Chairman  Jamie Dimon .  
 Barclays Group Chief Executive  John Varley  was asked by
Lehman lawyer  Robert Gaffey  in federal court in Manhattan today
about what he characterized as “two big-time bankers in a very
big dispute.”  
 Gaffey said Dimon wrote to Varley and Barclays President
 Robert Diamond , saying the court was misinformed about the
Barclays deal. JPMorgan had asked Barclays to participate in an
accounting of the transaction and they declined, Dimon said in
the letter, according to Gaffey.  
 “I could refute him point by point but he’s not here,”
Varley said. “I inwardly groaned when I read it because I knew
that there were a number of points on which Jamie Dimon and I
would disagree.”  
 Varley was the second witness today in a U.S. Bankruptcy
Court trial over Lehman’s claim that the U.K.’s third-biggest
bank should pay it as much as $11 billion for an allegedly
undisclosed “windfall” on the deal for the brokerage. The
purchase was approved by Judge  James Peck  and closed a week
after Lehman’s Sept. 15, 2008, bankruptcy, the biggest in U.S.
history.  
 Custodial Account  
 JPMorgan around that time had taken $7 billion out of a
Barclays custodial account, according to Varley.  
 “I was deeply unhappy that without our consent a large
amount of money had been taken out of our account,” Varley
said. He interpreted the letter about misleading the court as a
device by JPMorgan to distract attention from the dispute over
money, he said.  
 Joe Evangelisti , a JPMorgan spokesman, declined to comment
on the dispute, which was later settled.  
 Separately, Lehman in May sued JPMorgan to recover tens of
billions of dollars in “lost value,” accusing the bank of
precipitating its downfall and preventing it from winding down
in an orderly fashion. Evangelisti said the lawsuit was “ill
conceived.”  
 Earlier, Varley said the week when Barclays bought the
Lehman brokerage was “the riskiest week of my life.”  
 “Markets were collapsing,” he said. “We needed to ensure
there was a buffer between assets and liabilities. We needed to
be able to look regulators in the eye and say the deal would be
capital accretive.”  
 Protect Our Ratios  
 “This was a time when there was a great deal of focus by
supervisors around the world, including the U.K. Financial
Services Authority and the Bank of England, on capital ratios,
and it was clear to me that the only circumstances in which I
could look our regulators in the eye, and indeed look our
shareholders in the eye, would be if we were able to protect our
capital ratios,” Varley said.  
 “To put it another way, were we not capable of doing that,
then I was not prepared to recommend that we should proceed to
the board” of Barclays, he said.  
 Lehman lawyer Gaffey has tried to prove that Barclays made
a safe, or “derisked” acquisition, and took more assets out of
the defunct firm than it should have without telling the court.  
 “You expected an immediate profit” on the brokerage
purchase? Gaffey asked.  
 “Yes we did,” Varley said. “That’s because we expected
the income we generated to exceed costs.”  
 BofA Balked  
 Today’s first witness, Barclays President Diamond, said the
bank had qualms about acquiring Lehman’s brokerage after Bank of
America Corp. balked at buying it.  
 “BofA walked away from an opportunity to do a deal with
Lehman at some distressed price,” said Diamond, who runs
Barclays’s corporate and investment banking operations. “But
they paid $50 billion for Merrill Lynch. That created real
concern for us. What had they seen?”  
 Diamond was responding to questions from Barclays’s lawyer
 David Boies  about the bank’s concerns when it bought Lehman and
why it sought to buffer itself from risk by staking claim to
assets in the brokerage business.  
 “BofA could have bought it for about $1 billion,” Diamond
said. “They walked away and paid $50 billion for Merrill. It
reinforced in Varley and myself and our board what a risky
environment we were working in.”  
 Government Help  
 “When JPMorgan bought Bear Stearns it got government
help,” Diamond said. “Barclays wasn’t able to get help. So it
was especially important to get the values and commitments we
had received or we couldn’t go forward. There were hours when we
were expecting not to execute on the deal.”  
 Lehman, which wants money to pay off creditors, has accused
the London-based bank of making a “secret” asset raid on
Lehman that wasn’t disclosed to the court. The brokerage’s
trustee,  James Giddens , has said changes were secretly inserted
in the sale contract without notice to him or Lehman’s lawyers.
He wants $6.7 billion from Barclays to pay hedge funds and other
institutional clients of Lehman.  
 Lehman’s lawyers are beginning to wrap up their case after
more than two weeks of testimony by former Lehman executives,
advisers and Barclays officials.  
 The U.K. bank’s lawyers have tried to show when questioning
Lehman’s witnesses that all the key facts of the deal were known
by the main players. They are scheduled to present Barclays’s
side of the story starting Aug. 23. Barclays, which announced a
gain on its purchase on Sept. 17, 2008, has said it owes Lehman
nothing and wants $3 billion that is being withheld by the
trustee.  
 Lehman spent $794 million on lawyers, advisers and managers
in 19 months through April, with $277.4 million going to Lehman
CEO  Bryan Marsal ’s restructuring firm, Alvarez & Marsal. Marsal
has said he will spend five years selling assets to pay
unsecured creditors as little as 14.7 cents on the dollar. Any
proceeds from litigation would add to the payout.  
 The cases are In re Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., 08-
13555, and Giddens v. Barclays Capital Inc., 09-01732, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Linda Sandler  in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in New York
at   lsandler@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 22 (Bloomberg) -- David Barse, chief executive officer of Third Avenue Management LLC, talks about his strategy for investment in the debt of distressed companies.
     Barse speaks on Bloomberg Television's "In Business With Margaret Brennan." (This report is an excerpt. Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

 
     
         Audio Download:  AbitibiBowater, Lehman: Bloomberg Law Bankruptcy Review 
     
         

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
