-- Junk Bonds Revive on Bernanke `Sub-par' Economy: Credit Markets
-- Tim Catts
-- 2010-06-23T18:28:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-22/junk-bonds-reviving-as-bernanke-wrestles-subpar-economy-credit-markets.html

          
          
             Investors are returning to junk
 bonds  after the worst month since 2008 on speculation the
economy is growing fast enough to avert corporate defaults
without sparking inflation.  
 “High yield is the place to be,” said  Manny Labrinos , a
money manager at Nuveen Investment Management who oversees $1.8
billion of fixed-income assets. “Sub-par growth is somewhat of
a Goldilocks scenario because it means rates stay low and people
are still going to reach for yield.”  
 High-risk debt has returned 1.76 percent in June, almost
double the gain of investment-grade corporate bonds, Bank of
America Merrill Lynch index data show. Underscoring demand,  CNH
Global NV , the Fiat SpA unit that makes tractors and harvesters,
boosted the size of its speculative-grade offering by 50 percent
to $1.5 billion in the largest junk-bond sale since April 20.  
 The rally is paring a 3.52 percent loss in May as credit-
ratings companies upgrade borrowers at the fastest pace since at
least 2000 amid rising corporate profits. Federal Reserve
officials retained a pledge to keep the benchmark interest rate
at a record low for an “extended period,” leaving the
overnight interbank lending target unchanged at a two-day
meeting.  
 Moody’s Investors Service upgraded 87 high-yield companies
and downgraded 49 in the quarter, a ratio of 1.78 times,
Bloomberg data show.  
 Great Recession ‘Survivors’  
 “Default rates will be well below most people’s estimates
at the beginning of the year,” said  Mark Durbiano , head of high
yield at Federated Investors Inc., where he oversees $4 billion
of speculative-grade debt. “The market is pretty much made up
of what I call survivors of the Great Recession, where you
defaulted out a lot of the weaker issuers and new issuers are
creditworthy.”  
 Elsewhere in credit markets, the extra yield investors
demand to own company bonds instead of government debt was
unchanged at 194 basis points, or 1.94 percentage point, the
Bank of America Merrill Lynch Global Broad Market Corporate
Index shows. Yields averaged 4.027 percent.  
 Grupo Bimbo SAB, the world’s largest bread maker, plans to
sell $800 million of 10-year dollar bonds that may pay 180 basis
points more than similar-maturity U.S. Treasuries, according to
a person familiar with the Mexico City-based company’s
transaction.  
 Benchmark indicators of credit risk in the U.S. and Europe
rose. The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index of
credit-default swaps, which investors use to hedge against
losses on corporate debt or speculate on creditworthiness,
climbed 1.24 basis point to a mid-price of 115.8 basis points as
of 2:26 p.m. in New York, the second daily increase, according
to Markit Group Ltd. In London, the Markit iTraxx Europe Index
of swaps on 125 companies with investment-grade ratings
increased 7.5 basis points to 125.5, Markit prices show.  
 Bondholder Protection  
 Both indexes typically rise as investor confidence
deteriorates and fall as it improves. Credit-default swaps pay
the buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its
obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis point
equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of
debt.  
 Issuance of speculative-grade debt, ranked below Baa3 by
Moody’s Investors Service and lower than BBB- at Standard &
Poor’s, is reviving after Spain sold bonds last week and equity
analysts boosted second-quarter estimates for companies in the
S&P 500 Index to $19.72 per share from $19.11, according to
JPMorgan.  
 CNH Global  
 CNH Global’s 7.875 percent notes maturing in December 2017
priced to yield 536 basis points more than similar-maturity
Treasuries, Bloomberg data show. The offering from the
Amsterdam-based unit of Italian automaker Fiat that makes Case
and New Holland agricultural equipment adds to $4.3 billion of
high-yield bonds sold this month, Bloomberg data show. The notes
rose 1.8 cents to a mid-price of 101.125 cents on the dollar in
their first day of trading, according to Jefferies Group Inc.  
 The sale was the biggest U.S. high-yield issue since CF
Industries Holdings Inc., the Deerfield, Illinois-based
fertilizer maker acquiring Terra Industries Inc., sold $1.6
billion of 8- and 10-year notes on April 20, according to
Bloomberg data.  
 Junk bond sales declined 80 percent last month to $6.76
billion from $33.4 billion in April as European banks’ funding
costs soared and investors sought the safety of U.S. government
debt.  
 High-Yield Inflows  
 Investors put $164 million into high-yield bond funds in
the week ended June 16 after withdrawing $6.27 billion in the
five previous periods, according to EPFR Global, a Cambridge,
Massachusetts-based research firm that tracks asset allocations.  
 Last month’s decline in junk bond returns was the worst
since an 8.4 percent drop in November 2008, according to Bank of
America Merrill Lynch’s U.S. High Yield Master II index.
Investment-grade bonds have returned 0.98 percent in June,
following a loss of 0.57 percent last month.  
 “Sentiment has definitely improved from a very low base at
the beginning of the month,” said  James Lee , a fixed-income
analyst at Calvert Asset Management in Bethesda, Maryland, which
has $7.6 billion of fixed-income assets under management. “The
high-yield market is recovering and investors have money to put
to work and they are looking for new deals to do it.”  
 Unemployment Rate  
 Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  is trying to cut unemployment
that’s close to a 26-year-high and maintain the recovery as new-
home sales slide and growth in private payrolls weakens. He must
also contend with fallout from the European debt crisis, which
has pushed share prices lower and threatens to shake consumer
and business confidence.  
 The central bank left the overnight interbank lending rate
 target  unchanged in a range of zero to 0.25 percent, where it’s
been since December 2008. High unemployment, low inflation and
stable price expectations “are likely to warrant exceptionally
low levels of the federal funds rate for an extended period,”
the Fed said today, repeating language from every policy meeting
since March 2009.  
 Corporate spreads should decrease based on the rate that
companies are defaulting on debt, said  Martin Fridson , a global
credit strategist at BNP Paribas Asset Management in New York.  
 The trailing three-month default rate of 2.95 percent on
May 31 signals that the spread on high-yield debt should be 485
basis points, Fridson said, citing BNP and Merrill Lynch index
data going back to 1996. Relative yields over government debt
have declined 23 basis points this month to 675 basis points,
Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data show.  
 “I think we can say with confidence that the spread is too
wide relative to the prevailing default rate,” Fridson said.
“I attribute that fact to the anxiety about sovereign risk.
More is coming out suggesting that the banks will be covered and
those concerns are somewhat overstated.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Pierre Paulden  in New York at 
 ppaulden@bloomberg.net ;
 Tim Catts  in New York at 
 tcatts1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 22 (Bloomberg) -- Dan Fuss, vice chairman at Loomis Sayles Co., talks with Bloomberg's Matt Miller and Carol Massar about the availability of credit for companies and investment in corporate bonds.
     Fuss, speaking on Bloomberg Television's "Street Smart," also discusses the outlook for bond yields and Federal Reserve monetary policy. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
