-- Kagan Gets Bipartisan Support From Ex-Solicitors General Ahead of Hearing
-- Laura Litvan
-- 2010-06-22T16:34:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-22/kagan-gets-bipartisan-support-from-ex-solicitors-general-ahead-of-hearing.html

          
          
             Elena Kagan  was endorsed by eight
former solicitors general, including four Republicans who added
bipartisan support before next week’s Senate hearings on her
U.S. Supreme Court nomination.  
 Kagan, the first woman solicitor general, is President
 Barack Obama ’s second  Supreme Court  nominee. As solicitor
general, she represents the government in cases before the high
court.  
 “Elena Kagan would bring to the Supreme Court a breadth of
experience and a history of great accomplishment in the law,”
the former solicitors general said in a statement. They said she
has “served the government well” in her current post and the
experience will be good training for the high court.  
 The former solicitors general served four presidents,
beginning with Republican  Ronald Reagan . They included  Theodore Olson  and  Paul Clement , who held the job during Republican
 George W. Bush ’s two terms.  
 Obama nominated Kagan, 50, on May 10 to replace retiring
Justice  John Paul Stevens  on the nine-member high court. She is
a former dean of  Harvard Law School , served for four years as an
aide to President  Bill Clinton  and was a clerk to Supreme Court
Justice  Thurgood Marshall .  
 Senator  Jeff Sessions  of Alabama, the top Republican on the
committee, said yesterday he is concerned about her decision
while Harvard Law School dean to bar military recruiters from
the campus career center. The university adopted the policy to
protest the military’s “don’t ask, don’t tell” rule barring
openly gay service members.  
 Military Recruiters  
 Sessions said newly released Pentagon records showed
military recruiters were given a run-around as they tried to get
access to students on the campus. The material suggests she is
hostile to the military, he said.  
 He also said her high regard for activist judges such as
Marshall and recently released documents from her years in the
Clinton White House worry him.  
 “We know that her political views are leftist and
progressive,” Sessions said.  
 The  Senate Judiciary Committee  will begin its hearings at
12:30 p.m. Washington time on June 28 with opening remarks from
panel members followed by Kagan’s opening statement.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Laura Litvan  in Washington at 
 llitvan@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        