-- Kan Says Ruling Democrats Aim For 54 Or More Seats in July's Election
-- Sachiko Sakamaki
-- 2010-06-22T08:39:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-22/kan-says-ruling-democrats-aim-for-54-or-more-seats-in-july-s-election.html

          
          
             Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  said his
ruling  Democratic Party of Japan  aims to keep all 54 of its
seats that are up for grabs in next month’s elections for the
upper house of parliament.  
 Kan said he will have to seek alliances with other parties
should the DPJ and its coalition partner fail to retain its
majority on July 11, when half of the chamber’s 242 seats are
being contested.  
 “Maintaining the current number is the first challenge for
me,” he said today in a debate with eight other party leaders
televised by public broadcaster NHK. “Naturally, I’ll have to
talk with various people in various occasions” if the DPJ and
ally People’s New Party lose ground.  
 Kan took office two weeks ago and faces dissention from the
PNP, which opposes his intention to raise the 5 percent
 consumption tax  in the next few years to reduce the world’s
largest public  debt . Party head  Shizuka Kamei , who resigned as a
member of Kan’s cabinet June 11 in a separate dispute, today
reiterated his opposition to the proposal.  
 “Talking about tax hikes at a time when people’s
livelihoods are increasingly difficult shows a lack of
understanding about their suffering,” Kamei said.  
 Mid-Term Referendum  
 Kan on June 8 replaced  Yukio Hatoyama , who quit over money
scandals and a broken promise to relocate a U.S. military base
on Okinawa. Next month’s mid-term election is the first since
the DPJ won the more-powerful lower house in a landslide,
ousting the  Liberal Democratic Party  from more than 50 years of
mostly one-party rule.  
 The DPJ and the PNP have 122 lawmakers in the upper house,
while the LDP has 71 and the New Komeito party 21. The Social
Democratic Party, which left the ruling coalition in May over
the base dispute, holds 5 seats.  
 Kan rejected the idea of a “grand coalition” between
Japan’s two largest parties, saying working with the LDP
“should be limited to a given issue” that enabled Japan’s
parliament system to function properly. Kan reiterated that
he’ll consider the Liberal Democrats’ proposal to double the
sales tax to 10 percent in an effort to curb a public debt that
is approaching 200 percent of annual economic output.  
 LDP leader  Sadakazu Tanigaki  also expressed reluctance to
an alliance with the Democrats.  
 Kan’s administration had an approval rating of 55 percent
in a Yomiuri newspaper survey  published  yesterday, down from 59
percent last week. Forty-eight percent said they approve of the
idea to double the sales tax while 44 percent disapproved. About
32 percent of respondents said they will vote for the DPJ in the
next election while 15 percent favored the LDP. New Komeito and
Your Party each won 3 percent. The paper surveyed 1,114 people
from June 18-20 and didn’t provide a margin of error.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sachiko Sakamaki  in Tokyo at 
 Ssakamaki1@bloomberg.net ;  
          
          


  


        