-- Kazmierczak Expects No Risk to Poland's Inflation Target as Demand Lags
-- Monika Rozlal
-- 2010-06-22T16:12:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-22/kazmierczak-expects-no-risk-to-poland-s-inflation-target-as-demand-lags.html

          
          
             The decline in Poland’s  core
inflation  rate to a 15-month low in May confirms there is no
demand pressure in the economy and no threat to the central
bank’s inflation target, said rate-setter  Andrzej Kazmierczak .  
 Core inflation, which excludes food and fuel prices, slowed
for a seventh month in May, dropping to 1.6 percent from 1.9
percent the previous month, the Warsaw-based  Narodowy Bank
Polski  said today. The median estimate of 11 economists surveyed
by Bloomberg was 1.7 percent.  
 “Private consumption is lagging and there is no wage
pressure, which tames inflationary processes, so I can see no
risk of exceeding the inflation target,” Kazmierczak said in a
telephone interview.  
 Policy makers have left the  benchmark seven-day rate  at a
record-low of 3.5 percent since last June as the economic
slowdown forces companies to cut  jobs  and scale back  pay  raises.
The central bank estimates the inflation rate will be hover
below its 2.5 percent target by year-end, even as the government
forecasts  economic growth  will accelerate to about 3 percent.  
 Poland was the only EU country to avoid a recession last
year as a weaker zloty helped spur exports. The zloty had its
biggest quarterly gain in six years during the first quarter,
rising 6.4 percent against the euro and forcing the central bank
to buy foreign currency on the market for the first time in a
decade to stem the gains.  
 ‘Exchange Rate Ideal’  
 The Polish currency traded at 4.0548 per euro as of 5:30
p.m. today in Warsaw, compared with 4.0602 late yesterday.  
 “The current zloty exchange rate is ideal, as on the one
hand it supports price stability, and on the other it helps with
export expansion, sustaining the economic recovery,”
Kazmierczak said.  
 Anna Zielinska-Glebocka , another member of the rate panel,
said the Monetary Policy Council may raise interest rates one
time this autumn, if the zloty continues to weaken, boosting
fuel and commodity prices. Food prices also may threaten the
inflation target after May floods damaged crops in southern
Poland, she said.  
 Slowing inflation “will be stopped by a recovering labor
market and, with the weakening zloty, rising commodity prices,
as well as the risk of food price growth,”  Radoslaw Cholewinski , chief economist at Noble Bank in Warsaw, said in an
e-mailed note. “The inflation outlook may change in the autumn,
prompting the central bankers to restrict the policy bias.”  
 The annual  inflation rate , including food and energy
prices, dropped to 2.2 percent in May. Kazmierczak said the
decline was the result of declining investment values, shrinking
labor costs, growing productivity and low use of production
capacity.  
 “The falling core inflation and concerns about the
recovery are likely to keep the Monetary Policy Council from
raising interest rates for another six months,” economists at
ING Bank Slaski in Warsaw wrote in an e-mailed comment.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Monika Rozlal  in Warsaw 
 mrozlal@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        