-- ICP, Kerviel, Monsanto, Pfizer, Anadarko, Credit Agricole in Court News
-- Elizabeth Amon
-- 2010-06-22T10:57:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-22/kerviel-monsanto-pfizer-anadarko-credit-agricole-knauf-in-court-news.html

          
          
             ICP Asset Management LLC  and its
founder were sued by U.S. regulators for their role in
overseeing mortgage-linked investments insured by  American
International Group Inc.  as the housing market declined.  
 Thomas Priore, 41, and New York-based ICP directed more
than $1 billion of trades at artificially high prices on behalf
of collateralized debt obligations they managed, the Securities
and Exchange Commission said yesterday in a lawsuit filed at
federal court in New York. Priore denied wrongdoing and said he
would fight the allegations.  
 The suit, the SEC’s first aimed at a so-called collateral
manager, may open a new front for the agency in its examination
of firms that dealt with mortgage assets before the U.S. housing
market collapsed in 2007. ICP violated its duty to clients by
making investments that broke rules limiting risk, and failing
to get required approvals for trades from AIG and bond insurer
 FGIC Corp. , another victim, the SEC said.  
 “The CDOs were complex but the lesson is simple:
collateral managers bear the same responsibilities to their
clients as every other investment adviser,” George Canellos,
director of the SEC’s New York regional office, said in a
statement. “When they violate their clients’ trust, we will
hold them accountable.”  
 The CDOs, known as Triaxx, invested primarily in mortgage-
backed securities. ICP favored itself and certain clients in its
trading, for example, by having one CDO sell assets to another
at inflated prices, the SEC said. The firm used the dealings to
cover other clients’ losses and to generate higher fees for
itself, according to the lawsuit.  
 “We at all times acted in the best interest of our clients
and intend to vigorously defend ourselves against these
allegations,” Priore said yesterday in an e-mail statement.  
 For more, click here.  
 Trials/Appeals  
 Kerviel, Once ‘Relied On,’ Now ‘Pathetic’ to Ex-SocGen Bosses  
 Jerome Kerviel’s last boss at  Societe Generale SA  said he
now finds it “hard” to look into the face of a trader who was
seen as a reliable employee before the bank’s 4.9 billion-euro
($6 billion)trading loss.  
 Kerviel’s excuses for building up 50 billion euros worth of
bets are “pathetic,” Eric Cordelle, the former trader’s last
manager on the Delta One trading desk before his activities were
discovered in January 2008, told a Paris court yesterday.  
 “It’s hard for me to look at his face,” said Cordelle,
who testified that he is still looking for work after being
fired following the discovery of the unauthorized trades. “No
one else is allowed to make bets, but he thinks it doesn’t work
that way for him.”  
 Kerviel, 33, is accused of abuse of trust, faking documents
and hacking the bank’s computers, hiding positions that exceeded
his mandate with faked hedges. The bank announced the loss in
January 2008, with former Chief Executive Officer Daniel Bouton
calling the former trader a “terrorist.” Kerviel has argued
that his superiors were aware of his actions and condoned the
bets.  
 Cordelle and his then boss Martial Rouyere denied they knew
anything of Kerviel actions.  
 Rouyere said there were three traders he “relied on” on
the Delta One desk and counted Kerviel among them. He said he
had thought Kerviel could help train Cordelle, who said he had
no trading experience when he arrived on the desk in April 2007.  
 “I had faith in Jerome,” said Rouyere, who left the bank
in August 2008. “He was someone serious, professional.”  
 When the bank began to uncover Kerviel’s bets and faked
hedges, Rouyere said the team looking into his transactions
didn’t immediately understand what he had done.  
 For more, click here.  
 Monsanto Wins as Court Backs Alfalfa Seed Planting  
 The  U.S. Supreme Court , ruling in favor of  Monsanto Co. ,
overturned a judge’s ban on the planting of alfalfa seeds
engineered to be resistant to the company’s Roundup herbicide.  
 The 7-1 ruling shifts the focus of the environmental
dispute to the Agriculture Department, which under yesterday’s
ruling now can consider allowing limited planting. That would be
an interim measure while the USDA finishes an environmental
impact statement that ultimately might clear the way for
unrestricted planting.  
 The justices said a federal judge in San Francisco went too
far when he placed a nationwide ban on so-called Roundup-ready
alfalfa seeds because of the possibility they would contaminate
other plants.  
 “An injunction is a drastic and extraordinary remedy,
which should not be granted as a matter of course,” Justice
Samuel Alito wrote for the majority. Justice John Paul Stevens
was the lone dissenter.  
 The case is Monsanto v. Geertson Seed Farms, 09-475, U.S.
Supreme Court (Washington).  
 For more, click here.  
 Pfizer Rejected by High Court in Menopause Drug Case  
 The  U.S. Supreme Court  rejected  Pfizer Inc. ’s appeal of a
verdict for an Arkansas woman who blamed the company’s menopause
drugs for her breast cancer, leaving intact a $2.7 million award
that may grow with punitive damages.  
 The justices yesterday let stand a lower court decision
upholding that award, which marked the first federal verdict
against Pfizer’s Wyeth unit over its Prempro hormone-replacement
treatment.  
 The appeal by Wyeth and Pfizer’s Upjohn unit sought to
leverage a different part of the appeals court ruling ordering a
new trial on punitive damages, which a jury had set at $27
million. Pfizer argued that the new trial should cover all
aspects of the case, including the jury’s finding that the drugs
helped cause Donna Scroggin’s cancer.  
 “While we are disappointed with the court’s decision, it
does not change the prior ruling by the appeals court, which
affirmed the dismissal of punitive damages as to Upjohn and
ordered a new trial on punitive damages for Wyeth,” Pfizer said
in a statement.  
 Scroggin was among 6 million women who took the pills to
treat menopause symptoms including hot flashes, night sweats and
mood swings. Wyeth faces more than 8,000 lawsuits over the
medicines, which are still on the market.  
 Scroggin and other women contend company executives ignored
studies raising questions about the link between hormone-
replacement drugs and breast cancer to pump up sales of their
drugs.  
 The Supreme Court action “validates our evidence that
shows Wyeth hid the health risks of this drug and the drugs
caused breast cancer in thousands of women,” Jim Morris,
Scroggin’s lawyer, said in a telephone interview yesterday. “We
are looking forward to asking another jury to decide the extent
of Wyeth’s wrongful conduct.”  
 The case is Wyeth v. Scroggin, 09-1123, U.S. Supreme Court
(Washington).  
 For more, click here.  
 For the latest trial and appeals news, click here.  
 New Suits  
 Anadarko Asks Court to Cancel Drill Rig Contract Over U.S. Ban  
 Anadarko Petroleum Corp.  asked a court to cancel its
contract leasing an offshore oil rig from Noble Corp., claiming
a U.S. six-month ban on deepwater drilling triggered a “force
majeure” provision.  
 The U.S. moratorium, announced May 27, followed the April
explosion and sinking of the Deepwater Horizon rig in the Gulf
of Mexico and subsequent oil spill. As a result of the ban, the
U.S. ordered Anadarko to stop using the drilling vessel, the
Noble Amos Runner, in the Gulf of Mexico, the company said in
court filings June 18.  
 Anadarko, based in The Woodlands, Texas, sued Noble in
federal court in Houston on June 18, asking for a declaratory
judgment, after the rig-leasing company said the ban didn’t
block Anadarko from redeploying the vessel elsewhere.  
 A provision in the contract would require Anadarko to pay a
force majeure rate for up to a maximum of 15 consecutive days,
after which no day rate was payable, Anadarko said.  
 Noble doesn’t view the ban as a force majeure, the company
said in a June 4 statement. “Anadarko is not prevented from
using the unit on a variety of activities permissible under the
contract,” Noble said.  
 John Breed, a spokesman for Noble, didn’t return a call
seeking comment made after regular business hours.  
 “The contract with Noble is specifically for the Gulf of
Mexico, and in adherence with the government’s deep-water
drilling moratorium we are managing our business appropriately
during this force majeure event,” John Christiansen, an
Anadarko spokesman, said in an e-mail.  
 The lawsuit is Anadarko Petroleum Corp. v. Noble Drilling
(U.S.) LLC, 4:10-cv-012185, U.S. District Court, Southern
District of Texas (Houston).  
 For more, click here.  
 Credit Agricole Sued Over Creation of Millstone CDO  
 Credit Agricole SA  was sued for at least $100 million over
the creation and sale of a collateralized debt obligation,
according to papers filed June 18 in state court in New York.  
 Buyers of notes issued by the CDO, named Millstone IV CDO
Ltd., accused two units of Credit Agricole of fraud and unjust
enrichment, according to a summons filed with the court. CDOs
are pools of debt securities sliced into various tranches.  
 The plaintiffs -- Loreley Financing (Jersey) No. 31 Ltd.
and Loreley Financing (Jersey) No. 32 Ltd. -- are seeking the
return of the $50 million purchase price for the notes and
damages of no less than $50 million, according to court papers.  
 A spokesman for Credit Agricole couldn’t be reached for
comment.  
 Alpha Beta Sues Pursuit for $40 Million, Claims Fraud  
 Alpha Beta Capital Partners LP sued Pursuit Investment
Management LLC to recover $40 million in losses as a result of
what it calls a fraud in connection with its investment in two
Pursuit hedge funds.  
 Pursuit Investment, based in Stamford, Connecticut,
inflated the net asset values of Pursuit Capital Management Fund
I LP, and Pursuit Opportunity Fund I LP, to obtain millions in
management and incentive fees, Alpha Beta said yesterday in New
York state court complaint. False monthly statements kept Alpha
Beta invested in the funds, the New York-based company said.  
 “By pricing the Pursuit Funds’ assets essentially
arbitrarily to make their performance look good,” the company
made it “appear as though the value of the Pursuit Funds’
portfolios were continually rising, even in a market that was
declining precipitously, when in fact their value was not,”
Alpha Beta said in court papers.  
 Pursuit and its principals Anthony P. Schepis and Frank
Canelas Jr., who also were sued, didn’t return a call for
comment.  
 The case is Alpha Beta Capital Partners v. Pursuit
Investment Management, 650674/2010, New York State Supreme
Court, New York County (Manhattan).  
 For the latest new suits news, click here. For copies of recent
civil complaints, click here.  
 Lawsuits/Pretrial  
 Goldman Sachs, SEC, Agree to Extend Goldman’s Reply  
 A judge yesterday in New York signed an order granting
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  more time to respond to a April 16
lawsuit accusing the firm of defrauding investors while selling
mortgage-linked securities, records say.  
 U.S. District Judge Barbara Jones signed a request granting
Goldman an extension until July 19, according to court records.
The original deadline was June 21, court documents show. The
SEC, in the joint filing submitted to the court with Goldman,
consented to the firm’s extension of time.  
 The SEC said New York-based Goldman Sachs and one of its
employees, Fabrice Tourre, didn’t disclose to investors the role
played by hedge fund Paulson & Co. in devising and betting
against the securities.  
 Tourre also has until July 19 to respond, according to
court documents signed by Lorin Reisner, the SEC’s deputy
director of enforcement and Richard Klapper, a lawyer for
Goldman Sachs.  
 The SEC alleged the firm wasn’t forthcoming about the role
that a hedge fund, Paulson & Co., played in selecting and
betting against the instrument.  
 Goldman Sachs, the most profitable firm in Wall Street
history, has denied the SEC’s allegations and said it will fight
the case. Company spokesman Michael DuVally said he couldn’t
comment.  
 According to the complaint, Goldman created and sold
collateralized debt obligations linked to subprime mortgages in
early 2007, as the U.S. housing market faltered, without
disclosing that Paulson helped pick the underlying securities
and bet against the vehicles.  
 The case is Securities and Exchange Commission v. Goldman
Sachs, 10-cv-03229, U.S. District Court, Southern District of
New York (Manhattan).  
 Louisiana Governor Asks Judge to Lift Deepwater Drilling Ban  
 Louisiana Governor Bobby Jindal and state Attorney General
Buddy Caldwell asked a U.S. judge to lift a six-month moratorium
on deepwater drilling in the Gulf of Mexico within 30 days to
avoid “turning an environmental disaster into an economic
catastrophe.”  
 The drilling ban may cost Louisiana’s economy, “which was
already weakened by Katrina and is now crippled by the Deepwater
Horizon disaster,” almost 11,000 direct and indirect jobs in
five months, Caldwell said in papers filed June 20 in federal
court in New Orleans.  
 “Even after the catastrophic events of Sept. 11, the
government only shut down the airlines for three days,”
Caldwell said in support of  Hornbeck Offshore Services LLC’s 
lawsuit seeking to end the moratorium.  
 U.S. President Barack Obama temporarily halted all drilling
in water deeper than 500 feet on May 27 in response to the worst
oil spill in U.S. history, caused by the April sinking of the
Deepwater Horizon drilling rig off the Louisiana coast. The ban,
implemented at the recommendation of Interior Secretary Kenneth
Salazar, gives a presidential commission six months to study
ways to improve the safety of deepwater drilling.  
 In court papers last week, lawyers for U.S. regulatory
agencies said the ban is necessary to “ensure more lives are
not lost and that new blowouts and spills do not occur.  
 The case is Hornbeck Offshore Services LLC v. Salazar,
2:10-cv-01663, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of
Louisiana (New Orleans).  
 For more, click here.  
 Starr Said ‘Not That Much’ to Theft-Size Accusation  
 Kenneth I. Starr replied “not that much” to an
investigator who accused him of stealing $30 million, a
prosecutor said in court -- a statement the government said it
may try to use against the accused investment adviser.  
 Assistant U.S. Attorney William Harrington yesterday told
District Judge Shira Scheindlin in New York that prosecutors are
deciding whether to use the statement Starr made May 27 after he
was found hiding in a closet in his home.  
 “At the time he was handcuffed, the agent made some
comment about, ‘This is your time to get things straight. You’re
at the crossroads. You stole $30 million,’” Harrington said.
“The defendant responded, saying, ‘Not that much.’ This
occurred after he was in custody, after being handcuffed.”  
 Starr, 66, was indicted June 11 for 20 counts of wire fraud
and one each of securities fraud, money laundering and fraud by
an investment adviser. He stole at least $59 million, almost
twice the first estimate, according to the indictment. He is
being held without bail.  
 Scheindlin asked Harrington if the government was certain
of Starr’s exact words and whether the alleged comment made was
made after he’d been advised of his constitutional right not to
incriminate himself.  
 Harrington said that the government would put together a
report from the agent’s notes to determine the exact timing of
the comment and if the U.S. would seek to use them against him
at a trial.  
 Starr, who pleaded not guilty, faces as long as 20 years in
prison if convicted of wire fraud, prosecutors in the Manhattan
office of U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara said. evidence in the case
from Starr’s computer and his company.  
 Peggy Cross, a public defender appointed by the court to
represent Starr, told Scheindlin she is determining whether her
client can obtain funds to pay a private lawyer. As part of the
government’s case, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission
froze his bank accounts.  
 Scheindlin granted Cross’s request for a two-week
adjournment delay. The next hearing is set for July 7.  
 The civil suit is SEC v. Starr, 1:10-cv-04270, and the
criminal case is U.S. v. Starr, 1:10-mj-01135, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  
 Agility Is ‘Fugitive’ in Overbilling Case, U.S. Says  
 Agility , the Middle East’s largest storage and logistics
company, is a “fugitive from American justice” that is trying
to evade trial on charges of overbilling on military supplies,
U.S. prosecutors said.  
 Agility, formerly known as Public Warehousing Co., was
indicted in November on allegations it overcharged the U.S.
government on a multibillion dollar contract to supply food for
troops in Kuwait and Iraq. The Kuwait-based company said April
28 it was negotiating with the U.S. Justice Department on a
possible settlement of the case.  
 Prosecutors said in a filing yesterday in Atlanta federal
court that Agility has “retreated to the safe haven of Kuwait”
and contends it isn’t subject to U.S. laws or courts. They urged
the judge not to even consider Agility’s motion to nullify the
indictment on the grounds that it wasn’t properly served.  
 Agility “boasts repeatedly in the media that it wishes to
vindicate its reputation in this court by fully litigating this
case, yet it remains a fugitive, trying to litigate its claims
in the court of public opinion, while attempting to evade this
court of law,” prosecutors wrote.  
 Agility adopted a company procedure that only one person
could accept service of the indictment and that person was
located outside the U.S., the government said in Monday’s
filing.  
 Harry Frazier, a spokesman for the company, said it
welcomes the court’s review and an eventual ruling on the
matter.  
 “The question currently before the federal court in
Atlanta is whether the Justice Department complied with U.S.
law,” Frazier said in an e-mailed statement. “The Department’s
filing today substitutes rhetoric for legal analysis and
provides no justification for its decision to ignore
longstanding U.S. law on proper service of process.”  
 Patrick Crosby, spokesman for the U.S. Attorney’s Office in
Atlanta, declined to comment.  
 For the latest lawsuits news, click here.  
 Verdicts/Settlements  
 Business Groups Win U.S. High Court Arbitration Case  
 The  U.S. Supreme Court  gave a new endorsement to the use of
arbitration to resolve employment and consumer disputes,  ruling 
in favor of business groups in a fight over the extent of an
arbitrator’s authority.  
 The justices, in a 5-4 ruling yesterday, said that
arbitrators in many cases can decide whether an arbitration
agreement is so one-sided that it shouldn’t be enforced,
rejecting contentions that judges should always be the ones to
make that determination.  
 The ruling, which overturned a lower court decision, is a
victory for a unit of  Rent-A-Center Inc.  in a fight with a black
employee who says he was the victim of racial discrimination.  
 Rent-A-Center’s arbitration agreement, which Antonio
Jackson signed when he was hired, says that an arbitrator should
resolve any issue involving the enforceability of the accord.
The rent-to-own company, based in Plano, Texas, argued that a
federal arbitration law requires such agreements to be enforced
as written.  
 Jackson argued that the federal law gives federal judges
the responsibility to determine whether a valid arbitration
agreement exists.  
 The case is Rent-A-Center West v. Jackson, 09-497, U.S.
Supreme Court (Washington).  
 Berezovsky Wins $52.6 Million Ruling Over Loan to Ex-Employee  
 Boris Berezovsky, the Russian billionaire with U.K.
political asylum, won a $52.6 million judgment against a former
employee who defaulted on a loan for an oil-trading business.  
 Ruslan Fomichev, his business partner Vasily Peganov, and
their trading company Anstead Holdings Inc. must repay $47
million plus interest on a 2003 loan from North Shore Inc., an
offshore entity set up by Berezovsky, Judge Guy Newey ruled
yesterday in London’s High Court.  
 The dispute arose after almost half of the loaned money was
frozen by Swiss authorities as part of a probe into embezzlement
claims against Berezovsky related to the Russian carrier  OAO
Aeroflot , according to court documents. Fomichev claimed the
contract could be avoided because Berezovsky failed to warn him
that the money could be frozen if it were deposited in
Switzerland. Newey disagreed.  
 “A contract cannot be rescinded for misrepresentation”
unless the borrower “was induced to enter into the contract by
the misrepresentation,” Newey said in the 86-page judgment.
“North Shore’s claims against Mr. Fomichev and Mr. Peganov
succeed.”  
 Michael Swainston, a lawyer for Fomichev and Peganov with
the firm Brick Court Chambers in London, didn’t return a call
for comment.  
 For more, click here.  
 Knauf Settles Two U.S. Chinese-Drywall Suits, Trial Dismissed  
 Knauf Plasterboard Tianjin Co., a Chinese drywall maker,
settled with two U.S. property owners, resulting in the
dismissal of a trial intended to help determine issues in
related lawsuits nationwide.  
 Terms of the agreements weren’t filed following a
settlement conference June 18 in the New Orleans chambers of
U.S. District Judge Eldon Fallon, who oversees Chinese drywall
cases in federal courts. Knauf is among about 1,000 defendants
that may face claims, Fallon said last month.  
 Fallon ordered the dismissal of the two suits brought
against Knauf by Paul Clement and Celeste Schexnaydre and by
John Campbell, who own real estate near New Orleans and in Gulf
Shores, Alabama, that they claimed had been tainted by
contaminated drywall that can cause health problems.  
 The Clement and Campbell cases had been selected by the
manufacturers to be heard together in a jury trial overseen by
Fallon and used as a benchmark for property damage in other
cases.  
 The case is In re Chinese-Manufactured Drywall Products
Liability Litigation, 2:09-md-02047, U.S. District Court,
Eastern District of Louisiana (New Orleans).  
 For more, click here.  
 For the latest verdict and settlement news, click here.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Elizabeth Amon  in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        