-- Kerviel Says He Was `Moronic,' Former CEO Bouton Calls Him a `Catastrophe'
-- Carol Matlack
-- 2010-06-22T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-22/kerviel-could-have-forced-societe-generale-into-bankruptcy-trader-says.html

          
          
             Jerome Kerviel ’s 50 billion euros
($61 billion) in unauthorized trades were a “catastrophe” for
 Societe Generale SA , former chief executive officer  Daniel Bouton  told a Paris court yesterday. The trader said he’d made
“moronic” mistakes that weren’t crimes.  
 France’s second-largest bank by market value lost 4.9
billion euros in the process of liquidating Kerviel’s accounts
over three days in January 2008 as markets fell worldwide.  
 “Fifty billion euros is monstrous,” Bouton said, standing
before the court, two chairs from where Kerviel sat. “It was a
catastrophe.” Kerviel’s actions were “genius, evil perhaps,”
Bouton said as testimony drew to a close at the three-week
trial. “He created a fraudulent enterprise inside the bank.”  
 Kerviel, 33, is accused of abuse of trust, faking documents
and hacking the bank’s computers to hide positions that exceeded
his mandate with faked hedges. Kerviel has argued his superiors
were aware of and condoned his bets. Bouton resigned as chief
executive officer in April 2008 after a 5.5 billion-euro capital
raising campaign, and stepped down as chairman in 2009.  
 Societe Generale ’s risk controls weren’t adequately attuned
to looking for dangers within the bank, Bouton said. “We did
not look enough at operational risks,” he said. When examining
Kerviel’s activities, “we had a tendency to believe him.”  
 Still, there was no sign the bank “facilitated him,
applauded him,” Bouton said. Kerviel’s ability to continue
operating after reprimands in 2005 and scrutiny by controllers
was a “failure of control,” not a sign the bank let him carry
on.  
 Professional Errors  
 Kerviel has admitted to the court that he faked hedges to
hide his bets, misled controllers and made up figures so that
his account book would tally with expectations, to avoid
suspicion at the bank. These were “professional errors,” not
crimes, he said.  
 After Bouton left, Judge Dominique Pauthe repeated the
first question he asked Kerviel when the trial began on June 8,
saying: “Who are you?”  
 “I am someone who tried to do his job as well as possible,
to make money for the bank,” Kerviel responded, repeating his
position since the beginning of the investigation two and a half
years ago. “I never wanted to do something bad.”  
 “Now I see it was moronic, completely,” Kerviel said.
Told this was his last opportunity during the trial to explain
himself to the three judges, he said: “That’s it.”  
 The former trader’s unauthorized trades could have
bankrupted the bank, testified  Maxime Kahn , who liquidated the
positions. It was “bad luck,” that the unwinding took place as
markets worldwide fell, he said.  
 “It was impossible to wait,” Kahn, now head of European
trading at Paris-based Societe Generale, said. There was the
“potential for the bank to go bankrupt.”  
 The trial ends June 25 with closing arguments scheduled
over the next days. Kerviel risks as many as five years in
prison if convicted and a 375,000-euro fine.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Heather Smith  in Paris at 
 hsmith26@bloomberg.net ;
 Carol Matlack  in Paris at 
 carol_matlack@businessweek.com .  
          
          


  


        