-- U.K. Stocks Drop for Third Day; Rio Tinto, Dana Petroleum Fall in London
-- Adam Haigh
-- 2010-06-24T15:54:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-22/kesa-electricals-prudential-stagecoach-group-u-k-irish-equity-preview.html

          
          
             U.K. stocks  declined for a third day
to a two-week low on concern the recovery in the world economy
may be losing pace.  
 BHP Billiton Ltd. and Rio Tinto Group declined amid concern
that a change in leadership of the Australian government may
delay an agreement on a proposed profit tax for mining
companies. Dana Petroleum Plc sank 7.8 percent after the oil
explorer said two wells won’t produce hydrocarbons.  Go-Ahead
Group Plc  slumped 9 percent after saying profit at its bus unit
will fall next year.  
 The benchmark  FTSE 100 Index  declined 78.29, or 1.5
percent, to 5,100.23, the lowest closing level since June 9. The
 FTSE All-Share Index  dropped 1.5 percent and Ireland’s  ISEQ
Index  slipped 0.8 percent.  
 The FTSE 100 remains 45 percent higher than in March 2009
amid signs the global economy is rebounding. Still, the index
has fallen 12 percent from this year’s high on April 15 on
concern that Europe’s debt crisis will hurt growth and as BP Plc
lost more than a third of its value following an oil spill in
the Gulf of Mexico.  
 There are “concerns over the strength and sustainability
of any global recovery,” said  Giles Watts , the head of equities
at City Index Ltd. in London. “Sentiment remains cautionary
after the Fed damped its prospects for the speed of the global
recovery, citing amongst other issues the plight of European
debt worries and the ongoing impact this is having on the
markets and sentiment.”  
 Harm Growth  
 The Federal Reserve, repeating a pledge to keep its
benchmark interest rate at a record low for an “extended
period,” signaled that Europe’s debt crisis may harm American
growth, according to a statement yesterday.  
 BHP Billiton, the world’s largest mining company, lost 1.6
percent to 1,920 pence. Rio Tinto retreated 3.2 percent to 3,282
pence.  Julia Gillard , the new Australian prime minister, said
the government’s door is open to the mining industry. Rio, BHP
and Xstrata Plc have led a campaign since last month against the
proposed 40 percent tax, prompting a plunge in Rudd’s support in
opinion polls and stalling investment in projects worth at least
$21 billion.  
 “The resolution of the details may now be further in the
future opening up a longer period of uncertainty for the
miners,” UBS AG analysts led by  Olivia Ker  wrote in a report
today.  
 Dana Drops  
 Dana Petroleum sank 7.8 percent to 1,166 pence after saying
the Bamboo well in Egypt, in which it has a 50 percent stake,
was found to be water bearing after being drilled to a depth of
12,533 feet. The Monkwell operation in the North Sea drilled to
9,473 feet before the gas discovery was deemed to be uneconomic,
Dana said.  
 Go-Ahead Group  declined 9 percent to 1,200 pence, the
biggest drop since 2008. The company said operating profit
margin at the bus unit next fiscal year will fall.  
 Micro Focus International Plc tumbled 13 percent to 460
pence after the U.K. business software maker whose clients
include Tesco Plc said its Chief Financial Officer  Nick Bray  has
left the company.  
 McBride Plc slumped 22 percent to 139.8 pence, its biggest
slide on record. Europe’s biggest supplier of store-brand
household goods said its markets remain “volatile” and
material costs will rise.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Adam Haigh  in London at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        