-- KKR Said to Consider Postponing Share Sale After Market Decline
-- Jason Kelly
-- 2010-06-22T17:32:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-22/kkr-said-to-consider-postponing-500-million-share-sale-after-market-drop.html

          
          
             KKR & Co. LP , the private-equity
firm run by  Henry Kravis  and  George Roberts , may postpone a plan
to sell $500 million in new shares after moving its public
listing to the U.S. from Europe, according to two people with
knowledge of the plans.  
 The New York-based firm still intends to shift its listing
to the New York Stock Exchange from Amsterdam, a move that may
be completed by next month, said the people, who declined to be
named because the discussions are private. The share offering,
designed to fund expansion and potential acquisitions, depends
on the stock market’s performance, they said.  
 KKR, which filed last month to sell new shares, has dropped
15 percent in Amsterdam in the past three months and the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index declined 5 percent, amid concern the
global economic recovery may slow. Blackstone Group LP, the
world’s largest private-equity company, has lost 27 percent
during that same period.  
 “It’s going to be tough for KKR to attract buyers who will
sustain the issue price,” said  David Menlow , president of
Millburn, New Jersey-based IPOfinancial.com. “Investors look at
the entire group with a jaundiced eye because the firms are
having trouble returning capital to clients, a factor that will
ultimately determine whether they can raise new funds.”  
 KKR spokeswoman Kristi Huller declined to comment.  
 KKR’s journey to an NYSE listing started almost three years
ago, when it filed to sell shares weeks before the global credit
crisis crippled equity and debt markets. The firm scrapped that
plan, opting to merge with its publicly traded European fund, a
combination that was completed last year.  
 KKR, founded in 1976 by Kravis and Roberts, indicated
earlier this year it would proceed with a plan to shift its
listing to the NYSE, joining Blackstone and Fortress Investment
Group LLC as private-equity managers who are publicly listed.  
 Apollo Global Management LLC, the investment firm run by
 Leon Black , is in the process of listing its shares on the NYSE
after selling stock in 2007 through a private exchange run by
Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Cristina Alesci  in New York at 
 Calesci2@bloomberg.net ;
 Jason Kelly  in New York at 
 jkelly14@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        