-- Kremlin-Backed Witnesses Reveal Divisions as Khodorkovsky Trial Continues
-- Lucian Kim
-- 2010-06-22T13:01:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-22/kremlin-backed-witnesses-reveal-divisions-as-khodorkovsky-trial-continues.html

          
          
             Mikhail Khodorkovsky  spent a second
day questioning ministers who served under former President
 Vladimir Putin  as the trial of the imprisoned OAO Yukos Oil Co.
owner revealed a split in the Kremlin.  
 Industry Minister  Viktor Khristenko , who served as energy
minister during Putin’s eight year presidency, told Moscow’s
Khamovniki District Court today that he is unaware of “millions
of tons” of oil being stolen as alleged by the prosecution.
Former Economy Minister  German Gref  gave similar testimony
yesterday.  
 “We’re satisfied with the answers we heard,” defense
lawyer Konstantin Rivkin said after the three-hour testimony.
“The answers shattered the indictment to its foundations.”  
 Khodorkovsky is already serving an eight-year sentence for
fraud following a trial he said was motivated by his opposition
to Putin. The 46-year-old, once Russia’s richest man, could get
22 1/2 more years if found guilty of stealing 350 million tons
of oil from Yukos, which was later bankrupted and auctioned off
under a $30 billion tax claim.  
 The appearance by Gref and Khristenko as defense witnesses
was approved by the government and is “clearly” a sign of a
disagreement within the Kremlin,  Stanislav Belkovsky , head of
the Moscow-based Institute for National Strategy, said by phone.
“A final decision hasn’t been taken, so they’re leaving open
various outcomes.”  
 State-run news channel  Rossiya-24 , which has ignored the
trial since the prosecution started presenting evidence more
than a year ago, reported from the court the last two days.  
 Politics  
 Putin, now prime minister, and his hand-picked successor
President  Dmitry Medvedev  have repeatedly said that
Khodorkovsky’s trials have nothing to do with politics and are
subject to the rulings of independent judges.  
 “The physical theft of oil from the system is possible,
but I’m not aware of the theft of a million, or millions of,
tons,” Khristenko told Khodorkovsky, who posed questions from
the courtroom cage he occupies with co-defendant and former
business partner  Platon Lebedev .  
 Khristenko also said he wasn’t informed that any Yukos
production units had reported the theft of oil. Like Gref, the
industry minister said that so-called transfer-pricing was
practiced not only by Yukos, and that the government struggled
to contain such tax-minimization schemes.  
 ‘Tragi-Farcical’  
 The defense has called the trial “tragi-farcical,” as the
prosecution is claiming that the same oil on which Yukos was
found to have evaded taxes was also stolen. When Khodorkovsky
asked if the government would return taxes paid on oil that
turned out to have been stolen, Judge Viktor Danilkin threw out
the question because Khristenko isn’t a “tax expert.”  
 Khodorkovsky’s father Boris, who attended today’s hearing,
said in an interview that he’s allowed to see his son one hour a
month. His son won’t go into politics if he’s freed from prison,
Boris Khodorkovsky said.  
 “All we can do is hope,” he said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Lucian Kim  in Moscow at 
 lkim3@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        