-- Nasdaq OMX Group Ends Talks With Equiduct Platform Over Neuro Customers
-- Nandini Sukumar
-- 2010-06-22T15:22:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-22/nasdaq-omx-group-ends-talks-with-equiduct-platform-over-neuro-customers.html

          
          
             Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. , which runs
seven Nordic and Baltic bourses, ended talks with Equiduct
Systems Ltd. to hand over customers of its Neuro unit after the
European alternative trading system closes next week.  
 Nasdaq OMX will shutter London-based Neuro on July 1 as
planned, according to  Anna Rasin , a spokeswoman for the company.
 Peter Wilson-Smith , a spokesman for Equiduct, declined to
comment.  
 Both Neuro and Equiduct, which is majority owned by Citadel
Investment Group LLC, are multilateral trading facilities
seeking to challenge traditional European bourses by offering
lower fees and faster trading. They also compete with other MTFs
such as Bats Europe and and Chi-x Europe Ltd., offering stocks
listed on  Deutsche Boerse AG ,  London Stock Exchange Group Plc 
and NYSE Euronext.  
 Nasdaq, operator of the second-largest U.S. equity
exchange, said in April it will close Neuro after “an
assessment of the financial prospects.” Later that month,
London-based Equiduct said it’s in exclusive talks with Neuro
about taking over its customers, with a link in place to allow
Neuro clients to trade on its markets using existing
connections. There were about 40 clients connected to the
platform at the time.  
 Nasdaq in 2008 bought Stockholm-based OMX AB, Europe’s
fifth-largest stock exchange. Citadel, the $13 billion hedge
fund firm founded by  Ken Griffin , said in July last year that it
was buying a majority stake in Equiduct, which was operated by
the  Berlin bourse . On Dec. 18, Citadel named  Peter Randall , who
brought alternative trading systems to Europe in 2007, as the
chief executive officer of Equiduct in an effort to spur growth.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nandini Sukumar  in London at 
 nsukumar@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        