-- National Bank of Abu Dhabi Sells $156 Million of Islamic Bonds in Malaysia
-- Vivian Salama
-- 2010-06-22T10:14:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-22/national-bank-of-abu-dhabi-plans-to-sell-500-million-ringgit-islamic-bonds.html

          
          
             National Bank of Abu Dhabi PJSC , the
United Arab Emirates’ second-largest lender by assets, sold 500
million ringgit ($156 million) of Islamic bonds in its first
offering of debt in Malaysia.  
 The five-year sukuk will pay a coupon rate of 4.75 percent,
 Mustafa Aziz  Ata, director of Global Capital Markets at HSBC
Holdings Plc in Dubai, said in an e-mailed response to
questions. HSBC and Kuala Lumpur-based Malayan Banking Bhd. are
managing the sale.  
 Malaysia, the world’s largest market for Islamic bonds,
has eased foreign ownership rules and encouraged new Shariah-
compliant products as part of efforts to become a hub for
Islamic financial services. National Bank of Abu Dhabi received
a commercial banking license to operate in the Southeast Asian
nation, its central bank said on June 17.  
 Demand for investments that comply with the religion’s ban
on interest is increasing as the wealth of Muslims rises,
spurred by export-led Asian economic growth and crude-oil income
in the Persian Gulf. Investors bid to buy 3.6 times the amount
of debt on offer from the National Bank of Abu Dhabi, HSBC’s
Aziz said.  
 “The book-building process has been completed today and
the bond has been launched accordingly,” he said. “The
offering has received extremely strong investor demand and it
was oversubscribed, showing the appetite of investors for NBAD’s
credit risk.”  
 ‘Very Different’  
 The National Bank of Abu Dhabi’s long-term foreign issuer
credit is rated A+ at Standard & Poor’s, the fifth-highest
investment grade rating. It has an Aa3 long-term rating, the
fourth-best ranking, from Moody’s Investors Service.  
 The lender sold $750 million of five-year bonds in March to
yield 178 basis points more than the benchmark swap rate.  
 Issuers in the Gulf Arab states, which include Saudi Arabia
and the U.A.E., raised $2.3 billion from sukuk sales so far this
year, about 19 percent less than the amount they borrowed during
the same period of 2009, Bloomberg data show. Local-currency
sukuk sales in Malaysia have dropped 47 percent to 8.8 billion
ringgit.  
 “The ringgit market is very different from the U.S. or
euro medium term note market as you need to leave the book open
for a while,” said  Mahmood Al Aradi , senior general manager at
the financial markets division at the National Bank of Abu
Dhabi.  
 Islamic bonds are typically backed by assets and pay profit
rates instead of interest that is prohibited under Shariah
principles.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Vivian Salama  in Abu Dhabi at 
 vsalama@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        