-- Netanyahu Calls on Abbas to Start Direct Mideast Peace Talks Immediately
-- Nayla Razzouk
-- 2010-06-22T19:47:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-22/netanyahu-calls-on-abbas-to-start-direct-mideast-peace-talks-immediately.html

          
          
             Israeli Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  called earlier today on Palestinian Authority
President  Mahmoud Abbas  to immediately start direct peace talks.  
 Abbas rejected a call for talks without further peaceful
moves from Israel, Jordan’s state news agency Petra said.  
 In a speech today in Jerusalem, Netanyahu said Israel had
taken measures to advance peace, such as removing roadblocks in
the West Bank and imposing a freeze on building in Jewish
settlements.  
 “Israel has taken other steps as well, while to its
regret, the Palestinians still refuse to meet and even tried to
prevent Israel’s acceptance into the Organization for Economic
Cooperation and Development,” Netanyahu said, according to an
e-mailed statement from his office today.  
 Abbas, after talks with Jordanian  King Abdullah  in Amman,
said Israel should lift the embargo on the Gaza Strip and
criticized decisions to expel Palestinian legislators from
Jerusalem and demolish 22 homes there, Petra said.  
 Abdullah and Abbas, who met in Amman to discuss their
respective trips to the U.S., said the international community
should “take prompt action and effective steps to lift the
illegal and inhumane” Gaza blockade, Petra said.  
 Israel and the Palestinians last month began U.S.-mediated
indirect peace talks. It was the first time the sides had agreed
to negotiations since talks ended in December 2008 when Israel
launched a military operation in the Gaza Strip.  
 Conditions for Talks  
 Ghassan Khatib , a spokesman for the Palestinian Authority,
also rejected Netanyahu’s call for direct talks. “The
Palestinian position is clear in this regard,” he said.
“Resumption of direct talks is contingent on conditions being
met such as full cessation of settlement construction.”  
 The West Bank construction freeze, which doesn’t include
public buildings or some 3,000 housing units that are already
being built, is scheduled to end in September.  
 Netanyahu’s call for direct talks comes two weeks before he
heads to Washington for a meeting with President  Barack Obama .  
 Netanyahu has faced criticism from the U.S. over the
approval of building projects in east Jerusalem, which Israel
captured from Jordan in the 1967 Middle East war and
Palestinians seek as the capital of a future state. Secretary of
State  Hillary Clinton  expressed “dismay and disappointment”
after Israel approved a plan to build 1,600 homes in east
Jerusalem during a visit by Vice President  Joe Biden  in March.  
 Not Helpful  
 Israel said opposition from the Palestinian Authority to it
joining the OECD wasn’t helpful to peace talks. Prior to Israel
being accepted last month as a member to the Paris-based
organization, the Palestinian Authority said that including
Israel would be “like accepting its occupation of the
Palestinian territories.” The OECD groups the world’s most
developed economies.  
 The previous round of Israeli-Palestinian negotiations
ended when Israel launched a military operation in the Hamas-
controlled Gaza which the government said was intended to stop
cross-border rocket attacks against its southern towns and
cities. Since the operation ended, more than 400 rockets and
mortars have been fired from Gaza into Israel, killing one
foreign worker, the Israeli army said.  
 Hamas is considered a terrorist organization by the U.S.,
the European Union and Israel. Hamas’s charter calls for the
destruction of the Jewish state.  
 Hamas leaders say they will renounce violence when Israel
withdraws from territory occupied in 1967 and allows
Palestinians to return to areas in Israel from which they fled
in 1948.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Gwen Ackerman  in Jerusalem at 
 gackerman@bloomberg.net ;
 Nayla Razzouk  in Amman at 
 nrazzouk2@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Palestinian boys play football on a school pitch in front of the controversial Israel separation barrier in the West Bank village of Anata, on the outskirts of Jerusalem. Photographer: Marco Longari/AFP/Getty Images  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
