-- New York City's Stuyvesant Town Foreclosure Wins Federal Court Approval
-- Oshrat Carmiel
-- 2010-06-22T21:21:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-22/new-york-city-s-stuyvesant-town-foreclosure-wins-federal-court-approval.html

          
          
             Stuyvesant Town-Peter Cooper
Village , Manhattan’s largest apartment complex, can be
foreclosed on and sold at auction, a federal court ruled.  
 The 80-acre property, home to more than 11,000 housing
units, may be sold in one or two pieces, according to documents
filed yesterday in U.S. District Court in Manhattan.  
 “This was a natural and expected next step, and one that
is consistent with tenants’ interests,” said New York City
Councilman  Daniel Garodnick , a resident of Peter Cooper Village.
“Anything which avoids a prolonged legal battle is a good
step.”  
 Tishman Speyer Properties LP and  BlackRock Inc.  bought the
developments for $5.4 billion in 2006 near the top of the U.S.
real estate  boom . The owners missed a payment on the $3 billion
senior mortgage in January after failing to raise rents as fast
as anticipated. The companies have been seeking to turn the
complex over to creditors ever since.  
 Garodnick and other tenants are trying to piece together a
plan that would allow them to buy the complex and turn some
units into co-operative apartments or condominiums that
residents could purchase. The group is seeking investment
partners, Garodnick said.  
 Bank of America Corp.  and special loan servicer CWCapital
Asset Management LLC sought the foreclosure on behalf of senior
creditors. Debt from the senior mortgage, which was securitized
and sold to investors from New York to Singapore, ballooned to
$3.66 billion through April 22, according to yesterday’s
decision by Judge  Alvin Hellerstein .  
 $100 Million Deposit  
 Buyers interested in bidding for Stuyvesant Town-Peter
Cooper Village must put up a $100 million deposit, Hellerstein
said.  
 “The value is unpredictable in so many ways,” Richard
Fries, a New York-based partner at the law firm Bingham
McCutchen LLP, said in an e-mail. “This is the most fascinating
and highest profile -- not to mention largest -- defaulted real
estate property I have ever seen and I have seen many.”  
 Fries heads the firm’s distressed real estate practice.  
 Elizabeth Orcutt, a CW spokeswoman, didn’t immediately
return voicemail and e-mailed messages seeking comment.  Bud Perrone , a spokesman for Tishman Speyer, declined to comment.  
 The case is Bank of America N.A. v. PCV ST Owner LP, 10-
01178, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Oshrat Carmiel in New York at 
 ocarmiel1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        