-- New York City Gets Buffett Yield as Water System Boosts Debt Sale 39%
-- Allison Bennett
-- 2010-06-22T21:28:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-22/new-york-city-water-system-is-selling-400-million-of-build-america-bonds.html

          
          
             New York City Municipal Water
Finance Authority, which has been granted rate increases of 10
percent or more for four consecutive years, boosted its sale of
taxable Build America Bonds 39 percent to $554 million with
yields on the debt near the highest in a month.  
 The sale today was the agency’s third of the federally
subsidized debt this year, totaling about $1.45 billion,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The  average yield  on
Build Americas touched 5.94 percent last week, the highest since
May 17, according to the  Wells Fargo Build America  index.  
 The agency’s steady income stream from essential services
helps make its bonds attractive to investors, according to  Tom Kozlik , a municipal credit analyst for Philadelphia-based Janney
Montgomery Scott LLC, part of the group that handled the
negotiated sale.  
 “They have a traditionally strong revenue source,” Kozlik
said. “Investors want to be able to sell these bonds, and the
level of liquidity is very strong.”  
 Bonds due in 2042 from the authority’s $500 million deal on
March 9 have had five days in the last month where trading
exceeded $1 million, according to Municipal Securities
Rulemaking Board Data.  
 The authority today sold another tranche of debt due in
2042, priced to yield 5.72 percent, or 163 basis points over the
30-year benchmark Treasury. The March notes yielded 6.01 percent
on the sale date, 179 basis points above the same U.S.
government securities. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  
 “We achieved our lowest yields to date for Build America
Bonds and demand for our bonds was strong and broad-based among
institutional investors,” said Tom Paolicelli, executive
director of the authority.  
 Water Rates  
 The New York Water Board, which controls water and sewer
prices for the authority, adopted a 12.9 percent increase for
2011, a fourth straight boost of 10 percent or more, according
to a June 17 report by Fitch Ratings, which assigned a AA+ grade
to the notes, its second-highest. Standard & Poor’s also rates
the securities AA+, while Moody’s Investors Service assigned its
third-highest grade, Aa2. The notes, backed by water and sewer
system revenue, will fund capital improvements, said Fitch.  
 Underwriters led by  Morgan Keegan Inc.  marketed the issue.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Allison Bennett  in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net ;
 Brendan A. McGrail  in New York at 
 bmcgrail@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        