-- Christie, Democratic Lawmakers Agree on $29.4 Billion New Jersey Budget
-- Terrence Dopp
-- 2010-06-22T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-22/new-jersey-s-christie-wins-29-4-billion-budget-deal-from-state-lawmakers.html

          
          
             New Jersey lawmakers settled with
Governor  Chris Christie  on a $29.4 billion budget that closes a
record $10.7 billion deficit without a tax increase.  
 “This has been an arduous process that has required many
difficult decisions,” Christie, a Republican who took office in
January, said yesterday in a statement. “This budget stays true
to the principles I originally outlined, keeping spending within
our means and restoring fiscal order without raising taxes.”  
 Democrats, who control both houses of the Legislature,
disagree with some of Christie’s $10 billion in spending cuts
and said they would leave it to Republicans to sponsor and
spearhead the final plan’s passage for the fiscal year that
starts July 1.  
 The agreement maintains a $300 million surplus and reverses
$74 million in reductions Christie proposed for areas including
welfare, mental health and home nursing care for the elderly. It
offsets the higher spending through cuts to two-dozen programs.
It also abandons Christie’s proposal to raise $65 million
through ending the prohibition on Sunday retail sales in Bergen
County, Treasurer  Andrew Eristoff  said.  
 Christie’s proposed $820 million cut in public-school aid
is part of the agreement, as well as his proposals to reduce
funding for municipalities by $445 million and to skip the
state’s $3 billion payment to its pension funds.  
 Christie Victory  
 “I don’t think these are moves that Democrats would have
liked to make,” said  Brigid Harrison , a political scientist at
 Montclair State University . “Christie can walk out of this
claiming credit. He got what he wanted.”  
 Harrison said she had expected negotiations to break down
and the state government to be shut, as happened in 2006, when
Governor  Jon Corzine ’s fellow Democrats refused to accept a $1.1
billion sales-tax increase. She said it remains to be seen
whether Democrats’ decision to cede power in the budget process
to Christie will hurt them in the next elections.  
 The agreement differs little from Christie’s March budget
address, Assemblyman  Joseph Malone  of Bordentown, the ranking
Republican on the budget committee, said in an interview.
 Richard Bagger , Christie’s chief of staff, said the $74 million
in funding shifts account for 0.2 percent of the total budget.  
 “Most importantly, this budget will be signed on time and
all the rumors of a shutdown will remain just that,” Senate
President  Stephen Sweeney , Democrat of West Deptford, said in a
statement issued with Assembly Speaker  Sheila Oliver , Democrat
of East Orange.  
 Millionaire Tax, Cap  
 Christie, 47, the state’s first Republican governor since
1997, was elected amid voter anger over property-tax bills that
climbed 72 percent to an  average  $7,281 in 2009, from $4,239 in
1999, according to state data. Christie said he wouldn’t raise
taxes to balance the budget.  
 The spending agreement was announced hours after Democrats
in the Legislature unsuccessfully sought to override Christie’s
May 20 veto of a tax increase on incomes above $1 million.
Democrats had hoped to raise $637 million to restore some cuts
to senior programs, including property-tax rebates.  
 Republicans yesterday also failed to advance debate on
Christie’s proposed constitutional amendment capping annual
growth of New Jersey’s highest-in-the-U.S. property tax bills at
2.5 percent. Sweeney has announced a competing proposal to cap
increases at 2.9 percent.  
 “Cooler heads prevailed and we’re going to get this budget
passed and move on,” Malone, the Bordentown Republican, told
reporters in Trenton yesterday. He said he plans to sponsor
budget legislation putting the spending plan into final form in
his chamber.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Terrence Dopp  in Trenton, New Jersey, at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        