-- New Zealand May Record 0.6% Growth in Recovery Set to Accelerate on China
-- Daniel Petrie
-- 2010-06-23T01:02:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-22/new-zealand-may-record-0-8-growth-in-recovery-set-to-accelerate-on-china.html

          
          
             New Zealand’s  economy  probably
expanded for a fourth quarter, spurred by Chinese demand for the
nation’s commodities, boosting the case for the central bank to
raise interest rates for the second time in as many months.  
 Gross domestic product rose 0.6 percent in the three months
to March from the previous quarter, according to the median of
14 estimates in a Bloomberg News  survey  before the report due in
Wellington tomorrow. The gain would follow a 0.8 percent jump in
October to December, the biggest in two years, and indicate a
sustained rebound from the deepest contraction in three decades.  
 Growth may accelerate as China’s move in the past week to
allow a stronger yuan may stoke its demand for foreign goods,
such as New Zealand’s timber logs and milk. That in turn may
spur New Zealand’s dollar, according to UBS AG; the so-called
kiwi has already proved the third-best performing major currency
over the past 12 months, spurred by forecasts for higher rates.  
 “We expect the recovery to gather momentum,” said  Nick Tuffley , chief economist at ASB Bank Ltd. in Auckland. “That
will give the Reserve Bank confidence to continue with its
policy normalization by lifting the cash rate steadily.”  
 Reserve Bank of New Zealand Governor  Alan Bollard  on June
10 raised the  official cash rate  a quarter-point to 2.75 percent,
the first increase in three years, and said he expects to
gradually remove monetary stimulus. There is an 80 percent
chance of a quarter-point rise at the July 29 review, according
to a Credit Suisse  index  based on swaps trading.  
 Currency Gain  
 The New Zealand dollar has gained 12 percent against its
U.S. counterpart over the past year, behind Brazil’s real and
Canada’s dollar among 16 major currencies tracked by Bloomberg.
Prime Minister  John Key , the former head of foreign exchange at
Merrill Lynch & Co., said earlier this month the kiwi may fail
to keep pace with gains in the higher-yielding Australian dollar.  
 China’s June 19 decision to abandon a fixed peg of the yuan
to the U.S. dollar means the currencies “risk seeking”
investors prefer will benefit, including the New Zealand and
Canadian dollars, UBS analysts said in a research note June 21.  
 The New Zealand currency rose to a one-month high of 71.53
U.S. cents yesterday. It bought 70.31 U.S. cents at 12:40 p.m.
in Wellington trading.  
 The Reserve Bank forecast this month that growth in 2010
will be the strongest in five years as the recovery takes hold
after a five-quarter contraction through 2008 and into 2009. The
government expects annual average growth will exceed 3 percent
for the next three years.  
 Finance Minister  Bill English  on May 20 announced income
tax cuts and increased spending on roads and railways to
encourage investment and buoy demand.  
 Logging Gains  
 In the first quarter, export growth was led by overseas
sales of logs to China, the nation’s largest market. China
boosted demand for logs after Russia introduced a tax on its
exports, the  Ministry of Agriculture & Forestry  said in a June
15 report. Log exports are likely to rise 22 percent in the year
ending June 30, the ministry forecast.  
 Stronger overseas shipments were hindered by a drought in
regions of the North Island that affected milk production.  
 Fonterra Cooperative Group Ltd. , the world’s largest dairy
company, said April 15 that many of its farmer suppliers had
stopped milking earlier than expected, which will curb
production. Dairy export volumes fell in the first quarter,
according to government figures published June 10.  
 New Zealand’s current account deficit, the broadest measure
of trade because it includes services and investment, narrowed
to 2.4 percent of GDP in the year ended March 31, the smallest
gap in more than 21 years, Statistics New Zealand reported today.  
 Asian Economies  
 Demand for exports is being driven by global growth, led by
China and other Asian economies. In Australia, which buys 23
percent of New Zealand’s exports, growth was 0.5 percent in the
three months through March. The Chinese economy expanded 11.9
percent in the first quarter from a year earlier.  
 As exports recover, consumer spending and the housing
market remain subdued, Bollard said June 10.  Retail sales  rose
0.2 percent in the three months through March, the slowest pace
in a year, according to government figures published May 14.  
 Warehouse Group Ltd. , the nation’s largest discount
retailer, said in May sales fell 1.9 percent in the three months
ended May 2. On June 3, the Auckland-based company told
investors consumer confidence is recovering “but it’s likely to
take time,” according to a statement to the stock exchange.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tracy Withers  in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net ;
 Daniel Petrie  in Sydney at 
 dpetrie5@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        