-- New World Resources Falls as Evraz Cancels Iron Order With ArcelorMittal
-- Krystof Chamonikolas
-- 2010-06-22T15:00:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-22/new-world-resources-falls-as-evraz-cancels-iron-order-with-arcelormittal.html

          
          
             New World Resources NV , the largest
Czech supplier of coal to steelmakers, declined the most in four
days after Evraz Vitkovice Steel AS canceled pig iron orders for
July from NWR’s customer.  
 The stock  tumbled  as much as 2.3 percent, the biggest
intraday drop since June 16, and closed down 0.8 percent at
233.1 koruna in Prague trading. It rallied 4.7 percent
yesterday. The  PX  equity index of 14 companies fell 1.1 percent,
the first decline in three days, to 1,172.4.  
 The Czech unit of Evraz Group SA, Russia’s second-biggest
steelmaker, canceled pig iron orders from  ArcelorMittal Ostrava
AS  on a price dispute, CTK newswire reported yesterday. Evraz is
trying to negotiate lower prices and has threatened to close its
mill if no agreement is reached.  
 “This could have a negative impact on NWR’s sales because
ArcelorMittal Ostrava is the second-largest purchaser of NWR’s
coking coal,” analysts led by Milan Vanicek at Atlantik FT
brokerage in Prague wrote in a report to clients today.  
 ArcelorMittal’s Czech unit faces a “dramatic outage” as
Evraz buys a fourth of its production, Chief Executive  Augustine Kochuparampil  said in an interview with E15 published today.
While Evraz seeks to resume buying the commodity in August, its
price requirements remain “dramatically different” from those
of ArcelorMittal, Kochuparampil told the newspaper.  
 The news about Evraz and ArcelorMittal overshadowed a
report that NWR completed the sale of its NWR Energy AS unit to
Dalkia Ceska Republika AS for 131 million euros ($161 million).
The final price exceeds the originally announced 122 million
euros, the company said today in a regulatory news statement.  
 “The higher-than-expected purchase price can be regarded
as positive” for NWR, according to the Atlantik note. The
brokerage has a “buy” recommendation for NWR’s shares with a
12-month price estimate of 361 koruna.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Krystof Chamonikolas  in Prague at 
 kchamonikola@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        