-- New Zealand Current-Account Deficit Widens to 3% of Gross Domestic Product
-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 2010-09-21T23:23:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-22/new-zealand-posts-smallest-current-account-deficit-in-more-than-21-years.html
New Zealand’s annual current-
account deficit widened for the first time in six quarters amid
a jump in profits at foreign-owned companies.  The shortfall widened to NZ$5.6 billion ($4.1 billion) in
the 12 months ended June 30 from a revised NZ$4.46 billion in
the year through March, Statistics New Zealand said in
Wellington today.  The deficit, the broadest measure of trade because it
includes services and investment, is expected to widen further
as recovering domestic demand draws in more imports and bolsters
profits of foreign-owned companies. Central bank Governor  Alan Bollard  last week forecast the gap will broaden as companies
start investing and consumers begin to build up debt.  “We expect the deficit to gradually expand, reflecting
continued recovery in the economy,” economists at Auckland-
based ASB Bank Ltd. wrote in a Sept. 20 note. In the second
quarter a trade surplus “will be more than offset by deficits
in the investment income balance due to a recovery in business
profitability.”  New Zealand’s currency bought 73.26 U.S. cents at 10.51
a.m. in Wellington, from 73.29 cents immediately before the
report’s release.  The annual deficit was 3 percent of gross domestic product,
compared with 2.4 percent in the year ended March 31, the
statistics agency said.  Trade Surplus  The current account position deteriorated even as the trade
balance was the strongest in more than eight years. The trade
surplus widened to NZ$3.25 billion in the year ended June 30
from NZ$2.64 billion in the 12 months through March, today’s
report showed.  Exports increased 10 percent from the year-earlier quarter,
outpacing a 5.5 percent rise in imports.  Rising exports and weak demand for imports is allowing New
Zealand’s economy to make a modest recovery from its worst
recession in three decades. A report tomorrow will show the
economy expanded 0.7 percent in the second quarter, according to
the median estimate of 12 economists  surveyed  by Bloomberg News.  The better trade position was more than offset by a growing
annual deficit on income, which makes up most of the current-
account balance. The income deficit includes international
investment income and, for the first time, a measure of
compensation of employees.  The income deficit widened to NZ$9.08 billion from a
revised NZ$7.77 billion in the year to March 31, today’s report
showed. From a year earlier, foreign investors’ earnings in New
Zealand surged, offsetting increased income on New Zealand’s
investments abroad, the statistics agency said.  Quarterly Deficit  Economists prefer to watch a rolling annual current-account
balance for New Zealand because of volatility in the quarterly
readings.  In the three months ended June 30, there was a current-
account deficit of NZ$880 million, compared with a revised
NZ$159 million surplus in the first quarter.  The quarterly trade surplus widened as exports rose, buoyed
by dairy prices, the statistics agency said  Still, there was a wider income deficit in the quarter and
the balance of services was in deficit for the first time in
three quarters because of reduced tourist spending and increased
freight charges, the agency said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tracy Withers  in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  