-- Mogul Peter Brant Has Meltdown in Urs Fischer Show (Update1)
-- Katya Kazakina
-- 2010-06-22T20:06:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-22/newsprint-mogul-peter-brant-has-meltdown-pit-in-private-urs-fischer-show.html

          
          
             The head of a water buffalo, a blue
Marilyn by  Andy Warhol  and various polo awards are among the
trophies with which  Peter Brant  has decorated the library in his
Greenwich, Connecticut, mansion. Only that isn’t where I am or
what I’m seeing.  
 The room is trompe l’oeil wallpaper created by Swiss artist
 Urs Fischer  for his solo exhibition at the  Brant Foundation Art
Study Center , a short ride from the mansion. The wallpaper also
depicts photographs of Brant’s wife, model Stephanie Seymour.
The two are entangled in a messy split that the New York Post
described as “Divorce Hell.”  
 The installation, “Abstract Slavery,” which includes a
sitting room, is a clever play on Brant’s job as the chairman
and chief executive officer of White Birch Paper Co. One of the
major newsprint manufacturers in North America, White Birch
filed for bankruptcy earlier this year.  
 Highlighting the transience of trophies, a wax statue of
Brant, its wick aflame, slowly melts away in each room.  
 “I look like John F. Kennedy after he was shot,” said
Brant, 63, clad in a tan suit, light-blue shirt and navy-blue
tie. “I like the way it melts and turns into an abstraction.”  
 The show reflects a 3-year collaboration between the art
collector known for his trove of Pop Art and the artist whose
career has been on fire. Fischer is also in the collections of
billionaires  Francois Pinault  and Dakis Joannou. Last month, a
sculpture of his called “The Grass Munchers” consisting of
disembodied arms fetched $902,500 at Phillips de Pury in New
York, an auction record for the artist.  
 Many works at the Art Study Center show, bizarrely titled
“Oscar the Grouch,” are familiar from Fischer’s appearances at
the New Museum, Venice Biennale and gallery exhibitions in
London and New York. Yet their thoughtful, uncluttered
presentation in a converted, light-filled 1902 stone barn lends
the pieces a fresh look, humor and depth.  
 A Huge Pit  
 “You” is a huge pit excavated on the first floor and
filled with earth, stones and rubble. Brant said he bought the
work when it was displayed at Gavin Brown’s Enterprise gallery
in New York three years ago and had it recreated on a much
bigger scale here. It’s first seen from above, a change that
enhances its impact.  
 “The work is about deconstruction, about where the art
world has gone,” said Brant, who began collecting at the age of
19. “And it is ‘You’ because that’s where you are going to end
up one day.”  
 Two mirrored boxes with enlarged images of a sliced onion
and Diet Coke greet the visitors in a room overlooking a
gigantic polo course with bleachers. The works bring to mind
Warhol’s Brillo boxes. At Fischer’s New Museum show earlier this
year, an entire floor was filled with similar cubes imprinted
with images of oversized mundane objects.  
 “He observed me over a period of time,” said Brant,
sipping Diet Coke. “I recently have taken up cooking. I guess I
use a lot of onions.”  
 Art in America  
 Brant is also owner and chairman of Brant Publications,
which publishes  Interview , Modern, Art in America and The
Magazine Antiques.  
 Until Fischer intervened for the wax sculptures, Brant said
he never commissioned a portrait of himself despite being
friends with artists including Warhol and  Jeff Koons . ‘Normally,
I don’t like how I look in pictures,” he said.  
 Fischer scaled up Brant by about 10 to 15 percent while
scaling down the space by the same amount. The result is an
Alice in Wonderland environment where things look at once
hyperrealist and slightly off-kilter, where multimillion-dollar
art turns out to be wallpaper.  
 Brant, who owns all the works included in “Oscar the
Grouch,” said the production costs of the show were
“substantial” but declined to specify.  
 “It was a big undertaking,” he said.  
 The show runs through February 2011. To schedule an
appointment, e-mail the center at  thebrantfoundation@gmail.com .  
 ( Katya Kazakina  is a reporter for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
her own.)  
 To contact the reporter of this story:
Katya Kazakina in New York at 
 kkazakina@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     "Abstract Slavery'' (2008), a wallpaper installation by Swiss artist Urs Fischer. The work is part of an exhibition at the Brant Foundation Art Study Center in Greenwich, Connecticut. Photographer: Stefan Altenburger/Brant Foundation Art Study Center via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     "Abstract Slavery'' (2008), a wallpaper installation by Swiss artist Urs Fischer. The work is part of an exhibition at the Brant Foundation Art Study Center in Greenwich, Connecticut. Photographer: Stefan Altenburger/Brant Foundation Art Study Center via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       ``You''  
                       
                         
                           Stefan Altenburger/Brant Foundation Art Study Center via Bloomberg 
                         
                         "You" (2007) by Swiss artist Urs Fischer. The work is part of an exhibition at the Brant Foundation Art Study Center. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     "You" (2007) by Swiss artist Urs Fischer. The work is part of an exhibition at the Brant Foundation Art Study Center. Photographer: Stefan Altenburger/Brant Foundation Art Study Center via Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
