-- New York Poised to Pass No-Fault Divorce, Joining Rest of U.S.
-- Alan Wechsler
-- 2010-06-22T15:26:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-22/no-fault-divorce-statute-nears-passage-in-new-york-joining-rest-of-u-s-.html

          
          
             New York , the only U.S. state that
doesn’t allow no-fault divorces, is poised to change.  
 As the Assembly weighs a bill to permit quicker uncontested
marital breakups, opponents including religious and women’s-
rights groups say it may be tough to keep the change from
becoming law. Last week, the 62-member Senate passed a no-fault
divorce measure, 32-29. In the Assembly, almost half the members
co-sponsored  legislation  to add the rule.  
 Assembly Speaker  Sheldon Silver , a Democrat from Manhattan,
said he supports making uncontested dissolutions easier.  
 “No-fault divorce as a concept should be part of our
domestic-relations law,” Silver told reporters in the Capitol
on June 17. “There are a lot technical things that have to be
worked out now.”  
 Governor  David Paterson , a Democrat, would discuss the
matter with interested parties and review letters from the
public if a no-fault bill reaches his desk, said Jessica
Bassett, a spokeswoman.  
 Democrats, who control the Assembly, haven’t discussed a
schedule for voting on the no-fault  bill  from Assemblyman
 Jonathan Bing , a Manhattan Democrat, said  Dan Weiller , a Silver
spokesman.  
 Married couples in New York must be legally separated for
12 months to get an uncontested divorce. If they don’t want to
wait a year, a spouse must claim adultery, imprisonment,
abandonment or cruel and inhuman treatment, according to  state
law . Because of these rules, couples seeking an amicable divorce
must lie in court to avoid delay, Bing said.  
 Adding Irretrievable Breakdown  
 The Senate’s bill, passed on June 15, would enable couples
to divorce if the “relationship between husband and wife has
broken down irretrievably for a period of six months.”  
 While the bill doesn’t delve into other elements of divorce
law, such as community-property rules, it does say a divorce
won’t be granted until issues such as financial matters and
child custody are resolved.  
 Groups ranging from women’s-rights organizations to
religious conservatives held a joint briefing in Albany
yesterday on why they oppose the change.  
 Marcia Pappas , president of the National Organization for
Women’s New York chapter, said the change would make it easier
for a wealthier spouse to end a marriage without providing fair
compensation to a former partner.  
 “No-fault takes away any bargaining leverage the non-
moneyed spouse has,” she said. “This is usually the woman.”  
 ‘Difficult Fight’  
 Some opponents say preventing passage in the Senate was
their best hope. Now, “it’s a much more difficult fight for
us,” said Dennis Poust, a spokesman for the  New York State
Catholic Conference , a lobbying group. “We’re very
disappointed.”  
 The conference opposes the bill because it may discourage
divorce alternatives such as family therapy, he said.  
 The measure also may make it easier for an abusive spouse
to end a marriage without providing for a former partner, said
Kevin O’Brien, a matrimonial lawyer with O’Brien & Associates in
Albany. While he doesn’t favor the change, he said he expects it
to pass.  
 “It doesn’t address the socioeconomic issues that result
when there’s a divorce,” he said.  
 In New York, 7 percent of men and 10 percent of women
reported getting a divorce in the past year, according to a Pew
Research Center  study  of U.S. Census Bureau data from a 2008
survey. Those figures put New York at the low end of the divorce
rate for both men and women, according to the Pew Center.  
 In  Nevada , the state with the highest rates for both sexes,
13 percent of men and 16 percent of women reported divorcing in
the previous 12 months, Pew said. Nationwide, 9 percent of men
and 12 percent of women gave those responses, Pew said.  
 Pappas said she hopes Paterson will reject the change, even
if it passes the Assembly. She said the governor is looking for
ways to cut state costs, and if no-fault divorce becomes law,
more women may need public assistance.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Wechsler in Albany, New York, at 
 alwechs@juno.com .  
          
          


  


        