-- Norway May Leave Benchmark Rate Unchanged, Signal Slower Tightening Path
-- Josiane Kremer
-- 2010-06-23T08:20:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-22/norway-may-leave-benchmark-rate-unchanged-signal-slower-tightening-path.html

          
          
             Norges Bank will probably keep its
 benchmark interest rate  unchanged today and may signal a slower
pace of tightening as the debt crisis in the euro area, Norway’s
main trading partner, threatens to impede its economic recovery.  
 The central bank will leave the overnight deposit rate at 2
percent, according to all 16 economists  surveyed by Bloomberg .
The bank will announce the decision and publish a revised set of
economic forecasts at 2 p.m. in Oslo.  
 Austerity measures imposed by debt-ridden Western European
governments threaten to stifle growth, reducing demand for
Norway’s exports, which account for about half of output.
Europe’s fiscal crisis may also force the European Central Bank
to delay any tightening, increasing pressure on Norges Bank to
scale back its plans to raise rates to avoid krone gains.  
 “Lower interest rate expectations abroad mean that Norges
Bank will move more slowly, because if they move too fast the
krone will become stronger,”  Erik Bruce , senior economist at
Nordea Bank AB in Oslo, said by phone yesterday.  
 The prospect of rate increases has boosted the krone by 4.5
percent against the euro this year, making Norwegian exports
more expensive. The krone has rebounded 26 percent against the
euro since a trough in December 2008.  
 Krone  
 Currency gains have helped keep inflation in check.
 Consumer prices , adjusted for taxes and energy, rose an annual
1.5 percent last month after gaining 1.7 percent in April.
Inflation has lagged behind the bank’s 2.5 percent target since
August. Still, the prospect of a reduced rate path from the
central bank today has sent the krone lower against the euro the
past six days.  
 “The cocktail of slower domestic growth, more moderate pay
gains, European debt woes and lower global interest rate
expectations suggest that the Norges Bank will be in no hurry to
raise rates in the second half of the year,” Citigroup Inc.
currency strategist  Michael Hart  said in a note. “If vague
concerns become reality and the Norges Bank does revise its
conditional interest rate path downwards today, the krone could
witness another leg lower.”  
 The bank in October became the first in Europe to raise its
benchmark rate after continued petroleum investment in the
world’s sixth-largest oil exporter shielded the economy from the
worst of the credit crisis. While last year’s record-low rates
fueled demand and triggered house-price gains, the risk that
Europe’s debt crisis may dent exports argues against an increase
today, analysts say.  
 Weaker Growth  
 “Weaker than expected growth in Norway, weaker
inflationary pressures, increased uncertainty about the
sustainability of the euro area recovery, lower interest rate
expectations among trading partners” support keeping rates on
hold “until spring next year,”  Bjoern-Roger Wilhelmsen , a
former Norges Bank economist who works for First Securities ASA,
wrote in a June 21 note to clients.  
 Prime Minister  Jens Stoltenberg  last week urged euro region
leaders to safeguard growth and avoid further increases in
unemployment as they cut spending.  
 “We are very concerned,” Stoltenberg said in an
interview with Bloomberg Television on June 16. “We are so
dependent on the development in the European economy.”  
 Investor concern about the debt crisis contributed to a
rise in the  three-month Norwegian Interbank Offered Rate ,
sending the rate to 2.66 percent yesterday. The rate has jumped
24 basis points since the end of April.  
 Domestic Influence  
 A lull in domestic demand may also persuade policy makers
to pause at today’s meeting.  Retail sales  fell in two of the
first four months of 2010, signaling consumers remain cautious.
 Non-oil economic growth  slowed to 0.1 percent in the first
quarter from 0.4 percent in the fourth.  
 Wilhelmsen expects policy makers to scale back their
expectations for future interest-rate increases today by
lowering the rate path for a second time in three months. In its
last  monetary policy report  on March 24, Norges Bank forecast
rates would rise to 2.5 percent by the end of the year.  
 The European Commission on June 16 called on governments to
take “ambitious” steps to push down budget deficits and said
some debt-burdened countries may have to use “cold shower”
consolidation plans.  
 Some European nations risk a “double dip” economic
slowdown if the region fails to resolve its debt crisis, the
World Bank said on June 10.  
 Former Norges Bank deputy governor  Jarle Bergo  said in an
interview on June 1 he didn’t believe the debt crisis in Europe
would prompt the central bank to change its tightening path.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Josiane Kremer  in Oslo at 
 Jkremer4@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        