-- Obama Seeks More Than $100 Million for Laid-Off Oil Rig Workers
-- Julianna Goldman
-- 2010-06-22T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-22/obama-seeks-more-than-100-million-for-aid-to-laid-off-workers-on-oil-rigs.html

          
          
             The Obama administration is still
weighing how to pay for aid to oil rig workers who’ve lost jobs
because of a moratorium on deepwater drilling, in addition to
$100 million pledged by  BP Plc , administration officials said.  
 While President  Barack Obama  has asked Congress for
legislation for a program to provide unemployment assistance for
such workers, the administration is seeking to avoid having
taxpayers foot the bill, the officials, who spoke on condition
of anonymity, said.  
 The officials refused to say whether the administration
would seek more money from BP or its partners in the damaged and
leaking well in the Gulf of Mexico.  
 Compensation for laid-off rig workers emerged as one of the
points of contention heading into last week’s White House
meeting that included Obama, BP Chairman  Carl-Henric Svanberg 
and Chief Executive Officer  Tony Hayward . That money is separate
from a $20 billion fund put up by BP to pay economic damage
claims from individuals and businesses on the Gulf Coast
affected by the worst oil spill in U.S. history.  
 The administration approached London-based BP about
contributing money to help out-of-work rig employees three days
before the June 16 meeting in Washington, in as many as five
telephone calls between White House counsel  Robert Bauer  and the
company’s outside lawyer,  Jamie Gorelick , a partner at
WilmerHale in Washington and a former deputy attorney general
under President  Bill Clinton , according to the officials who
were involved in the negotiations.  
 Unresolved Issues  
 It was one of several issues still unresolved when Svanberg
and Hayward arrived at the White House and walked into the
Roosevelt Room shortly after 10 a.m. for what turned out to be
four hours of negotiations, twice as long as scheduled.  
 BP took the position coming into the meeting that it had no
liability for lost wages resulting from the government-imposed
deepwater drilling moratorium, according to a company adviser
familiar with the talks, who spoke on condition of anonymity.  
 The talks culminated in a private Oval Office session
between Obama and Svanberg. Ultimately, Svanberg and Hayward
agreed to contribute $100 million to the fund for rig workers,
which the White House described at the time as a “foundation.”  
 David Nichols, a spokesman for BP, said the company
wouldn’t comment on negotiations with the White House.  
 “The agreement we reached was a way forward,” he said.  
 The administration hasn’t put a price tag on the cost to
workers from the six-month moratorium. It was imposed after the
Deepwater Horizon rig exploded on April 20, killing 11 workers
and triggering the spill.  
 Sources of Money  
 “We’re looking at a variety of different sources where
some of those workers can be compensated for their lost work,”
 Bill Burton , deputy White House press secretary, said at a
briefing yesterday, without elaborating.  
 The compensation fund for laid-off rig workers was one of
several concessions made by BP under White House pressure,
according to administration officials.  
 BP also conceded on a request to earn credit on the
interest accrued on the $20 billion escrow, the details of
collateral for the claims fund, and ultimately decided to forgo
a second-quarter  dividend  payment. Obama aides said that if a
payment was made to  shareholders , BP also needed to pay into the
escrow, according to the administration officials and the BP
adviser.  
 In order to protect the collateral, both sides agreed that
if the pace of the claims being paid out exceeded the amount of
money in the fund and in the collateral account, BP and
administration officials would enter into new negotiations about
increasing the security interest, according to administration
officials and the company adviser.  
 Government Demands  
 The administration officials said the government’s demands
were adjusted based on the operational limitations of BP. They
recognized that in order to ensure BP’s viability, the company
needed to spread out the payments into the $20 billion economic
compensation fund over four years, the officials said.  
 The amount for economic claims isn’t capped and the fund
will be independently administered by lawyer  Kenneth Feinberg .  
 In addition to its liability for economic claims, BP is
responsible under the law for the full cost of cleanup
operations. The administration today sent a third bill to BP and
its partners for $51.4 million to cover the cost of the
response. The companies have paid $71 million to the government
so far.  
 BP has said the cost of its response to the spill has
reached $2 billion. Standard Chartered Plc has estimated the
company’s spending for cleanup and liabilities may reach $40
billion.  
 Bond Yield  
 The company’s stock has slumped 47 percent since the rig
explosion. The average yield on  BP’s bonds  has surged to 539
basis points, or 5.39 percentage points, more than benchmark
rates, from 41 basis points before the accident, according to
Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data.  
 The cost of insuring the company’s debt for five years
using credit-default swaps rose 6.5 basis points to 478.5, after
reaching a record-high closing price of 583 on June 16,
according to CMA DataVision.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Julianna Goldman  in Washington at 
 jgoldman6@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     President Barack Obama meets with BP Plc executives in the Roosevelt Room of the White House in Washington, D.C. Photographer: Pete Souza/White House via Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
