-- Oil Companies in Limbo as Judge Halts Drilling Ban
-- David Wethe
-- 2010-06-22T20:09:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-22/oil-companies-in-limbo-as-obama-promises-appeal-of-drilling-ban-s-reversal.html

          
          
             Oil companies and contractors that
work in the deep waters of the Gulf of Mexico are likely to wait
to restart drilling operations until there’s more clarity on how
a federal judge’s decision to lift a U.S. ban will play out.  
 U.S. District Judge  Martin Feldman  today granted a
preliminary injunction, halting a six-month moratorium that
President  Barack Obama  put in place May 27 to cease issuing new
deep-water drilling permits. The president also called for work
to be stopped on 33 exploration wells.  
 The moratorium followed an April 20 explosion on a rig
Transocean Ltd. leased to  BP Plc . That accident killed 11
workers and created the worst oil spill in U.S. history. The
U.S. said it would appeal today’s decision.  
 “No one’s going to go back to work,” said  Brian Uhlmer ,
an analyst at Pritchard Capital Partners in Houston, citing new
federal standards that allow the government to recall drilling
permits and require new filings. “You can have a non-moratorium
moratorium.”  
 Feldman in a separate order today “immediately
prohibited” the U.S. from enforcing the drilling moratorium,
finding the offshore companies would otherwise incur
“irreparable harm.”  
 Energy companies won’t resume operations until they have
“more certainty” on drilling and what the federal government
plans to do, Louisiana Governor  Bobby Jindal  said today during a
press conference.  
 “You can’t just turn this switch on and off,” Jindal
said. “Once these rigs leave the Gulf, they may be gone for
years.”  
 ‘Small Victory’  
 The American Petroleum Institute said in a statement that
it welcomes Feldman’s decision. “With this ruling, our industry
and its people can get back to work to provide Americans with
the energy they need, and do it safely and without harming the
environment,” the industry trade group said.  
 “It’s a small victory for the industry, but clearly the
administration has dug in its heels and is going to try to keep
this moratorium, come hell or high water,” said  Jud Bailey , an
analyst at Jefferies & Co. in Houston. “Investors, as it
relates to the drillers, are for the most part staying away.
There’s too much uncertainty, too much headline risk.”  
 Even if operators don’t have to get re-permitted for
previously approved drilling projects, Bailey said he doesn’t
think many operators would immediately try to resume operations.
Companies don’t want to incur the cost or potential wrath of the
government, he said.  
 “You run the risk of this getting overturned by the
appellate court,” Bailey said.  
 Markey Supports Appeal  
 U.S. Representative  Edward Markey , a Democrat from
Massachusetts, said in a statement today that he supports the
Obama administration’s plan to appeal. The “judge’s decision
flies in the face of mounting evidence that there are serious
safety risks that must be examined with these 33 deep-water rigs
before they start drilling again,” Markey said.  
 Spokesmen for companies with deep-water operations such as
 Chevron Corp.  and  Pride International Inc.  either declined to
comment on the judge’s decision or didn’t respond to requests
for comment.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Edward Klump  in Houston at 
 eklump@bloomberg.net ;
 David Wethe  in Houston at 
 dwethe@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Bobby Jindal, governor of Louisiana. Photographer: Patrick Semansky/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
