-- Honda's Ito Defends Fuel Efficiency Lead as Hyundai Gains
-- Alan Ohnsman
-- 2010-06-23T20:26:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-22/honda-s-ito-defends-top-ranking-in-fuel-efficiency-as-hyundai-ford-gain.html

          
          
             Takanobu Ito  became a star at  Honda
Motor Co.  with his work on the NSX sports car, the company’s
most powerful model. Now, as chief executive officer, he’s
focusing on fuel efficiency as  Ford Motor Co.  and  Hyundai Motor
Co.  threaten Honda’s leading position in North America.  
 While Honda’s fleet is rated the most fuel-efficient in the
U.S., Ford’s Fiesta subcompact gets up to 33 miles per gallon in
combined city/highway driving, compared with 31 mpg for Honda’s
rival Fit hatchback. Hyundai’s Sonata sedan tops Honda’s top-
selling Accord in economy and horsepower, and its revamped
Elantra compact promises to use less fuel than Honda’s Civic.  
 “Ford is coming back, and Hyundai is gaining market
share,” said  Tadashi Usui , an analyst at Moody’s K.K. in Tokyo.
“The gap between Japanese automakers and rivals is shrinking.”  
 Honda, after axing its V-10 NSX supercar project in 2008,
is redoubling efforts to boost fuel efficiency to fend off
growing competition. Ito delayed the release of a revamped Civic
compact after telling engineers he was unhappy with its size and
fuel economy, said  Tomohiko Kawanabe , president of Honda’s
research and development unit.  
 Even as factors including pricing and design shape research
efforts, “fuel efficiency has become the first priority in our
discussions,” Kawanabe said in an interview at Honda’s research
center last month in Wako, west of Tokyo.  
 Risking Reputation  
 Honda’s U.S. sales gained 13 percent in the first five
months of 2010, trailing industry growth of 17 percent. Ford’s
rose 31 percent in the same period, while Hyundai’s sales grew
23 percent.  
 Japan’s second-largest carmaker has focused on only mild
improvements in fuel economy recently, risking its “green”
reputation, said  Ed Kim , an industry analyst at AutoPacific Inc.
in Tustin, California. For example, Honda uses 5-speed automatic
transmissions as the industry adopted more efficient 6-speeds,
and seems reluctant to use direct-injection and turbocharging
technology, Kim said.  
 “Even before the green thing was big, they were into
green,” said Kim, a former Hyundai product planner. “Over the
last few years, they’ve been completely leapfrogged in new
engine technologies.”  
 Honda’s U.S. fleet of Honda and Acura 2009 models averaged
23.6 mpg in the  U.S. Environmental Protection Agency ’s fuel
efficiency assessment, adjusted for real-world driving. Hyundai-
Kia group vehicles were second in the 2009 model-year survey,
averaging 23.4 mpg. Hyundai models alone, excluding those of Kia
Motors Corp., exceeded Honda’s fleet with an adjusted average of
23.9 mpg, according to EPA.  
 Depositary Shares  
 Toyota Motor Corp.  had an adjusted fleet average of 23.2
mpg, and Ford, with a 20.5 mpg fleet, ranked seventh.  
 Honda’s American depositary receipts, each representing one
ordinary share, fell 9 cents to $29.90 at 4:15 p.m. in New York
Stock Exchange composite  trading , have dropped 12 percent this
year. The shares fell 1.5 percent to close at 2,720 yen in
Tokyo.  
 Another motivation for Honda to raise vehicle efficiency is
a U.S. regulation forcing an industrywide increase by model year
2016. Honda’s fleet must average 37.4 mpg by that time, a 50
percent improvement from about 26 mpg now,  John Mendel , head of
Honda’s U.S. sales operation, said June 8.  
 The global recession following the collapse of Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc. in September 2008 also spurred Honda’s
strategic shift, said Ito, who became CEO a year ago.  
 “In a certain sense, Lehman was a blessing,” Ito said in
Tokyo last month.  
 Unlike before the recession, price increases are tough to
justify and vehicle size and fuel economy need to “conform to
these times,” Kawanabe said.  
 Prius Competition  
 Expanding Honda’s line of hybrid cars is part of the
strategy. Honda plans to introduce a new hybrid Civic with a
lithium-ion battery that can store twice the power of a nickel-
metal hydride battery, Kawanabe said. The company will unveil a
new hybrid version of the Fit later this year.  
 Honda’s Insight and Civic hybrids haven’t gained ground on
Toyota’s Prius, the world’s top-selling hybrid. The Prius
outsold the Insight 6-to-1 in the U.S. this year through May.  
 One reason may be fuel economy. Toyota’s hybrid gets 51 mpg
in city driving, while the Insight gets 40 mpg. Honda Executive
Vice President  Koichi Kondo  also said the Insight, a compact
model in the U.S. compared with the midsize Prius, may be too
small for Americans.  
 The company is also exploring stop-start technology,
turbochargers and expanding continuously variable transmissions
to boost fuel efficiency, said  Hiroshi Ataka , a Tokyo-based
analyst at consulting company IHS Global Insight.  
 Favoring Hydrogen Power  
 While Honda is researching electric cars, it’s less
optimistic about demand for them than Nissan is and favors
hydrogen-powered cars as the ultimate zero-emission vehicle.  
 Honda set up a lithium-ion battery venture with GS Yuasa
Corp. and can shift gears quickly if necessary, Ataka said.  
 The company stopped producing the NSX supercar, its fastest
production model, in 2005. It planned to reintroduce it this
year. Instead, it built the low-priced, sporty CR-Z hybrid that
arrives in the U.S. in August.  
 As a young engineer Ito consulted bullet-train designers to
develop an all-aluminum body for the first-generation NSX when
superiors considered the notion impossible, according to a
company publication.  
 “I love sports cars,” Ito said at the Beijing Motor Show
in April. “But we have to watch the economic situation and our
purse strings.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Makiko Kitamura  in Tokyo at 
 mkitamura1@bloomberg.net ;
 Alan Ohnsman  in Los Angeles at 
 aohnsman@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Honda Motor Co. CEO Takanobu Ito poses for a portrait at the Beijing Auto Show in Beijing. Photographer: Nelson Ching/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
