-- Shaw to Buy All of Canwest's Television Unit As Shareholder Dispute Ends
-- Joe Schneider
-- 2010-06-23T19:29:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-22/ontario-judge-delays-hearing-on-approval-of-canwest-asset-sale-to-shaw.html

          
          
             Canwest Global Communications
Corp. ’s sale of its television unit won a judge’s approval,
after the insolvent company reached an agreement with dissenting
shareholders over terms of the deal.  
 Canwest’s founding Asper family, four U.S. equity funds and
two anonymous shareholders will get C$11 million ($10.6 million)
in exchange for their support of the sale, Ontario Superior
Court Judge  Sarah Pepall  said.  Shaw Communications Inc.  will pay
C$2 billion for the assets.  
 The sale “will provide long-term stability” to Canwest’s
employees and customers, Pepall said at a hearing in Toronto
today. “It’s fair and reasonable.”  
 Shaw agreed in February to acquire a 20 percent stake in
the TV unit. Goldman Sachs Group Inc. objected and the deal was
renegotiated to let Shaw buy all of the TV assets, including
Goldman’s stake in Canwest’s specialty television unit.  
 The Aspers and other shareholders objected to the revised
deal because it withdrew their C$11 million compensation.
Pepall yesterday called the dispute “ridiculous” and ordered
the two sides to resolve it outside court.  
 After negotiating until 2 a.m. today, both sides met again
this morning and Canwest agreed to reinstate the payments, said
 David Byers , lawyer for the court-appointed monitor overseeing
the restructuring.  
 Debt Repayment  
 Canwest, Canada’s largest media company, filed for
bankruptcy protection on Oct. 6 as it faced demands for
repayment of more than C$1 billion of debt. The Winnipeg,
Manitoba-based company had about C$4 billion of debt.  
 Shaw will acquire specialty channels, including the Food
Network, that Goldman helped Canwest buy through its 2007
 purchase  of Alliance Atlantis Communications Inc. for C$2.3
billion. Canwest’s reorganization plan, which includes the sale,
still requires approval by creditors and Pepall.  
 Bondholders would get $440 million to fully satisfy their
claims, Canwest’s lawyer Lyndon Barnes said at today’s hearing.  
 “The bonds are getting cashed out,” Barnes said.
“Affected creditors are better off.”  
 The cases are In the Matter of a Plan of Compromise or
Arrangement of Canwest Global Communications Corp., CV-09-8396,
Ontario Superior Court of Justice (Toronto) and In the Matter of
a Plan of Compromise or Arrangement of Canwest Publishing Inc.,
CV-10-8533, Ontario Superior Court of Justice (Toronto).  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joe Schneider  in Toronto at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        