-- Origin May Use Cash, Undrawn Debt to Buy Alinta Operations, Analysts Say
-- James Paton
-- 2010-06-22T08:23:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-22/origin-may-use-cash-undrawn-debt-to-buy-alinta-operations-analysts-say.html

          
          
             Origin Energy Ltd. , the Australian
electricity and gas retailer that has about A$3.7 billion ($3.3
billion) of cash and undrawn debt, may acquire Alinta Energy Ltd.
assets, analysts said.  
 Origin is “well placed” to buy the Braemar power station
in southern Queensland, which may be worth as much as A$500
million,  Sandra McCullagh , an analyst at Credit Suisse in Sydney,
wrote in a report today.  
 Alinta , the Sydney-based power generator, hired Lazard Ltd.
as an adviser to study proposals to reduce debt, including asset
sales, the company said in April. Origin, also based in Sydney,
has options for “deploying” cash, such as buying New South
Wales state electricity assets and increasing its stake in New
Zealand power company  Contact Energy Ltd. , Credit Suisse said.
Contact is currently half-owned by Origin.  
 Buying Alinta’s gas and electricity retail operations in
Western Australia is an “attractive” possibility for Origin
that would add customers, Goldman Sachs JBWere said in a report.
That’s provided Origin can extend gas contracts, sign new ones
or discover reserves, Melbourne-based analysts  Kynwynn Strong 
and Roy Gilmore, wrote in the report dated yesterday.  
 The Goldman Sachs JBWere analysts said they don’t believe
Origin has bought some of Alinta’s A$2.6 billion of debt.  
 Tim Scott , a spokesman for Origin in Sydney, said the
company does not comment on “market speculation.”  
 Origin  shares declined 1.1 percent to A$15.78 in Sydney
trading, compared with a loss of 1.2 percent for the benchmark
S&P/ASX 200 Index.  
 Alinta has interests in 12 operating power stations, while
its gas and electricity retailer in Western Australia has more
than 580,000 customers, according to its website.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 James Paton  in Sydney at 
 jpaton4@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        