-- Osborne Will Cut Welfare, Housing Benefits, Tax Credits by $16.3 Billion
-- Scott Hamilton
-- 2010-06-22T14:29:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-22/osborne-will-cut-welfare-housing-benefits-tax-credits-by-16-3-billion.html

          
          
             U.K. Chancellor of the Exchequer
 George Osborne  said the government will reduce spending on
welfare benefits by a total of 11 billion pounds ($16.3 billion)
by April 2015 to help tackle the record  budget deficit .  
 “It is simply not possible to deal with a budget deficit
of this size without undertaking lasting reform of welfare,” he
said in his emergency budget in Parliament in London today.
“Governments in the past have said they were going to get to
grips with welfare and reward work. We are delivering.”  
 The budget outlined by Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s
coalition government cuts the fiscal deficit by an extra 40
billion pounds by the end of this Parliament on top of the 44
billion pounds planned by the previous Labour government.  
 The government will reduce tax credit payments to families
earning more than 40,000 pounds next year, the chancellor said.
Spending on tax credits increased to an “unsustainable” 30
billion pounds this year from 18 billion pounds in 2003 and
“the country can simply not afford this,” he said.  
 Osborne said he will also freeze child-benefit payments for
the next three years. “This is a tough decision, but I believe
it strikes the right balance between keeping intact this popular
universal benefit while ensuring that everyone, across the
income scale, makes a contribution to helping our country reduce
its debts,” he said.  
 Housing Benefits  
 The government will cut spending on housing benefits by 1.8
billion pounds a year by the end of this Parliament, Osborne
said. Benefits will be capped at 280 pounds a week for a one-
bedroom property to 400 pounds a week for a four-bedroom or
larger, he said.  
 The system of housing benefits is “in dire need for
reform,” the chancellor said. “There are some families
receiving 104,000 pounds a year in housing benefit. The cost of
that single award is equivalent to the total income tax and
national insurance paid by 16 working people on median
incomes.”  
 Osborne also asked government workers earning over 21,000
pounds to accept a two-year pay freeze.  
 The measures are “economically dangerous and socially
divisive,” Trades Union Congress General Secretary  Brendan Barber  said. “Those on middle and low incomes have done worse
than expected, and the rich have been let off much of what they
feared. The unexpectedly big cuts in benefits will hit not just
the poor but middle-income families too.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Scott Hamilton  in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        