-- Osborne to Introduce U.K. Bank Levy on Balance Sheets
-- Thomas Penny
-- 2010-06-22T17:47:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-22/osborne-to-introduce-bank-levy-on-balance-sheets-from-2011.html

          
          
             Britain will raise more than 2
billion pounds ($2.94 billion) a year through a levy on bank
balance sheets designed to discourage risky practices, according
to Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne.  France and
Germany pledged a similar tax.  
 The levy will fall on British banks and building societies
with assets of 20 billion pounds or more, as well as branches
and subsidiaries of overseas lenders in the U.K. starting in
January, Osborne told the  House of Commons  as he presented the
new coalition government’s emergency budget today.  
 “In putting in order the nation’s finances, we must
remember that this was a crisis that started in the banking
sector,” he said. “The failures of the banks imposed a huge
cost on the rest of society” and they must “make a more
appropriate contribution, which reflects the many risks they
generate.”  
 The British levy will be matched by France and Germany,
according to a joint statement from the European Union’s three
biggest member states today, and will “ensure a level playing
field.” In January, President  Barack Obama  proposed a levy on
banks and financial institutions with assets of more than $50
billion in an effort to recover “every single dime” that
taxpayers put into bailed-out banks.  
 “Moves by other governments along similar lines may lessen
the competitive impact, but we should bear in mind that our
competitors in the future - particularly in Asia - have no
intention of joining us,” said  Stuart Fraser , policy chairman
at the  City of London Corporation .  
 Combined Profit  
 Britain’s five largest banks,  HSBC Holdings Plc , Barclays
Plc,  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc , Lloyds Banking Group Plc
and Standard Chartered Plc, are expected to make a combined
profit of 28 billion pounds in 2011, according to analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg.  
 The levy, to be used for general purposes, will be set at
0.04 percent when introduced in 2011, rising to 0.07 percent,
the  Treasury  said. Derivative liabilities will only be taken
into account “where they are net derivative positions” and the
technical details would be agreed with the industry “over the
summer,” the government said.  
 It will raise 1.15 billion pounds in 2011 and 2.32 billion
pounds in 2012, rising to 2.4 billion pounds in 2014, the
Treasury forecast.  
 “The absolute amount they are raising is less than I would
have expected,” said  Joe Dickerson , an analyst at Execution
Holding Ltd. in London, who previously anticipated the U.K.
government would raise about 3 billion pounds. Lloyds was less
affected than expected “and hence the shares have risen,” he
said.  
 ‘Support Growth’  
 Lloyds , Britain’s biggest mortgage lender, rose 4.1 percent
to 59 pence and RBS was up 0.7 percent to 47.08 pence in London
trading. Barclays was down 2 percent to 310.75 pence. The three
banks will be the most “impacted,” said Dickerson.  
 The levy should be “implemented in a way that allows banks
to continue to support economic growth,” a spokesman for
Barclays said in an e-mailed statement. RBS, Lloyds and HSBC
spokesman declined to comment. Standard Chartered was “looking
at the detail,” a spokesman said.  
 The previous Labour government introduced a bonus tax in
December. The last U.K. windfall tax was imposed in 1981.  
 Banks will not have tax assessed on Tier 1 capital and
insured retail deposits and a lower rate will apply “for longer
maturity funding.” The levy is intended as a tax on leverage, a
government official said.  
 ‘Reduce Risk’  
 “It’s part of the pressure for banks to extend their
liabilities,” said  Simon Adamson , a London-based analyst at
CreditSights Inc., a bond research firm. “It’s another
encouragement for the banks to reduce risk.”  
 Tier 1 capital includes bonds that have some of the
characteristics of equity and can absorb losses in a crisis.
Banks are allowed to include a limited amount of the securities
in their capital structures.  
 Osborne is also “exploring the costs and benefits of a
Financial Activities Tax on profit and remuneration,” and will
work with other governments to reach an agreement, he said.  
 Former Chancellor  Alistair Darling ’s bonus tax introduced a
one-time 50 percent levy on discretionary bonus payments
exceeding 25,000 pounds and raised 2.5 billion pounds, almost
five times higher that its initial estimate, according to
government figures.  
 New Regulations  
 “We must ensure bank taxes do not hurt our national
interests of provide an unfair advantage for other businesses
operating here,” said the British Bankers’ Association today in
a  statement .  
 The U.S. administration estimated its levy would raise $90
billion over 10 years through a 0.15 percent fee on bank
liabilities. Sweden introduced a levy last year of 0.036 percent
a year on financial institution liabilities.  
 In addition to increased taxation, banks also face new
regulations under Basel III rules to increase capital and
liquidity by the end of 2012. Banks globally may need to raise
as much as $375 billion to meet the requirements, according to
an estimate by UBS AG analysts.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Thomas Penny  in London at 
 tpenny@bloomberg.net ;
 Jon Menon  in London at   jmenon1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     U.K. chancellor of the exchequer George Osborne. Photographer: Chris Ratcliffe/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
