-- Osborne Levies Banks, Raises Sales Tax to Tackle U.K. Deficit
-- Gonzalo Vina
-- 2010-06-22T16:29:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-22/osborne-says-he-aims-to-eliminate-u-k-structural-budget-deficit-by-2015.html

          
          
             U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron 
will impose a levy on banks and raise the sales tax in what the
government called its biggest peacetime deficit cut, seeking to
guard the top credit rating without stifling economic recovery.  
 Lowering forecasts for growth to 1.2 percent this year and
2.3 percent in 2011, Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne 
announced a freeze on public workers’ pay and subsidies for
children along with a reduction in housing benefits. Capital-
gains taxes were raised and corporate-profit taxes cut.  
 “This is the unavoidable budget,” Osborne told lawmakers
today in London, delivering the package six weeks after taking
over. “Everyone will be asked to contribute.”  
 Tackling the  largest  fiscal shortfall in the Group of 20
nations may test the durability of the Conservative-Liberal
Democrat coalition and the strength of union opposition. It also
leaves Cameron at odds with President  Barack Obama ’s stimulus
drive on the eve of his first summit of world leaders.  
 The changes planned by Osborne, 39, the youngest chancellor
since 1886, and cuts already proposed by the previous Labour
government total 113 billion pounds ($167 billion), 15 percent
of the 737 billion-pound budget foreseen for 2015, according to
the Treasury. Agencies outside the National Health Service and
overseas aid budgets face a 25 percent cut over four years.  
 ‘Strong Statement’  
 Fitch Ratings, which said June 8 the U.K. may lose its AAA
rating if it fails to speed cuts, called today’s budget a
“strong statement of intent.”  
 The fiscal tightening amounting to about 40 billion pounds
a year by 2015 would nearly erase a deficit that reached 11
percent of gross domestic product in the last fiscal year. About
four-fifths of the correction will be based on spending cuts
with tax increases accounting for the rest.  
 “It’s a pretty severe fiscal tightening,” said  George Buckley , chief U.K. economist at Deutsche Bank AG in London.
“They’ve had to deliver and the ratings agencies probably won’t
act to downgrade.”  
 The pound and gilts rose as Osborne announced the plan
would eliminate the structural deficit by 2015, with net debt
peaking at 70 percent of gross domestic product by 2014. He
rejected suggestions the government needed to choose between
growth and fiscal order as a “false choice.”  
 The pound climbed 0.6 percent to $1.4849 at 4:53 p.m. in
London, and yields on 10-year gilts fell 6 basis points to 3.45
percent.  
 Spending Cuts  
 Overall, Osborne said spending would be cut by an extra 30
billion pounds a year, including 11 billion pounds from welfare,
while the increase in value-added tax to 20 percent in January
from 17.5 percent would yield 13 billion pounds a year by the
end of the Parliament in 2015.  
 The levy on banks would tax their balance sheets starting
next year, generating 2 billion pounds of revenue. The tax will
be set at 0.04 percent in 2011, before increasing to 0.07
percent. The levy will apply to British banks as well as the
subsidiaries and branches of overseas banks. Firms will only be
liable for the levy when their relevant aggregate liabilities
exceed 20 billion pounds, the Treasury said on its website.  
 Pledging to bolster investment and employment, the
government put the corporate tax on track to fall four
percentage points to 24 percent over four years and raised the
threshold at which employers start paying national insurance. At
the same time, the capital-gains tax for those who pay the
higher rates of income tax was lifted to 28 percent from 18
percent.  
 Tax Ceiling Raised  
 To blunt the impact of the cuts, Osborne raised the ceiling
at which the lowest rate of income tax is levied by 1,000 pounds
to 7,475 pounds, exempting 880,000 low earners. He also
maintained spending on schools, hospital buildings and other
infrastructure projects. The basic state pension will from next
April be linked to earnings rather than prices, he said.  
 Unemployment  will peak at 8.1 percent this year before
falling to 6.1 percent in 2015, Osborne said, citing the
estimates of the independent Office for Budget Responsibility.
That body revised down its forecasts for employment by 100,000
for each of the next four years as a result of his plan.  
 In increasing the income-tax threshold, Osborne adopted a
policy of the Liberal Democrats, junior partner in coalition
with Cameron’s Conservatives. The increase in VAT may still lead
some Liberal Democrats to rebel as unions call for an emergency
meeting to develop a strategy to fight.  
 Policy makers say a Greek-style bondholder revolt is a
bigger risk to the economy than a return to recession and that
restoring order to the public balances will ultimately boost the
economy. Bank of England Governor  Mervyn King  last week backed
retrenchment and said monetary policy could respond if the
prospects for growth subsequently deteriorated.  
 Euro Crisis  
 “Some have suggested that there is a choice between
dealing with our debts and going for growth,” Osborne said.
“The crisis in the euro zone shows that unless we deal with our
debts there will be no growth.”  
 The argument over how soon to withdraw stimulus as the
global recovery gains momentum will play out on the world stage
when G-20 leaders convene in Toronto on June 26-27.  
 Obama said in a June 16 letter to his counterparts that
they must avoid the “mistakes of the past” when economic
support was withdrawn prematurely, while German Chancellor
 Angela Merkel  says “there is no alternative” to cutting
deficits. Japanese Prime Minister  Naoto Kan ’s government today
vowed to cap annual spending for the next three years and
balance its books in a decade.  
 “The U.K. is a test case,” said  Tim Adams , a former U.S.
Treasury undersecretary and now managing director of the Lindsey
Group, a Fairfax, Virginia-based investment consulting company.
“If Osborne’s budget works that will have a profound impact on
the debate in the U.S.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Simon Kennedy  at   skennedy4@bloomberg.net ;
 Gonzalo Vina  in London at 
 gvina@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     U.K. chancellor of the exchequer George Osborne. Photographer: Tomohiro Ohsumi/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
