-- Oslo Exchange Sees Listings Rebounding This Year as Volatility Persists
-- Meera Bhatia
-- 2010-06-22T07:34:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-22/oslo-exchange-sees-listings-rebounding-as-stock-market-volatility-remains.html

          
          
             Oslo Boers VPS Holding ASA , the
operator of Norway’s stock exchange, said companies are
returning to its market after new listings dried up last year,
even as volatility persists in the wake of Europe’s debt crisis.  
 The Oslo exchange has had 10  new listings  this year and
approved a further seven companies for admittance by the end of
July, according to Chief Executive Officer  Bente Landsnes . That
compares with three for all of last year. In 2008, before the
bankruptcy of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. triggered the worst
financial turmoil since the Great Depression, 13 new stocks were
listed in Oslo.  
 “Parts of the pipeline we saw before the financial crisis
hit us are now coming back,” Landsnes said in an interview on
June 18 at her office in Oslo. Even so, “the environment is
unstable. We need a stable market to keep a stable listing
market, but still it’s optimistic.”  
 Concern about levels of sovereign debt in Europe sent the
MSCI World Index of developed-nations’ stocks down 9.9 percent
last month and helped spur at least 27 companies worldwide to
pull IPOs since the start of May, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. OIG Offshore Installation Group ASA, which was
approved for listing by the end of next month, postponed its
initial public offering on June 18, citing “volatile” markets.  
 Close the Door  
 “The market is more critical,” the CEO said. “If you
have a very good company and a very good story you will probably
be able to fund it. If the story is thin and the history is
short, it’s probably more difficult. Very bad news can close the
door for IPOs in just a week.”  
 Knutsen Offshore Tankers ASA, a provider of oil marine-
transportation services, postponed its IPO in Oslo earlier this
month, while  China Fishery Group Ltd. , a Hong Kong-based coastal
and deep sea fishing company, delayed a proposed secondary
listing of its shares in Oslo in June.  
 North Energy ASA , the Norwegian exploration company that
holds ownership in 13 licenses from the Barents Sea to the North
Sea, raised 350 million kroner ($55 million) in an initial
public offering in February, Norway’s largest so far this year.
The stock has since slipped 28 percent.  
 Nasdaq OMX Nordic, the operator of seven stock exchanges
including those in Finland, Denmark and Sweden, said earlier
this month initial public offerings in the Nordic region should
increase during the next two years.  
 Market Share  
 Landsnes said she’s “confident” the exchange will remain
independent and fend off rivals. The value of stock traded on
 Nasdaq  OMX Nordic was 59.9 billion euros ($73.8 billion) in May,
compared with 18.8 billion euros in Oslo, giving the Norwegian
exchange a 24 percent share of volume traded on Nordic bourses,
according to the European Federation of Exchanges.  
 “We are fighting the competition and so far we have done
the necessary things to make sure that for broker houses and
investors it’s efficient and high quality, with liquid equities
and a number of listings which will create new interest for this
market,” the CEO said.  
 The exchange introduced a central counterparty, or CCP, for
clearing trades earlier this month, reduced trading fees and cut
staff by 23 percent over the past year. The changes make trading
in Oslo “a lot more efficient than it was before,” she said.  
 In addition, the bourse entered into a strategic
partnership agreement with  London Stock Exchange Group Plc  and
signed a memorandum of understanding with Singapore Exchange
Ltd. to allow secondary listings of companies on each other’s
exchanges last year.  
 “We will continue to work with the LSE on technology,
products and other things,” the CEO said. “We are constantly
looking to see if there are interesting partnerships that can be
beneficial to both parties on product development or agreements
similar to what we have with Singapore.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Meera Bhatia  in Oslo at 
 mbhatia2@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        