-- Financial-Bill Conferees to Weigh Consumer Agency, Mortgage Risk-Retention
-- Alison Vekshin
-- 2010-06-22T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-22/house-senate-negotiators-to-weigh-consumer-agency-mortgage-risk-retention.html

          
          
             House-Senate negotiators working to
resolve differences in financial-regulation legislation will
seek accord on a consumer protection bureau and rules to prevent
home foreclosures they aim to complete the sweeping overhaul.  
 Members of a congressional conference committee begin a
third week of meetings today after Representative  Barney Frank ,
the Massachusetts Democrat leading the talks, accepted a Senate
plan to put the consumer agency in the Federal Reserve. Frank,
in a set of proposed changes released yesterday, called for
excluding auto dealers from the bureau’s oversight, a step that
may spark further debate.  
 “I don’t see why they’re treated as a separate class,”
 John Taylor , president of the National Community Reinvestment
Coalition, said yesterday in a telephone interview. “How do we
go through the mess we’ve just been through and not get a
strong, independent agency that covers everybody?”  
 Lawmakers aiming to meet Frank’s goal of completing the
negotiations this week must resolve contentious issues including
derivatives regulation and the so-called Volcker rule banning
proprietary trading at U.S. banks. Conferees are working to
merge House and Senate bills to enact the biggest rewrite of
financial-industry regulation since the 1930s.  
 Frank and Senator  Christopher Dodd , the Connecticut
Democrat leading his chamber’s side in the talks, have said they
want to deliver a final bill to President  Barack Obama  for his
signature by the U.S. July 4 holiday.  
 Obama Proposal  
 In the package of changes he released yesterday, Frank
agreed with a Senate measure that would place a consumer bureau
within the Fed, abandoning House language that would have
created the standalone agency proposed by Obama last year as
part of his call to rein in financial-industry risk-taking and
predatory lending after the 2008 credit crisis.  
 “The president has been clear that a consumer protection
agency must be structured so that it can operate independently
on behalf of the consumers,” White House spokeswoman Amy
Brundage said yesterday in an e-mailed statement. “We believe
that the proposal in the Senate bill meets that standard.”  
 Obama’s priorities include ensuring the agency has
independent funding and authority to write and enforce its own
rules, Brundage said.  
 House-Senate negotiators will also consider changes to
language in both bills that would require mortgage companies to
retain a 5 percent stake in the loans they sell.  
 Safest Mortgages  
 Frank proposed eliminating language in the Senate bill that
would exempt some of the safest mortgages from the requirement.
The Senate bill would exempt fixed-rate mortgages that require
proof of a borrower’s income, have a term of 30 years or less,
don’t allow deferring payment of the loan principal and have
other qualities that shield them from default.  
 The goal of the so-called risk-retention measure is to
discourage high-risk lending blamed for pushing borrowers into
foreclosure.  
 Conferees also will take up a Senate proposal from Illinois
Democrat  Richard Durbin  empowering the Fed to make so-called
interchange fees proportional to the cost of processing debit
transactions.  
 Frank yesterday proposed maintaining the Senate bill’s cap
on debit-card “swipe” fees with changes that include exempting
government-issued and reloadable prepaid cards, and allowing the
Fed to consider the cost of combating fraud in setting fees.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alison Vekshin  in Washington at 
 avekshin@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 22 (Bloomberg) -- Elizabeth Warren, chairwoman of the Congressional Oversight Panel for the Troubled Asset Relief Program, talks about the U.S. banking industry and the outlook for Treasury Secretary Timothy Geithner's testimony before the panel today.
     Warren talks with Betty Liu on Bloomberg Television's "In the Loop." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 22 (Bloomberg) -- David Nason, managing director at Promontory Financial Group, talks about efforts to overhaul the U.S. financial regulatory system.
     Nason speaks on Bloomberg Television's "InBusiness With Margaret Brennan." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
