-- Lower Inflation Expectations in U.S. Signal No Rush for Fed to Raise Rates
-- Joshua Zumbrun
-- 2010-06-22T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-22/lower-inflation-expectations-in-u-s-signal-no-rush-for-fed-to-raise-rates.html

          
          
             A decline in expectations for future
inflation in the U.S. signals that Federal Reserve policy makers
should be in no hurry to raise rates as they meet today to set
borrowing costs.  
 Investors anticipate an inflation rate of 1.69 percent in
the next five years, compared with 2.01 percent on April 28,
when policy makers concluded their last meeting on monetary
policy, according to the gap between five-year Treasuries and
Treasury Inflation-Protected Securities.  
 Since November, the Fed has pointed to unemployment close
to a 26-year high and inflation that’s forecast to be
“subdued” to justify its pledge to keep the main interest rate
close to zero for an “extended period.” Declining inflation
expectations reinforce that unprecedented central bank
commitment.  
 “There’s no pressure on the Fed coming from inflation
expectations, so we wouldn’t expect the Fed to even think about
tightening,” said  Dean Maki , chief U.S. economist at Barclays
Capital Inc. in New York. The Federal Open Market Committee
plans to release a statement tomorrow at the end of a two-day
meeting.  
 Falling inflation expectations defy warnings by Richmond
Fed President  Jeffrey Lacker  and other regional bank chiefs that
such expectations may surge because of the record increase in
central bank liquidity and the rise in the federal budget
deficit to 9.3 percent of gross domestic product through March.  
 Reports since the last meeting confirm the Fed’s view that
inflation is likely to remain “subdued.” The consumer price
index declined in May for a second month, the Labor Department
said last week. The Fed’s preferred gauge of inflation, the
personal consumption expenditures index excluding food and
energy, slowed to 1.2 percent in April from 1.7 percent a year
earlier and 2.5 percent in April 2008.  
 Inflation Hedge  
 Fed officials say the rise in gold, which hit a record
close of $1,256.80 an ounce on June 18, isn’t necessarily a
reflection of the metal’s role as a hedge against inflation.
Bernanke told Congress this month that falling commodity prices
send a different message than gold.  
 “Gold is out there doing something different from the rest
of the commodity group,” he said.  
 Crude oil for July delivery dropped to $77.25 a barrel
yesterday on the New York Mercantile Exchange from $89.15 a
barrel on May 3. The  S&P GSCI Total Return Index , a basket of
major commodities, was 10.2 percent below its May 3 level.  
 The price of gold may be rising because of instability in
currency markets rather than changes in inflation expectations,
said  Scott Anderson , a senior economist for Wells Fargo & Co. in
Minneapolis. Other commodities may provide a better hedge
against higher inflation, he said.  
 ‘Better Reflection’  
 “Gold is a hedge against currency volatility -- nobody
knows what’s a good store of value right now,” Anderson said.
“Oil is the better reflection of strength in the economy and
overall inflation expectations.”  
 Fed policy makers also monitor the Thomson
Reuters/University of Michigan confidence survey, which this
month showed consumers expect a 2.7 percent  inflation rate in
five years , compared with an average of 3 percent since 2005.  
 The federal deficit and a central bank balance sheet that
has more than doubled in the last two years to $2.33 trillion
may help fuel inflation expectations, Fed Vice Chairman  Donald Kohn  said in an April speech. He also warned that expectations
of slowing inflation can be self-reinforcing.  
 Minutes of the Fed’s April 27-28 meeting said policy makers
differ over which poses the greatest risk. Some policy makers
see “the possibility that inflation expectations could begin to
decline in response to the low level of actual inflation,”
according to the minutes, which don’t identify which members
made statements.  
 Measures Fallen  
 While inflation expectation measures have fallen in the
last month, they remain higher than some policy makers prefer.
The five-year expectation from the University of Michigan
survey, and inflation of 2.8 percent from the Fed’s so-called
 five-year forward inflation expectation index  as of June 17,
exceed the central bank’s long-run goal of 1.7 percent to 2
percent.  
 “Readings on inflation expectations have been persistently
high, and that’s troubling, since they raise the possibility
that people think the FOMC will be unable or unwilling to
conduct monetary policy in a way that keeps inflation from
rising significantly during this recovery,” Lacker said in a
speech last month in Richmond.  
 “When expectations begin to move I begin to worry they’ll
become unanchored,” Philadelphia Fed President  Charles Plosser 
told reporters in Altoona, Pennsylvania on June 11. “Inflation
expectations are anchored until they’re not. And when they’re
not, we’ve got trouble.”  
 Housing Bubble  
 Kansas City Fed President  Thomas Hoenig  said that by
leaving rates too low, the Fed may create imbalances similar to
the housing bubble this decade or the wage-price spiral of the
1970s that pushed the inflation rate to 14.8 percent in March
1980 from 2.7 percent in June 1972.  
 Chris Low , chief economist at FTN Financial in New York,
said the U.S. is unlikely to see a repeat of the 1970s because
workers and businesses “have no bargaining power” in an
environment of low inflation.  
 “Expectations become a problem when prices are rising,”
he said. “But you still need that initial catalyst.”  
 Procter & Gamble Co., the world’s largest consumer-products
company, said June 16 that price increases may provide a boost
to sales growth in the next fiscal year. In the meantime,
pricing may be negative for the “next quarter or two,” Chief
Financial Officer  Jon Moeller  said at a meeting with investors
in Paris.  
 Price Bubble  
 Fed presidents have noted similarities between U.S.
disinflation and low-inflation in Japan following the collapse
of an asset price bubble. Boston’s  Eric Rosengren  said in a
speech last month that evidence from Japan shows that excess
bank reserves were not inflationary. Neither are budget
deficits, San Francisco’s  Janet Yellen  said in a March speech.  
 “Japan has been the recent textbook case of persistent
deflation, not inflation,” Yellen said. In the last 15 years,
Japan’s economy has grown at an average annual rate of less than
1 percent, and the average annual rate of inflation has been
minus 0.05 percent.  
 Japan lowered its  benchmark interest rate  to below 1
percent in 1995. In 15 years, the bank has not raised the rate
above 0.50 percent, and Japan has run up the largest debt in the
developing world.  Japan’s debt-to-GDP  ratio at the end of 2010
will be 227 percent according to the IMF, compared with 94
percent  for the U.S.   
 If Bernanke and his colleagues don’t raise interest rates
above the rate of inflation, then prices may surge between 2012
and 2015, said  Stuart Hoffman , chief economist at PNC Financial
Services Group Inc. in Pittsburgh. “But I’m not worried about
intermediate inflation because I think the Fed will raise rates
soon enough,” he said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joshua Zumbrun  in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Falling inflation expectations defy warnings by Richmond Fed President Jeffrey Lacker. Photographer: Chris Keane/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
