-- Hoyer Says Extending Bush's U.S. Middle-Class Tax Cuts May Be Unaffordable
-- James Rowley
-- 2010-06-22T21:58:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-22/hoyer-says-extending-bush-s-u-s-middle-class-tax-cuts-may-be-unaffordable.html

          
          
             U.S. House Majority Leader  Steny Hoyer  said permanently extending former President  George W. Bush ’s tax cuts for middle-class wage earners may no longer be
affordable as the U.S. tries to curb its growing debt.  
 Bush’s 2001 and 2003 tax cuts for all income levels expire
at the end of this year. For those applying to middle-class
earners, lawmakers must discuss “whether we can afford to
permanently extend them before we have a real plan for long-term
 deficit  reduction,” Hoyer said today in a speech in Washington.  
 Still, Hoyer, a Maryland Democrat, predicted that Congress
wouldn’t raise taxes on “working Americans” until the economy
improves.  
 In February, President  Barack Obama  said he was
“agnostic” about raising taxes on households making less than
$250,000 a year as part of a broad effort to rein in the budget
deficit. He repeatedly promised during the 2008 presidential
election campaign not to raise taxes on individuals making less
than $200,000 and households earning less than $250,000 a year.  
 Hoyer said tax increases were part of deficit-reduction
plans enacted by Congress during the administrations of both
presidents  George H.W. Bush  and  Bill Clinton . The tax increases
that Clinton proposed “faced predictions of disaster, but he
helped to unleash historic prosperity and budget surpluses,”
Hoyer said.  
 It’s ‘Official’  
 On the Senate floor, Republican Leader  Mitch McConnell  of
Kentucky said, “It’s now official. Top Democrats are signaling
their intention to raise  taxes  on the middle class” that would
“break” Obama’s campaign pledge not to raise taxes for
households earning less than $250,000.  
 In 2007, the Washington-based Tax Policy Center estimated
it would cost $1.3 trillion over a decade in foregone revenue to
extend the middle-class tax cuts, assuming the alternative
minimum tax also was restrained in keeping with congressional
policy. The  Tax Policy Center  is a research institute backed by
the Urban Institute and Brookings Institution.  
 In his speech, Hoyer said  Congressional Budget Office 
Director  Douglas Elmendorf  had predicted that extending the Bush
tax cuts without other policy changes would “put us on a path
towards a publicly held  debt  equal to 90 percent” of the
economy by the end of the decade.  
 “Raising revenue is part of the deficit solution, too,”
in addition to reducing spending, Hoyer said. “At a minimum,
the House will not extend the tax cuts benefiting taxpayers”
with household incomes of more than $250,000, he said.  
 ‘Working Americans’  
 Later, at his weekly news conference, Hoyer said that with
the economy still in a recession, “I don’t think this is a time
to increase taxes on working Americans. I don’t think we will do
that.”  
 Hoyer’s comments left open the possibility that Congress
would vote to temporarily extend the Bush tax cuts for middle-
class Americans. “No decision has been made on exactly what to
do,” he said. He wouldn’t say whether Congress would act before
or after the November elections.  
 During his speech, Hoyer said a budget agreement this year
must include “permanent solutions” to the estate tax, which
lapsed last year, the alternative-minimum tax for middle-class
wage earners and Medicare reimbursements for doctors.  
 He said Congress should consider raising the age for
collecting Social Security and providing lower Social Security
and Medicare payments to wealthier beneficiaries than those with
lower incomes.  
 ‘Lying to Ourselves’  
 “We’re lying to ourselves and our children if we say we
can maintain our current levels of entitlement spending, defense
spending and taxation without bankrupting our country,” Hoyer
said.  
 A commission Obama appointed to study ways to curb the
growth of government debt should produce a plan later this year
“that cuts spending and looks at revenue when the economy
recovers,” Hoyer said. The commission is not scheduled to make
its recommendations until December, a month after the
congressional midterm elections.  
 “It isn’t possible to debate and pass a realistic long-
term budget until we’ve considered the bipartisan commission’s
deficit reduction plan,” Hoyer said.  
 The non-partisan Congressional Budget Office projected that
the budget deficit will reach $1.35 trillion this year, more
than 9 percent of the economy.  
 Hoyer said he was pleased that Obama “made clear that
everything, revenues included, should be on the commission’s
table.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 James Rowley  in Washington at 
 jarowley@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        