-- Toyota, Nissan Factories Halted by Strikes in China
-- Takako Iwatani
-- 2010-06-24T04:35:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-22/toyota-affiliate-denso-says-chinese-parts-factory-is-shuttered-by-strike.html

          
          
             Nissan Motor Co. ’s output in China
was disrupted by a strike and a Toyota Motor Corp. plant was
closed for a third day as labor unrest spread to at least eight
car parts factories in the world’s  largest auto market .  
 Nissan halted output at a plant in the city of Guangzhou
for at least two hours yesterday because of a strike, which has
since ended, at parts maker  NHK Spring Co. , said Akihiro
Nakanishi, a spokesman for the carmaker. Toyota’s factory in the
city remains closed after production was suspended June 22
because of a walkout at supplier  Denso Corp. , the company said.  
 The widening unrest has forced auto parts makers to raise
wages in China, increasing production costs for Toyota, Nissan
and  Honda Motor Co.  in a nation that accounted for about a
fourth of Toyota’s vehicle sales last year. A shrinking supply
of low-cost labor in the nation’s manufacturing regions is
increasing workers’ bargaining power.  
 “These issues, including wage increases, strikes and
improving working conditions, will keep smoldering,” said
 Satoru Takada , an analyst in Tokyo at TIW Inc. “It seems to be
a favorable time for workers to strike.”  
 The strike at NHK Spring’s China factory began June 22 and
ended late yesterday, said Hiroaki Saito, a spokesman for the
Yokohama, Japan-based parts maker. The plant makes coil springs
and stabilizers for cars and supplies both Honda and Nissan.  
 Mitsuru Yonekawa , a spokesman for Nissan, also based in
Yokohama, said the company was still assessing whether today’s
production would be affected.  
 NHK Spring Strike  
 Honda also closed two car factories in Guangzhou because of
NHK Spring’s walkout and reopened them today, the carmaker said.  
 Toyota  fell  0.3 percent to 3,210 yen as of 1:18 p.m. in
Tokyo trading, while Denso rose 0.1 percent. Honda dropped 0.1
percent, Nissan declined 0.2 percent and NHK Spring rose 2.1
percent.  
 Satoshi Ozawa , an executive vice president at Toyota, said
the carmaker plans to improve efficiency to make up for the wage
increases.  
 “Given China’s rapid economic growth, the possibility that
a problem would occur was well within our expectations,” Ozawa
said today at the company’s annual shareholder meeting in Toyota
City, Japan.  
 Toyota supplier Denso Guangzhou Nansha Co., a joint venture
in Guangzhou, halted production June 22 as workers walked out
demanding higher wages and improved benefits, said Toshihiro
Nishiwaki, a spokesman for Denso.  
 Denso  
 About 300 workers are involved in the strike, Denso’s
Beijing-based spokesman Shen Meihua said June 22. The plant,
which makes fuel-injection systems, employs about 1,100 people,
according to a company report.  
 Denso, based in Aichi, Japan, couldn’t immediately confirm
whether the strike is continuing today, spokesman  Goro Kanemasu 
said by phone.  
 The parts maker, Japan’s largest, is about 23 percent  owned 
by Toyota, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 Toyota, the world’s largest carmaker, builds Camry sedans,
Highlander sport-utility vehicles and Yaris compact cars at the
Guangzhou factory. The Nissan plant that was closed yesterday
makes the Tiida and Sylphy models.  
 “The events are not making us change our plans” in terms
of inventory management or automation,  Carlos Ghosn , Nissan’s
chief executive officer, said yesterday in Yokohama.  
 Foxconn, Honda  
 Worker unrest has forced Japanese automakers and other
foreign manufacturers including Taiwan’s  Foxconn Technology
Group  to spend more on labor. Suppliers to Toyota and Honda
agreed to raise wages as at least six previous strikes broke out
at their Chinese factories in the past month.  
 Honda  agreed last month to a 24 percent raise for workers
at a parts plant in Foshan, Guangdong, after a strike shut down
all four of its China car factories. Another Honda parts
supplier in Foshan was closed June 7 to June 10 by a walkout.  
 More than 20 Chinese provinces and cities, including the
manufacturing hub Shenzhen, raised minimum wages this year to
help companies recruit workers and to boost domestic consumption,
the city government said this month.  
 Higher investment and improved wages in western China are
deterring workers from migrating, pushing up pay in more
industrialized regions like Guangdong in the south, said David
Abrahamson, project manager at the China Center for Labor and
Environment.  
 Workers say the pay increases are necessary to help keep
pace with the rising cost of living in China.  Inflation 
accelerated to an annual pace of 3.1 percent in May, the biggest
increase in 19 months. Property prices in May jumped 12.4
percent across 70 cities from a year earlier, the government
said on June 10.  
 Increasing wages may help automakers in the long run by
boosting demand for cars in China, said  Andrew Phillips , an
analyst in Tokyo at BNP Paribas SA. Carmakers are producing in
China to meet domestic demand, not because of low costs, he said.  
 “Wages as a percentage of revenue are tiny,” Phillips
said. “The concern is more loss of production.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Liza Lin  in Singapore at 
 llin15@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Nissan Motor CEO Carlos Ghosn  
                       
                         
                           Haruyoshi Yamaguchi/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Nissan Motor CEO Carlos Ghosn speaks to the media in Yokohama City, Japan. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Nissan Motor CEO Carlos Ghosn speaks to the media in Yokohama City, Japan. Photographer: Haruyoshi Yamaguchi/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 22 (Bloomberg) -- Bloomberg's Stephen Engle reports on wage disputes at car factories in China, where Toyota Motor Corp., the world’s biggest automaker, halted production in Guangzhou after one of its suppliers was shut down by a strike.
     Toyota has suffered at least three strikes in China this month after employees at Honda Motor Co.’s suppliers won wage increases. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
