-- Peru Raises Reserve Requirements to Curb Sol's Appreciation, Cool Economy
-- John Quigley
-- 2010-06-22T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-22/peru-raises-reserve-requirements-to-curb-sol-s-appreciation-cool-economy.html

          
          
             Peru’s central bank will increase
reserve requirements next month as it seeks to curb volatility
in the sol and cool an economy that expanded 6 percent in the
first quarter.  
 The reserve requirement for banks will rise to 7 percent of
their lending portfolios next month from 6 percent, the bank
said in an e-mailed statement yesterday.  
 Reserve requirements will rise to 35 percent from 30
percent for foreign currency accounts, while banks will be
required to hold 40 percent against borrowings abroad maturing
in less than two years, up from 35 percent.  
 The change is being made “given current levels of
liquidity in the financial system,” the central bank said in
the statement.  
 Raising reserve requirements allows the bank to increase
its reference rate while deterring short-term capital inflows
that cause currency appreciation, said Alonso Segura, head of
research at Banco de Credito del Peru.  
 “The reserve requirement acts as an escape valve to reduce
excessive volatility in the local currency,” Segura said in a
phone interview from Lima. “This sends a message to the market
that the bank can and will act.”  
 The bank’s action could cause the sol to appreciate at a
slower pace, he said.  
 Peru’s currency yesterday increased to a 22-month high. The
bank bought $152 million in the foreign-exchange market
yesterday, its biggest purchase since March 5, to ease gains in
the sol, which has increased 0.6 percent in the past week.  
 The central bank raised its benchmark lending rate by a
quarter percentage point to 1.75 percent on June 10, the second
straight monthly increase, as Peru’s economy rebounds faster
than expected.  
 Interest rate increases are justified even with low
inflation because of the “very strong cyclical rebound the
economy is currently experiencing,” wrote  Alberto Ramos , an
economist at Goldman Sachs Group Inc. in New York, in a research
note yesterday.  
 “As a result, the economy no longer needs the exceptional
level of monetary accommodation delivered throughout 2009,”
Ramos wrote.  
 Gross domestic product will expand 6.6 percent this year,
up from a prior estimate of 5.5 percent, after a rebound in
internal demand gathered pace and the U.S. economy showed
stronger signs of recovery, central bank President  Julio Velarde 
said June 18.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 John Quigley  in Lima at 
 jquigley8@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        