-- Philippine Budget Deficit Exceeds First-Half Target as Spending Increases
-- Max Estayo
-- 2010-06-22T08:25:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-22/philippine-budget-deficit-exceeds-first-half-target-as-spending-increases.html

          
          
             The Philippines reported a  budget
deficit  last month, relapsing from a surplus in April and
causing the five-month shortfall to exceed the government’s
first-half target.  
 The shortfall was 30.5 billion pesos ($668 million) in May,
Finance Secretary  Gary Teves  said in a statement in Manila
today.  Spending  increased 21.3 percent from a year earlier after
a 12.1 percent gain reported previously for April, and revenue
rose 5.3 percent. The five-month deficit widened to 162.1
billion pesos.  
 President-elect  Benigno Aquino , who takes over from  Gloria Arroyo  this month, has vowed to go after tax evaders and corrupt
officials rather than raise taxes to reduce the budget gap.
The government last week raised the 2010 deficit target to about
300 billion pesos to sustain the nation’s economic recovery from
last year’s global slump.  
 “Now is not the right time to raise taxes as people are
still recovering from the crisis,”  Ildemarc Bautista , an
economist at Metropolitan Bank & Trust Co. in Manila, said
before the report. “The euphoria of the new presidency may
translate into positive business sentiment and foreign direct
investments, which will reduce the need for more government
spending to boost growth.”  
 Economic expansion  in the Southeast Asian nation may
accelerate to a range of 5 percent to 6 percent this year from
1.1 percent in 2009, officials predicted earlier this month.
The $167 billion economy expanded 7.3 percent last quarter, the
fastest pace in almost three years.  
 The Philippines has tried to sell and lease state assets to
raise an estimated 30 billion pesos in revenue in 2010, in a bid
to cap a deficit that widened to 298.5 billion pesos last year.
That was the biggest shortfall since at least 1985, when
Bloomberg data began.  
 The government will defer to the second half of 2010 the
sale of a  Food Terminal Inc.  property in Taguig City and a stake
in PNOC Exploration Corp., as well as the lease of a piece of
land in Tokyo, Finance Undersecretary  Crisanta Legaspi  said last
week.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Karl Lester M. Yap  in Manila at 
 kyap5@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        