-- Poland Caps Tauron IPO Stake for Institutions at 5%, Sets 0.57 Zloty Price
-- Maciej Martewicz
-- 2010-06-22T06:21:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-22/poland-caps-tauron-ipo-stake-for-institutions-at-5-sets-0-57-zloty-price.html

          
          
             Poland limited institutional
investors, including copper producer  KGHM Polska Miedz SA , to a
maximum 5 percent stake in the initial public offering of Tauron
Polska Energia SA, two people familiar with the sale said today.  
 The decision means KGHM, which placed an order to buy 11
percent of Tauron in the IPO, will now get less than half of
that stake. KGHM Chief Executive Officer Herbert Wirth last week
declined to comment in an interview with Bloomberg News on
whether his company will buy stock on the market if it gets
fewer shares than planned.  
 The government priced the sale at 0.57 zloty a share,
compared with a range of 0.55 zloty to 0.7 zloty, according to
the people familiar with the transaction, who declined to be
identified because the information isn’t public. That price,
earlier reported in the Rzeczpospolita newspaper, would give the
Treasury Ministry 4.21 billion ($1.28 billion) for a 52 percent
stake in Tauron.  
 The IPO, Poland’s third-largest since 2004, is part of the
government’s target to raise 25 billion zloty from asset sales
this year. The ministry has raised 7.5 billion zloty so far,
selling stakes in insurer  PZU SA , in KGHM and in oil refiner
Grupa Lotos SA.  
 The government is also offering stakes in four of Tauron’s
competitors, including  PGE SA , Poland’s biggest power group, as
well as the Warsaw stock exchange.  
 Poland has forged ahead with Tauron’s IPO even after
Europe’s debt crisis prompted at least 34 companies, from
London-based Ferrous Resources Ltd. to Chinese wind-turbine
maker Xinjiang Goldwind Science & Technology Co., to shelve IPOs
since the beginning of May.  
 Demand for Tauron was boosted after more than 200,000
individual investors subscribed for the stock, allowing them to
buy as much as 25 percent of the IPO.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Maciej Martewicz  in Warsaw at 
 mmartewicz@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        