-- Poland Raises $1.28 Billion From IPO of Tauron Priced Near Bottom of Range
-- Pawel Kozlowski
-- 2010-06-22T14:44:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-22/poland-prices-tauron-ipo-near-bottom-of-its-target-range-at-1-28-billion.html

          
          
             Poland sold 4.21 billion zloty
($1.28 billion) of shares in Tauron Polska Energia SA, the
country’s No. 2 utility, after Europe’s debt crisis prompted it
to price the stock near the bottom of the target range.  
 The Treasury Ministry sold a 52 percent stake for 0.57
zloty a share in an initial public offering, compared with a
range of 0.55 zloty to 0.70 zloty a share, Treasury Minister
 Aleksander Grad  said at a news conference in Warsaw today.
Institutional investors were limited to 5 percent each.  
 The IPO, Poland’s third-largest since 2004, brings the
government almost halfway to its goal of 25 billion zloty in
2010 asset sales to help finance the budget deficit. Poland sold
Tauron even after Europe’s debt crisis prompted at least 34
companies, from London-based Ferrous Resources Ltd. to Chinese
wind-turbine maker Xinjiang Goldwind Science & Technology Co.,
to postpone sales since the beginning of May.  
 “The IPO price is very attractive and offers a good
discount to two publicly traded peers,” said Bartlomiej
Kubicki, a Vienna-based analyst at Raiffeisen Centrobank AG.  
 The price gives Tauron an enterprise value, or the sum of
its stock and debt minus cash, of almost 3.7 times earnings
before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, according
to Kubicki. That compares with a ratio of 4 at third-largest
power group Enea SA.  PGE SA , Poland’s biggest utility, is valued
at 5.5 times forecast 2010 earnings.  
 Limits on Institutions  
 The limit on purchases by institutional investors also
applies to copper producer  KGHM Polska Miedz SA , Grad said,
adding that more than 120 institutions bid in the IPO. Demand
was boosted by more than 230,000 individual investors, who
received 25 percent of the offering.  
 “The government was very wise in limiting holdings to 5
percent,”  Christopher Palmer , who helps oversee $4.5 billion as
head of global emerging markets at Gartmore Investment
Management Ltd. in London, said by phone. “In this environment
it’s important that the deals go well. By leaving some
participants short it’ll help the price on the market.”  
 KGHM had said 10 percent of Tauron was the “optimal”
stake and 0.7 zloty a share was an “attractive” price. Chief
Executive Officer  Herbert Wirth  last week declined to comment in
an interview on whether his company will buy stock on the market
if it gets fewer shares than planned.  
 Poland was the only country in the European Union to avoid
a recession last year, buoyed by exports, domestic demand and
government investments. The  benchmark WIG20 Index  of stocks has
lost 0.4 percent this year, after rallying 33 percent in 2009.  
 ‘Quality Market’  
 “Poland is viewed as a quality market,” Alison Harding-
Jones, managing director at UBS AG, which also helped manage the
sale, told Bloomberg in Warsaw today. “There are very few
places in the world where investors would feel comfortable
putting their money in, and Poland is one of them.”  
 The sale brings Polish 2010 asset-sale revenue to 11.7
billion zloty so far, including stakes in insurer  PZU SA , copper
producer KGHM and oil refiner Grupa Lotos SA, according to the
Treasury Ministry’s  website .  
 UBS and UniCredit are the global coordinators of Tauron’s
sale. Bank of America Corp. Merrill Lynch, ING Groep NV, BRE
Bank SA, PKO Bank Polski SA, Bank Ochrony Srodowiska SA, Bank
Pekao SA and Trigon also help arrange the offering.  
 Tauron shares will start trading on the Warsaw Stock
Exchange on June 30, Grad said. The bourse said June 16 that
Tauron could join the WIG20 Index as of July 5 if the value of
its shares in free float reaches 5 percent of the capitalization
of all the index’s members on the debut day.  
 Index Membership  
 That means Tauron would need to close about 14 percent
above the issue price on June 30, with the WIG20 trading at
about 2,400, according to  Pawel Puchalski , an analyst at Bank
Zachodni WBK SA.  
 The lower the WIG20’s value, the bigger the chance for
Tauron to join the index, Puchalski said by phone today. The
measure declined 0.7 percent to 2,379.48 today.  
 When the power group starts trading, the issue price will
change to 5.13 zloty after Tauron conducts a so-called reverse
split. The process, which multiplies the value of each share by
nine, will help “avoid the risk that characterizes trading
below 1 zloty a share,” Tauron said in the IPO prospectus.  
 For such shares a price change of 0.01 zloty, the minimum
allowed on the Warsaw bourse, means a percentage change of at
least 1 percent.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Maciej Martewicz  in Warsaw at 
 mmartewicz@bloomberg.net 
 Pawel Kozlowski  in Warsaw at 
 pkozlowski@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     The exterior of KGHM Polska Miedz SA owned Polkowice-Sieroszowice copper mine. Photographer: John Guillemin/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
