-- Polish Bond Yields Rise to 1 1/2-Month High on Concern Rates May Be Raised
-- Piotr Skolimowski
-- 2010-06-22T16:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-22/polish-bond-yields-rise-to-1-1-2-month-high-on-concern-rates-may-be-raised.html

          
          
             Polish bonds fell for a fifth day,
pushing the yield on two-year notes to the highest level in 1
1/2 months, on concern the central bank may increase interest
rates before the end of this year.  
 The yield on the zero coupon bond maturing in October 2012
rose 4 basis points to 4.84 percent, extending the increase to
19 basis points since June 14. The yield on the two-year bond is
the highest since May 7, according to Bloomberg data.  
 Polish industrial output accelerated in May, outpacing
economists’ estimates, a June 18 government report showed, 
prompting central bank policy maker  Adam Glapinski  to tell the
PAP newswire the central bank will need to raise rates by 50
basis points late this year to curb a gradual increase in
inflation. His colleague  Anna Zielinska-Glebocka  said today the
bank may increase the benchmark seven-day rate this autumn. She
declined to comment on the size of the possible rate rise.  
 “Industrial output started it,” said  Grzegorz Maliszewski , the Warsaw-based chief economist at Bank Millennium
SA. “We are seeing signs of faster recovery and that’s boosting
expectations for earlier interest-rate increases and that’s
being reflected in comments from Professor Zielinska-Glebocka.”  
 Forward-rate agreements, which are used by investors to
lock in interest costs six months from now and by traders to
speculate on interest-rate changes, rose 6 basis points today,
extending the rise to 16 basis points since June 17. The
agreements  indicate  rates will rise by 0.41 percentage point by
December, almost double the 0.24 percentage point on June 17.  
 Zloty  
 Polish inflation may accelerate “from the end of the
year” and an increase in interest rates by half a percentage
point in the fourth quarter is the “most likely scenario,”
Societe Generale SA emerging-market strategist  Murat Toprak 
wrote in a note to clients.  
 Policy makers left their  main rate  at a record low of 3.5
percent in May. The bank expects annual inflation to remain
below the 2.5 percent target through this year after slowing in
May to 2.2 percent.  
 Zielinska-Glebocka said that a hike would be more likely if
the zloty continues to weaken, as depreciation of the currency
would boost fuel and commodity prices. Food prices may grow more
than expected after Polish floods this year, she said.  
 The zloty eased 0.3 percent to 4.0613 per euro as of 4:41
p.m. in Warsaw. It has depreciated 6 percent from its strongest
intraday level in 16 months, reached on April 7.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Piotr Skolimowski  in Warsaw at 
 pskolimowski@bloomberg.net ;  
          
          


  


        