-- U.K. Gilts Rise as Chancellor Osborne's Deficit Measures Curb Debt Supply
-- Paul Dobson
-- 2010-06-22T16:34:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-22/pound-trades-near-a-weekly-low-before-chancellor-osborne-announces-budget.html

          
          
             U.K.  gilts  rose amid speculation the
government’s pledge to balance the budget by the end of its
first term will stem the supply of new debt and lessen the
likelihood of Britain losing its AAA rating.  
 The yield on the 10-year gilt fell to its lowest level in
eight months as Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  said
the government will impose a levy on banks and raise the sales
tax. The Debt Management Office reduced to 165 billion pounds
($243 billion) from 185.2 billion pounds the amount of bonds to
be sold in the fiscal year, matching analyst estimates. The
pound reversed an earlier decline as investors bet the bank levy
is unlikely to hurt the industry, weakening the budget’s impact
on economic growth.  
 “It is a tough budget and clearly signals the government’s
determination to get the fiscal house in order,” said  Nick Stamenkovic , a fixed-income strategist in Edinburgh at RIA
Capital Markets Ltd., a broker for banks and investors. “Hence
it should be welcomed by gilt investors as a step in the right
direction. No sovereign downgrade is likely after the aggressive
fiscal consolidation.”  
 Gilts rose for a second day, with the yield on the 10-year
bond declining seven basis points to 3.45 percent as of 5:10
p.m. in London. It earlier fell to 3.41 percent, the lowest
since Oct. 14. The 4.75 percent security due in March 2020 rose
0.58, or 5.8 pounds per 1,000-pound face amount, to 110.61. The
two-year yield fell nine basis points to 0.77 percent.  
 ‘Erode Competitiveness’  
 The pound strengthened 0.6 percent to 82.97 pence per euro
and by the same percentage to $1.4846, after falling to $1.4687.  
 “What really caught the currency market’s attention is the
fact that levy on banks was smaller than expected and that
there’s no further reduction on capital spending,” said  Adam Cole , global head of currency strategy at Royal Bank of Canada
in London. “There was concern ahead of the budget that the levy
will be big and it will erode competitiveness of the U.K.
banking sector. There is a sense of relief after the
announcement.”  
 The levy on banks would tax their balance sheets starting
next year, generating 2 billion pounds of revenue. The tax will
be set at 0.04 percent in 2011, before increasing to 0.07
percent.  
 Osborne said the government will cut the deficit to 20
billion pounds by 2015-2016 and will cut spending by 30 billion
pounds annually. The government is on track to eliminate the
structural budget deficit by 2015, he said.  
 Osborne, 39, the youngest chancellor since 1886, is aiming
to cancel a deficit that reached 11 percent of gross domestic
product in the last fiscal year. Among the measures he announced
was a two-year pay freeze for public workers.  
 Credit Rating  
 “This budget helps to improve the prospect the U.K. will
be able to retain its credit rating,” said  Richard Kelly , a
senior strategist at Toronto-Dominion Bank in London. “The
Chancellor might not go as far as some might have expected in
certain areas, but at the end of the day, it brings the deficit
down. That’s all that matters.”  
 The yield on the short-sterling futures contract maturing
in March 2011 slipped nine basis points to 1.05 percent as
investors added to bets the Bank of England will keep down
borrowing costs as the government cuts spending.  
 “Tighter fiscal policy can enable interest rates to stay
lower for longer,” Osborne said.  
 Concern the U.K. would struggle to narrow the biggest
budget deficit among the Group of Seven nations helped send the
pound 9 percent lower against the dollar this year. Speculation
the U.K. would lose its top rating helped the 10-year yield
reach 4.3 percent on Feb. 22.  
 ‘Like it’  
 “The market seems to like it -- we’re getting these things
dealt with and it’s a bit of a move forward,” said  Neil Mellor ,
a currency strategist at Bank of New York Mellon Corp. “But
this is the cold, hard reality of fiscal reduction and does pose
a serious risk to the outlook for the economy.”  
 Gilts outperformed both German and U.S.  bonds  following the
May 6 election that ousted former Prime Minister  Gordon Brown ’s
Labour Party after 13 years in power.  
 U.K. securities returned 2 percent, compared with a gain of
0.4 percent for German bonds and 0.8 percent for U.S.
Treasuries, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch Indexes.  
 The budget is a “strong statement of intent”
to tackle the U.K.’s public finances, Fitch Ratings said.  
 The tax and spending plans illustrate the government’s
commitment to cut the shortfall and are “materially stronger”
than those set out by former Chancellor  Alistair Darling  in
March, Fitch said in an e-mailed statement today.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Anchalee Worrachate  in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net ;
 Paul Dobson  in London at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     The pound fell 0.2 percent to $1.4722. Photographer: Chris Ratcliffe/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
