-- Progressive, Abbott, Tesla, Coach, Li Peng's Diary: Intellectual Property
-- Victoria Slind-Flor
-- 2010-06-22T13:40:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-22/progressive-abbott-tesla-coach-li-peng-s-diary-intellectual-property.html

          
          
             Progressive Corp. , the fourth-
biggest U.S. auto insurer, sued Liberty Mutual Group Inc. in a
patent-infringement dispute over accident-forgiveness programs.  
 The complaint, filed on June 18 in federal court in
Cleveland, concerns a program run by Liberty Mutual’s Safeco
called “Rewind,” which waives surcharges for qualifying
drivers who get a speeding ticket or are involved in an
accident, and the “Onboard Advisor” by Liberty Mutual’s Ohio
Casualty unit.  
 The two units get data regarding location, mileage, speed
and other information from an onboard computer to calculate a
“safety score” on the driver. Progressive said in the
complaint that both programs infringe a patent it obtained in
2000 for a motor vehicle monitoring system that can help
determine auto insurance rates.  
 The company, based in Mayfield Village, Ohio, competes
against Liberty Mutual, Allstate Corp. and Berkshire Hathaway
Inc.’s Geico Corp., in selling auto insurance. Progressive
reported June 15 that net income fell 19 percent in May on
declines in the value of investments.  
 Liberty Mutual, led by Chief Executive Officer Edmund
“Ted” Kelly, added car insurance clients with the acquisition
of Safeco Corp. for more than $6 billion in 2008. The insurer,
which is owned by policyholders, also sells commercial property,
home and life insurance and is the fifth-largest U.S. property
and casualty insurer.  
 Glenn Greenberg, a spokesman for Boston-based Liberty
Mutual, said the company doesn’t comment on litigation.  
 Progressive is represented by James R. Wooley from
Cleveland’s  Jones Day .  
 The case is Progressive Casualty Insurance Co. v. Safeco
Insurance Co. of Illinois, 10cv1370, U.S. District Court for the
Northern District of Ohio (Cleveland).  
 Abbott Sues Novartis’ Sandoz Over Niaspan Patents  
 Abbott Laboratories  sued  Novartis  AG’s Sandoz unit to block
sale of a generic copy of Niaspan, a drug used to increase so-
called good cholesterol, accusing its Swiss rival of infringing
three patents. In dispute are patents 6,080,428; 6,469,035; and
6,818,229.  
 Abbott contends Sandoz has applied to the  U.S. Food and
Drug Administration  for approval of the generic and wrongfully
intends to market a version of the patent-protected drug,
according to a complaint filed June 18 in federal court in
Delaware.  
 Sandoz “had actual and constructive knowledge” of the
patents, and “Abbott will suffer substantial and irreparable
harm” unless the infringement is stopped, Abbott’s  lawyers  said
in court papers.  
 Abbott said in April that first-quarter sales of  Niaspan , a
form of Vitamin B, rose 15 percent to $205 million. The Abbott
Park, Illinois-based company reported revenue of $30.7 billion
in 2009.  
 Officials of Basel, Switzerland-based Novartis weren’t
immediately available to comment on the lawsuit.  
 The case is Abbott Laboratories v. Sandoz Inc., 10CV538,
U.S. District Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  
 Tesla Brings Portfolio of Issued Patents, Applications to IPO  
 Tesla Motors Inc. , the electric-car manufacturer planning
an initial public offering on June 28, has amassed a portfolio
of patents and pending patent applications on its technology.  
 According to the database of the U.S. Patent and Trademark
Office, Tesla has  37 published and pending applications , many of
them related to battery capacity and performance.  
 The company also has  17 U.S. patents , with the most recent
one issued June 15. That patent -- 7,739,005 -- is for a control
system for an all-wheel drive electric vehicle. According to the
patent, most current traction-control systems aren’t
satisfactory for either a hybrid or all-electric vehicle.  
 Many of the issued patents and pending applications are
handled for Tesla by the Law Offices of David G. Beck of Mill
Valley, California.  
 Tesla’s previous visibility in the IP arena came in its
unsuccessful trade-secrets dispute with Fisker Coachbuild LLC, a
custom car-design company in Irvine, California.  
 An arbitrator the two parties selected from the Judicial
Arbitration and Mediation Service said in November 2008 that
Tesla’s assertions that Fisker stole its trade secrets were
“baseless and neither brought nor pursued in good faith,”
according to a Fisker  statement .  
 Tesla said May 27 it would buy for $42 million the recently
closed New United Manufacturing Inc. factory in Fremont,
California, vacant after  Toyota Motor Corp.  and General Motors
shut down their joint-venture operations there in April.  
 Proposed Digital License Plate Covered by Multiple Patents  
 California’s state senate has endorsed a bill authorizing a
study to replace metal auto license plates with a digital
version that could display advertising messages when the vehicle
is stopped. Sale of the ads could generate revenue for the cash-
strapped state.  
 According to an  analysis  of SB 1453 posted on the
California Senate’s web site, a patent for the technology exists
and is held by Smart Plate of San Francisco. The aim of the bill
is to allow Smart Plate or other companies “to investigate the
creation and use of this type of license plate and report to the
legislature on that investigation.”  
 The bill was sponsored by  Senator Curren D. Price Jr. , a
Democrat representing parts of Los Angeles, Hollywood and
surrounding towns.  
 “State governments are facing unprecedented budget
shortfalls, and are actively rethinking the use of existing
state assets to create new ongoing revenue opportunities,”
Price said in a  statement .  
 General Motors Co. holds patent 7,161,563 for an electronic
vehicle registration and license plate. The patent, which was
issued in January 2007, covers an electric license plate coupled
to an onboard computer that can receive vehicle identification
and registration information.  
 The GM patent makes no mention of the use of the technology
for advertising purposes. Instead, the issued the patented
technology is intended to address is the aesthetics of
automobile design, the frequency with which metal license plates
are stolen, and the cost of operating government offices for
vehicle registration and licensing.  
 A patent for an electronic license plate was issued in June
2002 to Dean L. Naddeo of Oradell, New Jersey. His patent
6,404,327 also focuses on lowering the cost of license plate
production and theft deterrence.  
 Harold Parker Sr. of Raleigh, North Carolina, also has a
patent for a license plate with wireless tracking and data
dissemination. Patent 7,096,102, issued in August 2006,
emphasizes the use of the device for emergency notification
system that could be activated if the car is stolen or
carjacked.  
 For more patent news, click here.  
 Trademark  
 City of Chicago Targeted in Coach’s ‘Operation Turnlock’  
 Coach Inc. , the leather goods-maker that filed at least 80
trademark-infringement suits in 2010, named the City of Chicago
as defendant in one of the suits.  
 New York-based Coach announced its “Operation Turnlock” a
national anti-counterfeiting program in May, saying it would sue
companies and individuals that sold fake coach handbags and
other branded items.  
 “We intend to pursue all infringers -- no matter how big
or small -- using the strong state and federal laws to enforce
our rights and protect against the devaluation of the brand,”
Todd Kahn, Coach’s senior vice president and general counsel,
said in a May 20  statement .  
 The program is principally focused on New York, California,
Florida, Georgia and the Midwest, according to the statement.  
 In addition to the wholesale operators, small businesses,
Internet sites, purse-party operators, street vendors and flea
markets selling fakes, Coach targeted the City of Chicago in a
complaint filed in federal court May 19.  
 The city was sued in its role as operator of the New
Maxwell Street Market, an outdoor market along Chicago’s
Desplaines Avenue. Once the largest open-air market in the
country, the market was moved from its original site on Maxwell
Street to Canal Street in the 1990s and then to Desplaines in
2008.  
 Coach investigators reported buying fake-Coach merchandise
from vendors in the Maxwell Street market from August 2009
through March 2010. Purchases included counterfeit Coach bags
and wallets.  
 Although the city was put on notice that branded knockoff
items were sold in the market, the sales have continued, the
leather-goods company said. In September 2009, criminal
trademark charges were filed against two Maxwell Market vendors,
with information about the case sent to the city “on an almost-
monthly basis,” Coach said in its court papers.  
 Those two vendors are defendants with the city in this
civil case. When searched during the criminal investigation,
their Maxwell Market booths had respectively 135 and 216 fake
Coach products, according to court papers.  
 Coach asked the court to bar sales of infringing
merchandise at the market, for the recall and destruction of all
fakes, and for an award of attorney fees and litigation costs.
The company is also seeking damages of $2 million for each
infringed trademark, and extra damages to punish the defendants
for their conduct.  
 The leather-goods company is represented by  Mariangela M.
Seale  and  Steven Patrick McKey  of St. Louis-based  Bryan Cave
LLP .  
 The case is Coach Inc. v. City of Chicago, 1:10-cv-03108,
U.S. District Court, Northern District of Illinois (Chicago).  
 For more trademark news, click here.  
 Copyright  
 New Century Press Says Copyright Issues Cancel Li Peng Book  
 New Century Press, a Hong Kong-based publisher, canceled
publication of a book about the Tiananmen Square uprisings in
1989 by former Chinese premier Li Peng, the South China Morning
Post  reported .  
 “Tiananmen Diary of Li Peng,” set for publication June
22, was withdrawn for “copyright reasons,” according to the
Post.  
 Bao Pu, the political commentator who founded New Century
Press and planned an initial run of 20,000 copies, told the Post
that “relevant institutions” he declined to name gave him
copyright information that made it impossible to bring out the
book on time.  
 He received the manuscript from a “mysterious middleman”
and never signed a copyright contact with anyone, Bao told the
Post.  
 Apple Sued Over Use of Bird Calls in Application for IPhone  
 Apple Inc. , maker of the iPhone and iPad, was sued for
copyright infringement by a collector of bird calls.  
 Martyn Stewart of Redmond, Washington, said he has
collected the sound of more than 3,500 birds in their natural
setting, the result of 35 years of locating, identifying and
recording the birds. In his complaint filed June 18 in federal
court in Seattle, he said he was approached by software-
application developer Mitchell Waite of Sausalito, California,
about getting a license to his bird call recordings to be part
of an application for Palm Pilot to be called “Winged
Explorer.”  
 Waite and Stewart never completed a formal license
agreement, according to court papers. Waite and his company
Mitch Waite Group LLC are accused of incorporating Stewart’s
recorded bird sounds into iBird software applications for
Cupertino, California-based Apple’s iPhone without
authorization.  
 Stewart claims Waite developed nine individual applications
that use the bird sounds without authorization, and that they’re
marketed by Apple for its iPhone. He said in his court papers
that the iBird applications “explicitly identify” him as the
recorder of the bird sounds.  
 Waite is a co-defendant with Apple.  
 Stewart asked the court for money damages, and attorney
fees, litigation costs, and an order barring all unauthorized
use of his work, and destruction of all articles used to create
the infringing applications.  
 He’s represented by Philip P. Mann of Seattle’s  Mann Law
Group , and John E. Whitaker of the Whitaker Law Group, also of
Seattle.  
 The case is Stewart v. Apple Inc., 2:10-cv-01012, U.S.
District Court, Western District of Washington (Seattle).  
 For more copyright news, click here.  
 Trade Secrets/Industrial Espionage  
 CMI Told It Must Release ‘Trade Secret’ Breath-Test Codes  
 CMI Inc. , maker of alcohol breath-test machines, has been
told by a Florida appeals court it must make the computer code
within its machines available to defendants in cases alleging
they drove while drunk, the Sarasota Herald Tribune  reported .  
 The Owensboro, Kentucky-based manufacturer claims the code
is a trade secret and has refused to honor lower-court
subpoenas, according to the Herald Tribune.  
 The company’s Intoxiliyzer 8000 machine, for which the code
is sought, is the only breath-test machine approved in Florida,
the newspaper reported.  
 CMI’s refusal to date has meant the dismissal or a
reduction of the charges in “hundreds” of DUI cases in
Florida, according to the Herald Tribune.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Victoria Slind-Flor  in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        