-- Purchases of U.S. Existing Homes Unexpectedly Dropped in May
-- Shobhana Chandra
-- 2010-06-22T17:08:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-22/purchases-of-u-s-existing-homes-unexpectedly-dropped-in-may.html

          
          
             Sales of U.S. previously owned homes
unexpectedly fell in May as demand began to slip even before a
government tax credit expires.  
 Purchases  of existing houses, which are tabulated when a
contract closes, decreased 2.2 percent to a 5.66 million annual
rate, figures from the National Association of Realtors showed
today in Washington. To receive a government incentive worth as
much as $8,000, buyers must have signed contracts by the end of
April and need to complete deals by the end of this month.  
 Builder shares dropped on concern the end of government
stimulus, mounting foreclosures and  unemployment  may cause
renewed weakness in the industry that precipitated the worst
recession since the 1930s. Delays in processing contracts from
last-minute buyers rushing to qualify for the tax break may also
have contributed to the decrease, the agents’ group said.  
 Sales “will be pretty soft for the next few months,” said
 Scott Brown , chief economist at Raymond James & Associates Inc.
in St. Petersburg, Florida, whose sales forecast was the closest
among economists surveyed. “Ultimately, you’re going to need
job growth to see a sustainable recovery in housing.”  
 Stocks fluctuated between gains and losses after the report
as a positive sales report from Apple Inc. triggered a rally in
technology shares, helping to overcome the housing data. The
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index was little changed at 1,112.84 at
1:04 p.m. in New York. The S&P Supercomposite Homebuilder index
fell 0.4 percent.  
 Less Than Forecast  
 Existing home sales were forecast to rise to a 6.12 million
rate, according to the  median  forecast of 74 economists in a
Bloomberg News survey. Estimates ranged from 5.2 million to 6.5
million. The group revised April’s sales rate up to 5.79 million
from the 5.77 million previously reported.  
 Purchases of existing homes increased 18 percent compared
with a year earlier prior to adjusting for seasonal patterns.  
 The  median price  climbed 2.7 percent to $179,600 from
$174,800 in May 2009.  
 The number of previously owned homes on the market dropped
3.4 percent to 3.89 million. At the current sales pace, it would
take 8.3 months to sell those houses compared with 8.4 months at
the end of the prior month.  
 Declines in inventories have slowed in recent months,
posing a risk for the market,  Lawrence Yun , the group’s chief
economist, said in a press conference. Yun said this
“overhang” in supply is a concern and may lead to further
declines in property values in coming months.  
 Processing Delays  
 There may be as many as 180,000 buyers who will not be able
to close on deals by this month’s deadline in order to qualify
for the tax credit, Yun said, calling on the government to push
the expiration date back.  
 A proposal to move the closing deadline to Sept. 30 from
the end of this month is part of legislation extending
unemployment benefits and providing $24 billion in aid to state
governments that has stalled in Congress.  
 Last month’s drop in sales was led by an 18 percent plunge
in the Northeast. Purchases in the Midwest were little changed,
while those in the West climbed 4.9 percent and demand in the
South increased 0.5 percent.  
 Federal Reserve policy makers, who begin a two-day meeting
today, are forecast to commit to keeping interest rates near
zero to help wean the world’s largest economy off government
stimulus. The hazard posed by the European debt crisis,
joblessness and a lack of inflation add to the reasons why
central bankers will focus on sustaining the U.S. rebound.  
 Falling Orders  
 Hovnanian Enterprises Inc. , the largest homebuilder in New
Jersey, said orders fell 17 percent in the quarter ended April
30 from a year earlier, and contract signings slowed in May,
indicating the tax credit helped pull some sales forward.  
 “The expiration of the federal homebuyer tax credit, the
lack of job growth and a potential increase in foreclosures all
pose risks to a housing industry recovery,”  Ara K. Hovnanian ,
chief executive officer, said in a June 2 statement.  
 The window of opportunity for the tax credit has already
passed for purchases of new houses, which are tabulated at
contract signings and are considered a timelier barometer of the
market. A Commerce Department report tomorrow will show  new home
sales  plunged 19 percent to a 410,000 annual pace last month,
according to the median forecast of economists surveyed.  
 Existing homes account for about 90 percent of the market.  
 Builders are being hurt by competition from foreclosed
properties that are depressing property values. Foreclosures
jumped to a record for the second consecutive month in May as
lenders stepped up property seizures, according to RealtyTrac
Inc., an Irvine, California-based data seller.  
 Cheaper borrowing costs are helping mitigate the damage.
The  average  rate on a fixed 30-year mortgage was 4.75 percent
last week, just shy of the record-low 4.71 percent reached in
early December, according to data from Freddie Mac, the
mortgage-finance company being supported by the U.S. government.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Shobhana Chandra  in Washington at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     A Coldwell Banker sign stands outside an existing home for sale in Durham, North Carolina. Photographer: Jim R. Bounds/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 22 (Bloomberg) -- Robert Shiller, an economics professor at Yale University and chief economist at MacroMarkets LLC, talks with Bloomberg's Julie Hyman about U.S. sales of previously owned homes in May, the impact of a government tax credit on home sales and the outlook for the housing market.
     Purchases of existing houses, which are tabulated when a contract closes, decreased 2.2 percent to a 5.66 million annual rate, figures from the National Association of Realtors showed today. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 22 (Bloomberg) -- Sales of U.S. previously owned homes unexpectedly fell 2.2 percent in May to a 5.66 million annual rate, a sign demand was probably pulled into prior months before a June tax-credit deadline. Bloomberg's Mike McKee reports. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
