-- Rand of South Africa Snaps Gain on Europe Concern, Yuan `Second Thoughts'
-- Garth Theunissen
-- 2010-06-22T12:17:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-22/rand-of-south-africa-snaps-gain-on-europe-concern-yuan-second-thoughts-.html

          
          
             The rand weakened for the first day
in three on renewed concern Europe’s debt crisis will hurt the
global economy and on bets China’s central bank will limit gains
in its currency, damping prospects for commodity exports.  
 South Africa’s currency declined as much as 1 percent to
7.5695 per dollar before trading 0.9 percent down at 7.5574 by
2:04 p.m. in Johannesburg, from a close of 7.4913 yesterday.  
 Concern increased that economic growth in Europe will slow
after Fitch Ratings downgraded France’s biggest bank and
Standard & Poor’s said Spanish lenders face difficult years as
credit losses mount. China’s yuan declined the most since
December 2008 on speculation the central bank won’t allow
excessive strengthening of the currency.  
 “There’s still a lot of uncertainty about how the problems
in Europe are going to play out and that affects risk
appetite,” said  Ian Cruickshanks , head of research at Nedbank
Treasury in Johannesburg. “Investors are also having second
thoughts about the perceived positive effects of China’s move to
a more flexible currency -- they’ll only allow the yuan to move
a fraction at a time.”  
 The rand rallied to a seven-week high yesterday after China
signaled it will allow its currency to strengthen, boosting
speculation a stronger yuan would increase prices for
commodities to the world’s fastest-growing major economy.  
 “The rand and other risky assets incurred profit-taking
because participants believe that such an exchange-rate
revaluation would be a gradual process,”  Michael Keenan , a
currency strategist at  Standard Bank Group Ltd.  in Johannesburg,
wrote in a client note today.  
 Bonds, FRAs  
 Government bonds headed for the biggest drop in almost
three weeks, with the benchmark 13.5 percent security due
September 2015 losing 19 cents to 123.33 rand. The yield on the
bond increased 4 basis points to 7.94 percent.  
 The rand weakened versus all but two of its 16 most-
actively traded counterparts monitored by Bloomberg, losing 0.3
percent against the euro to 9.2769.  
 Investors reduced bets the central bank will lower its 6.5
percent  benchmark interest rate  when it next meets on July 22,
forward-rate agreements show. The cost of  three-month contracts 
for cash in three months rose 1 basis point from the previous
close to 6.39 percent. The rate reached a 6 1/2-year low of 6.36
percent on April 21.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Garth Theunissen  in Johannesburg 
 gtheunissen@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        