-- Treasuries Rise on Record Low Two-Year Auction Yield, Drop in Home Sales
-- Cordell Eddings
-- 2010-06-22T20:12:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-22/treasuries-gain-after-global-stock-drop-boosts-safety-demand-as-fed-meets.html

          
          
             Treasuries rose after the
government’s sale of $40 billion in two-year notes produced a 
record low yield of 0.738 percent and an industry report
showed U.S. sales of existing homes unexpectedly fell last month.  
 Yields on current two-year notes declined to the  lowest
level  in four weeks on speculation the Federal Reserve will cite
evidence of sluggish economic growth when policy makers release
their statement tomorrow. The debt sale’s bid-to-cover ratio,
which gauges demand by comparing total bids with the amount of
securities offered, was 3.45, the highest since October.  
 “It was a great auction,” said  Michael Franzese , managing
director and head of Treasury trading at Wunderlich Securities
Inc. in New York. “If the world goes to hell, your money is
secure. If things turn around really fast, you don’t lose a
lot.”  
 The 10-year note yield dropped nine basis points, or 0.09
percentage point, to 3.16 percent at 4:03 p.m. in New York,
according to BGCantor Market Data. The yield touched 3.15
percent, the lowest level since June 8. The price of the 3.5
percent security maturing in May 2020 rose 3/4, or $7.50 per
$1,000 face amount, to 102 29/32.  
 At today’s sale, indirect bidders, an investor class that
includes foreign central banks, purchased 41.4 percent of the
notes, the highest level since February. Direct bidders, non-
primary-dealer investors that place their bids directly with the
Treasury, purchased 21.3 percent, compared with 15.2 percent in
May and an average of 13.5 percent at the past 10 auctions.  
 ‘Safe Haven’  
 “Demand is there,” said  John Spinello , chief technical
strategist in New York at Jefferies Group Inc., one of 18
primary dealers that are required to bid at Treasury auctions.
“It could be a safe haven for expectations of a weaker economy
down the road.”  
 The amount sold was $2 billion less than the prior two-year
note auction, marking a second consecutive reduction. The
Treasury will auction $38 billion in five-year notes tomorrow
and $30 billion in seven-year debt on June 24.  
 Yields on current two-year notes slid three basis points to
0.68 percent, the lowest level since May 25. The  yield  on the
30-year bond dropped seven basis points to 4.09 percent.  
 Purchases of existing houses dropped 2.2 percent in May to a
5.66 million annual pace, the National Association of Realtors
reported. The median forecast of 74 economists in a Bloomberg
News survey was for a 6 percent increase.  
 ‘Nasty Thorns’  
 “My ‘economic recovery rose’ is losing its petals and
leaving me with some nasty thorns in return for my optimism,”
 Kevin Giddis , head of fixed-income sales, trading and research
at brokerage firm Morgan Keegan Inc. in Memphis, Tennessee,
wrote in a note to clients.  
 The central bank will alter language in its policy
statement after this week’s meeting to reflect a “sluggish”
economy,  Richard Clarida,  global strategic adviser at  Pacific
Investment Management Co. , said in an interview with  Deirdre Bolton  on Bloomberg Television’s “InsideTrack.” “The economy
softened since the last meeting, and inflation is very well
behaved,” Clarida said.  
 The difference in yield between five-year Treasuries and
Treasury Inflation Protected Securities indicates investors
anticipate an  inflation  rate of 1.69 percent in the next five
years, compared with 2.01 percent on April 28, when policy
makers concluded their last meeting on monetary policy.  
 The Fed will not adjust policy until at least the spring of
2011, Clarida said in a radio interview today with  Tom Keene  on
“Bloomberg Surveillance.”  
 The central bank will hold its  target rate  for overnight
lending between banks at a record low zero to 0.25 percent at
the end of its two-day meeting tomorrow, according to all of the
96 economists in a Bloomberg News survey. Policy makers have
kept the benchmark at that level since December 2008.  
 “People are thinking the economic recovery is at best
slow,” said  Mark MacQueen , a partner in Austin, Texas, at Sage
Advisory Services Ltd., which oversees $9 billion. “The Fed has
a longer period of easy monetary policy ahead.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Susanne Walker  in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net ;
 Cordell Eddings  in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        