-- Treasury Sells Two-Year Notes at Record Low Yield With Inflation Subdued
-- Chris Middleton
-- 2010-06-22T20:53:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-22/treasury-sells-two-year-notes-at-record-low-yield-with-inflation-subdued.html

          
          
             The Treasury sold $40 billion of
two-year notes at a record-low yield of 0.738 percent with
inflation falling and policy makers forecast to keep interest
rates near zero through the year.  
 The previous record low of 0.769 percent was set during the
Treasury’s last auction of the securities in May. The bid-to-
cover ratio, which gauges demand by comparing the number of bids
to the amount of securities sold, rose to 3.45, the highest
since October 2009, from 2.93 at the last two-year note sale.  
 The U.S. has been able to sell record amounts of debt this
year at or near historically low rates as the threat of
inflation eases and demand surges from investors seeking a haven
from Europe’s sovereign debt crisis, as well as concern the U.S.
economy recovery may be faltering.  
 “Just absolutely fantastic,”  William O’Donnell,  U.S.
government bond strategist in Stamford, Connecticut, at Royal
Bank of Scotland Group Plc, said of the demand at the auction.
RBS Securities is one of the 18 primary dealers that trade with
the Fed and are required to bid on Treasury auctions.  
 “The ability of the administration is limited from hereon
to further stimulate consumption,” O’Donnell said. “We might
have to suffer through fiscal constraint that will lead to lower
consumption, therefore slowing inflation.”  
 The Fed will hold its target rate for overnight loans
between banks at a record-low range of zero to 0.25 percent at
the end of its meeting tomorrow, according to all of the 97
economists in a Bloomberg News survey.  
 The cost of living in the U.S. dropped in May for a second
month. The 0.2 percent decline in the consumer price index was
the biggest since December 2008 and followed April’s 0.1 percent
decrease, figures from the Labor Department showed June 17.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alex Kowalski  in New York at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net ;
 Chris Middleton  in Washington at 
 cmiddleton2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        