-- Treasuries Decline After China's Stronger Yuan Fixing Saps Safety Demand
-- Theresa Barraclough
-- 2010-06-22T05:45:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-22/treasuries-decline-after-china-s-stronger-yuan-fixing-saps-safety-demand.html

          
          
             Treasuries fell for a third day
after China’s central bank strengthened its daily reference rate
for the yuan by the most in five years.  
 Longer-maturity bonds led the decline as the decision by
People’s Bank of China spurred confidence the global economic
recovery is gaining momentum. The difference in yield between
two-year interest-rate swaps and similar-dated Treasuries
narrowed for a third day yesterday, signaling investors are
gaining confidence in the worldwide recovery.  
 “If the yuan news leads to more confidence in risky assets
there will be less demand for Treasuries,” said  Kei Katayama ,
who helps oversee $37.3 billion as leader of the foreign fixed-
income group in Tokyo at Daiwa SB Investments Ltd. in Tokyo.
“There will be a normalization in the financial situation and
investors will shift to riskier assets by year-end.”  
 The yield on the 10-year note climbed two basis points to
3.26 percent as of 6:41 a.m. in London, according to BGCantor
Market Data. The 3.5 percent security due May 2020 fell 1/8, or
$1.25 per $1,000 face amount, to 102 1/32.  
 The PBOC set the reference rate for yuan trading 0.43
percent stronger today, reflecting its appreciation yesterday.
China announced on June 19 it was scrapping the yuan’s 6.83 peg
to the dollar adopted to protect exporters during the financial
crisis.  
 The yuan weakened 0.3 percent today to 6.82 per dollar,
according to the China Foreign Exchange Trade system.  
 Auction Demand  
 Investor demand for bonds sold last week by European
nations such as Spain renewed confidence in the countries’
ability to fund budget deficits. This week the Netherlands,
Portugal and Italy plan to raise funds through debt sales.  
 The European Central Bank started buying bonds of debt-
ridden nations last month to support a near $1 trillion rescue
plan forged by the European Union. ECB Executive Board member
 Juergen Stark  said yesterday the central bank’s government bond-
purchase program is of a “temporary nature” to help restore
investor confidence in the region.  
 “Risk appetite is gaining momentum,” said  Hideo Shimomura ,
who helps oversee the equivalent of $55.5 billion as chief
investor in Tokyo at Mitsubishi UFJ Asset Management Co., a unit
of Japan’s biggest bank. “The swap spread will move towards 30
basis points. People may start unwinding positions against the
euro.”  
 Two-year interest-rate swap spreads shrank to 31.52 basis
points yesterday, the narrowest since May 14, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The gap was little changed at 31.98 basis
points today. Swap spreads reflect the difference between the
rate to exchange floating for fixed interest payments and
Treasury yields for two years.  
 Two-Year Notes  
 Treasury two-year  yields  were near the lowest since May on
speculation the  Federal Reserve  will this week reiterate its
pledge to keep interest rates near zero to spur a recovery. The
Federal Open Market Committee starts a two-day meeting today.  
 “The FOMC is not going to move and the language is not
going to change because it’s too early for the Fed to even
contemplate moving rates,” said  Kumar Palghat , who helps manage
the equivalent of $1.6 billion at Kapstream Capital in Sydney.
“Given the problems we’ve had, you’d expect the Fed to be at
least on hold for three years since the last rate cut -- so
we’re half way into it.”  
 The  two-year  yield was little changed at 0.73 percent. The
yield fell to 0.69 percent on June 17, the lowest since May 25.  
 Policy makers have kept the Fed funds rate in a range of
zero to 0.25 percent since December 2008 and the central bank’s
pledge that interest rates will stay very low for an “extended
period” has been in place since March 2009. The Fed will hold
its  benchmark  at a record-low at this week’s meeting, according
to all 96 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  
 ‘Relatively Strong’  
 The U.S. will auction $40 billion in two-year debt today,
$38 billion in five-year notes tomorrow and $30 billion in
seven-year securities on June 24. The total is $5 billion less
than last month’s sales.  
 “The two-year auction won’t be a home run, but demand in
the front end is still relatively strong,” said  Jason Rogan ,
director of U.S. government trading in New York at Guggenheim
Partners LLC, a brokerage for institutional investors.  
 Indirect bidders, an investor class that includes foreign
central banks, bought 36 percent of the two-year notes at the
prior auction on May 25, compared with an average of 42 percent
over the past 10 sales.  
 The two-year notes to be auctioned today yielded 0.75
percent in pre-auction trading, compared with 0.769 percent at
the previous sale, the lowest on record.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Candice Zachariahs  in Sydney at 
 czachariahs2@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        