-- Treasury Two-Year Yields Near 4-Week Low on Stocks' Decline, Fed Outlook
-- Lukanyo Mnyanda
-- 2010-06-22T08:53:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-22/treasury-two-year-yields-near-4-week-low-on-stocks-decline-fed-outlook.html

          
          
             Treasury two-year  yields  stayed near
the lowest level since May as a decline in stocks boosted demand
for the safest assets amid speculation the  Federal Reserve  will
keep interest rates near zero.  
 Investors favored fixed-income assets on bets that reduced
inflationary pressure will prompt Fed policy makers to repeat
pledges to keep borrowing costs low for an “extended period”
when they meet this week. The Treasury will sell $40 billion in
two-year notes today, $2 billion less than the previous
offering. The MSCI World Index fell 0.3 percent, ending 10 days
of stock gains, as comments by a European Central Bank official
suggested some lenders may struggle to finance themselves.  
 “It’s likely that Fed policy will contribute to yields
staying at fairly low levels for some time,” said  Elwin de Groot , a senior market economist at Rabobank Groep in Utrecht,
Netherlands. “We’ve seen a slight improvement in risk appetite,
but the underlying tone remains downbeat.”  
 The  two-year note  yielded 0.71 percent as of 9:40 a.m. in
London, according to BGCantor Market Data. The yield fell to
0.69 percent on June 17, the lowest since May 25. The 0.75
percent security due May 2012 traded at 100 2/32. The 10-year
yield held at 3.25 percent.  
 The government will also sell $38 billion in five-year
notes tomorrow and $30 billion in seven-year securities on June
24. Indirect bidders, an investor class that includes foreign
central banks, bought 36 percent of the two-year notes at the
prior auction on May 25, compared with an average of 42 percent
over the past 10 sales.  
 ‘Tightly Bid’  
 “The auction should be reasonably tightly bid,” said  Marc Ostwald , a fixed-income strategist at Monument Securities Ltd.
in London. “Two-year auctions are generally not a great
challenge for the market, particularly not in this current
environment.”  
 The Federal Reserve will hold the benchmark  interest rate 
at a record low range of zero to 0.25 percent at this week’s
meeting, according to all of the 96 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News. Policy makers have kept the Fed funds rate
unchanged since December 2008, and the “extended period”
pledge has been in place since March 2009.  
 Investors anticipate an inflation rate of 1.69 percent in
the next five years, compared with 2.01 percent on April 28,
when policy makers concluded their last meeting on monetary
policy, according to the difference in yield between five-year
Treasuries and Treasury Inflation-Protected Securities.  
 ‘European Overhang’  
 “The FOMC is not going to move, and the language is not
going to change because it’s too early for the Fed to even
contemplate moving rates,” said  Kumar Palghat , who helps manage
the equivalent of $1.6 billion at Kapstream Capital in Sydney.
“Economic data in the U.S. is mixed and you still have the
European overhang.”  
 European stocks declined, with the Stoxx Europe 600 Index
ending a nine-day rally, falling 0.2 percent. The U.K.’s FTSE
100 Index fell 0.6 percent.  BNP Paribas SA  slid 1.9 percent
after Fitch Ratings cut the credit rating for France’s largest
bank. ECB governing council member  Christian Noyer  said some
lenders are facing funding problems.  
 “Some banks have started facing increasing funding
problems,” the ECB’s Noyer said at a conference in Paris
yesterday. “The situation reflects a general state of
uncertainty which, left unchecked, could have significant
consequences on financial stability and the real economy, as was
the case during the last part of 2008.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Lukanyo Mnyanda  in London at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        