-- Ringtone Copyright Royalty Upheld by Appeals Court
-- William McQuillen
-- 2010-06-22T21:28:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-22/ringtone-copyright-royalty-rates-late-fees-upheld-by-u-s-appeals-court.html

          
          
             Ringtones, part of a $729 million
market for mobile phone downloads, should carry a royalty of 24
cents per item rather than a percentage of revenue, an appeals
court ruled, rejecting a challenge brought by the recording
industry.  
 The U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia
upheld the royalty structure set by the Copyright Royalty Board
as well as the 1.5 percent monthly fee it established for late
payments. The Recording Industry Association of America claimed
the decisions of the board, a three-member panel appointed by
the Librarian of Congress, were “arbitrary and capricious.”  
 The association had sought to tie royalties for ringtones
using music its members distribute to revenue, arguing that
falling prices made the rate unreasonable. Popular ringtones,
such as Jay-Z’s “Empire State of Mind” or Journey’s “Don’t Stop
Believin,’” sell for $2.99 on the Verizon Wireless website.  
 The court agreed with the board that the fixed rate it
established in October 2008 is more directly tied to “the
nature of the right being licensed.”  
 Jonathan Lamy , a spokesman for the  trade  group, said the
ruling will “provide a roadmap that will help facilitate more
timely payments to songwriters and publishers, an objective we
all share.”  
 The mobile shipments, which include ringtones, ringbacks,
and full-length content, declined 25 percent in 2009 to $729
million, the Recording Industry Association of America said in a
January report. Ringtones make up about 60 percent of that
market, it said.  
 The Copyright Royalty Board is charged with setting royalty
terms and rates when copyright owners and licensees are unable
to negotiate agreements by themselves.  
 The case is Recording Industry Association of America Inc.
v. Librarian of Congress, 09-1075, U.S. Court of Appeals for the
District of Columbia (Washington).  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 William McQuillen  in Washington at   bmcquillen@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        