-- Risk-Retention Rule for Mortage Lenders Debated by U.S. House Negotiators
-- Alison Vekshin
-- 2010-06-22T21:19:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-22/risk-retention-rule-for-mortage-lenders-debated-by-u-s-house-negotiators.html

          
          
             House negotiators are considering
changes to a financial-overhaul proposal that would force
mortgage firms to retain a 5 percent stake in loans they sell to
investors, a step aimed at reining in risky lending practices.  
 Representative  Scott Garrett ’s amendment directing the
Federal Reserve and other bank regulators to study the proposed
requirement was approved by a voice vote today. Risk-retention
measures are included in the House and Senate versions of the
bill negotiators are merging in a third week of meetings.  
 “If we don’t do it right, we may have many unintended
consequences,” Garrett, a New Jersey Republican, said today
during a meeting of the House-Senate conference committee. The
change could reduce the availability of credit and impede job
creation, Garrett said in an outline of his proposal.  
 The risk-retention language is designed to keep companies
tied to the loans they make after lax underwriting on subprime
mortgages bundled for sale to investors helped fuel the collapse
of the mortgage market in 2007.  
 Senate negotiators rejected a House proposal to eliminate
an exemption for low-risk mortgages. The Senate bill wouldn’t
require lenders to keep a stake in fixed-rate mortgages that
require proof of a borrower’s income, don’t allow deferring
payment of the loan principal and have other qualities that
shield them from default.  
 Senator  Christopher Dodd , the Connecticut Democrat who is
leading his chamber’s side in the talks, said the loans the
Senate wants to exempt didn’t cause the subprime crisis.  
 The Senate language “creates very strong incentives for
responsible mortgage lending,” Dodd said.  
 House negotiators will have to respond to the Senate
counteroffer before the negotiators can agree to include the
changes in the final version of the bill.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alison Vekshin  in Washington at 
 avekshin@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        