-- Storms May Strengthen in Gulf, Hampering Oil Cleanup
-- Jeremy van Loon
-- 2010-06-23T03:28:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-22/tropical-storm-could-pose-formidable-threat-to-bp-oil-clean-up-in-gulf.html

          
          
             The first storm of the Atlantic
hurricane season may enter the Gulf of Mexico as soon as next
week, possibly disrupting  BP Plc ’s efforts to clean up the worst
oil spill in U.S. history.  
 A system of thunderstorms in the Caribbean Sea is moving
west-northwest toward the Gulf at 10 miles (16 kilometers) per
hour, bringing rainfall to parts of the Dominican Republic,
Haiti, Jamaica and Cuba, the U.S. National Hurricane Center  said 
in its latest update at 8 p.m. local time yesterday.  
 “Conditions are forecast to become more favorable” for
the system to intensify in the next two days as it heads into
the western Caribbean Sea, the center said. There’s a 20 percent
chance it will form a tropical storm within 48 hours, it said,
without giving a long-term outlook.  
 The system may strengthen into a tropical storm later this
week before heading into the Gulf between Mexico and Cuba,  Jim Rouiller , a senior energy meteorologist at Planalytics Inc. in
Berwyn, Pennsylvania, said in an e-mail June 21. The storm may
represent a “formidable threat” to the spill, he said.  
 Forecasters are predicting this year’s Atlantic hurricane
season, which runs from June 1 through Nov. 30, may be among the
most active on record and hamper the U.K. oil company’s efforts
to plug its leaking well. AccuWeather Inc. forecast at least
three storms will move through the region affected by the spill.  
 Cleanup Delays  
 A hurricane could stop oil-capture efforts and delay
drilling of relief wells by 10 days, U.S. Coast Guard Admiral
 Thad Allen , the government’s national incident commander, said
yesterday at a press conference in Washington. Rig crews would
need to begin preparing to evacuate three to seven days ahead of
the storm, Allen said.  
 A temporary pipeline may be laid from the leaking well to
one or two nearby production platforms when the weather is too
rough to use ships, Allen said. A platform may be capable of
piping oil ashore or pumping it into a petroleum reservoir.  
 “We’re exploring that over the next couple of days,” he
said. “It would allow us to continue production out of that
well without requiring a surface vessel to be there, which is
problematic in a hurricane.”  
 BP is developing a new containment response that will help
cleanup operators connect and disconnect oil-recovery systems
faster, allowing for shorter disruptions during storms, said
John Pack, a BP spokesman in London. Some of the changes will be
ready before July, he said.  
 Active Season Forecast  
 A record 28 Atlantic storms formed in 2005, according to
the  National Hurricane Center . They included Katrina, whose 170
mile-an-hour winds toppled production platforms and set oil rigs
adrift before slamming into New Orleans.  
 AccuWeather on June 21 boosted its forecast for the 2010
Atlantic hurricane season to 18 to 21 named storms, up from 16
to 18. There have been five seasons with 18 or more storms in
160 years of record-keeping, AccuWeather said in an e-mailed
statement.  
 The U.S. National Oceanographic and Atmospheric
Administration forecast 14 to 23 named storms for this season.
Above-normal sea temperatures west of Africa and a decline in
the Pacific cooling phenomenon known as El Nino, which helps
impede Atlantic hurricane development, are contributing to the
storm activity, forecasters say.  
 Three storms, two of them hurricane-level, may pass through
the oil spill area, while three more may come close enough to
affect cleanup operations and other rig activity, AccuWeather
chief hurricane forecaster  Joe Bastardi  said.  
 Storm’s Path  
 The track a storm takes will have an impact on what happens
to the oil, said Jill Hasling, president of the not-for-profit
 Weather Research Center  in Houston.  
 A hurricane passing on the eastern side of the spill would
blow oil away from the shore, while a storm on the slick’s
western side may drive it onto beaches and further inland, she
said by telephone.  
 “We just don’t want a storm right now,” Hasling said.  
 Atlantic weather systems receive a name when they reach
tropical storm status with sustained winds of 39 miles per hour,
while hurricanes have a minimum wind speed of 74 miles per hour.  
 The Gulf is home to about 27 percent of the U.S.’s oil and
15 percent of its natural gas production, the Energy Department
says. It also has seven of the 10 busiest U.S. ports, according
to the Army Corps of Engineers. Florida is the second-largest
producer of oranges after Brazil.  
 The U.S. has closed 36 percent of federal waters in the
Gulf to fishing, equivalent to 86,985 square miles (225,290
square kilometers).  
 The April explosion and sinking of the Deepwater Horizon
drilling rig, leased by BP from Transocean Ltd., killed 11
workers and has caused as much as 60,000 barrels of oil a day to
leak into the Gulf.  BP  has been using chemical dispersants to
break down the fuel and is attempting to collect oil from the
damaged well.  
 The company is also drilling two relief shafts to seal the
well that may be completed in August.  
 BP has  slumped  about 48 percent in London trading since the
disaster.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Stuart Biggs  in Tokyo at 
 sbiggs3@bloomberg.net ;
 Jeremy van Loon  in Berlin at 
 jvanloon@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     A brown pelican covered in oil sits on the beach at East Grand Terre Island along the Louisiana coast. Photographer: Charlie Riedel/AP via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 21 (Bloomberg) -- Carl Larry, president of Oil Outlooks & Opinions LLC, talks about BP Plc's $20 billion fund to pay claims associated with the oil leaking for its well in the Gulf of Mexico.
     Larry also discusses BP Chief Executive Officer Tony Hayward, BP's efforts to drill relief wells and his investment strategy for oil companies. Larry talks with Pimm Fox on Bloomberg Television's "Taking Stock." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 23 (Bloomberg) -- Matt Rogers, president of Commodity Weather Group, talks about the outlook for a hurricane in the Gulf of Mexico and the potential impact on efforts to clean up BP Plc's oil leak.
     Rogers talks with Deirdre Bolton on Bloomberg Television's "InsideTrack."  (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
