-- Rubber Declines as Crude Oil Retreats, Optimism On Chinese Currency Fades
-- Supunnabul Suwannakij
-- 2010-06-22T07:43:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-22/rubber-declines-as-crude-oil-retreats-optimism-on-chinese-currency-fades.html

          
          
             Rubber dropped for the third time in
four days as the price of crude oil declined and optimism faded
that China’s would increase purchases after dropping its
currency’s peg to the dollar.  
 Futures in Tokyo declined as much as 2.1 percent after
climbing 3 percent yesterday after China signaled it will
unshackle the yuan’s fixed rate to the dollar, stoking
speculation that the world’s largest consumer may boost imports.  
 “The good news from the yuan flexibility has faded as it
lacked support from Wall Street,” said  Chaiwat Muenmee , an
analyst at Bangkok-based commodity broker DS Futures Co.  
 Rubber for November-delivery dropped as much as 5.8 yen to
276.8 yen per kilogram ($3,048 a metric ton) before settling at
277.6 yen on the Tokyo Commodity Exchange.  
 The November-delivery contract on the Shanghai Futures
Exchange declined 1.9 percent to settle at 21,475 yuan ($3,151)
a ton. Yesterday, the price climbed as high as 22,200 yuan, the
highest level since June 3.  
 The People’s Bank of China pledged on June 19 to make the
yuan more flexible, making imports more affordable to buyers in
the world’s third-largest economy.  
 China, the world’s largest auto market, is the biggest user
of natural rubber. The nation may increase gross imports of the
raw material to 1.68 million tons this year, from 1.59 million
in 2009, according to a May report from the Association of
Natural Rubber Producing Countries.  
 Debt Crisis  
 “Investors are still worried that the European debt crisis
may weaken rubber demand,” said Navarat Kaewpratarn, marketing
official at Future Agri Trade Co., said by phone from Bangkok.  
 Investor sentiment worsened after the European Central Bank
governing council member  Christian Noyer  said some banks are
facing funding problems. Standard & Poor’s Ratings Services
lowered its economic growth forecast for Spain and said Spanish
lenders face difficult years as credit losses mount.  
 “The market is in correction mode after sharp gains
yesterday,” said Kazunori Kokubo, general manager for
International Business Department at Yutaka Shoji Ltd. “Oil is
also down, driving the rubber market lower.”  
 Crude oil declined for the first time in three days as
optimism faded that China’s plan to add more flexibility in the
yuan’s fixed exchange rate would strengthen the global economic
recovery. A drop in crude oil cuts appetite for rubber.  
 Increasing supply from Thailand added pressure to the
rubber market, Chaiwat said from Bangkok. An average of 200 tons
of ribbed smoked sheet RSS-3 rubber a day is available in the
market this month, compared with slightly more than 100 tons a
day in May, he said.  
 Global rubber output may total 9.7 million to 10.2 million
tons this year as drought and heavy rainfall in key producing
countries including Thailand and Indonesia damage supply,
Stephen Evans, the secretary-general of the International Rubber
Study Group, said in an interview last week. That compares with
the group’s forecast range of 10.1 million to 10.6 million tons
on March 17.  
 Demand will probably increase by 4.4 percent this year to
9.8 million tons, based on the assumption that the economic
recovery will slow, Evans said. The group forecast 10.2 million
tons in March.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Supunnabul Suwannakij in Bangkok at 
 ssuwannakij@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        