-- Rupee Declines Most in Three Weeks on Speculation Importers to Buy Dollars
-- Anil Varma
-- 2010-06-22T11:56:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-22/rupee-declines-most-in-three-weeks-on-speculation-importers-to-buy-dollars.html

          
          
             India’s rupee fell the most in three
weeks on speculation importers will step up dollar purchases to
settle month-end bills.  
 The currency retreated from a one-month high as the
nation’s benchmark share index posted its biggest drop in two
weeks. The rupee has climbed 2 percent since the start of this
month, enabling importers to buy the dollar at a more-favorable
exchange rate. Inflation accelerated to 10.16 percent in May,
near the fastest pace in 17 months and almost twice the average
rate of the past decade, according to government data.  
 “It’s going into month-end and, typically, dollar demand
from local oil importers will go up,” said  Sanjay Mathur , an
economist at Royal Bank of Scotland Plc in Singapore. “There
are also concerns about inflation.”  
 The rupee weakened 1.1 percent to 46.24 per dollar as of
the 5 p.m. close in Mumbai, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. It reached 45.57 yesterday, the strongest level since
May 18. The currency will trade between 45.50 and 46.10 this
week, Mathur said.  
 Offshore forwards indicated the rupee will trade at 46.67
to the dollar in three months, compared with expectations for a
rate of 46.09 yesterday. Forwards are agreements to buy or sell
assets at a set price and date. Non-deliverable contracts are
settled in dollars.  
 The Bombay Stock Exchange’s  Sensitive Index  fell 0.7
percent, the most since June 8, tracking a 0.9 percent decline
in the  MSCI Asia Pacific Index  of regional shares.  
 The rupee’s losses were limited by speculation local
exporters will benefit from China’s decision to relax controls
on the yuan’s exchange-rate.  
 The People’s Bank of China said on June 19 it will allow a
more flexible exchange rate as a stronger local currency will
help curb inflation in the world’s third-largest economy. The
bank on June 20 ruled out “large changes” in the exchange rate
and said it will prevent “excessive” fluctuations.  
 For Related News and Information:
Stories on Indian currency research: TNI INB ANAFX BN <GO>
Most read Indian currency and bonds stories: MNI INB BN <GO>
For Indian rupee forecasts: FXFC INR <GO>  
          
          


  


        