-- Russian Stocks Fall Most in Two Weeks on EU Debt Concern, Oil Price Slide
-- Jason Corcoran
-- 2010-06-22T15:37:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-22/russian-stocks-fall-most-in-two-weeks-on-eu-debt-concern-oil-price-slide.html

          
          
             Russia’s 30-stock Micex Index
retreated the most in two weeks as investors sold riskier
emerging-market assets on renewed concern the global recovery
may slow. Oil, the country’s key export earner, declined.  
 OAO Sberbank , Russia’s biggest lender, slumped 1.8 percent
and  OAO Rosneft , its largest oil producer, fell 2.3 percent. The
30-stock  Micex Index  fell 1.3 percent to 1,388.11 at the close
in Moscow, paring an earlier loss of as much as 1.9 percent.  
 Developing-market stocks fell for the first time in 11 days
on lower commodity prices and speculation China will limit gains
on the yuan. Goldman Sachs Groups Inc. cut its price forecasts
for oil because commodity markets are “fragile” on concern
growth in Europe and China will slow, and crude dropped in New
York trading after sales of U.S. previously owned homes
unexpectedly fell in May.  
 “Russia stocks are definitely just tracking the oil
price,” Andrei Kuznetsov, a strategist at Troika Dialog, said
by phone today. “There are no fresh investment ideas at the
moment.”  
 Crude oil futures for July delivery dropped 72 cents, or
0.9 percent, to $77.10 a barrel at 10:50 a.m. on the New York
Mercantile Exchange.  OAO Gazprom Neft , the oil arm of Russia’s
natural-gas export monopoly, tumbled 4 percent to 126.15 rubles.  
 Russian stocks surged yesterday on speculation a decision
by the People’s Bank of China to allow more yuan flexibility
would strengthen the global economic recovery and spur demand
for Russia’s energy and metals exports.  
 ‘Rain Is Back’  
 Stocks and U.S. futures fell today, with the MSCI World
Index snapping the longest rally in 11 months, as governments
prepared to cut spending and tighten bank rules. The MSCI
Emerging Markets Index ended its longest stretch of gains since
September 2005. The National Association of Realtors said sales
of previously owned homes decreased 2.2 percent in May.  
 “Today the rain is back as investors in Asia are again
more focused on Europe’s solvency issues and the threat to
global growth,”  Chris Weafer , chief strategist at UralSib
Financial Corp. in Moscow, said in an e-mailed comment. “Yet
another example of the one-step forward and a marching-step
backwards trading pattern that we have had for the past few
weeks.”  
 Copper for delivery in three months fell 1.6 percent to
$6,500.75 a metric ton on the London Metal Exchange.  
 To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
 Alexander Nicholson  at 
 anicholson6@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        