-- Sanofi May Pay Regulus Up to $750 Million for MicroRNA Drug Development
-- Arielle Fridson
-- 2010-06-22T20:12:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-22/sanofi-may-pay-regulus-up-to-750-million-for-microrna-drug-development.html

          
          
             Sanofi-Aventis SA  may pay Regulus
Therapeutics Inc. more than $750 million in a drug development
alliance initially targeting tissue disorders known as fibrosis.  
 Sanofi will pay Regulus, jointly owned by  Alnylam
Pharmaceuticals Inc.  and  Isis Pharmaceuticals Inc. , an initial
$25 million, the Paris-based company said today in a statement.
Additional cash may come from equity investment, research
funding and milestone payments, Sanofi said.  
 Regulus focuses on microRNAs, molecules that regulate
networks of genes that may be involved in diseases including
cancer, viral infections and metabolic disorder. Sanofi and
Regulus will collaborate on drug discovery and preclinical
development for as many as four targets, including the program
that will concentrate on fibrosis, the overgrowth or hardening
of tissue, Sanofi said.  
 Regulus’ strategic alliance with “well-regarded partner”
Sanofi-Aventis demonstrates “a vote of confidence in the
interesting, if early-state, technology,” wrote  Joshua Schimmer , an analyst with Leerink Swann & Co., in a research
note today.  
 Alnylam, based in Cambridge, Massachusetts, rose 13 cents
to $15.25 at 4 p.m. New York time in Nasdaq stock market
composite trading.  Isis , based in Carlsbad, California,
increased 5 cents to $9.19.  
 Sanofi rose 56 cents, or 1.1 percent, to 50.56 euros at the
close of Paris  trading . Regulus, based in Carlsbad, California,
is also working with London-based  GlaxoSmithKline Plc .  
 ‘Strong Sign’  
 “We are thrilled today to announce our new alliance with
Sanofi-Aventis, which now becomes a very strong sign of the
pharmaceutical industry’s interest in the field of microRNA-
based therapeutics,”  Kleanthis Xanthopoulos , president and
chief executive officer of Regulus, said today on a conference
call.  
 Fibrosis, the forming of scar tissue, can be a genetic
disease commonly seen in the lungs as  cystic fibrosis  and
idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis, according to the  National
Institutes of Health .  
 Cystic fibrosis causes mucus to build up, particularly in
the lungs and pancreas, making breathing difficult and causing
lungs to scar and risk infection. About 30,000 U.S. people have
cystic fibrosis and 10 million more are carriers of the
defective gene, according to the Cystic Fibrosis Foundation.  
 Drugs on Market  
 Drugs on the market to treat cystic fibrosis are Tobi,
produced by Basel, Switzerland-based  Novartis AG , and Pulmozyme,
from  Roche Holding AG , also based in Basel. In October, clinical
trials of the drug Zithromax marketed by  Pfizer Inc.  to treat
common bacterial infections, such as pneumonia and ear
infections, showed evidence that it may improve the lung
function of people with cystic fibrosis, according to a
statement from the Cystic Fibrosis Foundation Therapeutics.  
 Idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis, which scars tissues deeper
in the lungs, mostly affects middle-aged or older adults and in
most cases, doctors can’t find a cause, according to the
 National Heart, Lung and Blood Institute . About 100,000
Americans have the condition, and many people don’t live more
than three to five years after diagnosis. There is no cure for
the disease.  
 Brisbane, California-based  InterMune Inc. ’s drug Esbriet,
chemically known as pirfenidone, didn’t win approval on May 5
from U.S. regulators, who asked for a new clinical trial.
Esbriet had improved breathing in one of two studies submitted
to the Food and Drug Administration.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Arielle Fridson  in New York at 
 afridson@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        