-- Sears Plans Film-Download Store in Challenge to Best Buy, Apple
-- Cliff Edwards
-- 2010-06-22T13:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-22/sears-plans-film-download-store-in-challenge-to-best-buy-apple.html

          
          
             Sears Holdings Corp. , owner of the
Sears and Kmart retail chains, will start an online store to
compete with  Apple Inc.  and  Best Buy Co.  in selling downloads of
movies and TV shows as Web-connected devices become more common.  
 The digital store will use an online service and technology
operated by  Sonic Solutions Inc. , the companies said today in a
statement. Sonic’s RoxioNow system will be installed on
televisions, computers, Blu-ray disc players, set-top boxes and
mobile phones sold by the biggest U.S. department store chain.  
 With Sonic, the retailer will be able to offer a Sears-
branded digital storefront and promote special programming and
services across devices starting later this year. Best Buy
already licenses Sonic software for the  online movie store  it
operates, while Apple uses its own iTunes system.  
 “Teaming up with Sonic is a great opportunity for Sears
and Kmart to quickly establish a position in digital video
entertainment,”  Karen Austin , president of home electronics for
Hoffman Estates, Illinois-based Sears, said in the statement.  
 Sears joins a growing list of companies licensing Sonic
technology, which lets users rent or buy films and TV shows for
viewing on a number of products. Digital downloads are expected
to eclipse packaged DVD and Blu-ray disc sales after 2015, said
 Bo Andersen , president of the Entertainment Merchants
Association in Encino, California.  
 Competing Against Apple  
 Sonic’s technology will be included on TVs and electronic
products made by  Samsung Electronics Co. ,  LG Electronics Inc. ,
Vizio Inc.,  HTC Corp.  and  Toshiba Corp.   
 The electronics makers will begin shipping products that
connect to Sonic’s service later this year, in time for U.S.
holiday shopping,  Mark Ely , the company’s executive vice
president for strategy, said in an interview. It is already on
some Blu-ray players, mobile devices and set-top boxes.  
 Apple’s iTunes store, which sells digital downloads of
music, movies, TV programs and games, has withstood threats from
other retailers.  Netflix Inc.  offers a subscription service for
mail-order DVD rentals and streaming of mostly older releases,
using its own software. Wal-Mart Stores Inc. acquired movie
download service Vudu Inc. in February.  
 Sonic has licensed thousands of movies from the major
Hollywood studios, according to Ely. The Novato, California-
based company also provides technology for  Blockbuster Inc. ’s
online store and  TiVo Inc. ’s digital-video recorders.  
 “We’re seeing more and more willingness among retailers
and the content community to really make it all happen,” Ely
said. “Consumers aren’t going to get behind digital media
commerce unless that media is broadly accessible and playable on
a number of devices.”  
 Movie Prices  
 Movies rentals will cost $2 to $5, Ely said. Films and TV
shows will be priced at $2 to $20 for purchase.  
 Sears Chairman  Edward Lampert  has been trying to bolster
profit and lure customers back to its stores in the U.S. and
Canada. Sales declined almost 7 percent over the past year while
revenue has increased for competitors such as Costco Wholesale
Corp., Best Buy and Wal-Mart.  
 Sonic Solutions fell 54 cents, or 6 percent, to $8.46
yesterday in Nasdaq Stock Market trading.  The shares  have fallen
28 percent this year.  Sears  dropped $1.20, or 1.6 percent, to
$74.65 and has retreated 11 percent this year.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Cliff Edwards  in San Francisco at 
 cedwards28@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        