-- Serena Williams Opens Wimbledon Defense With Win Over Larcher de Brito
-- Danielle Rossingh
-- 2010-06-22T22:01:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-22/serena-williams-opens-wimbledon-defense-with-win-over-larcher-de-brito.html

          
          
             Serena Williams  opened the defense
of her Wimbledon tennis title with a straight-sets victory
against Portugal’s  Michelle Larcher de Brito , while 2008 men’s
champion  Rafael Nadal  beat Japan’s  Kei Nishikori .  
 The 28-year-old Williams, who secured her 12th Grand Slam
title at this year’s Australian Open, won 6-0, 6-4 in the
opening match today on Centre Court. She defeated her 17-year-
old opponent in 1 hour, 3 minutes.  
 “She’s a good player,” Williams, also champion in 2002
and 2003, said at a news conference. “She doesn’t look it, but
she definitely packs a punch. It was good for me because most
people that do play nowadays hit really hard.”  
 Spain’s Nadal, absent last year because of a knee injury,
followed the American on court and beat Nishikori 6-2, 6-4, 6-4.  
 Australia’s  Samantha Stosur , runner-up at the French Open
this month and seeded No. 6 at Wimbledon, lost her first round
match 6-4, 6-4 against Estonia’s Kaia Kanepi.  
 Andy Murray  won 7-5, 6-1, 6-2 against the Czech Republic’s
Jan Hajek as he attempts to become the first British man to win
the title since  Fred Perry  in 1936.  
 “It was good,” Murray said in a news conference. “The
start of the match was tricky. I haven’t seen him play that
much. He started very well. But once I got back into the first
set, I did start to feel a lot more comfortable. Served well and
didn’t give him many chances.”  
 Sweden’s  Robin Soderling , finalist at the French Open the
past two years, beat  Robby Ginepri  of the U.S. 6-2, 6-2, 6-3.  
 Former world No. 4  James Blake  of the U.S. lost in straight
sets to Robin Haase of the Netherlands. Blake, who missed the
French Open because of knee tendinitis and has dropped out of
the top 100, said he may reassess his tennis career after the
U.S. Open, which starts Aug. 30 in New York.  
 Surgery for Blake?  
 “At this point in my career, I don’t know if surgery is a
viable option,” Blake said in a news conference.  
 Larcher de Brito failed to win a game in the opening set,
with Williams breaking her opponent’s serve at love in the third
game and completing a 6-0 score by firing down her fifth ace of
the match.  
 Larcher de Brito recovered from 0-30 to win in the third
game of the second set and held again on her next three service
games, saving a match point in the last of those as Williams
missed a backhand.  
 Williams, who already had a break in the set, wrapped up
the victory in the next game. It was her 43rd straight first-
round win at a Grand Slam tournament.  
 Russia’s  Maria Sharapova , the 2004 women’s champion, beat
countrywoman Anastasia Pivovarova in straight sets to reach the
second round. The 23-year-old, now ranked No. 17 on the WTA
Tour, won 6-1, 6-0.  
 Seven Grand Slams  
 Nadal, winner of his seventh Grand Slam title at the French
Open earlier this month, maintained his record of never losing
in the first round at a Grand Slam.  
 The top-ranked player on the ATP Tour, Nadal is seeded No.
2 at Wimbledon behind defending champion  Roger Federer . The
Spaniard took his record to 34-8 on grass with today’s win.  
 “I think I played a very good match,” Nadal said in a
news conference. “It doesn’t feel like a defense of the title,
Roger has to defend that. I have the chance to defend 2008.”  
 Nadal broke serve in the opening game of the match and
controlled most of the opening set, although he had to save two
break points in the fourth game -- recovering by taking four
straight points.  
 His only service break in the second set came in the fifth
game, and his Japanese opponent lost another service game with a
double fault at the start of the third. Nishikori, a wild-card
entry, broke back in the sixth game before Nadal immediately
broke back.  
 Murray’s Day  
 Murray, 23, who achieved his best result at Wimbledon by
reaching the semifinals last year, was one of only two British
men in this year’s draw, a record low. He is now the only
representative from the British Isles after fellow Scot Jamie
Baker exited today and six British women lost their opening
matches. That’s the worst result for British players in the
tournament’s 133-year history.  
 Sam Querrey  of the U.S., the No. 18 seed, reached the
second round for the second time when Ukraine’s  Sergiy Stakhovsky  quit their match in the third set. Querrey has won
three titles this year, including one on grass at Queen’s Club
on June 13.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 James Cone  in London at 
 jcone@bloomberg.net ;  Danielle Rossingh  at Wimbledon through the
London newsroom at   drossingh@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Serena Williams of USA winning her first round match against Michelle Larcher De Brito of Portugal. Photographer: Clive Brunskill/Getty Images  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
