-- Shanghai Is Preparing to Let Foreign Companies Sell Shares, Bonds in City
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-06-22T08:47:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-22/shanghai-is-preparing-to-let-foreign-companies-sell-shares-bonds-in-city.html

          
          
             Shanghai is preparing to allow
foreign companies to list  shares  and sell bonds in its financial
markets, according to the head of the city’s financial office.  
 China’s commercial hub is striving to become a global
financial center by 2020 and is expanding investment products to
tap the nation’s 49.5 trillion yuan ($7.3 trillion) of corporate
and household savings. Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said the
nation’s equity capital markets are “relatively immature.”  
 “We have begun orderly preparations for overseas companies
to sell shares and issue bonds domestically,”  Fang Xinghai ,
director general of the government financial services offices in
Shanghai, said at a press briefing.  
 Goldman Sachs said in a report obtained today that the
nation’s domestic bond market was “quite small” compared with
other global markets including the U.S. and Japan with about
$2.4 trillion notional of debt securities outstanding at the end
of September 2009, or about half of its gross domestic product.  
 Expanding China’s debt capital market would benefit the
country by giving municipal governments access to alternative
funding sources and reduce their dependency on bank loans,
Goldman Sachs analysts  Christopher Eoyang ,  Jason Lui  and  Sunil Koul  wrote in the report.  
 Foreign companies may be allowed to sell bonds in China
without using local units within months as the government
expands capital markets, UBS AG said May 19.  
 Overseas firms remain restricted from selling yuan-
denominated notes in China, five years after the Asian
Development Bank and International Finance Corp., both
supranational agencies, sold the first so-called Panda bonds.  
 Foreign Listings  
 Shanghai, China’s financial hub, has been contacted by
foreign companies in the finance, telecommunications, consumer
goods and manufacturing industries about selling shares in the
city,  Fang  said in a Bloomberg Television interview on May 3.  
 Coca-Cola Co., General Electric Co. and Wal-Mart Stores Inc.
are among U.S. companies that may seek listings in China, UBS
strategist  John Tang  wrote in a July 2009 report. The Shanghai
Stock Exchange is in the process of drafting rules for the board
where foreign companies will be allowed to sell shares, Chairman
Geng Liang said in March.  
 HSBC Holdings Plc, Europe’s biggest bank, is “ready” to
list shares in the city when the Chinese government allows it,
Chief Executive Officer  Michael Geoghegan  said that same month.  
 Shanghai will have more than half of Asia’s stock market
liquidity in 2020 as China gradually moves to full currency
convertibility and opens yuan-denominated A shares to foreign
investors, Goldman Sachs said in the report.  
 ‘New York Model’  
 “As a financial center, we expect Shanghai to develop more
along the lines of the New York model -- that is, primarily
dedicated to its domestic market -- rather than as a regional
financial centre like London or Singapore,” the report said.
“Shanghai may partially emulate the development of Hong Kong
during the 1980s and 1990s, when manufacturing was gradually
replaced by higher value added services.”  
 The People’s Bank of China pledged June 19 to make its
currency more flexible, a move that drove the yuan up by the
most since July 2005.  
 -- Stephanie Wong ,  Allen Wan . With assistance from Henry
Sanderson in Beijing,  Hanny Wan  in Hong Kong and  Zhang Shidong 
in Shanghai. Editors:  Allen Wan ,  Linus Chua   
          
          


  


        