-- Israel's Shekel May Breach 4 Level, Fall to July Low: Technical Analysis
-- David Wainer
-- 2010-06-22T10:57:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-22/shekel-may-breach-4-to-dollar-level-fall-to-july-low-technical-analysis.html

          
          
             Israel’s shekel may slide to below 4
shekels against the dollar, the lowest level in a year, after
stalling at its 50-day moving average, according to Forex
Capital Markets LLC, a currency brokerage based in New York.  
 The currency stalled at about 3.8 per dollar as it
approached its 50-day moving average and faced resistance when
it strengthened to near the 3.75 mark, said  Joel Kruger , a
Jerusalem-based technical currency strategist at FXCM. The next
major move will be for the shekel to depreciate toward the 3.9
level, and if it succeeds, it may breach 4 shekels per dollar,
he said.  
 “We are in a broad based dollar-bullish trend ever since
the dollar bottomed out in April, and we’ve seen a gradual
depreciation of the shekel, with the shekel putting in a series
of consecutive medium-term lower lows and lower highs,” Kruger
said. “While there’s been some sideways consolidation where we
see little movement in either direction, I expect the shekel to
break out at some point over the next couple of weeks.”  
 The shekel has lost 0.3 percent versus the dollar over the
past month as global markets swing between bets on a global
economic recovery and worries that a debt crisis in Europe could
stunt global growth. The shekel weakened 0.3 percent to 3.8393
as of 1:33 p.m. in Tel Aviv. It reached 4.0113 on July 13.  
 The forecast may be jeopardized if the currency strengthens
past the 3.75 level, which would “threaten the integrity of the
trend,” Kruger said.  
 In technical analysis, investors and analysts study charts
of trading patterns and prices to forecast changes in a
security, commodity, currency or index. A moving average is a
technical indicator that displays the average value of a
security over a period of time.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Wainer  in Tel Aviv at 
 dwainer1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        