-- Shopper's Stop Rises to Highest in Two Years on Fund-Raising, Expansion
-- Malavika Sharma
-- 2010-06-23T11:24:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-22/shopper-s-stop-plans-to-increase-stores-by-50-as-demand-in-india-rises.html

          
          
             Shopper’s Stop Ltd. , India’s second-
largest publicly traded retailer, rose to its highest level in
more than two years in Mumbai after saying it may raise as much
as 2 billion rupees ($43 million) selling shares.  
 Shopper’s Stop plans to sell 4 million shares at between
480 rupees and 500 rupees apiece to large investors and use the
proceeds to increase its stake in HyperCity Retail India Pvt., a
local supermarket chain, Chief Executive Officer  Govind Shrikhande  said in a telephone interview from Mumbai yesterday,
without saying whether they would be new shares or when the sale
would take place.  
 The company also plans to add 18 outlets to its chain of 30
stores over the next year and a half to meet rising demand. The
stock  jumped  5.9 percent to 507.4 rupees, its highest since
January 2008, at the close of trading in Mumbai. The Bombay
Stock Exchange’s benchmark  Sensitive Index  rose less than 0.1
percent.  
 “Our cash flow is pretty good and the stores are self-
funded,” Shrikhande said. “The funds raised would be mainly
used to increase our stake” in HyperCity to 51 percent from 19
percent, he said. The company will give more details about the
planned share sale at its quarterly earnings announcement next
month, he said.  
 The expansion plans come as rivals including  Pantaloon
Retail India Ltd. , the nation’s biggest publicly traded retailer,
are also growing to tap rising consumer spending in India.
McKinsey & Co. estimates revenue at chains selling items from
clothes to food may rise as much as 35 percent a year to $80
billion by 2015.  
 No ‘Sprint’  
 Shopper’s Stop, based in Mumbai, plans to spend 1.25
billion rupees to increase its stake in HyperCity.  
 Net income at the retailer almost tripled to 502 million
rupees on revenue of 15.7 billion rupees in the year ended March
31. Shopper’s Stop aims to maintain about 25 percent to 30
percent annual growth in sales, Managing Director  B.S. Nagesh 
said in a telephone interview on June 21.  
 “We want to run a marathon and never get into a sprint,”
he said. “We will continue to grow at this speed or slightly
higher. We’re on plan.”  
 The company yesterday reopened in Mumbai its oldest store
following renovations after earlier refurbishing outlets in
neighboring Pune and Chennai in southern India. It has 30 stores
and will add 18 more in as many months, Nagesh said.  
 Shareholders on June 21 approved an investment of as much
as 2 billion rupees to gain control of HyperCity Retail,
according to a statement to the stock exchange.  
 The government estimates economic growth will accelerate to
8.5 percent in the financial year ending March 31, from 7.4
percent in the previous 12 months. Salaries in the nation may
increase at the fastest pace in the Asia Pacific region this
year, according to human resources adviser Hewitt Associates Inc.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Malavika Sharma  in New Delhi at 
 msharma52@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        