-- Smurfit, Rubicon, Philly Papers, Morton, Abitibi, Brookstone: Bankruptcy
-- Bill Rochelle
-- 2010-06-22T13:18:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-22/smurfit-rubicon-philly-papers-morton-abitibi-brookstone-bankruptcy.html

          
          
             A disclosure statement explaining
the  Texas Rangers  reorganization plan was approved late
yesterday. The bankruptcy judge in Fort Worth, Texas, scheduled
a confirmation hearing for July 9 where the professional
baseball club will ask for approval of the Chapter 11 plan
billed as paying all creditors in full.  
 U.S. Bankruptcy Judge  Michael Lynn  said in yesterday’s
order that he hasn’t yet decided whether secured creditors, owed
$75 million by the team, are ultimately entitled to vote on the
plan. For now, Lynn is allowing them to vote. Should he decide
that they are paid in full and not impaired, he will void their
votes, the judge said.  
 The Rangers plan is built around a sale of the team to a
group including current team President  Nolan Ryan  in a
transaction valued at $575 million. Although the lenders are
owed $525 million in total, they receive only $75 million
directly from the team because that’s the limit of the secured
debt the team itself guaranteed.  
 Lynn said in his ruling that he’s allowing the equity
holders to vote for the time being. If he later decides they’re
not adversely affected by the plan, then he will void the votes.  
 At a hearing last week, Lynn heard argument from the
parties over whether the team’s ultimate owner,  Thomas O. Hicks ,
is entitled to control the limited and general partnerships that
own the equity in the team. If Hicks is in control, then the
equity can vote for the plan.  
 The secured lenders contend they’re entitled to control the
equity and presumably vote against the plan.  
 Lynn may hand down a decision today deciding who controls
the equity and is entitled to vote on the plan. Even if he
concludes that the lenders may take over the equity and vote
against confirmation, the judge can still confirm the plan using
the so-called cramdown process if it’s shown that the equity
holders and the secured creditors are being given as much as
they are entitled to receive.  
 A revision to the disclosure statement the Rangers filed
last week says that the lenders ultimately will be paid a total
of $256 million, including the initial $75 million plus the
surplus left over from the sale price after creditors are paid.  
 The surplus will go to the lenders because they have a
security interest in the limited and general partners that own
the team.  
 The team filed under Chapter 11 on May 24 to complete the
sale to the Nolan Ryan group since the lenders wouldn’t consent.
The Rangers moved from Washington to Texas in 1972.  
 The team defaulted on payments owing to the lenders in
March 2009. This writer’s brother is a lawyer for an agent for
the lenders.  
 The partnership that owns the team, Texas Rangers Baseball
Partners, said in its petition that the assets and debt are both
less than $500 million.  
 The case is In re Texas Rangers Baseball Partners, 10-
43400, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Northern District of Texas (Fort
Worth).  
 Updates  
 Smurfit-Stone Plan Approved, Stockholders Keep Something  
 Smurfit-Stone Container Corp ., a corrugated container and
containerboard maker, is in a position to emerge from Chapter 11
by the end of June given the decision by the bankruptcy judge
yesterday to sign a confirmation order approving the
reorganization plan.  
 The plan ultimately was made possible by a settlement in
May where common and preferred shareholders are to keep 4.5
percent of the stock.  
 Preferred shareholders are to have 2.25 percent and common
stockholders will keep 2.25 percent of the new stock. Their
shares come from those previously earmarked for general
unsecured creditors.  
 Holders of as much as $3.1 billion in unsecured claims
against the operating companies are to receive new common stock
worth as much as 71 percent of their claims, according to the
disclosure statement approved before the settlement with
shareholders.  
 Secured creditors are to be paid in full in cash or new
debt on account of their $969 million in claims. Secured
creditor  CIT Group Inc.  is to be paid in full on its $34.9
million claim.  
 Unsecured creditors of the holding company owed $11.2
million are receiving nothing.  
 The Chapter 11 petition in January 2009 by the Chicago-
based company listed assets of $7.45 billion against debt
totaling $5.58 billion as of Sept. 30, 2008. Debt at the time
included $1.2 billion under secured revolving credit and term
loan agreements, five issues of unsecured notes totaling $2.275
billion, $388 million under an accounts receivable
securitization facility, and $284 million owing on tax-exempt
bonds.  
 The case is In re Smurfit-Stone Container Corp., 09-10235,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  
 Rubicon Noteholders’ Reorganization Plan Confirmed Yesterday  
 Rubicon US REIT Inc. failed in its effort at stopping
noteholders from taking over. The bankruptcy judge in Delaware
entered a confirmation order yesterday approving the
noteholders’ plan.  
 Rubicon, a Chicago-based real estate investment trust,
contended there was a higher offer for $405 million which the
noteholders didn’t disclose. The noteholders said the failure in
disclosure was the company’s fault.  
 The disclosure statement for the noteholders’ plan
projected a recovery of 68.7 percent by swapping notes for all
the new common stock plus a $50 million note. The plan
reinstates $311 million in mortgages while extinguishing
existing common stock. Unsecured creditors, owed $1 million, are
being paid in full.  
 The Class A preferred stockholders keep their equity thanks
to the noteholders’ plan.  
 Noteholders were able to propose a plan of their own after
filing a successful motion to end so-called exclusivity when the
case was only three weeks old. Noteholders wanted their own plan
to avoid being cashed out involuntarily.  
 The Chapter 11 filing in January by Rubicon and affiliates
came more than a year after the bankruptcy of the Australian
parent  Allco Finance Group . Rubicon was required by the parent’s
liquidator to attempt to sell the assets. Bankruptcy court
papers say assets and debt exceed $100 million.  
 The case is In re Rubicon US REIT Inc., 10-10160, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  
 California Coastal Has Loan to Take Out Lenders  
 California Coastal Communities Inc. , a homebuilder with
three projects in Southern California, secured court approval
for a commitment for a $182 million loan to finance a Chapter 11
plan.  
 Before landing the new loan, the company was proposing a
plan where existing secured debt would be rolled over into new
loans. The lenders were in opposition.  
 The new loan permits amending the plan so the lenders will
be paid off in cash. The loan is provided by Luxor Capital Group
LP. The plan provides for paying unsecured creditors in full,
without interest, over two years.  
 The bankruptcy judge already approved a disclosure
statement explaining the prior version of the plan. The
confirmation hearing for approval of the plan is on the calendar
for July 27.  
 California Coastal filed under Chapter 11 in October,
listing assets of $291 million against debt totaling $231
million.  
 The Irvine, California-based company listed $81.7 million
as being owed on a revolving credit and $99.8 million on a term
loan. Both secured obligations were owed to KeyBank NA.  
 The company missed a $758,000 payment due KeyBank in
September.  
 The case is In re California Coastal Communities Inc., 09-
21712, Bankruptcy Court, Central District of California.  
 Lehman Authorized to Invest $262 Million in Rosslyn, Virginia  
 Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.  was authorized by the
bankruptcy judge last week to invest as much as $262.5 million
to pay off maturing mortgages on commercial real estate in
Rosslyn, Virginia, where it’s a 78.5 percent owner. The project,
98 percent leased, has 3 million square feet of space.  
 The trial resumed again yesterday where Lehman and its
creditors’ committee are trying to prove that  Barclays Plc  took
$11 billion more than it was entitled to receive when it
purchased the brokerage business. To read Bloomberg coverage,
click here.  
 The first two weeks of trial were completed in May. Lehman,
as plaintiff, is finishing its case this week. Barclays is to
begin presenting its witnesses on Aug. 23.  
 The Lehman holding company filed under Chapter 11 in New
York on Sept. 15, 2008, and sold office buildings and the North
American investment banking business to London-based  Barclays
Plc  one week later. The Lehman brokerage operations went into
liquidation on Sept. 19, 2008, in the same court. The brokerage
is in the control of a trustee appointed under the Securities
Investor Protection Act.  
 The Lehman holding company Chapter 11 case is In re Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc., 08-13555, while the liquidation
proceeding under the Securities Investor Protection Act for the
brokerage operation is Securities Investors Protection Corp. v.
Lehman Brothers Inc., 08-01420, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern
District New York (Manhattan).  
 Goldman Can’t Foreclose Sawgrass Marriott Resort  
 The owner of the  Sawgrass Marriott Resort  in Ponte Vedra
Beach, Florida, won two victories yesterday in bankruptcy court
against Goldman Sachs Mortgage Co., the secured lender owed $193
million.  
 The bankruptcy judge denied the lender’s motion to modify
the so-called automatic bankruptcy stay so it could foreclose.
The bankruptcy judge granted the resort owner’s request and
extended exclusive right to propose a Chapter 11 plan until Dec.
31.  
 The resort owner takes the position that the property is
worth $90 million. The lender say it’s worth $135.3 million. In
a case where there is the possibility of a so-called cramdown,
there can be tactical advantages for the lender to advocate a
higher value than the bankrupt company.  
 There will be a preliminary hearing on July 20 where the
bankruptcy judge eventually will put a value on the resort.  
 To read Bloomberg coverage of yesterday’s hearing, click
here.  
 Before yesterday’s hearing, the resort owner said the
secured lender has “pursued every opportunity to frustrate the
debtor’s efforts to reorganize.” The lender believes
reorganization is hopeless.  
 The resort filed under Chapter 11 on March 1 in
Jacksonville, Florida, saying assets and debt both exceed $100
million.  
 The case is In re RQB Resort LP, 10-01596, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, Middle District of Florida (Jacksonville).  
 Lake at Las Vegas Development Confirms Reorganization Plan  
 The master developer of the  Lake Las Vegas  Resort 17 miles
from the Las Vegas Strip will have an approved reorganization
plan, the bankruptcy judge said at yesterday’s confirmation
hearing.  
 The developer, known formally as Lake at Las Vegas Joint
Venture LLC, was able to confirm the reorganization when the
committee representing unsecured creditors threw their support
behind the plan after a settlement with secured lenders owed
$626 million.  
 Although they gave up claims against the lenders, the plan
allows a lawsuit go to forward against Sid Bass, Lee Bass and
other former owners of the project. Creditors dropped the suit
begun in July 2009 against an affiliate of  Credit Suisse Group
AG , which was a secured lender and agent for the secured
creditors.  
 The plan exchanges the secured lenders’ $127 million loan
for the reorganization for 94 percent of the new equity. For
their more than $627 million in pre-bankruptcy secured claims,
the lenders receive 1 percent of the new equity, warrants that
currently should have no value, and 80 percent of net recoveries
from the lawsuit against insiders.  
 Unsecured creditors were predicted to see a 4.5 percent
recovery from a $1 million cash fund plus 20 percent of lawsuit
recoveries.  
 Lot owners will waive claims in return for remapping
properties so they will have marketable title. For Bloomberg
coverage of the confirmation hearing, click here.  
 The disclosure statement said that the plan was better for
unsecured creditors than victory in the lawsuit because no
defects could be found in the $127 million secured claim
financing the reorganization. The disclosure statement took the
position that that the property was worth less than the amount
necessary to pay off the so-called debtor-in-possession loan.  
 The suit alleged that the loan from Credit Suisse in 2004
was a fraudulent transfer because all but $100 million from the
$560 million loan went directly to the owners.  
 The formal lists of assets and liabilities showed $719
million in claims belonging to secured creditors, with the first
mortgage totaling $671 million.  
 The development is a 3,600-acre master-planned community
with a 320-acre man-made lake next to the Lake Mead National
Recreational Area. It has three golf course, two hotels, a
casino, retail stores and more than 1,600 completed residential
units. The Chapter 11 filing was in July 2008.  
 The case is Lake at Las Vegas Joint Venture LLC, 08-17814,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, District of Nevada (Las Vegas).  
 Unions, Pension Funds Against Philly Newspapers’ Plan  
 Several labor unions and pension funds filed objections to
the reorganization plan for  Philadelphia Newspapers LLC , the
publisher of the Philadelphia Inquirer and Philadelphia Daily
News. The confirmation hearing for approval of the plan is
scheduled to begin June 24.  
 The unions contend that the plan improperly cuts off the
pension funds’ right to make the buyers liable as successors to
the business.  
 McClatchy Co., which sold the newspapers to the current
owners in 2006, likewise objected, saying some unsecured
creditors are paid more than others. Sacramento-based McClatchy
argues that mezzanine lenders in some circumstances could be
paid three times as much as other unsecured creditors.  
 The business is to be acquired under the plan by the
secured lenders who won the auction in April with a bid at the
time said to be worth $139 million. For details on the plan,
click here for the May 20 Bloomberg bankruptcy report.  
 The newspapers commenced the Chapter 11 reorganization in
February 2009 in their hometown after defaulting on a term loan
and revolving credit totaling $296.6 million and on $98.5
million in subordinated notes.  
 The major controversy in the case was a dispute over
whether the lenders could bid their secured claims rather than
cash at auction, a process known as credit bidding. Although the
bankruptcy judge would have allowed the lenders to credit bid,
appellate courts disagreed. The 3rd U.S. Circuit Court of
Appeals in Philadelphia ruled that bankruptcy law doesn’t give
secured creditors an absolute right to make a credit bid.  
 Consequently, the lenders bid cash at auction in late
April.  
 The case in bankruptcy court is In re Philadelphia
Newspapers LLC, 09-11204, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Eastern
District Pennsylvania (Philadelphia).  
 Nortel Aims to End U.S. Retiree Benefit Payments  
 Nortel Networks Corp. , once North America’s largest
communications-equipment provider, filed a motion asking
authorization from the bankruptcy judge to terminate retirees’
medical and disability benefits on Aug. 31. A hearing on the
motion is set for July 16.  
 Nortel said it’s spending $1 million a month on medical
coverage for 4,019 retirees in the U.S. The disability program,
covering 280 people, also costs $1 million a month. To read
other Bloomberg coverage, click here.  
 Nortel already raised $2.6 billion from the sale of
businesses. Patents and patent applications could bring another
$750 million to $1.1 billion.  
 Ericsson AB , the world’s largest producer of wireless
networks, bought the primary wireless carrier business for $1.13
billion. It was also part of a group that made the $103 million
high bid for Nortel’s so-called GSM business. Ericsson offered
to pay $242 million cash for Nortel’s half interest in a South
Korean joint venture with LG Electronics Inc. named LG-Nortel
Co.  
 Other sales include the optical networking and carrier
Ethernet networks business bought by  Ciena Corp.  in December for
$769 million. Nortel also sold the Internet telephony business
for $182 million after adjustments.  
 The Toronto-based Nortel companies filed for bankruptcy
reorganization in January 2009 in the U.S., Canada and London.
The Nortel companies reported $11.6 billion in consolidated
assets against debt totaling $11.8 billion as of Sept. 30.
Revenue was $9.7 billion in 2007. For the first nine months of
2008, sales were $6.8 billion.  
 The Chapter 11 case is In re Nortel Networks Inc., 09-
10138, and the parent’s Chapter 15 case is In re Nortel Networks
Corp., 09-10164, both in U.S. Bankruptcy Court, District of
Delaware (Wilmington).  
 Agriprocessor’s Rubashkin Gets 27-Year Prison Sentence  
 Sholom Rubashkin, former chief executive of kosher meat
producer Agriprocessors Inc., was sentenced yesterday to 27
years in prison by a U.S. District Court judge in Iowa.
Rubashkin, 50, was also directed to pay $26.8 million in
restitution to victims of the fraud. The judge let him off
without a fine on top of restitution.  
 Rubashkin was found guilty in November on more than 80
counts including harboring undocumented aliens and creating
false accounts receivable. He was acquitted on five counts.  
 The company’s assets were mostly sold in July 2009 in
exchange for $8.5 million in secured debt. The Chapter 11 case
was converted to a liquidation in Chapter 7 on consent from the
Chapter 11 trustee who continued as the trustee in Chapter 7.  
 Agriprocessors once produced half the kosher beef and 40
percent of the kosher poultry in the U.S. The Chapter 11 trustee
was appointed after Rubashkin was indicted on federal bank-fraud
charges.  
 Bankruptcy followed soon after a raid by immigration
authorities in May 2008 on the plant in Postville, Iowa, where
389 workers were arrested for having forged immigration
documents. Agriprocessors originally said assets were more than
$100 million while liabilities were less than $100 million.
Annual revenue had been $300 million, according to court papers.  
 The case is In re Agriprocessors Inc., 08-02751, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Northern District Iowa (Dubuque).  
 Morton Industrial Creditors Want to Sue Insiders  
 The creditors’ committee of  Morton Industrial Group Inc.  is
asking the bankruptcy judge for permission to sue former
officers and directors in connection with a leveraged buyout and
recapitalization in August 2006.  
 The creditors’ panel for the former  manufacturer  of
engineered components and subassemblies for construction and
agricultural equipment believes the company became insolvent as
a result of the LBO. They point out how insiders received more
than $20 million through the transaction.  
 The committee believes that the 2006 LBO can be attacked as
a fraudulent transfer because the company didn’t receive enough
in return for the $10 a share it paid out to old stockholders.
The motion for authorization to sue insiders is on the calendar
for June 30.  
 The committee contends the company has no ability to pursue
claims. It has no employees, and all of the directors resigned,
the committee says. All of the asset were sold in June 2009 for
$33 million.  
 The committee has a liquidating Chapter 11 plan on file,
along with an explanatory disclosure statement. The plan would
pay creditors in the order of priority prescribed in bankruptcy
law.  
 Morton filed under Chapter 11 in March 2009. The Morton,
Illinois-based company had five plants that generated $208
million in sales during 2008. Debt originally was listed to
include $14.4 million on a secured revolving credit, $33.3
million on a secured term loan, and $27.4 million on
subordinated notes. Another $14.8 million was owing to trade
suppliers.  
 The case is In re MMC Precision Holdings Corp. 09-10998,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  
 Hawaii Biotech Selling Vaccines at Auction July 19  
 Hawaii Biotech Inc., a developer of vaccines for West Nile
and Dengue viruses, filed a Chapter 11 petition in December and
will hold an auction for the assets in the courtroom in Honolulu
on July 19.  
 Competing bids initially are due July 12. The hearing for
the sale will take place in the courtroom at the same times as
the auction on July 19.  
 The company already has an offer of $1.44 million to be
paid by a credit against pre-bankruptcy secured debt.  
 Hawaii Biotech said money will run out by the end of July.
It wants the sale completed quickly so there is no interruption
in clinical trials.  
 The assets are intellectual property and proprietary
information, a court filing said. The petition says assets and
debt are both less than $10 million.  
 The case is In re Hawaii Biotech Inc., 09-02908, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, District of Hawaii (Honolulu).  
 Pope & Talbot Trustee Withdraws Late Abitibi Claim  
 The bankruptcy trustee for  Pope & Talbot Inc. , a primarily
Canadian pulp and paper producer, missed the deadline for filing
a $530,000 claim against  AbitibiBowater Inc. , the largest
newsprint maker in North America.  
 The Pope & Talbot trustee filed a motion in February to
excuse the late filing. Facing a hearing today, the trustee
withdrew his motion last week that would have allowed the late-
filed claim.  
 Pope & Talbot filed for reorganization in Delaware in
November 2007 and converted to a Chapter 7 liquidation in May
2008 when an approved sale of three pulp mills fell through.  
 The hearing for approval of the AbitibiBowater’s disclosure
statement comes up for hearing on July 7. If the disclosure
statement is approved, creditors can begin voting on the
reorganization plan. For details on the plan, click here for the
May 25 Bloomberg bankruptcy report.  
 AbitibiBowater was formed in October 2007 through a merger
between Montreal-based Abitibi-Consolidated Inc. and Greenville,
South Carolina-based Bowater Inc. Abitibi is a producer of
newsprint, uncoated mechanical paper, and lumber. Bowater also
makes newsprint along with papers, bleached kraft pulp, and
lumber. The Montreal-based company began reorganizing with 24
pulp and paper mills plus 30 wood-product plants. Revenue in
2008 was $6.8 billion. In Chapter 11 petitions filed in April
2009, the combined AbitibiBowater companies listed assets of
$9.9 billion and debt totaling $8.8 billion as of Sept. 2008.  
 The case is AbitibiBowater Inc., 09-11296, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  
 Briefly Noted  
 Taylor Bean Wants Exclusivity Until September 21  
 Taylor Bean & Whitaker Mortgage Corp., once the largest
independent mortgage originator in the U.S., prompted creditors
to file 3,200 claims for $9.2 billion. At a hearing on July 16,
it will ask the bankruptcy judge in Jacksonville, Florida, to
extend the exclusive right to propose a Chapter 11 plan until
Sept. 21.  
 The bankruptcy was filed last August, three weeks after
federal investigators searched the offices of the Ocala,
Florida-based company. The day following the search, the Federal
Housing Administration, Ginnie Mae and Freddie Mac prohibited
the company from issuing new mortgages and terminated servicing
rights. Taylor Bean managed an $80 billion mortgage servicing
portfolio. After the Chapter 11 filing, Taylor Bean sold 1,046
parcels of repossessed real estate for $81.2 million to Selene
Residential Mortgage Opportunity Fund LP. The petition said
assets and debt both exceed $1 billion.  
 The case is Taylor Bean & Whitaker Mortgage Corp., 09-
07047, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Middle District of Florida
(Jacksonville).  
 Ethanol Maker Hawkeye Renewables Implements Chapter 11 Plan  
 Hawkeye Renewables LLC , the owner of two ethanol plants,
implemented a Chapter 11 plan on June 18 that the bankruptcy
judge approved with a June 2 confirmation order. Consummation of
the plan ended a reorganization begun Dec. 21. After a
settlement, second-lien creditors owed $168 million were given 1
percent of the equity and 10 percent above distributions of $435
million. First-lien creditors owed $593 million took the other
99 percent of the new stock plus a $25 million secured term
loan. The plan gave nothing to unsecured creditors with claims
totaling less than $1 million.  
 Hawkeye, based in Ames, Iowa, had $720 million in debt at
the end of 2008 and generated $584 million in revenue that year.
The plants are capable of producing 225 million gallons a year.
Hawkeye was controlled by affiliates of Thomas H. Lee Partners
LP.  
 The case is In re Hawkeye Renewables LLC, 09-14461, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  
 NYC Developer Tarragon Confirms Plan in New Jersey  
 Tarragon Corp. , a Manhattan residential real estate
developer, had its reorganization approved when the bankruptcy
judge in New Jersey signed a confirmation order on June 18. The
sponsor for the plan is UTA Capital LLC, an investor based in
West Orange, New Jersey.  
 In the Chapter 11 filing in January 2009, Tarragon listed
assets of $841 million against debt totaling $1.04 billion. The
projects being developed actively at the time had 1,034 units
while those in the so-called development pipeline totaled 1,846.
Tarragon’s investment division had almost 7,400 stabilized
apartment units and 3 apartment communities with almost 650
apartments being leased. Debt included $170 million owing to
unsecured creditors plus $185 million in mortgages. Taberna
Capital Management LLC was the largest unsecured creditor by
holding $125 million in subordinated notes. Tarragon specializes
in mid-rise and low-rise developments.  
 The case is In re Tarragon Corp., 09-10555, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, District of New Jersey (Newark).  
 Station Casinos Creditors Failing to Stop Auction  
 The official creditors’ committee for casino operator
 Station Casinos Inc.  was denied an injunction from the
bankruptcy judge putting a hold on a scheduled Aug. 6 auction
for some of the casinos. The first bid of $772 million will come
from a group including current owners Frank and Lorenzo
Fertitta. The committee still can seek a stay from a U.S.
District Court judge. The committee is taking an expedited
appeal from a June 4 order of the bankruptcy judge in Reno,
Nevada, scheduling the auction. For details on the auction, the
appeal, and the Station Casinos reorganization plan, click here
for the June 11 Bloomberg bankruptcy report.  
 A hearing for approval of Station Casinos’ disclosure
statement explaining the Chapter 11 plan originally was
scheduled for June 10. It was pushed back to July 15 and 16. The
plan incorporates an agreement structured around the auction.
Station Casinos filed under Chapter 11 in July 2009. It has 13
properties in Las Vegas plus five joint ventures. It also
operates casinos for American Indian tribes. Station’s debt was
the result of a leveraged buyout in November 2007 by Fertitta
Colony Partners LLC.  
 The case is In Re Station Casinos Inc., 09-52477, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, District of Nevada (Reno).  
 Exchange Offer News  
 Brookstone Extends Offer for Notes at 80% Cash, Debt  
 Specialty retailer  Brookstone Inc.  extended the exchange
offer until July 2 that otherwise would have expired on June 18.  
 For each $1,000 in face amount of existing 12 percent
second-lien notes due 2012, holders can elect between 80 percent
in cash or a new second-lien note for $800 due in 2017. If the
offer is oversubscribed for cash, new notes will be substituted
for cash.  
 Cash to support the offer comes from shareholders. It is
conditioned on participation by two-third of the outstanding
notes.  
 Merrimack, New Hampshire-based Brookstone was acquired in
October 2005 in a $422 million transaction by a group including
JW Childs Associates LP,  Temasek Holdings Pte , and  OSIM
International Ltd .  
 New Filing  
 South Carolina Development Files in North Carolina  
 South Bay Properties LLC, the owner of 107 undeveloped lots
in Georgetown, South Carolina, filed a Chapter 11 petition on
June 18 in North Carolina, saying the property is worth $6
million while the secured debt is $9.1 million.  
 Unsecured claims are another $1.2 million. Priority claims
are $562,000.  
 The secured lender with a mortgage on the 60-acre property
is Bayside Properties LLC.  
 The case is In re South Bay Properties LLC, 10-04922, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Eastern District North Carolina (Wilson).  
 Daily Podcast  
 Supreme Court, Texas Rangers, Lehman, Abitibi: Audio  
 A U.S. Supreme Court decision on bankruptcy, the  Texas
Rangers  professional baseball club, and sales of property by
 Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.  and  AbitibiBowater Inc.  are the
cases covered in the latest bankruptcy podcast on the Bloomberg
terminal and Bloomberglaw.com. To listen, click here.  
 Advance Sheets  
 Class-Action Suits Permissible in Bankruptcy Cases  
 It’s permissible to have a class-action suit in bankruptcy
court where the plaintiff class is composed of individual
debtors with bankruptcy cases filed in the district, the U.S.
Court of Appeals in New Orleans ruled on June 18.  
 The case involved a proposed class action where the named
plaintiffs alleged that  Wells Fargo Bank NA , as a mortgage
servicer, improperly charged people in Chapter 13 with fees and
expenses that weren’t approved by the bankruptcy courts.  
 The bankruptcy judge certified the case as a class action
and granted a direct appeal to the circuit court.  
 The 5th Circuit in New Orleans ruled against the bank by
holding that class-action suits are permissible in bankruptcy
court. To rule otherwise would nullify Bankruptcy Rule 7023
which specifies procedures for class-action adversary suits in
bankruptcy court.  
 The opinion, by Circuit Judge  Thomas M. Reavley , also held
that it would be proper for a class to include bankrupts whose
cases were pending before several bankruptcy judges.  
 The circuit court reversed the bankruptcy judge on
certifying the class in the particular case, concluding that
individual issues for each member of the class, such as damages,
outweigh the common elements. In other words, although class
suits can be proper, they weren’t in this case.  
 The case is Wells Fargo Bank NA v. Wilborn (In re Wilborn),
09-20415, 5th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals (New Orleans).  
 No Absolute Right to Dismiss, 5th Circuit Rules  
 An individual in Chapter 13 doesn’t have an absolute right
to dismiss his case, even though the governing statute seems to
give the bankruptcy court no discretion, the U.S. Circuit Court
of Appeals in New Orleans ruled on June 16.  
 The case involved an individual who was attempting to
propose a repayment plan under Chapter 13. He filed a motion to
dismiss the case after the Chapter 13 trustee made a motion for
conversion to Chapter 7.  
 The bankrupt contended the court was compelled to dismiss
the Chapter 13 case, because the governing statute, Bankruptcy
Code section 1307, says that the case “shall” be dismissed if
the bankrupt files a dismissal motion.  
 The circuit courts are split on the issue. The circuit
courts for the 8th and 9th Circuits find discretion not to
dismiss while the 2nd Circuit in New York ruled in 1999 that the
obligation to dismiss is absolute.  
 The 5th Circuit, in an opinion by Circuit Judge  Carolyn Dineen King , came down on the side of finding flexibility in the
statute. The court said there is discretion not to dismiss in a
case involving “bad-faith conduct or abuse of the bankruptcy
process.”  
 The 5th Circuit said its ruling is the result of a 2007
U.S. Supreme Court decision in a case called Marrama v. Citizens
Bank of Massachusetts, which held in a 5-4 ruling that an
individual does not have an absolute right to convert a Chapter
7 case to Chapter 13. To read about Marrama, click here for the
Feb. 22, 2007, edition of the Bloomberg daily bankruptcy report.  
 For a discussion of the 9th Circuit case reaching the same
result as the 5th Circuit, click here for the Sept. 26, 2008,
Bloomberg bankruptcy report.  
 The new case is Jacobsen v. Moser (In re Jacobsen), 09-
40023, 5th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals (New Orleans).  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bill Rochelle  in New York at 
 wrochelle@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        