-- South Koreans Share Despair of North's 7-0 Defeat to Portugal at World Cup
-- Ben Richardson
-- 2010-06-22T02:11:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-22/south-koreans-share-despair-of-north-s-7-0-defeat-to-portugal-at-world-cup.html

          
          
             Hundreds of South Koreans groaned
and sighed as they watched North Korea’s 7-0 defeat by Portugal
that eliminated the communist country from its first World Cup
appearance in 44 years.  
 “It’s such a shame North Korea couldn’t make it,” said
Kim Yong Woo, 33, one of about 600 people who gathered last
night to watch the televised match on a screen in the grounds of
Seoul’s  Bongeunsa  Buddhist temple. “It’s not so much about
winning or losing. It’s the fact that we got together as one
that matters.”  
 The crowd, standing and sitting on the dirt or perched on
terraces surrounding the screen, cheered each time North Korea,
the lowest-ranked team in the soccer tournament, fended off an
attack by third-seeded Portugal. The sentiment resonated across
the armed border in North Korea, where the game from Cape Town,
South Africa was broadcast live for the first time.  
 North Korea reached the quarterfinals in the  1966  World Cup,
when they surrendered a 3-0 lead against Portugal by conceding
five goals. This year’s team lost its June 15 opening match 2-1
to Brazil, and faces Ivory Coast on June 25 in its last game.  
 South Korea, which is also playing in this year’s
tournament, beat Greece 2-0 in its opening game before losing to
Argentina 4-1 on June 17. The team can advance to the
quarterfinals if it beats Nigeria later today.  
 Heightened Tensions  
 North Korea’s appearance in the competition comes during
heightened tensions on the peninsula. South Korea blamed  Kim Jong Il ’s regime for torpedoing one of its warships in March,
killing 46 sailors. South Korean President  Lee Myung Bak  has
said the North must pay for its aggression, and has taken the
case to the United Nations Security Council.  
 The U.S. backs Lee, while China, which holds veto power on
the council, has so far refused to criticize Kim. That split
reinforces alliances that date back to the 1950-1953 Korean War,
which ended in an armed stalemate between the China-backed North
and their Cold War foes, the U.S. and the South.  
 The sinking of the 1,200-ton Cheonan helps highlight the
growing gulf between South Koreans and their attitude to North
Korea, best described as “an extended family member in need of
help at a holiday gathering,” said  Scott Snyder , director of
the Center for U.S.-Korea Policy at The Asia Foundation in
Washington. “You help out of obligation in recognition of
family ties.” North Korea’s behavior saw the focus shift from
“sameness” to “difference,” he said.  
 TV Ad Shelved  
 SK Telecom Co. , South Korea’s biggest mobile phone company,
shelved a television commercial featuring players from both
teams after the Cheonan incident, said spokeswoman  Lauren Kim .
The ad starred Manchester United and South Korea star Park Ji
Sung and Japanese-born North Korean Jong Tae Se, and aimed to
capitalize on the first World Cup appearance by both countries
that have been divided by ideology and war for six decades.  
 While North Korea has threatened to turn Seoul into a “sea
of flame” in response to any punitive action for the sinking of
the warship, South Koreans saw images of Jong crying during the
national anthem at his first game for North Korea.  
 “We all understood the meaning of Jong’s tears: the cruel
and sad reality of a divided Korea,” said South Korean fan Kim,
a member of Speak The Truth, an Internet group that organized
yesterday’s event.  
 South Korea’s viewer rate for the North Korea-Portugal
match was 24 percent, the second-highest for yesterday’s TV
programs, according to TNS Media Korea.  
 Despair  
 A commentator on North Korea’s Korean Central Broadcasting
expressed despair after  Raul Meireles  scored Portugal’s first
goal after 29 minutes and grew quiet as the score increased,
according to  Yonhap News , which can monitor the reclusive
nation’s state television from Seoul.  
 “All we know about North Korea is very negative and
unpersonal,” said  Rudiger Frank , professor of East Asian
Economy and Society at the University of Vienna. “Now we can
see that they are actually humans. Seeing them wearing short
trousers instead of uniforms also makes a big difference -- a
sharp contrast to goose-stepping, faceless soldiers.”  
 Former South Korean soccer player Cha Bum Kun, who
commentates for SBS television, which owns the World Cup
broadcast rights for South Korea, expressed his emotions toward
North Korea last week.  
 “I am told I shouldn’t show affection for North Korean
players when I commentate on their match,” Cha said on
me2day.net, a South Korean social-networking site. “Frankly
speaking, I feel very affectionate toward North Korean players.
We share the same blood.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Bomi Lim  in Seoul at 
 blim30@bloomberg.net ;
 Ben Richardson  in Seoul at 
 brichardson8@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     South Koreans hold banners as they cheer for the North Korean national soccer team as they watch a live broadcast of the North Korea and Portugal 2010 World Cup match at a temple in Seoul. Photographer: Kim Jae-Hwan/AFP/Getty Images  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
