-- Argentina, South Korea Move to World Cup Round of 16 With Mexico, Uruguay
-- Bob Bensch
-- 2010-06-22T22:51:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-22/south-korea-argentina-move-to-world-cup-round-of-16-with-mexico-uruguay.html

          
          
             Argentina, Uruguay, Mexico and South
Korea advanced to the round of 16 at the World Cup yesterday as
host South Africa was eliminated.  
 Argentina beat Greece 2-0 and South Korea tied Nigeria 2-2
to progress from Group B. Uruguay defeated Mexico 1-0, sending
both through from Group A, while South Africa beat 10-man France
2-1 in the final game for both teams.  
 “I think we’re really showing what we’re capable of,”
Argentina coach  Diego Maradona  told reporters. “We are doing
our duty, we are defending the colors of Argentina, as we’ve
done all our lives,”  
 The top two teams from each of the eight groups qualify for
the second round.  
 Martin Demichelis  and  Martin Palermo  scored in the final 13
minutes in Polokwane to give Argentina its third straight
victory. Argentina will play Mexico in its next game on June 27.  
 “Argentina were clearly superior,” Greece coach  Otto Rehhagel  told reporters. “They were the better team and this
was a deserved win for Argentina.”  
 Argentina finished with 9 points in Group B. South Korea
had four, Greece three and Nigeria one.  
 Lee Jung Soo and Park Chu Young scored in Durban for South
Korea, which meets Uruguay on June 26.  
 Nigeria took the lead in the 12th minute on a goal by Kalu
Uche and Lee tied the game seven minutes before halftime. Park
scored with a free kick early in the second half to give South
Korea a 2-1 lead.  
 Nigeria’s Ayegbeni Yakubu missed a wide-open goal from
three yards out in the 67th minute, then scored two minutes
later from the penalty spot.  
 Suarez Strikes  
 Luis Suarez scored with a header in the 43rd minute in
Rustenburg as Uruguay beat Mexico to top Group A with seven
points. South Africa tied Mexico with four points, but lost out
on second place on an inferior goal difference.  
 “If you look at the history of Uruguay over the last few
World Cups it means I’m really satisfied,” coach Oscar Tabarez
said at a news conference after Uruguay reached the round of 16
for the first time since 1990.  
 France, the 2006 runner-up to Italy, ended its tumultuous
World Cup in last place with one point from the three group
games.  
 “The first word that comes to mind is sadness,”  Raymond Domenech , who coached his final game for France yesterday, said
at a news conference. “Sadness for all the supporters and
sadness for the players.”  
 South Africa’s victory wasn’t enough to prevent it becoming
the first World Cup host ousted in the initial group stage.
Mexico finished with a goal difference of plus-1, while South
Africa was minus-2.  
 Red Card  
 “We always believed it was possible to qualify,” South
Africa midfielder  Steven Pienaar  told reporters. “People can’t
say that we didn’t give it our best.”  
 Bongani Khumalo and Katlego Mphela scored for South Africa.
Yoann Gourcuff was red-carded in the 25th minute for France
after elbowing MacBeth Sibaya as the two jumped for the ball.  
 Florent Malouda  scored in the 70th minute for France, which
was playing its first game since striker  Nicolas Anelka  was sent
home for insulting Domenech at halftime of its 2-0 loss to
Mexico on June 17.  
 The team refused to train three days ago in protest of the
French Football Federation’s decision to expel Anelka. Domenech,
who said he supported the dismissal, benched captain  Patrice Evra  yesterday and gave the post to Alou Diarra.  
 The Netherlands in Group E and Brazil in Group G have
already qualified for the next round with one group game
remaining.  
 Slovenia faces England and the U.S. plays Algeria today in
Group C. In Group D, Ghana meets Germany and Australia plays
Serbia.  
 Teams are ranked in each group by points from group
matches, followed by goal difference and goals scored in all
group matches. Ultimately, world governing body FIFA can decide
which team moves on by drawing lots.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bob Bensch  in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        