-- Sundance Executives Crashed in C-212 `Bush Plane' Built for Rugged Terrain
-- Pius Lukong
-- 2010-06-22T16:33:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-22/sundance-executives-used-bush-plane-flown-by-military-in-rugged-terrain.html

          
          
             The Sundance Resources Ltd. managers
who died when their aircraft crashed into dense jungle in the
Republic of Congo flew a Spanish-built turboprop “bush plane”
used routinely on military and law-enforcement missions.  
 The C-212, which seats 24 to 26 passengers, has been in
production for more than 30 years and is popular because it can
handle rugged terrain and needs limited servicing. Spanish
manufacturer Construcciones Aeronauticas SA, now part of
European Aeronautic, Defence and Space Co., delivered more than
480 planes to 43 countries since the first flight in 1971.  
 “It’s a plane that has an excellent reputation for flying
in austere environments, operating in difficult circumstances in
places that don’t have adequate maintenance procedures,” said
 Richard Aboulafia , vice president of Teal Group, a Fairfax,
Virginia-based company that publishes reports on military and
civil aircraft around the world.  
 Six Australian, two British, one American and two French
citizens were on the twin turboprop plane that went missing on
June 19 on a flight from Cameroon’s capital Yaounde to Yangadou
in Congo, chartered by Sundance. There’s no indication of the
cause, with no sign of an explosion or fire, George Jones, a
strategic adviser to the company, told the Australian
Broadcasting Corp. The wreckage was found yesterday.  
 Small Plane Expertise  
 The  C-212  is the smallest of several military transports
built by CASA. Spain began developing compact army planes even
before World War II, and the country has retained its expertise
in that area to this day. CASA was wrapped into the Airbus
Military subsidiary created last year. The unit is also building
its A400M large army transport in Spain.  
 The U.S. Drug Enforcement Agency previously operated C-212s
in South America and gave its remaining two in 1994 to the State
Department, said DEA spokesman  Rusty Payne . A C-212 operated by
the agency crashed on August 17, 1994 when it was operating in a
remote part of Peru, according to  Paul Hayes , safety director at
U.K. aviation consultants Ascend Worldwide.  
 There are more than 300 C-212s in military service around
the world, Aboulafia said. The aircraft is among those classed
in the industry as STOL, for short take-off and landing, meaning
the plane can land on very short runways that are out of bounds
for jet-planes.  
 The aircraft was chartered from Aero Service, a “widely
used” Congo company that Sundance hired as recently as March or
February, Sundance spokesman David Brook said in an interview.  
 European Blacklist  
 Aero Service is banned from flying within the European
Union under a blanket restriction by the EU from November 2009
on carriers based in the Republic of Congo, given concerns about
the country’s regulatory oversight, said Helen Kearns, a
transport spokeswoman at the European Commission, the bloc’s
regulatory arm in Brussels.  
 The model involved in the Congo accident generally sells
for about $5 million, according to Teal, with the military
variant selling for about $6 million. The plane can fly as high
as 26,000 feet, with a maximum operating speed of 195 knots, or
360 kilometers (223 miles) an hour. It can carry 20 troops, with
a range of 1,000 nautical miles.  
 Of the more than 480 C-212s that have been delivered, about
120 planes went to civil operators, with the current operating
fleet of commercially used C212s at about 65 worldwide,
according to Ascend’s Hayes.  
 The plane that went down in Congo first flew on July 10,
1979, and was acquired 10 days later by Transair Swiss, which
leased the plane to other operators before selling it to the
current owner in 1992, Ascend records show.  
 C-212s used on passenger flights have had 12 fatal
accidents, killing 104 passengers and 38 crew members in the
last 25 years, according to Ascend. The accident involving
Sundance directors was the first where passengers have been
killed since 1996. Most of the past accidents occurred in
Indonesia or South America, Hayes said.  
 “It’s quite a rugged aircraft, so it tends to get used
from major airfields to air strip in the hinterlands,” he said.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Andrea Rothman  in Toulouse, France at 
 aerothman@bloomberg.net ;
 Pius Lukong  in Yaounde via Johannesburg at
   pmrichardson@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        