-- Syngenta, Monsanto Sunflower-Seed Deal Faces Extended EU Investigation
-- Antonio Ligi
-- 2010-06-22T10:08:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-22/syngenta-monsanto-sunflower-seed-deal-faces-extended-eu-investigation.html

          
          
             Syngenta AG , the world’s biggest
maker of agricultural chemicals, faces an in-depth European
Union antitrust investigation of its plan to buy  Monsanto Co. ’s
hybrid sunflower-seed business.  
 The  European Commission , the EU’s executive arm, plans to
rule on the transaction by Oct. 26 after looking into how the
proposed combination would affect the market for the seeds’
development and sales in the region, the Brussels-based
regulator said today in a statement.  
 “The sunflower-seed industry has undergone important
consolidation over the past years and the commission needs to
ensure that effective competition is preserved, to maintain
innovation and prevent that input prices for farmers rise,” EU
Competition Commissioner  Joaquin Almunia  said in the statement.  
 Syngenta  agreed  in August 2009 to buy the unit from
St. Louis-based Monsanto for $160 million to extend its leading
position in the $700 million market. Revenue at Syngenta’s
sunflower-seed business exceeded $200 million in 2008 while the
Monsanto division, which includes germplasm and development and
breeding of hybrid sunflower seeds, had sales of $75 million,
the Basel, Switzerland-based company said at the time.  
 “This is surprising as, so far, there weren’t any
significant signals that there will be an accentuation of the
investigation after willingness to cooperate was offered” by
Syngenta, said  Martin Flueckiger , a Zurich-based analyst with
Helvea AG with an “accumulate”  recommendation  on the stock.
The extended investigation will only have a “marginal” effect
on Syngenta’s valuation, he added.  
 Stock Declines  
 Syngenta  fell  as much as 3.20 Swiss francs, or 1.2 percent,
to 264.80 francs and was down 1 percent as of 12:08 p.m. in
Zurich trading. The stock has declined 8.5 percent this year.  
 Syngenta  and  Monsanto  first notified Spanish and Hungarian
competition authorities about the deal, and Spain’s regulator
referred the case to the commission, the EU said today. The
initial EU probe was scheduled to end yesterday, according to
the commission’s website. Neither the EU regulator nor the
companies have specified proposed remedies.  
 “This process is proving to be a long and difficult one
for the parties,”  Tony Reeves , an antitrust lawyer with
Clifford Chance LLP in Brussels who isn’t involved in the case,
said today in an interview. “It is quite a saga, but the
business is not unaccustomed to regulatory review.”  
 EU’s ‘Concerns’  
 The EU’s initial investigation “indicated potential
competition concerns with respect to the breeding and
commercialization of sunflower seeds and sunflower-seed
treatment products in Europe,” Almunia said in the statement.  
 Sunflower oil is low in saturated fats and is mostly used
in food applications. Globally, sunflowers are grown on about 24
million hectares (59 million acres), according to  Syngenta ’s
estimates. Major sunflower-producing countries include Russia,
Ukraine, Argentina and France.  
 “We will continue to work closely with authorities to
obtain approval,” Medard Schoenmaeckers, a Syngenta spokesman,
said today in an interview, declining to comment further on the
commission’s statement.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Peter Chapman  in Brussels at 
 Pchapman10@bloomberg.net ;
 Antonio Ligi  in Zurich at 
 aligi@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        