-- U.A.E. Mortgage Lender Tamweel Returns to Profit; Amlak Finance Cuts Loss
-- Arif Sharif
-- 2010-06-22T08:57:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-22/u-a-e-mortgage-lender-tamweel-returns-to-profit-amlak-finance-cuts-loss.html

          
          
             Tamweel PJSC  returned to profit in
the first quarter and its rival  Amlak Finance PJSC  narrowed its
loss as the United Arab Emirates mortgage companies cut costs
and reduced impairment provisions.  
 Tamweel  posted a profit of 5.1 million dirhams ($1.4
million) after a loss of 40.8 million dirhams a year earlier,
the company said  in a statement  to the Dubai bourse today.
Amlak’s loss narrowed to 3.1 million dirhams from 68.3 million
dirhams in the year-earlier period, it said  in a statement .  
 The U.A.E. government has been working for 19 months on a
plan to combine the two Islamic finance companies, which relied
on wholesale borrowing to fund their lending, since the credit
crisis cut off their funding. Dubai property prices have slumped
more than 50 percent from their peak in August 2008 as mortgages
dried up, according to estimates from Colliers International.  
 Tamweel and Amlak may open talks with alternative buyers in
case their government-backed combination breaks down, a person
with knowledge of the talks said June 8. Dubai Islamic Bank
PJSC, the U.A.E.’s biggest Islamic bank and owner of about 21
percent of Tamweel, may boost its stake, the bank said June 2.  
 The government may merge the two companies into a new
Islamic bank and provide it with funding, U.A.E. Economy
Minister  Sultan Bin Saeed al-Mansouri  told Dubai Television in
October. Amlak and Tamweel’s investors may own a third of the
new bank, while the U.A.E and Dubai governments may share the
remaining stake equally, al-Mansouri said in the interview.  
 Costs, Impairments  
 Tamweel cut its operating cost 28 percent to 28 million
dirhams, while Amlak’s impairment provisions for financing and
investment assets more than halved to 31.3 million dirhams.
Tamweel had 11.4 billion dirhams of assets at the end of March,
including bank balances and cash of 709.4 million dirhams.
Amlak’s assets were valued at 13.9 billion dirhams, including
729.6 million dirhams in cash and balances with banks.  
 Tamweel and Amlak are Islamic institutions, whose
businesses comply with Muslim banking rules. Dubai has four
Islamic banks -- Dubai Islamic Bank,  Emirates Islamic Bank PJSC ,
Dubai Bank PJSC and Noor Islamic Bank. Shares of both Amlak
Finance and Tamweel have been suspended from trading since
November 2008.  
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. is advising on the merger. NM
Rothschild & Sons Ltd. is counseling Amlak on its valuation,
while Nomura Holdings Inc. is helping Tamweel.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Haris Anwar  in Dubai on 
 Hanwar2@bloomberg.net ;  
          
          


  


        