-- U.K. Banks Dodge Bullet With Lower-Than-Expected $3 Billion Liability Levy
-- Gavin Finch
-- 2010-06-23T22:36:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-22/u-k-banks-get-a-good-result-as-osborne-imposes-balance-sheet-levy.html

          
          
             Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  said lenders need to share the pain of tax increases as
he announced a levy on lenders’ balance sheets. Investors and
analysts say banks have dodged a bullet.  
 Osborne told lawmakers the  tax  will raise 2 billion pounds
($3 billion) a year, compared with the 5 billion-pound estimate
of analysts at Evolution Securities Ltd. The 0.07 percent levy
on wholesale liabilities is less than half the 0.15 percent rate
being considered by the U.S. government.  
 “It’s less scary than it could have been,” said  Lothar Mentel , chief investment officer for Octopus Investments Ltd. in
London. “The banks got away with it pretty lightly. There was a
lot of fear in the market that the banks were going to be hit
much harder than has proved to be the case.”  
 Osborne’s levy is designed to curb banks’ reliance on the
short-term funding that helped trigger the biggest financial
crisis since the Great Depression. France and Germany are also
considering similar taxes as they try to tackle budget deficits
swelled by bank bailouts and stimulus measures. France will
present a plan in its coming budget, while the German government
will publish legislation this summer, according to a joint
statement by the governments yesterday.  
 The levy is equivalent to 7 percent of the 28 billion-pound
combined profit analysts expect  HSBC Holdings Plc , Barclays Plc,
 Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc , Lloyds Banking Group Plc and
Standard Chartered Plc to report in 2011, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  
 ‘Large Balance Sheets’  
 “RBS and Barclays are likely to be the most negatively
impacted given large balance sheets, substantial short-term
funding and relatively low asset margins,” said Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. analysts led by  Aaron Ibbotson  in a note to clients
today.  
 Separately, Merrill Lynch & Co. estimated that 75 percent
of the revenue raised will come from Britain’s six largest
banks, including  Banco Santander SA’s  U.K. unit. Barclays and
HSBC may each have to pay 370 million pounds, RBS 360 million
pounds, Standard Chartered 90 million pounds and Santander
approximately 70 million pounds. The rest will be paid by
British building societies and overseas-based banks, analysts
 Michael Helsby  and Chris Roberts said in a note to clients.  
 “Clearly the government wants to be seen as constructive
and overall this is better than expected,” said  Guy de Blonay ,
who helps manage about 19.5 billion pounds at Jupiter Fund
Management Plc in London. “The market reaction is positive as
ultimately the cost will be passed on to the customers.”  
 Banks Fall  
 Lloyds  fell 0.5 percent to 58.7 pence, while RBS fell 0.8
percent to 46.72 pence. Barclays slipped 3.2 percent to 300.8
pence and HSBC fell 1.1 percent to 651.8 pence. Standard
Chartered dropped 1.5 percent to 1,757.5 pence.  
 “For the U.K. banks, this is a pretty good result,” said
 Colin Morton , who helps manage about $1.7 billion at Rensburg
Fund Management in Leeds. “If these banks are going to be
making substantial profits, the levy could end up not affecting
these banks much at all.”  
 Lloyds  and RBS will be most hurt by the levy because they
rely on short-term wholesale funding more than any other British
banks, analysts at Matrix Corporate Capital LLP said. The
measure will cost London-based Lloyds about 286 million pounds,
about 8 percent of estimated 2010 pretax profit, and Edinburgh-
based RBS 517 million pounds.  
 HSBC and Standard Chartered, which have the lowest loan-to-
deposit ratios among U.K. banks and are therefore less reliant
on wholesale funding, will be least hurt by the proposal,
according to Matrix.  
 ‘Pressure on Banks’  
 “It’s another encouragement for the banks to reduce
risk,” said  Simon Adamson , a London-based analyst at research
firm CreditSights Inc. “It’s part of the pressure for banks to
extend their liabilities.”  
 Osborne told lawmakers he was introducing the levy so banks
make a contribution that reflects the “risks that they
generate.” The U.K. government spent more than 66 billion
pounds bailing out RBS and Lloyds during the financial crisis.  
 The tax will apply to banks with liabilities of more than
20 billion pounds based in or operating in the U.K. The levy
will exclude liabilities such as Tier 1 capital and insured
retail deposits. Wholesale funding longer than a year’s duration
will also attract a reduced rate of as little as 0.02 percent.
Investment Banking  
 “The levy does not apply to retail banking and therefore
it adds further pressure on investment banking, where this
burden will be borne,” said Rod Roman, a financial services
partner at Ernst & Young.  
 ‘Taxed Many Times’  
 It isn’t clear from yesterday’s  proposals  how the tax will
apply to overseas banks operating in the U.K. and whether they
will be able to escape it by paying a levy in their home
jurisdiction, according to Peter Maybrey, financial services tax
partner at PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP said.  
 The U.K. Treasury needs to ensure that international banks
such as  Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  don’t have to pay a levy in
every country in which they operate,  Angela Knight , chief
executive officer of the British Bankers’ Association, said in
an interview.  
 “We don’t want to have a scenario whereby a bank operating
in multiple jurisdictions finds itself taxed many times over for
the same functions,” Knight said. “We need to retain our
competitive edge.”  
 Levy Opposed  
 Bankers opposed the levy, saying the costs risked curbing
lending to consumers and businesses, imperiling economic growth.
The levy should be “implemented in a way that allows banks to
continue to support economic growth,” a spokesman for Barclays
said in an e-mailed statement. RBS, Lloyds and HSBC spokesman
declined to comment. Standard Chartered was “looking at the
detail,” a spokesman said. A spokeswoman for Goldman Sachs in
London declined to comment.  
 Banks will also benefit from Osborne’s decision to cut the
rate of corporation tax. The government plans to reduce that by
1 percentage point each year over the next four years, taking
the rate to 24 from 28 percent starting next year. A reduction
in corporation tax to 25 percent would save Britain’s five
largest banks about 336 million pounds a year based on 2010 bank
earnings, JPMorgan Chase & Co. said in a June 2 report.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Gavin Finch  in London at 
 gfinch@bloomberg.net ;
 Andrew MacAskill  in London at 
 amacaskill@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     U.K. chancellor of the exchequer George Osborne. Photographer: Chris Ratcliffe/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 23 (Bloomberg) -- Angela Knight, chief executive officer of the British Bankers Association, talks about the U.K. government's levy on banks.
     Knight speaks with Elliott Gotkine on Bloomberg Television's
"Countdown." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
