-- U.K. Gambling on `Draconian' Spending Cuts, Blanchflower Says: Tom Keene
-- Tom Keene
-- 2010-06-22T16:14:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-22/u-k-gambling-on-draconian-spending-cuts-blanchflower-says-tom-keene.html

          
          
             The U.K.’s bet on “draconian”
spending cuts and some tax increases will slow growth in real
income and may reverse the nation’s economic recovery, according
to  David Blanchflower , a former Bank of England policy maker.  
 Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  announced today
a 25 percent cut in spending over the next four years, excluding
overseas aid and the National Health Service. The move will
depress revenue essential for growth, Blanchflower said in a
radio interview on “Bloomberg Surveillance” with  Tom Keene .  
 “These are absolutely draconian spending cuts,” said
Blanchflower, 58, a Dartmouth College economics professor who
was on the Bank of England’s Monetary Policy Committee from 2006
to 2009. “This is going to pull a huge amount of money out of
the economy, and it’s really one of the biggest gambles a
chancellor of the exchequer has ever done.”  
 Conservative Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s government will
impose a levy on banks and raise the sales tax in the biggest
budget-deficit cuts in a generation, seeking to guard the
nation’s top credit rating without stifling economic recovery.  
 The government is betting that the private sector will step
in as the public sector pulls out, which Blanchflower said won’t
happen. Stimulus measures, an “automatic stabilizer,” should
be eased when the economy has fully recovered, according to
Blanchflower.  
 ‘Pretty Anemic’  
 “The danger is you take it off in the bust and you make
the bust worse -- that’s exactly what I think is going to happen
here,” Blanchflower said. “The evidence on growth in the U.K.
is pretty anemic. The European area seems to be slowing, and it
looks to me like most of it’s being driven by the stimulus.”  
 Osborne, 39, the youngest chancellor since 1886, is aiming
to reduce a deficit that reached 11 percent of gross domestic
product in the last fiscal year.  
 The U.K.’s spending will be cut by 30 billion pounds ($44.4
billion) a year, including 11 billion pounds from welfare. The
increase in the value-added tax to 20 percent in January from
17.5 percent is projected by the government to yield 13 billion
pounds a year by 2015.  
 From April 2011, the corporation tax will fall by 1
percentage point each year over the next four years, taking the
rate to 24 percent in 2014. The rate for small companies will
fall to 20 percent in 2011 from 21 percent.  
 Fitch’s Assessment  
 While Fitch Ratings said today that the budget is a “strong
statement of intent” to accelerate deficit reduction and cut
public debt, Blanchflower said rising unemployment and falling
output will pose problems.  
 The two-year freeze on public workers’ pay and a wave of
job cuts in the public sector that Osborne announced will hurt
consumers and push them to save more, slowing growth further,
according to Blanchflower.  
 “It’s hard to see where wage increases come from, and it’s
hard to see where real incomes rise,” he said. “Of course, the
whole thing depends on the people spending again, and it’s hard
to think that in this austerity period, people are going to do
anything but save like mad, so this is a big worry.”  
 Osborne said  unemployment  will peak at 8.1 percent this
year before falling to 6.1 percent in 2015. He lowered growth
forecasts to 1.2 percent this year and 2.3 percent in 2011.  
 The U.K. can test austerity as the U.S. government’s
economic stimulus works its way through the system, according to
Blanchflower.  
 America “has actually got it right,” he said. “You keep
going as long as you can and let the private sector strengthen
and take up the slack. But you withdraw at your peril. This is
going to be one of the biggest experiments, and the U.S. can sit
and watch and look and see what happens to the U.K. output data,
which I suspect is about to collapse.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Mary Childs  in New York at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net ;
 Tom Keene  in New York at 
 tkeene@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        