-- U.K. Needs `Medicine' to Avoid Stagnation Like Japan Has, HSBC's King Says
-- Francine Lacqua
-- 2010-06-22T09:32:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-22/u-k-needs-medicine-to-avoid-stagnation-like-japan-has-hsbc-s-king-says.html

          
          
             Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  must get Britain to take some “medicine” in his budget
to help the economy avoid the kind of stagnation Japan suffered,
said  Stephen King , chief economist at HSBC Holdings Plc.  
 “It’s now time to take some medicine,” King said in a
Bloomberg Television interview in London today. “The economy
has stabilized; it’s not as bad as was the case last year or the
year before. This is the opportunity to try and balance the
books now, rather than waiting around and pretending somehow
things will get better automatically.”  
 World leaders from the U.K.’s David Cameron to Naoto Kan of
Japan, which is seeking to shrink the world’s biggest  public
debt  and end two decades of economic stagnation, are betting
they can deliver fiscal austerity without derailing economic
prosperity. Former Bank of England policy maker David
Blanchflower said yesterday that planned U.K. spending cuts
“look certain” to push Britain back into a recession.  
 “If they’re too strong, yes, that’s a possibility,” King
said in reference to Blanchflower’s comments. “But the key
danger is if we don’t have a convincing plan over the medium
term to try and make sure the budget numbers add up, people
become increasingly more and more cautious.”  
 Credibility Essential  
 “You can see this in Japan, where you’ve had a huge
increase in the budget deficit, but what do people do?” he
said. “They become much higher savers, they try to repay debt,
they become ever more cautious, and the consequence is that the
economy just stagnates year after year after year.”  
 The “key” is to ensure that reductions in spending,
“which are going to take place over four or five years, are
going to be sufficiently credible,” King said.  
 “Of course, the problem here is that there will be no
detailed plans announced today,” he said. “It will be simply
the promise of spending cuts. The comprehensive spending review
isn’t going to take place until later in the year, so there’ll
still be some uncertainty over how this thing adds up.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Scott Hamilton  in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net ;
 Francine Lacqua  in London at 
 flacqua@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        