-- U.S. Afghan Supply Chain Relies on Warlord Payoffs, Report Says
-- Tony Capaccio
-- 2010-06-22T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-22/u-s-military-supply-chain-relies-on-afghan-warlord-payoffs-report-says.html

          
          
             Contractors on a $2.1 billion job
trucking U.S. supplies into Afghanistan are paying millions of
dollars in protection money to warlords controlling their
routes, according to a congressional report.  
 Contractors told congressional investigators they believe
that, in turn, “the highway warlords make protection payments
to insurgents” who are fighting the U.S., though there wasn’t
direct evidence backing that claim, said the staff report,
prepared for Democratic Representative  John Tierney  of
Massachusetts.  
 The Army’s Criminal Investigation Command has an open
investigation into whether payments are going to insurgents,
according to briefing charts prepared for a national security
subcommittee that Tierney leads.  
 A 79-page report entitled “Warlord Inc.: Extortion and
Corruption along the U.S. Supply Chain” will be released at a
House hearing today. The Joint Chiefs of Staff’s top Pentagon-
based Afghanistan expert is to testify.  
 The Pentagon “has been largely blind to the potential
strategic consequences” of its supply-chain contracting, the
report said.  
 The eight contractors who carry food, fuel, ammunition and
other goods under the Afghan Host-Nation Trucking Contract are
expected to provide for their own security without U.S. military
escorts.  
 This has led to an ad-hoc system where the principal
private security subcontractors are “warlords, strongmen,
commanders and militia leaders who compete with the Afghan
central government for power and authority,” the report said.  
 ‘Protection Racket’  
 The contractors and their truck subcontractors “pay tens
of millions” of dollars in what “amounts to a protection
racket,” the report said. While the warlords provide the paid-
for protection, contractors have “little choice but to use
them,” the report said.  
 The system “fuels warlordism, extortion and corruption and
may be a significant source of funding for insurgents,” the
report said.  
 The lack of U.S. escorts also means the Pentagon “has
little visibility into what happens to the trucks carrying U.S.
supplies between the times the trucks leave the gates in the
Pakistan port of Karachi” to their destinations.  
 The trucking contracts cover 70 percent of the U.S.
overland supply chain that typically starts in Pakistan, moving
in convoys of as many as 300 trucks through Pashtun tribal lands
to U.S.-controlled distribution hubs near Bagram Airfield and
Kandahar Airfield.  
 Out of Compliance  
 The Pentagon is “grossly out of compliance” with
government regulations to oversee private contractors and has
“no visibility into the operations of private security
companies” working under the trucking contracts, the report
said.  
 Lieutenant Colonel Elizabeth Robbins, a Pentagon
spokeswoman who follows Afghanistan issues, said the military
“takes seriously and investigates all allegations and
incidents.”  
 A new task force set up to review the impact of U.S.
contracting on Afghanistan corruption “is on the ground and
reviewing allegations” of supply chain payoffs, she said in an
e-mail.  
 To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
 Tony Capaccio  in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       U.S. Afghan supply chain relies on warlord payoffs, report  
                       
                         
                           Stephanie Kuykendal/Bloomberg 
                         
                         A 79-page report entitled “Warlord Inc.: Extortion and Corruption along the U.S. Supply Chain” has been prepared for Democratic Representative John F. Tierney. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     A 79-page report entitled “Warlord Inc.: Extortion and Corruption along the U.S. Supply Chain” has been prepared for Democratic Representative John F. Tierney. Photographer: Stephanie Kuykendal/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
