-- U.S. Northeast Carbon Emissions Futures Fall to Low on Permit Surplus
-- Simon Lomax
-- 2010-06-22T21:17:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-22/u-s-northeast-carbon-emissions-futures-fall-to-low-on-permit-surplus.html

          
          
             Carbon dioxide futures in the U.S.
Northeast’s cap-and-trade program for power plants fell to a
record low amid a surplus of the pollution rights.  
 Permits from the Regional Greenhouse Gas Initiative for
December delivery fell a cent today to $1.91 on the  Chicago
Climate Futures Exchange . Each permit represents one ton of
carbon dioxide.  
 A surplus of permits has been growing because of a gap
between actual carbon dioxide output from power plants and the
number of permits being issued by the Northeast states. The
states decided in 2005 how many permits to issue and left room
for emissions to rise before the 2009 start of the cap-and-trade
program. Instead, emissions fell as the economy slowed.  
 “It’s an oversupplied, uninteresting market right now,”
Greg Arnold, managing partner at Solana Beach, California-based
energy fund manager  CE2 Capital Partners LLC , said in a
telephone interview.  
 Northeast carbon prices won’t start climbing until the
states reduce the number of permits issued each year or Congress
passes legislation that absorbs the regional emissions program
into a national cap-and-trade program, Arnold said.  
 “In the absence of that, it’s going to be a soft market
for the foreseeable future,” he said.  
 The 10-state cap-and-trade program issues 188 million
permits a year. The program’s rules don’t call for that number
to be cut back until 2015, although the states have scheduled a
review of the market in 2012.  
 Power plants in the 10-state carbon market released 153
million tons of carbon dioxide into the atmosphere in 2008,
according to the regional cap-and-trade program’s  website .  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Simon Lomax  in Washington at 
 slomax@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        