-- McChrystal Apologizes for Remarks on Administration Officials in Magazine
-- James Rupert
-- 2010-06-22T10:39:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-22/u-s-commander-in-afghanistan-apologizes-for-criticism-of-obama-officials.html

          
          
             The U.S. military commander in
Afghanistan, General  Stanley McChrystal , apologized for
criticizing top officials of the Obama administration in a
magazine profile to be published this week.  
 McChrystal issued a five-sentence statement after news
organizations published excerpts from an article to appear in
Rolling Stone. The article quotes the general and his aides as
disparaging Vice-President  Joseph Biden , special envoy for
Afghanistan  Richard Holbrooke  and U.S. ambassador to Kabul  Karl Eikenberry .  
 McChrystal spoke with exasperation upon getting a
BlackBerry message from Holbrooke during the Rolling Stone
interview, according to an account by the Washington Post, which
said it got a copy of the article from its author, Michael
Hastings. “Oh, not another e-mail from Holbrooke. I don’t even
want to read it,” it quoted McChrystal as saying.  
 “I extend my sincerest apology,” McChrystal said in the
statement e-mailed by the press office of his command, the
International Security Assistance Force, in Afghanistan. “It
was a mistake reflecting poor judgment and should never have
happened.”  
 The Post’s and other accounts say McChrystal spoke of
feeling betrayed by an Eikenberry memo leaked to news
organizations last year in which the ambassador criticized
Afghan President  Hamid Karzai  as an inadequate partner for the
war effort McChrystal was leading. As the top U.S. civilian and
military officials in Afghanistan, Eikenberry and McChrystal are
required to jointly implement U.S. policy in the country.  
 “I have enormous respect and admiration for President
Obama and his national security team, and for the civilian
leaders and troops fighting this war, and I remain committed to
ensuring its successful outcome,” McChrystal said in the
statement.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 James Rupert  in New Delhi at 
 jrupert3@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        