-- Deepwater Drilling Ban Lifted by New Orleans Federal Judge
-- Margaret Cronin Fisk
-- 2010-06-23T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-22/u-s-deepwater-oil-drilling-ban-lifted-today-by-new-orleans-federal-judge.html

          
          
             A New Orleans federal judge lifted
the six-month moratorium on deepwater drilling imposed by
President  Barack Obama  following the largest oil spill in U.S.
history. Drilling services shares jumped on the news.  
 Obama temporarily halted all drilling in waters deeper than
500 feet on May 27 to give a presidential commission time to
study improvements in the safety of offshore operations. More
than a dozen Louisiana offshore service and supply companies
sued U.S. regulators to lift the ban. The U.S. said it will
appeal the decision.  
 U.S. District Judge  Martin Feldman  yesterday granted a
preliminary injunction, halting the moratorium. He also
“immediately prohibited” the U.S. from enforcing the ban.
Government lawyers told Feldman the ban was based on findings in
a U.S. report following the sinking of the Deepwater Horizon rig
off the Louisiana coast in April.  
 “The court is unable to divine or fathom a relationship
between the findings and the immense scope of the moratorium,”
Feldman said in his 22-page decision. “The blanket moratorium,
with no parameters, seems to assume that because one rig failed
and although no one yet fully knows why, all companies and rigs
drilling new wells over 500 feet also universally present an
imminent danger.”  
 Separate Order  
 “The court cannot substitute its judgment for that of the
agency, but the agency must ‘cogently explain why it has
exercised its discretion in a given manner,’” Feldman said,
citing a previous ruling. “It has not done so.”  
 Feldman in a separate order yesterday “immediately
prohibited” the U.S. from enforcing the drilling moratorium,
finding the offshore companies would otherwise incur
“irreparable harm.”  
 Interior Secretary  Kenneth Salazar  said in a statement that
he will issue a new order on deepwater offshore oil drilling.  
 “We see clear evidence every day, as oil spills from BP’s
well, of the need for a pause on deepwater drilling,” Salazar
said. “Based on this ever-growing evidence, I will issue a new
order in the coming days that eliminates any doubt that a
moratorium is needed, appropriate, and within our authorities.”  
 White House press secretary  Robert Gibbs  told reporters
that “continuing to drill at these depths without knowing what
happened does not make any sense.”  
 Appeal Plan  
 The U.S. will ask Feldman to stay his ruling pending an
appeal, Justice Department attorney Michael Thorp said yesterday
at a court hearing in a separate lawsuit challenging the ban.
The government didn’t indicate how soon it will request a stay.  
 If Feldman denies the request to halt enforcement of his
order, the U.S. could file an emergency application to the U.S.
Court of Appeals in New Orleans to stay enforcement, said
 Anthony Sabino , a law professor at St. John’s University.  
 The appeals court isn’t likely to reinstate the moratorium,
said Sabino, an expert in complex federal litigation.  
 “The judge’s decision is the proper application of the
law,” he said in an interview. “There’s no question the
government’s action was extremely broad.”  
 Transocean Ltd. , which leased the Deepwater Horizon to  BP
Plc , jumped as much as 3.5 percent yesterday in New York Stock
Exchange composite trading after the decision was announced.
 Hornbeck Offshore Services Inc. , which brought the suit, surged
as much as 11 percent. Both later retreated, with Transocean
shares down $1.42, or 2.6 percent, to $52.49 and Hornbeck down
24 cents, or 1.5 percent, to $15.32 at yesterday’s closing.  
 Public Safety  
 The U.S. argued that the moratorium was necessary to assure
public safety.  
 “We need to make sure deepwater drilling is as safe as we
thought it was the day before this incident,” Brian Collins, a
lawyer for the government, told Feldman in a court hearing June
21. “It is crucial to take the time because to fail to do so
would be to gamble with the long-term future of this region.”  
 BP has two pipes collecting oil and gas from the ocean
floor. They collected 25,830 barrels of oil on June 21, the
biggest quantity diverted from the Gulf of Mexico since the
April 20 spill began, London-based BP said in a statement.  David Nicholas , a BP spokesman, declined to comment on the ruling,
saying the company wasn’t a party to the case.  
 Lawyers for the drilling companies told Feldman the
moratorium illegally sidesteps a required industry comment
period. They also said regulators failed to tell Obama that all
active deepwater rigs passed an immediate re-inspection after
the Deepwater Horizon exploded and sank, with only two rigs
reporting minor violations and the rest getting approval to
continue operations.  
 Louisiana’s Argument  
 Henry Dart, special counsel for the Louisiana attorney
general, told Feldman that federal regulators failed to consult
with state officials about the impact of the drilling ban,
allegedly violating U.S. law.  
 “Even after the catastrophic events of Sept. 11, the
government only shut down the airlines for three days,”
Louisiana said in court papers seeking to lift the ban.  
 Lawyers for the state and oilfield companies told Feldman
that the ban could cost as many as 20,000 jobs if the moratorium
lasted 18 months.  
 “The defendants trivialize such losses by characterizing
them as merely a small percentage of the drilling rigs affected,
but it does not follow that this will somehow reduce the
convincing harm suffered,” Feldman said. He said the economic
impacts of the ban would “clearly ripple throughout the economy
of this region.”  
 Feldman granted the injunction after finding it likely the
oilfield companies will succeed in proving “the agency’s
decision was arbitrary and capricious,” which violates federal
law governing policy decisions.  
 ‘Immeasurable’ Effect  
 “An invalid agency decision to suspend drilling of wells
in depths over 500 feet simply cannot justify the immeasurable
effect on the plaintiffs, the local economy, the Gulf region,
and the critical present-day aspect of the availability of
domestic energy in the country,” Feldman said.  
 Feldman’s ruling “is another bad decision in a disaster
riddled with bad decisions,” U.S. Representative  Edward J. Markey  said yesterday in a statement. “There are serious safety
risks that must be examined with these 33 deepwater rigs before
they start drilling again.”  
 The ban didn’t shut down the oil industry in the Gulf, the
Massachusetts Democrat said. “Ninety-seven percent of the
manned rigs in the Gulf of Mexico are up and running,” he said.  
 Oil Service Jobs  
 The “ruling by U.S. District Court Judge Martin Feldman is
an important step in returning thousands of oil service workers
to their jobs,”  Royal Dutch Shell Plc  spokesman  Bill Tanner 
said in an e-mailed statement.  
 “Shell remains confident in its expertise and procedures
to safely drill and complete deepwater wells.” Shell’s safety
standards often exceed regulatory requirements and include
rigorous training program for well engineers, Tanner said.  
 Kjersti Torgersen , a spokeswoman for  Statoil ASA  in
Houston, didn’t immediately return a call seeking comment.  Todd M. Hornbeck , CEO of Hornbeck Offshore, didn’t immediately return
a call for comment.  
 Realistically, not a lot has changed, said  Jud Bailey , an
analyst at Jefferies & Co. in Houston.  
 “It’s a small victory for the industry, but clearly the
administration has dug in its heels and is going to try to keep
this moratorium, come hell or high water,” Bailey said
yesterday in a phone interview. “Investors, as it relates to
the drillers, are for the most part staying away. There’s too
much uncertainty, too much headline risk.”  
 Bailey said he doesn’t think many operators would run out
and immediately try to resume operations. “You run the risk of
this getting overturned by the appellate court,” he said.  
 The case is Hornbeck Offshore Services LLC v. Salazar,
2:10-cv-01663, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of
Louisiana (New Orleans).  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Laurel Brubaker Calkins  in Houston at 
 laurel@calkins.us.com ;
 Margaret Cronin Fisk  in Southfield, Michigan, at   mcfisk@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Cranes load and unload ships normally used for offshore drilling operations in the Gulf of Mexico in Port Fourchon, Louisiana. Photographer: Derick E. Hingle/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 23 (Bloomberg) -- Louisiana State Treasurer John Kennedy talks about the outlook for deepwater oil drilling in the Gulf of Mexico and its impact on Louisiana's economy and culture.
     U.S. District Judge Martin Feldman yesterday granted a preliminary injunction, lifting a six-month moratorium President Barack Obama put in place May 27 on new deepwater drilling permits. The president also called for work to be stopped on 33 exploration wells. Kennedy speaks on Bloomberg Television's "InBusiness With Margaret Brennan." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 22 (Bloomberg) -- Jeffrey Rachlinski, a professor at Cornell University Law School, talks about a New Orleans federal judge's decision to lift the six-month moratorium on deepwater drilling imposed by President Obama.
     Rachlinski talks with Pimm Fox on Bloomberg's "Taking Stock." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
