-- U.S. Interest-Rate Swap Spreads Increase as Corporate Bond Issuance Slows
-- Daniel Kruger
-- 2010-06-22T19:03:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-22/u-s-interest-rate-swap-spreads-increase-as-corporate-bond-issuance-slows.html

          
          
             U.S. interest-rate swap spreads
widened on speculation that corporate bond issuance will slow,
requiring securities firms to engage in less hedging to lessen
the risk of swings in yields.  
 The difference between the rate to exchange floating- for
fixed-interest payments for two years and the comparable-
maturity  Treasury  note yield, known as the swap spread,
increased 1.69 basis points to 33.94 basis points. The 10-year
spread widened 2 basis points, to 4.5 basis points.  
 The 10-year spread had narrowed from 11.25 basis points on
June 7 as companies accelerated the pace of their borrowing,
trying to come to market ahead of a trend of yields rising
relative to Treasuries, said  Larry Dyer , a U.S. interest-rate
strategist at HSBC Holdings Plc in New York, one of 18 primary
dealers that trade with the Federal Reserve. The process is
similar to what happened in March, when 10-year swap spreads
turned negative for the first time, he said.  
 “Traders are very reluctant to defend a level in the
market” after losing money on bets the swap spread would not
fall below zero, Dyer said. “They are going to react to flows.
Today there were fewer corporate deals than feared, and so
traders were willing to push the spread out.”  
 Yields on current U.S.  two-year notes  slid two basis points
to 0.69 percent after the government’s auction of $40 billion in
two-year notes drew a record low yield of 0.738 percent and an
industry report showed U.S. sales of existing homes unexpectedly
fell last month. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point. The
Treasury  10-year note  yield dropped eight basis points to 3.17
percent, according to BGCantor Market Data.  
 Swap rates are usually higher than Treasury yields in part
because the floating payments are based on interest rates that
contain credit risk. Swap rates serve as benchmarks for
investors in many types of debt, including mortgage-backed and
auto-loan securities.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Daniel Kruger  in New York at 
 dkruger1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        