-- U.S., England Need World Cup Win to Clinch Spot in Round of 16
-- Christopher Elser
-- 2010-06-22T22:38:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-22/u-s-england-need-first-world-cup-win-to-clinch-spot-in-round-of-16.html

          
          
             England and the U.S., playing their
final World Cup matches in Group C, are looking for their first
wins. Victories today will ensure they advance to the Round of
16.  
 England takes on Slovenia, which has the group’s only win,
a 1-0 victory over Algeria. The U.S. plays the north African
team at the same starting time -- 10 a.m. Eastern time.  
 “We’re aware of what each result means,” American  Landon Donovan  said at a news conference two days ago. “Clearly if we
lose we’re done, and if we win we’re through. At this point, our
objective is very clear: Win the game and take all the other
stuff out of the perspective.”  
 England and the U.S. are favored to advance, according to
U.K. bookmaker William Hill.  Fabio Capello ’s England squad is 1-
2 to win, meaning a successful $2 bet will bring in the original
stake plus $1. Slovenia is 6-1 to win. The U.S. is 19-20 to get
past Algeria. The top two teams in each group advance.  
 The U.S. and England could end up tied after today’s
matches, and FIFA would decide which team moves on by drawing
lots. The teams are ranked by points from group matches,
followed by goal difference and then by the number of goals
scored in group matches.  
 “I don’t think anyone wants that,” U.S. defender Jay
DeMerit told reporters on June 19. “As players, as a team and
the fans, it shouldn’t come down to things like that. There’s a
lot of soccer to be played between all four teams. We need to
make sure we take care of things on our end and make sure it
doesn’t come down to things like that.”  
 England’s team has had squabbles between players and
Capello. The U.S. struggled early in its match with Slovenia,
trailing 2-0 at halftime. Goals by Donovan and Michael Bradley
evened the match. A tiebreaking goal by American Maurice Edu was
disallowed by referee Koman Coulibaly.  
 England’s situation came to a head when defender and former
captain  John Terry  said the players would give the manager
advice during a previously scheduled meeting after the two ties.  
 England Comes Together  
 Capello said the team has come together after the setbacks,
and dismissed newspaper reports of disharmony and boredom in the
camp of the 1966 World Cup champion.  
 “We trained very well today, compact, we know the game
tomorrow will be really important, not what one player can speak
about,” he said yesterday. “We are really focused on the
game.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Christopher Elser  in Polokwane, South Africa, at 
2284 or  celser@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        