-- UN May Complete Review of Hydro-Fluorocarbon Emission Credits by August
-- Dinakar Sethuraman
-- 2010-06-22T05:23:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-22/un-may-complete-review-of-awarding-hydro-fluorocarbon-credits-by-august.html

          
          
             The United Nations may complete by
August its review on the awarding of carbon credits for the
emission of greenhouse gases more damaging than carbon dioxide,
an official said.  
 A UN panel will present its findings on the methodology for
issuance of carbon credits for hydro-fluorocarbon (HFC)
combustion plants when the  UN Clean Development Mechanism  board
meets in Bonn in end-July,  Clifford Mahlung , chairman of the UN
CDM executive board, said in an interview today. HFC credits
make up about half the total CDM supply since 2005.  
 “We are investigating the methodology of HFC-23 credits,”
Mahlung said in an interview today at the Carbon Markets Asia
conference in Singapore. He declined to say if changes are being
made after allegations that developers are misusing HFC-23
projects to secure credits.  
 The European Commission, regulator of the EU program, said
last month that projects related to two industrial gases -- HFC-
23 and nitrous oxide -- create significant windfall profits and
may be banned after 2012. A proposed U.S. energy law bans HFC
credits.  
 The gas is a byproduct of HCFC-22, which is used for
refrigerators and air conditioners. HFC-23 plants combust the
potent greenhouse gas HFC-23 that can trap 11,700 times more
heat per molecule than carbon dioxide.  
 The UN has also started a move to trim the time required to
register carbon-credit projects under the CDM mechanism to 28
days from as long as two years after developers complained of
delays in securing approvals for issue of Certified Emission
Reduction units, Mahlung said.  
 Reduction Credits  
 EU allowances for December delivery rose 0.4 percent to
15.84 euros ($19.48) a metric ton on London’s European Climate
Exchange yesterday. UN Certified Emission Reduction credits for
December rose 1.13 percent to 13.44 euros a ton.  
 The UN is questioning the suitability of emission-reduction
projects as the U.S., Japan, Australia and other nations
consider trading programs that might allow use of offsets for
compliance. CDM offsets known as Certified Emission Reductions
credits are currently used for compliance in the European
Union’s carbon market, the world’s biggest.  
 The CDM mechanism allows companies in developed countries
to offset their greenhouse gas emissions by paying for
reductions in pollution output in developing nations. The CDM
market was valued at about $20.2 billion last year, the World
Bank said last month.  
 World carbon-dioxide emissions from energy use fell about
1.4 percent last year on reduced economic activity, according to
an analysis of BP Plc data. Nations released a combined 31.2
billion metric tons of the greenhouse gas in 2009, down from
31.64 billion tons in 2008, according to Bloomberg calculations
based on data and conversion factors in BP’s annual statistical
analysis. That was the first decline since 1998. Global
emissions rose about 1.8 percent in 2008, BP estimated.  
 Scrutiny and potential new UN restrictions will probably
curb issuance slightly for HFC-23 credits through 2012,  Emmanuel Fages , a Paris-based analyst with Orbeo, a venture of Societe
Generale SA and Rhodia SA, said on June 9. Total issuance of CDM
credits may fall as much as 30 percent to about 381 million tons
through 2012, Fages said on June 8. That’s because limits could
potentially curb HFC credits by as much as 60 percent, he said.  
 HFCs gained favor in the 1970s as an alternative to
chlorofluorocarbons, or CFCs, which scientists linked to the
depletion of the ozone layer. While HFCs don’t interfere as much
with the earth’s shield against damaging sunrays, they trap heat
and contribute to global warming.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Dinakar Sethuraman  in Singapore at 
 dinakar@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        