-- Unilever to Build More Factories in Indonesia as P&G Steps Up Competition
-- Jeroen Molenaar
-- 2010-06-23T09:50:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-22/unilever-to-build-more-factories-in-indonesia-as-p-g-steps-up-competition.html

          
          
             Unilever  plans to boost the amount
it spends building factories in Indonesia over the next two to
three years as it adds products to fend off  Procter & Gamble Co. 
in the world’s fourth-most-populous country.  
 Expenditure will “significantly increase” to about 200
million euros ($242 million),  Jan Zijderveld , head of Unilever’s
southeast Asian unit, said in an interview. A personal-care
factory in Indonesia is among four to five plants that the maker
of Dove soap aims to open in southeast Asia this year, he said.  
 “We’re growing fast in this part of the world,”
Zijderveld said by telephone from Singapore. “Part of the
challenge is to cope with this growth.”  
 Unilever, the world’s second-largest maker of consumer
products, gets about 50 percent of its 39.8 billion euros of
 annual revenue  from emerging markets. With P&G cutting prices in
countries including China and India, the London-and Rotterdam-
based company is relying on new versions of products such as a
Citra body cream soap bar to keep sales growing.  
 “Developing markets give Unilever an edge,” said  Martin Deboo , an analyst at Investec Securities in London. “If as a
company you’re exposed to high growth markets, your growth is
higher. That’s just simple arithmetic.”  
 Shares of PT Unilever Indonesia rose 2.3 percent to 17,800
rupiah in Jakarta trading, closing at the  highest level  in
almost 19 years. Unilever NV stock in Amsterdam traded at 23.50
euros as of 11:30 local time, a 0.4 percent decline.  
 Price Cuts  
 According to a June 9 report from the  World Bank , economies
in developing nations will grow as much as 6.2 percent annually
from 2010 to 2012, almost three times faster than high-income
countries. Growth in the East Asia and Pacific region will be
8.7 percent this year and 7.8 percent in 2011, the report said.  
 “The world is not flat,” Zijderveld said. “It’s sloping
towards Asia, so many competitors are also seeing this and
coming here and doubling down.”  
 In India, Unilever’s home and personal-care sales rose  5.5
percent  in the first quarter, lagging behind the 18 percent
growth in food revenue. The maker of Rin washing powder was
forced to lower prices to counter price cuts on P&G’s Tide
Naturals detergent. P&G, which started selling its  Tide  brand in
the country 41 years after Unilever introduced  Rin , reported a
30 percent increase in Tide shipments in that quarter.  
 In Touch  
 “In tough economic times you have to be even more in touch
with your consumer and understand what they want and need,”  Deb Henretta , P&G’s group president for Asia, said by e-mail.  
 Pricing isn’t confined to India and has been spreading to
other countries in the region, particularly in Unilever’s
laundry and hair categories, according to Zijderveld.  
 “We will not walk away from a fight,” the executive said.
“But it’s one of the weapons that we have in our arsenal and
it’s not the healthiest weapon. The name of the game is to grow
these markets.”  
 Zijderveld, who joined Unilever in 1988 and has worked in
Europe and the Middle East, sends sales representatives to visit
1 million shops in his region every week to market new products
from Omo detergents in Vietnam to Lifebuoy soap in Australia.
Unilever gets a growing proportion of its 4 billion euros of
sales in southeast Asia, Australia and New Zealand from new
introductions or renewed versions of brands, he said.  
 Old Spice  
 Three months after P&G introduced an Old Spice deodorant
stick in Indonesia, Unilever responded with a new format of its
Rexona deodorant lotion and stick, Zijderveld said.  
 Increased competition in southeast Asia is causing Unilever
to react faster to customer needs. An anti-bacterial version of
Surf washing powder was introduced in the Philippines this year,
only five months after Zijderveld walked the slums of Manila and
noticed some consumers were using anti-bacterial soap. Such a
process used to take as long as two years, he said.  
 “Speed is a key difference between the developing world
and the developed world,” Zijderveld said. “We build a factory
in Indonesia in seven months. Everything is fast here.”  
 Helped by the introduction of products such as Pepsodent
toothpaste in the Philippines,  sales growth  in Unilever’s Asia,
Africa and central and eastern European division has accelerated
for three consecutive quarters and rose 7.6 percent, excluding
acquisitions and currency swings, in the first quarter.  
 Yet Unilever has also cut prices in that division for two
straight quarters and may lower them another 2.5 percent in this
quarter, according to a Bloomberg survey of three analysts.  
 “The challenge for them is to continue to compete to
preserve volume growth,” said  Pierre Tegner , an analyst at Oddo
& Cie. in Paris. “That’s key for them.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jeroen Molenaar  in Amsterdam at 
 jmolenaar1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        