-- Uruguay, Mexico Advance at World Cup Tournament; South Africa, France Out
-- Alex Duff
-- 2010-06-22T17:41:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-22/uruguay-mexico-advance-at-world-cup-tournament-south-africa-france-out.html

          
          
             Uruguay and Mexico advanced to the
round of 16 at the World Cup, while host South Africa and France
were eliminated.  
 Luis Suarez scored the only goal as Uruguay won Group A
with seven points. South Africa beat 10-man France 2-1 to finish
tied with Mexico with four points, but lost out on progressing
as the second-place team on an inferior goal difference.  
 “If you look at the history of Uruguay over the last few
World Cups it means I’m really satisfied,” coach Oscar Tabarez
said at a news conference after Uruguay reached the round of 16
for the first time since 1990.  
 France, the 2006 runner-up to Italy, ended its tumultuous
World Cup in last place with one point from the three group
games.  
 “The first word that comes to mind is sadness,”  Raymond Domenech , who coached his final game for France today, said at a
news conference. “Sadness for all the supporters and sadness
for the players.”  
 Suarez scored the only goal in Rustenburg in the 43rd
minute when he headed in Edinson Cavani’s cross at the far post.  
 Mexico pushed for the tying goal in the second half as
hundreds of its fans at the stadium kept tabs on the score from
the other game in Bloemfontein. Its best chance came in the 64th
minute when defender Francisco Rodriguez directed a diving
header just wide after Pablo Barrera beat two defenders and sent
a cross into the penalty area.  
 Not Enough  
 “We are among the 16 best teams in the world and we’ll
have to fight with the other 15 to see who’s the best,” Mexico
coach  Javier Aguirre  told reporters.  
 South Africa’s victory wasn’t enough to prevent it becoming
the first World Cup host ousted in the initial group stage.
Mexico finished with a goal difference of plus-1, while South
Africa was minus-2.  
 “We always believed it was possible to qualify,” South
Africa captain  Steven Pienaar  told reporters. “People can’t say
that we didn’t give it our best.”  
 The host took the lead after 20 minutes as Bongani Khumalo
headed in Siphiwe Tshabalala’s corner kick. France went down to
10 men five minutes later when Yoann Gourcuff was red-carded
after elbowing MacBeth Sibaya as the two jumped for the ball.  
 Katlego Mphela increased the lead to 2-0 eight minutes
before halftime when he tapped in a cross from Tsepo Masilela.
Looking to improve its goal difference, South Africa pushed
forward in the second half.  
 Hit Post  
 Mphela hit the post just after the break and forced
goalkeeper Hugo Lloris into a diving save in the 58th minute.
Lloris then slid out to block another effort from Mphela, who
put the rebound into the side of the goal.  
 France virtually ended any South African hopes of advancing
as a wide-open  Florent Malouda  tapped in a cross from  Franck Ribery  in the 70th minute.  
 France was playing its first game since striker  Nicolas Anelka  was sent home for insulting Domenech at halftime of its
2-0 loss to Mexico on June 17.  
 The team refused to train two days ago in protest of the
French Football Federation’s decision to expel Anelka. Domenech,
who said he supported the move, benched captain  Patrice Evra 
today and gave the post to Alou Diarra.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Bob Bensch  in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net ;
 Alex Duff  in Madrid at 
 aduff4@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        