-- Verizon Chief Calls FCC Web Proposal `Overbearing'
-- Todd Shields
-- 2010-06-22T16:57:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-22/verizon-chief-says-web-regulation-plan-overbearing-may-hurt-investment.html

          
          
             The U.S. Federal Communications
Commission has proposed “overbearing” rules for phone and
cable companies that could dampen investment, said  Verizon
Communications Inc.  Chief Executive Officer  Ivan Seidenberg .  
 FCC Chairman  Julius Genachowski , reacting to a court
defeat, has proposed using rules written for telephone service
to regulate providers of high-speed Internet access, including
Verizon,  AT&T Inc.  and Comcast Corp.  
 The FCC is moving toward “an unimaginative and overbearing
set of rules,” Seidenberg said today in remarks to the  Economic
Club  of Washington. The FCC’s current course “will cause
uncertainty in the marketplace, create disincentives for
investment” and make the U.S. telecommunications industry less
competitive, he said.  
 Technology companies led by  Google Inc.  have supported
Genachowski’s proposals. Verizon, AT&T and the Washington-based
National Cable & Telecommunications Association, a trade group
with members led by  Comcast  and  Time Warner Cable Inc. , oppose
them and have said they want Congress to step in.  
 Last month, 74 House Democrats wrote to Genachowski and
said they have “serious concerns” with his proposal, and 171
House Republicans in a letter said applying telephone rules
could bring “severe” consequences, including less investment.  
 Net Neutrality  
 The FCC is holding talks with companies, seeking a
consensus that might lead to legislation, Chief of Staff  Edward Lazarus  said in an interview yesterday. He didn’t identify
participants.  
 Google, Skype Technologies SA and the  Open Internet
Coalition , whose members include Google,  Amazon.com Inc.  and
 EBay Inc. , met with Lazarus on June 18, according to a
 disclosure filing .  
 A U.S. court in April said the FCC lacked authority over
companies that provide Internet access, and the agency last week
asked for comments on how it may proceed to impose regulations.
It would need such power to adopt net-neutrality rules, which
forbid companies from interfering with subscribers’ Web traffic,
and to use subsidies for more home Internet connections.  
 At an FCC meeting in Washington last week, Genachowski
called his proposal “a middle ground” intended “to restore
the status quo light-touch framework” from before the court
decision in a case brought by Comcast.  
 Seidenberg, who is also the chairman of the  Business
Roundtable , a Washington-based association of chief executives,
criticized the government for policies that hurt companies’
ability to innovate and invest.  
 “We have become somewhat troubled by a growing disconnect
between Washington and the business community,” Seidenberg
said. “We see a host of laws, regulations and other policies
being enacted that impose a government prescription on how
individual industries ought to be structured.”  
 Seidenberg called for lower taxes, more exports,
infrastructure investment, and more education in science,
technology, engineering and math.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Todd Shields  in Washington at 
 tshields3@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Ivan Seidenberg, chairman and chief executive officer of Verizon Communications Inc. Photographer: Frank Polich/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
