-- Wall Street Gets Close to Stiffing Overhaul: Roger Lowenstein
-- Roger Lowenstein
-- 2010-06-22T01:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-22/wall-street-gets-close-to-stiffing-overhaul-roger-lowenstein.html

          
          
             Backroom trading in Congress has put
meaningful financial overhaul in jeopardy at the 11th hour.  
 In two key aspects of the legislation, the Senate has
refused to go along with the House version, undermining leverage
limits on big, risky financial firms in the first instance and
driving a knife through shareholder democracy in the second.  
 One clause in the House bill would be singularly effective
in preventing a repeat of the 2008 banking collapse. The other
would close a 75-year-old loophole in American corporate
governance, forcing boardrooms to, finally, become accountable
to shareholders.  
 Now, both are at risk. Take leverage limits first. Leverage
acts like a giant accelerator in the financial system. It
heightens the risk of financial crashes, and it magnifies losses
when crashes do occur. No wonder that in 2008, as in almost
every previous meltdown, excessive financial leverage played a
big part.  
 The House bill sets a hard limit of 15-to-1 for
systemically important firms. That is, big banks and other large
financial entities could never borrow more than 15 times their
equity. Regulators, including the  Federal Reserve , could enforce
even tighter limits, if they chose to, but they could never
allow firms to borrow more than that.  
 Bankers don’t like the idea of a hard and fast limit, and
neither do regulators at the Fed and Treasury, including  Tim Geithner , the Treasury Secretary. Not surprisingly, officials
would rather have the flexibility to set limits on a case-by-
case basis than be handcuffed by a hard cap.  
 Sounds Nice  
 Flexibility sounds nice in theory but in practice it hasn’t
worked. When the economy is roaring (as one day, it will be
again) banks are flush with profits and eager to make loans.
Bankers then insist there is little to fear, after all, they
know how to manage their risks.  
 Memories of past crises grow dim. Moreover, the bankers
will say, their clients are hungry for mortgages, leveraged
corporate loans and other forms of credit. Why put a brake on
the American economy? And regulators will go along. They did
last time.  
 David Moss, the Harvard Business School professor who
conceived of the cap, has argued that merely empowering
regulators isn’t enough.  Barney Frank , the House Financial
Services Committee chairman, gets this. Frank is determined to
fight for a 15-to-1 cap.  
 The Senate bill is in flux, but it is leaning toward a more
lenient 25-to-1 standard. That wide-open sieve wouldn’t have
stopped  Citigroup Inc . on its path to overleveraging and self-
destruction in 2008. Indeed, during the previous economic cycle,
regulators at the New York Fed (then run by Geithner) were aware
of Citi’s mounting risks, but didn’t move fast enough.  
 Hang Tough  
 Frank should hang tough. We need tough rules for regulators
as well as for bankers.  
 Now shareholder democracy. This issue predates the
financial crisis; in fact it harkens to the scandals of the
1920s. The problem is that shareholders have no effective way to
hold directors accountable. Proxy contests are all but rigged,
because incumbent directors use corporate funds to solicit
votes; dissidents must spend their own dough.  
 Typically, incumbents capture 99 percent of the votes. Not
even Hugo Chavez polls that high, and it is no wonder that
boards are so apt to ignore shareholder concerns. Since the
1990s, reformers have realized that the key to genuine democracy
is to grant legitimate non-management candidates access to the
company ballot (the proxy card that the board distributes and
that all shareholders pay for).  
 Too Much Democracy  
 The question is how to define “legitimate.” The
Securities and Exchange Commission has proposed a rule that
would allow nominations from minority shareholders that owned a
reasonable minimum of shares. Of course, nominees would still
have to win elections to join the board.  
 Even that dollop of democracy is too much for the  Business
Roundtable , the lobbying group for chief executives. The
Roundtable has been lobbying against proxy access since the idea
surfaced. Also, foes of shareholder access have threatened to
take the SEC to court if the agency dared to let the owners of a
business actually nominate directors.  
 In the pending financial reform, both chambers of Congress
clarified that the SEC is entitled to write such rules. However,
Senator  Christopher Dodd , with the apparent backing of the White
House, pulled the rug out, rewriting the provision so that only
a single shareholder with 5 percent of the stock could gain
proxy access.  
 Big Boys  
 Why is the White House siding with the big boys and against
open, democratic corporate elections? Shareholder access is a
crucial reform. The real impact wouldn’t be the handful of
dissident candidates who actually won. It would be the
realization by every director, that, potentially, he or she
could be replaced by majority vote. Sounds pretty American to
me.  
 Proxy access is the best weapon to curtail excessive
executive pay. Compensation committee chairs who ladled out huge
contracts would be especially vulnerable. Perhaps that’s why the
Roundtable is so afraid of a fair election.  
 Similarly, limits on financial leverage are the surest
route to curtailing credit bubbles. Opportunities for financial
reform don’t arise very often. The 2008 meltdown presented
Congress with a golden opportunity. It would be a shame if they
got this close and knuckled under.  
   Roger Lowenstein , author of the just-published “The End
of  Wall Street ,” is a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  
 To contact the writer of this column:
Roger Lowenstein at  elrogl@hotmail.com   
 To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        