-- Water-Resources Market Expands With U.S., Chinese Measures, Study Reports
-- Jeremy van Loon
-- 2010-06-22T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-22/water-environmental-market-expands-on-u-s-china-measures-study-reports.html

          
          
             Payments to protect fresh water
resources have grown in the last decade to become the second-
largest environmental market after carbon credits as China and
the U.S. safeguard dwindling supplies, according to a study.  
 Governments and investors paid $9.3 billion to protect
watersheds in 2008, the most recent year surveyed, compared with
less than $2 billion in 2000, according to the study released
today by Ecosystem Marketplace. The Washington-based analyst
studies environmental services such as forest preservation,
carbon sequestration and biodiversity.  
 China, the U.S. and Jordan are some of the countries
spending more money to protect water, about 70 percent of which
is traditionally used by agriculture. Two-thirds of the world
will face water shortages by 2025, the  International Union for
Conservation of Nature , based in Gland, Switzerland, estimates.  
 National and regional governments spent most of the $9.3
billion on payments for farmers and other landowners to
encourage land-use practices that protect watersheds and water
flows.  
 Jakarta preserves nearby forests because the trees shield
some 60 streams and rivers from evaporation and erosion,
according to the IUCN. That provides cheap drinking water to the
Indonesian capital, avoiding about $1.5 billion a year that
would be needed to import supplies from distant reservoirs.  
 Water trading involves exchanging credits created from
reducing pollutants such as nitrogen and phosphorus based on
water quality standards, such as those established by the U.S.
Environmental Protection Agency. The U.S. is the largest market
for water trading, Ecosystem Marketplace said.  
 Bloomberg LP, the parent company of Bloomberg News, is a
sponsor of  Ecosystem Marketplace .  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jeremy van Loon  in Berlin at 
 jvanloon@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        