-- Wayne Rooney, A-Rod Demonstrate Power of Sports: Scott Soshnick
-- Scott Soshnick
-- 2010-06-22T01:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-22/wayne-rooney-a-rod-demonstrate-power-of-sports-scott-soshnick.html

          
          
             The next time someone tries to say
that sports is frivolous, that grown-ups playing games is a
waste of time and brainpower, tell them about my son’s four-day
stint in the hospital.  
 Tell them about my time in the family lounge at New York’s
Weill Cornell Medical Center where, thanks to the likes of  Wayne Rooney ,  Alex Rodriguez  and  Kobe Bryant , complete strangers
started talking and eventually became friends.  
 My 1-year-old son contracted a bacterial infection in his
right eye that sparked memories of Tony Conigliaro after a
fateful fastball met his  face  instead of his bat. By Day 3 the
doctors were still seeking an effective antibiotic and talking
about sedation, orbital CT scans and worst-case scenarios.  
 Scared and helpless. I was hardly alone, though. You’re
never alone in the pediatric wing, not even in the middle of the
night when there’s always at least one anxious parent seeking
just a moment’s respite in the lounge.  
 The flat-panel television was always on and tuned to one
sporting event or another. There was no shortage of events from
which to choose, no matter the hour. There was World Cup soccer,
of course. Yankees and Mets baseball, too. And the Los Angeles
Lakers were playing the Boston Celtics in the National
Basketball Association Finals. Morning. Afternoon. Night.  
 At first, watching the games and highlight shows served as
nothing more than a momentary distraction from frayed nerves,
screaming babies and those incessantly beeping monitors. In
hindsight, though, those games meant much more.  
 Feelings, Fears  
 Seemingly inane conversation became a launching point for
catharsis and, in some cases, friendship. The games were a
conduit to shared feelings and fears.  
 Take the Orthodox Jewish man from Brooklyn whose 2-year-old
son was born with his stomach attached to his trachea instead of
his esophagus.  
 We started out talking about baseball. The father didn’t
know that Mets first baseman  Ike Davis  was Jewish. For the first
time in days he laughed. It’s hard to find good humor when your
son is back, yet again, for another procedure to widen his
esophagus. Soon, the doctors say, the boy won’t be limited to
pureed food. Not soon enough.  
 One of the hospital’s maintenance men, a burly guy with a
brown-bag dinner, found me in the lounge one morning around 3
a.m. We talked about basketball. He liked the Lakers. Liked Kobe
Bryant. Figured he’d get another title. He was right.  
 Taking a Break  
 He, too, sought solace, and not just sustenance, in the
lounge. He needed a physical break, yes, but a mental one, too,
he confided.  
 Part of his job is changing the garbage bags in the
patients’ rooms. He tries not to look, but he sees. Sees too
much. Sees all those kids, all those tubes, all those machines.
Thinks about his own children. Sometimes he cries. From that
moment I put our garbage bag just inside the door each night
(nurses didn’t want the garbage left in the hallway).  
 The janitor liked basketball, too. He fancied the Celtics.
He took time out of his duties every morning to watch my son
pound on the keys of a tiny piano, clapping, encouraging and
managing to elicit a smile. He asked for a concert every time.
My little guy was more than happy to oblige.  
 There was the Greek grandfather who spoke not a word of
English. Lucky for us there was a soccer game on television. No
words needed. Grunts and gesticulations were enough. Before long
the man worrying about his own granddaughter’s health was
holding my son’s hands, helping him to walk across the room.
Laughter doesn’t need a translator.  
 You Gotta Believe  
 There was the Spanish-speaking woman whose 6-month-old
grandson had already endured two heart surgeries. A late-
developing cough derailed plans for yet another. She was
watching soccer, too. My Spanish came in handy, first to discuss
the Mexican team and then her grandson’s condition. We offered
to help each other in any way possible. She said she was praying
for my son. I believe she did.  
 Then there was the father who didn’t like sports. His
indifference got us talking about his interests, including the
theater. I’ll always remember the sight of his little girl
running the hallways, dad trailing closely with the intravenous
drip pole shouting for her to slow down, especially around blind
corners.  
 Turns out his daughter, who was being treated for a post-
appendectomy fever, and my son were released from the hospital
within minutes of each other.  
 While saying our goodbyes the father said he would sample
the World Cup. He’d heard quite a few people talking about it in
the lounge.  
 Remember those angst-filled strangers fast becoming friends
the next time someone says sports is frivolous.  
 ( Scott Soshnick  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  
 To contact the writer of this column:
Scott Soshnick in New York at 
 ssoshnick@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        