-- Wells Fargo Aims Market-Linked CDs at `Nervous Nellies'
-- Zeke Faux
-- 2010-06-22T15:11:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-22/wells-fargo-sovereign-search-for-nervous-nellies-to-buy-structured-cds.html

          
          
             Investors seeking the safety of
government-insured certificates of deposit and a chance to
profit from market  rallies  may end up earning nothing and owing
taxes for their efforts.  
 Wells Fargo & Co. , the fourth-largest U.S. bank by assets
and deposits, and  Sovereign Bank , are among those providing
certificates of deposit tied to equity indexes, commodities or
currencies. Wells Fargo sold about $5 billion of these  market-
linked CDs  last year up from $90 million in 2002 and Sovereign’s
CD, which links to the performance of the  Standard & Poor’s 500
Index , has attracted $1 billion since October.  
 “Market-linked CDs are a great selling tool for nervous
nellies, but they don’t realize what’s involved,” said  Tom
Balcom , founder of Ibis Wealth Management in Boca Raton,
Florida. The products blend the potential for higher returns
than current time-deposit interest rates with safety, because
the principal is  insured  by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp.
If the index doesn’t gain, the investor may not earn anything.  
 Union Bank, a subsidiary of San Francisco-based  UnionBanCal
Corp. , is offering a 5-year CD this month tied to the  Dow Jones-
UBS Commodity Index  with gains capped at about 30 percent to 40
percent if the index rises. In one scenario, to earn the
equivalent of 5.38 percent annual interest, the index would have
to close at least 30 percent above its initial level at
maturity, according to the bank’s 42-page prospectus. The
minimum return is 0.98 percent a year over the term of the CD.  
 High Volatility  
 Structured CDs tend to sell better in times of high
volatility, said  Tom Orecchio , principal at Modera Wealth
Management, based in Westwood, New Jersey. Investors fled U.S.
equities for the sixth straight week, pulling $3.7 billion from
domestic stock funds in the period ended June 9, according to
data compiled by the Investment Company Institute, a trade group
in Washington.  
 “There are other ways to get similar returns without all
the complications,” Orecchio said.  
 Market-or-index-linked CDs are an estimated 15 percent to
20 percent of total volume in structured investments, about
triple the percentage before the financial crisis of 2008,
according to  Richard Couzens , New York-based head of product
origination for investor solutions at Barclays Capital, a unit
of Barclays Plc.  
 Barclays develops CDs linked to equities, commodities,
currencies, interest rates and inflation, and provides them to
broker dealers, registered investment advisers and private
banks, Couzens said, who declined to provide sales figures. They
typically are aimed at risk-averse investors, he said.  
 Structured Notes  
 Many firms that offer these products also sell structured
notes, which are bank bonds with yields linked to stocks that
don’t carry insurance. After Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. went
bankrupt in September 2008, leaving its structured notes worth
pennies on the dollar, banks began offering more of the CDs,
said  Matt Ginsburg , San Francisco-based head of the customized
investment solutions group at Wells Fargo.  
 “Because investors wanted FDIC insurance, you saw market
participants step up their issuance of CDs,” Ginsburg said.  
 The limit on deposit insurance was raised in 2008 to
$250,000 per account from $100,000, which also helped CD sales,
Ginsburg said. The limit is scheduled to return to $100,000
after 2013, leaving larger CDs uninsured, unless Congress acts.  
 “Investors are desperate for yield, the Fed has created a
zero interest-rate environment and it’s leading people to
stretch,” said  Frank Partnoy , professor at the University of
San Diego School of Law and a former derivatives trader. “The
banks are responding to that demand.”  
 Higher Fees  
 The products are attractive to sell because they generate
higher fees, Partnoy said. Commissions generally range from 1
percent to 3 percent, said Ginsburg.  
 Sovereign, a subsidiary of Spain’s largest bank  Banco
Santander SA , offers customers a package: a six-month,
traditional CD with 2 percent interest and a three-year CD that
pays 2.9 percent annually if the value of the S&P 500 Index is
higher than the purchase date at the end of every 12 months,
said  Nuno Matos , head of retail business for the company. If the
index doesn’t rise, the investor doesn’t earn any interest, he
said.  
 “Rates are very low on traditional CDs right now. As a
result, clients are sitting on cash,” said  Mark Valentino , vice
president and senior structured product specialist at Union
Bank. “By linking these CDs to various asset classes we’re able
to offer clients some growth potential and portfolio
diversification, along with some of the benefits that
traditional CDs have.”  
 Rate Calculations  
 Wells Fargo’s brokerage unit sells clients different types
of certificates tied to equity indexes, currencies or
commodities each month, said Tim Froehlich, director of
alternative investments at Wells Fargo Advisors, based in St.
Louis. In April the firm offered a 5 and a half-year CD linked
to the S&P 500 Index. Froehlich declined to comment on sales.  
 Savers should check whether the certificates are insured by
the FDIC or the financial institution offering them and how the
rate of return is calculated, said Colin Healy, managing
director in the Mill Valley, California, office of HighTower
Advisors.  
 Investors may miss out on market gains depending on when
the CD matures and what dates banks use to measure performance,
said Healy, whose average client has $5 million in investable
assets. For example, the market may be up and then dive a month
prior to maturity leaving an individual with little or no return
other than the principal, Healy said.  
 Tax Consequences  
 There also are tax consequences, Orecchio, the wealth
adviser, said. The investor has to pay taxes every year on the
implied interest income, which the bank estimates based on
comparable CD yields, even though the market-linked CD doesn’t
pay out until maturity, Orecchio said. An investor is taxed at
ordinary income rates, instead of lower capital-gains rates on
stocks, which for top earners may mean a levy as high as 35
percent compared with a 15 percent long-term capital-gains rate.  
 Disclosure statements provided to investors describe the
tax consequences of the products, said Wells Fargo’s Ginsburg.
Investors may be able to claim an ordinary income loss if they
pay taxes on more than they earn, according to the  Internal
Revenue Service.   
 Build Your Own  
 Investors can build their own market CD by purchasing a
type of  U.S. Treasury  security known as a zero-coupon bond
because it’s sold at a discount to the maturity value and
doesn’t make periodic interest payments, and then investing the
difference between the purchase price and the redemption amount,
said Healy.  
 For example, a saver might buy a zero-coupon bond priced at
about $910 on June 4 with a face value of $1,000 that matures in
February 2015, and invest the remaining $90 in an index fund
such as the S&P 500. The zero-coupon bond guarantees investors
their principal back and if the index does well they will
typically get the return with dividends, said Healy.  
 “The biggest thing you have to worry about is tying your
money up for five years,” Healy said. “By doing it yourself
you can unwind if interest rates increase or the market is doing
well.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Margaret Collins  in New York at 
 mcollins45@bloomberg.net ;
 Zeke Faux  in New York at 
 zfaux@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     A Wells Fargo & Co. sign sits on display outside the company's offices in San Francisco. Photographer: David Paul Morris/Bloomberg  
                      
      

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
