-- Wells Fargo, BofA Push Cross-Sales as Loans, Investments Lag
-- Dakin Campbell
-- 2010-06-22T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-22/wells-fargo-says-eight-is-great-as-banks-cross-sell-to-replace-lost-growth.html

          
          
             Bank of America Corp . and Wells
Fargo are pushing their customers to buy more brokerage, savings
and banking services from them as the weak economy and new
regulations make it harder to earn money from loans and
investment banking.  
 Known as cross-selling, the concept has been fruitlessly
pursued for decades by bankers eager to expand their business
without having to find new customers. Now, banks are counting on
cross-selling to replace some profit lost after the financial
crisis, according to Accenture Plc, which estimates returns on
equity could drop 21 percentage points from pre-crisis levels to
5 percent.  
 Profit  is under pressure after bank assets shrank by a
record 5.3 percent last year and consumer credit dropped 6.6
percent in 16 months, the most since World War II. Now Congress
is preparing new regulations on fees, credit cards, securities
and capital that may cut income at the 26 largest banks by $21
billion, according to Barclay’s Capital.  
 “The reason cross-selling has developed such a sense of
urgency is that they are just getting hammered on all of their
traditional sources of income,” said  Tony Plath , finance
professor at the University of North Carolina at Charlotte.
Cross-selling is so central to  Wells Fargo  that managers
mentioned it 108 times at last month’s two-day investor
conference, said Barclays analyst  Jason Goldberg .  
 Takeovers  
 The strategy could work this time because takeovers have
added millions of customers to cross-sell, U.S. lenders say.
Bank of America, the biggest by  assets , is trying to persuade
its 12 million customers to move funds from rival brokers to
Merrill Lynch, acquired at the start of last year. The bank also
wants Merrill clients to transfer some of the $500 billion they
have at other banks, according to a May 10 presentation.  
 Wells Fargo is using slogans like “Eight is Great” as it
exhorts employees to cross-sell at 6,590 branches, the most in
the U.S. It’s boosting  staff  20 percent at some of the 3,254
Wachovia Corp. outlets,  acquired  in 2008, where customers
average 4.85 products per household, compared with 6.02 at Wells
Fargo.  
 Consumer banking contributed almost two-thirds of revenue
last year at Bank of America, based in Charlotte, North
Carolina, and at percent at San Francisco-based Wells Fargo.  
 New DNA  
 In this environment, Bank of America must undergo a “DNA
change,” CEO  Brian T. Moynihan  has said. More cross-selling is
part of the transformation, which won’t be quick or easy,
Moynihan said in a June 3 interview.  
 “It is a multiyear effort,” Moynihan said. “You go
client-by-client.”  
 Wells Fargo CEO John  Stumpf said March 1 he’ll emphasize
cross-sales. “If we stay squarely focused on our customers,
cross-selling them, helping them, we’ll win,” he told
investors.  
 At best, cross-sales may restore three to five percentage
points to the industry’s return on equity, according to
Accenture. The tactic has been around “forever” with few
except Wells Fargo showing success, said analyst  Nancy Bush  at
NAB Research LLC in Annandale, New Jersey.  
 Among firms that championed the idea,  American Express Co. ,
added brokerage Shearson Loeb Rhoades and investment bank Lehman
Brothers in the 1980s, only to break up the combination in the
1990s. Citigroup Inc., recipient of the biggest U.S. bank
bailout, is dismantling the “financial supermarket” assembled
in the 1990s by  Sanford Weill , who tried to sell savings
accounts, insurance and investments.  
 Losing Proposition  
 Bank of America’s previous campaigns included selling home-
equity loans to existing customers, CEO  Kenneth Lewis  said in
December 2007. Home-equity losses since then total $12.9
billion.  
 There are pitfalls. Some banks offer enticements so
generous that they attract unprofitable clients, said consultant
 Richard Weissman , president of DMA Corp. in Beaverton, Oregon.  
 “Just selling doesn’t make it profitable,” he said.  
 With memories of the credit crunch still fresh, some
customers deliberately use more than one bank in case service or
solvency becomes doubtful, said  Jacob Jegher , senior banking
analyst with Boston research firm Celent.  
 Wells Fargo is focused on 3 million customers who keep more
than $250,000 for investments at other companies, according to
Senior Executive Vice President  David Carroll . One million of
its households hold banking and brokerage accounts; a 10 percent
increase could add $900 million to revenue, executives said
during the investor conference.  
 More Opportunity  
 The bank’s wealth, brokerage and retirement unit aims to
almost double its share of  net income  to 20 percent with help
from cross-sales, Carroll said. Last year, that would have added
at least $1 billion to Wells Fargo’s profit.  
 Bank of America’s cross-sales opportunities have been
bolstered by purchases of Merrill and home lender Countrywide
Financial Corp.  
 “We don’t think really anybody has had the type of
capability that we’re really talking about now,”  Joe  Price, who
runs consumer banking, said during the May presentation. The
company is focusing on deeper relationships with customers,
rather than how many products it sells, Price said in an
interview.  
 Business Clients  
 As for commercial customers, Bank of America asks loan
officers to refer more of their almost 200,000 mid-sized clients
to Merrill investment bankers. Wells Fargo wants to sell 8
products per business customer, up from 6.47 in December.  
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. , the second-biggest U.S. bank, sold
more than $6.9 billion of new mortgages and 616,000 new credit-
card accounts to customers of Washington Mutual, acquired in
September 2008, the New York-based bank said in a February
presentation. Spokesman  Thomas Kelly  declined to elaborate. New
York-based Citigroup is refining cross-selling strategies and
plans to build a team to offer more mortgages to depositors,
said spokesman  Stephen Cohen .  
 The field is crowded by banks, insurers and money managers
such as Fidelity Investments and Charles Schwab Corp., said
 Kathleen Shanley , senior bond analyst at GimmeCredit in Chicago.
While not faulting banks for trying, “the answer to earnings
growth is for the economy to rebound,” Shanley said.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 David Henry  in New York at 
 dhenry19@bloomberg.net ;
 Dakin Campbell  in San Francisco at +1-
   dcampbell27@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Cross-selling is so central to Wells Fargo that managers mentioned it 108 times at last month’s two-day investor conference, said Barclays analyst Jason Goldberg.. Photographer: David Paul Morris/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
