-- WestLB Aid Approval Is Delayed by European Union Amid `Complicated' Probe
-- Jann Bettinga
-- 2010-06-22T12:47:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-22/westlb-aid-approval-is-delayed-by-european-union-amid-complicated-probe.html

          
          
             European Union regulators delayed
final approval for state aid provided to German state-owned
lender WestLB AG, saying its investigation is proving more
complex than expected.  
 The European Commission , the EU’s executive arm, extended
temporary approval for the bank’s bailout until the ongoing in-
depth probe is concluded, the Brussels-based regulator said in
an e-mailed statement today. A final decision was originally due
by today, according to Dusseldorf-based WestLB.  
 Germany’s Soffin bank-rescue fund agreed last year to
provide WestLB with 3 billion euros ($3.7 billion) in capital to
help the lender shift about a third of its assets into a “bad
bank,” where they are being wound down. The commission said
today that evaluating the bad-bank assets has been more
complicated and time-consuming than anticipated.  
 “While the commission has now made significant progress on
the evaluation of the portfolio’s value, the actual aid amount
is still in question,” the regulator said. “The commission
therefore needs some more time to assess whether the asset-
relief measure complies with state aid rules.”  
 WestLB said in an e-mailed statement today its
reorganization is going as planned and that it’s convinced the
commission will give final approval “soon.”  
 It’s “not surprising” that the examination is still
ongoing, given the complexity of the matter, Soffin said in a
statement on June 19.  
 WestLB Sale  
 Soffin has said the sale of WestLB will start by Sept. 30
after it appointed  Friedrich Merz , a lawyer and former lawmaker,
to oversee the process.  
 The commission today also prolonged temporary approval of
state aid to Hypo Alpe-Adria Bank International AG, the Austrian
lender nationalized last year.  
 The regulator “doubts whether the bank has sufficiently
refocused its business activities” and whether it “will be
able to tackle the challenges from the weak asset quality in its
portfolio,” it said in the same statement.  
 “We consider the EU’s critique as a routine process,”
Hypo Alpe Chief Executive Officer  Gottwald Kranebitter , said in
a telephone interview. “We are a complex case, with operations
in 12 countries.”  
 The European Commission has sent Hypo Alpe questions, which
the bank is in the process of answering, Kranebitter said.  
 “We will bring verification for those parts of the bank
which we plan to continue operating,” he said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jann Friedrich Bettinga  in Frankfurt at 
 jbettinga@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        