-- Wheat Drops for Third Day as Advancing U.S. Harvest Swells Global Supplies
-- Supunnabul Suwannakij
-- 2010-06-22T13:02:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-22/wheat-futures-decline-as-advance-in-u-s-harvest-expands-global-supplies.html

          
          
             Wheat futures fell for a third day
in Chicago as the harvest progressed in the U.S., the world’s
largest exporter, boosting global supplies of the grain. Corn
and soybeans also dropped.  
 Wheat for September delivery fell 0.7 percent to $4.74 a
bushel on the Chicago Board of Trade at 2:14 p.m. Paris time.  
 About 17 percent of the U.S. winter-wheat crop had been
harvested as of June 20, beating last year’s pace, the U.S.
Department of Agriculture said yesterday. Farmers had reaped 9
percent last week, and 15 percent of the crop at the same time
last year.  
 “The U.S. harvest remains on track,”  Michael Pitts ,
director for commodity sales at National Australia Bank Ltd.,
said by phone from Sydney today. “That’s the main focus of the
market at the moment.”  
 Wheat farmers are off to a “good start” in the Oklahoma
panhandle region, where yields were 45 to 75 bushels an acre,
the Oklahoma Wheat Commission said in a report yesterday. The
state is the second-largest winter-wheat producer in the U.S.,
according to the USDA.  
 Stockpiles  of the grain in Australia, the world’s fourth-
largest exporter, were 11.15 million metric tons at the end of
May, up from 8.726 million tons a year earlier, the nation’s
Bureau of Statistics said yesterday.  
 Australian wheat stocks expanded as output rose amid
slowing export demand, Commonwealth Bank of Australia said in a
report yesterday. Swelling stockpiles will “likely maintain
pressure” on local prices, it said.  
 Corn Slides  
 Milling wheat for November delivery traded on NYSE Liffe in
Paris fell 0.2 percent to 140.75 euros ($172.80) a ton.  
 Corn for December delivery slid 0.6 percent to $3.725 a
bushel in Chicago, dropping for a second day.  
 China, the second-largest consumer of the grain, bought six
cargoes from the U.S. in the past two weeks, or 360,000 tons,
bringing purchases to 16 cargoes, or almost 1 million tons, two
executives familiar with the transactions said.  
 “A reasonable assumption for this year’s imports is
between 1 million and 2 million tons,” said  Yu Xiaomeng , an
analyst at private Beijing-based researcher Shennong Net. “The
overseas market had initially exaggerated purchases.”  
 Corn may fall to $3.20 a bushel by next month as the
“weather premium added last week could fade,” Societe Generale
SA said in a report yesterday. December-delivery corn rose 2.6
percent to $3.805 in the week ended June 18.  
 U.S. Rains  
 In the past week, rainfall was as much as six times normal
in Iowa and Illinois, the biggest producers of corn and
soybeans, and in Kansas and Oklahoma, the largest growers of
winter wheat, National Weather Service data show.  
 Corn and soybean crops in the U.S. deteriorated last week
because of excessive rainfall, the USDA said yesterday. About 75
percent of U.S. corn was rated in good or excellent condition as
of June 20, down from 77 percent a week earlier, the USDA said
yesterday.  
 Soybeans for November delivery slipped 0.1 percent to
$9.385 a bushel. Approximately 69 percent of the crop of the
oilseed earned the top ratings, down from 73 percent, the USDA
said.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Luzi Ann Javier  in Singapore at 
 ljavier@bloomberg.net ;
 Supunnabul Suwannakij  in Bangkok at 
 ssuwannakij@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        