-- Woe Britannia: No English at Wimbledon as Soccer Team Falters
-- Danielle Rossingh
-- 2010-06-22T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-22/woe-britannia-no-english-left-at-wimbledon-as-world-cup-team-struggles.html

          
          
             English sports fans might suffer
their second blow of the summer today: After the last player with
a connection to the country lost at  Wimbledon  their soccer team
may be bounced out of the World Cup.  
 As tennis fans gather at the All England Club for the third
day of the tournament, many will be keeping tabs on the national
team, which is playing Slovenia in Port Elizabeth, South Africa,
at 3 p.m. London time. The English have scored one goal in two
games and need to win to be assured of advancing.  
 At Wimbledon, no English men made the draw for the first
time in the event’s 133-year history. All five English women
lost in the first round, which wrapped up yesterday. And the
only remaining hope -- Yonkers, New York, native  James Blake ,
whose mother is English -- was beaten in straight sets.  
 “It’s a great shame,” said Gill Moy, a 66-year-old
retiree from Wirral, northwest England, who got up at 5:30 a.m.
to line up outside the grounds of the All England Club for
tickets. “It’s embarrassing that we need someone like James
Blake. We should be producing our own players.”  
 England’s lack of success at Wimbledon has been
overshadowed by the soccer team in the media. The team, ranked
eighth in the world by governing body FIFA, played to ties with
No. 14 U.S. and No. 30 Algeria.  
 The Sun  newspaper used a variation of a  Winston Churchill 
quotation to sum up England’s performance in its 0-0 tie against
Algeria last week.  
 “Never in the field of World Cup conflict has so little
been offered by so few to so many,” the paper headlined on June
19.  
 Fan Concern  
 England’s struggles are weighing on tennis fans, too.  
 “The team spirit is gone,” said Moy’s husband, Roger.
“They’re all individuals and they are all doing it for
themselves. There is a lack of a will to win.”  
 Blake, meanwhile, represented the only hope for English
tennis fans after  Alex Bogdanovic , Daniel Evans and Josh Goodall
were knocked out in the qualifying stages. The 172nd-ranked
Bogdanovic, Britain’s No. 2 after Scotsman  Andy Murray , wasn’t
given a wild card this year after losing all his eight previous
first-round matches at Wimbledon.  
 Yesterday at the All England Club, Blake lost to Robin
Haase of the Netherlands in straight sets: 6-2, 6-4, 6-4.  
 “It’s shocking,” said Paul Handly, a 39-year-old baggage
handler who was born in London and lives in Sydney.  “All the
money that’s put into the sport, and still they can’t produce
anybody. We were supporting James, but there really should be
more people from England in the tournament.”  
 ‘Elitist Sport’  
 The annual income from the Wimbledon championships, which
rose 14 percent last year to 29.2 million pounds ($43.4
million), is invested in British tennis.  
 “Tennis is still regarded as an elitist sport here,” said
Roger Moy. “It’s still quite expensive, and it’s taking a
backseat in school to other things.”  
 Blake, 30, said he had hoped local support would get him
through the opening round of the grass-court major. His mother,
Betty, grew up in Banbury, Oxfordshire, about 81 miles (130
kilometers) north of London.  
 Ranked fourth in the world in 2006, the former Harvard
University economics student has slumped to No. 109 in the
rankings as he struggled with injuries.  
 “I’ve had some pretty good support at Wimbledon,” Blake
said last week in an interview at a warm-up grass-court
tournament in Eastbourne, England. His first match after a 10-
week break from the ATP World Tour to mend tendinitis in his
knees ended in a defeat to France’s  Julien Benneteau .  
 Secret Englishman  
 “The secret’s out and people know that I am half-
British,” said Blake. “It’s a good feeling to have fans here,
too. My mom loves it, she loves when the newspapers pick up on
it. It just reminds people that I am not just American and that
I have some roots here.”  
 In second-round matches scheduled today, defending champion
 Roger Federer  plays Serbian Ilija Bozoljac, while five-time
champion  Venus Williams  faces  Ekaterina Makarova  of Russia.  Andy Roddick , a runner-up to Federer last year, meets France’s
 Michael Llodra .  
 Yesterday, second-seeded  Rafael Nadal , a Spaniard, won and
top-seeded woman  Serena Williams  of the U.S. advanced.  
 Murray, as a Scot the only player left in the draw from the
British Isles, won 7-5, 6-1, 6-2 against the Czech Republic’s Jan
Hajek. No Briton has won the men’s tournament since  Fred Perry  
in 1936.  
 “It’s not great, is it?,” Murray said in a news
conference.  
 To contact the reporter for this story:
 Danielle Rossingh  at Wimbledon through the London newsroom at
   drossingh@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     England's only remaining hope James Blake, whose mother is English, was beaten in straight sets. Photographer: Hamish Blair/Getty Images  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
