-- Woodside Asks Labor Body to Stop Crane Drivers Strike at Pluto LNG Project
-- James Paton
-- 2010-06-23T05:10:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-22/woodside-petroleum-says-pluto-project-remains-within-market-s-expectations.html

          
          
             Woodside Petroleum Ltd.  asked
Australia’s national labor tribunal to stop a strike that is
threatening delays at its A$13 billion ($11 billion) Pluto
liquefied natural gas project.  
 A dozen crane drivers and forklift operators seeking pay
raises began striking on April 28, affecting work by mechanical
and electrical contractors, Perth-based Woodside said in a
statement to the Australian stock exchange today.  
 Australia’s second-largest oil and gas producer reiterated
that it is set to start LNG exports in early 2011, even though
the dispute and prior strikes have disrupted construction at
Pluto.  Workers at the site in Karratha, about 1,600 kilometers
(994 miles) north of Perth, ended an eight-day strike over
accommodation in January.  
 Woodside plans to file an application with Fair Work
Australia to suspend the strike, it said today. The company
described it as “protected industrial action.”  
 The gas producer’s  shares  declined 1 percent to A$44.83 at
2 p.m. Sydney time, while the S&P/ASX 200 Index dropped 1.2
percent.  
 In February,  Woodside  said it implemented a plan to fulfill
commitments to customers should strikes delay the Pluto venture,
one of more than a dozen proposed LNG projects aimed at tapping
rising Asian demand for cleaner-burning fuels. Woodside said in
November that the cost to build Pluto would jump by as much as
A$1.1 billion, partly because of higher labor expenses.  
 Pluto is set to begin by the end of February, with first
LNG exports by the end of March, Woodside said. “However,
continued industrial action would delay mechanical construction
activities and consequently impact the project schedule and
cost.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 James Paton  in Sydney   jpaton4@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        