-- World Cup May be Second-Best Attended After 1994 Edition, Organizers Say
-- Janice Kew
-- 2010-06-22T13:28:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-22/world-cup-may-be-second-best-attended-after-1994-edition-organizers-say.html

          
          
             The soccer World Cup in South Africa
is on course to attract about 3 million spectators, making it
the second-best attended in the tournament’s history after the
1994 event in the U.S., organizers said.  
 As the 64-match contest reached the half-way mark
yesterday, all matches have started on time and many have
attracted near-capacity crowds. Traffic congestion has caused
fans to miss games in some of the nine host cities.  
 “It’s a wonderful success story so far,”  Danny Jordaan ,
head of the tournament’s local organizing committee, told
reporters in Johannesburg today. The transportation system has
improved “since the opening match. Out of 32 matches, only four
had no-shows” with less spectators than expected.  
 While the opening match between South Africa and Mexico in
Soweto, Johannesburg, was attended by 84,490 people in a stadium
with a “gross capacity” of 88,460, games in Port Elizabeth and
Polokwane were criticized for the number of empty seats, leading
to an investigation into transportation arrangements.  
 Tickets sales for the tournament, which is being held in
Africa for the first time, have also drawn criticism. They were
initially available over the internet in a country where 10.8
percent of the 49.3 million population has access to the
internet. That compares with a world average of 26.6 percent and
75.3 percent in Germany, where the last World Cup was held,
according to internetworldstats.com.  
 Emerging Markets  
 “Over-the-counter sales should have been introduced
earlier,” Jordaan said. “FIFA will need to take to Brazil the
idea that access to the Internet in emerging markets is more
limited.” Brazil is due to host the next World Cup in 2014.  
 South Africa’s government spent about 34 billion rand ($4.5
billion) on stadiums and transport links to host the world’s
most-watched sporting event, while the host cities and 10
provincial administrations contributed more than 9 billion rand.
About 44,000 police officers were assigned to safeguard fans and
players.  
 “We view the tournament not as an end in itself but as a
catalyst for development whose benefits would be felt long after
the final whistle,” South African President  Jacob Zuma  said in
an e-mailed copy of a speech made in Johannesburg today.  
 About 3.5 billion rand was injected into the South African
economy in the first week of the tournament, Jordaan said.  
 “You cannot quantify how South Africa feels about the
country and how the world views us,” he said. “The image
makeover cannot be quantified.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Mike Cohen  in Cape Town at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net ;
 Janice Kew  in Johannesburg at 
 jkew1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        