-- Gator Sauce Subs for Oyster as BP Oil Spill Pares N.Y. Menus
-- John Detrixhe
-- 2010-06-22T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-22/world-cup-gator-sauce-sub-for-oysters-shrimp-as-spill-pares-n-y-c-menus.html

          
          
             Mara’s Homemade was “days away”
from leasing a space that would have doubled its capacity in New
York’s East Village, when the restaurant, which sourced 85
percent of its menu from Louisiana, postponed expansion
following the worst oil spill in U.S. history.  
 “I guess I was in denial that oysters wouldn’t really be
affected, that oil wouldn’t get into the marshlands,” said
David Levi, who purchases the restaurant’s ingredients and is
married to its owner and namesake.  
 “People go around the country and say you can’t get a
bagel like you can in New York, and that’s true. You can’t get
food like you can in south Louisiana,” Levi said.  
 The Louisiana seafood industry has been hit hard since a
rig operated by  BP Plc  exploded April 20 in the Gulf of Mexico,
leaving a well gushing as much as 60,000 barrels of oil a day,
according to a government estimate. The spill has washed ashore
in four states.  
 Mara’s is trying to compensate for shortages of Gulf
oysters and shrimp with new menu items, like cafe au lait and a
Cajun-style hamburger seasoned with the same marinade the
restaurant uses for alligator dishes. Mara’s is considering
filing a  claim  for damages with BP.  
 BP executives met last week with President  Barack Obama  at
the White House and agreed to place about $20 billion over
several years into a fund to compensate residents along the Gulf
of Mexico. The London-based company is seeking at least $5
billion in loans to cover costs estimated by  Standard Chartered
Plc  to reach $40 billion.  
 Crazy Margins  
 Mara’s estimates it’s losing about $3,000 to $4,000 a week
on canceled menu items and tighter margins.  
 “Just oysters alone, it’s over $1,000,” he said.
“Margins are going crazy.”  
 Gulf Coast sales accounted for about $639 million of the
$3.85 billion U.S. market for seafood as of 2008, according to
the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration. In pounds,
the haul accounts for one-quarter of the U.S. catch, excluding
Alaska and Hawaii.  
 Brasserie, in midtown Manhattan, has replaced Gulf shrimp
with those from Thailand.  
 “It’s a very good product and comparable in flavor and
size,” said  David Pogrebin , general manager of Brasserie.
“We’re paying close attention to what’s happening” in the Gulf
of Mexico.  
 While prices for Gulf products may be rising, overall
seafood costs have fallen, said  Eric Ripert , chef of Le
Bernardin in Midtown. Le Bernardin mostly uses fish from North
Atlantic waters aside from Gulf Red Snapper and hasn’t had to
change its menu because of the spill.  
 Old Oyster Dealer  
 “I think the snapper is a great fish,” Ripert said. “We
never prioritize the price, we prioritize the quality.”  
 Louisiana is the largest U.S. oyster producer, with as much
as 40 percent of the domestic crop and contributes $318 million
to the state economy, according to the state’s Department of
Wildlife and Fisheries.  
 Mara’s bought most of its oysters from New Orleans-based
P&J Oysters, the oldest continually operating oyster dealer in
the U.S. according to its website. P&J, located in the French
Quarter, sold about 70,000 oysters a day and shucked about
30,000 before the spill, and it is now experimenting with
distributing pre-shucked oysters from the West Coast, said Sal
Sunseri, co-owner and vice president of P&J.  
 “So far it’s been a negative response,” Sunseri said.
“It’s not the same quality, texture or flavor.”  
 The company, which plans to file a claim with BP, now sells
about 20,000 oysters a day and expects that amount to decline,
he said.  
 After its oyster supply was cut short following the spill,
Mara’s started buying Delaware oysters at  Fulton Fish Market  in
the Bronx, New York, and is using increased traffic from the
World Cup to serve lunch again, hoping to make up for narrower
margins, Levi said.  
 “In the restaurant business, it’s not what you sell it
for, it’s where you go to buy it,” Levi said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 John Detrixhe  in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     From left, David, Mara and Josh Levi pose at Mara's Homemade in New York. The family business is feeling the effect of the oil spill in the gulf. Photographer: Paul Goguen/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Delaware Bay oysters at Mara's Homemade in New York. Oysters are on short supply in the wake of the biggest oil spill in U.S. history.  Photographer: Paul Goguen/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     A Bayou Burger with remoulade, Cajun sauce, sauteed onions and pepper jack cheese at Mara's Homemade in New York. Burgers are a good substitute for seafood which is harder to find in the wake of the oil spill in the Gulf. Photographer: Paul Goguen/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     A Cajun Burger with Cajun wing sauce, shredded celery and carrots, ranch dressing and blue cheese at Mara's Homemade in New York. Burgers are a good substitute for seafood which is harder to find in the wake of the oil spill in the Gulf. Photographer: Paul Goguen/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     The exterior of Mara's Homemade is shown in New York. After its oyster supply was cut short following the spill, Mara's started buying Delaware oysters at Fulton Fish Market in the Bronx. Photographer: Paul Goguen/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Tables are set at Mara's Homemade in New York. Mara's is trying to compensate for shortages of Gulf oysters and shrimp with new menu items. Photographer: Paul Goguen/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Oyster boats are docked after after the oyster beds where the harvest were shut down due to the BP Deepwater Horizon offshore oil well spill in Empire, Louisiana. Photographer: Derick E. Hingle/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Workers remove plants covered in oil ashore from the BP Plc Deepwater Horizon drilling rig oil spill in Port Fourchon, Louisiana. Photographer: Derick E. Hingle/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
