-- World-Wheat Production Less Than Forecast on Weather Damage, Rabobank Says
-- Tony C. Dreibus
-- 2010-06-22T16:47:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-22/world-wheat-production-less-than-forecast-on-weather-damage-rabobank-says.html

          
          
             World wheat production will be less
than the  U.S. Department of Agriculture  estimated this month
because unusual weather reduced yields in the Northern
Hemisphere, Rabobank Agri Commodity Markets Research said.  
 The USDA’s June 10 estimate of 668.5 million metric tons is
about 8 million tons too high, Rabobank said today in an e-
mailed report. Crops have been hurt by dry conditions in Europe,
winterkill in Russia and nearby Black Sea-area countries and wet
weather in Canada, Rabobank said. U.S. hard-red wheat in the
southern Great Plains is suffering from low protein content, the
bank said.  
 Global output in the marketing year that ends on May 31,
2011, will total 660 million tons, and the USDA probably will be
forced to reduce its estimates once crop problems become more
evident, Rabobank said.  
 “Current production forecasts from the USDA appear
overdone for Canada, Europe and the Black Sea region,”  Luke Chandler  and  Doug Whitehead , London-based analysts for Rabobank,
wrote in the report. “Wheat markets have reacted sharply to
these recent production setbacks.”  
 Wheat futures for September delivery fell 1.25 cents, or
0.3 percent, to $4.76 a bushel at 11:29 a.m. on the Chicago
Board of Trade. Last week, futures gained 4.5 percent as wet
weather kept farmers from seeding grain in Canada and collecting
wheat in the U.S.  
 Surpluses will be less than forecast after extremely cold
weather hurt plants in Ukraine and Russia as they emerged from
winter dormancy, Rabobank said. Production in the Southern
Hemisphere is expected to be bigger than normal as Argentina
harvests more, according to the report.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tony Dreibus  in Chicago at 
 tdreibus@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        