-- Yuan Falls Most Since December 2008
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-06-22T09:51:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-22/yuan-falls-most-since-december-2008.html

          
          
             China’s yuan declined the most since
December 2008 on speculation the central bank will intervene to
limit gains after dropping a two-year peg to the dollar.  
 The yuan weakened 0.23 percent to 6.8136 per dollar as of
5:30 p.m. in Shanghai, according to the China Foreign Exchange
Trade system. The 12-month non-deliverable forward was little
changed at 6.6402, reflecting bets for 2.9 percent appreciation
in one year’s time.  
 China is seeking to allow the yuan to strengthen to deflect
criticism from its trading partners and curb inflation, while
protecting a recovery in its exports. The central bank, which
has accumulated $2.4 trillion in foreign-exchange  reserves  by
intervening in currency markets, said on June 20 it will prevent
“excessive” exchange-rate moves.  
 “The central bank is trying to let the market know that
its preference in this round of exchange-rate reform is a
gradual appreciation of the yuan,” said  Li Wei , an economist at
Standard Chartered Plc in Shanghai.  
 The yuan surged 0.42 percent yesterday, the biggest
increase since July 2005, and climbed a further 0.1 percent
initially today. The exchange rate isn’t too far from
equilibrium, the central bank  said  on June 20.  
 Reference Rate  
 The People’s Bank of China set the yuan’s daily reference
rate 0.43 percent stronger at 6.7980 per dollar, compared with
6.8275 yesterday. That was the biggest daily increase in five
years. The currency is allowed to fluctuate 0.5 percent either
side of that rate.  
 “The fixing was at yesterday’s spot close, which indicates
that true to their word, they are allowing market forces to play
a greater role in determining the renminbi’s value,” said  Mirza Baig , a Singapore-based currency strategist at Deutsche Bank AG,
the world’s largest foreign-exchange trader.  
 Chinese authorities had prevented the currency from
strengthening against the dollar since July 2008 to help
exporters cope with the global financial crisis. The currency
appreciated 21 percent in the three years after a managed float
against a basket of currencies was introduced in 2005.  
 Gains this time round may be limited because the yuan has
already strengthened 18 percent against the euro this year,
eroding earnings for Chinese exporters in the European Union,
the nation’s largest market. The yuan has climbed 0.9 percent
against the euro so far this week.  
 Europe Concerns  
 Authorities will “ensure the exchange rate’s fluctuation
is controllable and prevent the possibility of market forces
causing excessive adjustment in the rate,” the central bank
said in a June 20 statement. It noted that 16.3 percent of
China’s trading volume is with the EU, compared with 12.9
percent for the U.S., making it important to manage the yuan
with reference to the basket of currencies.  
 The euro dropped as much as 0.3 percent to 1.2276 per
dollar, the weakest level in three days.  
 Europe’s debt crisis has added to pressure on exporters’
earnings. Swift Umbrella Co., based in the southern Chinese
province of Fujian, was forced by European buyers to cut prices
6 percent this year, Xu Youchuan, sales manager, said in a June
2 interview.  
 “The markets are overreacting on the yuan-reform news,”
said  Paul Chan , Hong Kong-based chief investment officer at
Invesco Asia Ltd., which has about $11 billion under management.
“The yuan will appreciate only gradually. Europe is a huge
trade partner of China, and if China wants a managed currency
basket, they may not want the yuan to appreciate that much.”  
 Bonds Steady  
 Government bonds were little changed on speculation that a
shortage of funds at banks curbed demand.  
 The seven-day  repurchase rate , a measure of lending costs
between banks, jumped 20 basis points to 2.84 percent, according
to a daily fixing rate by the National Interbank Funding Center.
The rate reached 3.2 percent June 1, the highest level since Oct.
2008.  
 “Tighter funding availability damped investors’ demand for
debt,” said  Huang Yanhong , a bond analyst at Bank of Nanjing
Co., a Chinese lender partly owned by BNP Paribas SA. “We need
to see if the yuan rate will rise steadily after the shift in
the exchange-rate policy. We may see more capital inflows, which
might help ease the liquidity shortage.”  
 The yield on the 2.33 percent note due in June 2013 was 2.5
percent, and the price was 99.52 per 100 yuan face amount, the
funding-center data showed.  
 -- Judy Chen ,  Patricia Lui ,  Belinda Cao . Editors: Sandy Hendry,
 James Regan   
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Judy Chen  in Shanghai at 
 xchen45@bloomberg.net 
 Belinda Cao  in Beijing at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     China’s yuan declined the most since December 2008. Photographer: Nelson Ching/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 21 (Bloomberg) -- Qu Hongbin, chief China economist at HSBC Holdings Plc, talks with Bloomberg's Haslinda Amin about China's currency policy. 
     China said on June 19 it will allow a more flexible yuan, signaling an end to the currency’s two-year-old peg to the dollar a week before a Group of 20 summit in Toronto. Qu, speaking from Hong Kong, also discusses the outlook for China's economy and the nation's demand for U.S. Treasuries. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
