-- Yuan Gain May Alter Shape of Global Growth More Than Velocity
-- Alex Tanzi
-- 2010-06-22T03:52:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-22/yuan-s-advance-may-alter-shape-of-global-expansion-rather-than-velocity.html

          
          
             China’s shift toward a stronger
exchange rate may alter the shape of the world economy’s
expansion more than its speed, economists said.  
 Chinese consumers might buy more as the rising yuan boosts
their purchasing power, while their counterparts in the U.S. cut
back on their spending as the cost of goods imported into
America rises. The shift will add 0.1 percentage point to 
global growth this year and next, leaving the rate at about 
4 percent, according to the median of 17 forecasts in a 
Bloomberg News survey of economists.  
 “This currency move is likely to affect the composition 
of global gross domestic product rather than the growth rate,”
said  Nariman Behravesh , chief economist at IHS Global Insight 
in Lexington, Massachusetts, who hasn’t changed his forecasts 
for an expansion of 3.8 percent this year and 3.6 percent in 
2011.  
 A stronger yuan may make the recovery more durable by
reducing its reliance on debt-laden American consumers. That
would be welcome news for leaders of the Group of 20, who are
meeting in Toronto on June 26-27 to take stock of the outlook
for the world economy.  
 The yuan today surrendered some of its increase from
yesterday, when it climbed the most since a July 2005
revaluation. It traded at 6.81 per dollar as of 11:34 a.m. in
Shanghai. The drop indicated that officials will encourage two-
way fluctuations in the exchange rate, even as they anticipate
the currency will appreciate over time.  
 Export Reliance  
 China’s central bank said June 19 it will increase
flexibility in the yuan, marking an end to the crisis policy of
pegging to the dollar. A day later, the People’s Bank of China
said the shift would reduce the economy’s “overreliance on
exports,” indicating an expectation for the yuan to rise.  
 Stocks in Asia retreated today after a surge yesterday
stoked by optimism that the PBOC move was a vote of confidence
in the sustainability of the global recovery. The  MSCI Asia
Pacific Index  dropped 0.5 percent to 118.61 at 11:43 a.m. in
Hong Kong after a 2.6 percent advance yesterday.  
 In the U.S., equities surrendered early gains yesterday on
concern a stronger yuan would increase costs at retailers. The
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index slipped 0.4 percent to 1,113.20
after rising as much as 1.2 percent in the first hour of 
trading. All 30 stocks in the  S&P 500 Retailing Index  
retreated, with Macy’s Inc. and J.C. Penney Co. leading with 
declines of more than 3 percent.  
 Net Plus  
 While U.S. consumers will pay more as a result of the rise
of the yuan, the move is a net plus for the world economy
because it lessens the risk of a hard landing in China and a
protectionist backlash in the U.S., said  Mark Zandi , chief
economist at Moody’s Analytics Inc. China has been trying to
prevent overheating of its economy after first-quarter  economic
growth  of 11.9 percent.  
 “It’s a very positive development,” said Zandi, who is
based in West Chester, Pennsylvania. “It will make it easier
for the Chinese to control their economy. It will keep global
protectionist barriers down.”  
 The longer-term benefit to the world economy may be to make
it less susceptible to a cycle of boom and bust by shifting away
from its reliance on U.S. spending, which in turn is financed by
Asian savings, said  Torsten Slok , an economist at Deutsche Bank
AG. A U.S.  savings rate  of 3.6 percent in April is about a 10th
of China’s, the highest among major economies.  
 Cause of Crisis  
 It was that mixture that helped spark the recent financial
crisis and global recession as China recycled the dollars it
accumulated from exports into U.S. debt, depressing global
yields and fanning housing and credit booms.  
 “We need rebalancing and this means the U.S. has more
exports and China has more domestic consumption,” Slok said.  
 G-20 leaders agreed in September to seek a “pattern of
growth across countries that is more sustainable and balanced.”
President  Barack Obama  last week said “the signals that
flexible exchange rates send are necessary to support a strong
and balanced global economy.”  
 Some economists cautioned that China’s decision might do
more harm than good for the global economy.  
 “It’s wrong for the U.S. to force China to destabilize the
renminbi,” said  Robert Mundell , a professor at Columbia
University in New York and a Nobel Prize-winning economist,
using another term for the yuan.  
 ‘Source of Stability’  
 Mundell told reporters in Hong Kong yesterday that China’s
currency peg has been “a great source of stability” for the
world economy and called the move to abandon it “political.”  
 A rise in the yuan could also fan global inflation as other
currencies weaken, said  Bernard Baumohl , chief economist at the
Economic Outlook Group LLC in Princeton Junction, New Jersey.  
 “A more expensive yuan can heat up inflation pressures in
the U.S. and elsewhere and that is the last thing the Federal
Reserve wants to worry about right now,” he said.  
 Allen Sinai , chief global economist at Decision Economics
in New York, said the Fed is more worried about disinflation
than inflation. Excluding food and energy costs, U.S. consumer
prices rose 0.9 percent in May from a year earlier, the smallest
increase since 1961.  
 “A fixed exchange rate is often one of the ingredients of
a boom-bust economy,” Sinai said. “By letting their exchange
rate slip upward -- I expect it to rise 5 to 10 percent a year 
-- the Chinese are protecting their own economy from a bust.”  
 Jim O’Neill , chief economist at Goldman Sachs Group Inc.,
said China’s embrace of greater currency flexibility leaves him
“bullish” by reinforcing his view that the world economy will
expand 4.9 percent this year and 4.5 percent in 2011.  
 “It’s a sign that the Chinese policy makers are more
confident about their ability to adjust from a low value-added
export economy to one that’s got domestic factors at the core,”
O’Neill said. “That’s the most important takeaway.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Alex Tanzi  at   atanzi@bloomberg.net ;
 Rich Miller  in Washington 
 rmiller28@bloomberg.net ;
 Simon Kennedy  in London at 
 skennedy4@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     The yuan climbed the most since a July 2005 revaluation yesterday after China’s central bank said June 19 it will increase its flexibility, marking an end to the crisis policy of pegging to the dollar. Photographer: Qilai Shen/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
