-- Yen Rises Versus Major Counterparts After Unexpected U.S. Home Sales Drop
-- Oliver Biggadike
-- 2010-06-22T21:09:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-22/yuan-falls-most-since-december-2008-on-signs-central-bank-will-curb-gains.html

          
          
             The yen rallied against all 16 of
its most-traded counterparts after a report showed existing-home
sales in the U.S. unexpectedly fell in May, spurring speculation
growth may be slowing in the world’s largest economy.  
 The dollar advanced against all major currencies except the
yen, pound and franc. The pound extended gains after Fitch
Ratings said the U.K.’s emergency budget was a “strong
statement of intent” to tackle public finances. The euro fell
the most versus the yen in more than two weeks amid speculation
European banks will struggle to raise money.  
 “Housing is going to continue to be a drag on the
economy,” said  Alan Kabbani , a senior currency trader at Wells
Fargo & Co. in Charlotte, North Carolina. “The market is
consolidating to see how the U.S. and the global economy will
react.”  
 The yen gained as much as 1.2 percent against the euro, the
most on an intraday basis since June 7, to 110.86 yen before
trading at 111.14 at 5 p.m. in New York, up 0.9 percent. It rose
0.6 percent to 90.57 per dollar, from 91.11 yesterday.  
 The euro declined 0.3 percent versus the dollar to $1.2271
after strengthening yesterday to $1.2487, the highest level
since May 24.  
 U.S. stocks tumbled after swinging earlier between gains
and losses, with the  Standard & Poor’s 500  Index dropping 1.6
percent. It climbed as much as 1.2 percent yesterday after China
pledged to add flexibility to the yuan’s fixed exchange rate.  
 Euro, Stocks  
 The 22-day percentage correlation between the euro and the
S&P 500 was 79 percent, after touching 80 percent yesterday. It
was 26 percent in March. A reading of 100 would mean the pair
moved in lockstep.  
 The U.K. will impose a levy on banks and raise the sales
tax as part of what the government called its biggest peacetime
deficit cut. Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  forecast
growth will decline to 1.2 percent this year and 2.3 percent in
2011. The measures are aimed at guarding the nation’s top credit
rating without strangling the economic recovery. Sterling
appreciated 0.4 percent to $1.4816.  
 “The U.K. budget doesn’t appear to be particularly painful
for the recovery,”  Brian Dolan , chief strategist at FOREX.com,
a unit of online currency trading firm Gain Capital in
Bedminster, New Jersey. “They seem to be avoiding a lot of the
more painful cuts in spending, tax increases on a broader
basis.”  
 Existing-Home Buys  
 Purchases  of previously owned homes in the U.S., which are
tabulated when a contract closes, decreased to a 5.66 million
annual rate, figures from the National Association of Realtors
showed today in Washington. The median forecast in a Bloomberg
News survey was for a rise to a 6.12 million pace.  
 The euro extended a decline that was triggered by
speculation that China’s central bank will move to limit gains
in the yuan after loosening a two-year peg to the greenback.  
 The Chinese currency weakened the most since December 2008,
falling 0.2 percent to 6.8130 per dollar.  
 The yen has risen 10.5 percent this year, the best
performance among the Group of 10 currencies, according to the
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Currency Indices. The euro was
the worst performer, falling 9.7 percent.  
 Speculation that European banks will have difficulty
raising money supported demand today for the yen as a refuge.  
 ‘Funding Problems’  
 “Some banks have started facing increasing funding
problems,” European Central Bank governing council member
 Christian Noyer  said yesterday at a conference in Paris. “The
situation reflects a general state of uncertainty which, left
unchecked, could have significant consequences on financial
stability.”  
 The euro is poised to fall to a one-week low of $1.2215 in
the next two days after a “bearish engulfing” overwhelmed
traders who had been buying it, according to Barclays Plc. The
shared currency yesterday touched a high of $1.2487 and a low of
$1.2304, surpassing both its high and low of the previous day.  
 The pattern is “indicative of near-term exhaustion,”
 MacNeil Curry , a technical analyst at Barclays in New York, said
yesterday in a telephone interview. “I would be inclined to say
we’re going to see new lows, but on a short-term basis, a very
short-term basis like the next session or two, $1.2215 would be
an initial point.”  
 The Swiss franc appreciated against the euro after Swiss
National Bank Vice Chairman  Thomas Jordan  said there’s no need
to intervene to stem the currency’s rise as the threat of
deflation has largely disappeared. The comments came on Swiss
TV’s Eco program last night. The franc traded at 1.3589 per
euro, up 0.8 percent, after strengthening to a record 1.3586.  
 The Federal Reserve’s Federal Open Market Committee began a
two-day meeting today and will release a policy statement
tomorrow. It will hold the benchmark rate steady at zero to 0.25
percent, according to economists in a Bloomberg survey.  
 “While the FOMC is still likely to anticipate moderate
growth, it may tweak several factors lower, giving a softer cast
its overall assessment,” analysts including  Marc Chandler , New
York-based global head of currency strategy at Brown Brothers
Harriman & Co., wrote in a research note today.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Catarina Saraiva  in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net ;
 Oliver Biggadike  in New York at 
 obiggadike@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        