-- Judge OKs probe into Countrywide practices
-- By Jonathan Stempel
-- Wed Apr 2, 2008 8:43pm EDT
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2008/04/03/businesspro-countrywide-probe-dc-idUSN0243229420080403

 

 NEW YORK  (Reuters) - A federal judge has granted the U.S. 
Department of Justice wide authority to probe whether 
Countrywide Financial Corp CFC.N abuses the bankruptcy 
process, rejecting the largest U.S. mortgage lender's claim 
that the ruling could cause havoc for the lending industry. 

  Judge Thomas Agresti of the U.S. bankruptcy court in 
Pittsburgh said the Office of the U.S. Trustee, an arm of the 
Justice Department that oversees bankruptcy cases, has the 
authority to conduct examinations and demand documents, so long 
as it exercises "good cause" and doesn't overreach.  While Tuesday's decision does not bind other bankruptcy 
courts, it could influence judges in other courts as the 
Justice Department pursues alleged abuses by Calabasas, 
California-based Countrywide. U.S. trustees have also filed 
lawsuits in courts in Florida, Georgia and Ohio.  "The U.S. Trustee has made a showing of a common thread of 
potential wrongdoing," Agresti wrote in his 50-page opinion.  "The apparent point of Countrywide's argument is that 
recognizing the authority of the U.S. Trustee to conduct these 
examinations could have the unintended consequence of leading 
to an unregulated 'free-for-all,"' he continued. "The court 
find's Countrywide's argument ... to be without merit."  Countrywide did not immediately return a call seeking 
comment, but has said it does not discuss pending litigation.  In January, the lender agreed to be acquired by Bank of 
America Corp ( BAC.N ), the second-largest U.S. bank, in a 
transaction now valued at about $4.2 billion. Bank of America 
also did not immediately return a call seeking comment.  The Justice Department has scheduled public hearings on the 
merger for later this month in Chicago and Los Angeles.  According to Agresti's opinion, the regional trustee had 
alleged misconduct by Countrywide in 293 separate cases.  The trustee cited allegations that Countrywide was making 
inaccurate claims, filing court papers unnecessarily and 
demanding improper fees and charges.  She sought information on whether the lender properly 
handled mortgage payments, and correctly calculated both escrow 
balances and how far borrowers had fallen behind on payments.  Countrywide objected, saying the trustee was exceeding her 
powers and was not a "watchdog" for the bankruptcy process.  "The U.S. Trustee's attempt is ... a device to launch into 
a wholesale investigation of a non-debtor's private business 
affairs," Thomas Connop, a partner at Locke Lord Bissell & 
Liddell LLP who represents Countrywide, said at a February 28 
hearing.  "There are 5,000 cases where Coutnrywide is involved," he 
added. "Who can guess how many are involving other mortgage 
lenders, how many involve credit card companies (and) how many 
involve automobile financing companies?"  The judge disagreed, and added that he was unaware of "any 
clamor" for trustees to investigate other lenders.  "The decision in this matter should not be based on a 
scenario that will likely never occur," he wrote.  (Editing by  Richard Chang ,  Gary Hill )