-- Northwest to cut capacity to counter high fuel
-- 
-- Thu Apr 3, 2008 6:41pm EDT
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2008/04/03/businesspro-northwestair-dc-idUSN0343975620080403

 

 WASHINGTON  (Reuters) - Northwest Airlines Corp NWA.N will 
park aircraft and cut domestic capacity by an estimated 5 
percent later this year and take other steps to counter 
skyrocketing fuel costs, the company said on Thursday. 

  The airline said it hopes cost reductions and revenue 
enhancements like previously announced fuel surcharges, higher 
fares, and new fees for bags, will improve its bottom line by 
$100 million on an annual basis.  "These increased costs are significant and call for a 
strong response from us," said Northwest Chief Executive Doug 
Steenland.  The move comes after Northwest and Delta Air Lines Inc 
( DAL.N ) failed to seal a merger deal last month after pilots 
from both airlines failed to reach agreement on how they would 
work together. The companies wanted labor support before 
proposing a deal to shareholders.  Delta announced capacity cuts last month, including a 
proposal to eliminate 2,000 jobs, mostly through buyouts and 
attrition.  Other airlines also have trimmed growth plans to stem the 
impact on high oil prices. Industry finances are growing 
steadily bleaker when fuel costs, sagging domestic travel 
demand and a weakening economy are weighed.  Northwest shares lost about 2 percent to close at $9.21 on 
the New York Exchange. Shares gained slightly in after hours 
trading.  The biggest U.S. airlines have been hurt by soaring fuel 
prices and low-fare competition that makes it hard for them to 
raise fares to cover sharply rising costs. In response, 
airlines have sought ways to bolster revenue and cut expenses.  Northwest, which will remove between 15 and 20 mostly older 
aircraft from its fleet.  The company has suspended plans to hire more pilots and 
flight attendants.  The carrier, which emerged from Chapter 11 bankruptcy 
protection last year during which it slashed employee pay and 
benefits, said it has no plans to seek wage concessions with 
these new moves.  Northwest is expanding international service to maximize 
revenue from premium business customers, and will review 
whether changes to that schedule are needed later this year.  Other airlines also are trimming growth plans with jet fuel 
prices soaring on crude oil costs exceeding $100 per barrel.  After peak summer travel concludes in September, Northwest 
will reduce its scheduled domestic system capacity by about 5 
percent versus the 2008 business plan. Full-year available seat 
miles, a measure of available seats, are expected to flatten or 
drop slightly compared with 2007 on domestic flights, Northwest 
said.  The aircraft reductions will include DC-9s and a mix of 
Boeing Co ( BA.N ) 757s and Airbus ( EAD.PA ) A320s and A319s.  Northwest also said it is reducing non-aircraft capital 
expenditures for 2008 by about $100 million to $150 million.  As of December 31, 2007, Northwest's unrestricted cash on 
hand was $3 billion.  (Reporting by  John Crawley ; Editing by  Gary Hill  and Carol 
Bishopric)