-- Real Madrid Agrees to Sell TV Rights for $1.4 Billion
-- Alex Duff
-- 2006-11-20T17:35:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2006-11-20/real-madrid-agrees-to-sell-tv-rights-for-1-4-billion-update3-.html

          
          
             Real Madrid, soccer's richest club by
sales, agreed to sell television rights to its games through 2013
to production company Grupo Mediapro for 1.1 billion euros ($1.4
billion), in what it called a record deal for a sports team.  
 ``This agreement is a new landmark in the history of this
club,'' Real Madrid said in a statement on its Web site, adding
it had accepted the biggest offer with ``the most solid''
guarantees. It's more than double what Madrid currently gets.  
 Real Madrid, whose squad includes  David Beckham  and
Ronaldo, is further increasing its income after last year ending
Manchester United's eight-year stint as soccer's richest club.
Sogecable SA, Spain's biggest pay-TV company which dominates
coverage of soccer in the country through its Canal+ stations,
will have to pay Mediapro more to transmit games, said Fabian Lares, a Madrid-based analyst at Espirito Santo.  
 Sogecable had a contract with Madrid until 2008, though the
Mediapro deal takes effect this season, the club said without
going into detail. Sogecable is also paying more to air European
champion Barcelona's matches after Mediapro in June bought the
rights for about 1 billion euros for seven years.  
 Sogecable  shares  rose 2.2 percent to close at 26.15 euros
in  Madrid , though are down 23 percent this year. Sogecable said
it had no immediate comment on the new contract.  
 The shares gained today because of a perception that
Mediapro and Sogecable are working in conjunction, Lares said.
In June, Sogecable had said it was consulting its lawyers after
Barcelona announced its accord with Mediapro.  
 ``The war is over,'' Lares said in a phone interview.  
 Income Streams  
 Mediapro also bought the rights of Sevilla, the UEFA Cup
champion, on Nov. 16. Joan Bonareu, a spokesman for Barcelona-based Mediapro, which is closely held, wasn't immediately
available for comment today.  
 Television rights are one of the most important income
streams for top soccer clubs, and Madrid's TV revenue is now
challenging that of other leading European teams including
 Italy 's Juventus and AC Milan.  
 Traditionally, the value of Spanish TV rights has been
diluted because national legislation requires one league game
per week on free-to-air TV. Real Madrid got 64.6 million euros
from TV rights in the year through June 30 2005, 39 percent less
than Juventus.  
 The method of TV rights sales varies between countries.
Unlike in the Spanish system,  England 's Premiership TV rights
are marketed by the league in multiteam packages of games rather
than sold by individual clubs.  
 Trophy Drought  
 Manchester United  had broadcast income of 72 million euros
in 2004-05, according to accountant Deloitte & Touche LLP, with
Chelsea on 82 million and Liverpool on 76 million. Leading the
field was AC Milan with 138 million as it reached the  Champions
League  final against Liverpool.  
 Real Madrid didn't disclose what other offers it had for
the new contract. The club's revenue in the year to June 30 2005
increased 17 percent to 275.7 million euros. It will disclose
its earnings for the last financial year Dec. 3.  
 Madrid is boosting income even after failing to win a
trophy the last three seasons, its worst stint in 53 years. It's
third in the Spanish league after 11 of 38 games, three points
behind leader Barcelona. Sevilla is second.  
 Mediapro shareholders include WPP Group Plc, the world's
second-biggest advertising group, which has a 20 percent stake.
Mediapro has a stake in La Sexta,  Spain 's newest channel which
shows one Spanish league game per week.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Duff in Madrid at 
at  aduff4@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Ludden in London at 
 jludden@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        