-- Recession Repeat Lurks Without White House Truce: Amity Shlaes
-- Amity Shlaes
-- 2009-12-15T02:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2009-12-14/recession-repeat-lurks-without-white-house-truce-amity-shlaes.html

          
          
             “Fat cats” is what President
Barack Obama just called bankers. He also invited them to the
White House this week.  
 The reason for the mixed message is that the president is
cross with banks: they have refused to heed his orders to lend.
The dynamic of preachy executive and elusive lenders recalls the
mid-1930s, when a petulant Franklin Roosevelt gave a label to
banks’ puzzling behavior: “capital strike.”  
 In the 1930s, the capital strike was followed by the
depression of 1937-38 within the Depression. Today too, capital
ponders going on strike. And without big policy changes the
economy will face similar consequences.  
 Consider the parallels. In 2009 government seems to be
spending enough for the cash to flow all around. The scope of
this effort to drown the nation in money is unprecedented. In
the mid-1930s Washington was also dumping dollars around in a
then-unprecedented fashion. In 1936, federal outlays outpaced
state and local spending for the first time with the nation not
at war.  
 Another similarity: a government that won’t say when the
spending will stop. The Obama administration is generous with
timetables when it comes to foreign policy, but withholds them
when it comes to domestic budgeting.  
 Withholding was also a feature of the mid-1930s. In a
comment reminiscent of presidential adviser Lawrence Summers,
Senator Robert Wagner of New York told citizens in 1935 that
that the U.S. would “maintain our public efforts until private
businesses take up the slack.”  
 A third big parallel is exceedingly low interest rates.  
 Flawed Assumption  
 What causes the strike? For one thing, White House
assumptions that the banks are the same institutions that they
were at the start of the economic crisis. Bear Stearns, Lehman
Brothers and Countrywide Financial may be gone, but the
bitterness of their experience has been internalized by
commercial and investment banks alike. So they hesitate.  
 Observing that banks maintained what had once been
considered ample reserves, 1930s monetary authorities reasoned
that increasing reserve requirements on paper would have little
effect: their increase was merely a de facto recognition of an
accumulation that had already occurred.  
 The authorities forgot these bankers had been burned. The
wary banks reacted by stashing away yet more cash. The result
was an unforeseen tightening and less cash in the economy.  
 Election cycles also contribute to capital strikes. Banks
today know that whatever the White House says, it has to stop
pouring out the cash eventually, probably after midterms. Banks
in the 1930s held onto cash because they knew Roosevelt would
stop spending after the 1936 election, and he did.  
 House Winnings  
 High taxes, or the prospect of tax increases, do damage as
well. In 1937, a tire company executive explained the effect of
Roosevelt’s confiscatory rates upon the investor: “He will not
risk financing new ventures if the government take is greater
than that of the average gambling house.”  
 Infantilizing the private sector also makes it shut down.
In the 1930s, Roosevelt, like Obama, alternated between coddling
banks and companies and giving them the equivalent of a good
spanking. Both can be counterproductive. The editors of Time
magazine formally recognized that by printing a regular rubric
over its weekly reports: “Last week the U.S. Government did the
following for and to U.S. Business…”  
 The insistence on executive discretion is a real killer as
well. Adolf Berle, Roosevelt’s assistant secretary of state,
sounded for all the world like Hank Paulson or Timothy Geithner
when he argued in the late 1930s for a “modern financial tool
kit.” Tool kit means “let me fiddle around” and not “let us
agree together on rules and abide by them, together.”  
 Dow’s Retreat  
 The results of the 1930s capital strike were wicked. The
Dow Jones Industrial Average erased two years worth of gains,
heading to Hoover-era levels. Unemployment, in the lower teens,
leapt to almost 20 percent.  
 What stops a strike? Not the too-big-to-fail doctrine. Then
and now, it is better to make clear the private sector is
responsible for itself. That’s what current calls for return to
the old Glass-Steagall Act separation of the banking and
brokerage businesses are about.  
 Business wants autonomy and respect. In a February 1939 New
York Times article, a writer, Howard C. Calkins, gave voice to
the longing for White House consistency: “By ‘following
through’ its apparently revised attitude toward business
generally the government would be going a long way toward
rebuilding the confidence of business men, in the opinion of
many in Wall Street.”  
 In the late 1930s the government finally did back off. That
was in part because of New Deal fatigue. Roosevelt critics made
gains in the 1938 midterms. But it was also because the White
House needed a partner, an equal, to prepare for World War II.
Companies that had recently been in court fighting the
administration for their lives now were winning enormous Lend-
Lease contracts from that same administration.  
 Traditional explanations for the Depression’s end focus on
war spending or monetary easing. It is this truce, however, that
is relevant today.  
 (Amity Shlaes, senior fellow in economic history at the
Council on Foreign Relations, is a Bloomberg News columnist. The
opinions expressed are her own.)  
 To contact the writer of this column:
Amity Shlaes at  amityshlaes@hotmail.com   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          Dec. 14 (Bloomberg) -- Robert Kelly, chairman and chief executive officer of Bank of New York Mellon Corp., talks with Bloomberg's Peter Cook about the meeting between executives from the largest U.S. banks and  President Barack Obama.
     Obama met with Kelly and executives from Bank of America Corp., Wells Fargo & Co., JPMorgan Chase & Co. and other financial institutions as he seeks to ratchet up pressure on banks to extend more credit to small businesses and ease opposition to regulatory overhaul. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
