-- Thai Government to Seize ITV After Midnight March 6
-- Beth Jinks
-- 2007-03-02T06:14:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2007-03-02/thai-government-to-seize-itv-after-midnight-march-6-update1-.html

          
          
             ITV Pcl (ITV) , a Thai broadcaster
controlled by Singapore's Temasek Holdings Pte, will be seized
by the government if it can't pay 100 billion baht ($2.8 billion)
in penalties by midnight of March 6.  
 The Thai government will revoke ITV's television concession
if the fine and back-fees aren't paid by the deadline, said
Julayuth Hiranyawisit, permanent secretary at the Prime
Minister's Office. ITV's name and management will also change,
he added, as rival  MCOT Pcl (MCOT)  runs the network from March 7.  
 ``The new team will take control after midnight, when the
concession will be canceled and new management can start
working,'' Julayuth said today. The network will be re-named
TITV, which stands for Thailand Independent Television.  
 The move will put all six free-to-air Thai networks in the
hands of the government, installed by the military after former
Prime Minister Thaksin Shinawatra was deposed in a September
coup. ITV is part of Shin Corp., which was sold by Thaksin and
other investors to a group led by Temasek,  Singapore 's state-
owned investment company.  
 ITV said Feb. 28 it can't pay the penalties. The fines
arose because ITV was granted reduced concession fees and a cut
in the number of hours it had to devote to news and educational
programs by an arbitration panel in 2005. Thai courts later
overturned the decision and ordered ITV to pay 2.2 billion baht
in back-fees and interest, as well as a 97.8 billion baht fine.  
 Julayuth said he expects ITV, which had a  loss  in 2006
because of fees and interest payments, to turn in a profit this
year without the ``concession burden.'' He added that revenue
for the year should match those in 2006.  
 MCOT will lend 400 million baht to ITV to run its
operations in the first four months, and the station's revenue
should be sufficient to keep the business going after that
period, he added. MCOT will get at least 10 percent of ITV's
profit as a management fee.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Suttinee Yuvejwattana in Bangkok at 
 suttinee1@bloomberg.net 
Beth Jinks in Bangkok at   bjinks1@bloomberg.net ;  
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Linus Chua at   lchua@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        