-- Billionaire Kumar Birla to Raise Stake in Hindalco
-- Debarati Roy
-- 2007-03-02T13:39:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2007-03-02/billionaire-kumar-birla-to-raise-stake-in-hindalco-update1-.html

          
          
             Billionaire Kumar Mangalam Birla
plans to raise his stake in  Hindalco Industries Ltd. (HNDL) ,  India 's
biggest aluminum maker, to remain majority shareholder as the
company prepares to buy Novelis Inc. for $6 billion.  
 Hindalco plans to sell to Birla 67.5 million shares and 80
million warrants for as much as 26 billion rupees ($588 million),
or 178 rupees a share, Mumbai-based company said today. Birla's
stake will increase to 34 percent from 26.79 percent.  
 Hindalco last month agreed to buy Novelis to gain access to
U.S. customers including General Motors Corp. and Coca-Cola Co.
The company's  shares  are the worst-performers on the benchmark
Sensitive index the past month on concern the acquisition, to be
funded by $2.8 billion of debt, may stretch its finances.  
 ``Investors will view this as promoters betting their money
on the decision'' to buy Novelis, said Arvind Desai, the head of
research at Mumbai-based Niche Brokerage Pvt. ``Founders raising
their stake may be positive news for the stock.''  
 Shares of Hindalco rose 0.5 percent to 137.85 rupees at the
close of trading on the Bombay Stock Exchange. The stock slumped
21 percent last month, the most since May 2006.  
 Hindalco will seek approval from shareholders on March 28.
Each warrant will be converted into one share, the company said.  
 The company hired ABN Amro Holding NV and UBS AG to borrow
$2.4 billion to fund its leveraged buyout of Novelis, Pragnya Ram, company spokeswoman said Feb. 15. Hindalco's total debt
will increase to $5.2 billion after the acquisition, according
to a statement by  Fitch Ratings .  
 `Adverse Impact'  
 Crisil Ltd., an Indian unit of  Standard & Poor's , put its
long-term rating of AAA/Stable on ``rating watch with negative
implications,'' while reaffirming the short-term grade of P1+ on
short-term debt. Standard & Poor's and Moody's Investors Service
don't rate Hindalco's debt.  
 ``The proposed acquisition cost is significantly larger
than the company's net worth of about 95 billion rupees'' as of
March 31, 2006, Crisil said Feb. 12. ``Hindalco is proposing to
fund this acquisition primarily through debt which will have an
adverse impact on the capital structure of the company.''  
 The acquisition of Novelis is the second-largest overseas
takeover by an Indian company, after Tata Steel Ltd. agreed to
buy Corus Group Plc, the U.K.'s top steelmaker, for $12 billion
in January to become the world's fifth-biggest steelmaker.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Debarati Roy in Mumbai at 
 droy5@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        