-- Security Capital Bond Insurer Grade Cut to A By Fitch
-- Christine Richard
-- 2008-01-24T15:51:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2008-01-24/security-capital-bond-insurer-grade-cut-to-a-by-fitch-update1-.html

          
          
             Security Capital Assurance Ltd.,
hobbled by deterioration in its financial guarantee portfolio,
lost its AAA bond insurer grade at  Fitch Ratings , throwing the
rankings of at least $154.2 billion of securities in doubt.  
 Fitch cut its rating five levels to A on Hamilton, Bermuda-
based SCA's XL Capital Assurance and XL Financial Assurance. The
units, which guarantee municipal and corporate bonds, were given
four to six weeks on Dec. 21 by Fitch to raise about $2 billion
of capital or lose their top ratings. Moody's Investors Service
and  Standard & Poor's  are also reassessing their rankings.  
 The downgrade is the second of a AAA rated bond insurer by
Fitch, which on Jan. 18 lowered its rating on  Ambac Financial
Group Inc. (ABKFQ) 's bond insurance business two levels to AA. Both Ambac
and SCA said they abandoned plans to raise new equity capital.  
 ``The downgrades follow Security Capital's announcement
yesterday that it has determined not to raise new capital at the
present time due to current market conditions,'' Fitch said in a
statement today.  
 The loss of the AAA stamp jeopardizes ratings on securities
the SCA units insured, including 3,375 bonds issued by
municipalities from  New York  to Bismarck,  North Dakota . The
downgrade may limit SCA's ability to generate new business.  
 About 38 percent of XL Capital Assurance's guarantees are
municipal bonds, 46 percent are structured finance securities and
16 percent are international transactions. The unit guaranteed
$16.1 billion of collateralized debt obligations backed by
subprime mortgages which were performing worse than expected.  
 SCA fell 72 cents, or 19 percent, to $3.07 at 10:50 a.m. in
New York Stock Exchange trading. The  shares  rose above $33 in
May.  
 Capital Needs  
 SCA, along with  MBIA Inc. (MBI) , Ambac and FGIC Corp. are paying a
price for expanding beyond their traditional municipal-bond
businesses to guaranteeing debt linked to riskier  subprime
mortgages  and home-equity loans. The once unquestioned strength
of the bond insurers is being reassessed by Fitch, Moody's and
S&P because the companies may not have enough capital to cover
losses stemming from downgrades on securities they guarantee.  
 SCA said it will seek to lower its capital needs through
reinsurance. Reinsurers assume premiums and risks of insurance
companies, reducing the amount of capital an insurer needs in
reserve to pay claims.  
 ``The unprecedented uncertainty and instability affecting our
industry make it impractical to consider raising new capital at
the present time,'' SCA said yesterday in a statement.  
 CDOs, which repackage assets such as mortgage bonds and
buyout loans into new securities, have accounted for the biggest
portion of the $133 billion in writedowns and credit losses in
2007 and 2008 at the world's biggest banks including  Citigroup
Inc. (C)  and Merrill Lynch & Co. Rising delinquencies on subprime
home loans contributed to downgrades on 2,007 CDOs in November
alone, according to Morgan Stanley.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Christine Richard in New York at 
 crichard5@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma Moody at 
 emoody@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        