-- Lukoil Settles Chaparral Lawsuits for $36.7 Million
-- Phil Milford
-- 2008-01-24T21:24:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2008-01-24/lukoil-settles-chaparral-lawsuits-for-36-7-million-update2-.html

          
          
             OAO Lukoil (LKOH) , Russia's largest private
oil producer, agreed to pay $36.7 million to settle shareholder
lawsuits challenging its takeover of Chaparral Resources Inc.  
 Chaparral investors sued in Delaware Chancery Court in March
2006, contending Lukoil's offer of $88.6 million, or $5.80 a
share, for the 40 percent stake it didn't already own was too
low. Chaparral, based in  White Plains ,  New York , explores for oil
and natural gas in  Kazakhstan .  
 ``The settlement provides an excellent monetary recovery,''
the shareholders' lawyers said in court papers filed Jan. 21.
Judge Stephen Lamb will decide whether to approve the agreement
at a later hearing, where plaintiffs' lawyers will seek
$13.4 million in fees from the settlement.  
 In September 2006, Lamb denied a request by the shareholders
to delay a vote on the buyout, allowing it to be completed the
same month. Chaparral shares had more than doubled in the year
before investors sued. The company was a unit of oil producer
Nelson Resources Ltd., which Moscow-based Lukoil purchased in
December 2005 for $2 billion.  
 Shareholders who owned Chaparral stock on March 13, 2006,
will be eligible to apply for part of the settlement fund,
according to court documents.  
 Lukoil separately paid a premium to Cede & Co., which had
filed an action in the same court in behalf of four funds to have
1.31 million Chaparral shares appraised. After mediation with
Chancery Judge William B. Chandler III, Lukoil agreed to pay
$11.9 million, or about $9 a share, according to court papers.  
 Lukoil investor relations official Gennady Krasovsky in
Moscow didn't immediately reply to an e-mail message seeking
comment on the settlement.  
 Lukoil's American depositary receipts, each representing one
ordinary share,  fell  $1 to $67 yesterday in over-the-counter
trading in New York. They have dropped 17 percent in the past
year.  
 The case is In Re Chaparral Resources Inc. shareholders
Litigation, CA2001-N, Delaware Chancery Court (Wilmington).  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Phil Milford in Wilmington, Delaware, at
   pmilford@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Patrick Oster at   poster@bloomberg.net ;
 Tony Cox  at   acox3@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        