-- WellCare Falls on Possible Executive Departures
-- Avram Goldstein
-- 2008-01-24T21:24:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2008-01-24/wellcare-falls-on-possible-executive-departures-update4-.html

          
          
             WellCare Health Plans (WCG)  Inc., the
insurer being investigated by the FBI for possible fraud, fell
the most in almost three months in New York trading after the
Wall Street Journal said three company leaders may leave soon.  
 The company declined $8.69, or 17 percent, to $42.25 at 4
p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. WellCare's
board is negotiating the departures of Chief Executive Officer
Todd Farha, finance chief Paul Behrens and general counsel
Thaddeus Bereday, the Journal reported, not identifying its
sources.  
 WellCare manages benefits for elderly customers under the
U.S. Medicare plan, and for low-income populations covered by
state Medicaid programs. The company, based in Tampa, Florida, is
being investigated by U.S. and  Florida  authorities over possible
overpayments, according to court records.  
 ``The likely loss of WellCare's top three executives can't
be viewed as a total surprise, since it's a fairly common
consequence when 200 FBI agents show up on your doorstep,'' said
Carl McDonald, an analyst with Oppenheimer & Co. in New York, in
a note to clients today.  
 ``We'd prefer the departures be part of an ongoing
settlement discussion with the U.S. Attorney, which doesn't
appear to be the case,'' McDonald said. ``However, the separation
of the company and its leaders should ultimately ease the
settlement process.''  
 Company spokeswoman Amy Knapp declined in an e-mail to
comment.  
 Truckloads of Documents  
 In October, investigators raided the company's headquarters,
seizing truckloads of documents. Two days after the raid,
Connecticut officials said they were reviewing whether WellCare
hid the extent of its profit on a health-insurance contract with
the state Medicaid program.  
 The company has said it is conducting an internal probe and
is defending itself against a lawsuit filed by a former employee
who said WellCare defrauded the government. WellCare has more
than 2.3 million people in its health plans.  
 WellCare plunged to $22.04 from $122.27 a share in the week
after the raid and started to recover as the company won service
expansions from Medicare.  
 If prosecutors have concluded that the three executives
violated laws and they depart soon, the company may get better
treatment from the government, said Martin L. Perschetz, a former
federal prosecutor practicing law at Schulte Roth & Zabel in  New
York .  
 `Government Has Discretion'  
 ``The government will consider the pervasiveness of the
wrongdoing, how long it took the company to act, to what degree
the company is cooperating and voluntarily providing
information,'' Perschetz said in a telephone interview today.
``The government has discretion on whether to proceed
criminally.''  
 Steve Cole, a spokesman for the U.S. Attorney's office in
Tampa, declined to comment.  
 WellCare has a good chance of prospering after any legal
actions are completed, said Thomas Scully, a former chief of the
U.S. Medicare program who is now a partner at the New York
venture capital firm Welsh, Carson, Anderson & Stowe.  
 Scully and Farha worked at Norwalk, Connecticut-based Oxford
Health Plans during the 1990s. Scully was on Oxford's board, and
Farha was a senior manager.  
 ``He's a great guy,'' Scully said. ``If this is true I feel
badly for him. I doubt WellCare as a company is unsound. The key
is to find a good solid, stable management team.''  
 When Oxford ran into financial straits in 1998, its board
brought in a new chief executive, Norm Payson.  
 ``He did a spectacular job of fixing what turned out to be
relatively minor structural issues in the company, and I think
WellCare will wind up doing the same thing,'' Scully said.  
 Oxford was acquired by UnitedHealth Group Inc., of
Minnetonka,  Minnesota , for $4.6 billion in 2004.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Avram Goldstein in  Washington  at 
 agoldstein1@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        