-- A&P, Century-Old U.S. Grocery Store Owner, Files for Bankruptcy
-- B y   T i f f a n y   K a r y
-- 2010-12-13T17:57:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-12/a-p-grocery-store-owner-files-for-bankruptcy-as-competition-heightens.html
Great Atlantic & Pacific Tea Co. ,
operator of almost 400 supermarkets under names including
Waldbaum’s, Food Emporium and Pathmark, filed for bankruptcy
after failing to compete with wholesale clubs and drugstores.  The Montvale, New Jersey-based  retailer , incorporated 110
years ago, also runs stores under its own name, Super Fresh and
Food Basics. It listed assets of $2.5 billion and debt of
$3.2 billion yesterday in a Chapter 11 filing in U.S. Bankruptcy
Court in White Plains, New York.  A shift in consumer spending to wholesale clubs, drugstores
and supercenters hurt sales in the quarter ended Sept. 11, A&P
said in a  regulatory filing . The retailer had $8.8 billion in
sales for the year ended in February, according to its website.  “We have taken this difficult but necessary step to enable
A&P to fully implement our comprehensive financial and
operational restructuring,” Chief Executive Officer  Sam Martin 
said in a statement. “We could not complete our turnaround
without availing ourselves of Chapter 11.”  The company announced a turnaround plan in July that
included closing 25 stores in five states. It said in September
it would sell another seven stores in northern Connecticut.
Restoring competitive margins, remodeling stores and increasing
cash flows were all goals, the company has said.  Debt, Customers  “The company couldn’t compensate for the combination of
high debt and the suddenly fading purchasing power of the
customers,”  Karl-Erivan Haub , chief executive officer of
Tengelmann Group, A&P’s  biggest shareholder , said today in an e-
mailed statement. The insolvency will help A&P to get a “solid
financial basis, to advance necessary restructuring,” he said.  A bankruptcy is needed to bring costs into line with market
reality and shed obligations that include $147 million in
pension funding and more than $232 million in liabilities for
leases the company doesn’t need and hasn’t been able to escape.  An unfavorable supply agreement obliges A&P to obtain
70 percent of its inventory from C&S Wholesale Grocers, Chief
Restructuring Officer  Frederic F. Brace  said in court papers.  “The combination of falling revenues, a leveraged balance
sheet, legacy costs, and unfavorable supply relationships could
not be fixed outside of Chapter 11,” Brace said.  Union agreements, including pensions and health care
obligations also put the company at a competitive disadvantage
and “are unsustainable at existing levels,” he added.  Debt Due in June  Meeting liquidity needs with  debt  totaling $165 million
coming due next June 15 prompted the initial move to restructure
out of court, A&P said in regulatory filings.  A&P’s second-largest stockholder is  Aletheia Research &
Management . Holding more than 5 percent of its voting securities
are GAMCO Investors, Bank of  America Corp. , DBD Cayman Islands
and Yucaipa Cos. LLC.  Ron Burkle ’s Yucaipa Cos. also owns all of
A&P’s series A-Y preferred stock.  A Yucaipa spokesman,  Frank Quintero , didn’t immediately
return a call for comment.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. is the largest holder of the
company’s 6.75 percent notes and 5.125 percent notes due in
2011. Elliott & Page Ltd. is the largest holder of
11.375 percent notes due in 2015, according to Bloomberg data.  Tengelmann, which owns Germany’s biggest home-improvement
retailer, OBI, and the Kaiser’s supermarket chain, sees no
impact on its other business from A&P’s insolvency, spokeswoman
Jutta Meister said in an interview.  A&P Shares  The closely held retailer previously wrote down the value
of its A&P stake in the past and will now cut it to zero, she
said.  Tengelmann , which has had an A&P stake since 1979, owns
about 40 percent of the company. The stake had a value of about
$64 million when markets closed Dec. 9, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  A&P secured $800 million in debtor-in-possession financing
from  JPMorgan Chase & Co.  and will have immediate access to a
$187 million loan and $200 million in letters of credit,
allowing it to keep stores open, according to the filing.  The loan agreement beat out a proposal by pre-bankruptcy
lenders that would have given the company only $675 million.
Second-lien lenders have agreed not to object to the financing
under an inter-creditor agreement, according to a statement in
court documents from Stephen Goldstein, a managing director and
restructuring adviser Lazard Freres & Co., hired to help the
company secure its loan.  S&P Downgrade  Standard & Poor’s downgraded A&P’s debt in October and said
it didn’t expect “material improvements in operating
performance.”  According to its most recent quarterly report, A&P had a
 net loss  of $153.7 million for the quarter ended Sept. 11.
 Shares  fell 67 percent to 93 cents on Dec. 10 in New York Stock
Exchange trading. The stock has declined 92 percent this year.  The New York Stock Exchange said trading in the company’s
common stock and its bonds due 2039 was suspended immediately.  A&P was  incorporated  in New Jersey in 1900, 41 years after
the first store was opened on Vesey Street in New York under the
name Great American Tea Co.  It changed its name to the Great Atlantic & Pacific Tea
Company in 1869, in honor of the completion of the coast-to-
coast transcontinental railroad and its intention to operate
stores across the country, according to its website.  The company expanded to California, Washington and Canada
in the 1930s, with 15,357 stores across the continent.  Workers, Customers  The retailer yesterday sought court permission to continue
paying employees and to maintain customer programs such as
refunds and price guarantees.  Without such approval, the company would “risk losing
market share and raising unnecessary doubts” about operations,
it said in court papers. The law firm  Kirkland & Ellis LLP 
represents A&P in the bankruptcy.  The company has 41,000 employees, 95 percent of whom are
covered by union agreements, according to the bankruptcy
petition.  In July, A&P hired  Sam Martin  as its second new chief
executive officer this year. He succeeded  Ron Marshall , who had
held the job since Feb. 8. Company Director  Bobbie Gaunt 
resigned from the board Nov. 28, according to a filing.  Brace , A&P’s chief administrative officer, was named chief
restructuring officer Dec. 9, he said in a court document. Brace
had been the chief financial officer of UAL Corp., parent of
United Airlines, and helped guide the carrier through 38 months
of bankruptcy restructuring that ended in 2006.  A&P has an interest payment of $13.4 million due Dec. 15 on
unsecured notes, Brace said in his filing.  “Failure to make these payments would cause immediate
issues” under the debt agreement, he said.  The case is: Re The Great Atlantic & Pacific Tea Co. 10-
24549. U.S. Bankruptcy Court for the Southern District of New
York (White Plains). It is assigned to Judge  Robert Drain .  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tiffany Kary  in New York
at   tkary@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 