-- Abu Dhabi Reshuffles Executive Council, Names Sheikh Hazza as Vice Chair
-- B y   C a m i l l a   H a l l   a n d   Z a h r a a   A l k h a l i s i
-- 2010-12-12T11:37:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-12/abu-dhabi-reshuffles-executive-council-names-sheikh-hazza-as-vice-chair.html
Abu Dhabi, the oil-rich Gulf Arab
emirate, reshuffled its cabinet or  Executive Council , naming the
ruler’s half brother  Sheikh Hazza bin Zayed Al Nahyan  as vice
chairman.  Sheikh Hazza, also chairman of First Gulf Bank PJSC, was
previously not part of the council. Majed Ali al-Mansouri, a
board member at the Federal Authority for Nuclear Regulation and
a member of the executive committee for Abu Dhabi environment
agency was also added as a member, according to a decree
published by the official WAM news agency today.  Abu Dhabi, the capital of the U.A.E. federation of seven
emirates, had about 7.3 percent of the world’s oil supply at the
end of 2009 according to BP Plc data. The emirate is trying to
diversify its economy away from heavy reliance on crude exports
and plans to raise the contribution of non-oil industries to
half of total gross domestic product by 2015 from about 40
percent. Its economy suffered during the global financial crisis
as real estate prices fell and local banks received funds from
the government.  Abu Dhabi’s  Crown Prince Sheikh Mohammed  bin Zayed Al
Nahyan kept his position as chairman of the council, WAM
reported. Six of the members in the lineup according to a list
on the council’s website are not among those named as council
members in the decree. The six former members are Sheikh Saeed
bin Zayed, Sheikh Tahnoon Bin Zayed, Sheikh Diab bin Zayed,
 Sheikh Sultan bin Khalifa ,  Sheikh Ahmed bin Saif  Al Nahyan and
Rashid Mubarak al-Hajeri.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Camilla Hall  in Dubai at 
 chall24@bloomberg.net  or
 Zahraa Alkhalisi  in Abu Dhabi at 
 zalkhalisi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Louis Meixler at 
 lmeixler@bloomberg.net  