-- Airgas Directors Disagree Over Mininum Price While Fending Off Hostile Bid
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   R .   M i d e r
-- 2010-12-13T05:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-12/airgas-tells-court-board-is-at-odds-over-hostile-takeover-bid.html
Airgas Inc., fending off a hostile
takeover bid from  Air Products & Chemicals Inc. , said its
directors disagreed over the minimum price they would accept for
the company, after earlier stating they were unanimous.  Three directors disputed that the Radnor, Pennsylvania-
based company should insist on a price of at least $78 a share,
or $6.6 billion, and recorded their objections in a Dec. 7
letter to Chairman  John van Roden Jr ., Airgas said in an
addendum to a brief filed Dec. 10 with the Delaware Chancery
Court. The packaged-gas company told the court on Nov. 11 that
the board was unanimous in insisting on $78 a share.  Airgas agreed to hire another investment bank selected by
the independent directors to help weigh Air Products’ most
recent offer, of $70 a share, or $5.9 billion, Airgas also said
in the filing.  The dispute may help Allentown, Pennsylvania-based Air
Products succeed in its attempt to eclipse Praxair Inc. and
become the largest North American industrial-gas company. Air
Products has spent 11 months waging a takeover battle for Airgas.  Air Products raised its offer Dec. 9 to $70 a share from
$65.50. Airgas rose $1.56, or 2.5 percent, to $63.40 on the New
York Stock Exchange Dec. 10.  Robert L. Lumpkins ,  John P. Clancey , and  Ted B. Miller  --
the three directors at odds with the rest of the Airgas board --
were elected as Air Products nominees in September. The new
directors joined in unanimously rejecting Air Products’ $65.50-
a-share offer in October.  Van Roden  sent a letter on Nov. 2 to Air Products saying
“the board has unanimously concluded that it believes that the
value of Airgas in a sale is at least $78 a share.”  Takeover Defense  CNBC’s  David Faber  reported on Dec. 10 that the three
directors didn’t support the Nov. 2 letter. In response, an
Airgas spokesman, who said he was acting on behalf of the three
directors, issued a statement saying “we deny the charges of
division on the board, we condemn the spread of unproductive
rumors.”  Airgas cited Van Roden’s claim in court papers filed Nov.
11 in a trial before Delaware Chancery Court Judge William B.
Chandler III, who is considering whether to invalidate Airgas’s
“poison pill” takeover defense.  “We do not believe that such an unequivocal statement is
accurate,” the three directors told Van Roden in a Dec. 7
letter, according to the filing.  “At no time did any of us take the position that a $78
offer price was the price of admission to having any
discussions,” the directors said. “It would be wrong for you
to insinuate otherwise to the court.”  Air Products’ Request  Van Roden, after conferring with other directors, told the
three that “all of statements that Airgas had made to the court
and publicly were accurate,” according to the filing.  Air Products  said in a Dec. 11 letter to the judge that the
court should order the disclosure of the three directors’ Dec. 7
letter and Van Roden’s Dec. 8 response.  Airgas said the new investment bank, which the company
didn’t identify, will help it assess Air Products’ current offer
along with Airgas’s other bankers, Bank of America Corp. and
Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  Daniel Katcher, a spokesman for Airgas, declined to comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Zachary R. Mider  in New York at 
 zmider1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at   jsondag@bloomberg.net  