-- U.S. East Braces for Frigid Blast as Storm Grounds More Flights
-- B y   A s j y l y n   L o d e r   a n d   J o h n   G i t t e l s o h n
-- 2010-12-13T20:54:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-12/airlines-cancel-1-400-flights-as-snowfall-covers-u-s-midwest.html
The eastern U.S. braced for frigid
weather from a snowstorm that slammed the Midwest over the
weekend, grounding thousands of flights.  “It will be below to much-below normal across most of the
eastern half of the nation over the next couple of days,” said
Brian Korty, a meteorologist with the National Weather Service.
Strong winds will compound the cold, he said.  Colder-than-normal weather is likely in parts of the
Midwest, Southeast and mid-Atlantic through Dec. 27, according
to MDA Federal Inc.’s EarthSat Energy Weather in Rockville,
Maryland. The low temperature in Chicago on Dec. 18 may be 8
degrees Fahrenheit (minus-13 Celsius), 13 degrees below normal,
according to AccuWeather Inc. in State College, Pennsylvania.
The low in New York may be 29 degrees, 2 below normal.  The cold weather has led to new air-travel delays after the
snowstorm that battered the Midwest, causing the collapse of the
Metrodome roof in Minneapolis and forcing airlines to ground
more than 1,400 flights from Chicago.  The roof’s failure forced the National Football League to
move yesterday’s game between the Minnesota Vikings and the New
York Giants to today at Ford Field in Detroit.  There were 125 canceled flights among 21 airports along the
U.S. East Coast as of 10:45 a.m., according to FlightStats.com,
a Portland, Oregon-based company that tracks aviation data.
Atlanta, the world’s busiest airport and a  Delta Air Lines Inc .
hub, had the most with 41 cancellations. New York’s LaGuardia
and Kennedy airports each had fewer than 10.  Delays in Charlotte  US Airways Group Inc . is experiencing delays today to de-
ice planes at its Charlotte hub after rain turned to snow
overnight, said  Todd Lehmacher , a spokesman for the Tempe,
Arizona-based carrier.  American Airlines and American Eagle canceled 625 flights
yesterday because of winter weather in Chicago and the Midwest,
fog in San Francisco, ice in Atlanta and wind and rain from
Washington up to Boston, including the three New York-area
airports, said  Mary Frances Fagan , a spokeswoman for the
carrier, operated by  AMR  Corp.  American Eagle has canceled 42 departures today, mostly in
Chicago and because of crosswinds and blowing snow in Cleveland,
Traverse City, Michigan, and Baltimore, she said.  United Continental  United Continental Holdings Inc., the world’s largest
carrier, canceled about 475 flights yesterday, most of them at
Chicago’s O’Hare airport, said  Megan McCarthy , a spokeswoman for
the Chicago-based carrier. The company added 14 flights to and
from O’Hare today to help catch up on getting passengers to
their destinations, she said.  Weather in the New York area may force the carrier to scrub
some flights today at New Jersey’s Newark Liberty airport, a hub
for Continental, McCarthy said.  Southwest Airlines Co . is “back to normal operations
today,” said  Chris Mainz , a spokesman for the Dallas-based
carrier. Southwest canceled 400 flights yesterday, primarily in
Chicago, Milwaukee, Nashville and Islip, New York.  As many as 2.3 million people a day may fly on U.S.
airlines from Dec. 16 through Jan. 5 as demand rises 3.1 percent
this holiday season compared with last year, the Air Transport
Association forecast Dec. 8. Planes may be 90 percent full on
average for the busiest days, the Washington-based industry
group said in a  statement .  The storm covered parts of Iowa, South Dakota, Minnesota
and Wisconsin. Osceola, Wisconsin, got the most snow, with 23
inches yesterday, while 21.5 inches fell in New Market and
Shakopee, Minnesota, the National Weather Service said.  Temperatures in parts of central and northern Florida
orange-growing areas may fall as low as 26 degrees, said Jason
Nicholls, a senior meteorologist at AccuWeather Inc. Several
hours of temperatures below 28 degrees can damage oranges.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Asjylyn Loder in New York at 
 aloder@bloomberg.net ;
 John Gittelsohn  in New York at 
 johngitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at   dstets@bloomberg.net . 