-- Tevez Says He Wants to Leave Manchester City, Transfer Request is Denied
-- B y   P e t e r - J o s e p h   H e g a r t y
-- 2010-12-12T20:36:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-12/manchester-city-rejects-request-from-captain-carlos-tevez-to-be-transfered.html
Manchester City rejected a transfer
request from captain  Carlos Tevez , the Argentine striker who has
spearheaded the soccer team’s challenge for the Premier League
title this season.  U.K. media reports say Tevez is unhappy at being separated
from his family in Argentina and that he has a worsening
relationship with City coach Roberto Mancini.  “It is with disappointment that we confirm to our
supporters that Carlos Tevez has submitted a written transfer
request,” the club said  on its website  today. “The club can
also confirm that the request has been rejected.”  Manchester City said it was “particularly” disappointed
with the actions of Tevez’s representative and added that the
striker is the club’s highest paid player, with 3 1/2 years left
on a five-year contract. Even so, the club had received numerous
requests to improve and extend the deal, City said.  Tevez tonight confirmed he wants to leave City, Sky Sports
reported. He said his relationship with certain executives and
individuals at City “has broken down beyond repair.”  Tevez said he has “no personal issue” with Mancini and
thanked owner  Sheikh Mansour bin Zayed  Al Nahyan for his
understanding and support.  Tevez, 26, is the team’s top scorer with 10 of its 24
league goals this season. The club is level on points with top
club Arsenal after a 3-1 win at West Ham yesterday.  Major Blow  Tevez’s departure would be a major blow for a City side
striving to win its first major title since 1976. It last won
the English league in 1968. City was bought in 2008 by Abu
Dhabi’s Sheikh Mansour, who’s poured more than 350 million
pounds ($553 million) into strengthening the club’s playing
squad.  Tevez arrived from Manchester United in 2009, having helped
City’s local rival win two league titles and the Champions
League in 2008.  City said today it had shown “sensitivity to Carlos’s
personal circumstances, including the issue of his family being
based overseas,” and he’d been allowed to take leave.  It said his transfer request was in “stark contrast” to
his publicly stated position.  “This is both an unfortunate and unwelcome distraction and
the club will remain focused on the games ahead in what is
turning out to be a very promising season,” the City statement
said. “The door remains open for Carlos to be selected to
play.”  Tevez arrived in England in 2006 to join West Ham from
Brazil’s Corinthians. His goals helped to keep the London team
in the top league but the Hammers were fined 5.5 million pounds
for breaking league rules over the transfer. He joined
Manchester United, technically on a loan basis, in 2007.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Peter-Joseph Hegarty  in London at 
 phegarty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  