-- Australian, New Zealand Currencies Advance After China Holds Rates Steady
-- B y   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t   a n d   M o n a m i   Y u i
-- 2010-12-13T14:49:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-12/australian-dollar-ends-gains-as-china-signals-tightening-to-curb-inflation.html
The Australian and New Zealand
dollars rallied against most of their major counterparts as
stocks and commodities gained after China refrained from raising
interest rates.  The currencies rose after the rate move predicted by firms
including UBS AF and Mizuho Securities Asia Ltd. failed to occur
even as China’s inflation accelerated to the fastest pace in 28
months. China is Australia’s largest trading partner and New
Zealand’s second-biggest export market and investors speculated
an increase in interest rates would damp exports to the nation.  “It’s become a risk-on day, and it’s despite the China
numbers and expectations of policy tightening over the
weekend,” said  Vassili Serebriakov , a currency strategist at
Wells Fargo & Co. in New York. “The global economy is on a much
stronger footing at this point.”  Australia’s currency rose gained 0.7 percent to 99.24 U.S.
cents at 9:47 a.m. in New York, from 98.53 cents on Dec. 10. It
rose 0.5 percent to 83.15 yen, from 82.72 yen.  New Zealand’s dollar, nicknamed the kiwi, appreciated 0.7
percent to 75.35 U.S. cents, from 74.83 cents. It gained 0.5
percent to 63.13 yen, from 62.81 yen.  The currencies dropped earlier amid concern commodity
exports would wane after China’s leaders pledged to focus on
stabilizing prices.  ‘Prudent’ Policy  A government economic work conference in Beijing over the
weekend, attended by President  Hu Jintao  and Premier  Wen Jiabao ,
affirmed the “prudent” monetary policy and “proactive”
fiscal stance for next year that the Politburo described on Dec.
3, the state-run Xinhua News Agency reported yesterday.  Consumer prices  in China jumped 5.1 percent in November, a
statistics bureau report showed Dec. 11. Producer-price
inflation of 6.1 percent was higher than all 28 estimates in a
Bloomberg News survey of economists. Reserve requirements will
increase 50 basis points starting Dec. 20, the People’s Bank of
China said on its website Dec. 10.  “An interest-rate hike is now only a matter of time,” in
China,  Imre Speizer , a market strategist based in Wellington,
New Zealand, at Westpac Banking Corp., wrote in a note to
clients today. “The China data’s implications for tightening
there should cast a slight influence on commodity currencies.”  The Reuters/Jefferies CRB Index of  raw materials  rose 1.2
percent. The  MSCI World Index  of stocks increased 0.6 percent.  The Aussie has climbed 10 percent this year in a measure of
10 developed-nation currencies, according to Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes. New Zealand’s dollar has
risen 3.1 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Allison Bennett  in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net ;
 Monami Yui  in Tokyo at 
or  myui1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  