-- Axelrod Tells CNN He Expects House Will Support Administration's Tax Plan
-- B y   G o p a l   R a t n a m   a n d   M e e r a   L o u i s
-- 2010-12-13T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-12/axelrod-tells-cnn-he-expects-house-will-support-administration-s-tax-plan.html
White House adviser  David Axelrod 
said the administration expects House Democrats, including
Speaker  Nancy Pelosi , to back the compromise tax package
negotiated by President  Barack Obama  and the Republicans.  “At the end of the day no one wants to see taxes go up for
150 million Americans on January 1st,” Axelrod said on CNN’s
“State of the Union” program. “This framework represents a
compromise that both sides can accept and we can’t change it in
major ways and expect that this thing is going to pass.”  The administration is in talks with House Democrats who
have objected to keeping Bush-era tax cuts for the wealthiest
Americans and to an estate-tax provision that would set the top
rate at 35 percent after a $5 million tax-free allowance per
individual, Axelrod said.  The agreement Obama announced Dec. 6 would temporarily
sustain the tax cuts for all income levels. The president said
the compromise was needed to break a deadlock with congressional
Republicans who vowed to block tax cuts for middle-income
Americans if those for individuals earning more than $200,000
and couples earning more than $250,000 weren’t extended, too.  House Democrats held a nonbinding vote Dec. 9 to prevent
the tax compromise from being voted on in the House of
Representatives, unless changes are made. The Senate will take
up the estimated $857 billion proposal this week.  Unemployment  Obama, 49, inherited an economy in crisis.  Joblessness ,
which reached a 26-year high of 10.1 percent in October 2009,
stood at 9.8 percent nationwide last month. Republicans in the
Nov. 2 midterm election gained control of the House in the next
congressional session and made gains in the U.S. Senate.  Austan Goolsbee, chairman of the White House Council of
Economic Advisers, said unemployment may decrease as a result of
the tax package.  “I understand that the high-income tax cuts are a bitter
pill to swallow but what the president was able to get was
substantially bigger than that,” Goolsbee said on NBC’s “Meet
the Press.”  Goolsbee pointed to incentives for businesses, payroll tax
cuts for 150 million workers and money for college education as
gains Obama made by giving in to Republicans on extension of tax
cuts for higher-income individuals.  ‘Left Out’  Democratic lawmakers in the House of Representatives feel
“left out,” after Obama negotiated the tax package with
Republicans, Representative  Elijah Cummings , a Maryland
Democrat, told CNN’s ‘State of the Union.’  “There are some principled concerns we have,” Cummings
said. “It’s not some purist ideological theories.”  The U.S. budget deficit would be exacerbated if Congress
approved the tax package, Cummings said. Republicans would later
blame the shortfall on Obama and Democratic lawmakers, using it
to cut programs, Cummings said.  Representative  Jim McDermott , Democrat of Washington, told
CNN that if the current lame-duck session of Congress failed to
pass the tax package, the new Republican majority in the House
could “reinstate tax cuts for the wealthy on their own” when
they take over in January. “They simply want us to do it so
that it becomes Obama’s tax cuts.”  Still, both lawmakers said Speaker Nancy Pelosi is likely
to bring the tax package to a vote and it’s likely to pass in
Congress after “sweeteners” are added to satisfy opponents.  Cummings said he would not vote in favor of the compromise
tax package.  Temporary Cuts  The extension of tax cuts is temporary, Axelrod told ABC’s
“This Week.’”  “In the long term, these are not going to have impacts on
our deficits,” Axelrod said. “For the next few years, it
will.”  Based on tax-cut extensions negotiated by Obama, “almost
every economist has raised their estimation of what our growth
will be in 2011,” Axelrod said.  Asked on CNN if Obama is likely to face a challenge from
within the party in the 2012 elections, Axelrod said the
president continues to enjoy support among Democrats.  “I really don’t expect” a primary challenge, Axelrod told
CNN. “I see strong support for this president. They understand
he’s trying hard and see what we have accomplished.”  For Related News and Information:  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Gopal Ratnam  in Washington at 
 gratnam1@bloomberg.net 
 Meera Louis  in Washington at 
 Mlouis1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  