-- Florida Pastor Who Planned to Burn Koran Would Protest U.K. Ban
-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 2010-12-13T09:24:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-12/may-will-mull-banning-visit-by-florida-pastor-who-planned-to-burn-korans.html
Terry Jones , the Florida pastor who
threatened to burn Korans on the ninth anniversary of the Sept.
11 attacks, said he would “protest” any move by the U.K.
government to ban him from making a planned visit to England.  Jones, pastor of the Dove World Outreach Center in
Gainesville, told BBC Radio 4’s “Today” show that there was no
need for a ban as he wouldn’t do “anything that would break the
law or causing uprising or violence.”  Home Secretary  Theresa May  said yesterday she was
considering prohibiting Jones from entering Britain to preach at
an event run by the English Defence League, an anti-Islam
organization, in Luton, north of London, in February. Jones
canceled plans in September to burn Korans in protest at the
proposed building of an Islamic center near the World Trade
Center site in New York. President  Barack Obama  was among those
who urged Jones to call off that event.  “We believe that we have a message about Islam that’s
valuable,” Jones said. “I would be coming to preach what I
believe is a very positive message for the English Defence
League.”  May has the power to ban foreign nationals from entering
Britain on national-security grounds or to prevent breaches of
public order.  “Pastor Terry Jones has been on my radar for a few months
now,” she said in an interview with Sky News television
yesterday. “If it is now clear that he’s definitely coming to
the U.K., then of course this is a case that I will be actively
looking at.”  Jones told BBC Radio 5 in an interview aired yesterday that
he had “no problem” with “Muslims who want to make our
country their country, obey our laws and constitution.  “We have a problem with them, which I believe you all have
also, when they go on the street as I have seen and I am aware
of, and they call for the death of the U.K., for the death of
Israel, for the death of America,” Jones said. “They say they
are going to turn Buckingham Palace into a mosque and the queen
must convert to Islam or leave the country.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Robert Hutton  in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  