-- Italian Stocks: Banco Popolare, Edison, Fiat, Trevi Finanziaria Are Active
-- B y   F r a n c e s c a   C i n e l l i
-- 2010-12-13T16:44:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-12/banco-popolare-generali-unicredit-italy-equity-preview.html
Italy’s benchmark  FTSE MIB Index 
increased 147.26, or 0.7 percent, to 20,634.60 at the 5:30 p.m.
close in Milan.  The following stocks were among the most active in the
Italian market today.  Assicurazioni Generali SpA  (G IM) rose 1.5 percent to 15.1
euros, the highest in more than three weeks. Chairman  Cesare Geronzi  said that  Paolo Vagnone  will become country manager for
Italy as of a board meeting on Dec. 16. “To us it is good news
for Generali,” Equita Sim SpA said in a note.  The company will also name a chief investment officer and
chief risk officer, according to Geronzi.  Astaldi SpA  (AST IM) surged 8.4 percent to 4.89 euros, the
highest in four weeks, after it was named preferred bidder for
the Jeddah and KAEC railway stations in Saudi Arabia, according
to a statement sent through the Italian exchange today.  Bulgari SpA  (BUL IM), the world’s third-largest jeweler,
gained 1.3 percent to 8.06 euros after climbing 4 percent on
Dec. 10.  “Bulgari, and the luxury-goods industry as a whole, is
attracting investors because of its exposure to emerging
markets, and relatively small size that makes it a potential M&A
target for bigger players,” said  Gabriele Roghi , head of
portfolio management at Invest Banca SpA in Empoli, Italy. He
said “from a technical point of view, the first target is at
8.5 euros and the second one at 10 euros.”  Buzzi Unicem SpA  (BZU IM) advanced 3 percent to 8.54 euros.
CA Cheuvreux reiterated an “outperform” rating on Italy’s
second-biggest cement maker, saying in a note that “the market
price already factors much higher writedowns,” after the
company said it wrote down the value of its Oglesby, Illinois
cement plant by 99.6 million euros.  Edison SpA  (EDN IM) sank 7.3 percent to 86.2 euro cents,
snapping a seven-day gain. Italy’s second-largest power producer
is weighing a capital increase of more than 1 billion euros to
strengthen its balance sheet as unprofitable gas-supply
contracts threaten to further erode earnings, people with direct
knowledge of the situation said.  “The company says this option has never been taken into
consideration by any of its company organs,” Edison said in a
statement in response to the report.  Eurotech SpA  (ETH IM) gained 4.3 percent to 1.99 euros as
the maker of miniature and rugged computers said it signed an
accord with Cisco Systems Inc. that will allow it to add
products by the largest maker of networking equipment to its
next-generation solutions.  Fiat SpA  (F IM) advanced 0.5 percent to 14.62 euros, rising
for a second day. UniCredit increased its price estimate on the
Italian carmaker to 16 euros from 14.5 euros, citing “potential
new agreements” and “underperformance compared with peers.”  Exor SpA  (EXO IM), Fiat’s main shareholder, increased 1.3
percent to 23.08 euros.  Interpump Group SpA  (IP IM) surged 2.7 percent to 5.07
euros, the highest price since September 2008. Equita Sim SpA
upgraded the world’s biggest maker of high-performance pumps to
“buy” and added the stock to its “small-cap portfolio.”  Saipem SpA  (SPM IM), Europe’s largest oil-services
provider, increased 1.3 percent to 34.19 euros. Crude advanced
after a government report showed Chinese refineries ran at
record rates last month, signaling oil demand will continue to
increase in the world’s largest energy user.  Tenaris SA  (TEN IM), the world’s biggest maker of seamless
steel tubes for oil and gas extraction, rose 2.2 percent to
17.76 euros. The number of oil and natural-gas rigs operating in
the U.S. increased by 10 last week to the highest level since
December 2008, led by an increase in oil drilling, according to
data published by Baker Hughes Inc.  Trevi Finanziaria SpA  (TFI IM) increased for the first day
in four, rising 8.8 percent to 10.30 euros. Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. upgraded the company to “buy” from “neutral,” citing an
“attractive risk/reward.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Francesca Cinelli  in Milan at 
 fcinelli@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Merritt at   dmerritt1@bloomberg.net . 