-- Banks Reduced Greek, Irish Holdings in Second Quarter
-- B y   G a v i n   F i n c h   a n d   J a n n   B e t t i n g a
-- 2010-12-13T09:40:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-12/banks-reduce-greek-irish-portuguese-holdings-in-second-quarter-bis-says.html
Banks reduced their holdings of
Greek, Irish, Portuguese and Spanish debt in the second quarter
as the sovereign crisis roiled credit markets, according to the
 Bank for International Settlements .  Lenders cut the amount they had at risk to the nations by
$107 billion to $2.28 trillion, the Basel, Switzerland-based BIS
said in its latest quarterly report. Virtually all major banking
systems reduced their exchange-rate adjusted holdings in Greece
during the period, the BIS said.  “Concerns about sovereign risk in several euro-area
economies have resurfaced and become the dominant theme,” the
BIS said. “Irish government bonds came under particularly
strong pressure, but Greek, Portuguese, Spanish and later
Belgian and Italian government bonds were also affected.
Sovereign yield spreads between these countries, and Germany
continued to reflect concerns about their public finances.”  The European Union and International Monetary Fund
established a 750 billion-euro ($991 billion) crisis fund in May
after Greece’s near-default threatened the survival of the euro.
European finance ministers ruled out immediate aid for Portugal
and Spain or an increase in the fund, relying on  European
Central Bank  bond purchases to calm investor concern.  Ireland’s 85 billion-euro bailout from the EU and the IMF
last month failed to reassure investors about the soundness of
the public finances in the region, the BIS said.  Banking Stocks  “We expect the euro zone sovereign debt crisis to become
worse before it gets better,” Sanford C. Bernstein analysts
including  Dirk Hoffmann-Becking  said in a report today. “In the
very near term, we expect the pressures of the sovereign debt
crisis to continue, leading to continued downward pressure on
banking stocks.”  Banks have been the second-worst performers among 19
industry groups in the  Stoxx Europe 600  Index this year. The
sector index has dropped about 8 percent as Greece and Ireland
sought bailouts and concern grew that more European countries,
such as Spain and Portugal, may struggle to shore up their
public finances, hampering economic growth.  French banks had the most at stake in Greece, with $83.1
billion at risk, compared with German bank holdings of $65.4
billion, the data show. British banks had $187.5 billion in
exposure to Ireland, while German lenders had $186.4 billion.  Banks in Germany, Europe’s biggest economy, had $512.7
billion at risk to Greece, Ireland, Portugal and Spain at the
end of the second quarter. That included $59.6 billion to the
public sector and $150.4 billion to banks, the BIS said.  French lenders had $410.2 billion at stake in the four
countries. Banks in the U.K. had $370 billion at risk, and
lenders in the U.S. $352.9 billion. Globally, lenders had about
$242.4 billion in public-sector exposure to Spain, Ireland,
Greece and Portugal, the BIS figures showed.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jann Bettinga  in Frankfurt at 
 jbetting@bloomberg.net ;
 Gavin Finch  in London at 
 gfinch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  