-- Bloomberg Says Obama's Democratic Base Should `Suck It Up' on Tax-Cut Deal
-- B y   M o l l y   P e t e r s o n   a n d   G o p a l   R a t n a m
-- 2010-12-13T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-12/bloomberg-says-obama-s-democratic-base-should-suck-it-up-.html
President  Barack Obama  should tell
Democrats angered by his compromises with Republicans on
extending tax cuts to “suck it up,” New York City Mayor
 Michael Bloomberg  said.  Obama “can’t just sit there and depend on ideology”
because “leadership is about doing the possible, not sitting
around and waiting for the perfect,” Bloomberg said in an
interview on NBC’s “Meet the Press.”  Bloomberg told business executives in Brooklyn last week
that the U.S. economy will stagnate if Congress remains mired in
partisan gridlock. Obama should tell Democratic critics his
bipartisan tax-cut deal won’t be the only tough vote of his
presidency, Bloomberg said on NBC.  “He says, ‘Look, this is what I did, this is the best I
can do. Suck it up,’” Bloomberg said, when asked how Obama
should deal with Democrats angered by the tax measure and other
compromises with Republicans.  Democrats lost control of the U.S. House and saw their
Senate majority narrow in last month’s elections. Voters turned
against Democrats in Washington for the same reason they turned
against Republicans during  George W. Bush ’s presidency in 2006,
Bloomberg said in a Dec. 8 speech to the  Brooklyn Chamber of
Commerce  and the  Association for a Better New York .  “Democrats now, and Republicans then, spent more time and
energy conducting partisan warfare than forging centrist
solutions to our toughest economic problems,” Bloomberg said in
the speech.  No Presidential Run  Bloomberg, 68, a one-time Democrat, switched to the
Republican Party before running for mayor in 2001 and 2005. He
gave up all party affiliations in 2007, when he began to explore
an independent presidential bid. Bloomberg, who won election to
a third four-year term in 2009 on the Republican and
Independence Party ballots, said he will serve his full term and
doesn’t have presidential aspirations.  “I’m not looking at the possibility of running,” he said
on NBC. “No way. No how.”  While Bloomberg said he was encouraged by the tax-cut deal,
he said lawmakers must do more to reduce the national debt. That
will require a “shared sacrifice” that Obama will have to
explain to the public, he said.  “Eventually, they’re going to have to face some of these
issues,” Bloomberg said. “Because the Chinese are going to
stop buying our debt. We’re going to get to the point where
business has so little confidence they’re not willing to
expand.”  Business Experience  Bloomberg also said Obama should add people with business
experience to his administration such as  Roger Altman , the
founder of Evercore Partners Inc. and a former deputy Treasury
secretary. Altman is a candidate to replace  Lawrence Summers  as
director of the National Economic Council.  “There are other people like that, who can give him a
broader perspective,” people who will say “What you’re talking
about is theoretical. Let me tell you about the real world,”
Bloomberg said on NBC.  Bloomberg is scheduled to speak today at an event for  No
Labels , a Washington-based group whose goal is “building a
broad citizen movement” that will “organize and strengthen the
mainstream to the benefit of the country,” according to its
website. The group is not promoting any individual for political
office, according to the website.  The mayor is founder and majority owner of Bloomberg News
parent Bloomberg LP.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Molly Peterson  in Washington at 
 mpeterson9@bloomberg.net   Gopal Ratnam  in Washington at 
 gratnam1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva@bloomberg.net  