-- John Terry Says Chelsea Is on Upward Curve as Penalty Miss Drops Points
-- B y   P e t e r - J o s e p h   H e g a r t y
-- 2010-12-13T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-12/bolton-beats-blackburn-2-1-in-premier-league-wolves-defeats-birmingham.html
Chelsea captain  John Terry  said the
Blues are on the way back to their best form, even though an
injury-time penalty failure meant the Premier League champion
could only draw 1-1 at Tottenham yesterday.  Chelsea has gone five league games without a win, taking it
from first to fourth in the standings.  “We deserved to win the game, especially in the second
half, we dominated,” Terry told Sky Sports. “That’s more like
the Chelsea we know.”  Didier Drogba  took the spot-kick -- ahead of regular taker
 Frank Lampard  who was returning after injury -- but saw
goalkeeper  Heurelho Gomes  dive to his left to save. Gomes had
given away the penalty with a rash challenge, having earlier
blundered with Chelsea’s first goal. Terry said it hadn’t been
agreed who would take the penalty.  “You score some, you miss some,” he said. “The hunger,
the spirit, the determination; we pressed a lot better. The fans
appreciate you can lose and draw, but when they don’t see the
passion, that’s what hurts. We’re hopefully back now. We’ve got
two huge games now.”  Carlo Ancelotti ’s team hosts Manchester United at Stamford
Bridge at on Dec. 19 before facing league leader Arsenal at the
Emirates Stadium eight days later.  League Table  Arsenal has 32 points and tops the standings on goal
difference from Manchester City, which has played a game more
than the Gunners. Manchester United and Chelsea have 31 points,
Tottenham has 27, followed by Bolton on 26. United hosts Arsenal
tonight, having played 15 games, one less than Arsenal and two
fewer than Chelsea.  Drogba, who started on the substitutes’ bench yesterday,
tied the scores in the 70th minute and could have returned his
team to the top of the standings had he scored from the penalty
spot.  Roman Pavlyuchenko  put Tottenham ahead in the 15th minute,
taking one touch on the ball from  Jermain Defoe ’s pass before
slamming a left-foot shot just inside a post.  Spurs continued to press forward, with Gareth Bale
presenting a danger on the left and  Aaron Lennon ’s pace testing
 Ashley Cole  on the other flank. When the visitors did break out,
 Salomon Kalou  went close at the near post and  Nicolas Anelka  had
an effort disallowed for offside.  Defoe shot narrowly wide at the start of the second half
and Drogba, having come on to the field, saw Gomes push his
long-range shot wide. The goalkeeper then had to tip over a
header from his own team’s Wilson Palacios.  Gomes Blunder  In a free-flowing game, Drogba leveled the scores when the
Spurs goalkeeper let the striker’s shot slip through his grasp
and into the net. The keeper then brought down Ramires to
concede the last-gasp spot-kick.  In other games yesterday, 10-man Bolton Wanderers beat
Blackburn Rovers 2-1 after Mark Davies was red-carded, while
Wolves had a 1-0 victory over Birmingham.  Wolves’ home victory, through a  Stephen Hunt  goal, takes
the team three points ahead of bottom club West Ham. Blackburn
and Birmingham remain 13th and 16th in the 20-team league.  Other results at the weekend: Aston Villa 2-1 West Brom;
Everton 0-0 Wigan; Fulham 0-0 Sunderland; Newcastle 3-1
Liverpool; Stoke 0-1 Blackpool; West Ham 1-3 Manchester City.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Peter-Joseph Hegarty  in London at 
 phegarty@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net . 