-- Bond Sales Freeze for Union Bank, IDBI on Yields: India Credit
-- B y   A n u r a g   J o s h i
-- 2010-12-13T08:43:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-12/bond-sales-freeze-for-union-bank-idbi-treasurers-on-yields-india-credit.html
Corporate treasurers in  India  say
they are delaying bond sales after U.S. President  Barack Obama ’s
tax cuts and Europe’s sovereign debt crisis drove a benchmark
for their global borrowing costs to a four-month high.  Rural Electrification Corp., the state-controlled lender to
power projects, put off a $500 million bond sale until January
on “adverse market conditions,” Finance Director Hari Das Khunteta said in a Dec. 3 interview.  Union Bank of India  is
holding off on a Swiss franc debt offering, General Manager V.K. Khanna said in a Dec. 6 interview. IDBI Bank Ltd. will consider
rates as it schedules $500 million of issuance in the first
quarter of 2011.  “The money has to be at a reasonable cost,” Melwyn Rego,
the Mumbai-based executive director and head of international
banking at state-owned IDBI, said in a Dec. 6 interview. “If
the costs are high, there won’t be any takers.”  Bond sales in foreign currencies by Indian companies have
ground to a halt in December as corporate dollar note yields
rose to 5.12 percent last week, the highest level since July 29,
HSBC Holdings Plc indexes show. The European Union’s bailout of
Ireland and concern the  U.S. budget deficit  will expand helped
damp demand for bonds from BRIC nations. The cost of credit-
default swaps tied to the debt of  State Bank  of India jumped to
179 basis points on Dec. 1 from 155 on Nov. 8.  Debt Offerings  Borrowers in India raised $8.7 billion in 2010 through
international debt offerings as of Dec. 10, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. They sold $2 billion in October and $2.2
billion in November. That compares with $9.3 billion for the
whole of 2007.  Novelis Inc., the Atlanta-based aluminum unit of Hindalco
Industries Ltd., sold $2.5 billion of bonds in the largest U.S.
junk offering in two months on Dec. 10.  “I am confident we will see issuances coming back,” said
Philippe Petit, a senior investment manager in  Singapore  at
Pictet Asset Management, said in a Dec. 10 interview. The firm
manages $17 billion of emerging-market debt. “There is an
appetite, definitely, in the market.”  The perceived creditworthiness of Indian banks has held up
better than their peers in other emerging markets. Credit-
default swaps on State Bank have fallen 50 basis points in the
past six months to 162 on Dec. 10, compared with 20 basis points
for Bank of  China  Ltd. and 28 basis points for Sberbank,  Russia ’s biggest lender. The swaps are used to protect against
missed debt payments.  The yield on 10-year U.S. Treasuries touched 3.33 percent
last week, the highest since June 4, after Obama agreed to
extend U.S. tax cuts to boost growth. German bund yields rose
above 3 percent for the first time in seven months.  Bond Buyback  India’s 10-year government bonds gained last week on
speculation the central bank’s buyback of 120 billion rupees
($2.7 billion) of debt on Dec. 9 would ease a cash crunch. The
yield on the 7.8 percent notes due in May 2020 fell 9 basis
points to 8.08 percent.  Banks borrowed an average 816 billion rupees a day this
quarter using the  Reserve Bank  of India’s repurchase-auction
window, compared with 239 billion rupees in the previous three
months, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Investors are probably taking some comfort on expectation
there will be more buybacks,” said Krishnamurthy Harihar,
treasurer at FirstRand Ltd. in Mumbai.  The rate on emerging-market debt was 5.72 percent on Dec.
10, after reaching a three-month high of 5.74 percent on Nov.
30, according to an index compiled by JPMorgan Chase & Co. The
yield fell to 5.123 percent on Nov. 4, the lowest since the bank
started tracking the market in December 1997.  ‘Still Cheaper’  “The higher rates overseas lately don’t change the fact
that it’s still cheaper to sell bonds compared with onshore
costs,” Alice Chikara, a bond analyst at Elara Capital Plc in
Singapore, said in an interview on Dec. 10. “We expect to see a
strong pipeline of issuances next year.”    Bhushan Steel Ltd ., an Indian steelmaker, raised $200
million in dollar-denominated loans, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  India’s local-currency debt has returned 4.1 percent in
2010, according to indexes compiled by HSBC, as the Reserve Bank
raised borrowing costs by 150 basis points. Investors in China
earned 1.2 percent, the least in the region, the indexes show.
Indian dollar bonds returned 9.6 percent, compared with 10.9
percent on average for dollar debt in  Asia , HSBC data show.  ‘Far From Over’  The rupee has advanced 2.9 percent against the dollar in
2010, making it cheaper for local companies to borrow overseas.
The currency appreciated 0.1 percent last week to 45.0550 per
dollar amid a report showing the nation’s industrial output rose
in October more than forecast. The rupee weakened 0.2 percent to
45.155 per dollar today.  Output at factories, utilities and mines rose 10.8 percent
in October from a year earlier after a 4.4 percent increase in
September, the statistics office said in a statement in  New
Delhi  on Dec. 10. The median estimate of 29 economists in a
Bloomberg News survey was for an 8.5 percent gain.  The European Union and the  International Monetary Fund 
agreed on an 85-billion euro ($113 billion) rescue package for
Ireland on Nov. 28.  IMF  Managing Director Dominique Strauss-Kahn
said in Geneva Dec. 8 that  Europe  remains in a “troubling”
situation and the effects of the global financial turmoil are
“far from over.”  Union Bank will sell bonds “as and when we find the
pricing is right,” Khanna said. Rural Electrification’s
Khunteta said the company is now “looking at the second week of
January” to sell its bonds.  “Moving into next year, markets will be more volatile as
the macro background is less conducive to strengthening in the
bond markets,”  Kenneth Akintewe , a Singapore-based portfolio
manager at Aberdeen Asset Management Asia Ltd., which manages
$261 billion in assets, said in an interview on Dec. 10. “From
India’s perspective, you could see a little bit of delay.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anurag Joshi in Mumbai at 
 ajoshi53@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at   shendry@bloomberg.net  