-- Bond Market Signals No End to Deflation for Eight More Years: Japan Credit
-- B y   M a s a k i   K o n d o   a n d   Y o s h i a k i   N o h a r a
-- 2010-12-13T02:43:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-12/bond-market-signals-no-end-to-deflation-for-eight-more-years-japan-credit.html
The Bank of Japan’s forecast for an
end to deflation in 2011 and 35 trillion yen ($416.9 billion) of
spending have done little to change the thinking in the bond
market, where investors see eight more years of falling prices.  Bonds designed to protect investors against inflation show
that money managers in Japan anticipate prices will decline at
an average 0.6 percent pace over the next five years and 0.4
percent annually through 2018. Japan is the only country where
bonds linked to price changes show entrenched deflation
expectations, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Japan is not going for any aggressive reflationary policy
mix and therefore is likely to prolong Japan’s deflation,” said
 Tomoya Masanao , who oversees funds in Japan for Newport Beach,
California-based Pacific Investment Management Co., which runs
the world’s biggest bond fund. The BOJ plan was “rather
cosmetic,” Masanao said in an e-mailed reply to questions.  Prime Minister Naoto Kan has urged BOJ Governor Masaaki
Shirakawa to eliminate deflation that has inhibited growth,
allowing  China  to briefly surpass its Asian rival as the world’s
second-largest economy. Japan’s gross domestic product grew by
15 percent during the 20 years through 2009, while the U.S.’s
increased 158 percent and China’s surged 20-fold, data compiled
by Bloomberg show.  During that period, Japanese prices on products excluding
fresh food rose 0.3 percent annually on average, while yields on
the benchmark 10-year government bond averaged 2.4 percent. U.S.
prices excluding food and fuel climbed at 2.7 percent and the
10-year Treasury yield averaged 5.53 percent.  20-Straight Months  The Japanese price gauge slid 0.6 percent from a year
earlier in October, marking 20-straight months of decrease.
Deflation, or a general ddecline in prices, increases the value
of the fixed payments from debt and weakens economic growth by
damping investment, spending and hiring.  Central bank efforts to boost the economy, bolstered in
October by a 5 trillion-yen fund for asset purchases, eased
deflation expectations, as measured by the gap between yields on
inflation bonds and those that aren’t linked to consumer price
changes. The so-called breakeven rate on eight-year securities
representing traders’ expectations for average annual deflation
narrowed to 0.45 percent on Dec. 3 from as much as 1.32 percent
in December 2009.  ‘Sentiment Is Changing’  The BOJ is “fighting and it is working,” said  Hideo Shimomura , who helps oversee the equivalent of $59.4 billion in
Tokyo as chief fund investor at Mitsubishi UFJ Asset Management
Co. “Sentiment is changing and people are becoming more
optimistic about Japan exiting deflation, although it will take
a couple of years.”  Inflation-linked debt has outperformed government notes
over the past six months. An investor who bought five-year
indexed securities on June 10 earned a 2.9 percent return, while
a purchaser of similar-maturity bonds lost 0.1 percent,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Some 150 lawmakers from the ruling Democratic Party of
Japan, who call themselves the anti-deflation league, said last
month the BOJ should adopt an inflation target to eradicate
price declines and bolster employment.  “What the BOJ did in the past has had little impact,”
said  Akio Kato , Tokyo-based team leader for Japanese debt at
Kokusai Asset Management Co., which runs the $35 billion Global
Sovereign Open fund, Asia’s biggest. “Investors are skeptical
somewhat about the BOJ. It’s up for debate whether they did
their best to reach the current situation or just took action
after succumbing to political pressure.”  The BOJ said on Oct. 28 that the nation’s consumer prices
excluding fresh food will rise 0.1 percent in the year beginning
in April.  Higher Consumer Prices  BOJ Governor Shirakawa and his board on Oct. 5 cut the key
overnight lending rate to “virtually” zero, and pledged to
keep it there until they can forecast stable prices, which the
bank regards as inflation of as much as 2 percent. In December
2009, it created a 10 trillion-yen lending program that was
expanded to 30 trillion yen.  “Churning out yen won’t spur demand,”  Shinichiro Furumoto , chairman of the ruling Democratic Party of Japan’s
fiscal and finance policy panel, said in an interview on Nov.
26.  The  yield  on Japan’s benchmark 10-year bond reached 1.27
percent on Dec. 9, the most since June, increasing more than 40
basis points from a seven-year low in October. U.S. yields are
rising faster, as data indicate economic growth is accelerating
and President Barack Obama’s agreement to extend Bush-era tax
cuts spurs speculation the U.S. will have to fund a larger
deficit.  Yield Spread Widening  The extra yield 10-year U.S. Treasuries offer over similar-
maturity Japanese government debt swelled to 213 basis points,
or 2.13 percentage point, the widest since May. The difference
was 146 basis points on Sept. 7.  The yen traded 83.98 per U.S. dollar today from 83.69 on
Nov. 30. Japan’s currency reached a 15-year high of 80.22 to the
dollar on Nov. 1 and has advanced 11 percent this year, the
biggest gain among developed-world counterparts, according to
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes.  A stronger yen damps the earnings outlook for Japan’s
exporters and may increase pressure for prices to fall by making
imports cheaper.  The Ministry of Finance has issued 10 trillion yen of 10-
year inflation-linked bonds and hasn’t sold any since August
2008. The amount of outstanding inflation-linked debt is about 4
trillion yen, according to  Takashi Nishimura , an analyst in
Tokyo at Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley Securities Co.  Illiquid Securities  Demand for the securities “collapsed” after the
bankruptcy of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. in September 2008
because of their low liquidity, Nishimura said. The ministry has
bought back the securities as needed to avoid supply gluts,
improving the breakeven rate’s accuracy as a gauge of deflation
expectations, he said.  Japanese government debt has given investors a 2 percent
loss since Oct. 5 when the BOJ unveiled its asset-purchase plan,
according to an index compiled by Bank of America Corp.’s
Merrill Lynch unit. The Nikkei 225 Stock Average has advanced
7.4 percent in that time.  Five-year credit-default swaps on Japanese government bonds
fell one basis point to 70.6 on Dec. 9, CMA prices in New York
show. That compares with 71.1 for China. The contracts pay the
buyer face value in exchange for the underlying securities or
the cash equivalent if a government or company fails to adhere
to debt agreements.  Extra Yield  The extra yield  investors demand  to own the yen-denominated
debt of overseas borrowers rather than the Japanese government
fell two basis points to 120 points, according to indexes
compiled by Nomura Securities Co.  Three-month commercial paper rates for businesses with the
lowest a2 rating fell to an average 0.33 percent, down from 0.4
percent on Oct. 4, according to data from Tokyo Tanshi Co. The
rate declined after the central bank said on Oct. 5 it would
consider buying commercial paper and other assets through the 5
trillion-yen fund.  Prices are bound to fall in developed nations such as
Japan, as growth tops out and aggregate demand tapers off, said
 Daisuke Uno , chief strategist at Tokyo-based Sumitomo Mitsui
Banking Corp., Japan’s second-biggest lender with deposits of
$850 billion.  “The question in the first place is whether deflation can
be defeated,” Uno said. “I don’t think it can be.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Masaki Kondo  in Tokyo at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net ;
 Yoshiaki Nohara  in Tokyo at 
 ynohara1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  