-- U.K. Stocks Climb, Led by Mining Companies; Wellstream Rallies on Takeover
-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 2010-12-13T16:51:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-12/burberry-glaxosmithkline-regal-u-k-irish-equity-preview.html
U.K. stocks rose for a third day as
China refrained from raising interest rates and merger and
acquisition activity buoyed  Wellstream Holdings Plc  and Yule
Catto & Co.  Xstrata Plc and Antofagasta Plc led basic-resource shares
higher.  Wellstream  rallied 5.8 percent as General Electric Co.
agreed to buy the company for about 800 million pounds ($1.3
billion). Yule Catto led gains on the FTSE 250 Index as the
British supplier of polymers agreed to acquire a latex maker
from TowerBrook Capital Partners for 443 million euros ($585
million).  The benchmark  FTSE 100 Index  rose 47.80, or 0.8 percent, to
5,860.75 at the 4:30 p.m. close in London for its longest
winning streak since September. The gauge has rallied 8.3
percent so far this year as corporate profits improved and the
Federal Reserve bought bonds to assist the U.S. economy’s
recovery, a tactic known as quantitative easing. The  FTSE All-
Share Index  gained 0.7 percent and Ireland’s  ISEQ Index  climbed
0.5 percent today.  “If QE ends up boosting equity prices, companies may be
tempted to use their more richly priced shares to indulge in
M&A,”  David Shairp , a global strategist at JPMorgan Asset
Management in London wrote in a report today. We are “still
constructive on risk assets.”  Bank of China  The People’s Bank of China, which last week raised reserve-
requirement ratios for banks by half a percentage point, didn’t
increase interest rates this weekend, even as consumer prices
jumped 5.1 percent in November. As Federal Reserve policy makers
meet tomorrow, a U.S. Commerce Department report is likely to
show retail sales climbed for a fifth straight month in
November.  Xstrata gained 1.4 percent to 1,461.5 pence and Antofagasta
rose 3.1 percent to 1,543 pence. Copper, lead, nickel and tin
climbed in London.  Wellstream  rallied 5.8 percent to 790 pence. General
Electric agreed to buy Wellstream for 780 pence a share plus a
special dividend of 6 pence a share.  Yule Catto surged 12 percent to 290 pence, its highest
closing price since April 2006. The supplier of polymers plans
to raise 225 million pounds in a rights offering to fund the
acquisition of PolymerLatex.  The purchase, Yule Catto’s largest so far, will expand its
offering of polymers for the paint, construction, carpeting and
adhesive industries, while generating efficiency savings of
about 20 million pounds. Chief Executive Officer  Adrian Whitfield  expects the deal to help earnings starting in the
first year of full ownership.  Regal Petroleum  Regal Petroleum Plc  rose 6.2 percent to 25.75 pence. The
U.K. explorer that put all its drilling operations on hold
pending a strategic review said it received a 24 pence-per-share
offer from Energees Management Ltd.  Separately, Heamoor Ltd. confirmed its interest in Regal
Petroleum and has been in discussion with the company’s board
about making a cash offer as well as alternatively combining
Regal assets with those of Geo-Alliance Oil-Gas Public Ltd.  John Wood Group Plc, a U.K. oil and gas services company,
rallied 6.7 percent to 521 pence as it agreed to pay $955
million for PSN Ltd. to create the world’s leading brownfield
production services provider.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Adam Haigh  in London at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Merritt at 
 dmerritt1@bloomberg.net  