-- Canada May Help With Haiti Vote Recounting, Foreign Affairs Minister Says
-- B y   F r e d e r i c   T o m e s c o
-- 2010-12-12T17:43:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-12/canada-may-help-with-haiti-vote-recounting-foreign-affairs-minister-says.html
Canada has offered to take part in
an international effort to oversee the recount of ballots in
Haiti after the disputed Nov. 28 election, Foreign Affairs
Minister  Lawrence Cannon  said.  The Haiti election was marred by allegations of fraud and
incidents of violence that triggered a call by a majority of the
presidential candidates for the vote to be annulled. Opposition
candidates such as Michel Martelly, who finished in third place,
are refusing to take part in a proposed recount, Agence France-
Presse reported today.  “There is an opportunity of a mixed international
committee that would be put in place to be able to go and
supervise the recount of the ballots,” Cannon told CTV
television network in an interview today. “Canada has offered
its cooperation, and we’re waiting to get additional information
on that.”  Cannon said he called Haiti President  René Preval  and Prime
Minister Jean-Max Bellerive on Dec. 10 to express Canada’s
concern over the “irregularities” that took place in the
voting, and “encouraged them to put in the necessary tools to
be able to correct this. I got the assurances that this would be
done,” he said.  Canada probably won’t be asked to send new soldiers to
Haiti as part of a United Nations-led security force because the
unrest has been brought under control, Cannon said. More than
100 Canadians are already on the ground in the country with the
UN force, he said.  Second-Round Vote  “Following my phone conversation the other day, I got the
assurances that calm would be restored and as we speak today,
calm has been restored in the streets,” Cannon said.  Haitian voters are due to return to the polls Jan. 16 for a
second-round vote amid a cholera epidemic that has killed more
than 2,120 people.  Efforts to rebuild Haiti following the January earthquake
that killed as many as 300,000 people are one of the topics
Cannon said he will discuss tomorrow when he meets with his U.S.
and Mexican counterparts,  Hillary Clinton  and  Patricia Espinosa ,
in Canada.  “It’s slow, it’s extremely slow,” Cannon said of the
rebuilding. “There are problems for instance in terms of land
tenure. These are preoccupations and concerns that we have.”  To contact the reporter for this story:
 Frederic Tomesco  in Montreal at 
 tomesco@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net  