-- China’s ‘City Jade Men’ Indulge in Mud Masks, L’Oreal Creams
-- B y   F r e d e r i k   B a l f o u r
-- 2010-12-12T16:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-12/china-s-city-jade-men-indulge-in-mud-masks-l-oreal-creams.html
Every morning Shane Zhang applies
face scrub, toner and moisturizer; at night he uses  Lancome 
anti-aging cream. Twice a month he treats himself to a facial
using mud from the Dead Sea.  “People say I look younger than my age,” says Zhang, 28,
who sells advertising for lifestyle magazine  Men’s Uno  China in
Shanghai and spends about 1000 yuan ($150) a month on his
appearance. “Since I’m a sales person it definitely helps.”  Daily rituals like Zhang’s have prompted  L’Oreal SA , the
world’s biggest cosmetics company, Nivea maker  Beiersdorf AG  and
Japan’s  Shiseido Co.  to target men in China, the only country
where  Procter & Gamble  sells Olay for Men. Sales of men’s health
and beauty merchandise in China are set to overtake North
America this year and will probably grow about five times faster
until 2014, according to data from  Euromonitor International .  “All the major cosmetics companies are focusing on this
segment,” said  Lynn Zhou , a Shanghai-based retail analyst at
CLSA Ltd. “China is starting from a small base; it has huge
potential.”  Growing disposable income, fashion magazines such as
Chinese editions of Esquire and GQ and the desire to find a
competitive edge at work are driving demand for men’s skincare
products. Men who use cosmetics are called “Du Shi Yu Nan” or
City Jade Men, the local language term that translates to
“metrosexuals.”  “Chinese men are now more concerned with appearances and
projecting an image of success,” said   Shaun Rein , managing
director of Shanghai-based China Market Research Group.  “First,
they were spending on watches and pens and shoes as a status
symbol, then five years ago they were focusing more on apparel,
and in the last three years there is a real upsurge in male
cosmetics.”  Bigger Than Razors  Spending by Chinese men on all kinds of face creams, anti-
aging gels and cleansing lotions already exceeds spending on
razors and blades by a factor of 4:3 and the gap will keep
widening, said  Damon Jones , a Boston-based spokesman for  Procter
& Gamble . “If we don’t win in skincare, we can’t be No. 1 in
China,” Jones said.  The Chinese men’s skin-care market may reach $269.6 million
this year, compared with $227.4 million for North America,
according to  Euromonitor . The research company forecast annual
growth of 29 percent from last year to 2014, compared with 5.7
percent for North America and 7.9 percent in Europe.  China’s growth potential is helped by a lack of cultural
resistance to men using the items, said Jean-Michel Ripoll,
 L’Oreal ’s Shanghai-based general manager for market research.  “In the U.S. or Mediterranean countries, when we tried to
tell men to use cosmetics they would say: ‘Come on. I’m a man
and creams are for girls,” said Ripoll. “In China we don’t
have to fight against that.”  ‘You Get Confidence’  Liang Guang, a 29-year-old architect for a property company
in Beijing, began buying cosmetics after seeing a television
commercial for  L’Oreal  men’s products featuring Hong Kong action
star  Daniel Wu .  “I think men and women are equal in terms of making
themselves look good,” said Liang, while picking up a 100
milliliter (3.4 fluid-ounce) bottle of Shiseido Men’s
Moisturizing Emulsion costing $42 at a department store.
“Although you don’t automatically get a girlfriend or get
praised by your boss with this, the truth is, every morning when
you wake up and use the stuff you get confidence you need for
the day,” he said.  While China is set to overtake Japan this year as the
world’s second-biggest economy, 2009 per capita income in the
 most-populous nation  was $3,744, compared with $46,436 in the
U.S. and $39,727 in Japan, according to the  World Bank .  Still, sales of men’s skin-care merchandise, at about 1
percent of the total beauty and health-care market in China, are
growing at more than double the pace for women’s, according to
estimates by CLSA Ltd.  What Men Want  Domestic companies are also participating in the burgeoning
market.  Shanghai Jahwa United Co.  in 1992 started marketing its
gf line, which it says uses ingredients from desert plants that
protect the skin. Gf, pronounced gao er fu, meaning golf, ranked
fourth in market share last year, according to Euromonitor,
ahead of Nivea at No.5. CLSA estimates the gf brand grew 45
percent last year.  Shiseido  began selling its  Aupres JS  brand in 2001 and
introduced its  Shiseido Men  line in 2005. The Chinese men’s
cosmetics market is more than one third the size of Japan’s
$1.42 billion market, company spokeswoman  Megumi Kinukawa  said.  Chinese men crave advice on how to improve what they see in
the mirror, said Zou Wen, an editor at  GQ China , which started
publishing last year.  “We run one feature story about men’s cosmetics every
issue,” said Zou. “Reader feedback from the internet tells us
they want two to three such articles.”  Status Symbols  L’Oreal  had 32 percent of the Chinese market in 2009,
driven by sales of premium items such as L’Oreal Men Expert, on
sale since 2006 and the No. 1 brand, and Biotherm Homme,
introduced in 2003, said Euromonitor. They are aimed at
professional urban males willing to spend as much as $110 for a
50 millimeter container of moisturizing cream.  China’s growth  looks so promising the company is expanding
outside of the major cities of Shanghai, Beijing and Guangzhou,
said Paolo Gasparini, L’Oreal’s China chief executive officer.
The country’s economy will probably grow 9 percent in 2011,
according to the median estimate of 18 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg.  L’Oreal  in 2008 introduced its Vichy line in China, and
late last year started selling Garnier, a brand aimed at entry-
level cosmetics users, especially in third- and fourth-tier
cities. An unexpected bonus was that women account for about 50
percent of purchases at  L’Oreal ’s China stores for their
husbands and boyfriends, said Gasparini.  “This surprised me for I am Italian and Latins are more
macho and only use products they buy for themselves,” Gasparini
said. “Chinese men don’t have any problem using products bought
for them by women.”  -- Michael Wei  in Beijing. With assistance from  Naoko Fujimura 
in Tokyo. Editors:  Frank Longid ,  Bret Okeson   To contact the reporter on this story:
 Frederik Balfour  in Hong Kong at 
 fbalfour@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Longid at   flongid@bloomberg.net  