-- China Risks `Rush' to Tighten in 2011 After Inflation Accelerates Past 5%
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-12-13T10:58:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-12/china-risks-rush-to-tighten-in-2011-after-inflation-surges.html
China risks a more abrupt tightening
in monetary policy next year after refraining from raising
interest rates since October even as inflation accelerated to
the fastest pace in more than two years.  Consumer prices  jumped 5.1 percent in November, a
statistics bureau report showed Dec. 11. A measure of wholesale
costs climbed 6.1 percent, exceeding all 28 estimates in a
Bloomberg News survey of economists. Even so, the central bank
held off over the weekend on the rate move predicted by firms
including UBS AG and Mizuho Securities Asia Ltd.  Policy makers’ hesitation may be in part a product of
China’s policy of holding down the yuan, as higher returns on
deposits and loans would boost prospects for inflows of
speculative capital that put pressure on the exchange rate. The
danger is that a quicker move to raise borrowing costs next year
unsettles the expansion in the fastest-growing major economy.  “The only reason to hold back is the hot money issue,”
said  Shen Jianguang , a Hong Kong-based economist for Mizuho who
formerly worked for the International Monetary Fund and the
European Central Bank. “If they are overwhelmed by this concern
and refrain from a rate hike, inflation will be a big risk next
year, and then eventually they will need to rush in
tightening.”  China’s central bank extended a temporary 50 basis point
increase in the reserve requirements for some lenders by three
months, two people briefed on the matter said today. The move,
which drains money from the financial system, was in addition to
an increase of the same magnitude for all lenders announced on
Dec. 10.  Lending Target  The  Shanghai Composite Index  of stocks closed 2.9 percent
higher after rates remained unchanged, paring to 11 percent the
decline this year caused by investors’ concern that government
tightening will damp growth and profits.  China is likely to set a target of at least 7 trillion yuan
($1.1 trillion) of  lending  in 2011, said two people briefed on
the matter. The government also aims for 4 percent inflation, 8
percent economic growth and a 16 percent expansion in money
supply, the people said, declining to be identified because the
information isn’t public.  No final loan target has been set and the figure may change,
one person said. This year’s goal was to limit lending to 7.5
trillion yuan. In the first 11 months the total was 7.45
trillion yuan. In 2009, lending was a record 9.59 trillion yuan.  This year’s targets are 8 percent growth -- a goal set and
exceeded in each of the previous five years -- 3 percent
inflation and a 17 percent increase in  money supply .  Leaders’ Pledge  China’s leaders pledged yesterday to give a greater
priority to stabilizing prices in 2011 and also better manage
 liquidity , Xinhua News Agency reported after an annual
conference in Beijing to set economic policy guidelines.  The central bank has raised rates once since December 2007,
pushing the benchmark one-year deposit rate to 2.5 percent and
the lending rate to 5.56 percent. Across Asia, India has moved
six times this year, Malaysia three times and South Korea twice.  Premier  Wen Jiabao ’s government has also limited gains in
the yuan that could help restrain import costs, with the
currency appreciating less than 3 percent against the dollar
since mid-June. The yuan has fallen about 0.4 percent in the
past month, trading at 6.6624 in Shanghai today.  Higher prices erode households’ spending power and make it
tougher for the poorest to afford basic goods. Food prices rose
11.7 percent in November from a year before, and residence-
related costs such as charges for water, electricity and rent
jumped 5.8 percent. More than 81 million people in disaster-
affected parts of China may need food assistance this winter,
the Ministry of Civil Affairs said on its website on Nov. 18.  Capital Inflows  Meantime, officials have warned that an influx of foreign
capital may contribute to  asset-price  pressures. Funds are
flowing into China because of monetary easing in developed
economies and the strength of the nation’s  recovery , along with
forecasts for higher rates and a stronger yuan.  Trade surpluses  are also bringing in cash from overseas,
with figures last week showing a $22.9 billion total for
November. Liquidity is also buttressed by continued growth in
credit, with banks lending 564 billion yuan last month.  “The global low interest-rate environment prevents China’s
central bank from raising interest rates,”  Wu Xiaoling , a
former deputy governor of the central bank, said Dec. 11. She
cited the risk of more capital inflows, adding that “excessive
money supply is one of the important reasons for China’s
inflation.”  Outstanding local-currency loans  were 47.4 trillion yuan in
November, 60 percent more than two years earlier, a central bank
report showed last week. The M2 measure of money supply rose
19.5 percent in November from a year before.  Industrial Production  China’s November data indicated that the economy is
withstanding campaigns to limit energy consumption in industry
and speculation in the real-estate market.  Industrial-output 
growth accelerated to a 13.3 percent annual pace. Retail sales
advanced almost 19 percent.  Inflation may be “relatively high” in the first half of
2011 after likely easing to below 5 percent this month, the
National Development and Reform Commission, the top state
planning agency, said two days ago. In the first 11 months of
2010, consumer prices rose 3.2 percent, exceeding the
government’s full-year target of 3 percent.  Analysts focused on the possibility of a rate increase over
the weekend because of the release of the inflation data on
Saturday, Dec. 11, eight days after the Communist Party’s
Politburo said the nation would shift to a tighter, “prudent”
monetary policy next year.  Soaking Up Cash  Instead of raising rates, policy makers have drained money
from the financial system over the past two months by setting
higher reserve requirements for banks. The government is also
focusing on administrative measures to combat inflation and its
effects, including subsidies for the poor, sales from state food
reserves and, where necessary, price controls on “daily
necessities.”  Rising wages are fueling inflation pressures. Yum! Brands
Inc., the owner of the KFC restaurant chain, said last week that
its labor costs in China may climb 10 percent or more in 2011.  Delaying the use of the interest-rates and the exchange-
rate tools may lead to “a painful correction at a later
stage,” said  Chang Jian , a Hong Kong-based chief China
economist at Barclays Capital. She saw risks including asset
bubbles.  Economists anticipate a 1 percentage point rise in the key
lending and deposit rates by the end of next year, according to
the median forecasts in a Bloomberg survey on Dec. 2. Gross
domestic product will rise 9.2 percent in 2011, the median
projection shows.  -- Li Yanping ,  Paul Panckhurst . With assistance from Zhang
Shidong,  Luo Jun  and  Sophie Leung . Editors:  Paul Panckhurst ,
 Chris Anstey   To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
 Li Yanping  in Beijing at +86-10-6649-7568 or
 yli16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  