-- China Pledges to Change Growth Model in 2011, Tackle Prices, Grow Quickly
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-12-12T12:03:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-12/china-pledges-to-change-growth-model-in-2011-tackle-prices-grow-quickly.html
 China’s leaders pledged to
accelerate a shift in the nation’s growth model in 2011 and
also focus on stabilizing prices after an annual meeting in
Beijing to set economic policy guidelines.  The state-run Xinhua News Agency reported on the outcome
of the so-called Central Economic Work Conference, attended
by President  Hu Jintao  and Premier  Wen Jiabao . Its initial
accounts didn’t give any specific targets for growth,
inflation or lending. The government reiterated its intention
to keep the currency stable.  China is seeking to shift from dependence on investment
in industry and  exports  to bolstering private consumption and
service industries, a move that could also aid the world
economy. The nation is tightening monetary policy to cool
 inflation  that accelerated to 5.1 percent in November, the
fastest pace in 28 months.  “The top concern for the government next year will be
to contain inflation, stabilize growth and spur
consumption,”  Lu Zhengwei , a Shanghai-based economist with
Industrial Bank Co., said before today’s announcement.  U.S. lawmakers and officials say a stronger Chinese
currency would help to reduce global trade imbalances, boost
private consumption and contain inflation.  Yuan ‘Stability’  The government aims to improve the renminbi’s exchange-
rate mechanism and ensure “basic stability” at a reasonable
and balanced level, Xinhua said. The report didn’t comment on
the pace of currency appreciation. The nation will focus on
encouraging imports as well as exports, it added.  Today’s comments alluded to the risks from the record
lending that jump-started the  Chinese economy  during the
financial crisis, including concern that banks will be
saddled with bad loans to local-government financing vehicles.  China will step up management of local-government debt
and prevent officials “blindly” starting new projects as a
the next national five-year plan begins, Xinhua reported.
Officials will also seek to better manage  liquidity,  the news
agency said.  The meeting affirmed the “prudent” monetary policy and
“proactive” fiscal stance for next year that the Politburo
described on Dec. 3. Wen summarized the coming year’s
economic tasks, and laid out key targets and macro-economic
policies, the report said. The government will seek to boost
revenue and “resolutely” cut spending, Xinhua said.  Fast Growth  Officials aim to balance “stable and relatively fast”
growth with adjusting the economic structure and managing
inflation expectations, the report said. The nation needs to
strengthen consumption as part of speeding change in the
growth model, it said.  China should “move quickly and aggressively to deal
with inflation” before tackling longer-term tasks such as
boosting the role of private consumption in the economy,
 Stephen Roach , non-executive chairman at Morgan Stanley Asia
Ltd. said Dec. 9 in Hong Kong.  The central bank raised lenders’ reserve requirements on
Dec. 10 as part of efforts to tame liquidity and cool prices.
The government will “further prioritize overall price
stability,” Xinhua reported today.  Central and provincial government officials and heads of
state-owned enterprises attend the work conference, which
fleshes out policy guidelines for the following year.  In 2011, the main tasks will include strengthening
macro-economic controls; ensuring the supply of agricultural
goods; altering the growth model; improving basic public
services; and continuing to “open up” and promote global
cooperation, the report said.  The government will steadily increase the area of land
used for food production, as well as state prices for food
purchases from producers and subsidies for agricultural
output, Xinhua said.  -- Luo Jun ,  Zheng Lifei , with assistance from  Li Yanping .
Editors:  Paul Panckhurst ,  Dick Schumacher .  To contact Bloomberg News staff of this story:
Luo Jun in Shanghai at +8621-6104-3036 or
 jluo6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  