-- China Urbanization to Drive Construction Equipment Demand, Zoomlion Says
-- B y   W i n g - G a r   C h e n g
-- 2010-12-12T10:37:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-12/china-urbanization-to-drive-demand-zoomlion-says-ahead-of-ipo.html
Changsha Zoomlion Heavy Industry
Science & Technology Development Co. , which is seeking to raise
as much as $2.1 billion in a Hong Kong stock sale, said
urbanization in China will continue to drive demand for
construction equipment.  Spending on railways, power plants and highway construction
will keep growing in the next five years, with China’s
accelerating economy boosting the growth prospects for the
company, Senior President Zhang Jianguo said today from London
via video conference.  Zoomlion, which is already listed in Shenzhen, China, is
seeking funds to build factories as the nation’s producer prices
rose 6.1 percent in November and  consumer prices  increased 5.1
percent, the most since July 2008. The world’s largest supplier
of concrete-making machinery is offering 870 million shares at
HK$13.98 to HK$18.98 apiece, according to its initial public
offering prospectus. The offer starts tomorrow.  “China will still be pursuing an accelerated pace of
economic growth and the growth will largely be supported by
investment,” Zhang said. “China is still continuing to
urbanize and spending on infrastructure and railways will grow,
boosting demand for construction machinery.”  Urbanization may reach 52 percent in 2015 and 65 percent in
2030, Chief Executive Officer Zhan Chunxin said at the briefing.
The urbanization rate is 45 percent now, Zhan said.  Changsha, central China-based  Zoomlion  rose 1.2 percent to
14.83 yuan in Shenzhen on Dec. 10. The stock has gained 43
percent this year, compared with an 8 percent gain for the
 Shenzhen Composite Index .  ‘Good Opportunity’  Zoomlion, which also makes cranes, roadmaking equipment and
fire trucks, will price the Hong Kong shares on Dec. 17 with
trading scheduled on Dec. 23. The sale includes an overallotment
option of 130.4 million shares.  China International Capital Corp., Goldman Sachs Group
Inc.,  JPMorgan Chase & Co.  and  Morgan Stanley  are managing the
offering.  “There has been very good investor interest,” Thomas
Deng, head of China equity capital markets at Goldman Sachs
Group Inc., told reporters in Hong Kong today. “There’re very
few construction machinery companies listed outside China and
investors see this as a very good opportunity.”  Zoomlion expects 2010 profit to rise at least 76 percent as
China boosts spending on building highways, factories and
railways, according to the prospectus.  China’s urban fixed-asset investment rose 24.9 percent in
the first 11 months of this year, according to a statistics
bureau report.  Inflation Effect  Rising inflation and prices in China are unlikely to affect
the company’s raw material costs, Chief Financial Officer Hong
Xiaoming said at the same conference. Zoomlion will push sales
of higher-value, higher priced products to mitigate cost
increases, Hong said.  Zoomlion has factories in Shanghai, Hunan, Shaanxi and
Guangdong, and operations in Europe after it acquired Cia
Italiana Forme Acciaio SpA in 2008.  Companies have raised a record $45 billion, excluding
overallotment shares, through Hong Kong IPOs this year,
according to Bloomberg data. AIA Group had the largest sale,
raising $17.8 billion in October.  Sateri Holdings Ltd. , a Chinese cellulose maker, earlier
this month raised HK$3.12 billion ($401 million) in its Hong
Kong IPO. The stock has risen 4.5 percent from its IPO price of
HHK$6.60 apiece.  China ZhengTong Auto Services Holdings Ltd. , the second
biggest  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG  dealer in China, priced its
IPO at HK$7.30, raising HK$3.46 billion, the company said Dec.
9. The stock increased 1.2 percent from its IPO price.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Wing-Gar Cheng  in Hong Kong at 
 wgcheng@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at   ndenslow@bloomberg.net  