-- Citigroup to Double Hong Kong Client Base, Challenging HSBC
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   T o n g
-- 2010-12-12T16:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-12/citigroup-to-double-hong-kong-client-base-challenging-hsbc.html
Citigroup Inc.  aims to double the
number of clients at its consumer banking unit in Hong Kong as
it challenges HSBC Holdings Plc and Standard Chartered Plc by
adding branches, cash machines and online services.  The New York-based bank targets two million consumer-
banking customers in the city in three to five years, up from a
million now,  Jonathan Larsen , Citigroup’s head of  consumer
banking  for the Asia-Pacific region, said in a Dec. 9 interview.  “Hong Kong is an attractive market,” Larsen said. “We
think that we deserve a much larger slice of that market and we
think we can achieve that.”  Citigroup stepped up expansion in the city of 7 million
people this year, almost doubling its number of branches to 43
and adding more than 60 automated teller machines. The company
is signing up more than 10,000 new retail banking customers a
month in Hong Kong, a fivefold increase from the pace at the
start of the year, according to spokesman  James Griffiths .  HSBC , based in London and founded in Hong Kong in 1865, is
the largest bank in the city with around 100 branches and more
than 4 million clients at its personal financial services unit.
Standard Chartered, the British bank that gets most of its
profit from  Asia , has about 80 branches and operates more than
200 ATMs.  Citigroup’s consumer banking unit oversees retail banking,
wealth management for individuals with up to $10 million of
assets, credit cards and small and medium-sized businesses. HSBC
includes retail banking, credit cards, insurance, pension
savings and investments in its personal financial services
operations.  Asian Plans  Hong Kong, where the economy grew 6.8 percent in the third
quarter, is part of Citigroup’s push to expand in Asia. The U.S.
bank plans to boost its branch network in the region to more
than 1,000 in the next three to four years from 710 now, Larsen
said. Citigroup aims to triple its number of outlets in China to
about 100 within three years.  Standard Chartered said last week that intensifying
competition among banks is driving staff costs higher,
predicting expenses will rise faster than revenue this year.  In Hong Kong,  Citigroup  is chipping away at HSBC’s dominant
position by expanding the range of outlets where customers can
access banking services. The bank said in October it agreed to
install ATMs in 7-Eleven stores across the city.  “We are not going to stop,” said Larsen. “We will keep
adding ATM locations. We are going to keep finding partners that
can help us to add value. We are going to keep making sure that
we are a very visible player.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Stephanie Tong  in Hong Kong at 
 stong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  