-- U.S. Wants `Real' Progress on Key Middle East Peace Issues, Clinton Says
-- B y   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e   a n d   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n
-- 2010-12-12T05:32:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-12/clinton-toughens-language-on-middle-east-negotiations-update1-.html
U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  told Israelis and Palestinians to stop “demonizing”
each other and to make “real progress” on their disagreements
in the next few months.  Addressing senior Israeli and Palestinian officials,
Clinton expressed “deep frustration” that negotiations haven’t
gone further and faster. Both sides should stop assigning
“blame for the next failure,” she said.  “It is time to grapple with the core issues of this
conflict on borders and security, settlements, water and
refugees, and on Jerusalem itself,” Clinton said in a speech in
Washington Dec. 10. Both sides “have often not been ready to
take the necessary steps. Going forward, they must take
responsibility and make the difficult decisions that peace
requires.”  As Israelis and Palestinians enter a new phase of talks
after direct negotiations broke down in September, Clinton said
the U.S. would offer proposals to bridge differences between the
two groups “when appropriate.” The top U.S. diplomat stressed
it was in the interests of the U.S. to see a resolution to a
conflict she described as a “source of tension” in the region.  Clinton spoke at a conference organized by the  Brookings
Institute ’s Saban Center for Middle East Policy. The audience
included Israeli Defense Minister  Ehud Barak  and Palestinian
Authority Prime Minister  Salam Fayyad .  Stern Language  Clinton adopted stern language in her first public remarks
on the Middle East peace process since the administration
decided four days ago to stop pressuring Israel to renew a
moratorium on West Bank settlement construction.  “Palestinians must appreciate Israel’s legitimate security
concerns,” Clinton said. “And Israelis must accept the
legitimate territorial aspirations of the Palestinian people.
Ignoring the other side’s needs is in the end self-defeating.”  She also rebuked Palestinians for seeking recognition of
their state from the United Nations. Brazil and Argentina
announced this month that they would recognize a Palestinian
state with pre-1967 borders, and Uruguay pledged to do the same
next year. “Unilateral efforts,” Clinton said, are “not
helpful and undermine trust.”  Israelis were receptive to her message that time was
running out to reach an agreement.  ‘World is Changing’  “The world is changing before our eyes and is no longer
willing to accept our continued control over another people,”
Barak said in a speech that came after Clinton’s. As for an
agreement, Barak said “in the coming weeks we will find a way
to make it happen.”  Both sides must be ready, “mentally and psychologically
and politically,” to come to the table, Barak said in an
interview airing today on CNN’s “Fareed Zakaria GPS.”  Resumption of serious negotiations would require both sides
to “talk about the real issues, about borders, security,
refugees, Jerusalem, end of conflict and finality of future
claims,” Barak said. “And I feel that the opportunity is
here.”  In bringing the two sides together in September, President
 Barack Obama  and Clinton said they aimed for a peace settlement
within a year. Clinton’s speech made no reference to that goal.  To underline the administration’s sense of urgency, Clinton
said U.S. discussions in the days ahead with both sides “will
be substantive, two-way conversations.”  She is sending U.S. envoy  George Mitchell  back to the
region on Dec. 12.  Core Issues  Clinton said she had already begun to work on core issues
in meetings yesterday with Palestinian and Israeli officials,
including Fayyad and Barak and also consulted Palestinian
negotiator  Saeb Erakat  and chief Israeli negotiator Yitzhak
Molho.  Clinton said the two sides must agree on a “single line
drawn on a map that divides Israel from Palestine” and to
permanent Palestinian borders with Israel, Jordan and Egypt.  She was less definitive on the issue of Palestinian
refugees who want to return to homes they left in what is now
Israel. The “difficult and emotional” issue needs a “just and
permanent solution that meets the needs of both sides,” Clinton
said.  Clinton said Israel settlements are “corrosive, not only
to peace efforts and the two-state solution, but to Israel’s
future itself.” The U.S. doesn’t accept the legitimacy of
continued settlement activity, Clinton said.  Jerusalem’s Status  On Jerusalem, which Jews and Arabs claim as a capital,
Clinton urged the two sides to agree on an outcome that
“safeguards its status for people around the world.”  Direct talks between Israeli Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  and the Palestinian Authority President  Mahmoud Abbas 
collapsed in September after less than a month when a 10-month
Israeli moratorium on settlement construction expired.  After weeks of diplomacy aimed at persuading Israel to
renew a freeze on settlement-building, the U.S. retracted its
offer to give Israel 20 additional F-35 fighter jets in return
for a 90-day moratorium on construction in the West Bank.  Barak said he favored such a deal in his interview with
CNN’s “Fareed Zakaria GPS.”  “I tried to help it come to life, and I would love to see
it implemented and carried out,” Barak said of the fighter-jet
proposal. “And I don’t see it as a bribery.”  The Obama administration’s offer reflected “a genuine
sentiment within the American people” to help Israel “keep its
qualitative military edge,” he said. “Israel takes upon itself
much more security risks than usual. And America can come to our
help.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Nicole Gaouette  in Washington at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net ;
 Flavia Krause-Jackson  in Washington at
 fjackson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net . 