-- Credit-Default Swaps Market Shrinks 50% From ’07 Peak, BIS Says
-- B y   J o h n   G l o v e r
-- 2010-12-12T20:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-12/credit-swap-market-shrinks-50-from-2007-peak-after-tear-ups-bis-says.html
The credit-default swaps market has
shrunk almost 50 percent from its peak in 2007 after traders
canceled overlapping deals and settled contracts through
clearinghouses, the Bank for International Settlements said.  The amount of outstanding  credit derivatives  protecting
investors against losses on bonds and loans covered a notional
$30 trillion of debt at the end of June, down from almost $60
trillion at the end of 2007, the Basel, Switzerland-based  BIS 
said in its quarterly review. The bank was formed in 1930 and
acts as a central bank for the world’s monetary authorities.  Regulators demanded more transparency on credit-default
swaps after the meltdowns in September 2008 of Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc. and  American International Group Inc. , two of the
largest traders. The risk that counterparties wouldn’t honor
contracts spurred new rules to make it easier to tear up
offsetting trades and route deals through clearinghouses such as
the Depository Trust & Clearing Corp.  “A significant aspect of counterparty risk was that the
major CDS dealers were important counterparties to each other,”
BIS analyst Nicholas Vause wrote in the report. “The value of
these exposures grew substantially as credit spreads widened
during the crisis. The fates of the major CDS dealers were
therefore perceived to be somewhat intertwined.”  Tear-Ups  Before the credit crisis, a dealer would write an
offsetting contract to exit a trade rather than terminate the
position, according to the BIS. Since the end of 2007, more than
$65 trillion of such contracts have been eliminated by tearing
up such overlapping transactions, the bank said.  “Tear-ups may further reduce outstanding  contract volumes ,
especially for single-name CDS, which have only recently
benefitted from standardization,” according to the report. “As
outstanding volumes have already halved, the pace of any further
decline must soon slow.”  Traders have also cut the duration of their deals, the BIS
said.  Transactions  due in less than a year now account for about
10 percent of outstanding positions, up from about 5 percent in
2007. In the same period, trades with maturities of more than
five years have fallen to about 20 percent of the total, from
almost 40 percent, according to the BIS.  Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange
for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a
company fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 John Glover  in London at 
 johnglover@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Armstrong at 
 Parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  