-- Czech Party Rejects Proposed Bill for Pension Overhaul in Government Clash
-- B y   P e t e r   L a c a
-- 2010-12-13T13:46:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-12/czech-party-rejects-pension-overhaul-plans-in-government-clash.html
A junior Czech governing party
rejected a proposed bill overhauling the pension system in a
clash with its ruling partners as the five-month old Cabinet
prepares measures to cut the budget deficit.  Public Affairs, the smallest member of the three-party
coalition that took power in July, is against a plan to raise
the value-added tax on food, which was among measures proposed
by the Social Affairs Ministry to  finance  the shift to a bigger
share of private savings for pensions, Transportation Minister
Vit Barta said late yesterday.  “The reforms can’t be created at the expense of the middle
class,” Barta, a member of the executive council of Public
Affairs, told a party conference in Prague.  Prime Minister  Petr Necas  has called changing the pension
system a key task for his government. Fulfilling a pledge to
overhaul the pay-as-you-go program, in which employees finance
the pensions of retirees, may help trigger an increase in the
Czech Republic’s credit rating, Standard & Poor’s said.  The plans to revamp the system are part of the Cabinet’s
drive to bring the fiscal deficit below the European Union’s 3
percent of  economic output  ceiling by 2013 and have boosted the
koruna. The fiscal shortfall widened to 5.8 percent in 2009 when
the country fell into the worst recession since the fall of
communism two decades ago. The Cabinet plans to narrow the gap
to 5.3 percent this year and to 4.6 percent in 2011.  The measures have sparked public anger and strikes. About
one-fifth of the country’s public-sector workers walked off the
job for one day on Dec. 8 to protest wage cuts.  Popularity Decline  Public Affairs, which received 11 percent in its first
general elections on May 28-29, has seen its popularity decline
along with the government. The party’s support stood at 5.7
percent in a survey conducted by the pollster Stem between Nov.
1 and Nov. 8 among 1,255 people. The margin of error was from
1.5 to 2.5 percentage points in the poll.  “The party is trying to position itself somewhere around
the center of the political specter in order not to lose
support,” Jaromir Sindel, the Prague-based chief economist for
Czech Republic and Slovakia at Citigroup Inc., said in a phone
interview. “We may see a relatively hot beginning of the year,
when we can expect disputes and discussions as the parties will
present their ideas of reforms.”  Finance Minister  Miroslav Kalousek , a member of the TOP09
party, and Premier Necas of the Civic Democrats, have said they
favor diverting part of compulsory payments from the pay-as-you-
go system into private accounts for pension savings.  Such a move would increase the deficit of the existing
system, which would be covered by raising the lower 10 percent
VAT rate that is applied on food and some services, according to
a bill prepared by Social Affairs Minister Jaromir Drabek, also
a member of TOP09.  Instead of diverting part of the compulsory payments to
private accounts, Public Affairs proposed creating a
“generation fund” to provide subsidies to families with
children as the party seeks to reverse the trend in which the
number of people receiving pensions rises while the number of
workers shrinks. The fund would create a “cushion” for future
pensions if the population’s aging trend doesn’t change.  Koruna Strength  Michal Babak, a member of parliament for Public Affairs,
said the party will also propose increased taxation of higher
earners. The two other parties in Cabinet have campaigned
against raising income taxes.  The government plan to cut the fiscal deficit helped the
koruna strengthen as much as 5.8 percent against the euro after
the May 28-29 general elections. The currency has lost 2.3
percent to the euro in the past month, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. It traded at 25.135 to the euro as of
2:35 p.m. in Prague today, compared with 25.195 at the close on
Dec. 10.  The Czech Republic’s A debt rating may be raised if the
government follows through on pledges to reduce spending,
including an overhaul of the pension system, Standard & Poor’s
said on Aug. 10. S&P revised its outlook on the rating to
“positive” from “stable.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Peter Laca  in Prague at 
 placa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at 
 wmorris@bloomberg.net  