-- Denmark's Top-Rated Mortgage Bonds Draw Foreign Investors Fleeing Crisis
-- B y   G e l u   S u l u g i u c
-- 2010-12-13T15:09:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-12/danish-top-rated-mortgage-debt-draws-investors-fleeing-crisis.html
Record foreign demand at Denmark’s
$97 billion mortgage-bond auction helped send yields to all-time
lows as investors seeking an escape from debt-plagued peripheral
Europe sought refuge in the top-rated Danish securities.  Denmark’s $490 billion mortgage-bond market, the third-
largest after the U.S. and Germany, proved resilient during the
financial crisis. Prices rose 6.6 percent in 2008, 7.1 percent
in 2009 and 4.6 percent this year, the  Danske Bank Mortgage
Bond-Market Index  shows. The December auction of adjustable-rate
notes is attracting demand as sovereign debt from a number of
euro members is beleaguered by ratings downgrades. Fitch Ratings
on Dec. 9 cut Ireland’s debt three levels to BBB+. Moody’s
Investors Service has rated Greece junk since June.  At Copenhagen-based  Realkredit Danmark A/S , yields on one-
year notes fell to 1.51 percent, from last year’s 1.78 percent,
said Michael Philip Roland Oldorf, an economist at the nation’s
second-biggest mortgage lender. Three-year yields fell to 2.17
percent, from 2.81 percent last year, while five-year notes
yielded 2.80 percent versus last year’s 3.34 percent, he said.
By comparison, five-year German government debt yielded 1.99
percent on Dec. 10. The auctions started Nov. 25 and ended
today.  On the final day of the auction, one-year krone-denominated
notes issued by Nykredit A/S, Denmark’s biggest issuer of the
debt, yielded 1.5 percent, the company said in an e-mail. The
three-year yields were at 2.32 percent and five-year yields at
2.97 percent.  ‘Abundance’  “We have an abundance of liquidity and investors want to
buy something safe like these Danish mortgage bonds,” said  Jens Peter Soerensen , chief analyst at Danske Bank, the parent of
Realkredit Danmark. “With the European Central Bank on hold,
rates have come down compared with last year.”  Denmark’s central bank pegs the krone to the euro. Its
benchmark lending rate has been at a record-low 1.05 percent
since January, compared with the ECB’s 1 percent.  The covered bonds, which are backed by the cash flow from a
pool of mortgage loans, yield less than sovereign debt from
Italy, Spain, Greece, Belgium, Portugal and Ireland for five-
year maturities, according to data available on Bloomberg.  “There are very different situations for these two markets
at the moment,” Soerensen said.  ‘Safe Paper’  Investors based outside the Nordic nation may have bought
as much as 20 percent of the mortgage bonds on offer since the
auction started two weeks ago, an all-time high and up from 15
percent last year, according to  Danske Bank.  The exact ratio of
domestic-to-foreign investors won’t be known until the central
bank publishes details of the auctions next month.  “It’s a very safe paper that you can repo in the central
bank,” said  Troels Theill Eriksen , senior analyst at Nordea
Markets. “It’s a very liquid paper, easy to have in your
portfolio so it’s quite popular.”  Denmark’s mortgage bonds haven’t suffered a default since
they were introduced after the great Copenhagen fire of 1795.
Mortgage lenders can’t take customer deposits, so they use
mortgage bonds to raise money as well as spread the risk of
their real-estate loans.  Denmark’s adjustable-rate loans are reset every year, with
investors such as pension funds bidding for the mortgage
securities. The bulk of the auctions takes place in December.
The prices investors pay for the mortgage bonds determine the
rates lenders can charge.  Danish house prices rose an annual 3.3 percent in the third
quarter, the Copenhagen-based Association of Danish Mortgage
Banks said on Oct. 26.  Denmark’s economy will expand 2 percent this year and 2.3
percent in 2011, compared with 1.7 percent and 1.5 percent
growth for the 16 nations that use the euro, the International
Monetary Fund said in its  World Economic Outlook  last month.  Denmark’s central bank sees the economy growing 2 percent
this year and 1.9 percent in 2011 and 2012, it said in its
fourth-quarter report on Dec. 9.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gelu Sulugiuc in Copenhagen at 
 gsulugiuc@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  