-- Default Swaps Jump Most Among BRICs as Inflation Breaches 5%: China Credit
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-12-13T09:55:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-12/default-swaps-climb-most-among-brics-on-inflation-china-credit.html
Investor perceptions of China’s
credit are worsening at the fastest pace among the largest
emerging markets on concern policy makers will slam the brakes
on economic growth to curb inflation.  The cost to insure against default on Chinese government
debt in the past month advanced 13.5 basis points, more than in
any of the so-called BRIC markets, according to CMA prices.
Brazil’s similar five-year contracts increased 10 basis points,
while those for Russia climbed 4 basis points. Bond risk for the
State Bank of India, the benchmark for the nation’s sovereign
risk in the absence of sovereign dollar securities, rose 1 basis
point. The derivatives are used to speculate on market
performance as well as hedge against non-payment.  Inflation  accelerated to 5.1 percent in November, the
fastest in 28 months, adding pressure on the central bank to
raise interest rates, threatening expansion that’s averaged more
than 10 percent in the past five years. The government pledged
to focus on stabilizing prices and maintaining “relatively
fast” growth after President  Hu Jintao  and Premier  Wen Jiabao 
attended an annual economic policy meeting in Beijing on the
weekend.  “If you look at China risk in the last two or three weeks
we’ve seen a fairly pronounced reversal in trends evident for
the last six months,” said  John Woods , the Asia chief
investment strategist at the private banking unit of Citigroup
Inc. “China’s golden era of low inflationary growth,
underpinned by compliant domestic savers and enthusiastic
external consumers, could well be at an end.”  Reserve Ratio  Policy makers increased banks’ reserve-ratio requirements
by 50 basis points, or 0.50 percentage point, on Dec. 10 -- the
third time in five weeks -- in a bid to cool lending. They
raised interest rates in October for the first time since 2007.  Inflation for the first 11 months was 3.2 percent, more
than the government’s full-year target of 3 percent, a
statistics bureau report showed on Dec. 11. Producer prices
climbed 6.1 percent in November, more than any of 28 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News had estimated.  The spread between China’s dollar bonds over Treasuries as
measured by a  JPMorgan index  widened to 150 basis points at the
end of November, its highest level since May 2009, from 87 basis
points on Nov. 1, indicating investors are more concerned about
deteriorating credit quality. It was at 119 on Dec. 10.  Cooling the Economy  Five-year default swap contracts on the nation’s bonds rose
to 71.5 basis points, from a two-year low of 52 basis points on
Oct. 13, according to data compiled by CMA.  Timothy Ash , an
analyst at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc, predicted this
month that the swaps may trade as high as 150 basis points next
year and recommended investors buy them as a hedge.  “China is trying to cool things down and manage a
deflation of the bubble,” Ash said in a phone interview from
London. “If that fails then that’s how CDS gets driven up,
because concern will be that the sovereign balance sheet will
have to bear the costs of restructuring banks.”  The net amount of protection bought and sold on Chinese
government debt with credit swaps has doubled over the last
year, according to the  Depository Trust & Clearing Corp. , which
runs a central repository for the market. The net notional value
of swaps on China has risen to $4.6 billion as of Dec. 3, from
$2.3 billion a year earlier, the DTCC data show.  Food Prices  Credit-default swaps typically decline as investor
confidence improves and rise as it deteriorates. The contracts
pay the buyer face value in exchange for the underlying
securities or the cash equivalent should a government or company
fail to adhere to debt agreements.  China’s inflation mostly stems from food, not a broad-based
increase in all products,  Donald Straszheim , International
Strategy & Investment Group’s head of China research, said in an
e-mail. The biggest risks to China are from Europe, the U.S. and
Japan, he said.  “The insurance ought to be bought on the prime mover, not
on one of the down-the-line casualties like China,” he said.  Nick Chamie , global head of emerging markets research at
RBC Capital Markets, said buying a basket of credit default
swaps on Latin American bonds where China is a major buyer of
commodities is a good strategy for investors.  Yuan Gains  The yuan had its biggest weekly gain in almost a month last
week, climbing 0.12 percent, on speculation China’s central bank
would raise rates to temper inflation after a report showed
export growth beat economists’ estimates. The currency fell 0.17
percent to 6.6670 as of 4:18 p.m. in Shanghai, as China delayed
increasing borrowing costs. Twelve-month non-deliverable
forwards fell 0.02 percent to 6.5121 reflecting bets the yuan
will gain 2.4 percent in a year.  The one-year swap rate, the fixed cost needed to receive
the floating seven-day repurchase rate, declined for the first
time in four days, dropping five basis points to 3.09 percent.
The benchmark 10-year yuan government bond yield fell one basis
point to 3.84 percent. Exports increased 35 percent in November
to $153.3 billion from a year earlier, compared with 22.9
percent in October, the customs bureau reported on Dec. 10.  China will step up management of local-government debt and
prevent officials “blindly” starting new projects as the next
national five-year plan begins, Xinhua News Agency reported
yesterday. Officials will also seek to better manage liquidity,
the news agency said after the Central Economic Work Conference.  Loan Targets  The government is likely to set a target of at least 7
trillion yuan ($1.1 trillion) of new loans for 2011, down from
7.5 trillion yuan this year, said two people briefed on the
matter. The government also aims for 4 percent inflation, 8
percent economic growth and 16 percent money supply expansion
for next year, the people said, declining to be identified
because the information isn’t public.  Yields on China’s $1 billion of 4.75 percent due October
2013 notes rose nine basis points to 1.624 percent this month,
RBS prices show. Brazil’s $1.25 billion 10.25 percent notes due
June 2013 yield 1.6 percent, according to Bloomberg data, while
Russia’s $2 billion 3.625 percent due April 2015 yield 3.3
percent, according to RBS.  “The potential of a slowdown in China following a sharp
policy response to inflationary trends is arguably the greatest
risk to the global economy at the moment,” said  Daniel Arbess ,
who manages the $2.4 billion Xerion fund for Perella Weinberg
Partners in New York, in an e-mailed comment.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will McSheehy at 
 wmcsheehy@bloomberg.net  