-- Dollar Declines on Slumping Treasury Yields; Growth-Linked Currencies Gain
-- B y   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t
-- 2010-12-13T22:09:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-12/dollar-rises-versus-euro-on-u-s-retail-sales-data-yields-aussie-drops.html
The dollar weakened against most of
its 16 major counterparts as Treasury yields fell, damping
demand for assets denominated in the U.S. currency.  The euro extended gains before Federal Reserve meets
tomorrow to discuss interest rates and bond purchases. Investors
unwound dollar positions established last week when 10-year
Treasury note yields rose the most this year. The U.S. currency
declined for the third straight day against the Australian
dollar and fourth day against the Canadian currency as
commodities rose.  “As U.S. yields declined, the dollar magnitude of decline
has also decreased,” said  Mark McCormick , a currency strategist
at Brown Brothers Harriman & Co. in New York. “The Fed is going
to reassert tomorrow that they are going to continue the large-
scale asset purchase program and therefore you may not want to
sell off bonds too much.”  The dollar weakened 1.3 percent against the euro to $1.3391
at 5:07 p.m. in New York from $1.3226 Dec. 10. It fell 0.7
percent against the yen to 83.39 from 83.95.  Ten-year  Treasury yields fell from a six-month high,
retreating four basis points, or 0.04 percentage point, to 3.28
percent.  Yield Lower  The increase in Treasury yields during the week ended Dec.
10 led investors to be “long dollars against the majors” and
has contributed to the U.S. currency’s decline today as “the
market has been unwinding existing trades,” said  Hidetoshi Yanagihara , a senior currency trader at Mizuho Financial Group
Inc. in New York. A long position is a bet the asset will
increase in price.  Moody’s Investors Service Inc. said President  Barack Obama ’s agreement with congressional leaders to extend tax cuts
increases the likelihood of a negative outlook for the Aaa
credit rating of the U.S. during the next two years unless
offsetting measures are enacted.  While the tax an unemployment benefit package is likely to
boost economic growth in the next two years it will “adversely
affect the federal government budget deficit and debt level,”
 Steven Hess , senior credit officer at Moody’s in New York, wrote
in a note today.  Dollar Measure  The Dollar Index, which the ICE futures exchange uses to
track the greenback against the currencies of six major U.S.
trading partners, fell 0.9 percent. The index touched 79.101,
the lowest since Dec. 3.  The Federal Open Market Committee meets tomorrow in
Washington and may signal it’s open to boosting debt purchases
beyond the $600 billion already announced to spur job growth and
avoid deflation.  Buying more government bonds is “certainly possible,” Fed
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said in an interview broadcast on CBS
Corp.’s “60 Minutes” on Dec. 5, referring to the Fed’s policy
of quantitative easing. “It depends on the efficacy of the
program” and the outlook for inflation and the economy,
Bernanke said.  European currencies advanced against the dollar, led by the
Swiss franc and Norwegian krone as the European Central Bank
increased its bond purchases last week to the most since July.  The Frankfurt-based ECB said it completed 2.667 billion
euros ($3.56 billion) of purchases after settling 1.965 billion
euros the previous week. The ECB said on Dec. 2 that it will
extend emergency liquidity measures for banks into the second
quarter of 2011.  China Prices  Consumer prices  in China rose a more-than-forecast 5.1
percent in November from a year earlier, statistics showed
during the weekend.  Even as inflation accelerated to the fastest pace in more
than two years, the Chinese central bank did not make the rate
move predicted by firms including UBS AG and Mizuho Securities
Asia Ltd. Chinese policy makers have instead drained money from
the financial system during the past two months by setting
higher reserve requirements for banks.  “Chinese stocks had a big rally,” said  Richard Franulovich , a senior currency strategist at Westpac Banking
Corp. in New York. “You have good conditions for a bounce in
risk. Against that background, the dollar’s getting sold.”  The Australian dollar rallied against the greenback as the
Reuters/Jefferies CRB Index of raw materials  rose  1.2 percent.
China is Australia’s largest trading partner and investors
speculated an increase in interest rates would damp exports to
the nation.  Aussie, Kiwi  Australia’s currency gained 1.1 percent to 99.65 U.S. cents
and New Zealand’s dollar, nicknamed the kiwi, appreciated 0.4
percent to 75.11 U.S. cents.  The Canadian dollar extended this month’s increase to 1.9
percent versus the dollar, trading within half a cent of parity.
The four straight days of gains is the longest winning streak in
more than a month.  The Canadian currency appreciated 0.2 percent to C$1.0074.  The euro, which declined 1.4 percent against the dollar
last week, rose against most its major counterparts even amid
signs of division among European governments about how to stem
the region’s debt crisis. European Union leaders attend a summit
on Dec. 16 and 17, with Italy, Belgium and Luxembourg favoring
euro-area bonds, while Germany and France oppose the idea.  The euro’s survival is “non-negotiable,” requiring budget
vigilance and closer economic cooperation to overcome
“structural weaknesses” within the euro region, German
Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and French President  Nicolas Sarkozy 
said Dec. 10. They ruled out joint bonds and rejected any
increase in the size of a rescue fund set up in May.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Allison Bennett  in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  