-- Dubai Financial Hub to Reduce Office Rents, Operational Fees From January
-- B y   S t e f a n i a   B i a n c h i   a n d   Z a i n a b   F a t t a h
-- 2010-12-12T08:50:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-12/dubai-international-financial-centre-to-cut-rents-from-2011-to-spur-demand.html
Dubai International Financial
Center, a tax-free business park, will cut rents and operational
costs by as much as 50 percent to encourage companies to expand
following the financial crisis.  “We have benchmarked the pricing against other
international business centers,”  Abdulla Mohammed Al Awar , DIFC
chief executive officer, told reporters on a conference call in
Dubai today. “We want to give clients in the DIFC the benefit
of lower prices so they can grow their businesses.”  DIFC said it will amend rental charges for companies
operating in the center with effect from January.  Dubai set up DIFC in 2004 to attract international banks,
asset managers and insurers to help diversify its economy.
International banks such as  Goldman Sachs Group Inc . and
 Citigroup Inc.  which have their regional offices in the DIFC,
boosted their presence in the Middle East over the past five
years as rising oil wealth increased demand for financial
advice. Bahrain and Doha in Qatar have also set up financial
districts to attract foreign banks.  Slump  Commercial prices and rents in Dubai slumped 60 percent on
average since the peak in mid-2008 as companies abandoned plans
to expand and additional supply hit the market.  The vacancy rate of 40 percent will be exacerbated by at
least 20 million square feet (1.85 million square meters) of new
space, equivalent to about 40 percent of Dubai’s existing office
supply, due to be added in the next four years, CB Richard Ellis
Group Inc. said on Oct. 14.  DIFC, which houses many financial services companies,
commands the highest commercial rates in Dubai. Some of these
rents reached a peak of $200 (734 dirhams) per square foot, Al
Awar said.  That is changing as the highest rents in DIFC will be in
the Gate building at 280 dirhams per square foot for an area of
up to 2,499 square feet. The lowest rent for the same amount of
space will be charged in the Gate Village at 235 dirhams a
square foot, the DIFC statement said.  “We want to bring rents in line with the current market
rate and give visibility to our clients,” the CEO said. “Some
businesses will receive more than a 50 percent discount on
rents,” he added.  Developers are expected to complete about 2 million square
feet of space in the DIFC area over the next 18 months to two
years, the statement said.  Currently, DIFC-owned leasable buildings are at full
occupancy, Al Awar said. One of three new buildings owned by
third party developers is 70 percent occupied, he said.
Buildings owned by third party developers currently make up
about 35 percent of DIFC’s office space available for rent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stefania Bianchi in Dubai at 
 sbianchi10@bloomberg.net ;
Zainab Fattah in Dubai at 
 zfattah@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net  