-- Dubai World Overhauled With Emirates Chairman as Chief After Debt Debacle
-- B y   A r i f   S h a r i f   a n d   C a m i l l a   H a l l
-- 2010-12-13T15:51:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-12/dubai-ruler-replaces-dubai-world-management-emirates-chairman-takes-over.html
Dubai named  Sheikh Ahmed bin Saeed Al Maktoum,  head of Emirates airline and uncle of the state’s
ruler, as chairman of Dubai World in a board revamp a year after
the company said it would halt loan repayments, roiling markets.  The 51-year-old replaces  Sultan Ahmed bin Sulayem  as head
of one of the emirate’s three main state-owned holding
companies, the government said in a statement yesterday. Under
bin Sulayem, Dubai World’s units racked up $40 billion of debt
by building palm-shaped islands off the emirate’s coast, and
amassing stakes in companies including luxury retailer Barneys
New York Inc. and U.S. casino group MGM Mirage.  Dubai roiled emerging market stocks last year after saying
it would delay repayments on $24.9 billion of loans as the
emirate’s property market slumped. The emirate and its state-
owned companies ran up about $112 billion of debt, according to
Barclays Plc estimates, forcing it to restructure some
borrowings. Dubai World’s more than 70 creditor banks agreed in
October to new debt terms that include repayments of $4.4
billion over five years and another $10 billion in eight years.  “The moves are absolutely necessary and should have been
done a year ago,”  Christopher Davidson , a professor of Middle
East studies at Durham University in the U.K., said in an e-mail
yesterday. “Sheikh Ahmed is a solid player in Dubai’s economy,
having built Emirates up over many years.”  Emirates Chairman  The younger brother of  Sheikh Rashid Bin Saeed  Al Maktoum,
Sheikh Ahmed was named president of the Dubai Department of
Civil Aviation in 1985. That year, he became founding chairman
of Emirates, which leased two planes and served three
destinations. Today, Emirates is the world’s largest airline by
number of international passengers carried.  Sheikh Ahmed was already overseeing the restructuring of 
Dubai World as member of the emirate’s supreme fiscal committee. 
The panel also oversees a $20 billion support fund set up in 
2009 to assist state-related companies.  “The people calling the shots right now are those that run
successful businesses,”  Yazan Abdeen , a Dubai-based fund
manager who helps oversee $250 million at ING Investment
Management (Dubai) Ltd., said in a telephone interview Dec. 12.
“It makes investors more comfortable.”  Board Revamp  The government also named a new board for Dubai World that
includes  Mohammed Ibrahim al-Shaibani , director-general of the
Dubai ruler’s court and chief executive officer of Investment
Corp. of Dubai;  Ahmed Bin Humaid Al Tayer , governor of the Dubai
International Financial Centre;  Abdulrahman Al Saleh , director-
general of Dubai’s Department of Finance; and  Hamad Buamin ,
director general of the Dubai Chamber of Commerce & Industry.
Sheikh Ahmed is also head of the Supreme Fiscal Committee, which
steers financial decision-making in the emirate.  Bin Sulayem 
remains chairman of DP World.  “Al Tayer, a former minister and now brought back to deal
with DIFC’s problems, is another means of bringing international
trust back to Dubai World,” Davidson at Durham University said.
“Shaibani, the Dubai ruler’s right hand man, enjoys good
pedigree from an earlier career in London.”  Sultan bin Sulayem, 55, referred questions to Dubai World. A
spokeswoman for Dubai World declined to comment.  “The board change at Dubai World empowers the company to
capitalize on the opportunities that lie ahead,” Sheikh Ahmed
said in a statement. “Top of the agenda for the new board will
be to work with the other boards of the various entities within
Dubai World to achieve optimal performance, and to ensure that
the value of those assets is suitably unlocked.”  Debt Restructuring  The revamp will help Dubai as it prepares to raise debt,
Abdeen said. The cost of protecting the emirate’s debt against
default rose 7 basis points this quarter to 444 basis points on
Dec. 10, according to prices provided by CMA DataVision. Abu
Dhabi’s five-year credit default swaps fell 20 basis points to
94.6 basis points on Dec. 10. Dubai’s  benchmark share market
index  has fallen 0.3 percent in the fourth quarter.  The government has committed at least $15 billion to
support Dubai World and Nakheel’s debt restructuring and further
$2 billion to Dubai Holding. Dubai World isn’t the only state-
owned group to delay repayments on its borrowings.  Dubai Holding Commercial Operations Group LLC, a real-
estate and hospitality group owned by Dubai Holding, received a
one-month extension on a $555 million revolving credit line
until Dec. 30 as it works on a long-term deal with banks.
Nakheel PJSC, Dubai World’s former property unit, is also in
talks to alter terms on at least $10.5 billion of loans and
trade creditor bills.  “This is a page turned for Dubai World,” Dubai-based
 Ahmad Alanani , head of Middle East fixed-income sales at Exotix
Ltd., said in an e-mail Dec. 12. “But that’s not necessarily
reflective of an overall improvement in Dubai as a whole as the
emirate is still grappling with a massive debt hangover.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Arif Sharif  in Dubai at 
 asharif2@bloomberg.net ;
 Camilla Hall  in Dubai at 
 chall24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at   shajimathew@bloomberg.net . 