-- Telecom Corp. Selected for Prioritized Talks on New Zealand Broadband Plan
-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 2010-12-13T04:23:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-12/telecom-n-z-in-prioritized-talks-on-broadband-plan-update2-.html
Telecom Corp.  has been selected for
prioritized negotiations by the New Zealand government to
deliver the ultra-fast broadband services program in 25 regions,
which may lead to a demerger of the company.  The regions cover the entire country apart from seven areas
already assigned to rivals and an eighth zone where there’s
another prioritized bidder,  Crown Fibre Holdings Ltd.  the agency
overseeing the process, said in an e-mailed statement. The
government is also in prioritized talks with Enable Networks for
services in the South Island city of Christchurch and with the
Flute joint venture for broadband in Dunedin.  The government is seeking partners for a NZ$1.5 billion
($1.1 billion) nationwide fiber-optic network that will deliver
fast Internet to homes and businesses. Telecom, the nation’s
biggest telephone company, has said it will demerge to create a
separate network company to satisfy government requirements.  “It puts Telecom in the box seat in most of the remaining
areas,” said  Guy Hallwright , analyst at Forsyth Barr Ltd. in
Auckland. Still “it is only the announcement of a preferred
bidder rather than a deal so there’s quite a bit of water to go
under the bridge.”  Telecom  shares gained as much as 2.9 percent after the
report. It rose 2 cents, or 1 percent, to NZ$2.10 at the 5 p.m.
market close in Wellington.  Auckland-based Telecom is proposing its Chorus network unit
partner with the government, while the remaining sales unit
offers services as a structurally separate company.  Separate Network  “We remain firmly of the belief that a structurally
separate Chorus as the cornerstone of a national framework for
fiber is the most efficient and effective way to deliver the
government’s vision,” Chief Executive Officer  Paul Reynolds 
said in a statement today, welcoming the selection for further
talks.  Telecom is open to partnership with other owners of fiber
assets, including the parties chosen by the government, he said.  “These three parties have provided attractive proposals
including a combination of access prices in line with those
announced last week, the ability to complete the build within
the allocated budget as well as having industry experience and
financial strength,” Crown Fibre Chairman  Simon Allen  said.  Communications Minister  Steven Joyce  is looking forward to
receiving recommendations on binding offers in the first quarter
of 2011, he said in an e-mailed statement.  Today’s announcement is a “setback” for  Vector Ltd .,
which is seeking agreement to supply broadband in Auckland, home
to more than a third of New Zealand’s 4.4 million people,
Forsyth Barr’s Hallwright said. Vector, the nation’s largest
electricity distributor remains short-listed. It fell 2.5
percent to a seven-week low of NZ$2.35.  Enable Networks  is a unit of Christchurch’s city council
and works closely with Orion Energy Ltd., the city electricity
lines company. The Flute venture is headed by Aurora Energy
Ltd., which distributes power in Dunedin.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tracy Withers  in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Iain Wilson 
 iwilson2@bloomberg.net  