-- Vikings-Giants Game Moved After Metrodome Collapse
-- B y   D e x   M c L u s k e y
-- 2010-12-12T21:06:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-12/metrodome-roof-collapses-after-snowfall-vikings-giants-game-postponed.html
The Minnesota Vikings will host the
New York Giants in Detroit tomorrow after part of the roof at
Minneapolis’s Metrodome stadium caved in under the weight of 17
inches (43 centimeters) of snow.  Kickoff is at 7:20 p.m. local time at Ford Field, the
indoor home of the Detroit Lions, the National Football League
said on its  website . Original ticketholders will get refunds and
preferential seating at the game, the Vikings said.  Repairs to the  inflatable Metrodome roof , which comprises
10 acres of Teflon-coated Fiberglas, will take “several days,”
 Bill Lester , executive director of the  Metropolitan Sports
Facilities Commission , which owns the Metrodome, said in a
telephone interview.  Lester said three roof “panels” were damaged. No one was
injured in the 5 a.m. incident today.  Tomorrow’s game is the third scheduling of the contest. The
original game was set for noon local time today. It was pushed
back to tomorrow after the Giants’ flight to Minneapolis-St.
Paul International Airport was diverted to Kansas City,
Missouri, yesterday because of the weather.  The snowstorm was the biggest to hit the Twin Cities area
since Oct. 31, 1991, when a record 28.4 inches fell,  according 
to the University of Minnesota’s  website . Sustained winds of 25
miles per hour with gusts of 40 mph (40 to 64 kilometers per
hour) accompanied the blizzard,  AccuWeather  meteorologist  Tom Kines  said in a telephone interview.  689 Miles  The Metrodome roof deflated under the weight of more than
10 inches of snow 48 days after first being inflated in October
1981. While the structure has had tears since then, the only
previous event to be postponed because of snow was a Major
League Baseball game between the Minnesota Twins and California
Angels in April 1983, the stadium owner said.  Ford Field, the closest indoor NFL stadium to Minneapolis,
is 689 miles (1,108 kilometers) from the Metrodome, according to
Google Maps. The Green Bay Packers play the Lions today at Ford
Field.  The University of Minnesota told the NFL that its $288.5
million open-air TCF Bank Stadium couldn’t be used for the game
because it has been shut down for the winter, NFL spokesman  Greg Aiello  said in an e-mailed statement. The stadium, about 2 miles
from the Metrodome, was completed in July 2009 and holds 50,805
spectators.  50-Yard Line  Ticket holders for the original game will get seating along
the 50-yard line at Ford Field in addition to a refund, the
Vikings said in an e-mailed statement. General admission will be
free, with tickets becoming available at the Ford Field box
office beginning at 8 a.m. tomorrow, the team said.  The game will be televised on Fox, the Vikings said.  The roof’s collapse is the latest setback for the 5-7
Vikings, who fired coach  Brad Childress  Nov. 22 after a 3-7
start to the season. The delay gives quarterback  Brett Favre 
another day to recover from a shoulder injury that knocked him
out of the 38-14 win against Buffalo Dec. 5. Favre, who has also
played this season with two ankle fractures, is aiming to make
his record-extending 298th NFL start.  The 8-4 Giants are in a share of the lead with the
Philadelphia Eagles in the National Football Conference East
Division and are seeking their third straight win.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
 Dex McLuskey  in Dallas 
 dmcluskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sylvia Wier at 
 swier@bloomberg.net  