-- EU Pension Deal With Poland May Avert Hungary-Style Rollback of Overhaul
-- B y   M o n i k a   R o z l a l
-- 2010-12-13T13:57:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-12/eu-pension-deal-with-poland-may-avert-hungary-style-rollback-of-overhaul.html
The European Union may be able to
keep countries from following the example of Hungary, which is
rolling back a pension overhaul, by agreeing to ease deficit
rules for countries that set up private retirement plans.  Poland and the European Commission agreed on Dec. 10 that
the burden of shifting payments to private funds will be “taken
into account” when the EU evaluates deficits and debt, Deputy
Finance Minister  Ludwik Kotecki  said. “Very good progress” was
made in the phone call between Polish Prime Minister  Donald Tusk 
and Commission President  Jose Manuel Barroso , according to
Barroso’s spokeswoman,  Pia Ahrenkilde Hansen , who said the EU’s
27 member states must approve any deal.  Eastern EU members including Poland diverted pension
contributions from the pay-as-you go state system to private
accounts to set up a model that the 27-nation bloc says will be
more sustainable. The overhaul sapped their budgets of funds to
pay current retirees. Hungary moved to direct the funds back to
the state to meet EU-imposed deficit targets after the
commission rejected a request to account for pension costs.  ‘Alarm Bell’  “Hungary’s decision was a serious alarm bell,”  Marcin Mrowiec , a senior economist at Bank Pekao in Warsaw, said by
phone on Dec. 11. “The Commission probably figured out that the
current rules, which have been so discouraging for the countries
that reformed their pension systems, are even more discouraging
for those that haven’t tried yet.”  Hungarian lawmakers are scheduled to vote today about the
rules for directing private pension accounts to the state. The
move is necessary to keep government debt from “burying” the
country’s economy, Prime Minister  Viktor Orban  said in a video
posted on his  Facebook page  yesterday.  The new rules would be applied during the EU’s excessive
deficit procedure, which sanctions countries that breach the
limit for budget shortfalls, the Finance Ministry said in a
 statement  on its website yesterday.  While the agreement doesn’t change EU statistics, it may
let Poland to report lower debt by domestic accounting rules,
 Jan Krzysztof Bielecki , head of Tusk’s Council of Economic
Advisers, wrote today in the Warsaw newspaper  Rzeczpospolita .  ‘Flexible’  “What we are doing is to make it more explicit that we
will be flexible when carrying out these assessments,”  Amadeu Altafaj , spokesman for  Olli Rehn , the EU’s economic and monetary
affairs chief, said at a briefing in Brussels today. “If this
reassures member states we are definitely willing to do so.”  There is “clear convergence” between Poland and
commission on the pensions issue and they are “very close” to
an agreement, Altafaj said. Barroso will present the changes in
a letter that will be distributed today or tomorrow, he said.  Polish Economy Minister  Waldemar Pawlak  proposed suspending
budget transfers to private-pension funds to keep public debt
from exceeding 55 percent of gross domestic product, which would
trigger austerity measures. The government expects the ratio to
rise to 53.2 percent this year, or 55.4 percent by EU standards.  The total value of pension contributions shifted to private
funds since 1999 accounts for 211 billion zloty ($69.3 billion),
or about a third of Poland’s public debt. The country’s debt
would total about 40 percent of GDP when stripped of the amount
of government debt held by the pension funds, according to
Finance Minister  Jacek Rostowski   ‘Pretext’  “This gives the government a pretext to redefine public
debt without making markets nervous,” said  Piotr Kalisz , chief
economist at Citigroup Inc.’s Bank Handlowy SA unit in Warsaw.
“Lower pension costs also make it easier to adopt the euro,
although nobody in Poland is thinking about that now.”  Rostowski didn’t rule out a decision to exclude some
pension costs from the Polish definition of public debt while
simultaneously reducing the self-imposed debt ceiling,
Rzeczpospolita reported. It would be “sensible” to delay
decisions until the Commission specifies proposals, he said.  “An evident and direct effect” of the Commission’s
decision is to “remove the risk of breaching the 55 percent
debt limit,” Bielecki wrote in the same newspaper.  Both Rostowski and Bielecki said more lenient treatment
from the EU won’t change Poland’s actual debt or borrowing
needs, meaning that the country must still consider altering its
pension system to seek savings. The agreement “doesn’t entail
any need to change statistics or legislation related to
statistical methodology in Polish law,” the Finance Ministry
said in a statement yesterday.  Fiscal Rules  Principles on how to “calculate and include these costs”
in the EU evaluation of country finances will be negotiated by a
working group and written into the code of conduct for the
Stability and Growth Pact, which sets fiscal rules for the
trading bloc, Kotecki said. The mechanism won’t change official
statistics compiled by Eurostat, he said.  “If the compromise reached with the Commission concerns
only the excessive deficit procedure, it isn’t a breakthrough,”
said  Lukasz Tarnawa , chief economist at PKO BP in Warsaw.  The  Commission  in July urged EU members to increase the
retirement age and overhaul pension systems as ageing
populations will probably increase their pension costs.  Brussels officials rejected an August request by nine EU
states, including Sweden, to account for the costs of their
revamped pension systems in debt and deficit calculations. Most
of those countries face increased scrutiny for their budget
deficits, risking a reduction of EU grants.  ‘Much Less’  “We would play down the significance of the agreement,”
 Peter Attard Montalto , an emerging markets economist at Nomura
International Plc in London, said in a note to clients. “It is
much less than Poland and its eight fellow countries originally
requested.”  In most EU countries, pensions are paid by active workers.
Demographic trends show that the ranks of retirees will swell
and the number of contributors is set to decline. Fund-based
systems lessen this burden by investing part of pension
contributions now to finance employees’ retirements later.  “We are reaching a critical stage as the first cohorts of
baby boomers are now approaching retirement and Europe’s
working-age population is set to start shrinking from 2012
onwards,” the Commission said in a  report  on July 7.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
 Monika Rozlal  in Warsaw at 
 mrozlal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at 
 wmorris@bloomberg.net  