-- Texas Defensive Coordinator Will Muschamp Accepts Florida Head Coach Job
-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 2010-12-12T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-12/texas-defensive-coordinator-will-muschamp-accepts-florida-head-coach-job.html
Will Muschamp , the coach-in-waiting
at the University of Texas, accepted the job as head football
coach at the University of Florida, replacing  Urban Meyer ,
Gators Athletic Director  Jeremy Foley  said.  Muschamp, 39, the Longhorns’ defensive coordinator, had
been told in November 2008 that he would one day replace Texas
head coach  Mack Brown .  Brown “really wanted it to work out for me to be the
future coach at Texas, but this was just an opportunity I
couldn’t pass up,” Muschamp said last night in a statement.
“It’s close to my family and my wife’s family, and like Texas,
Florida is just a tremendous place in a great conference. I
wouldn’t have left for any other job.”  Brown said he respected Muschamp’s decision to go to
Florida.  “We were planning and hoping Will was going to be the next
head coach at Texas, but obviously things didn’t work out that
way,” Brown said. “He is a great coach and will be a good fit
for Florida. It’s close to home for him and he knows the league
well.”  Muschamp, who has spent 16 years in coaching positions,
became defensive coordinator and linebacker coach at Texas in
January 2008.  During his three seasons with the Longhorns, he led a
defense that has held 34 of 39 opponents under their season
scoring averages and 19 teams to 14 points or less. Texas led
the nation in rushing defense in 2009 and was third in total
defense. Last season, the team ranked eighth in the nation in
total defense.  Brown said a nationwide search will begin immediately for a
new defensive coordinator for the Longhorns.  Meyer, 46, stepped down as the Gators’ coach last week,
saying he wanted to focus on his family and “life away from the
field.” He led Florida to two national championships and a 64-
15 record over six seasons at the Gainesville school.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nancy Kercheval  in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  