-- Galderma Said to Agree to Buy Q-Med to Gain Smoother
-- B y   A l b e r t i n a   T o r s o l i
-- 2010-12-12T23:01:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-12/galderma-said-to-agree-to-acquire-sweden-s-q-med-to-gain-wrinkle-smoothers.html
(Corrects founder's title in the fifth paragraph.)  Galderma SA , the Swiss maker of
Cetaphil skin creams, agreed to buy Sweden’s  Q-Med AB  to add
products that smooth wrinkles and enhance breasts, according to
a person with direct knowledge of the transaction.  An agreement has been signed and the deal may be announced
as soon as this week, said the person, who declined to be
identified because the negotiations were confidential.  Q-Med ,
based in Uppsala, Sweden, has a market value of 6.58 billion
kronor ($952 million). Galderma,  founded  in 1981, is owned by
L’Oreal SA and Nestle SA.  The purchase would add to Galderma’s roster of cosmetic
treatments. Q-Med’s Restylane injection competes with  Allergan
Inc.’s  Botox wrinkle smoother. The Swedish company also makes
 Macrolane , a gel injected to give breasts volume.  Galderma’s  Cetaphil  product line includes cleansers,
moisturizers and sunscreens for damaged or sensitive skin. The
Lausanne, Switzerland-based company also markets Azzalure, a
Botox competitor manufactured by Ipsen SA.  Q-Med founder and Chairman  Bengt Aagerup , contacted by 
telephone yesterday, declined to comment. Annika Oehlin,
Galderma’s Paris-based head of communications, declined to
comment immediately when reached by phone.  Robin Tickle , a spokesman for Vevey, Switzerland-based
 Nestle , didn’t return a voice mail and a text message left after
business hours.  Stephanie Carson-Parker , a spokeswoman at Paris-
based  L’Oreal , didn’t return a voice mail message or an e-mail.  Q-Med Shares  Q-Med shares have returned 40 percent this year including
reinvested dividends,  compared with  a 23 percent return for the
OMX Stockholm 30 Index. The stock rose 0.8 percent to close at
66.25 kronor on Dec. 10 in Stockholm.  Aagerup founded the company in 1987 to bring to market his
research on hyaluronic acid, a chemical naturally present in the
body that can be used for wound-healing, joint pain and to
create volume under the skin.  Q-Med stabilized and patented a form of the acid, according
to the company’s website. Its first product,  Restylane , won
approval in Europe in 1996 to fill out wrinkles and plump the
lips. The company first sold shares on the Stockholm stock
exchange in 1999.  Galderma would gain five products derived from hyaluronic
acid including Restylane, which competes with its own Azzalure.  Azzalure, like Botox, is based on a purified form of the
poison botulinum and works by freezing the facial muscles.
Restylane, by contrast, creates a cushion under the skin that
smoothes out the wrinkles.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Albertina Torsoli  in Paris at 
 atorsoli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  