-- Gap Tames Australian Mother’s Rage With Web Delivery
-- B y   S a r a h   S h a n n o n
-- 2010-12-14T14:54:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-12/gap-tames-australian-mother-s-rage-with-global-online-delivery.html
(Corrects Euromonitor figure on global retail sales in
fourth paragraph of story published on Dec. 13.)  Australian mother-of-two Alinta
Fidzewicz was so frustrated about  Gap Inc. ’s lack of online
shipping to her country that she took to Facebook to rally the
company, demanding service.  Four months ago, the company heard her cries. She now
shells out A$700 ($690) a month on items from U.S.-based
companies including children’s pajamas from Gap and an A$220
baby car seat from  Amazon.com Inc.   “I prefer the quality and the prices don’t compete with
Australia; our mark-up is huge here,” said the professional
photographer, who lives in the Gap-less city of Perth. “With
the dollar being so good at the moment it makes sense to buy
from America.” The Australian dollar has risen 9.8 percent
against the dollar this year.  Gap, which has two franchisee stores in Australia, is
joining retailers including Amazon.com Inc.,  Hennes & Mauritz AB 
and  Inditex SA ’s Zara chain in expanding international delivery
to tap into buoyant global demand without the added expense of
operating stores. Others, including  Marks & Spencer Group Plc ,
have said they will follow suit. Online sales will account for
$308 billion globally, or 2.6 percent of overall retail sales
this year, up from 1.5 percent of the total five years ago,
Euromonitor research shows.  “It’s becoming increasingly harder to gain market share in
existing markets so online is the new market for growth,”
Natalia Grabov, an analyst at Verdict Research said. “We’re
increasingly seeing retailers target the world as a whole. The
competition is definitely heating up.”  ‘Advance Guard’  Marks & Spencer, the biggest U.K. clothing retailer, plans
to spend 150 million pounds ($237 million) in the next three
years to build a new website and to add its first international
country-specific site, which it hasn’t identified, next year.
The retailer offers international delivery already and has
stores in 41 countries. Marks said in 2001 that it was
retreating from continental Europe and selling its U.S. Brooks
Brothers unit.  “Going into new countries before building stores is a non-
capital intensive way of adding new markets, M&S’s Chairman
 Stuart Rose  said in October. “It’s a very good way of a
business transporting its brand overseas, it’s a bit like the
advance guard.”  Risks, Costs Low  Other companies are already drawing most of their growth
from international sales.  Next Plc , the second-largest U.K.
clothing retailer, is betting on international expansion to lift
its revenue next year as austerity measures depress growth at
home. Sales at its Directory unit, or online and catalog
department, rose 7.9 percent in the third quarter, compared with
a drop of 3.3 percent in same-store retail sales growth.  “It’s a very low-risk and low-cost way of entering” new
markets, said  Anne Critchlow , a retail analyst at Societe
Generale in London. “There isn’t the risk of having unsold
stock abroad, there is no store lease and you don’t have the
risk and cost of employing local staff.”  Gap began sending online orders from its U.S. website to 55
countries in August and later opened dedicated e-commerce sites
with local inventory for cheaper mail rates in Canada, the U.K.
and China. The company added shipping from its Stafford,
England, distribution center to European countries including
Germany and Italy in October, pushing its online reach to more
than 80 countries.  Margins Doubled  The response has “exceeded expectations,” said  Toby Lenk ,
president of Gap’s Web unit as online sales surged 15 percent in
the quarter ended Oct. 30, while overall revenue gained just 1.7
percent. With gross margins almost double the physical store
business, e-commerce is a “very cost-effective way to expand
and grow and get a presence geographically because the business
model is so good.”  The retailer has an agreement with FiftyOne, an e-commerce
provider, which calculates the customs, duties and shipping fees
for customers.  Asos Plc  has avoided brick and mortar stores altogether.
The London-based Internet retailer ships all orders from its
U.K. warehouse. The clothier, which sells a mix of branded and
private-label items like faux leopard coats for $120, is the No.
1 fashion site in Australia and Ireland by Internet traffic,
according to market-research firm comScore. Its shares have
surged from 20 pence when it listed in 2001 to 1,323 pence on
Nov. 30 this year.  Multichannel Future  “We can internationalize very quickly,” CEO  Nick Robertson  said in an interview. “Ninety-seven percent of our
opportunity is outside the U.K.” First-half sales outside of
the U.K. surged 120 percent as the company introduced new
country-specific sites in the U.S., France and Germany.  Still, stores won’t become obsolete, Societe Generale’s
Critchlow said. Retailers will have to increase “multichannel”
options where consumers can shop online and have the item
delivered to a store, among other options.  “The future isn’t online, it’s multichannel, because what
consumers like is convenience,” she said. “They want to be
able to pick-up from store, perhaps saving the delivery charge,
or order in-store or have products delivered to office or
home.”  As for Perth mother Fidzewicz, she’s still happiest
shopping from her living room and getting a piece of the U.S.
delivered to her house.  “I do shop mostly online, as I like the convenience,” she
said. “I’m busy and two little boys aren’t interested in
shopping, so it’s far easier to do it from home.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sarah Shannon  in London at 
 sshannon4@bloomberg.net . 