-- Giants-Vikings Game Delayed to Monday as Minnesota Storm Makes Roof Unsafe
-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 2010-12-12T05:05:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-12/giants-vikings-game-postponed-as-blustery-storm-impacts-metrodome-stadium.html
The National Football League game
between the New York Giants and the Minnesota Vikings was
postponed until tomorrow night as heavy snow and strong winds
created unsafe conditions for the roof of the Hubert H. Humphrey
Metrodome.  The Giants, stranded in Kansas City yesterday after the
Minneapolis-St. Paul International Airport was closed by the
storm, had planned to get up at dawn this morning to catch a
charter flight in time for the kickoff at noon local time.  “Due to unsafe conditions related to the Metrodome roof
and the weather, the Metropolitan Sports Facilities Commission
has postponed the Giants-Vikings game to Monday night,” said
commission spokesman Steve Maki in a statement.  News Corp.’s Fox stations will televise the Giants-Vikings
game in the New York and Minneapolis markets, NFL spokesman  Greg Aiello  said in an e-mail. Kickoff is 8 p.m. New York time.  ESPN Inc. will provide coverage of the scheduled Monday
Night Football game between the Baltimore Ravens and Houston
Texans at 8:30 p.m.  The Giants are “really looking forward to taking our time
in getting to Minneapolis tomorrow for Monday night’s game,”
team spokesman  Pat Hanlon  wrote on Twitter.  Heavy Snow, Winds  The Vikings play at the Metrodome’s Mall of America Field,
which is covered by 10 acres of Teflon-coated fiberglass held up
by 20 electric fans. As much as 20 inches of snow fell on
Minneapolis-St. Paul yesterday, with a further three inches
expected overnight as a north-northwest wind gusted as high as
33 miles (53 kilometers) per hour, according to the National
Weather Service.  The sun was expected today in Minneapolis where the high was
predicted to be 5 degrees Fahrenheit (minus-15 Celsius), the
weather service said. Blustery wind gusts as high as 28 miles
per hour will drive the wind chill values as low as minus-29
Fahrenheit.  “The snow has tapered off, so our focus tonight will be on
clearing taxiways, areas around the terminal gates, and
additional runways,” Minneapolis airport spokesman  Patrick Hogan  said in an e-mail. “High winds and drifting are likely to
be our biggest challenges [today]. We don’t expect major issues,
though.”  The Giants (8-4) are tied with the Philadelphia Eagles atop
the National Football Conference East division. The Vikings (5-
7) are in third place in the four-team NFC North.  To contact the reporter on this story:  Nancy Kercheval  in
Washington at   nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: Michael Sillup
at   msillup@bloomberg.net  