-- Glory Targets China, India as Demand for Cash Machines Shifts to Asia
-- B y   A d a m   L e   a n d   M a s a t s u g u   H o r i e
-- 2010-12-13T04:17:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-12/glory-targets-china-india-as-demand-for-cash-machines-shifts-to-asia.html
Glory Ltd. , Japan’s biggest maker of
money-handling machines, plans to expand in India and increase
its sales offices in China as demand for the equipment shifts
from the U.S. and Europe to Asia.  “The momentum in Asia is completely different,” President
 Hideto Nishino  said last week in an interview at the company’s
headquarters in Himeji, west of Osaka. “Economically speaking,
the U.S. and Europe still haven’t got back on their feet.”  Glory, which now manages Indian  operations  from Singapore,
plans to establish sales offices in New Delhi or Mumbai as early
as next year to meet demand for automatic-teller machines and
banknote-counting equipment, Nishino said. Its offices in China
will increase to about 40 from 35 this fiscal year, he said.  Asia is compensating for slumping sales in Europe and the
U.S., and the region will surpass Europe as Glory’s biggest
market in two or three years, Nishino said. Glory is seeking
sales abroad after revenue from cigarette-vending machines, of
which it is Japan’s biggest supplier, fell about 30 percent in
the two years ended March 2010.  The company, whose customers include  Bank of America Corp. 
and  Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group Inc. , targets a rebound in
annual sales to 170 billion yen ($2 billion) in fiscal 2011 as
part of its mid-term plan. Revenue fell 27 percent to 135.1
billion yen over the past two years on lower vending-machine
sales and as steps to privatize Japan’s postal-savings banks
reduced demand for cash-dispensers.  Japan’s First Coin Counter  Nishino said the company is forecasting sales of 3.5
billion yen in China this fiscal year and expects its annual
revenue in the world’s fastest-growing major economy to almost
triple within the next two or three years.  Glory , which has fallen 1.9 percent this year, was little
changed at 2,022 yen as of 1 p.m. on the Osaka Securities
Exchange. Japan’s benchmark Topix index gained 0.4 percent.  Founded in 1918 as Kokuei Machinery Manufacturing, Glory
developed Japan’s first coin counter for the Japan Mint in 1950
and later began production of automatic-teller equipment and
vending machines, according to the company’s  website .  Glory on Nov. 5 reported net income rose 32 percent to 2.94
billion yen for the first half of this fiscal year as sales rose
in China and it cut costs by shifting production abroad. China,
home to the world’s two  largest  banks by market value, has a
financial market more than three times the size of Japan’s,
Nishino said.  China, Taiwan Competition  While China has triple the number of bank branches compared
with Japan, Glory can’t expect to capture the entire market,
 Hiroyasu Nishikawa , an analyst at Cosmo Securities Co. in Tokyo,
said today by telephone.  “The market in Asia is big, but Glory needs to consider
competition from local money-handling machine makers in Asia,
including in China and Taiwan, that can make machines more
cheaply with fewer functions,” said Nishikawa, who has a
“neutral plus” rating on the stock.  Still, Nishino says Asia is where the company’s sales are
most likely to increase.  “The timing of when companies invest in infrastructure has
a big effect on our earnings, and investment in the U.S. and
Europe is still being reined in,” he said. “The subprime
mortgage loan crisis and problems in Greece and Ireland make the
U.S. and Europe difficult markets.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Adam Le  in Osaka at 
 ale14@bloomberg.net ;
 Masatsugu Horie  in Osaka at 
 mhorie3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Drew Gibson in Osaka at 
 dgibson2@bloomberg.net . 