-- ‘Narnia’ Sequel Leads Box Office With $24 Million
-- B y   M i c h a e l   W h i t e   a n d   J o h n   G i t t e l s o h n
-- 2010-12-13T22:45:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-12/news-corp-s-narnia-sequel-opens-with-24-5-million-to-lead-box-office.html
“The Chronicles of Narnia: The
Voyage of the Dawn Treader,” the third film based on the C.S.
Lewis books, opened as the top weekend movie at U.S. and
Canadian theaters, with $24 million in sales for  News Corp.   “The Tourist,” a thriller starring  Johnny Depp  and
 Angelina Jolie , finished second in its debut weekend with $16.5
million, researcher  Hollywood.com Box-Office  said today in an e-
mailed statement.  The Thanksgiving-to-New Year’s period is the second-most
lucrative for studios after summer, accounting for about 20
percent of annual sales in the U.S. and Canada, according to
 Paul Dergarabedian , president of Hollwood.com’s box-office
service. Sales in 2010 may fall below 2009’s record $10.6
billion, unless films such as  Walt Disney Co .’s “Tron: Legacy”
and  Time Warner Inc. ’s “Yogi Bear,” both scheduled for Dec. 17
release, draw big audiences.  “There’s a lot of pressure on ‘Tron’ and ‘Yogi Bear’ to
really deliver to perform with past holiday seasons,”
Dergarabedian said in a telephone interview yesterday.  In “Dawn Treader,” the Pevensie children continue their
adventures in Narnia, a land of minotaurs and satyrs and other
magical creatures. They reunite with the lion Aslan to protect
Narnia from new threats. The film stars Georgie Henley as Lucie
Pevensie and Ben Barnes as King Caspian. Simon Pegg voices the
warrior mouse Reepicheep.  $1.17 Billion  The first two “Narnia” films performed better on opening
weekend, Dergarabedian said. “The Chronicles of Narnia: The
Lion, the Witch and the Wardrobe” opened with $65.6 million on
its first weekend in 2005, while “The Chronicles of Narnia:
Prince Caspian” opened with $55 million in 2008.  The two films generated $1.17 billion in worldwide ticket
sales for Disney, according to researcher Box Office Mojo.
Producer Walden Media moved the franchise to News Corp.’s Fox
after the second, “Prince Caspian,” took in $420 million
globally, down from $745 million in sales for “The Lion, the
Witch and the Wardrobe.”  “The Tourist,” from Sony Pictures Entertainment, features
Depp as a vacationing math teacher who becomes embroiled in a
Scotland Yard investigation after meeting a mysterious woman,
played by Jolie.  Paul Bettany  and Timothy Dalton co-star.  ‘Tangled’  Among returning films, Disney’s “Tangled” dropped to
third from first with $14.3 million. The computer-animated film
tells the story of Rapunzel, a girl whose magical hair is 70
feet long. Locked away in a tower, she is freed by a charming
bandit.  Mandy Moore  provides the voice of Rapunzel and Zachary
Levi plays the bandit Flynn Rider.  “Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - Part 1,” the
seventh film in the series based on  J.K. Rowling ’s books, was
fourth with $8.5 million. The movie has taken in $257.7 million
in domestic ticket sales for Warner Bros., according to
Hollywood.com.  “Unstoppable,” an action film starring  Denzel Washington ,
came in fifth place with $3.71 million in sales in its fifth
week. In the News Corp. film, Washington plays a veteran
railroad engineer and  Chris Pine  portrays an inexperienced
conductor attempting to stop a runaway train.  ‘Black Swan’  Among films in limited release, the thriller “Black
Swan,” featuring  Natalie Portman  and Mila Kunis as rival
ballerinas, generated sales of $3.31 million for News Corp.’s
Fox Searchlight for sixth place. It averaged $36,726 per screen
in 90 theaters, compared with $6,752 in 3,555 theaters for
“Narnia.”  Sales for the weekend’s top 12 films fell 3.4 percent to
$84.3 million from a year earlier, according to Hollywood.com.
This year’s domestic box-office sales total $9.9 billion, up 1.5
percent from a year earlier. Attendance is down 3.5 percent.  The amounts below are based on gross ticket sales from Dec.
10 to Dec. 12.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Michael White  in Los Angeles at 
 mwhite8@bloomberg.net ;
 John Gittelsohn  in New York at 
 johngitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net . 