-- North Korea Says U.S., Allies Aiming to Provoke an `All-Out War' in Region
-- B y   P a u l   T i g h e
-- 2010-12-12T00:38:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-12/north-korea-says-u-s-allies-aiming-to-provoke-an-all-out-war-in-region.html
North Korea said the U.S. is
promoting military hysteria in South Korea and Japan to provoke
an “all-out war” that will spread outside the Korean Peninsula.  “The situation on the Korean Peninsula is inching close to
the phase of an all-out war due to the reckless provocations of
the U.S.” and its allies, the state-run Korean Central News
Agency reported late yesterday, citing a statement from a
spokesman for the country’s National Peace Committee of Korea.  The mobilization of South Korean, Japanese and U.S. air,
land and sea forces will mean the conflict won’t be “confined
to a local war,” KCNA said. North Korea’s army and people “are
ready for both an escalated war and an all-out war.”  North Korea’s shelling of Yeonpyeong Island last month, the
first such attack on South Korean territory since the 1950-53
Korean War, raised tensions already heightened by the March
sinking of a South Korean warship. An international panel said
the sinking was caused by a North Korean torpedo.  The warship case and the island shelling incident have been
“cooked up” by the U.S. and its allies, KCNA cited the
spokesman as saying yesterday. North Korea has said last month’s
shelling was in response to a military provocation after South
Korea fired into waters each country claims as its own.  China Talks  North Korean leader Kim Jong Il met with China’s State
Councilor  Dai Bingguo  in Pyongyang last week and “reached
important consensus” on issues of the Korean peninsula, China’s
Foreign Ministry said at the time.  China must “lead and guide North Korea to a better
future,” U.S. Admiral  Mike Mullen , chairman of the Joint Chiefs
of Staff, said while visiting Tokyo last week. China suffers
from “myopia” in failing to persuade North Korea to change its
behavior, he said.  China responded by saying Mullen was increasing tensions in
the region rather than defusing them.  “Those persons making accusations against China, I ask
what kind of efforts has he done to promote regional stability
and peace,” Chinese Foreign Ministry spokeswoman  Jiang Yu  said
on Dec. 9. “Military threats cannot solve problems and can only
increase tensions.”  China has refused to take sides in the standoff between
North Korea and South Korea while criticizing regional military
exercises by the U.S., South Korea and Japan in recent weeks as
counterproductive.  Six-Nation Forum  The U.S., Japan and South Korea rejected China’s Nov. 28
proposal to reconvene six-nation negotiations over dismantling
North Korea’s nuclear program, saying Kim’s regime has failed to
fulfill previous agreements. Instead, U.S. Secretary of State
 Hillary Clinton  last week met her Japanese and South Korean
counterparts in Washington.  The six-nation talks, involving North Korea, South Korea,
China, the U.S., Japan and Russia, stalled in April 2009. North
Korea’s Foreign Minister Pak Ui Chun left Pyongyang yesterday
for a visit to Russia, KCNA reported.  New Mexico Governor  Bill Richardson  will travel to North
Korea this week on a “private visit,” State Department
spokesman  Philip J. Crowley  said Dec. 8 in Washington.
Richardson, who has been to North Korea several times, will
likely share details of his trip with the State Department when
he returns, Crowley said.  Japan plans to deploy additional forces nationwide against
the threat of a North Korean missile attack, Kyodo news service
reported yesterday, citing unidentified government and self-
defense forces officials.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Paul Tighe  in Sydney at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  