-- Obama Got Least-Worst Deal in Tax-Cut Showdown: Albert R. Hunt
-- B y   A l b e r t   R .   H u n t
-- 2010-12-12T16:00:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-12/obama-got-least-worst-deal-in-tax-cut-showdown-albert-r-hunt.html
 The late Congressman  Phillip
Burton , House Speaker  Nancy Pelosi ’s mentor, once said a popular
colleague’s idea of negotiation was to find out what the other
guy wants and give it to him.  That’s what President  Barack Obama  and congressional
Republicans just did on the tax cut-economic stimulus package.
Both sides got more than they anticipated and gave more; this is
the short-term strength of the deal and its longer-term problem.  The measure -- which includes the Republican goals of
extending for two years the tax cuts for the wealthy and
providing a massive benefit for rich heirs, and the Democrats’
objectives of more liberal  unemployment benefits , a temporary
payroll tax deduction, refundable tax credits for the working
poor and larger write-offs for businesses -- has drawn flak. The
criticisms, from Republican Senator  Jim DeMint  of  South Carolina 
to Democratic Representative  Barney Frank  of  Massachusetts , echo
one another: My side gave too much.  House Democrats, who were cut out of the final negotiations
by the White House, are incensed about the estate-tax
provisions. The deal may go through more contortions, even a
rejection or two, and some tweaking, before approval on the eve
of Christmas as the historic 111th Congress adjourns sine die.  Both sides won crucial concessions. For Republicans, an
extension of the upper-tier tax cuts, under a Democratic
president, would be a big victory. These cuts were enacted in
 2001 and 2003  with a fiscal sleight of hand, which is why they
expire this year. If extended, they were supposed to be paid for
either through offsetting tax increases or spending cuts.  Tax Cuts for Wealthiest  Instead, Republicans got a two-year, $100 billion extension
of lower taxes for the wealthiest Americans without political
peril. They didn’t have to advocate for them while
simultaneously trying to cut college loans for middle-class
students or medical research on Alzheimer’s disease or cancer.  As a special bonus, Republicans won an estate-tax exemption
that is even more generous than one proposed by Obama and that
almost no one argues adds any economic benefit.  At a cost of $14 billion over two years, this provision
would only tax estates of more than $5 million per individual or
$10 million per couple, which would be subject to a 35 percent
rate. This would exempt almost 3,000 wealthier estates from any
taxation and lower the tax for the 3,600 even richer estates
that still pay any levy. It benefits a small fraction of 1
percent of the wealthiest Americans. Some Republicans argue this
protects family farms and small businesses.  Family Farms  Yet under Obama’s generous estate-tax plan -- exempting
estates up to $3.5 million per individual or $7 million per
couple, and subjecting those above that threshold to a 45
percent rate -- only 110 family farms or small businesses in the
U.S. would pay any estate tax.  Obama  got major concessions for the working poor and the
unemployed, the college tax breaks for low- and middle-income
students and other anti-poverty measures. A single mother with
two kids working full time for minimum wage -- about $14,000 a
year -- will get a credit of $1,735 with the Obama extension;
without, she only would get $263.  The really big bonanza the president got was a second
stimulus to help the sluggish recovery. The extended jobless
benefits, temporary payroll tax cut and more generous business
write-offs -- the largest one-year business tax incentives in
history, the White House says -- are expected to generate more
than 1 million jobs and add at least a percentage point to
economic growth.  Fighting Unemployment  If that materializes and results in an  unemployment rate 
closer to 7.5 percent than 8.5 percent in October of 2012, the
president’s re-election prospects will be considerably brighter.  That’s bad news for Republicans. If the issue of the upper-
tier tax cuts becomes part of the 2012 national debate, that
might be a problem, too.  Moreover, while passionately championing these tax cuts --
at one stage Republicans insisted there would be no deal without
the estate-tax provisions -- the lawmakers, especially those in
the House majority, in only a few months have to turn to major
cuts in programs that affect middle- and working-class
Americans.  There is peril for Obama, too. First, he has alienated much
of his liberal base with this agreement, even though some
complaints are based on misunderstanding.  And it gives comfort to those who argue he can be rolled.
He has insisted for years he would never accept extending the
tax cuts for more affluent Americans.  Temporary Extension  Three months ago, when Obama’s former budget director,
 Peter Orszag , proposed extending all the tax cuts for two years
-- with the rationale it would be easier to kill them all in
2012 -- it was greeted with derision at the highest levels of
the administration. Officials said it was either naïve or
duplicitous to pretend that politicians would opt for tax
increases in the middle of a presidential election year. It
still is, especially with a more Republican Congress.  And the president has transition difficulties of his own.
It will be tricky for him to convince Americans, starting with
his next budget in January, that he’s serious about  deficit
reduction  after negotiating a deal that would add about $850
billion to the budgetary shortfall over the next couple of
years.  Many Democratic lawmakers who complain about this measure
have themselves to blame. Last summer, when the Democrats held a
solid majority in both houses, they could have come up with a
compromise measure extending the tax cuts for middle-class
Americans for a longer period than those for wealthier
individuals. They either would have prevailed or at least
created a campaign issue.  Timetable Miscalculation  Over the summer, top administration economic officials
wanted to push a similar measure. By September, however, Senate
Majority Leader  Harry Reid  of  Nevada  was focused solely on his
re-election; White House Chief of Staff  Rahm Emanuel  was
checking out to run for mayor of  Chicago , and the White House
strategists miscalculated and never pressured Congress to vote
on the tax bill before the election. The Nov. 2 Republican
landslide weakened Obama’s position.  There are many reasons to dislike this deal. The
alternative, a recovery-threatening, massive tax increase in
January, is worse.  ( Albert R. Hunt  is the executive editor for  Washington  at
Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Albert R. Hunt in Washington at 
 ahunt1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net . 