-- Holbrooke's Artery Tear Life Threatening, Painful, Doctors Say
-- B y   R o b   W a t e r s   a n d   J o h n   L a u e r m a n
-- 2010-12-12T23:53:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-12/holbrooke-s-artery-tear-life-threatening-painful-doctors-say.html
A tear in the aorta, the largest
artery leading from the heart, likely was painful and life-
threatening for  Richard Holbrooke , the U.S. envoy for Pakistan
and Afghanistan who underwent two days of surgery to have the
blood vessel repaired, doctors said.  Holbrooke, 69, spent about 20 hours in surgery yesterday
at George Washington University Hospital in Washington, and
seven today, family friends said. The length of the surgery
suggests the damage was extensive, said  James Willerson , chief
medical officer of the  Texas Heart Institute  in Houston.  About 2,000 cases of torn aortas occur yearly in the U.S.,
and 90 percent of untreated patients die within two days, said
 Duke Cameron , chief of cardiac surgery at Johns Hopkins Hospital
in Baltimore. The follow up was needed after the first operation
was slowed by the failure of his blood to clot, according to
friends, who spoke on condition of anonymity.  “The object of surgery is to repair the site of the tear
with a background graft” that eases pressure which can cause
further ruptures in other parts of the heart, Willerson said in
a phone interview yesterday. “They may have needed to reattach
some critical blood vessels that were blocked by the tear.”  Without surgery, Holbrooke may have had a heart attack,
stroke, organ damage or paralysis as the tear prevents oxygen-
carrying blood from being pumped to other organs, Cameron said.
Surgery usually takes four to five hours, he said.  High Blood Pressure  Research suggests  tears may result  from a combination of
high blood pressure and weak tissue, Cameron said in a telephone
interview yesterday.  Holbrooke was admitted to  George Washington University
Hospital  on Dec 10. Doctors yesterday morning “completed
surgery to repair a tear in his aorta,” State Department
spokesman  Philip J. Crowley  said Crowley said in an e-mailed
statement. The follow surgery was today, the friends said.  Holbrooke has spent the last two years traveling to
Afghanistan and Pakistan, and seeking support from allies to
help promote economic development and stabilize the neighboring
countries that have been plagued by terrorism. He fell ill on
Dec. 10, Crowley said.  “It’s wonderful he survived the surgery,” Willerson said.
“Now one has to see whether there’s any injury to the brain. In
the best of hands, the risk of dying with the surgery is from 10
to 30 percent.”  Lining Splits  The tear begins when the inner lining of the  aorta  splits
and the vessel’s layers begin to separate, Cameron said. The
separation may spread down the aorta and block off other
arteries to vital organs, including the brain, kidneys or
intestines, which cause the organ damage or stroke, he said.  Sometimes the lining blocks the blood supply to the heart,
leading to a heart attack, Cameron said. The actor John Ritter
died this way, he said.  The most dangerous outcome of the aortic tear occurs when
blood leaks into the sac that surrounds the heart, called the
pericardium, Cameron said. Filling the sac with blood reduces
the space that allows the heart to beat, which can quickly lead
to death, he said.  Doctors treat tears by replacing the upper part of the
artery with a plastic tube, made of Dacron, Cameron said.
Survivors often need frequent monitoring to make sure the aorta
remains healthy, he said.  “It’s very important that people with this condition are
treated right away” since patients with minimal damage before
surgery can have almost normal life spans, Cameron said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rob Waters  in San Francisco at 
 rwaters5@bloomberg.net ;
 John Lauerman  in Boston at 
 jlauerman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net . 