-- OPEC Dismisses $90 Oil Price as `Blip,' Maintains Production Targets Again
-- B y   M a r g o t   H a b i b y   a n d   A y e s h a   D a y a
-- 2010-12-12T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-12/opec-dismisses-90-oil-price-as-blip-maintains-output-quotas.html
OPEC discounted last week’s $90 oil
price and kept its  output targets  unchanged yesterday, betting
supplies in storage and a fragile global economic recovery will
prevent crude from surging.  Supply and demand are “in balance,” and $70 to $80 is “a
good price” for oil, Saudi Arabian Oil Minister  Ali al-Naimi 
said at the group’s meeting in Quito, Ecuador. OPEC forecasts
demand growth will slow as the economy struggles to recover,
amid ample supplies, according to a group statement.  “The issue they looked at was whether $90 is a blip or a
trend,” said  Bill Farren- Price, founder of consultant Petroleum
Policy Intelligence, based in Winchester, U.K. “They’ve taken
the view that there are one-off factors such as the cold snap, a
weak dollar, that won’t be sustained in the new year.”  The Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries has kept
production limits at 24.845 million barrels a day since December
2008, when it announced the biggest reduction in output quotas
ever as demand collapsed and prices plummeted at the onset of
the global recession. Crude tumbled more than $100 in the latter
half of 2008 to $32.40 a barrel.  Oil prices jumped to the highest level since October 2008
last week on cold-weather forecasts for the U.S. and Europe and
speculation the U.S. may extend stimulus measures, causing the
 dollar  to weaken. A declining dollar boosts the appeal of
commodities as an alternative investment.  Oil Price  Crude futures fell 58 cents on Dec. 10 to $87.79 a barrel
on the New York Mercantile Exchange, the lowest settlement since
Dec. 1. The contract touched $90.76 on Dec. 7. Futures dropped
1.6 percent last week, while they’ve risen 24 percent from a
year ago.  “The market is better than before, but it’s not good
because the growth rate of the global GDP is low,” Iranian Oil
Minister  Masoud Mir-Kazemi  said.  The Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development
cut its 2011 global growth forecast last month to 4.2 percent
from 4.5 percent in May, predicting a “soft spot” as stimulus
spending fades before investment spurs a 2012 revival.  “Right now the market is very comfortable for consumers,”
OPEC Secretary-General  Abdulla El-Badri  said. There is “plenty
of oil” in the market, and OPEC won’t act to raise production
until those levels decline. Compliance with the quotas is about
60 percent, he said.  OPEC Supply  OPEC has 6 million to 7 million barrels a day of spare
capacity, El-Badri said. OPEC supplies about 40 percent of the
world’s oil.  The International Energy Agency said Dec. 10 that global
oil supply rose by 400,000 barrels a day to 88.1 million barrels
a day in November, its highest-ever level, largely on increased
non-OPEC production. Global output is up by 1.6 million barrels
a day from the year before. Half of that amount comes from non-
OPEC producers, the Paris-based group said in its monthly Oil
Market Report.  “The market is well supplied and it doesn’t require a
price of above $90 a barrel,”  Edward Morse , head of commodities
research at Credit Suisse Group AG in New York, said in an
interview.  Global oil demand growth was forecast to slow to 1.6
percent in 2011 from 2.8 percent this year, according to the
IEA.  2011 Demand  The “increase in the annual average oil demand in 2011 is
likely to be lower than in 2010,” according to the OPEC
communiqué. Lower demand will accompany “challenging risks to
the fragile global economic recovery, including the adverse
effect of possible currency conflicts and fears of a second
banking crisis in Europe, all of which would negatively impact
on oil demand.”  Europe’s debt crisis has prompted rescues of Greece and
Ireland this year and European leaders are now debating plans
for a permanent financial backstop. The European Central Bank
has stepped up buying bonds from the region’s most-indebted
countries to prevent the market rout from spreading.  Oil prices will rise to $100 a barrel next year, a “fair”
price for both producers and consumers that would make up for
the dollar’s weakness, Venezuelan Energy and Oil Minister  Rafael Ramirez  said. Prices “are recovering, the economy is showing a
slow but sure recovery so we should get to those levels at some
point next year.”  OPEC’s 12 members are Algeria, Angola, Ecuador, Iran, Iraq,
Kuwait, Libya, Nigeria, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, the United Arab
Emirates and Venezuela. Iraq is exempt from the quota system.
The next scheduled meeting is in June at OPEC’s Vienna
headquarters.  “If they start producing significantly more, they
implicitly or explicitly start sending a signal to the market
that they want to dampen down prices,” said  Mike Wittner , head
of oil market research at Societe Generale SA in New York.
“They seem to have enough oil, inventories are still high and
crude stocks particularly in the U.S. are still quite ample.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Margot Habiby  in Quito at  mhabiby@bloomberg.net  and  Ayesha Daya 
in Quito at  adaya1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at   dstets@bloomberg.net . 