-- Oprah Stars in Australia's $3 Million Drive for U.S. Tourists
-- B y   R o b e r t   F e n n e r ,   J a m e s   P a t o n   a n d   N i c h o l a   S a m i n a t h e r
-- 2010-12-12T23:09:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-12/oprah-pats-koala-arrives-in-sydney-in-3-million-push-for-u-s-tourists.html
Billionaire talk-show host  Oprah Winfrey  brings her daytime program to the Sydney Opera House
this week as part of a promotion Tourism Australia hopes will
reverse a decline in U.S. visitors.  Winfrey’s taping of two shows on Dec. 14 is part of an
eight-day trip to Australia that will feature in the 25th and
final season of “ The Oprah Winfrey Show .” Australia is
spending A$3 million ($3 million) on the project to boost
tourism. With the Australian dollar up almost 10 percent this
year, the number of U.S. visitors fell 16 percent in October
from a year earlier.  “$3 million, is that all?” Ross Sotiropoulos, a 62-year-
old Sydney resident, said yesterday as he stood outside the
iconic Opera House on the edge of Sydney Harbor. “Americans
hardly know Australia. They think kangaroos are jumping all over
the main streets, so I think this will be a big boost.”  Australia’s staging of the Oprah Winfrey Show is the latest
effort to stop a slide in the country’s A$12.1 billion tourism
industry, the fifth-largest export earner. The government has
run four  campaign slogans  in five years while the currency has
risen to its highest since the end of exchange controls in 1983.  “Americans have always considered us highly for a visit,
but the one thing that has stopped them is the prospect of a
long journey,” according to  Larry Dwyer , a marketing professor
at the University of New South Wales in Sydney. “Oprah, being
an opinion leader, can help change that.”  ‘Oprah Effect’  Tourism Australia, the government body that markets the
nation overseas, is spending A$1.5 million on the visit. New
South Wales state is contributing as much as A$2 million. Qantas
Airways Ltd. flew Oprah’s audience to Australia.  All are seeking to benefit from the so-called Oprah effect,
where endorsements from the most-watched U.S. talk show host
have turned books, cakes and beauty products into bestsellers.
Her endorsement of Barack Obama when he was a senator is
credited with helping him become U.S. president.  The return to the Australian economy could be more than 100
times the cost of bringing Winfrey and her audience to
Australia, adding more than A$300 million to tourism revenue
over the next three years, according to Brand Finance Plc, a
London-based consultancy that values brands.  “Oprah’s visit to Australia will add immense value to the
Australian brand,” Tim Heberden, managing director of Brand
Finance Australia, said in an e-mailed statement. “Advertisers
paid A$2.6 million for a 30-second spot during the 2010 Super
Bowl, a sporting event watched by over 100 million people. This
audience number is similar to Oprah’s global viewership.”  Hype Builds  Winfrey’s private jet touched down last week in the
northeastern coastal city of Cairns before refueling on its way
to Hamilton Island and the Great Barrier Reef.  Initial sightings showed her patting a koala and visiting
Uluru, the outback monolith also known as Ayers Rock. An
illuminated “O” has been hung on the Sydney Harbor Bridge.  On Dec. 10, Winfrey met with Australian Prime Minister
Julia Gillard at  Federation Square  in Melbourne, Australia’s
second-largest city.  “I’ve never seen a welcome like this in my life,” Oprah
said, addressing cheering fans. “When we looked around the
world, our greatest fan base was right here in Australia. So I
say, let’s go to the people who support you.”  A further two shows will be produced using the footage from
the trip, according to spokeswoman Karen Eck, founder of Sydney-
based public relations company eckfactor.  Tourism Push  Even before her arrival, local television stations and
newspapers were awash with reports anticipating the visit.
Newscasts led with pictures of Oprah’s audience members arriving
in Sydney. Australia’s Tourism Minister  Martin Ferguson  is
issuing daily updates of their activities.  “It’s taken over the airwaves,” said Tony Ward, a 67-
year-old visitor from Manchester, England. “They claim it’s
generating huge amounts of tourist dollars. I’m skeptical.”  Tourism Australia said earlier this month that the value of
the coverage has been worth more than A$17 million, with more
than 12,000 stories written and broadcast in Australia alone.  The conclusion of the trip is the Sydney Opera House, the
Unesco World Heritage Site conceived by Danish architect  Jorn Utzon . The venue will be closed to everyone except production
crew, media and ticket holders.  In addition to restricting access to the Opera House
precinct that juts into the harbor, police are closing two
streets and tightening parking restrictions to cope with
congestion, the  New South Wales Roads & Traffic Authority  said.  T-Shirts  On the day of taping, authorities will suspend tours of the
area and restrict access to the building. The evening’s
performance of “The Nutcracker” will go ahead.  One shop in the neighborhood sought to cash in on the talk
show host’s visit with “I love Oprah” T-shirts selling for
A$29.99 apiece. “We’ve sold hundreds,” said Nasrin Balayan,
assistant manager at Australian Collection. “We’re excited.”  “Oprah is a household name, not just in the United States
but in the 145 countries where the show is broadcast,” Ferguson
said in a news release last week. “That Oprah has chosen
Australia as her Ultimate Adventure destination sends a powerful
message to her millions of fans around the world.”  The Oprah Winfrey Show has been the top-rated U.S. talk
show for 23 consecutive seasons and is syndicated to 215 U.S.
television stations and 145 other countries, its website says.  “It’s a bit over the top,” University of New South Wales’
Dwyer said. “She seems like a nice woman for a multimillionaire
but treating her like the Pope or the Queen might be a bit
much.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Robert Fenner  in Melbourne 
 rfenner@bloomberg.net ;
 James Paton  in Sydney 
 jpaton4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net . 