-- Persian Gulf Banks' Debt Is Poised for Record Yearly Gain: Islamic Finance
-- B y   H a r i s   A n w a r
-- 2010-12-12T20:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-12/persian-gulf-banks-debt-is-poised-for-record-yearly-gain-islamic-finance.html
Islamic bonds issued by  financial
services companies  in the Persian Gulf are heading for their
best year on record on prospects of debt restructuring and
demand for higher-yielding assets in emerging markets.  Shariah-compliant debt from financial institutions in the
six-nation Gulf Cooperation Council returned 15.7 percent so far
in 2010,  HSBC/NASDAQ Dubai GCC Financial Services US Dollar
Sukuk Index  shows, the most since HSBC started tracking their
performance in July 2005. DIFC Investments LLC’s floating-rate
note maturing in June 2012 gained 29 percent in price terms to
82.8 cents on the dollar, according to Bloomberg data. The 3.172
percent sukuk due September 2014 sold by Islamic Development
Bank, a Jeddah-based multilateral lender, returned 9.9 percent,
prices provided by Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc show.  State-owned Dubai World reached an agreement with creditors
in September to alter terms on $24.9 billion of borrowings,
reducing the risk the state-owned company will default and
bolstering investor appetite for debt from the region. Economic
growth in the GCC will accelerate to 4.5 percent this year and
5.9 percent in 2011, from 0.4 percent last year, the
 International Monetary Fund  said in its October Regional
Economic Outlook report.  “Financials are among those names which have benefited
from Dubai’s debt resolution and a greater risk appetite for
regional bonds,” said Ahmed Talhaoui, the Abu Dhabi-based head
of investment at Royal Capital PJSC, which is 44 percent-owned
by United Gulf Bank BSC, an investment bank in Bahrain, said in
an interview yesterday.  Banks Recovering  Funds focused on developing nations’ debt attracted $51.8
billion this year as of Nov. 17, exceeding annual tallies in
EPFR Global data going back to 1995. Investors took money from
emerging-market bond funds in the week ended Dec. 8, the
Cambridge, Massachusetts-based research firm said in a Dec. 10
report.  Global sukuk returned 11.9 percent this year, according to
the  HSBC/NASDAQ Dubai US Dollar Sukuk Index . Bonds in developing
markets gained 13.1 percent, JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s  EMBI Global
Diversified Index  shows. Islamic bonds in the GCC returned 12.5
percent, the  HSBC/NASDAQ Dubai GCC US Dollar Sukuk Index  shows.  Gulf banks are showing signs of recovery after spending
more than $20 billion on loan loss provisions and investment
impairments since 2008, Standard & Poor’s said in a report Sept.
1. Lenders in the United Arab Emirates are “cleaning up,
internally,” by streamlining policies, loans and provisions,
 Abu Dhabi Commercial Bank PJSC ’s Chief Executive Officer  Ala’a Eraiqat  said Oct. 20 at a conference in London.  Sound Footing  Dubai may sell stakes in some companies to the public to
reduce debt as the Persian Gulf emirate alters loan terms and
restructures two of its main investment groups, Dubai World and
Dubai Holding LLC,  Sheikh Ahmed bin Saeed Al Maktoum , chairman
of the Dubai Supreme Fiscal Committee, told a conference in the
emirate Nov. 28. Dubai is on sound financial footing, he said.  Dubai Islamic Bank PJSC’s floating-rate note maturing in
March 2012 gained 6.9 percent this year to 92.13 cents on the
dollar Dec. 10, Bloomberg prices show. The U.A.E.’s biggest bank
that complies with Muslim banking rules raised its stake in
mortgage lender Tamweel PJSC to 57.3 percent from 21 percent in
September to help boost lending.  Dubai’s Islamic bonds led a rebound in Persian Gulf sukuk
last week, ending the worst stretch of losses in 10 months.
Average yields on Shariah-compliant bonds from the Gulf
Cooperation Council fell 13 basis points, or 0.13 percentage
point, to 5.71 percent on Dec. 10, according to the  HSBC/NASDAQ
Dubai GCC Dollar Sukuk Index .  Preferring Sovereigns  Sovereign sukuk from the Gulf will be favored over Islamic
bonds offered by financial companies, according to NCB Capital
in Riyadh.  “Much of the bounce-back is over and now it’s going to be
more measured growth in returns when compared to this year,”
Jarmo Kotilaine, chief economist at NCB Capital, said in a phone
interview yesterday. “Investors are more likely to look for
opportunities in the regional utilities and solid sovereign
credits rather than a story” tied to restructuring, he said.  Sales of Shariah-compliant bonds, which pay returns based
on assets to comply with Islam’s ban on interest, dropped this
year as debt restructuring in the Middle East crimped demand.
Global issuance fell 27 percent to $14.5 billion in 2010 from a
year earlier and a record $31 billion sold in 2007, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Offerings from the six-nation GCC
dropped 34 percent to $4.4 billion.  Cheaper Financing  The  difference  between the average yield for sukuk and the
London interbank offered rate narrowed 32 basis points last week
to 315, according to the HSBC/NASDAQ Sukuk Index. In the GCC,
which includes Qatar, the United Arab Emirates and Kuwait, the
gap shrank 32 basis points to 389.  The yield on Malaysia’s 3.928 percent Islamic note due June
2015 rose 22 basis points last week to 3.14 percent, according
to prices provided by Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc. The rate
on Indonesia’s 8.8 percent bond maturing April 2014 climbed 18
basis points to 3 percent.  The extra yield investors demand to hold Dubai’s government
sukuk rather than Malaysia’s narrowed 36 basis points to 345
last week, the least in two months, data compiled by Bloomberg
show.  Islamic banks linked to governments led the sale of Islamic
bonds from the Gulf this year.  Abu Dhabi Islamic Bank PJSC , the
U.A.E.’s second-biggest Shariah-compliant lender, sold $750
million of sukuk in October and Qatar Islamic Bank SAQ, the
nation’s biggest Islamic bank, raised $750 million in September.
Islamic Development Bank sold $500 million of sukuk in October.  “These banks have been able to raise much cheaper
financing through the bond market,” Usman Ahmed, a senior fund
manager at Emirates NBD Asset Management, which oversees $300
million of bonds at the unit of the U.A.E’s biggest lender, said
in an interview yesterday. “These deals have been attractive to
the foreign investors who are looking to avoid direct real-
estate exposure and seeking safer investments.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Haris Anwar  in Dubai on 
 Hanwar2@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  