-- Egypt Shares Gain on View Central Bank May Cut Interest Rates, Led by CIBE
-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r   a n d   A h m e d   N a m a t a l l a
-- 2010-12-12T15:02:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-12/qatar-shares-head-for-2-year-high-on-growth-prospects-linked-to-world-cup.html
Egypt shares rose to the highest
level in almost three weeks on speculation the central bank may
cut interest rates after inflation eased in November. Qatar’s
benchmark advanced.  Commercial International Bank Egypt SAE , the country’s
biggest publicly traded bank, led the gain and  Six of October
Investment & Development SAE  surged to a more than two-year high
after the Cairo-based real-estate developer said it approved a
five-for-one stock split to increase liquidity. The  EGX 30 Index 
advanced for a third day, increasing 0.6 percent to 6,916 at the
2:30 p.m. close in Cairo. In the Persian Gulf, Qatar’s benchmark
rose 0.5 percent, while the  Bloomberg GCC 200 Index  slipped 0.1
percent.  “We’re seeing the market react to the unexpected drop in
the inflation rate” in Egypt, said  Tamer Nigm,  head of sales
and trading at Cairo-based Watheeqa Securities Brokerage.
“There’s speculation the central bank may cut interest rates as
a result.”  The inflation rate in urban parts of Egypt, the benchmark
that the central bank monitors, fell to 10.2 percent from 11
percent in the previous month, the Cairo-based Central Agency
for Public Mobilization and Statistics said Dec. 8 on its
website. Monthly prices fell 0.8 percent, it said.  The central bank maintained its overnight deposit rate at a
four-year-low of 8.25 percent on Nov. 4, saying inflation in
non-food items remained subdued. It also noted that uncertainty
about the recovery of the global economy may weigh on domestic
investment and external demand. The central bank will meet on
Dec. 16 to review interest rates.  World Cup Spending  Commercial International increased 2 percent to 44.41
Egyptian pounds, the highest since Oct. 26. Six of October
soared 5.4 percent to 111.19 pounds, the highest since September
2008. The stock-split aims to make the shares more accessible
for small investors, the company said.  Qatar’s  QE Index  rose to 8,794.83, the highest close in
more than two years, on optimism government spending on
infrastructure will boost economic growth after the country won
the rights to host the soccer World Cup in 2022.  “Positive sentiment after Qatar won the world cup bid is
persisting as volumes improve and international investors return
to the market,” said  Ahmed A. Hadi , general manager of equity
brokerage at Dlala’ Brokerage & Investment Holding Co. in Doha.
“The massive infrastructure spending expected in 2011 will
boost the country’s economy.”  Tabreed Falls  Qatar, projected by the International Monetary Fund to have
the world’s fastest-growing economy this year, plans to more
than double the number of hotel rooms, build nine stadiums and
refurbish three others as well as construct a rail and metro
network for the tournament. Moody’s Investors Service estimates
that the country will spend about $57 billion over the next
decade for infrastructure developments related to the World Cup.  Qatar’s index has soared 7.5 percent since the country was
awarded the World Cup on Dec. 2.  Abu Dhabi’s  ADX General Index  increased 0.2 percent.
Dubai’s  benchmark stock index  dropped 1 percent, the most in two
weeks, led by  National Central Cooling Co.  The United Arab
Emirates-based utility company that is restructuring debt lost
5.1 percent, the most since June 1, to 1.96 dirhams.  The company known as Tabreed received regulatory approval
to cancel 970 million shares, which would allow its share price
to exceed the minimum of 1 dirham (27 cents) required to qualify
for selling new shares, it said Dec. 9. The new shares began
trading today, with each equalling five old shares in value.  Bahrain’s  All Share Index  retreated 0.1 percent, Kuwait’s
 gauge  slipped 0.3 percent and Oman’s  MSM30 Index  fell less than
0.1 percent. Saudi Arabia’s  Tadawul All Share Index  climbed less
than 0.1 percent.  In Israel, the  TA-25 Index  decreased 0.4 percent to
1,293.14 at the close in Tel Aviv. Israeli bonds fell, with the
yield on the benchmark 5 percent Mimshal Shiklit due January
2020 rising 4 basis points to 4.71 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Zahra Hankir  in Dubai at   zhankir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  