-- Recession Lasting Until 2018 Is Worth Exploring: William Pesek
-- B y   W i l l i a m   P e s e k
-- 2010-12-12T22:21:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-12/recession-lasting-until-2018-worth-exploring-commentary-by-william-pesek.html
In an era where forecasts by
permabears have gotten ample attention and vindication, few are
as disturbing as this: a world recession until 2018.  It comes from  Eisuke Sakakibara , Japan’s former top
currency official. He is known as “Mr. Yen” for his ability to
move markets. Because Tokyo’s revolving-door politics often
sends a new face to each Group of 20 meeting, he is one of the
few Japanese constants in market circles. Traders may not know
the latest finance minister’s name, but they know Sakakibara.  Japan is the master of muddling along, decade after decade,
with little growth to show for it. And Sakakibara was a key
player when Japan faced everything from the Asian crisis to
Russia’s default to the onset of deflation to a banking collapse
that saw the demise of Yamaichi Securities Co.  So, when an economist with Sakakibara’s background says
“the world is set for a long-term structural slump reminiscent
of the 1870s” when average global annual growth was about 1
percent, I can’t help but listen. The reason for the slowdown?
Governments are putting  fiscal  austerity ahead of restoring
stable growth.  Yes, there’s an eye-rolling quality to a former Finance
Ministry mandarin giving economic advice. After all, officials
there did Japan’s 126 million people a disservice by punting
reform far down the road. They just borrowed and borrowed,
leaving Japan with the largest public debt among industrialized
nations and no exit strategy in sight.  Global Recession  Yet recent data in the U.S. and Japan and financial
turbulence in Europe suggest a fresh global recession is a
distinct possibility in 2011. If that happens, what levers are
realistically available to revive demand? Interest rates are
already at, or close to, zero. That leaves increased government
spending as the only real way to stabilize things.  The trouble is, there’s little support for opening the
fiscal floodgates in a meaningful way.  One reason is that there’s already loads of public debt out
there. As of June, Japan’s $5 trillion economy had 904 trillion
yen ($10.8 trillion) in debt outstanding. Too much debt is
wreaking havoc in Europe, where Ireland was the latest domino to
fall.  The U.S. is starting to rattle bondholders with its
borrowing binge. President  Barack Obama ’s stimulus isn’t working
the magic economists hoped. Neither is the Federal Reserve, as
it goes the way of Japan with quantitative easing.  1937 Again  Worse, in the U.S. and other major economies, is the risk
that it may be 1937 all over again. It was then that President
 Franklin Delano Roosevelt  got stingy with stimulus, assuming
that the Great Depression was over. The next year saw the
economy in full retreat.  If Sakakibara is right, the global economy is in deep
trouble. He envisions a broad slowdown that might drag on for
seven to eight years. China can live a couple of years without
U.S. and European growth, but eight?  To head it off, governments need to up spending. And, for
the most part, they aren’t. Yet the U.S. can, and should, borrow
more. To do that, it just needs to become a bit more Japanese,
says  Richard Duncan , author of the “The Corruption of
Capitalism.”  There’s a single reason why Japan’s 10-year bond yields are
below 1.3 percent and Asia’s No. 2 economy isn’t being
downgraded. Since about 95 percent of Japan’s debt is held
domestically, there’s no risk of capital flight. Japan borrows
from its companies and people, an arrangement that’s roughly the
mirror image of the U.S.  New, New Deal  That so many Treasuries are held in China and elsewhere
makes the U.S. highly vulnerable. Duncan, chief economist at
Blackhorse Asset Management Pte. in Singapore, says the U.S.
needs another FDR-like New Deal to restore growth and
competitiveness. Funding one means greater borrowing and the way
to do it is by tapping private-sector cash, Japan-style.  Such suggestions are likely to fall with a mighty thud on
Capitol Hill, which is moving in the opposite direction.
Lawmakers calling for  Ben Bernanke ’s head forget why the Fed
chairman is taking U.S. monetary policy into uncharted territory.
It’s because Congress failed to pump enough money into the
economy in the first place.  Japan is a cautionary tale. On the surface, the 4.5 percent
annualized increase in third-quarter gross domestic product
looked promising. The detail, however, showed that deflation is
worsening no matter how many yen the Bank of Japan churns into
the economy. This is anything but a typical recession, and world
leaders are too distracted to see it.  In the U.S., the focus is on China’s currency. While a
stronger yuan would be in the best interests of the global
economy, it’s not the answer to all the U.S. problems. Japan is
even more obsessed with exchange rates. And Europe is linearly
focused on convincing investors that the euro zone won’t unravel.  In our time of currency fixation, perhaps a guy called Mr.
Yen is the ideal messenger. Too bad his message is one of
economic gloom as far as the eye can see. Perhaps even to 2018.  ( William Pesek  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
 William Pesek  in Tokyo at 
 wpesek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  