-- Retail Sales Probably Climbed in November: U.S. Economy Preview
-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 2010-12-12T05:01:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-12/retail-sales-probably-rose-in-november-as-consumers-boosted-u-s-recovery.html
Retail sales  probably climbed in
November for a fifth consecutive month as Americans began their
holiday shopping, showing consumers are playing a bigger role in
the U.S. recovery, economists said before a report this week.  The projected 0.6 percent gain would follow a 1.2 percent
October increase in purchases, according to the  median  of 62
estimates in a Bloomberg News survey ahead of Commerce
Department figures Dec. 14. Other reports may show industrial
production and homebuilding rebounded, while the cost of living
held steady.  Chains like  Target Corp.  and Macy’s Inc. lured customers
with discounts during the Thanksgiving weekend, the traditional
kick-off to the busiest sales season of the year. While the
world’s largest economy is speeding up heading into 2011, high
 unemployment  and the risk of a prolonged drop in prices remain
concerns for Federal Reserve policy makers meeting this week.  “The holiday season is running at a pretty strong pace,”
said  Guy LeBas , chief fixed income strategist at Janney
Montgomery Scott LLC in Philadelphia. “There’s a broad-based
uptick in sales helped by aggressive discounts. The economy is
improving but there are still many hurdles, such as the weak
labor market.”  The National Retail Federation has forecast November-
December holiday sales will rise by 2.3 percent from a year ago,
the most since 2006. A Bloomberg survey taken Dec. 2 to Dec. 8
showed economists raised projections for consumer purchases, the
biggest part of the economy, to 2.6 percent for next year, up
from their 2.3 percent estimate the prior month.  Confidence Improving  Retailers will also benefit from  consumer sentiment , which
rose in December to the highest level in six months, according
to a Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan report released last
week. The optimism may be tied to stock market gains and
President  Barack Obama ’s deal with Republican leaders to keep
tax rates from rising next year.  Sales at stores open at least a year climbed in November by
the most in eight months compared with a year ago, and beat
analysts’ estimates, industry reports showed. Retailers began
discounting earlier in the month than in the past few years and
continued through Black Friday, the day after Thanksgiving.  Target and  Costco Wholesale Corp.  led the sales gains for
discounters last month, while teen retailer Abercrombie & Fitch
Co. and  J.C. Penney Co. , the third-largest U.S. department store
chain, also posted better-than-forecast increases, according to
company announcements.  Broad-Based Gains  Purchases are broadening out beyond holiday gifts and
clothing. Home Depot Inc., the world’s largest home-improvement
retailer, lifted its full-year profit forecast on stronger
fourth-quarter demand for plumbing and electrical items.  “As we look at November into December, we see strength
across the store,” Chief Financial Officer Carol Tome said Dec.
8 by telephone from an analysts’ meeting in Boston. The Atlanta-
based company had a “terrific Black Friday.”  Investors have driven up retailer shares this year as
spending accelerates. The Standard & Poor’s Supercomposite
Retailing  Index  has gained 27 percent since Dec. 31, 2009,
compared with an 11 percent advance for the broader  S&P 500 .  Sustaining demand may be hard without an improvement in the
unemployment rate, which in November reached a seven-month high
of 9.8 percent. Fed policy makers, due to hold their final
meeting of 2010 on Dec. 14, may reiterate the strategy to buy an
additional $600 billion of Treasuries through June to try to
trim joblessness and avert deflation, or an extended drop in
prices.  Prices Stable  Consumer prices rose 0.2 percent in November for a second
month, according to the Bloomberg survey median ahead of a Labor
Department report Dec. 15. Excluding food and fuel costs, core
prices were up 0.6 percent from November 2009, according to the
survey median, matching October’s rise that was the smallest
year-over-year gain on record.  Among other reports, Fed figures on Dec. 15 may show
production at factories, mines and utilities rose 0.3 percent in
November after stalling in October, economists projected. The
 New York  Fed’s Empire State manufacturing index, due the same
day, and the  Philadelphia  Fed’s general economic gauge on Dec.
16 may indicate factories continued to expand this month.  Homebuilding, struggling to overcome a slump in demand and
persistent foreclosures, grew in November following a drop in
 starts  the prior month, Commerce Department data may show on
Dec. 16. Rounding out the week, the Conference Board’s leading
indicators gauge may reinforce evidence the economy is gaining
momentum.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
 Shobhana Chandra  in Washington at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  