-- Royals May Need More Secure Transport After Camilla Was Struck, May Says
-- B y   E d d i e   B u c k l e
-- 2010-12-13T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-12/royals-may-need-more-secure-transport-after-camilla-was-struck-may-says.html
Student protesters made physical
contact with  Prince Charles ’s wife, Camilla, in an attack on
their car last week, Home Secretary  Theresa May  said, indicating
Britain’s royal family may need to use more secure vehicles.  “What we need to do is to find out what happened in this
incident and to find out if there is anything that can be
learned,” May said in an interview with Sky News television
yesterday. “One of the issues that may very well be looked at
is the whole question of the appropriate transport that’s used
by the Prince of Wales and the Duchess of Cornwall,” as the
heir to the throne’s spouse is known.  May confirmed an Evening Standard newspaper report that
protesters had struck  Camilla  in the attack in central London on
Dec. 9, after the House of Commons voted to allow universities
to triple tuition fees. Police clashed with thousands of
demonstrating students around Parliament during the day. The
violence led politicians to question the police’s handling of
the protests and their protection of the royal couple.  “I understand that there was some contact made,” May
said, though she said she couldn’t confirm the Standard’s report
that Camilla had been jabbed in the ribs with a stick through an
open car window. “This is an incident that needs to be looked
at by the Metropolitan Police. That is what they are doing, so
we will very soon have the details of that.”  ‘Enormous Restraint’  The Metropolitan force is holding an inquiry into the
incident involving the royal couple. Commissioner  Paul Stephenson  said Dec. 10 that armed officers protecting the
couple showed “enormous restraint” during the attack by
“thugs.”  Stephenson said the route taken by the Rolls-Royce
limousine had been checked minutes before and had been clear.  Charles and his wife were unharmed and continued with their
West End theater visit. The limousine, bearing the royal coat of
arms, had paint thrown at it. A window was cracked, and
photographs showed the royal couple in the car looking shocked.  The Standard cited police sources as saying the rear
windows of the vehicle had been opened by mistake.  May said she hadn’t considered resigning over the incident.  In 1982, Home Secretary  Willie Whitelaw  offered to resign
after an intruder broke into Buckingham Palace and sat on  Queen Elizabeth II ’s bed while she was in it. Prime Minister  Margaret Thatcher  persuaded him not to step down.  Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s spokesman,  Steve Field , said
Dec. 10 that the premier retained his confidence in both May and
Stephenson.  Cenotaph Arrest  The Metropolitan Police said yesterday a 35th person had
been arrested in connection with the Dec. 9 protests. The 21-
year-old man was arrested at his home in Sussex, southern
England, on suspicion of violent disorder and attempted criminal
damage to the Union Flag at the Cenotaph, the memorial to
Britain’s war dead.  The Press Association reported Dec. 11 that Charlie
Gilmour, 21, the son of Pink Floyd guitarist  David Gilmour ,
apologized after a photograph of him swinging from a Union Flag
on the Cenotaph appeared in national newspapers.  The police also released 14 images of people they want to
identify in connection with the disorder.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Eddie Buckle  in London at 
 ebuckle@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  