-- Capital Shopping Rejects Simon Plan for Mall Financing as `Impracticable'
-- B y   B e n   L i v e s e y   a n d   D i c k   S c h u m a c h e r
-- 2010-12-13T13:24:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-12/simon-makes-financing-proposal-to-capital-shopping-for-the-trafford-centre.html
Capital Shopping Centres Group Plc ,
Britain’s biggest shopping-mall owner, rejected a financing plan
proposed by Simon Property Group Inc. that would have given the
potential suitor a larger stake in the U.K. company.  Capital Shopping can’t unilaterally change a binding
agreement to buy the Trafford Centre mall in Manchester,
England, from Peel Group, the London-based company said in an e-
mailed statement yesterday. Simon’s offer is not a “genuine
alternative” and shareholders should vote for the existing
plan, it said.  The rejection is another setback to Simon’s plan to
increase its influence in Capital Shopping. The British company
refused to delay a 1.6 billion-pound ($2.5 billion) purchase of
Trafford Centre to consider a possible bid by Simon and it later
declined to provide the U.S. company with financial information
necessary to evaluate a bid.  “The Simon Group takeover moves from unlikely to seemingly
impossible,”  John Cahill , an analyst at Evolution Securities in
London, said in a note today. It’s “curious” that Simon first
said the price for Trafford Centre was too high and then
proposed to finance the deal itself, said Cahill, who has a
“sell” rating on Capital Shopping.  Simon said yesterday it would be prepared to subscribe to a
sale of 205.5 million  Capital Shopping shares  at 400 pence each.
The proposal, which it said was “more attractive” to Capital
Shopping shareholders than the current financing plan, would
include a sale of 209 million pounds of convertible bonds by
Capital Shopping.  Board Seat  The financing proposal by Simon, which has owned at least 3
percent of Capital Shopping since August 2008, would give the
Indianapolis-based company a holding of about 18.4 percent to
26.9 percent in Capital Shopping and a seat on its board,
Capital Shopping said.  “We do not believe Simon has exhausted all its options,”
Harm Meijer and other analysts at JPMorgan Cazenove said today
in a note to investors. “An indicative offer for CSC still has
a high chance, but so has an offer including Trafford Centre or
the arrival of a third party.”  Cash Isn’t King  Peel Group would end up with as much as 25 percent of
Capital Shopping under the agreement for the sale of Trafford
Centre for about 750 million pounds in stock and the assumption
of 850 million pounds of debt.  The total purchase price would be the highest ever paid for
a British property. Investors are scheduled to vote on whether
to approve the transaction on Dec. 20.  Peel has no intention of selling the mall for cash, even if
it resulted in a higher price, the company said in a separate
statement today. Peel wants a stake in Capital Shopping to
spread its exposure to the U.K. shopping mall market. The
combination of Peel owner  John Whittaker ’s experience and
Capital Shopping “will create an unrivaled portfolio of U.K.
regional shopping centre assets,” it said.  Simon, the biggest mall owner in the U.S., has said the
U.K. company is “substantially overpaying” for the mall. Its
own plan “solves a significant concern that has been expressed
about the Trafford Centre acquisition in its current form,”
Simon said in a letter to Capital Shopping yesterday.  Stay the Course  “Peel has reiterated to the CSC board its consistent view
that it wishes to remain invested in U.K. regional shopping
centers and does not wish to sell the Trafford Centre for cash
as SPG is suggesting,” Capital Shopping said. “The CSC board
continues to believe it is in CSC shareholders’ best interests
to proceed with the acquisition on the terms agreed with Peel.”  Simon said last month it was considering an unspecified
cash bid worth more than Capital Shopping’s net assets and asked
for a delay on the Trafford Centre purchase.  Simon may sell its stake in Capital Shopping if the
Trafford acquisition is approved, it said Dec. 8 in a statement.  “We are deeply disappointed that CSC has failed to give
our proposal due consideration, and in so doing, has ignored the
concerns of both Simon and other long-term CSC shareholders,”
Simon said in statement late yesterday.  CSC should adjourn its planned shareholder meeting to give
it more time to consider Simon’s proposal, the U.S. company
said. If an alternative financing plan isn’t possible, they
should vote against the mall purchase.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Dick Schumacher  in London at 
 dschumacher@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dick Schumacher at 
 dschumacher@bloomberg.net  