-- Stockholm Man Killed in Explosion Was Terrorist Bomber, Swedish Police Say
-- B y   K i m   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 2010-12-12T16:13:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-12/stockholm-man-killed-in-explosion-was-terrorist-bomber-swedish-police-say.html
A suspected terrorist bomber killed
himself and injured two other people in separate explosions near
a central shopping street in Stockholm, police said.  Sweden’s  Security Service  is investigating the two blasts a
few hundred meters apart around 5 p.m. local time yesterday. The
first set a car on fire, the second killed the suspect and
injured two people, Stockholm police said in a  statement  on its
website today. Shortly before  the explosions , police and a
Swedish news agency received an e-mail with a sound recordings
in Swedish and Arabic from a man who said it was “time to
strike” because a “war was being waged against Islam.”  “We don’t know yet that the three incidents are connected,
even if much evidence points to this,” Prime Minister  Fredrik Reinfeldt  said at a news conference in Stockholm. “It’s
important to say that this is unacceptable and very serious, but
let’s be patient and let the police and the security police
work.” It is important not to victimize groups in society based
on presumption, he added.  Sweden has about 500 soldiers in Afghanistan serving as
part of the International Security Assistance Force engaged in
provincial reconstruction in Mazar-e-Sharif. Swedish artist Lars
Vilks drew anger from Muslims after newspaper Nerikes Allehanda
published one of his drawings of the Prophet Mohammed’s head on
a dog’s body in 2007.  Anger Against Troops  In the recording, the suspect expresses anger against Vilks
and the Afghan deployment,  Expressen said . He apologizes to his
family for lying about his trips to the Middle East saying he
did not go to earn money but “for Jihad.”  “This is a very serious incident which is being
investigated as an act of terrorism,” Anders Thornberg,
director of operations at the Swedish Security Service, told a
news conference in Stockholm. “It’s too early to tell if the
dead man is connected with some kind of network.”  Thornberg declined to confirm media reports that the dead
man had explosives strapped to his chest.  “There may be a connection between the two blasts and one
theory is that the owner of the car and the dead man are one and
the same,” Thornberg said.  The name of the man killed in the blast has not been
released. The SVT national broadcaster identified the author of
the messages as the owner of the car that burned, a 1993 Audi
80, as a male Swedish national, aged 28, of foreign parents from
Tranaas, in the south of the country.  ‘Most Worrying Attempt’  “Most worrying attempt at terrorist attack in crowded part
of central Stockholm,” Sweden’s Foreign Minister  Carl Bildt 
wrote on Twitter. “Failed -- but could have been truly
catastrophic.”  The coalition led by Reinfeldt has maintained its lead over
the opposition since it won elections on Sept. 19, while support
for the anti-immigration Swedish Democrats has risen, an opinion
poll by Statistics Sweden showed on Dec. 8.  The outcome of the election, in which Reinfeldt’s
government became a minority because of the success of the
Sweden Democrats, prompted demonstrations against the party’s
stance on immigration in a country that has traditionally
welcomed incomers. In the southern city of Malmoe, a year-long
shooting spree in which several immigrants were victims and one
person was murdered ended in November when a man was arrested on
suspicion of targeting people with foreign backgrounds.  Thornberg said that the security service was not planning
to raise the terror threat level assessment, which was kept
under constant review. The service raised its terror alert level
from “low” to “elevated” in  October  saying Swedish-based
groups could be plotting attacks. It then emphasized that the
threat to Sweden was not seen as “imminent.”  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
 Kim McLaughlin  at 
 kmclaughlin6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tim Quinson at 
 tquinson@bloomberg.net  