-- Swedish Blast Suspect Left Recordings Warning of Strikes in Name of Islam
-- B y   J o s i a n e   K r e m e r   a n d   J a n i n a   P f a l z e r
-- 2010-12-13T14:36:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-12/stockholm-blast-kills-suspected-bomber-in-sweden-s-first-brush-with-terror.html
The man who killed himself in bomb
blasts that Swedish police are treating as the country’s first
brush with terror left recordings warning of strikes to defend
Islam against the “war being waged” on it.  The Nordic country’s  Security Service  is investigating two
blasts that occurred a few hundred meters apart and close to a
street crowded with Christmas shoppers at about 5 p.m. local
time on Dec. 11. The first blast set a car on fire, the second
killed the suspect and injured two people.  Police are assuming there was “some sort of mistake” that
led to the early detonation of one of the bombs that killed the
suspect, said  Tomas Lindstrand , chief prosecutor on security
issues at the International Prosecution Chamber, at a news
conference in Stockholm today. “It’s not too far-fetched to
assume he was on his way to a place where he would find as many
people as possible.”  Unlike neighboring Denmark, which became a target of
Islamist anger in 2006 after its biggest newspaper published
caricatures of the Prophet Muhammad, Swedish police until
October had deemed the threat of any terrorist attack to be
“low.” The September general election brought the anti-
immigration Sweden Democrats into parliament for the first time.  Shortly before  the explosions , police and a local news
agency received an e-mail with recordings in Swedish and Arabic
from a man who said it was “time to strike” because a “war
was being waged against Islam.”  Afghanistan, Cartoons  Sweden has about 500 troops in Afghanistan serving as part
of the International Security Assistance Force. Swedish artist
Lars Vilks drew anger from some Muslims after newspaper Nerikes
Allehanda published one of his drawings that put Mohammed’s head
on a dog’s body in 2007.  In the recording, the suspect expresses anger against Vilks
and the Afghan deployment, newspaper  Expressen said . He
apologizes to his family for lying about his trips to the Middle
East, saying he went “for Jihad.”  Lindstrand said Swedish police could identify the suspect
as 28-year-old Taimour Abdulwahab “to a 98-percent-degree of
certainty.”  The U.K.’s Guardian newspaper said Abdulwahab was an Iraqi-
born Swede who obtained a Bachelors of Science in sports therapy
from the University of Bedfordshire in 2004. The newspaper also
said he had spent some time in Luton in recent years. The
Guardian said the suspect’s details had been confirmed by people
close to the U.K. government it didn’t identify.  U.K. Cooperation  “We are cooperating with British police and that contact
will continue,” Lindstrand said. “As it looks now, he was
alone, but we know from experience that several people are
usually involved in this type of incident and it seems that
although the attack was a failure it was well-planned in
general. If all of the explosives had detonated at once, it
seems as if the explosion would have cause very significant
damage.”  U.K. police searched a property in Bedfordshire, north of
London, at 10:55 p.m. local time yesterday, according to a
London Metropolitan Police spokesman who declined to be
identified, citing police policy. No arrests were made in
connection with the blasts and no hazardous materials were
found, the spokesman said. The investigation at the property is
ongoing, he said.  ‘Crossed Threshold’  “There has been a perception that it probably doesn’t
happen here and it wouldn’t target us,” said  Magnus Ranstorp ,
research director at the Center for Asymmetric Threat Studies at
the Swedish National Defence College in Stockholm, by telephone
yesterday. “Now we have crossed the threshold, we have crossed
a new line.”  Foreign Minister  Carl Bildt  wrote on Twitter that the
attack “could have been truly catastrophic” if it hadn’t
failed.  “Sweden was a calm bay in a stormy sea, now the problem is
close to home,” Ranstorp said, speaking from Copenhagen. “This
kind of event changes the security perception. There has been a
shift in the past six months with groups wanting to target
Swedish interests. You might have copycats.”  The attacks didn’t disrupt financial markets. The country’s
benchmark OMX Index of the top 30 stocks traded 0.8 percent
higher at 1,148.38 at 3:25 p.m. The difference between Swedish
10-year yields and German yields on same-maturity debt narrowed
to 0.226 percent. The Swedish 10-year yield was at 3.195
percent.  Financial Markets  “We’re still in the middle and we don’t have all the
pieces, but it’s unlikely this will leave any big footprint on
the financial markets tomorrow,”  Robert Bergqvist , SEB AB chief
economist, said yesterday. “This may be unique for Sweden, but
as we know sadly it isn’t unusual around the world.”  The Islamic Association in Sweden condemned the attacks in
 a statement  on its website, saying they “threatened Swedes’
mutual peace and security.”  Ranstorp said it is “very rare” that an isolated incident
would happen without other people being involved in the
preparation. “I would be surprised if he didn’t have broader
connections,” he said. “You have a car bomb, a suicide bomber,
a statement sent to the media. There was a point of no return.”  Prime Minister  Fredrik Reinfeldt  said it’s important not to
victimize groups in society based on presumption.  Reinfeldt’s coalition has maintained its lead over the
opposition since it won elections on Sept. 19, while support for
the anti-immigration Sweden Democrats has risen, an opinion poll
by Statistics Sweden showed on Dec. 8.  Sweden’s security service raised its terror alert level
from “low” to “elevated” in  October  saying Swedish-based
groups could be plotting attacks. At the time, it said the
threat to Sweden wasn’t seen as “imminent” and hasn’t raised
the threat level since the weekend’s blasts.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
 Kim McLaughlin  at 
 kmclaughlin6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tim Quinson at 
 tquinson@bloomberg.net 
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  