-- Australia Introduces Plan to Increase Competition Within Banking Industry
-- B y   A n g u s   W h i t l e y   a n d   J a m e s   P a t o n
-- 2010-12-12T03:12:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-12/swan-announces-changes-to-create-more-competition-in-australia-s-banking.html
Australia plans to bolster credit
unions and ban fees home owners face in switching mortgage
providers, as the government responds to public pressure to
reduce the dominance of the nation’s four biggest lenders.  The changes are aimed at boosting competition, keeping
interest rates lower over time and ensuring that “Australians
get a fair go,” Treasurer  Wayne Swan  said in Canberra today.  A “new pillar” will be built in the banking system by
supporting credit unions and building societies that have lost
market share since the financial crisis, Swan said. Australia
will scrap exit fees on new home loans starting in July, give
customers more flexibility to change lenders and expand the
powers of the nation’s competition regulator, he said.  Commonwealth Bank of Australia ,  Westpac Banking Corp. ,
 National Australia Bank Ltd.  and  Australia & New Zealand Banking
Group Ltd.  control more than 80 percent of the home-loan market.
Swan, whose government has no outright majority in parliament,
is seeking to soothe a public angered by mortgage-rate increases
by banks last month that went beyond the central bank’s
benchmark increase, even after they reported record profits.  “The first aspect is to empower consumers, to give them
the capacity to shop around, but also to help smaller lenders
compete with the bigger banks and to ensure that credit flows to
Australian families and Australian business,” Swan said.  Sluggish Growth  Australia’s biggest banks already face sluggish credit
growth, a worldwide overhaul of banking regulations, more
onerous capital requirements, and more expensive funding on debt
markets. The country’s main banks are dubbed the “four
pillars” after a law preventing takeovers among them.  The government said it intends to give the Australian
Competition and Consumer Commission the power to act against
banks if they send price signals to each other to keep their
interest rates higher than they otherwise would be.  “The ACCC has advised me that they do believe there have
been instances in banking of price signaling,” Swan said today.
“The only responsible thing to do is to move in this direction
and give the ACCC the powers that it requires.”  Australia will make a further A$4 billion ($3.9 billion)
investment to support the residential mortgage-backed securities
market that many of the nation’s smaller lenders rely on to make
cheaper loans, according to the statement.  The government also aims to allow all banks, credit unions
and building societies to issue covered bonds to widen access to
cheaper, more stable funding, the treasurer said. The government
will release a draft amendment to banking laws in 2011.  Market Power  “Swan needs to be seen to be doing something to tackle the
four big banks,” said Frank Zumbo, competition lecturer at the
Australian School of Business in Sydney. “While credit unions
and building societies are an alternative, they have a long way
to go to put a dent in the market power of the four big banks.”  Banks accounted for 91 percent of new residential housing
loans in September, according to the  Australian Bureau of
Statistics . That’s up from 81 percent the same month three years
ago, before the peak of the global financial crisis.  Between them, the four biggest banks control almost 90
percent of residential mortgages sold by all banks, and write 83
percent of all loans, according to October data from the
Australian Prudential Regulatory Authority.  Commonwealth Bank, the largest bank in Australia, called
for caution in recommending additional regulatory changes. The
industry is already competitive, it said in a submission to a
Senate inquiry on banking competition.  Profits, Assets  Chief Executive Officer  Ralph Norris  said in the Dec. 3
document that the size of bank profits was often taken out of
context from the total assets needed to deliver such a return.  Westpac, Australia’s second-largest lender, last week
published its submission, calling on the government to introduce
measures that reduce major banks’ reliance on offshore funds,
which have become more expensive since the financial crisis. The
biggest banks blame those costs for driving up mortgage prices.  Credit unions and building societies argue that the country
needs more competition and have asked the government to
introduce policies to help them access funding. In a Nov. 30
submission to the Senate inquiry, the  Association of Building
Societies and Credit Unions  asked for the introduction of a
flat-fee guarantee of wholesale debt funding for smaller lenders.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 James Paton  in Sydney at 
 jpaton4@bloomberg.net ;
 Angus Whitley  in Sydney at 
 awhitley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  