-- Swan Takes on Australia's Four Big Banks With Plan for Greater Competition
-- B y   A n g u s   W h i t l e y   a n d   J a m e s   P a t o n
-- 2010-12-12T13:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-12/swan-takes-on-australia-s-banks-with-plan-for-more-competition.html
Australian Treasurer  Wayne Swan 
proposed creating a “fifth pillar” of credit unions to spur
competition in the banking industry, responding to pressure to
reduce the dominance of the country’s four biggest lenders.  “I’m a believer in the fundamental importance of a market
economy,” Swan said in Canberra yesterday in announcing a
package of changes. “It brings flexibility and strength. But in
a market economy, business and of course Australian households
need to be able to get a fair go in the banking system.”  The government will bolster credit unions and building
societies that have lost market share since the financial crisis
and ban “exit” fees home owners face in switching mortgage
providers for new loans starting in July, Swan said. It also
plans to give customers more flexibility to change lenders and
expand the powers of the nation’s competition regulator.  Commonwealth Bank of Australia ,  Westpac Banking Corp. ,
 National Australia Bank Ltd.  and  Australia & New Zealand Banking
Group Ltd.  control more than 80 percent of the home-loan market.
Swan, whose government has no outright majority in parliament,
is seeking to soothe a public angered by mortgage-rate increases
by banks last month that went beyond the central bank’s
benchmark increase, even after they reported record profits.  “I made it clear then, and I make it clear now, there was
absolutely no justification for any bank to raise its interest
rates above the increases in the cash rate,” Swan said.  Sluggish Growth  Australia’s biggest banks already face sluggish credit
growth, a worldwide overhaul of banking regulations, more
onerous capital requirements, and more expensive funding on debt
markets. The country’s main banks are dubbed the “four
pillars” after a law preventing takeovers among them.  “The Australian banks have become political footballs,”
analysts at UBS AG in Sydney led by  Jonathan Mott  wrote last
month. “Political debate around regulation and competition is
now a larger driver of bank performance than financial
returns.”  The government said it intends to give the Australian
Competition and Consumer Commission the power to act against
banks if they send price signals to each other to keep their
interest rates higher than they otherwise would be.  “The ACCC has advised me that they do believe there have
been instances in banking of price signaling,” Swan said. “The
only responsible thing to do is to move in this direction and
give the ACCC the powers that it requires.”  Government Investment  Australia will make a further A$4 billion ($3.9 billion)
investment to support the residential mortgage-backed securities
market that many of the nation’s smaller lenders rely on to make
cheaper loans, according to the statement. The Australian Office
of Financial Management’s current program is A$16 billion.  The government also aims to allow all banks, credit unions
and building societies to issue covered bonds to widen access to
cheaper, more stable funding, the treasurer said. The government
will release draft amendments to banking laws in 2011.  “Swan needs to be seen to be doing something to tackle the
four big banks,” said Frank Zumbo, competition lecturer at the
Australian School of Business in Sydney. “While credit unions
and building societies are an alternative, they have a long way
to go to put a dent in the market power of the four big banks.”  Banks accounted for 91 percent of new residential housing
loans in September, according to the  Australian Bureau of
Statistics . That’s up from 81 percent the same month three years
ago, before the peak of the global financial crisis.  Between them, the four biggest banks control almost 90
percent of residential mortgages sold by all banks, and write 83
percent of all loans, according to October data from the
Australian Prudential Regulatory Authority.  Senate Inquiry  Public debate on competition in financial-services is
increasing as key figures in the industry contribute to a Senate
inquiry. Central Bank Governor Glenn Stevens is due to appear
before the committee on Dec. 13.  Commonwealth Bank, the largest bank in Australia, called
for caution in recommending additional regulatory changes. The
industry is already competitive, it said in a submission to a
Senate inquiry on banking competition.  Chief Executive Officer  Ralph Norris  said in the Dec. 3
document that the size of bank profits was often taken out of
context from the total assets needed to deliver such a return.  Funding Costs  Westpac, Australia’s second-largest lender, last week
published its submission, calling on the government to introduce
measures that reduce major banks’ reliance on offshore funds,
which have become more expensive since the financial crisis. The
biggest banks blame those costs for driving up mortgage prices.  Credit unions and building societies argue that the country
needs more competition and have asked the government to
introduce policies to help them access funding. In a Nov. 30
submission to the Senate inquiry, the  Association of Building
Societies and Credit Unions  asked for the introduction of a
flat-fee guarantee of wholesale debt funding for smaller lenders.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 James Paton  in Sydney at 
 jpaton4@bloomberg.net ;
 Angus Whitley  in Sydney at 
 awhitley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  