-- U.K. Coalition `Rock Solid,' Clegg Strong, Liberal Democrat Minister Says
-- B y   E d d i e   B u c k l e
-- 2010-12-12T15:08:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-12/u-k-coalition-rock-solid-clegg-strong-liberal-democrat-minister-says.html
Britain’s coalition government is
“rock solid” even after the junior partners, the Liberal
Democrats, became divided over a key policy and their support in
opinion polls slumped, one of the party’s senior ministers said.  Twenty-one of the 57 Liberal Democrat lawmakers voted Dec.
9 against letting universities triple tuition fees, while the
party’s ministers backed the measure. That reduced the
government’s majority from 84 to 21. The Liberal Democrats
pledged before the May 6 election to oppose higher fees.  The chief secretary to the Treasury,  Danny Alexander , a
Liberal Democrat, said in an interview on BBC television’s
“Andrew Marr Show” today that there was “nothing in these
stories” that Deputy Prime Minister  Nick Clegg  might face a
challenge to his leadership of the party. Alexander said he
expected the coalition led by Conservative Prime Minister  David Cameron  to serve its full five-year term.  “Nick Clegg’s leadership has been strong, purposeful, it’s
taken the party into government with the strong support of all
his parliamentary colleagues,” Alexander said. “He continues
to have that support and the vast majority of Liberal Democrats
continue to believe that being part of the coalition with the
Conservatives is right.”  Decline in Support  A  YouGov Plc poll  for the Sunday Times newspaper showed
Liberal Democrat support at 9 percent, down from 23 percent in
the election. The main opposition Labour Party was on 42
percent, 2 percentage points ahead of the Conservatives. YouGov
questioned 1,937 voters on Dec. 9 and 10.  “We are going to go through a period of immense
unpopularity” as the government seeks to slash the record
budget deficit, Liberal Democrat Energy Secretary Chris Huhne
said in an interview on the “Politics Show” on BBC television.
“But we will come out of it, we will be stronger at the next
election and people will see that we’ve done the right thing.”  Huhne said he believed Clegg would lead the party into the
next general election, scheduled for 2015.  An Ipsos Mori poll for the News of the World newspaper
showed 25 percent of voters trust Clegg, compared with 66
percent in April. Ipsos Mori interviewed 809 adults Dec. 9-10.  William Hill Plc said it is offering odds of 7-4 that Clegg
will cease to be Liberal Democrat leader before the election
because his “fortunes and popularity have taken a dive,”
Graham Sharpe, a spokesman for the bookmaker, said in an e-
mailed statement today.  Attack on Royals  Student protests in London against the tuition-fee increase
descended into violence, with Prince Charles’s car coming under
attack as he was driven to a theater performance with his wife,
Camilla, the Duchess of Cornwall.  In an interview with the Sunday Times, Labour leader  Ed Miliband  said he wanted to draw disaffected Liberal Democrats
into working with Labour.  Clegg “has obviously broken his promises, but also he has,
I think, departed from progressive territory,” Miliband said.
“I think many Lib Dems will now say ‘We’re not going to put up
with this anymore,’ and see that the future for them doesn’t lie
with an alliance with David Cameron, and will want to look
elsewhere. I want to extend a welcome to them to work with us.”  The  Sunday Mirror newspaper reported today  that Clegg was
being lined up for a job as a European Union commissioner, amid
concerns that he would fail to retain his seat in the next
general election. The Mirror cited unidentified people in
Cameron’s office for the report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eddie Buckle in London at 
 ebuckle@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  