-- La Nina Event Is Peaking, May Decline, Australian Weather Bureau Forecasts
-- B y   W e n d y   P u g h
-- 2010-12-22T07:37:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-22/la-nina-event-is-peaking-may-decline-australian-weather-bureau-forecasts.html
A La Nina event, which has brought
rain to Australia and Southeast Asia and dry weather to Brazil
and Argentina, is likely near its peak and may gradually
decline in the coming months, the  Bureau of Meteorology  said.  Tropical Pacific Ocean temperatures, which cool during a La
Nina, are set to warm next year and the event should weaken at
about the end of the first quarter, climatologist Skie Tobin
said by phone from Melbourne after a statement from the bureau.  La Nina-linked rains have cut sugar output and downgraded
wheat-crop quality in Australia, soaked rubber plantations in
Southeast Asia and disrupted Indonesia’s tin output. Dry weather
has delayed soybean planting in Argentina and may support prices
of the oilseed as long as the La Nina continues, Australia & New
Zealand Banking Group Ltd. said in a report today.  “La Nina conditions remain firmly in place across the
tropical Pacific, though the majority of long-range models
surveyed by the bureau suggest this event may be near its
peak,” the bureau said in the statement on its website today.  Rubber in Tokyo has advanced 50 percent this year as La
Nina rains hurt Asian supplies, trading at a record 415.4 yen
per kilogram today. Tin on the London Metal Exchange advanced to
an all-time high of $27,500 a metric ton last month, and was at
$26,500 today. Soybeans have risen 27 percent this year.  Hurricanes, Snow  La Ninas occur on average every three to five years and can
last nine to 12 months, according to the U.S.  National Oceanic
and Atmospheric Administration . The event can intensify
hurricane development in the Atlantic Ocean and also bring more
snow to the eastern U.S. and drier conditions to Texas.  Soybean output in Brazil’s southern Rio Grande do Sul
state may be 20 percent smaller because of dry conditions
related to a La Nina, forecaster Somar Meteorologia said Dec. 20.  Argentina’s soybean harvest may plunge as much as 21
percent next year as drought delays planting and creates poor
growing conditions, Oil World, an oilseed-industry researcher
and publisher, said yesterday.  Planting of winter crops in Australia next year would
benefit from stored soil moisture and forecasts for above-
average rain into March,  Wayne Gordon , a Sydney-based analyst
at Rabobank Groep NV, said in a report today.  It remained too early to say whether the La Nina would be
followed next year by an El Nino, which typically brings dry
weather to eastern Australia, Tobin said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Wendy Pugh  in Melbourne at 
 wpugh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Richard Dobson at 
 rdobson4@bloomberg.net  