-- AIG Fine May Give Rivals Help in $1 Billion Lawsuit
-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 2010-12-23T21:26:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-22/aig-will-pay-146-5-million-to-settle-50-state-insurance-probe.html
American International Group Inc. ,
the company defending itself against a $1 billion workers’
compensation lawsuit filed by rival insurers, may have handed
its accusers momentum by agreeing to pay $146.5 million to
settle a probe by regulators.  “That certainly can’t help their position in court,” said
 Edward Priz , president of Riverside, Illinois-based commercial
insurance consultant Advanced Insurance Management LLC.  AIG will pay $100 million in fines and $46.5 million in
taxes and assessments to resolve the 50-state investigation, the
Pennsylvania insurance regulator said yesterday. New York-based
AIG was suspected of cheating state-run funds that serve as
insurers of last resort against workplace injuries.  AIG, once the world’s largest insurer, shortchanged the
state pools by underreporting premiums it made selling workers’
compensation protection, rivals including Liberty Mutual Holding
Co. said in court documents filed in 2009 in U.S. District Court
in Chicago. The state insurers of last resort, which cover
injuries at employers that pose unattractive risks, are funded
by contributions from carriers that offer the coverage.  “Accurate company financial data is an essential
ingredient of proper insurance regulation,” Pennsylvania acting
commissioner  Robert Pratter  said in a statement. “This reflects
the seriousness of the violations in this instance over a
sustained period of time -- primarily prior to 1996 -- by AIG’s
prior senior management.”  Liberty Mutual  The agreement, endorsed by eight states including
Pennsylvania, is contingent upon approval by at least 35 other
regulatory jurisdictions and AIG’s settlements with rival
insurers, according to the statement.  AIG had $338 million in escrow for the settlement of claims
tied to its contribution to the workers’ compensation pools,
according to its third-quarter report.  AIG Chief Executive Officer  Robert Benmosche  has settled
legal disputes with investors and former CEO Maurice “Hank”
Greenberg to focus on repaying a $182.3 billion U.S. government
rescue. AIG filed a complaint last year against Boston-based
Liberty Mutual and rivals including  Hartford Financial Services
Group Inc. , saying they cheated the state pools.  “If this settlement becomes final, we will have resolved
all remaining regulatory issues related to AIG’s workers’
compensation premium reporting for our stakeholders,”  Mark Herr , an AIG spokesman, said in a statement.  Bailed Out  The insurer dropped $1.43, or 2.6 percent, to $54.33 at
4:15 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. AIG has
 surged  81 percent this year after declining 4.5 percent in 2009
and 97 percent in 2008. AIG agreed this month to retire its
obligations with the Federal Reserve. The Treasury Department,
which owns the majority of AIG’s equity, plans to reduce its
influence over the company by selling stock to private
investors.  Richard Angevine , a spokesman for Liberty Mutual, and
Gregory Quinn of the National Council on Compensation Insurance
Inc., which is involved in the litigation against AIG, didn’t
respond to phone messages seeking comment.  The case is National Council on Compensation Insurance Inc.
v. American International Group Inc. 1:07-cv-02898, U.S.
District Court, Northern District of Illinois (Chicago).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew Frye  in New York at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  