-- Airgas Rejects Air Products' `Final' $5.89 Billion Takeover Bid as Too Low
-- B y   J a c k   K a s k e y
-- 2010-12-22T21:38:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-22/airgas-board-rejects-revised-70-a-share-takeover-offer-from-air-products.html
Airgas Inc. , the packaged-gases
company fighting a hostile takeover attempt, rejected  Air
Products & Chemicals Inc. ’s “final” offer of $5.89 billion as
too low.  The directors unanimously agreed that Air Products’
proposal of $70 a share is “clearly inadequate” and said the
company’s value is at least $78 a share, Radnor, Pennsylvania-
based Airgas said today in a statement. Air Products on Dec. 9
raised its bid 6.9 percent from $65.50, calling it the “best
and final offer.”  Air Products Chief Executive Officer  John McGlade  has tried
since October 2009 to acquire the biggest U.S. distributor of
packaged gases. Credit Suisse Group AG, hired last week by
Airgas at the behest of three newly elected directors nominated
by Air Products, agreed with existing advisers Bank of America
Corp. and Goldman Sachs Group Inc. that $70 a share is too low.  Airgas directors’ agreement on the $70 offer and the
company’s value “put to rest” the notion that the board is
divided, an issue that Air Products was hoping to use to its
advantage,  Thomas L. Hayes , a Minneapolis-based analyst at Piper
Jaffray Cos., said today in a telephone interview.  Airgas  fell  $1.78, or 2.8 percent, to $61.44 at 4:15 p.m.
in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares have
climbed 29 percent this year.  Air Products  rose 4 cents to
$90.57. Its shares have gained 12 percent this year, compared
with a 13 percent increase for the Standard & Poors 500 Index.  Poison Pill  Delaware Chancery Court Judge  William B. Chandler III  plans
to rule after Jan. 1 on Air Products’ challenge to Airgas’ so-
called poison pill, an anti-takeover defense designed to make a
hostile takeover prohibitively expensive.  “If the Airgas board is so confident that Airgas is worth
at least $78 per share, it should redeem its poison pill and let
shareholders decide for themselves whether they want to accept
$70 per share in cash now,” McGlade said today in a separate
statement.  “Many Airgas shareholders” have publicly supported the
$70 offer, McGlade said.  Eton Park Capital Management LP, the second-biggest Airgas
investor, said last week that the offer is “fair.” Pentwater
Capital Management LP, the third-largest shareholder, said Dec.
9 that the company should let  investors  tender their shares for
$70 unless a competing offer is made.  ‘Directly With Shareholders’  Air Products’ bid increase was driven by Airgas investors,
lawyers for Air Products said in court filings. Since Airgas has
spurned all bids, “Air Products has negotiated directly with
shareholders” by raising its offer,  William Lafferty , a
Wilmington, Delaware-based lawyer for Air Products, said in a
Dec. 21 court filing.  Judge Chandler probably will uphold the poison pill,
prompting Air Products to abandon its bid, Hayes said. Air
Products’ shares have underperformed the broader market this
year and McGlade last week said he will pursue alternative plans
if the deal can’t be completed in “a timely manner.”  “Air Products has said they have other uses for their
capital that they could deploy globally,” Hayes said. “Maybe
they should go do that.”  Airgas shares may initially drop to the mid-50s if Air
Products walks away before rising to $75 late next year,
reflecting estimated earnings growth, Hayes said. He raised his
recommendation on Airgas this week to “overweight” and doesn’t
rate Air Products. The average target price among Airgas
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg is $70.62.  The $70 bid is 61 percent more than Airgas’s closing share
price on Feb. 4, the day before the industrial-gas producer
first made its takeover proposal public. Airgas, led by founder
and CEO  Peter McCausland , the largest shareholder, has called
previous offers “grossly inadequate.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jack Kaskey  in New York at 
 jkaskey@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at   scasey4@bloomberg.net . 