-- Alcoholics May Stop at One Drink With Help From Lundbeck Anti-Abuse Drug
-- B y   F r a n c e s   S c h w a r t z k o p f f
-- 2010-12-23T16:24:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-22/alcoholics-may-stop-at-one-drink-with-help-from-lundbeck-anti-abuse-drug.html
The first pill designed to curb a
person’s urge to have more than a few drinks at a sitting is
undergoing tests in Europe, promising doctors and public-health
authorities a new approach to fighting alcoholism.  The drug, nalmefene from  H. Lundbeck A/S  in Valby, Denmark,
blocks brain signals that make activities such as sex and
drinking feel good. Should trials succeed, the medicine may win
clearance in Europe as early as 2012, becoming the first new
alcoholism treatment approved there in more than 15 years.  While the drugs now sold are used to prevent relapses after
people quit drinking, nalmefene is aimed at reducing consumption
without the abstinence that Alcoholics Anonymous and other
treatment programs say is necessary. This less-strict approach
may drive more abusers to seek treatment for the first time,
said Adron Harris, director of the University of Texas at
Austin’s  Waggoner Center for Alcohol & Addiction Research .  “A major problem among alcohol abusers is that many are
not interested in seeking treatment, perhaps because they do not
want to accept the goal of complete abstinence,” Harris said.  The drug’s effects may prove greater on public health than
on Lundbeck.  Peter Welford , a London-based analyst at Jefferies
International Ltd., said nalmefene may have peak sales for
alcohol dependence of about $60 million a year, in 2018. That’s
equivalent to a fraction of the $2.57 billion in total revenue
for the company last year.  Welford’s estimate was held down by uncertainty over what
price Lundbeck could demand and whether health-care providers
would embrace a drug-based approach to treatment, he said.  ‘Gold Mine’  “The market remains an untapped gold mine,” said Welford,
who recommends buying Lundbeck shares.  Lundbeck rose 0.4 percent to 103.40 kroner at 5:06 p.m. in
Copenhagen trading, giving the company a market value of 20.3
billion kroner ($3.6 billion). Of 17 Lundbeck  analysts  tracked
by Bloomberg, 9 say investors should buy the shares, while 5
have “sell” opinions and 3 say “hold.”  Programs such as New York-based  Alcoholics Anonymous ,
founded in 1935, require people to abstain. Choosing not to
drink at all may be more effective than trying to curb
consumption, according to a U.K.  study  published in March in
Alcohol & Alcoholism, a journal of the London-based Medical
Council on Alcohol. Drinkers who had sought treatment and
abstained had fewer days of relapse when they imbibed too much,
the researchers found.  “Many people make a decision to stop drinking,” said
Peter McCann, a recovered alcoholic who is co-founder of Castle
Craig Hospital, a rehabilitation clinic near Edinburgh. “They
don’t need drugs to stop.”  Naltrexone Failure  It would be a great help to patients if nalmefene works,
said  Marvin D. Seppala , chief medical officer of Hazelden, the
Center City, Minnesota-based treatment center whose abstinence-
based approach has been adopted in more than 40 countries.
Seppala said he is cautious about prescribing medicines without
abstinence, having worked with patients who tried to curb intake
by taking naltrexone, a generic drug not developed for that
purpose.  Naltrexone cuts the desire to drink by blocking the release
of dopamine, a brain chemical that generates feelings of
pleasure. The drug is approved as a treatment for people who
have stopped drinking, and has been taken experimentally to
reduce consumption without quitting alcohol. The medicine didn’t
help the patients curb intake, Seppala said.  “They were unable to do anything that would be considered
beneficial, going from a liter a day of distilled spirits to two
drinks short of a liter,” Seppala said in an e-mail interview.  Regulatory Stance  In September, the London-based European Medicines Agency,
concerned that the all-or-nothing approach leaves millions
untreated, included consumption-cutting medicines in its  first
guidelines  to drugmakers on how to test experimental alcohol
treatments. The London-based National Institute for Health &
Clinical Excellence, or NICE, an adviser to the U.K.’s National
Health Service, is considering  new guidelines  that recommend
medication if other approaches fail.  There is a “critical need” for drugs to reduce drinking
because alcoholism causes disability and contributes to suicide
and accidents among young adults, said John Krystal, chairman of
Yale University School of Medicine’s psychiatry department in
New Haven, Connecticut, in an e-mail interview.  In the U.S., fewer than one in 10 overusers of alcohol gets
treatment, the Bethesda, Maryland-based National Institute on
Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism, or NIAAA, estimates. Nine of 10
Germans and 19 of 20 U.K. residents who abuse alcohol don’t get
help, according to the Geneva-based  World Health Organization.   Vodka Habit  A Danish man whose first name is Niels -- and who asked
that his surname be withheld to protect his privacy and prevent
embarrassment to himself -- was consuming a bottle of vodka a
day, leaving his house only to get more, when his doctor
persuaded him to quit drinking six years ago, he said.  Now 66, the former advertising executive said he takes
Antabuse. The drug, known generically as disulfiram, reacts with
alcohol to induce vomiting in abstainers who backslide and take
a drink. His memories of alcohol’s effects remain vivid: waking
up sweating and shaking, craving a drink, he said. He wishes he
could have a single glass of wine and be able to stop there, he
said in an interview.  Antabuse isn’t the only current treatment for alcohol
abusers. Acamprosate, the active ingredient in New York-based
Forest Laboratories Inc.’s Campral, appears to reduce the
symptoms, such as anxiety and insomnia, which abstinence from
alcohol can trigger. Campral won approval in France in 1987,
before the European Medicines Agency was created in 1995, and
U.S. clearance in 2004.  Licensing Arrangement  While the experimental nalmefene works similarly to
naltrexone, it fits better on cells and lasts longer, said
 Antero Kallio , chief medical officer of Biotie Therapies Corp.,
in Turku, Finland. That company licensed the drug to Lundbeck in
2006, having been unable to pay for all of the clinical trials
needed to seek regulatory clearance.  Lundbeck agreed to pay Biotie as much as 88 million euros
($115 million) if nalmefene meets development and sales goals.  In a  28-week study , Finnish men and women taking nalmefene
cut the number of days on which they drank heavily by as much as
45 percent, to as low as 8.6 days a month, researchers from
Biotie and the A-Clinic Foundation, a government-funded
treatment provider based in Helsinki, reported in 2007 in the
journal Alcoholism: Clinical & Experimental Research. Patients
getting a placebo cut heavy-drinking days by about one-third,
showing an advantage for nalmefene.  ‘Little by Little’  “Little by little, it decreases the craving for alcohol,
and the person learns to control the alcohol problem,” said
Hannu Alho, the independent coordinator of Lundbeck’s trials in
Finland and the president-elect of the Calgary-based
 International Society of Addiction Medicine , a group of
addiction specialists. “It’s a very much needed medicine.”  Lundbeck expects results as early as this month from trials
of the drug in 1,850 people. Doctors would prescribe the pill on
an as-needed basis. Patients who are worried about drinking too
much could take it before their first glass, Lundbeck said.  “We’re not talking about the people on the bench in the
park,”  Anders Gersel Pedersen , executive vice president of drug
development, said in an interview at Lundbeck’s headquarters in
Valby, a district of Copenhagen. “We’re talking perhaps about
people working in this building here.”  Seeking Approval  Lundbeck plans to seek European approval for nalmefene in
2011, and is in talks with potential partners who could market
the medicine, Chief Executive Officer  Ulf Wiinberg  said Nov. 3.  Andreas Eggert , 42, is joining Lundbeck as vice president
of global product strategy to oversee the introduction of
nalmefene and the antidepressant LUAA21004, the company said
today in a  statement  on its website. Nalmefene will reach the
market in 2012, and LUAA21004 in 2013, Lundbeck said.  Rival treatments in development include Indianapolis-based
Eli Lilly & Co.’s  LY2196044 , and topiramate, a product that New
Brunswick, New Jersey-based  Johnson & Johnson , among others, is
testing.  Lilly completed a 16-week study of LY2196044, part of the
second of three stages of human testing needed for regulatory
approval, according to a U.S. government website that tracks
clinical trials. Lilly for competitive reasons hasn’t disclosed
how the compound works, according to the company’s  website .  Rival Treatments  Topiramate is the active ingredient in Topamax, which J&J
sells as an anticonvulsant. Researchers say the medicine, which
is approved to prevent seizures and migraine headaches, may help
balance electrical activity in the brain. Vivus Inc. in Mountain
View, California, is seeking U.S. approval of a diet pill called
Qnexa that combines topiramate with phentermine.  Desitin , a closely held company in Hamburg, began selling a
naltrexone-based product called Adepend in September.  Lundbeck can’t prevent people who have quit alcohol
consumption from using nalmefene to resume drinking, said  Mads Kronborg , a company spokesman. The pill isn’t being developed
for that purpose, he said in a telephone interview.  A  2006 report  by the U.K.’s NICE said finding treatment
funding, either private or public, “has proved difficult.”
While most U.S. states require health insurers to at least offer
treatment, federal law may exempt larger employers, NIAAA said
in its five-year strategic plan.  “Every physician knows that alcohol is bad for all parts
of your body,” said  Christian Haasen , a professor at the
University of Hamburg’s Center for Interdisciplinary Addiction
Research, who is also an independent investigator in Lundbeck’s
nalmefene trials.  Doctors will be “quite interested” in the
Lundbeck drug, he said.  For now, it’s an open question that the product will work,
the Waggoner Center’s Harris said.  “The controversy is whether recovering alcoholics can
maintain moderate consumption without returning to harmful
drinking,” Harris said.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
 Frances Schwartzkopff  at 
 fschwartzko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at   acullen8@bloomberg.net  