-- `Excessive Caution' on New Rules May Hurt Insurers, Allianz CFO Baete Says
-- B y   O l i v e r   S u e s s
-- 2010-12-22T14:52:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-22/allianz-says-excessive-caution-on-new-rules-may-hurt-insurers.html
Allianz SE , Europe’s biggest
insurer, said overly cautious rules under a proposed new
European regulatory framework may hurt insurance companies and
their customers.  “Capital costs money, and if we have to put additional
capital aside unnecessarily due to a climate where excessive
caution reigns, this will ultimately damage everyone,” Allianz
Chief Financial Officer  Oliver Baete  said in an interview
published on the Munich-based insurer’s  website .  The Frankfurt-based Committee of European Insurance and
Occupational Pension Supervisors, or  Ceiops , is developing the
new risk-based regulatory regime, known as Solvency II, with
local regulators. The new rules are designed to help the
industry withstand future financial crises.  “Politicians and regulators are trying to prevent any
recurrence of a crisis,” Baete said. “That’s understandable,
but I fear that the measures will fail. There have always been
crises and there always will be.”  The latest proposals for Solvency II, due to be introduced
in 2013, have been tested by “almost 70 percent of all
insurance and reinsurance companies” in Europe in a fifth
quantitative-impact study, known as  QIS5 , Ceiops said Dec. 16.
The regulator plans to publish the results in March. The rules
need to be simplified before their introduction, the European
Commission said last month after complaints from the industry.  “The repercussions of the financial crisis have meant that
new ideas are constantly being floated about how we might be
able to protect ourselves against every conceivable crisis,”
Baete said. Insurers, banks and other financial-services
providers would be “threatened with collective punishment,”
even as “no insurance company got into trouble due to its
insurance business during the financial crisis,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Oliver Suess  in Munich at 
 osuess@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  