-- Anadarko Pollution Cleanup Sites May Reach 2,800, Court Told by Attorney
-- B y   T i f f a n y   K a r y
-- 2010-12-23T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-22/anadarko-pollution-cleanup-sites-may-reach-2-800-court-told-by-attorney.html
Anadarko Petroleum Corp. , along with
its  Kerr-McGee Corp.  unit, may face liability for cleaning up
2,800 contaminated sites as part of a lawsuit brought by its
spinoff  Tronox Inc.  and the government, a lawyer said.  Anadarko, one of the world’s largest independent oil and
natural-gas producers, was sued by its former subsidiary,
Tronox, which is now in bankruptcy, and by the U.S.
Environmental Protection Agency for cleanup costs at 70 sites
included in Tronox’s spinoff in 2006.  Dennis Wanlass, Tronox’s chief executive officer, couldn’t
get answers to what the “environmental footprint” of the
company was when he joined in 2008, according to Jeffrey Zeiger,
an attorney for the Oklahoma City-based company.  “Our experts have been working very, very hard to answer
that question,” Zeiger told U.S. Bankruptcy Judge  Allan Gropper 
yesterday. “Now we’ve settled that there are around 2,800 sites
that Tronox became exclusively liable for through the IPO.”  Duke McCall, a lawyer for Anadarko, said the government
hasn’t produced documents to prove its case.  “We’re missing docs from 1,900 sites at which they allege
there are liabilities,” McCall told the judge. “We’re being
asked to defend against a claim for which we do not have the
underlying factual information,” including the sites’
locations, potential cleanup costs, alleged contamination and
 Anadarko ’s claimed connection to the sites, McCall said.  Confirmation Plan  Tronox  has won court confirmation of a plan to reorganize
and is waiting for public comments on an environmental
settlement before it exits bankruptcy protection. Under the
settlement, Tronox set aside $320 million to cover what it
estimated were government environmental claims of
$1.4 billion to $5 billion.  The government, including the EPA, asserted claims of as
much as $10.5 billion, according to court papers filed as part
of Tronox’s Chapter 11.  Tronox sued Woodlands, Texas-based Anadarko and Kerr-McGee
as part of its bankruptcy, alleging the liabilities fell to Kerr
-McGee because the company transferred environmental liabilities
to Tronox after moving its most valuable assets to a new company
that Anadarko acquired in 2006 for $18 billion.  The U.S. and Tronox agreed to coordinate litigation, and
part of Tronox’s settlement calls for the U.S. to get 88 percent
of anything it wins in its lawsuit against Anadarko and Kerr-
McGee. Tort claimants would get the remaining 12 percent.  Zeiger also told Gropper yesterday that expert witnesses
may focus on estimating clean-up costs at 25 percent of the
sites.  Anadarko asked Gropper to force the U.S. to produce
documents, or impose sanctions on the government and Tronox by
blocking them from alleging liabilities at sites which they
hadn’t yet documented.  Gropper declined to rule and told the parties to resolve
their disputes.  “It would seem to me at some point that the proponent of
the lawsuit has to produce something with respect to the
proposed sites,” Gropper said.  The bankruptcy case is Tronox Inc., 09-10156, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tiffany Kary  in New York
at   tkary@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 