-- Manchester City May Spend $77 Million on Transfers in January: Roundup
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2010-12-22T11:02:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-22/manchester-city-may-spend-77-million-on-transfers-in-january-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable links to the Web.  City’s Spending Spree  Manchester City  manager Roberto Mancini will be allowed to
spend as much as 50 million pounds ($77 million) in January to
boost the club’s changes of winning the Premier League, the
 Daily Mirror  reported.  Mancini’s main priority is to add a new striker to his
squad. The Italian is targeting Wolfsburg’s Edin Dzeko and
Porto’s Brazilian forward Hulk, the paper said.  City was bought in 2008 by Abu Dhabi’s Sheikh Mansour, who
has invested more than 350 million pounds in strengthening the
playing squad.  United Sale ‘Long Way’ Off  Any plans by the American Glazer family to sell  Manchester
United  are a “long way down the line,” the  Daily Telegraph 
cited director Michael Edelson as saying.  Edelson had been quoted as saying it was “no secret” that
the Glazers would sell at some stage. This came amid speculation
the Qatar royal family was preparing a bid of 1.5 billion pounds
for the club. The Glazers bought United in 2005.  Carragher’s England Role?  Jamie Carragher will be invited to join the England
coaching set-up after the Football Association targeted the
 Liverpool  defender as a potential international manager, the
 Daily Mail  reported.  Carragher, who is in the process of getting his coaching
qualifications, may start working with young England teams.  The 32-year-old, who is sidelined after dislocating his
shoulder last month, may work alongside England Under-21 coach
Stuart Pearce, the paper said.  Leo’s Premier Rant  Feyenoord  sporting director Leo Beenhakker has criticized
the Premier League for “spoiling the market” for other teams
after Chelsea signed 15-year-old defender Nathan Ake from the
Rotterdam side, the  Daily Mail  reported.  “It’s driving me crazy that hot prospects are walking away
from us like this,” the paper quoted the former Real Madrid and
Holland manager as saying. “Other clubs in Europe don’t behave
like this but the English sides just don’t care.”  Balotelli’s Boast  Manchester City player Mario Balotelli has claimed only
Barcelona’s Lionel Messi is a better player than he is, the
 Daily Mirror  reported.  Balotelli, who has scored only two Premier League goals
since he joined City from Inter Milan in the summer, also said
his team can win the Premier League and Europa League this
season.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Danielle Rossingh  in London at 
 drossingh@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at   celser@bloomberg.net . 