-- APA Plans Gas-Fired Power Station to Supply Xstrata's Mount Isa Operations
-- B y   J a m e s   P a t o n
-- 2010-12-22T05:56:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-22/apa-plans-gas-fired-power-station-to-supply-xstrata-s-mount-isa-operations.html
APA Group  has proposed building a
240-megawatt gas-fired power station in Australia’s Queensland
state that would supply customers including  Xstrata Plc , the
world’s fourth largest copper producer.  APA, owner of the Carpentaria natural gas pipeline in
Queensland, expects the power station at Mount Isa to be
approved by May 2011, with construction of the first phase to
last about two years, it said in a  filing today  on the
Australian Environment Department’s website.  The proposal is one of the options for the region in
northern Queensland and depends on APA reaching agreement with
customers, Chris Kotsaris, a spokeswoman for the Sydney-based
company, said by phone, declining to give a cost estimate.
“It’s our effort to make sure gas-fired generation is the
preferred energy solution for Mount Isa customers,” she said.  APA  was unchanged at A$4.18 at the 4:10 p.m. close in
Sydney trading, compared with a 0.1 percent gain for the S&P/ASX
200 Index. The shares have risen 19 percent this year, while the
 benchmark index  has dropped 1.9 percent.  Xstrata, which owns the Mount Isa complex, comprising mines
and smelting operations that produce copper, zinc and lead, is
studying options “for a reliable, competitively priced, long-
term energy supply to sustain development in northwest
Queensland,”  Steve de Kruijff , chief operating officer of
Xstrata’s Australian copper unit, said in an e-mailed statement.  Xstrata aims to make a decision early next year, it said in
the statement. APA is one of three companies involved in the
discussions, he said, declining to name the others.  Each stage of the proposed APA project would have a
capacity of as much as 120 megawatts, according to the company.
If APA proceeds with the proposal, the plant would follow the
30-megawatt X41 gas-fired power station, which supplies power to
Xstrata, and the Daandine power station west of Brisbane into
production, the company’s website shows.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Paton in Sydney   jpaton4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at   aprakash1@bloomberg.net . 