-- Arab Nations to Seek UN Pressure on Israel to Stop Settlement Construction
-- B y   B i l l   V a r n e r
-- 2010-12-23T10:55:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-22/arabs-to-seek-un-demand-for-end-to-israeli-settlement-building.html
Arab nations and the Palestinian
Authority are set to ask the  United Nations  Security Council to
demand that Israel halt settlement construction in the West Bank
and East Jerusalem.  A draft resolution demanding that Israel “immediately and
completely ceases all settlement activities” was to be given to
the Security Council’s 15 member governments late yesterday or
today, Egyptian Ambassador  Maged Abdelaziz  said in an interview.  The Palestinian envoy to the UN,  Riyad Mansour , said that
U.S. diplomats told him that the Obama administration opposes
having the Security Council take up a resolution on the
settlements issue. The U.S. mission to the UN didn’t respond to
a request for a public comment on the draft resolution.  “The only road to peace between Israel and the
Palestinians is through direct negotiations,” Israel’s
Ambassador  Meron Reuben  said yesterday in an e-mail.
“Palestinian attempts to bypass this road only move us further
away from returning to the negotiation table. We hope that the
international community won’t allow these moves to divert both
sides from reaching the real goal: peace and stability in our
region.”  Chief Palestinian negotiator  Saeb Erakat  said the steps do
not mean that Palestinians will cease talks with U.S Middle East
envoy  George Mitchell , who has been conducting shuttle diplomacy
between them and Israeli Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu .  ‘Just Stop’  “We’re going to continue talking to the Americans,”
Erakat told reporters last night in Bethlehem. He added that the
Palestinians would return to the negotiating table “if
Netanyahu would just stop settlement construction.”  The  Security Council  move stems from Palestinian Authority
President  Mahmoud Abbas ’s instructions last month to Mansour to
begin talks in New York on a draft resolution.  Mansour said in an interview that the text was being
distributed now so that Security Council members could study it
over the next 10 days before formal talks are held in January.
He said about 35 nations have agreed to co-sponsor the draft,
which also condemns the continuation of settlement activity as
illegal and a “major obstacle” to peace.  “We have to move on this track because there is no
movement on any front,” Abdelaziz said. “We have a crisis
situation. The Israelis have rejected the American proposal for
a settlement freeze and they continue every day with settlement
activity.”  Talks Stalled  The U.S. decided early this month to stop pressuring Israel
to renew a moratorium on West Bank settlement construction.
Palestinians refused to return to talks without an extension of
the freeze, which expired in September.  The Arabs may have as many as 14 votes for the draft
resolution in the 15-member Security Council, and recognize that
the measure would probably be defeated by a U.S. veto, said
Ibrahim Dabbashi, Libya’s deputy ambassador to the UN.  “If it gets 14 votes, they will put it to a vote,”
Dabbashi said. “We know finally it will not pass.”  Libya introduced a similar draft resolution when it had a
seat on the Security Council two years ago, but didn’t put the
text to a vote.  “The situation is different now,” Dabbashi said. “Now
there is practically no peace process. It is at a standstill. At
the time, there was not an overwhelming majority to put it to a
vote. It was not only the U.S. This time we feel it should have
14 votes.”  New Members  Abdelaziz said the entry of India and South Africa onto the
Security Council as non-permanent members on Jan. 1 will create
a body that will be “much in favor of movement” on the draft.
The U.S., he said, might abstain rather than veto.  “Are the Americans even a little bit offended that the
Israelis are brushing them aside all the time?” Abdelaziz said.
“We will ask them to abstain.”  He said the Arabs haven’t received any signal from the
Obama administration that abstention was a possibility.  About 500,000 Jews have moved to the West Bank and
Jerusalem since Israel captured the territories in the 1967
Middle East war. The UN says the settlements are illegal, and
the International Committee of the Red Cross says they breach
the  Fourth Geneva Convention  governing actions on occupied
territory.  Israel says the settlements don’t fall under the convention
because the territory wasn’t recognized as belonging to any
country before the 1967 war, in which Israel prevailed, and
therefore isn’t occupied.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bill Varner  at the United Nations at 
 wvarner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  