-- Arena Falls After Saying It Will Reapply for Approval of Weight-Loss Drug
-- B y   A l e x   N u s s b a u m
-- 2010-12-22T21:18:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-22/arena-plans-to-reapply-to-u-s-regulators-for-approval-of-weight-loss-drug.html
Arena Pharmaceuticals Inc. fell 12
percent in New York trading after the company said it would
reapply for clearance of lorcaserin, the weight-loss drug that
failed to win a U.S. advisory panel’s recommendation.  Arena slipped 24 cents to $1.80 at 4 p.m. in Nasdaq Stock
Market trading, after earlier falling as much as 13 percent. The 
San Diego-based company will conduct new studies of the drug’s
potential cancer risks after consultations with the Food and
Drug Administration, said  Jack Lief , Arena’s chairman and chief
executive officer, on a  conference call  with analysts today.  Arena and partner Tokyo-based  Eisai Co.  expect to refile
the application by the end of 2011 after losing an FDA advisory
panel vote in September, Lief said. The stock’s fall may show
 investors  are skeptical about the drug’s chances, said  Jason Zhang , a BMO Capital Markets analyst in New York.  “We’re only hearing Arena’s interpretation of the
meeting,” Zhang said in a telephone interview. “There’s
continued dialogue and you could argue there’s a path forward
for the drug, but how quickly and how easily they could achieve
that is still up in the air.”  Arena and Eisai, which licenses the drug from Arena, said
in October that the FDA had asked for more data on how well the
drug works and on the risks of tumors in rats. The companies are
competing with Mountain View, California-based  Vivus Inc.  and
 Orexigen Therapeutics Inc.  of San Diego to introduce the first
prescription weight-loss drug in more than a decade.  Gaining ‘clarity’  This week’s meeting gave  Arena  “clarity” on what it
needed to do to make its case, Lief said in a telephone
interview. Arena expects a new study to show lorcaserin raised
the rate of breast tumors in rats because it increased levels of
the hormone prolactin, the CEO said. That would bolster the
drug’s chance of approval because the FDA agrees that prolactin
doesn’t cause cancer in humans, he said.  “The prolactin mechanism is not relevant to humans; they
have accepted that,” Lief said. “There are lots of other drugs
that have been used for humans for decades that increase
prolactin and do not have any relevance to humans in terms of
breast tumors.”  Karen Riley , an FDA spokeswoman, didn’t immediately return
messages seeking comment.  Lorcaserin may generate as much as $800 million in global
sales in 2015,  Jon Lecroy , an analyst at Hapoalim Securities in
New York, said before the advisory panel met in September.  Arena rose 44 percent in Nasdaq trading on Dec. 20, the
day the company met with FDA staff, and then lost 14 percent
yesterday. The  shares  have fallen 49 percent for the year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alex Nussbaum  in New York 
 anussbaum1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   Rgale5@bloomberg.net  