-- Argentine Soybean-Processing Plants Blocked as Workers Begin Strike
-- B y   R o d r i g o   O r i h u e l a
-- 2010-12-22T14:49:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-22/argentine-soybean-processing-plants-blocked-as-workers-begin-strike.html
Cargill Inc. and Bunge Ltd. soybean-
processing plants in Argentina, the world’s largest exporter of
soy oil, have been blocked for a day after workers went on
strike to demand a year-end bonus, a union leader said.  “The strike will continue until our demands are met,”
union leader Pablo Reguera said today in a telephone interview
from the town of San Lorenzo. About 4,500 workers went on strike
yesterday in San Lorenzo, where nine plants, including ones
owned by Cargill and Bunge, produce more than 60 percent of the
country’s soybean oil, Reguera said.  Members of the San Lorenzo oilseed crushers’ union, where
most of the nation’s processing plants are located, are seeking
a 5,000-peso ($1,260) year-end bonus. The plants are in the
province of Sante Fe in central Argentina.  “Trucks are being stopped from entering plants by the
workers,” said Alberto Rodriguez, head of the industry group
known as Ciara, which represents soy-oil exporters.  “There are no meetings scheduled with workers for now.
Hopefully, the Labor Ministry will intervene,” he said today in
a telephone interview from Buenos Aires.  Bunge press officer Lorena Perez didn’t immediately respond
to a telephone inquiry. Cargill’s country manager  Hugo Krajnc 
didn’t immediately respond to an e-mail from Bloomberg News.  The companies and the union have agreed to increase
salaries by 25 percent in 2011, Rodriguez said.  March-delivery soybeans were little changed at $13.38 a
bushel on the Chicago Board of Trade after rising earlier today
to $13.4025, the highest since Nov. 12. Prices advanced 28
percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rodrigo Orihuela  in Buenos Aires at 
 rorihuela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jessica Brice at 
 jbrice1@bloomberg.net  