-- Argentina's Reopened Swap Offer Aims to Put Default Behind, Lorenzino Says
-- B y   D r e w   B e n s o n
-- 2010-12-22T17:53:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-22/argentina-s-reopened-swap-offer-aims-to-put-default-behind-lorenzino-says.html
Argentina’s reopening of a debt swap
offer that closed in June demonstrates the government’s goal of
putting the country’s record $95 billion default nine years ago
behind it, Finance Secretary  Hernan Lorenzino  said.  The terms of the reopened exchange, announced in today’s
official gazette, are similar to the earlier one, Lorenzino said
in a telephone interview in Buenos Aires. The differences are
that it won’t give creditors par bonds or past-due interest on
notes due in 2017 that were issued in this year’s swap, he said.  Benchmark dollar bonds due in December 2033 rose for a
fifth day, with the yield dropping to 9.15 percent, the lowest
since Nov. 26.  “This is a gesture to bondholders who didn’t
participate,” Lorenzino said. “Argentina is demonstrating its
willingness to offer a solution and leave the default behind.”  The government has no participation target for the reopened
offer, which will be managed exclusively by the Buenos Aires-
based Caja de Valores SA and is open to creditors worldwide,
Lorenzino said. Using an Argentine clearing house will save the
government banking and legal fees, he said.  “Every bondholder who enters is one lawsuit that gets
dropped or one less lawsuit in the future,” Lorenzino said.
“From our perspective, that’s positive.”  The offer, for which $6.1 billion of bonds are eligible,
opened today and closes on Dec. 30, according to a resolution in
the official gazette. About $4 billion worth of the securities
remain in the hands of creditors seeking full repayment through
lawsuits, Lorenzino said.  Individual Investors  The reopening is unlikely to resolve Argentina’s default,
said  Arturo Porzecanski , an international finance professor at
American University in Washington. The government may have
reopened the restructuring at the request of individual
investors who missed the June deadline, he said.  “That’s fine, but it won’t cure the default because the
bulk of the bondholders who didn’t enter has consolidated into a
hard core of litigants who have judgments and have won
lawsuits,” Porzecanski said in a telephone interview.  Since the 2001 default, former President  Nestor Kirchner 
exchanged about 75 percent of the debt in 2005, while his
successor and wife, President  Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner ,
restructured $12.2 billion in June.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Drew Benson in Buenos Aires at 
 abenson9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  