-- Marquis de Sade, Man in Iron Mask Haunt Bastille Show: Review
-- B y   J o r g   v o n   U t h m a n n
-- 2010-12-22T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-22/marquis-de-sade-man-in-iron-mask-haunt-bastille-exhibit-jorg-von-uthmann.html
On July 14, 1789, Louis XVI’s diary
summed up the events of the day in one word: “Rien” (Nothing).
The king was mistaken: The storming of the Bastille triggered
the French Revolution and his own demise.  Apart from the pink cobbles outlining its former location,
there is little to remind the history buff of the eight-towered
fortress. It was razed to the ground, and its stones used for
the construction of the Pont de la Concorde “to give the people
the opportunity to trample on tyranny.”  Through February, there’s a chance to learn more about the
dreaded symbol of the Ancien Regime. “The Bastille: Hell of the
Living,” a fascinating  exhibition  at the Bibliotheque de
l’Arsenal in Paris, tells the story of the royal prison.  The Bastille was built in the 14th century during the
Hundred Years’ War to protect Paris against attacks by the
English. That was a flop: In the course of history, the fortress
was besieged seven times and surrendered six times.  In the 17th century, it was turned into a jail -- not just
for aristocrats, as a popular myth has it. It accommodated a
colorful mix of common criminals, lunatics, writers of forbidden
pamphlets and disgraced courtiers -- many imprisoned without due
process solely on the basis of a royal “lettre de cachet,”
sometimes on the most frivolous pretexts.  It’s true that grandees were better treated. Up to a point,
they could maintain their former lifestyle, bringing over their
own furniture, servants, books and wine.  Velvet Mask  One of those was the mysterious Man in the Iron Mask who
was rumored to be a twin brother or an illegitimate son of Louis
XIV. In fact, he wore a velvet mask, and the death certificate
in the show identifies him as “M. de Marchiel.”  Another prominent blue blood was the Marquis de Sade who,
at the instigation of his mother-in-law, spent more than 20
years behind bars. The show includes several of his letters and
manuscripts.  The most glittering among the 235 items is a copy of the
diamond necklace that the credulous Cardinal de Rohan was
tricked into thinking he had purchased for  Marie Antoinette . 
After 10 months in custody, he was acquitted of fraud, yet his
reputation was in tatters, and so was that of the queen, who had
been exposed as vain and coquettish.  Danry de Latude used another trick to ingratiate himself
with Madame de Pompadour, the first lady at the court of Louis
XV: He sent her a fake bomb and warned her against a dangerous
conspiracy. His plot backfired: The police took it seriously and
locked him up for 35 years.  Written in Blood  Latude became famous for his three escapes; each time, he
was recaptured. A portrait shows him with the rope ladder he
used. You can also see one of his numerous complaints filed with
the chief of police: Because paper and ink had been taken away
from him (or so he said), he wrote it with his own blood on
strips of his shirt.  The Arsenal is not a bad place for such a show: It was here
that one of the most sensational mass trials in French history
was held.  This involved many of the high and mighty at the court of
the Sun King. The show includes a portrait of the principal
defendant, the fortune teller and poison brewer Catherine
Deshayes, known as “La Voisin,” as well as a transcript of her
interrogation.  The personal belongings of Robert Francois Damiens may
remind you of another cause celebre -- his attempt on the life
of Louis XV and his brutal execution: He was publicly tortured
and torn in pieces by four horses.  For the heroic sans-culottes, the storming of the royal
prison must have been a letdown. They found only seven inmates
-- four forgers, an accomplice of Damiens, a madman and a count
who had committed incest and was incarcerated at his family’s
request.  An eighth prisoner, the Marquis de Sade, had been
transferred 10 days earlier to a mental institution because he
kept shouting obscenities at passers-by.  “La Bastille -- L’Enfer des Vivants” runs through Feb.
11, 2011, at the Bibliotheque de l’Arsenal, Paris. Information:
 http://www.bnf.fr  or +33-1-5379-3939. Excellent catalog
(34 euros).  ( Jorg von Uthmann  is a critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
 Jorg von Uthmann  in Paris at  uthmann@wanadoo.fr .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 