-- Asia Buyout Firms Pay More, Sell Faster as Competition for Deals Increases
-- B y   C a t h y   C h a n
-- 2010-12-22T16:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-22/asia-buyout-firms-pay-more-sell-faster-as-competition-increases.html
Asia private-equity firms are paying
more for assets, selling investments faster and buying more
liquid public-equity stakes, as competition for deals rises and
investors resist locking up their money for long periods.  Sales within three years of private-equity investments made
in 2007 surged almost 10-fold compared with those made in 2000,
according to the  Asian Venture Capital Journal . Exits after five
years from deals done in 2005 slumped 80 percent compared with
those made in 2000.  Buyout managers pool money from investors to take over
companies, financing the purchases mostly with debt, with the
intention of improving performance and selling later at a
profit. In Asia, home to the world’s fastest-growing economies,
private-equity managers have been able to flip companies that
don’t need the kind of extensive restructuring that is more
common in the U.S. and Europe.  “In fast-growing countries like India and China,
entrepreneurs are already too busy dealing with exponential
growth, unlike their counterparts in the U.S., which are relying
more on market expansion and cost-cutting to boost profit,”
said Alice Chow, a Hong Kong-based managing director at Squadron
Capital Management Ltd., which invests in Asia private-equity
funds.  “Most of them have a quick-in, quick-out approach and
would not think beyond three years,” said  Vincent Chan , chief
executive officer of Spring Capital Asia Ltd., a Hong Kong-based
private-equity firm.  The average premium for private-equity deals announced in
2010 in the Asia-Pacific region rose to 30 percent from 13
percent in 2009, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. In
2008, the premium was a record 35 percent.  Pipe Deals  To take advantage of Asia’s stock market rally, private-
equity fund managers in the region have turned to buying
minority stakes in listed companies, which typically requires
less due-diligence and provides an easier exit. The  Asia-Pacific
MSCI Index  jumped almost 50 percent since 2009, compared with a
31 percent gain by the U.S.  Dow Jones Industrial Average .  The amount of private investment in public equity, known as
PIPE deals, increased by half to $12.5 billion in 2009 from a
year earlier, according to the Asian Venture Capital Journal.
There have been $7 billion of PIPE deals this year.  “We generally don’t like PIPE because if it’s a public
equity, we could do that ourselves and we could do it cheaper,”
said  Sebastiaan van den Berg , principal of HarbourVest Partners
(Asia) Ltd. in Hong Kong, which invests in private-equity funds.
He was referring to the management fee, usually 2 percent, paid
to buyout managers on assets.  The industry’s short-term focus may have to change, as
competition increases, including from U.S. buyout firms that are
setting up offices in the region to get better access to
companies to buy.  Blackstone, Carlyle  Blackstone Group LP , based in New York, last year was the
first global private-equity firm to open a domestic buyout fund
in China, followed by Washington-based Carlyle Group and TPG
Capital of Fort Worth, Texas. A fund registered in China needs
less regulatory approval for some investments and use of foreign
exchange, and can more easily scout out deals,  Antony Leung ,
Blackstone’s chairman for greater China, said in September.  The number of private-equity firms in Asia rose 13 percent
to 2,604 as of June from the beginning of 2009, according to the
Asian Venture Capital Journal. The $39 billion raised in the
period was 26 percent less than the sum gathered in 2008.  More Hard Work  “It’s going to come down to those firms that really know
how to select great assets and do more with those assets that
will be able to drive differential returns,”  Steven Barnes , a
Boston-based managing director of private-equity firm Bain
Capital LLC, told a Hong Kong conference in November. “It’s
going to take two times the number of operating executives to
get done what needs to get done in Asia than it does on a
relative basis in the U.S. and Europe.”  That could be a disadvantage for Asia buyout firms,
Squadron’s Chow said.  “The industry in Asia is relatively small and at its
infancy, so the level of talent isn’t as high when compared to
U.S. and Europe,” she said. “There is naturally less focus on
operational value-add.”  Returns are falling as some private-equity shops face
pressure to invest, even in less attractive targets, after
raising money from investors, said Charles Huh, a managing
director of the private-equity division of Standard Chartered
Plc’s Standard Chartered Bank.  “Five years ago, there were a number of managers that had
fantastic returns, triggering more private-equity firms to come
to the market,” Huh said. “Operational experience is important
to be able identify the right opportunity in Asia.”  Lunar Capital  That could be good news for  Derek Sulger , who started
China-focused  Lunar Capital Management  in 2007. Two years ago,
Sulger couldn’t persuade two global private-equity funds to co-
invest $25 million with him in a Chinese tropical-juice maker.
The deal, which he started working on at the end of 2007, was
too small and the company needed too much work, they told him.  Now, after readying Beihai BPG Foods for sale, Sulger is
set to reap 2.5 times the money he and other small funds put
into the Guangxi, China-based company, according to filings with
the Hong Kong Stock Exchange.  “It’s so much work, but that’s how you get the exits
done,” said Sulger, 38, who was a co-founder more than a decade
ago of  Linktone Ltd. , a Shanghai wireless-entertainment service
provider. “The private-equity community is very overweight with
bankers and financiers and has very few people with true
operational experience.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Cathy Chan  in Hong Kong at 
 kchan14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  