-- ASIC Sues Macquarie, Bank of Queensland Over Storm Collapse
-- B y   J o e   S c h n e i d e r   a n d   M a l c o l m   S c o t t
-- 2010-12-22T06:19:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-22/asic-sues-macquarie-bank-of-queensland-over-storm-collapse.html
Bank of Queensland Ltd.  and
 Macquarie Bank Ltd.  breached contracts with investors and
together with the  Commonwealth Bank of Australia  were involved
in an unregistered investment scheme related to the collapse of
Storm Financial Ltd., Australia’s securities regulator said.  The Australian Securities & Investments Commission sued the
three banks in federal court today seeking compensation for
investors in Storm, which had managed A$4 billion ($4 billion).
The suit was filed after the regulator said it failed to reach
an out-of-court settlement with the banks.  “ASIC has maintained that a commercial resolution is the
preferred approach,”  Tony D’Aloisio , the commission’s chairman,
said in a statement. “Unfortunately, discussions did not result
in a satisfactory outcome.” The regulator said last month that
it planned to file the lawsuits.  Storm  induced investors to mortgage their homes, take out
margin loans, and put the money into Storm Australian Index
Trusts with the promise their returns would be enough to pay the
loans and live off the proceeds in retirement, according to
ASIC’s statement of claim filed in federal court in Sydney
today.  Storm, which was based in Townsville, Queensland, received
commissions from the investments in the trusts and had a
incentive to encourage clients to maximize the amount of money
they put into the funds, the regulator said.  The company collapsed in January, 2009, after banks
notified customers they were in breach of their margins. Storm
said at the time trading losses resulted in a decline in income
which the company couldn’t absorb any longer.  Failure to Warn  Bank of Queensland didn’t exercise due diligence to
determine if the investors could afford the loans, failed to
warn them of the risks and received interest, fees, possible
commissions and the prospect of further referrals from Storm,
ASIC said.  Bank of Queensland said in a regulatory filing today it
intends to defend itself. The bank didn’t act illegally or
dishonestly, it said.  “We believe it would be irresponsible for us to breach our
responsibilities and not fight this action,” Managing Director
 David Liddy  said in the statement. “We too put faith in the
regulatory system and can understand our customers’ frustration
at the collapse of a financial planner that had the tick of
approval from government regulators.”  The bank didn’t promote Storm financial products and didn’t
receive commissions from the company, Liddy said.  Commonwealth Bank said it has been helping its affected
customers for 18 months.  ‘Further Uncertainty’  “The bank fundamentally disagrees with ASIC’s view of the
role of banks in losses suffered by Storm investors,” the bank
said in an e-mailed statement today. “ASIC’s legal proceedings
can only create further uncertainty and delay for former Storm
Financial clients.”  Macquarie and its staff acted ethically, lawfully and
professionally, the bank said in an e-mailed statement today.
The bank didn’t provide financial advice to Storm clients and
didn’t provide home mortgages through Storm, it said.  “Macquarie remains disappointed that ASIC has chosen to
commence litigation,” the bank said. “ASIC’s action is
unsustainable and speculative.”  The suit for compensation was filed in Sydney while the
unregistered investment scheme claim was filed in Brisbane,
according to the regulator. A third lawsuit, seeking civil
penalties against former Storm directors Emmanuel and Julie
Cassimatis, was also filed in Brisbane, ASIC said.  A trial will first determine whether the banks are liable.
A second trial would be held to determine damages and
compensation, according to court papers.  The case is Australian Securities and Investments
Commission v. Bank of Queensland Ltd. NSD1797/2010. Federal
Court of Australia (Sydney).  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Joe Schneider  in Sydney at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net 
 Malcolm Scott  in Sydney at 
Mscott23bloomberg.net  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at   dwong19@bloomberg.net  