-- Australian Stocks Advance After U.S. Economic Reports Bolster Confidence
-- B y   S h a n i   R a j a
-- 2010-12-22T23:56:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-22/australian-stocks-advance-after-u-s-economic-reports-bolster-confidence.html
Australian  stocks  rose to the
highest level in almost seven weeks after reports showed the U.S.
economy expanded faster than previously estimated, fueling
confidence in a global economic recovery.  BHP Billiton Ltd. , the world’s biggest mining company,
climbed 0.6 percent.  Woodside Petroleum Ltd. , Australia’s
second-biggest oil and gas producer, gained 0.6 percent.
Billabong International Ltd., the world’s No. 1 publicly-traded
surfwear maker, advanced 0.6 percent.  Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 Index rose 0.2 percent to 4,786.30
as of 10:50 a.m. in Sydney, set for the highest close since Nov.
5, with about twice as many stocks advancing as declining. The
gauge has rallied 13 percent from this year’s July 5 low amid
signs a U.S. recovery is regaining momentum and China’s economic
expansion will continue even as the nation bolsters anti-
inflation measures.  New Zealand’s  NZX 50 Index  was little changed, as a
Statistics New Zealand report showed that its economy
unexpectedly contracted in the third quarter and moved closer to
a recession. Japanese markets are closed today for a public
holiday.  Futures on the U.S.  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  were little
changed today. U.S. stocks and oil climbed to the highest levels
since 2008 yesterday after government reports showed the economy
expanded faster than previously estimated and crude supplies
dropped to the lowest since February.  Above Estimates  The  Standard and Poor’s 500 Index  gained 0.3 percent to
1,258.84 at 4 p.m. in New York yesterday. The gauge rose for the
fifth day after a report showed the world’s largest economy grew
at a 2.6 percent annual rate last quarter, above the
government’s previous estimate of 2.5 percent.  The Federal Reserve’s preferred inflation gauge, which is
tied to consumer spending and strips out food and energy, rose
at a 0.5 percent pace for the slowest growth since records began
in 1959.  The  S&P 500  closed at the highest level since Sept. 8, 2008,
the week before Lehman Brothers’ bankruptcy worsened the credit
crisis and triggered a further 46 percent slide in the benchmark
for U.S. stocks. Oil rose 0.7 percent to $90.48 a barrel in New
York, with futures rallying after the U.S. Energy Department
said stockpiles dropped 5.33 million barrels. Crude for February
delivery reached the highest level since October 2008.  Corporate Profits  The MSCI Asia Pacific excluding  Japan Index  has risen 13
percent this year through yesterday on speculation that growth
in corporate profits will weather Europe’s debt crisis, Chinese
steps to curb property-price inflation and concern about the
pace of the U.S. economic rebound.  KT Corp. , South Korea’s largest phone and Internet company,
may be active in Seoul trading today after registering to sell
as much as 100 billion yen ($1.2 billion) of Samurai bonds,
according to a filing with Japan’s finance ministry.  Hankook
Tire Co.  may move after South Korea’s biggest tiremaker said it
will invest $353 million building a new plant in Indonesia.  China Minsheng Banking Corp.  may be active in Shanghai. The
lender won a bid to buy a piece of land in the business district
of Beijing for 3 billion yuan ($451 million), according to a
statement on the Hong Kong’s stock exchange.  To contact the reporter for this story:
 Shani Raja  in Sydney at 
 sraja4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 