-- Australia Has Record Quarter for Takeovers, Reviving 2011 Deal Forecasts
-- B y   A n g u s   W h i t l e y
-- 2010-12-23T04:47:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-22/australia-has-record-m-a-quarter-reviving-2011-deal-forecasts.html
Takeovers in Australia surged to a
record this quarter, renewing investment bankers’ hopes that
2011 will uncork a backlog of deals in a commodities-led revival.  The value of announced acquisitions since Sept. 30 more
than quadrupled from a year ago to $63 billion, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg, the most since records began in 1998.
 Rio Tinto Group , the world’s third-biggest mining company, today
offered A$3.9 billion ($3.9 billion) for Australian coking coal
developer Riversdale Mining Ltd.  Bank of America Corp. and Nomura Holdings Inc. were among
banks that bulked up this year, only to see deals stall as
Europe’s debt crisis worsened. As Australia shrugged off the
malaise dampening most developed economies in a China-driven
commodities boom, confidence to pursue takeovers recovered -- a
trend adviser Greenhill Caliburn expects to stretch into 2011.  “This market is currently seen as something of an
investment safe haven and some of the concern regarding systemic
risk has been easing,” said  Richard Phillips , a Melbourne-based
managing director at Greenhill Caliburn. “The market is likely
to see more deals in areas of strategic importance such as
resources.”  The value of takeovers in Australia fell to the lowest
since 2005 in the second quarter, then more than tripled in the
next three months. For the year, $119 billion of deals have been
announced, according to Bloomberg data, the most since 2007 and
up from a six-year low in 2009.  Mining Boom  The  top ten performers  on the benchmark S&P/ASX 200 index
this year are all resources and energy companies. Among them is
 Riversdale , whose gain extended to 133 percent after today’s bid.  Australia’s economy avoided recession throughout the global
financial crisis and is experiencing the most favorable terms of
trade in a century, according to the nation’s central bank.
Those terms -- the ratio of export prices to import prices --
makes overseas products more affordable and swells domestic real
income.  The recent flurry of deals is partly because the difference
between asking and selling prices for assets in Australia has
narrowed, making agreements more likely, said  Daniel Janes ,
Sydney-based head of Australian mergers and acquisitions at
Barclays Capital. The firm advised Canada’s  Agrium Inc.  on its
A$1.8 billion takeover of AWB Ltd., Australia’s largest wheat
exporter, which was completed this month.  Pipeline Arrives  Increased confidence among directors will infect other
boards and produce more bursts of takeovers, according to Janes.  “During the year there has been an expectation
of an M&A wave driven by inbound enquiries, renewed financial
sponsor activity and increased domestic confidence,” said Janes.
“That delayed pipeline which was sporadic is now arriving.”  For miners, mergers and acquisitions are a faster, cheaper
route to production than constructing projects from scratch,
Standard Chartered Plc said in an August report. The cost of
building a copper mine has more than doubled in the past five
years, according to the report.  Perth-based  Atlas Iron Ltd.  on Dec. 21 agreed to buy iron-
ore explorer  Giralia Resources NL  in a deal it said valued the
target at A$828 million. The same day, Sydney-based Lend Lease
Group agreed to buy Mannheim, Germany-based Bilfinger Berger
SE’s Australian construction unit for A$1.06 billion.  Still, other deals are breaking down or remain uncertain.
KKR & Co. this week ended talks to buy Australian fund manager
Perpetual Ltd. for at least A$1.75 billion after disagreeing on
terms. An A$8.4 billion agreed offer from Singapore Exchange Ltd.
for Australian rival ASX Ltd. on Oct. 25 faces opposition from
some lawmakers in Canberra.  Anthony Sweetman , UBS AG’s head of corporate advisory in
Australia, in a Dec. 2 interview predicted a “solid but not
spectacular” list of takeovers next year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Angus Whitley  in Sydney at 
 awhitley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  