-- Lavo's Tight Crowd May Drop Stuff on Your Bland $34 Meatballs: Ryan Sutton
-- B y   R y a n   S u t t o n
-- 2010-12-22T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-22/lavo-s-tight-crowd-may-drop-stuff-on-your-bland-34-meatballs-ryan-sutton.html
Lavo, a Midtown Manhattan nightclub
that calls itself a restaurant, serves spaghetti with Kobe beef
meatballs. It costs $34.  It tastes precisely like spaghetti with meatballs at any
Old World grandma’s house, anywhere in New York. Typical cost:
One hug, one kiss.  And yet Lavo is as improbably packed as its closest
culinary peer, the Times Square  Olive Garden .  In a year when excellent Italian in myriad regional forms
dominated New York’s food scene, this popular newbie hawks
marinara sauce (supermarket quality), garlic bread (even worse),
big portions (18-inch pizzas) and fried Oreos (these are gooey
and great with a malted shake).  If for nothing else, credit  Lavo  with zeroing in on a
segment of the city’s big spenders who couldn’t care less about
all the local, seasonal, organic spots crafting dishes from
micro-seasonal weeds and exotic organ meats. Just give ‘em the
darned meatballs.  If Facebook is to be believed, 10,291 people “like” Lavo,
where $34 also gets you buttery Chilean sea bass with summery
heirloom tomatoes -- in late December.  Compare that with the 818 people who “like”  Craft , a
chain of haute-greenmarket joints run by brand-name chef Tom
Colicchio.  Lavo’s forte isn’t making food. It’s making money. The
owners run Tao in Las Vegas, reported as the country’s highest
grossing restaurant ($59 million in revenue), a few spots ahead
of their New York Tao ($20.7 million) and the original Lavo in
Sin City ($22 million). The latter serves pizzas six-inches
longer than the ones in New York.  Good Vibrations?  I could only score a midnight reservation last Thursday at
New York’s Lavo. So it seems this 180-seat arena will do just as
fine, even as it sells $31 shrimp scampi that taste fresh from
the freezer, and veal parmesan with all the depth of flavor of a
 Hungry Man  microwave meal.  Ask for a walk-in table and you’re given a beeper. Lavo is
so loud and crowded that vibration is the preferred method of
communication. Managers wear Secret Service-style ear sets.  Feel like a mix of gin, Aperol and grapefruit? The $14
concoction is bracing, bitter, beautiful. But the bar is eight
deep. Just securing a napkin is a five-minute affair. Moving
across the room is a game of chess.  How packed is it? On one visit, a woman briefly laid her
pocketbook on our oysters at a lounge table. Our waitress
ordered a man to remove his jacket from our buttery lobster
arrabiata. Before we left, our table was a stand for someone’s
half-finished drink.  Really Busy  Those with reservations are dispatched to a space in the
rear full of hustle and bustle, with gorgeous white-tile walls
and brown booths, a casual environment belied by men in suits
and women in furs.  Order spicy lobster bisque, tender calamari or baked clams.
Much of the pricey grub here is serviceable, without being
overcooked or undercooked and if anything is underseasoned,
coarse salt is ferried to your table with haste.  It’s all quite efficient and ordinary. Waiters announce the
cost of specials, so no one is surprised to pay $32 for ho-hum
burrata or $28 for cavatelli, its raw flour taste covered up by
a reasonably tasty lobster sauce.  A porterhouse for two ($90) arrives medium rare as
requested but lacks the nutty, grassy, concentrated flavors of
beef with character.  Chicken marsala, a pounded breast in a sweet wine sauce,
does little to offend or enlighten. A request for veal marsala,
a replacement as complicated as making Cheerios float, couldn’t
be accommodated. “We’re too busy.”  Crummy Kobe  Those Kobe meatballs, served with sausage ragu as an $18
starter, turn out to be a bland slab of beef loaf in a murky
marinara. Kobe rice balls, $17, taste no different from the ones
in corner pizzerias. Kobe carpaccio? Zero flavor of its promised
black truffle vinaigrette ($24). Fries, on the other hand, reek
of truffle oil.  During a $500 meal for four, I asked our waitress, why,
food aside, Lavo is so popular. “We have really good PR,” she
replied. Perfect.  Rating: 1/2 star.  The Bloomberg Questions  Prices: About $100 per person.  Sound Level: Loud, around 80 decibels.  Date Place: Too many single dudes looking to swoop in.  Inside tip: Crumbly strawberry shortcake packed with summer
fruit. A tasty, if anti-seasonal, anachronism.  Special Feature: Nightclub upstairs, baby.  Will I be back: LOL.  Lavo is at 39 E. 58th St. Information: +1-212-750-5588 or
 http://lavony.com   
Sound-Level Chart (in decibels):  51 to 55: Church on a weekday. 56 to 60: The vegetable aisle at
the Food Emporium. 61 to 65: Keyboards clacking at the office.
66 to 70: My alarm clock when it goes off inches from my ear. 71
to 75: Corner deli at lunchtime. 76 to 80: Back of a taxi with
advertisements at full volume. 81 to 85: Loud, crowded subway
with announcements.  ( Ryan Sutton  writes about New York City restaurants for
Muse, the arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Ryan Sutton in New York at  rsutton1@bloomberg.net  or
qualityrye on  http://twitter.com/qualityrye   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 