-- Baffinland Will Drop Poison Pill Amid Takeover Battle
-- B y   C o l i n   M c C l e l l a n d   a n d   N a t a l i e   D o s s
-- 2010-12-22T18:35:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-22/baffinland-agrees-to-drop-shareholders-rights-plan-amid-takeover-battle.html
Baffinland Iron Mines Corp. , the
target of a takeover battle between ArcelorMittal and Nunavut
Iron Ore Acquisition Inc., agreed to drop a so-called poison
pill defense before an Ontario Securities Commission hearing.  Lawyers for the three companies stepped out of the hearing
room before proceedings began this morning and came to an
agreement on ending the poison pill, OSC Vice Chairman  James Turner  said.  “I am happy to have the parties resolve the matter and
leave it open to shareholders to decide which bid they want to
tender into,” Turner said. “I will issue an order in that form
today.”  Nunavut had told Ontario regulators that the poison-pill
takeover defense was designed to favor Luxembourg-based
ArcelorMittal’s “inferior” bid. A poison pill can make a
hostile takeover prohibitively expensive by letting existing
shareholders buy stock at a discount.  ArcelorMittal, the world’s largest steel producer, raised
its cash offer for Baffinland to about C$492 million ($485
million), or C$1.25 a share, on Dec. 18. Baffinland said it
supported the amended bid. Nunavut Iron had increased its offer
to C$1.35 a share from 80 cents on Dec. 15 for 50.1 percent of
Toronto-based Baffinland.  Nunavut Iron, backed by private-equity firm Energy &
Minerals Group, and ArcelorMittal are battling for control of
Baffinland’s  Mary River project , which contains reserves of 365
million tons of iron ore and additional resources of 500 million
tons, according to a November statement from ArcelorMittal.  Mary River Project  The project is located about 620 miles (1,000 kilometers)
northwest of Iqaluit, the capital of Nunavut, the largest of
Canada’s three northern territories.  Prices for iron ore, a key steelmaking ingredient, almost
doubled in the April quarter and gained more than 20 percent in
the June-to-September period because of surging demand from
China and India.  “It is an appropriate result,”  Bruce Walter , chairman of
Nunavut, said in an e-mail today.  Daniella Dimitrov , vice
chairwoman of Baffinland, didn’t immediately return a call
seeking comment. Lawyers for ArcelorMittal at the hearing
declined to comment and  Giles Read , a spokesman for the company,
didn’t immediately respond to an e-mailed request for comment.  Gordon McCreary , the former Bafflinland chairman who is
seeking an outside bid from a Chinese firm, told reporters
outside the hearing that discussions with a state-owned company
are in an “advanced state.”  Political Issues  “There are political issues to get them to move forward,”
he said. “I am trying to work the political aspects of this and
it takes time.”  The Chinese reluctance to enter a bid is similar to how that
country declined to challenge BHP Billiton Ltd.’s bid for Potash
Corp. of Saskatchewan Inc., McCreary said.  McCreary, who resigned from Baffinland’s board as it
announced support for ArcelorMittal’s bid in November, said the
steelmaker’s offer is too low. He declined to say what a good
price for Baffinland would be.  Baffinland  fell 2 cents to C$1.31 at 1:34 p.m. in Toronto
Stock Exchange trading.  The shares  have more than doubled this
year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Colin McClelland  in Toronto at 
 cmcclelland1@bloomberg.net ;
 Natalie Doss  in New York at 
 ndoss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Frank at   sfrank9@bloomberg.net . 