-- Banning Alcohol Once Seemed Like a Good Idea, Too: Ann Woolner
-- B y   A n n   W o o l n e r
-- 2010-12-22T02:00:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-22/banning-alcohol-seemed-like-a-great-idea-too-commentary-by-ann-woolner.html
Feeling their oats after this year’s
election, the Tea Party crowd and like-minded compatriots have
another idea for America.  They want to change the U.S. Constitution to give states
the ability to check what they say is Washington’s seemingly
endless grasping for power.  Under the so-called  repeal amendment , states could undo any
federal law or regulation they don’t like, as long as 34 state
legislatures agree on the point.  It would mean that after federal lawmakers hold hearings,
nail down support, maneuver around partisan gridlock, push the
bill through committee, modify it to gain votes, muster a
majority in the  House , persuade a super-majority in the  Senate 
and win a presidential signature to finally enact a law, states
could repeal it.  No one has to go to court to claim the law is
unconstitutional or even just plain bad.  And while this country isn’t strictly governed by majority
rule anyway, the proposed change would further weaken the idea
that Americans have roughly the same voice in lawmaking. Each
state legislature would be equal in the eyes of the amendment,
regardless of  population .  This means that when it comes to repealing laws, Vermont
would have the same say-so as New York, which has 31 times more
people. Should the voice of one Wyoming resident cancel out a
chorus of 66 Californians? The Senate’s that way, of course, but
the House isn’t, and the amendment would further dilute big
state influence.  Twenty-Seven Amendments  To those of us who think this a bad idea, two thoughts give
comfort. For starters, the  push  for the repeal amendment
probably won’t go far.  Scores of constitutional amendments are  proposed  every
Congress, more than 1,000 through the years.  And yet, in 219 years since Congress adopted the first 10
amendments in the Bill of Rights, only 17 more have made it all
the way through. And two of those canceled each other out. First
alcoholic beverages sales were banned. Then they were unbanned.  However much publicity the proposals attract, they tend to
die quiet deaths still trying to make it the first step:
approval of two-thirds of each house of Congress.  That will be even tougher in this case because members have
an institutional, instinctual distaste for any proposal that
would weaken their authority. If Congress were OK with sharing
power with the states, no one would be pushing the repeal
amendment in the first place.  Feared Option  But there is another way to move the amendment along
besides going straight to Congress. It hasn’t been used since
the adoption of the Constitution except as a threat. That’s how
the repealers would use it, too.  The Constitution says that if two-thirds of the state
legislatures vote to call a constitutional convention, Congress
must do it. Convention delegates would then decide whether to
send the proposed amendment on for ratification.  So feared is the idea of a constitutional convention that
none have been called since 1787, when delegates  tossed  out the
Articles of Confederation and replaced them with the
Constitution.  The worry since then has been that a convention called for
a single purpose could take up all kinds of mischief.  Ah, but the fear of a constitutional convention gives the
pro-repealers a weapon. If they get close to winning enough
state support to call a convention, Congress might just act
first to avoid that and cast enough votes to move the amendment
to the second step: ratification.  If amendment backers can get that far, they’d need to pick
up a few more states to win ratification by the required three-
fourths, or 38.  Don’t Mess  Americans have a visceral reaction against monkeying with
the Constitution. Its framers made amending the document
difficult, as well it should be. But its backers say this one is
different.  “The fact that the amendment aligns with the interests of
state lawmakers gives it a somewhat better chance than your
average amendment,”  Randy Barnett , the Georgetown University
law professor who wrote the proposed revision, said yesterday in
a telephone interview.  OK, so let’s pretend that the thing finally gets ratified
and becomes the 28th Amendment. Will the foundations of
government shake?  Probably not. That’s the second comforting thought.  Congress would have to pass a law so widely despised that
both houses of 34 state legislatures would agree to repeal it.  Unlikely Scenario  “Once you have the kind of support necessary to legislate
at the national level, it’s hard to believe that there’d be some
huge national consensus in the other direction that just hadn’t
been revealed by the national political process,” says  Richard Pildes , a constitutional law professor at New York University.  Not even the national health-care reform law has drawn that
kind of opposition. Only 21 states have sued to stop it, a
number that would probably drop if governors and attorneys
general had needed their legislatures to approve of the
litigation.  A more likely use of the repeal would be to undo little-
noticed items that hurt the states and are “‘tucked into
complex, omnibus bills,” Barnett said.  “Arming the states with this veto power does put them at
the table before Congress acts, and then allows them to repeal
abuses of power” after the fact, he said.  They can repeal, but they can’t make it stick. The
amendment also states the obvious: Congress can then re-enact a
repealed law by majority vote.  So, what’s the point?  The point is to state yet another way that there are folks
out there who believe Washington has gone too far.  This we already knew.  ( Ann Woolner  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions
expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Ann Woolner in Atlanta at 
 awoolner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  