-- Bats in Exclusive Talks With Chi-X Europe on Takeover
-- B y   N a n d i n i   S u k u m a r
-- 2010-12-22T18:30:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-22/bats-is-said-to-be-in-exclusive-talks-to-buy-chi-x-europe-for-300-million.html
     Dec. 22 (Bloomberg) -- Bats Global Markets , which operates
the third-largest U.S. equity market and Europe’s second-biggest
alternative trading system, said it’s in exclusive talks with
Chi-X Europe Ltd. about a takeover.  Bats is offering about $300 million for Chi-X Europe,
according to two people familiar with the situation who declined
to be identified as the negotiations are private. The exclusive
period runs until Feb. 11, the people said.  “Bat Global Markets and Chi-X Europe today announced the
two companies have entered into exclusive negotiations regarding
the potential sale of Chi-X Europe to Bats,” the companies said
in a statement today. “There will be no further public
statements at this time.”  London-based Chi-X Europe was said to favor offers from
 Nasdaq OMX Group Inc.  and Bats after also receiving approaches
from  NYSE Euronext  and Direct Edge Holdings LLC, two people with
direct knowledge of the matter said last week. Chi-X Europe is
the largest European electronic stock market that competes with
traditional exchanges such  London Stock Exchange Group Plc  and
 Deutsche Boerse AG  by offering lower fees and faster trading.  The agreement to negotiate exclusively with Bats, based in
Kansas City, Missouri, is the next step in a process that began
in August when Chi-X Europe said it received an “enquiry”
about a deal. That approach was from  Bats , people familiar with
the situation said at the time.  Looking to Europe  As competition has intensified in the U.S., where as many
as 50 different stock venues compete for brokerage clients,
American companies are looking to Europe, where only Chi-X and
Bats operate region-wide platforms. Acquiring Chi-X would enable
the buyer to compete directly with  LSE  and  Deutsche Boerse .  Chi-X Europe, started in 2007, hired investment bank
Lexicon Partners Ltd. for advice in September, two people with
knowledge of the situation said at the time. In October,  Nasdaq 
Chief Executive Officer  Robert Greifeld  said the exchange, which
runs seven Nordic and Baltic bourses and the second-largest U.S.
equity exchange, is prepared to consider a  takeover . Chi-X sent
out a memorandum with information to potential suitors, people
familiar with the situation said Nov. 4.  Chi-X Europe is partly owned by Instinet Inc., a New York-
based unit of  Nomura Holdings Inc. , and investment banks and
traders including  Credit Suisse Group AG , Getco LLC, Bank of
America Corp., Citigroup Inc. and Morgan Stanley. Bats is owned
by banks and brokers such as Bank of America, Citigroup, Getco,
Credit Suisse and Morgan Stanley.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nandini Sukumar  in London at 
 nsukumar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Merritt at   dmerritt1@bloomberg.net . 