-- Bell, California, Accounting Firm Audits `Rubberstamp,' Controller Says
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i
-- 2010-12-22T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-22/bell-california-accounting-firm-audits-rubberstamp-controller-says.html
Audits of  Bell , California, the city
that paid its former manager almost $800,000 a year, were a
“rubberstamp” by its accounting firm, state Controller  John Chiang  said after an review.  Mayer Hoffman McCann PC’s Irvine, California, office failed
to follow “generally accepted fieldwork audit standards,” said
Chiang, whose office last month found the city unlawfully spent
at least $710,000 in state and federal funds. Eight current and
former officials were arrested and charged with misappropriating
public funds in September.  City Manager  Robert Rizzo  and two other officials resigned
July 22 after the Los Angeles Times reported that they were paid
a collective $1.6 million annually. Bell is a town of 36,000
people south of Los Angeles in which one in four residents lives
below the poverty line, according to the Census Bureau.  Mayer Hoffman  “appears to have been a rubberstamp rather
than a responsible auditor committed to providing the public
with the transparency and accountability that could have
prevented the mismanagement of the city’s finances,” Chiang, a
Democrat, said in a  statement  yesterday.  “We were very offended by the tone of their press
release,” Joe Cravelli, a spokesman for the accounting firm,
said in a telephone interview.  ‘Massive Scheme’  “Recent evidence disclosed by the controller’s office
shows that Mayer Hoffman was subjected to a massive scheme of
collusion that reached through every layer of city government,
to undermine the audit process and deceive the auditors,” the
firm said in a press release.  Chiang’s office said Mayer Hoffman failed to comply with 13
of 17 audit standards, including “assessing the risks of
material misstatement,” according to a 153-page  report .  Mayer Hoffman , based in Leawood, Kansas, earned $44,000 for
its 2008-09 review of Bell’s finances, according to contracts
the city released after a public records request.  Rizzo provided the auditors with letters running for
several pages that attested in part to the city’s
“responsibility for the design and implementation of programs
and controls to prevent and detect fraud,” according to copies
provided by the city.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Christopher Palmeri  in Los Angeles at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net . 