-- Bernanke Backs Moody's Critic in Debate Over Money Fund Ratings
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   C o n d o n
-- 2010-12-22T20:41:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-22/bernanke-supports-moody-s-critic-in-debate-over-money-market-fund-ratings.html
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said investor speculation over which money market
mutual funds are likely to be bailed out by their parent
companies during a crisis can undermine the stability of the
industry that manages $2.79 trillion.  Bernanke, in a Dec. 9 letter to  Anthony J. Carfang , partner
in Chicago consulting firm Treasury Strategies, said market
developments that reinforce speculation whether money funds may
be bailed out are a “concern” and sponsor support should be
addressed in the context of planned reforms of the industry.  Carfang in November criticized a proposal by Moody’s Corp.
that its ratings of money funds take into account the likelihood
of a parent bailout in the event of losses. Bernanke, in the
letter, encouraged Carfang to submit his views of the Moody’s
proposal to the Securities and Exchange Commission.  “I think he’s saying he wants the word to get out, but he
didn’t want to do it directly,” Carfang said today in an
interview.  Barbara Hagenbaugh, a spokeswoman for the Federal Reserve,
confirmed Bernanke sent the letter and declined to comment on
it.  Money market funds have come under increased scrutiny by
regulators since the September 2008 collapse of the $62.5
billion  Reserve Primary Fund , only the second such fund to
expose investors to losses. Its closure sparked an industry wide
run that helped freeze global credit markets.  The SEC this year enforced new rules that require money
funds to boost holdings of cash and easy-to-sell securities,
reduce their level of lower-rated debt and reveal more about
what they own.  Money Fund Reform  The President’s Working Group on Financial Markets, a White
House advisory body of which Bernanke is a member, has examined
additional proposed regulations and asked market participants to
submit comments to the SEC.  Bernanke, in his letter, cited the conclusions of the
working group report that “uncertainty among investors about
the actual availability of discretionary support during crises
may contribute to the vulnerability of money market funds to
’runs’.”  “An evolution in market conventions that might reinforce
this dynamic is of concern, and I believe it is important to
address sponsor support of money market funds in the broader
context of reforms that can make the funds less vulnerable to
runs,” Bernanke wrote to Carfang.  Carfang has called the Moody’s proposal “fundamentally
disruptive,” saying the ratings firm would have no objective
way of gauging whether a money manager would prop up a fund in
trouble. Fund prospectuses explicitly tell customers their
investments are not guaranteed.  Abbas Qasim, a spokesman for Moody’s, said he wasn’t able
to comment immediately.  The Reserve Primary Fund closed after writing down to zero
$785 million in debt issued by bankrupt Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc. The fund returned about 98 percent of clients’ money over
the two years following its closure.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Christopher Condon  in Boston at 
 ccondon4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net . 