-- MBIA Ratings Cut By S&P on Higher Potential CDO Losses
-- B y   S h a n n o n   D .   H a r r i n g t o n
-- 2010-12-22T22:00:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-22/mbia-credit-ratings-lowered-by-s-p-on-potential-cdo-losses-litigation.html
MBIA Inc. and two bond insurance
units, had their ratings cut by Standard & Poor’s, which cited
“significantly higher” projections of potential losses and
uncertainty that the company’s split of its businesses will hold
up in court.  MBIA Insurance Corp.’s credit ratings were cut four levels
to B from BB+, dropping them to five steps below investment-
grade. Ratings for National Public Finance Guarantee Corp., the
unit MBIA created to split off its municipal bond guarantees in
an effort to jumpstart that business, was reduced two levels to
BBB from A, and parent MBIA Inc.’s rating was lowered to B- from
BB-, the New York-based rankings firm said today in a statement.  A measure of MBIA Insurance’s potential losses in a
“stressed environment” from guarantees on residential and
commercial mortgage debt “are now significantly higher than
previously projected and significantly exceed the company’s
capital resources,” S&P analysts led by  Dick Smith  in New York
said in the statement.  S&P cut the municipal bond insurer because of litigation
from banks and policyholders challenging MBIA’s split of the
business from its guarantees on mortgage debt. “As long as that
litigation is unresolved, we believe there is a risk that the
two companies could be required to be recombined or that
National would be required to bolster MBIA Insurance’s
capital,” the analysts wrote.  MBIA spokesman  Kevin Brown  said the company is confident it
will win the court case, “ultimately leading to National re-
establishing its leadership position in the public finance
market.” In an e-mailed statement, he said, “The rating action
on National was driven by the rating of MBIA Insurance Corp.
rather than any material negative change at National itself.”  The rankings firm increased its projections for potential
CDO losses after adjusting the methods it uses to assess the
debt. “However, these loss expectations do not require
immediate cash outflows, and the company has adequate liquidity
for the next few years,” the S&P analysts wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Shannon D. Harrington  in New York at 
 sharrington6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  