-- Billionaire Ambani Borrows in China With Local Rates Surging: India Credit
-- B y   R a k t e e m   K a t a k e y   a n d   K e t a k i   G o k h a l e
-- 2010-12-23T07:17:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-22/billionaire-ambani-borrows-in-china-with-local-rates-surging-india-credit.html
Billionaire  Anil Ambani ’s companies
borrowed $3 billion from lenders including  China Development
Bank Corp.  to gain cheaper funding after rupee borrowing costs
climbed the most in four years.  Reliance Communications Ltd. , India’s second-largest mobile
phone operator, will borrow a part of $1.9 billion from the
state-owned bank, which lends to support China’s policy aims,
using $1.3 billion to repay existing credits, the company said
Dec. 15.  Reliance Power Ltd.  will borrow $1.1 billion to help
fund an electricity plant. Neither disclosed the cost of the
loans. The yield on India’s top-rated five-year rupee  corporate
debt  rose 73 basis points to 8.95 percent this year, the biggest
gain since 2006, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Reliance has to repay the debt and the China loans are an
immediate solution because interest rates there are 1 to 3
percent cheaper,”  Taina Erajuuri , who helps manage the
equivalent of $1.2 billion of emerging-market stocks at
Helsinki-based Fim Asset Management, including Indian stocks,
said in an interview Dec. 21.  India has the highest 10-year government bond yields among
Asia’s major economies, and the nation’s companies face rising
borrowing costs in rupees and dollars. China Development Bank
sold one-year debt last month at a 2.61 percent coupon, letting
it support the global expansion of Chinese companies. The bank
provided a $10 billion loan to Brazil’s state-run oil company
 Petroleo Brasileiro SA  last year, and a $1 billion credit line
in March to Russian bank VEB.  Average dollar yields in India climbed to 5.17 percent this
week from 4.27 percent in October, according to HSBC Holdings
Plc indexes.  Chinese Equipment  The  Reliance Anil Dhirubhai Ambani Group  is increasing debt
to generate 33 times more power and expand its phone connections
nationwide. Anil, 51, gained control of telecoms, power and
financial services and  Mukesh Ambani , 53, kept the oil, gas and
refinery and chemicals businesses after the brothers split
Reliance Industries Ltd. in 2005. Both agreed to use the
Reliance name.  Anil’s group plans to buy phone equipment from  ZTE Corp. 
and Huawei Technologies Co. after India’s government allowed
Chinese vendors to supply phone companies in July subject to
security inspections.  Chinese companies signed $16 billion of deals with Indian
businesses during Premier  Wen Jiabao ’s visit last week.  Adani
Power Ltd.  placed orders for $3.6 billion of equipment with
Chinese companies, while SRM Energy Ltd. gave $1.4 billion of
contracts during the visit.  Rate Comparison  China Development Bank, which has lent more than $120
billion to fund China’s overseas projects, is expanding its
loans to Reliance as Indian banks’ costs jump amid a cash crunch.
The lender opened a Moscow branch in September after setting up
an office in Cairo last year. Bank officials didn’t respond
yesterday to two telephone calls and a faxed request.  Chinese banks pay less than half as much as their Indian
counterparts to borrow even after lending rates more than
doubled this year. The Shanghai interbank rate for three-month
loans advanced 16 basis points, or 0.16 percentage point, to
4.11 percent yesterday, up from 1.83 percent at the start of
2010, according to the National Interbank Funding Center. Indian
 three-month rates  rose 25 basis points to 9.06 percent on Dec.
21 after starting the year at 4.6 percent, according to the
India National Stock Exchange. They fell 6 basis points
yesterday.  Treasury Spread  India’s rupee has advanced 2.1 percent this month, the
second-biggest gain among Asia’s 10 most-traded currencies
outside the yen. The rupee rose to a one-week high of 44.98 per
dollar today. The central bank said Dec. 16 it will repurchase
480 billion rupees ($10.6 billion) of debt over the next month
to ease the cash crunch.  The  yield  on India’s benchmark 10-year bonds climbed 35
basis points this year and reached a two-year high on Dec. 6.
Yields on the 7.8 percent bonds maturing in May 2020 rose from
near an 11-week low today to 7.95 percent.  The rate is 461 basis points  more  than U.S. Treasuries,
compared with 375 at the end of last year.  The cost of protecting the debt of government-owned State
Bank of India, which some investors use as a proxy for the
nation, increased 1 basis point to 160 yesterday. The cost
dropped to an eight-month low of 155 basis points on Dec. 16,
according to CMA prices.  Interest Rates  India’s central bank kept interest rates unchanged on Dec.
16 after six increases this year. Reserve Bank of India Governor
 Duvvuri Subbarao  said Dec. 16 that inflation is above the
“comfort level.” The RBI aims to slow inflation to 4 percent
to 4.5 percent from an 11-month low of 7.48 percent in November,
he said Dec. 9.  “The RBI will raise interest rates by 25 basis points in
January as inflation will continue to be a problem next year,”
Fim Asset’s Erajuuri said. “Banks are going to be very prudent
next year with lending. Even if they lend they could demand high
interest rates from companies with high debt.”  Reliance Communications, based in Mumbai, has 378 billion
rupees in gross  debt , its latest results show. Reliance Power,
also based in Mumbai, has about  531 billion rupees  of bonds and
loans, with some maturing in 2049, data compiled by Bloomberg
show.  Generator Order  The electricity producer ordered $10 billion of coal-fired
generators from  Shanghai Electric Group Co.  for plants in India,
where supply falls short, curtailing growth. For the deal,
Reliance Power signed a $12 billion financing agreement with
Chinese banks in Shanghai, according to an Oct. 28 statement.  China’s investment in power plants may fall “slightly”
this year to 660 billion yuan ($99 billion) as the government
invests in cleaner energy sources, the China Electricity Council
said in an Oct. 29 statement.  Ambani’s plan to cut debt by selling Reliance
Communications’ mobile-phone transmission towers to GTL
Infrastructure Ltd. was derailed in September after the
companies failed to reach a deal.  India’s telecommunications equipment market faces
government scrutiny because of security concerns spurred by
mobile phone companies’ growing reliance on Chinese
manufacturers. India blocked Huawei and ZTE, both based in
Shenzhen, from selling network equipment to domestic phone
carriers this year and in July allowed them to sell network gear
in India subject to security checks.  Reliance Communications’ relationship with China
Development Bank has grown as it started a pan-India GSM network,
said  Vikas Aggarwal , an analyst at ICRA Ltd., an affiliate of
Moody’s Investors Service in New Delhi.  “It was when they did their entire 2G rollout, their
dependence on Chinese vendors increased because Chinese vendors
are cost-competitive,” Aggarwal said. The company got better
terms for refinancing its debt for third-generation spectrum
from China Development Bank than from Indian banks, Aggarwal
said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Rakteem Katakey  in New Delhi at 
 rkatakey@bloomberg.net ;
Ketaki Gokhale in Mumbai at 
 kgokhale@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at   aprakash1@bloomberg.net ;
Young-Sam Cho at   ycho2@bloomberg.net . 