-- Bloomberg Sues ECB to Force Disclosure of Greece Swaps
-- B y   E l i s a   M a r t i n u z z i   a n d   A l a n   K a t z
-- 2010-12-22T16:49:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-22/bloomberg-sues-ecb-to-force-disclosure-of-greece-swap-documents.html
Bloomberg News filed a lawsuit
against the European Central Bank, seeking the disclosure of
documents showing how Greece used derivatives to hide its fiscal
deficit and helped trigger the region’s sovereign debt crisis.  The lawsuit asks the European Union’s General Court in
Luxembourg to overturn a decision by the ECB not to disclose two
internal documents drafted for the central bank’s six-member
executive board in Frankfurt this year. The notes show how
Greece used swaps to hide its borrowings, according to a March 3
cover page attached to the papers obtained by Bloomberg News.  ECB President  Jean-Claude Trichet  withheld the documents
after the EU and International Monetary Fund led a 110 billion-
euro bailout ($144 billion) for Greece. The dossier should be
disclosed to stop governments from employing the derivatives in
a similar way again and to show how EU authorities acted on
information they had on the swaps, according to the suit, filed
by Bloomberg Finance LP, the parent of Bloomberg News.  The EU is dependent “on member states taking an open and
transparent approach in relation to their levels of debt,”
Bloomberg said in its suit. “If Greece has failed to take such
an approach in the past, there is a compelling public interest
in relevant information being disclosed.”  An ECB spokeswoman declined to comment on the lawsuit,
which is based on the EU’s freedom of information rules.  Freedom of Information  The ECB case follows a 2008 lawsuit by Bloomberg LP seeking
disclosure of the U.S. Federal Reserve’s records on emergency
lending under the Freedom of Information Act. A group of banks
is appealing to the Supreme Court over lower-court decisions
ordering the Fed to identify loan recipients.  “Bloomberg is committed to transparent markets all over
the world,” said  Matthew Winkler , editor-in-chief of Bloomberg
News. “Decisions made behind closed doors helped contribute to
the global economic havoc of the last few years. Money flees
secrecy and unanswered questions undermine the financial system
and give some participants an unfair advantage. Confidence in
markets grows with information,” he said. “Bloomberg wants the
ECB, as well as the Federal Reserve and other financial
institutions around the world, to end this damaging opacity.”  The Greek government didn’t originally disclose the swaps,
designed to help it comply with the deficit and debt rules it
agreed to meet when it joined the euro in 2001.  Eurostat , the
EU’s statistics agency, said last month the swaps added 5.3
billion euros to the country’s debt, without giving details.
Repeated revisions of Greece’s national accounts, beginning last
year, spurred a surge in borrowing costs that pushed the country
to the brink of default and triggered a region-wide debt crisis.  Public Confidence  The ECB must consider demands for access to public
documents under a March 2004 EU directive. Individuals and
companies can then appeal to the European Ombudsman, which
reports to the European Parliament, and the European Court of
Justice.  “The information contained in the two documents would
undermine the public confidence as regards the effective conduct
of economic policy,” Trichet wrote in an Oct. 21 letter,
turning down Bloomberg’s request for the documents. Disclosure
“bears, in the current very vulnerable market environment, the
substantial and acute risk of adding to volatility and
instability.”  ECB officials first spotted “a swap operation in unusual
terms” in April 2009, seven months before the Greek crisis
erupted, according to the March 3 cover note.  “It is wholly unclear what (if anything) the ECB did at
that time to investigate further,” Bloomberg’s suit says.  ‘Need to Know’  “Disclosure would help prevent these situations repeating
themselves,” said  Michael Spence , winner of the Nobel Prize for
Economics in 2001 for his research on asymmetric information in
markets. “It’s a tough call. Not everything can be disclosed,
but markets need to know.”  Greece entered into a “large” number of private, off-
market swaps from 2001 through 2007, Luxembourg-based Eurostat
said in a report on Nov. 15. The agreements, which led to higher
debt, were analyzed “in detail,” Eurostat said. A follow-up
report on Greek data including swaps is due in weeks, a
spokesman said at the time.  “We entered the European Union with great effort,”  George Petalotis , a Greek government spokesman, told reporters in
Athens today. “We don’t tolerate anyone doubting that. Whoever
possesses different evidence can bring it out.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Elisa Martinuzzi  in Milan at 
 emartinuzzi@bloomberg.net ;
 Alan Katz  in Paris at   akatz5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  