-- Bank of England Splits Three Ways for Third Month as Price Concerns Grow
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2010-12-22T11:24:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-22/boe-splits-three-ways-as-inflation-concerns-increase-update1-.html
Bank of England policy makers split
three ways for a third month on the need for economic stimulus
as some officials became more concerned that Britain’s bout of
inflation may persist.  Adam Posen  kept up his demand to increase the 200 billion-
pound ($309 billion) bond-purchase plan by 50 billion pounds,
according to minutes of the nine-member Monetary Policy
Committee’s Dec. 9 decision released today in London.  Andrew Sentance  voted to raise the interest rate for a seventh month
and the rest ensured no change in policy.  The majority “stood ready to change the stance of policy
should the balance of risks shift materially,” the minutes
said. “Most of those members considered that the accumulation
of news over recent months had probably shifted the balance of
risks to inflation in the medium term upwards.”  U.K.  inflation  unexpectedly accelerated to a six-month high
in November, above the government’s 3 percent limit. While Bank
of England Deputy Governor  Charles Bean  last week said the
strength of inflation has increased the risk to price
expectations, Posen said the bank shouldn’t “overreact” to it.  The pound pared its loss against the dollar after the BOE
report. A separate report from the Office for National
Statistics showed economic growth slowed more than initially
estimated in the third quarter. The currency traded at $1.5465
as of 11:04 a.m. in London, little changed on the day. The
benchmark two-year government bond declined, pushing the yield
on the debt up 1 basis point to 1.20 percent.  Posen’s View  Posen said at this month’s meeting that there was a
“significant” margin of slack in the economy that would
“probably act to push inflation well below target in the medium
term in the absence of further measures to stimulate demand.”  Sentance kept up his campaign to raise  interest rates  as
part of a “gradual” withdrawal of stimulus. He wants to
increase the benchmark by 0.25 percentage point to 0.75 percent.  That “would help to reinforce the expectation that
inflation would fall back to the target” of 2 percent, he said,
according to the minutes.  The Bank of England predicts that inflation will stay above
2 percent next year, masking underlying subdued price pressures
from the aftermath of the recession. Consumer prices rose 3.3
percent in November from a year earlier after a 3.2 percent
increase in October. That’s the highest since May.  “There was the risk that a prolonged period of above-
target inflation could cause inflation expectations to rise,
making it more costly to bring inflation back to target in the
medium term,” the minutes said. “Recent developments had
heightened this upside risk.”  Growth Risks  The release “suggests the balance is indeed turning within
the center of the committee,”  Philip Rush , an economist at
Nomura International Plc in London, said in a telephone
interview. “It seems they’re all pretty happy to remain on hold
for quite a while to come yet, but perhaps as early as the
second quarter next year, we could start to see some more
hawkish comments coming out in time for a rate hike in August,
which is our general view.”  Officials still noted that there were risks to growth, in
particular from an intensification of the sovereign-debt crisis
in the euro area. A persistent period of distress in financial
markets could depress exports and confidence among consumers and
businesses, as well as curtail lending, the bank said.  ‘Difficult Situation’  “The likelihood of these events occurring was hard to
judge, but their impact could be large,” the minutes said.  U.K.  gross domestic product  rose 0.7 percent in the third
quarter from the previous three months, data today showed. That
compares with an initial estimate of 0.8 percent. Second-quarter
growth was lowered to 1.1 percent from 1.2 percent.  Despite the downward revisions, “Posen is in a difficult
situation now,” Nomura’s Rush said. “With inflation continuing
to surprise to the upside, it doesn’t seem like the environment
is there that’s supporting his particular case.”  Rush expects annual consumer-price gains to accelerate to 4
percent by February next year.  “The idea of most of the MPC members being comfortable
voting for easier policy in that kind of environment really
doesn’t seem like a likely scenario,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Scott Hamilton  in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net  