-- Bank of America Loses Bid to Stop MBIA Using Statistics in Fraud Lawsuit
-- B y   J o h n   G i t t e l s o h n   a n d   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k
-- 2010-12-23T05:01:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-22/bofa-loses-evidence-ruling-in-mbia-fraud-suit-over-21-billion-in-coverage.html
Bank of America Corp.  lost a bid to
prevent  MBIA Inc.  from using statistical sampling to pursue
repurchase demands in a lawsuit claiming it was fraudulently
induced to insure $21 billion in mortgage-backed securities.  MBIA  asked New York State Supreme Court Judge Eileen
Bransten to allow company lawyers to develop evidence using
samples from 368,000 mortgages in 15 securitized pools to
establish its fraud claims, rather than go through each loan.
Proceeding loan by loan might lead to “a delay of several years
before trial,”  Philippe Z. Selendy , an attorney for Armonk, New
York-based MBIA, said in an Oct. 13 letter to the judge.  “The court does not find any prejudice in deciding the
motion before it and allowing the use of statistically
significant samples of the securitizations at issue,” Bransten
ruled yesterday. She said the defendants could also choose to
use their “own sampling chosen in a statistically valid
manner” to rebut MBIA’s arguments.  Bank of America said it was “too early” in the litigation
to allow such sampling, according to court papers.  “Today’s ruling is limited and procedural in nature.
Nothing has been decided on the merits,” Jerry Dubrowski, a
spokesman for Charlotte, North Carolina-based Bank of America,
said yesterday in an e-mailed statement. “As the court notes,
MBIA must prove each element of its claims -- this we believe it
cannot do. We intend to continue to aggressively defend.”  At Least 12 Claims  MBIA’s suit against  Bank of America  and its Countrywide
unit is one of at least 12 claims brought by insurers in state
and federal courts targeting issuers of mortgage-backed
securities, including Deutsche Bank AG, Credit Suisse and GMAC
Mortgage LLC. Government-owned mortgage companies Fannie Mae and
Freddie Mac, and bond investors such as MetLife Inc., are also
pursuing repurchase demands from originators of the securities.  Bank of America is in talks with institutional investors,
including Pacific Investment Management Co. and Blackrock Inc.,
over repurchase demands, the bank said in a Dec. 16 statement.  A decision to allow sampling would reduce the time and cost
of MBIA’s litigation and aid other insurers and investors
pursuing put-back lawsuits, New York attorney  David Grais  said
before the ruling was issued.  “We are working on strategies for trying to radically
scale up put-back litigation,” said Grais, who represents two
Federal Home Loan Banks and San Francisco-based  Charles Schwab
Corp.  in similar lawsuits against Bank of America and  JPMorgan
Chase & Co.  “The feasibility of it depends on this ruling.”  Quality of Loans  MBIA alleges that Countrywide, which Bank of America
acquired in 2008, misrepresented the quality of loans in
mortgage-backed securities to induce MBIA to insure against
losses from defaults and  foreclosures . Countrywide knowingly
loaned to borrowers who couldn’t afford payments or committed
fraud in their applications, according to the complaint.  Bransten in April denied Bank of America’s request to be
dropped from the lawsuit. Judges in other cases against the bank
followed the decision to allow Bank of America to be pursued as
a defendant for Countrywide’s alleged fraud, said Grais, of the
law firm Grais & Ellsworth LLP.  MBIA paid $2.2 billion in guarantees on the disputed
securities and may have to pay “hundreds of millions of dollars
more” to reimburse investors who were to receive money from
mortgages that went into default, according to court documents.  MBIA said its reviews found that 91 percent of defaulted or
delinquent loans had “material discrepancies from underwriting
guidelines,” such as borrower incomes, credit scores or debt-
to-income ratios. The 15 securities pools in the lawsuit consist
of 368,000 home-equity lines of credit and second-lien loans
that were insured and sold to investors from 2004 to 2007.  Loan-by-Loan  If forced to litigate on a loan-by-loan basis, MBIA
estimated that preparing its case against Bank of America would
require 24 underwriters to conduct reviews for four years, at a
cost of $75 million.  “Sampling was designed to provide a scientifically valid,
economical and timely alternative to just such a prohibitively
wasteful exercise,” Selendy, of Quinn Emanuel Urquhart Oliver &
Hedges LLP in New York, wrote in his Oct. 13 letter to the
court.  So far, MBIA has filed repurchase demands for more than
14,000 loans based on individual reviews, few of which have been
repaid, according to Selendy. The next court hearing in the case
is scheduled for April.  ‘Good Candidate’  “Sampling has been used in lots of contexts where the
sheer numbers preclude prompt disposition,” said Carl Tobias, a
law professor at the University of Richmond in Virginia. “This
seems like a good candidate.”  Much of the evidence-gathering in the lawsuit hasn’t been
conducted yet, making a decision on sampling premature, Bank of
America argued in a Sept. 27 hearing before Bransten.  “There is no advantage whatsoever to this decision being
made today, except to MBIA’s convenience, and except to put an
arrow in their quiver,” Paul Ware Jr., Bank of America’s
attorney in the lawsuit, said at the hearing. Ware declined to
comment for this story.  FBR Capital Markets Corp. put banks’ range of repurchase-
related losses at $54 billion to $106 billion in a Nov. 29
report. Bank of America, JPMorgan Chase, Citigroup Inc. and
Wells Fargo & Co. face about 40 percent of those losses, FBR
estimated, led by Bank of America’s potential cost of $20.4
billion, or about 55 percent of its estimated  earnings  for
fiscal 2011.  Bank of America estimated its mortgage-repurchase claims at
$12.9 billion as of Sept. 30, including $4.2 billion from
insurers such as MBIA, according to a Nov. 5 quarterly  filing .
The bank said it reimbursed claims totaling $205 million in the
quarter ended in September.  Bank of America set aside $1.9 billion in its third quarter
to cover repurchase demands and expects to take “several
quarters working through it,” Chief Executive Officer Brian
Moynihan said in an Oct. 19 earnings call.  The case is MBIA Insurance v. Countrywide Home Loans,
602825-08, New York State Supreme Court (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
 John Gittelsohn  in New York at 
 johngitt@bloomberg.net ;
 Margaret Cronin Fisk  in Southfield, Michigan, at   mcfisk@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at   kwetzel@bloomberg.net ;
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 