-- Bond Sales Pulled as Yields Hit Four-Month High: Russia Credit
-- B y   E m m a   O ’ B r i e n   a n d   D e n i s   M a t e r n o v s k y
-- 2010-12-22T17:21:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-22/bond-sale-pulled-as-rate-bets-send-yield-to-four-month-high-russia-credit.html
Russia scrapped a sale of ruble
bonds for the second time this month as the prospect of rising
interest rates sent yields to the highest in at least four
months and threatened plans to double borrowing next year.  The  Finance Ministry  yesterday canceled its last sale of
so-called OFZs for 2010, an auction initially scheduled for Dec.
1 and delayed until today, citing “unfavorable market
conditions” in a  statement  on its web site. The government
pulled a sale of OFZs due 2016 last week after yields reached
7.78 percent, the highest since the debt began trading Aug. 5,
prices on Bloomberg show.  Yields are climbing on bets Russia will join  Brazil  and
 China  in raising interest rates to quell the highest inflation
rate in 11 months, with forward-rate agreements signaling an
increase of 0.63 percentage point in the next three months.
Higher consumer prices are a “worry” and rates may be raised
in the first quarter, Bank Rossii Chairman  Sergey Ignatiev  said
Dec. 9. The central bank will next review rates Dec. 24.  “The market is taking a cautious stance before the central
bank meeting,”  Nikolay Podguzov , head of fixed-income strategy
in Moscow at VTB Capital, the investment banking arm of Russia’s
second-largest bank, said by e-mail yesterday. “The regulator
recently sounded quite hawkish and the key rates could be hiked
as soon as Dec. 24.”  Russia has sold 558 billion rubles ($18.1 billion) of OFZs
this year, falling short of its 839 billion-ruble target,
according to Bank Rossii data. The Finance Ministry plans to
raise 1.3 trillion rubles next year, 1.5 trillion rubles in 2012
and 1.49 trillion rubles in 2013, according to a preliminary
budget plan.  Budget Gap  Russia is stepping up borrowing to help bridge a budget gap
that swelled to 911.5 billion rubles through November. The
government expects a budget deficit until 2014.  Demands for higher yields are hampering efforts to expand
issuance in rubles. Russia stalled plans to borrow as much as $3
billion in its first local-currency Eurobonds as the government
ruled out paying more than the yield on OFZs, Deputy Finance
Minister  Dmitry Pankin  said Nov. 30.  “I don’t see any surprise in the OFZ cancelation as recent
auctions were not on fire,”  Alexander Dotkin , a bond trader at
Moscow’s Bank Zenit, said by e-mail yesterday. “Once they place
an OFZ with a premium investors will likely expect it at future
auctions and that’s not in the Finance Ministry’s plan.”  Aborted  The Finance Ministry had planned to issue bonds due June
2011 and November 2014 in the aborted auction. The 2014 notes
yielded 7.28 percent today, compared with 6.46 percent in April,
prices on Bloomberg show. The yield on the bonds due next year
touched 4.83 percent on Dec. 13, a five-month high.  Policy makers canceled the second auction on Dec. 15 after
selling 72 million rubles out of 9.6 billion rubles of 2013 OFZs
offered in the first sale, according to data from the  central
bank . Investor demand fell short after the Finance Ministry
offered the lowest yields relative to market rates since they
began providing guidance in September.  The ruble, which is managed by the central bank against a
dollar-euro basket to limit swings, gained 0.4 percent to
30.6150 per dollar in Moscow today. Non-deliverable forwards,
which provide a guide to expectations of currency movements and
interest-rate differentials, show the ruble weakening to 30.9130
per dollar in three months.  Dollar Debt  Russia’s dollar bonds due in 2020 rose, pushing the yield 3
basis points lower to 5.014 percent. The extra yield investors
demand to hold Russian debt rather than U.S. Treasuries fell 4
basis points to 199 basis points today, according to JPMorgan
Chase & Co.’s EMBI+ indexes. The difference compares with 137
for debt of similarly rated Mexico and 178 for Brazil, which is
rated two steps lower at Baa3 by Moody’s Investors Service.  The  yield   spread  on Russian bonds is 48 basis points below
the average for emerging markets, the widest gap since Oct. 21,
according to JPMorgan.  The cost of protecting Russian debt against non-payment for
five years using credit-default swaps advanced 1 basis point
yesterday to 148, down from this year’s peak of 217, according
to data provider CMA. The contracts pay the buyer face value in
exchange for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent
should a borrower fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  Refinancing Rate  Credit-default swaps for Russia, rated Baa1 by Moody’s, its
third-lowest investment grade rating, cost 6 basis points more
than contracts for Turkey, which is rated four levels lower at
Ba2. Russia swaps  cost  as much as 40 basis points less on April
20.  Russia’s  refinancing rate , one of the benchmarks used by
the central bank to manage inflation, will remain at a record-
low 7.75 percent at the Dec. 24 review, the last in 2010,
according to the median estimate of 15 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg. Only one bank, UniCredit SpA, is predicting an
increase this year, to 8.25 percent. The rate will rise 0.25
percentage point to 8 percent by the end of March, according to
the median of 14 estimates in a separate survey.  “It is clear that without a premium the OFZs planned for
sale would have been uninteresting,”  Olga Efremova , a fixed-
income analyst at Moscow-based Nomos Bank, said by e-mail
yesterday. Investors need a “sizable premium” to be lured back
to OFZs, she said.  Brazil, China  The Finance Ministry plans to start selling zero-coupon
OFZs with maturities of up to 12 months, according to a
statement on its website yesterday. The notes will be sold at
auction or in closed subscription, the statement said.  “They believe market players will buy these short-term T-
bills when the market environment is worse,”  Alexander Ovchinnikov , vice president for global markets at Troika Dialog,
Russia’s oldest investment bank, said by e-mail yesterday. “I
expect low demand because these are like a savings instrument or
a deposit and don’t belong in the official borrowing program.”  Russia’s 7.75 percent refinancing rate, its 5 percent rate
charged on overnight repurchase loans and the 2.5 percent
deposit rate, compare with Brazil’s 10.75 percent Selic rate,
and China’s 5.56 percent target. Brazil has raised its key rate
three times this year and China has increased its benchmark
once, on Oct. 20. Bank Rossii cut its main rates 14 times
between April 2009 and May this year as it sought to revive the
economy in the wake of the global financial crisis.  An influx of ruble funds is expected on the market over the
second half of December as the government spends any leftover
budget funds before the end of the year, VTB’s Podguzov said.  “They will start placing bonds more aggressively at the
start of the year when there will be more ruble liquidity,”
Podguzov said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Emma O’Brien  in Moscow at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net ;
 Denis Maternovsky  in Moscow at 
 dmaternovsky@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net . 