-- Bond Fund Investors Pull Most Money in Two Years
-- B y   C h a r l e s   S t e i n
-- 2010-12-22T20:38:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-22/bond-investors-take-8-62-billion-out-of-funds-in-week-most-in-two-years.html
Bond mutual funds had the biggest
client withdrawals in more than two years last week as a flight
from fixed-income investments accelerated.  U.S. bond funds experienced withdrawals of $8.62 billion in
the week ended Dec. 15, up from $1.66 billion the week before,
according to a release from the Investment Company Institute, a
Washington-based trade group. Last week’s withdrawals were the
largest since the week ended Oct. 15, 2008, when investors
yanked $17.6 billion from bond funds.  Investors are retreating from bond funds after signs of an
economic recovery and a stock market  rally  increased speculation
that interest rates may rise. The selloff in Treasuries
accelerated after the Federal Reserve last month pledged to buy
$600 billion in assets to revive the economy. The 10-year note
yields 3.35 percent, up from 2.49 percent Nov. 4, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Most of the money was probably pulled by institutional
investors looking to lock in higher yields by buying bonds
directly, rather than through funds, said  Geoff Bobroff , a
consultant based in East Greenwich, Rhode Island.  “I would guess most retail investors are staying put
because you aren’t seeing the money go anywhere else,” he said
in a telephone interview.  Vanguard, Pimco  Removals included $3.77 billion from taxable bond funds and
$4.85 billion from municipal bond funds. U.S. stock funds had
withdrawals of $2.4 billion while foreign equity funds attracted
$2.24 billion in the week, ICI said.  Investors put $245 billion into bond mutual funds this year
through November, bringing net deposits since the end of 2007 to
$636 billion, according to data from Chicago-based  Morningstar
Inc.  Vanguard Group Inc., based in Valley Forge, Pennsylvania,
had deposits of $33.4 billion into its bond funds through
November while  Franklin Resources Inc.  of San Mateo, California
got $23.7 billion, Morningstar data show.  Pacific Investment Management Co., the Newport Beach,
California-based firm that runs the world’s biggest mutual fund,
attracted $57 billion to its bond funds in the first 11 months
of the year.  The $250 billion  Pimco Total Return Fund , managed by  Bill Gross , had its first net withdrawals in two years in November as
investors pulled $1.9 billion, Morningstar reported. Pimco Total
Return this month said it is expanding its policy to allow
investments in equity-linked securities for the first time since
2003.  “Fixed-income has been the lifeline for a lot of these
firms,” Douglas Sipkin, an analyst with Ticonderoga Securities
in New York, said in an interview earlier this month.  Pimco this month raised its forecast for U.S. economic
growth next year as policy makers pump a “massive amount” of
stimulus into the economy, Chief Executive Officer  Mohamed El- Erian  said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charles Stein in Boston at 
 cstein4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertelt . 