-- Brazil Coffee Crop to Drop 23%, Pushing Up Price
-- B y   K a t i a   C o r t e s
-- 2010-12-22T18:08:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-22/brazil-coffee-crop-to-drop-23-pushing-up-price.html
Coffee production in Brazil, the
world’s biggest grower, may drop to the lowest in four years in
2011, pushing up prices as trees enter the lower-yielding half
of a two-year cycle, Agriculture Minister Wagner Rossi said.  Growers will harvest 37 million bags, down 23 percent from
48.1 million bags estimated for this year, Rossi said in an
interview in Brasilia today. Coffee prices will likely rise next
year as global demand outpaces supplies amid declining
stockpiles, he said.  “Prices will likely remain on a steady rise,” Rossi, 67,
said at his office. “World demand is firm and global stockpiles
are low.”  Coffee, which has surged 72 percent this year, extended a
rally to a 13-year high earlier today on concern adverse weather
in Brazil and India will pare global supplies. Arabica coffee
for March delivery reached $2.4225, the highest since June 1997.
It fell 1.6 percent to $2.3005 per pound at 12:51 p.m. on ICE
Futures U.S. in New York.  Output in Brazil, which ships about a third of world
exports, usually drops every other year because trees can’t
sustain high yields for two straight harvests. Fungus that was
found in coffee crops in southeastern Brazil because of excess
rains won’t hurt production, Rossi said.  “The coffee blight is a problem but not a threat to
output,” Rossi said. “The improvement in farmers’ income will
help them fight the fungus by investing more in their crops.”  Commercial farm lending may rise in the crop year that
began in July as growers invest more in machinery and increase
planted area to benefit from rising commodities prices, Rossi
said. Lending grew 29 percent in the past harvesting season to
about $49.8 billion, the ministry said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katia Cortes in Brasilia at  at
 kcortes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jessica Brice at   jbrice1@bloomberg.net  