-- Brazil Central Bank Sees Need to Increase Lending Rate in the 'Short Term'
-- B y   I u r i   D a n t a s   a n d   M a t t h e w   B r i s t o w
-- 2010-12-22T16:07:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-22/brazil-central-bank-sees-need-to-increase-lending-rate-in-the-short-term-.html
Brazil’s central bank  signaled  today
it may start increasing  interest rates  next month, after
forecasting inflation next year will be faster than previously
expected.  Policy makers raised their 2011  inflation  forecast to 5
percent, up from 4.6 percent in September, according to the so-
called reference scenario published today in the bank’s
quarterly inflation report. They forecast inflation will also
exceed their 4.5 percent target in 2012, when consumer prices
will rise 4.8 percent. The bank’s reference scenario assumes the
benchmark interest rate remains unchanged.  “It is important to highlight that, in an inflation
targeting regime, divergence from the target of the size implied
in these projections suggests the need to implement, in the
short term, adjustments in the benchmark interest rate,” policy
makers said. The central bank needs to “contain the mismatch
between the pace of expansion of domestic demand and the
production capacity of the economy.”  Inflation will remain “around” the 4.5 percent target in
the next two years if policy makers increase the benchmark
interest rate 150 basis points to 12.25 percent in 2011 and the
real remains stable,  Carlos Hamilton , central bank director for
economic policy, told reporters in Brasilia.  Traders are wagering newly appointed central bank President
 Alexandre Tombini  will have to resume raising lending rates when
he chairs his first monetary policy meeting Jan. 18-19,
interest-rate futures contracts show.  Yields on contracts maturing in January 2012 rose 10 basis
points to 12.10 percent at 11 a.m. New York time. The real
weakened 0.2 percent to 1.6988 per U.S. dollar.  New Call  Banco WestLB do Brasil’s  Roberto Padovani , who previously
forecast interest rates would remain unchanged in 2011, changed
his forecast for the Selic following the release of today’s
report. He now expects policy makers to lift the overnight rate
to 11.25 percent in January from 10.75 percent. By year-end, the
rate will jump to 12.25 percent, he said.  “The central bank comments put an end to doubts -- it
implies a rate increase in the short term, in January,”
Padovani, chief economist for the WestLB, said in an interview
in Sao Paulo.  Policy makers kept the benchmark interest rate unchanged at
10.75 percent for a third straight meeting on Dec. 8, saying
they needed more time to gauge the impact from recent measures
to slow credit growth. Earlier this year they increased the
 Selic  rate by 200 basis points from a record low 8.75 percent.  Inflation Quickening  Inflation  in the 12 months through mid-December quickened
to 5.79 percent, the fastest pace in 23 months, on higher food
prices, the national statistics agency said yesterday. It was
the fourth consecutive month consumer prices as measured by the
IPCA-15 index exceeded the government’s 4.5 percent target.  An increase in borrowing costs of 150 basis points as
analysts are forecasting would slow inflation to between 4.5
percent and 4.8 percent by the end of 2011, assuming the real
remains stable, Hamilton told reporters after the report was
published.  ‘Hawkish Bias’  Inflation, which has been stoked by food and commodity
prices in recent months, is also being fueled by a mismatch
between supply and demand, policy makers said today.  Today’s report “had a strong hawkish bias,”  Nick Chamie ,
head of emerging markets at RBC Capital Markets in Toronto,
wrote today in an e-mailed report.  The bank raised reserve and capital requirements on Dec. 3
to slow credit growth, saying the move would also help contain
inflation. The higher reserve requirements removed 61 billion
reais ($36 billion) from circulation, according to central bank
estimates.  Policy makers said today their inflation forecast for next
year already takes into account the impact of the moves to slow
credit and “fiscal efforts” by the government. Credit
expansion needs to ease to help bring inflation back to target,
they said.  Outstanding credit will grow 15 percent next year, down
from an expected 20 percent growth rate this year, Hamilton
said. Demand will grow at a more “moderate” pace in 2011, he
added.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Matthew Bristow  in Brasilia at 
 mbristow5@bloomberg.net ;
Iuri Dantas in Brasilia at 
 idantas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  