-- Bulgari Gold Succumbs to Ceramics With Jewelry Hostage
-- B y   B e n   E l g i n ,   M a d e l e n e   P e a r s o n   a n d   B e n j a m i n   H a r v e y
-- 2010-12-23T14:26:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-22/bulgari-gold-ring-succumbs-to-ceramics-with-jewelry-held-hostage-by-bubble.html
In June, Bill Doddridge flew his
single-engine Cessna 400 to Twentynine Palms Airport near
California’s Mojave Desert and headed for an abandoned mine, a
.45-caliber pistol on his belt. He was looking for gold.  The firearm was to ward off rattlesnakes. The precious
metal would be a sideline to his jewelry business. He sifted
through dirt, climbed into shafts, and later bought the
property, shuttered since World War II.  “If we’re not making money selling gold, we might as well
get into mining it,” says Doddridge, 55, chief executive
officer of Tustin, California-based Goldenwest Diamond Corp., a
privately held company that owns 17 Jewelry Exchange stores and
an online site. “It’s a whacked out world.”  The rising value of bullion -- reaching a record $1,431.25
an ounce on Dec. 7 -- has upended the economics of jewelry for
buyers and sellers alike, with a mix of outcomes around the
world. U.S. purchases of gold jewelry have fallen 36 percent by
volume in three years. Women in India, where demand is booming,
are buying hollow bangles made to look like solid gold. European
jewelers are mixing the metal with steel and ceramics. Turkish
exporters are closing offices as orders fall.  “The jewelry business is being held hostage by something
completely out of its control,” says Michael Langhammer, CEO of
Quality Gold, a Fairfield, Ohio, privately held wholesaler that
Langhammer says is redesigning pieces to use more silver.  Customers’ Buying Power  Gold’s price has climbed about 200 percent since the debut
in November 2004 of a bullion-backed exchange traded fund
created by a  World Gold Council  trust, allowing the metal to be
acquired on the New York Stock Exchange as easily as shares.  Global purchases of gold jewelry were $20.9 billion by
value in the third quarter, 38 percent above the year-ago
period, according to the London-based World Gold Council, which
represents mining companies, and GFMS Ltd., a research firm in
London. Demand by volume has diminished in some countries and
increased in others, and the gold jewelry industry has to adjust
to customers’ buying power depending on where they are.  Not knowing how high the price will go makes deciding on
styles and ingredients a challenge, Doddridge says. He acquired
the mine, for a sum he won’t disclose, as a defense. “Gold is
the only thing screwing up this business,” says Doddridge, who
expects his total 2010 sales to be up about 7 percent and sales
of gold items to be down about 25 percent.  Tungsten, Titanium  Designers are scaling back on gold parts or relying on gold
that isn’t as pure. At  Richline Group , a manufacturer in Mount
Vernon, New York, owned by  Warren Buffett ’s  Berkshire Hathaway
Inc. , 40 percent of sales are in gold, compared with more than
70 percent in 2006, says Chief Marketing Officer  Mark Hanna .
 Signet Jewelers Ltd. , with more than 1,300 shops in the U.S. and
about 550 in the U.K., is offering more silver, tungsten and
titanium, says Ed Hrabak, senior vice president of merchandising
at the world’s largest jewelry retailer.  Rome-based  Bulgari SpA , the world’s third-largest jeweler,
expanded the range of rings in its B.zero1 line, which were
solid gold in 2000, to include ones that mix gold with ceramics.  “We are focusing more than in the past on the combination
of different materials,” says  Francesco Trapani , Bulgari’s CEO.
“This is an interesting way to introduce something more
appealing, more exciting to the final client -- a way of
proposing things that can be less expensive.”  ‘Gold-Centric’ Customers  Tara Jewels Ltd. invented Honeydium, a mix of silver,
copper, zinc and indium that the Mumbai-based company says on
its website gives “the perception” of 10-karat yellow gold.  In India -- both the largest consumer of bullion and
biggest manufacturer of gold jewelry -- the passion for gold
bangles, necklaces and earrings is centuries old. Despite the
price, third-quarter growth in demand for gold jewelry was 36
percent, according to the World Gold Council.  “The Indian consumer is gold-centric,” says  Rajeev Sheth ,
managing director of Tara Jewels, which supplies  Wal-Mart Stores
Inc.  and other retailers and owns 30 domestic shops. “That
won’t change if it becomes $2,000 an ounce or $3,000 an ounce.”  Tara Jewels plans to raise about 2 billion rupees ($44
million) in an initial share sale next year to expand its retail
network in India, where the  economy  grew 8.9 percent in the
third quarter. The company has a plant in Panyu, China, and
three factories in Mumbai, including one with 1,600 workers who
walk on mats with raised ridges to dislodge gold flecks that
catch in their shoes.  The Real Thing  The gold products in stores change as values mount, Sheth
says. The company is selling 1- and 2-gram gift coins for
housewives with 5,000-rupee gold-buying budgets that put 5-gram
(0.2 ounce) coins out of reach.  Gold is a requisite wedding gift in India and an investment
displayed on married women’s arms. Only the real thing is
prized, and anything under 18 karats -- 75 percent pure -- isn’t
considered real.  “Gold is a must,” says Dhara Shah, a bride-to-be, as she
shops with her aunt for 22-karat pieces at Dwarkadas Chandumal
Jewellers, where an electronic sign displays the price of
bullion in red letters.  The walls are festooned with bridal sets, necklaces and
earrings that contain as much as 100 grams of the metal and
command 230,000 rupees or more. Shah says her budget is about
350,000 rupees, and she’s spending it now.  The price of gold “is going to go up more,” Shah, 27,
says. “People are going to buy, however poor they are or
however rich they are. It’s a good investment.”  Only 60 Grams  Madhurima Vasisht, a housewife in Delhi, couldn’t give her
younger daughter as many pieces for her wedding this year as she
did for her older daughter, who married five years ago. “My
budget has just gone upside down,” she says.  In Bangalore, Purushotham Hemanth, 25, says he can only
afford 60 grams of gold for his February wedding, not the 80
grams he had planned on. “I always wanted to give my wife the
best bangles and necklaces,” says Hemanth, a real estate agent.
“It is proving to be a bit difficult to raise the money.”  To accommodate salaries that aren’t rising as fast as gold,
retailers say they have to be creative. “The budget remains the
same, the income remains the same, but they want the jewelry to
look big enough,” says Deepak D. Tulsiani, the second-
generation owner of Dwarkadas Chandumal Jewellers.  More Hours  That means making light-weight pieces, and bangles that are
hollow, which is more labor intensive. At the Bank brothers’
one-room workshop in Mumbai, 90 grams of gold can be fashioned
into six bangles, 2- to 3-centimeters wide, in about 12 hours.
Using fewer grams takes hours more, says Abhijit Bank, 41, who
owns the shop with his 37-year-old brother Sujit.  In the workshop, in an alley past the sari wholesalers
behind Zaveri Bazar, 10 craftsmen sit at wooden benches. Watched
over by posters on the green walls, including one of Lord
Ganesha, remover of obstacles and bringer of good fortune and
luck, they use blow torches to bend the metal, tweezers to place
gems into earrings and conical rods to shape bangles.  “They need to be more careful, because light gold is very
soft,” Abhijit Bank says, sitting cross-legged on the floor.  At Istanbul’s six-century-old  Grand Bazaar , one of the
world’s largest covered markets, gold is so central that rents
are paid in it. Around 5 kilograms covers a year in a 215-
square-foot shop. There are more than 1,200 jewelry merchants in
more than 60 streets and alleyways.  Locals still come seeking the bangles and coins given at
weddings, births and other special occasions. Tourists who are
the bazaar’s mainstay are showing less interest in gold because
of the price, retailers say.  Labor Costs  “European clients aren’t buying anymore,” says Ismail
Yilmaz, a 24-year veteran of the bazaar who works for the
jeweler Sait Koc.  Domestic demand in Turkey was up 3 percent by volume in the
third quarter, according to a World Gold Council report citing
GFMS data. Exports have fallen 20 percent over the past three
years, according to the Istanbul Mineral and Metals Exporters’
Association, as production migrates to lower-wage countries.  The luxury business has been “cut like a knife,” says
Cihan Kamer, chairman of Atasay, which makes gold jewelry for
export. Since 2008, Atasay has closed six of its nine foreign
offices, including one it opened in New York 27 years ago.  The industry is squeezed by the steep price of gold and
high labor costs, says Cihat Cirpici, owner of Hibas Kuyumculuk,
a wholesaler that moved its operations to Dubai from Istanbul.
Minimum wage in Turkey is 760.50 liras a month, or around $500.  Wedding World  “We can’t set the price on gold, we can only put the price
on labor,” Cirpici says. “Before, if you had $5 million in
capital, you could do a lot with gold. Now, you can’t.”  The slump is apparent at Kuyumcukent, or Goldsmith’s City,
a seven-story complex behind Ataturk Airport that was imagined
by the Jewelers Cooperative of Istanbul as an integrated
production, processing and retailing center.  When it opened four years ago, merchants were told rent
would be free until the shops were 50 percent occupied. They
still pay nothing. The cooperative is rebranding Kuyumcukent, as
Wedding World.  “People who have been in this business all their lives are
moving to diamonds, if they’re lucky, or otherwise they’re
unemployed, or driving taxis,” says Alaatin Kameroglu, chairman
of the Istanbul Goldsmiths’ Association. He estimates employment
in the sector has fallen 20 percent in two years.  “If the price of gold keeps going up,” he says, “worse
things will happen.”  ‘Auspicious’ Gold  In China, gold demand may double within a decade, according
to the World Gold Council. In the next five years, household
wealth may more than double to $35 trillion, surpassing Japan’s
to become the second highest, according to Credit Suisse AG
analysts. Sales of gold jewelry rose 8 percent by volume and 39
percent by value in the third quarter, gold council data show.  “When the price is going up, there are still people going
in,”  Cheng Binghai , chairman of the Shanghai Gold & Jewelry
Trade Association, said in a Bloomberg Television interview.  Caishikou Department Store in Western Beijing’s Xuanwu
district has posted a sign at the entrance. “The Number One
Gold Shop in China,” it declares.  Yan Jie says he drove two hours to the store from Baoding
in Hebei province with his fiancé Yang Hongwei, a 23-year-old
accountant, and his parents.  “Although we haven’t fixed a date for the wedding, we’d
like to buy gold now before the price goes crazy,” says Yan, a
government worker who is also 23. His mother, Gao Xuemei, 46,
says no other metal will do as she settles on “Rejoicing Dragon
and Phoenix” rings for 3,532 yuan ($528) for the couple.  Mao Pendants  “Buying and holding gold is just an auspicious thing to
do,” says Gao, who runs a tea house. “Gold, as wedding gifts
to children, will not only keep its value, but also give them a
decent look.”  Among the items at the store are 31.99-gram pendants
portraying the face of  Mao Zedong  and bars stamped with images
of the God of Fortune and Rabbit, the sign for Chinese lunar
year of 2011. The bars, most of them weighing from 50 grams to
1,000 grams, are priced at 327 yuan per gram.  The Asian and U.S. markets couldn’t be more different, says
Sheth of Tara Jewels. Honeydium, the new alloy, is intended for
Americans and others who aren’t emotionally attached to gold,
Sheth says.  “They would rather have a big oversized gold-plated silver
ring for Christmas with diamonds in it than have a tiny thin
piece of gold with diamonds in it,” he says. “They are more
concerned about perceived value -- bang for the buck.”  For Related News and Information:  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ben Elgin  in San Francisco at 
 belgin@bloomberg.net ;
 Madelene Pearson  in Mumbai at 
 mpearson1@bloomberg.net ;
 Benjamin Harvey  in Istanbul at 
 bharvey11@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Melissa Pozsgay at 
 mpozsgay@bloomberg.net . 