-- Cable's Survival May Weaken Liberal Democrats in Cameron's U.K. Coalition
-- B y   T h o m a s   P e n n y
-- 2010-12-22T11:18:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-22/cable-reprimand-may-weaken-liberal-democrats-in-cameron-s-u-k-coalition.html
U.K. Business Secretary  Vince Cable ’s political survival after he was quoted as saying he
“declared war” on  Rupert Murdoch  may weaken his Liberal
Democrat party in the coalition.  Cable, the No. 2 Liberal Democrat in  David Cameron ’s
Conservative-led Cabinet, was stripped of responsibility for
media, broadcasting and telecommunications, according to a
statement issued by  the prime minister’s office  in London late
yesterday. Cameron called Cable’s secretly recorded remarks,
which were published in the  Daily Telegraph  newspaper, “totally
unacceptable and inappropriate.”  The move “strengthens Cameron’s hand because he’s
effectively slapped Cable down and stripped him of privileges,”
 Justin Fisher , who teaches politics at  Brunel University  in
northwest London, said in a telephone interview. “Chastened by
the experience, Cable will be more loyal and presumably will be
less likely to raise objections to policies behind the scenes.”  The uproar over the planned takeover of pay-television
broadcaster  British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc  by Murdoch’s  News
Corp.  came an hour after Cameron and his deputy,  Nick Clegg ,
defended previous Cable remarks in the  Telegraph  detailing
Cabinet infighting and declaring the prospect of his resignation
a “nuclear option” that could topple the government.  ‘Move On’  “I fully accept the decision of the prime minister and
deputy prime minister,” Cable said in a statement yesterday.
“I deeply regret the comments I made and apologize for the
embarrassment that I have caused the government.” Clegg told
reporters today that “Vince and the government can move on, and
that’s an end of it.”  By keeping Cable, Cameron resisted calls by both
Conservative lawmakers and the opposition Labour Party that he
quit.  “His increasingly erratic behavior is not conducive to
being in the Cabinet,” Conservative lawmaker  Philip Davies  said
on BSkyB’s Sky News. “You can either shoot from the hip and be
on the back benches or you can be in the government. Mr. Cable
seems to want to have the best of both worlds.”  Cable had the power to decide if the acquisition of BSkyB
by News Corp. would give Murdoch too much media power. “I have
declared war on Mr. Murdoch and I think we’re going to win,”
Cable was recorded by the Telegraph as telling reporters who
posed as constituents.  ‘Under Attack’  Murdoch “is trying to take over BSkyB, you probably know
that,” Cable told the undercover Telegraph reporters. “I can’t
politicize it, but for the people who know what is happening,
this is a big thing. His whole empire is now under attack.”  New York-based News Corp. said it was “shocked and
dismayed” by the comments. Cable’s remarks “raise serious
questions about fairness and due process,” News Corp.
spokeswoman  Miranda Higham  said in a telephone interview.  Culture Secretary  Jeremy Hunt , a Conservative, will now
take over responsibility for media and telecoms issues,
including the media regulator  Ofcom .  “This is not a straightforward issue because Jeremy Hunt
has given interviews since he was in his position saying we
shouldn’t worry about how many TV stations are owned by
individuals within reason, clearly talking about Murdoch,”  Evan Harris , vice chairman of the Liberal Democrats’ policy
committee, told BBC Radio 4’s “Today” show. “‘None of the
parties have got clean records on this. Conservatives and Labour
have always been more pro-Murdoch.”  EU Approval  News Corp., the owner of four of the biggest-selling U.K.
newspapers, is waiting for the government to rule on the deal.
Ofcom has a Dec. 31 deadline to recommend to Cable whether to
start a Competition Commission probe on how the deal might
affect the British media landscape. The company won European
Union approval for the proposed purchase yesterday.  News Corp., attempting to gain from the steady subscription
business of BSkyB, asked the EU on Nov. 3 to approve its
proposed 7.8 billion-pound ($12.1 billion) bid for the 61
percent of BSkyB that it doesn’t already own. BSkyB rejected the
initial offer of 700 pence a share in June as too low. The
companies are seeking regulatory approval before a new offer is
made.  Cable placed himself “in an untenable position,” Robert
Bell, a London-based antitrust lawyer with Speechly Bircham LLC,
said in a telephone interview. “He’s exercising some sort of
quasi-judicial role in the whole process and he has to maintain
an element of fairness in his decision-making. Quite frankly,
his reported comments go contrary to that.”  ‘Good’ Relationship  Cable’s comments on Murdoch were released just after
Cameron and Clegg signaled their approval of the minister at an
end-of-year press conference. Cameron said he had a “good and
business-like relationship” with Cable, while Clegg called the
minister “an incredibly important member of the government and
an outstanding secretary of state.”  They were commenting on remarks published earlier by the
Telegraph in which Cable told two reporters posing as voters
from his district that “there is a constant battle going on
behind the scenes” between the Conservatives and Liberal
Democrats in the Cabinet.  “I have a nuclear option, it’s like fighting a war,”
Cable was cited as saying by the Telegraph. “They know I have
nuclear weapons, but I don’t have any conventional weapons. If
they push me too far then I can walk out of the government and
bring the government down and they know that.”  More Criticism  Today, the newspaper published further secret recordings of
Liberal Democrat ministers questioning the coalition
government’s removal of child-benefit payments for higher-rate
taxpayers and the increase in university tuition fees.  “In some ways it’s helpful. We’ve been protesting for the
last eight months that Liberal Democrats have a mind of their
own,” party president  Tim Farron  told BBC radio. “You can be
in coalition with another party, get on reasonably well, be
collegiate and a good team player but still retain your own
identity.”  It was necessary for Cameron to keep Cable in the Cabinet
to prevent rank-and-file Liberal Democrat lawmakers, who have
already rebelled over higher student tuition fees, from growing
more unhappy with the government, according to Fisher.  “If Cable had gone it could have started to make things a
bit sticky,” Fisher said “You’d have had more left-wing
Liberal Democrats starting to get more disgruntled because their
chap’s been ousted. His bigger problem now could be right wing
Conservatives saying ‘why special privileges?’ Anyone else would
have been sacked.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Thomas Penny  in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  