-- California Storms May Rot Strawberries, Delay Vegetable Planting by Month
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   C a m p b e l l
-- 2010-12-22T21:59:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-22/california-storms-may-rot-strawberries-delay-vegetable-planting-by-month.html
Torrential rains drenching
California are threatening strawberry crops and delaying some
vegetable planting, state agriculture officials said.  Governor  Arnold Schwarzenegger  declared a state of
emergency in six central and southern counties after rain fell
by the foot in lowland areas and heavy snow covered mountains.
Most crops in the state, the largest U.S. strawberry producer,
are grown in the Central Valley, including parts hit hardest by
the storm, said Jay Van Rein, a spokesman for the California
 Department  of Food and Agriculture in Sacramento.  Orange, grapefruit and lemon groves may be damaged, and
winter vegetable planting may be delayed, Van Rein said in a
telephone interview. The extent of possible damage may not be
known for several weeks, when county agricultural commissioners
submit reports to the department or at least until the storm is
over, he said. California is the second-largest orange grower,
after Florida.  “Storms in California, especially this time of year, are
kind of a plus-and-minus story for agriculture,” Van Rein said.
“Farmers welcome the added water supply. On the whole, it’s a
good thing but the severity of the storm is causing concerns in
local areas.”  The strawberry crop may suffer minor damage from rot,  Mike Bennett , Orange County’s deputy agricultural commissioner, said
by telephone from Orange, California. Farmers may be unable to
get into the fields with tractors to spray fungicides to protect
the fruit because of the soggy ground, Bennett said. Fruit may
be more susceptible to rot unless the fields dry out or farmers
use aerial fertilizers, he said.  ‘Destroying’ Strawberries  “Water that’s diverting out of channels and running
through fields could be destroying rows of strawberries,”
Bennett said. “All of the rain that we’ve been getting probably
will serve to cause rot in the strawberries. Those individual
fruits will have to picked off and thrown away.”  Less than 5 percent of the crop may be lost, because there
isn’t much harvestable fruit at this time of year, Bennett said.
Strawberries are sown in the county in October and plants don’t
start to produce until middle to late December, he said.  Orange growers have had to stop picking because of the
rain, said  Ron Miller , a spokesman at the  California Farm Bureau
Federation  in Sacramento. It’s too early to know if there’s any
damage, he said.  Delaying Supplies  Some vegetable fields in San Luis Obispo are under water,
so farmers “won’t be able to get the equipment in for at least
a month to plant the next crop,”  Bob Lilley , the county’s
agricultural commissioner, said by telephone from San Luis
Obispo. “It’s going to delay the products being available for
market.”  The county on the state’s central coast is part of the
Santa Maria Valley, one of the top three coastal vegetable-
growing areas in California, Lilley said.  Some farmers and ranchers will welcome the downpours, he
said.  “We’re reliant on groundwater pumping,” Lilley said.
“Since water supplies are always an issue in California, most
of them are more than happy to deal with the inconvenience of
everything being waterlogged with the positive side that their
wells are getting recharged.”  ‘Soggy’ Operations  Most livestock producers aren’t having problems with the
rain, although the weather has made operations “a little
soggy,” said  Michael Marsh , the chief executive officer of
Western United Dairymen, a Modesto, California-based trade
group. The group’s field staff has been checking on its members,
he said.  The rain has been “like getting a whole year’s worth of
water in a couple of days,” Marsh said. The water will help
forage crops, which need the moisture and are used to feed
livestock, he said.  “To the extent that this rainfall will recharge aquifers
and also add to water levels in reservoirs, that’s going to be
good news for us long term,” Marsh said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Elizabeth Campbell  in Chicago at 
 ecampbell14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net . 