-- California Declares State of Emergency as Rain, Snow, Winds Batter State
-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n   a n d   R y a n   F l i n n
-- 2010-12-23T01:05:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-22/california-records-rain-and-snow-measured-in-feet-from-storm.html
California Governor  Arnold Schwarzenegger  declared a state of emergency in six counties in
the face of flooding rains and mounting snow from a storm that
may be beneficial as well as destructive.  “The circumstances of these storms, by reason of their
magnitude, are or are likely to be beyond the control of the
services, personnel, equipment and facilities of any single
county, or city,” Schwarzenegger said in his proclamation.  An estimated 17 feet (5.2 meters) of snow has fallen in
less than a week at a monitor near the Kern River in
California’s Sierra Nevada mountains, according to the U.S.
Hydrometeorological Prediction Center.  Central and Southern California have borne the brunt of a
storm that has dropped rain by the foot in some places and heavy
snow in the mountains, forcing evacuations. The counties covered
in Schwarzenegger’s emergency  announcement  are Kern, Orange,
Riverside, San Bernardino, San Luis Obispo and Tulare.  The precipitation may bring relief from the state’s
drought.  Water storage  in California’s seven reservoirs,
measured in thousands of acre-feet, is at 7,601 for water year
2011, which began on Oct. 1, a 67 percent gain from water year
2010, according to the U.S. Bureau of Reclamation.  Last year, the bureau cut off water deliveries to Central
Valley farmers for the first time in 15 years because reservoir
levels were low. The reservoirs collect rain and melted snowpack
from the Sierra Nevada for transport to farm irrigation systems.  ‘Fantastic’ in Fresno  “We’re doing fantastic,” said Ryan Jacobsen, executive
director of the not-for-profit  Fresno County Farm Bureau .
“Anytime you get a series of storms like this, it’s good. This
is a welcome sight for agriculture.”  Fresno, the country’s largest agricultural county with
crops worth $5.37 billion last year, focuses on growing grapes,
tomatoes and almonds.  There are 19,876 homes without power in the Southern
California cities of  Orange ,  Redlands , El Toro and Rolling
Hills, according to Vanessa McGrady, a spokeswoman for  Southern
California Edison  in Rosemead, California.  “The worst of the storm for California is occurring right
now,” said Eric Wilhelm, senior meteorologist with commercial
forecaster AccuWeather Inc. “It is a pretty amazing storm; some
places in California have had a year’s worth of rain.”  Tanbark in Los Angeles County recorded 21.58 inches (55
centimeters) of rain as of early today, according to the weather
service. Twin Peaks in San Bernardino County measured 26.46
inches as of today.  Measuring Snow in Feet  In the Sierra Nevada mountains, snow totals are being
measured in feet. The estimated 17 feet at the Pascoes near the
Kern River is the highest. Other estimates are 16 feet at the
West Woodchuck Meadow monitor near the Kings River and 15.9 feet
at the Wet Meadow station on the Kern River, according to the
 hydrometeorological center  in Camp Springs, Maryland.  Skiers are already benefiting. Eric Doyne, a spokesman for
 Ski Lake Tahoe , a marketing group for seven resorts, said this
season’s opening was one of the strongest in at least a decade.  “The storms were so powerful, they just blew the lid right
open,” Doyne said. About 8 feet of snow has fallen in the past
week alone, he said.  Flood watches and warnings have been posted for much of
Southern California, Nevada and Utah, as well as western
Arizona, according to the  weather service . The storm hasn’t
caused any flight delays at Los Angeles or San Diego, according
to the Federal Aviation Administration website.  Heading East  This storm will cross the U.S. and may bring heavy snow to
the East Coast this weekend, Wilhelm said. The computer models
that help meteorologists make their forecasts don’t agree on
whether that will happen, he said.  “It isn’t a mortal lock that this becomes a big problem
for the Eastern Seaboard,” Wilhelm said.  Elsewhere in the U.S., a small storm may bring 3 inches of
snow to parts of the Midwest, Wilhelm said. It may make driving
hazardous in St. Louis the day after tomorrow, he said.  “The rest of the country, by comparison to California, is
pretty quiet,” Wilhelm said.  Christmas Eve will probably just be windy and cold in New
York, Boston and Philadelphia, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Brian K. Sullivan  in Boston at 
 Bsullivan10@bloomberg.net ;
 Ryan Flinn  in San Francisco at 
 rflinn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at   dstets@bloomberg.net . 