-- Canada's Stalling Economic Recovery May Need Further Stimulus, IMF Says
-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 2010-12-22T16:12:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-22/canada-s-stalling-economic-recovery-may-need-further-stimulus-imf-says.html
Canada’s  economic recovery  is fading
and policy makers may need to provide further stimulus, the
International Monetary Fund said, citing risks from high
consumer debt and weak U.S. demand for the country’s products.  The Canadian economy will expand by 2.3 percent in 2011,
slowing from this year’s 3 percent growth, the Washington-based
fund’s executive board said in a report today, matching the most
recent forecast from the Bank of Canada. In October, the IMF
predicted a 3.1 percent expansion this year and 2.7 percent for
next year.  New stimulus isn’t needed unless there is “a substantial
deterioration in the outlook,”  Charles Kramer , the IMF’s
Mission Chief to Canada, said during a conference call. “The
issues we are focused on mostly are the risks to the outlook and
policies being ready to respond if those risks materialize.”  The central bank kept its  main interest rate  at 1 percent
Dec. 7, saying trade had slowed growth in the second half and
consumers should ensure record debt loads remain affordable when
interest rates rise. Earlier this month, Prime Minister  Stephen Harper  extended a deadline for stimulus spending on construction
projects for seven months, citing a fragile global recovery.  The IMF “welcomed” the extended spending deadline and
said “fiscal policy had ample room to respond if downside risks
materialized.” The Bank of Canada “will have room for stimulus
if needed” as well, the report said.  “Risks are elevated and tilted to the downside with high
household debt levels the main domestic risk, and a weaker U.S.
outlook the largest external risk,” the report of an annual
economic review said.  Debt Worries  Harper, along with Bank of Canada Governor  Mark Carney  and
Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty , said in separate appearances on
Dec. 14 that they are concerned about rising debt levels. The
ratio of household debt to disposable income in Canada was 1.48
in the third quarter according to Statistics Canada, exceeding
the U.S. level of 1.47.  Weaker U.S. demand helped drive Canada’s current account
deficit to a record C$17.5 billion ($17.2 billion) in the third
quarter. The goods surplus with the U.S., Canada’s biggest trade
partner, declined by about C$3 billion for a second quarter
between July and September, Statistics Canada said Nov. 29.  The IMF staff report prepared for the consultation said
that home prices are “elevated” without indicating “a bubble
in housing markets.” A separate staff report said  house price
movements  were largely in line with fundamentals, “with the
possible exceptions of Ontario and British Columbia.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Greg Quinn  in Ottawa at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net . 