-- Canadian Takeovers Next Year May Surpass 2010, RBC’s Buzzi Says
-- B y   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r
-- 2010-12-22T13:34:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-22/canada-takeovers-next-year-may-surpass-2010-pace-royal-bank-s-buzzi-says.html
The pace of Canadian takeovers in
2011 may top this year’s rate of more than $160 billion as the
economy recovers and company executives regain confidence about
making deals, said  Peter Buzzi , co-head of mergers and
acquisitions at RBC Capital Markets.  “As long as the economy doesn’t hit any significant
roadblocks and capital markets are receptive, M&A activity is
going to continue on at the current pace or get better,” Buzzi
said in an interview in Toronto. “It’s really about
confidence.”  Canadian companies were involved in $162.9 billion in
announced mergers in 2010, the best year since the record $332.4
billion in 2007, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. This
year’s total is 41 percent higher than 2009.  The merger figures, which exclude terminated deals such as
BHP Billiton Ltd.’s $40-billion hostile bid for Potash Corp. of
Saskatchewan Inc., are current as of today and may change as
more transactions are reported.  This year was unique because there weren’t any blockbuster
deals inflating the numbers, said Buzzi, whose firm ranks first
for advising on Canadian takeovers this year.  “Over the last five to 10 years, it seems, every year
we’ve had a C$15-, C$20-, C$30-billion transaction in Canada,”
Buzzi said. “This past year what was quite interesting is we
got to those levels of activity without a transaction like
that.”  Kinross Merger  Canada’s largest deals included Kinross Gold Corp.’s $6.7
billion purchase of Red Back Mining Inc., and the $4.8 billion
takeover of British manufacturer Tomkins Plc by Toronto-based
buyout firm Onex Corp. and Canada Pension Plan Investment Board,
Bloomberg data show.  Toronto-Dominion Bank’s plan to buy Chrysler Financial
Corp. from Cerberus Capital Management LP for $6.3 billion, and
Bank of Montreal’s agreement to buy Wisconsin lender Marshall &
Ilsley Corp. for about $4.1 billion, both announced in the past
week, also rank among Canada’s top 10 deals in 2010.  In comparison, 2007’s record high included Rio Tinto
Group’s $43 billion takeover of Montreal-based aluminum producer
Alcan Inc., Thomson Corp.’s $18.2 billion merger with Reuters
Group Plc, and Toronto-Dominion’s $8.3 billion agreement to buy
Commerce Bancorp Inc., according to Bloomberg data.  Canadian takeovers will surpass 2010 levels next year
providing acquirers have “reasonably high” stock prices,
perform well, and are able to tap debt markets and finance
transaction.  Mining, Energy  “It’s really a function of confidence: confidence in the
outlook of the economy and confidence in the outlook of the
business,” Buzzi, 50, said.  Mergers in the resource industry, including mining and
energy, will continue through 2011, fueled by a continuing
global commodities boom, Buzzi said.  “Those aren’t going away,” he said. “As long as the
confidence is there, the ability to finance transactions is
there, you’re going to continue to see a lot of activity.”  RBC Capital Markets is the investment-banking business of
 Royal Bank of Canada , Canada’s largest lender by assets. BMO
Capital Markets ranks second for mergers advice this year in
Canada, followed by Morgan Stanley and TD Securities, according
to Bloomberg data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Doug Alexander  in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net  