-- Canada's 10-Year Government Securities Decline for First Time in Six Days
-- B y   C h r i s   F o u r n i e r   a n d   D a n i e l   K r u g e r
-- 2010-12-22T22:10:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-22/canada-s-dollar-gains-the-first-day-in-five-as-crude-oil-trades-above-90.html
Canada’s 10-year notes dropped for
the first time in six days, ending the longest winning streak in
three months, after a report yesterday showed that gains in
inflation slowed.  A decline in Canadian government bonds pushed yields on the
benchmark security up after they lost 20 basis points over five
days. Canada’s  consumer price index , a measure of inflation,
increased 2 percent in November from a year earlier, compared
with 2.4 percent in October, Statistics Canada said yesterday.
The Canadian dollar rose for the first time in five days.  “Bond buyers have stepped back, not in a huge way, but
enough to stall the rally,”  George Davis , chief technical
analyst for fixed income and currency strategy at Royal Bank of
Canada’s RBC Dominion Securities in Toronto, wrote in an e-mail.
“We’re seeing a bit of position-squaring and profit-taking
after yesterday’s CPI.”  The 10-year  yield  increased two basis points, or 0.02
percentage point, to 3.17 percent at 5:06 p.m. in Toronto. It
touched 3.37 percent on Dec. 14, the highest level since June.
The price of the 3.5 percent security maturing in June 2020
dropped 21 cents to C$102.69. The note’s last five straight days
of gains ended Aug. 3.  The  30-year bond  yield rose one basis point, its first
increase in six days, to 3.56 percent after earlier touching
3.55 percent, the lowest level since Dec. 1. The two-year note
yield advanced four basis points to 1.66 percent.  U.S. Auction Impact  Canadian investors are concerned that selling pressure from
the U.S. Treasury market, “which Canada takes its cues from,”
will weigh on prices in thin markets between the Christmas and
New Year’s Day holidays,  Mohammed Ahmed , a rates strategist at
Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce in Toronto, said in a
telephone interview.  The U.S. is selling two-, five- and seven-year notes in
three auctions starting Dec. 27. It will offer $99 billion of
the debt, unchanged from its last sales of the three maturities
in November, according to a Bloomberg News survey of 13 of the
Federal Reserve’s 18 primary dealers. The sizes of the auctions
will be announced tomorrow.  The Bank of Canada, which next meets Jan. 18, left its
benchmark  interest rate  at 1 percent on Dec. 7 for a second
straight time to gauge the global economic recovery after three
increases. The Fed has maintained its key rate in a range of
zero to 0.25 percent since December 2008.  Loonie Rises  The Canadian central bank’s overnight rate will hold steady
through the end of March 2011 and then rise to 1.25 percent by
June 30 and 1.5 percent by the end of September, according to
the weighted average of 23 forecasts by economists in a
Bloomberg survey.  The Canadian dollar, called the loonie for the image of the
aquatic bird on the C$1 coin, strengthened after crude oil, the
nation’s biggest export, reached the highest level in more than
two years. The loonie pared earlier gains after data showed
third-quarter gross domestic product in the U.S., Canada’s
biggest trade partner, rose less than forecast.  The currency appreciated 0.4 percent toC$1.0132 per U.S.
dollar, compared with C$1.0171 yesterday. It touched C$1.0272 on
Dec. 1, the weakest level in December. One Canadian dollar buys
98.70 U.S. cents.  The loonie fell for four straight days through yesterday,
the longest losing streak in two months. Toronto-Dominion Bank
said yesterday it agreed to buy auto-finance company Chrysler
Financial Corp. from Cerberus Capital Management LP for $6.3
billion in cash.  ‘Playing Catch-Up’  The Canadian dollar’s performance is “likely more flow-
driven, with the market playing catch-up,”  Sacha Tihanyi , a
currency strategist in Toronto at Bank of Nova Scotia’s Scotia
Capital unit, wrote in a note to clients, “as participants
digested news from the announcement” of TD’s purchase.  The loonie has gained 3.2 percent in 2010 in a measure of
10 developed-nation currencies, Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted
Currency Indexes showed. The Australian dollar strengthened 11
percent, while the U.S. dollar depreciated 1 percent.  Crude oil for February delivery rose 0.7 percent to $90.45
a barrel today in New York. It touched $90.80, the highest level
since October 2008.  U.S. gross domestic product expanded at a 2.6 percent annual
rate in the third quarter, figures from the Commerce Department
showed today. The revised increase was less than the median
forecast of a 2.8 percent gain in a Bloomberg News survey. It
compared with a 2.5 percent estimate issued last month.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Chris Fournier  in Montreal at 
 cfournier3@bloomberg.net ;
 Daniel Kruger  in New York at 
 dkruger1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  