-- Carlyle Said to Near Takeover of Dutch Fund Manager AlpInvest
-- B y   C r i s t i n a   A l e s c i   a n d   J o n a t h a n   K e e h n e r
-- 2010-12-22T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-22/carlyle-is-said-to-near-takeover-of-dutch-fund-of-funds-alpinvest-partners.html
Carlyle Group is nearing an
agreement to buy AlpInvest Partners, a Dutch asset manager that
has invested more than 40 billion euros ($52 billion) for
clients in private-equity funds, according to three people with
knowledge of the discussions.  Carlyle may sign a deal as early as next month, the people
said, asking not to be identified because the talks are private.
Executives at the Washington-based buyout firm have informed
their limited partners about the talks because a takeover of the
Amsterdam-based fund of funds may make Carlyle a competitor for
some of its investors.  Private-equity firms are seeking to become more diversified
asset managers after the financial crisis eroded investor
appetite for large buyouts. Carlyle agreed earlier this month to
buy a majority stake in Claren Road Asset Management, a $4.5
billion long-short hedge fund focused on liquid credit assets,
as it seeks to move into new markets and win clients.  AlpInvest has invested with more than 200 private-equity
managers, according to its website, including TPG Capital, KKR &
Co. and  Blackstone Group LP , the largest buyout firm.  Iain Leigh, a managing partner for AlpInvest based in New
York, and Christopher Ullman, a spokesman for Carlyle, declined
to comment.  Private-equity funds have struggled to raise money even as
buyouts quadrupled this year to $150 billion from 2009,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Firms attracted $71
billion from investors through the third quarter and are set to
have their worst fundraising year since at least 2004, data from
researcher PitchBook Data Inc. in Seattle show.  Going Public  TPG made an offer this month for ING Groep NV’s global real
estate investment unit, which managed 71.1 billion euros of
assets as of June 30, people with knowledge of the situation
said at the time.  Carlyle, which oversees $98 billion, this year hired high-
level bankers including  Mitch Petrick , Morgan Stanley’s former
sales and trading chief, to build out its credit business, which
managed $14.7 billion in 34 funds as of Sept. 30. Michael Arpey,
former head of Credit Suisse Group AG’s customized funds
business, joined Carlyle in November to lead fund formation and
development of new products.  The firm is expanding beyond traditional buyouts as it
prepares to join Blackstone and KKR in going public. Carlyle may
file papers for an initial public offering late in 2011, people
with knowledge of the matter said this month. The stock sale may
not occur until the following year, said the people, who asked
not to be identified because the plans are private.  William Conway, the deal maker who helped build Carlyle
into the world’s second-biggest private-equity firm, said in an
interview with Bloomberg Businessweek that the company is
gearing up for a public share sale to amass permanent capital
and contend with the growing challenge of raising money for
buyout funds.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cristina Alesci in New York at 
 Calesci2@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Keehner in New York at 
 jkeehner@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net  