-- Central Banker Belka Says Higher Risk May Justify Polish Rate Increase
-- B y   D o r o t a   B a r t y z e l   a n d   P i o t r   S k o l i m o w s k i
-- 2010-12-22T16:44:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-22/central-banker-belka-says-higher-risk-may-justify-polish-rate-increase.html
The risk of further “turbulence”
in financial markets resulting from the European debt crisis may
be an argument to start raising interest rates in Poland,
central bank Governor  Marek Belka  said in Warsaw today.  Policy makers left borrowing costs at a record-low 3.5
percent for an 18th month today after  inflation  slowed and wage
pressure eased in November. The bank dropped its reference to a
risk of zloty appreciation arising from capital inflows,
mentioned the previous two months as a reason to hold rates.  “The perception of eastern European investment risk has
risen in the recent weeks of serious turbulence, leading to a
weaker zloty,” Belka said after the rate meeting. “This argues
in favor of increasing interest rates.”  The zloty has declined 2 percent against the euro since
Nov. 10, when it reached the strongest level in more than six
months, as Ireland followed Greece to become the second euro-
area nation to request financial aid.  Appetite for the zloty will return and the currency "will
again start to gain," while a potential interest-rate increase
could help the appreciation, Belka said.  "The removal of worries about the zloty strength has
clearly shifted some of the swing voters back onto hawkish
ground,"  Peter Attard Montalto , an economist at Nomura
International Plc. in London, said in a note to clients.  Growth, Inflation  The Narodowy Bank Polski has kept its main rate unchanged
since June 2009 after reducing it by a total of 2.5 percentage
points, which helped the country to be the only EU member that
avoided a recession. The 27-nation bloc’s largest eastern
 economy  expanded 4.2 percent in the third quarter, the fastest
in two years.  The inflation rate unexpectedly dropped and wage growth
slowed last month, weakening the case for higher rates. Annual
 core inflation , which excludes food and fuel cost, remained
unchanged at a three-year low of 1.2 percent for a fifth month.  "The still limited inflationary and wage pressure in the
Polish economy, uncertainty about the scale of the acceleration
of GDP growth in Poland and the global economic recovery justify
keeping the NBP interest rates unchanged," the post-meeting
statement of the central bank said.  Consumer prices  rose an annual 2.7 percent in November,
slower than 2.8 percent a month earlier, while  average corporate
wages  added less-than-expected 3.6 percent from a year ago.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Dorota Bartyzel  in Warsaw at 
 dbartyzel@bloomberg.net 
Piotr Skolimowski in Warsaw at 
 pskolimowski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at 
 wmorris@bloomberg.net  