-- Central Bank Shuffle May `Pressure' Ukrainian Hryvnia, Goldman Sachs Says
-- B y   E m m a   O ’ B r i e n
-- 2010-12-22T16:00:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-22/central-bank-shuffle-may-pressure-ukrainian-hryvnia-goldman-sachs-says.html
Ukraine’s hryvnia may come under
“depreciation pressure” as President Viktor Yanukovych seeks
to replace the central bank governor with an ally likely to
favor exporters’ interests, says Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  Yanukovych  has requested that parliament replace
Natsionalnyi Bank Ukrainy Governor  Volodymyr Stelmakh , whose
term is up in December 2011, with his deputy,  Serhiy Arbuzov ,
according to a statement on the presidential website yesterday.
The 34-year-old Arbuzov, who was appointed to the central bank
in September, is the former head of PAO Ukrainskyi Biznes Bank,
the country’s 63rd-largest lender, and is from the southern city
of Donetsk, the hub for Ukraine’s steel industry.  “Given his perceived links to the industrial exporters we
think that the news could trigger some depreciation pressure on
the hryvnia in the near term,”  Anna Zadornova , a Goldman Sachs
economist based in London, wrote in an e-mail to clients today.
“The market may also be concerned by Mr. Arbuzov’s limited
experience in the field.”  The hryvnia was unchanged at 7.9750 per dollar by 5:29 p.m.
in Kiev, and has gained 0.9 percent versus the U.S. currency
this year, according to trading data compiled by Bloomberg.  It will probably trade at 8 per dollar in 12 months, as the
central bank maintains its control over the currency, Zadornova
said. The regulator manages the hryvnia by buying and selling
foreign currency on the market to prevent swings.  ‘Tighter Grip’  Exporters may be forced to convert their external earnings
to hryvnia after the  Natsionalnyi Bank  yesterday annulled a
five-year-old decree that abolished obligatory sales of foreign
currency, according to a statement on the Ukrainian parliament
web site. Yanukovych has ordered a separate law that would allow
the temporary introduction of compulsory foreign-currency sales.  This law could be used to “keep a tighter grip on the
currency,” Zadornova wrote.  The hryvnia will trade at about 7.98 to 8 per dollar by the
end of this year as the central bank continues to intervene in
the currency market, Stelmakh said in September. The currency
has traded at an average 7.9514 per dollar this year, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  In contrast with Goldman Sachs’ view,  Dmitri Fedotkin , a
Moscow-based economist at VTB Capital, the investment banking
arm of neighboring Russia’s second-largest lender, said an
appointment of Arbuzov to governor may help the hryvnia
strengthen 0.8 versus the dollar by the end of this year and 2.8
by the end of next year.  ‘Appreciation Risks’  “Arbuzov may push some of the reforms aimed at improving
the domestic financial market,” Fedotkin said by e-mail today.
“There are more appreciation risks to the hryvnia at the
moment.”  According to the terms of two loans from the International
Monetary Fund, Ukraine is required to move toward a more
flexible-exchange rate regime. The Washington-based lender isn’t
pressuring the country to accelerate its movement toward a free-
floating hryvnia and the central bank will act to prevent any
“risks” to the currency’s stability, Deputy Premier  Serhiy Tigipko  said in October.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Emma O’Brien  in Moscow at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at   gserkin@bloomberg.net  