-- Cerberus Is Said to Recoup 90% of Chrysler Investment After Loan Unit Sale
-- B y   C r i s t i n a   A l e s c i   a n d   Z a c h a r y   R .   M i d e r
-- 2010-12-22T05:00:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-22/cerberus-is-said-to-recoup-90-of-chrysler-investment-after-loan-unit-sale.html
Cerberus Capital Management LP’s bet
on Chrysler survived bankruptcy and the 2008 financial crisis to
recoup about 90 percent of the original investment, said two
people with knowledge of the matter.  The hedge-fund and buyout manager said yesterday it will
sell Chrysler’s former auto-lending unit to  Toronto-Dominion
Bank  for $6.3 billion cash. The deal will return about 75
percent of the money put up by the New York-based firm and its
investors, said the people, who asked not to be named because
the information is private. Cerberus will keep $900 million of
assets, accounting for about an additional 15 percent.  Cerberus and its founder,  Stephen Feinberg , seized the
spotlight at the height of the leveraged-buyout boom in 2007
with the $7.4 billion acquisition of 80 percent of the third-
biggest U.S.-based automaker from Germany’s Daimler AG. The most
severe economic decline since the Great Depression then sent
both Chrysler and General Motors Corp., the biggest U.S.
carmaker, into bankruptcy.  “They grabbed this transaction from the jaws of defeat,”
said  Paul Schaye , managing partner of Chestnut Hill Partners, a
New York-based firm that helps private-equity firms identify
targets. “They’re recovering their investment not from the car
company but from the financial engineering around the car
company.”  The Chrysler buyout remains the biggest to be led by
Cerberus, and the acquisition of an 82-year-old American icon
raised the profile of the firm and of the private-equity
industry. Feinberg, 50, a former banker at Drexel Burnham
Lambert Inc., founded Cerberus in 1992, naming it after the
mythical three-headed dog that guards the gates of Hell.  GMAC  Cerberus lost its stake in the Chrysler automaker amid its
bankruptcy and rescue by the U.S. government, while holding on
to the lender, known as  Chrysler Financial Corp . The automaker,
now known as Chrysler Group LLC, is now controlled by managers
from Italy’s  Fiat SpA .  In its other big bet on the U.S. auto industry, Cerberus in
2006 bought a 51 percent stake in  General Motors ’ former auto
lender, GMAC, now known as Ally Financial. A government rescue
of Ally reduced Cerberus’s stake to about 15 percent as of Dec.
31, according to a regulatory filing.  Chrysler Financial, based in Farmington Hills, Michigan,
has about 1,850 employees and will have about $7.5 billion in
loans at the closing of the transaction, according to an
investor presentation Toronto-Dominion released yesterday. About
90 percent of the loans are in the U.S., and 10 percent in
Canada.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Cristina Alesci  in New York at 
 Calesci2@bloomberg.net ;
 Zachary R. Mider  in New York at 
 zmider1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  