-- China Merchants Seeks Overseas Ports After `Stellar' Trade Growth in 2010
-- B y   W i n g - G a r   C h e n g
-- 2010-12-23T02:36:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-22/china-merchants-seeks-overseas-ports-after-stellar-trade-growth-in-2010.html
China Merchants Group , the investor
in ports moving about a third of the nation’s containers, will
seek more overseas projects as local trade growth slows from
this year’s “stellar” pace.  The company is looking at building ports and investing in
facilities in “newly emerging markets,” Chairman  Fu Yuning 
said yesterday in an interview in Shenzhen, China. He didn’t
elaborate on which countries the group was targeting.  Chinese ports’ traffic growth will likely cool in 2011, Fu
said, after the end of global recession caused a surge in
exports of toys, furniture and auto-parts this year. The company
has forecast a jump of more than 20 percent in 2010 volumes,
compared with a decline of 13 percent a year earlier.  “In 2011, there will be volume growth, but it won’t be as
stellar as 2010,” Fu said. “Slower growth rates in the U.S.
and Europe could also affect China’s trade.”  Listed unit  China Merchants Holdings (International) Co. 
has agreed to investments in Nigeria, Sri Lanka and Vietnam to
pare its reliance on China trade. The state-controlled group has
also this year bought Australia-based  Loscam Ltd.  to enter the
pallet-pooling market.  “It’s a good time to buy overseas assets as trade is
rebounding,” said  Kenny Tang , executive director at Redford
Assets Management Ltd. in Hong Kong. “China Merchants is also
well-placed to benefit from China’s still fast growth in imports
and exports.”  The  listed unit  rose 0.5 percent to HK$30.50 at 10:33 a.m.
in Hong Kong trading. It has risen 21 percent this year compared
with a 5.7 percent gain for the benchmark  Hang Seng Index .  China Cargo  In China, China Merchants has port operations in cities
including Shanghai, Shenzhen and Hong Kong. Its container-
terminal units handled 43.9 million boxes last year.  The company also this month agreed to pay HK$131.4 million
($17 million) for a 20 percent stake in the freight-handling
unit of  Chu Kong Shipping Development Co.  as government efforts
to boost development in rural areas stoke river-cargo traffic.
Chu Kong is the biggest  shipping agent  by fleet size in the
Pearl River Delta.  “China offers vast business opportunities,” Fu said.
“The country is still undergoing rapid urbanization and that
creates demand for infrastructure, demand for trade and for
financial services.”  China Merchants Group , founded in 1872, has operations in
areas including banking, real estate and shipping in addition to
its ports unit.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Wing-Gar Cheng  in Hong Kong at 
 wgcheng@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at   ndenslow@bloomberg.net  