-- China’s Risk-Weighting Rule May Cut Banks’ Capital
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-12-22T05:06:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-22/china-s-stricter-risk-weighting-rule-may-cut-banks-capital-barclays-says.html
China’s higher risk-weighting
requirements on $1.2 trillion of loans to local governments will
cut banks’ capital adequacy ratios and profits, according to
Barclays Capital.  The China Banking Regulatory Commission may require lenders
to assign 100 percent risk weightings for loans fully covered by
cash flows, up from the current 50 percent, and as much as 300
percent for uncovered loans, Barclays said in a note today,
citing a China Business News  report  published yesterday. The
risk-weighting rule has already been made official, the note
said, citing unidentified banks.  Agricultural Bank of China Ltd. , the nation’s third largest
by assets, will be hurt most by the change, Barclays analysts
 May Yan  and  Allen Zhang  wrote in the note. The commission’s move
may cut core capital adequacy ratios at eight Hong Kong-traded
 Chinese banks  by 4 to 66 basis points and overall capital ratios
by 18 to 77 basis points, they estimated. A basis point is 0.01
percentage point.  The government is trying to limit risks stemming from last
year’s surge in loans to local-government finance vehicles for
roads, bridges and railroads. Chinese banks may struggle to
recoup about 23 percent of the 7.7 trillion yuan ($1.2 trillion)
credit they’ve extended, a person with knowledge of data
collected by the industry regulator said in July.  ‘Major Overhangs’  “Regulatory uncertainties on reserves and capital ratios
are major overhangs holding back China bank shares this year,”
the analysts said in today’s note. The impact of the new
regulation is “manageable and the current low valuations of
China bank stocks have priced in these negatives,” they said.  Industrial & Commercial Bank of China Ltd. , the world’s
largest by market value, dropped 0.5 percent in Shanghai and
lost 0.4 percent in Hong Kong as of 12:29 p.m. local time.
Agricultural Bank fell 0.4 percent in Shanghai and  China
Construction Bank Corp.  declined 0.4 percent.  Yan recommends ICBC, Bank of China Ltd. and Construction
Bank, she said in an interview on Bloomberg Television today.  The CBRC may also require banks to reclassify loans to
local government finance vehicles, leading to higher provisions,
according to yesterday’s news report. Loans where project cash
flows combined with collateral value are less than 120 percent
of the principal and interest will be classified as substandard
and those below 80 percent will be marked as doubtful debt.  Loan Provisions  China’s Hong Kong-listed banks must raise provisions for
these loans by 2 percent to 25 percent and the new reserve will
cost Agricultural Bank 11 percent of its estimated 2011 and 2012
earnings, Barclays said.  Banks have lent an unprecedented 17 trillion yuan over the
past two years to support the world’s fastest-growing major
 economy  amid the global financial crisis. Fitch Ratings
estimated this month that new lending in China this year could
be as much as 40 percent higher than the government’s 7.5
trillion yuan target, as banks have moved loans off their
balance sheets and packaged them into wealth management products.  The regulator yesterday tightened requirements for banks
selling loans to other lenders to “avoid blind expansion” of
off-balance-sheet credit. Banks selling their loans to other
financial institutions must ensure that all risk attached to the
debt is really transferred to the purchaser, the regulator said.  The People’s Bank of China may drop its current loan quota
system and decide how much each bank can lend by looking at its
capital adequacy ratio, liquidity conditions and provisions for
bad loans, Reuters reported yesterday, citing three unidentified
people familiar with the matter.  -- Luo Jun . Editors:  James Gunsalus ,  Russell Ward   To contact Bloomberg News staff of this story:
Luo Jun in Shanghai at +8621-6104-3036 or
 jluo6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  