-- Chrysler Financial’s Value Jumped 33% After U.S. Exit
-- B y   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n ,   D a v i d   W e l c h   a n d   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l
-- 2010-12-22T15:43:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-22/chrysler-financial-value-jumped-33-after-u-s-exit-cerberus-s-sale-shows.html
Cerberus Capital Management LP’s
sale of Chrysler Financial Corp. values the lender at least 33
percent more than when the U.S. Treasury Department sold its
holding to the buyout firm seven months ago.  In a deal that valued the auto lender at $4.75 billion, the
Treasury got $1.9 billion from Cerberus in May to pay off
Chrysler Financial’s bailout debt. Yesterday’s purchase by
Toronto-Dominion Bank values it at $6.3 billion. After the
Treasury’s exit, Cerberus injected about $500 million into
Chrysler Financial, and plans to keep about $900 million of the
lender’s assets, people briefed on the deal said. Without those
moves, the firm’s value would be 41 percent higher than in May.  The Treasury’s $700 billion Troubled Asset Relief Program
is likely to suffer the “bulk” of its losses from aiding the
auto industry, American International Group Inc. and homebuyers,
the  Congressional Oversight Panel  said in a September report.
The Treasury, which last week called TARP “one of the most
effective crisis-response programs ever,” has said the main
focus was to stabilize the financial system.  “We’re not a private-equity fund,” said  Tim Massad , the
Treasury’s acting assistant secretary for financial stability,
about the agency’s management of TARP in an interview last month.
“We believe that promoting financial stability means we should
exit as soon as we can.”  Mark Paustenbach , a Treasury spokesman, declined to comment
on values set in May or by yesterday’s takeover agreement.  Peter Duda , a spokesman for New York-based Cerberus, declined to
comment.  Helped by GM  Cerberus, led by founder  Stephen Feinberg , 50, may have
benefitted from Detroit-based  General Motors Co.’s  agreement in
July to buy auto-lender AmeriCredit Corp. for $3.5 billion. That
deal valued Fort Worth, Texas-based AmeriCredit at 46 percent
more than its book value of $2.4 billion.  “That’s our most recent auto finance comp, and that was a
very expensive transaction for GM,” said  Adam Steer , an analyst
at research firm CreditSights Inc. in New York, in an interview
Dec. 8. “That could potentially be impacting values.”  Toronto-Dominion’s $6.3 billion cash purchase of Chrysler
Financial includes $5.9 billion in assets and about $400 million
in goodwill, Canada’s second-biggest bank said yesterday in a
statement.  The Treasury’s holding in Chrysler Financial stemmed from a
$4 billion bailout loan to automaker Chrysler LLC’s parent,
Chrysler Holding, in January 2009. The loan went into default
when Chrysler LLC declared bankruptcy in April 2009. Two months
later, the automaker’s best assets were bought out of bankruptcy
by a new company run by  Fiat SpA .  More Than Expected  In an agreement with Cerberus, the government had the right
to receive $1.375 billion from Chrysler Financial or 40 percent
of any distributions the lender made to Cerberus -- whichever
was greater.  The $1.9 billion repayment, “while less than face value,
is significantly more than the Treasury expected to recover on
this loan,” the  agency said  in May.  The Treasury made the deal because it had a willing buyer
and wanted to exit the business, said a person familiar with
direct knowledge of the transaction, who declined to be
identified because the considerations aren’t public. The agency
wants to resolve bailout holdings quickly rather than trying to
time the market, the person said.  Beating Forecast  The government bailout of the car industry helped Chrysler
Financial. A liquidation of the carmaker may have threatened
warranties on vehicles, hurting the lender’s value.  Before resolving its debt to the Treasury, Chrysler
Financial mostly collected payments and was restricted in
issuing new loans, a business it has resumed. It is no longer
related to Chrysler Group LLC based in Auburn Hills, Michigan.  U.S. equity values have climbed since May 17. The Standard
& Poor’s 500 Index  gained 10 percent  through yesterday, and the
25-member Bloomberg World Auto Manufacturers Index advanced 32
percent.  Chrysler Financial earned $300 million in the third quarter,
exceeding management’s $36 million forecast,  Debtwire  reported
last month, citing two people familiar with the situation.  The jump in Chrysler Financial’s value wasn’t entirely
caused by used-car prices, which increased 2.7 percent from May
to November, according to the Manheim used-vehicle  price index .
Prices had soared 22 percent from January 2009, when Treasury
first took a stake in Chrysler Financial.  ‘More Value to Be Gained’  Franklin Templeton Investments , one of Cerberus’s outside
investors in the buyout, said in U.S. regulatory documents that
the value of its Chrysler Financial stake almost tripled during
the first nine months of this year.  “Although initially it was an illiquid position, we
recently began to see renewed investor interest in Chrysler
Financial from a pricing perspective,” Franklin Mutual Recovery
Fund said in a  report to investors  filed with the Securities and
Exchange Commission on Nov. 29. “There is still more value to
be gained going forward.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jeffrey McCracken  in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;
 David Welch  in Southfield, Michigan at 
 dwelch12@bloomberg.net ;
 Dakin Campbell  in San Francisco at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at   jsondag@bloomberg.net ;
Jamie Butters at   jbutters@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at +1-212-617-2358 or  dscheer@bloomberg.net  