-- Copper Poised to Set New Record on China Imports, ETF Launch, Antaike Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-12-22T05:47:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-22/copper-poised-to-set-new-record-on-china-imports-etf-launch-antaike-says.html
Copper may rally to new records as
China imports more of the metal in the first quarter and the
launch of exchange-traded products locks up physical supplies,
said an analyst at Beijing Antaike Information Development Co.  “Copper is in an upward trend, so new records can be
expected,”  Yang Changhua , a senior analyst at the metal
researcher, said by phone from Beijing today. “The global
supply shortage offers fundamental support, and money continues
flowing in amid investment demand,” said Yang, who has been
doing copper research in China for 15 years.  The metal reached a record $9,392 a metric ton yesterday on
the London Metal Exchange as Chinese imports rebounded and an
accident at the world’s third-largest copper mine curbed
supplies. The International Copper Study Group is expecting a
435,000-ton deficit in the refined metal next year.  “The market is very sensitive to positive news right now,
showing a typical bull market feature,” Everbright Futures Co.
said in a research report today.  China, the world’s largest consumer, shipped in 232,298
tons of  refined copper  last month, up 37 percent from a one-year
low in October, customs data showed. Anglo American Plc and
Xstrata Plc’s Collahuasi venture in Chile declared force majeure
after three workers died when a ship-loader at Patache port
collapsed on Dec. 18.  The three-month contract has gained 27 percent this year in
London, and traded little changed at $9,360 a ton at 1:30 p.m.
in Singapore.  “Imports in the first quarter, especially in February and
March, should be higher than the lows in the past couple of
months,” Yang said. “Although local prices are now lower than
London, imports for financing purposes are rising.”  ETF Impact  The London Stock Exchange launched the world’s first
exchange-traded products backed by copper, nickel and tin on
Dec. 10, as ETF Securities Ltd. sought to meet demand to invest
in industrial metals. JPMorgan Chase & Co. and BlackRock Inc.
said in October they planned to introduce copper ETFs next year.  “Essentially, to launch an ETF product is to drive up the
prices of the underlying physicals,” Yang said. “It locks up,
or ‘consumes’, a large amount of existing supplies.”  Actual consumption growth of copper by China will slow next
year to around 8 percent from 11.5 percent this year. Cables and
home-appliances, which have been supporting the demand, will
continue to play a major role, said Yang.  China’s spending on a national power grid may account for
50 percent of the increase in its overall copper demand next
year, Macquarie Group Ltd. said in a report on Dec. 7.  Trade Financing  As Beijing tightens liquidity in an attempt to ease the
highest inflation in more than two years, borrowing costs are
rising. To secure financing, trading firms apply for letters of
credit for copper imports. The companies then get a window of
about 90 days of almost free credit, and can pay back the funds
after they sell the products.  Traders can either sell the metal onto the local market if
prices catch up with London, or ship it out to nearby LME
warehouses if that is profitable, according to Yang.  Stockpiles in London Metal Exchange warehouses may rise as
traders in China re-route metal previously intended for imports,
said  Jeremy Goldwyn , who overseas business development in Asia
for London-based Sucden Financial Ltd. on Dec. 16. This will
probably continue into early February, according to Goldwyn, who
has been in the metals business for more than 20 years.  -- Helen Sun . Editors: Richard Dobson, Ravil Shirodkar.  To contact the Bloomberg News staff on this story:
 Helen Sun  in Shanghai at 
 hsun30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Richard Dobson at 
 Rdobson4@bloomberg.net  