-- Corporate Yield Gap Rises Fastest Since 2007 on Loan Curbs: China Credit
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-12-22T18:36:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-22/corporate-yield-gap-rises-fastest-since-2007-on-loan-curbs-china-credit.html
Yields on China’s corporate bonds
are rising at the fastest pace in three years relative to
government securities, on concern companies will step up debt
sales as the government limits lending.  The  premium  investors demand to hold 10-year notes of
companies rated AAA instead of sovereign debt climbed 34 basis
points to 132 since Sept. 30, the most since the third quarter
of 2007, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Issuance in
China’s bond market, the second-largest in Asia after Japan,
rose 26 percent to 7.92 trillion yuan ($1.2 trillion) in the
first nine months from a year earlier, according to Chinabond,
the country’s central clearing house.  “The main driver behind it is the potential supply,”  Tan Weisi , who oversees about 400 million yuan as head of Fortune
SGAM Fund Management Co.’s fixed-income arm in Shanghai, said in
an interview. Lenders were forced by regulators to set aside
more cash in reserve, so “if banks have extra money they will
be more interested in buying Treasuries,” Tan said.  China’s corporate bond market expanded 45 percent in the 12
months to November as policy makers curbed bank lending to
contain the fastest inflation in two years. Borrowing costs are
also rising in India, with the spread for top-rated companies
rising 28 basis points, or 0.28 percentage point, this month to
102.  Chinese  new bank loans  have fallen for two straight months,
to 564 billion yuan at the end of November from 596 billion yuan
in September, government figures show. Bank of Beijing Co. sold
6.5 billion yuan of 15-year bonds at a 5 percent coupon Dec. 22,
according to a statement on the bond clearing house’s website.  Curbing Risks  The country has moved to curb risk-taking by banks this
year after last year’s record $1.4 trillion in new loans fanned
concerns that asset bubbles were forming in the property market.  “In the next half a year if there are restrictions on bank
loans, then companies will issue bonds,” said  Wu Tianshu , a
fixed-income analyst at Beijing-based Galaxy Securities Co.
“But some high-quality companies, if the rate is still high,
with a high cost of capital, will decide not to sell debt.”  The People’s Bank of China raised interest rates for the
first time since 2007 in October, and ordered lenders to set
aside more money as reserves for the third time in five weeks
Dec. 10. Credit curbs may push borrowers to seek funds elsewhere
in bond and stock markets, Tan said.  Default Swaps  Credit-default swap traders’ perceptions of the world’s
fastest-growing major economy worsened at the fastest pace among
the largest emerging markets earlier this month, on concern
policy makers will slam the brakes on economic growth to curb
inflation.  Five-year credit swap contracts on the nation’s bonds rose
17 basis points in November after falling in October and
September. They dropped 1 basis point yesterday to 68, CMA
prices show. The swaps decline as investor confidence improves
and rise as it deteriorates.  The yuan has appreciated 2.2 percent versus the dollar
since a two-year peg was relaxed in June, and non-deliverable
forwards show traders are betting on a 2.1 percent increase in
the coming year. The currency strengthened 0.2 percent to 6.6461
per dollar yesterday in Shanghai, according to the China Foreign
Exchange Trade System.  Regulator  The nation’s banking regulator, the China Banking
Regulatory Commission, ordered commercial banks to manage loan
risks “more prudently and stringently” on Dec. 16 as part of
efforts to screen and manage loans to the property sector.  Inflation expectations will push companies to seek loans
with shorter maturities in 2011,  Xu Xiaoqing , the head of fixed-
income research at Beijing-based  China International Capital
Corp ., the country’s first Sino-foreign bank, wrote in a Dec. 20
research note. Loans with longer maturities may fall by about 1
trillion yuan, Xu said.  If next year’s fixed-asset investment maintains this year’s
20 percent increase, companies will face a “loan shortfall,”
according to Xu. As a result, issuance of medium to longer-term
bonds next year could increase by 450 billion yuan, he wrote.  Government Bonds  The yield on the 3.28 percent government bond due in August
2020 was unchanged yesterday at 3.84 percent, Interbank Funding
Center data show. The yield gap between corporate and government
debt reached 134 basis points on Dec. 20, the highest since
March 9, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The yield on China’s three-year government bond of 3.26
percent compares with India’s three-year notes of 7.6 percent,
7.1 percent in Russia and 12.67 percent in Brazil.  The seven-day repurchase rate rose to the highest level in
more than two years yesterday, climbing 9 basis points to 4.17
percent, reflecting the reduced availability of cash.  One-year interest-rate  swaps , the fixed cost needed to
receive the floating seven-day repurchase  rate , rose 1 basis
point to 3.07 percent yesterday. Five-year swaps gained 1 basis
point to 3.78 percent. That rate is up from this year’s low of
2.68 percent on Aug. 12, Bloomberg data show.  Big Pressure  Spreads over government benchmarks for top-rated corporate
bonds could reach 150 basis points next year, said  Wang Jianhui ,
an analyst at Southwest Securities Co. The spread for lower-
rated companies will increase “even more,” he said.  “The pressure of direct financing next year will be quite
big and will need a lot of funds,” he said. “It will be a
tighter monetary environment next year, and under those
conditions the pressure on financing in the stock market will
definitely have an effect on the bond market.”  Bond issuance of medium and low-rated companies will
increase 20 percent in 2011 from 2010, according to  Guo Qinmiao ,
an analyst at Beijing-based  Citic Securities Co.,  China’s
largest brokerage by market value.  The premium investors demand to hold 10-year AA rated
corporate bonds rose to 231 basis points from a low of 178 basis
points on Nov. 5. On  bonds rated AA-  the spread has risen to 294
basis points from a low of 243 basis points on Nov. 5.  Measures announced in July and November by the National
Development and Reform Commission boosting regulation for more
than 8,000 companies linked to local authorities, show the
nation is encouraging infrastructure financing with bonds rather
than loans, according to CICC.  -- Henry Sanderson . With assistance from  Andrea Wong  in
Taipei.
Editors:  Tom Kohn ,  Hugh Chow   To contact Bloomberg News staff on this story:
 Henry Sanderson  in Beijing at 86-10-6649-7548 or
 hsanderson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  