-- Credit-Default Swaps Come Full Circle in 2010 as U.S. Economy Stabilizes
-- B y   M a r y   C h i l d s
-- 2010-12-22T22:22:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-22/credit-default-swaps-little-changed-as-u-s-economy-expands.html
The cost of protecting U.S. company
bonds from default is about where it ended 2009 as the economy
stabilizes.  “We are ending the year almost exactly where we began
it,”  Michael Reiner , a New York-based credit strategist with
Societe Generale SA, said today in an e-mailed note. “With
generally positive economic tone, the market also feels very
much like it did at the beginning of the year.”  The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, which
investors use to hedge against losses on corporate debt or to
speculate on creditworthiness, was unchanged at a mid-price of
84.75 basis points as of 4:40 p.m. in New York, according to
index administrator Markit Group Ltd. The benchmark, which
typically falls as investor confidence improves and rises as it
deteriorates, ended 2009 at 85.2 basis points.  The U.S. economy expanded at a 2.6 percent annual rate in
the third quarter, marking a pickup in growth that may extend
into 2011 as companies and consumers gain confidence to spend.  “People aren’t as worried about the double-dip recession,
they’re more turned to the talk of M&A activity and equity-
friendly type of things,” said  David Withrow , head of taxable
fixed-income at Fifth Third Asset Management in Cincinnati.
“There are still a lot of unresolved issues out there. I’m flat
right now, but if I had to pick a side I’d probably be a buyer
of protection at these levels.”  The Markit iTraxx Europe Index of 125 companies with
investment-grade ratings decreased 0.9 basis point to 104.58,
and the Markit iTraxx Crossover Index of credit-default swaps on
50 companies with mostly high-yield credit ratings dropped 6.2
basis points to 436.5, Markit prices show.  Narrowing Differential  Markit’s CDX North America High Yield Index, which climbs
as investor confidence improves, added 0.1 percentage point to
102.8 percent of face value. Based on levels before 2008, the
difference between the high-yield and investment-grade indexes
may still “narrow,” Withrow said.  Swaps on luxury retailers have plummeted this month to the
lowest in two years as high-end consumers start to spend again.
Same-store sales are increasing as more consumers finish holiday
shopping, according to a survey of retailers, and  consumer
sentiment  climbed in November to the highest in five months as
New York-based Saks Inc. and other retailers limit promotions
and discounts.  ‘Best Price Points’  “Value can be quality of production as well as price, so
we’re seeing a value-conscious customer but we’re also seeing
the high-end customer coming back,”  Stephen Sadove , Saks’ chief
executive officer, said in a Bloomberg Television interview Dec.
20. “They’re going back to some of the more exclusive, special
pieces, what we call the best price points and they’re buying
again.”  Credit-default swaps on Macy’s Inc., which owns
Bloomingdale’s, and Neiman Marcus Inc. touched the lowest levels
since 2008 last week and traded today at 140.7 and 495.6 basis
points, respectively, according to data provider CMA. Swaps on
Saks and Nordstrom Inc., at 448.9 and 97.5 today, touched the
lowest since May this month, the data show.  The National Retail Federation forecast November to
December sales will rise by 2.3 percent from the same time in
2009, making it the best holiday shopping season in four years.
The New York-based International Council of Shopping Centers
said it expects December sales to rise as much as 3.5 percent
compared with last year. Consumption remains “bifurcated,”
said  Joel Levington , managing director of corporate credit at
Brookfield Investment Management Inc.  “The 10 percent of consumers who spend 75 percent of the
money, they seem to be doing fine, and you’re seeing that
through results at Macy’s or Nordstrom’s or Neiman Marcus,” he
said. “The middle to lower consumers are still struggling and
that’s going to happen when you have high unemployment.”  Climbing Sales  The unemployment rate will stay above 9 percent through
next year, according to a Bloomberg survey of 63 economists.  “Luxury retailers have been depressed worse for longer,”
said  Guy LeBas , chief fixed-income strategist and economist at
Janney Montgomery Scott LLC in Philadelphia. “More sales in the
holidays make more of a difference to them than a Wal-Mart.
They’re very volume-sensitive.”  LeBas’s firm favors midlevel and luxury retailers over
discounters, which he said is a “reversal” of its stance from
2008 to 2009.  Neiman Marcus bonds rose to the highest in more than three
years this month, according to Trace, the bond-price reporting
system of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  The 9 percent debt due October 2015 reached 105.313 cents
on the dollar on Dec. 7, the highest since the notes traded at
the same price on Nov. 8, 2007, Trace data show. Sales at the
luxury retailer owned by Warburg Pincus LLC and TPG Capital rose
5.5 percent in November, CEO  Karen Katz  said in a Dec. 8 call.  Credit swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails
to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A
basis point equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10
million of debt.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mary Childs  in New York at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  