-- Czech Policy Makers Keep Interest Rates on Hold as Inflation Matches Goal
-- B y   P e t e r   L a c a
-- 2010-12-22T12:46:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-22/czech-policy-makers-keep-interest-rates-on-hold-as-inflation-matches-goal.html
Czech policy makers kept the
benchmark interest rate at a record low for a fifth meeting as
 inflation  matched the central bank’s target for three
consecutive months.  The Ceska Narodni Banka has kept the two-week repurchase
rate at a record-low 0.75 percent since May, below the European
Central Bank’s main rate of 1 percent, after cutting it a total
of 3 percentage points in less than two years to counter the
impact of the global crisis that pushed the country into the
worst recession since the end of communism two decades ago.  “We expect to hear reasons that we heard from policy
makers before the meeting, which are the November forecast, low
current inflation, the expected slowdown in 2011 and the risk of
an impact of the euro-area crisis on the Czech Republic,”
 Martin Lobotka , an analyst at Ceska Sporitelna AS, the Prague-
based unit of Erste Group Bank AG, said after the decision.  The result was in line with forecasts of all 21 analysts in
a Bloomberg survey. The bank didn’t comment on the decision and
will hold a news conference at 2:30 p.m. in Prague.  Recovery Accelerated  Recovery from the  economic  recession accelerated this year
with growth at 2.8 percent in the three months through
September, the fastest in nine quarters. The rebound was
initially led by rising demand for exports, including cars made
by Volkswagen’s Skoda Auto AS, while domestic demand contributed
the most to growth in the third quarter.  The Czech koruna has lost 2.2 percent to the euro in the
past month and was trading at 25.265 as of 1:25 p.m. today,
little changed from yesterday’s close.  The central bank on Nov. 4 lowered its  forecast  for 2011
gross domestic product growth to 1.2 percent from 1.8 percent
previously, saying the government’s plan to curb state spending
will slow expansion. The Finance Ministry on Nov. 1 also revised
its  estimate  for 2011 to 2 percent, from the 2.3 percent rise in
GDP that served as the basis for calculating next year’s budget.  Czech  inflation  was 2 percent in November, the same as in
the previous two months, matching the central bank’s target.
Monetary policy inflation, which is price growth adjusted for
the impact in changes in indirect taxes, was 0.9 percent, the
central bank said.  The central bank signalled in its latest forecast on Nov. 4
that interest-rate increases may be postponed until near the end
of next year from the previously expected start of monetary
tightening about the middle of 2011.  The bank’s board member  Robert Holman  said in a Dec. 9
interview he expects the period of rate increases to start
sooner than indicated in the forecast, probably near the middle
of next year.  The bank, which targets inflation, forecast annual price
growth close to its 2 percent target in the final quarter of
2011.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Peter Laca  in Prague at 
 placa@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at   wmorris@bloomberg.net  