-- David Bernstein Is Named as Next Chairman of English Soccer's Ruling Body
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2010-12-22T11:47:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-22/david-bernstein-is-named-as-next-chairman-of-english-soccer-s-ruling-body.html
Former Manchester City chairman
David Bernstein has been nominated as the next chairman of the
 Football Association , English soccer’s ruling body.  “David was the outstanding candidate for the role,”  Phil Gartside , who headed the nominations committee, said in a
 statement  on the F.A. website. “He combines strong business and
leadership skills with tremendous insight and knowledge of
football.”  The new chairman faces the task of reviving English soccer
after a turbulent year that saw the national team crash out of
the World Cup in the round of 16 in June, then fail to win 2018
hosting rights for the tournament.  Bernstein, 67, served nine years on the board of Manchester
City, including five years as chairman. During that period, the
club returned to the Premier League and moved to the new
Eastlands stadium. A chartered accountant, Bernstein has been on
the boards of several public companies including French
Connection Group Plc, Ted Baker Plc and Blacks Leisure Plc,
where he has been chairman since 1996. Since 2003 he has been a
director of Wembley Stadium and chairman since 2008.  “I am honored to be asked to take on the role as chairman
of the F.A.,” Bernstein said in the statement. “It is a
tremendous challenge but I look forward to working with the
board, the staff at the F.A. and everyone in football from local
playing fields to Wembley and the international stage.”  Unanimously Approved  Bernstein’s nomination was approved unanimously by the F.A.
board today. The F.A. Council will be asked to endorse his
appointment at its meeting on Jan. 25, the statement said.  Bernstein will succeed  David Triesman , who resigned as
chairman of the F.A. and of England’s bid to stage the 2018
World Cup in May after the U.K.’s  Mail on Sunday  reported
allegations he made about rival bidders Spain and Russia.  David Dein , a former vice-chairman of Arsenal and the F.A.,
had been widely expected to get the F.A. role. Dein, 67, also
served as international president in England’s 2018 World Cup
bid.  Roger Burden , who stood in as acting chairman after
Triesman stepped down, had previously been expected to get the
post on a permanent basis but withdrew his name after England’s
bid received only two votes in the first round of voting at
soccer ruling body FIFA’s executive committee meeting on Dec. 2.
Russia won the bid to host the 2018 World Cup.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Danielle Rossingh  in London at 
 drossingh@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Elser 
 celser@bloomberg.net  