-- De Niro, Hoffman Slum in Ghastly ‘Fockers’; ‘Illusionist’: Film
-- B y   R i c k   W a r n e r
-- 2010-12-22T03:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-22/de-niro-hoffman-slum-in-ghastly-fockers-superb-magician-rick-warner.html
In “ Little Fockers ,” Jack Byrnes
worries that his gawky grandson Henry may have a “double dose”
of his bumbling father’s DNA.  More disturbing is the third dose of this comedy series
starring  Ben Stiller  as nurse Greg Focker and  Robert De Niro  as
Byrnes, his control freak father-in-law. It’s a lame effort to
milk more money from a blockbuster franchise that peaked with
the original “Meet the Parents” and began its precipitous
slide with the follow-up “Meet the Fockers.”  Predictably, “Little Fockers” has a lot of silly double
entendres involving the family name. Byrnes asks Greg if he
wants to take over as patriarch and become the “Godfocker.”
When Greg’s outrageous mother ( Barbra Streisand ) gets hugged by
her twin grandchildren, she calls it a “Focker sandwich.”  If the Focker jokes have grown stale, so have the contrasts
between Greg’s hyper Jewish parents ( Dustin Hoffman  plays his
touchy-feely dad) and his wife’s button-down WASP family ( Blythe Danner  is her sweetly oblivious mom).  It’s pathetic to see great actors like Hoffman and De Niro
slumming in such schlock, though their own pain was undoubtedly
soothed by substantial paychecks.  The film, directed by  Paul Weitz  (“American Pie”) and co-
written by John Hamburg and Larry Stuckey, focuses on Greg’s
increasingly complex life.  Sexy Saleswoman  In addition to dealing with his intrusive father-in-law, he
tries to get his kids into a prestigious private school run by a
free-thinking principal ( Laura Dern ), push a delinquent
contractor ( Harvey Keitel ) to finish renovations on his home and
resist the lure of a gorgeous pharmaceutical rep ( Jessica Alba )
who wants him to peddle her products.  Alba adds sex appeal, while Dern and Keitel (who appeared
with De Niro in the  Martin Scorsese  classics “Mean Streets”
and “Taxi Driver”) are underemployed. Stiller specializes in
bug-eyed looks, like the one he flashes when his son (Colin
Baiocchi) catches him injecting grandpa in the groin to combat
his reaction to a Viagra-like drug.  It’s embarrassing all around.  “Little Fockers,” from Universal Pictures, opens today
across the U.S. Rating: *  ‘The Illusionist’  “ The Illusionist ” is no mirage. Bucking the tide of
glossy, computerized 3-D animations, this little French
masterpiece is a throwback to the silent-film era when gestures
and expressions spoke volumes.  The story of a lonely, aging magician who befriends an
admiring teenage girl in 1959, Sylvain Chomet’s almost-wordless
fairy tale is a poetic meditation on friendship, love and the
power of deception.  Based on an unproduced script written by the legendary
French filmmaker Jacques Tati in the late 1950s, the movie
features characters created with hand-drawn 2-D graphics, giving
them lifelike imperfections that CGI can’t duplicate. (Computers 
were used for objects like cars and trolleys.) Music, natural
background sounds and the occasional mumbled word provide the
only aural sensations.  The movie opens in Paris and includes a brief stop in
London, but it’s primarily set in Scotland. The magician meets
the girl while performing in a pub on a remote island and later
takes her to Edinburgh, where he takes a series of menial jobs
to feed and clothe her. He makes her think that nice things
appear by magic, an illusion he maintains until she falls in
love with a handsome stranger.  Edinburgh’s cobblestone streets and medieval buildings are
lovingly imagined by Chomet and his animators, who transport us
into a magical world that’s hard to leave.  “The Illusionist,” from Sony Pictures Classics, opens
Dec. 25 in New York and Los Angeles. Rating: ****  ( Rick Warner  is the movie critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed are his
own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Rick Warner in New York at 
 rwarner1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 