-- Derivatives Blitz Needed to Tame Anarchic Bonds: Mark Gilbert
-- B y   M a r k   G i l b e r t
-- 2010-12-22T00:00:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-22/derivatives-blitz-needed-to-tame-anarchic-bonds-mark-gilbert.html
They came first for  Greece  and I
didn’t speak up because I wasn’t Greek. Then they came for
Ireland and I didn’t speak up because I wasn’t Irish. Then they
came for Portugal and I didn’t speak up because I was German.
Then they came for me, and no one was left to speak up.  With apologies to  Martin Niemoller , Europe’s debt crisis is
getting worse, not better. The European Central Bank’s
milquetoast  bond-buying  efforts have done diddly and squat to
prevent borrowing costs from soaring to levels that mean each
new sale of securities drags euro region governments closer to
the bankruptcy courts.  If the ECB is serious about backstopping bonds -- and
that’s a big if, since it’s pretty easy to envisage the
Frankfurt crowd cheering yields higher with “go baby, that’ll
teach them for their fiscal indiscipline” -- tinkering at the
edges by bidding for a Greek bond here, an Irish security there,
isn’t the way to go.  Instead, the central bank should expand its armory to
include the most potent weapon the sorcerers of financial
alchemy have concocted to date. By crying havoc and letting slip
the dogs of derivatives, European policy makers could prove
their commitment to averting default, restoring some sense of
order to the government bond market and maintaining the
integrity of the common currency project.  Credit-default swaps could be employed as a battering ram
to bludgeon away the bond vigilantes. By offering insurance
against a failure to pay by selling default swaps to anyone who
wants to buy, the ECB could stand in the market and change the
price of money much more tangibly than the 72.5 billion euros
($95 billion) of bond purchases it has implemented since
establishing its debt support program on May 10.  Unlimited Insurance  For example, it currently costs about $105,000 per year to
insure $10 million of AAA-rated French government debt for five
years. That’s the most expensive ever, triple the cost since the
start of the year, as the debt crisis infects even Europe’s most
creditworthy nations.  By offering unlimited insurance, the ECB could drive down
the cost of swaps with each successive trade it does with a
default-wary bondholder (or naked-short-selling, pesky
speculator) -- and it could do the same for Greece,  Ireland ,
Portugal and the rest of the euro members. Underwriting euro-
region debt by offering cash protection against nonpayment via
the tried and tested mechanism of guaranteeing to take defaulted
bonds and pay out their face value could be a game-changing vote
of confidence in the ability of euro nations to keep their debt
promises.  No Bazooka  Of course, it will never happen. Joint and several
guarantees are anathema to Germany, which still has the tiller
of the Good Ship Euro. The ECB is already up to its eyeballs in
trashed euro debt; a default-swap program would expose it to
billions more euros in potential losses. While the likes of
Germany and France may say that euro nations will never default,
getting them to put the ECB’s money where those pledges are is a
different matter.  The only stick beating Germany into line on the bailout
packages is the dread that its banks will be left holding
worthless government paper, should Greece and Ireland and their
fellow profligate borrowers fail to make good on their debt
commitments. If its leaders continue to badmouth bondholders, no
amount of central bank support will prop up debt prices.  Halfhearted Efforts  The ECB bought the least amount of debt in almost two
months last week. It purchased just 603 million euros, down from
2.667 billion euros the previous week. Those halfhearted efforts
have failed to cap borrowing costs; Greek 10-year yields have
climbed more than 4 points to almost 12 percent since the
program started, while Irish yields have jumped to 8.6 percent
from 4.7 percent, and Spain’s borrowing costs have soared to 5.5
percent from 3.9 percent.  The creditworthiness of euro nations continues to melt.
Just three more cuts, and Ireland will have metastasized into a
junk-rated borrower at Moody’s. Spain may lose its Aa1 grade at
the rating company, while Standard & Poor’s is reviewing its
assessments of Ireland, Portugal and Greece.  No wonder the euro is the world’s worst-performing major
currency this year, also dragging down the Danish currency,
which is pegged to it. While that’s great news for German
exporters, it’s hardly evidence of investor faith in the
economic and financial policies being pursued in the common
currency bloc.  A year ago this week, this column suggested that letting
Greece default would be preferable to a bailout. As more
countries come under fire, with Ireland already forced to seek
aid while Portuguese and Spanish yields are screaming in pain,
the options available to the guardians of the euro project seem
to be narrowing to just two choices: let the project collapse,
or force the weaker members to cede all fiscal sovereignty to
Frankfurt. The endgame must come soon.  ( Mark Gilbert , author of “Complicit: How Greed and
Collusion Made the Credit Crisis Unstoppable,” is the London
bureau chief and a columnist for Bloomberg News. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Click on “Send Comment” in the sidebar display to send a
letter to the editor.  To contact the writer of this column:
 Mark Gilbert  in London at 
 magilbert@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  