-- U.S. Congress Blunts Agency Fund Request to Enforce Dodd-Frank
-- B y   P h i l   M a t t i n g l y   a n d   J o s h u a   G a l l u
-- 2010-12-22T14:27:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-22/dodd-frank-enforcement-funds-delayed-as-lawmakers-pass-stopgap-legislation.html
U.S. financial regulators,
struggling for months with budgets unequipped to handle new
responsibilities imposed by the Dodd-Frank Act, will be forced
to go another 10 weeks without a funding increase.  Federal lawmakers agreed yesterday to fund the government
at current levels through March 4, denying budget increases
sought by the Securities and Exchange Commission and Commodity
Futures Trading Commission after the regulatory overhaul was
enacted. Agreement on the stopgap funding measure came hours
before the expiration of an earlier temporary spending bill.  “Anytime you have a short-term measure to fund the
yearlong capacity of the government, it creates complications,”
White House press secretary  Robert Gibbs  said in his daily
briefing yesterday. The temporary accord is “something far less
than ideal in providing the needed certainty,” he said.  Government funding for the fiscal year ending Sept. 30 has
been caught up in partisan battles over taxes, spending and the
meaning of Republican gains in the November elections.
Republicans taking control of the House next month have promised
to reduce funding though spending cuts and more aggressive
oversight of regulators, making the short-term measure
potentially problematic for the two agencies.  The SEC and CFTC, tasked with writing most of the rules
dictated by Dodd-Frank, sought budget increases to at least
$1.25 billion and $261 million, respectively, for staffing,
technology and infrastructure. The increases would be 10 percent
for the SEC and more than 50 percent higher than the CFTC’s
current $169 million budget.  Without that funding, new initiatives will be postponed or
scrapped, regulators have said.  Indefinite Delays  SEC Chairman  Mary Schapiro , who has told lawmakers the SEC
must upgrade technology and add 800 employees to comply with
Dodd-Frank, is relying on Dodd-Frank’s pledge to double the
agency’s budget to $2.25 billion by 2015.  Amid the current uncertainty, the SEC has indefinitely
delayed setting up new offices and backed out of a lease for
almost 1 million square feet of office space in Washington. The
agency also put off planning for a new primary data center and
reduced travel by its investigators.  “Operating under the continuing resolution is already
forcing the agency to delay or cut back enforcement and market
oversight efforts,”  John Nester , an SEC spokesman, said in a
statement yesterday. “The longer we operate under significant
budgetary restrictions, the greater the impact.”  Gensler Lobbying  CFTC Chairman  Gary Gensler  has been lobbying lawmakers for
the additional money, which agency officials had hoped to
receive as early as last week.  “Current funding is far less than what is required to
properly fulfill our significantly expanded role,” Gensler said
Dec. 15 in  testimony  at a House Agriculture Committee hearing.  The CFTC needs the funding to “enhance its surveillance
program, prevent market disruptions” and implement Dodd-Frank,
he told lawmakers.  Senator  Tim Johnson , the South Dakota Democrat in line to
become chairman of the Senate Banking Committee next month, said
he was “concerned” that the short-term measure would hamper
the regulators’ ability to implement the law.  “Under this funding bill, these agencies could face a lack
of resources that ultimately leaves investors more vulnerable,”
Johnson said in a statement yesterday.  Senate Democrats introduced two measures this month that
would have provided the agencies with requested boosts in
funding -- a longer-term continuing resolution in the House and
a Senate bill that would have cobbled together each of the un-
passed appropriations bills from the current session.  Republican senators, in both cases, stepped in to oppose
the measures, citing a desire to cut spending early in 2011 and
to block about $8 billion in earmarks in the Senate measure.  Seeking Compromise  Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid , a Nevada Democrat,
announced last week that he would give up trying for a
lengthier, $1.2 trillion funding package and instead seek
compromise on the short-term measure.  “The voters don’t want us to wait to cut spending and debt
and fight the health care bill next October -- they want us to
do these things immediately,” Senate Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell , a Kentucky Republican, said in a Dec. 17 floor
speech.  Gibbs, in his briefing, said President  Barack Obama  would
work with Congress in the coming months “to ensure necessary
funding for critical government operations.”  Congress approved the Dodd-Frank regulatory overhaul in
July to respond to the worst U.S. economic collapse since the
Great Depression. The law requires the SEC and CFTC to write
rules to regulate derivatives and oversee the market to prevent
wrongdoing. Trading in derivatives, financial contracts tied to
bonds, stocks, currencies or events such as changes in interest
rates or weather, contributed to the 2008 collapses of Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc. and  America International Group Inc .  The SEC also has been tasked with monitoring thousands of
hedge funds, as well as creating new units to oversee credit-
rating firms and handle whistleblower tips.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Phil Mattingly  in Washington at 
 pmattingly@bloomberg.net ;
 Joshua Gallu  in Washington at 
   jgallu@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net  