-- Stocks in U.S., Oil Climb to Two-Year Highs on GDP Report; Treasuries Fall
-- B y   M i c h a e l   P .   R e g a n   a n d   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 2010-12-22T21:23:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-22/dollar-weakens-treasuries-slip-before-u-s-gdp-report-stocks-fluctuate.html
U.S. stocks and oil climbed to the
highest levels since 2008 after government data showed the
economy expanded faster than previously estimated and crude
supplies dropped to the lowest since February. Treasuries fell.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index, which yesterday completed
its recovery from losses after the collapse of Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc. in September 2008, gained 0.3 percent to 1,258.84
at 4 p.m. in New York. Oil rose 0.7 percent to $90.48 a barrel.
Ten-year Treasury yields increased three basis points to 3.34
percent, erasing an early drop. Greek bonds slid and the Swiss
franc rallied as Fitch Ratings said it may cut Greece’s debt
rating to junk.  The S&P 500 rose for a fifth day after the world’s largest
economy grew at a 2.6 percent annual rate last quarter, above
the government’s previous estimate of 2.5 percent and below the
2.8 percent median forecast from economists in a Bloomberg
survey. The Federal Reserve’s preferred inflation gauge, which
is tied to consumer spending and strips out food and energy,
rose at a 0.5 percent pace for the slowest growth in records
beginning in 1959.  “The economy is on the right track, but people need to
understand that it’s happening at a moderate pace,” said
 Jeffrey Saut , chief investment strategist at Raymond James &
Associates in St. Petersburg, Florida, who helps manage $240
billion. “I’m constructive going into 2011.”  Pre-Lehman Levels  The S&P 500 closed at the highest level since Sept. 8,
2008, the week before Lehman Brothers’ bankruptcy worsened the
credit crisis and triggered a further 46 percent slide in the
benchmark for U.S. stocks.  Gains in U.S. stocks today were led by banks, with JPMorgan
Chase & Co. and Bank of America Corp. climbing more than 2.8
percent. U.S. financial regulators, struggling for months with
budgets unequipped to handle new responsibilities imposed by the
Dodd-Frank Act, will go another 10 weeks without a funding
increase after lawmakers agreed yesterday to fund the government
at current levels through March 4. Without that funding, new
initiatives will be postponed or scrapped, regulators have said.  Nike Inc. , the world’s largest maker of athletic shoes,
sank 5.8 percent after orders fell short of some analysts’
estimates.  The benchmark index for U.S. stock options fell to a three-
year low as the S&P 500 moved in its narrowest range since April
2007.  VIX Tumbles  The VIX, as the Chicago Board Options Exchange Volatility
Index is known, fell 6.3 percent to 15.45, the lowest closing
level since July 2007. The index measures the cost of using
options as insurance against declines in the S&P 500, which
moved in a 0.35 percentage-point range, less than half the 0.83
average over the past four weeks.  Oil futures rallied after the U.S. Energy Department said
stockpiles dropped 5.33 million barrels. Crude for February
delivery reached the highest level since October 2008.  The two-year Treasury yield climbed three basis points to
0.63 percent. Ten- and two-year yields last week rose to the
highest levels in more than five months amid signs the economic
rebound was strengthening, reducing demand for the safety of
U.S. government debt.  Bond mutual funds had the biggest client withdrawals in
more than two years last week as a flight from fixed-income
investments accelerated. U.S. bond funds experienced withdrawals
of $8.62 billion in the week ended Dec. 15, up from $1.66
billion the week before, according to the Investment Company
Institute. Last week’s withdrawals were the largest since the
week ended Oct. 15, 2008, when investors yanked $17.6 billion
from bond funds.  European Stocks  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index advanced 0.1 percent to its
highest level since Sept. 3, 2008.  ARM Holdings Plc  soared 9.1
percent in London as people familiar with the plans said
Microsoft Corp. is preparing to offer a version of its Windows
operating system that runs on the U.K. chip designer’s
technology. Aker Solutions ASA, Norway’s largest engineering
company, climbed 4.3 percent after Jacobs Engineering Group Inc.
agreed to buy some of its units.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index advanced 0.2 percent.
Russia’s Micex Index climbed 0.5 percent as OAO Gazprom rallied
on higher crude prices. China’s Shanghai Composite Index
declined 0.9 percent, led by consumer companies and banks, after
the government raised fuel prices and Barclays Capital analysts
said new regulations will cut lenders’ capital adequacy ratios
and profits.  Franc Rallies  The franc strengthened against all 16 major peers. The
pound fell 0.5 percent versus the euro after data from the
Office for National Statistics showed the British economy
expanded 0.7 percent in the third quarter, compared with an
initial estimate of 0.8 percent growth.  The yield on the  10-year Greek security  was above 12
percent for the sixth consecutive day after Fitch Ratings said
yesterday that the nation may have its credit cut to non-
investment grade within six weeks after a review of the
government’s “fiscal sustainability.” Greece is rated BBB- at
Fitch, its lowest investment-grade rating.  Credit-default swaps insuring Greek debt rose 14.5 basis
points to a four-week high of 984, compared with a record
closing price of 1,126 on June 24, according to CMA prices.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael P. Regan in New York at 
 mregan12@bloomber.net ;
 Rita Nazareth  in Sao Paulo at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Nagi at   chrisnagi@bloomberg.net  