-- Dubai’s DP World Sells Australia Unit for $1.5 Billion
-- B y   A r i f   S h a r i f
-- 2010-12-22T13:24:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-22/dp-world-agrees-to-sell-75-stake-in-dp-world-australia-for-1-5-billion.html
DP World Ltd. , the Dubai-controlled
ports operator, raised A$1.5 billion ($1.5 billion) selling a
stake in its Australian unit as part of a plan to reduce debt
and focus on more profitable markets.  Citi Infrastructure Investors, a unit of Citigroup Inc.,
and a partner agreed to buy 75 percent of the business, which
operates terminals at five Australian ports, DP World said in a
e-mailed statement today. DP World, which will continue to
invest in and manage the terminals, expects regulatory approval
for the transaction by the end of the first quarter.  DP World plans to use all the proceeds to repay borrowings.
Separately, parent Dubai World is delaying payment on more than
$30 billion of debt and unpaid bills built up by constructing
palm-shaped islands off the Dubai coast and amassing stakes in
companies including luxury retailer Barneys New York Inc. and
U.S. casino group MGM Mirage. The deal will also pare DP World’s
reliance on Australia as pending competition from  Hutchison Port
Holdings Ltd.  threatens its market share of about 50 percent.  “The Australian assets are great, but it could be a good
time to monetize it because we don’t know whether the recent
strong performance is sustainable,” said  Redwan Ahmed , a Dubai-
based equity analyst at investment bank EFG-Hermes Holding SAE
who has a “neutral” rating on the stock.  DP World  rose as much as 8 percent to 65 cents before
closing at 64 cents in Dubai today. That gives it a market value
of $10.6 billion.  Cutting Debt  The company has net debt of $5.9 billion and almost $2.7
billion of cash before the Australia deal, Chief Financial
Officer  Yuvraj Narayan  said on a conference call today. Its
earliest maturing loan is a $3 billion facility in 2012, he
said. Interest-bearing loans stood at $7.4 billion at the end of
June, according to the company’s first-half earnings statement,
which also includes debt of subsidiaries and joint ventures.  DP World will earn a profit of more than $300 million from
the deal, Narayan told the conference call. The transaction will
allow DP World “to remain actively involved in Australia”
while helping cut debt, Narayan said in the statement.  DP World’s shares rose today because “the market did not
price in such valuation,”  Kareem Murad , an analyst at
investment bank Shuaa Capital PSC wrote in a report. The
transaction implies an enterprise value to Ebitda multiple of
18.9, while DP World itself trades at a multiple of 14.5, based
on its 2009 earnings, Murad said.  Growth Prospects  “Although the Australian ports added to the diversity of
DP World’s portfolio, growth prospects are relatively small
compared to the other regions,” Murad said.  DP World Australia runs terminals in Brisbane, Sydney,
Melbourne, Adelaide and Fremantle, with capacity of more than
3.5 million 20-foot container units a year, according to today’s
statement. The Australian unit had earnings before interest,
taxes, depreciation and amortization of A$96 million in 2009 and
the deal gives it an enterprise value of A$1.82 billion,
according to the statement. The payment to DP World includes
repayment of some cash owed by the Australian unit.  “There is no plan to sell assets in any other region,”
Chairman  Sultan Ahmed bin Sulayem  said on the call. “This is
purely an opportunity to better manage our money” and to use it
in higher-margin markets of South Asia, Africa and South
America, he said.  The company is targeting a long-term net debt-to-Ebitda
ratio of between 3.5 and 4.5, Narayan said today. The ratio was
4.7 at the end of 2009, according to Bloomberg calculations.  Market Share  DP World Australia and  Asciano Ltd. ’s Patrick unit each
handle about half of the nation’s container shipments, UBS
analysts led by  Simon Mitchell  said in a Dec. 6 note. DP World’s
market share may fall to 36 percent in five years and Patrick’s
to 43 percent, as Hutchison, the world’s largest ports operator,
adds facilities in Brisbane and Sydney, UBS said.  Sales of Australian businesses this year have more than
doubled to $115 billion from a six-year low in 2009, as buyers
seek assets in one of the few developed markets to avoid
recession during the global financial crisis. Today’s
transaction takes the value of such deals this quarter to $59
billion, the most on records dating back to 1998, according to
Bloomberg data.  DP World , which operates  50 terminals  across Asia, Europe,
Africa and the Americas, said Oct. 25 that third-quarter cargo
volume grew 14 percent to 13 million containers, after a global
trade rebound increased freight handling. Traffic fell 8 percent
last year as the worldwide recession cut demand.  Better Earnings  Second-half earnings are likely to be better than the first
half, DP World said Aug. 18, after reporting better-than-
forecast profit in the six months to June of $176.6 million.  Deutsche Bank AG and Citigroup Global Markets advised DP
World on today’s deal, while HSBC Holdings Plc and UBS AG
advised Citi Infrastructure, according to the statement.  DP World is in the early stage of discussions to invest in
expanding the San Antonio port in Chile, Chairman Sulayem said.
Work on a secondary listing in London is also progressing and
expected to be completed by the second quarter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Arif Sharif  in Dubai at 
 asharif2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maher Chmaytelli at 
 mchmaytelli@bloomberg.net  