-- Dubai May Sell More Assets as $20 Billion in Debt Comes Due in Next Year
-- B y   S t e f a n i a   B i a n c h i
-- 2010-12-23T11:18:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-22/dubai-may-sell-more-assets-as-20-billion-in-debt-comes-due-in-next-year.html
Sales of Dubai’s holdings are
gaining momentum a year after the emirate’s corporate flagship
shook world markets with plans to freeze payments on $24.9
billion in loans.  DP World Ltd.,  the port operator, agreed yesterday to sell
75 percent of its Australian unit, raising $1.5 billion. Borse
Dubai Ltd., which controls Dubai’s two stock exchanges, raised
$672 million Dec. 16 by selling about half its stake in Nasdaq
OMX Group Inc., owner of the second-largest U.S. equity
exchange. Both companies said they will use the proceeds to pay
down debt.  Dubai and its state-controlled companies have until now
been able to renegotiate with creditors. Some $20 billion in
debt and interest is due next year, according to Egyptian
investment bank EFG Hermes Holding SAE, raising the question
whether Dubai will be forced to sell overseas assets such as
luxury retailer  Barneys New York Inc.,  U.S. hotel and casino
group  MGM Mirage  and Canadian entertainment company Cirque du
Soleil Inc., all amassed during the boom years.  “Dubai has been rather successful at bargaining hard for
significant haircuts from major creditors,” said  Gabriel Sterne , an emerging market economist at brokerage Exotix
Holdings Ltd. in London. “Such bargaining needs some indication
they are cutting their coat according to their cloth, which is
hardly credible if at the same time they turn up dripping in
superfluous costume jewelry, which is what the non-core assets
have come to represent.”  Private-Equity Sale  Emirates NBD PJSC , which is 56 percent owned by the Dubai
government, agreed to sell a 49 percent stake in its credit-card
processing unit for about 2 billion dirhams ($545 million) to
Abraaj Capital Ltd., a Dubai-based private-equity company that
manages $6.6 billion, the bank said today. The bank is one of
the biggest lenders to Dubai World.  Dubai has signaled it may be open to the sale of some of
its most valuable assets with  Sheikh Ahmed bin Saeed Al Maktoum ,
chairman of the Dubai Supreme Fiscal Committee and the new
chairman of Dubai World, saying Nov. 28 that Dubai may sell
stakes in some of its “leading” companies to help reduce debt.
Among Dubai’s most prized domestic assets are Emirates Airline,
hotel operator Jumeirah Group LLC, Dubai Maritime City and Jebel
Ali Free Zone.  ‘Realistic Approach’  “There has been an evolution in the official discourse,
which has led to a very pragmatic and realistic approach,” said
Standard Chartered Plc senior economist  Philippe Dauba- Pantanacce . “All options are now on the table and this bodes
well for the medium-term resolution of the debt overhang.”  Barclays Capital estimated in September that Dubai and its
government-owned entities have about $112 billion in debt --
representing more than 140 percent of the country’s gross
domestic product -- that was amassed during years of growth in
the property and tourism industries.  Dubai World, one of the emirate’s three main state-owned
holding companies, got creditors to agree to new terms on $24.9
billion of debt in October. Its Nakheel PJSC property unit is
working on a similar deal for at least $10.5 billion in debt.
Dubai International Capital LLC, an investment company owned by
Dubai’s ruler, extended a $2 billion loan for six years and a
$500 million loan for four years, it said Dec. 17.  “Dubai Inc. certainly needs cash,” said  Fahd Iqbal ,
director of research at EFG Hermes. “But the need for cash has,
as yet, not been pressing enough for Dubai Inc. to consider
spinning off valuable, core, domestic assets at low prevailing
multiples.”  Insurance Costs Fall  The cost of protecting the emirate’s debt against default
fell to 427 basis points on Dec. 22, its lowest level since Nov.
11, according to prices provided by CMA DataVision. That is down
from a peak of 651 basis points on Feb. 15. A basis point equals
$1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  Dubai government debt, excluding that of state-controlled
companies, stands at $30 billion,  Mohammed Ibrahim al-Shaibani ,
director-general of the Dubai ruler’s court and chief executive
officer of the Investment Corp. of Dubai, said Nov. 28. He said,
however, that there would be no fire sale of assets.  “There is no plan to sell assets in any other region,” DP
World Chairman  Sultan Ahmed bin Sulayem  said on a conference
call yesterday explaining the sale of its Australian unit to
Citi Infrastructure Investors, a unit of Citigroup Inc. “This
is purely an opportunity to better manage our money” and to use
it in higher-margin markets of South Asia, Africa and South
America, he said.  Nasdaq Sale  The sale of Dubai’s stake in Nasdaq shows the difficulty it
is under in recouping its investments. Borse Dubai bought shares
in Nasdaq OMX at an indicative implied price of $41.01 a share
in 2007, according to a statement at the time, and sold about
half of them last week for 47 percent lower at $21.82 a share.  Dubai’s holdings have already sparked interest from some of
the world’s largest buyout firms. Carlyle Group, the second-
biggest private-equity company, and other buyout firms have
evaluated purchasing assets owned by Dubai, the Washington-based
company’s co-founder  David Rubenstein  said on Oct. 26.  “Dubai has built up a strong portfolio of companies with a
global footprint,” said  Rami Sidani , head of investments for
Schroders Plc in the Middle East. “Emirates Airline is the most
interesting and valuable company Dubai has and that would
attract huge interest. There are also companies such as Dubai
Airports, Dubai Duty Free and the Jumeirah Group that are great
assets.”  Five-Year Plan  Dubai World and Dubai International have both briefed
creditors on possible asset sales.  Dubai World may raise as much as $19.4 billion in eight
years by selling assets, a person with knowledge of the matter
said Aug. 25. If it sold those assets immediately it would
probably get $10.4 billion, the person said at the time.  Dubai International, part of Dubai Holding, presented a
plan to creditors to sell assets over five years to repay its
debts, two people with knowledge of the plan said Sept. 15. The
company has already sold stakes in  Sony Corp. , European
Aeronautic Defence & Space Co. and India’s  ICICI Bank Ltd.  in
recent years, despite poor market conditions. In June, it sold
its stake in Merlin Entertainments, which is majority owned by
Blackstone Group LP, the world’s largest buyout firm.  Dubai International still owns stakes in companies such as
U.K. medical-imaging firm Alliance Medical Ltd. and British
hotel chain Travelodge Hotels Ltd.,  according to its website .  “Dubai has in its business model a certain number of
activities that are not only extremely successful, for some they
are of world-class reach and expertise,” said Standard
Chartered’s Dauba-Pantanacce. “Investor interest could only be
very high in the selling of some of these assets.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Stefania Bianchi  in Dubai at 
 sbianchi10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  