-- Dubai Says 2022 Soccer World Cup in Qatar Will Lure Investment to Region
-- B y   V i v i a n   S a l a m a
-- 2010-12-22T11:09:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-22/dubai-says-2022-soccer-world-cup-in-qatar-will-lure-investment-to-region.html
Qatar’s success in being chosen to
host the 2022 soccer World Cup will be a win for the entire
region as it triggers competition among Persian Gulf countries
and attracts international investment, the head of Dubai’s
 Foreign Direct Investment office  said.  “More competition means more concentration on us here in
the region as a trade bloc,” Fahad Al Gergawi said in an
interview in Dubai today. “Qatar’s victory holds so many
opportunities for Dubai and for the Gulf as a whole.”  Getting Qatar ready for the world’s most-watched sporting
event will cost as much as $65 billion, Merrill Lynch estimated.
The announcement that Qatar was chosen came as a boost to Dubai,
which is struggling to recover from a credit crunch that led to
delays and cancellations involving some of its largest projects.
Construction and real estate shares gained in Dubai on Dec. 6,
the first trading day after the winning bid was announced, on
speculation that the entire region will reap the benefits.  The Foreign Direct Investment office, a unit of Dubai’s
Department of Economic Development, was established with the
goal of offering support and services to foreign companies
registered in Dubai. In 2010, 20 companies registered in Dubai
through the FDI office, Al Gergawi said.  That figure doesn’t include businesses registered through
one of more than a dozen so-called free zones, which offer tax
exemptions and allow 100 percent foreign ownership, he said. He
wouldn’t provide an estimate of the number of companies that
will register in 2011.  Al Gergawi said that the current foreign-ownership
regulations, which limit foreigners to a maximum 49 percent
stake in a company, are for the U.A.E.’s “national interests,”
and that easing the rules isn’t necessary to lure more foreign
businesses.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Vivian Salama  in Abu Dhabi at 
 vsalama@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at  at
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net . 