-- ECB Lends $196.8 Billion to Banks for Three Months to Meet Year-End Needs
-- B y   C h r i s t i a n   V i t s
-- 2010-12-22T11:01:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-22/ecb-will-lend-european-banks-197-billion-to-meet-liquidity-over-year-end.html
The European Central Bank will lend
banks 149.5 billion euros ($196.8 billion) for three months to
meet their liquidity needs over the year-end period.  The Frankfurt-based ECB said 270 banks asked for the
unlimited funds over 98 days, which will be loaned at its
average benchmark interest rate over the period. Banks tomorrow
need to repay 96.9 billion euros in maturing 12-month loans and
38.2 billion euros in three-month loans on the following day.  The ECB’s withdrawal of emergency stimulus is being
complicated by concerns about the fiscal health of countries
including Ireland, Spain and Greece. While the central bank has
abandoned six- and 12-month loans, President Jean-Claude Trichet
said on Dec. 2 that it will keep offering banks as much cash as
needed through the first quarter of 2011 to help restore lending
in the 16-member euro region.  “Banks’ liquidity needs are still pretty high and they
remain dependent on the ECB,” said  Ulf Kraus , a fixed-income
strategist at Helaba Trust GmbH in Frankfurt. “The crisis is
not over yet and today’s figure shows that the ECB took the
right decision to continue with the full allotment.”  The ECB is already seeking ways to reduce banks’ reliance
on emergency-liquidity measures. ECB council member Yves Mersch
told Neue Zuercher Zeitung in an interview published on Dec. 11
that the “phenomenon” of banks’ cash dependence “is being
worked on at the moment and we will probably present a
solution” at a meeting over the coming months.  Banks, concerned about the creditworthiness of some of
their counterparts, yesterday lodged 61.2 billion euros in the
ECB’s  deposit  facility, the central bank said in a separate
statement today. That’s up from 28.5 billion euros on Dec. 16.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Christian Vits  in Frankfurt at 
 cvits@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at   jfraher@bloomberg.net  