-- Hedge Fund Will Track Twitter to Predict Stock Moves
-- B y   J a c k   J o r d a n
-- 2010-12-22T15:20:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-22/hedge-fund-will-track-twitter-to-predict-stockmarket-movements.html
Derwent Capital Markets, a family-
owned hedge fund, will offer investors the chance to use Twitter
Inc. posts to gauge the mood of the stockmarket, said co-owner
Paul Hawtin.  The Derwent Absolute Return Fund Ltd., set to start trading
in February with an initial 25 million pounds ($39 million)
under management, will follow posts on the social-networking
website. A trading model will highlight when the number of times
words on Twitter such as “calm” rise above or below average.  A  paper  by the University of Manchester and Indiana
University published in October said the number of emotional
words on Twitter could be used to predict daily moves in the Dow
Jones Industrial Average. A change in emotions expressed online
would be followed between two and six days later by a move in
the index, the researchers said, and this information let them
predict its movements with 87.6 percent accuracy.  “Sentiment and mood dramatically change the impact of
positive and negative news stories,” said Hawtin in a telephone
interview. “If the market’s in a very positive and bullish
mood, it can shrug off bad news -- bad news comes out and you
expect the Dow to fall, and it doesn’t.”  Twitter now has 175 million users and sees 95 million posts
per day, according to its  website . That has risen from 50
million per day  as of February , and researchers are finding new
uses for this rapidly growing source of real-time data.  Trading Models  Derwent Capital Markets, based in London’s West End, signed
an exclusive deal this month with Xiao-Jun Zeng, a doctor of
computer science at the University of Manchester, to develop the
research into trading models. Derwent will also meet with
associate professor  Johan Bollen  and colleague Huina Mao of
Indiana University this week to discuss the possibility of them
working on the new fund, Hawtin said.  The fund will use algorithms based on the data extracted
from Twitter posts and other factors to trade the FTSE 100, FTSE
250 and Dow Jones Industrial Average indexes as well as oil,
gold and other precious metals and currencies.  Zeng, Bollen and Mao’s research measured the public mood by
searching Twitter posts from February to December 2008 for
synonyms of and language related to six moods: calm, alert,
sure, vital, kind and happy. The researchers then matched the
time and date of these posts to closing prices of the Dow Jones
Industrial Average to test their hypothesis that changes in the
sentiments expressed online could predict future index values.  Calm Mood  Their results showed that rises and falls in the number of
instances of words related to a calm mood could be used to
predict the same moves in the Dow’s closing price between two
and six days later, with a fall in these “calm” words being
followed by a fall in the index. The other moods did not have
the same predictive quality, the paper said.  A chart in the researchers’ paper shows instances of
“calm” words on Twitter and daily moves in the Dow’s closing
price. The two lines closely follow each other’s movements, with
rises and falls in the Dow lagging a few days behind the same
movements in the Twitter numbers.  Derwent expects an annual return on investment of between
15 percent and 20 percent on the new fund, Hawtin said, adding
that 1.5 million pounds of the initial stake will be the
managers’ own money.  “The only risk for us is if Twitter falls away and people
just don’t use it any more,” Hawtin said. “But we believe that
it can only get bigger and better, and that more and more people
will be using it to express their feelings.”  Sixty-six percent of online Americans now use social-
networking websites, according to a Jun. 10  report  by Experian
Information Systems Inc. Facebook Inc.’s website was the most
visited in the world last week with 10.1 percent of all internet
page views, Experian said on its  website .  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jack Jordan  in London at 
 jjordan22@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge at 
 ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  