-- Medicaid Pushes U.S. States Off ‘Cliff’ as Governors Seek Cuts
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i   a n d   P a t   W e c h s l e r
-- 2010-12-22T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-22/medicaid-demands-push-states-toward-cliff-even-as-governors-cut-benefits.html
Washington  State may not pay for
glasses anymore.  Massachusetts  already chopped  dentures . As of
Oct. 1,  North Carolina  no longer covers surgery for the
clinically obese.  Governors nationwide are taking a scalpel to Medicaid, the
jointly run state and federal health-care program for 48 million
poor Americans, half of whom are children. The single biggest
expense for states, Medicaid consumes about 22 percent of their
total $1.6 trillion in expenditures, more than what is allocated
to elementary and secondary education, according to a National
Governors Association  report .  With federal stimulus funds to help states pay higher
Medicaid costs running out June 30, “we’re heading for a cliff
in July,” said Brian Sigritz, director of state fiscal studies
at the  National Association of State Budget Officers  in
Washington.  Medicaid enrollment has jumped  13.6 percent  since the
recession began in 2007, according to the  Henry J. Kaiser Family
Foundation  based in Menlo Park, California. The 2009 federal
stimulus bill and a supplemental appropriation this year
allocated a total of $103 billion for Medicaid. With that
funding ending, state health-care expenditures may climb as much
as 25 percent in fiscal 2012, according to a Kaiser report.  Budget Deficits  Governors are slashing Medicaid to close as much as $140
billion in budget deficits for the 12 months starting in July
2012, after eliminating $130 billion in gaps this year,
according to the  Center on Budget and Policy Priorities,  a
Washington-based research group. Spending is being cut even
though state revenues rose for the three quarters ended Sept.
30, as the U.S. recovered from the longest recession since the
Great Depression, the Nelson A. Rockefeller Institute of
Government in Albany, New York, said in a Nov. 30 report.  “I don’t think most states want to sentence people to
death,” said  Judy Solomon , co-director of health policy at the
Center on Budget and Policy. “But what we see is a pretty bleak
 picture  of tough cuts made this year, and next year’s numbers
look worse.”  Washington Governor  Christine Gregoire  proposed cuts of
$112.9 million in vision, hearing and other benefits for her 1.1
million-member Medicaid program, according to  Jim Stevenson , a
spokesman for the health and social-services department. The
state faces “devastating” cuts to close a $4.6 billion deficit
in its two-year budget beginning July 1, Gregoire said Dec. 15.  California Cuts  In California, Governor  Arnold Schwarzenegger  proposed $980
million in savings on Medi-Cal, which covers 7.5 million people,
after previously slicing $110 million for acupuncture,
chiropractic and dental services in 2009. His Dec. 6 proposal
included $100-a-day copayments for hospital stays and a limit of
10 doctor visits a year.  Spending on Medicaid nationwide rose 8.8 percent last year,
the most since 2002, according to Kaiser. Nearly every state
issued at least one new policy to cut program costs in the past
two years, including benefit reductions, increased copays and
lower reimbursements to health-care providers.  “There’s no elegant solution on the horizon,” said  John Thomasian , director of the Center for Best Practices at the
National Governors Association in Washington.  Arizona  will reduce payments to doctors, hospitals and
ambulance services by 5 percent beginning April 1, according to
Monica Coury, a spokeswoman for the  Arizona Health Care Cost
Containment System , the Medicaid agency.  Denying Transplants  The state stopped paying for heart, liver and other
transplants on Oct. 1, prompting criticism of Governor  Jan Brewer , a Republican.  “We are the only state that has cut transplant care,”
state Representative  Anna Tovar , a Democrat from Tolleson who
received a stem-cell transplant, said in a telephone interview.
“Who are they to put a figure on a person’s life?”  Under the 2009 stimulus bill and the 2010 health overhaul
backed by President  Barack Obama , states can’t reduce Medicaid
eligibility below a prescribed level. Brewer, facing a $1
billion budget deficit, said she’ll ask federal permission to
remove 300,000 people from the 1.3 million-member program. The
cuts would be limited to those who have incomes higher that the
federally mandated minimum, according to Coury.  Some states may seek help from private insurers to reduce
expenses by managing illness through prevention and earlier
intervention, according to Vernon Smith, Michigan’s former
Medicaid director and now managing principal of  Health
Management Associates  in Lansing, Michigan.  UnitedHealth ‘Opportunity’  UnitedHealth Group Inc. , the biggest U.S. insurer by sales,
covers 3 million Medicaid participants and sees cost-control
pressure on states as an “opportunity,”  Gail Boudreaux , the
president of the company’s commercial division, told an investor
conference Nov. 30. The company, based in Minnetonka, Minnesota,
projects enrollment in its Medicaid plans to rise by as much as
300,000 in 2011, she said.  Every state has a unique formula for calculating the
federal contribution for Medicaid. The 12 with the highest
personal income, including California,  New York ,  New Jersey ,
 Connecticut  and  Colorado , typically depend on the U.S.
government for about half their expenditures.  Under the stimulus, the federal share rose to about 62
percent. In July it will return to the old formula, forcing the
states to pick up 50 percent of the total cost of the program
instead of 38 percent.  New York Governor-elect  Andrew Cuomo  has proposed cutting
costs by shifting patients to less expensive alternatives, such
as to clinics from hospitals when appropriate. He is to present
his state’s budget on Feb. 1. Two legislative committees in
Illinois are examining ways to reduce a $200 million deficit
this year in its 2.9 million-member Medicaid program, according
to Democratic State Representative Frank Mautino.  U.S. Grants  Florida ’s governor-elect,  Rick Scott , a former hospital
executive, and  Texas  Governor  Rick Perry  have proposed a system
of federal grants that would allow states to allocate funds as
they wish. Perry said his state’s $30 billion in Medicaid
spending could be cut in half if allowed to make its own
spending choices.  “There will be innovation breaking out all over the
country,” Perry said in a November interview.  States face the prospect of enrolling 16 million more
people in Medicaid beginning in 2014 under the Patient
Protection and Affordable Care Act, the health-care law Obama
signed in March. It expands coverage to include certain
childless adults under 65,  according  to Foley & Lardner LLP, a
law firm in Milwaukee. The federal government will pay 100
percent of the increased expense for the first three years.  $3.5 Billion  California, which expects 1.6 million people added to Medi-
Cal by the new law, estimates the expansion will cost $3.5
billion a year in 2020, when the federal subsidy drops to 90
percent, according H.D. Palmer, a Finance Department spokesman.  State lawmakers deferred action on Schwarzenegger’s
proposed reductions until Governor-elect  Jerry Brown  proposes
his budget on Jan. 10, according to  Nathan Barankin , a spokesman
for Senate President  Darrell Steinberg . Evan Westrup, a
spokesman for Brown, said the incoming governor hasn’t made his
plans for health-care savings public.  “Due to unprecedented fiscal challenges, we’ve had to make
some very difficult budget decisions,” Paulette Song, deputy
communications director for the Massachusetts Executive Office
of Health and Human Services, said in an e-mail from Boston.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Christopher Palmeri  in Los Angeles at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net ;
 Pat Wechsler  in New York at 
 pwechsler@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net ;
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 