-- Lehman, GSC, Lipstick, Tousa, Point Blank: Bankruptcy
-- B y   B i l l   R o c h e l l e
-- 2010-12-22T12:40:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-22/lehman-gsc-lipstick-tousa-point-blank-bankruptcy.html
Ernst & Young LLP, in its role as
former auditors for  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. , was sued for
civil fraud yesterday by New York Attorney General Andrew Cuomo,
who becomes the state’s governor Jan. 1.  The complaint in New York state court accuses the
accounting firm of helping Lehman to issue financial statements
showing the investment bank as less leveraged through the use of
so-called Rule 105 repurchase agreements.  Before the end of a quarter, Lehman would receive cash and
“temporarily park highly liquid, income producing securities
with European banks,” according to the complaint. The financial
statements didn’t disclose that Lehman had an obligation to
repurchase the securities a few days later at a higher price,
Cuomo said in the lawsuit.  The suit seeks to recover more than $150 million that Ernst
& Young charged Lehman in fees for the seven years through 2008,
plus unspecified “investor damages and equitable relief.”  For Bloomberg coverage of the complaint, click here.  Yesterday, Lehman filed reports summarizing real estate
settlements for the quarter ended Nov. 30. Lehman disposed of 88
real-estate investments at a discount, with an estimated
recovery just short of $10 million.  Lehman accepted less than the full amount owing on 22
residential and commercial loans with a market value of less
than $40 million. In addition, Lehman modified almost 50
residential mortgages with a combined market value of $2.6
million.  The Lehman holding company filed under Chapter 11 in New
York on Sept. 15, 2008. The brokerage operations went into
liquidation four days later in the same court. The brokerage is
in the control of a trustee appointed under the Securities
Investor Protection Act.  The Lehman holding company Chapter 11 case is In re Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc., 08-13555, while the liquidation
proceeding under the Securities Investor Protection Act for the
brokerage operation is Securities Investor Protection Corp. v.
Lehman Brothers Inc., 08-01420, both in U.S. Bankruptcy Court,
Southern District New York (Manhattan).  Updates  Minority Lenders Seek GSC Group Chapter 11 Trustee  The disputed sale of GSC Group Inc. became more complicated
with a motion for appointment of a Chapter 11 trustee filed by a
group calling themselves non-controlling lenders. The motion for
a trustee is on the calendar for a hearing today in U.S.
Bankruptcy Court in Manhattan.  The objecting lenders argue that the two top executive of
GSC, which calls itself a “diversified alternative investment
manager,” became “quasi agents” of Black Diamond Capital
Finance LLC, whose funds hold a majority of the $206.6 million
owing to secured lenders. Black Diamond won an auction for GSC
with a bid of $235 million.  The minority lenders say they discovered details about how
Alfred Eckert and Peter Frank, top GSC executives, negotiated a
compensation package valued at $6 million, most of which would
be contingent on a purchase by Black Diamond. They also said one
executive would receive an additional $500,000 as part of a
transaction where excess value would go to Black Diamond and
bypass the dissenting lenders.  The objecting lenders include Credit Agricole Corporate &
Investment Bank and General Electric Capital Corp.  GSC filed under Chapter 11 at the end of August and held an
auction at the end of October. The bankruptcy judge allowed
Black Diamond to bid the secured claim rather than cash. Black
Diamond is also agent for the lenders.  Originally named Greenwich Street Capital Partners Inc.
when it was a subsidiary of Travelers Group Inc., GSC became
independent in 1998 and at one time had $28 billion of assets
under management. Market reverses, termination of some funds,
and withdrawals of customers’ investments reduced funds under
management at the time of bankruptcy to $8.4 billion.  Based in Florham Park, New Jersey, GSC listed assets of
$119.8 million against debt totaling $313.6 million. GSC also
owes $10.2 million to Calyon New York Branch on an interest rate
swap agreement.  The case is In re GSC Group Inc., 10-14653, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Lipstick Building Set for Confirmation Today  The so-called Lipstick Building on Third Avenue in
Manhattan should have an approved Chapter 11 plan at a
confirmation hearing today given the absence of objections. The
plan was accepted by the only two classes of affected creditors
before the Chapter 11 filing on Nov. 16.  With unanimous support for the restructuring, the
transaction likely could have been implemented without a Chapter
11 filing. Bankruptcy had the advantage of allowing the parties
to avoid paying real estate transfer taxes that would have been
owing were the transaction completed outside of Chapter 11.  The Bankruptcy Code includes an exemption from transfer
taxes for transactions completed under a confirmed Chapter 11
plan.  The plan reduces the $210 million mortgage to $115 million.
For details of the plan, click here for the Nov. 17 Bloomberg
bankruptcy report.  Built in 1986, the 34-story property is on the East Side of
Manhattan, between 53rd and 54th Streets. The nickname resulted
from the building’s dark pink color and elliptical shape.  The case is In re Metropolitan 885 Third Avenue Leasehold
LLC, 10-16103, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New
York (Manhattan).  Wrangler Maker VF to Buy Rock & Republic Brands  VF Corp. , the manufacturer of Lee and Wrangler jeans, has a
contract to buy the brand name and intellectual property for $57
million cash from  Rock & Republic Enterprises Inc. , a wholesaler
and retailer of what it calls “avant-garde” apparel.  Along with signing the contract with Greensboro, North
Carolina-based VF, Rock & Republic and its official unsecured
creditors’ committee filed a liquidating Chapter 11 plan and
explanatory disclosure statement. They scheduled a Jan. 26
hearing for approval of the disclosure statement.  VF isn’t buying the inventory, stores and other assets,
which will be transferred to a liquidating trust under the plan.
The Chapter 11 plan calls for distributing proceeds from the
assets in the order of priority laid out in bankruptcy law.
Aside from secured creditors who are to be paid in full, the
disclosure statement has blanks where unsecured creditors later
will be told the percentage distribution to expect.  The liquidation analysis attached to the disclosure
statement contains a breakdown on the assets and debt providing
some clue about what unsecured creditors could expect.  According to the disclosure statement, there are expected
to be $20.1 million in secured claims as of Dec. 31, plus as
much as $13.7 million in priority claims and expenses of the
Chapter 11 case. Unsecured claims are listed on the liquidation
analysis at $34.9 million on the high side and $18.5 million on
the low end.  Other VF brands include North Face, JanSport and Riders.  Rock & Republic filed for Chapter 11 reorganization in
April in Manhattan, where it’s based. Revenue in 2009 was $97.6
million. Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization last year were $9.8 million. The products were sold
through upscale retailers and three company stores.  Assets were listed for $81.8 million against debt totaling
$38.1 million. Debt includes $5.7 million owing on a factoring
agreement.  The case is In re Rock & Republic Enterprises Inc.,
10-11728, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  Ambac Talking Settlement with Creditors, Commissioner  A lawyer for  Ambac Financial Group Inc.  told the bankruptcy
judge at a hearing yesterday that the company is in discussions
with the creditors’ committee and the Wisconsin insurance
commissioner.  The talks may result in a revised rehabilitation plan for
Ambac’s insurance subsidiary and a new term sheet for Ambac’s
own Chapter 11 reorganization.  For Bloomberg coverage, click here.  A trial was held in state court in Wisconsin over whether
to approve the proposed rehabilitation of the insurance
subsidiary, Ambac Assurance Corp. A bone of contention has been
how to allocate more than $7 billion in tax-loss carryforwards.
Some policyholders object to the proposed rehabilitation,
contending that giving up tax losses to the holding company
shortchanges holders of policies issued by the insurance
subsidiary.  The Chapter 11 petition in November by the Ambac parent
listed liabilities on a non-consolidated basis of $1.69 billion,
including $1.22 billion on six issues of senior unsecured notes
and $400 million in subordinated notes. The insurance company
stopped paying dividends to the parent in 2007 and stopped
writing new business entirely in mid-2008.  The case is In re Ambac Financial Group Inc., 10-15973,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District New York (Manhattan).  Examiner to Report on Crystal Cathedral’s Salaries  Crystal Cathedral Ministries , the mega-church in Garden
Grove, California, founded by  Robert H. Schuller , agreed to the
appointment of an examiner with a portfolio limited to
investigating proposed compensation for church officials.  The official unsecured creditors’ committee and the U.S.
Trustee jointly sought the examiner. It was agreed that the
examiner’s budget won’t exceed $25,000.  The church filed under Chapter 11 in mid-October in Santa
Ana, California, saying assets and debt both exceed $50 million.  Schuller retired from his role as senior pastor in 2006.
His daughter Sheila Schuller Coleman has been senior pastor
since July 2009. A court filing said contributions declined 24
percent in 2009, in part on account of “unsettled leadership.”  The case is In re Crystal Cathedral Ministries, 10-24771,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Central District of California (Santa
Ana).  Tousa’s Cash Declines to $508 Million as of Nov. 30  Homebuilder  Tousa Inc.  reported that the cash balance at
the end of November was $508.4 million, a decline of $2.8
million from October. Revenue in the month was $917,500 from the
sale of land.  Two U.S. district judges heard oral arguments in October on
the lenders’ appeal of a ruling by the bankruptcy judge in
October 2009 that that the bailout and refinancing in mid-2007
of a joint venture in  Transeastern Properties Inc . included
fraudulent transfers.  Tousa filed a Chapter 11 plan in July. Progress toward
confirmation is being held up pending a ruling on the appeal.
For a summary of the plan, click here for the July 20 Bloomberg
bankruptcy report. The plan assumes appellate courts uphold the
judgment the creditors’ committee won against the lenders.  Tousa filed for bankruptcy reorganization in January 2008.
The Hollywood, Florida-based company listed assets of $2.1
billion against debt totaling $2 billion. At the outset of the
reorganization it was 67 percent-owned by  Technical Olympic SA .  The case is In re Tousa Inc., 08-10928, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, Southern District of Florida (Fort Lauderdale).  Sawgrass Marriott Makes November Profit Without Interest  The owner of the  Sawgrass Marriott Resort  in Ponte Vedra
Beach, Florida, reported a net loss of $71,131 in November on
total revenue of $3.54 million. Net operating income for the
month was $828,000.  For November, earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation
and amortization were $530,000. The net loss didn’t include an
accrual for interest expense. Depreciation and amortization was
$601,000.  The resort’s owner and secured lender Goldman Sachs
Mortgage Co. are disputing the value of the property. Goldman,
owed $193 million, previously said it believes the property is
worth $135.3 million. The owner has said the value was $90
million.  The resort filed under Chapter 11 on March 1 in
Jacksonville, Florida, saying assets and debt both exceed $100
million.  The case is In re RQB Resort LP, 10-01596, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, Middle District of Florida (Jacksonville).  Baltimore Jewish Times Confirms Reorganization Plan  Alter Communications Inc. , the publisher of the Baltimore
Jewish Times, filed for Chapter 11 protection in April and
secured the signature of the bankruptcy judge on a confirmation
order yesterday approving the reorganization plan.  The plan leaves the largest secured claims in place while
paying 50 percent to unsecured creditors with claims of less
than $2,500. Unsecured creditors with larger claims are
estimated to recover 16 percent by receiving 85 percent of free
cash flow through 2015.  Although existing owners will have their stock canceled,
they can purchase the new stock for $14,000. Unsecured creditors
have the option of buying 15 percent of the new stock.  Alter was forced to file in Chapter 11 following a $362,000
judgment in favor of a former printer.  Alter said assets and debt are both less than $10 million.
Debt included $641,000 owing to a secured lender.  In addition to the newspaper, publications include the
magazine Style, with 90,000 circulation, and Chesapeake Life,
with a circulation of 57,000.  The case is In re Alter Communications Inc., 10-18241, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, District of Maryland (Baltimore).  Point Blank Reports November Net Loss of $1.26 Million  Point Blank Solutions Inc. , a manufacturer of soft body
armor, reported a $1.26 million net loss in November on sales of
$5.66 million. Before tax benefits, the loss was $2.08 million.  By obtaining replacement financing, the two official
committees evidently succeeded in preventing the company from
being sold. The new loan came from Lonestar Partners LP, Privet
Fund Management LLC and Prescott Group Capital Management.  The three investors are willing to backstop an equity
offering of $15 million to $25 million to help finance a Chapter
11 plan. The offering would be open to unsecured creditors and
stockholders. For details of the plan, click here for the Dec.
14 Bloomberg bankruptcy report.  Based in Pompano Beach, Florida, Point Blank has two
plants. Revenue in 2009 exceeded $153 million. The former chief
executive officer and chief operating officer were convicted in
September of orchestrating a $185 million fraud.  The Chapter 11 petition in April listed assets of $64
million against debt totaling $68.5 million. Debt included a
$10.5 million secured loan paid off by financing for the Chapter
11 case. Point Blank said it also owes $28.2 million to trade
suppliers.  The case is In re Point Blank Solutions Inc., 10-11255,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  Jeweler Shane Consummates Full-Payment Reorganization Plan  Shane Co. , a jewelry retailer based in Centennial,
Colorado, implemented the reorganization plan yesterday that the
bankruptcy judge approved by signing a confirmation order in
November. The plan pays secured and unsecured creditors in full,
over time.  For details of the plan, click here for the Sept. 30
Bloomberg bankruptcy report.  Shane had 23 jewelry stores on filing under Chapter 11 in
January 2009 and currently operates 20 in 13 states.  The company filed formal lists showing assets of $130
million and debt totaling $103 million, including $31.4 million
owing on secured claims.  The case is Shane Co., 09-10367, U.S. Bankruptcy Court,
District of Colorado (Denver).  Watch List  Golden Gate’s Orchard Brands May Prepack This Month  Retailer  Orchard Brands Corp.  may begin a prepackaged
Chapter 11 reorganization by the end of the year, according to
three people with knowledge of the plans.  Orchard, controlled by private-equity investor Golden Gate
Capital Corp., was unable to find a buyer and hasn’t paid some
vendors this month, said the people, who asked not to be
identified because the talks are private.  Brands of Beverly, Massachusetts-based Orchard include
Appleseed’s, Draper’s & Damon’s, Gold Violin, Haband and Norm
Thompson. Annual revenue is more than $1.1 billion, according to
the website. The stores sell clothing, footwear and household
goods.  First-lien debt was $325 million, a person familiar with
the matter said in October. For Bloomberg coverage, click here.  Daily Podcast  Sprint Sues TerreStar, Sanctions, Evidence: Bankruptcy Audio  A  Sprint Nextel Corp.  suit against TerreStar Networks Inc.
over liens on FCC licenses, sanctions on a lawyer for
resubmitting a defective plan, and using extrinsic evidence in
interpreting ambiguous reorganization plans are topics discussed
in the bankruptcy podcast with Bloomberg Law’s Lee Pacchia and
Bloomberg News bankruptcy columnist and editor-at-large Bill
Rochelle. To listen, click here.  Downgrade  NCI Building Systems Lowered to B Corporate on Competition  NCI Building Systems Inc . received a one-notch downgrade
yesterday from Standard & Poor’s that gave the producer of metal
products for non-residential construction a B corporate grade.  Operating performance has been weaker than expected because
of “intense price competition,” S&P said.  S&P projects “commercial construction to decline by about
15 percent in 2010 and another 7 percent in 2011.” On the
positive side, S&P said liquidity is “strong,” with $77
million cash and $80 million available on the revolving credit.  The Houston-based company reported a $21.4 million net loss
on sales of $629.1 million for the first nine months of 2010.
The loss from operations was $20.8 million for the three
quarters. Tax benefits amounted to $11.5 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bill Rochelle  in New York at 
 wrochelle@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 