-- Telus Weighs Commercial-Paper Wager on Low Interest Rates: Canada Credit
-- B y   H u g o   M i l l e r
-- 2010-12-22T16:51:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-22/telus-may-sell-commercial-paper-in-refinance-bet-to-benefit-from-low-rates.html
Telus Corp. , Canada’s third-largest
wireless carrier, may sell floating-rate commercial paper to
help refinance C$1 billion ($985 million) of bonds amid
speculation the Bank of Canada won’t raise interest rates soon.  “Refinancing in part with commercial paper that floats,
you would have to have interest rates go up a tremendous amount
over five to 10 years to make locking-in long term pay off
relative to short term,” said Telus Chief Financial Officer  Bob McFarlane  in a phone interview.  About 87 percent of the Canadian wireless carrier’s debt is
at fixed rates, McFarlane said. The central bank left its
benchmark overnight interest rate at 1 percent on Dec. 7, the
second straight pause, to gauge the global recovery after three
earlier increases. Yields on interest-rate futures have dropped
this month, indicating reduced expectations for higher borrowing
costs.  This makes Canada’s commercial-paper market an attractive
place for local and foreign companies to roll over short-term
debt. Bank of Canada one-month commercial paper rates were 1.07
percent at the end of last week, little changed since October.  The market for short-term corporate debt is beginning to
recover after shrinking during the global recession, led by
auto-financing companies and oil and gas pipeline operators,
according to  data  from ratings company DBRS Ltd. Commercial
paper worth C$812 million was issued by companies in November,
lifting the volume of outstanding debt by 3 percent to C$28.1
billion from October and by 8.5 percent from a year earlier,
Toronto-based DBRS said.  Yield Premiums  Elsewhere in credit markets, the extra yield, or spread,
investors demand to own the debt of Canadian corporations rather
than the federal government narrowed to 139 yesterday from 140
on Dec. 20, according to a Bank of America Merrill Lynch index.
The spread was as narrow as 114 basis points in March, the data
show. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  The spread on U.S. corporate debt over Treasuries was 169
basis points as of Dec. 20, according to another Merrill Lynch
index, unchanged from Dec. 17. Treasuries have lost investors
2.1 percent this month as of Dec. 20, paring their return for
the year to 5.6 percent, Merrill Lynch data show. Canadian
government bonds have slipped 0.2 percent this month as of
yesterday, trimming the 2010 gain to 5.9 percent.  Provincial Bond Market  In the provincial bond market, relative yields were 52
basis points yesterday, unchanged from Dec. 20. They shrank to
39 basis points in January, the narrowest this year.  Yields on the June 2011 bankers’ acceptances contract, a
gauge of expectations for short-term borrowing costs, touched
1.53 percent yesterday, a decline of three basis points, or 0.03
percentage point. The yield was 1.58 percent at the end of last
week and 1.70 percent on Nov. 29.  So-called Bax contracts average about 20 basis points above
the central bank’s overnight target, Bloomberg data since 1992
show. Hedge funds and money managers use the contracts to hedge
against interest-rate changes and make bets.  The spread on Merrill’s index of Canadian industrial debt,
which tracks 366 bonds including Telus’s, narrowed to 151 basis
points yesterday, from 152 on Dec. 20. It started the year at
154 basis points and contracted to a low of 130 in March.
Relative yields on Merrill’s index of Canadian bonds rated BBB,
including Telus’s, were 188 basis points yesterday, compared
with a 2010 low of 161 in April. The spread began the year at
197 basis points.  Telus Refinancing Debt  Spurred on by the arrival of four new telecommunications
carriers in the past year and aggressive cost-cutting at
Montreal-based rival BCE Inc.,  Telus  is reducing pension costs
and refinancing debt to plow money into its wireless business.
In the past year, Telus has refinanced C$2 billion of the C$3
billion in  debt  left from its 2000 acquisition of Clearnet Inc.
at a lower rate of 5.05 percent. That will cut financing costs
by 16 cents per share in 2011, McFarlane said.  The CFO said he’s weighing how much of the C$1 billion set
to mature in June to reissue in short- or long-term debt, versus
repaying some of it from projected cash flow or tapping bank
lines of credit. The company, whose free cash flow climbed to
C$339 million last quarter, said it expects free cash flow to
increase by 7 percent to 27 percent next year.  “We don’t need to refinance the entire amount in debt,
because otherwise we’d be building up cash,” he said. “It
doesn’t make sense paying interest on debt we don’t need to.”  ‘The Most Advantageous’  Telus is in no rush to refinance and may not act till June,
McFarlane said. “We’ll look at market conditions and tap into
doing an issue that’s most advantageous,” he said.  The company said it was paying 0.93 percent on commercial
paper holdings worth C$172 million at the end of the third
quarter. That gives it room to lift its commercial-paper
holdings to a range of C$400 million to C$500 million,  Chris Diceman , a DBRS analyst, said in a phone interview.  “They’re going to look at all their options,” Toronto-
based Diceman said.  The extra yield investors demand to own Telus’s 5.05
percent bonds due in July 2020 instead of 10-year government
debt was 178 basis points today, the same as on July 20 when the
debt was issued.  Telus fell 21 cents to C$46.35 at 11:42 a.m. in trading on
the Toronto Stock Exchange. The stock has climbed 36 percent
this year.  Interest in Telus bonds is likely to continue, with
Canadian government bond yields near record lows, Telus’s
McFarlane said. The rise in Canada’s benchmark 10-year note this
year has pushed the  yield  down 47 basis points to 3.14 percent.  New Issuance  New issuance in the shorter-term corporate debt market in
2010 was led by Honda Canada Finance Inc. and VW Credit Canada
Inc., followed by pipeline operators Enbridge Inc. and
TransCanada Keystone Pipeline LP, DBRS research shows.
Corporate-issued debt accounts for about 9 percent of Canada’s
 C$314 billion short-term debt market , with federal Treasury
bills making up 55 percent of the total.  Still, the market is off its peak of about C$60 billion in
May 2007, according to DBRS.  “It’s certainly seen better days over the last few years”
as foreign issuers left the market, Michael Ho, DBRS senior
vice-president, said in a phone interview. “The Canadian
commercial-paper market should recover” helped by local issuers
although it will be “very slow,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Hugo Miller  in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  