-- Emerging-Market Stocks Climb Second Day on Oil, Growth Outlook
-- B y   B e r n i   M o e s t a f a   a n d   M i c h a e l   P a t t e r s o n
-- 2010-12-22T17:15:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-22/emerging-market-stocks-climb-for-second-day-on-oil-u-s-growth-outlook.html
Emerging-market stocks climbed for a
second day as rising oil prices boosted the earnings outlook for
energy companies and the U.S. economy grew faster than
previously estimated.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index  advanced 0.1 percent to
1,125.45 at 12:03 p.m. in New York, the highest level on a
closing basis in a week. Most currencies strengthened, led by a
0.5 percent gain in Colombia’s peso versus the dollar. The extra
yield investors demand to hold emerging-market debt instead of
Treasuries fell 8 basis points to 2.43 percentage points,
JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI+ Index showed.  Russia’s Micex Index climbed to the highest level since
July 2008 as oil rose to more than $90 a barrel, boosting shares
of OAO Gazprom and OAO Lukoil. Stocks in Turkey and the Czech
Republic rose at least 0.8 percent.  “Commodities seem the best bet as prices are likely to
rally,” said  Deven Choksey , chief executive officer at Mumbai-
based K.R. Choksey Shares & Securities Pvt., which manages $125
million.  Crude for February delivery rose as much as 98 cents to
$90.80 a barrel in electronic trading on the New York Mercantile
Exchange, the strongest since the two-year peak of $91.17
reached on Dec. 7.  The U.S. economy expanded at a 2.6 percent annual rate in
the third quarter, a pickup in growth that may extend into 2011
as companies and consumers gain confidence to spend. The revised
increase in gross domestic product compares with a 2.5 percent
estimate issued last month and was less than the median forecast
of 2.8 percent among analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  China, Brazil  Gazprom, Russia’s natural-gas export monopoly, climbed 0.5
percent and crude producer Lukoil increased 0.7 percent.
Russia’s ruble strengthened 0.2 percent against the dollar. The
Micex in Russia, the world’s largest energy exporter, has
climbed 23 percent this year, compared with a 14 percent gain
for the MSCI emerging-market index.  China’s  Shanghai Composite Index  retreated 0.9 percent, led
by banks and consumer companies, after the government raised
fuel prices and Barclays Capital analysts said new regulations
will cut lenders’ capital adequacy ratios and profits.  China Construction Bank Corp., the nation’s second-biggest
lender, fell 1 percent in Hong Kong and  Industrial and
Commercial Bank of China Ltd.  retreated 0.9 percent.  Brazil’s  Bovespa  stock-index dropped 0.3 percent,
retreating from the biggest advance in two weeks, as traders
stepped up bets for higher borrowing costs after the central
bank said it may need to increase interest rates in the “short
term” to tame inflation. The Brazilian real weakened 0.1
percent against the dollar.  Homebuilders, Retailers  MRV Engenharia e Participacoes SA  and  Cia. Brasileira de
Distribuicao Grupo Pao de Acucar  led homebuilders and retailers
lower as policy makers raised their inflation forecast for 2011.  Indian stocks fell 0.2 percent, snapping a three-day rally
that took the  Bombay Stock Exchange’s Sensitive Index  to a five-
week high, amid concern higher commodity prices will increase
companies costs.  Maruti Suzuki India Ltd. , the nation’s biggest automaker,
dropped the most in a month after Chairman R.C. Bhargava said
tight liquidity and rising interest rates will hurt sales.  Turkey’s  ISE National Index of stocks  climbed 1 percent as
Deputy Prime Minister  Ali Babacan  met chief executives of the
country’s 49 banks. Babacan was expected to brief the bankers on
government measures to curb lending and on the outlook for 2011.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Berni Moestafa  in Jakarta at 
 bmoestafa@bloomberg.net ;
 Michael Patterson  in London at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net . 