-- Enstar Agrees to Acquire Hannover Re's Clarendon Insurer for $200 Million
-- B y   O l i v e r   S u e s s
-- 2010-12-22T14:11:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-22/enstar-agrees-to-acquire-hannover-re-s-clarendon-insurer-for-200-million.html
Enstar Group Ltd ., a Bermuda-based
insurance management provider, agreed to buy Clarendon National
Insurance Co. from  Hannover Re  for $200 million.  The deal will be financed through a bank-loan facility and
cash, Enstar said today in a statement. The sale includes all
the operational companies of Clarendon Insurance Group and
allows Hannover Re “to free itself from the operational risks
associated with the run-off of a U.S. insurer,” the Hanover,
Germany-based company said separately.  Hannover Re, the world’s third-biggest reinsurer, bought
U.S. specialty insurer Clarendon in 1998 as it sought to reduce
its dependency on property and casualty reinsurance, where
earnings can be more volatile. The company sold most of its
specialty insurance business to Australia’s QBE Insurance Group
Ltd. for $800 million in December 2006.  As the selling price is equivalent to about 80 percent of
the statutory equity of Clarendon, Hannover Re expects to book a
charge in the “mid-double-digit million-euro range” this year,
it said. The company reiterated its target to post a profit in
2010 of more than 700 million euros ($918 million).  Specialty insurance includes art insurance, health
insurance for pets and policies for high-risk drivers. Insurers
or groups of insurance contracts that are in so-called run-off
are no longer accepting new business, thus fading out the
existing coverage over time. Enstar specializes in acquiring and
managing businesses that are being run off.  The transaction, on which J.P. Morgan Securities acted as
the exclusive financial adviser to Hannover Re, is expected to
close in the second quarter of 2011, both parties said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Oliver Suess in Munich at 
 osuess@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net 
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  