-- EPA to Probe Chromium-6 After Potential Carcinogen Found in U.S. Tap Water
-- B y   K i m   C h i p m a n
-- 2010-12-22T22:48:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-22/epa-to-probe-chromium-6-a-possible-carcinogen-in-u-s-drinking-water.html
The Obama administration said it
will investigate  chromium-6 , a possible carcinogen, in drinking
water after an  environmental group  found the chemical in the tap
water of 31 U.S. cities.  “As a mother and the head of the EPA, I am still concerned
about the prevalence of chromium-6 in our drinking water,”
Environmental Protection Agency Administrator  Lisa Jackson  said
today in an e-mailed statement.  The chemical, deemed a probable  carcinogen  by the National
Institutes of Health in 2008, was found in the water of 89
percent of 35 U.S. cities sampled, according to a Dec. 20 report
by the Washington-based Environmental Working Group. The highest
levels were detected in Norman, Oklahoma; Honolulu; Riverside,
California; and Madison, Wisconsin, the report showed.  “The science behind chromium-6 is evolving,” Jackson said
in the statement following her meeting yesterday with 10
senators including Democrats Dianne Feinstein of California and
Daniel Akaka of Hawaii. “The EPA is already on a path toward
identifying and addressing any potential health threats from
excessive, long-term exposure.”  The agency intends to complete its risk assessment of
chromium-6 after an independent scientific review is concluded
next year, Jackson said. The EPA probably will revise drinking-
water rules based on the new evidence, she told the senators
yesterday.  The EPA will work in the meantime with state and local
officials to better determine the threat and will issue guidance
to all water systems on how to monitor and sample programs for
chromium-6, Jackson said in the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kim Chipman in Washington at 
 kchipman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  