-- Meredith Whitney Overreaches With Muni Meltdown Call: Joe Mysak
-- B y   J o e   M y s a k
-- 2010-12-22T02:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-22/meredith-whitney-overreaches-in-muni-default-call-commentary-by-joe-mysak.html
There will be between 50 and 100
“significant” municipal bond defaults in 2011, totaling
“hundreds of billions” of dollars.  So said banking analyst and new municipal bond expert
 Meredith Whitney  on the “60 Minutes” show on Sunday, in
perhaps the boldest, most overreaching call of her career.  Hundreds of billions of dollars? The one-year record, set
in 2008, is $8.2 billion. You can see how an estimate of
“hundreds of billions” would get people’s attention.  There are a lot of reasons to be doubtful about the health
of the municipal market right now, as elucidated by “60
Minutes” correspondent  Steve Kroft . Tax revenue is down, public
pension and health-care liabilities are up, the federal
government’s bailout money to the states is running out and the
chances that those funds will be replenished are remote.  And yet -- hundreds of billions of dollars in default? The
number is in the realm of the fabulous. If pressed, I would say
that we might see between 100 and 200 municipal defaults next
year, maybe totaling in the $5 billion or $10 billion range.  Whitney  doesn’t believe the states will default. That
leaves us with local governments and authorities as the ones
failing to pay debt service on their bonds, which makes this an
even bolder call.  Most defaults in the modern era aren’t governmental or what
we might call municipal at all. The majority are corporate or
nonprofit borrowings in the guise of some municipal conduit --
nursing homes, housing developments, biofuel refineries -- so
they could qualify for tax-free financing.  Whitney’s Vision  And those are the ones I think will still comprise the
majority of defaults in 2011.  This isn’t the Whitney scenario. No, she envisions between
50 and 100 -- or more -- counties, cities and towns making the
choice to renege on their bonded debt.  My question is: Why?  Why would a governmental entity go out of its way to
provoke or alienate its best  source  of finance? In the old days
you might say that bondholders were a distant class of banks and
plutocrats mainly centered in the Northeast. That’s no longer
true, and hasn’t been since at least the passage of the Tax
Reform Act of 1986, which made bonds less attractive for banks
and insurance companies, among other things. Today, a city’s
bondholders might live in the municipality itself, and almost
certainly reside within the state.  Debt Service  Why would a governmental entity choose to default on its
bonds, especially if they make up a relatively small proportion
of its costs?  “Debt levels for U.S. local and state governments are
relatively low, with annual debt service representing a
relatively small part of budgets,” Fitch Ratings said in a
special report in November.  Entitled “U.S. State and Local Government Bond Credit
Quality: More Sparks Than Fire,” the report said, “The tax-
supported debt of an average state is equal to just 3 percent -
4 percent of personal income, and local debt roughly 3 percent -
5 percent of property value. Debt service is generally less than
10 percent of a state or local government’s budget, and in many
cases much less.”  The lead analyst on the report was  Richard Raphael , who has
been covering municipal finance for 31 years. He is not one of
the analysts “who got everything wrong in the housing
collapse,” in the words of correspondent Kroft. In his report,
Raphael said, “debt service is a relatively small part of most
budgets, so not paying it does not do much to solve fiscal
problems (particularly as compared to the costs of such an
action).”  Headline Grabber  What irks me about this Whitney call is that it generalizes
about a market that resists generalization, a market that is
particular and specific to a remarkable degree. And it doesn’t
answer the question “Why?” It is instead an assertion aimed at
getting attention.  Whitney made headlines in 2007 when she predicted Citigroup
would lower its dividend and that it was time to sell bank
stocks. She made headlines in September when she said she
produced a report on 15 states’ financial condition, and said
the federal government might be called upon to bail them out.
Whitney only let clients see the report, so I don’t know if her
conclusions are supported. She said it was 600 pages long and
had taken two years to produce.  Perhaps Whitney should stick with bank stocks.  ( Joe Mysak  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column: Joe Mysak in New York at
   jmysakjr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  