-- European Airlines Battle to Add Flights as Snows Ease
-- B y   S t e v e   R o t h w e l l   a n d   J a c k   J o r d a n
-- 2010-12-22T17:34:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-22/european-airlines-struggle-to-add-flights-clear-backlog-as-snowfalls-ease.html
British Airways Plc  is struggling to
restore flights at its  London Heathrow  hub even as runways are
cleared of snow and ice that closed airports and snarled
Europe’s road and rail networks for the past four days.  While Heathrow is operating at about 70 percent of capacity
today, according to owner  BAA Ltd. , British Airways built its
timetable around earlier advice that Europe’s busiest airport
would be limited to one-third of flights until tomorrow morning.  “It takes some time to rebuild an operation of our size and
complexity at very short notice,” British Airways said in a
statement. The carrier aims to operate all long-haul Heathrow
flights tomorrow plus the “vast majority” of European services.  BAA Chief Executive Officer  Colin Matthews  said he’ll forgo
an unspecified annual bonus following the disruption and will
focus on “rebuilding confidence” in Heathrow as the Christmas
holidays add to the volume of passengers. Thousands of air, rail
and road travelers remain marooned across Europe in the wake of
blizzards that produced Britain’s worst early snow in 17 years.  “We’re expecting a unique demand for tickets,” said
 Berthold Huber , chief of long-distance operations for German
state-owned railway  Deutsche Bahn AG . The Berlin-based company
plans to add extra trains from today to help cope with passenger
loads inflated by flight cancellations, he said.  Bigger Planes  British Airways said passengers should continue to avoid
travelling to Heathrow today unless they have confirmation that
their flight will operate. It aims to boost capacity on short-
haul routes tomorrow and Christmas Eve by operating wide-body
planes where possible, having today flown 275-seat Boeing Co.
777s to cities including Paris, Amsterdam and Madrid.  “This is a huge logistical task but we won’t stop working
until we fill our aircraft with as many customers as possible,”
CEO  Willie Walsh  said. “Teams are working round the clock to get
as many people where they want to be ahead of Christmas day.”  Virgin Atlantic Airways Ltd. , the U.K.’s second-biggest
long-haul carrier, said on its website that 24 flights would
operate to and from Heathrow today, or 60 percent of the usual
total. The 16 flights canceled include trips to and from Miami,
San Francisco and Tokyo, according to a statement last night.  There’s still a “massive backlog” of flights at Heathrow
and passengers should expect continued disruption as the
schedule returns to normal next week, Virgin said today. The
airline will confirm tomorrow’s timetable at 8 p.m. London time.  BMI, Heathrow's second-biggest operator, said it restored
a full service there, becoming the first U.K. carrier to do so.  Cathay Rescue  Cathay Pacific Airways Ltd. added three services from the
U.K. to Hong Kong to help rescue stranded passengers. The Asian
carrier transported people by bus from London to catch a flight
in Manchester, northern England, last night, and will provide a
further service there today, plus an extra trip from Heathrow.  Manchester airport has so far avoided long-term closures
during the cold spell that began in late November, and said
today it received 26 flights that were diverted from southern
England and 10 that had been headed to Paris and Frankfurt.
Qatar Airways Ltd., Delta Air Lines Inc., Emirates and Etihad
Airways also added extra outbound flights, the airport said.  Ryanair Holdings Plc , Europe’s largest discount carrier,
said it has added 14 flights in Belgium, France, Ireland and
Poland, as well as the U.K., to help clear a passenger backlog.  Though skies cleared in some parts of the U.K., snow was
forecast to fall in Wales and northwest England throughout the
day and until at least mid-afternoon in the Midlands and eastern
England, according to the Met Office’s website. The state-funded
organization also warned of “widespread icy roads.”  Travel Peak  Birmingham and East Midlands airports, which lie within the
snow band, remain open, according to their websites, though
passengers are again advised to contact their airline before
setting off. In Scotland, Edinburgh airport said that flights
are operating with some delays and cancellations, while Dublin
airport reopened this morning following more than 15 centimeters
(6 inches) of snow yesterday, according to its website.  The peak day for road travel in the U.K. will be tomorrow,
according to the Automobile Association, Britain’s biggest car-
rescue service. The company said Dec. 20 was the busiest day in
its 105-year history, with more than 28,000 breakdowns.  Paris’s Charles de Gaulle and Orly airports are open today,
though flight delays remain possible, operator Aeroports de
Paris said in a statement. With more snow forecast, Air France
scrapped 15 percent of medium-haul flights at the terminals from
5 p.m. through midnight, plus a quarter of tomorrow’s schedule.  Deutsche Lufthansa AG  expects “almost regular” operations
within Germany and across Europe as the weather improves, said a
spokeswoman,  Bettina Rittberger .  Eurostar Delays  Channel Tunnel rail operator Eurostar Group Ltd. said on
its website that a “near normal” timetable should operate
today, with the proviso that only passengers holding tickets
will be able to travel.  The first trains to Brussels and Paris left London on time
today, though services will likely depart late and journey times
will be longer as speed restrictions remain in place on some
parts of the network. Delays were so severe yesterday that a
line of passengers snaked 600 meters around London’s St Pancras
station and the British Red Cross handed out blankets.  U.K. long-distance train company East Coast, which links
London with Edinburgh via Leeds and Newcastle upon Tyne, also
anticipates a near-normal service today. French rail operations
largely returned to schedule yesterday as snowstorms eased.  The gradual reopening of Europe’s airports and railway
lines has come too late for many travelers.  Howard Rubel , a New York-based analyst at Jefferies & Co.,
had planned to spend Christmas on safari in Africa before his
flights via Europe were canceled. After scanning schedules for
alternative routes Rubel says he failed to find seats for his
family and instead opted for a vacation in Florida.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Steven Rothwell  in London at 
 srothwell@bloomberg.net ;
 Jack Jordan  in London at 
 jjordan22@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong   kwong11@bloomberg.net ;
Colin Keatinge at   ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  