-- Euro Member Exit Probability in 2011 at 7 Percent as EU Steps In, IHS Says
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2010-12-22T12:54:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-22/euro-member-exit-probability-in-2011-at-7-percent-as-eu-steps-in-ihs-says.html
The risk of a euro member leaving
the single currency next year is only about 7 percent because
European Union leaders will use “as many resources as
necessary” to prevent a breakup, IHS Global Insight said.  The probability of any one country leaving the euro region
in the next five years is 20 percent, IHS economists including
London-based  Howard Archer  and  Timo Klein  in Frankfurt said in a
note to clients released today. The chance of a “more extreme
breakup” by 2015 is 5 percent, they said.  The EU and the International Monetary Fund have approved
rescue packages for Ireland and Greece this year after concerns
about the sustainability of government finances pushed up bond
yields. The most likely outcome is that the 16-nation euro area
will remain intact as the will of European leaders to hold the
alliance together may be underestimated, IHS said.  “A breakup would unravel decades of European political and
economic integration and severely damage the common market,”
the economists said. “Confronted with this risk, Europe will
marshal huge political efforts and resources to prevent a
breakup as no economic argument can supersede the political
objective.”  Still, “the current financial stress in some countries is
unprecedented, and internal actions to stabilize finances and
restore competitiveness might become too painful to endure,”
they said.  The catalyst for a breakup may come from political and
social upheaval that would lead to the rejection of policy
reforms and agreements with the EU and IMF in exchange for
financial bailouts, as well as rising bond yields, IHS said.  Euro members most at risk are Greece and Ireland, then
Portugal, the economists said. Spain is “the critical link”
and if Spanish debt costs were to rise “considerably” and
attempts to bring them down failed, markets may turn on Italy
and Belgium, pushing the euro to “breaking point.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Scott Hamilton  in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net  