-- European Stocks Climb for Third Day as ARM, Hermes, Aker Solutions Advance
-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 2010-12-22T17:11:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-22/european-stocks-are-little-changed-hermes-aker-advance-adidas-declines.html
European stocks  advanced for a third
day, extending a 27-month high, as U.S. economic growth was
revised higher and merger activity boosted companies from Hermes
International SCA to Aker Solutions ASA.  ARM Holdings Plc soared 9.1 percent after Microsoft Corp.
was said to be preparing to unveil a full version of its Windows
operating system that runs on the U.K. company’s technology.
 Hermes  gained 2.3 percent as LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton SA
raised its stake in the luxury-goods company. Aker Solutions,
Norway’s largest engineering company, climbed 4.3 percent as
Jacobs Engineering Group Inc. agreed to buy some of its units.  The benchmark  Stoxx Europe 600 Index  rose 0.1 percent to
281.45 at the 4:30 p.m. close in London. The gauge has rallied
11 percent in 2010, recovering all its losses from the plunge
that followed Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.’s collapse in 2008,
as companies reported higher earnings, the European Union bailed
out Greece and Ireland and the Federal Reserve unveiled $600
billion of additional bond purchases to support the recovery.  “People have forgotten that the corporate sector even in
Europe and U.S. is actually quite profitable and stocks look
quite cheap to us,”  Kevin Gardiner , the head of global
investment strategy at Barclays Wealth, which manages about $237
billion, said in a Bloomberg Television interview with Maryam
Nemazee. “Cyclical sectors, capital goods and technology will
do quite well. There is still plenty of room for stock markets
to do noticeably better again” next year.  Benchmark Indexes  National benchmark indexes declined in 11 of the 18 western
European markets. France’s CAC 40 lost 0.2 percent and Germany’s
DAX slipped 0.1 percent. The U.K.’s  FTSE 100  rose 0.5 percent.  The U.S. economy, the world’s largest, expanded at a 2.6
percent annual rate in the third quarter. The revised increase
in gross domestic product compares with a 2.5 percent estimate
issued last month and was less than the median forecast of a 2.8
percent in a Bloomberg News survey, figures from the Commerce
Department showed today.  “U.S. forecasters are revising up their GDP forecasts and
some of them are even going for 4 percent next year,”  Geoff Lewis , Hong Kong-based head of investment services at JPMorgan
Asset Management, said on Bloomberg Television’s “On the Move
Asia” with Rishaad Salamat. “That would make a serious dip in
unemployment and as soon as that starts to come down consumer
confidence would really hit the roof.”  A separate report showed sales of existing homes rose less
than forecast in November as the industry that triggered the
worst U.S. recession in seven decades struggled to recover after
a government tax credit lapsed.  U.K. Economy  In the U.K., the economy expanded less than initially
estimated in the third quarter.  Gross domestic product  rose 0.7
percent from the previous three months, the Office for National
Statistics said today. That compares with an initial estimate of
0.8 percent, which was also the median forecast of 22 economists
in a Bloomberg News survey.  ARM, a U.K. chip designer, surged 9.1 percent to 440.3
pence, the highest price since 2001. The new Microsoft product
will debut at the Consumer Electronics Show in January, said two
people, who asked not to be identified because the plans are
confidential. The software would be tailored for battery-powered
devices, such as tablet computers and other handhelds, the
people said.  Hermes, Aker Solutions  Hermes climbed 2.3 percent to 160.30 euros. LVMH now owns
more than 20 percent of Hermes, up from the 17.1 percent it
announced in October. LVMH bought the shares on the market, said
 Olivier Labesse , a company spokesman. The increase may boost
speculation that LVMH Chairman  Bernard Arnault  is targeting a
takeover of Hermes, even as the company said again it isn’t
seeking a board seat or control.  Aker Solutions rallied 4.3 percent to 101.5 kroner. Jacobs
Engineering agreed to buy some of the company’s units for an
estimated $675 million to expand its metals and mining business.  Northern Foods Plc gained 4.1 percent to 63 pence as
closely held Boparan Holdings Ltd. said it may make an offer for
the maker of Fox’s biscuits, disrupting an all-stock merger with
Greencore Group Plc. Greencore slid 4.5 percent to 1.27 euros in
Dublin trading.  British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc climbed 2 percent to 743
pence amid speculation that News Corp.’s takeover of the company
is less likely to be blocked. Conservative culture minister
 Jeremy Hunt  was given responsibility for the review of the bid
as Business Secretary  Vince Cable  was stripped of his authority
for media policy after being quoted as saying he had “declared
war” on News Corp. Chairman  Rupert Murdoch .  Referral Odds  “The odds of a referral have decreased significantly,”
said  Conor O’Shea , an analyst at Kepler Capital Markets in
Paris. “There’s a major perceived change in the way that Jeremy
Hunt views things as opposed to Vince Cable.”  Adidas AG declined 1.6 percent to 50.58 euros after rival
sportswear company Nike Inc., the world’s largest maker of
athletic shoes, reported orders that missed analysts’ estimates.  Beni Stabili SpA , the Italian real-estate company
controlled by France’s Fonciere des Regions SA, sank 2.3 percent
to 64.5 euro cents as Delfin Sarl sold a 4.3 percent stake for
63 cents a share. Delfin was Beni Stabili’s third-biggest
 shareholder , according to Bloomberg data.  Micro Focus International Plc retreated 3.1 percent to
393.5 pence, the biggest decline in five weeks, as the company
said in a regulatory filing that Chairman  Kevin Loosemore  sold
shares.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Adam Haigh  in London at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Merritt at   dmerritt1@bloomberg.net . 