-- Ex-Glaxo Lawyer Facing Charges Seeks King & Spalding Records, Filings Show
-- B y   J e f   F e e l e y   a n d   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s
-- 2010-12-22T01:13:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-22/ex-glaxo-lawyer-facing-charges-seeks-king-spalding-records-filings-show.html
A former  GlaxoSmithKline Plc  lawyer
charged with obstructing a regulatory review of the company
wants prosecutors to disclose data on law firm King & Spalding
LLP’s work for the drugmaker during the probe.  Lawyers for  Lauren Stevens  asked the  U.S. Justice
Department  to hand over files about Atlanta-based King &
Spalding’s work on a 2002 Food and Drug Administration inquiry
into Glaxo’s marketing of its  Wellbutrin  SR antidepressant, a
Dec. 17 court filing shows.  Stevens, indicted last month on charges she obstructed the
probe into whether Glaxo marketed Wellbutrin for unapproved
uses, intends to tell jurors in her Feb. 1 trial that she relied
on “advice of counsel” when making allegedly false statements
about sales tactics, prosecutors said in a separate Dec. 17
filing in federal court in Greenbelt, Maryland.  “In responding to the FDA, the defendant worked with other
attorneys, including both in-house GSK attorneys and attorneys
from an outside law firm,” prosecutors said in the filing,
while opposing Stevens’s request. They didn’t name King &
Spalding.  Legal Advice  Stevens’s defense lawyers want all documents that
“establish King & Spalding LLP received material information on
which the firm based its legal advice with respect to GSK’s
responses” to the FDA’s 2002 inquiry, according to a Dec. 7
letter included in court filings.  Mary Anne Rhyne , a Glaxo spokeswoman based in North
Carolina, declined to comment on King & Spalding’s role in
representing the London-based company in the FDA review.  Les Zuke , King & Spalding’s spokesman, said the firm
wouldn’t comment on Stevens’s filing or any work done on behalf
of Glaxo.  Christina Sterling , a Boston-based spokeswoman for
prosecutors, didn’t immediately return a phone call and e-mail
seeking comment.  Prosecutors contend that Stevens, who lives in  Durham,
North Carolina , “engaged in a year-long effort” to deceive the
FDA about the company’s off-label marketing campaign for
Wellbutrin, according to court filings.  Under U.S. law, a doctor can prescribe a medicine for any
condition, as long as the FDA has found its safe and effective.
Drug companies aren’t allowed to promote a drug for uses other
than those  approved  by the FDA.  In response to regulators’ request for information about
Wellbutrin’s marketing in October 2002, Stevens allegedly sent a
series of letters “that falsely denied the company had promoted
the drug for off-label uses, even though she knew” the
drugmaker had sponsored such marketing programs, prosecutors
said in court filings.  Promotional Talks  The indictment alleges Stevens knew the company paid
“numerous physicians to give promotional talks to other
physicians” about unapproved uses for Wellbutrin and failed to
provide slides given to the speakers, prosecutors claim.  Evidence will show that “a legal memorandum was prepared
for Stevens that set forth the pros and cons” of producing the
slides for the FDA, prosecutors said.  Stevens was warned in the memo that some of the slides
“would provide incriminating evidence about potential off-label
promotion of Wellbutrin SR that may be used against GSK in this
or a future investigation,” prosecutors said. The government
didn’t say who prepared the memo.  The case is being tried in the Maryland suburbs of
Washington because the FDA is based in the area. In their letter
to prosecutors, Stevens’s lawyers asked for all documents “from
King & Spalding LLP regarding” the FDA’s request for Wellbutrin
information.  Clarify Charges  They also want all statements by the law firm’s lawyers
“related to their understanding that GSK employees did not
promote Wellbutrin for off-label uses or that GSK management did
not encourage” off-label sales of the drug, according to the
letter.  The defense also asked U.S. District Judge  Roger Titus  to
order prosecutors to clarify the charges against Stevens. She is
charged with one count of obstructing an official proceeding,
one count of falsifying and concealing documents and four counts
of making false statements.  The first two charges carry maximum terms of 20 years, and
the others carry terms of five years.  Defense lawyers contend that they shouldn’t have to “sift
through millions of pages” of documents to identify statements
and files prosecutors seek to use against Stevens.  “A review of the millions of documents alone will not
enable Ms. Stevens to determine which statements the government
alleges are false and which documents it alleges Ms. Stevens
falsified, altered or concealed,” according to the filing.  The case is U.S. v. Stevens, 10-cr-694, U.S. District
Court, District of Maryland (Greenbelt).  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jef Feeley  in Wilmington, Delaware at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net ;
 David Voreacos  in Newark, New Jersey, at 
 dvoreacos@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 