-- Ex-Stark Managers' Hedge Fund Grows 14-Fold After 21% Return Beats Rivals
-- B y   B e i   H u
-- 2010-12-23T06:15:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-22/ex-stark-managers-hedge-fund-grows-14-fold-after-21-return-beats-rivals.html
Orchard Capital Partners Ltd., the
Asia-based hedge fund spun out of Stark Investments last year,
grew its flagship equity hedge fund almost 14-fold after
returning more than three times its regional peers this year.  Orchard Gemini Fund managed $96.2 million by Dec. 1, from
$7 million at its January inception, said  Teall Edds  who co-
founded Orchard with  Stuart Wilson . The fund, which bets on both
rising and falling stocks in the region, returned 21 percent in
its first 11 months.  The  Eurekahedge Asia Long/Short Equities Hedge Fund Index ,
tracking nearly 300 funds, has gained 6 percent this year, the
least since a 2.9 percent rise in 2002 and the loss-making years
in 2000 and 2008, as fear of a double-dip recession in the U.S.,
Europe’s debt crisis and inflation in Asia rocked markets.
Orchard also raised $150 million for equity accounts tailored to
specific investors, bringing total assets to $520 million.  “The more liquid equity strategies is where the investor
appetite was this year,” Edds said in an interview yesterday.
“Many investors and many funds found that the macro headwinds
were difficult to contend with for the bulk of the year.”  Equity products accounted for most of this year’s capital
inflows into the company, which also manages credit investments,
said Edds. Orchard has offices in Hong Kong and Singapore.  Stark Buyout  Asia-focused hedge funds grew assets by $2.2 billion in the
first nine months of the year, according to Chicago-based data
provider  Hedge Fund Research Inc .  Edds, 42, and Wilson, 40, were principals of Stark before
they bought out the Milwaukee, Wisconsin-based hedge fund’s
Asian business in October last year. Stark sold the unit to
concentrate on more frequently traded securities, Cam Stephenson,
its director communications, said in October 2009.  Orchard Gemini beat the index by rotating between emerging
and developed Asian economies and by tweaking the amounts of
stocks and put options, which rise as stocks decline, said Edds.  “This year has not been so much about the single names as
about macro and sector thematics,” Edds said. “Throughout the
year, you had to be very nimble. It was an environment that was
more of a trading environment than investment environment.”  Orchard Gemini returned 0.5 percent in January by scaling
back bullish bets on single stocks and adding put options on
indexes, which gained in value as the gauges declined, said Edds.
 Eurekahedge Asia Long/Short Equities Hedge Fund Index  lost 2
percent that month.  Shifting Bets  In September and October, it increased the size of a few
key stock holdings, said Wilson, without naming the shares.
Those bets, together with shifting holdings from emerging Asia
to developed economies in the region as inflation fears in the
former rose, contributed to the fund’s 13 percent return in the
two months, almost twice the peer  average .  The fund wagered more on developed economies such as Taiwan,
Australia and Japan at the beginning of the year, as they
benefited from U.S. economic stimulus policies.  It shifted back to developing Asia, including China, India
and Indonesia, from March to September after government measures
to snuff out early signs of inflation gained traction. Corporate
earnings remained strong, companies were still reinvesting and
capital was flowing from developed to emerging markets, said
Edds.  Expectations of further anti-inflation measures in China,
Indonesia and India in the fourth quarter led to the
underperformance of developing Asia, he added. Economies more
sensitive to the U.S., such as Japan, Korea and Taiwan, instead
benefited from easing monetary policies in the U.S. and Europe.  Indonesia Bulls  Throughout the year, the fund was bullish on Indonesia,
said Edds. Companies in China, India and Japan are increasingly
buying assets in the country to secure supplies of coal, iron
ore and copper after acquisitions in Australia have become more
complicated and expensive.  “Indonesia is a place with plenty of available natural
resources,” he said. “Markets haven’t really allocated a
commensurate amount of capital to that country.”  The Jakarta Composite Index has risen almost 50 percent
this year, the sixth-best-performer among 84 major stock gauges
tracked by Bloomberg.  A $1.1 billion share  sale  in PT Semen Gresik and other
recent share sales have increased the amount of stock in public
hands and helped boost interest from developed world investors
looking for returns in emerging countries, Edds said.  Outlook ‘Choppy’  “We think 2011 will be similar, it’s going to be one where
the macro headwinds are likely to be a big determinant of
performance,” said Edds. “We think the next two to three
months are going to be very choppy in developing Asia for the
simple reason that inflation is a problem that will need to be
addressed by tightening.”  He expects Japan, Korea and Taiwan to benefit from excess
capital flowing out of the U.S., especially technology companies.  The lower cost of hedging implied volatility also helped
boost the fund’s return, said Wilson. The Chicago Board Options
Exchange  Volatility Index , better known as the VIX and a measure
of cost of using options to insure against falls in the S&P 500
Index, has declined 29 percent this year.  Structured deposits sold by retail and private banks in
Asia have also enabled fund managers to obtain cheap hedges
against volatility, or price swings, Edds added.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bei Hu  in Hong Kong at 
 bhu5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  