-- Sales of U.S. Existing Homes Rise Less Than Forecast to 4.68 Million Rate
-- B y   B o b   W i l l i s
-- 2010-12-22T15:18:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-22/existing-u-s-home-sales-rose-less-than-economists-forecasts-for-november.html
Sales  of existing homes rose less
than forecast in November as the industry that triggered the
worst U.S. recession in seven decades struggled to recover after
a government tax credit lapsed.  Purchases increased 5.6 percent from the prior month to a
4.68 million annual rate, the National Association of Realtors
said in Washington. Economists projected sales would rise to a
4.75 million pace, according to the  median forecast  in a
Bloomberg News survey. The median price rose 0.4 percent from a
year earlier.  Previous decreases in prices and mortgage rates have made
houses more affordable, which may keep supporting demand after
the end of a government tax credit caused the industry to slump.
At the same time,  unemployment  hovering near 10 percent is a
reminder it will take years for housing to regain pre-recession
levels.  “Housing is going to remain dead in the water through the
middle of” 2011, said Mark Vitner, a senior economist at Wells
Fargo Securities LLC in Charlotte, North Carolina, who forecast
sales would climb to a 4.65 million pace. “As foreclosures come
back on the market, that will put downward pressure on prices.”  Stocks held earlier gains after the report. The Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index rose 0.1 percent to 1,256.13 at 10:17 a.m. in
New York. The S&P Supercomposite Homebuilder Index climbed 0.4
percent to 257.56.  Less Than Forecast  Estimates of the 70 economists surveyed by Bloomberg ranged
from 4.25 million to 5.2 million.  Another report today showed the U.S. economy grew at a 2.6
percent annual rate in the third quarter, more than previously
calculated 2.5 percent gain and up from a 1.7 percent rise in
the second quarter, according to figures from the Commerce
Department. The advance was lower than the median forecast of
economists surveyed as consumer spending was unexpectedly
revised down.  Compared with November 2009, which was the peak of the tax
credit’s influence, existing home sales were down 25 percent
before adjusting for seasonal patterns.  Sales last month rose in all of four regions, today’s
report showed, led by a 12 percent gain in the West.  The  median price  increased to $170,600 last month from
$170,000 in November 2009.  Single-Family Sales  Purchases of single-family homes climbed 6.7 percent to a
4.15 million annual rate in November from a month earlier, the
group said. Sales of condominiums and townhouses dropped 1.9
percent.  The number of previously owned homes on the market fell 4
percent to 3.71 million. At the current sales pace, it would
take 9.5 months to sell those houses, compared with 10.5 months
in October.  Month’s supply in the eight months to nine months range is
consistent with stable home prices, the group said.  Distressed sales, which include foreclosures and short-
sales in which the bank allows a home to sell for less than the
full amount of the mortgage, accounted for 33 percent of total
sales, about the same as in prior months.  A tax credit worth as much as $8,000 boosted sales to a
two-year high 6.49 million pace in November 2009, when the
incentive was originally due to expire.  The subsequent extension of the credit prompted a rebound
in sales for two months through April, followed by a plunge in
July to a 3.84 million rate, the weakest in a decade’s worth of
record-keeping.  2011 Projection  The real-estate agents’ group projects sales for the year
will drop to a 4.8 million pace, the fewest for a full year
since 1997. Purchases will climb to 5.2 million in 2011, a
“sustainable” pace, NAR’s chief economist Lawrence Yun said in
a press conference.  Less costly houses, near record-low lending rates and
rising earnings are among the factors now helping underpin
demand. The NAR’s housing affordability index, which takes into
account borrowing costs, home prices and household incomes,
climbed to a record in October.  The housing market may remain a drag on growth. Foreclosure
moratoriums across the country along with government
investigations into faulty paperwork threaten to delay a
recovery as houses slated for repossession take longer to come
to market.  Joblessness is forecast to average 9.4 percent next year
and mortgage rates, after reaching record lows in November, have
risen on signs the economy is picking up, additional reasons why
a housing recovery will take time to develop.  Even so, home sales will probably avoid setting new lows
and the industry will gain momentum in 2012, according to
 Douglas Yearley , chief executive officer of  Toll Brothers  Inc.,
the largest U.S. luxury-home builder.  “As the economy improves, we believe our buyers are going
to come right back out.” Yearley said in a Dec. 8 interview
with Bloomberg Television. “It’s still a buyer’s market and you
still need some incentives.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bob Willis  in Washington at 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  