-- Facebook’s Zuckerberg Reviews Sina Microblog in China
-- B y   M a r k   L e e
-- 2010-12-22T09:56:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-22/facebook-s-zuckerberg-meets-with-sina-chief-chao-on-microblogging-website.html
Facebook Inc. founder  Mark Zuckerberg  visited the Beijing offices of  Sina Corp.  as the
billionaire executive continued his tour of China’s biggest
Internet companies.  Zuckerberg had an “information exchange on the Chinese
Internet market” with Sina Chief Executive Officer  Charles Chao 
during their meeting today, Liu Qi, a spokesman at the Chinese
company, said by phone. The head of Facebook, the world’s
biggest social-networking site, had discussions about Sina’s
microblog service, Liu said.  The meeting with Sina, owner of China’s third most-visited
website, follows Zuckerberg’s tour of the offices of  Baidu Inc. 
earlier this week. Time Magazine last week named Zuckerberg, 26,
its “Person of the Year” for “creating a new system of
exchanging information.”  Zuckerberg declined to comment when approached at his
Beijing hotel today, saying only “I am on holiday.”  Sina’s Chao said last month his company may next year add
advertising at its “Weibo” microblog site, a similar service
to that offered by Twitter Inc. Microblog is a service that
allow users to post short messages and maintain contact with
celebrity subscribers.  The Shanghai-based company last month agreed to partner
with  Microsoft Corp. ’s Internet venture in China on Web services
including microblog and instant messages.  Facebook has been inaccessible in China for more than a
year. The Chinese government blocks access to web content that
is pornographic, related to gambling and critical of the ruling
Communist Party.  Sina ranks behind only Baidu, China’s biggest search-
engine, and  Tencent Holdings Ltd. ’s QQ.com in user traffic in
China, according to China Websites Ranking, a site run by the
Internet Society of China that compiles Web traffic information.  Zuckerberg paid Baidu a “private visit” on Dec. 20, and
met Chief Executive  Robin Li , Kaiser Kuo, a spokesman for Baidu,
said earlier this week. Zuckerberg has a “well-established”
interest in China, Kuo said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mark Lee  in Hong Kong at 
 wlee37@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net  