-- Plosser Says Fed May Need to Slow Purchases of Bonds
-- B y   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s   a n d   K a t h l e e n   H a y s
-- 2010-12-22T20:19:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-22/fed-s-plosser-says-fed-may-need-to-trim-600-billion-purchases.html
The Federal Reserve may need to slow
or stop its purchases of U.S. Treasuries in response to an
accelerating U.S. economy next year, Philadelphia Fed President
 Charles Plosser  said.  “If the growth rate of the economy continues to strengthen
and looks sustainable, then I am going to be looking for the Fed
to react to that,” Plosser said today in an interview on
Bloomberg Radio’s “The Hays Advantage,” with  Kathleen Hays .
“That may be to cut back on the degree of accommodation in a
gradual way. One way would be to begin stopping some of the
purchases or slowing them down.”  Plosser, 62, who votes on monetary policy next year, said
he might have dissented from the Fed’s affirmation last week of
a plan to buy $600 billion in  Treasuries , asserting the
purchases may spark inflation and damage the central bank’s
credibility.  Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  is trying to boost growth after
near-zero interest rates and $1.7 trillion in securities
purchases helped pull the economy out of recession without
bringing down joblessness close to a 26-year high.  Asked how he would have voted, Plosser said, “It would
have been a close call. The stronger the economy gets, the more
attention I am going to be paying” to whether to “begin
reducing the amount of accommodation.”  As part of next year’s rotation, Plosser and the heads of
the Dallas, Chicago and Minneapolis Fed banks will cast votes.
The leader of the New York Fed has a permanent vote.  Inflation Accelerating  Plosser, in an interview at the Philadelphia bank, forecast
that the U.S. economy will expand 3 percent to 3.5 percent next
year, with inflation accelerating to as much as 2 percent.  “The economy is still in the midst of a modest recovery,”
Plosser said. “My confidence in the fact that it is sustainable
is growing and has been over the course of the year. In a
fundamental way, I think it is sustainable, but it is not going
to go like gangbusters.”  Plosser indicated he was sympathetic to the position of
Kansas City Fed President  Thomas Hoenig , who last week voted
against Fed policy for the eighth straight time. Hoenig
reiterated his view that the “continued high level of monetary
accommodation” may eventually “destabilize the economy,”
according to a statement by the Fed after a Dec. 14 meeting by
the Open Market Committee.  Bond purchases by the Fed “could be destabilizing in a
couple ways,” Plosser said. While Hoenig has cited concern over
“bubbles and distortions in the economy,” the Philadelphia Fed
leader said excessive inflation could disrupt the economy as
much as it did in the early 1980s.  ‘Very Destabilizing’  “That can be very destabilizing to the economy if we lose
our credibility,” he said. “That is what we need to keep
uppermost in our mind because the consequences of losing our
credibility can be very destabilizing.”  Plosser said he didn’t believe quantitative easing would do
much to reduce unemployment. It is “dangerous” for central
bankers to be overly focused on short term goals when policy
affects the economy with a time lag, he said.  Plosser dismissed concerns about the risk of a broad-based
decline in prices. Policy makers including St. Louis Fed
President  James Bullard  have warned of a risk of Japanese-style
deflation in the U.S.  “I am not really concerned about deflation,” he said.
“Inflation is not in a bad place right now. Low inflation is
not a bad thing.”  Smallest Gain  The Fed’s preferred price measure, which excludes food and
fuel, was up 0.9 percent from a year earlier in October, the
smallest gain since records began in 1960. Fed policy makers
have a long-run goal of 1.6 percent to 2 percent inflation they
see as consistent with achieving legislative mandates for
maximum employment and stable prices.  Plosser said he hasn’t made big adjustments to his growth
estimates recently because he always expected the slowing growth
in the middle of 2010 to be a “soft patch” that wouldn’t last.
“I think we are seeing ourselves coming out of that,” he said.  Economists in the past two weeks have boosted projections
for fourth-quarter growth after the government reported better-
than-projected retail sales for November and the Obama
administration reached a compromise with congressional
Republicans to extend Bush-era tax cuts and introduce new
reductions.  Economists  Michael Feroli  of JPMorgan Chase & Co. and  John Silvia  at Wells Fargo Securities LLC now expect 3.5 percent
growth in the final quarter. The economy expanded at a 2.6
percent pace in the third quarter, according to revised Commerce
Department data.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Steve Matthews  in Atlanta at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net ;
 Kathleen Hays  in New York at 
 khays4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  