-- JPMorgan Agrees to Pay Florida $25 Million for Bond Sales to Muni Fund
-- B y   J e r r y   H a r t
-- 2010-12-22T19:30:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-22/florida-reports-25-million-settlement-with-jpmorgan-chase.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co.,  the second-
biggest U.S. bank by assets, agreed to pay Florida $25 million
to settle allegations it sold unregistered securities to a
state-run municipal money-market fund that suffered a run on
deposits because it held defaulted debt.  Participants in Florida’s Local Government Investment Pool
will get $23 million of the settlement to reimburse them for
losses in 2007 on asset-backed securities, some of which were
sold by JPMorgan to the fund’s overseer, the State Board of
Administration, Attorney General  Bill McCollum  said today in a
 statement . The rest will pay fines and related costs, he said.  “This settlement is part of the state’s continued efforts
to secure the maximum valuation of investment securities held by
the SBA,” McCollum said from Tallahassee, the capital.  Assets in what was once the largest U.S. manager of
municipal cash plunged from $27 billion in November 2007 to
about  $6.9 billion  this week after it said that it held
defaulted mortgage-backed bonds. A rush by municipalities to
pull out money forced the fund to freeze withdrawals, leaving
some communities without cash to pay workers and other costs.  The fund, since renamed  Florida Prime , was reorganized to
segregate the defaulted securities under a plan from New York-
based  BlackRock Inc. , the biggest publicly traded U.S. money
manager. The best-quality securities were set aside as Fund A
and resumed paying withdrawals.  Closed Fund  About $2 billion of illiquid and defaulted debt was put
into Fund B and closed to transactions. As Fund B securities
paid interest and matured, proceeds were deposited into Fund A.
About $1.65 billion has been distributed from Fund B, or about
82 percent of the original principal, the state board said today
in a  statement  about the proceeds of the JPMorgan agreement.  “The settlement is a fair, reasonable and a responsible
result for the participants,”  Ash Williams , the state board’s
executive director, said in the statement from McCollum.  McCollum said the New York-based bank’s JPMorgan Securities
LLC unit had violated Florida law by selling unregistered bonds
to the fund.  JPMorgan “desires to resolve this matter to avoid the
burden and cost of any litigation, and accordingly does not
admit or deny” the findings of Florida’s investigation, the
company said in the settlement agreement.  “We are pleased that both parties can now move past this
issue and we look forward to continuing our service to the state
of Florida,” JPMorgan said in a statement e-mailed from the
office of its spokesman,  Joe Evangelisti , in New York.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jerry Hart  in Miami at 
 jhart@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net . 