-- Food Prices to Surge Next Year on Chinese Demand, Oil, Rabobank Forecasts
-- B y   J a k e   L l o y d - S m i t h
-- 2010-12-22T09:50:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-22/food-prices-may-surge-next-year-on-chinese-demand-oil-rabobank-forecasts.html
Farm-commodity prices including corn
will extend rallies next year driven by increased demand from
emerging markets including China, the world’s most populous
nation, and higher energy costs, according to Rabobank Groep NV.  There was “rampant demand” for agricultural commodities
from China, and rising corn prices may drive gains in other
grains, according to a report yesterday from analysts at the
bank. Surging crude-oil costs, low global food stockpiles and a
weakening dollar may also bolster prices, the report said.  Rabobank’s predictions add to forecasts that food costs may
surge next year, potentially raising inflation and paving the
way for a reprisal of the bull market in 2008, when prices
surged to records. Increased Chinese purchasing of global crops
is “reshaping” some farm commodity markets, the report said.  “Corn will drive the grains complex” next year, with
China importing as much as 8 million metric tons, the report
said. “We look for higher energy prices in 2011 to be a
catalyst for higher agricultural prices.”  Corn in Chicago has jumped 45 percent this year and traded
at $6.035 a bushel today, while wheat has gained 41 percent and
soybeans have rallied 27 percent. The Food & Agriculture
Organization’s index of  55 food commodities  rose for a fifth
month in November to the highest level in more than two years.  ‘Rebuild Inventory’  “Favorable weather conditions are necessary for almost all
agricultural commodity markets in 2011 to rebuild inventory
levels and prevent a rally on prices back to the highs of the
2007-08 commodity boom,” the report said.  Corn futures may trade at $6 a bushel in first quarter of
next year, ending the year at $5.40 a bushel, the report said.
Soybeans may peak at $13 a bushel in the first quarter before
dropping to $11.85 in the final three-month period, it said.
Soybeans futures traded today at $13.38.  A lot of agricultural commodities including corn, soybeans
and wheat are “still cheap” even after recent rallies and may
extend gains, Deutsche Bank AG’s  Michael Lewis  said last month.
Food prices may rise further unless global grain output climbs
“significantly” next year, the FAO said in a Nov. 17 report.  “China’s corn demand for feed has now grown to represent
nearly a quarter of the world’s total and we expect the robust
growth to continue,” said the Rabobank report, which was
compiled by  Luke Chandler ,  Erin FitzPatrick  and  Keith Flury .
China may become a “structural net importer” of corn, it said.  Chinese Demand  Corn imports into China may gain to a record next year and
the country was working to start shipments from Argentina, the
U.S. Grains Council said on Dec. 15. China may purchase as much
as 15 million tons of corn from overseas by 2015, according to a
forecast from Shanghai JC Intelligence Co. in July.  Demand from China for more foodstuffs from overseas may
match the country’s recent increase in soybean purchases, the
report said. Soybean imports, which were 10 million tons 10
years ago, may reach 57 million tons in 2010-2011, the report
said, citing a U.S. Department of Agriculture forecast. Such a
projected volume of imports is “staggering,” the report said.  “China now accounts for 60 percent of global soybean
imports, in addition to approximately 20 percent of world-traded
soybean oil,” the report said. “Such tremendous growth is
likely to be replicated in other commodities as China’s shifting
consumption patterns increase demand.”  Energy prices may gain, raising the attractiveness of
biofuels made from farm commodities and boosting fertilizer
prices, the report said. “Higher energy prices have an effect
on sugar and corn prices,” it said.  Crude oil may climb to more than $100 a barrel by the
second half of 2011 as global demand growth “remains strong,”
according to a Dec. 13 forecast from Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
Futures in New York traded today at $90 a barrel.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jake Lloyd-Smith  in Singapore at 
 Jlloydsmith@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Richard Dobson at 
 Rdobson4@bloomberg.net  