-- Lawmakers Call for Inquiry on GAO Report on For-Profit Colleges
-- B y   J o h n   H e c h i n g e r
-- 2010-12-22T16:21:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-22/for-profit-colleges-report-by-ga0-should-be-reexamined-six-lawmakers-say.html
Six members of the U.S. Congress
asked the Government Accountability Office to reexamine a report
that 15 for-profit colleges misled undercover investigators
about costs and job-placement records.  On Nov. 30, a revised version of a report first released on
Aug. 4 included changes that suggest the GAO, Congress’s
investigative arm, didn’t meet “its own high standards” of
“thorough analysis and fact-checking,” according to a letter
the lawmakers sent yesterday to  Gene L. Dodaro , the acting U.S.
comptroller general, in Washington.  “Our interest in this matter is ensuring that GAO adheres
to its mandate,” the legislators said in the letter.  The signers were Republicans  John Kline  of Minnesota,
 Darrell Issa  of California,  Brett Guthrie  of Kentucky and  Glenn Thompson  of Pennsylvania, and Democrats  Alcee Hastings  of
Florida and  Carolyn McCarthy  of New York.  Brian Newell, an aide on the House education committee and
a spokesman for Kline, confirmed the letter’s contents in a
telephone interview yesterday. The GAO received the letter and
plans to provide Congress with the information requested, Chuck
Young, a spokesman for the agency, said in an e-mail.  An  index  of 13 for-profit education stocks has fallen 27
percent this year because of concern that increases in
regulation of the industry will slow colleges’ enrollment
growth.  Lucky Applicant  In the original report, the GAO said a college
representative told an undercover investigator that graduates
are making $120,000 to $130,000 a year. In the revised report,
the GAO said the official also told the investigator that, in
the economy at that time, a graduate could expect pay starting
at $13 to $15 an hour “if the applicant was lucky.”  In the Nov. 30 report, the GAO said a representative at a
for-profit college told a investigator posing as an applicant
that she “could” take out the maximum amount of federal loans,
even if she didn’t need the money, and place it in a savings
account. The earlier draft used the word “should.”  Tom Harkin , the Iowa Democrat who heads the Senate
education committee, called the revisions “minor” in a Dec. 17
statement, and said the report’s conclusions “remain
unchanged.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 John Hechinger  in Boston at 
 jhechinger@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonathan Kaufman at 
 jkaufman17@bloomberg.net . 