-- Fuel-Oil Loss in Asia Set to Jump to Two-Year High on Glut: Energy Markets
-- B y   Y u j i   O k a d a   a n d   Y e e   K a i   P i n
-- 2010-12-22T08:35:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-22/fuel-oil-loss-in-asia-set-to-jump-to-two-year-high-on-glut-energy-markets.html
Refining losses from producing  fuel
oil  in Asia may widen 30 percent to the most in two years in the
next month as an increase in crude processing leads to a glut.  The loss from turning crude into the fuel, the so-called
 crack spread , may rise to $13 a barrel by the end of January
from about $10 this month, a Bloomberg News survey of four
traders showed. The last time it was at that level was in
November 2008, when crude traded below $60 a barrel, compared
with almost $90 today, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The supply of fuel oil, a residue from crude refining that
is used mainly to power ships and industrial plants, is
increasing as Asian refiners raise processing rates to boost
returns from gasoil, or diesel. Companies typically accept a
loss from selling residues because they can offset it against
the profit from more valuable products.  “I don’t see any factors that could narrow the crack
spread now,” said Yasuhito Imaizumi, a Singapore-based manager
at Petro Summit Pte, a unit of  Sumitomo Corp ., the third-largest
trading company in Japan. “The crack would remain weak for a
while.”  The fuel-oil crack, as measured by the discount of the
benchmark 180-centistoke grade in Singapore relative to Dubai
crude, has widened as much as 60 percent this month to $10.93 a
barrel on Dec. 15, the most since March 2009. It has averaged
$4.71 in the past two years.  Higher Refinery Runs  At the same time, the  spread  on gasoil to Dubai crude has
climbed about 45 percent to as much as $15.07 a barrel on Dec. 6,
the highest level this year, Bloomberg data show. It has
averaged $9.26 in the past two years. The return may be about
$13 to $14 through January and February, according to FACTS
Global Energy, a Singapore-based energy researcher.  “On the supply side, we are seeing higher refinery runs,”
said  Alex Yap , an analyst at FACTS. “On the demand side, there
is the usual winter demand for gasoil and kerosene. It seems
balanced.”  Asian refiners are increasing crude processing to record
levels as consumption of oil products reaches a seasonal peak
following maintenance shutdowns, according to JPMorgan Chase &
Co. China’s refining rate rose to a record 8.96 million barrels
a day in November, the bank said.  “We project that Asian crude runs will increase by a
further 500,000 barrels a day in January before pulling back
slightly in February,” JPMorgan analysts led by New York-based
 Lawrence Eagles  said in a Dec. 16 report.  $100 Crude  The refinery utilization rate in Japan, Asia’s second-
biggest oil consumer, rose 1.3 percentage points to 86.9 percent
in the week ended Dec. 11, the Petroleum Association of Japan
said Dec. 15. That’s the highest in at least 10 months.  Oil futures in New York gained 13 percent this year,
reaching a 26-month high of $90.76 a barrel on Dec. 7, as signs
that the global economic recovery is gaining pace boosted the
outlook for fuel use. Goldman Sachs Group Inc. forecast on Dec.
13 that oil will climb to $105 within a year. Futures for
February delivery rose for a fourth day today to trade above $90.  Rising prices typically encourage increased output in the
Middle East, where fuel oil yields are larger because of the
region’s heavier grades of crude. The fuel-oil crack widened to
$30.46 a barrel when crude settled at a record high of $145.29
in July 2008.  “When people have their sights on crude oil set at $100,
that is the time availability of fuel oil starts rising,” said
 Akira Kamiyama , a trader at Mitsui & Co. in Tokyo.  Bunker Demand  Demand for marine fuel, or bunker, from ship owners often
falls when prices trade near $500 a ton, according to Petro
Summit’s Imaizumi. The price of  380-centistoke bunker fuel  has
averaged $501.01 since Dec. 3 in Singapore, the world’s largest
bunkering port, according to Bloomberg data.  “Purchases by ship owners have started slowing and that is
sending Singapore fuel-oil inventories higher,” Imaizumi said.  Fuel-oil inventories in Singapore, Asia’s oil-trading and
storage hub, climbed 19 percent to 22.5 million barrels in the
week ended Dec. 15, according to the trade ministry. Stockpiles
were at a 42-week low of 19 million in the week to Nov. 17.  Fuel oil arrivals to Singapore from Europe, the Middle East,
the Caribbean and the U.S. Gulf will probably fall to 3.5
million tons in January from about 4 million scheduled in
December, according to the traders. January shipments may
include three so-called Aframax tankers, or about 240,000 tons,
of Iranian fuel oil, said a Singapore-based trader, who asked
not to be identified because of company policy.  Koch Industries Inc. hired the Alexander the Great to load
270,000 tons on Jan. 1 for delivery to Singapore in the first
reported Europe-to-Asia supertanker fixture for 2011, according
to Clarkson Plc, the world’s biggest shipbroker. The Liberia-
flagged Very Large Crude Carrier, or VLCC, may be booked for
$3.45 million, Clarkson said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Yuji Okada  in Tokyo at 
 yokada6@bloomberg.net ;
 Yee Kai Pin  in Singapore at 
 kyee13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Clyde Russell at 
 crussell7@bloomberg.net  