-- GE Alternative F-35 Engine Included in Stopgap Government Funding Measure
-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2010-12-22T13:38:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-22/ge-alternative-f-35-engine-included-in-stopgap-funding-measure.html
General Electric Co. ’s alternative
engine for the F-35 jet is included in the legislation that
funds the federal government through March 4, two senators said.  Office of Management and Budget Director  Jack Lew  informed
lawmakers of the decision to include the second engine, Senators
 Joseph Lieberman , a Connecticut independent, and  Sherrod Brown ,
an Ohio Democrat, said yesterday in separate statements.
Congress passed the measure yesterday and sent it to President
 Barack Obama  for his signature.  Defense Secretary  Robert Gates  opposes the GE engine as
unnecessary and a waste of money.  United Technologies Corp. ’s
Pratt & Whitney unit makes the primary engine for the F-35, and
Gates has said repeatedly that he will urge Obama to veto any
bill funding the GE version.  Lew in his two-paragraph  letter  yesterday to Brown said the
legislation “as currently drafted” required the Pentagon to
“continue funding” the engine “on a pro-rata basis through”
March 4 “so as not to impinge on Congress’s funding
prerogatives” until the fiscal year 2011 defense appropriations
bill is finally passed.  The headquarters of United Technologies and Pratt & Whitney
are in Hartford, Connecticut, in Lieberman’s home state. Though
GE is based in Fairfield, Connecticut, its version of the F-35
engine -- for which it has partnered with London-based  Rolls-
Royce Group Plc  -- would be manufactured by  GE Aviation  at
facilities in Cincinnati and Evendale, Ohio.  Brown said in his statement that the notice from Lew was
“good news” to the Ohio workers on the project.  Stopgap Bill  Lieberman, who has been a consistent opponent of the second
engine, said it was “unconscionable” that the administration
“would be forced to waste one more dollar on this unnecessary
second engine” as the Air Force and the Navy struggle with
tight budgets. He said he would continue to “fight to
terminate” the engine between now and March 4.  The funding is authorized in the 36-page bill that replaces
a $1.2 trillion, 1,924-page “omnibus” spending measure loaded
with earmarks that Republicans, under pressure from Tea Party
activists who seek significantly limited government, blocked
last week.  The result is that federal agencies will go roughly halfway
through their 2011 fiscal year, which began Oct. 1, without
updated budgets. Agencies, including the Pentagon, will be
limited to fiscal 2010 spending levels. In the engine’s case,
that would be the $430 million appropriated in fiscal 2010.  A bipartisan group of lawmakers fought to include General
Electric’s engine in the measure. “Congress has funded the
engine program for 14 consecutive years, including the $430
million provided for continued development,” they wrote to
Gates and Lew in a letter sent Nov. 29.  Continued Funding Urged  “Until Congress finalizes action on the budget request,
the committee would expect the Department to respect the
constitutional authority vested in Congress and take the action
required to provide the necessary funding,” they wrote.  The signers included Representative  Howard McKeon , a
California Republican who will lead the House Armed Services
Committee when the 112th Congress convenes in January and
Republicans have a majority in the House.  Also signing were senior committee Republicans  Roscoe Bartlett  of Maryland and  Todd Akin  of Missouri and outgoing
Chairman  Ike Skelton , a Missouri Democrat who was defeated on
Nov. 2.  The F-35, also known as the Joint Strike Fighter, is being
purchased by the Air Force, the Navy and the Marine Corps.
 Lockheed Martin Corp . is tailoring the plane to meet each
service’s needs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tony Capaccio  in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  