-- German Two-Year Bond Yield Is Near a Two-Week Low as ECB Lends to Banks
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B r o w n
-- 2010-12-22T16:41:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-22/german-two-year-yields-decline-as-ecb-lends-196-billion-for-bank-funding.html
German two-year government note
 yields  fell to the lowest in almost two weeks after the European
Central Bank lent 149.5 billion euros ($196 billion) to banks,
signaling continued stress in the financial industry.  Greek 10-year yields were little changed after Fitch
Ratings said it may cut the nation’s credit ranking to non-
investment grade, bolstering demand for the safest assets. Fitch
said late yesterday it expects a review of Greece’s “fiscal
sustainability” to be conducted in January, and there’s a
“heightened probability” of a downgrade.  “The ECB lent slightly more than we were expecting,” said
 Mohit Kumar , a fixed-income strategist at Deutsche Bank AG in
London. “Downgrades may continue into the new year. We need to
see a concerted response from the euro area. Otherwise the
negative sentiment is likely to continue.”  German two-year yields fell nine basis points to 0.96
percent as of 4 p.m. in London. The 1 percent security due
December 2012 rose 0.17, or 1.7 euros per 1,000-euro face
amount, to 100.09. Ten-year yields were four basis points lower
at 2.95 percent.  The Frankfurt-based ECB said 270 banks asked for the three-
month funds over 98 days, which will be loaned at its average
benchmark interest rate over the period. Banks tomorrow need to
repay 96.9 billion euros in maturing 12-month loans and 38.2
billion euros in three-month loans on the following day.  Liquidity Needs  “Banks’ liquidity needs are still pretty high and they
remain dependent on the ECB,” said  Ulf Kraus , a fixed-income
strategist at Helaba Trust GmbH in Frankfurt. “The crisis is
not over yet and today’s figure shows that the ECB took the
right decision to continue with the full allotment.”  Moody’s Investors Service put Portugal’s A1 long-term and
Prime-1 short-term government bond ratings on watch yesterday,
saying the rankings may be cut a level or two because of the
economy’s “sluggish” growth. The same agency cut Ireland’s
credit ranking five levels on Dec. 17.  Greek 10-year government bond yields were three basis
points higher at 12.18 percent. Equivalent-maturity Portuguese
bond yields were one basis point higher, at 6.75 percent.
Spanish 10-year bonds advanced, pushing the yield down six basis
points to 5.5 percent and Italian yields were at 4.67 percent.  German bonds stayed higher even after data showed the U.S.
economy expanded at a 2.6 percent annual rate in the third
quarter, marking a pickup in growth that may extend into 2011 as
companies and consumers gain confidence to spend.  The revised increase in gross domestic product compares
with a 2.5 percent estimate issued last month and was less than
the median forecast of a 2.8 percent in a Bloomberg News survey,
a Commerce Department report showed today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Matthew Brown  in London at 
 mbrown42@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  