-- Gilead Ends Trial of Novel Drug for Rare Lung Disease on Lack of Efficacy
-- B y   D a v i d   O l m o s
-- 2010-12-23T00:25:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-22/gilead-ends-trial-of-novel-drug-for-rare-lung-disease-on-lack-of-efficacy.html
Gilead Sciences Inc ., the world’s
biggest maker of AIDS drugs, said it is stopping a late-stage
study of an experimental lung-disease therapy because it didn’t
help patients with the condition, idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis.  The drug, ambrisentan, was in the final stage of testing
usually required for U.S. approval, the Foster City, California-
based company said in a statement today. The decision to halt
the study followed an interim analysis of data by a monitoring
committee and the company’s review, according to the statement.  Gilead said on Dec. 20 that it had agreed to acquire
Arresto Biosciences Inc., of Palo Alto, California, for $225
million. Arresto’s lead experimental drug is a monoclonal
antibody being tested for cancer and idiopathic pulmonary
fibrosis, the same fatal lung disease that Gilead’s now-canceled
study for ambrisentan was targeting.  “Gilead is conducting a thorough review of the data and
will communicate the full results of this analysis to the
medical community when they are available,” Gilead said in the
statement.  Nathan Kaiser , a Gilead spokesman, said there is no
connection between the decision to stop the ambrisentan study
and the company’s deal with Arresto.  “Gilead was just informed of the results of the data
monitoring committee this week,” Kaiser said in a telephone
interview today.  Ambrisentan received U.S. approval in 2007 as a treatment
for pulmonary arterial hypertension, a narrowing of the arteries
that causes shortness of breath and heart failure. It is
marketed under the brand name Letairis.  Gilead shares fell 2 percent to $35.60 at 6:07 p.m. New
York time in extended trading on the Nasdaq Stock Market after
closing down 22 cents to $36.34.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Olmos  in San Francisco at 
 dolmos@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 Rgale5@bloomberg.net  