-- Google Completes Purchase New York Office Building in Manhattan Expansion
-- B y   D a v i d   M .   L e v i t t
-- 2010-12-22T21:30:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-22/google-completes-deal-for-new-york-office-building-sellers-say.html
Google Inc. , owner of the world’s
most popular search engine, completed the purchase of New York’s
111 Eighth Ave. as the company expands its presence in
Manhattan.  Taconic Investment Partners, Jamestown Properties and the
New York State Common Retirement Fund sold the building, the
companies said in a statement today. They didn’t disclose terms.  Google agreed to pay about $1.8 billion for the property,
where it is the largest tenant, a person with knowledge of the
deal said earlier this month. That would make it the biggest
transaction this year involving a single U.S. building,
according to Real Capital Analytics Inc., a New York-based real
estate research firm.  “This is a great real estate investment in a thriving
neighborhood and fantastic city,”  David Radcliffe , Google’s
vice president of real estate and workplace services, wrote on
the company’s blog. “We’re excited to continue to build our
presence there.”  Google, based in Mountain View, California, hired Taconic’s
management company to operate the building, Radcliffe said.  The company’s  shares  rose $2.42 to $605.49 at 4 p.m. New
York time in Nasdaq Stock Market trading. The stock has fallen
2.3 percent this year.  The building at 111 Eighth takes up an entire block between
West 15th and 16th streets in the Chelsea section of  Manhattan, 
south of Midtown. The former industrial warehouse has 2.94
million square feet (273,000 square meters), according to Real
Capital. At that size, it has more floor space than the Empire
State Building.  Expansion Plans  Google, with more than 2,000 employees in the neighborhood,
occupies about 550,000 square feet at 111 Eighth. The company
intends to take more space as it becomes available, the person
with knowledge of the deal said Dec. 2.  Poornima Gupta, a spokeswoman for Google, declined to
comment on the occupancy plans.  Other tenants in the building include WebMD, Nike Inc.,
Deutsche Advertising, Lifetime Networks, and Armani Exchange.
Taconic acquired it in 1998 and did $68 million of capital
improvements, the sellers said in their statement.  The building, completed in 1932, was originally a freight
terminal serving the city’s Hudson River piers.  The sellers were represented by  Doug Harmon , senior
managing director at Eastdil Secured LLC. Google was represented
by Stephen Siegel,  Darcy Stacom  and  William Shanahan  of CB
Richard Ellis Group Inc.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David M. Levitt  in New York at 
 dlevitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel in New York at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  