-- Greek Parliament Approves 2011 Budget, $18 Billion Deficit-Reduction Plan
-- B y   N a t a l i e   W e e k s   a n d   M a r c u s   B e n s a s s o n
-- 2010-12-23T10:49:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-22/greek-parliament-approves-2011-budget-18-billion-deficit-reduction-plan.html
Greece’s parliament approved the
government’s 2011 budget that aims to cut the fiscal deficit to
about half of last year’s level, when it swelled to the largest
in Europe and triggered a regional debt crisis.  The budget passed by a vote of 156 to 142 in the Athens-
based parliament. Measures include 14 billion euros ($18.4
billion) in spending cuts and additional revenue aimed at
cutting the shortfall to 7.4 percent of gross domestic product,
from a projected 9.4 percent this year and meeting conditions of
a 110 billion-euro bailout from the European Union and
International Monetary Fund approved in May.  “I am not calling on you to vote for this because it leads
us to the road to salvation, I call on you to vote for this
because it is a punctual continuation of a plan we committed to,
so we can respect the sacrifice Greek citizens made in 2010,”
Finance Minister  George Papaconstantinou  told the country’s 300-
member parliament.  Greece’s debt woes broadened into a euro-area crisis this
year and governments from Lisbon to Rome have struggled to
convince investors they can reduce debt and deficits enough to
prevent future bailouts. The EU and IMF agreed on an 85 billion-
euro aid package for Ireland last month, and  borrowing costs  in
Portugal and Spain rose to euro-area records on concern they may
be next.  Heightened Concerns  Fitch Ratings, the only rating company that still considers
Greek debt investment grade, followed Moody’s Investors Service
and Standard & Poor’s this month in placing the country’s credit
rating on review for a possible downgrade. Moody’s cited
heightened concerns about whether the country will be able to
reduce its debt to “sustainable levels.”  The  extra yield  investors demand to buy Greek 10-year bonds
over German bunds rose 2 basis point to 908 basis points today.
The premium reached a record 973 basis points on May 7.  Greece’s debt as a percentage of GDP stood at 127 percent
in 2009, the highest in the 27-nation EU. The EU says the ratio
will rise to 156 percent in 2012. Greece has said debt as a
percentage of GDP will peak in 2013. The European Commission
forecasts the economy will contract for a third year in 2011,
shrinking 3 percent, before returning to growth in 2012.  Protests  Greece’s two biggest unions staged a 3-hour walkout
yesterday and transport workers held their fourth 24-hour strike
this month. About 2,000 workers marched to parliament before the
budget vote to protests the additional austerity measures,
police estimated.  Prime Minister  George Papandreou  and his socialist  Pasok 
party came to power in October 2009 and soon revealed that the
deficit was twice what the outgoing government had estimated.
Papandreou who campaigned on pledges of higher spending and wage
increases, has managed to maintain much of his popular support
even as he implements the deepest austerity measures in decades,
triggering regular protests by unions, Pasok’s voting base.  During the final budget debate, Papandreou said the
government has had three goals since it was elected: to save the
country from bankruptcy, stabilize the economy and proceed with
necessary structural reforms. He said those who still talk about
a Greek default are being “unfair” and that the memorandum has
given it the needed stability to proceed with necessary changes
and return to growth in 2012.  Top Pick  Papandreou was still the top pick to run the country,
according to 42 percent of Greeks surveyed in a poll by Public
Issue published in  Kathimerini  newspaper on Dec. 12. That
compared with the 43.9 percent support he had in the 2009
elections. Sixty-six percent of respondents said the economic
situation in Greece would worsen, the poll showed.  “Every year the budget vote is essentially a vote of
confidence in the government,”  Kostas Ntounas , an analyst at
Athens-based National Securities SA, said in a telephone
interview today. “This was expected and no particular
surprise.”  The government has said it expects a 4 billion-euro
shortfall in tax revenue this year even after raising taxes and
beginning a crack-down on evasion. Greece has lowered pensions
and wages to offset the lag, which is hurting efforts to cut a
deficit that swelled to 15.4 percent of GDP in 2009, the largest
of any euro-area state in the currency’s history.  Other measures to cut the deficit to 17 billion euros
include increasing the lowest sales-tax rate to 13 percent from
11 percent, extending a levy on profitable firms and freezing
pensions. To boost growth, Greece will reduce the tax on non-
distributed corporate profits to 20 percent from 24 percent as
well as give the key tourism industry a cut in value-added tax
to 6.5 percent from 11 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Natalie Weeks  in Athens 
 nweeks2@bloomberg.net ;
 Marcus Bensasson  in Athens at 
 mbensasson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net 
John Fraher at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net  