-- Li Ka-shing's Oriental Plaza Said to Plan Yuan-Denominated Hong Kong IPO
-- B y   B e i   H u   a n d   K e l v i n   W o n g
-- 2010-12-22T08:04:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-22/li-ka-shing-s-oriental-plaza-said-to-plan-yuan-denominated-hong-kong-ipo.html
Li Ka-shing , Hong Kong’s richest man,
is preparing what may be the first yuan-denominated initial
public offering in the city in the first half of 2011, said two
people with knowledge of the matter.  Li, 82, hired Citic Securities International Co. to lead
the sale of more than 10 billion yuan ($1.5 billion) of shares
in a real estate investment trust backed by the Oriental Plaza
development in Beijing, said one of the people, who declined to
be identified because the information is private. HSBC Holdings
Plc will help arrange the offering, the people said.  Hong Kong Exchanges & Clearing Ltd. Chief Executive Officer
 Charles Li  has proposed allowing yuan-denominated share sales in
the city. Chinese-currency deposits at Hong Kong banks swelled
to a record 217.1 billion yuan in October, according to Hong
Kong Monetary Authority  data .  “If reaction to the IPO is good, it may very well create a
trend for other Hong Kong developers to follow,” said  Lee Wee Liat , a Hong Kong-based analyst at Samsung Securities Ltd.  Companies have sold more than 62 billion yuan of bonds
denominated in the Chinese currency in Hong Kong since 2007,
according to a Dec. 20 Bank of China (Hong Kong) Ltd. statement.  Winnie Cheong , a Hong Kong-based spokeswoman for Li’s
 Cheung Kong (Holdings) Ltd. , didn’t immediately return phone
calls seeking comment. Joyce Ho, a spokeswoman at Citic
Securities International in Hong Kong, said the firm doesn’t
comment on market rumors. Maggie Cheung, an HSBC spokeswoman in
the city, declined to comment. Chinese-language newspaper Hong
Kong Economic Times  reported  Li’s plan earlier today.  Cultural Revolution  Cheung Kong shares rose 3.4 percent to HK$120.20 as of 3:57
p.m. in Hong Kong trading.  Cheung Kong, the developer  controlled  by Li, owns 33.4
percent of the Oriental Plaza and  Hutchison Whampoa Ltd. , 49.9
percent owned by Cheung Kong, has 18 percent, according to the
companies’ 2009 annual report.  Li built the company into Hong Kong’s second-biggest
developer by market value after he began buying property in the
city in 1967 when riots tied to China’s Cultural Revolution
caused land prices in the city to collapse.  Lorraine Chan , a spokeswoman for the Hong Kong bourse,
declined to comment on the proposed offering. The exchange is
“ready to support the listing, trading and clearing of RMB-
denominated products in Hong Kong,” she said in an e-mailed
response to questions, referring to renminbi, the yuan’s other
name.  Grand Hyatt Hotel  Hong Kong should promote yuan-denominated IPOs,  Joseph Yam ,
former chief executive of the HKMA, said in a public lecture in
the city today. Hong Kong is ready to develop a yuan IPO market,
Yam said.  Oriental Plaza, covering an area of 100,000 square meters
(1.1 million square feet), is situated along Beijing’s Changan
Avenue in the heart of the city. It consists of eight grade-A
office towers, a shopping mall, a Grand Hyatt Hotel, and
serviced apartments, according to its  website .  Shareholders will be selling existing stock in the Li-
backed REIT, said one of the people. More banks may be added to
the sale, the people said.  “This will provide an alternative funding channel for
Cheung Kong’s development in mainland China,” said Samsung’s
Lee. “Clearly in the next five to seven years mainland China
instead of Hong Kong will be the main growth engine for a
developer the size of Cheung Kong.”  After arriving in Hong Kong as a refugee from China in 1940,
Li swept factory floors to survive during the Japanese World War
II occupation of the city between 1941 and 1945. After the war,
he opened a plastic-flower factory and then started buying real
estate in the city.  Li was listed as the world’s 14th-richest person in March
by Forbes magazine, compared with 16th a year earlier, after his
wealth increased to $21 billion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bei Hu  in Hong Kong at 
 bhu5@bloomberg.net ;
 Kelvin Wong  at 
 kwong40@bloomberg.net ;
 Eva Woo  in Beijing at 
 ewoo9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  