-- IBM Creates Cloud-Computing System for NATO Command
-- B y   K a t i e   H o f f m a n n
-- 2010-12-22T21:10:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-22/ibm-to-create-cloud-computing-system-for-nato-military-command.html
International Business Machines
Corp. , the world’s biggest computer-services provider, is
building a cloud-computing system for NATO in the first such
deal for the international military alliance.  The software and hardware will let NATO more quickly
collect and analyze data, such as military intelligence in
Afghanistan, said E.J. Herold, head of the project for  IBM .
NATO’s military command department in Norfolk, Virginia, will
use the technology first, with the possibility it will expand to
other divisions, he said. Terms of the accord weren’t disclosed.  IBM gains a foothold for similar projects for NATO’s other
departments, as well as its 28  member countries .  The Armonk,
New York-based company is betting cloud computing, which helps
customers save money by letting them store and access data via
the Internet, will be a $3 billion  business  by 2015.  “It’s a first step in the door at this international
organization,” Herold said in an interview yesterday. “With 28
member nations who are all having equal say in doing things, by
definition everything you do becomes more complex.”  IBM will manage the North Atlantic Treaty Organization’s
data from inside the Norfolk base, in a so-called private-cloud
model, which lets customers put information on servers within
their own security systems. The system will help the military
command pull together information from sources such as radar
systems, cameras or infrared images that had been separated.  “It makes it easier to share information, especially in
time-sensitive situations, like combat,” Herold said. “It
makes it easier for commanders to understand the situation and
then make a decision.”  IBM  rose  21 cents to $145.95 at 4 p.m. in New York Stock
Exchange composite trading. The shares  have climbed  11 percent
this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Katie Hoffmann  in New York at 
 khoffmann4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at   pelstrom@bloomberg.net  