-- 
Micron Says Spending Cuts Will Avert Price Collapse

-- B y   I a n   K i n g
-- 
2011-02-11T21:38:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-22/micron-s-first-quarter-sales-miss-analysts-estimates-update1-.html
The memory-chip industry will keep a
lid on  capital expenditures  this year, helping avoid a repeat of
the production glut that plagued the industry until 2010,  Micron
Technology Inc . Chief Executive Officer Steve Appleton said.  “There’s nothing going on that’s real crazy in terms of cap
ex in the memory industry,” Appleton said today at a meeting
with analysts in Scottsdale,  Arizona .  Spending on new machinery used to make dynamic random
access memory chips -- the main memory in computers -- will fall
in 2011, Appleton predicted. That will reduce the risk of excess
supply, even if orders slow. Meanwhile, demand remains strong
for  flash memory , which goes into phones and tablets such as  Apple Inc .’s iPad, he said.  Micron, the only remaining U.S. producer of computer
memory, is trying to stave off the imbalance suffered between
2007 and 2009. Chip prices fell below the cost of production,
leading to billions of dollars in red ink at Micron. Similar
losses at Taiwanese rivals have left them unwilling or unable to
boost production again, Appleton said.  “You’re not going to see nearly as bad down cycles as you
saw in the past,” said Tristan Gerra, an analyst at  Robert W.
Baird  in San Francisco. “Eventually, the guys strong enough to
survive thrive. The weak exit the market.”  Mired in Debt  Excluding  South Korea ’s Samsung Electronics Inc., the
largest maker of memory chips, Micron’s Asian competitors don’t
have enough cash to service their debts coming due in the next
year, Appleton said. That means they can’t afford to spend money
improving output, he said.  Memory-chip makers have historically struggled to match
supply with demand. Building a new factory requires long-term
planning and can cost as much as $4 billion, but demand can
fluctuate in the space of weeks.  The plants also run 24 hours a day because it costs too
much to halt a production process. That’s resulted in
manufacturers selling chips for less than they cost to make.  Micron’s most recent quarter was the first time that sales
of DRAM didn’t account for the majority of its revenue. A surge
in demand for mobile phones and tablet computers is boosting
orders for so-called Nand flash, a market served by fewer
manufacturers. That’s helping make that sector less volatile
than DRAM, said Alex Gauna, an analyst at JMP Securities LLC in  San Francisco .  “There’s a better business opportunity with fewer
competitors,” Gauna said. “The smartphone and the tablet are
the perfect consumer devices -- they’re addictive and they wear
out.”  Micron, based on Boise, Idaho, rose 1 cent to $11.32 at 4
p.m. New York time on the Nasdaq Stock Market. The stock has
rallied 41 percent this year, following a 24 percent drop in
2010.  Micron has reported an annual profit in only four of the
past 10 years, beset by falling chip prices and competition with
larger rivals. The company goes head-to-head with Samsung, the
world’s second-largest chipmaker behind  Intel Corp .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian King in San Francisco at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Tom Giles  at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net . 