-- Higher U.S. Airfares Loom as Oil Climbs Toward $100
-- B y   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n   a n d   M a r y   J a n e   C r e d e u r
-- 2010-12-22T21:37:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-22/higher-u-s-airfares-loom-as-crude-climbs-toward-100-a-barrel.html
Delta Air Lines Inc .,  American
Airlines  and other large U.S. carriers may be poised to boost
fares with fuel surcharges as crude oil moves closer to $100 a
barrel.  “Every dollar that fuel rises erodes their earnings,”
said  Jim Corridore , a Standard & Poor’s equity analyst in New
York. “It’s not good news to see fuel prices back up. Once we
start approaching $100 a barrel, you’ll start to see fuel
surcharges come back.”  Crude settled at a 2-year high today of $90.48 on the New
York Mercantile Exchange, underscoring the pressure on an
industry whose two largest costs are jet fuel and labor. The
price will top $100 by 2011’s second half, Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. forecast in a report this month.  Airlines grounded hundreds of planes, dropped routes and
cut thousands of jobs in 2008 as oil surged to more than $145 a
barrel and  jet fuel  soared to a record $4.36 a gallon. The run-
up extended losses at most  carriers  that began in late 2007 and
lasted until earlier this year.  Delta spent $5.67 billion on fuel through Sept. 30, or 26
percent of its total expenses, while  AMR Corp. ’s American paid
$4.74 billion, or 29 percent.  United Continental Holdings Inc. 
couldn’t get a fuel surcharge to stick this month.  “At $100 plus oil in 2011, they have to price to that on
fares or surcharges or both,”  Kevin Crissey , a UBS Securities
LLC analyst in New York, said in an interview. “The airlines
are supposed to have several years of profitability to mend
their balance sheets after this last downturn, and oil is eating
into that.”  Adding Surcharges  Airlines adopt surcharges for expenses such as fuel by
adding a specific amount onto their existing fare structures.
Carriers have said that step can be simpler than adjusting the
millions of prices in their computer systems.  Jet fuel  for immediate delivery in New York Harbor closed
today at  $2.55 a gallon , the highest level since 2008. The price
has jumped 29 percent from a year earlier.  The previous 12
months  saw a 42 percent surge, preceded by a 48 percent plunge
in late 2008 as the recession ravaged demand.  Volatility in fuel prices is the industry’s “No. 1
challenge,”  Southwest Airlines Co.  Chief Executive Officer  Gary Kelly  said.  “All you have to do is look back at the last decade to see
what kind of havoc it wreaks on our industry,” he said in a
Dec. 15 speech. “It is the single biggest threat to aviation.”  Crude and Fares  Every sustained $5 annual increase in the price of crude
requires boosting round-trip fares about $7 to offset the cost
on domestic operations, Jamie Baker , a JPMorgan Chase & Co.
analyst, said in a Dec. 15 report. Only two of 10 industrywide
fare increases succeeded in 2010, according to travel website
FareCompare.com.  United Continental , the world’s largest carrier, was the
first U.S. airline to try a fuel surcharge in 2010, raising one-
way fares $10 on Dec. 6 after oil broached $89 a barrel. The
Chicago-based company pulled back in most markets after
Southwest, the biggest discounter, refused to match.  Seating-capacity cuts during the recession helped airlines
phase out some of the cheapest tickets, so average fares inched
up even as across-the-board increases fell through. The U.S.
airfare consumer price index rose at least 10 percent each month
from April through July, the Bureau of Labor Statistics said.  Oil’s rise may test the durability of airlines’ 2010
recovery, according to  Dan McKenzie , a Chicago-based analyst
with Hudson Securities.  ‘Modest Amount’  “The industry has the wherewithal to offset a very modest
amount of fuel-price volatility,” McKenzie said. “Where
earnings estimates are vulnerable and where stocks are
vulnerable is when fuel prices march up from $95 to $100.”  United, Atlanta-based Delta and Southwest, based in Dallas,
all should return to profit, based on analysts’ estimates
compiled by Bloomberg. Fort Worth, Texas-based  AMR  is the only
carrier among the four largest in the U.S. still projected to
lose money in 2010, according to the estimates.  The  Bloomberg U.S. Airlines Index  has risen 23 percent this
year, almost twice the 13 percent gain in the Standard & Poor’s
500 Index.  While most airlines have planned to add back some domestic
flying in 2011 as the economy strengthens, oil at $100 a barrel
or more also may force them to reconsider, said  Bob McAdoo , an
analyst at Nashville, Tennessee-based Avondale Partners LLC.  “When you get $100 to $110, people are going to start
looking at what they’re going to do to squeeze capacity down,”
he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Mary Schlangenstein  in Dallas at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net ;
 Mary Jane Credeur  in Atlanta at 
 mcredeur@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net  