-- IMF Visitors Boost Dublin Restaurants Battling Snow, Recession
-- B y   D a r a   D o y l e   a n d   F i n b a r r   F l y n n
-- 2010-12-22T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-22/imf-visitors-boost-dublin-restaurants-battling-christmas-snow-recession.html
Officials of the International
Monetary Fund arrived in Dublin last month after the government
was forced to seek an 85 billion-euro ($112 billion) bailout in
the wake of the worst recession in the country’s history.  We asked seven restaurateurs in Dublin about business over
the vital December period after a tough year for many. One
restaurant per day is closing in Ireland and 80 percent of
establishments are running at a loss, according to a report by
the Restaurants Association of Ireland published last month.  Here’s what they had to say:  Ronan Ryan (Town Bar and Grill): “We’re the first people
to get money from the IMF,” when officials visited earlier this
month. “I was going to bill them for 85 billion euros, but
decided against it.”  Christmas bookings  have been “fantastic. People who used
to jet the Gulf in August, go skiing in January and visit St.
Biarritz” are staying at home more and eating out. “The days
when you started dinners with bottles of champagne and finished
with Armagnac are gone. People used to be embarrassed to be
poor, now they are embarrassed to be rich. It’s now about
stealth wealth, not flash.”  Olivier Messonave (Dax): “We are down maybe 30 percent
from 2007, which is mainly down to lower spending on wine. Back
then it was mental, people would spend 80 to 90 euros on a
bottle, no problem. Not anymore. But  bookings  this Christmas are
on a par with last year. We’re more worried about the snow than
the IMF, absolutely. In fact, the bailout has been a good thing.
I’ve noticed people feel more relaxed and a bit more secure,
which makes them feel more comfortable about spending. Without
the bailout, it would have been disastrous. But 2011 will be
tough.”  Neil Barry (Eden): “ Business  is up a little bit this
Christmas, but less than 5 percent. Average spend is still down
from two years ago, when it was 70 euros a head. Now it’s 55
euros. We’ve cut our prices 10 percent. We’ve cut our staff
costs; we have one barman instead of two, three people on the
floor instead of five. 2011 will be tough; we’ll survive as long
as the corporate customers keep coming back. But I can see a lot
of closures coming early next year. I just can’t see how some
places, especially small ones, are going to survive. You can’t
just keep pouring money down a black hole.”  Ross Lewis (Chapter One): “Christmas  bookings  are on a par
with last year, except for the weather which destroyed early
December for a lot of us, with 80 percent cancellations. We’ve
started to see last-minute cancellations and people turning up
with fewer guests than then they reserved for, so that’s tough.
January and February will be tough. The corporate business has
started coming back for dinners, but not lunches. To be honest,
it’s RIP for the corporate lunch.”  Martin Clegg (Shanahan’s}: “We’re about 3 to 4 percent
down this year, so it hasn’t been too bad. People are definitely
more cautious on the wine they are buying, and our friends in
 finance  have disappeared completely. There was so much gloom and
doom out at the beginning of the month, with the budget. At
least the snow took the budget off the front pages. I’m
cautiously optimistic for next year.”  Barry Canny (Peploe’s): “We are about 6 percent off since
last Christmas due to the market and the weather. No longer do
we have the swashbuckling Armani suits.” Still, “we are
extremely busy for Christmas. We cannot take any more people
than we have. We’ve been like that since the start of Christmas.
People are still a little afraid to spend. We’ve had to adjust
our prices accordingly. The average price for two for  dinner  is
about 90 euros including a bottle of wine. Peploe’s doesn’t
present the wrong image, if you go to one of five top-end
restaurants in Dublin that are charging 75 to 80 euros per
person without wine, that sends out the wrong message.”  Erik Robson (Ely): “Christmas always happens. I tell my
guys to imagine World War II with bombs falling in London,
people were still celebrating. Having said that, average spend
is down. We’re not selling  wine  for stupid money, 2,000 euros a
bottle, anymore. We’re comfortable with where we are now.
Revenue might be up as much as 35 percent for the year. But
we’ve told staff to think that 2011 might be as bad as 2009,
when we hit rock bottom, to try and avoid complacency.”  ( Dara Doyle  and  Finbarr Flynn  write for Bloomberg News.
Opinions expressed are their own. These interviews were adapted
from longer conversations.)  To contact the writers on the story:
Dara Doyle in Dublin at 
 ddoyle1@bloomberg.net ;
Finbarr Flynn in Dublin at 
 finbarrff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 