-- India's GDP Growth May Lure Record Foreign Fund Inflows, IDBI Federal Says
-- B y   S h i k h a r   B a l w a n i
-- 2010-12-22T05:00:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-22/india-s-gdp-growth-may-lure-record-foreign-fund-inflows-idbi-federal-says.html
Indian stock  purchases  by foreign
funds in 2011 could exceed this year’s record inflows as the
nation’s robust economic and corporate earnings expansion lures
investors, according to the local partner of  Ageas , the insurer
that groups the remains of Fortis.  “The stage is set for it,”  Aneesh Srivastava , who manages
about $352 million in assets as the Mumbai-based chief
investment officer at IDBI Federal Life Insurance Co., said in
an interview today. “Money chases growth. Returns in foreign
economies are small and they have no other option but to look at
growth opportunities outside.”  Foreign  inflows  into Indian equities have climbed to a
record 1.3 trillion rupees ($28.8 billion) this year, according
to data on the  website  of the Securities and Exchange Board of
India, driving the Bombay Stock Exchange’s benchmark  Sensitive
Index, or   Sensex , up 15 percent in 2010, the most among key
indexes in the world’s 10 largest stock markets. “We are
substantially underestimating the appetite and desire of foreign
investors to buy Indian assets.”  Srivastava, 41, predicts India’s  $1.3 trillion economy  to
grow at 8.5 percent for the year through March 2012, accompanied
by a 20 percent expansion in corporate earnings. Gross domestic
product grew 8.9 percent for a second straight quarter in the
three months through September, maintaining the fastest pace
among the world’s major economies after China.  ‘Crude a Dampener’  Srivastava sees a “high probability” that the Sensex will
reach 23,000 by March 2012, a 14 percent gain from today, and is
“bullish” on the banking and oil & gas sectors.  “On an average, our bias will be to build portfolios with
banks and oil & gas stocks,” he said.  Rising crude oil prices are the biggest risk to markets,
Srivastava said. India, which imports more than 75 percent of
its crude oil needs, is forecast to account for 15 percent of
the global increase in energy demand to 2030, according to the
International Energy Agency.  “Crude is a dampener. There is a severe winter in Europe,
which is driving up demand for heating fuels and pushing prices
up,” he said. If crude oil continues to rise, “economies like
India could suffer and stock markets could correct.”  Thousands of airline and train passengers were marooned
across Europe during a storm system that produced Britain’s
worst early snowfall in 17 years this week.  Crude oil in New York trading reached $90.76 a barrel on
Dec. 7, the highest level since 2008. Oil has gained 13 percent
this year.  Credit Expansion  A pick-up in corporate demand and government spending will
boost lending over the next 12 to 15 months, Srivastava said. He
estimates loan  growth  of 22 percent for Indian lenders in the
financial year 2012.  “The best way to play the banking theme is through large
and clean private-sector banks,” Srivastava said, as they tend
to do better in a rising interest-rate environment. He declined
to comment on specific stocks.  Srivastava is also investing in oil companies’ stocks on
expectations government policy changes may allow for market-
driven fuel prices. India freed gasoline prices from state
control in June, while continuing to set rates for other fuels,
including diesel. The nation’s government will decide on a gas
pricing policy in the next six to eight months, oil secretary S.
Sundareshan said on Oct. 30.  “Policy direction is indicating that certain reforms could
happen. If reforms clearly pan out, this is one sector that
could outperform,” Srivastava said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Shikhar Balwani  in Mumbai 
 sbalwani@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net . 