-- Ireland May Ask Court Approval for Allied Irish Injection
-- B y   J o e   B r e n n a n
-- 2010-12-22T17:47:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-22/ireland-may-ask-court-approval-for-allied-irish-injection.html
Ireland’s government may ask a
Dublin court for approval to make an immediate capital injection
into  Allied Irish Banks Plc , the country’s second-largest
lender, two people familiar with the situation said.  The state may seek the court’s permission as soon as today
or tomorrow, said the people, who declined to be identified
because the plan has yet to be finalized. Under new banking laws
enacted yesterday, the state can seek a court order to put cash
into banks without seeking shareholder approval.  Allied Irish, which is already 19 percent government-owned,
needs to raise a total of 3.7 billion euros ($4.9 billion) by
the year-end to reach minimum capital standards, the European
Commission said yesterday. Prime Minister  Brian Cowen  last month
sought an international bailout after bank losses threatened to
overwhelm the state’s finances and send depositors fleeing.  “There appears to be a clear move by the government to
boost Allied Irish’s capital by the year end,” said  Kevin McConnell , head of research at Bloxham, a Dublin-based
securities firm.  Allied Irish, which can trace its roots back to  1825 , may
be the fourth of the country’s six domestic lenders to fall
under government control in less than two years. An injection of
more than 3.5 billion euros would leave the state with at least
95 percent of the bank, Glas Securities, a Dublin-based fixed-
income firm, said in a note to clients on Dec. 13.  Shares Drop  Allied Irish  fell  5 percent to 40 cents at the 5:10 p.m.
close of Dublin trading, giving the lender a market value of
432.3 million euros.  The new law also allows the finance minister to apply to
the Irish courts to de-list a lender’s shares or suspend its
listing. The Sunday Business Post said on Dec. 19 the state may
take the lender off the stock exchange, without citing anyone.  The lender, which had market value of 21 billion euros in
2007, suffered record losses as a decade-long real estate boom
collapsed in 2008. Allied Irish said on Nov. 19 its deposits
shrank by about 13 billion euros, or 17 percent, this year as
companies and customers pulled money amid the crisis.  A spokeswoman for Allied Irish declined to comment, while
spokesmen for the Finance Ministry, the Central Bank and the
National Treasury Management Agency also declined to comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joe Brennan  at   jbrennan29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  