-- Ivory Coast Readies for Renewed Protests After President Refuses to Resign
-- B y   O l i v i e r   M o n n i e r   a n d   F r a n z   W i l d
-- 2010-12-22T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-22/ivory-coast-top-cocoa-grower-set-for-renewed-protests-as-sanctions-grow.html
Ivory Coast  may see renewed violence
after President  Laurent Gbagbo  defied demands to resign and the
rival administration of Allasane Ouattara called on supporters
to resume protests that left at least 50 dead last week.  Guillaume Soro , prime minister of Ouattara’s United
Nations-backed government, asked people to “mobilize and to
protest, by every means, until the departure” of Gbagbo,
according to a statement e-mailed yesterday from  Abidjan , the
commercial capital.  In reply, Gbagbo rejected international calls for his
resignation in a televised address, his first since a disputed
election on Nov. 28 left the country with two governments.
Ouattara was named winner of the vote by the electoral
commission and has support from the U.S., UN, European Union and
former colonial power France. Gbagbo has the backing of the army
after the Constitutional Council dismissed the vote count in
some northern states and named him as victor in the ballot.  “I won the election,” Gbagbo said on television. “The
troubles we see today in Ivory Coast are caused by the refusal
of my opponent to submit himself to the laws, rules and
procedures that apply in our country.”  U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  authorized a travel
ban on supporters of Gbagbo’s regime, about 30 of whom would be
immediately affected, Deputy Assistant Secretary of State for
African Affairs William Fitzgerald told reporters yesterday. The
move follows a similar ban by the EU.  Civil War  The election was meant to stabilize Ivory Coast, the
world’s largest cocoa producer, after a 2002 civil war split the
nation between a government-controlled south and rebel-held
north and slowed economic growth.  “There is a real risk of a return to civil war,” UN
Secretary-General  Ban Ki-moon  told a meeting of the General
Assembly in New York yesterday. “There has been an alarming
increase in the use of intimidation by elements of the national
forces loyal” to Gbagbo.  Pro-Gbagbo forces opened fire on marchers supporting
Ouattara last week, killing at least 50 and wounding 240,
according to the UN, which is protecting Ouattara’s
administration at a hotel in Abidjan.  Gbagbo said yesterday that he didn’t “want any more blood
spilled,” and offered to set up a “commission of experts,”
including members of the international community, to look into
possible solutions.  “Time is of the essence and all eyes are on international
partners, particularly the UN, in their ability to bring about a
swift denouement to this crisis,” Kissy Agyeman-Togobo, a
partner with London-based Songhai Advisory, said in an e-mailed
note.  Under Pressure  The international community will continue to ratchet up
pressure on Gbagbo and would consider sending in forces with a
more aggressive mandate, the U.S.’s Fitzgerald said.  “Is there the option of destabilization and sending in a
stabilization force? Of course,” he said “All options are
open, but probably not an American force. It may be an African
force.”  African countries may not have the capability or political
will to step in, said Richard Downie, deputy director of the
Africa program at the Center for Strategic and International
Studies in Washington.  Nigeria, whose troops led regional interventions in Liberia
and Sierra Leone in the 1990s, is unlikely to get involved with
military force before its own elections scheduled for next year,
he said in a phone interview.  “It reflects a kind of impotence by the international
community,” he said. “They want to stand forcefully against
Gbagbo but there aren’t that many sticks they can wield against
him.”  Surrounded  Gbagbo’s forces are attempting to block roads and cut off
supplies to Ouattara’s hotel by surrounding the facility. In
turn, Ouattara has asked the  Central Bank of West African States 
to no longer recognize Gbagbo as president and cut off his
funding.  “Gbagbo may be hard-pressed to deliver on promises made to
pay civil servant workers, as well as the military,” Agyeman-
Togobo said.  The political strife has pushed up cocoa prices 6.9 percent
since the election. March-delivery beans gained 1 percent, or
$28, to $2,986 per metric ton by 1:48 p.m. in New York
yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Olivier Monnier  in Abidjan via Accra at 
 ebowers1@bloomberg.net ;
 Franz Wild  in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 