-- J&J Overcharged for Medications, AIDS Treatment Group Alleges in Lawsuit
-- B y   D a v i d   O l m o s
-- 2010-12-22T22:29:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-22/j-j-overcharged-for-medications-aids-group-says-in-lawsuit.html
Johnson & Johnson  was sued by an
AIDS treatment advocacy group that said the drugmaker
overcharged for medications purchased under a U.S. program.  In the lawsuit, the Los Angeles-based  AIDS Healthcare
Foundation  accused J&J, the world’s largest health products
company, of failing to provide discounts required by federal law
for medicines used by nonprofit charities that provide treatment
for people with HIV, the AIDS-causing virus. The suit named New
Brunswick, New Jersey-based J&J’s Centocor Ortho Biotech and
Tibotec Therapeutics units.  J&J overcharged the AIDS group by more than $68,000 for the
medications from Jan. 1 to June 30, according to the suit filed
yesterday in U.S. District Court in Los Angeles. In November,
AIDS Healthcare filed a similar suit against  Bristol-Myers
Squibb Co. , said  Michael Weinstein , the group’s president, in a
telephone conference call today.  “The allegations the AIDS Healthcare Foundation has raised
are without merit,”  Pam Van Houten , a spokeswoman for J&J’s
Tibotec unit, said in an e-mail statement.  Johnson & Johnson fell 32 cents, or less than 1 percent, to
$62.02 at 4 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading.
Bristol-Myers fell 2 cents to $26.34.  “We are reviewing the AIDS Healthcare Foundation complaint
and have no further comment at this time,” said Cristi Barnett,
a spokeswoman for New York-based Bristol-Myers, in a telephone
interview.  The AIDS Healthcare Foundation provides medical care and
services for more than 140,000 people in 22 countries, said Lori
Yeghiayan, a spokeswoman for the group, in an e-mail.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Olmos  in San Francisco at 
 dolmos@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 Rgale5@bloomberg.net  