-- Jacobs Engineering Rises After Buying Aker Unit
-- B y   T h o m a s   B l a c k
-- 2010-12-22T21:39:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-22/jacobs-engineering-shares-climb-after-675-million-purchase-of-aker-units.html
Jacobs Engineering Group Inc. , the
third-largest listed U.S. engineering company, rose the most in
more than six months after agreeing to buy a unit of  Aker
Solutions ASA  for about $675 million.  The purchase of Oslo-based Aker’s Process and Construction
unit will expand Jacobs’ metals and mining businesses. It will
also extend the company’s global reach, adding South America as
a new market and boosting operations in China, the company said
in a statement yesterday after markets closed.  The transaction offers “reasonable margins, bottom of
cycle, strong mining exposure and a platform to take share in
power and in Asia,” areas in which Jacobs had been
“underrepresented,”  Michael Dudas , an analyst with Jefferies &
Co. in New York, said in a note today. He has a “buy”
recommendation on the shares.  The Aker business has an estimated backlog of $1.55
billion, while revenue in the past nine months totaled almost
$1.1 billion, Dudas said. Profit margins ranged from 6.7 percent
to 5.3 percent from the third quarter of 2009 through the second
quarter this year, he said.  Jacobs, based in Pasadena, California, advanced $2.17, or
4.9 percent, to $46.32 at 4:15 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange
composite trading, the largest gain since June 2. Jacobs was the
third-biggest gainer on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index. Aker
rose 2 percent to 142.5 kroner in Oslo.  Diversifying Services  Jacobs  revenue  declined from a year ago in the last six
quarters as construction continues to slump in the U.S. Revenue
for fiscal year 2010 ended Oct. 1, fell 14 percent to $9.92
billion from last year.  “This acquisition allows us to further diversify our
services and drive greater growth in our business,” Chief
Executive Officer  Craig Martin  said in the statement.  Aker has been trying to sell the Process and Construction
business and was considering listing the unit,  Frederik Lunde ,
an analyst at Oslo-based Carnegie ASA, said in a note.  “We believe a straight sales to be preferred, and as such
this is a positive surprise,” Lunde, who has an “outperform”
rating on Aker, said.  The transaction is scheduled to be concluded in the second
quarter of fiscal 2011 and is expected to be “modestly
accretive” to earnings in 2011, Jacobs said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Thomas Black  in Monterrey at 
 tblack@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  