-- Opposition Plans for `X-Day' Japan Bond Crash It Blames on Kan Spending
-- B y   S a c h i k o   S a k a m a k i   a n d   T a k a s h i   H i r o k a w a
-- 2010-12-22T04:03:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-22/japan-s-opposition-plans-for-x-day-bond-crash-it-blames-on-kan-spending.html
Japan’s opposition said Prime
Minister  Naoto Kan ’s spending plans are increasing the risk that
the nation’s 858 trillion yen ($10.2 trillion) government debt
market, the world’s largest, will collapse.  "We’re approaching a danger zone where bond prices could
plunge,"  Yoshimasa Hayashi , the Liberal Democratic Party’s
shadow finance minister said in a Dec. 20 interview at his
office in Tokyo. "It’s very important to be implementing a
fiscal rehabilitation plan by 2012," when baby boomers born
after the war will start receiving state pensions, he said.  Surging bond yields would force the government to devote
more funds to service debt, undermining Kan’s stimulus efforts.
He has pledged to balance the budget by 2020 and pared back the
campaign promises that helped his party end the LDP’s half
century of almost unbroken rule. Japan’s total debt burden
jumped 85 percent during the LDP’s last  10 years  in power.  The opposition is working on what it calls the “X-Day”
project, to fend off a potential bond market rout, said Hayashi,
49, a former Economy Minister.  "There are many worrisome spending initiatives" in Kan’s
budget proposals, such as raising childcare allowances and
handouts for farmers, Hayashi said. The government has yet to
explain how it will finance a planned 5 percent cut in corporate
taxes, which will cost at least 1.5 trillion yen.  Kan aims to freeze annual budget spending at 71 trillion
yen for the next three years and cap bond sales at 44 trillion
yen in the 12 months starting April 1, the same as this year’s
record level.  Risks to Economy  Bank of Japan Governor Masaaki Shirakawa yesterday warned
about risks to the economy from rising bond yields.  Benchmark  10-
year yields rose more than 40 basis points in the past two
months to as high as 1.279 percent. The 10-year, 1.2 percent
Japanese government bond was recently trading at 1.145.  Japan’s Finance Ministry forecasts long-term debt in the
year ending March 31, 2011, will  reach  868 trillion yen, about
180 percent of gross domestic product. Household assets rose 0.3
percent in the third quarter to 1,442 trillion yen from a year
earlier, according to the Bank of Japan.  The narrowing gap is especially alarming for Japan, where
more than 90 percent of public debt is held by domestic
investors.  Hayashi said the gap between the two will shrink as an
aging population forces the government to spend more on social
security and families use up more savings.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sachiko Sakamaki in Tokyo at 
 Ssakamaki1@bloomberg.net ;
Takashi Hirokawa in Tokyo at 
 thirokawa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Austin at 
 billaustin@bloomberg.net  