-- Kauto Star May Retire After King George VI Chase and Gold Cup, Owner Says
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2010-12-22T00:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-22/kauto-star-may-retire-after-racing-in-king-george-and-gold-cup-owner-says.html
Kauto Star ’s racing career may draw
to a close at the end of the season should the horse win a
historic fifth  King George VI Chase  and the Cheltenham  Gold Cup .  “This is his last main season, probably,” Clive Smith,
who bought the double Gold Cup winner in 2004, said in an
interview in Ditcheat, southwest England. “We’re going to go
for the King George. If that goes well, we are going to train
him up for the Gold Cup, which I really would like him to win.”  The French-bred steeplechaser last year eclipsed Desert
Orchid to become the first horse to clinch four straight
victories in the King George at  Kempton Park  near London. Smith,
a retired golf-course builder, paid 400,000 euros ($524,000) for
Kauto Star, whose earnings stand at 4.2 million pounds ($6.5
million), the  Racing Post  website says. The horse has won 42
races, including the Betfair Chase and Tingle Creek Chase.  Desert Orchid won the King George, held the day after
Christmas, four times in five years from 1986 to 1990. The
three-mile race, which features 18 fences, was first held in
1937 to celebrate the accession of King George VI. “Dessie”
also won the Gold Cup, another of U.K. jump racing’s biggest
events, in 1989. The Gold Cup, which Kauto Star won in 2007 and
2009, will be held at Cheltenham in March.  Smith wants his 10-year-old gelding to end on a high note,
unlike  Desert Orchid , whose last race ended in disappointment
when seeking a fifth win in the King George in 1991. The horse
fell near the end of the race, something Smith wants to avoid
with Kauto Star.  Retirement Plans  “I wouldn’t want him to go out that way: I’d rather retire
him,” Smith said. “If he won the Gold Cup, it would be a great
time to seriously think about it.”  Kauto Star fell at this year’s Gold Cup. The duel between
the gelding -- the first horse to reclaim the Gold Cup after
suffering defeat -- and stablemate  Denman  attracted a record 40
million pounds in betting, U.K. bookmaker  William Hill Plc  said
at the time.  Imperial Commander  upset both horses to win his
first Gold Cup, the showcase event at the Cheltenham Festival.  “Kauto Star is an absolute superstar,” Amy Starkey,
managing director of Kempton Park Racecourse, said in an
interview. “Every year, he takes racing out of the racing pages
and into mainstream news. He’s a racing celebrity.”  Some 20,000 racing fans will travel to Kempton Park to
watch, Starkey said.  Paul Nicholls , who trains both Denman and Kauto Star, said
a victory in the King George is a priority for Kauto Star. After
the Dec. 26 event, the horse won’t race again until the Gold
Cup, he said.  Top Form  “The thing with him and Denman is that it’s probably their
last year at the very, very top of their game,” Nicholls said
in an interview at his Manor Farm Stables in Ditcheat in
Somerset. “We want to get them both there at the top of their
form.”  Gamblers also believe in Kauto Star, a bay with a striking
white blaze on his head. He’s the 11-10 favorite to win the King
George at race sponsor  William Hill  even though an injured  Ruby Walsh  won’t be riding him. Long Run is the second favorite at 5-
1, followed by Forpadydeplasterer at 10-1.  “At a time when racing is making a proactive effort to
recruit new fans and get people on site, it’s the kind of
character, and the kind of horse that we really need in the
game,” Alex Donohue, a spokesman for U.K. betting company
 Ladbrokes Plc , said in an interview. “People can think of his
great wins in some of most prestigious races. It’s a horse we’d
love to see in training for as long as possible.”  Although Kauto Star has run fewer races as he ages,
Nicholls hasn’t changed his training regime in the past two
years and has yet to see a decline.  Good as Ever  “Kauto has shown all the signs this autumn that he’s as
good as ever and he’s running nicely,” Nicholls said. “But
it’s got to catch up some time, that’s just life.”  The horse, wearing a dark blue blanket with the words “I
Will Make History,” calmly faced television cameras, print
reporters and photographers visiting his yard for a media day.  “He’s got a lot of intelligence, he’s a very clever
horse,” Nick Child, Kauto Star’s groom who has looked after him
for the last 2 1/2 years, said in an interview. “When you see
go him down to his last fence in a few of his races, he’ll
always finds a leg where maybe a lesser horse would maybe just
topple over.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh in Ditcheat, Somerset, through the London
sports desk at   drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  