-- Kuwaiti Government Meeting Strongest Challenge After Police Beat Lawmakers
-- B y   F i o n a   M a c D o n a l d   a n d   D a h l i a   K h o l a i f
-- 2010-12-22T21:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-22/kuwait-meeting-strongest-challenge-after-police-beat-lawmakers.html
Kuwait’s government may face its
strongest challenge from the opposition in parliament next week,
as anger spreads over a police crackdown that saw lawmakers and
their supporters beaten at a political rally.  Members of the assembly have called Prime Minister  Sheikh Nasser al-Mohammed al-Sabah  to answer allegations on Dec. 28
that the constitution was violated when police suppressed the
meeting two weeks ago. Four legislators and several opposition
supporters were injured, according to Al-Rai and other
newspapers. Lawmaker  Musallam al-Barrak , who spoke at the rally,
said the action was unprecedented.  Kuwait has allowed more space for political opposition than
other Gulf monarchies, opening a fault line between an executive
appointed by the hereditary ruler and elected lawmakers seeking
wider powers. Their disputes have repeatedly shut down the
assembly and stalled investment plans. The latest may disrupt a
$110 billion program aimed at luring international companies to
an economy that has failed to keep pace with regional peers.  The parliamentary move against Sheikh Nasser “is much more
serious than any one before,” said Hajjaj Bu Khudour, an
independent Kuwaiti economist, in a phone interview from Kuwait
City. “The opposition is widening and gaining more support.”  Sheikh Nasser has the right to request a postponement of
the questioning, which the government has said it welcomes. A
motion to oust him would require the support of 25 lawmakers in
the 50-seat assembly.  The premier, the nephew of Kuwait’s ruler,  Sheikh Sabah al- Ahmed al-Jaber al-Sabah , survived a motion of non-cooperation in
December 2009 in a 35-13 vote, after being questioned in a
closed session over alleged misappropriation of funds.  Repeat Elections  Before that, Sheikh Sabah dissolved the parliament twice,
forcing elections in May 2008 and again a year later, on the
grounds legislators were blocking his program of modernizing the
$110 billion economy.  Growth in Kuwait, holder of the world’s fourth-largest oil
reserves, has lagged behind its peers among the region’s small,
energy-rich kingdoms.  In the past five years, gross domestic product expanded at
an average pace of 2.6 percent, according to International
Monetary Fund data. In the same period, the United Arab Emirates
grew by 4 percent a year, Bahrain by 5.7 percent, Oman by 6.7
percent and Qatar by 19 percent.  ‘Almost Zero’  Kuwait’s growth was “almost zero” this year, Central Bank
Governor  Sheikh Salem Abdul Aziz al-Sabah  said last month. The
benchmark  KSEI stock index  has fallen 0.5 percent in dollar
terms this year, compared with an 8 percent gain in neighboring
Saudi Arabia’s  Tadawul All Share Index .  Objections from the legislature have helped scupper
investment projects including a joint venture with Midland,
Michigan-based  Dow Chemical Co. , scrapped in December 2008, and
an oil refinery postponed three months later.  Parliament in February approved a four-year, $110 billion
program of investments including another refinery, airport
expansion and power plants. It’s preparing to invite offers to
build the $2.5 billion North Zour power plant, with Fairfield,
Connecticut-based  General Electric Co.  among approved bidders,
according to MEED magazine.  Opposition lawmakers object to proposals that loans for the
projects should be underwritten with public money.  “We have a development plan which is already having
difficulties in financing,” Bu Khudour said. The latest
political row “will make the whole argument about financing
more chaotic.”  Dissolution  Next week’s session may lead to another dissolution of
parliament followed by elections, a power the emir enjoys under
the constitution, said Ayed Al-Manna, a political analyst at
Kuwait’s Public Authority for Applied Education. Another
alternative is “dissolving parliament unconstitutionally or
suspending some articles of the constitution,” he said in a
phone interview.  The Dec. 8 rally was held to oppose alleged government
plans to water down freedoms guaranteed in the constitution. Al-
Jazeera television showed pictures of police charging the
demonstrators with riot shields and hitting them with batons.  The Qatar-based channel’s Kuwait bureau was shut down a
week later. The government said its coverage of the protest
amounted to interference in Kuwait’s internal affairs.  Kuwait’s ruler, Sheikh Sabah, summoned editors of local
papers on Dec. 12 to defend the action, telling them that “what
happened is not the mistake of the special forces but of
others,” and thanking the security personnel involved, Al-Qabes
newspaper reported. Opposition lawmakers submitted their request
to question the premier the following day.  Votes for Women  Kuwait set up its parliament in 1962, and extended the
franchise in 2005 by allowing women to vote and stand for
election. The country was ranked the most democratic among the
Gulf Arab monarchies in the Economist Intelligence Unit’s  2010
Democracy Index , though it was still classified as an
“authoritarian” regime and placed below Iraq and Kyrgyzstan.  The risk that political gains may be reversed led Ahmad Al-
Khateeb, one of the constitution’s founders, to call next week’s
session “the most dangerous” in the parliament’s history. “In
it, the future of Kuwait and the future of democracy and the
future of the Constitution will be determined,” he wrote in the
liberal weekly newspaper  Al-Taleea .  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Fiona MacDonald  in Kuwait at 
 fmacdonald4@bloomberg.net .
 Dahlia Kholaif  in Kuwait at 
 dkholaif@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Hirschberg at  phirschberg@bloomberg.net . 