-- Kuwaiti Court Allows Etisalat's Due Diligence for Zain Stake to Proceed
-- B y   D a h l i a   K h o l a i f   a n d   F i o n a   M a c D o n a l d
-- 2010-12-22T11:28:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-22/kuwaiti-court-allows-etisalat-s-due-diligence-for-zain-stake-to-proceed.html
Kuwait’s commercial court allowed
due diligence to proceed on Emirates Telecommunications Corp.’s
planned purchase of 46 percent of Kuwaiti phone company  Zain ,
denying a minority shareholder’s effort to halt the transaction.  Al-Fawares Holding Co., which  owns  4.5 percent of Zain,
sued the company and its second-largest shareholder, Al-Khair
National for Stocks & Real Estate Co., as well as sale manager
 National Investments Co . in early December to prevent Emirates
Telecommunications from gaining access to the Kuwaiti phone
operator’s data.  Judges rejected the lawsuit, a court clerk, who is not
allowed to be identified under national legal rules, told
reporters today at the Palace of Justice in Kuwait City.  Etisalat , as Emirates Telecommunications is known,
announced an offer on Sept. 30 of 1.70 Kuwaiti dinars ($6) a
share for a controlling stake in Zain, whose official name is
Mobile Telecommunications Co. Excluding treasury stock, the
holding would amount to 51 percent of share capital and voting
rights, according to a preliminary agreement that Abu Dhabi-
based Etisalat and Al-Khair reached in early November.  Al-Khair, which is owned by Kuwait’s Kharafi Group and is
leading the stake sale, said on Nov. 3 that the transaction is
subject to some conditions, including Zain’s disposal of its
operations in Saudi Arabia, where Etisalat already holds mobile-
phone assets.  Saudi Unit Dispute  Al-Fawares Holding said in the lawsuit that Zain Saudi
Arabia “shouldn’t be sold or handled in a manner that would
benefit shareholders who are part of the deal” at the expense
of Zain’s other investors, according to a court document. Al-
Fawares asked the court to halt the due diligence, cancel any
procedures based on the information obtained and annul Zain’s
board decision in November that allowed the process.  Sheikh Khalifa Ali Al-Sabah, an Al-Fawares’s
representative, said by phone following the ruling that the
company plans further legal action “in the next couple of
days” to prevent the Saudi division’s sale.  Zain Saudi Arabia  rose  as much as 8.6 percent, to 8.25
riyals, the biggest intraday jump since May 22, and was up 5.3
percent as of 2:14 p.m. in Riyadh trading. The Zain parent
company’s Kuwaiti stock was unchanged at 1,520 fils.  Al-Khair holds 12.7 percent of Zain while the Kuwait
Investment Authority sovereign-wealth fund owns 24.6 percent,
according to Bloomberg data.  Etisalat’s Strategy  A purchase would allow Etisalat, the United Arab Emirates’
biggest phone carrier, to extend its reach in the Middle East by
adding assets in countries such as Iraq and Bahrain as well as
Kuwait, where Zain is the dominant operator. Etisalat said on
Dec. 19 that the bid for  Zain  is “still on.”  Etisalat offers phone services in 18 countries in the
Middle East, Africa and Asia, counting more than 100 million
customers, according to its website. The seven emirates
comprising the UAE make up about 86 percent of Etisalat’s sales.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dahlia Kholaif in Kuwait at 
 dkholaif@bloomberg.net ;
Fiona MacDonald in Kuwait at 
 fmacdonald4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net . 