-- National Bank of Pakistan, Rivals to See Net Fall as Rates Rise, Raza Says
-- B y   F a r h a n   S h a r i f
-- 2010-12-22T05:43:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-22/national-bank-of-pakistan-says-industry-earnings-will-slump-as-rates-rise.html
National Bank of Pakistan , the
country’s biggest lender by assets, and local rivals may post a
10 percent profit drop next year as higher interest rates curb
loan demand and the economy falters, said Chairman  Syed Ali Raza .  Borrowing costs may climb by half a percentage point,
further suppressing credit growth, 60-year-old Raza, who is also
president, said in an interview in Karachi yesterday. His
forecast compares with Karachi-based brokerage AKD Securities
Ltd.’s projection of 19 percent earnings growth next year for
the nation’s six biggest banks.  National Bank aims to develop new loan products to attract
home buyers and small businesses as credit to corporate clients
slows, Raza said. Pakistan’s central bank last month raised its
benchmark rate for the third time since July to stem the most
 inflation  in Asia. Credit growth slowed to 2.2 percent this year
as of Dec. 10, compared with 18.3 percent for the same period of
2008, according to central bank data.  “There is almost no demand from private sector for
loans,” said  Raza Jafri , a research analyst at AKD Securities
Ltd. in Karachi who rates National Bank as ‘hold.’’ “That must
by a worrisome for banks.”  Profit growth at the nation’s six biggest lenders including
National Bank, Habib Bank Ltd. and MCB Bank Ltd., probably
slowed to 5 percent this year from 15 percent in 2009, Jafri
forecast. It may accelerate in 2011 as loan defaults decline, he
said.  Slowing Growth  Pakistan’s economic growth is forecast by the government to
slow to 2.5 percent in the year ending June 30, from 4.1 percent
a year ago, after the deadliest floods destroyed crops, roads
and bridges. Central bank Governor Shahid Kardar said on Dec.
13, higher interest rates are “crowding out” investment and
undermining economic growth.  National Bank’s  profit  climbed almost 12 percent to 3.53
billion rupees ($41.2 million) in the quarter ended Sept. 30
after it set aside less cash to cover bad loans. The bank’s
provisions for defaults and write-offs on bad debts fell to 1.71
billion rupees in the third quarter from 3.56 billion rupees a
year ago, according to an Oct. 29 statement.  Shares of National Bank  fell  0.3 percent to 71.84 rupees at
10:36 a.m. local time on the Karachi Stock Exchange. The stock
has  advanced  22 percent this year, compared with a 13 percent
gain in MCB Bank, the nation’s largest lender by market value.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Farhan Sharif  in Karachi, Pakistan at 
 Fsharif2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net . 