-- New Jersey to Issue $2 Billion of Debt to Terminate Interest-Rate Swaps
-- B y   T e r r e n c e   D o p p
-- 2010-12-22T20:48:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-22/new-jersey-to-issue-2-billion-of-debt-to-terminate-swaps-refinance-debt.html
New Jersey’s Economic Development
Authority plans to issue as much as $2 billion of bonds early
next month to refinance school-construction debt and terminate
$1.7 billion of interest-rate swaps.  The agency will pay an estimated $296 million to end the
swaps, which it entered into beginning in 2002. The refinancing
will save the state about $278 million in debt payments, which
will cover all except $18 million of the termination fees, said
 Andrew Pratt , a spokesman for Treasurer  Andrew Sidamon-Eristoff .  The transaction also will allow the state to reduce its
risk as it projects higher costs next year for letter-of-credit-
backed agreements amid new financial regulations, Pratt said.
It’s unclear how much the rules, which require banks to set
aside money to back such borrowing, may raise the state’s costs,
he said.  “There’s going to be a lot of demand and fewer
suppliers,” Pratt said. “It will be a tremendous reduction in
our risk.”  Derivatives known as swaps, in which two parties agree to
exchange payments based on underlying assets or indexes, were
sold to states and local governments as a way of saving
taxpayers money. The agreements backfired after the financial
crisis, leaving the buyers with soaring interest bills. The
trades have since cost public agencies and nonprofits more than
$4 billion in fees to back out of them, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘Bad Bets’  “I don’t think there’s a voter in this country who thinks
that is what they elected their municipal leaders to do, to
guess where rates are going,” said  Robert Brooks , a professor
of finance at the University of Alabama in Tuscaloosa who
questions governments’ use of swaps.  “It’s unfortunate,” he said in a telephone interview.
“They were bad bets, and states should get out of the betting
business altogether.”  Borrowers seeking to exit swap deals should appoint or
contract with an independent entity to verify all pricing and
ensure they are getting the best deal, Brooks said.  “This prudent transaction marks the beginning of the end
of New Jersey’s foray into exotic financial engineering,”
Sidamon-Eristoff said in a statement. “It will save our
taxpayers more than $18 million by cleaning up our books and
eliminating much of our open-ended legacy exposure to
complicated and risky derivatives agreements.”  List of Swaps  Pratt said Bank of America Merrill Lynch will handle the
transaction for the state and that a list of the swaps to be
terminated hasn’t been completed.  Bank of America, which bought Merrill last year, is listed
in a Nov. 30 state report as counterparty in one of 16 swaps
linked to school-construction debt. That 2006 arrangement would
cost the state $45.4 million to unwind, according to the report.  Merrill is listed as counterparty on a May 2010 swap that
would cost the state $102.3 million to exit. As of Nov. 30, the
state had 27 swap agreements with 11 counterparties with a
combined value of $4.15 billion, according to the report.  Neither the Bank of America nor the Merrill derivative has
been selected, and if they are, the state will place limits on
the information the firm’s bankers can share with its swaps
desk, Pratt said.  Kerrie McHugh , a spokeswoman for Bank of
American Merrill Lynch, didn’t immediately return a call seeking
comment.  As a result of the bond issue, $1.5 billion, or 84 percent,
of the Economic Development Authority’s variable-rate demand
bond portfolio will convert to fixed-rate, Standard & Poor’s
said in a report this week. The transaction also will terminate
57 percent of the agency’s swaps, reducing the so-called mark-
to-market position of its portfolio to negative $288 million
from negative $584 million, S&P said.  The sale also will eliminate the agency’s need for letters
of credit in fiscal 2011 and 2012, and reduce the state’s total
need for such borrowing by 41 percent, according to S&P said.  The amount of swaps to be terminated may change depending
on market conditions, Pratt said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Terrence Dopp  in Trenton, New Jersey, at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at   mtannen@bloomberg.net . 