-- New Zealand Economy Unexpectedly Contracts as Earthquake Undermines Growth
-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 2010-12-23T00:04:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-22/new-zealand-economy-unexpectedly-contracts-as-earthquake-undermines-growth.html
New Zealand’s economy unexpectedly
contracted in the third quarter and moved closer to a recession
as the worst earthquake in eight decades slowed housing and
manufacturing.  Gross domestic product  fell 0.2 percent in the three months
ended Sept. 30, the first drop since early 2009, from a revised
0.1 percent gain the previous quarter, a Statistics New Zealand
report showed in Wellington today. The median forecast of 15
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News was 0.1 percent growth.  The country’s currency fell as rising risks of a recession
bolster the case for central bank Governor  Alan Bollard  to keep
interest rates unchanged until at least the second quarter next
year. Finance Minister  Bill English  today said growth will
accelerate next year, buoyed partly by the country hosting the
Rugby World Cup finals, and keep the recovery intact.  “Post-earthquake reconstruction work, higher export
volumes and elevated commodity prices, and the positive economic
effects related to the Rugby World Cup,” will help growth in
2011, said  Helen Kevans , an economist at JPMorgan Chase & Co. in
Sydney.  New Zealand’s dollar fell as low as 73.86 U.S. cents from
74.12 cents before the data. It bought 74.23 cents at 12:37 p.m.
in Wellington.  The economy  grew 1.5 percent in the third quarter from a
year earlier, less than the 1.8 percent median estimate in a
Bloomberg survey of 14 economists. Annual average growth, a
measure forecast by the central bank, was 1.4 percent, today’s
report showed.  Quake Effects  A magnitude 7 temblor that struck Canterbury province on
Sept. 4 disrupted retail spending and transportation, and
destroyed inventories at retailers and manufacturers.  In the third quarter, the production-based measure of GDP
was hurt by a contraction in manufacturing and homebuilding
while farm and mining output also declined, today’s report
showed.  Manufacturing slumped 1.7 percent, led by petroleum and
chemical products, machinery and lumber. Output from the
construction industry fell for the first time in a year,
declining 2.5 percent, led by homebuilding.  Mining fell 6.9 percent and farm output dropped 1 percent
as livestock production fell.  Exports, Spending  Growth  was also led lower by a decline in exports, while
consumer spending rose for a sixth quarter after a surge in
demand for electrical goods and furniture immediately before the
Oct. 1 increase in the sales tax.  Exports, which make up 30 percent of the economy, fell 1.1
percent, as meat, dairy and lumber shipments declined, the
report showed. Consumption rose 0.5 percent, led by demand for
appliances and other non-durable goods. Spending on air travel
and communications also increased.  “I’ve said all along this recovery would be a bit bumpy at
times and that’s proved to be the case,” English said in an e-
mailed statement. “The recovery remains on track. I am quite
confident the economy will build momentum in 2011 and beyond.”  English said prospects for rising export prices and
employment will underpin growth, as will spending, as the nation
hosts the Rugby World Cup finals starting in September.  Unemployment  was 6.4 percent in the third quarter, down from
6.9 percent the previous three months and little changed from
6.5 percent in the same period a year earlier, the statistics
agency said Nov. 4.  More ‘Robust’  Bollard on Dec. 9 kept the  benchmark interest rate  at 3
percent and said it seemed “prudent to keep the cash rate low
until the recovery becomes more robust.”  Five of 12 economists surveyed on Dec. 10 by Bloomberg News
expect Bollard will keep the official cash rate at 3 percent
until the April-to-June period, and three forecast the next
boost will happen after June 30. Four predict a move in the
first three months of the year.  Bollard predicted a 0.3 percent expansion in the third
quarter from the previous three months before reports that
showed manufacturing sales and homebuilding declined during the
period. He lowered his 2010 forecast for annual average growth
to 2.6 percent from 3.1 percent.  The economy shrank for the first time since the first
quarter of 2009, which was the end of five straight quarterly
contractions as the global credit crisis contributed to the
nation’s worst recession in three decades.  Past Recession  Growth returned through the middle of 2009, buoyed by a
housing recovery and demand for the nation’s commodity exports
from China and Asia. Still, the pace of expansion slowed as
consumers and companies preferred to reduce debt rather than
spend or invest.  The magnitude 7 earthquake that rocked Christchurch city
and surrounding districts on Sept. 4 curbed retail spending and
manufacturing in the final month of the quarter as offices and
factories closed, the central bank said Dec. 9.  The Reserve Bank of New Zealand has estimated the cost of
the rebuilding will be at least NZ$5 billion ($3.7 billion)
spread mainly over 2011 and 2012.  Sales at Smiths City Group Ltd., a Christchurch-based
furniture and appliances retailer, fell 12 percent in the three
months ended Oct. 31 from a year earlier, it said on Nov. 4.
Roads around its central city store were partly or completely
closed, the company said in a statement sent to the stock
exchange.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tracy Withers  in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at   canstey@bloomberg.net  