-- No Congress Since '60s Makes as Much Law as 111th Affecting Most Americans
-- B y   L i s a   L e r e r   a n d   L a u r a   L i t v a n
-- 2010-12-22T23:47:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-22/no-congress-since-1960s-makes-most-laws-for-americans-as-111th.html
However history judges the 535 men
and women in the U.S. House of Representatives and Senate the
past two years, one thing is certain: The 111th Congress made
more law affecting more Americans since the “Great Society”
legislation of the 1960s.  For the first time since President  Theodore Roosevelt  began
the quest for a national health-care system more than 100 years
ago, the Democrat-led House and Senate took the biggest step
toward achieving that goal by giving 32 million Americans access
to insurance. Congress rewrote the rules for Wall Street in the
most comprehensive way since the Great Depression. It spent more
than $1.67 trillion to revive an economy on the verge of a
depression, including tax cuts for most Americans, jobs for more
than 3 million, construction of roads and bridges and investment
in alternative energy; ended an almost two-decade ban against
openly gay men and women serving in the military, and today
ratified a nuclear arms reduction treaty with Russia.  Before adjournment today, Congress approved legislation to
help rescuers and clean-up crews suffering from illnesses linked
to the wreckage caused by the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks in New
York City. The Senate approved it on a voice vote, the House by
a vote of 206-60. New York Senators  Charles Schumer  and  Kirsten Gillibran d, in a statement, called it a “Christmas miracle.”  For all of its ambitious achievement, the 111th Congress,
which may adjourn this week, also witnessed a voter-backlash
driven by a 9.6 percent  unemployment rate  that cost Democrats
control of the House and diminished their Senate majority.  “This is probably the most productive session of Congress
since at least the ‘60s,” said  Alan Brinkley , a historian at
New York’s Columbia University. “It’s all the more impressive
given how polarized the Congress has been.”  Revenue Gains  As lawmakers wrap up the session, Wall Street firms such as
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc .,  JPMorgan Chase & Co . and  Citigroup
Inc . are positioned to complete their best two years in revenue,
 General Motors Co . has emerged from bankruptcy with more than
$23 billion repaid to the U.S. Treasury, and  American
International Group Inc . was able to sell $2 billion of bonds in
its first offering since the company’s 2008 bailout.  The S&P 500 Index has gained 38.9 percent since Congress
convened in January 2009, the  biggest increase  for a two-year
congressional session since 1997-1998, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The S&P 500 Index reached 1254.60
yesterday, the  Dow Jones Industrial Average  11533.16.  Stimulus Spending  Stimulus money created and saved jobs across the country,
helping strapped state governments retain their workforces,
according to government analyses. President  Barack Obama ’s
Council of Economic Advisers said that in Ohio, for instance,
the legislation created  122,000 jobs  for teachers, police
officers and construction workers.  “These policies carried the economy along during a period
when the private sector was not engaged,’ said  Ethan Harris ,
head of developed-markets economic research in New York at BofA
Merrill Lynch Global Research.  The careers of many lawmakers didn’t fare so well. Fiscally
conservative Tea Party activists channeled their frustration
with government spending and debt into political campaigns, most
often to the benefit of Republicans challenging Democratic
incumbents. In the Nov. 2 elections, Democrats lost 63 House
seats, costing their party control of the chamber in next year’s
Congress. In the Senate, the Democratic majority was shaved by
six seats; the party will have 53 votes in next year’s session,
Republicans 47.  “What we did was work, and our reward was, ‘Get out of
here,’” said Representative  Louise Slaughter , a New York
Democrat and outgoing chairwoman of the House Rules Committee.
While Slaughter won re-election, five of her New York colleagues
were among Democrats defeated.  Partisan Divide  Party-line votes on most of the major measures engendered
ill will among Republicans and helped stall in the Senate
initiatives requiring significant bipartisan support. Blocked
legislation included limits on greenhouse-gas emissions that
scientists blame for global warming, a bill the House passed in
June 2009, a measure offering undocumented immigrants a path to
citizenship and the administration’s attempts to curb growing
income inequality with tax increases for higher earners.  Those are unlikely to be tackled next year, when the
House’s Republican majority will turn its attention to
dismantling the health-care law and cutting domestic government
spending by $100 billion.  Congress this year was also unable to approve a single one
of the 12 annual appropriations bills that fund the government.  ‘Disaster’  “I think it was a disaster,” said Senator  Jeff Sessions ,
an Alabama Republican, of the congressional session.  Senator  Richard Durbin  of Illinois, the chamber’s No. 2
Democratic leader, saw it differently: “This whole two-year
session has been dramatic in terms of its achievement and the
changes that it’s brought about.”  Outgoing House Speaker  Nancy Pelosi  praised the
accomplishments of Congress in remarks to reporters today.
“We’re very, very proud of the work that was done by this
Congress,” the California Democrat said. “We came here to do a
job and we got much of it done.”  The policies embraced by the 111th Congress suggested the
end of an era in Washington, as Democrats pushed to reverse
three decades of deregulation that began under President  Ronald Reagan , say economists.  “We’ve been in a trend toward an attempt to deregulate the
economy,” said Harris. “You’re turning back the clock to an
earlier period.”  The scope of regulations approved since Obama took office
has made business hesitant to expand and hire new workers, he
said. “Business is overwhelmed,” said Harris.  3.3 Million Jobs  Congress scored its first big accomplishment weeks after
Obama’s inauguration with passage in late February 2009 of a
$814 billion stimulus bill. It has created or saved 3.3 million
jobs, according to the Congressional Budget Office, while also
steering more funds to road construction, broadband technologies
and renewable energy ventures.  The health-care legislation approved last March provided
insurers including  WellPoint Inc.  of Indianapolis and drug-
makers such as  Pfizer Inc.  of New York millions of new customers
by requiring that all Americans have health insurance. These
industries, as well as medical device-makers, will also face
billions of dollars in new fees, and hospitals face a host of
new standards designed to help curb soaring costs.  The health-care law is facing legal challenges, with the
insurance provision a key dispute.  An overhaul of the rules governing the financial services
industry, approved in July, aims to prevent a repeat of an
economic collapse that led to the failures of  Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc.  and Washington Mutual Inc. It included $4 billion
in aid to help thousands of unemployed property owners avoid
foreclosure, while the program has fallen short of its goals.  Pay Equity  Congress also passed laws to help ensure pay equity by
enabling women to pursue lawsuits claiming they were underpaid,
and to empower the federal Food and Drug Administration to
regulate the tobacco industry, which includes restrictions on
cigarette marketing.  Additionally, lawmakers expanded state programs for health
insurance for children, and they confirmed two Supreme Court
justices,  Sonia Sotomayor  and  Elena Kagan . Sotomayor became the
first Latino to serve on the court, and the pair increased to
three the number of women among the nine justices.  Following the November elections in which voters handed
Democrats what Obama termed a “shellacking,” Congress in a
lame-duck session made significant additions to its
accomplishment list. Lawmakers approved an $858 billion measure
that continues for two years Bush-era tax cuts for all income
levels, extends aid for 13 months to the long-term unemployed,
provides estate tax relief and cuts by two percentage points
worker payroll taxes during 2011.  Arms Treaty  Congress in its last days also voted to repeal the “don’t
ask, don’t tell” ban on military service by openly gay men and
women. Yesterday it cleared the biggest food-safety overhaul in
more than 70 years, giving the FDA more enforcement power. And
the Senate ratification today, 71-26, of the new Strategic Arms
Reduction Treaty gives Obama a key foreign-policy victory.  “What we’ve been able to do in the lame duck has been not
just bipartisan by a fingernail, but bipartisan on a broad
basis,” said Senator  Claire McCaskill , a Missouri Democrat.  From a market perspective, Congress’s biggest
accomplishment was probably the tax cuts, with the estate tax
breaks the “whipped cream, fudge and cherry on top,” said
 Ethan Siegal , president of the Washington Exchange.  ‘Gone Nuts’  Investors responded to the health-care and financial-
services measures largely negatively, with health care viewed as
“big government gone nuts,” he said.  Democrats say it will take years before the public
recognizes their achievements. Many of the measures that passed
were designed to forestall a bleaker recession, an argument
that’s little comfort to many Americans as the nation’s
 unemployment rate  has remained at 9.5 percent or higher for more
than a year.  “It was hard to tell people that we accomplished anything
important when their lives are so difficult,” said
Representative  Henry Waxman , a California Democrat and outgoing
chairman of the House Energy and Commerce committee.  The Tea Party movement, which worked to elect lawmakers
advocating a new era of fiscal authority, has already begun to
shift the direction of Congress.  Shortly after the election, Senate and House Republicans
announced a voluntary ban on earmarks, the funding for pet
projects added to bills by lawmakers. The incoming House
Republican leadership has promised to turn the focus of the
Appropriations Committee from funding government to identifying
spending cuts.  Many of those efforts will likely fail in the Democrat-
controlled Senate. And the party split between the two chambers
is likely to bring the record of congressional productivity to
an abrupt end in January.  “There’s just nothing that’s going to be accomplished,”
said Brinkley. “What really is disturbing is that this is a
period in which there is a lot to be done.”  To contact the reporters on this story:  Lisa Lerer  in
Washington
at   llerer@bloomberg.net ;
 Laura Litvan  in Washington at 
 llitvan@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  