-- New World Resources Has Longest Rally Since January as Coal Price Advances
-- B y   K r y s t o f   C h a m o n i k o l a s
-- 2010-12-22T15:50:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-22/nwr-rises-in-longest-rally-since-january-as-coal-at-2-year-high.html
New World Resources NV , the largest
Czech supplier of coal to steelmakers, gained for a sixth day,
its longest rally since January, as the price of the commodity
rose in Europe to its highest in more than two years.  NWR jumped 2.6 percent to 269.9 koruna at the 4:04 p.m.
close in Prague. It has climbed 32 percent so far in December,
heading for its best month since August 2009. The miner has been
the best-performing Czech stock in 2010, with a 67 percent
surge.  European equities rose for a third day and oil rallied to a
two-year high as a U.S. report showed the world’s biggest
economy expanded in the third quarter, more than the government
estimated last month. Benchmark  coal  derivatives advance to
$117.5 per metric ton in Amsterdam, their highest since October
2008.  NWR “is a play on the emerging European industrial
rebound, the boom in German car and investment goods
manufacturing, and the global coking coal and coke commodity
price rally,” analyst  Tamas Pletser  at ING Groep NV’s Budapest
unit wrote in a report to clients dated Dec. 21.  The Czech economy grew an annual 2.8 percent in the three
months ended Sept. 30, the fastest expansion in nine quarters, a
Dec. 9 government report showed. In Germany, the biggest market
for Czech exports, a manufacturing indicator jumped to the
highest since July this month, according to a Dec. 16 report.  ‘Attractive’  ING, which has a “buy” rating for NWR, expects coal
prices to increase through 2012, according to Pletser. The Dutch
lender reduced its 12-month price estimate for NWR to 305 koruna
from 395 koruna, citing a reduced profit outlook because of
higher costs.  “NWR still seems attractive at current price levels,
although we cut our profit forecast on higher material, energy
and services cost growth,” Pletser wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Krystof Chamonikolas  in Prague at 
 kchamonikola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at   gserkin@bloomberg.net  