-- Loans for Tractors, Plows Surge as Crop Commodities Rally: Brazil Credit
-- B y   K a t i a   C o r t e s
-- 2010-12-22T11:27:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-22/loans-for-tractors-plows-surge-as-crop-commodities-rally-brazil-credit.html
Farmers in Brazil, the world’s
second-biggest crop exporter after the U.S., are increasing
borrowing to buy equipment at the fastest pace in at least seven
years as prices for coffee, soybeans and sugar advance.  Loans for tractors, harvesters and plows jumped 64 percent
to 8.2 billion reais ($4.85 billion) in July to November from
the same period a year earlier, the fastest growth for the start
of the crop year since at least 2004, according to the
Agriculture Ministry in Brasilia.  Banco do Brasil SA  and  Banco
Bradesco SA  of Osasco offer government subsidized rates as low
as 5.5 percent, compared with Brazil’s benchmark interest rate
of 10.75 percent, according to the ministry.  Brazilian farmers are taking more loans for a fourth
straight year after coffee prices soared 60 percent in the past
year, soybeans and sugar rose more than 30 percent and cotton
doubled. Total commercial farm lending grew 29 percent in the
past harvesting season to about $49.8 billion, more than triple
the loans farmers took in India, the world’s biggest sugar
grower after Brazil.  “Farmers are betting on higher profit margins next year,”
Alvaro Tosetto, executive manager for agribusiness at state-run
Banco do Brasil, said in an interview in Brasilia. “More loans
will be needed to invest more.”  Banco do Brasil, the country’s biggest provider of farm
loans, increased lending for farm machinery and vehicles 38
percent to 1.55 billion reais ($915.9 million) in the first five
months of the harvest year, the most for that period in at least
six years, Tosetto said.  Farm Subsidies Program  The loans in the government’s farm subsidies program are
funded by the state-owned development bank, known as BNDES.
Banks pay the BNDES 1 percentage point over the long-term
lending rate, currently 6 percent, and the national treasury
pays them the difference needed to ensure a net return of 3
percent.  Those returns compare with an average spread of 18.1
percentage points on Brazilian loans to companies at average
interest rates of 28.7 percent in October, the most recent month
for which central bank data is available. Consumers borrowed at
an average 40.4 percent rate, giving banks a 29 percentage-point
spread.  Brazil mandates that non-government banks use 29 percent of
their cash deposits to lend to farmers if there is demand for
that amount and enough farmers qualify. State-controlled banks
have to set aside 69 percent of rural savings accounts for farm
credit.  High Rates  Brazil has the world’s second-highest inflation-adjusted
interest rates in part because the government subsidizes lending
through BNDES. The nation is planning to cut funding to its
state development bank in an effort to bring down rates, Finance
Minister  Guido Mantega  said in an interview in Brasilia on Nov.
31.  Brazil’s 10.75 percent benchmark rate is almost double that
of China and India, and 3 percentage points more than Russia’s.  The extra yield investors demand to own Brazilian dollar
bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries fell 2 basis points to 185 at
6:19 a.m. New York time, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  Brazil’s real rose 0.2 percent to 1.6922 per dollar,
gaining for the third straight day.  The cost of protecting Brazilian bonds against default for
five years fell two basis points to 115, according to CMA
prices. Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in
exchange for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent
should a government or company fail to adhere to its debt
agreements.  Farm Vehicle Sales  Yields on Brazil’s interbank rate futures contract due in
January 2012 rose 10 basis points to 12.10 percent.  Brazilian sales of tractors and farm vehicles will rise 25
percent this year to 69,000 units, the most in 34 years,
according to the nation’s automobile industry association, known
as Anfavea.  “All the conditions led farmers to raise investments this
year,” Milton Rego, vice president of Sao Paulo-based Anfavea,
said in a telephone interview from Buenos Aires yesterday.  Brazil is the world’s biggest exporter of coffee, sugar and
orange juice and the second-largest supplier of soybeans. It
trails only the U.S. in overall crop exports.  The country’s coffee production will rise 22 percent this
year, the highest since 2002, to 48.1 million 60-kilogram (132-
pound) bags, according to the Agriculture Ministry.  Cotton 
growers will boost production 55 percent to 2.86 million metric
tons and sugar output will rise 15 percent to 38.2 million tons.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Katia Cortes  in Brasilia at  at
 kcortes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  