-- Obama Signs Repeal of Ban on Gays in Military, Says Law Strengthens U.S.
-- B y   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n
-- 2010-12-22T17:31:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-22/obama-signs-repeal-of-ban-on-gays-in-military-says-law-strengthens-u-s-.html
President  Barack Obama  signed into
law  legislation  lifting the ban on gays serving openly in the
military, repealing a 17-year-old policy and fulfilling a
campaign promise.  The law will “strengthen our national security and uphold
the ideals that our fighting men and women risk their lives to
defend,” Obama said during a signing ceremony this morning at
the Interior Department. Members of the armed forces make
numerous sacrifices to serve, he said. “None of them should
have to sacrifice their integrity as well.”  Repeal of the policy known as “don’t ask, don’t tell” was
a political victory for the president, who as a candidate
campaigned to end the 1993 law because he regarded it as a civil
rights issue.  The change won’t happen immediately. The Defense Department
must draft a plan for putting new regulations into place and the
president and military leaders must certify that allowing gays
to serve openly won’t hurt the nation’s war efforts. The
president vowed that the transition will be made “swiftly and
efficiently.”  Obama thanked Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid  and House
Speaker  Nancy Pelosi  for pushing the repeal through and for
“two of the most productive years in Congress.”  Defense Leaders  He also lauded the “courage and vision” of Defense
Secretary  Robert Gates  and Admiral  Michael Mullen , the chairman
of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, for their support for the change.  The president encouraged those who were discharged under
the policy to re-enlist.  “We will be honored to welcome you into the ranks” of the
military once again, he said.  More than 14,000 service members have been discharged under
the policy, according to the  Servicemembers Legal Defense
Network , a gay-rights advocacy group.  “The first casualty in the war in Iraq was a gay
soldier,”  Carl Levin , chairman of the  Senate Armed Services
Committee  and a Michigan Democrat, said during debate Dec. 18.
“We cannot let these patriots down.”  Obama said gays have fought in all U.S. wars and conflicts,
even if their presence was never acknowledged. “There will
never be a full accounting” of their heroism, he said.  “You will serve as role models for all who come after
you,” he said to members of the audience.  Examples From Past  Obama told the story of Lloyd Corwin, a private in the 80th
Division of the 3rd Army during the Battle of the Bulge in World
War II who was trapped in a ravine during a firefight. One
soldier risked his life to pull Corwin to safer ground, he said.  “For the rest of his years, Lloyd credited this soldier,
this friend, named Andy Lee, with saving his life, knowing he
would never have made it out alone,” Obama said.  Four decades later, when they met again, Corwin discovered
that his friend was gay, he said. Corwin “had no idea. And he
didn’t much care.”  “Lloyd knew what mattered,” Obama said. “He knew that
valor and sacrifice are no more limited by sexual orientation
than they are by race or by gender or by religion or by creed.”  Corwin’s son was in attendance at the ceremony. Also there
was Marine Staff Sergeant Eric Alva, the first American wounded
during the opening of the war in Iraq in 2001 and who has been
active in the campaign to get the policy overturned.  Critics, including Arizona Republican John McCain and the
commandant of the Marine Corps, General James Amos, said
repealing the ban would be a threat to order and discipline in
the military in a time of war. They asked that any change be
delayed.  Military Study  A Pentagon study found that ending the ban would present a
“low” risk to overall military effectiveness. A survey of
service members that underpinned the Pentagon report shows that
50 percent to 55 percent said repealing the policy would have a
mixed effect or no effect at all, and 15 percent to 20 percent
said it would have a positive impact.  Thirty percent of survey respondents overall said ending
the ban would have a negative effect, an opinion shared by 40
percent to 60 percent of respondents from the Marine Corps and
largely all-male combat units.  A Pentagon task force said in a report last month it still
must sort out many numerous revisions to training, military
education and regulations that would be needed.  Final action came Dec. 18 when the Senate passed the
measure 65-31. The House passed the bill on Dec. 15. Obama had
called for the change in his State of the Union address in
January.  “Don’t ask, don’t tell,” enacted in 1993 as a compromise
during the Clinton administration, permitted gays to serve if
their sexual orientation was kept private.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Roger Runningen  in Washington at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  