-- Obama Cites `Season of Progress' With Tax Deal, Jobless Aid, Russia Treaty
-- B y   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n   a n d   C a t h e r i n e   D o d g e
-- 2010-12-23T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-22/obama-cites-season-of-progress-with-tax-deal-jobless-aid-russia-treaty.html
President  Barack Obama  said the
final weeks of Congress proved that Republicans and Democrats
can surmount partisan divisions to find consensus on the
nation’s most pressing issues.  “If there’s any lesson to draw from these past few weeks,
it’s that we’re not doomed to endless gridlock,” Obama said at
a year-end press conference at the White House before leaving to
spend the holidays in Hawaii with his family.  Instead of political stalemate after last month’s midterm
elections, “this has been a season of progress for the American
people,” which is what the voters have demanded, he said.  After what he described as a “shellacking” for his
Democratic Party in the Nov. 2 elections, the president can
claim victories during the lame-duck session on a host of
priorities.  These include Senate approval of ratifying a nuclear-arms
reduction treaty with Russia, an $858 billion deal to extend tax
cuts and unemployment assistance for the long-term jobless, and
repeal of a law that banned openly gay people from serving in
the military. Lawmakers also passed a bill that would provide
$4.3 billion in additional aid for those suffering from
illnesses linked to the wreckage caused by the Sept. 11
terrorist attacks in New York City.  Obama said Congress had its “most productive post-election
period” in decades. “And it comes on the heels of the most
productive two years that we’ve had in generations.”  For the entire 111th Congress, the Obama administration can
add an overhaul of the health-care system, a rewrite of
financial regulations to curb Wall Street abuses that
contributed to the financial crisis, and $1.67 trillion in
measures to revive the economy.  Next Year’s Priorities  The president said one of his biggest regrets is that
Congress failed to approve legislation known as the Dream Act,
which would have provided a path to citizenship for children who
were brought to the U.S. at a young age by parents who were
undocumented immigrants. He vowed to pursue that again with the
next Congress.  “I am very disappointed Congress wasn’t able to pass the
Dream Act, so we can stop punishing kids for the actions of
their parents and allow them to serve in the military or earn an
education and contribute their talents to the country where they
grew up,” Obama said.  Obama also said he was disappointed that Congress did not
agree on an annual budget to fund government operations for
fiscal year 2011, which began Oct. 1, and instead passed
temporary extensions.  ‘Robust Debate’  “I expect we’ll have a robust debate about this when we
return from the holidays,” Obama said. The debate “will have
to answer an increasingly urgent question, and that is, how do
we cut spending that we don’t need, while still making
investments that we do need?”  Necessary investments include education, research and
development and innovation to keep the U.S. competitive
globally, he said.  In the next year, Obama said he wants to continue focusing
on steps to accelerate the economic recovery.  Both parties must set aside partisan stances on issues such
as regulation so that private industry can continue to be a
“driving force” for growth, Obama said.  “Let’s make sure that we’re also protecting consumers, and
we’re protecting the environment,” he said. “Let’s find ways
to do business that helps business.”  The benchmark  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  has climbed
almost 13 percent this year and 48 percent since Obama took
office, a reflection of an economic rebound after the worst
recession since the 1930s.  Tax Rates  Obama said he was looking forward to further debate on tax
cuts for the highest earners. He and most Democrats argued that
the U.S. couldn’t afford to keep the tax cuts for families with
incomes exceeding $250,000 a year, which were part of a
compromise package he negotiated with congressional Republicans.  “I don’t think that over the long run we can afford a
series of tax breaks for people who are doing very well and
don’t need it,” Obama said.  The next Congress will have to work to cut the  deficit  and
still pay for programs to take care of veterans, improve
education and fund research to keep the U.S. competitive, he
said.  “We are going to have to compare the option of maintaining
the tax cuts for the wealthy permanently versus spending on
these things that we think are important,” he said. “And
that’s a debate that I welcome.”  Republicans’ Plans  Obama will face a tougher road for his agenda over the next
two years. Republicans will have control of the House and they
gain ground in the Senate, where they will have 47 of the
chamber’s 100 seats.  Republican Representative  John Boehner  of Ohio, who will
become House speaker in the next session, has vowed to undertake
efforts to repeal Obama’s health-care overhaul, ease financial
rules and cut government spending.  Obama also must confront a stubborn  9.8 percent 
unemployment rate as he prepares a State of the Union address in
late January and presents a multitrillion-dollar budget with a
projected deficit of less than the $1.3 trillion posted in
fiscal 2010.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Roger Runningen  in Washington at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net ;
 Catherine Dodge  in Washington at 
 Cdodge1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net  