-- Modified Sugar Beet Crop’s Destruction Put on Hold by Court
-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 2010-12-22T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-22/modified-sugar-beet-crop-shouldn-t-be-destroyed-yet-appeals-court-rules.html
Genetically modified sugar beet
plants that would produce seeds for the 2012 planting season
can’t yet be destroyed as ordered by a judge, a federal appeals
court in San Francisco ruled.  The U.S. Court of Appeals put on hold until Feb. 28 a
judge’s Nov. 30 order to dig up 256 acres of sugar beet
seedlings, or until it issues an order, whichever is first,
according to a ruling yesterday. Environmental groups sued the
U.S. Department of Agriculture to block planting permits given
four companies for beets that were modified to withstand
 Monsanto Co. ’s Roundup herbicide.  Sugar beets, grown on 1.3 million acres in 10 states,
provide half the nation’s sugar supply, according to the  Sugar
Industry Biotech Council . The groups and organic seed
organizations claim wind-blown pollen from the genetically
engineered crops will contaminate conventional sugar beets and
other closely related plants.  Monsanto and sugar beet companies said the genetically
modified seedlings, or stecklings, could “save the livelihoods
of thousands of our nation’s sugarbeet farmers,” according to
court filings. The plants won’t flower before the permits expire
in February, so there is no risk of gene flow, the USDA said in
court filings.  The appeals court on Dec. 6 put a temporary hold on U.S.
District Judge  Jeffrey White ’s Nov. 30 order, which the
government is appealing.  The USDA’s 2005 deregulation of modified sugar beets was
thrown out earlier this year in a separate lawsuit after White
ruled that the government failed to review the environmental
effect of the plants. More than 90 percent of the U.S. sugar
beet crop comes from genetically engineered seeds.  The case is Center for Food Safety v. Vilsack, 10-17722,
U.S. Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit (San Francisco).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Karen Gullo  in San Francisco at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 