-- Office Depot Surges on Buyout Speculation After Executive Pay Plan Changes
-- B y   J e f f   K e a r n s   a n d   M a t t   T o w n s e n d
-- 2010-12-22T21:56:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-22/office-depot-stock-call-options-surge-on-speculation-retailer-may-be-sold.html
Office Depot Inc. rose to a six-
month high and trading of bullish  options  jumped to 14 times the
four-week average on speculation that the retailer will be
bought after it boosted executives’ pay in the event of a sale.  The second-largest U.S. office-supply chain enhanced
compensation and benefits for presidents  Charles Brown  and
 Steven Schmidt  and Chief Financial Officer  Michael Newman  in a
change of control of the company, according to a filing with the
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. The boost includes
payment of double their base salary and bonus upon termination.  The pay boost, the resignation of Chief Executive Officer
 Steve Odland  in October and changes to Newman’s retention
payment in November are indications that the company may be
sold,  Joscelyn MacKay , an analyst for Morningstar Inc. in
Chicago, said in a report yesterday. The change to the retention
plan would pay Newman in full if he involuntarily left after a
change in control, according to the filing last month.  “Putting them all together paints an obvious picture in
our view,” MacKay said in an interview. “This could be a
company that would be best run behind closed doors.”  Office Depot rose 9.1 percent to $5.28 as of 4 p.m. in New
York the highest price since June 17. Almost 25,000 call options
to buy the stock changed hands, 21 times the number of puts to
sell. The most-active contracts were February $6 calls, with
7,687 contracts traded. Before today those options had zero open
interest, or number of existing contracts.  Mindy Kramer, a spokeswoman for Boca Raton, Florida-based
Office Depot, said the company doesn’t respond to rumors or
speculation.  “The change in control agreements were put in place to
replace agreements that had expired and more recently approved
by our board and filed as required,” she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Kearns in New York at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 