-- Oil Rises for a Fourth Day as U.S. Economic Recovery May Spur Fuel Demand
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 2010-12-22T13:45:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-22/oil-rises-for-a-fourth-day-as-u-s-economic-recovery-may-spur-fuel-demand.html
Crude traded within 1 percent of a
two-year high above $90 a barrel on signs that economic recovery
in the U.S. is eroding excess inventories.  Futures climbed as much as 0.5 percent before a government
report forecast to show U.S. crude stockpiles declined for a
third week. Yesterday, industry data showed a reduction in
supplies. The world’s largest economy grew faster than
previously estimated in the third quarter, data from the
Commerce Department showed today.  Crude for February delivery rose as much as 55 cents to
$90.37 a barrel in electronic trading on the New York Mercantile
Exchange, the strongest since the two-year peak of $90.76
reached on Dec. 7. It was at $90.05 at 1:39 p.m. London time.
Prices have climbed 13 percent this year. Brent crude for
February settlement gained as much as 59 cents, or 0.6 percent,
to $93.79 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe
exchange.  “Heating demand is high,” said  Thorbjoern Bak Jensen , an
analyst at Global Risk Management in Middelfart, Denmark. “U.S.
heating-oil demand was reported 16 percent above normal last
week. Economic growth in the U.S. is slow and steady, but there
is growth ahead.”  Yesterday, futures gained 1.1 percent to $89.82 a barrel,
the highest settlement since Oct. 7, 2008. That was 2 cents
below a long-term resistance level on technical charts, the 50
percent Fibonacci retracement of the drop to $32.40 in December
2008 from a record high of $147.27 in July that year.  The U.S. economy expanded at a 2.6 percent annual rate in
the third quarter, marking a pickup in growth that may extend
into 2011 as companies and consumers gain confidence to spend.  Crude Supplies  Prices gained after the industry-funded American Petroleum
Institute reported yesterday that U.S. crude supplies declined
5.8 million barrels to 342 million last week. Gasoline
inventories dropped 2.9 million while middle distillates
increased 16,000 barrels, the API said.  “There’s no doubt that we’ve seen a tightening in the
market’s balance over the last few months,”  Ben Westmore , a
minerals and energy economist at National Australia Bank Ltd. in
Melbourne, said in an interview with Rishaad Salamat on
Bloomberg Television’s “On the Move Asia” program. “A lot of
it does depend on what you see for the demand picture going
forward.”  Crude also rose after U.S. holiday retail sales data, a key
economic indicator, advanced. Same-store sales at a selection of
U.S. retailers posted their biggest holiday jump, according to a
chain-store sales index released yesterday by the New York-based
International Council of Shopping Centers and  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc .  Heating Oil  The Department of Energy will release its oil-inventory
report in Washington today. The data may show U.S.  crude
stockpiles  fell last week as refiners on the Gulf Coast reduced
their assets for tax savings at the end of the year, according
to a Bloomberg survey.  Supplies dropped 3.4 million barrels in the seven days
ended Dec. 17 from 346 million, based on the median  estimate  of
14 analysts. Stockpiles in the previous week slumped 9.85
million as imports fell.  Gasoline inventories may have increased 1.5 million barrels
from 214.8 million, the survey showed. Analysts were split over
whether stockpiles of distillate fuel, a category that includes
heating oil and diesel, declined or gained.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Grant Smith  in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  