-- Opposition Rally Chokes Central Delhi as Singh Battles Corruption Claims
-- B y   B i b h u d a t t a   P r a d h a n
-- 2010-12-22T10:30:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-22/opposition-rally-chokes-central-delhi-as-singh-battles-corruption-claims.html
India’s opposition rallied in New
Delhi to protest what it says is Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s
failure to check corruption in his government, taking its
challenge from parliament to the capital’s streets.  Leaders and supporters of the  Bharatiya Janata Party -led
National Democratic Alliance massed today near the city’s
historic Red Fort to kick start a two-month nationwide campaign
to “expose the widespread corruption” in Singh’s Congress
party-led administration, symbolized by a growing dispute over
the award of cellphone licenses.  BJP leader  Arun Jaitley  said Singh should agree to a cross-
party probe of charges against his administration and explain
his position before it. “If you don’t have any answer, then
quit the post on moral grounds,” Jaitley said. “The government
cannot run in an atmosphere of suspicion.”  The biggest crisis of Singh’s second term intensified after
the publication of a Nov. 16 report by  Comptroller and Auditor
General of India . The agency calculated that the 2008 sale of
airwaves for mobile telephone services netted the government
just 123.9 billion rupees ($2.7 billion), though they were worth
as much as 1.5 trillion rupees. Two days earlier,
Telecommunications Minister  Andimuthu Raja  had resigned from
Singh’s cabinet while denying any wrongdoing.  Opposition calls for a parliamentary probe into the
spectrum auction -- something Singh has so far ruled out -- and
fresh questions over the prime minister’s influence over his
colleagues paralyzed a monthlong session of the legislature. A
bill to overhaul rules on land acquisition for industry was
among dozens stalled.  ‘Irresponsible’  The standoff is an “irresponsible confrontation” as both
the BJP and Congress are tainted by corruption, said  Prem Shankar Jha , a New Delhi-based political analyst. “There’s no
political significance to this except wasted time. A very large
number of bills, of which some are of great importance, are the
casualty.”  Corruption and bureaucratic inefficiency make India the
riskiest country in Asia for investors, according to a survey by
 Hong Kong-based Political & Economic Risk Consultancy Ltd.   About 15,000 Congress members gathered on the outskirts of
the capital Dec. 20 to counter the BJP offensive amid fears the
legislature may still be gridlocked early next year when Singh
must get his federal budget approved by lawmakers.  The prime minister told the Congress meet that he would
punish anyone found guilty in multiple probes into the alleged
scam and he offered to face the Public Accounts Committee, a
panel of MPs examining the auditor’s auction report.  Court Role  Congress “has asked ministers and chief ministers to step
down pending inquiries into corruption allegations,” said
 Shakeel Ahmad , a party spokesman. “Why is the BJP not doing”
likewise over claims BJP-run state governments in southern
Karnataka and elsewhere are involved in graft, Ahmad said.  The Supreme Court has said it will monitor a federal
investigation into the alleged irregularities in the sale of
mobile-phone licenses to verify the probe is being conducted
appropriately.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bibhudatta Pradhan  in New Delhi at 
 bpradhan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Hari Govind at 
 hgovind@bloomberg.net  