-- Emerging-Market Stocks Climb Second Day on Oil, Growth Outlook
-- B y   B e r n i   M o e s t a f a   a n d   M i c h a e l   P a t t e r s o n
-- 2010-12-22T13:25:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-22/most-emerging-stocks-gain-on-commodity-prices-china-banks-fall.html
Emerging-market stocks climbed for a
second day as rising oil prices boosted the earnings outlook for
energy companies and investors awaited a report that may show
U.S. economic growth increased more than previously estimated.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index  advanced 0.3 percent to
1,127.01 at 12:57 p.m. in London, the highest level on a closing
basis in a week. Currencies strengthened, led by a 0.4 percent
gain in Turkey’s lira versus the dollar. The extra yield on
emerging-market debt over Treasuries fell 2 basis points to 2.48
percentage points, JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI+ Index showed.  Russia’s Micex Index climbed to the highest level since
July 2008 as oil rose to more than $90 a barrel, boosting shares
of OAO Gazprom and OAO Lukoil. Growth in the U.S., the world’s
largest economy, was 2.8 percent in the third quarter, more than
the 2.5 percent previously estimated, economists predict a
Commerce Department report may show today.  “Commodities seem the best bet as prices are likely to
rally,” said  Deven Choksey , chief executive officer at Mumbai-
based K.R. Choksey Shares & Securities Pvt., which manages $125
million.  The Micex in Russia, the world’s largest energy exporter,
has climbed 23 percent this year, compared with a 14 percent
gain for the MSCI emerging-market index. The MSCI All-Country
World Index has advanced 9.5 percent.  Crude for February delivery rose as much as 55 cents to
$90.37 a barrel in electronic trading on the New York Mercantile
Exchange, the strongest since the two-year peak of $90.76
reached on Dec. 7.  China, Brazil  Gazprom, Russia’s natural-gas export monopoly, climbed 0.7
percent and crude producer Lukoil increased 0.8 percent.
Russia’s ruble strengthened 0.1 percent against the dollar.  China’s  Shanghai Composite Index  retreated 0.9 percent, led
by banks and consumer companies, after the government raised
fuel prices and Barclays Capital analysts said new regulations
will cut lenders’ capital adequacy ratios and profits.  China Construction Bank Corp., the nation’s second-biggest
lender, fell 1 percent in Hong Kong and  Industrial and
Commercial Bank of China Ltd.  retreated 0.9 percent.  Brazil stock-index futures declined after the central bank
said it may need to increase interest rates in the “short
term” to tame inflation. Futures on the benchmark Bovespa index
dropped 0.3 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Berni Moestafa  in Jakarta at 
 bmoestafa@bloomberg.net ;
 Michael Patterson  in London at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net . 