-- Asian Stocks Advance on Rising Commodity Prices, Higher U.S. Retail Sales
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B u r g o s   a n d   N o r i e   K u b o y a m a
-- 2010-12-22T10:49:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-22/most-asian-stocks-rise-for-second-day-as-commodities-gain-canon-advances.html
Asian stocks  advanced as commodity
producers gained after copper climbed to a record, crude oil
rose and U.S. retail sales increased last week, adding to signs
the economic recovery is on track.  Canon Inc. , the world’s largest maker of cameras that gets
about 28 percent of sales from the U.S., increased 1.9 percent
in Tokyo. BHP Billiton Ltd., the world’s biggest mining company
and Australia’s largest oil and gas producer, climbed 0.9
percent in Sydney.  Mitsui & Co. , which counts commodities as its
biggest source of profit, gained 0.7 percent. Sanyo Electric Co.,
a maker of rechargeable batteries, slumped 5.1 percent after its
parent Panasonic Corp. announced plans to delist the company.  “The world economy is recovering moderately,” said  Naoki Fujiwara , who helps oversee $6 billion in Tokyo at Shinkin Asset
Management Co. “Investors see money is flowing into stocks and
commodities, boosting confidence in the market.”  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index  rose 0.3 percent to 135.15 as
of 7:48 p.m. in Tokyo, the highest level since Nov. 9. About as
many of the measure’s stocks advanced as declined. The gauge
climbed to a five-week high on Dec. 14 as U.S. economic reports
boosted confidence in a global recovery, easing concerns that
Europe’s debt crisis and China’s measures to slow inflation will
hurt growth.  Japan’s  Nikkei 225 Stock Average  dropped 0.2 percent,
erasing gains of as much as 0.2 percent, after the government
said it is becoming more pessimistic about exports and business
sentiment. The country’s export growth accelerated for the first
time in nine months in November, data released today showed.  South Korea’s Kospi Index, Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 Index
and New Zealand’s NZX 50 Index each advanced 0.1 percent.
Taiwan’s Taiex Index gained 0.4 percent, while Hong Kong’s Hang
Seng Index rose 0.2 percent. China’s  Shanghai Composite Index 
declined 0.9 percent as an increase in gasoline and diesel
prices sparked concern inflation will accelerate.  Recovery Trend  Futures on the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  were little
changed today after Nike Inc., the world’s largest maker of
athletic shoes, reported orders that fell short of analysts’
estimates and chip maker Xilinx Inc. forecast sales will drop.  The measure rose 0.6 percent yesterday in New York to
1,254.60, surpassing its closing level on Sept. 12, 2008, the
last trading day before Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. filed the
world’s biggest bankruptcy.  Same-store sales at a selection of U.S. retailers rose 4.2
percent last week, the biggest jump of this holiday season, as
more consumers finished shopping, according to a survey of
retailers released yesterday.  “U.S. economic indicators continue to exceed expectations
and the U.S. economy is on a recovery trend,” said  Hiroichi Nishi , an equities manager in Tokyo at Nikko Cordial Securities
Inc. “The global economic recovery, surplus money and
confidence in government measures are boosting commodity
prices.”  Canon, HTC  Gauges  of information-technology companies and raw material
producers led the advance among the 10 industry groups in the
MSCI Asia Pacific Index.  Canon climbed 1.9 percent to 4,265 yen.  HTC Corp. , the
Taiwanese mobile phone maker that counts America as its biggest
market, increased 4.1 percent to NT$914. Hyundai Motor Co.,
South Korea’s biggest carmaker, gained 2.3 percent to 181,500
won in Seoul.  BHP Billiton advanced 0.9 percent to A$45.82 in Sydney.
Mitsui & Co. climbed 0.7 percent to 1,325 yen in Tokyo.  Noble
Group Ltd. , a Hong Kong-based supplier of agricultural and
industrial commodities, rose 1.9 percent to S$2.11 in Singapore.  Crude oil for February delivery gained 45 cents to $89.82 a
barrel in New York yesterday, the highest settlement since Oct.
7, 2008. The  London Metal Exchange Index  of six metals including
copper and aluminum climbed 1.8 percent yesterday, rising for a
third day. Copper, rubber and cotton prices rose to record
levels overnight.  Rig Orders  In Singapore,  Sembcorp Marine Ltd. , the world’s second-
largest oil-rig builder, climbed 2.6 percent to S$5.12. The
company said it received an order to build two jack-up rigs,
valued at $400 million, from Switzerland’s Noble Corp., the
world’s third-largest deep-water oil and gas driller.  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index  increased 12 percent this year
through yesterday, compared with gains of 13 percent by the S&P
500 and 11 percent by the Stoxx Europe 600 Index. Stocks in the
Asian benchmark were valued at 14.8 times estimated earnings on
average at yesterday’s close, versus 14.7 times for the S&P 500
and 12.4 times for the Stoxx 600.  Among stocks that fell,  Sanyo Electric  slumped 5.1 percent
to 130 yen in Tokyo, its lowest close since July 28. Controlling
shareholder Panasonic Corp. said it will give minority
shareholders 0.115 shares for each Sanyo share as part of plans
to delist its 81 percent-owned subsidiary. Panasonic fell 1.5
percent to 1,152 yen.  Australian Luxury Homes  Lend Lease Group , Australia’s No. 1 developer, dropped 1.1
percent to A$8.65 in Sydney after Deutsche Bank AG lowered its
rating to “hold” from “buy.”  The stock also fell after the Real Estate Institute of
Australia predicted that prices of luxury homes in the country
will drop next year as homes worth at least A$1 million ($1
million) listed for sale increase. Leighton Holdings Ltd.,
Australia’s largest construction company, fell 2 percent to
A$31.52.  Wilmar International Ltd. , the world’s biggest palm-oil
trader, tumbled 5.1 percent to S$5.62 in Singapore after saying
it will invest 889.2 million yuan ($134 million) in a venture
with Kerry Properties (China) Ltd. and Shangri-La China Ltd. to
develop a hotel in China’s Liaoning province.  “We believe that the market may take this announcement
negatively,” Goldman Sachs Group Inc. analysts  Patrick Tiah  and
 Nikhil Bhandari  wrote in a note to clients today. “This appears
to be a sharp departure from Wilmar’s agri-processing core
business and there may be concerns on management losing focus.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jonathan Burgos  in Singapore at 
 jburgos4@bloomberg.net ;
 Norie Kuboyama  in Tokyo at 
 nkuboyama@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at   ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 