-- Lower-Rated Tax-Exempt Bonds Outperform as Buyers Seek Yield: Muni Credit
-- B y   B r e n d a n   A .   M c G r a i l
-- 2010-12-22T16:59:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-22/lower-rated-tax-exempt-bonds-outperform-as-buyers-seek-yield-muni-credit.html
Tax-exempt municipal bonds rated
four levels above speculative grade are outperforming top-ranked
securities this month as investors seeking higher yields drove
the premium to the lowest level in almost a year.  The so-called spread between 30-year A- rated bonds and the
same maturity of AAA securities last week narrowed  to 100 basis
points, or 1 percentage point , the smallest margin since Jan.
29, according to Bloomberg Fair Market Value indexes. It widened
to 102 basis points yesterday.  Individual investors have begun focusing on riskier debt
such as bonds issued by the Port Authority of New York & New
Jersey to increase potential income, said  Neil Klein , senior
managing director at New York-based Carret Asset Management.  “Yield is the driving factor,” said Klein, who oversees
$900 million in fixed-income assets. “There’s a significant
amount of demand for those lower credits, because they’re
hitting that tipping point where they’re attractive enough for
the retail buyer.”  High-yield municipals this year have returned about 7
percent for investors, compared with a 2.2 percent gain for
investment-grade bonds, according to Standard &
Poor’s/Investortools Indexes, which track price changes and
investment income. That contrasts with the trend of the last 11
years, when high-yields had annualized returns of  4.9 percent 
while investment grade debt  gained 5.23 percent .  Port Authority, Illinois  The Port Authority this month sold securities backed by
rental payments from retail concessions and airlines at New
York’s JFK International Airport. The special project bonds were
rated BBB- by S&P and Baa3 by Moody’s Investors Service, both
the lowest investment grade, and BB by Fitch Ratings, two levels
below that. Securities due in 26 years yielded about 181 basis
points above top-rated obligations at sale before demand helped
shrink the spread to 106 basis points on Dec. 20, according to a
Bloomberg Valuation index.  The premium on Illinois Railsplitter notes maturing in 18
years, which are rated A- by S&P and BBB+ by Fitch, fell to 194
basis points yesterday from 227 on Dec. 1. The bonds, backed by
payments from a 1998 tobacco lawsuit, have also traded every day
this month.  At the same time, the spread on a 10-year top-rated revenue
bond from Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation
Authority widened to 59 basis points above 10-year AAA debt
yesterday from 4 basis points below the benchmark on Nov. 30.  Lower-rated bonds “have held up well, from people looking
for yield,” said  John Dillon , chief municipal strategist at
Morgan Stanley in Purchase, New York. “You can get good value
on a spread basis.”  Lower-Rated Outperforms  Lower-rated debt has outperformed even as speculation about
municipal risk has become more pronounced, with analysts such as
 Meredith Whitney , chief executive officer of Meredith Whitney
Advisory Group, speaking Dec. 19 on CBS Corp.’s “60 Minutes”
about the possibility of a “spate” of defaults among local
municipalities triggered by states’ fiscal stress.  “It appears to me the health of states and municipalities
is getting better, not worse,” said  Mark Steffen , who oversees
$450 million in munis as chief operating officer at White
Plains, New York-based Belle Haven Investments. “They’ve been
forced to address the problems, make remedies to balance
budgets. From a credit perspective, over time munis are getting
healthier not worse.”  Tax-exempt prices rallied across most maturities yesterday,
with yields on top-rated 1-year notes falling 9 basis points,
while 30-year rates dropped 2 basis points, BVAL indexes show.  Yields on 30-year BBB rated general obligations fell 3
basis points to 7.75 percent, while 1-year rates jumped 5 basis
points to 1.63 percent, Bloomberg Fair Market Value indexes
show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Brendan A. McGrail  in New York at 
 bmcgrail@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Tannenbaum  at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  