-- Pfizer, Bristol-Myers Blood Thinner Beats Sanofi Drug in Study
-- B y   N i c o l e   O s t r o w
-- 2010-12-22T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-22/pfizer-bristol-myers-blood-thinner-beats-sanofi-drug-in-sponsored-study.html
Pfizer Inc.  and  Bristol-Myers Squibb 
Co.’s experimental blood thinner apixaban topped  Sanofi-Aventis 
SA’s Lovenox at preventing deadly clots in hip-surgery patients,
according to a study.  The trial of 5,407 patients found that those given the pill
apixaban were 64 percent less likely to develop clots in their
legs or die than those given injections of Lovenox, the standard
treatment. The research, dubbed Advance-3 and sponsored by
Pfizer and Bristol-Myers, was published today in the  New England
Journal of Medicine.  Both companies are based in New York.  A study released in March by the two drugmakers showed
apixaban was superior to Lovenox in preventing clots from
forming after knee-replacement surgery. Apixaban and similar new
oral blood thinners will provide alternatives to difficult-to-
use treatments such as warfarin, a 56-year-old anticoagulant --
first used as rat poison -- that requires constant monitoring,
said the lead researcher, Michael Rud Lassen.  “This new drug offers a real advancement for patients,”
said Lassen, a spine surgeon and a researcher with the
University of Copenhagen’s department of orthopedics, in a
telephone interview on Dec. 21. He said he will use apixaban in
his patients if the drug is approved by regulators.  People undergoing hip or knee surgery are at risk of
developing  blood clots , and about 40 percent to 60 percent of
patients getting the procedures develop clots if not treated
preventively, Pfizer and Bristol-Myers said in a statement
today. The global market for anticoagulants in 2009 rose to
$690.5 million, from $686.2 million in 2008, and this year
through September the market totaled $528.3 million, according
to IMS Health Inc., a research company in Norwalk, Connecticut.  Regulatory Approval  Pfizer  and  Bristol-Myers  are asking for European approval
for apixaban for use in patients undergoing hip and knee
replacements. In the U.S., the companies are seeking marketing
clearance of the drug for use in preventing strokes in patients
with irregular heartbeat, or atrial fibrillation. The condition
increases the likelihood of clots, said Jack Lawrence, the
Bristol-Myers vice president in charge of apixaban development,
in a telephone interview on Dec. 21.  Warfarin, the standard drug given to patients with atrial
fibrillation, causes side effects and is difficult for doctors
to dose and monitor to reduce bleeding risk. All blood-thinning
medicines raise some risk of bleeding.  “There is great hope in the new oral anticoagulants and
their potential to replace, to a large degree, the current
standards of care,” Lawrence said. “Likely there will be room
for multiple agents. Each drug will have subtle differences that
might encourage one or the other to be prescribed.”  Blood Thinner Rivals  Johnson & Johnson,  Bayer AG  and Boehringer Ingelheim GmbH
sell new oral medicines in Europe to prevent clots after hip and
knee surgery.  Boehringer, based in Ingelheim, Germany, received U.S.
approval in October for its anti-clotting drug Pradaxa to
prevent stroke in patients who have atrial fibrillation, New
Brunswick, New Jersey-based J&J and Leverkusen, Germany-based
Bayer are awaiting U.S. clearance for their blood thinner
Xarelto.  “The potential impact of these oral, highly specific,
fixed-dose drugs that do not require routine monitoring will no
doubt be substantial,” wrote Elaine Hylek, an associate
professor of medicine at Boston University School of Medicine,
in an editorial in the journal. If these drugs “prove to be
effective across the broad spectrum of patients in routine care
and are conscientiously priced, the worldwide impact will be
huge.”  In the study, patients undergoing total hip replacement
received either apixaban twice a day or an injection of Lovenox
every 24 hours. Apixaban was started 12 to 24 hours after
surgery, while Lovenox was begun 12 hours before surgery.
Treatment continued for 35 days after surgery and patients were
followed for an additional 60 days after completing their
medicines.  Study Results  The researchers found that 27 patients taking apixaban, or
1.4 percent, developed blood clots in the leg or a blockage in a
lung artery or died. These figures compared with 74, or 3.9
percent, in the Lovenox group, giving those taking apixaban a 64
percent reduction in their risk of developing those
complications, according to the report.  Those taking apixaban were also more than 50 percent less
likely to develop blood clots in their upper legs, which can
travel to the lungs, causing death, Lassen said. Bleeding
occurred in a similar percentage of people taking either
apixaban or Lovenox, the study showed.  In November, Bristol-Myers and Pfizer halted a trial of
apixaban after an increase in bleeding outweighed benefits for
patients who had recently suffered a heart attack or severe
chest pain.  The companies are also studying apixaban as a treatment for
blood clots in the legs and for pulmonary embolism, a condition
in which the clot breaks free and travels to the lung, causing a
blockage in a lung artery that can lead to death, Lawrence said.  For Related News and Information:  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nicole Ostrow  in New York at 
 nostrow1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  