-- Placebo Effect Works Even When Patients Know Medicine is Just `Sugar Pill'
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   L o p a t t o
-- 2010-12-22T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-22/placebos-help-even-when-patients-know-what-they-get-harvard-study-finds.html
The placebo effect, an improvement
in health that occurs when a clinical trial patient is given a
dummy pill, works even when the patient knows the medicine is
fake, according to a Harvard study.  Fifty-nine percent of patients with irritable bowel
syndrome who were given  placebos  described to them as “like
sugar pills,” reported relief of their symptoms, compared with
35 percent of those who got no treatment at all, according to a
published in the journal  PLoS One . Placebos are mostly used in
trials as comparisons to drugs being studied.  Doctors often think the placebo effect exists because
patients believe they are getting a real medicine, and their
expectations that they might benefit helped improve their
symptoms, said  Ted Kaptchuk,  an associate professor of medicine
at Harvard Medical School in Boston. It was conventional wisdom,
and, until now, no one had tested it in a clinical trial to see
if it was true.  “People just assumed it was that belief was important, and
that was never tested, and I don’t know why,” said Kaptchuk,
the lead author, in a telephone interview. “A lot of what we
think we know about placebo was conjecture that got firmed up as
truth.”  Being able to tell patients they are on a placebo is
important  ethically,  said Kaptchuk.  Placebos Prescribed  Doctors already prescribe placebos outside of clinical
trials without telling patients they are receiving dummy pills,
according to  a study  in the  Journal of Internal Medicine . The
research found that about 45 percent of doctors at Chicago
medical schools said they had prescribed placebos in regular
clinical practice, not as part of a study.  If placebos require the patient to believe that they are
getting a real treatment, the doctor must lie to a patient to
prescribe one, violating the ethical mandate that a patient must
give informed consent to treatment, Kaptchuk said. The new
research, if confirmed, may show lying to a patient to reap a
placebo’s benefits may not be necessary, he said.  In the study released today, 80 patients with  irritable
bowel syndrome  were either given an inactive pill or no
treatment. After 21 days, 59 percent of those who took the dummy
pills reported adequate symptom relief, compared with 35 percent
who said they felt better after no treatment.  IBS, a chronic disorder characterized by abdominal pain, is
an ideal candidate for a disease to examine the placebo effect,
said Harvard Medical School associate professor of medicine
 Anthony Lembo , the senior author on the paper. That’s because
there tends to be a high placebo response rate in clinical
trials of drugs for the disease.  Doctor Explanation  Doctors in the study explained to the patients that
placebos have been shown in many clinical studies to benefit
patients, even though they have no active ingredients. That may
have set up the patients’ expectation that a placebo would work,
said Lembo. Patients may have believed they were receiving an
active treatment, although not a drug therapy.  Both groups of patients received medical attention from
doctors, which may have also allowed for patients to improve.  Other illnesses that may respond well to placebo include
depression, chronic pains such as lower back pain, arthritis and
headaches, and fibromyalgia, a chronic pain illness affecting
muscles, said Kaptchuk. The researchers hope to do a larger
trial in IBS to confirm their early findings.  The study was funded by the National Center for
Complementary and Alternative Medicine, part of the U.S.
National Institutes of Health.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Elizabeth Lopatto  in New York at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 