-- Poland, Czech Republic Hold Interest Rates After Hungary Tightens Policy
-- B y   M o n i k a   R o z l a l   a n d   P e t e r   L a c a
-- 2010-12-22T15:45:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-22/poland-czech-republic-hold-interest-rates-after-hungary-tightens-policy.html
Poland and the Czech Republic
decided against following Hungary in tightening monetary policy
today as both central banks held rates at record lows to protect
economic growth.  The Narodowy Bank Polski kept the  benchmark interest rate 
at 3.5 percent for an 18th month, while the Ceska Narodni Banka
kept the two-week repurchase rate at 0.75 percent, below the
European Central Bank’s main rate of 1 percent. Both decisions
matched the median estimate of analysts in Bloomberg surveys.  Hungary’s central bank this week raised  interest rates  for
a second consecutive month to combat rising inflation
expectations. Czech and Polish policy makers are more concerned
about protecting growth as inflation poses less of a risk, said
 Neil Shearing , a London-based analyst at Capital Economics Ltd.  “For much of emerging Europe, growth concerns continue to
outweigh inflation worries,” he said in a note to clients
before the decisions.  The Polish zloty traded at 3.9886 per euro at 4:23 p.m. in
Warsaw from 3.9970 yesterday. The Czech koruna weakened to
25.298 per euro from 25.266 and the forint strengthened to
276.39 per euro from 276.82.  Polish Growth  In Poland, the only European Union country to avert a
recession last year, policy makers voted against higher
borrowing costs because the pace of economic growth and global
recovery are still "uncertain," the bank said in a post-decision
statement. The 27-nation bloc’s largest eastern  economy  expanded
an annual 4.2 percent in the third quarter, the fastest in two
years.  "The still limited inflationary and wage pressure in the
Polish economy, uncertainty about the scale of the acceleration
of GDP growth in Poland and the global economic recovery justify
keeping the NBP interest rates unchanged," the statement said.  Policy makers in Warsaw today dropped a reference to the
risk of increased capital flows, which they cited in last
month’s decision as a reason against tightening monetary policy.
The zloty has gained 0.8 percent to the euro this month.  The Czech central bank, which voted 6-1 to keep rates
unchanged, said growth risks were "materializing" as government
spending cuts slow the expansion. The central bank last month
forecast that interest-rate increases may be postponed until
near the end of next year from the previously expected start of
monetary tightening in mid-2011.  ‘Gradual Recovery’  "At the moment, the Czech National Bank forecast, which
sees a gradual recovery that will be tamed by fiscal
consolidation next year, is materializing," Czech central bank
Governor Miroslav Singer told journalists in Prague.  The central bank on Nov. 4 lowered its  forecast  for 2011
gross domestic product growth to 1.2 percent from 1.8 percent
previously.  In Poland, an unexpected drop of the inflation rate and
slowing wage growth last month indicated no pressure on prices.
Annual  core inflation , which excludes food and fuel cost,
remained unchanged at a three-year low of 1.2 percent for a
fifth month, the statistics office in Warsaw said yesterday.  The central bank said wage and inflation pressure remained
“limited,” according to its statement today.  Czech  inflation  was 2 percent in November, the same as in
the previous two months, matching the central bank’s target.
Monetary policy inflation, which is price growth adjusted for
the impact in changes in indirect taxes, was 0.9 percent, the
central bank said.  The risks to the inflation forecast are “balanced” with
the main anti-inflationary risk being the slower-than-expected
growth of wages, Singer said today. The main pro-inflationary
risks are a weaker koruna rate and growing commodity prices, he
said.  "Inflation is still holding dramatically near the inflation
target," Singer said today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Monika Rozlal  in Warsaw 
 mrozlal@bloomberg.net 
Peter Laca in Prague at 
 placa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at 
 wmorris@bloomberg.net  