-- Polish Interest Rate to Stay Unchanged for 18th Month on Slower Inflation
-- B y   M o n i k a   R o z l a l   a n d   D o r o t a   B a r t y z e l
-- 2010-12-22T06:26:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-22/polish-interest-rate-to-stay-unchanged-for-18th-month-on-slower-inflation.html
Poland’s central bank will probably
keep borrowing costs unchanged at a record low for a 18th month
today after inflation slowed and wage pressure eased in
November, a poll showed.  The Monetary Policy Council will leave its  benchmark
interest rate  at 3.5 percent, according to 18 of 19 economists
 surveyed  by Bloomberg. One analyst expects the rate to rise to
3.75 percent. The decision will be announced in Warsaw at about
noon today.  “The central bank traditionally keeps borrowing costs
unchanged in December, partly due to low activity on the
financial markets during the holiday season,” said  Grzegorz Maliszewski , chief economist at  Bank Millennium SA  in Warsaw.
“It made an exception in 2008 to help the economy overcome the
crisis on the financial markets with a sharp rate cut, but now
policy makers will probably find their situation comfortable.”  Hungary this week raised its  interest rates  for a second
consecutive month to combat rising inflation expectations. Czech
borrowing costs will rise earlier than the central bank
suggested in its outlook as the economy will probably grow
faster than forecast, policy maker  Robert Holman  said in a Dec.
9 interview.  In Poland, an unexpected drop of the inflation rate and
slowing wage growth last month indicated no pressure on prices.
Annual  core inflation , which excludes food and fuel cost,
remained unchanged at a three-year low of 1.2 percent for a
fifth month, the statistics office in Warsaw said yesterday.  The zloty traded at 3.994 per euro at 7:24 a.m. in Warsaw
from 3.9970 yesterday.  Avoiding Recession  The Narodowy Bank Polski has kept its main rate unchanged
since June 2009 after reducing it by a total of 2.5 percentage
points, which helped the country to be the only EU member that
avoided a recession. The 27-nation bloc’s largest eastern
 economy  expanded 4.2 percent in the third quarter, the fastest
in two years.  Consumer prices  rose annual 2.7 percent in November, slower
than 2.8 percent a month earlier, while  average corporate wages 
added less-than-expected 3.6 percent from a year ago.  Rate setters voted against higher borrowing costs in
November to protect the zloty against speculators, according to
the minutes from their last month’s meeting. The Polish currency
has gained 0.8 percent to the euro this month.  “Council members have suggested that there is no need for a
rate change in December and their moderate comments after the
last rate meeting indicated they had reached a consensus,”
economists at ING Bank Slaski in Warsaw wrote in an e-mail.  Andrzej Bratkowski , who repeatedly called for a preemptive
rate increase of at least half percentage point, on Dec. 8 said
that it is “too late for radical increases” and the central bank
should start tightening the policy by small steps within the
next three months.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Monika Rozlal  in Warsaw 
 mrozlal@bloomberg.net .
 Dorota Bartyzel  in Warsaw at 
 dbartyzel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at 
 wmorris@bloomberg.net  