-- Rating to Rise as Paris Club Accord Cuts Borrowing Costs: Argentina Credit
-- B y   B o r i s   K o r b y
-- 2010-12-22T18:36:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-22/rating-to-rise-as-paris-club-accord-cuts-borrowing-costs-argentina-credit.html
Speculation Argentina may win a
credit grade increase after reaching a defaulted debt accord
with the Paris Club is helping cut borrowing costs by more than
50 percent against similarly rated countries.  The extra yield investors demand to own Argentine debt
instead of bonds sold by the Dominican Republic, Belize,
Jamaica, Ghana, Lebanon and Pakistan shrank to 154 basis points,
or 1.54 percentage points, from 331 on June 30, according to
JPMorgan Chase & Co. Like Argentina, the countries are rated B3
by Moody’s Investors Service or B by Standard & Poor’s.  A settlement with the Paris Club group of creditor nations,
whose members include Germany, Japan and the U.S., over about $7
billion of debt would move Argentina closer to restructuring
almost all of the obligations dating from its record default in
2001. President  Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner’s  swap of $12.2
billion of bonds earlier this year in part led S&P to boost
Argentina’s rating one level in September.  “A settlement with the Paris Club would be an event that
could eventually lead to a rating upgrade,”  Igor Arsenin , head
of Latin America strategy at Credit Suisse Group AG in New York,
said in a telephone interview. “There will be continued
progression with the Paris Club.”  Economy Minister  Amado Boudou  met with representatives of
the Paris Club last week as part of an effort to regain access
to financing from official bi-lateral agencies. Argentina is
seeking a solution that will allow the country to maintain
growth and “reopen investment in the economy,” Boudou said in
Paris on Dec. 13.  Soybean Harvest  South America’s second-biggest economy grew 8.6 percent in
the third quarter following a record 55-million metric ton
soybean harvest, the country’s National Statistics and Census
Institute said Dec. 17. Industrial output rose 12.8 percent in
November from a year earlier, fueled by a 36 percent jump in
auto production and 26 percent increase in vehicle exports,
according to the Argentina Auto Manufacturing Association.  The central bank forecasts the economy will grow 9 percent
this year, the fastest pace since 2005.  “Since September, there’s been a favorable economic
environment for Argentina,”  Sebastian Briozzo , a Latin America
director at S&P, said in a telephone interview. “We are seeing
a positive overall external environment as commodity prices
continue to go up and growth continues in Brazil, the main
destination for the country’s products.”  Yield Spread  The extra yield investors demand to hold Argentina’s dollar
bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries narrowed 210 basis points since
S&P raised the country’s rating on Sept. 13 to 488 as of 1:19
p.m. New York time, according to JPMorgan. The decline in
borrowing costs is the biggest among emerging-markets after
Venezuela. Moody’s last increased the country’s rating in June
2005.  “The market perception continues to be more conservative
than our rating is, despite the narrowing spreads we’ve seen
since the upgrade,” Briozzo said. “The view is that Argentina
is a relatively weaker credit than we believe.”  Moody’s analyst  Gabriel Torres  didn’t return a telephone
call seeking comment.  A settlement with the Paris Club would likely lead to a
ratings boost for Argentina, said  Alberto Bernal , head of fixed-
income research at Bulltick Capital Markets, a Miami-based
brokerage that focuses on Latin America.  Default Swaps  “A Paris Club agreement has always been something that
would help Argentina’s private sector,” he said in a telephone
interview. “The capacity to finance infrastructure investments
will look much better. If you see higher levels of
infrastructure investment, ratings agencies will look at
Argentina and see more sustainable growth prospects.”  The peso strengthened 0.1 percent to 3.9732 per dollar
today.  Warrants linked to economic growth rose 0.48 cent to 14.88
cents, according to Bloomberg data.  The cost of insuring Argentine bonds against default for
five years fell 13 basis points to 618 yesterday, according to
CMA DataVision. Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in
exchange for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent
should a government or company fail to comply with debt
agreements.  Argentina’s record $95 billion debt default and concern the
government underreports inflation have hurt the country’s
credibility with investors. Fernandez says the government’s
inflation data is accurate.  “Argentina has a lot of baggage,” Bernal said. “It takes
a lot of convincing, time, goodwill and new messages for you to
start believing, and slowly but surely people are starting to
believe in Argentina.”  The yield on Argentina’s benchmark dollar bonds due in 2017
fell six basis points to 8.20 percent, according to Bloomberg
data. The notes yielded 10.56 percent in September.  “The spreads will continue to fall,” Credit Suisse’s
Arsenin said. “It will depend on how politics play out next
year, but in the base-case scenario, the government will pursue
the same policies they’ve pursued this year, and try to close
the gap with the Paris Club.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Boris Korby  in New York at 
 bkorby1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  