-- Treasuries Decline as U.S. Economy Expands, Existing Home Sales Increase
-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s
-- 2010-12-22T16:33:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-22/treasuries-pare-losses-after-3rd-quarter-u-s-growth-less-than-forecast.html
Treasuries declined after reports
showed the economy expanded and sales of existing homes
increased less than analysts forecast.  U.S. government debt had pared losses earlier after the
gross domestic product report also showed a measure of inflation
increased at the slowest pace in more than 50 years. The Federal
Reserve bought $2.07 billion of Treasuries due from February
2021 to February 2027 today as part of its strategy of extending
record monetary stimulus through debt purchases.  “The Treasury market is taking somewhat of a breather
going into the new year to assess where we are on the economic
front,” said  James Combias,  New York-based head of Treasury
trading at Mizuho Securities USA Inc., one of 18 primary dealers
that trade with the central bank. “We’ve been in a very tight
range from the initial up-trade from the lows. People just want
the year to be over.”  Benchmark 10-year yields gained rose four basis points to
3.35 percent at 11:31 a.m. in New York, according to BGCantor
Market Data. The price of the 2.625 percent security maturing in
November 2020 declined 10/32, or $3.13 per $1,000 face amount,
to 93 31/32.  The  difference  between 10- and two-year yields was at 2.72
percentage points, about double the five-year average. A wider
spread signals that investors are shunning longer-dated
securities, which are more sensitive to the inflation outlook.  Inflation Measure  The U.S. economy expanded at a 2.6 percent annual rate in
the third quarter. The revised increase in gross domestic
product compares with a 2.5 percent estimate issued last month
and was less than the median forecast of a 2.8 percent in a
Bloomberg News survey, the Commerce Department said.  The Fed’s preferred price gauge, which is tied to consumer
spending and strips out food and energy costs, rose at a 0.5
percent annual pace, the slowest since record-keeping began in
1959, today’s report showed.  “We are slightly bid from the lows in the wake of the
number because it was slightly below consensus,” said  Ian Lyngen , a government bond strategist at CRT Capital Group LLC in
Stamford, Connecticut. “One surprise was core PCE came in lower
than the prior read as well as the consensus which underscores
the lack of inflation.”  Today’s report also showed consumer spending rose at a 2.4
percent pace last quarter, the fastest since the first three
months of 2007, while less than the 2.8 percent estimated last
month. Spending added 1.67 percentage points to GDP from July
through September.  ‘Further Excuse’  “What is worrisome is the decline in consumer power which
has traditionally been the big leader coming out of recessions”
said  Brian Yelvington,  head of fixed-income research at Knight
Libertas LLC in Greenwich. “The numbers show the market has
gotten too bullish on how sticky the consumer rally will be.
This combined with a weak inflation print will give the Fed
further excuse to stay on hold.”  Home purchases increased 5.6 percent from the prior month
to a 4.68 million annual rate, the National Association of
Realtors said in Washington. Economists projected sales would
rise to a 4.75 million pace, according to the median forecast in
a Bloomberg News survey. The median price rose 0.4 percent from
a year earlier.  “On a whole we saw weaker data, but I don’t know how much
the data really matters,” said  Suvrat Prakash,  an interest-rate
strategist in New York at BNP Paribas SA, one of the 18 primary
dealers required to bid at Treasury auctions. “With low
liquidity people are focusing on how to handle buybacks. The
market isn’t going to do too much until year-end.”  Auction Schedule  The Treasury is scheduled tomorrow to announce the sizes of
two-, five- and seven-year auctions for next week. Ten-year
yields have increased about 40 basis points since Dec. 6, when
President  Barack Obama  agreed to a two-year extension for tax
cuts, widening the deficit and fueling bets that growth and
inflation will quicken.  Treasuries have handed investors a 2 percent loss this
month, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes, as
the Fed implemented a plan to add $600 billion to the economy to
spur inflation.  The last time U.S. sovereign debt fell more in a month was
in December 2009, when it dropped 2.6 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Cordell Eddings  in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  