-- Treasuries Fall as U.S. Economic Data May Show Home Sales, GDP Quickening
-- B y   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a   a n d   W e s   G o o d m a n
-- 2010-12-22T12:05:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-22/treasuries-fall-as-u-s-economic-data-may-show-home-sales-gdp-quickening.html
Treasuries fell, extending their
biggest monthly loss in a year, on speculation data showing the
recovery is gaining momentum will fuel concern that debt supply
will overwhelm demand as inflation accelerates.  Five-year notes led losses before data that economists said
will show sales of existing homes and gross domestic product
increased. The Treasury is tomorrow scheduled to announce the
sizes of two-, five- and seven-year auctions for next week. Ten-
year yields have increased 41 basis points since Dec. 6, when
President  Barack Obama  agreed to a two-year extension for tax
cuts, widening the deficit and fueling bets that growth and
inflation will quicken.  “People are worried about the impact of the stimulus
package on the budget situation, and it’s also worrying the
market from an inflation angle,” said  Eric Wand , a fixed-income
strategist at Lloyds TSB Bank Plc in London. “We’ll have to see
how the market handles the new supply in a relatively thin
environment.”  Benchmark 10-year yields gained three basis points to 3.34
percent at 6:49 a.m. in New York, according to BGCantor Market
Data. The price of the 2.625 percent security maturing in
November 2020 declined 8/32, or $2.50 per $1,000 face amount, to
94 2/32. Five-year yields also rose three basis points, to 1.98
percent, while the two-year rate was at 0.61 percent.  The  difference  between 10- and two-year yields was at 2.72
percentage points, about double the five-year average. A wider
spread signals that investors are shunning longer-dated
securities, which are more sensitive to the inflation outlook.  Home Sales  Home purchases probably increased 7.1 percent in November
from October, the National Association of Realtors will say,
according to the  median  of estimates in a Bloomberg News survey
of economists.  The economy grew at a 2.8 percent annual rate in the third
quarter, more than the 2.5 percent pace the government estimated
last month, a separate survey showed.  Treasuries have handed investors a 2 percent loss this
month, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes, as
the Federal Reserve implemented a plan to add $600 billion to
the economy to spur inflation.  The central bank is scheduled to buy $1.5 billion to $2.5
billion of government securities due from February 2021 to
November 2027 today as part of the program, according to its
 website .  The last time U.S. sovereign debt fell more in a month was
in December 2009, when it dropped 2.6 percent.  Higher Yields  Ten-year yields have climbed about 1 percentage point from
this year’s low. Yields indicate investors added to bets in
November and December for the Fed to raise interest rates next
year. Two-year  yields , among the most sensitive to Fed
expectations, climbed to 36 basis points more than the central
bank’s rate target from this year’s low of 8 basis points in
November. The five-year average is three basis points.  “We expect the economy to be strong over the next year,”
said  Tsutomu Komiya , who handles U.S. debt in Tokyo for Daiwa
Asset Management Co., which oversees the equivalent of $102.7
billion and is part of Japan’s second-biggest brokerage.
“Shorter-end interest rates will rise faster than longer rates.
The Federal Reserve may hike at the end of next year.”  Kei Katayama , who helps oversee the equivalent of $54.3
billion as leader of the foreign fixed-income group in Tokyo at
Daiwa SB Investments Ltd., a unit of Japan’s second-biggest
brokerage, said he’s considering buying as 2011 begins to take
advantage of higher returns offered by bonds.  “The yield is quite high,” he said. “There are still a
lot of problems with the U.S. economy.”  ‘Too Aggressive’  Barclays Capital Inc., one of the 18 primary dealers that
are required to bid at the government debt sales, is
recommending short-term maturities.  “The market seems too aggressive in pricing monetary
tightening,” Barclays analysts  Ajay Rajadhyaksha  and  Dean Maki 
in New York wrote in a report yesterday.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc., another primary dealer, increased
its forecast for the U.S. budget deficits by $50 billion for
each of the next two years because of Obama’s plan.  The bank is projecting federal deficits of $1.3 trillion
for the 12 months ending Sept. 30 and $1.05 trillion for the
following fiscal year,  Ed McKelvey , the senior U.S. economist,
wrote in a report yesterday in New York.  The shortfall totaled $1.29 trillion in the prior business
year, versus the record $1.42 trillion  deficit in 2009 ,
according to the Treasury Department.  The government’s current schedule of note and bond sales is
enough to fund the deficits, according to the report. The U.S.
may even pay down some of its bills, McKelvey wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Lukanyo Mnyanda  in London at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net ;
 Wes Goodman  in Singapore at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  