-- Treasuries' Worst Drop in 2010 Driven by Central Bank Sales: Chart of Day
-- B y   W e s   G o o d m a n
-- 2010-12-22T02:06:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-22/treasuries-worst-drop-in-2010-driven-by-central-bank-sales-chart-of-day.html
Central banks outside the U.S. sold
Treasuries at the end of November and in December for the first
time since June, spurring the biggest monthly loss in a year for
the government securities.  The CHART OF THE DAY graphs Treasuries held at the Federal
Reserve by foreign central banks and governments. It also shows
U.S. 10-year yields climbing in December to a seven-month high.
So-called custody holdings rose to a record $2.611 trillion on
Nov. 17, according to the U.S. central bank. The figure dropped
$2.25 billion in the last week of November, and foreign official
holders have sold $1.5 billion of Treasuries in December.  “Foreign central banks have dramatically slowed their
buying of Treasuries,” JPMorgan Chase & Co. analysts led by
Srini Ramaswamy in New York wrote in a report Dec. 17. “This
sharp decline in foreign demand likely contributed to the
selloff in Treasuries,” according to JPMorgan, one of the 18
primary dealers required to bid at the government debt sales.  Treasuries handed investors a 2.0 percent loss this month,
according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes. The last
time U.S. government debt fell more was in December 2009, when
it dropped 2.6 percent. Investors outside the U.S. hold about
half of the nation’s  marketable debt , which has grown by more
than 50 percent since the start of 2009 to $8.75 trillion.  “This is quite scary,” said Tomohisa Fujiki, an interest-
rate strategist at BNP Paribas Securities Japan Ltd. in Tokyo.
“It was one of the big factors during that massive selloff.”
BNP’s U.S. unit is another primary dealer.  (To save a copy of the chart, click here.)  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Wes Goodman  in Singapore at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at   rswift5@bloomberg.net . 