-- Treasuries Decline as U.S. Economy Expands, Existing Home Sales Increase
-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s
-- 2010-12-22T22:14:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-22/treasuries-decline-as-u-s-economy-expands-existing-home-sales-increase.html
Treasuries declined after reports
showed the U.S. economy expanded and sales of existing homes
increased less than analysts forecast.  Government securities extended losses after the Federal
Reserve accepted the lowest percentage of bids in relation to
the amount of debt securities firms offered by sale since Nov.
29 under the central bank’s debt-purchase program. The gross
domestic product report also showed that a measure of inflation
increased at the slowest pace in more than 50 years.  “The Treasury market is taking somewhat of a breather
going into the new year to assess where we are on the economic
front,” said  James Combias,  New York-based head of Treasury
trading at Mizuho Securities USA Inc., one of 18 primary dealers
that trade with the central bank. “We’ve been in a very tight
range from the initial up-trade from the lows. People just want
the year to be over.”  Benchmark 10-year yields rose four basis points, or 0.04
percentage point, to 3.35 percent at 5:05 p.m. in New York,
according to BGCantor Market Data. The price of the 2.625
percent security maturing in November 2020 declined 10/32, or
$3.13 per $1,000 face amount, to 93 31/32.  The  difference  between 10- and two-year yields was at 2.72
percentage points, about double the five-year average. A wider
spread signals that investors are shunning longer-dated
securities, which are more sensitive to the inflation outlook.  The U.S. economy expanded at a 2.6 percent annual rate in
the third quarter. The revised increase in GDP compared with a
2.5 percent estimate issued last month and was less than the
median forecast of a 2.8 percent in a Bloomberg News survey, the
Commerce Department said.  Inflation Measure  The Fed’s preferred price gauge, which is tied to consumer
spending and strips out food and energy costs, rose at a 0.5
percent annual pace, the slowest since record-keeping began in
1959, today’s report showed.  “One surprise was core PCE came in lower than the prior
read as well as the consensus, which underscores the lack of
inflation,” said  Ian Lyngen , a government bond strategist at
CRT Capital Group LLC in Stamford, Connecticut. Still, “no one
wants to make any big moves,” he said.  The Fed bought $2.07 billion of Treasuries due from
February 2021 to February 2027 today as part of its strategy of
extending record monetary stimulus through debt purchases. The
central bank purchased 15.9 percent of the debt submitted, the
least since Nov. 29.  Fed Purchases  “You had people willing to sell to the Fed more than they
were willing to buy ,” said  Michael Cloherty,  head of U.S.
rates strategy for fixed income and currencies at the primary
dealer Royal Bank of Canada in New York. “Generally people look
at that as a rough sense of whether people are trying to move
collateral. That tells you that if the market rallies some, we
could get some selling as more people were willing to sell to
the Fed who didn’t see their offers taken.”  Home purchases increased 5.6 percent from the prior month
to a 4.68 million annual rate, the National Association of
Realtors said in Washington. Economists projected sales would
rise to a 4.75 million pace, according to the median forecast in
a Bloomberg News survey. The median price rose 0.4 percent from
a year earlier.  “On a whole we saw weaker data, but I don’t know how much
the data really matters,” said  Suvrat Prakash,  an interest-rate
strategist in New York at BNP Paribas SA, another primary
dealer. “With low liquidity people are focusing on how to
handle buybacks. The market isn’t going to do too much until
year-end.”  Auction Schedule  The Treasury is scheduled to announce tomorrow the sizes of
two-, five- and seven-year auctions for next week. Ten-year
yields have increased about 40 basis points since Dec. 6, when
President  Barack Obama  agreed to a two-year extension for tax
cuts, widening the deficit and fueling bets that growth and
inflation will quicken.  The Treasury will sell $99 billion of two-, five- and
seven-year notes next week for the third straight month amid
prospects of a rising budget deficit, according to a Bloomberg
News survey of 13 primary dealers.  Bond mutual funds had the biggest client withdrawals in
more than two years last week as a flight from fixed-income
investments accelerated.  U.S. bond funds experienced withdrawals of $8.62 billion in
the week ended Dec. 15, up from $1.66 billion the week before,
according to a release from the Investment Company Institute, a
Washington-based trade group. Last week’s withdrawals were the
largest since the week ended Oct. 15, 2008, when investors
yanked $17.6 billion from bond funds.  Treasuries have handed investors a 2 percent loss this
month, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes, as
the Fed implemented a plan to add $600 billion to the economy to
spur inflation.  The last time U.S. sovereign debt fell more in a month was
in December 2009, when it dropped 2.6 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Cordell Eddings  in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  