-- Rubber Futures Drop as Rally to Record Prompts Investors to Lock-in Gains
-- B y   A y a   T a k a d a   a n d   S u p u n n a b u l   S u w a n n a k i j
-- 2010-12-22T09:13:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-22/rubber-climbs-to-all-time-high-as-u-s-recovery-raises-outlook-for-demand.html
Rubber reversed gains after surging
to a record for a fourth day as investors sold the commodity to
lock-in gains amid concerns over tightening global supply. The
Thai cash price gained to an all-time high.  The June-delivery contract, which listed today on the Tokyo
Commodity Exchange, advanced to 417 yen per kilogram ($4,975 a
metric ton) before settling at 413.5 yen.  “Investors cashed in on profits ahead of a holiday in
Tokyo tomorrow,” said Wanwilai Choilek, manager at the Hadyai,
Thailand branch of commodity broker DS Futures Ltd. Prices
should hover at high level ahead of New Year holidays, she said.  A global supply deficit is still in place, supporting
prices, Anand James, chief analyst at brokerage Geojit Comtrade
Ltd., said from Kochi, India.  The Thai  cash price  advanced 1 percent to 148.05 baht
($4.91) per kilogram, the  Rubber Research Institute of Thailand 
said today. Fundamentals remain supportive as supplies are
inadequate following persistent rains across major producing
countries amid strong demand, the institute said.  Output from Thailand, the world’s biggest exporter, has
been hurt by heavy rains and may shrink further as the low-
production season starts around February.  “Bullish fundamentals support rubber prices,” Kazuhiko
Saito, an analyst at Tokyo-based broker Fujitomi Co., said today
by phone. “Investors are becoming optimistic about the global
economic recovery and growth in industrial commodity demand.”  U.S. Recovery  Same-store sales at a selection of U.S. retailers posted
their biggest holiday jump, according to a chain-store sales
index released by the New York-based International Council of
Shopping Centers and  Goldman Sachs Group Inc . Holiday retail
sales are a key economic indicator in the U.S.  Japan’s export growth accelerated for the first time in
nine months as a rebound in global demand helped the nation’s
economy withstand an advance in the yen.  Overseas shipments rose 9.1 percent in November from a year
earlier, compared with October’s 7.8 percent, the Finance
Ministry said today. The rebound eased concern Japan is losing
the main driver of a recovery from its worst postwar recession.  May-delivery rubber in Shanghai lost 2.9 percent to close
at 37,585 yuan ($5,503) a ton. The contract climbed to a record
38,920 yuan Nov. 11.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Aya Takada  in Tokyo at 
 atakada2@bloomberg.net ;
 Supunnabul Suwannakij  in Bangkok at 
 ssuwannakij@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Richard Dobson at 
 Rdobson4@bloomberg.net  