-- Russian President Medvedev Says Iran Nuclear Stance `Unreasonably Tough'
-- B y   I l y a   A r k h i p o v   a n d   H e n r y   M e y e r
-- 2010-12-22T15:00:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-22/russian-president-medvedev-says-iran-nuclear-stance-unreasonably-tough-.html
Russian President  Dmitry Medvedev 
said Iran’s policy on its nuclear program is “unreasonably
tough” and urged inspections by the  International Atomic Energy
Agency .  “Iran must allow IAEA officials on its territory and make
it possible to bring the situation under control,” Medvedev
said at a meeting with students in Mumbai today. “This is why
there are issues with Iran and sanctions against it.”  The Persian Gulf state in mid-2010 came under a fourth set
of United Nations sanctions, which were supported by Russia, as
well as tougher U.S. and European Union measures.  IAEA inspectors have been stymied by Iranian officials, who
have refused to discuss documents that show Iran may have
researched the construction of nuclear weapons. The IAEA, the
UN’s nuclear watchdog, has been investigating Iran’s nuclear
work since 2003, when it was revealed that the government had
hidden atomic research for two decades.  Medvedev said in July that Iran was getting closer to
achieving the capability to make nuclear weapons. Iran, the
world’s fourth-largest oil producer, refuses UN demands to
suspend enrichment of uranium, saying the work is necessary for
civilian purposes such as power generation. The U.S. and many of
its allies say Iran’s nuclear technology may be intended for a
weapons program.  Iran on Dec. 7 agreed to more talks on its nuclear program
while saying it would “absolutely not” suspend uranium
enrichment. The agreement between Iran and the so-called P5+1
group -- China, France, Germany, Russia, the U.K. and U.S. --
followed two days of negotiations in Geneva. The next talks will
be held in January in Istanbul.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ilya Arkhipov  in Mumbai via the Moscow newsroom at 
7714 or  iarkhipov@bloomberg.net ;
 Henry Meyer  in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at   wmorris@bloomberg.net  