-- Saab, Sweden Create Venture for Development of Auto Transmission Systems
-- B y   O l a   K i n n a n d e r
-- 2010-12-22T18:24:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-22/saab-sweden-create-venture-for-development-of-auto-transmission-systems.html
Saab Automobile, the carmaker owned
by  Spyker Cars NV , has agreed with the Swedish government to set
up a venture to develop transmissions for the auto industry.  Saab and  Fouriertransform AB , the Swedish government’s
venture-capital firm, will staff the company with about 50
engineers from Saab’s powertrain division, the companies said
today in a joint  statement  on the Fouriertransform website.  The venture, which will be formed at the start of 2011,
will develop transmission systems, such as gearboxes, for Saab
and other carmakers, the companies said.  “This step, together with other initiatives, will drive
down our break-even point and improve operational efficiency as
we work towards becoming a profitable, independent company,”
Saab Chief Executive Officer  Jan-Aake Jonsson  said in the
statement.  Saab, which  General Motors Co . sold to Zeewolde,
Netherlands-based Spyker in February, aims to become profitable
and sell 120,000 cars globally by 2012. This year it targets
sales of 30,000 to 35,000 cars.  The new company will be called VICURA and be based in
Saab’s hometown of Trollhaettan. Saab currently buys its manual
gearboxes from GM and its automatic transmissions from Aisin AW,
a unit of  Aisin Seiko Co .  American Axle, BMW  Fouriertransform received 3 billion kronor ($440 million)
from the Swedish government in 2009 to revitalize the country’s
auto industry. It had invested 313 million kronor in nine
companies before the Saab deal, according to its website.  “For Sweden and the Swedish automotive industry as a whole,
it is vital to maintain and further develop high competence” in
the field of transmission development, Fouriertransform CEO  Per Nordberg  said in the statement. “That is exactly what these
skilled former Saab engineers will offer.”  The venture is Saab’s latest agreement as it reorganizes as
a smaller, independent carmaker after 20 years under GM control.
In September, it set up a venture with  American Axle &
Manufacturing Holdings Inc . to make electric all-wheel drive
systems and electric and hybrid drivelines. That month it also
signed a deal with  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG  for the supply of
gasoline engines from 2012.  “This is a positive step for Saab,” Aleksandar Zuza, an
auto analyst at IF Metall, the industry’s main union, said by
telephone. “It’s moving in the right direction for them,
they’re being innovative in trying to find new opportunities.”  Spyker fell 17 cents, or 4.4 percent, to 3.59 euros at the
5:30 p.m. close of trading in Amsterdam. The stock is up 68
percent this year, valuing the luxury-car maker that’s run by
Victor Muller at 71.2 million euros ($93.2 million).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ola Kinnander  in Stockholm at 
 okinnander@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at   kwong11@bloomberg.net  