-- Sales of U.S. Existing Homes Probably Rose as Market Struggled to Recover
-- B y   B o b   W i l l i s
-- 2010-12-22T05:01:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-22/sales-of-u-s-existing-homes-probably-rose-as-market-struggled-to-recover.html
Sales  of existing homes probably
rose in November as the industry that triggered the worst
recession in seven decades struggled to recover, economists said
before a report today.  Purchases increased to a 4.75 million annual rate, up 7.1
percent from October, according to the  median  of 70 estimates in
a Bloomberg News survey. Another report may show the U.S.
economy expanded at a faster pace in the third quarter than
previously estimated.  Lower prices and  mortgage rates  have made houses more
affordable, which may keep supporting demand after the end of a
government tax credit caused the industry to slump. At the same
time,  unemployment  hovering near 10 percent is a reminder it
will take years for housing to regain pre-recession levels.  “The earliest I see sound improvement is 2012,” said
 Yelena Shulyatyeva , an economist at BNP Paribas in New York.
Even so, she said, “we’re going to see some gradual improvement
in the demand measures for housing.”  The National Association of Realtors is scheduled to
release the sales figures at 10 a.m. in Washington.  Survey 
estimates ranged from 4.25 million to 5.2 million.  A tax credit worth as much as $8,000 boosted sales to a
two-year high 6.49 million pace in November 2009, when the
incentive was originally due to expire.  The subsequent extension of the credit prompted a rebound
in sales for two months through April, followed by a plunge in
July to a 3.84 million rate.  Record Low  The real-estate agents’ group  projects  sales for the year
will drop to a 4.82 million pace, the fewest since 1997.  Cheaper houses, near record-low mortgage rates and rising
earnings are among the factors now helping underpin demand. The
NAR’s housing  affordability index , which takes into account
borrowing costs, home prices and household incomes, climbed to a
record in October.  The world’s largest economy grew at a 2.8 percent annual
rate in the third quarter, according to the median estimate of
economists surveyed before a Commerce Department report at 8:30
a.m. That’s more than the 2.5 percent the government estimated
last month.  The housing market may remain a drag on growth. Foreclosure
moratoriums across the country along with government
investigations into faulty paperwork threaten to delay a
recovery as houses slated for repossession take longer to come
to market.  Construction Permits  Builders in the U.S. began work on more homes in November
for the first time in three months, while  permits  fell to the
third-lowest level on record, a sign construction will bump
along the bottom, the Commerce Department reported Dec. 16.  Joblessness is forecast to average 9.4 percent next year
and mortgage rates, after reaching record lows in November, have
risen on signs the economy is picking up, additional reasons why
a housing recovery will take time to develop.  Federal Reserve policy makers, who met Dec. 14 for the
final time this year, are concerned about housing. They cited
declines in home values as one of the constraints on consumer
spending.  “The housing sector continues to be depressed,” Fed
officials said in a statement after the gathering, at which they
reiterated a plan to expand record monetary stimulus and said
economic growth is “insufficient to bring down unemployment.”  Falling Prices  Home values are poised to drop by more than $1.7 trillion
in 2010, according to  Zillow Inc ., a closely held provider of
home price data. This year’s estimated decline, more than the
$1.05 trillion drop in 2009, brings the loss since the June 2006
home-price peak to $9 trillion, Seattle-based Zillow said on
Dec. 9.  The lack of demand has depressed homebuilding stocks this
year. The Standard & Poor’s  Supercomposite Homebuilding  Index,
which includes Toll Brothers Inc. and  Lennar Corp ., is up 2.5
percent since Dec. 31, while the broader  S&P 500  has gained
almost 13 percent.  Even so, home sales will probably avoid setting new lows
and the industry will gain momentum in 2012, according to
 Douglas Yearley , chief executive officer of Toll Brothers, the
largest U.S. luxury-home builder.  “As the economy improves, we believe our buyers are going
to come right back out,” Yearley said in a Dec. 8 interview
with Bloomberg Television. “It’s still a buyer’s market and you
still need some incentives.”  
To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bob Willis  in Washington at 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  