-- Scottish Investors Seeking Secure Yields Say Politics Top Economy in 2011
-- B y   R o d n e y   J e f f e r s o n
-- 2010-12-22T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-22/scottish-investors-seeking-secure-yields-say-politics-top-economy-in-2011.html
Whether divining Chinese interest
rate policy, worrying about U.S. government finances or valuing
Spanish bonds, strategists in Edinburgh say one thing is clear
about next year: politics trump economics.  Fund managers in the Scottish capital are investing in
stocks, corporate bonds and commercial property paying the
biggest incomes from dividends, coupons and rents as they
navigate markets they expect to be steered more by government
action on monetary and fiscal policy than economic developments.  “The politicians have got to step up their game quite
noticeably, or at some point in January, February, March or
April there’s going to be some large issue that the markets
really worry about,”  Andrew Milligan , head of strategy at
Standard Life Investments, said at a gathering of three
investors at Bloomberg’s Edinburgh offices last week.  The People’s Bank of China raised reserve requirements on
Dec. 10 for banks for a third time in five weeks to stifle
inflation, while the U.S. estimates its budget deficit will
exceed $1.5 trillion this year. Yields on Spanish bonds are
close to their highest in eight years because of concern the
country’s debt burden may mean force it to follow Greece and
Ireland in needing a bailout, further hurting the euro.  “One of the unifying themes around the risks is that a lot
of them are political,” said  Bill Dinning , head of strategy at
Aegon Asset Management. “We know the European solution is
political. Politics absolutely matters in China.”  Up, Down  The  MSCI World Index  of developed stock markets is up 6.3
percent this month after falling 2.4 percent in November. This
year, the index has fallen for every month it’s risen, gaining
overall by 7.8 percent since the end of 2009.  The yield on  10-year Spanish bonds  rose 1.52 percentage
points to 5.52 percent over the past two months. The difference
in yield, or  spread , over equivalent German bunds has quadrupled
to 256 basis points since the start of the year. The yield is
less than half that of equivalent Greek debt.  “At the beginning of the year we’ll start to see some
increases in volatility, primarily because of this euro zone
issue that we don’t think is resolved yet,” said  Mike Turner ,
head of strategy at Aberdeen Asset Management.  In the U.S., the White House budget office projects the
 federal deficit  this year will exceed 10.6 percent of gross
domestic product, and will remain as high as 3.9 percent of GDP
in the first half of the next decade as the government tries to
boost the economy.  Higher Risk  Stimulus measures by the Federal Reserve will drive bond
yields higher, according to Dinning, Milligan and Turner, who
together oversee strategy for investing more than 360 billion
pounds ($560 billion).  “Risk premiums are going to stay elevated in an
environment where there’s a lot of uncertainty both about the
structural health of the underlying economy and what the
political responses are going to be to some of those
challenges,” said Dinning.  China increased  interest rates  in October for the first
time since 2007 as inflation rose to an annual rate of 4.4
percent. Since then, the central bank raised reserve
requirements for lenders three times in five weeks. The nation’s
 inflation rate  reached 5.1 percent last month, the most in more
than two years, with food costs climbing 11.7 percent.  “A central bank that does three reserve requirement
increases and a single interest rate increase in the last two
months, I’d say it’s a central bank that’s panicking,” said
Milligan. “It did not want to see what it’s seen.”  Upsetting Markets  Additional steps from Chinese policy makers to curtail
inflation, particularly in food prices, may prompt swings in
securities prices around the world, said Turner.  “It has to be a risk because the market isn’t concerned
about it at the moment,” he said. “That could get the markets
upset in the global sense.”  While Dinning was more bullish on equities, all three
strategists favored holding company bonds this year to benefit
from the growth in earnings they expect to continue in 2011.
Aegon bought stocks with larger dividends and sold bonds,
sometimes from the same company, Dinning said. Turner and
Milligan have been pushing more money into  non-investment grade 
securities to get higher returns.  As this year ends, the first question is how European
politicians stand behind the euro, which has weakened by more
than 9 percent against the dollar this year and is the worst-
performing major currency.  “We’re all expecting the coming year to be quite a good
one, despite the risks we’re talking about,” said Milligan.
“Having said that, 2012, 2013 and 2014 are all going to have
the same problems.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rodney Jefferson  in Edinburgh at 
 r.jefferson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tim Quinson at   tquinson@bloomberg.net  