-- Euro Snub Boosts Poland's Zloty as Czech Bond Yield Gap With Bunds Narrows
-- B y   J a s o n   W e b b ,   P e t e r   L a c a   a n d   K r y s t o f   C h a m o n i k o l a s
-- 2010-12-23T13:20:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-22/snubbing-euro-boosts-zloty-as-czech-yields-converging-with-german-bunds.html
Just a year ago, Poland and the
Czech Republic were getting ready to join the euro and share
their currencies with nations from Italy to Germany and Ireland
to Greece.  Now, Czech central bank board member  Robert Holman  says
setting a date for euro adoption “would be very risky and
unwise.” Polish central bank Governor  Marek Belka  wants the
euro zone to “normalize” before his country joins.  The worst crisis to hit the euro since its creation a
decade ago is causing the European Union’s two largest eastern
economies to pull back from committing to give up their
currencies any time soon. That’s encouraging investors who see
Poland as a better bet without its currency being tied to
nations receiving emergency bailouts while austerity measures
and lower inflation could push Czech borrowing costs below
Germany’s, according to BNP Paribas SA.  “The east European countries clearly see the benefits of
having a flexible currency right now,” said  Thomas Kirchmair ,
who helps manage 12 billion euros ($16 billion) in European
bonds at Deka Investment GmbH in Frankfurt. “In the end they
will join the euro but this is going to be a longer process.”  The zloty will climb 5 percent versus the euro in six
months, the biggest gain in emerging markets, and the koruna
will strengthen 4 percent, according to 39 forecasts tracked by
Bloomberg. Yields on Czech bonds, Europe’s best performers since
June, will drop to 60 basis points over 10-year German bunds
next year from 96, BNP Paribas and Raiffeisenbank AS predict.  Lower Debt  Czech 10-year bonds will likely yield 15 basis points, or
0.15 percentage point, less than German bunds at the end of 2012
and 70 basis points less 12 months later, according to  Bartosz Pawlowski , the London-based chief strategist for eastern Europe,
Middle East and Africa at BNP, France’s biggest bank. The yield
spread on Polish 10-year bonds will probably drop to 275 in a
year from 307, he said in a report earlier this month.  Both countries will have lower indebtedness than the
eurozone average of 87 percent of gross domestic product, with
Poland at 57 percent and Czech borrowing at 43 percent, European
Commission forecasts show. The Czech economy is forecast to grow
2.2 percent next year and Poland’s may expand 3.7 percent,
compared with 1.5 percent in the euro region, according to the
International Monetary Fund in Washington.  Closer ties to the euro zone, which helped fuel gains of
more than 25 percent in the koruna and zloty from 2004 through
2008, have turned into the biggest drag on the currencies as EU
policy makers struggle to restore confidence in the monetary
union’s most indebted countries. The zloty weakened 3.5 percent
against the dollar in the past year and the koruna fell 4.5
percent, the largest decline in emerging markets after the
currencies of Romania, Bulgaria and Hungary.  Irish Rescue  The EU and IMF provided 85 billion euros to bail out
Ireland and 110 billion euros for Greece this year. The Irish
rescue sent yields on Spanish bonds to the highest relative to
German bunds since the euro’s inception at the end of last
month. Portugal may face credit rating downgrades as budget cuts
risk stalling the “sluggish” economic recovery,  Anthony Thomas , London-based lead analyst for Moody’s Investors Service
in Portugal, said in a statement yesterday.  The debt crisis has raised questions about “whether the
euro zone is standing on sound foundations,” Ceska Narodni
Banka board member Holman said in an interview in Prague on Dec.
9. Polish central bank Governor Belka told reporters in Warsaw
the same day that while euro adoption is still “a strategic
goal,” the EU needs to find a solution for its debt crisis
first.  No Target Date  Poland and the Czech Republic agreed to give up their
national currencies as part of their entry into the EU in May
2004. Hungary won’t fix a target date to join the euro before
2012, Economy Minister  Gyorgy Matolcsy  said at a news conference
in Budapest on Sept. 8.  “A couple of years ago this would have been negative” for
the koruna and zloty, said  Ulrich Leuchtmann , the head of
currency strategy at Frankfurt-based Commerzbank AG, Germany’s
second-biggest bank. Now, stalling on the euro is “net
positive” because the financial health of Poland and the Czech
Republic is better than most euro members, he said.  While Romania has an official target of adopting the euro
in 2015, President  Traian Basescu  said on Sept. 22 the currency
switch may need to be delayed by as long as two years. Bulgaria
scrapped a plan in April to enter the exchange rate mechanism
this year after revising the 2009 budget deficit beyond the EU’s
limit.  Baltic Expansion  European monetary union is still expanding with Estonia set
to become the 17th member of the euro area on Jan. 1 and the
third post-communist country to adopt the single currency after
Slovenia in 2007 and Slovakia in 2009. Lithuania and Latvia have
their currencies pegged to the euro and both nations aim to
enter the monetary union in 2014.  Eastern European currencies will weaken as speculators
currently targeting Irish and Greek debt turn their focus to
countries with the strongest links to the euro zone, said  Savvas Savouri,  the chief economist at Toscafund Asset Management in
London. Hungary’s forint may lose more than 50 percent of its
value to lead declines, Savouri said.  “It will be a domino effect and the last domino to fall
will be the largest,” he said. “It will be Poland.”  Currency strategists at some of the world’s largest banks
including Barclays Plc and Credit Suisse AG are more optimistic.
The koruna will rally to 24.4 per euro by the end of June from
25.234 on Dec. 17, according to the median of 19 forecasts
compiled by Bloomberg. The zloty will appreciate to 3.91 per
euro from 3.9927, the median of 20 projections shows.  The forint is likely to weaken 0.5 percent against the
euro, according to strategists’ forecasts.  Consolidation  Czech and Polish government bonds are already outperforming
the debt of euro zone countries. Yields on Czech 10-year koruna
notes have fallen 42 basis points since June to 3.84 percent,
data compiled by Bloomberg show. German bund yields climbed 29
basis points to 2.93 percent during the same period. Polish 10-
year bond yields rose 5 basis points to 5.98 percent, compared
with increases of 160 basis points for Greece and 335 for
Ireland.  Czech lawmakers approved the 2011 budget on Dec. 15 that
cuts spending on public wages and social benefits to help meet
Prime Minister  Petr Necas ’s pledge in June to cut the fiscal gap
to within the EU’s limit of 3 percent of GDP by 2013 from 5.8
percent last year.  The Czech Republic is ranked A by Standard & Poor’s, the
fifth-lowest investment-grade rating, and Poland is one step
lower at A-. Germany has the top AAA rating from S&P.  “Fiscal consolidation and an outlook for better ratings”
may boost Czech bonds, said  Michal Brozka , a Prague-based
analyst at Raiffeisenbank. “The question obviously remains how
much the bailout of the euro area’s periphery will weigh on
German bunds.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jason Webb  in London at 
 jwebb25@bloomberg.net ;
 Peter Laca  in Prague at 
 placa@bloomberg.net ;
 Krystof Chamonikolas  in Prague at 
 kchamonikola@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net ;
Willy Morris at 
 wmorris@bloomberg.net  