-- South Africa to Join Expanded BRIC Group As Soon As Next Year, Russia Says
-- B y   H e n r y   M e y e r   a n d   I l y a   K h r e n n i k o v
-- 2010-12-22T11:06:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-22/south-africa-to-join-expanded-bric-group-as-soon-as-next-year-russia-says.html
Russia expects South Africa to join
its BRIC alliance with Brazil, India and China as early as next
year to give Africa’s largest economy a bigger say in global
affairs, President  Dmitry Medvedev ’s envoy to Africa said.  “We can assume that South Africa will formally become a
member of BRIC,” Alexei Vasiliev said in an interview in Moscow
today. Vasiliev accompanied Medvedev last year on the Kremlin
leader’s first official visit to Africa.  South Africa in February formally asked to be admitted to
the bloc of nations, which held its first summit in June 2009 in
Yekaterinburg in Russia’s Ural Mountains region. South Africa
should join BRIC because of its strategic importance rather than
its size, Trade Minister  Rob Davies  said in a Dec. 15 interview.  Goldman Sachs Asset Management Chairman  Jim O’Neill  coined
the BRIC term in 2001 to describe the four nations that he
estimated would equal the U.S. in joint economic output by 2020.
Medvedev said on Nov. 12 that the BRIC group had reacted
positively to South Africa’s request to join. BRIC leaders are
due to meet in Beijing next year for their third summit.  South African President  Jacob Zuma  has lobbied for stronger
political and trade ties with BRIC counties since coming to
power last year. South Africa’s gross domestic product of $286
billion is less than a quarter of Russia’s, the smallest economy
in the alliance. Its population of 49 million is also dwarfed by
China’s 1.3 billion, India’s 1.2 billion, Brazil’s 191 million
and Russia’s 142 million.  “South Africa represents a third or quarter of the
continent’s entire GDP,” Vasiliev said. “It’s a powerful
country, though of course it’s not comparable in size to other
BRIC countries.”  The second BRIC summit was held in Brazilia in April.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Henry Meyer  in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net ;
 Ilya Khrennikov  in Moscow at 
 ikhrennikov@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Amanda Jordan at 
 ajordan11@bloomberg.net .
Willy Morris at   wmorris@bloomberg.net  