-- Spring Deluge at Australian Coal Mines Will Force Gains in Global Prices
-- B y   E l i s a b e t h   B e h r m a n n
-- 2010-12-22T01:56:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-22/spring-deluge-at-australian-coal-mines-will-force-gains-in-global-prices.html
Record rain and floods in north
eastern Australia are disrupting coal output from Xstrata Plc
and Rio Tinto Group mines. With more storms coming, prices are
forecast to jump from the world’s biggest  exporter  of the fuel.  “It never stops raining,” said Peter Maguire, mayor of
Queensland state’s Central Highlands Regional Council, home to
Xstrata’s Rolleston mine, Rio’s Kestrel operation and BHP
Billiton Ltd.’s Blackwater venture. “It’s forecast to rain
until April-May.”  Australia had its wettest September-to-November spring on
record, and the  Bureau of Meteorology  says southeastern
Queensland and eastern New South Wales have a 60 percent to 70
percent chance of getting above-average falls during January to
March. This means coking coal used by steelmakers may surge 20
percent to $250 a metric ton in the second quarter of 2011,
according to UBS AG forecasts.  The last time Queensland’s Bowen Basin, which has 33 coal
mines, was hit with similar weather in 2008, coal tripled to a
record $300 a ton, driving up the price of steel used in cars,
aircraft and construction.  Queensland had its wettest spring since records began in
1900, receiving 248.2 millimeters (9.77 inches) of rainfall,
almost triple the state’s average long-term mean of 84.3
millimeters, according to the bureau.  “We’re now seeing with the spot price over $240 a ton that
the impact of the rain would be reflected more aggressively in
the second-quarter price than it would in the first,”  Peter Richardson , chief metals economist at Morgan Stanley said from
Melbourne. “That’s precisely what we’re going to see.”  Global Trade  Xstrata and Vale SA are among producers who were forced to
suspend coal sales this month because of the deluge. The
forecast summer rain threatens further gridlock in an industry
estimated to earn A$33 billion ($32.6 billion) in exports in
fiscal 2011. Australia accounts for almost two-thirds of the
global coking coal trade.  BHP agreed with Japanese steelmakers to cut coking-coal
prices by 7 percent in the current quarter. Kobe Steel Ltd. will
pay $209 a metric ton, Hiroyuki Hashimoto, a spokesman for Kobe
Steel, said Sept. 1. Prices for the first quarter of 2011 were
agreed at $225 a ton, Citigroup Inc. said Dec. 17.  Macarthur  Coal Ltd., the world’s biggest producer of
pulverized coal, also declared force majeure this month, a
contractual clause that allows companies to miss deliveries
because of circumstances beyond their control. About 10 million
to 15 million tons of output, as much as 10 percent of
Australia’s coking coal exports, may be at risk, similar to 2008,
according to UBS.  Steel Demand  The disruptions come as global steel demand is forecast to
reach a record 1.34 billion metric tons in 2011, the World Steel
Association said in October. The biggest producers are in China,
which account for about 45 percent of the world’s production.  The deluge in Australia comes as a La Nina event cools the
Pacific Ocean and increases rainfall. The nation’s eastern
region may have a higher-than-average number of tropical
cyclones over the warmer months, with six to seven forecast by
the bureau, compared with an average of four.  “It is not a catastrophe yet but we are technically only
just starting our wet season,”  Keith de Lacy , chairman of
Brisbane-based  Macarthur , told  Susan Li  on Bloomberg
Television’s “On the Move Asia” on Dec. 8. “Now if the wet
season is anything like the dry season it is going to be very
difficult. If we can’t supply the coal, it will obviously put
upward pressure on prices.”  Tempering Gains  Coal deliveries to Gladstone Ports Corp., about 375 miles
north of Brisbane, are 40 percent less than normal, spokeswoman
Lee McIvor said in an interview on Dec. 15. Stockpiles at
Dalrymple Bay Coal Terminal, the world’s biggest for coking coal,
are at 450,000 tons, less than half the average 1 million tons,
Greg Smith, general manager of operations, said in an interview
on Dec. 15.  Tempering price gains is BHP’s push to set coal prices
quarterly rather than annually. The BHP Billiton-Mitsubishi
Alliance, known as BMA, is the world’s biggest exporter of coal
for steelmaking and operates seven mines in the Bowen Basin.  “You probably won’t see the sorts of huge price movements
that we saw a couple of years ago,”  Gavin Wendt , a senior
resource analyst at MineLife Pty in Sydney, said Dec. 10. “The
market can respond far quicker than with the 12-month pricing.”  Forecast rain for New South Wales increases the chance of
disruption to exports of thermal coal from the Hunter Valley,
according to Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc. The state
received up to four times its mean amount of rainfall last month,
according to the bureau. In 2008, prices for thermal coal, used
in power stations, more than doubled to $125 a ton.  Power Coal  Thermal coal  spot price s for exports from Australia’s
Newcastle port have risen 31 percent since the start of the year
to $115.60 a ton as of Dec. 17, according to the McCloskey
pricing service. Cold weather in the Northern Hemisphere as well
as increased imports by China and India is creating “short-term
price pressure,” Deutsche Bank AG said this month in a report.  “Flying around in a helicopter in the Hunter Valley three
weeks ago, it was pretty visible that there wasn’t a whole lot
of coal on the ground,”  Paul McTaggart , an equity analyst at
Credit Suisse Group AG in Sydney, said by phone.  “March is normally the wet season in Queensland, so
there’s a possibility that we’re going to be short coal,
particularly given an early and unseasonal heavy northern
winter.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Elisabeth Behrmann  in Sydney at 
 ebehrmann1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs
 at   ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  