-- Stricter Biofuel Controls May Be Outlined by European Union in 2011
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   S t e a r n s   a n d   E w a   K r u k o w s k a
-- 2010-12-22T14:06:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-22/stricter-biofuel-controls-may-be-outlined-by-european-union-in-2011.html
The European Union may move to
tighten regulation of biofuels by July in a bid to prevent their
increased use in transport from causing emissions-boosting
changes in land use.  The  European Commission  said raising the minimum emissions-
saving threshold for biofuels to be counted toward EU renewable-
energy targets is a possibility. Imposing extra
“sustainability” criteria is another option that could be
proposed by the middle of 2011, said the commission, the 27-
nation EU’s regulatory arm.  Any new draft legislation to tighten environmental controls
on biofuels, which are made primarily from crops such as
rapeseed, wheat, corn and sugar, will depend on a “detailed”
assessment of indirect land-use change related to such fuels,
said the commission. A third option is to attribute a quantity
of greenhouse-gas emissions to biofuels reflecting the impact on
indirect land-use change.  “We have to ensure that the biofuels we promote deliver
clear greenhouse-gas savings,” EU Climate Commissioner  Connie Hedegaard  said in a statement today in Brussels. “We must not
ignore any unwanted impacts that may be caused globally as a
result of the additional demand.”  An EU requirement that at least 10 percent of energy for
road and rail transport in 2020 come from renewable sources in
all member nations risks causing side-effects that undermine the
battle against global warming. Biofuels including ethanol and
biodiesel are the main renewable energy for transport and offer
the prospect of reducing the use of fossil fuels blamed for
climate change.  Food Production  The question of indirect land-use change covers whether
greater use of crops for biofuels would displace food
production. That would threaten to spur the conversion of forest
and peatland, which store carbon dioxide, into land for food
crops. CO2 is the main greenhouse gas.  The EU’s 10 percent renewable-energy target for land
transport is part of legislation approved in 2008 that sets
environmental-protection standards for biofuels to be counted
toward the goal so growth in trade doesn’t come at the cost of
land destruction in exporting nations such as Brazil. One
requirement is that biofuels production lead to a saving on
greenhouse-gas emissions of at least 35 percent initially and 50
percent as of 2017.  Biofuels accounted for 3.4 percent of EU transport-fuel
consumption in 2008, according to the bloc. About 26 percent of
biodiesel and 31 percent of ethanol consumed in the EU in 2007
were imported, mainly from Brazil and the U.S., the bloc says.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jonathan Stearns  in Brussels at 
 jstearns2@bloomberg.net ;
 Ewa Krukowska  in Brussels at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net ;
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  