-- Sweden to Guarantee $521 Million EIB Loan for Geely Holding's Volvo Cars
-- B y   O l a   K i n n a n d e r
-- 2010-12-22T12:35:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-22/sweden-to-guarantee-volvo-cars-521-million-eib-loan-update1-.html
Volvo Cars, the Swedish carmaker
owned by  Zhejiang Geely Holding Group Co. , will get a 3.55-
billion krona ($521 million) loan from the European Investment
Bank, the Swedish government said.  Sweden will guarantee the loan from the EIB, the European
Union’s lending arm, Industry Minister  Maud Olofsson  said today.
The loan will “create sustainable conditions for Volvo’s
operations and jobs in Sweden,” she said at a news conference.  Volvo, under EIB’s rules, must use the funds to develop
safer or more fuel-efficient cars. The carmaker, which  Ford
Motor Co . sold in August for about $1.5 billion, will use the
loan to carry out projects faster at its Swedish plants, Anders
Kaerrberg, Volvo’s head of government relations, said.  “It’s about lowering fuel consumption and lowering carbon
dioxide emissions from our cars,” Kaerrberg said by phone
today. "There’s high pressure now on the whole global auto
industry to pay more attention to the climate.’’  The loan approval caps a two-year effort by the Gothenburg-
based carmaker to secure EIB funding, a process that was stalled
when Ford wanted to sell the brand. Volvo had sought up to 600
million euros ($789 million, 5.39 billion kronor) from the EIB,
and recently decided to lower the amount.  “A lot of things have happened recently,” Kaerrberg said.
“We have a new board, a new CEO, and new owner, and they
together have looked at our financial strategy and concluded
that 3.55 billion kronor is enough for Volvo Cars. It was our
decision based on our financial strategy.”  “It’s still very uncertain where the European market is
going in 2011,” he added. “With this loan we can ensure we can
carry out our projects in time.”  The loan must be repaid within seven years, Kaerrberg said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ola Kinnander  in Stockholm at 
 okinnander@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at   kwong11@bloomberg.net  