-- U.K. Pound Drops Versus Euro After GDP Grew at Slower Pace Than Estimated
-- B y   K e i t h   J e n k i n s   a n d   E m m a   C h a r l t o n
-- 2010-12-22T16:34:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-22/u-k-pound-weakens-against-euro-before-bank-of-england-minutes-gdp-data.html
The pound fell against the euro and
dollar after a report showed the U.K. economy expanded at a
slower rate than previously estimated in the third quarter.  Sterling dropped to a three-month low against the dollar
and weakened versus all of its 16 most-actively traded
counterparts as the Office for National Statistics said gross
domestic product rose 0.7 percent in the three months to
September, below the initial estimate of 0.8 percent announced
in October and double the pace forecast by economists. Second-
quarter growth was revised to 1.1 percent from 1.2 percent.  “The GDP data knocked the pound,” said  Jane Foley , a
senior foreign-exchange strategist at Rabobank International in
London. “The data will feed fears that growth will slow in the
fourth quarter, and it just takes away some of the shine that
had been put onto sterling by that stronger release back in
October.”  The pound depreciated 0.4 percent to 85.05 pence per euro
as of 4:12 p.m. in London. The U.K. currency declined 0.5
percent against the dollar, falling to $1.5390. It reached
$1.5377 earlier, the lowest level since Sept. 14.  Sterling has lost 1 percent in the past week, according to
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes, which track a
basket of 10 developed-country currencies.  Since the end of 2009, Britain’s currency has lost 6.4
percent, compared with a 10.5 percent decline by the euro and a
1.1 percent loss by the dollar.  Bank of England Minutes  Minutes of the Bank of England’s December meeting showed
policy makers remained split in their decision to keep the
benchmark interest rate at a record low 0.5 percent and the
asset-purchase program unchanged at 200 billion pounds.  Monetary Policy Committee member  Adam Posen , who has called
for the bank to increase stimulus, said last week policy makers
shouldn’t “overreact” to inflation. His colleague  Andrew Sentance  has voted to increase rates since June.  “Most of the members voting for unchanged policy believed
that the recent news had shifted the balance of risks to
inflation upwards,”  Simon Hayes , chief U.K. economist at
Barclays Capital in London, wrote in an e-mailed report today.
“The shift had evidently not been large enough to prompt any
policy response, however, and there was nothing in the minutes
to suggest that a policy change is remotely imminent.”  The U.K. benchmark interest rate will stay at 0.5 percent
until the fourth quarter of next year, before being increased 25
basis points to 0.75 percent in the final three months of the
year, according to a Bloomberg survey of 15 analysts.  “The hurdle to a policy change in either direction is
currently high,” Hayes wrote. “We continue to forecast
unchanged policy until late next year.”  Business Investment  Separate ONS reports today showed business investment rose
3.1 percent in the third quarter from the previous three months,
while the current account deficit widened to 9.6 billion pounds
from 5.2 billion pounds. As a percentage of GDP, the deficit was
2.6 percent.  Data released yesterday showed the U.K.’s November budget
deficit swelled to a record. Net government borrowing rose to
22.8 billion pounds, up from 16.7 billion pounds a year earlier,
the ONS said. The burgeoning deficit underscores the challenge
facing Prime Minister  David Cameron  as his government prepares
to implement the deepest spending cuts since World War II.  Gilt Gains  “There is concern on both policy fronts in terms of the
interest-rate picture,” said  Simon Smith , chief economist at
FXPro Financial Services Ltd. in London. “It is quite
uncertain. Plus on the fiscal side, they are cutting the deficit
a lot further and faster than most others plan to do, but there
are big risks with that.”  Government bonds were little changed. The 10-year gilt
yield fell by less than one basis point to 3.50 percent. The
two-year yield rose by one basis point to 1.21 percent.  Gilts returned 6.6 percent this year, according to indexes
compiled by the European Federation of Financial Analysts
Societies and Bloomberg. Treasuries gained 5.8 percent and
German debt, the euro-area’s benchmark securities, returned 5.9
percent, the EFFAS indexes show.  Gilt futures may drop as low as 115.84 should the price of
the March 2011 contract breach a so-called support level at
117.91, UBS AG said, citing trading patterns.  The March gilt futures contract was little changed at
118.40.  A break below 117.91, mid-point of the recovery from Dec.
16 low at 117.12 to the Dec. 20 high at 118.70, “will develop
bearish themes, exposing the market to first 116.94 and then
115.84,”  Richard Adcock , head of fixed-income technical
strategy at UBS in London, wrote in an e-mailed report today.  The 116.94 level “equates to the 50 percent Fibonacci
retracement of the year-to-date range,” Adcock said in a
telephone interview. The 115.84 level “corresponds to the
deeper correction low posted on June 15, adjusted for the
rolling front contract,” Adcock said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Keith Jenkins  in London at 
 Kjenkins3@bloomberg.net ;
 Emma Charlton  in London at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net . 