-- U.K. Stocks Advance for a Third Day as ARM Holdings, BSkyB, Petrofac Rise
-- B y   S a r a h   J o n e s
-- 2010-12-22T17:07:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-22/u-k-stocks-advance-for-a-third-day-as-arm-holdings-bskyb-petrofac-rise.html
U.K. stocks climbed, extending the
highest level for the  FTSE 100 Index  since June 2008, as shares
of ARM Holdings Plc surged.  ARM jumped 9.1 percent after Microsoft Corp. was said to be
preparing a version of Windows to run on the U.K. company’s
chips for the first time. British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc
rose 2 percent amid speculation that News Corp.’s takeover of
the company will go ahead. Petrofac Ltd. climbed to a record
after the oilfield services provider began work on the second
phase of its $3.4 billion project in Turkmenistan.  The  FTSE 100  gained 0.5 percent to 5,983.49 at the 4:30
p.m. close in London. The gauge has rallied 11 percent this
year, boosted by higher company earnings, low interest rates and
better-than-estimated U.S. economic data. The  FTSE All-Share
Index  rose 0.5 percent today, while Ireland’s  ISEQ Index  slid
0.1 percent.  Stocks climbed even as the British  economy  slowed more than
initially forecast in the third quarter after revisions to
production, construction and business services.  Gross domestic
product  rose 0.7 percent from the previous three months. That
compares with the median analyst estimate of 0.8 percent.  “The FTSE seems determined to hit the 6,000 level before
the year is out,”  Manoj Ladwa , a London-based senior trader at
ETX Capital, said. “Even a weak GDP number cannot keep the
gauge in negative territory.”  New Operating System  ARM, which designs the semiconductors that power Apple
Inc.’s iPhone, jumped 9.1 percent to 440.3 pence. Two people
familiar with Microsoft’s plans said the world’s largest
software maker will run a new version of the Windows operating
system on ARM chips.  The new product will debut at the Consumer Electronics Show
in January, said the people, who asked not to be identified
because Microsoft’s plans are confidential. Microsoft will
tailor the operating system for battery-powered devices, such as
tablet computers and other handhelds, the people said.  BSkyB  rallied 2 percent to 743 pence, the highest price
since February 2004. U.K. Business Secretary  Vince Cable  was
stripped of responsibility for media, broadcasting and
telecommunications by the government after he was quoted as
saying he had “declared war” on News Corp.’s  Rupert Murdoch .  Cable had the power to decide if the acquisition of BSkyB
by News Corp. would give Murdoch too much media power. News
Corp., the owner of four of the biggest-selling U.K. newspapers,
is waiting for the government to rule on the deal.  Petrofac rallied 1.5 percent to 1,580 pence after the
company started work on a new phase of its South Yoloten project
in Turkmenistan. The second part of the project should last more
than two years and will bring gas exports to 20 billion cubic
meters per annum, Petrofac said.  Northern Foods, Greencore  Northern Foods Plc jumped 4.1 percent to 63 pence as
closely held Boparan Holdings Ltd. said it may make an offer for
the maker of Fox’s biscuits, disrupting an all-stock merger with
Greencore Group Plc. Boparan, the owner of the 2 Sisters Food
Group, said it is at the preliminary stage of evaluating a
possible cash offer for Northern Foods. Greencore’s shares
dropped 4.5 percent to 1.27 euros in Dublin.  Mouchel Group Plc surged by a record 32 percent to 96.5
pence as the road and infrastructure-maintenance company said
its board rejected an acquisition proposal by Costain Group Plc
because it “significantly” undervalues the business. Costain
slid 0.5 percent to 205 pence.  Carnival Plc  gained 5.3 percent to 3,059 pence after
Standard & Poor’s raised its recommendation for the world’s
biggest cruise-line operator to “buy” from “hold.” Carnival
yesterday forecast fiscal 2011 earnings that beat the average of
analysts’ estimates.  Allied Irish Banks Plc  dropped 5 percent to 40 euro cents
in Dublin. Ireland’s second-largest bank was fined 2 million
euros ($2.6 million) for failing to have “adequate internal
control mechanisms to prevent and rectify frequent and many
instances of overcharging,” the Irish central bank said in an
e-mailed statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Jones in London at 
 sjones35@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Merritt at 
 dmerritt1@bloomberg.net . 