-- GDP Rose Less Than First Estimated in Third Quarter as Recovery Struggles
-- B y   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l   a n d   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2010-12-22T09:41:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-22/u-k-third-quarter-gdp-rises-less-than-initially-estimated-after-revisions.html
The U.K. economy slowed more than
initially estimated in the third quarter as the outlook for
growth and inflation continued to split policy makers at the
Bank of England.  Gross domestic product  rose 0.7 percent from the previous
three months, the Office for National Statistics said today in
London. That compares with an initial estimate of 0.8 percent,
which was also the median forecast of 22 economists in a
Bloomberg News survey. The revision was due to production,
construction and business services. Second-quarter growth was
lowered to 1.1 percent from 1.2 percent.  Bank of England officials split three ways for a third
month on Dec. 9, minutes of the meeting published today showed.
U.K. growth may ease as the government implements the biggest
budget squeeze since World War II, while officials have warned
of risks from the debt crisis in the euro area, Britain’s
largest trading partner.  “I think the recovery is still on track and a minor
revision is not going to derail that,” said  George Buckley , an
economist at Deutsche Bank AG in London. “But next year is
looking bit risky as consumers may retrench. I see the recovery
continuing, but when the spending cuts happen we’ll have to see
how people react.”  The pound initially extended its decline against the dollar
after the reports were published, before regaining ground. It
was at $1.5450 as of 9:36 a.m. in London, down 0.1 percent on
the day.  ‘Cautious’  Consumer-spending growth slowed to 0.3 percent in the third
quarter from 0.8 percent in the previous three months, the
statistics office said. Dixons Retail Plc, the U.K’s largest
consumer-electronics retailer, said on Nov. 25 that it doesn’t
expect an easy Christmas and it remains “cautious” about the
economic outlook as low consumer confidence weighs on spending.  Government spending fell 0.4 percent, compared with growth
of 0.6 percent in the previous quarter. Export growth cooled to
1.5 percent from 3.1 percent and investment jumped 3.4 percent,
the most in four years. From a year earlier, the economy grew
2.7 percent in the third quarter, revised from an initial 2.8
percent.  Separate ONS reports today showed business investment rose
3.1 percent in the third quarter from the previous three months,
while the current account deficit widened to 9.6 billion pounds
from 5.2 billion pounds. As a percentage of GDP, the deficit was
2.6 percent.  Bank of England  The Bank of England kept its bond-purchase plan in place
and left its  key interest rate  at a record low to aid the
recovery this month. Adam Posen kept up his demand to increase
stimulus, while  Andrew Sentance  voted to raise rates.  The majority “stood ready to change the stance of policy
should the balance of risks shift materially,” the minutes
said. “Most of those members considered that the accumulation
of news over recent months had probably shifted the balance of
risks to inflation in the medium term upwards.”  Recent data indicate the recovery maintained momentum in
the fourth quarter, weakening the case for the authorities to
add to stimulus. Jobless claims fell for a second month in
November and manufacturing strengthened. Inflation unexpectedly
accelerated to its fastest since May last month.  European Crisis  Still, the sovereign debt crisis in Europe may undermine
U.K. export growth. It has also increased the risk of
instability in Britain’s financial system, the Bank of England
said last week.  At the same time, tax increases and government spending
cuts may curb consumer demand. The recovery may also suffer a
temporary setback from snow and freezing weather that hindered
air travel, trains and shopping in the run-up to Christmas.  “Disruption caused by poor weather is usually followed by
a period of faster output growth,” said  Hetal Mehta,  an
economist at Daiwa Capital Markets Europe Ltd. in London and a
former U.K. Treasury official. “Loss of output is therefore
largely short term.”  To contact the reporters on this story
Svenja O’Donnell in London at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net ;
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net  