-- U.K. Housing Shortage Will Limit Price Drop in 2011, RICS Says
-- B y   F e r g a l   O ’ B r i e n
-- 2010-12-22T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-22/u-k-homes-shortage-may-ensure-price-drop-negligible-in-2011-rics-says.html
U.K. house prices may extend their
drop into 2011 before “stabilizing” as a supply shortage helps
to limit declines, the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors
said.  Indicators “point to the downward trend stabilizing in the
spring with prices actually beginning to creep upwards again
before the end of the year,” the group said in a statement in
London today. Prices in the fourth quarter of 2011 may be a
“negligible” 2 percent lower compared with current levels.  Demand for homes has weakened as banks restrict lending and
Britons brace for government spending cuts and tax increases
aimed at narrowing the budget deficit. While RICS said there is
a “risk” the fiscal squeeze could be more damaging than
anticipated, “even in this environment, our judgment is that
the lack of new supply is likely to prevent the decline
amounting to very much more than 5 percent” in 2011.  The group also said there is “little reason” to think
that access to mortgages will ease early next year, citing the
Bank of England’s Credit Conditions survey.  At the same time, the need for lenders to refinance
borrowings as the Bank of England ends some of its liquidity
programs could mean higher costs “which, in all probability,
are likely to be passed on to borrowers.”  “The alternative outcome would be for banks to shrink
balance sheets and rein in credit availability to an even
greater extent than is currently the case,” RICS said.  With at least seven house-price measures, recent data have
painted a mixed picture of the U.K. market. Acadametrics Ltd.
and LSL Property Services Plc said on Dec. 10 that house prices
increased to the highest in more than two years in November.
Mortgage lender Halifax said  prices  fell 0.1 percent, while a
 gauge by RICS  stayed close to the lowest in 18 months.  Housing-transactions levels “will remain flat as mortgage
lending remains subdued for another year,” RICS Chief Economist
 Simon Rubinsohn  said in the report today. Nevertheless, “the
narrowing gap between supply and demand will see the gentle
downward trend in prices currently taking place at least partly
reversed as the year wears on.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Fergal O’Brien  in London at 
 fobrien@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net  