-- U.S. to File WTO Complaint Against China Over Aid to Wind-Energy Producers
-- B y   M a r k   D r a j e m
-- 2010-12-22T19:28:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-22/u-s-to-file-wto-complaint-against-china-over-aid-to-wind-energy-producers.html
The Obama administration filed a
complaint with the World Trade Organization over support China
provides its wind-energy manufacturers, acting on a petition
brought by the United Steelworkers union.  China’s Special Fund for Wind Power Manufacturing requires
recipients of aid to use Chinese-made parts and amounts to a
subsidy, both of which violate WTO rules, the U.S. Trade
Representative’s office said today.  “These subsidies effectively operate as a barrier to U.S.
exports to China,” U.S. Trade Representative Ron Kirk said in
an e-mailed statement. The case “underscores our commitment to
ensuring a level playing field with China for American workers
and businesses.”  The case escalates commercial strains between the U.S. and
China, its second-largest trading partner, a month before
President  Hu Jintao  is scheduled to visit Washington.  Trade tensions grew as President  Barack Obama  criticized
China’s currency policy and the House of Representatives passed
legislation targeting imports from China as a way to prod its
leaders into raising the value of the yuan.  The case filed today was one slice of a complaint filed
with the U.S. trade office on Sept. 9 by the Steelworkers union.
The union said export credits, preferences in bidding, forced
transfers of technology and discrimination against firms outside
the country give Chinese producers of renewable-energy products
an unfair advantage.  The union also said China’s restrictions on rare-earth
exports provides an unfair advantage to its green-energy
manufacturers, which rely on those elements.  Review Continues  Most of the union’s contentions remain under review, and
future cases depend on getting sufficient evidence from American
producers and unions, according to Nefeterius McPherson, a
spokeswoman for the U.S. Trade Representative’s office.  “The Obama administration has committed to addressing the
remaining vast web of protectionist policies,” Leo Gerard, the
Steelworkers president, said today in a statement. “The goal is
not litigation; it’s to end their practices.”  China has said its aid to clean energy doesn’t violate
trade rules and supports international efforts to reduce global
warming.  “The environment-friendly green-technology policies
introduced by the Chinese government are for the purpose of
energy protection and ensuring sustainable development, which
are in conformity with WTO rules,” Wang Baodong, the spokesman
for the Chinese Embassy in Washington, said in October. Wang
didn’t immediately respond to an e-mail asking for comment
today.  Under the rules of the WTO, the Geneva-based trade arbiter,
a filing begins a 60-day period of mandatory consultations
between officials from the two nations. After that, the U.S. can
request a WTO panel of judges to rule on the matter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Drajem in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  