-- Economy in U.S. Expands 2.6% in Quarter; Price Rise Is Slowest in 50 Years
-- B y   T i m o t h y   R .   H o m a n   a n d   C o u r t n e y   S c h l i s s e r m a n
-- 2010-12-22T17:48:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-22/u-s-economy-grew-2-6-in-third-quarter-final-revision-shows.html
The U.S. economy grew less than
forecast in the third quarter and inflation unexpectedly cooled,
highlighting why the Federal Reserve plans to keep pumping money
into financial markets.  The revised 2.6 percent increase in gross domestic product
compares with a 2.5 percent estimate issued last month and was
less than the median forecast of a 2.8 percent in a Bloomberg
News survey, a Commerce Department report showed today. Consumer
costs for goods and services, excluding food and fuel, climbed
at the slowest pace since records began in 1959.  Growth hasn’t been strong enough to cut  unemployment  or
prevent prices from stagnating, evidence of what the central
bank this month called “disappointingly slow” progress. The
Fed’s commitment to buy another $600 billion in Treasury notes,
combined with additional government stimulus and an improving
labor market may help accelerate household spending.  The lack of “inflation does remain the biggest downside
risk to the U.S. economy” and growth “is not enough to move
unemployment meaningfully,” said  Guy LeBas , chief fixed-income
strategist at Janney Montgomery Scott LLC in Philadelphia.  A report today from the National Association of Realtors
showed  sales  of existing homes rose less than forecast in
November as the industry that triggered the worst recession in
seven decades struggled to recover after a government tax credit
ended.  Purchases increased 5.6 percent from the prior month to a
4.68 million annual rate. Economists projected sales would rise
to a 4.75 million pace, according to the  median forecast  in a
Bloomberg survey.  Growth Picks Up  GDP projections ranged from gains of 2.5 percent to 3.3
percent, according to the Bloomberg survey of 71 economists.
Today’s report is the third and final for the quarter. The
world’s largest economy grew at a 1.7 percent pace in the
previous three months.  Stocks climbed. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index, which
yesterday completed its recovery from the collapse of Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc. in September 2008, rose 0.3 percent to
1,258.56 at 12:47 p.m. in New York.  In the past two weeks, economists have boosted forecasts
for fourth-quarter growth after the government reported better-
than-projected  retail sales  for November and the Obama
administration reached a compromise with congressional
Republicans to extend tax cuts put in place by former President
George W. Bush.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. chief U.S. economist  Michael Feroli  on
Dec. 14 revised his fourth-quarter growth estimate to a 3.5
percent pace from a prior estimate of 2.5 percent.  Jobless Rate  The economy hasn’t been growing fast enough to bring down
the unemployment rate, currently at 9.8 percent and a concern of
Fed policy makers. The central bank’s Open Market Committee on
Dec. 14 repeated its pledge to leave the benchmark interest rate
low for an “extended period” and retained a Treasury-purchase
program through June.  Inflation is also lower than the policy makers’ long-term
forecast. The Fed’s preferred price gauge, which is tied to
consumer spending and strips out food and energy costs, rose at
a record-low 0.5 percent annual pace, today’s report showed.  In their statement this month, Fed officials said inflation
measures “have continued to trend downward.”  Today’s report showed consumer spending rose at a 2.4
percent pace last quarter, the fastest since the first three
months of 2007, while less than the 2.8 percent estimated last
month. The revision reflected less spending on health-care and
financial services.  Spending Accelerates  Household spending figures for November, due tomorrow, may
show a 0.5 percent gain following a 0.4 percent increase in
October, according to the Bloomberg survey median.  Ford Motor Co ., the world’s most profitable automaker, said
Dec. 20 that U.S. auto sales in December are running at a 12
million unit annual rate, the third straight month at that pace
or faster.  Dearborn, Michigan-based Ford forecast sales to rise to
almost 13 million next year. Its U.S. sales rose 21 percent in
this year’s first 11 months, led by deliveries to fleet
customers. The company expects retail customers to support next
year’s gains, said  George Pipas , Ford’s sales analyst.  “We have a high degree of confidence that 2011 is going to
be a stronger sales year,” Pipas, said in a briefing with
reporters. “We’re a whole lot better off than we were a year
ago.”  A bigger gain in inventories added more to growth than the
Commerce Department estimated last month.  The need to restock inventories, a major driver of the
economic recovery, may diminish in coming months as companies
try to keep stockpiles more in line with demand.  Excluding trade and inventories, a measure of underlying
demand, the economy would have grown at a 2.6 percent annual
rate after expanding 4.3 percent in the second quarter. The
Commerce Department last month estimated a 2.9 percent pace of
so-called final sales to domestic purchasers in the third
quarter.  Corporate profits increased 1.6 percent from the previous
three months, revised from the 2.8 percent gain estimated in
November, today’s report showed. They were up 26 percent from
the same period a year earlier.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Timothy R. Homan  in Washington at 
 thoman@bloomberg.net ;
 Courtney Schlisserman  in Washington at 
 cschlisserma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz in Washington at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  