-- U.S. Calls for Troops to Quell Ivory Coast Violence
-- B y   I n d i r a   A . R .   L a k s h m a n a n   a n d   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n
-- 2010-12-23T17:25:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-22/u-s-says-ivory-coast-election-outcome-irrefutable-update1-.html
The U.S. is urging African nations
to boost peacekeeping forces in Ivory Coast to prevent a slide
into civil war and is considering financial sanctions against
President  Laurent Gbagbo , administration officials said.  President  Barack Obama  called Nigerian President Goodluck
Jonathan yesterday to discuss the crisis and U.S. travel
sanctions on supporters of Gbagbo’s bid to hold on to power,
according to a statement released by the White House.  The defeat of Gbagbo in Ivory Coast’s recent election is
“irrefutable” and he must step down, State Department
spokesman  Philip J. Crowley  said in Washington yesterday.
Opposition leaders in the West African nation, the world’s top
cocoa producer, called yesterday for the international community
to use military force to oust the president. Gbagbo has demanded
the existing 9,105-member United Nations peacekeeping mission
leave the country.  The U.S. and France are talking to other countries,
including Nigeria, about West African nations augmenting the UN
mission though there is no discussion of U.S. troops playing a
role, Crowley said.  The U.S. is concerned that Gbagbo “may challenge the
presence” of the UN peacekeepers with a “force of his own,”
Crowley said. “We want to make sure that the UN has the
capability to maintain peace and stability.”  UN Response  The UN on Dec. 19 rejected Gbagbo’s call for the
peacekeepers to leave, and the Security Council unanimously
extended the force’s mandate until June 30, 2011.  The political crisis has fueled a 9.8 percent increase in
cocoa prices since Nov. 28. Cocoa futures for March delivery
rose 39 pounds, or 1.9 percent, to 2,048 British pounds ($3,156)
a ton on NYSE Liffe. Cocoa futures for March delivery added $57,
or 1.9 percent, to $3,027 a ton on ICE Futures U.S.  Crowley said while the U.S. “would hope that the use of
force wouldn’t be necessary” to remove Gbagbo from power,
buttressing troops would “send a clear message” that he must
leave office. An expanded UN force might be granted a different
mandate beyond the current peacekeeping mission, he said.  World Bank President  Robert Zoellick  said the bank has
frozen loans to the Ivory Coast. The Central Bank of West
African States also halted lending because of the “terrible”
situation brought on by Gbagbo’s refusal to accept defeat,
Zoellick told reporters in Paris yesterday.  Electoral Commission  Violence has broken out since Ivory Coast’s Electoral
Commission declared  Alassane Ouattara  the winner over Gbagbo in
the Nov. 28 presidential runoff election and the UN certified
the result. Ouattara and Gbagbo both took the oath of office on
Dec. 4 and confrontations have followed almost daily since then,
leaving at least 50 people dead and 200 injured, according to
the UN.  The political standoff and mounting violence have pushed
the nation to the brink of civil war, UN Secretary-General  Ban Ki-moon  said Dec. 21.  France and Germany this week warned their citizens to leave
the country, and Nigeria ordered its diplomats’ families to
leave the country amid deadly clashes between pro- and anti-
Gbagbo forces.  Crowley said “the international community is documenting
widespread human rights abuses,” from “home abductions to a
feared mass grave in Abidjan,” the capital.  Gbagbo’s ‘Thugs’  Gbagbo has “thugs at his disposal” and the U.S. believes
his militias are killing opponents and dumping their bodies,
Crowley said. The office of the UN refugee commissioner says
more than 6,000 people have fled the country’s violence.  On Dec. 21, the State Department announced that it had
imposed travel sanctions against Gbagbo and 30 of his allies.
William Fitzgerald, the U.S. deputy assistant secretary for
African affairs, said future trade sanctions were possible
against individuals.  Ivory Coast was split into a rebel-held north and a
government-controlled south following a 2003 cease-fire. A 2002-
2003 civil war killed hundreds and displaced 1 million people.
The UN sent peacekeepers to the country in 2004 to monitor the
cease-fire, and the country was officially reunited in a 2007
peace agreement. Gbagbo’s supporters are based in the south,
while Ouattara’s are in the north.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Indira Lakshmanan  in Washington at 
 ilakshmanan@bloomberg.net ;
 Flavia Krause-Jackson  in Washington at 
 fjackson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net . 