-- Ex-UBS Banker Poteroba Pleads Guilty to Insider Trading-Scheme in New York
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2010-12-22T16:43:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-22/ubs-s-igor-poteroba-pleads-guilty-to-insider-trading-scheme.html
Igor Poteroba , a former  UBS AG 
investment banker, pleaded guilty to insider-trading charges
after being accused of tipping friends to potential mergers.  Poteroba, 37, pleaded guilty to one count of conspiracy to
commit securities fraud and three counts of securities fraud
yesterday before U.S. District Judge  Paul A. Crotty  in
Manhattan, according to court records. Poteroba agreed to
forfeit $465,000 in proceeds from the crime.  He’s in a federal jail in Manhattan, unable to post
$5 million bail set in March. At the March bail hearing,
prosecutors said Poteroba had admitted to trading on inside
information.  Poteroba, who worked in  UBS Securities LLC ’s Global
Healthcare Group in New York, was charged and arrested in March
along with Alexi Koval, a Chicago man who allegedly traded on
the information. Poteroba was accused of leaking tips about
potential mergers and acquisitions involving six public
companies to Koval and an unnamed third person.  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission filed a civil
suit against Poteroba, Koval and Alexander Vorobiev, who now
lives in Russia. All three are Russian citizens, according to
the SEC.  Prosecutors claimed the inside information was connected to
mergers or acquisitions involving  Guilford Pharmaceuticals Inc. ,
 Molecular Devices Corp. ,  PharmaNet Development Group Inc. ,
 ViaCell Inc. ,  Millennium Pharmaceuticals Inc.  and  Indevus
Pharmaceuticals .  A spokeswoman for the office of U.S. Attorney  Preet Bharara 
in Manhattan didn’t immediately respond to an e-mail seeking a
copy of Poteroba’s plea agreement.  Kelly Smith , a spokeswoman for Zurich-based UBS, declined
to comment on Poteroba’s guilty plea.  The case is U.S. v. Poteroba, 10-mag-00562, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bob Van Voris  in New York at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 