-- Ex-UBS Executives Put Bank in Court Spotlight in Three Cases Over 24 Hours
-- B y   D a v i d   G l o v i n ,   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s   a n d   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2010-12-23T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-22/ubs-former-executives-show-swiss-bank-s-unflattering-side-in-u-s-courts.html
Three former  UBS AG  executives who
pleaded guilty or were sentenced in U.S. courts over a 24-hour
period put the largest Swiss bank in a different light than its
 website  touting the skill and professionalism of its bankers.  Yesterday and the day before, one banker pleaded guilty and
another was sentenced in separate cases involving insider
trading while a third pleaded guilty in tax case. A fourth man,
an ex-UBS client, admitted yesterday to hiding his Swiss bank
account from U.S. tax authorities. Zurich-based UBS admitted
last year that it helped thousands of Americans evade taxes,
avoided U.S. prosecution by paying $780 million and gave the
Internal Revenue Service data on accounts.  Igor Poteroba , 37, pleaded guilty to one count of
conspiracy to commit securities fraud and three counts of
securities fraud on Dec. 21 before U.S. District Judge  Paul A. Crotty  in Manhattan, according to court records. He was accused
of tipping friends to potential mergers and has agreed to
forfeit $465,000 in proceeds from the crime.  Nicos Stephanou  will serve no more prison time after
testifying for prosecutors at an unrelated insider-trading
trial. He was sentenced yesterday in federal court in New York
after spending 19 months in custody after his arrest. Freed in
August, he was the government’s star witness in the trial of
 Joseph Contorinis , a former money manager at  Jefferies Paragon
Fund  who was convicted in October in an insider-trading scheme
that prosecutors said netted more than $7 million in illegal
profits.  Hiding Assets  In a third case, former UBS banker  Renzo Gadola  pleaded
guilty to helping wealthy American clients hide assets from the
Internal Revenue Service.  Gadola, 44, yesterday admitted conspiring with a Swiss
banker to encourage U.S. clients who hadn’t told the IRS about
their UBS accounts to open undeclared ones at Basler
Kantonalbank. Gadola, who is cooperating with prosecutors,
entered his plea in federal court in Miami.  The unidentified banker and Gadola told clients not to join
a partial amnesty program that led 18,000 Americans to disclose
offshore accounts to the IRS, prosecutors said. Gadola and the
banker told U.S. clients “not to disclose their undeclared
accounts at Basler Kantonalbank and other banks to the United
States government,” according to court filings.  Tax Charges  A former UBS client, Ernest Vogliano, pleaded guilty to six
federal tax charges for hiding about $1.8 million in a Swiss
bank account from the IRS.  Vogliano, who lives in New York, was among seven one-time
UBS clients who were arrested or whose guilty pleas were
announced in April. Vogliano entered his plea yesterday in
federal court in Manhattan.  Poteroba is in a federal jail in New York, unable to post
$5 million bail set in March. At the bail hearing, prosecutors
said Poteroba had admitted to trading on inside information.  Poteroba, who worked in  UBS Securities LLC ’s Global
Healthcare Group in New York, was charged and arrested in March
along with Alexi Koval, a Chicago man who allegedly traded on
the information. Poteroba was accused of leaking tips about
potential mergers and acquisitions involving six public
companies to Koval and an unnamed third person.  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission filed a civil
suit against Poteroba, Koval and Alexander Vorobiev, who now
lives in Russia. All three are Russian citizens, according to
the SEC.  Inside Information  Prosecutors claimed the inside information was connected to
mergers or acquisitions involving  Guilford Pharmaceuticals Inc. ,
 Molecular Devices Corp. ,  PharmaNet Development Group Inc. ,
 ViaCell Inc. ,  Millennium Pharmaceuticals Inc.  and  Indevus
Pharmaceuticals .  A spokeswoman for the office of U.S. Attorney  Preet Bharara 
in Manhattan didn’t immediately respond to an e-mail yesterday
seeking a copy of Poteroba’s plea agreement.  Kelly Smith , a spokeswoman for UBS, declined to comment on
Poteroba’s guilty plea.  Stephanou, a London resident and native of Cyprus who was
arrested in December 2008 when his flight from Cancun stopped in
the U.S., began cooperating with prosecutors “almost
immediately,” defense attorney  Christopher J. Morvillo  told
U.S. District Judge  Richard J. Sullivan  at yesterday’s
sentencing.  “Much of what he told the government was unknown to
them,” Morvillo said. “He admitted that he made a colossal
mistake.”  ‘Heavy Burden’  Stephanou told Sullivan that the crime is “a heavy burden
that I will carry on my shoulders for the rest of my life.”  Sullivan cited Stephanou’s “exceptional” cooperation with
prosecutors in sentencing him to the 19 months he already
served, even though he was “more culpable” than others for
leaking client secrets.  “This is not a casual crime,” the judge said. “This is
not a way of doing business.” He added: “There are some who
doubt that.”  Contorinis was sentenced on Dec. 17 to six years in prison.  Stephanou, formerly an associate director of mergers and
acquisitions at UBS, pleaded guilty in May 2009 to passing along
tips to Contorinis, a friend. He testified that he routinely
told friends from New York and Cyprus about companies that were
to be acquired.  Some trades were executed through offshore accounts he set
up, and profits were split with friends, said Stephanou.  Sullivan also ordered Stephanou to forfeit $14 million to
the government, citing the illegal proceeds of participants in
various insider trading schemes. Prosecutors had asked that
Stephanou forfeit only his profit, $973,000.  Taped Calls  Assistant U.S. Attorney  Andrew Fish  said in court that even
after the judge ordered repayment of $14 million, the government
would agree to accept $973,000 in settlement, which Stephanou
has already paid.  Stephanou’s cooperation and willingness to tape phone calls
led to criminal charges against two others, Fish said. The
prosecutor said leniency for Stephanou would “send a message”
to others about the value of assisting the government.  “The people he taped were his closest friends,” Fish
said.  One of Stephanou’s friends, Michael Koulouroudis, was
sentenced to three months in prison after admitting he traded on
tips from Stephanou. Another friend, George Paparrizos, pleaded
guilty and was sentenced to probation.  Stephanou agreed to be deported as part of his sentence.  Disclosure Program  Gadola, a UBS banker from 1995 to 2008, is the first person
charged with trying to discourage taxpayers from entering the
IRS voluntary disclosure program. Basler Kantonalbank, based in
Basel, Switzerland, signed an agreement requiring it to withhold
taxes for the IRS on accounts beneficially owned by U.S.
taxpayers.  Gadola was first charged by U.S. authorities on Nov. 7. His
case was made public Dec. 15. He entered his plea before U.S.
Magistrate Judge  Barry Garber , who will recommend that a
District Court judge accept it.  Gadola, an executive director at UBS, routinely traveled
from Switzerland to the U.S. to meet clients with undeclared
accounts, according to the government’s criminal complaint.
Twelve taxpayers disclosed to the U.S. that Gadola managed their
investments, ranging in total value from $18.1 million to $46
million, according to the complaint.  The banker worked from the 1990s through mid-2003 as an
executive director for UBS’s North America international
business, and he serviced hundreds of undeclared accounts held
by U.S. taxpayers, according to Gadola’s arrest complaint.  100 Accounts  He left in mid-2003 for Basler Kantonalbank, bringing more
than 100 accounts from UBS. He later set up an asset-management
business in Zurich, according to the complaint.  Twenty-one U.S. taxpayers told the IRS about accounts that
the unidentified banker managed, according to the complaint. The
accounts ranged in total value from $35.1 million to $101.5
million.  One of Gadola’s U.S. clients cooperated with prosecutors
and secretly recorded him for the government, according to the
complaint.  They met on Nov. 6 at the Mandarin Oriental Hotel in Miami,
where Gadola told the client not to disclose his Basler
Kantonalbank account to the IRS, according to the complaint.  The Poteroba case is U.S. v. Poteroba, 10-mag-00562, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan); The
Stephanou case is U.S. v. Contorinis, 09-cr-467, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan). The Gadola
case is U.S. v. Gadola, 10-cr-20878, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of Florida (Miami). The Vogliano case is U.S.
v. Vogliano, 10-cr-327, U.S. District Court, Southern District
of New York (Manhattan).  For Related News and Information:  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Bob Van Voris  in New York at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net ;
 David Glovin  in New York at 
 dglovin@bloomberg.net ;
 David Voreacos  in Newark, New Jersey, at 
 dvoreacos@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 