-- Lufthansa's Franz Faces Strategy Test Over Plan for Europe-Led M&A Growth
-- B y   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n
-- 2010-12-23T16:52:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-22/lufthansa-s-new-chief-faces-strategy-test-over-europe-led-m-a-expansion.html
Deutsche Lufthansa AG ’s new chief
executive officer must decide whether to continue a policy of
regional acquisitions to become Europe’s biggest airline or
switch funds to a more ambitious drive for global expansion.  Christoph Franz , who takes over Jan. 1, could continue the
run of European deals by buying  SAS AB , the unprofitable
Scandinavian carrier which says it’s open to bids in coming
years. A bolder plan would involve preempting  Air France-KLM
Group  and British Airways Plc by investing in emerging markets.  “Acquisitions outside Europe would make the most sense,”
said  Hendrik Leber , a fund manager at Acatis Investment GmbH in
Frankfurt, which owns 450,000 Lufthansa shares. “Germany and
its surroundings have a great customer base, but they have a
gigantic cost disadvantage against the Gulf and Asia.”  Lufthansa’s current CEO,  Wolfgang Mayrhuber , has bought
ailing local carriers Swiss International Airlines, Austrian
Airlines, British Midland and Brussels Airlines since taking
charge in 2003. That contrasts with the strategies of Air
France, which added a second global hub with the purchase of
Amsterdam-based KLM, the European No. 4, in 2004, and British
Airways, which will merge with Spain’s Iberia Lineas Aereas de
Espana SA next month to tap the surging Latin American market.  Lufthansa’s focus on central Europe stems from a lack of
hubs serving large individual markets like London and Paris, the
European Union’s biggest urban areas, said  Jonathan Wober , an
analyst at Societe Generale SA in the U.K. capital who rates the
German company “buy.” That forces it to seek extra passenger
feed for long-haul flights from Frankfurt and Munich, he said.  SAS Talks  Cologne-based Lufthansa may announce takeover plans for SAS
as early as the first half of 2011 pending talks with the
governments of Sweden, Denmark and Norway, which own half of the
Stockholm-based carrier, according to a person with knowledge of
the discussions. SAS  surged  14 percent today, the biggest
increase in more than eight months.  Buying SAS would bolster Lufthansa’s central-European
dominance and offer shorter polar flights from the Scandinavian
company’s hubs to Canada and the northern U.S., said the person,
who declined to be identified because the plans aren’t public.  Andreas Bartels , a Lufthansa spokesman, said from Frankfurt
that the carrier didn’t want to comment on its acquisition plans
and that Franz, head of the main passenger division since June
2009, wasn’t available for interview.  Lufthansa Chairman  Juergen Weber  said last month the
airline is taking a “wait-and-see” stance after previous
approaches didn’t yield a pact.  Italian Option  SAS, which rose 3 kronor to close at 23.70 kronor at the
5:30 p.m. close of trading in Stockholm, expects a new phase of
consolidation in Europe in two or three years but isn’t in any
merger talks, acting CEO  John Dueholm  said Nov. 10.  Sture Stoelen , the carrier’s head of investor relations, declined to
comment on Dec. 20.  Lufthansa, priced 0.7 percent higher today, is also looking
at expanding in Italy in coming years to complete a north-south
axis through Europe and force east-west travelers to use its
network, according to the person familiar with the plans.  “They’re right to focus on Europe because it’s the market
that offers the most synergies and needs the most
consolidation,” said  Frederic Redel , who manages 500 million
euros ($654 million) at UBS AG’s CCR Asset Management in Paris.  While buying SAS would add sufficient traffic for Lufthansa
to  leapfrog  Air France-KLM and become Europe’s biggest carrier,
it would divert vital funds away from strengthening the global
position, said Royal Bank of Scotland Plc’s  Andrew Lobbenberg .  Star Role  Franz, 50, should consider seeking a stake in the merged
carrier to be formed from Chile’s  Lan Airlines SA  and TAM SA of
Brazil in order to secure the enlarged company for the Star
Alliance, said Lobbenberg, who rates Lufthansa “buy.”  While TAM is a member of Star, Lan, which is leading the
merger, is in Oneworld, a rival group that includes British
Airways, so that the transaction could leave Lufthansa without a
Latin American ally. Lan-TAM have a combined value of $14.2
billion, versus about $1.1 billion for SAS; Lufthansa held about
$2 billion in cash and cash equivalents as of Sept. 30.  “It makes sense to expand beyond Europe because airlines
need to be able to offer passengers access to all corners of the
world, either by themselves or via alliance partners,” said
 Olivier Mueller , an analyst at Credit Suisse Group AG in Zurich.
“Lufthansa should have a foot in the door in Latin America, but
a deal needs to create synergies and be financially prudent.”  Marco Antonio Bologna , TAM’s CEO, said Dec. 21 in an e-mail
that “decisions regarding air alliances” will be considered
once the merger is completed in the second quarter of 2011.
 Enrique Cueto , Lan’s chief, didn’t respond to messages seeking
comment.  ‘Comfort Zone’  The cost of even a 35 percent stake in Lan-TAM would leave
Lufthansa “quite heavily” leveraged, said  Yarek Aranowicz , who
helps manage more than 100 billion euros at Lord Abbett & Co. in
Jersey City and disputes the wisdom of a move in Latin America.  Lufthansa, whose only non-European holding is a 15 percent
“financial investment” in U.S.-based JetBlue Airways Corp.,
has the highest junk rating on its debt at Moody’s Investors
Service and the lowest investment level at Standard & Poor’s.  “They’d have to grow out of their comfort zone,”
Aranowicz said, adding that local ownership rules would be
problematic outside of Europe and that, in Asia, Lufthansa
couldn’t hope to compete with Hong Kong-based Cathay Pacific
Airways Ltd., Singapore Airlines Ltd. and Australia’s Qantas
Airways Ltd.  Lufthansa views inter-continental mergers as an “exciting
topic” and likely to proliferate in coming years, board member
 Stefan Lauer  said Aug. 25.  With British Airways scouting around for the next big deal
even as it prepares for the Iberia merger, Franz may not have
much time to explore options. The U.K. carrier has drawn up a
list of the 12 most attractive candidates and they aren’t all in
Europe, CEO  Willie Walsh  said Sept. 4.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Cornelius Rahn  in Frankfurt at 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong in Berlin at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  