-- Hungary's Central Bank May `Cause Harm' With Policy, Premier Orban Says
-- B y   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 2010-12-22T10:23:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-22/hungary-s-central-bank-may-cause-harm-with-policy-premier-orban-says.html
Hungary’s central bank may “cause
harm” by not following the government’s economic policy, Prime
Minister  Viktor Orban  said .  “This causes grave damage to the country,” Orban said on
state-run M1 television late yesterday.  The Magyar Nemzeti Bank two days ago raised the  benchmark
two-week deposit rate  to 5.75 percent from 5.5 percent, the
second consecutive increase. Policy makers defied Orban’s call
for lower borrowing costs to support pro-growth government
measures, which they said were “unsustainable.”  The Cabinet called the rate increases "unjustified, cut the
salaries of rate setters and stripped central bank President
 Andras Simor  of his right to nominate replacements when the
terms of four of the seven Monetary Council members expire in
March. A parliamentary committee dominated by Orban’s Fidesz
party will have the right to nominate them.  The forint, which posted its biggest one-day slide in five
months after the rate increase, strengthened 0.3 percent to
275.99 per euro by 10:38 a.m. in Budapest, its second straight
day of gains.  Euro Adoption  Monetary policy makers say their focus is curbing inflation
expectations after the bank last month increased its 2011
inflation forecast to 4 percent from 3.5 percent. They aim to
keep annual consumer-price increases at less than 3 percent.  The government’s measures involving the central bank
“raise concerns” that Orban is curbing Simor’s independence,
European Central Bank Jean-Claude Trichet said in a Dec. 14
letter to the Hungarian government, posted on the ECB’s website.  The government will focus on cutting government debt, which
is a risk that “may collapse on top of Hungary and ruin all of
us,” Orban said in the television interview, adding that it is
“not realistic” to expect the country to adopt the euro before
the end of the decade.  Orban’s Cabinet is working to boost growth to 5 percent by
2014 to “outgrow” the highest debt level among the European
Union’s eastern members, estimated at 79 percent of gross
domestic product for this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andras Gergely  in Budapest 
 agergely@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at   gserkin@bloomberg.net  