-- Murata Loses Patent Ruling Over Samsung Electro's Mobile-Phone Components
-- B y   W i l l i a m   M c Q u i l l e n   a n d   A d a m   L e
-- 2010-12-22T22:46:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-22/murata-loses-samsung-electro-chip-patent-decision-update1-.html
Murata Manufacturing Co.  lost a
patent ruling in its effort to keep  Samsung Electro-Mechanics
Co.  from importing mobile-phone components into the U.S.  Samsung Electro didn’t violate Murata’s patent rights,  U.S.
International Trade Commission  Judge  James Gildea  said in a
notice on the Washington-based agency’s website. The findings
are subject to review by the six-member commission, which has
the power to ban imports of products found to infringe U.S.
patents.  No violation occurred “in the importation into the United
States, the sale for importation, or the sale within the United
States after importation,” according to the notice.  The dispute is over ceramic capacitors, a component as
small as a pencil tip that regulates the flow of current and
stores energy in electronics including mobile phones, cameras
and flat-screen televisions. Suwon, South Korea-based  Samsung
Electro  has captured about 20 percent of the global market amid
increasing demand for smartphones and tablet computers,
according to  Naoki Yamashiro , an analyst at Marusan Securities
Co. in Tokyo.  A victory before the ITC could have helped Kyoto, Japan-
based Murata increase its market share, said  Amit Garg , an
analyst at CLSA Asia-Pacific Markets in Tokyo. Murata filed the
complaint Oct. 1, 2009, with the ITC. The commission will
announce in about 60 days whether it will review Gildea’s
ruling. A final decision would be expected by April 22.  The commission is a quasi-judicial agency that investigates
claims of unfair trade practices in U.S. markets. It has the
power to order customs officials to ban imports of products
found to infringe U.S. patents.  Murata’s Georgia Plants  In its complaint, Murata said it had manufacturing plants
in Pennsylvania and Georgia that have been “substantially shut
down” since 2004 “in part due to unfair competition from
overseas manufacturers.” It still has employees in Smyrna,
Georgia, who help engineer and perform testing of the
capacitors, according to the complaint.  The three patents in the case relate to the structure and
composition of the capacitors, which are made with multiple
layers for higher performance, greater reliability and smaller
size. The capacitors are put on circuit boards to store electric
charges. The use of ceramic makes them cheaper and more stable.  The case is In the Matter of Certain Ceramic Capacitors and
Products Containing Same, 337-692, U.S. International Trade
Commission (Washington).  To contact the reporters on this story:
 William McQuillen  in Washington at 
 bmcquillen@bloomberg.net ;
 Adam Le  in Osaka at 
 ale14@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net ;
Drew Gibson in Osaka at 
 dgibson2@bloomberg.net . 