-- Murdoch's BSkyB Deal Chances Improve as Conservative Hunt Is Given Review
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g
-- 2010-12-22T17:21:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-22/murdoch-s-bskyb-deal-chances-improve-as-jeremy-hunt-takes-over-review.html
Rupert Murdoch ’s  News Corp. ’s chance
of winning regulatory approval to buy  British Sky Broadcasting
Group Plc  got a boost after Conservative culture minister  Jeremy Hunt  was given responsibility for the review.  Business Secretary  Vince Cable  yesterday was stripped of
the authority to decide whether the transaction gives News Corp.
too much power after he was quoted as saying he had “declared
war” on Murdoch. Prime Minister  David Cameron  transferred that
responsibility to Hunt, who earlier this year said that the
range of voices in the media won’t change following the deal.  News Corp., the owner of four of the largest U.K.
newspapers, in June offered 7.8 billion pounds ($12.1 billion)
for the remaining 61 percent stake in BSkyB, the U.K.’s biggest
pay-TV company. Media regulator Ofcom will report to the culture
minister by Dec. 31 on how the deal might affect British media
and whether to refer the case to the Competition Commission.  “The odds of a referral have decreased significantly,”
said  Conor O’Shea , an analyst at Kepler Capital Markets in
Paris. “There’s a major perceived change in the way that Jeremy
Hunt views things as opposed to Vince Cable.”  BSkyB shares  rose  2 percent to 743 pence in London trading,
the steepest gain since the offer was announced in June. BSkyB
rejected News Corp.’s initial 700 pence a share offer as too
low. The companies are seeking regulatory approval before a new
offer is made. News Corp. won European Union approval for the
proposed purchase yesterday.  News Corp. canceled a proposed 2011 advertising campaign
designed to win support for the takeover, former Sky TV chairman
 Andrew Neil  said today on Sky News. A spokeswoman for News Corp.
declined to comment.  ‘Disastrous Implosion’  The likelihood of a deal going through after Cable’s
“disastrous and very public implosion” increased to 90 percent
from 66 percent, Investec Securities analyst  Steve Liechti  said
today. Investec raised the target price for BSkyB’s stock to 793
pence from 700 pence.  “It does seem to me that News Corp do control Sky
already,” Hunt said in an interview with the Financial Times
after the bid was announced in June. “So it isn’t clear to me
that in terms of media plurality there is a substantive change,
but I don’t want to second guess what regulators might decide.”  The U.K. government decision may create a dilemma for the
coalition of Cameron, whose Conservative Party was backed by
Murdoch’s newspaper the Sun in Britain’s May general election.
Cable, 67, is the No. 2 Liberal Democrat in Cameron’s
Conservative-led coalition.  Dilemma  Ed Miliband , leader of the U.K.’s opposition Labour Party,
said today he will write to Cabinet Secretary  Gus O’Donnell  to
ask whether Hunt “is a fit and proper person to be making the
decision” given his past comments about the BSkyB bid.  Murdoch “is trying to take over BSkyB, you probably know
that,” Cable told Daily Telegraph reporters who posed as
constituents without identifying themselves as journalists.
“For the people who know what is happening, this is a big
thing. His whole empire is now under attack.”  New York-based News Corp. said yesterday it was “shocked
and dismayed” by the comments. Cable’s remarks “raise serious
questions about fairness and due process,” company spokeswoman
 Miranda Higham  said in a telephone interview.  The proposed deal prompted a letter signed by the owners of
newspapers including the Daily Telegraph and the Guardian
calling for the bid to be challenged by the U.K. government. The
Church of England also opposed the bid.  Entrepreneur  Hunt, 44, is more in favor of business in the media and
broadcasting market, Kepler’s O’Shea said. The culture minister,
who has a degree in politics, philosophy and economics from
Oxford University, also set up his own educational company that
publishes guides and websites to find the right course or
college.  In 2008, Hunt said in an interview with Broadcast magazine,
published on his website, that “rather than worry about Rupert
Murdoch owning another TV channel, what we should recognize is
that he has probably done more to create variety and choice in
British TV than any other single person because of his huge
investment in setting up Sky TV.”  The culture and media department will follow Cable’s
proposed timeline when deciding whether to refer the deal,
according to a spokeswoman, who declined to be identified. Cable
had said he will review Ofcom’s findings after lawmakers return
to parliament on Jan. 10.  ‘Impossibly Difficult’  The uproar over Cable’s comments have bolstered News
Corp.’s position, setting the stage for Murdoch’s company to
claim that the Ofcom review was “tainted from the start,” said
 Frances Murphy , a lawyer who leads the antitrust group at Jones
Day LLP in London.  “The U.K. government is now in an impossibly difficult
position -- any block will look politically motivated and will
be open to challenge,” Murphy said.  Cable’s demotion helped to make sure that the decision
won’t be made on political grounds, said  Michael Jeremy , an
analyst at  Daniel Stewart  in London.  “The process has returned to its proper place,” Jeremy
said. Cable’s comments made it more likely that Hunt’s actions
will be “scrutinized for behavior which is shown to be
unbiased.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jonathan Browning  in London 
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at   sthiel1@bloomberg.net . 