-- Turkey’s $1.4 Billion Hotel Has Power Cut Over Unpaid Bills
-- B y   B e n j a m i n   H a r v e y
-- 2010-12-22T11:50:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-22/turkey-s-1-4-billion-mardan-palace-hotel-has-power-cut-over-unpaid-bills.html
Turkey’s  Mardan Palace Hotel , voted
one of the world’s leading luxury destinations of 2010, had its
power cut after local officials said that electricity bills went
unpaid.  The Mardan, situated in the Mediterranean town of Antalya,
is currently being powered by generators, assistant manager
Zeynep Fiskirma said by telephone today, declining to give
further details.  Legal proceedings will be initiated to seize the hotel if
bills totaling almost $3 million are not paid within three
weeks, Turkish newspaper  Takvim  reported earlier today, citing
power company AKEDAS. The electricity was cut for unpaid debts,
AKEDAS General Manager Ufuk Okul said by phone. He declined to
give further details, citing customer confidentiality.  The Mardan Palace was built by Azeri-born businessman
Telman Ismailov at a cost of more than $1.4 billion, according
to a company press  release . It was opened in May 2009 with a
launch  party  attended by stars, singers and socialites including
 Paris Hilton ,  Richard Gere ,  Sharon Stone ,  Mariah Carey ,  Seal ,
 Monica Bellucci  and  Tom Jones , the release said. Calls made to
the telephone number of the public relations agency given on the
release were directed to the hotel reception.  The Mardan beat destinations including the Burj Al Arab
hotel in Dubai, The Dorchester in London and the Trump Hotel
Chicago to be crowned the “world’s leading luxury hotel” at
the  World Travel Awards  2010.  ‘Days of Opulence’  The hotel, which on its  website  promises a “return to the
days of opulence” where “exceptional indulgence” reins, has
monthly electricity bills that average more than $300,000,
Takvim reported, citing manager Cumhur Ozen. Last year it paid
7.7 million liras ($5 million) in electricity bills, Ozen was
cited as saying. Fiskirma said Ozen was unavailable for comment.  The Mardan’s opening party cost $35 million and the hotel
ownership spent $17 million on silverware alone,  HaberTurk 
newspaper reported at the time. The same month, Forbes magazine
ranked the hotel’s owner, Ismailov, 61st on its Russian rich
list with a fortune of $600 million.  The Mardan Palace boasts the Mediterranean’s largest
swimming pool, 10 restaurants, 11 bars and 546 rooms, including
two royal suites with private pools, according to its website.
An 18-hole  Jack Nicklaus   golf course  is to be built in 2011.  A technical problem meant phone calls to the hotel made
between 8 a.m. and 11 a.m. today were met with a busy signal,
Fiskirma said. The problem has now been resolved, she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Benjamin Harvey  in Ankara at 
 bharvey11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at   phirschberg@bloomberg.net  