-- Luxury Books on Savile Row, Vuitton, Extreme Golf, Zeffirelli
-- B y   J e r e m y   G e r a r d
-- 2010-12-22T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-22/luxury-abounds-in-books-on-vuitton-savile-row-extreme-golf-zeffirelli.html
In March 1905, Georges Vuitton dared
escape artist  Harry Houdini  to pit his skill against a handmade
trunk bearing the Vuitton family name.  “Sir, I take the liberty of challenging you,” he wrote in
a newspaper ad, “to get out of a BOX MADE BY ME, NAILED SHUT
after you get in by MY STAFF, and tied with ropes.” Houdini
doesn’t seem to have taken up the offer, aware, no doubt, that
the LV brand stood for goods even tougher than he.  “ Louis Vuitton: 100 Legendary Trunks”  (Abrams) is as luxe
and quirky as the luggage produced by the house since 1854, when
Louis Vuitton opened his shop on the rue Scribe in Paris. Here
are the trunk custom made to transport diva Lily Pons’s 36 pairs
of shoes and a black trunk emblazoned with a life-size penguin
ordered by the avant-garde director Robert Wilson.  There’s even a trunk made expressly to carry a  Sony 
PlayStation 3 and all its accoutrements.  Bespoke!  And here is  Michael Caine , Alfie himself, in a sleek black
double-breasted suit tailored for him by Douglas Hayward.  The photo is a standout in “ Bespoke: The Men’s Style of
Savile Row ” (Rizzoli). In a changing fashion world where
“custom” fittings are done by computer, it’s practically
nostalgic to revisit the likes of Gieves & Hawkes and a time
when hunting outfits included a top hat and silk cravat.  Jude Law  knows (he’s here, in Kilgour), as does  David Beckham  (in
Timothy Everest).  “I suppose that when it comes to men’s clothes I am an
Anglophile,” writes  Tom Ford  in the foreword, “and if I did
not design my own men’s collection, I would have virtually my
entire wardrobe made on Savile Row.”  Song Palaces  Ahmet Ertug and Michael Forsyth’s “ Palaces of Music: Opera
Houses of Europe ” (Ertug & Kocabiyik) is truly a project
befitting its subject, with volumes available in $900, $7,500
and $15,000 editions.  Within this oversize volume are Ertug’s dazzling images of
the glorious foyer of the Palais Garnier in Paris; the bird-cage
glory of the Floral Hall at the Royal Opera House, Covent
Garden; the bosomy marble caryatids encircling the first balcony
of the Prague State Opera House, and finally, the pristine
modernism of the Norwegian National Opera & Ballet, its sleek
white stone and glass exterior hiding a warm auditorium glowing
with dark wood and crimson seats.  Nice House  The 20 homes described in “ Living Architecture: Greatest
American Houses of the 20th Century”  (Assouline) tend toward
the angularities of Charles Gwathmey, Robert Venturi and Philip
Johnson. They include Louis Kahn’s light-filled wood-and-stone
cubes built in 1967 for Norman Fisher, and Frank Lloyd Wright’s
iconic masterpiece, Fallingwater, the Ur statement of modernism-
meets-nature. This lavishly illustrated volume has smart
commentary by Dominique Browning that’s often more fanciful than
the structures being celebrated.  Old-Style Links  There are just 246 links courses in the world and they’re
prized by the likes of  Tom Watson . Lovingly photographed for
“ True Links”  (Artisan) by Iain Lowe, the seaside courses,
mostly in the U.K., are hilly and rough, often dotted with sheep
and cows, high grasses, wind swells and other annoying obstacles
generally absent from modern courses. That’s the point.  “It was not love at first sight,” Watson writes in his
introduction. “You need almost a sixth sense, an ability to
adjust to all the conditions and somehow get your ball to travel
the proper distance -- whether through the air or along the
ground. That’s the essence of links golf.”  Franco Zeffirelli  No artist rates an oversize overview more than  Franco Zeffirelli , the genius for whom the word “director” barely
scratches the surface of his impact on opera, theater, film,
design and performance over an astonishing career. “ Franco
Zeffirelli: Complete Works ” (Abrams) covers the famous
collaborations (Maria Callas, Richard Burton) and less heralded
work of a supreme story-teller who credits Luchino Visconti as
his primary mentor. Along with a mesmerizing collection of
photographs, the book includes a lengthy interview with
Zeffirelli by the editor, Caterina Napoleone.  Leonard Bernstein  “ Leonard Bernstein at Work: His Final Years, 1984-1990” 
(Amadeus Press) presents the composer and conductor in his
autumnal years, with ample kisses from colleagues and friends
photographed by Steve J. Sherman. “A big hug with all my
affection and deepest esteem for man and artist,” smooches the
late tenor  Luciano Pavarotti . The photos of Bernstein in mufti
-- relaxed, bronzed and smiling, usually with a drink and a
smoke at hand -- have an Olympian sensuality.  ( Jeremy Gerard  is an editor and critic for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Jeremy Gerard in New York at 
 jgerard2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 