-- Westchester Favors Bonds Over IOUs for New York Pension Payment
-- B y   M i c h a e l   Q u i n t
-- 2010-12-22T10:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-22/westchester-county-favors-bonds-over-ious-to-make-new-york-pension-payment.html
Westchester County , the New York
suburb where household income is 53 percent above the U.S.
average, wants to use its top credit rating to sell taxable
bonds to finance pension contributions and avoid increasing the
 highest  taxes in the country.  The community of 955,962 residents on New York City’s
northern border is home to International Business Machines Corp.
and soft-drink maker  PepsiCo Inc . It faces a $54 million payment
to the state retirement plan in 2011, $78 million in 2012 and
$163 million in 2015, said County Executive  Robert Astorino ,
who’s working to close a $166 million budget gap next year.  The county, the only one in  New York  with the highest
credit grade from the three largest rating companies, can borrow
from bond investors at 2.5 percent compared with paying 5
percent under a state program that allows government employers
to make pension contributions with IOUs, he said.  “Pension costs are rising so fast that taxpayers have
absolutely no way to keep up with them,” Astorino, a
Republican, said at a Dec. 7 conference in Albany sponsored by
the  Empire Center for New York . “It’s the ultimate insult to
taxpayers to burden them with the double whammy of unsustainable
pension costs financed at unconscionable interest rates.”  U.S. states and municipalities have only $1.89 trillion of
pension assets, not counting future contributions, to meet
promised benefits with a present value of $3.15 trillion,
according to an August study by  Joshua D. Rauh , who teaches
finance at Northwestern University in Evanston, Illinois.  Turning to Borrowing  Some governments have turned to borrowing, betting that
investment returns will exceed the cost of debt.  Illinois , with
the worst-funded retirement system of U.S. states, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg, may sell $3.7 billion of bonds to
pay this year’s pension contribution under a proposal by
Governor  Pat Quinn.   Westchester’s Astorino promised in his 2009 election
campaign to reduce taxes. The county’s property levies, most of
which go to schools, average $9,044 per home, the highest in the
U.S., according to the  Tax Foundation .  He’s also proposed cutting workers to save costs. The
projected 5,000-person payroll next year includes 1,678 public-
safety personnel such as police, prison guards and probation
officers, and 1,215 staff for  services  such as child support,
food and housing.  Astorino wants lawmakers in Albany, the state capital, to
allow Westchester to sell bonds for part of its payment to the
state retirement system, which covers  1.06 million  current and
former public workers, including Westchester’s. That would be
cheaper than using a state  plan  that allows New York and local
governments that participate in the system to make contributions
partly in 10-year IOUs, he said.  Part in Cash  The IOU program, which begins in February, requires that
state and municipalities use cash for pension contributions of
as much as 9.5 percent of their payrolls. They could pay the
rest with IOUs that cost 5 percent annually and must be repaid
over 10 years. The cash contribution requirement would rise by 1
percentage point annually.  By 2014, New York state and the 3,000 local governments in
the pension system, including Westchester, will owe 24 percent
of payroll for most employees and 31 percent for police and
firefighters, up from 12 percent and 18 percent this year,
according to state budget  documents.   The IOU plan was created after the state pension lost 26
percent on its investments in fiscal 2009 and it increased
contributions to rebuild assets, now at $132.8 billion. Using
the IOU option would allow the state to delay $242 million of
payments this year, a sum that would rise to $1 billion in the
year ended March 2014, according to  budget  documents.  Issue of Funding  New York state’s pension is underfunded by $71 billion,
according to the Empire Center, an Albany-based project of the
Manhattan Institute, which opposes taxes and promotes
outsourcing to private companies. Comptroller  Thomas DiNapoli ,
the pension’s sole trustee, says the plan is fully funded.
That’s because assets “include the current value of all future
contributions employers and employees will make,” its  annual
report says .  For Westchester, selling taxable five-year bonds rather
than paying 5 percent for IOUs would save $26 million by 2018,
according to Astorino. The county sold five-year federally
taxable bonds in 2003 to pay early-retirement incentives, said
Edwin McCormack, Astorino’s communications director.  “If we borrow ourselves, we would have more flexibility
to refinance or pay off bonds,” McCormack said in an e-mail.  2003 Bonds  The bonds issued by the county in the week of Dec. 8, 2003,
sold at a yield of 2.89 percent, or 0.48 percentage point more
than the  average yield  for three-year Treasury notes that week,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Westchester’s general-obligation bonds are rated Aaa by
Moody’s and AAA by Standard & Poor’s and Fitch Ratings, the
highest grade at all three. That’s partly because of the
county’s affluence: Median household income of $77,057 last year
was the third-highest in the state, according to  Census Bureau
data .  Any borrowing for pension costs, no matter how low the
rate, eventually increases the county’s cost and doesn’t solve
the problem of rising retiree expenses, Astorino said.  Health-care costs of retired workers, for which the county
paid $116 million last year, are part of the problem, he said.
Health-care plus pension contributions amount to 59 percent of
next year’s average worker cost of $120,000, he said.  To close a $166 million gap in its $1.79 billion  budget 
next year, Astorino proposed cutting spending $33 million and
firing 226 employees, including 53 at four mental-health clinics
to be closed.  “Cutting workers will not be the solution to the problem
ultimately because you can only cut so much,” Astorino said.  The Westchester executive suggested the state adopt
pensions like the 401(k) retirement plans used at companies,
where employer contributions are fixed and don’t fluctuate with
investment results.  “Over the long term,” he said, “the state needs to
revamp the entire system.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Quint  in Albany, New York, at 
 mquint@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  