-- WikiLeaks Joins Forces With Lebedev's Moscow-Based Newspaper Novaya Gazeta
-- B y   A n a s t a s i a   U s t i n o v a   a n d   I l y a   A r k h i p o v
-- 2010-12-22T17:18:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-22/wikileaks-joins-forces-with-billionaire-lebedev-gorbachev.html
Novaya Gazeta , the Moscow newspaper
controlled by former Soviet leader  Mikhail Gorbachev  and
billionaire  Alexander Lebedev , said it agreed to join forces
with WikiLeaks to expose corruption in Russia.  Julian Assange , founder of WikiLeaks, which publishes
secret government and corporate documents online, has materials
specifically about Russia that haven’t been published yet and
Novaya Gazeta will help make them public, the newspaper said on
its  website  today.  “Assange said that Russians will soon find out a lot about
their country and he wasn’t bluffing,” Novaya Gazeta said.
“Our collaboration will expose corruption at the top tiers of
political power. No one is protected from the truth.”  The weekly newspaper is known in an industry dominated by
state-run companies for its critical reports of the Kremlin and
investigative coverage of Russian affairs.  Novaya Gazeta correspondent  Anna Politkovskaya , who wrote
about graft under then-President  Vladimir Putin  and chronicled
abuses by military forces in Chechnya, was shot dead in her
Moscow apartment building in 2006, on Putin’s birthday.  Novaya Gazeta received unlimited access to the WikiLeaks
database, which has a “wide range” of materials, including
documents about Politkovskaya’s murder as well as information
about Russian politicians’ ties to organized crime, Nadezhda
Prusenkova, a Novaya Gazeta spokeswoman, said by phone from
Moscow. The newspaper will start releasing materials next month.  ‘Kind Words’  President  Dmitry Medvedev  said the documents published by
WikiLeaks don’t hurt Russia’s interests and that the Russian
authorities don’t care what’s being discussed in diplomatic
circles.  “When people communicate, they sometimes use very harsh
language and if such a leak had happened from our Foreign
Ministry or secrete services, many of our partners, including
Americans, would have got an emotional charge after reading
‘kind words’ about themselves,” Medvedev said during a meeting
with students in Mumbai today.  WikiLeaks was condemned by the U.S. government for posting
thousands of classified U.S. diplomatic and military documents.
Assange was released from a London prison on bail on Dec. 16. He
turned himself in to British authorities Dec. 7 after Sweden
issued a warrant for his extradition on counts of sexual
molestation and rape.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Anastasia Ustinova  in St. Petersburg at 
 austinova@bloomberg.net ;
 Ilya Arkhipov  in Mumbai via the Moscow newsroom at 
 iarkhipov@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez in Prague 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net ;
To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at   wmorris@bloomberg.net . 