-- Wishes for a Horrid Holiday From Your Lawmakers: David Pauly
-- B y   D a v i d   P a u l y
-- 2010-12-22T02:00:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-22/wishes-for-a-horrid-holiday-from-your-lawmakers-commentary-by-david-pauly.html
This is the season for sharing?  Congress just voted to fill American pockets with $858
billion in tax benefits.  Meanwhile lawmakers have refused to spend $7.4 billion for
the medical expenses of emergency workers who got sick after
digging through the rubble at the World Trade Center site
following the 2001 terror attacks.  The tax bill itself is troublesome. While it will provide a
nice boost for the economy, it continues the years-long trend of
putting more and more of the nation’s wealth into the hands of
the rich.  The excuse for opposing the bill to help Sept. 11 first
responders is that the government can’t afford it.  Yet the $858 billion tax package is spending. Every dollar
will be  borrowed . The government is spending, repeat spending,
money it doesn’t have. The money -- almost $1 trillion -- will
have to be repaid with tax dollars in the future. It’s a tax-
and-spend policy in reverse.  It’s astonishing to think the government can’t compromise
and come up with $7.4 billion, which is less than 1 percent of
the tax benefits, for what looks like a good cause.  In a final blow to the holiday spirit, soon-to-be Speaker
of the House  John Boehner  and newly elected members of Congress
declare they will try to repeal the new health-care law --
denying medical insurance to tens of millions of Americans.  Income Gap  Making the wealthy the chief beneficiaries of the tax cuts
won’t lead to anything like class warfare -- people have more
sense than that.  But in recent years middle-class taxpayers have seen their
income stagnate while those better off have gained. The  George W. Bush  tax cuts Congress has voted to extend have exacerbated
the trend.  The Federal Reserve says the top 1 percent income group
held 26.2 percent of the nation’s wealth in 2007, up from 21.9
percent in 1989.  Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben Bernanke  has worried over the
growing discrepancy in income. Even  Felix Rohatyn , a Wall Street
insider if there ever was one, says the maldistribution of
wealth is unhealthy.  The folks working against the national health-care law have
unclean hands. Many of them collect Social Security checks and
send their doctor bills to Medicare. No doubt they signed up for
subsidized Medicare D drug coverage when it became available.  I’m Fine  Boehner, of course, gets the best medical insurance the
taxpayers can buy. Maybe he thinks the uninsured should all run
for Congress if they want to get good coverage.  It’s not just the richest among us who are greedy.  A Bloomberg National Poll this month showed that while
Americans conceded that federal budget  deficits  were a problem,
they didn’t want to take responsibility for them.  Don’t touch Social Security or Medicare, they said, though
the budget will never be balanced without cuts in those
programs. Those polled opposed cuts in defense spending or an
increase in the gasoline tax. They wanted to keep the tax
deduction for mortgage interest and subsidies for farmers.  Nonprofit organizations have said that any cuts in
charitable deductions for tax purposes would hurt them. While
even a fiercely partisan Congress has agreed to stop earmarks,
the Asbury Park Press this month reported that several groups in
New Jersey are moaning about losing the projects they enjoyed
from such spending in the past.  Let’s not become a nation of takers. Merry Christmas.  ( David Pauly  is a columnist for Bloomberg News. Opinions
expressed are his.)  To contact the writer of this column: David Pauly in
Normandy Beach, New Jersey 
 dpauly@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  