-- Two Swiss Insurers Must Take Measures on Solvency, Regulator Finma Says
-- B y   C a r o l y n   B a n d e l
-- 2010-12-22T09:49:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-22/two-swiss-insurers-must-take-measures-on-solvency-regulator-finma-says.html
Two of Switzerland’s 133 insurers
need to take urgent measures to comply with a solvency test
being introduced in January, the country’s market regulator
said. Seven others were placed on a watch list.  The two must increase their capital or reduce their risks
to remain in business,  Finma  spokesman  Alain Bichsel  said today
in a telephone interview from Bern, without identifying the nine
firms involved. Six of the companies are life insurers suffering
as low interest rates make it harder to meet minimum returns on
policies, Bichsel said.  The new solvency test will require Swiss insurers to
provide mark-to-market valuations for assets and liabilities
including investment portfolios. The nine insurers have fallen
below the targeted solvency ratio of 100 percent, although they
all have ratios of more than 60 percent, based on initial
filings, the regulator said.  “Today’s news is reassuring for the Swiss sector as no
composite seems to be in trouble in Switzerland,”  Fabrizio Croce , a Zurich-based analyst with Kepler Capital Markets, said
in an e-mailed note to investors. Composite firms are those that
offer a wide range of insurance services.  Switzerland’s largest insurers, including the biggest
life company,  Swiss Life Holding AG , have said previously that
their solvency levels under the new test would be higher than
100 percent.  More than half the country’s insurers have adopted Finma’s
standard model to calculate their solvency levels, Bichsel said.
The rest are working with provisionally approved internal models
that will need regulatory approval next year.  Finanz und Wirtschaft reported earlier today that nine
insurers would fail the planned Swiss solvency test, citing
Bichsel.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Carolyn Bandel  in Zurich at 
 cbandel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  