-- World Bank, West African Bank, Freezes Loans to Ivory Coast, Zoellick Says
-- B y   O l i v i e r   M o n n i e r ,   H e l e n e   F o u q u e t   a n d   F r a n z   W i l d
-- 2010-12-22T16:02:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-22/world-bank-west-african-bank-freezes-loans-to-ivory-coast-zoellick-says.html
World Bank President  Robert Zoellick 
said the lender froze loans to the  Ivory Coast  over  Laurent Gbagbo ’s refusal to cede power after disputed elections on Nov.
28.  The Central Bank of West African States, or BCEAO, also
halted lending to the world’s top cocoa producer because of the
“terrible” situation brought on by Gbagbo’s refusal to accept
defeat, Zoellick told reporters in Paris today.  Gbagbo rejected international calls for his resignation in
a televised address yesterday, his first since the election left
the country with two governments. Rival  Alassane Ouattara  was
named winner by the electoral commission and has support from
the U.S., UN, European Union and former colonial power France.
Gbagbo has the backing of the army after the Constitutional
Council dismissed the vote count in some northern states and
named him as victor.  United Nations Secretary-General  Ban Ki-moon  yesterday
warned of a “real risk of a return to civil war,” after
Gbagbo’s security forces killed more than 50 supporters of
Ouattara.  Guillaume Soro , prime minister of Ouattara’s
government, called on people to “mobilize and to protest, by
every means, until the departure” of Gbagbo.  ‘I Won’  “I won the election,” Gbagbo said on television. “The
troubles we see today in Ivory Coast are caused by the refusal
of my opponent to submit himself to the laws, rules and
procedures that apply in our country.”  Troops have surrounded Ouattara in an Abidjan hotel and are
blocking food and medical supplies from entering. People have
been allowed to enter the UN-protected property, Ouattara
spokesman  Amadou Coulibaly  said in an interview from the hotel.  France, Germany and Nigeria today joined other countries in
asking their citizens to leave Ivory Coast.  U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  has also authorized
a travel ban on supporters of Gbagbo’s regime, about 30 of whom
would be immediately affected, Deputy Assistant Secretary of
State for African Affairs William Fitzgerald told reporters
yesterday. The move follows a similar ban by the EU.  The World Bank has $245 million of approved grants and
loans to Ivory Coast that are waiting to be dispersed, Senior
Operations Officer Joelle Businger said in a phone interview
from Washington. The projects include the integration of former
combatants and building infrastructure, she said.  Critical Partner  Ministers from the eight members of the BCEAO, of which
Ivory Coast is one, will this week meet to “affirm and
strengthen” the freeze on loans, Zoellick said. The BCEAO
administers the West African franc, which is pegged to the euro.  “For other countries in Africa Ivory Coast is a critical
economic partner,” Zoellick said. “So we at the bank are
working with the African Development Bank to follow the lead of
the Ecowas countries because they have a huge amount at stake
economically as well as democratically.”  The election was meant to stabilize Ivory Coast after a
2002 civil war split the nation between a government-controlled
south and rebel-held north and slowed economic growth.  Pro-Gbagbo forces opened fire on marchers supporting
Ouattara last week, killing at least 50 and wounding 240,
according to the UN, which is protecting Ouattara’s
administration at a hotel in Abidjan.  Gbagbo said yesterday that he didn’t “want any more blood
spilled,” and offered to set up a “commission of experts,”
including international members, to look into possible
solutions.  Destabilization  The international community will continue to ratchet up
pressure on Gbagbo and would consider sending in forces with a
more aggressive mandate, the U.S.’s Fitzgerald said.  “Is there the option of destabilization and sending in a
stabilization force? Of course,” he said. “All options are
open, but probably not an American force. It may be an African
force.”  African countries may not have the capability or political
will to step in, said Richard Downie, deputy director of the
Africa program at the Center for Strategic and International
Studies in Washington.  Nigeria, whose troops led regional interventions in Liberia
and Sierra Leone in the 1990s, is unlikely to get involved with
military force before its own elections scheduled for next year,
he said in a phone interview.  “It reflects a kind of impotence by the international
community,” he said. “They want to stand forcefully against
Gbagbo but there aren’t that many sticks they can wield against
him.”  The political strife has pushed up cocoa prices 6.9 percent
since the election. March-delivery beans gained 1 percent, or
$28, to $2,986 per metric ton by 1:48 p.m. in New York
yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Helene Fouquet in Paris at 
 hfouquet1@bloomberg.net ;
 Franz Wild  in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 