-- Worst Rain, Snow of California Winter Storm Still to Come, Forecasters Say
-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n   a n d   S a m a n t h a   Z e e
-- 2010-12-22T01:21:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-22/worst-rain-snow-of-california-winter-storm-still-to-come-forecasters-say.html
Southern California, known for sun
and mild weather, has been drenched by torrential rains and more
than 13 feet (4 meters) of snow in its mountains since last week
and the worst is yet to come, according to forecasters.  A storm system forecast to strike by tomorrow morning is
expected to bring more rain, hail and the possibility of
tornadoes, said Noel Isla, a  National Weather Service 
meteorologist in San Diego.  “This has been going on since last Thursday, the last and
biggest storm will be arriving tomorrow morning,” Isla said by
telephone. “This next system is going to be the most potent and
strongest system, with the possibility of water spouts over the
water and tornadoes over land.”  About 2,000 residents of McFarland, 135 miles (217
kilometers) north of Los Angeles, were told to leave their homes
earlier this week in the face of flooding. As much as 21.46
inches (54 centimeters) of rain has fallen in Twin Peaks about
75 miles east of the state’s largest city.  There have been reports of sewage and petroleum leaks
caused by flood waters in San Diego, Fresno and Le Mesa
counties, according to the  California Emergency Management
Agency  Website.  In Mammoth Lakes, near California’s Mono Lake, 9 feet of
snow has fallen since last week, according to the
 Hydrometeorological Prediction Center  in Camp Springs, Maryland.
On top of Mammoth Mountain 13.5 feet has fallen.  Hurricane-Strength Gust  A 164 mile-per-hour wind gust was recorded near Mammoth
Mountain, according to the center. A Category 5 hurricane, the
strongest on the five-step Saffir-Simpson hurricane scale, has
winds of at least 155 mph.  The storm is currently pounding California, Nevada and
parts of the U.S. Southwest. Flood warnings and advisories cover
most of southern California and Nevada, as well as western
Arizona and parts of Utah, according to the  National Weather
Service .  Winter storm warnings, meaning heavy snow and poor driving
conditions, extend through Utah and Colorado, as well as pockets
in the California and Nevada mountains, according to the weather
service.  This storm may make its way across the U.S. and bring heavy
snow to the East Coast on Christmas or the day after, said Brian
Edwards, a meteorologist with commercial forecaster  AccuWeather
Inc.   “There is some potential for some high-impact stuff once
you get toward Christmas Day,” Edwards said by telephone from
State College, Pennsylvania. “There is potential for a snow
storm across a large portion of the I-95 corridor.”
Interstate-95 is the main north-south highway between Maine and
Florida, passing through New York and Washington D.C.  Edwards said computer simulations aren’t clear on the exact
outcome of the storm, which may also pass harmlessly out into
the Atlantic.  He said there is potential for another storm to hit the
West Coast this weekend.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Brian K. Sullivan  in Boston at 
 Bsullivan10@bloomberg.net ;
Samantha Zee in San Francisco at 
 szee@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at   dstets@bloomberg.net . 