-- Yanukovych Seeks to Oust Ukraine Central Bank Chief; May Spread Influence
-- B y   D a r y n a   K r a s n o l u t s k a
-- 2010-12-22T08:58:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-22/yanukovych-seeks-to-oust-ukraine-central-bank-chief-may-spread-influence.html
Ukrainian President  Viktor Yanukovych  wants to replace central bank Governor  Volodymyr Stelmakh  with an ally a year early, a move analysts said would
extend his influence to monetary policy.  “It appears that a centralized system of power is being
established,”  Dmitry Gourov , an emerging markets strategist
 UniCredit SpA  in Vienna, said by phone. “The new governor will
have to establish his credentials in the coming weeks and prove
that he is able to steer the bank independently and
professionally. Markets will be skeptical.”  Yanukovych sent a request to parliament to replace Stelmakh
with  Serhiy Arbuzov , the second in command at the Natsionalnyi
Bank Ukrainy, according to a statement on the president’s
website late yesterday. Stelmakh’s term was due to end in
December 2011. Changing the governor needs the support of the
country’s 450 lawmakers.  Yanukovych won the presidency in February, replacing  Viktor Yushchenko , who appointed Stelmakh in 2004. He cemented his grip
when the Constitutional Court in October removed limits from the
president’s powers, giving him the right to name the prime
minister and the Cabinet.  “Yanukovych and his administration are taking all state
institutions under their umbrella step by step,”  Alexander Valchyshen , the head of research at Investment Capital Ukraine,
said by phone. “The risk that the Natsionalnyi Bank Ukrainy’s
policies will become more dependent is strengthening.”  Ukraine’s hryvnia declined to 7.99 per dollar as of 10:38
a.m. in Kiev from 7.9750 yesterday, Bloomberg data shows. The
hryvnia, which strengthened 1.53 percent versus the U.S currency
from January till September, lost 1.08 percent after Arbuzov’s
appointment.  ‘Aimed at Hryvnia Devaluation’  Arbuzov, 34, was appointed to the central bank by the
president in September, replacing  Anatoly Shapovalov , a Stelmakh
ally. He was the head of PAO Ukrainskyi Biznes Bank before
becoming Stelmakh’s first deputy. UBB, the country’s 63rd
largest lender according to central bank data, is based in the
eastern Ukrainian city of Donetsk, Yanukovych’s home town.  “Yanukovych’s Party of Regions is a party of exporters, so
the new central bank governor may defend their interests, which
means his policy may be aimed at hryvnia devaluation or not
allowing the hryvnia to appreciate.” Valchyshen said.  Arbuzov’s mother, Valentyna Arbuzova, is the chief
executive officer at PAO  Vseukrainskyi Bank Rozvytku , which is
138th largest bank by assets, according to the central bank
data.  Former Prime Minister  Yulia Timoshenko  also tried to oust
Stelmakh, 71, during political gridlock that exacerbated the
country’s economic slump and led to an international bailout in
2008. Ukraine was forced to turn to the  International Monetary
Fund  after the global financial crisis cut demand for its
exports and the economy shrank 15.1 percent in 2009.  The country this year adopted a law to strengthen the
central bank’s independence to meet conditions for the first
payment from a $15.2 billion bailout loan. The IMF’s executive
board will meet today in Washington to decide on the second
installment.  “The presence of the IMF program should limit the erosion
of credibility at the central bank,” Gourov said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Daryna Krasnolutska  in Kiev at 
 dkrasnolutsk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at   wmorris@bloomberg.net  