-- Yen Weakens as Asian Stock Rally Reduces Demand for Safety; Euro Advances
-- B y   C a n d i c e   Z a c h a r i a h s   a n d   R o n   H a r u i
-- 2010-12-22T06:08:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-22/yen-weakens-as-asian-stock-rally-reduces-demand-for-safety-euro-advances.html
The yen weakened against the euro,
snapping a five-day gain, as optimism the global economic
recovery is gathering momentum curbed demand for safer assets.  Japan’s currency fell against 9 of its 16 major
counterparts before reports today that economists said will show
German import prices rose and Italian retail sales rebounded.
The euro strengthened for the first time in four days versus the
dollar as technical indicators showed the single currency’s
decline in the past week was excessive. New Zealand’s dollar
weakened as economists said a government report tomorrow will
show gross domestic product growth almost stalled.  “The recovery of some economies seems to be proceeding
smoothly,” said  Masanobu Ishikawa , general manager of foreign
exchange at Tokyo Forex & Ueda Harlow Ltd., Japan’s largest
currency trader. “Equities are relatively firm. This may be
causing selling of the yen and the dollar.”  The yen declined to 110.01 per euro as of 3:04 p.m. in
Tokyo from 109.71 in New York yesterday, after rising 2 percent
in the previous five days. The yen was unchanged at 83.75 per
dollar. The euro appreciated to $1.3136 from $1.3100, and traded
at 1.2573 Swiss francs from 1.2551, after weakening to a record
1.2534 earlier today.  The  MSCI Asia Pacific  Index of shares climbed to as much as
135.14, nearing the 2 1/2 year intraday high touched on Dec. 14.
The  Standard & Poor’s 500  Index rose 0.5 percent yesterday,
erasing its decline since the collapse of Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc. in 2008.  German Imports  Import prices  in Germany, Europe’s biggest economy, climbed
9.3 percent in November from a year earlier, after a 9.2 percent
increase in October, a Bloomberg survey of economists showed
before the Federal Statistics Office report. Italy’s  retail
sales  rose 0.1 percent in October from the prior month, when
they fell 0.2 percent, a separate survey showed.  The euro rebounded from near a three-week low versus the
dollar as its 14-day stochastic oscillator chart fell to about
13, below the threshold of 20 that signals an asset is poised to
reverse direction.  The single currency also strengthened after so-called stop
losses were triggered near the $1.3115 to $1.3120 level, said
 Charles Han , Hong Kong-based head of foreign-exchange trading at
Newedge Financial HK Ltd.  “We’ve seen some buying in the euro as well as some stops
being triggered, which is also prompting it to move a little
higher,” Han said. “There are probably a lot more risks coming
out of Europe so I’d prefer to sell on any rallies toward the
$1.3160 area.”  A stop loss is an automatic instruction to either buy or
sell a currency at a certain level to limit losses in case a bet
goes the wrong way.  Downgrade Concerns  The euro has fallen 2.7 percent versus the dollar since
touching a three-week high of $1.3499 on Dec. 14. Earlier today
it reached a record low against the Swiss franc amid prospects
for more credit downgrades in Europe.  Portugal’s bond rating may be downgraded one or two levels
by Moody’s Investors Service after the company warned yesterday
of concern that budget cuts will worsen the country’s
“sluggish” growth. Greece may have its credit rating cut to
non-investment grade by Fitch Ratings within six weeks.  “Everyone knows that the possibility of downgrades is
around, but when the ratings agencies come out and say something
you get a quick reaction,” said  Matthew Brady , executive
director for foreign exchange at JPMorgan Chase & Co. in Sydney.
“Rallies in the euro will be sold.”  Movements in currency markets may be volatile as liquidity
thins going into the holiday season, Brady said.  New Zealand GDP  New Zealand’s dollar fell against 15 of its 16 most-traded
counterparts. A government report tomorrow will show gross
domestic product rose 0.1 percent in the third quarter from 0.2
percent in the previous three-month period, according to a
Bloomberg News survey.  “I’m relatively bearish on the kiwi,” said  Masashi Murata , vice president of foreign exchange in Tokyo at BBH
Investment Services Inc., a unit of New York-based Brown
Brothers Harriman & Co. Expectations for domestic consumption
and interest-rate hikes have diminished, he said.  New Zealand’s dollar fell to 74.31 U.S. cents from 74.42
cents in New York yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Candice Zachariahs  in Mumbai at 
 czachariahs2@bloomberg.net 
 Ron Harui  in Tokyo at 
 rharui@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net . 