-- Dollar Falls to 1-Week Low Vs Yen as U.S. Economic Pace Trails Forecasts
-- B y   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a
-- 2010-12-22T22:04:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-22/yen-declines-versus-euro-snaps-5-day-gain-amid-signs-of-global-recovery.html
The dollar declined to a one-week
low against the yen after reports showed U.S. economic growth
and existing homes sales increased less than forecast, damping
demand for U.S. denominated assets.  The greenback fluctuated versus its major counterparts
after the Commerce Department said gross domestic product rose
at a 2.6 percent annual rate in the third quarter, compared with
the 2.8 percent pace forecast in a Bloomberg News survey. The
Swiss franc strengthened to a record against the common currency
for a sixth day on refuge demand linked to the euro zone’s
sovereign-debt crisis.  “The GDP report was somewhat disappointing,” said  Kathy Lien , director of currency research with online currency trader
GFT Forex in New York. “Given the weakness of this report, it
could drive on the dollar.”  The dollar fell 0.2 percent to 83.57 yen at 5:01 p.m. in
New York, after touching the lowest since Dec. 14, from 83.75
yesterday. It was little changed at $1.3100 per euro.  Existing home purchases increased 5.6 percent to a 4.68
million annual rate, the National Association of Realtors said
in Washington. Economists projected sales would rise to a 4.75
million pace, according to the median forecast in a Bloomberg
News survey.  Swiss Strength  The Swiss franc appreciated against the euro as concern
lingered certain countries will have difficulty in borrowing
money. It rose as much as 0.9 percent to 1.2439 per euro, the
strongest in the common currency era. The franc gained as much
as 0.8 percent to 95.02 per greenback, the strongest since Oct.
15.  “The Swiss franc continues to perform extremely well,”
GFT Forex’s Lien said. “When we move to a stronger growth
scenario, countries such as Switzerland that have healthier
balances will really outperform.”  Portugal’s bond rating may be downgraded one or two levels
by Moody’s Investors Service after the company warned yesterday
of concern that budget cuts will worsen the country’s
“sluggish” growth. Greece may have its credit rating cut to
non-investment grade by Fitch Ratings within six weeks.  The euro earlier gained after  import  prices in Germany,
Europe’s biggest economy, climbed 10 percent in November from a
year earlier, the most in 10 years, after a 9.2 percent increase
in October, the Federal Statistics Office said today. Italy’s
 retail sales  rose 0.3 percent in October from a month earlier.  Annual View  The euro has dropped 10.4 percent so far this year, the
biggest loss among the 10 developed nations measured in the
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes. The dollar has
lost 1.1 percent and the yen has added 11.4 percent.  The Australian dollar advanced 0.1 percent to 99.87 cents,
reaching parity with the greenback for the first time since Dec.
14.  “You’re seeing the Aussie on a moonshine of its own,”
said  Michael Woolfolk , senior currency strategist in New York at
Bank of New York Mellon Corp., the world’s largest custodial
bank. “Risk appetite is refreshingly strong amidst market
volatility.”  Currency volatility rose to 12.26, up from a one-month low
of 11.92 reached Dec. 14, according to the JPMorgan Chase & Co.
 G7 Volatility Index . The index shows implied volatility for the
most-traded currencies, including the U.S. dollar, euro,
Canadian dollar, Japanese yen and the pound.  Pound Weakness  The pound fell versus the euro after a report showed the
U.K. economy expanded at a slower rate than previously estimated
in the third quarter.  Data from the Office for National Statistics showed
Britain’s gross domestic product rose 0.7 percent in the third
quarter. That compares with an initial estimate of 0.8 percent.
Second-quarter growth was revised to 1.1 percent from 1.2
percent.  Minutes of the Bank of England’s December meeting showed
policy makers remained split in their decision to keep the
benchmark interest rate at a record low 0.5 percent and the
asset-purchase program unchanged at 200 billion pounds.  The pound depreciated 0.5 percent to 85.14 pence per euro.
It fell 0.5 percent to $1.5386, from $1.5470 yesterday.  The Canadian dollar strengthened as prices for crude oil,
the nation’s largest export, rose a two-year high of more than
$90 a barrel. The loonie rose 0.4 percent to C$1.0129 per U.S.
dollar from C$1.0171 yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Catarina Saraiva  in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  