-- Lukoil Profit Advances 10% on Output Increase
-- Lucian Kim
-- 2007-01-12T16:58:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2007-01-12/lukoil-profit-advances-10-on-output-increase-update5-.html

          
          
             OAO Lukoil (LKOH) ,  Russia 's biggest oil
producer, reported a 10 percent increase in third-quarter profit as
the company raised output through acquisitions in  Kazakhstan  and
exploration ventures in  Egypt .  
 Net income rose to $2.43 billion, or $2.90 per share, from
$2.21 billion, or $2.67, in the year-earlier period, Moscow-based
Lukoil said today in a statement. That beat the $2.35 billion
median estimate from a Bloomberg survey of nine analysts. Revenue
rose 13 percent to $18.4 billion in earnings based on International
Financial Reporting Standards.  
 ``The results confirm Lukoil's leading position,'' said Artem Konchin, an analyst at Aton in Moscow. ``Lukoil's foreign expansion
suggests it is a prime candidate to become a global major along the
lines of Exxon and Shell.''  
 Chief Executive Officer  Vagit Alekperov  plans to double output
and raise Lukoil's value to as much as $200 billion by 2016.
Investor-owned Lukoil is struggling to keep its position as
Russia's biggest crude producer as President  Vladimir Putin 's
campaign to dominate the nation's energy industries helps state-run
rivals such as OAO Rosneft expand.  
 ``We view Lukoil as one of the best investments opportunities
in the Russian oil sector,'' said Eugene Satskov, an analyst with
Stockholm-based Gustavus Capital Asset Management, which holds
$300,000 in Lukoil shares. ``However, momentum does not favor oil
shares, as the oil-price outlook looks relatively bleak at the
moment.''  
 Shares Slip  
 Shares of Lukoil closed down 0.5 percent at 2,091.14 rubles on
the Micex Stock Exchange in Moscow, after earlier declining by as
much as 2.2 percent. That values the company at about 1.78 trillion
rubles ($66.9 billion).  
 Operating expenses increased by $238 million, or 27 percent,
Lukoil said.  
 Lukoil's results may have been enhanced by the company's
disclosing its hedging operations for the first time in the
quarterly report, said Andrei Gromadin, an oil analyst at MDM Bank
in Moscow. Discounting their third-quarter $279 million gain,
Lukoil's earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization would actually be 5 percent below MDM's estimate and 2
percent below consensus, Gromadin said in a phone interview.  
 Earlier today, the company said it had raised oil and gas
production by 12 percent last year as output at overseas projects
soared. Oil output in 2006 reached 95.2 million tons, or 1.95
million barrels a day, Lukoil said, though foreign production still
only accounted for 6 percent of that total.  
 Refining, Retail  
 Russia's largest refiner is seeking new retail and processing
assets in eastern  Europe  and  Asia  while securing its reserves in
Central Asia,  Latin America  and the  Middle East .  
 The company will use a joint venture with ConocoPhillips to
extract oil at the Yuzhny-Khylchuyu field in northwestern Russia,
where full-scale production is due to start in 2008, Lukoil Deputy
Chief Executive Officer  Leonid Fedun  said today at a presentation
in Moscow. In the first nine months of 2006, Lukoil made a third of
its  capital expenditures , or more than $1 billion, in the Timan-Pechora oil province, where Yuzhny-Khylchuyu is located, he said.  
 Lukoil also plans to tap its Caspian Sea projects from 2009,
Fedun said.  
 Looking Abroad  
 Lukoil is being forced to look abroad as Rosneft and the
natural-gas monopoly OAO Gazprom, both state-run companies, vie for
the remains of bankrupt OAO Yukos Oil Co., once Russia's biggest
oil producer. Rosneft tripled output in late 2004 by acquiring what
was once Yukos's largest unit, which the government seized and sold
to settle claims for back taxes.  
 Rosneft has said it may bid this year for other Yukos assets
as the bankrupt company is split up. It said last month it expects
to increase crude output 12 percent in 2007 to 90 million tons, or
1.8 million barrels a day.  
 Gazprom is also expanding into the oil business with its
acquisition of OAO Sibneft in October 2005 and entry into Royal
Dutch Shell Plc's Sakhalin-2 oil and gas project in December.
Gazprom has since renamed Sibneft as Gazprom Neft.  
 Lukoil plans to spend $27 billion over the next decade to
increase overseas output sevenfold. It's looking to add production
at sites from Kazakhstan and  Uzbekistan  to Venezuela and  Iraq .  
 Fedun reiterated the company's goal to stop trading crude in
the next few years and sell only products it refines, both at home
and overseas.  
 Refining Assets  
 The company also wants to add refining assets abroad. Last
month, Alekperov said Lukoil is considering building refineries in
 Vietnam  and may seek to revive a bid for Kuwait Petroleum Corp.'s
refinery in Rotterdam.  
 The company isn't in talks to acquire refineries from  Shell,
Fedun said today. Shell, Europe's largest oil company by market
value, yesterday said it may sell three refineries in  France .  
 Alekperov is also using his partnership with  ConocoPhillips (COP) ,
which owns a 20 percent stake in Lukoil, to expand the company's
profile in the retail business. In December, Lukoil announced it
was buying 376 filling stations from Conoco in Eastern Europe.  
 Lukoil produced 2.2 million barrels of oil and gas per day in
2006, the company said in today's filing. Full-year oil production
from overseas operations grew 46 percent and natural-gas output
more than doubled.  
 The company has been seeking to increase its refining and gas
production businesses after Russia raised extraction taxes and
export duties, squeezing profit margins for crude sales and
exports.  
 Lukoil's export and excise taxes rose 52 percent in the third
quarter as Russia increased levies and the company boosted
shipments abroad.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Lucian Kim in Moscow at 
 lkim3@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        