-- `Invalid' Forms by Supposed Billionaires Skew U.S. Wage Figures
-- B y   R y a n   J .   D o n m o y e r
-- 2010-11-02T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-02/-invalid-multiple-tax-forms-by-supposed-billionaires-skew-wage-figures.html
The Social Security Administration
asked its inspector general to investigate how a $32.3 billion
mistake skewed its statistics on 2009 wages in the U.S.  Two people were found to have filed multiple W-2 forms that
made them into multibillionaires, an agency official said
yesterday. Those reports threw statistical wage tables out of
whack and, in figures released Oct. 15, made it appear that top
U.S. earners had seen their pay quintuple in 2009 to an average
of $519 million.  The agency yesterday released corrected tables that showed
the average incomes of the top earners, in fact, declined 7.7
percent to $84 million each.  Social Security spokesman Mark Lassiter provided few
details about the W-2 forms and declined to answer questions
about how they were filed, how many were filed by the same two
people, or if a hoax was suspected. “We call it erroneous, you
call it fictitious. It’s the same thing,” Lassiter said.
“There were some invalid, I guess is the best way to put it, W-
2s.”  The W-2 is a tax form on which employers report their
workers’ compensation. Taxpayers must provide a copy when they
file tax returns.  Lassiter said this is the first time Social Security
statistics have been affected by erroneous filings. A written
request detailing concerns about the data was sent yesterday to
the Office of the Inspector General, he said.  Jonathan Lasher, a spokesman for the  inspector general’s 
office, confirmed the request. “It wouldn’t be an actionable
investigation at this point, more properly an allegation, but we
are looking into it,” Lasher said.  High Earners  The Social Security Administration figures are based on
forms filed with the Internal Revenue Service. It wasn’t known
yesterday whether the IRS was conducting its own investigation
into how the W-2 forms were submitted. IRS spokesman  Terry Lemons  said he didn’t “have any immediate comment.”  Bloomberg News wrote a report last week about high-earners’
income after questioning Social Security officials about record-
high wages found in the statistics. The agency’s staff confirmed
the data, though they began reviewing W-2s by hand after the
news story was published.  Yesterday, the Social Security office announced it found
“invalid” wages from two of the 74 top wage earners detailed
in its data.  The data were part of the National Average Wage Index and
contained the pay for 74 Americans who earned more than $50
million in 2009. The Social Security review found two tax
filers, between them, reported more than $32 billion in wages
and officials decided to invalidate those filings.  Error Discovered  “We discovered an error in the net compensation for wage
earners earning $50 million and over and have adjusted those
figures downward,” Lassiter said in an initial e-mail.  The combined total earned by the top Americans fell to $6
billion last year from $11.9 billion in 2008, the agency said in
the  corrected report .  A comparison of the Oct. 15 data and the corrected figures
show the change affected wage statistics more broadly. The Oct.
15 index indicated that the average wage nationwide fell $384 to
$39,269 in 2009. The corrected index shows averages wages fell
$598 to $39,055.  Lassiter said he couldn’t explain why the mistake wasn’t
detected previously.  “We have checks in place, but these slipped through,” he
said. The error would have eventually been detected as part of a
reconciliation of the data with the IRS, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ryan J. Donmoyer  in Washington at 
 rdonmoyer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  