-- Abbott Challenges $1.67 Billion Patent Loss to J&J Over Humira
-- B y   S u s a n   D e c k e r
-- 2010-11-02T18:44:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-02/abbott-challenges-1-67-billion-patent-loss-to-j-j-over-arthritis-therapy.html
Abbott Laboratories  urged a U.S.
appeals court to throw out a $1.67 billion patent-infringement
verdict, the largest in U.S. history, set after a jury found the
company used  Johnson & Johnson ’s technology to develop the
arthritis drug Humira.  Abbott is focusing its appeal on the validity of the
patent, co-issued to New York University and J&J’s Centocor
unit. Humira, Abbott’s biggest drug, includes human antibodies
that aren’t covered by the patent, a lawyer for the Abbott Park,
Illinois-based company said.  “It was Abbott who invented the first fully human
antibody” used to treat arthritis,  William Lee  of WilmerHale in
Boston told the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit in
Washington today. Abbott also contends that even if the verdict
is upheld, the damage award is excessive.  A federal jury in Marshall, Texas, in June 2009 said the
company owed $504 million in patent royalties to J&J based on
sales of Abbott’s Humira arthritis drug, plus $1.17 billion to
compensate J&J for decreased sales of its competing treatments.
The trial judge later added $175.6 million in interest, bringing
the total to $1.84 billion.  Humira generated $4.67 billion in sales in the first nine
months of the year, 19 percent of Abbott’s total revenue, the
company reported Oct. 20. That includes $2 billion in U.S.
sales, a jump of 14 percent from the year-ago period.  “The damage award was as large as it was because the
infringing product, Humira, is as big as it is,”  Dianne Elderkin , a Centocor lawyer at Akin Gump in Philadelphia, told
the three-judge panel.  $19,000 Drug  Humira, which costs about $19,000 a year, blocks action of
tumor necrosis factor, or TNF, which is linked to inflammation.  Abbott said the patent doesn’t cover the human antibodies
that are used in Humira, and they are invalid because scientists
couldn’t make fully human antibodies against TNF in a laboratory
in 1994, the date set by the court as the time of the invention.  In 1994, “no one anywhere on the face of the earth had a
fully human antibody” that would work against TNF, Lee said.
“A lot of people tried and they had failed. How can you have a
written description that says you have something that you don’t
even know exists?”  J&J sells the competing medicine Remicade, made with a
combination of mouse and human antibodies. J&J and NYU contend
the patent covers both the combination and fully human
antibodies against TNF. When the body produces too much TNF, it
can cause the immune system to attack healthy tissue and leads
to inflammation.  Simponi, Stelara  “What was invented here was a specific class of
antibodies,” Elderkin said. Abbott’s expert witness at trial
made the same arguments as Lee today and the jury “rejected his
testimony.”  Abbott has filed its own lawsuit against Centocor, claiming
J&J’s arthritis drug Simponi, made with human antibodies and
first sold last year, is infringing an Abbott patent. It also
claims a J&J psoriasis medicine, Stelara, violates two other
patents. Those cases are pending in federal court in Worcester,
Massachusetts.  The case is Centocor Inc. v. Abbott Laboratories, 10-1144,
U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit (Washington). The
lower court case is Centocor Inc. v. Abbott Laboratories,
07cv139, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of Texas
(Marshall).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Susan Decker  in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net . 