-- Thai Rubber Output May Drop 4.1% in Fourth Quarter
-- B y   S u p u n n a b u l   S u w a n n a k i j
-- 2010-11-02T05:46:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-02/thai-rubber-output-may-drop-4-1-in-fourth-quarter-on-rain-luckchai-says.html
Natural-rubber output in  Thailand ,
the largest producer and exporter, may drop 4.1 percent in the
fourth quarter as heavy rain disrupts latex tapping, supporting
prices, according to the  Thai Rubber Association.   Production during October to December may total 930,000
metric tons, compared with 970,000 tons a year ago, the group’s
President Luckchai Kittipol said in a phone interview.  Rubber futures on the Tokyo Commodity Exchange may trade
between 320 yen to 340 yen per kilogram ($3,978 to $4,227 a
metric ton) over the next two months, while the cash price in
Thailand will be in a range of 115 baht ($3.85) to 125 baht per
kilogram, said Luckchai. The benchmark Thai price reached a
record 130.55 baht on April 27.  “Supplies are quite low as rainfall has persisted since
July, lowering production,” Luckchai said from Bangkok. “Low
supply will continue to support prices.”  The commodity used to make tires and gloves surged 20
percent this year as a La Nina weather pattern caused heavy
rainfall across major producing countries in  Asia , amid strong
demand from  China , the largest buyer, to replenish stockpiles
that were 71 percent lower than this year’s high.  Global rubber output this year is unlikely to increase more
than 5.3 percent to 9.4 million tons, from a previous forecast
of 6.3 percent,  the Association of Natural Rubber Producing
Countries  said Oct. 27. A further cut in output is expected
because of tapping disruptions in Malaysia, Thailand and  India .
Thai output is estimated to fall 3.9 percent in the fourth
quarter to 933,000 tons, the group said in a monthly bulletin.  Flash Floods  Thailand’s floods spread to seven provinces in the
country’s south after a tropical depression brought heavy rain
to the area, the Department of Disaster Prevention and
Mitigation said today. The nationwide death toll from floods
since Oct. 10 rose to 104, the agency said.  “Floods in key producing areas in Thailand’s south
increase worries that low supply will be squeezed further,
boosting prices higher today,” Chaiwat Muenmee, analyst at
commodity broker D.S. Futures Co. said by phone from Bangkok.
The company temporarily closed its branch in Songkhla today
because of floods, he said.  “Floods have spread to Songkhla province and farmers can’t
go out tapping for four to five days,” Luckchai said yesterday.
The nation’s output this year may total 3.15 million to 3.2
million tons, similar to the previous estimate. The impact on
total production will depend on how long the rain lasts, he said.  China’s Stockpiles  Thai prices are unlikely to reach a record as high rubber
prices will likely lower consumption, said Luckchai. The
benchmark price was at 120.30 baht ($4.03) yesterday.  The April-delivery contract in Tokyo climbed 1.9 percent to
333.3 yen per kilogram at 2:05 p.m. local time. Rubber futures
advanced to a 27-month high of 343.3 yen per kilogram on Oct. 26
on speculation China will step up purchases to replenish
stockpiles amid concerns over declining supplies from floods and
heavy rain.  Shares of Sri Trang Agro-Industry Pcl, Thailand’s biggest
publicly traded rubber producer, were headed for a record close
in Bangkok trading after the nation’s rubber association said
output may fall in the fourth quarter, said Ploenjai Jirajarus,
an analyst at Capital Nomura Securities.  “Reports on supply reduction and worries over disruption
of trade and transportation from floods in Songkhla province
boosted rubber prices, benefiting Sri Trang,” Polenhai said by
phone from Bangkok. Songkhla is Thailand’s major rubber-trading
center.  Sri Trang shares surged as much as 7.5 percent to 32.25
baht today. The price reached an intraday record of 32.50 baht
on Oct. 26 following a rally on Tokyo and Shanghai markets.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Supunnabul Suwannakij in Bangkok at 
 ssuwannakij@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole in Singapore at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  