-- Airbus Set to Erode Boeing's Lead in China With 100-Jet Order
-- B y   A n d r e a   R o t h m a n
-- 2010-11-02T23:01:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-02/airbus-set-to-erode-boeing-s-lead-in-china-with-100-plane-order-this-week.html
Airbus SAS , for decades the also-ran
behind Boeing Co. in China, is set to reap one of its largest
orders yet from the country as a local factory attracts Chinese
carriers and air travel in the region booms.  The company may secure a contract from China for at least
100 aircraft as early as tomorrow, when Chinese President  Hu Jintao  visits France, four people familiar with the talks said.
The accord would have a value exceeding $8 billion, the largest
since French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  brought home a $17
billion deal for 160 jets in 2007.  In a bid to reach parity with Boeing in 2013, Airbus has
added an assembly line in China, its first outside Europe. While
three years ago two-thirds of large airliners in Chinese fleets
were made by  Boeing , Airbus will account for 45 percent of the
total in mainland China by the end of this year, according to
London-based aviation data company Ascend. Airbus entered the
country in 1985, more than a decade after its U.S. rival.  “Boeing was in there early with a well-established, proven
product,” said  Sandy Morris , an analyst at Royal Bank of
Scotland in London. “Even for Airbus to get there by 2015 would
be a hell of a catch-up.”  Chinese Factory  The Chinese order will include both single-aisle and wide-
body A330 jets, said two of the people, requesting anonymity
before a public announcement. Airbus is owned by  European
Aeronautic Defence & Space Co. , whose shares have advanced 41
percent this year. Boeing stock has gained 27 percent.  Airbus declined to comment on a possible order, saying the
meeting between Hu Jintao and Sarkozy at the French presidential
palace is a political event and not the forum for contract
negotiations, according to spokesman  Stefan Schaffrath .  The assembly line in Tianjin, southeast of Beijing, is a
$600 million venture between Airbus and a Chinese group, and the
plant is a replica of the single-aisle factory in Hamburg.
Tianjin assembles only A320 and A319 models, with all output
going directly to local customers.  Since delivering the first plane to Sichuan Airlines in
June 2009, a total of 32 planes have been handed to customers
from the line with capacity now at two planes a month, set to
double by 2012. In total, Airbus churns out 34 single-aisle jets
at its factories in France, Germany and China each month.  China is the world’s fastest-growing aviation market, as
increases in personal wealth and urbanization drive up demand
for air travel. Boeing yesterday raised its forecast for
commercial aircraft demand in China over 20 years to $480
billion from $400 billion a year ago, estimating the nation will
need 4,330 new planes in the period.  Government Orders  Air China Ltd. , the country’s largest international
carrier, and domestic competitors have ordered 50 planes from
Boeing this year, according to the aircraft maker’s website.
Boeing hasn’t gotten a large-scale order from the Chinese
government since 2006, when it bought 150 planes. The
manufacturer says it favors dealing directly with airlines.  In China, manufacturers can win orders either directly from
individual carriers or through large government orders,
coordinated by a central aircraft purchasing agency and then
allocated to government-controlled carriers.  “This is the way things used to be done in communist
economies, and it’s a thing of the past,” said  Richard Aboulafia , vice president of Teal Group, a Fairfax, Virginia-
based consulting firm. “As countries grow up, their airlines
order what they want and when they want, rather than having a
big government supply organization place orders for them.”  In 2009, 16 percent of all Airbus aircraft delivered went
to China. This year, 22 percent of the planemaker’s total
production, or 112 planes, will go to Chinese airlines,
according to Ascend. For Boeing, the figure is 71 aircraft, or
15 percent of the company’s total production, Ascend said.  Chinese Suppliers  As Airbus seeks to create more inroads into the Chinese
market, the company has increased the level of work it hands to
local partners. Chinese suppliers in October 2009 began fitting
fuel and hydraulic systems, as well as electrical harnesses that
support control surfaces to A320 wings last year. The first pair
of wings fully equipped in China was fitted to a plane in March.  Already half the Airbus worldwide fleet has components
produced in China by six Chinese manufacturers. The total value
of industrial cooperation between Airbus and Chinese
subcontractors has doubled to $200 million within two years, and
will more than double again by 2015, Airbus estimates.  “Setting up the assembly line there was a logical
arrangement,” said  Eddy Pieniazek , an analyst at Ascend. “It
has helped Airbus cement its position in China.”  Chris Tarry , a London-based independent analyst and 30-year
veteran of the aviation industry, predicts China may have close
to 1 billion domestic passenger journeys by 2035, based on the
development of the U.S. domestic airline industry since the
start of the jet age in 1958. The U.S. had 630 million domestic
journeys for a population of 310 million last year, compared
with 215 million trips for China’s population of 1.4 billion.  “We’re at an interesting stage,” said Tarry. “There’s
this huge developing domestic market which is coming together
and for now Airbus and Boeing are the source of supply.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrea Rothman  in Toulouse at 
 aerothman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  