-- Airlines Can't Bear Extra Security Burden Alone, IATA Chief Says
-- B y   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n ,   S t e v e   R o t h w e l l   a n d   V i v i a n   S a l a m a
-- 2010-11-02T17:04:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-02/airlines-aren-t-able-to-bear-added-security-costs-unaided-iata-chief-says.html
Airlines  shouldn’t be made to bear
the full burden of extra security measures as governments
respond to the discovery of bombs in air-cargo shipments last
week, the International Air Transport Association said today.  Responsibility for security must be spread throughout the
supply chain, beginning with the manufacturer, and airports
shouldn’t be regarded as the first line of defense, IATA Chief
Executive Officer  Giovanni Bisignani  said. Rapid development of
technology is also needed to enhance cargo scanning, he said.  “Effective solutions are not developed unilaterally or in
haste,” Bisignani said in Frankfurt. “If there are any longer-
term adjustments required we must do so with all the facts in
hand, with measures targeted to meet specific risks.”  Passenger airlines only now returning to profit after the
recession shattered demand for travel would be impacted by
stricter security rules because about 42 percent of air cargo is
transported as “belly freight” on ordinary aircraft. One of
the devices found last week en route from Yemen to Chicago was
reportedly carried on two scheduled Qatar Airways Ltd. services.  Security measures cost airlines $5.9 billion a year, based
in 2009 figures, Bisignani said in an interview, exceeding the
$5.3 billion profit IATA forecasts for the industry in 2011.  “It’s another large fly in the ointment for the aviation
industry,”  John Strickland , an aviation analyst and director of
JLS Consulting Ltd. “Cargo is important for airlines, especially
for long-haul flights, so they can’t just stop flying it.”  ‘More Secure’  The  Bloomberg Asia Pacific Airlines Index  dropped 1.9
percent today and the  Bloomberg EMEA Airlines Index  was rose 1.4
percent. The Bloomberg U.S. Airlines Index was unchanged.  Bisignani said that while there’s “room for improvement,”
the aviation industry is now “much more secure” than at the
time of the Sept. 11, 2001, hijackings in the U.S.  Airlines carried 26 million metric tons of freight last
year, equivalent to 35 percent of the total value of goods
traded internationally, Bisignani said, with the volume forecast
to increase almost 50 percent to 38 million tons by 2014.  There is currently no government-certified technology to
screen standard-sized cargo pallets and large items, said
Bisignani, who was speaking at IATA’s Avsec 2010 conference,
with the new systems that are under development “taking far
too long to move from the laboratory to the airport.”  Hand Checks  The X-ray machines that are currently available are fine
for scanning trucks and containers in customs searches, but use
very high doses of radiation, he said, and pallets must be
checked by hand using explosive-detection devices.  The IATA chief said there’s too much emphasis on scanning
people and their “belts, shoes and shampoos,” and that the
focus of screening must shift “from looking for bad objects to
finding terrorists.” That requires the availability of better
intelligence and data at airport checkpoints, he said.  Tighter controls will raise transaction costs for air
freight and at worst wipe “a couple of percentage points from
world trade,” said  Fredrik Erixon , director of the European
Centre for International Political Economy in Brussels.  The lack of technology to scan pallets means “there are
lots of easier ways to attack a plane than putting explosives in
your shoe and killing yourself in the process,” he said.  Lufthansa Charges  Deutsche Lufthansa AG, Europe’s second-largest airline and
the world’s No. 5 cargo carrier, said it can’t rule out higher
surcharges if security requirements are increased.  The Cologne, Germany-based company currently charges 20
cents per kilo in security fees and X-rays all packages from
freight handlers that lack official security clearance, while
also carrying out random checks even on approved shipments.  “Our X-ray machines are never still,” Lufthansa Cargo
spokesman  Nils Haupt  said by telephone.  Germany would be especially exposed to new security costs
because of the economy’s reliance on high-end goods, which are
more often transported by air, said Patrick Thiele, a transport
commentator at the DIHK chamber of industry and commerce.
Imports affected would include food, computer parts and flowers.  “Safety comes first, but it’s clear every new X-ray machine
costs money and inevitably it falls to industry,” Thiele said.  The bombs found last week seem to be the work of al-Qaeda
in the Arabian Peninsula, the Yemeni branch of the terrorist
organization that took credit for the Sept. 11 attacks,  John Brennan , President  Barack Obama ’s top counterterrorism adviser,
said on Oct. 31. The U.S. has sent a team of experts to Yemen to
help bolster the country’s package-screening operation.  Mobile Phone, Timer  U.S. and U.K. officials have said they suspect the bombs
were designed to explode on the aircraft. One of the two
intercepted packages was set to be detonated by a mobile phone
and the other by a timer, said a U.S. official who spoke on
condition of anonymity because the investigation is continuing.  Germany and the U.K. have restricted package deliveries
from Yemen, with Britain prohibiting some larger printer
cartridges from going on flights.  The authorities avoided a human and economic disaster, said
Representative  Jane Harman , chairwoman of the U.S. House
subcommittee on homeland security and intelligence.  “If we had one or two Lockerbie-style explosions, it would
certainly have chilled some air travel for a period,” Harman, a
California Democrat, said in an interview. The 1988 destruction
of a Pan Am plane over Lockerbie, Scotland, killed 270 people.  U.S. Ban Extended  John Pistole , administrator of the U.S. Transportation
Security Administration, extended for another week a temporary
halt on all cargo coming out of Yemen to the U.S., Homeland
Security Secretary  Janet Napolitano  told MSNBC yesterday.  Representative  Edward Markey , a Massachusetts Democrat who
was co-author of a law requiring the screening of all cargo on
passenger planes, said he’ll introduce a similar measure for all
packages on cargo planes.  Qatar Airways Chief Executive Officer  Akbar Al Baker  today
told reporters in Hanoi that another airline may have carried
the package found in Dubai, citing a FedEx. document. Original
information was “immature and not properly researched,” he said.  In Asia, South Korea has tightened security checks on cargo
originating from Yemen and other countries considered to be
dangerous, said Sohn Moon Gap, a customs official. Japan told
airlines to follow U.S. regulations and block any U.S.-bound
freight from Yemen, said Mitsugu Sato, an official in the Civil
Aviation Bureau at the nation’s transport ministry.  Authorities are focusing on Ibrahim Hassan al-Asiri, the
al-Qaeda bomb-maker behind plots to blow up a Northwest Airlines
flight on Christmas Day and to kill the prince spearheading
Saudi Arabia’s antiterrorism effort, said a U.S. official, who
asked not to be named because the investigation isn’t complete.  More Bombs  Investigators have to presume other devices may still be
out there, Brennan told NBC’s “Meet the Press” on Oct. 31.  The tip about the bombs on the two cargo planes came from
Jabr al-Faifi, a former al-Qaeda member, the British
Broadcasting Corp. reported yesterday, citing U.K. officials.  Yemeni sources told the al-Masdar news website yesterday
that they doubted al-Faifi was the tipster because he had turned
himself in two weeks ago and wasn’t in a position to know the
specifics of the bomb plot. Al-Faifi was released from the U.S.
detention center at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, and transferred to
Saudi Arabia in 2006, a Defense Department spokesman said.  Yemeni security forces on Oct. 31 released a woman, Hanan
al-Samawi, who was arrested with her mother on suspicion of
attempting to send two parcel bombs.  Al-Qaeda’s organization in Yemen has stepped up violence
since June, killing dozens of security personnel in a series of
raids in southern cities. The impoverished Arabian Peninsula
nation is also battling separatists in the north.  In August, the International Monetary Fund approved a $370
million loan for Yemen aimed at cutting the deficit and reducing
poverty. Money “could help a lot in reducing the number of
Yemenis and foreigners who are enticed there for terror training
and to pick up these bombs,” Harman said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Steven Rothwell  in London at 
 srothwell@bloomberg.net ;
 Cornelius Rahn  in Frankfurt at 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net ;
 Vivian Salama  in Abu Dhabi at 
 vsalama@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at   kwong11@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Hirschberg at   phirschberg@bloomberg.net  