-- Taiwan Stocks Raised to `Overweight' at Credit Suisse on Earnings Outlook
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-11-02T02:27:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-02/taiwan-stocks-raised-to-overweight-at-credit-suisse-on-earnings-outlook.html
Credit Suisse Group AG raised its
recommendation on  Taiwan stocks  to “overweight” from
“underweight” amid signs of an improving outlook for global
manufacturing and higher earnings.  “With fears of a double dip subsiding, we retain confidence
in domestic stocks in our portfolio with leverage to a macro
recovery,” analysts led by  Randy Abrams  wrote in a report dated
today. They also said the island’s equities have trailed gains
in other markets since May.  Manufacturing in the U.S. and China expanded last month,
while Taiwanese companies from Taiwan Semiconductor
Manufacturing Co. to Hon Hai Precision Industry Co. reported
higher net income in the third quarter. The island’s benchmark
Taiex index has gained 2.2 percent this year, compared with a 15
percent advance by the MSCI Asia excluding Japan Index.  The higher recommendation contrasts with the Oct. 22
downgrade of Taiwan’s stocks to “neutral” from “overweight”
by JPMorgan Chase & Co., which said the island’s economy is
shifting toward domestic services from technology. UBS AG said
Oct. 18 a pullback by the island’s stocks in the fourth quarter
will be “milder” than expected given increased liquidity.  The Taiex dropped 0.2 percent to 8,366.13 at 10:08 a.m.  The Credit Suisse analysts, who cited  Sakthi Siva  for the
upgrade on the island’s stocks, said they prefer companies
involved in smartphone and tablet production including HTC Corp.
and TPK Holding Co. Their top picks outside of technology are in
transportation, namely Evergreen Marine Corp. and Eva Airways
Corp., and materials producers including Taiwan Cement Corp.  Siva was ranked first for equity strategy in Institutional
Investor’s 2010 Asian poll.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Chua Kong Ho  in Shanghai at 
 kchua6@bloomberg.net ;
Weiyi Lim in Taipei at 
 Wlim26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Linus Chua at 
 lchua@bloomberg.net  