-- Aldar of Abu Dhabi Falls Most in Three Months After CEO Bullough Resigns
-- B y   S t e f a n i a   B i a n c h i   a n d   Z a h r a   H a n k i r
-- 2010-11-02T11:29:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-02/aldar-of-abu-dhabi-falls-most-in-three-months-after-ceo-bullough-resigns.html
Aldar Properties PJSC,  Abu Dhabi’s
biggest property developer, dropped the most in more than five
months after Chief Executive Officer  John Bullough  resigned.  The shares fell 6.2 percent, the biggest decline since May
25, to close at 2.43 dirhams at 2 p.m. in Abu Dhabi. Aldar has
plunged 51 percent this year.  “Bullough has announced his long-planned retirement from
the company,” Aldar said in an e-mailed statement yesterday. A
replacement will be named after a board meeting Nov. 8, the
company said. The CEO took the job two years ago.  Aldar, which is due to announce third-quarter results next
week, posted its third consecutive loss in July on lower land
sales. The developer has about 30 billion dirhams ($8.2 billion)
of debt, including around 5 billion dirhams due in the next 12
months, according to  Majed Azzam , a real-estate analyst at
Alembic HC Securities who rates Aldar “overweight.”  “Aldar has a lot of debt maturing next year and the
company is due to announce something on this before the end of
the year,” Azzam said in a phone interview from Dubai. “The
departure of the CEO at this critical time is being taken as a
negative sign by investors.”  The company, 19.2 percent-owned by Abu Dhabi-government
backed investor Mubadala Development Co., had its credit ratings
cut by Moody’s Investors Service and Standard & Poor’s  this
year on concern over a property market slump and Aldar’s ability
to meet debt obligations. Abu Dhabi, the United Arab Emirates’
richest of seven sheikhdoms, provided loans to Dubai last year
to help state-related companies.  Started 2008  Bullough was appointed CEO in October 2008 after serving as
chief operating officer from 2007. Aldar hadn’t previously
announced his intention to leave, according to a company
spokesman. He joined the developer from the Duke of
Westminster’s Grosvenor Group, where he was retail director for
the U.K. and Ireland.  Aldar is building thousands of homes, offices and hotels in
the United Arab Emirates’ capital. A Ferrari-branded theme park
developed by the company is set to open on Nov. 4.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Stefania Bianchi  in Dubai at 
 sbianchi10@bloomberg.net .  Zahra Hankir  in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  