-- Land Securities Chief Executive Says Customers Focusing on Expansion Again
-- B y   P e t e r   W o o d i f i e l d
-- 2010-11-02T09:42:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-02/land-securities-ceo-salway-says-customers-are-focusing-on-expanding-again.html
U.K. businesses are beginning to
focus on expanding again after cutting costs during the
recession and many will look to rent more space, according to
the head of Britain’s biggest property company.  “A lot of our larger customers are starting to think ahead
to where they are going to grow in the next few years,”  Francis Salway , chief executive officer of  Land Securities Group Plc ,
said in an Oct. 28 interview. “For property people, that tends
to flow into more space.”  Sentiment about the U.K. economy has picked up among Land
Securities’ bigger customers in the past five months and the
scale of their expansion plans has been “a surprise,” said
Salway, 53. “A number of top retailers” are now looking to
open an additional 20 to 30 stores a year, he said, speaking on
the day Land Securities opened  One New Change , the largest mall
in London’s main financial district, near St. Paul’s Cathedral.  On Oct. 19, the company said it formed a venture with
Canary Wharf Group Plc to build the 680,000 square-foot (63,000
square meter) London office tower known as the  Walkie-Talkie 
without signing up any tenants in advance. That was one day
before the U.K. government announced spending cuts of 81 billion
pounds ($130 billion), the biggest since World War II, and the
expected loss of 490,000 public sector jobs.  “What we are constantly having to do is look ahead and
think about what will be happening in three years time,” Salway
said in the interview.  Rents for the best central London offices will probably
increase by an average of 8.5 percent a year over the next four
years because of a shortage of prime space, Savills Plc, the
largest publicly traded U.K. real estate broker, said in an
August report.  ‘Best-Insulated’  “Given that London is probably the best-insulated region
from a period of public sector austerity, we remain of the view
that inner London will be one of the strongest-growing cities in
Europe in the short to medium term,” Savills said in the
report.  Land Securities, which will report fiscal first-half
earnings on Nov. 11, is undertaking development projects in
London in anticipation that it can benefit from higher rents,
Salway said.  “We are happy to develop speculatively so we can capture
rising rents,” he said.  Central London shop rents rose 11 percent in the third
quarter from a year earlier, according to  CB Richard Ellis Group
Inc. , the world’s largest real estate adviser. That compares
with a 0.9 percent gain for U.K. retail rents as a whole.  Office rents rose 19 percent in the City of London, where
the Walkie-Talkie is located. In the West End, which has the
most expensive offices in the world, rents gained 6.9 percent,
CB Richard Ellis said in a report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Peter Woodifield  in Edinburgh at 
 pwoodifield@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at   ablackman@bloomberg.net . 