-- Tango Challenges Apple, Yahoo in Smartphone Video-Chat Market
-- B y   R y a n   F l i n n
-- 2010-11-02T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-02/tango-challenges-apple-yahoo-in-smartphone-video-chat-market.html
With a newborn baby to show off, Eric
Setton was looking for a way to do video calling on the go. And
he wanted to be able to reach people on any smartphone or
network, which his iPhone’s FaceTime application can’t do.  So  Setton  and business partner  Uri Raz  created a
videoconferencing app called  Tango  that connects phones from
different makers, across any network, carrier or geographic
boundary. The software has caught on with users. More than 1
million people downloaded the app within its first 10 days.  Their company, also called Tango, is capitalizing on the
surge of smartphones with cameras, along with consumers’ growing
comfort with videoconferencing. About 7 percent of U.S. adults
with mobile phones have made some form of video call, according
to a  survey  by the Pew Internet & American Life Project. In
total, about 23 percent of Internet users have done
videoconferencing, Pew found.  “The fact that Tango did 1 million downloads in 10 days,
from a cold start with an unbranded app, is very respectable,”
said Peter Farago, vice president of marketing for  Flurry Inc. ,
a San Francisco firm that analyzes mobile-application use.  Tango has since reached 2 million downloads, less than a
month after the software made its debut. Compare that with
 Foursquare Labs Inc. , the mobile service that lets users
broadcast their whereabouts to friends. The New York company
took about a year to get its first million members.  How to Make Money?  The Tango app is free to download. The Palo Alto,
California-based company may eventually make money by offering
premium services, said Setton, who serves as chief technology
officer. Some companies with free apps rely on advertising,
though that isn’t likely to work with video calling, he said.  “We think it is very important to say video calling will
remain free forever,” said Setton, 31. “We will monetize it at
some point.”  One hurdle to Tango’s growth: More people will need phones
with a camera that faces the user. Most devices have the camera
lens on the back side. Over a three-month period ending in
August, only 9 percent of new phones sold in the U.S. had
cameras on the front and back, according to NPD Group Inc. in
Port Washington, New York.  Apple Inc.  helped popularize front-facing cameras with the
June introduction of the iPhone 4, along with its FaceTime
videoconferencing software. In October, the Cupertino,
California-based company said it has sold more than 19 million
devices that can use FaceTime in the past four months.  Apple 
also unveiled a version of the program for the Mac, making it
easier for computer users to communicate with people on iPhones.  Open System  FaceTime currently works over Wi-Fi connections, rather
than mobile-phone networks, and only with Apple products. In
contrast, Tango lets iPhones communicate with other smartphones
-- including models that use  Google Inc. ’s Android software,
such as Samsung Electronics Co.’s Galaxy S. And it works over
phone networks.  “When FaceTime came out, for us it was the most amazing
thing that could happen,” said Setton, who has a doctorate in
electrical engineering from Stanford University. “Apple has the
power to create these types of markets, and we saw this as
really helping us and educating a lot of the market.”  Tango, which has raised $5 million in funding, will also
have to compete with Sunnyvale, California-based  Yahoo! Inc. 
That company added video chatting to its Messenger service for
computers last year, and updated the feature on Oct. 11 to let
mobile phones use it.  Sprint Service  Sprint Nextel Corp. , meanwhile, lets users of its HTC Evo
and Samsung Epic make video calls with an app called Qik.
Sprint, the third-largest U.S. wireless carrier, declined to say
how many of its customers use the service.  Videoconferencing has existed in some form for decades. The
first video telephone  debuted  in Germany in 1936. That service,
available in post offices, allowed callers to view each other on
8-inch square screens. In the U.S., Bell Labs demonstrated its
Picturephone at the 1964 World’s Fair in New York. By 1993, AT&T
had sold more than 20,000 videophones.  All of these efforts eventually failed because the costs
were high, quality wasn’t great and the systems weren’t widely
available.  With the advent of the Internet and broadband speeds, the
industry overcame those hurdles. Now, anyone with a webcam can
connect with someone else online for a cheap video chat. Skype
Technologies SA has built an entire business around the idea.  ‘Mass-Consumer Phenomenon’  “It’s at the moment where it might move from the very
early-adopter stage to a more mass-consumer phenomenon,” said
 Lee Rainie , director of the nonprofit Pew project. Pew’s survey
on videoconferencing, conducted in August and September, was the
first one the research group has done on the subject. “People
are becoming more comfortable around it.”  Skype, based in Luxembourg, added a video-calling option to
its Internet-phone service almost five years ago. By the first
half of 2010, about 40 percent of Skype-to-Skype calls were made
over video. That amounts to 35.4 billion calling minutes. While
the company doesn’t currently offer video calls over mobile
phones, “this is a very active pursuit for us,” said  Jonathan Christensen , a general manager at Skype.  Cisco Systems Inc.  also has gotten into consumer video
calling, though not on mobile phones. The company, which
dominates the market for networking equipment, introduced a
videoconferencing system last month that lets people hold video
chats from high-definition, Internet-connected televisions. The
system, called  Cisco Umi , will be available in November. It
costs $599, with a monthly fee of $24.99 for unlimited calling,
video messaging and storage.  ‘Premium Price Tag’  That price brings you a better experience than you get with
mobile apps, said  Ken Wirt , Cisco’s vice president of consumer
marketing.  “We know it’s a premium experience, and it comes with a
premium price tag,” he said. “If you like video in low
resolution where you just see someone’s face, and the call drops
half the time, imagine how much you’ll like it on a big screen,
with real high definition.”  Another avenue for video chatting is Google Talk, a feature
in the Gmail e-mail program. The service only works on computers
for now, although  the company  says it has contemplated a mobile
version.  Yahoo’s service communicates with iPhones and personal
computers, and the company is developing a version for Android,
said Andreas Nordin, a product manager for Yahoo’s Mobile
Messenger. Getting the software to work on all different devices
is key to finally winning over mainstream users, he said.  “There has to be a critical mass,” Nordin said. “You
have to be able to call your mother or girlfriend or children
wherever they are.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ryan Flinn  in San Francisco at 
 rflinn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  