-- Apple Piggybank Earns 0.75% Return as Investors Seek Payback
-- B y   A d a m   S a t a r i a n o
-- 2010-11-02T21:48:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-02/apple-piggybank-earns-0-75-return-as-investors-ask-for-payback.html
Apple Inc. ’s piggybank, stuffed with
$51 billion in cash and investments, is earning a lower return
than a typical U.S. savings account. Some  investors  say  Steve Jobs  should put that money to better use.  Apple got a 0.75 percent return on the investments in the
past fiscal year, according to a  regulatory filing  last week.
The gain pales next to the roughly 10 percent investors would
have earned from the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  and the  Dow
Jones Industrial Average  over that time. Apple’s stock itself
also was a much better investment, rising 60 percent.  Jobs, Apple’s chief executive officer, said last month that
the company has a good track record of using cash, saying it’s
holding money for one or more “strategic opportunities,”
rather than a dividend or stock buyback. For some shareholders,
the cash hoard is overkill, especially considering Apple added
about $17 billion to its  balance sheet  last year, though they
don’t want a big, overpriced acquisition either.  “That amount of cash is way above what’s needed to have a
prudent war chest,” said  Keith Goddard , CEO of Tulsa, Oklahoma-
based Capital Advisors Inc., which has $822 million under
management, including Apple shares. “It would be a real shame
for them to do an acquisition to get into another line of
business or dilute something they already have going on.”  Health Concerns  Goddard is less concerned about Jobs’s stewardship than
about what may happen if the executive, a cancer survivor,
departs for health reasons. “The idea that a different
management team is in charge of all that liquidity is more scary
to me,” he said.  The  stock  has climbed 44 percent this year, and it has more
than tripled since the 2007 introduction of the iPhone.  Apple ,
the third most valuable company based on market value, also had
$180 million in unrealized gains from its investment portfolio
during the year, up from $57 million a year earlier.  The company has enough cash to pay a large  dividend , make a
share repurchase or spend tens of billions on a business without
having to finance the deal with debt. Apple ranks fifth among
companies in the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  with the most cash
that don’t pay a dividend, according to Bloomberg data. It also
has never made an acquisition larger than $500 million.  Analysts 
and shareholders say the most likely scenario is that Apple will
use its hoard to invest in new products and keep cutting small
deals aimed at acquiring technology and  engineers .  ‘Very Disciplined’  “We’ve demonstrated a really strong track record of being
very disciplined with the use of our cash,” Jobs said in a Oct.
18 conference call with financial  analysts . “We don’t let it
burn a hole in our pocket. We don’t allow it to motivate us to
do stupid acquisitions. And so I think that we’d like to
continue to keep our powder dry because we do feel that there
are one or more strategic opportunities in the future.”  Steve Dowling , a spokesman for Cupertino, California-based
Apple, declined to comment beyond the previous remarks.  Apple contrasts with some other large technology companies
that are increasingly using dividends and stock buybacks.
 Microsoft Corp. , the world’s biggest software maker, boosted its
dividend 23 percent in September. It’s also stepping up share
repurchases, though the company is relying on debt -- rather
than just its cash -- to pay for the effort.  Cisco Systems Inc. , the largest networking-equipment
supplier, announced plans in September to pay the first dividend
in the company’s history. Unlike Apple, Microsoft and Cisco
shares have lost value this year, putting more pressure on them
to find other ways to reward investors.  Bigger Than Costa Rica  Apple had $25.6 billion in cash and  short-term investments 
as of Sept. 25, and double that amount when including the
longer-term holdings. That means the total is larger than the
 gross domestic product  of Costa Rica last year ($50.1 billion).  Money in an average personal savings account would earn
almost 0.8 percent in annual interest, more than Apple’s return,
according to  Bankrate.com . Technology companies rarely earn a
high return on their cash and investments, though  Google Inc. 
has done a bit better, according to  Aaron Kessler , an analyst at
ThinkEquity LLC.  Google  got 2.9 percent last quarter on its cash
and investments, including interest income and realized gains
before tax, he said.  Ryan Jacob , chairman and chief investment officer of Jacob
Funds in New York, would like to see more cash returned to
shareholders. Apple is the biggest holding in his firm’s  Jacob
Internet fund , with almost $3 million of stock as of Sept. 30.  Why Hesitate?  “The point is they can’t keep accumulating it,” Jacob
said. “I don’t understand the hesitation about a stock buyback
and/or dividend.”  Ashok Kumar , an analyst with Rodman & Renshaw LLC in New
York, said  investors  should trust the company’s judgment, given
its recent history. The stock, which passed $300 for the first
time last month, gained $5.18, or 1.7 percent, to $309.36 at 4
p.m. New York time in Nasdaq Stock Market  trading .  “We could argue until the cows come home whether the
single-digit returns on $50 billion in cash is optimal for
shareholders, but the stock performance speaks for itself,”
said Kumar, who rates  Apple  “market outperform.” “If you want
higher returns, you have to take more risks and there is no
reason for them to do that.”  Adding a dividend would bring in new investors who only buy
stocks that pay one, said  Toni Sacconaghi , an analyst at Sanford
C. Bernstein & Co. He wrote an open letter to Jobs and Apple’s
board in August asking for the company to return cash to
shareholders, calling the war chest “excessive.”  Possible Targets  Apple may be preparing to make more acquisitions, even if
they’re not large transactions. It hired a Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. investment banker,  Adrian Perica , last year to help cut
deals, people familiar with the matter said at the time.  Potential targets might include  Akamai Technologies Inc. ,
which would give the company thousands of new servers for
distributing content across the Web, said  Brian Marshall , an
analyst with Gleacher & Co. in San Francisco.  Netflix Inc. ,
which would add movies and TV shows to Apple’s library of
material, is another possibility, he said.  Kumar doesn’t expect Apple to make that kind of a
multibillion-dollar deal. Jobs has traditionally looked for
smaller companies that fill a niche, he said. In 2008, Apple
bought chipmaking startup P.A. Semi Inc. In January of this
year, the company acquired Quattro Wireless to gain a foothold
in mobile advertising, and in April it purchased Siri Inc., a
maker of software that allows people to search the Internet from
their phones with voice commands.  Reno Office  Absent a major acquisition, buyback or dividend, what is
Apple doing with its money? Part of the answer lies in  Reno,
Nevada , the self-proclaimed “Biggest Little City in the
World.” In the gambling town about 10 miles from the California
border in the Sierra Nevada mountains, Apple has established an
asset management company called Braeburn, named after a tart and
sweet  variety  of apple. The firm was established in 2005,
according to the Nevada Secretary of State’s  office .  Apple also is spending more on its business, including a $1
billion data center that’s being completed in North Carolina.
Apple devoted $1.78 billion to research and development in 2010,
up about 34 percent from $1.33 billion in 2009. Sales and other
administrative costs rose 33 percent to $5.5 billion, as the
company spent more on retail.  Advertising  costs increased 38 percent to $691 million in
2010. The company also hired 12,300 people and now has 46,600
full-time employees, according to  regulatory filings .  Low Point  Apple’s cash pile shows how far it’s come from the mid-
1990s, before Jobs returned to the company after a 12-year
absence. In 1995, Apple reported a cash position net of short-
term borrowings of $491 million, according to SEC filings. The
company’s operating expenses amounted to $183 million per month,
leaving it with only enough cash to fund operations for less
than three months, according to the documents.  In 1997, Apple acquired NeXT Software Inc., the computer
company Jobs founded after he left in 1985. He took the reins
later that year, eventually overseeing the introductions of the
iMac, iPod, iTunes, iPhone and iPad.  “They were pretty close to going out of business and when
you have a situation like that, it leaves a permanent mark in
your memory bank,” Marshall said. “It’s got to be the best
turnaround story of all time.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Adam Satariano  in San Francisco at 
 asatariano1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  