-- ADM Profit Misses Analysts' Estimates After Black Sea Drought
-- B y   S h r u t i   D a t e   S i n g h
-- 2010-11-02T17:04:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-02/archer-daniels-profit-misses-analysts-estimates-after-black-sea-drought.html
Archer Daniels Midland Co. , the
world’s largest grain processor, said profit fell for the fiscal
first quarter, missing analysts’ estimates, after a drought
reduced grain harvests and exports from the Black Sea region.  Net income fell 30 percent to $345 million, or 54 cents a
share, in the three months through September, from $496 million,
or 77 cents, a year earlier, the Decatur, Illinois-based company
today said in a statement. The average of 10 analysts’  estimates 
was for per-share profit of 75 cents. ADM slid as much as 8.7
percent, the biggest intraday drop since May 5, 2009.  “Agricultural services results were impacted by crop
supply shifts early in the quarter,” ADM Chief Executive
Officer  Patricia Woertz  said on an investor conference call.  ADM said its agricultural-services unit, the company’s
largest by sales, saw operating profit fall 25 percent largely
because of “supply shifts” and “government actions” in the
region. Russia, which exports most agricultural output via the
sea, is expected to see its grain harvest slump because of this
year’s drought. The country halted cereal exports until July and
neighboring Ukraine curbed grain shipments.  The decline in agricultural-services earnings “was a
surprise,”  Christina McGlone , a Greenwich, Connecticut-based
analyst at Deutsche Bank AG, said today in an interview.  The expectation was that ADM “would benefit from the
dislocation caused by the drought in the region,” said McGlone,
who has a “hold” rating on the shares. “They must have not
been positioned well.”  Building Factories  ADM  dropped  $2.25, or 6.7 percent, to $31.14 as of 12:40
p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares
gained 6.6 percent this year before today.  Woertz, 57, is focusing on growing the company by
acquisitions and building factories, including the biodiesel
plant in Brazil whose construction was announced today.  Sales rose 13 percent to $16.8 billion from $14.9 billion
in the first quarter. ADM said  net income  also fell because of a
$124 million after-tax charge on inventory valuations.  Operating profit for ADM’s corn-processing unit gained 81
percent to $341 million on improving ethanol margins and
volumes. Oilseed-processing profit rose 8.5 percent to $308
million. Operating profit for each segment is based on net sales
minus identifiable operating expenses, ADM said.  Russia may see its grain harvest drop 37 percent because of
a drought this year, the U.S. Department of Agriculture’s
Foreign Agricultural Service forecast last month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Shruti Date Singh  in Chicago at 
 ssingh28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at   scasey4@bloomberg.net  