-- Hartford Posts Fourth Straight Quarterly Profit on Investments
-- B y   H u g h   S o n
-- 2010-11-02T22:38:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-02/hartford-financial-reports-fourth-straight-quarterly-profit-on-investments.html
Hartford Financial Services Group
Inc. , the insurer that repaid $3.4 billion of U.S. aid in March,
posted its fourth-straight quarterly profit as investments
gained. Hartford advanced 4.8 percent in late trading after
boosting its profit estimate for this year.  Third-quarter  net income  of $666 million, or $1.34 a share,
compares with a loss of $220 million, or 79 cents, in the same
period a year earlier, the Hartford, Connecticut-based company
said today in a statement. Core earnings this year may be $2.60
to $2.70 a share, Hartford said, up from the previous projection
of $2.10 to $2.30 given in August.  Chief Executive Officer  Liam McGee , hired in October 2009,
returned Hartford to profit last year as stock and bond rallies
boosted the value of holdings and reduced liabilities to
customers on equity-linked retirement products. The firm posted
more than $4 billion in net losses in the five quarters before
McGee’s arrival. Hartford’s rating was upgraded to “neutral”
from “sell” last week by Goldman Sachs Group Inc. on the
“greater command” managers had on the insurer’s capital needs.  “Especially compared to how it has been in the past, the
equity markets strengthened, which helps Hartford in both their
variable annuities business and their investments,” said  Drew Woodbury , a Morningstar Inc. analyst in Chicago. “They’re
trying to right the ship and make some good steps.”  Shares Rise  Hartford, which reported results after the close of regular
 trading , rose $1.13 to $24.55 at 6:18 p.m. The firm has climbed
less than 1 percent  this year  in New York Stock Exchange trading
as the KBW Insurance Index rose 16 percent.  “There was significant improvement in the quality of our
investment portfolio,” McGee said in a telephone interview
after results were released. “Our losses and impairments were
at levels close to what we had pre-crisis.”  Net unrealized investment gains reached $1.2 billion in the
quarter, compared with a net unrealized loss of $1.5 billion at
the end of June. The figures, reflecting market fluctuations
that aren’t counted toward earnings, are monitored by investors
and rating firms as a gauge of financial strength.  Book value
per share,  a measure of assets minus liabilities, was $45.80, an
11 percent improvement from about $41.29 on June 30.  Investment income rose 3 percent to $1.1 billion, led by an
$81 million improvement in returns on alternative investments,
which typically include private equity and hedge funds.  Earlier Reduction  Hartford had trimmed its earnings forecast in August. The
company said then, in its second-quarter profit report, that
earnings may be $2.10 to $2.30 a share this year, less than
previous guidance of $2.70 to $3.  “Last quarter we had a goodwill charge, we had an asbestos
charge, we had several charges that were one-time charges,”
McGee said in the interview. “This quarter we had a much better
quarter than we anticipated, so we were able to increase our
guidance.”  The firm will “evaluate guidance and how we use it in
2011,” he said.  Hartford posted core earnings of $1.43 per share, or 98
cents per share excluding the impact of special items including
a release of reserves. That met the 98-cent average profit
 estimate  of 13 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Hartford, which sells life insurance  as well as  property-
casualty coverage, has scaled back business outside the U.S. and
curbed the sale of variable annuities, the equity-based
retirement products that produced losses when  stock markets  fell
in 2008 and early 2009. Credit losses in the second half will be
similar to those in the first as the “worst is behind us” on
writedowns, McGee said in August.  Insurance Sales  Industrywide, U.S. property and casualty insurance sales
fell for 12 straight quarters before rising 1.3 percent in the
second quarter, the Property Casualty Insurers Association of
America said in a September  statement . Life-insurance sales rose
7 percent in the second quarter, the second straight period of
growth, trade group Limra International said in August.  McGee, 56,  raised  more than $2.5 billion selling stock and
debt in March to exit the Troubled Asset Relief Program. McGee’s
predecessor as CEO,  Ramani Ayer , secured the aid package that
ranked Hartford second to  American International Group Inc. 
among bailed-out U.S. insurers.  The Treasury Department raised $706.3 million in September
by selling 52.1 million warrants it received as compensation for
the risks taken with taxpayer dollars. The warrants entitle
holders to purchase Hartford stock at $9.79 a share.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Hugh Son  in New York at   hson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net . 