-- Stocks, Treasuries Rise, Dollar Weakens Before Fed's Decision
-- B y   W h i t n e y   K i s l i n g   a n d   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 2010-11-02T20:12:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-02/asian-stocks-dip-before-central-bank-meetings-yen-drops-from-15-year-high.html
U.S. stocks rallied, sending
benchmark indexes to six-month highs, as investors awaited the
Federal Reserve’s plans to boost the economy and election
results that may divide Congress. The dollar weakened and
Treasuries rose.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index climbed 0.8 percent to
1,193.57 at 4 p.m. in New York and the  Stoxx Europe 600 Index 
added 0.4 percent. Ten-year Treasury yields decreased three
basis points to 2.59 percent and the dollar fell versus 12 of
its 16 most-traded peers. Cotton rose to a record and sugar
reached a 29-year high. Oil surged to a six-month high of almost
$84 a barrel.  The S&P 500 has surged 14 percent since Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  indicated in August that he was considering pumping
more cash into the economy. The Fed will probably announce a
plan to purchase at least $500 billion of long-term securities
tomorrow, according to economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.
The decision will follow today’s midterm elections in which
Republicans are projected to gain control of the House.  “The market’s been climbing ever since Bernanke started
talking about this on Aug. 27,” said Walter “Bucky” Hellwig,
a Birmingham, Alabama-based senior vice president at BB&T Wealth
Management, which oversees $17 billion. “As an investor, when
you can buy something that you know someone else is going to buy
at a higher price later, you go ahead and do it.”  ‘All These Expectations’  Home Depot Inc., American Express Co. and Microsoft Corp.
climbed at least 1.6 percent to lead the gain in the  Dow Jones
Industrial Average , which climbed during the session above its
highest closing level since the week of Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc.’s bankruptcy in September 2008 before paring its  advance .
The Dow closed up 64.1 points, or 0.6 percent, to 11,188.72, the
highest since April 26.  Today’s rally brought the S&P 500 to its highest closing
level since May 3. U.S. stocks also gained as earnings at
companies including MasterCard Inc. topped analyst estimates.
MasterCard surged 2.9 percent. Almost 79 percent of the
companies in the S&P 500 that reported results since Oct. 7 have
surpassed analyst projections for per-share profit, according to
 data compiled by Bloomberg .  This week’s elections and Fed meeting will be followed by a
government jobs report projected to show the U.S. unemployment
rate held steady at 9.6 percent last month, near a 27-year high
of 10.1 percent reached in October 2009.  “The Fed created all these expectations and it’s going to
be hard for them to deliver; anything less than $500 billion in
QE would be uncivilized,” said  John Lynch , chief equity
strategist at Wells Fargo Funds Management, which oversees $465
billion. He was referring to the bond-purchase tactic, which is
known as quantitative easing. “I’m not really buying into this
rally. It’s going to be hard to deal with the election, Fed
policy and the jobs report all in the same week.”  Election Speculation  Republicans are poised to take control of the U.S. House
and narrow Democrats’ margin in the Senate, delivering a rebuke
to President  Barack Obama  amid voter anxiety over jobs and the
economy. The Rothenberg Political Report predicts Republican
gains of 55 to 65 seats in the House. The Cook Political Report
puts Republican House gains at 50 to 60 seats, possibly higher.
Both see Democrats losing six to eight seats in the Senate.  The S&P 500 has surged 48 percent on average starting in the
second year of each U.S. presidential term, measured from its
lowest level through the high the next year, according to data
going back to 1928 compiled by Bloomberg. That compares with
trough-to-peak gains of 38 percent in other years.  Election Year Returns  The index has advanced 15 percent on average in years when
there was a Democratic president and Republican majority in
Congress, the most of any combination, according to Strategas
Research Partners.  Oil and gas shares led the  gains  in Europe, as  BP Plc 
climbed 1.8 percent and BG Group Plc rose 3.4 percent after
earnings at both companies beat analysts’ estimates. Danske Bank
A/S, Denmark’s largest lender, rallied 5 percent as profit rose.
The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index  advanced 0.4 percent.  The U.S. currency depreciated 1 percent to $1.4033 per
euro. The Dollar Index, which tracks its performance against
those of six of the nation’s trading partners,  declined  0.7
percent.  Australia’s dollar rose to the highest level since it was
floated in 1983, briefly trading above $1, as it strengthened
against 15 of 16 major counterparts. Central bank Governor  Glenn Stevens  unexpectedly raised the overnight cash rate target a
quarter point to 4.75 percent, saying the economy has
“relatively modest amounts of spare capacity” and citing risk
of “inflation rising again over the medium term.” It was the
RBA’s first move in six months.  Commodities Rally  The  S&P GSCI  index of 24 commodities climbed 0.9 percent to
its highest level in more than two years. Cotton futures for
December delivery jumped by the exchange’s 5-cent limit to
$1.3426 a pound, the highest price in 140 years of trading in
New York. Raw sugar for March rose 2.3 percent to 30.12 cents a
pound. Crude oil increased 1.2 percent to $83.90 a barrel, a
six-month high in New York.  The Irish 10-year yield spread over bunds widened as much
as 22 basis points, or 0.22 percentage point, to 484 basis
points, the second consecutive all-time high, amid concern the
nation will struggle to fund its budget deficit.  Ireland led an increase in the cost of insuring against
losses on European government bonds, according to traders of
credit-default swaps. Contracts on Ireland surged 24 basis
points to close at a record 522, according to data provider CMA.  Irish Bond Trades  Traders in Irish government bonds may have to post bigger
deposits, known as margins, when executing transactions through
LCH.Clearnet Ltd. after the value of the securities plunged.  Trading may become more expensive because the yield spread
between Irish 10-year government bonds and an index of AAA-rated
euro-region debt has surpassed 450 basis points, said John
Burke, head of fixed income at LCH in London. LCH will also
gauge Ireland’s credit-default swaps and implied credit rating
before deciding whether to increase margin requirements, he
said, declining to specify those trigger levels.  The Greek-German yield gap  increased  18 basis points to 833
basis points. The Portuguese yield premium  rose  15 basis points
to 377 basis points. The Spanish and Italian 10-year spreads
over bunds also widened.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Whitney Kisling  in New York at 
 wkisling@bloomberg.net ;
 Rita Nazareth  in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 