-- MasterCard Profit Beats Estimates as Spending Climbs
-- B y   P e t e r   E i c h e n b a u m
-- 2010-11-02T20:18:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-02/mastercard-profit-beats-most-estimates-as-card-spending-climbs.html
MasterCard Inc. , the world’s second-
biggest payments network, posted third-quarter profit that
exceeded most Wall Street  estimates  as more consumers paid with
credit and debit cards.  Net income climbed 15 percent to $518 million, or $3.94 a
share, from $452 million, or $3.45 a share, in the same period a
year earlier, the Purchase, New York-based company said today in
a statement. The average estimate of 29  analysts  surveyed by
Bloomberg was for earnings of $3.54 a share.  Chief Executive Officer  Ajay Banga , who took over the top
job at the start of the quarter, is targeting markets beyond the
U.S. to boost revenue growth. He’s trying to accelerate the
worldwide consumer shift from cash and checks to plastic while
taking market share from larger rival  Visa Inc.   “We are at the heart of a growth sector,” Banga, 50, said
today in a conference call with analysts. “While we recognize
that the industry is changing, we’re not going to simply look to
see our way through challenges that may arise, but we’re going
to convert on the underlying opportunities that they present.”  Net revenue increased 4.7 percent to $1.43 billion as
operating expenses dropped 4.1 percent to $662 million.  MasterCard advanced $6.99, or 2.9 percent, to $245.98 at
4:15 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The
shares have fallen 3.9 percent this year.  Global Spending  Worldwide spending on MasterCard and Maestro-branded cards
climbed 7.9 percent to $514 billion based on local currencies,
the company said. Spending by consumers outside their home
countries surged 15 percent. Processed transactions rose 0.6
percent to 5.8 billion. Visa last week posted fiscal fourth-
quarter  net income  of $774 million, a 51 percent increase, as
processed transactions and total card spending rose.  Shares of MasterCard and San Francisco-based Visa had
declined more than 20 percent earlier this year as Congress
included caps on debit-card interchange, or “swipe,” fees, in
the Dodd-Frank financial-regulatory overhaul. Both companies are
awaiting word from the Federal Reserve on how the central bank
will interpret Congress’s mandate to regulate the fees.  Antitrust Action  “Until we see it, it’s impossible to predict the outcome
to either MasterCard or the entire payments industry,” Banga
said in the conference call. “We expect a first draft of the
Fed’s position sometime in December.”  Last month MasterCard and Visa settled a U.S. antitrust
lawsuit by agreeing not to bar merchants from steering customers
to cheaper card brands and alternative payment forms. A separate
antitrust case brought by merchants is pending in federal court.  MasterCard has signed new deals, including a contract with
 Banco Santander SA  subsidiary Sovereign Bank to convert a U.S.
portfolio of about 2 million debit cards from Visa, Chief
Financial Officer  Martina Hund-Mejean  said in a telephone
interview today.  “That will be flipped in the first half of 2011,” she
said. MasterCard also won a contract that will expand the number
of its cards issued by UBS AG’s wealth-management division,
Hund-Mejean said.  Visa and MasterCard have both announced plans to buy back
up to $1 billion in stock each. Visa, which completed an earlier
$1 billion stock repurchase in the three months ended Sept. 30,
said last week that it may buy more shares during the next year.
MasterCard hasn’t yet bought back stock under the repurchase
program it announced on Sept. 14, Hund-Mejean said today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Peter Eichenbaum  in New York at 
 peichenbaum@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  