-- Atlanta's $590 Million Airport Bonds Lead Tax-Exempt Sales: Muni Credit
-- B y   B r e n d a n   A .   M c G r a i l   a n d   A l e x a n d r a   H a r r i s
-- 2010-11-02T04:01:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-02/atlanta-s-590-million-bonds-lead-tax-exempt-sales-muni-credit.html
Atlanta, which owns and operates the
world’s busiest airport, plans to sell about $590 million in
municipal debt, this week’s largest tax-exempt sale, to help
finance a new terminal at  Hartsfield-Jackson International .  States and municipalities are poised to sell as much as
$10.3 billion in debt this week, about 15 percent less than  last
week , according to data compiled by Bloomberg. About $6.5
billion is scheduled to be sold as tax-exempts, an increase of
25 percent over last week, Bloomberg data show.  “Any kind of issuance in the tax-exempt market will be
well-received” after a relative dearth, said  Matt Fabian , an
analyst with Concord, Massachusetts-based Municipal Market
Advisors Inc.  Proceeds from Atlanta’s sale will help finance the Maynard
H. Jackson Jr. International Terminal, scheduled to be finished
in 2012, according to preliminary offering documents. The new
12-gate facility will be connected to the 28-gate Concourse E,
creating a 40-gate international air-travel complex at
Hartsfield-Jackson, said John Kennedy, an airport spokesman.  About $177 million of the city’s offering is backed by a
senior lien on airport general revenue, and is ranked fifth-
highest at A+ by Fitch Ratings. The remainder is secured by a
subordinate claim and a “passenger facility” charge, carrying
a rating of A, one level lower, Fitch said.  Rating Support  Both parts of the issue are rated Al by Moody’s Investors
Service, fifth-highest, reflecting Moody’s upgrade of
outstanding subordinate debt.  “These ratings will support a project, the international
terminal, that will enhance Atlanta’s position as a global
gateway and reinforce the airport’s position as the nation’s
most efficient hub,” Louis Miller, airport general manager,
said in an  Oct. 29 statement .  Atlanta Chief Financial Officer  Joya De Foor  didn’t
immediately respond to a request for comment.  Hartsfield-Jackson gets more than half its revenue from
parking, car rental and other concessions, about $201 million of
its $390 million, according to its  2009 annual report . Atlanta
is among the least expensive airports in the U.S., with airline
costs of less than $5 a passenger for 2008. That compares with
$17 at New York’s Kennedy Airport and $11 at LaGuardia, as of
October 2009.  ‘Cheap Airport’  “It has been a cheap airport to operate,” said  Howard Cure , director of municipal research at Evercore Wealth
Management LLC in New York. “Airport costs have always been
kept down.”  Atlanta’s airport is the hub for  Delta Air Lines Inc. , the
world’s second-largest airline after United Continental Holdings
Inc., and another reason Cure likes the debt, he said.  Delta signed a lease extension last year, which will keep
it in Atlanta at least through 2017. Delta and its regional
partners accounted for almost  75 percent  of passengers in
Atlanta in the 12-month period ended July 31, according to U.S.
Department of Transportation data.  Between the security of the income stream backing the bonds
and investors’ “clamoring for tax-exempts,” the deal should
result in favorable borrowing costs for the city, Cure said.  Dallas-Fort Worth International Airport , the world’s
eighth-busiest, sold about $304 million in tax-exempt bonds on
Oct. 22. The debt, comparably rated at A+ by Fitch and A1 by
Moody’s, included 28-year securities priced to yield 4.75
percent, or 98 basis points above  top-rated obligations ,
according to a benchmark Bloomberg Valuation index.  Hartsfield-Jackson served about  88 million passengers  in
2009, according to data from Airports Council International, a
Geneva-based trade group. London’s Heathrow Airport, the world’s
second-busiest, served 66 million passengers last year. Dallas-
Fort Worth had 56 million passengers.  Following are descriptions of pending sales of U.S.
municipal debt:  LOVE FIELD AIRPORT MODERNIZATION CORP., the local
government entity that oversees the development of the Dallas,
Texas, airport plans to sell $310 million of tax-exempt debt
tomorrow to help finance an expansion project. The bonds are
rated BBB by Standard & Poor’s, second-lowest of 10 investment
grades, and are backed by “facilities payments” from discount
airline  Southwest Airlines Co.  Underwriters led by Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. will market the issue to investors. (Added Nov. 1)  RUTGERS , the state university of  New Jersey , this week is
selling $508 million in bonds, including $391 million in Build
Americas, the school’s first issue of the taxable debt. The
borrowing will help finance the construction of living and
dining facilities, and is rated Aa2 by Moody’s and AA by S&P,
both third-highest. Underwriters led by Morgan Stanley will
market the issue. (Added Nov. 2)  HARVARD, the oldest and richest U.S. university, plans to
sell $730 million in tax-exempt bonds and $300 million in
traditional taxables as early as next week through the
Massachusetts Development Finance Agency. Harvard will use the
bonds to refinance long-term debt and fund construction for the
University’s Fogg Art Museum, according to a Moody’s report. The
revenue-backed bonds are top rated by Moody’s. (Added Nov. 2)  NEW YORK CITY MUNICIPAL WATER FINANCE AUTHORITY, which
funds the capital needs of the water and sewer system in the
most-populous U.S. city, plans to sell $500 million of Build
America Bonds as soon as next week. The securities are rated
second-highest by S&P and Fitch, AA+, and third-highest by
Moody’s, Aa2. They will be marketed by a group led by Samuel A.
Ramirez & Co. (Added Nov. 2)  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Brendan A. McGrail  in New York at 
 bmcgrail@bloomberg.net ;
 Alexandra Harris  in New York at 
 aharris48@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net . 