-- Italian Stocks Advance; Campari, Risanamento, Banco Popolare, Safilo Move
-- B y   F r a n c e s c a   C i n e l l i
-- 2010-11-02T16:42:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-02/atlantia-fiat-safilo-stmicro-unicredit-may-move-italy-equity-preview.html
Italy’s benchmark FTSE MIB Index rose
for the first time in three days, gaining 212.89, or 1 percent,
to 21,397.82 at the 5:30 p.m. close in Milan.  The following stocks were among the most active in the
Italian market today.  Banca Monte dei Paschi di Siena SpA  (BMPS IM) declined 1.3
percent to 98.45 euro cents, dropping to the lowest in eight
weeks. BofA Merrill Lynch added the stock to its “least
preferred” European banks.  UBS AG increased its price estimate on the country’s third-
largest bank to 1 euro from 95 euro cents, while keeping a
“cautious” view on the stock.  Banco Popolare SC  (BP IM) lost for a third day, dropping
1.1 percent to 3.73 euros. Mediobanca Securities cut its price
estimate on Italy’s fifth-biggest bank to 4 euros from 4.30
euros and kept an “underperform” rating, saying in a note that
“the capital increase is the right move to fix regulatory
capital, but the size and the length of time needed for
completion will probably weigh on the share price.”  Banco Popolare also had its price estimate cut to 4 euros
from 4.60 euros at UBS.  Bulgari SpA  (BUL IM), the world’s third-largest jeweler,
rose 2.8 percent to 7.94 euros. “Luxury-goods makers advanced
across Europe, tracking gains in Hermes International SCA,”
said  Alberto Magnani , a fund manager at Abbacus Sim SpA in
Genoa, Italy.  Hermes, the maker of luxury leather goods, rose in Paris,
snapping a five-day loss.  Davide Campari-Milano SpA  (CPR IM) rose 2 percent to 4.63
euros, erasing yesterday’s decline. Nomura Holdings Inc. said in
a note on European beverages that U.S. spirits sales are strong,
highlighting that “AC Nielsen U.S. spirits data for the four
weeks to Oct. 16 continued to show positive momentum.”  Fiat SpA  (F IM) lost 1.7 percent to 11.85 euros, extending
yesterday’s decline. October new car registrations data from the
Italian transport ministry are due today.  “We see a drop in the fourth quarter of 30 percent for
Fiat in the European markets, leading to 2010 new cars sold down
15 percent,” Fidentiis Equities SV SA said in a note.  Fondiaria SAI  (FSA IM) sank 4.1 percent to 7.76 euros,
extending yesterday’s tumble. Natixis Securities said that the
management of Groupama SA, the French insurer that has agreed to
buy a stake in Fondiaria’s controlling shareholder, has not
identified the Italian car insurance market as one of its
priorities.  “A future acquisition of Fondiaria would boost the weight
of the group’s auto insurance business in Italy, which is not
management’s currently flagged strategy,” the brokerage said.  Premafin Finanziaria SpA  (PF IM), the controlling
shareholder, retreated 4 percent to 96.9 euro cents.  Risanamento SpA  (RN IM) climbed 2 percent to 28.15 euro
cents, its second day of gains. The real-estate company signed
an agreement to sell Etoile Madison Corp. in the U.S.  Safilo Group SpA  (SFL IM) advanced for a second day, rising
2.4 percent to 11.92 euros. BofA Merrill Lynch Global Research
lifted its price estimate on the world’s second-largest maker of
glasses to 14 euros from 12 euros. The brokerage said in a note
that “Safilo should be able to deliver significant margin
upside on only marginal top-line growth.”  Saipem SpA  (SPM IM), Europe’s largest oilfield-services
provider, gained 2.4 percent to 32.56 euros. Crude oil surged to
its highest level in three weeks as the dollar weakened against
major currencies on speculation the Federal Reserve will inject
funds into the U.S. economy.  Telecom Italia SpA  (TIT IM) increased 2 percent to 1.11
euros. “The shares benefited from mounting expectations over
results after positive news flow from the Brazilian unit,” said
 Gian Paolo Rivano , a fund manager at Gesti-Re SGR SpA in Milan.
Telecom Italia, Italy’s biggest phone company will publish
results on Nov. 4.  UniCredit SpA  (UCG IM) rose 2.4 percent to 1.85 euros,
snapping a two-day drop. Keefe, Bruyette & Woods Ltd. reiterated
a “market perform” rating on Italy’s biggest bank before
quarterly results, citing in a note “the remaining
uncertainties related to its governance and strategy.”  Gruppo Banca Leonardo said in a note that the bank’s
strategic and governance committees will meet tomorrow to
discuss governance issues and the start of the reorganization in
Italy.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Francesca Cinelli  in Milan at 
 fcinelli@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Merritt at   dmerritt1@bloomberg.net . 