-- Asian Stocks Gain as Goldman Upgrades Hang Seng Index Before Fed Statement
-- B y   S h a n i   R a j a
-- 2010-11-03T10:59:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-02/australian-stocks-gain-after-commodities-rise-westpac-advances-on-profit.html
Asian  stocks  rose for a third day
after brokerages lifted estimates for benchmark indexes in Hong
Kong and South Korea and as investors awaited a U.S. Federal
Reserve decision on economic stimulus.  Sun Hung Kai Properties Ltd.  surged 6.6 percent in Hong
Kong after Goldman Sachs Group Inc. raised its target for the
Hang Seng Index.  Semiconductor Manufacturing International Corp. ,
China’s biggest chipmaker, surged 4.6 percent after reporting a
second straight quarterly profit.  PetroChina Co. , Asia’s biggest
company by market value, jumped 3.5 percent in Hong Kong after
oil prices climbed. Woori Finance Holdings Co., which controls
South Korea’s No. 2 bank, rose 1.1 percent.  The  MSCI Asia Pacific excluding Japan Index  rose 0.9
percent to 473.88 as of 6:27 p.m. in Hong Kong, the highest
level since June 6, 2008. The gauge has advanced 3.3 percent in
the past three days. Futures on the U.S. Standard & Poor’s 500
Index gained 0.1 percent following mid-term elections that
resulted in the Republican Party winning control of the House of
Representatives.  “Earnings and fundamentals are coming through stronger
than expected, and therefore confirming the rally we’ve seen in
equity markets,” said  Nader Naeimi , a Sydney-based strategist
at AMP Capital Investors Ltd., which manages about $85 billion.
“That’s what’s allowing the market to push higher, although
there’s still some caution over the U.S. mid-term elections and
the Fed meeting.”  Hong Kong’s  Hang Seng Index  climbed 2 percent to 24,144.67
after Goldman Sachs raised its 12-month target to 29,000, saying
the city has the most to gain from extra liquidity released by
quantitative easing programs and China’s growth. The Kospi Index
gained 0.9 percent to 1,935.97 after Deutsche Bank AG upgraded
its prediction for the index, saying the gauge may reach 2,350
by the end of 2011.  Fed Meeting  Japanese markets are closed for a holiday. Australia’s
benchmark S&P/ASX 200 Index gained 0.5 percent and India’s
Sensitive Index advanced 0.6 percent.  Investors across the world are awaiting the results of a
Fed policy meeting today, which economists surveyed by Bloomberg
News reckon will lead to an unprecedented second round of
monetary easing. That may include a plan to buy at least $500
billion of long-term securities, economists said. Bank of Japan
policymakers are due to meet on Nov. 4-5.  “The market reaction could be quite dramatic tonight,”
said  Stephen Halmarick , Sydney-based head of investment markets
research at Colonial First State Global Asset Management, which
oversees about $135 billion. “I suspect the more liquidity they
pump into the system, the better for Asian equities markets.”  Hong Kong Developers  Hong Kong has the most to gain from additional liquidity
released by quantitative easing programs and China’s growth,
Goldman Sachs analysts wrote in a report dated today. Property
 stocks  such as  Sun Hung Kai Properties  and MTR Corp. would
benefit from liquidity-driven real estate inflation, the
analysts said.  Sun Hung Kai Properties gained 6.6 percent to HK$144.5. MTR,
a subway operator that has real-estate investments, advanced 2.7
percent to HK$30.90.  Woori Financial rose 1.1 percent to 14,250 won in Seoul
following the Deutsche Bank report, which said Kospi index gains
would be driven by improved liquidity conditions and
“undemanding” valuations.  Dongkuk Steel Mill Co. , South
Korea’s No. 3 steelmaker, jumped 5.6 percent to 27,300 won.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index, which includes Japan, has
rallied 12 percent since Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said on
Aug. 27 more securities purchases may be warranted if growth
slows. Companies in the MSCI gauge are  valued  at an average 14.3
times estimated profit, about the same level on the day of
Bernanke’s comments.  Political Gridlock  The Republicans’ election victories yesterday give
candidates who campaigned in part against the Fed an opportunity
to call Bernanke to task for taking part in unpopular financial
rescues in the wake of the credit crisis. The rival Democrats
retained control of the Senate, though Republicans cut into
their lead.  “The concern is there’s more likely a gridlock in the
political forum,” said Colonial’s Halmarick.  Semiconductor Manufacturing  surged 4.6 percent to 69 Hong
Kong cents. Net income was $30.4 million, the company said in a
filing yesterday. It was expected to post a net loss of $573,000,
the average of analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Westpac Banking Corp. , Australia’s second-largest bank,
advanced 0.5 percent to A$23.42 in Sydney after saying second-
half profit almost tripled. In Mumbai,  Fortis Healthcare Ltd. , a
hospital operator, gained 1.5 percent to 166.45 rupees after
saying second-quarter profit surged more than fivefold.  Beating Estimates  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index has risen 9 percent this year
on speculation growth in corporate profits will weather Europe’s
debt crisis, Chinese steps to curb property-price inflation and
concern about the pace of the U.S. economic rebound.  Six companies in the MSCI gauge posted  earnings  that beat
analyst estimates for every five that fell short, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg on 391 firms that reported quarterly
profit since Oct. 7.  Commodity producers in the region climbed today after
copper futures in New York gained 1.4 percent, while crude oil
rose 1.2 percent to the highest settlement price since May 3.
Oil futures advanced 0.9 percent in after-hours trading.  PetroChina surged 3.5 percent to HK$9.90 in Hong Kong.  BHP
Billiton Ltd. , the world’s biggest mining company, rose 0.9
percent to A$42.63.  Rio Tinto Group , the world’s third-largest
mining company, increased 0.8 percent to A$83.39.  PTT Exploration & Production Pcl , Thailand’s only listed
oil and gas explorer, rose 0.6 percent to 180 baht after the Kao
Hoon newspaper said the company expects to post net income of 10
billion baht in each quarter this year after producing more oil
and gas. The report cited Chief Executive Officer Anon
Sirisaengtaksin.  To contact the reporter for this story:
 Shani Raja  in Sydney at 
 sraja4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net  