-- Australia Unexpectedly Raises Rates; Currency Jumps
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2010-11-02T07:47:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-02/australia-unexpectedly-raises-main-rate-to-4-75-ending-five-month-pause.html
The Reserve Bank of Australia
unexpectedly increased its benchmark interest rate on concern
stronger growth will cause inflation to accelerate, driving the
nation’s currency to parity with the U.S. dollar.  Governor  Glenn Stevens  raised the overnight cash rate
target a quarter point to 4.75 percent in Sydney, saying the
economy has “relatively modest amounts of spare capacity” and
citing risk of “inflation rising again over the medium term.”
It was the RBA’s first move in six months.  The move signals Stevens wants to avoid a repeat of 2007,
when he held off raising rates for months as slowing inflation
masked a buildup in price pressures. Growth in Australia, which
skirted a recession during the crisis, may strengthen as energy
companies such as  BG Group Plc  add construction jobs.  “They’re trying to nip inflation in the bud,”  Matthew Circosta , an economist at Moody’s Analytics in Sydney, said on
Bloomberg Television. “Back in 2007 they were behind the
curve” in raising rates and “I don’t think they want to make
the same mistake this time around.”  The Australian dollar climbed to $1.0003 as of 7:25 a.m. in
London from 98.82 cents before the announcement. The S&P/ASX 200
Index of stocks was little changed at 4,701.40.  The  decision , predicted by seven of 24 economists surveyed
by Bloomberg News, was the second straight in which Stevens
defied the majority of economists’ forecasts.  Fed Meeting  Stevens’s move comes a day before the U.S. Federal Reserve
meets to consider pumping additional stimulus into the world’s
largest economy. The divergence in monetary policies has stoked
the Australian dollar, which has gained about 11 percent this
year against the U.S. currency.  Australia’s jobless rate, at 5.1 percent in September, is
about half the level of unemployment in the U.S. and euro zone.
The International Monetary Fund predicts Australia’s growth will
advance to 3.5 percent next year from 3 percent this year as
resources investment intensifies.  “While the labor market is not as tight as in 2007 and
2008, some further strengthening would appear to be in prospect,
judging by the trends in job vacancies,” the central bank said
in today’s  statement . “After the significant decline last year,
growth in wages has picked up somewhat, as had been expected.
Some further increase is likely over the coming year.”  A “moderation” of inflation for the past two years “is
probably now close to ending,” the RBA said.  Employment Surge  Two days ago,  BG Group  said it will begin building a $15
billion liquefied natural gas venture in Queensland state,
generating 5,000 construction jobs. Investment there and in
Western Australia, including  Chevron Corp. ’s A$43 billion ($42.5
billion) Gorgon liquefied natural gas project, is growing
because of stronger Chinese demand for raw materials.  “The bank still sees Australian interest rates as likely
to continue to rise as the mining boom progresses,” said  Ivan Colhoun , head of Australian economics at Australia & New Zealand
Banking Group Ltd. “This likely reflects the need to move
nominal rates higher to match any rise in inflation and, at some
stage, to also raise real interest rates too.”  Today’s increase was announced half an hour before the
running of the Melbourne Cup, dubbed “the race that stops the
nation,” and means the central bank has moved borrowing costs
in the past five meetings on the day of Australia’s richest
horse race.  Banks’ Response  Commonwealth Bank of Australia, the nation’s biggest home
lender, will raise its standard mortgage interest rate by almost
double the central bank’s increase. CBA’s standard variable home
loan interest rate will be increased by 45 basis points, or 0.45
percentage point, to 7.81 percent on Nov. 5, the Sydney-based
bank said today.  Borrowing costs at ANZ and Westpac Banking Corp. are under
review, according to spokesmen at the lenders. National
Australia Bank Ltd. spokesman  George Wright  said no decision has
been made “at this stage.”  Treasurer  Wayne Swan  has urged banks not to boost borrowing
costs by more than central bank increases, calling CBA’s move a
“cynical cash grab.” Australian politicians are sensitive
about rate increases as more than two-thirds of the population
own homes, compared with less than 50 percent in some European
nations.  Australia’s central bank signaled after its Oct. 5 meeting
that the decision to leave borrowing costs unchanged was
“finely balanced” with the case for an increase, as a rising
currency helped ease inflation concerns. Most economists had
forecast a quarter percentage-point increase at that meeting.  Price Measures  While the government’s consumer price index rose 0.7
percent from the second quarter, less than the 0.8 percent
median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey, that may be
shrouding intensifying price pressures. An Oct. 7 report showed
the biggest back-to-back monthly job increases since 1988.  The central bank’s measures of core inflation showed annual
price increases also slowed last quarter. The bank aims to keep
inflation in a range of 2 percent to 3 percent on average.  Stevens had paused after boosting borrowing costs in six
quarter-point steps from October 2009 to May this year, the most
aggressive round of rate increases among Group of 20 members.  Companies such as  BHP Billiton Ltd. , Rio Tinto Group and BG,
the U.K.’s third-largest oil and gas producer, have helped spur
a hiring surge as they increase shipments of iron ore, coal and
energy to China.  The growth in mining investment was a reason IMF staff last
week said Australia is starting to exhibit “early signs” of
inflation pressures.  “With inflation projected to remain close to the top of
the 2-3 percent target band, the RBA needs to guard against
inflation expectations becoming anchored at too high a level,”
the IMF staff said in an Oct. 29 report.  Among 33 members of the Paris-based Organization for
Economic Cooperation and Development, Australia last year was
the only advanced economy to avoid two consecutive quarters of
contraction  -- a standard definition of a recession -- along
with developing economies Slovakia and Poland.  To contact the reporter for this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey in Tokyo at  canstey@bloomberg.net  