-- Australian Service Industry Expansion Resumes as Orders and Sales Rebound
-- B y   B r e n d a n   M u r r a y
-- 2010-11-02T22:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-02/australian-service-industry-expansion-resumes-as-orders-and-sales-rebound.html
Australia’s services industry
expanded in October for the first time in six months as measures
of sales, new orders and wages advanced, a private survey
showed.  The performance of services  index  rose 5.1 points to 50.7
in October, the highest since April, Commonwealth Bank of
Australia and the Australian Industry Group said in Sydney
today. A figure above 50 indicates expansion.  The report adds to evidence that inflation may accelerate
as Australia’s economy gains strength. Citing a tightening labor
market and prices “likely to rise over the next few years,”
the Reserve Bank of Australia yesterday increased its benchmark
interest rate for the first time since May and the seventh rise
since October 2009.  “While the lift in activity during October is a positive
sign for the services sector in the lead-up to Christmas,
yesterday’s decision by the Reserve Bank to raise the cash rate
and give monetary policy a contractionary bias will leave many
businesses wary that growth in sales and new orders will prove
short-lived,” Australian Industry Group Chief Executive  Heather Ridout  said in a statement.  The index’s gauge for sales increased to 55.3 from 46.3,
and the reading for new orders gained to 52.1 from 47.5. The
wages indicator advanced to 57.4 from 55.4, while the measure of
selling prices reached 50.6 from 47.5, the report showed.  Today’s report, based on a poll of about 200 companies, is
similar to the U.S. non-manufacturing ISM index.  The report measures sales, new orders, deliveries,
inventories and employment for companies such as banks, real
estate agents, insurers, restaurants, transport firms and
retailers to compile the overall performance of services index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brendan Murray in Sydney at 
 brmurray@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey in Tokyo at  canstey@bloomberg.net  