-- Australians Pony Up on Race Day in Melbourne as RBA's Stevens Raises Rates
-- B y   B r e n d a n   M u r r a y
-- 2010-11-02T08:09:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-02/australians-pony-up-on-race-day-in-melbourne-as-rba-s-stevens-raises-rates.html
For horse-racing fans across
Australia, central bank Governor  Glenn Stevens  took away the
punchbowl again just before the biggest race of the year.  Stevens raised the Reserve Bank of Australia’s  benchmark
interest rate  for the first time in six months to 4.75 percent,
defying the predictions of most economists for no change. It was
the fourth rate increase by Stevens in the past five years on
the same day as the Melbourne Cup, the nation’s richest horse
race.  Billed as “the race that stops a nation,” the Cup is held
on the first Tuesday every November, coinciding with RBA monthly
rate meetings in recent years. Commonwealth Bank of Australia,
the nation’s biggest home lender, followed the central bank’s
decision by announcing it would raise its standard mortgage rate
by almost double the increase Stevens announced.  “Australians deserve better, especially on Melbourne Cup
day,” Deputy Prime Minister and Treasurer  Wayne Swan  said in a
press conference in Brisbane, referring to the CBA decision.  Rain also dampened the race-day mood after showers fell in
recent days.  About 100,000 spectators were expected to attend the A$6.2
million ($6.2 million) race and consume an estimated 10,000
bottles of champagne, 14,000 meat pies and 15,000 oysters,
according to an article on the Australian Broadcasting Corp.’s
website.  Stevens, 52, has led the RBA since 2006 and helped
Australia’s economy avoid a recession during the global economic
downturn of 2009. It was the only advanced economy to do so.  In a statement today, he cited growth in wages and the
potential for a broader acceleration in inflation as reasons of
for his seventh rate increase since October 2009.  ‘Lost Touch’  “It is appropriate on Melbourne Cup Day that the Reserve
Bank has decided to punt on a rate hike,” said  Craig James ,
senior economist at CBA in Sydney. “Many Australians will feel
that the Reserve Bank has lost touch with the average consumer
and business-person but we have to remember that our central
bank has guided the economy to 20 years without a recession.”  A French horse named Americain won the 3,200 meter (2-mile)
race. The pre-race favorite, an Australian-trained thoroughbred
called So You Think, finished third.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Brendan Murray  in Sydney at 
 brmurray@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey in Tokyo at  canstey@bloomberg.net  