-- Australia Dollar Jumps to Parity After Central Bank Raises Interest Rates
-- B y   C a n d i c e   Z a c h a r i a h s
-- 2010-11-02T15:44:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-02/australia-dollar-jumps-to-parity-after-central-bank-raises-interest-rates.html
Australia’s dollar bought more than
the U.S. currency after the central bank unexpectedly raised
interest rates for the first time in six months, spurring demand
for the South Pacific nation’s assets.  The so-called Aussie rose to match the U.S. dollar on Oct.
15, the only previous time it has done so since currency
controls were lifted in 1983. The “risk of inflation rising”
remains, Reserve Bank of Australia Governor Glenn Stevens said
in a statement following the decision to raise the  benchmark
rate . Australia’s currency was also bolstered by speculation the
Federal Reserve and Bank of Japan will take further monetary-
easing measures this week, widening Australia’s yield advantage.  “Clearly the RBA still has a tightening bias,” said  Sue Trinh , a senior currency strategist in Hong Kong at Royal Bank
of Canada. “In an environment where the Fed is mulling
quantitative easing and talk of the Bank of Japan following
closely behind and possibly even the Bank of England, the RBA
sticks out.”  Australia’s currency surged 1.2 percent to 99.90 U.S. cents
at 11:41 a.m. in New York from 98.71 cents yesterday. It earlier
reached $1.0024. The Aussie climbed 1.5 percent to 80.67 yen.  Stevens raised the overnight cash rate target by a quarter
percentage point to 4.75 percent. The decision, predicted by
seven of 24 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News, was the
second straight in which Stevens defied the majority of
economists’ forecasts.  Australia’s benchmark rate compares with as low as zero in
the U.S. and Japan, attract investors to the nation’s higher-
yielding assets. The risk in such trades is that currency market
moves will erase profits.  Quantitative Easing  “The economy is now subject to a large expansionary
shock,” Stevens said in the statement today. “The risk of
inflation rising again over the medium term remains.”  Gains in the currency may be limited as “a December rate
hike is very unlikely,” said  Grant Turley , a senior foreign-
exchange strategist with Australia & New Zealand Banking Group
Ltd. in Sydney. “From here it’s going to be about the U.S.
dollar and QE expectations,” said Turley, who expects some
“modest” strength in the greenback over the coming weeks.  Commonwealth Bank of Australia said today it will raise the
interest rate on its standard variable home loans by 0.45
percentage point.  The Fed will probably begin another round of unconventional
monetary easing this week by announcing a plan to buy at least
$500 billion of long-term securities, according to economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Candice Zachariahs  in Sydney at 
 czachariahs2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  