-- Australia Lures Pimco With Debt Returning Most Since 2004: Inflation Bonds
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2010-11-03T02:34:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-02/australia-lures-pimco-with-debt-returning-most-since-2004-inflation-bonds.html
Australia’s inflation-linked bonds
are heading for the biggest returns since 2004 as strengthening
job gains threaten to push the inflation  rate  beyond the central
bank’s target.  The “moderation” in  consumer prices  of the past two years
is now probably near an end, Reserve Bank of Australia Governor
 Glenn Stevens  said in a statement in Sydney yesterday as he
raised the benchmark  interest rate  for the first time since May.
Faster inflation, stoked by an acceleration in job gains led by
Chinese demand for Australia’s coal and iron, would enhance the
appeal of the bonds known as linkers.  “The RBA is trying to keep a lid on the bottle to stop the
inflation genie from escaping, but for now the risks are still
mounting,” said  Jarrod Kerr , director of Australia rates
strategy at Credit Suisse AG in Singapore. “You’d want Aussie
linkers as part of your international portfolio.”  Bonds that give higher coupon payments on a principal
amount that rises with the Australian government’s quarterly
consumer-price index have returned 8.6 percent so far this year,
the most for the period in any year since 2004, Bank of America
Merrill Lynch indexes showed Nov. 1.  The extra yield for so-called linkers maturing in 10 years
compared with nominal 10-year government debt -- a  gauge of the
inflation rate investors expect  over the period -- was 2.80
percentage points as of 6 p.m. in Sydney yesterday. The measure,
called the breakeven rate, is the highest after the U.K. among
13 markets tracked by Bloomberg.  Inflation Target  RBA policy makers aim to keep inflation within a 2 percent
to 3 percent target range. While the rate slowed to 2.8 percent
in the third quarter, a monthly gauge compiled by TD Securities
Ltd. released this week showed an annual jump in  consumer prices 
of 3.8 percent for October.  “The moderation in inflation that has been under way for
the past two years is probably now close to ending,” Stevens
said in his statement announcing a quarter point increase in the
overnight cash rate target to 4.75 percent. He cited prospects
for further job and wage gains and “relatively modest amounts
of spare capacity” in the economy.  Investment by companies such as  BG Group Plc  is escalating
demand for workers in the country. BG Group, based in Reading,
U.K., said three days ago it will begin building a $15 billion
liquefied natural gas venture in Queensland state, generating
5,000 construction jobs. BG, Chevron Corp., Royal Dutch Shell
Plc and  ConocoPhillips  are among energy companies investing
about A$200 billion ($200 billion) in LNG projects in Australia.  Pre-emptive Move  “The RBA has signaled a clear intention to try and better
manage this upswing” after holding off on raising rates for
months in 2007, when a drop in the quarterly inflation rate
masked rising price pressures, said  Su-Lin Ong , senior economist
at RBC Capital Markets in Sydney. “A small move now may temper
the need for more aggressive action next year.”  Pacific Investment Management Co. is the largest owner of
Australia’s inflation bonds, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Among the attractions for the manager of the world’s
biggest bond fund: a rising currency and the smallest debt-to-
GDP ratio among 21 advanced economies, according to the
International Monetary Fund.  “We still quite like Aussie linkers,”  Julian Foxall , a
portfolio manager at Pimco Australia Ltd. in Sydney, said in an
interview last week. “Australia offers higher real rates of
return than other linker markets,” he said. “The fiscal
situation is also a lot better -- from the point of view of
governments debasing the currency in order to pay for increased
levels of debt.”  Sell Five-Year  Because some banks may raise their lending rates by a
bigger amount than the RBA’s increase, the potency of
yesterday’s move may be heightened, diminishing the attraction
of medium-term inflation bonds, according to Barclays Capital.  Commonwealth Bank of Australia , the nation’s biggest home
lender, said it will raise its standard mortgage rate by 0.45
percentage point, or almost double the RBA’s move.  “We view today’s rise in five-year breakevens as an
attractive opportunity to initiate a ‘sell five-year breakevens’
trade,” said  Gavin Stacey , a strategist at Barclays Capital in
Sydney. Higher lending rates will support “the relatively
benign inflation outlook near-term.”  With the Australian dollar’s rally against its U.S.
counterpart, linkers in U.S. currency terms have returned 19
percent this year, the Bank of America Merrill Lynch index shows.
The Australian dollar yesterday reached parity, a feat it
accomplished last month for the first time since 1982.  Turkey, Mexico  The return in dollars exceeds all but Turkey’s and Mexico’s
inflation bonds among 18 markets tracked by the bank. Turkey’s
local-currency debt rating is below investment grade while
Australia is Aaa and AAA at Moody’s Investors Service and
Standard & Poor’s respectively. Mexico is eight steps below
Australia’s grade at Moody’s and six below at S&P.  Australia introduced its inflation bonds in 1985, in part
to borrow for longer terms than then available in the nominal
market, and to broaden the investor base for government debt,
according to the Treasury. The Office of Financial Management
plans to sell A$4 billion of the debt in the year through June,
compared with A$56 billion for nominal issuance.  The two longest-dated linkers outstanding, maturing in
September 2030 and September 2025, are the longest available
among Australian government securities, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Inflation debt accounts for about 8.5
percent of outstanding so-called commonwealth government bonds.  Rise in Trading  Trading of linkers soared to A$35.5 billion in the year
through June, from about A$11.5 billion in the previous 12
months, according to the  Australian Financial Markets
Association , a group of banks and securities companies.  The 10-year breakeven rate has climbed 0.36 percentage
point since the end of August as government figures showed a
tightening labor market.  “The rise in breakevens reflects the strong outlook for
the local economy, and the RBA has said inflation is likely to
be in the upper part of the band,”  Justin Tyler , who helps
manage $5 billion in inflation-linked bonds for Aberdeen Asset
Management Ltd. in Sydney, said in an interview yesterday.  Full-time  employment  jumped 112,500 in August and September,
the biggest back-to-back increase since 1988, the nation’s
statistics bureau reported Oct. 7. Employers closed out their
biggest quarter for hiring since 2006. The  unemployment rate 
held at 5.1 percent.  A private survey released today showed Australia’s services
industry expanded in October for the first time in six months,
buoyed by a rebound in wages and new orders. Separately, a
government report showed Australian home-building approvals fell
in September for a sixth straight month.  “The economy has been growing continuously for almost 20
years” and “is therefore approaching full capacity,” RBA
Deputy Governor  Ric Battellino  said in a speech last month in
Brisbane. “The resources boom that began about 2005, and which
abated for a time during the global financial crisis, is
reemerging, adding to the pressure on capacity.”  To contact the reporter for this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey in Tokyo at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  