-- Aviva Nine-Month Sales Rise on U.K., European Policies
-- B y   K e v i n   C r o w l e y
-- 2010-11-02T17:19:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-02/aviva-nine-month-sales-increase-on-u-k-european-life-assurance-policies.html
Aviva Plc , the U.K.’s second-biggest
insurer, said nine-month revenue increased more than analysts
estimated because of higher demand for retirement products in
the U.K. and Europe.  Life insurance and pension sales climbed to 25.6 billion
pounds ($41 billion) from 24.1 billion pounds a year earlier,
compared with the 25.2 billion-pound average projection of 14
analysts surveyed by Aviva, the London-based company said today
in a statement. The insurer plans to make cost and efficiency
savings valued at 400 million pounds by 2012.  “Sales were slightly ahead of consensus but the outlook
statement and the strategic update are very positive,” said
 Barrie Cornes , a London-based analyst at Panmure Gordon & Co.
with a “buy” recommendation on Aviva. “The cost savings and
efficiency gains split roughly between the U.K. and overseas
should be taken well by the market.”  U.K. insurers including Aviva and  Legal & General Group Plc 
are boosting sales after bond and equity markets rebounded from
the financial crisis, providing them with more capital to
underwrite pensions and long-term savings products. In contrast
to European rivals  Prudential Plc  and Axa SA, Aviva is focusing
on increasing sales in its home continent rather than Asia as it
says returns will be greater over the next five years.  Aviva shares climbed 4.7 pence, or 1.2 percent, to 402.3
pence in London trading, valuing the insurer at about 11.3
billion pounds.  U.K. Sales  Sales in the U.K. climbed 15 percent to 7.6 billion pounds,
and revenue from the European division rose 9 percent to 10.6
billion pounds, Aviva said. The company will generate at least
1.5 billion pounds of operational capital in 2011, it also said.  “In our major markets in Europe and the U.S. over the last
couple of years we’ve seen recession and yet what we see is
ongoing growth in our business,” Chief Executive Officer  Andrew Moss  said on a call with reporters. “Our customers still need
to save money and buy motor insurance, and home insurance.”  Half of the cost cuts will be in the U.K., where the
insurer is not planning on reducing its headcount, he said,
adding that the company will cut “a few hundred” jobs in North
America. Aviva also plans to exit Taiwan as it seeks to focus on
more profitable markets. Its business in the country is valued
at about 13 million pounds, according to Moss.  “We’re going to focus our offerings and capital on our
leading market positions in the U.K. and Europe which together
comprise the world’s largest life and pensions market,” the CEO
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kevin Crowley  in London at 
 kcrowley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  