-- Bank of America Said Unlikely to Invest in CCB's Rights Offer
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-11-02T03:38:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-02/bank-of-america-said-unlikely-to-invest-in-construction-bank-rights-offer.html
Bank of America Corp. , the largest
private shareholder in  China Construction Bank Corp. , is
unlikely to invest in the Chinese lender’s $9.2 billion rights
offer, two people with knowledge of the matter said.  Bank of America may sell its rights to third parties, the
people said, asking not be identified as no final decision has
been made. Beijing-based Construction Bank, the world’s second-
largest lender by market value,  said  yesterday it will offer
existing investors 0.7 share for every 10 held at 3.77 yuan each
in Shanghai and HK$4.38 in Hong Kong starting this week.  Bank of America Chief Executive Officer  Brian T. Moynihan ,
51, is contending with stricter rules on consumer fees while
trying to rein in mortgage losses and fend off state probes of
the industry’s foreclosure practices at home. The largest U.S.
lender last month reported a $7.3 billion  loss  tied to new rules
on consumer accounts and credit cards.  Buying its full share of Construction Bank’s offer would
cost Charlotte, North Carolina-based  Bank of America  about $1
billion, while selling its rights would reduce the company’s
stake to 10.2 percent from 10.95 percent, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Bank of America owns 25.58 billion shares in Construction
Bank, trailing only the Chinese government’s 57 percent stake,
Construction Bank said last week.  Temasek Holdings Pte ,
Singapore’s state investment company, is the bank’s third-
biggest investor with a 5.65 percent stake.  Rob Stewart , a spokesman for Bank of America in Hong Kong,
declined to comment, as did Temasek spokesman  Jeffrey Fang .  Discount  Construction Bank has  climbed  16 percent this year in Hong
Kong trading to an almost three-year high while the Shanghai-
traded  stock  has slipped 17 percent, giving the lender a market
value of $232 billion. The offer price represents a discount of
43 percent to the Hong Kong price as of yesterday’s close and a
27 percent discount to yuan-denominated A shares.  The investment in Construction Bank helped boost Bank of
America’s book value by $6.2 billion in the third quarter as
accounting rules require the stake to be carried at market value
rather than at the initial cost, the U.S. bank said Oct. 19.  Bank of America first invested in the Chinese lender in
June 2005, and raised its stake to as high as 17 percent. The
U.S. bank posted a $7.3 billion pretax gain on 2009’s income
statement after selling some Construction Bank shares.  Central Huijin Investment Co., which owns stock in
Construction Bank on behalf of the Chinese government, has
committed to participating in the rights offer.  China’s  five largest banks  have announced plans to raise
about $63 billion since the beginning of 2010 after the nation’s
record $1.4 trillion in  lending  last year weakened their
financial strength and as the banking regulator considers
imposing tougher requirements for capital.  -- Luo Jun ,  Cathy Chan . Editor:  Philip Lagerkranser   To contact Bloomberg News staff of this story:
Luo Jun in Shanghai at +8621-6104-7021 or
 jluo6@bloomberg.net 
Cathy Chan in Hong Kong at +852-2977-6629 or
 kchan14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  