-- Bank of Japan Board Said ETF Purchases Could Boost Sentiment, Minutes Show
-- B y   M a y u m i   O t s u m a
-- 2010-11-02T00:28:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-02/bank-of-japan-members-said-etf-buys-may-encourage-activity-minutes-show.html
Bank of Japan board members said
purchases of exchange-traded funds and real-estate investment
trusts could increase transactions by supporting investor
sentiment, minutes of the bank’s Oct. 4-5 board meeting show.  “Some members said that while the amount of purchases
might be small, the bank’s purchase would produce positive
effects as a catalyst in promoting more active transactions in
their markets and more risk-taking activity in the overall
economy,” according to minutes published today in Tokyo.  The central bank unexpectedly lowered its benchmark
interest rate at the meeting and pledged to spend 5 trillion-yen
($62 billion) to buy assets including government bonds and
corporate debt. Governor  Masaaki Shirakawa  last week said
bolstering that fund will be a “probable option” should the
bank need to provide additional monetary stimulus.  The bank said on Oct. 28 it will buy 3.5 trillion yen in
government debt, 1 trillion yen in corporate debt, 450 billion
yen in ETFs and 50 billion yen in REITs.  At the same time, one person said the “limited” number of
“highly rated” Japanese REITs “would involve difficult
judgment calls in terms of the bank’s direct involvement in the
allocation of funds to individual firms and industries, and this
warranted attention,” the minutes showed.  The BOJ board will meet this week to decide how to buy the
ETFs and REITs, bringing its November meeting forward by more
than a week.  The BOJ said on Oct. 5 that it would keep rates near zero
until it can foresee stable price increases. One member said
that the bank needs to avoid creating “excessive” expectations
that rates will remain low for a long time.  Board members said the policy measures unveiled are aimed
at encouraging a decline in long-term rates, an
“extraordinary” measure for a central bank.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Mayumi Otsuma  in Tokyo at 
 motsuma@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  