-- Swiss Stocks Advance; Schmolz, Credit Suisse Advance in Zurich
-- B y   A d a m   E w i n g
-- 2010-11-02T16:54:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-02/basilea-pharmaceutica-kuehne-novartis-may-move-swiss-equity-preview.html
Swiss stocks rose, with gains in
 Schmolz & Bickenbach AG ,  Credit Suisse Group AG  and  Kuehne &
Nagel International AG  as investors waited for details from the
Federal Reserve’s meeting today.  Schmolz & Bickenbach  rose 6.4 percent after it sold shares
in a bookbuilding process, while Kuehne & Nagel climbed after
its chairman said he plans to double profit by 2014. Credit
Suisse, Switzerland’s second-largest bank, rose 1 percent after
it was hired by DSC Ltd, which plans to raise as much as $675
million in an initial public offering.  The  Swiss Market Index  rose 0.6 percent to 6,541.50 at the
5:30 p.m. close in Zurich, its second day of gains. The gauge
has advanced 3.9 percent since September amid speculation policy
makers in the U.S. and elsewhere will step up efforts to
stimulate economic growth through bond purchases, a strategy
known as quantitative easing. The broader Swiss Performance
Index advanced 0.5 percent today.  “The market has been rallying in anticipation of the
announcement, but the devil will be in the details,”  Nicholas Cowley , a London-based manager at Henderson Global Investors,
which oversees $87 billion, said today. “The size of an
additional quantitative easing program may end up being smaller
than investors were initially hoping for.”  Fed Meeting  Fed policy makers meeting today and tomorrow will restart a
program of securities purchases to spur growth, reduce
unemployment and increase inflation, said 53 of 56 economists
surveyed last week. Twenty-nine forecast the bank will pledge to
buy $500 billion or more, while another seven predicted it will
buy $50 billion to $100 billion in monthly purchases without
specifying a total. The remainder said the Fed would buy as much
as $500 billion, or didn’t quantify their estimates.  Schmolz & Bickenbach  jumped 6.4 percent, rebounding from
yesterday’s 12 percent tumble, to 7.53 Swiss francs. The company
said it successfully sold 12.9 million rights in an accelerated
bookbuilding process at 4.45 francs each.  Credit Suisse climbed 1 percent to 41.26 francs, its second
advance. DSC Ltd., builder of India’s largest toll plaza, plans
to raise as much as 30 billion rupees ($675 million) in an
initial public offering, according to three people with direct
knowledge of the matter. Credit Suisse and IDFC Capital Ltd.
were hired by the Gurgaon, Haryana-based company.  Kuehne & Nagel rose 1 percent to 126.6 francs, its fourth
gain. The world’s largest sea-freight forwarder plans to double
profit to more than 1 billion francs ($1.01 billion) by 2014,
Die Welt reported, citing Chairman Klaus-Michael Kuehne.  Swatch Group AG, the maker of Omega and Breguet watches,
gained 2.1 percent to 388 francs, while Cie. Financiere
Richemont SA, Switzerland’s largest jewelry maker, increased 1.3
percent to 50.15 francs as luxury-goods makers advanced across
Europe, tracking gains in Hermes International SCA.  Roche Holding AG  rose 0.7 percent to 147 francs, its
highest price since July. The drugmaker’s rival Pfizer Inc., the
world’s biggest drugmaker, reported third-quarter profit that
topped analyst estimates.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Adam Ewing  in Stockholm at 
 aewing5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Merritt at   dmerritt1@bloomberg.net . 