-- BBVA to Buy Stake in Turkey's Garanti Bank for $5.8 Billion
-- B y   P a u l   T o b i n   a n d   E r c a n   E r s o y
-- 2010-11-02T16:50:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-02/bbva-agrees-to-purchase-stake-in-turkey-s-garanti-bank-for-5-8-billion.html
Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria  SA,
Spain’s second-biggest bank, agreed to pay $5.8 billion for 24.9
percent of  Turkiye Garanti Bankasi AS  and may take full control
in five years, expanding in Europe’s fastest-growing economy.  BBVA will purchase 6.3 percent of the Turkish lender from
Dogus Holding AS for $2.06 billion and 18.6 percent from General
Electric Co. for $3.78 billion, the Bilbao, Spain-based bank
said in a filing to regulators today. It will finance the deal
with a rights offering.  The company is reducing its reliance on Spain, which
accounts for about half of profit, compared with 22 percent at
larger rival  Banco Santander  SA, as the economy struggles to
emerge from the worst recession in 60 years. Turkey’s economy
grew 10.3 percent in the second quarter from a year earlier,
matching China’s growth rate as the fastest expansion in the
period among the Group of 20 major economies.  “BBVA is investing in a part of the world where growth
prospects are very encouraging,” said  Alberto Espelosin , who
helps manage about $12 billion at Zaragoza, Spain-based Ibercaja
Gestion, including BBVA shares. “I’d much rather they invest
there than spend money on banks in mature markets.”  The bank  rose  10.3 cents, or 1.1 percent, to 9.213 in
Madrid trading. BBVA plans to raise 5.06 billion euros ($7
billion) in a rights offer, allowing shareholders to buy one new
share for every five owned at 6.75 euros each, it said in a
statement.  Option for Control  Garanti  fell  24 kurus, or 2.7 percent, to 8.68 liras in
Istanbul trading, valuing the company at about 36.5 billion
liras ($25.8 billion).  BBVA and Dogus Holding will have equal seats on  Garanti’s
board  for five years, after which BBVA has the right to take a
controlling stake, Dogus said in a filing with the Istanbul
Stock Exchange. BBVA and Dogus may not sell stakes in the bank
to third parties for three years and have first option to buy
shares from each other after that period, the statement said.  Garanti’s board will have four BBVA members and four Dogus
members, with  Ergun Ozen  remaining chief executive officer and
 Ferit Sahenk  chairman, Dogus said.  BBVA’s core capital ratio may rise to 8.8 percent from 8.2
percent in September after the stake purchase and the rights
offering, the bank said in a presentation for analysts. During
2011, core capital could exceed 9 percent, BBVA President and
Chief Operating Officer  Angel Cano  said today.  “The improvement in the capital ratio creates a new
benchmark for the industry and will put pressure on rivals,
namely Santander,” said  Carlos Joaquim Peixoto , an analyst at
Banco BPI SA.  Add to Profit  BBVA, led by Chairman  Francisco Gonzalez , 66, said last
week that  third-quarter profit  fell 17 percent on higher costs
and lower lending revenue in its home market. Profit from Spain
and Portugal dropped 15 percent in the quarter, offsetting a 5.1
percent gain in earnings in constant currency terms from Mexico,
the bank’s second-biggest market.  The purchase is BBVA’s largest since the $9.6 billion
takeover of Birmingham, Alabama-based Compass Bancshares Inc. in
2007, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The stake purchase will
add to profit from the first year, and BBVA aims to maintain an
annual dividend of at least 42 cents a share, it said.  Russia, North Korea  Garanti may be interested in acquiring Turkish banks and
may grow with BBVA in Russia and North Africa, Sahenk told
reporters at a news conference in Istanbul today. Garanti will
also focus on insurance and asset management, and will benefit
from BBVA’s expertise in mortgages and loans to small and
medium-sized companies, Sahenk said.  GE may gain $300 million to $400 million from today’s sale,
GE Capital Chief Operating Officer  Bill Cary  said in an
interview. The sale marks the latest in a series of divestitures
of international consumer finance assets in markets that the
Fairfield, Connecticut-based company doesn’t dominate. BBVA
agreed to pay GE about 6.92 liras per Garanti share, compared
with 11.18 liras per share for the Dogus stake.  Morgan Stanley, Goldman Sachs Group Inc., Citigroup Inc.,
Credit Suisse Group AG, JPMorgan Chase & Co., Nomura Holdings
Inc., Societe Generale SA and UBS AG are managing the rights
offering, BBVA said in a separate release.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Paul Tobin  in Madrid at 
 ptobin@bloomberg.net ;
 Ercan Ersoy  in Istanbul at 
 eersoy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tim Quinson at 
 tquinson@bloomberg.net  