-- BG Raises Estimates for Brazil Offshore Oil, Reports Third-Quarter Profit
-- B y   E d u a r d   G i s m a t u l l i n
-- 2010-11-02T17:07:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-02/bg-quarterly-profit-rises-12-percent-on-u-k-gas-prices-beats-estimates.html
BG Group Plc , the U.K.’s third-
largest natural-gas producer, increased estimates for energy
resources offshore Brazil and posted third-quarter profit that
beat analysts’ forecasts. The shares rose to a two-year high.  Gross resources at the Tupi, Iracema, and Guara fields in
the Santos Basin may be 10.8 billion barrels of oil equivalent,
34 percent more than the previous estimate, BG said today in a
statement. Excluding disposals and one-time items, profit was
$978 million. That compares with the average estimate of $862
million in a  survey  of 10 analysts by Bloomberg.  BG together with partners last week started pumping oil
from the Tupi field, the biggest discovery in the Americas since
Mexico’s Cantarell in 1976. Third-quarter profit gained from
higher commodity prices, with liquefied natural gas operating
profit rising 43 percent to $725 million from last year.  “One of the problems our company doesn’t have is finding
resources,” Chief Executive Officer  Frank Chapman  told analysts
on a conference call today. “We do not have a resources and
reserves replacement issue.”  BG advanced 3.4 percent to close at 1,252 pence in London,
the highest since July 2, 2008. It was the second- biggest mover 
on the Stoxx Europe 600 index after BP Plc, which also reported
third-quarter profit today.  Galp Energia SGPS SA , BG’s partner
in Brazil, rose 2.6 percent to 14.26 euros in Lisbon, the
highest since July 7, 2008.  Diverting Supplies  BG expects full-year LNG operating profit to exceed $2
billion, the top guidance given in February, Chief Financial
Officer  Ashley Almanza  said on the same call. “Trading
conditions in the market have returned to normal. We don’t see
the unusually strong conditions that we saw in the third quarter
persisting in the fourth quarter.”  In the U.S., BG was able to replace LNG supplies with
pipeline gas and divert cargoes to Asian and South America,
where prices were higher in the third quarter, Chapman said.  The Brazilian reserves estimate “is positive and should
drive” shares in BG and Galp,  Jason Kenney , head of oil and gas
research at ING Commercial Banking, wrote in a report.
“Investors may be concerned about upstream underperformance,”
while LNG operations were “surprisingly strong.”  BG estimated its economically recoverable net resources in
Tupi, Iracema and Guara now stand at 2.8 billion barrels of oil
equivalent.  Miller and Lents Ltd.  verified the three fields’
resources, the U.K. company said.  More Investment  “We believe that there will be more additions from these
fields as a better understanding of the reservoirs emerge and on
the back of the recent exploration success,”  Peter Hitchens , an
analyst at Panmure Gordon & Co. in London, wrote in an e-mailed
report.  Reading, England-based BG increased planned total
investment for 2011-2012 to $18.5 billion from $16.5 billion
after last week making a final decision to build a $15 billion
Queensland Curtis LNG plant.  This year, the company expects to invest $9.1 billion in
projects, including acquisitions, and report an $850 million
exploration charge, Almanza said.  BG has invested about $2 billion so far in the Curtis gas
project in Queensland, he said.  The venture faces 1,500 conditions imposed by state and
federal governments to protect the environment and underground
water supplies, BG said Oct. 31.  The additional project cost, which Chapman estimated at
several hundred million U.S. dollars, is “significant” but in
the context of the overall project “not very material.”  Kazakh, India Shutdowns  Net income  rose 12 percent to $876 million in the third
quarter from $782 million a year earlier, BG said. Production
was little changed at 56.4 million barrels of oil equivalent
(613,000 barrels a day).  “Higher production from the U.S. and the Hasdrubal field
in Tunisia was offset by the biennial shutdown for extended
maintenance at the Karachaganak field in Kazakhstan and the
unplanned shutdown of the Panna-Mukta field in India,” BG said.
The company forecast “slight production growth” this year.  Third-quarter output declined by 2.1 million barrels of oil
equivalent in Kazakhstan and by 1.3 million barrels in India
because of shutdowns, Almanza said. Lower production reduced
earnings by about $120 million in the quarter, he said.  BG and partners completed maintenance at Karachaganak and
resumed production in India, Almanza said. “We expect our
exploration and production to grow very strongly and profitably
over the coming years,” he said.  BG expects to sell approximately two-thirds of its North
Sea gas production at an average price of around 42 pence a
therm over 12 months from Oct. 1, it said.  That’s equal to $6.74 a million British thermal units. A
therm is 100,000 Btus.  The rest of the fuel will be sold on the spot market,
Almanza said. “The U.K. spot market has been reasonably firm,”
he said.  BG currently pumps about 400 million cubic feet a day of
gas in the U.S., Chapman said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Eduard Gismatullin  in London at 
 egismatullin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  