-- Bank of America Shifts Chief Auditor to Oversee Home-Loan Risk
-- B y   D a v i d   M i l d e n b e r g
-- 2010-11-03T04:00:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-02/bofa-assigns-auditor-morrison-to-home-loan-risk-post-amid-buyback-demands.html
Bank of America Corp.  assigned  Paul Morrison , the firm’s general corporate auditor for the last
decade, to oversee risk at its home-loan unit amid foreclosure
probes and mounting demands to buy back mortgages.  Morrison, 55, was named risk officer at Bank of America
Home Loans and Insurance, succeeding  Steve Troutner , who became
credit, product and pricing executive for home lending,
according to an internal Oct. 27 memo obtained by Bloomberg
News.  Christine Katziff , 45, is acting general corporate auditor
and reports to the board of directors’ audit committee.  The loan and insurance unit reported a pretax loss of  $6.25
billion  in the year’s first nine months as Fannie Mae, Freddie
Mac and other investors push the company to repurchase almost
$13 billion in loans. Chief Executive Officer  Brian T. Moynihan ,
51, pledged Oct. 19 to dispute any unjustified demands to buy
back defective mortgages and said many claims aren’t warranted.  “We are aligning talent and resources to address one of
our most critical business issues,”  Bruce Thompson , the bank’s
chief risk officer, said in the memo, which was confirmed by  Dan Frahm , a bank spokesman. “Throughout Paul’s tenure as corporate
general auditor, he demonstrated the leadership skills, business
acumen and a unique expertise that will make him successful in
this important assignment.”  Attorneys general in all 50 states started a probe of
foreclosure practices at the largest U.S. lenders after court
documents surfaced showing employees signed affidavits without
ensuring their accuracy. That prompted Bank of America, JPMorgan
Chase & Co. and Ally Financial Inc. to delay some seizures and
evictions.  ‘Nasty Things’  Bank of America  acquired  Countrywide Financial Corp. in
2008 and is the largest servicer of U.S. home loans and second
biggest originator of loans after Wells Fargo & Co. The
Charlotte, North Carolina-based company is handling about 1.3
million loans in which payments are at least 60 days late, using
a customer-service staff of 18,000 employees that has tripled
over the past two years, according to the company.  Morrison joined Bank of America in 1996 after working in
senior audit jobs at JPMorgan, Salomon Brothers, Wells Fargo and
Advanced Micro Devices Inc., according to a bank announcement
when he was promoted to general auditor in 2001.  “He’d be a person who knows the weaknesses in the
company’s systems,” said Billy Soo, accounting department
chairman at Boston College’s Carroll School of Management. “The
general auditor looks at all of the company’s internal systems
and inevitably he’ll find some nasty things that need to be
cleaned up.”  Katziff worked for FleetBoston Financial Corp. before its
 acquisition  by Bank of America in 2004 and has been audit
executive for all the lender’s businesses, Moynihan said in the
internal memo.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Mildenberg  in Charlotte at 
 dmildenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Rick Green at   rgreen18@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net . 