-- Bonds Tied to Bank Rate to Beat CPI Debt on Cash Demand: Argentina Credit
-- B y   D r e w   B e n s o n
-- 2010-11-02T20:40:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-02/bonds-tied-to-bank-rate-to-beat-cpi-debt-on-cash-demand-argentina-credit.html
Rising demand for cash in Argentina
is prompting Bank of America Corp. and Silva Capital Management
LLC to bet bonds tied to deposit rates will outperform
inflation-linked debt.  The  badlar  rate that banks pay on deposits will climb 180
basis points to 12.5 percent by the end of next year as a push
to pay year-end wages and a jump in dollar buying before 2011
presidential elections create a cash shortage, according to Bank
of America. At 10.88 percent, badlar is 1,063 basis points, or
10.63 percentage points, above the one-month London interbank
offered rate, or Libor.  President  Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner  will allow
consumer prices to increase no more than 140 basis points to
12.5 percent by next year, according to Bank of America.
Fernandez is unlikely to recognize higher inflation in official
statistics to limit criticism of her policies in an election
year, said Silva Capital Management. Economists have questioned
the accuracy of inflation data since 2007, when Fernandez’s late
husband and predecessor  Nestor Kirchner  changed personnel at the
agency that measures consumer prices.  “The CPI is probably as high as the government is willing
to report for political reasons, so that suggests there is more
relative value in the badlar paper than the CPI bonds,” said
 Alejandro Urbina , a Chicago-based emerging-market debt portfolio
manager at Silva Capital Management, which has about $800
million in advisory and management.  Bonds linked to inflation returned 29 percent this year,
compared with a 27 percent gain for notes that pay a rate tied
to badlar, according to  Javier Salvucci , a money manager at
Silver Cloud Advisors in Buenos Aires. Inflation-linked bonds
maturing in 2016 yielded 16.5 percent on Oct. 29, 80 basis
points less than 2014 notes tied to badlar.  ‘Better Value’  “The badlar bonds offer significantly better value at this
time,” Bank of America analysts  Marcos Buscaglia  and  Jane Brauer  in New York wrote in an Oct. 25 report. “Although higher
inflation pressures are likely next year, we do not expect the
government to recognize this with CER inflation above 12
percent.”  At 11.1 percent, Argentina’s official  inflation rate  is the
third-highest of 78 countries tracked by Bloomberg behind
Venezuela’s 28.5 percent and Pakistan’s 15.7 percent. Barclays
Plc and Goldman Sachs Group Inc. estimate inflation is closer to
25 percent. Argentina’s inflation rate has climbed from 7.7
percent in December.  Politicians from Vice President  Julio Cobos  to former
Economy Minister  Roberto Lavagna  have also said the inflation
data is unreliable. Kirchner, who died Oct. 27, and Fernandez
have said the figure is accurate.  Bond Rally  Bonds rallied last week on speculation the death of
Kirchner, who said in July that either he or Fernandez would run
for president next year, makes it more likely that an opposition
candidate will win the presidential election and improve the
credibility of inflation data.  The extra yield investors demand to hold Argentine dollar
bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries was unchanged at 532 as of 4:34
p.m. New York time, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co. It fell 77
last week.  The  cost  of protecting Argentine debt against non-payment
for five years with credit-default swaps rose six basis points
yesterday to 630, according to data provider CMA. Credit-default
swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for the underlying
securities or the cash equivalent should a government or company
fail to adhere to debt agreements.  Economic Growth  Warrants linked to growth in South America’s second-biggest
economy rose 0.12 cent today to 13.16 cents, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The economy may expand as much as 9
percent this year, the fastest pace in five years, the central
bank said last week.  The peso was little changed at 3.9588 per U.S. dollar.  Investors may find it more difficult to exit bets on
badlar-linked bonds in the case of a selloff because the
securities trade infrequently, said Silver Cloud’s Salvucci.  “Their price is beaten down some because they don’t trade
as much,” he said. “If you don’t have a problem with the lack
of liquidity and are willing to build a position and wait, I
recommend them.”  The government would have to report an inflation rate that
is as high as 13.4 percent for bonds linked to consumer prices
to match returns on debt tied to badlar, Bank of America’s
Buscaglia and Brauer wrote.  “As a method of adjustment, I prefer badlar because bank
rates will react more rapidly than the CPI, at least until there
is a change of government,” said  Noelia Lucini , a portfolio
manager with Capital Markets Argentina in Buenos Aires. “A
normalization of inflation reporting will take a long time.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Drew Benson  in Buenos Aires at 
 abenson9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  