-- BP Sends $4.5 Billion Bill to Anadarko, Mitsui for Mexico Gulf Oil Cleanup
-- B y   T s u y o s h i   I n a j i m a   a n d   Y u j i   O k a d a
-- 2010-11-02T07:59:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-02/bp-sends-4-5-billion-bill-to-anadarko-mitsui-for-mexico-gulf-oil-cleanup.html
BP Plc sent bills for $4.5 billion to
its partners in the Macondo oil well for what it says is their
share of costs of cleaning up after the Gulf of Mexico oil
disaster, the biggest offshore oil spill in U.S. history.  Anadarko Petroleum Corp., a Texas oil company with a 25
percent stake in the well, said in a regulatory filing BP billed
it $2.6 billion for costs through Sept. 30. Mitsui & Co.’s oil
exploration unit, which has a 10 percent stake in the well,
received a bill for $1.9 billion, it said in a  statement .  BP Chief Executive Officer Robert Dudley is trying to
reverse a 35 percent  drop  in its share price since the accident
at the well in April by selling as much as $30 billion in assets
and revamping the company’s focus on safety. The U.S. still may
fine BP as much as $17.6 billion for the spill and bar the
company from future drilling licenses.  Anadarko said in June that the explosion on the well’s rig
was preventable and that BP’s actions “likely represent gross
negligence or willful misconduct.” Anadarko has said it’s
withholding reimbursement to BP for spill-related costs, citing
the London-based company’s behavior.  Mitsui Oil Exploration Co. said in a statement it’s also
withholding payment. The Tokyo-based company’s cited “numerous
ongoing investigations to determine the facts and circumstances
surrounding the incident” and “uncertainty” over whether
Mitsui Oil is liable for the cleanup.  Mitsui Oil assumes that costs for the cleanup represented
by its interest in the well were about $1 billion through the
end of September, it said. Mitsui & Co., Japan’s  second-biggest 
trading house, owns 70 percent of Mitsui Oil.  Mitsui & Co. shares declined 0.8 percent today to close at
1,244 yen. Anadarko fell 81 cents in after-hours trading to
$62.35. BP was down 0.4 percent yesterday.  BP said today profit fell 66 percent after taking a further
pre-tax charge of $7.7 billion related to the spill.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Tsuyoshi Inajima  in Tokyo at 
 tinajima@bloomberg.net ;
Yuji Okada in Tokyo at 
 yokada6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash in Singapore at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net . 