-- Break-Even Rate Underestimates Inflation, Barclays's Pond Says: Tom Keene
-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r   a n d   T o m   K e e n e
-- 2010-11-02T19:58:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-02/break-even-rate-underestimates-inflation-barclays-s-pond-says-tom-keene.html
The Treasury market is pricing in
lower inflation expectations than it should as the Federal
Reserve prepares to announce new purchases of debt to stoke
consumer prices, according to  Michael Pond  of Barclays Plc.  “The market is looking for too-low inflation even though
we won’t get a ton,” Pond, co-head of interest-rate strategy at
Barclays in New York, said in a radio interview on “Bloomberg
Surveillance” with  Tom Keene . “The market is priced for very
low inflation over the next several years, but it’s starting to
grab onto this Fed mantra of creating inflation down the road.”  The  difference  between yields on 10-year notes and Treasury
Inflation Protected Securities, a gauge of trader expectations
for the annual increase in consumer prices over the life of the
maturity, increased today to 2.21 percentage points, the widest
level since May 18. The five-year average for the break-even
rate is 2.09 percentage points.  Pond expects the Fed to announce an initial program of
$100 billion in monthly purchases and amend the figure at each
successive meeting based on the success of the central bank in
meeting its dual mandate of reducing unemployment and raising
inflation to a level reflecting a healthy economy.  “The Fed is making it clear that they have an asymmetric
view of inflation,” said Pond, whose firm is one of the 18
primary dealers that trade directly with the Fed. “While they
would like 2 percent, they would much prefer 4 than zero.”  Fed in September  The central bank said in its statement following its Sept.
21 meeting that it was prepared to act to support the recovery
and increase the inflation rate, raising speculation that it
would increase debt purchases under a policy known as
quantitative easing. The Fed in March completed a $1.75 trillion
purchase program that included $300 billion in Treasuries.  Consumer prices excluding food and fuel costs rose 0.8
percent in September from the year before in the smallest  year-
over-year  gain since 1961, figures from the Labor department
showed Oct. 15.  The annual measure of prices watched by the Fed, tracking
the personal consumption expenditures price index and excluding
food and energy, advanced 1.2 percent in September from a year
earlier, the smallest gain since September 2001, government
figures showed Nov. 1.  TIPS have returned 10.2 percent this year, compared with
8.6 percent for Treasuries, according to Bank of America Merrill
Lynch indexes.  “We like TIPS, but not on an absolute-return basis,” Pond
said. “It’s really relative to nominal fixed-income investments
where we expect TIPS to outperform.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Susanne Walker  in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Keene in New York at 
 tkeene@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  