-- British Gas Creates 1,000 Jobs as Huhne Boosts U.K. Insulation
-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s
-- 2010-11-02T14:59:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-02/british-gas-creates-1-000-jobs-as-u-k-energy-secretary-boosts-insulation.html
U.K. Energy and Climate Change
Secretary  Chris Huhne  said nuclear and renewable power, energy
efficiency and carbon capture and storage will spearhead job
creation in a “green revolution” for the country.  With 200 billion pounds ($320 billion) of investment needed
in energy infrastructure by 2020, the government is focusing on
insulating all the country’s 26 million homes, spurring offshore
wind power and removing planning barriers for nuclear plants,
Huhne said today in a speech at the London School of Economics.  “To change our national economic story from one of
financial speculation to one of future growth, we need a third
industrial revolution: a green revolution,” Huhne said. “It
will transform our economy as surely as the shift from iron to
steel, from steam to oil.”  The comments, placing nuclear power at the heart of the
plan, strengthen Huhne’s support for the technology that his
Liberal Democrat Party opposed before joining Prime Minister
David Cameron’s Conservative-led coalition government in May.  Liberal Democrats lawmakers are permitted to abstain on
nuclear power votes in Parliament. Huhne, previously an opponent
of new nuclear plants, has as a government minister strengthened
his support for the technology in recent weeks.  “Our policy is built on four pillars: energy saving,
carbon capture and storage, renewables and -- as the coalition
agreement made clear -- new nuclear without public subsidy,”
Huhne said today.  Huhne plans to put a “Green Deal” draft law before
Parliament next month, with measures to enable people to
insulate their homes. The cost of the insulation will be repayed
through energy bills, which may still be cheaper due to the
improved efficiency of the buildings.  Offshore Wind Jobs  The government aims for the Green Deal to help the U.K.
meet its goal of cutting carbon dioxide emissions by 32 percent
from 1990 levels in 2020. The measures may create 250,000 jobs
if all 26 million homes in the country take up the insulation
costs, according to his department.  Centrica Plc ’s British Gas unit said in a statement from
Huhne’s department that 1,000 of 3,700 new so-called “green-
collar” jobs announced in September have already been filled.
Those roles include home insulation, customer advisers,
renewable generation and smart metering.  Offshore wind power could create 70,000 jobs in the U.K.,
Huhne said. A week ago he confirmed the government would
preserve funding for ports that turbine manufacturers had said
was vital to ensure they had the facilities they need to handle
large and heavy equipment.  “We want to make sure turbine manufacturers can build what
they need on our shores, instead of importing expensive finished
products that could be made here,” Huhne said.  Gamesa Corporacion Tecnologica SA, Spain’s largest wind -
turbine maker, said on Oct. 25 that it plans to invest 150
million euros ($210 million) by 2014 in the U.K. to set up a
research center and turbine blade factory, as well as a global
headquarters for its offshore wind business. General Electric
Co. plans to invest 100 million pounds to develop a plant in the
U.K., and Siemens AG also plans a factory.  Even with the port facilities, the U.K. will need people
with the ability to install, operate and maintain wind turbines,
Dong Energy A/S said today in an e-mailed statement. The
company, which operates three U.K. offshore wind farms, said it
would fund up to eight apprenticeships in Britain.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Morales in London at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net . 