-- Bush, Pope, Queen Targeted for Assassination in Brazil Drawings
-- B y   C l a u d i a   Q u i n o n e z
-- 2010-11-02T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-02/bush-pope-queen-targeted-for-assassination-in-incendiary-brazil-drawings.html
Former U.S. president  George W. Bush 
kneels on the ground with his wrists bound behind his back and a
pistol pointed at his head.  Queen Elizabeth II  stands with her
hands clasped in front of her as a gunman aims at her back.
Brazilian President  Luiz Inacio Lula  da Silva is tied to a chair
with a knife held to his throat.  In each case the imaginary assassin is Brazilian artist Gil
Vicente, whose series “Enemies” has sparked controversy at the
 Sao Paulo Biennial  art exhibition.  All nine charcoal drawings depict Vicente as he’s about to
kill a past or present leader. Among the other victims are ex-
Israeli Prime Minister  Ariel Sharon , Pope Benedict XVI, former
United Nations Secretary General  Kofi Annan  and Iranian
President  Mahmoud Ahmadinejad .  The Brazilian Bar Association asked the event’s organizers
to remove the drawings but they declined, citing freedom of
expression. Vicente has said that he choose the assassination
figures “because they kill so many other people.”  The exhibition’s chief curator, Agnaldo Farias, said he’s
not surprised by the uproar over Vicente’s work.  “Science provides answers, art raises questions,” Farias
said. “We need to question the consensus more often.”  The drawings are a tiny part of the 323,000-square-foot
(30,000-square-meter) free exhibition at the modernist Niemeyer
building. It includes videos, drawings, sculptures by 159
artists from around the globe, plus six “living spaces”
featuring dance, poetry readings and theater performances.  Zodiac Heads  Dominating the entrance floor is the “Circle of Animals”
by  Ai Weiwei , best known for his design of Beijing’s “Bird’s
Nest” Olympic stadium. The display of 12 bronze zodiac heads,
which originally adorned the fountain at the Old Summer Palace
in Beijing, will be shown at exhibitions in the U.S., Europe and
Asia after the Biennial ends Dec. 12.  The grandiose set of sculptures almost hide the 1993 video
by  Jean-Luc Godard , “Je vous salue, Sarajevo,” a two-minute
film on the Bosnian War presented as a photo-montage with
accompanying text. The film expresses sadness in a bold,
heartfelt way.  Also touching is the installation of Chilean artist Alfredo
Jaar on the first floor. “The Eyes of Gutete Emerita” is a
pile of 1 million slides all showing the eyes of a woman who
witnessed the genocide in Rwanda.  “It is important to discuss the role of the media and
awareness of terrors that happen in so many places in this
world,” Farias said in an interview. “The eyes that saw terror
are really striking.”  Sand Sculptures  For pure poetry, there’s Tatiana Trouve’s “350 Points
Towards Infinity.” Her installation shows motionless pendulums,
hanging on an invisible magnetic field.  Another noteworthy display is “Bandeira Branca” (white
flag) by Brazilian artist Nuno Ramos. Installed in the open
center space of the pavilion that connects the three-story
building, it consists of three large sculptures made of black
sand, glass-covered loudspeakers playing Brazilian songs and
three live vultures.  Animal protection groups have objected to keeping the
vultures there. On the Biennial’s opening day, protesters wrote
graffiti on the installation.  (Claudia Quinonez is an editor in the Sao Paulo bureau of
Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
 Claudia Quinonez  in San Paulo at 
 cquinonez1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 