-- California Looks for Cash Under Proposal to Legalize Marijuana
-- B y   A l i s o n   V e k s h i n
-- 2010-11-02T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-02/california-looks-for-cash-under-the-cushions-in-plan-to-legalize-pot-use.html
California voters will decide today
whether to legalize marijuana for personal use and defy the
federal government to enforce anti-drug laws in the state.  Support for Proposition 19 has waned in polls, even as its
predecessor, legalizing medical marijuana in 1996, has inspired
referendums today in Arizona and South Dakota, and been adopted
in 13 other states.  “If it passes, it sends a signal around the country that
Californians think it’s time to change the law,” said Mark
Baldassare, chief executive officer of the Public Policy
Institute of California, a nonpartisan research group based in
San Francisco, in an interview yesterday. “It would have some
far-reaching consequences as far as discussion about legalizing
marijuana in other states as well as at the federal level.”  The  proposition  would allow people 21 or older to possess
and transport as much as an ounce (28 grams) of marijuana for
personal use. It also would allow local governments to tax and
regulate its commercial production, distribution and sale. High-
quality marijuana sells for about $375 an ounce, according to a
 Rand Corp.  study in July.  At stake is the potential for “hundreds of millions of
dollars annually” in new revenue, according to the ballot
language posted on the California Secretary of State’s website.
San Jose, the center of Silicon Valley, and at least 10 more
cities have measures on their ballots today proposing taxes on
pot crops and sales if Proposition 19 passes.  Californians consume about 1 million pounds of pot
annually, according to the state’s tax administrator, the Board
of Equalization.  Waning Support  Enthusiasm for the marijuana proposal has fallen in the
past month, with 42 percent of likely voters supporting it and
49 percent opposed, according to a Field Poll released on Oct.
31. Backers included billionaire investor  George Soros , who
contributed $1 million to support the effort.  U.S. Attorney General  Eric Holder  said the Justice
Department would “vigorously” enforce federal law “against
those individuals and organizations that possess, manufacture or
distribute marijuana for recreational use, even if such
activities are permitted under state law,” according to an Oct.
13 letter.  Legalizing marijuana might cut its price by as much as 80
percent, as growers shift from secret operations to legal
production, according to Rand’s study. The Santa Monica,
California-based research institute said the untaxed retail
price of high-quality marijuana could drop to as low as $38 an
ounce, the study found.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alison Vekshin  in San Francisco at 
 avekshin@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Tannenbaum  at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net . 