-- Violent Video Game Limits Questioned at High Court
-- B y   G r e g   S t o h r
-- 2010-11-02T17:33:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-02/california-sales-curb-on-violent-video-games-questioned-by-u-s-high-court.html
U.S. Supreme Court  justices signaled
they may strike down a California law barring the sale of
violent video games to minors, telling a state lawyer defending
the measure that it might violate the constitutional free-speech
guarantee.  Hearing arguments in a case that may test their
understanding of popular culture and emerging technologies,
several justices today said they knew enough to worry about the
implications were they to uphold the law. They asked whether
states could similarly shield children from exposure to movie
and comic-book violence and to depictions of smoking and
drinking.  “Could you get rid of rap music?” Justice  Sonia Sotomayor 
asked the state lawyer. “Have you heard some of the lyrics of
some of the rap music?”  A decision upholding the measure might lead to similar laws
around the country -- and new compliance costs for the video
game industry, which has $10.5 billion in annual sales. Six
other states have enacted similar measures, and all have been
struck down in court.  California says its law, which has never been enforced, is
a way of helping parents shield their children from games the
industry itself has said aren’t appropriate for minors. The
measure is being challenged by two industry trade groups.  Compared to Pornography  Governor  Arnold Schwarzenegger  and Attorney General  Jerry Brown  contend that violent games are akin to sexual materials,
which the government can restrict to protect children. Violent
games are “no less harmful to the development of minors” than
pornography, the state’s lawyer, Zackery Morazzini, argued.  The law wouldn’t prevent parents from buying the games for
their kids.  Before a packed courtroom in Washington, several justices
said the law might be too vague to pass constitutional muster.
Others resisted the state’s contention that sales of violent
games to children don’t warrant First Amendment protection.  “It has never been understood that the freedom of speech
did not include portrayals of violence,” Justice  Antonin Scalia 
said. “You’re asking us to create a whole new prohibition which
the American people never ratified when they ratified the First
Amendment.”  Justice  Anthony Kennedy  voiced similar concerns, saying
California was “asking us to go into an entirely new area where
there is no consensus” by carving out a violence exception to
the First Amendment.  Passing Familiarity  Justices  Ruth Bader Ginsburg  and  Elena Kagan  also voiced
concerns about the law. Kagan showed at least a passing
familiarity with the video game business, asking whether the law
would restrict  Midway Games Inc. ’s “Mortal Kombat.”  That was an “iconic game, which I am sure half of the
clerks who work for us spent considerable amounts of time in
their adolescence playing,” Kagan said. Her remark prompted
Scalia to quip, “I don’t know what she’s talking about.”  At the same time, several justices made clear they wouldn’t
preclude the state from taking any steps to shield children from
violent games.  Justice  Stephen Breyer  asked the video game industry’s
lawyer, Paul Smith, whether the state could block children from
buying games that depicted “total gratuitous torture.”  “If that’s what it restricted, why is that such a terrible
thing?” Breyer asked.  Exposed to Gore  Chief Justice  John Roberts  read a description of the video
game “Postal II,” which includes scenes of decapitation and
setting people on fire, and said American society has long tried
to shield children from that type of gore.  “We protect children from that,” he said. “We don’t
actively expose them to that.”  Outside the court, a handful of opponents of the law
demonstrated on the sidewalk. Some carried signs accusing
Schwarzenegger, who starred in action movies before turning to
politics, of being a hypocrite for defending the law.  The video game industry says the California law
accomplishes little in light of a voluntary rating system
already used by virtually all game publishers and the largest
retailers. The system assigns one of eight age-specific  ratings 
to games -- with M signifying mature, or 17 and older, and AO
indicating adults only, or 18 and older.  Smith argued that California “has not shown there is a
problem, let alone a compelling problem requiring regulation.”  Industry Support  The industry has lined up dozens of supporters. The
 Entertainment Merchants Association , which represents the home
entertainment industry, joined the Entertainment Software
Association in pressing the suit. Their allies include  Microsoft
Corp. , which makes the Xbox game console;  Activision Blizzard
Inc. , the largest video game publisher; and the Motion Picture
Association of America.  Nine states, responding to what supporters of the law  say 
was an intense industry lobbying effort, are attacking the law,
taking the unusual position of opposing a fellow state and
arguing for restrictions on their authority. Eleven other states
are backing California.  The American Academy of Pediatrics  said  last year that
exposure to violence in video games and other media “represents
a significant risk to the health of children and adolescents.”
The California chapter of the group is supporting the state at
the Supreme Court.  Labeling Games  The California law, meant to take effect in 2006, would
require violent video games sold in the state to be labeled and
would ban their sale or rental to anyone under 18. Violators
could be fined as much as $1,000.  The measure restricts games that depict violence against
human beings and appeal to “a deviant or morbid interest of
minors,” are “patently offensive” and “lack serious
literary, artistic, political or scientific value for minors.”  The law doesn’t clearly say whether it applies to online
sales. State officials say the language suggests those sales are
covered, though no court has ever decided that issue.  The case, which the court will resolve by July, is
Schwarzenegger v. Entertainment Merchants Association, 08-1448.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Greg Stohr  in Washington at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net . 