-- Cameron CEO Says Margins Will ‘Trough’ Next Quarter
-- B y   D a v i d   W e t h e
-- 2010-11-02T20:03:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-02/cameron-international-profit-rises-as-explorers-order-more-gear.html
Cameron International Corp. , the
second-largest U.S. maker of oilfield equipment, said margins
would “trough” in the next quarter as it works through less
profitable, older orders and gets more of its revenue from gear
used to drill underwater.  “While we did see improvement in a number of our
businesses, overall margins declined in the third quarter and
are expected to trough in the fourth quarter,” Chief Executive
Officer  Jack Moore  said in a statement today.  Cameron  fell  49 cents, or 1.1 percent, to $43.40 at 4 p.m.
in composite trading on the New York Stock Exchange. The shares,
which have 26 buy and seven hold ratings from  analysts , have
risen 3.8 percent this year.  The company today reported third-quarter profit rose 19
percent, beating analysts’ estimates as customers ordered
drilling- rig  gear to take advantage of higher oil prices.  Net income rose to $148.7 million, or 61 cents a share,
from $124.9 million, or 56 cents, a year earlier, Houston-based
Cameron said in the statement. Per-share profit, excluding costs
related to the integration of Natco Group and litigation from
the Deepwater Horizon spill, was 64 cents, 3 cents more than the
average of 27 analysts’  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  “I’m going to call it basically an in-line quarter,” said
 Roger Read , an analyst at Natixis Bleichroeder in Houston, who
rates the shares a “buy” and whose family owns about 750
shares. “Maybe you can say it’s an absolutely little bitty
beat, but most of that is a tax beat, not an operational
outperformance.”  Sales Climb  Sales climbed 24 percent to $1.53 billion in the third
quarter. Cameron’s equipment orders rose 10 percent from a year
earlier to $1.48 billion, the most since the third quarter of
2008. Its order backlog stood at $4.94 billion at the end of the
quarter.  “Orders overall are starting to improve,” said  James D. Crandell , an analyst at Barclays Capital in New York, who rates
the shares as “overweight” and owns none. “That’s beginning
to translate into more business on the drilling and production
side.”  The company expects profit margins for its valves and
measurement unit to stay flat into early 2011 as it continues to
fulfill orders made in 2009, Chief Financial Officer  Charles Sledge  said on an investor conference call today.  The company had $1.51 billion in cash and cash equivalents
at the end of September.  “We continue to evaluate acquisition opportunities, and we
expect that our liquidity will allow us to take advantage of any
opportunities that may develop,” Moore said.  Natco Purchase  Cameron announced the $780 million purchase of Natco,
another oil-equipment maker, in June 2009. The purchase,
completed last November, was expected to boost Cameron’s ability
to be more competitive in shale projects and subsea work for
offshore exploration and production.  Cameron raised its earnings guidance for the year to a
range of $2.38 to $2.40, from $2.30 to $2.35 in August.  The average number of active oil and natural-gas rigs in
North America climbed 71 percent to 1,978 after the count
tumbled to as low as 974 in 2009, according to Baker Hughes Inc.
Oil futures averaged $76.21 a barrel in the third quarter, up 12
percent from a year earlier.  Cameron made the so-called blowout preventer for  Transocean
Ltd. ’s Deepwater Horizon drilling rig, which sank after an April
20 explosion and fire that killed 11 workers and triggered a
record U.S. oil spill. Cameron has said it has $500 million in
general liability insurance for any claims made against the
company.  Rig Demand  The continued push for oil in deep water and the
exploration for more challenging natural gas deposits in shallow
water are helping drive demand for new construction of more
premium rigs to replace older units, Crandell wrote in an Oct.
26 research note to investors with analyst  James C. West .  “A new offshore rig construction cycle has started and may
pick up momentum in early 2011,” Crandell wrote. New rig
construction is a “powerful driver” of backlog and earnings
for equipment providers such as Cameron, he said.  National Oilwell Varco Inc., which reported a 5 percent
rise in third-quarter net income last week, is the largest U.S.
maker of oilfield equipment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Wethe  in Houston at 
 dwethe@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at   susanwarren@bloomberg.net . 