-- Cameron May Fail to Realize Spending Cuts, Former Monetary Officials Say
-- B y   G o n z a l o   V i n a   a n d   S i m o n   K e n n e d y
-- 2010-11-02T12:48:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-02/cameron-may-fail-to-realize-spending-cuts-former-monetary-officials-say.html
Prime Minister  David Cameron  may fail
to achieve his planned spending cuts as he seeks to narrow
Britain’s record deficit, two former top civil servants said.  Proposals to reduce spending by 81 billion pounds ($130
billion) a year by 2015 have sparked public opposition and risk
resistance from some politicians in Cameron’s Conservative-
Liberal Democrat coalition government that took power in May.  “The question that hasn’t been asked is whether it’s going
to stick,”  Rachel Lomax  said at a monetary policy forum
organized by Fathom Consulting in London today.  John Gieve  said
it is “most improbable” that the government will stick to its
plans.  The comments cast doubt on Chancellor of the Exchequer
 George Osborne ’s ability to cut the deficit to 2 percent of
economic output by 2015 from more than 10 percent today. Lomax
and Gieve, both former permanent secretaries, have experience of
driving through cuts in the 1980s and 1990s. Both also worked at
the Treasury and served as deputy governors of the Bank of
England.  “It has been a very top-down process and the result leaves
me with a sense of wonderment,” Lomax said. “There’s going to
be quite a lot of pullback even before you look at welfare.”  Osborne’s plan involves half a million public-sector job
losses and 18 billion pounds of welfare cuts, a reduction of
almost 9 percent in the total welfare bill.  He and Cameron argue that their austerity program is
keeping interest rates low and securing the nation’s top-grade
credit rating. Their balancing act is to assure investors they
will meet their targets while persuading voters that the cuts
are worth the pain.  ‘Straw Man’  Lomax said Osborne had set up a “straw man” by comparing
the U.K. with Greece and warning that the investors would turn
their backs on the nation’s government bonds unless the package
was delivered. She said voters do not believe that “there is no
alternative,” unlike during previous austerity programs.  The Chartered Institute of Personnel and Development said
today that 1.6 million jobs may be lost as a result of the
spending cuts and a planned increase in value-added tax in
January. Gieve and Lomax said the cuts will hurt growth.  The public sector will lose 725,000 jobs, far higher than
the Office for Budget Responsibility’s estimate of 490,000 by
April 2015, CIPD said. The private sector will shed 900,000,
CIPD said.  It means the private sector needs to create 300,000 jobs a
quarter to keep unemployment at its current level of 2.6
million.  That requires the economy to maintain growth of 2.5 percent
a year, a rate that may be hard to achieve before 2013, said
Chief economic adviser  John Philpott . Unemployment may rise
through 2011 and much of 2012, he said.  “Plenty of analysts and economists would query whether
we’re going to see anything like 2 percent to 3 percent growth
on a sustained basis, particularly over the next two years,”
Philpott told Parliament’s Treasury Committee in London today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Gonzalo Vina  in London on 
 gvina@bloomberg.net 
 Simon Kennedy  in London at 
 skennedy4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  