-- Canadian Stocks Rise as Commodities Advance as Fed Convenes
-- B y   M a t t   W a l c o f f
-- 2010-11-02T21:11:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-02/canadian-stocks-fluctuate-ahead-of-u-s-federal-reserve-meeting-td-rises.html
Canadian stocks  rose, led by energy
and raw material producers, as commodities rallied on a weaker
U.S. dollar before a U.S. Federal Reserve meeting that
economists say will lead to new economic stimulus.  Talisman Energy Inc., an oil and gas producer with
operations on five continents, advanced 3.6 percent after
boosting its production forecast. Goldcorp Inc., the world’s
second-biggest gold producer by market value, increased 0.6
percent as precious metals climbed. Agrium Inc., Canada’s
second-largest fertilizer producer, fell 2.1 percent after its
rating was cut by an analyst at Chardan Capital Markets LLC.  The  Standard & Poor’s/TSX Composite Index  gained 16.61
points, or 0.1 percent, to 12,681.42 a day before U.S. policy
makers may announce a second round of asset purchases known as
quantitative easing, or QE.  “We’ve had that trend now since they announced the QE2 in
August,” said  Danielle Park , who helps manage C$200 million
($198 million) as a money manager at Venable Park Investment
Counsel Inc. in Barrie, Ontario, referring to the Fed’s earlier
pledge to stop money from draining out of the financial system.
“We’ve had the dollar weak. That’s been the underpinning for
the big bounce up in commodity prices.”  The index advanced four straight months through October as
commodity prices have surged on a weaker U.S. dollar. The
greenback declined  10 percent  against a basket of world
currencies from July through October as investors speculated
Federal Reserve stimulus policies will weaken the currency by
increasing the money supply.  All but three of 56 economists in the Bloomberg survey said
the Fed will announce a second round of securities purchases
tomorrow. Most say the central bank will pledge to buy at least
$500 billion.  Commodities Gain  The Thomson Reuters/Jefferies CRB Commodity Price Index
increased for a fourth day as the U.S. dollar dropped against 12
of 16 other major currencies.  Crude oil futures climbed to a six-month high of $83.90 a
barrel in New York.  Talisman gained 3.6 percent to a seven-month high of
C$19.11 after raising its 2010 production forecast by 3.8
percent. Canadian Natural Resources Ltd., Canada’s second-
largest energy company by market value, advanced 1.9 percent to
C$37.86. ARC Energy Trust, a western Canadian oil and gas
producer, increased 3.7 percent to C$22.36 after reporting
third-quarter cash flow per share that topped the average
analyst estimate by 5 percent.  Gold futures climbed 0.5 percent, while silver surged 1.2
percent to a 30-year high.  Gold, Silver Producers  Goldcorp rose 0.6 percent to C$45.38. Silver reseller
Silver Wheaton Corp. advanced 2 percent from a record close to
C$30.01. Eastern Platinum Ltd., which mines in South Africa,
rallied 5.9 percent to C$1.81 after receiving a “buy” rating
in new coverage from  Matthew Hasson , an analyst at Collins
Stewart Plc.  Uranium One Inc., the uranium producer in which Russia’s
ARMZ is buying a controlling stake, climbed for an eighth day,
rallying 5.4 percent to C$4.47. In a note dated yesterday,  Brian MacArthur , an analyst at UBS, raised his share-price estimate on
Uranium One to C$4.75 from C$4.05, citing higher uranium prices.  Agrium, which is also a retailer, lost 2.1 percent to C$88
ahead of the release of its third-quarter earnings.  Tim Tiberio ,
an analyst at Chardan, cut his rating on the shares to
“neutral” from “buy,” citing the stock’s nearly 50 percent
jump since early May.  Potash Corp. of Saskatchewan Inc., the world’s largest
fertilizer producer, decreased 1.6 percent to C$146.27 as
investors waited for the Canadian government’s decision on
whether to approve BHP Billiton Ltd.’s takeover bid for the
company.  In an e-mailed statement, Industry Minister  Tony Clement 
denied a National Post report that a government agency has
recommended approval. The government must sign off on the bid
because BHP is a foreign company.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Matt Walcoff  in Toronto at 
 mwalcoff1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 