-- Canada's Currency Rises for Fourth Day, Approaches Parity With Greenback
-- B y   C h r i s   F o u r n i e r
-- 2010-11-02T21:30:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-02/canada-s-currency-rises-for-fourth-day-approaches-parity-with-greenback.html
Canada’s dollar gained for a fourth
day in its longest stretch of advances since July, and
approached parity with its U.S. counterpart as crude oil rallied
and the Federal Reserve considered stepping up quantitative
easing.  The loonie is one of the top two performers against the
greenback among its major counterparts over the past five days,
along with the currency of commodity-exporting peer New Zealand.
Speculation that Canada’s Conservative government won’t block a
foreign takeover of  Potash Corp. of Saskatchewan Inc.  supported
the loonie, traders said.  “We’re close to oil breaking out of its long-term trading
range,”  Sebastien Galy , a currency strategist at BNP Paribas SA
in New York, said via e-mail. “The Fed is loosening while
Canada is not. With central banks and real money diversifying
ahead of the event, the Canadian dollar is well bid.”  The Canadian currency appreciated 0.7 percent to C$1.0082
per U.S. dollar, the strongest level since Oct. 15, at 5 p.m. in
Toronto, from C$1.0152 yesterday. One Canadian dollar buys 99.19
U.S. cents.  The loonie, as the currency is sometimes known for the
image of the aquatic bird on the C$1 coin, reached parity with
its U.S. counterpart on Oct. 14 for the first time since April.  The U.S. currency fell against most of its major
counterparts on speculation Fed policy makers will announce
tomorrow after their two-day meeting more purchases of assets
under the policy known as quantitative easing.  Potash Deal Outlook  Canada’s currency got a boost from speculation that the
government will allow the purchase of  Potash,  the largest
fertilizer producer, and that Melbourne-based BHP Billiton Ltd.,
the world’s biggest miner, will raise its $40 billion bid.  “We have already seen speculators buying the Canadian
dollar over the past two days on expectations that Ottawa
approves the deal and BHP raises prices,”  Blake Jespersen ,
director of foreign exchange in Toronto at Bank of Montreal’s
BMO Capital unit, said via e-mail.  Potash Corp. rejected BHP’s $130-a-share takeover proposal
and said it had held talks with 15 potential alternative
bidders. BHP’s offer is subject to a review by the Canadian
government, which can block the deal if it finds the transaction
doesn’t provide “net benefits” to the country. A decision is
scheduled by tomorrow.  “Assuming the Feds give it the thumbs up, the initial
reaction will clearly be positive for the Canadian dollar,”
said  Steve Butler , director of foreign-exchange trading at Bank
of Nova Scotia’s Scotia Capital unit in Toronto. “We still have
a lot of event risk this week, so it may be difficult for the
Canadian dollar to sustain a rally.”  Drop in Bonds  Government bonds fell, pushing the 10-year note’s  yield  up
four basis points, or 0.04 percentage point, to 2.87 percent.
The price of the 3.5 percent security maturing in June 2020 fell
34 cents to C$105.22.  Canada’s debt has returned 7 percent this year, compared
with 8.6 percent for U.S. debt, according to a Bank of America
Merrill Lynch index.  Futures on crude oil, Canada’s largest export, advanced as
much as 1.8 percent to $84.47 a barrel, the highest level since
May 4.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Chris Fournier  in Montreal at 
 cfournier3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  