-- Canada Blocks Taseko's Prosperity Mine on `Adverse' Environment Effects
-- B y   A l e x a n d r e   D e s l o n g c h a m p s
-- 2010-11-02T23:25:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-02/canada-blocks-taseko-s-prosperity-mine-on-adverse-environment-effects.html
Canada said it won’t allow  Taseko
Mines Ltd.  to proceed with its Prosperity gold and copper
project in British Columbia project under its current plan
because it would cause too much damage to the environment.  “The government of Canada has not granted authorization
for the Prosperity project due to concerns about the significant
 adverse environmental effects  of the project as proposed,”
Prentice told reporters outside Parliament in Ottawa today. The
minister said the company can propose a revised project.  Taseko wanted federal approval to develop its Prosperity
deposit, 125 kilometers (78 miles) southwest of Williams Lake.
The project would harm fish habitat, navigation and land use by
Indian groups, the Canadian Environmental Assessment Agency
panel said in recommendations to the government posted on the
agency’s website in July.  “Our next steps will be discussions with both the federal
and provincial governments to look at options so that this
mining project can move forward and meet the criteria that the
federal government deems appropriate,”  Russell Hallbauer ,
Taseko’s chief executive officer, said in a statement.  Taseko plunged $1.81, or 28 percent, to $4.67 at 5:26 p.m.
after the close of regular New York Stock Exchange trading.  The
shares  had risen 54 percent this year through today’s close.  Prentice also said the government approved Thompson Creek
Metals Co.’s Mt. Milligan copper and gold project near Prince
George, British Columbia.  Prentice said the Mt. Milligan mine should serve as a model
to other companies seeking approval under the country’s
environmental process.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alexandre Deslongchamps  in Ottawa at 
 adeslongcham@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net . 