-- WaMu, Capmark, Monorail, Ambac, Innkeepers: Bankruptcy
-- B y   B i l l   R o c h e l l e
-- 2010-11-02T13:03:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-02/capmark-monorail-ambac-rhi-innkeepers-centaur-bankruptcy.html
The examiner for  Washington Mutual
Inc.  issued his 353-page report late yesterday afternoon,
concluding that the proposed settlement with the Federal Deposit
Insurance Corp. and  JPMorgan Chase & Co . “reasonably resolves
contentious issues.”  The examiner,  Joshua Hochberg , said the settlement “will
most likely result in no recovery for any classes of
shareholders.” He concluded that litigation is “highly
unlikely to materially benefit classes” like shareholders
“that are out-of-the-money.”  Hochberg said his task was to evaluate the “ability to
recover disputed assets against the guaranteed recovery” in the
settlement. By approving the settlement, he said, unsecured
creditors will be paid in full while subordinated creditors are
“likely” to receive 70 percent to 80 percent. Not to approve
the settlement, in his opinion, would put guaranteed recoveries
at risk “in order to attempt to obtain speculative recoveries
for shareholders.”  Hochberg said he “did not uncover facts likely to support
viable claims against” JPMorgan. He said it “would be
difficult to establish that JPMC’s actions caused the demise”
of the bank subsidiary. He said it is “highly unlikely that any
claims against the FDIC would succeed.”  The bankruptcy judge approved WaMu’s disclosure statement
on Oct. 21. The voting deadline is Nov. 15. The judge set aside
Dec. 1 through Dec. 3 for the confirmation hearing to consider
approval of the WaMu’s Chapter 11 plan.  WaMu modified the plan in October to incorporate changes in
the settlement. For a discussion of the changes, click here for
the Oct. 7 Bloomberg bankruptcy report. WaMu’s revised plan is
designed to distribute over $7 billion to creditors. To read
about the settlement before it was modified, click here for the
May 24 Bloomberg bankruptcy report. Click here to read the May
18 Bloomberg bankruptcy report for a summary of WaMu’s plan.  The WaMu holding company filed under Chapter 11 in
September 2008, one day after the bank subsidiary was taken
over. The bank, which had been the sixth-largest depository and
credit-card issuer in the U.S., was the largest bank failure in
the country’s history. The holding company filed formal lists of
assets and debt showing property with a total value of $4.49
billion against liabilities of $7.83 billion.  The holding company Chapter 11 case is In re Washington
Mutual Inc., 08-12229, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, District of
Delaware (Wilmington).  Updates  Capmark Settlement Approved in 93-Page Opinion  Capmark Financial Group Inc. emerged victorious from an
October trial yesterday when the bankruptcy judge filed a 93-
page opinion explaining his approval of a settlement with
secured lenders. The creditors’ committee was opposed to the
settlement and sought authority to sue the lenders.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge  Christopher Sontchi  concluded that
the settlement was better than the “lowest point of the range
of litigation outcomes.” He also said the settlement was “fair
and reasonable” and in the “best interests” of “all parties
in interest.”  Sontchi refused to allow the creditors to sue lenders based
on a $1.5 billion secured loan made 149 days before the Chapter
11 filing in October 2009. The committee said the loan was used
to pay off unsecured debt owing to practically the same lenders.
Because the loan was made more than 90 days before bankruptcy,
it couldn’t be attacked as a preference. The committee would
have challenged the security as a fraudulent transfer.  As a result of approval of the settlement, lenders will be
paid 91 percent in cash on the $1.1 billion they’re still owed.
In addition, the lenders will receive interest and reimbursement
of fees spent in the Chapter 11 case.  Capmark argued that the settlement would save not less than
$300 million, the judge said. The lenders gave up 9 percent in
return for not being sued.  The settlement calls for the lenders to be paid cash and in
return give up liens on collateral Capmark believes is worth
$1.3 billion to $1.5 billion.  The committee contended there was no authority in
bankruptcy law to pay off a secured claim before confirmation of
a plan when the payment comes from cash that’s not part of the
lenders’ collateral.  Sontchi said a lawsuit against the lenders had a “low
probability” of success.  For other Bloomberg coverage, click here.  Capmark previously said it intends to reorganize around its
non-bankrupt bank subsidiary by giving stock to unsecured
creditors. Based in Horsham, Pennsylvania, Capmark was called
GMAC Commercial Holding Corp. before control was sold in 2006.
It had been GMAC’s servicing and mortgage banking business.  KKR & Co ., Goldman Sachs Group Inc., Dune Capital
Management LP and Five Mile Capital Partners LLC owned 75.4
percent of Capmark following a 2006 acquisition from  General
Motors Corp . for $1.5 billion cash and repayment of $7.3 billion
in debt. Capmark’s debt includes a $1.5 billion term loan
secured by all assets except Capmark’s bank’s assets, $234
million remaining under a bridge loan, a $4.6 billion senior
credit, $2.34 billion in notes, and a $250 million junior
subordinated debt. The bank had assets of $11.12 billion and
deposits of $8.39 billion, according to a court filing.  The case is In re Capmark Financial Group Inc., 09-13684,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  Monorail Reorganization May Proceed; Appeal Denied  Las Vegas Monorail Co.  won out over bondholders who wanted
the reorganization halted entirely pending appeal from a ruling
by the bankruptcy judge in April concluding that the company has
the right to reorganize in Chapter 11.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Bruce A. Markell in Las Vegas
previously ruled that Monorail isn’t a municipality and is
therefore entitled to reorganize in Chapter 11. Bondholders
appealed.  Were Monorail a municipality, it would have been eligible
only for reorganization under Chapter 9, and the Chapter 11 case
would have been dismissed. For a discussion of Markell’s ruling,
click here for the April 27 Bloomberg bankruptcy report.  Markell denied a motion to stay the Chapter 11 case pending
appeal. The motion for a stay was made by Ambac Assurance Corp.,
which provided insurance for the bondholders.  On appeal, U.S. District Judge  James Mahan  in Reno upheld
the bankruptcy judge and refused to stop the Chapter 11 case in
an opinion handed down Oct. 29. Mahan also ruled that the appeal
wasn’t being taken from a so-called final order. Mahan said he
therefore wouldn’t hear the appeal on eligibility for Chapter 11
until the reorganization is concluded.  Mahan also agreed with Markell by saying that the
bankruptcy rules don’t allow halting an entire Chapter 11 case
when an appeal is taken from one decision.  The Monorail winds its way behind casinos on the east side
of the Las Vegas Strip. It filed a proposed Chapter 11 plan in
August. The senior bondholders, owed $451 million, oppose the
plan which would give them notes totaling $18.5 million for
their secured and deficiency claims.  Monorail, a nonprofit corporation, began operation in 2004.
It built the 3.9-mile driverless transportation system running
behind the Las Vegas Strip to the convention center. Revenue was
never enough to service debt.  Making seven stops, the monorail takes 15 minutes for the
entire trip.  The case is In re Las Vegas Monorail Co., 10-10464, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, District of Nevada (Las Vegas).  Ultimate Escapes Sells Properties to Three Buyers  Ultimate Escapes Inc. , a destination club operator that
filed for Chapter 11 protection on Sept. 20, was authorized to
sell the properties last week.  Secured lender CapitalSource Finance LLC is buying most of
the properties in exchange for $52.7 million in secured debt.
Laurence Development LP bought 10 properties for $14.3 million
cash. One property went for $1.8 million cash.  Kissimmee, Florida-based Ultimate Escapes owned or leased
119 residences in 45 destinations and had approximately 1,250
members. The June 30 balance sheet listed $189 million in assets
against total liabilities of $222 million.  The case is In re Ultimate Escapes Holdings LLC, 10-12915,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  Oriental Trading to Confirm Prepack on Dec. 14  Oriental Trading Co., a direct marketer of home decor
products, toys and  novelties , scheduled a Dec. 12 confirmation
hearing for approval of the Chapter 11 plan when the bankruptcy
judge in Delaware signed an order yesterday approving the
explanatory disclosure statement.  The unsecured creditors’ committee and the first-lien
lenders support the plan.  OTC yesterday reported a $6.7 million net loss from the
beginning of the Chapter 11 case on Aug. 25 through the end of
September. Revenue for the period was $46.1 million. Earnings
before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization were $4.8
million. The net loss largely resulted from interest expense of
$5.6 million and $3.1 million in reorganization items.  Confirmation of the plan may be opposed by second-lien
lenders who are to receive only warrants for 2.5 percent of the
stock with a strike price based on an enterprise value of $427.5
million.  The disclosure statement contains no estimate for the
percentage recovery by senior or junior lenders.  The plan gives the new stock plus cash or a new $200
million second-lien note to senior lenders owed $403 million.  As the result of a settlement with the creditor’s
committee, first-lien lenders are providing $1.1 million for
unsecured creditors with $6.8 million in claims, assuming the
class votes for the plan.  Oriental Trading missed an interest payment in May on
second-lien debt. The plan was negotiated with the first-lien
lenders before the Aug. 25 bankruptcy filing.  Assets of the Omaha, Nebraska-based company were on the
books for $463 million on April 3. Liabilities totaled $756.6
million. Net sales for the fiscal year were $485.4 million.
Although OTC sought a purchaser, no offer was enough to pay
first-lien debt in full.  At the filing date, $180 million plus interest was owing on
the second-lien debt plus $120 million in mezzanine debt.  An affiliate of the Carlyle Group purchased 68 percent of
OTC in July 2006 from private-equity investor Brentwood
Associates, which continues to own about 24 percent of the
equity.  JPMorgan Chase Bank NA is agent for the first-lien
creditors. Wilmington Trust FSB is agent on the second-lien
credit. Wachovia Bank NA serves as agent for the mezzanine debt
holders.  The case is In re OTC Holdings Corp., 10-12636, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  Taylor Bean Plan Partly Pays $8 Billion in Claims  Taylor Bean & Whitaker Mortgage Corp., once the largest
independent mortgage originator in the U.S., has a hearing on
Nov. 5 for approval of the disclosure statement explaining the
liquidating Chapter 11 plan supported by the official creditors’
committee.  The disclosure statement says assets to be administered
under the plan eventually will total from $322 million to $521
million. After claims with higher priority are paid, between
$264 million and $354 million will remain for unsecured
creditors with claims totaling more than $8 billion.  The distribution to unsecured creditors is expected to
range between 3.3 percent and 4.4 percent, according to the
disclosure statement.  The largest claim, $3.25 billion, belonged to the Federal
Deposit Insurance Corp. The claim was settled and will be paid
under the plan.  Lee Farkas , the former chairman, faces trial this month on
an indictment charging him with concealing mortgage assets that
were worthless or losing value and representing them as being
securitized and sold into the secondary market. The government
has frozen his assets.  Taylor Bean filed under Chapter 11 in August 2009, three
weeks after federal investigators searched the offices of the
Ocala, Florida-based company. The day following the search, the
Federal Housing Administration, Ginnie Mae and Freddie Mac
prohibited the company from issuing new mortgages and terminated
servicing rights.  Taylor Bean managed an $80 billion mortgage servicing
portfolio. The petition said assets and debt both exceed $1
billion.  The case is Taylor Bean & Whitaker Mortgage Corp.,
09-07047, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Middle District of Florida
(Jacksonville).  Honolulu Symphony Settles with Musicians’ Union  The  Honolulu Symphony  orchestra, which filed for Chapter 11
reorganization in December, negotiated a settlement of an unfair
labor practices complaint with the union representing musicians.
The symphony said in a filing with the U.S. Bankruptcy Court in
Honolulu that it was “highly unlikely” there could have been a
reorganization plan without a settlement with the union.  Assuming the symphony’s board and the union formally agree,
the musicians will waive claims for back pay and severance.
Absent waiver, the claims would have been administrative
expenses requiring full payment.  The symphony said the settlement was “brokered” by the
National Labor Relations Board.  The symphony said it cannot file a Chapter 11 plan until
the settlement is formally approved. The symphony therefore
filed a motion to extend the exclusive right to propose a plan.
A hearing on the exclusivity motion will be held Dec. 18.  The symphony said bankruptcy resulted from a decline in
donations.  The case is In re Honolulu Symphony Society, 09-02978, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, District of Hawaii (Honolulu).  No Class Claims Under Circuit City Liquidation Plan  The distribution to creditors under the confirmed  Circuit
City Stores Inc . Chapter 11 plan won’t be diluted by claims from
workers in California.  Plaintiffs in purported class-action suits filed class
proofs of claim in the Circuit City liquidation. The suits were
based on alleged violation of California state labor law. The
bankruptcy judge ruled that allowing or disallowing individual
claims was the preferable method for dealing with the labor-law
claims.  In an opinion on Oct. 29, a district judge in Richmond,
Virginia, upheld the bankruptcy judge by ruling that class
claims were not preferable under the facts of the Circuit City
case. The district judge didn’t reach the question of whether
class claims are even permissible in bankruptcy cases. The issue
has divided the courts.  For a discussion of the opinion by the bankruptcy judge,
click here for the June 2 Bloomberg bankruptcy report.  For a description of Circuit City’s liquidating plan which
was confirmed in September, click here for the Sept. 1 Bloomberg
bankruptcy report.  The Chapter 11 filing was in November 2008, in Circuit
City’s Richmond hometown. The petition listed assets of $3.4
billion and debt totaling $2.3 billion as of Aug. 31, 2008.  The case is In re Circuit City Stores Inc., 08-35653, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Eastern District Virginia (Richmond).  Prepacks Coming  Ambac Parent Begins Soliciting Votes on Prepacked Plan  Ambac Financial Group Inc. , which hasn’t received dividends
since its principal insurance subsidiary was taken over by
regulators, said yesterday that it’s working on a prepackaged
Chapter 11 reorganization with an ad hoc committee of senior
creditors.  Negotiating a so-called prepack became necessary because
the company said it couldn’t raise additional capital.  If votes on a plan in advance of filing are insufficient to
support a quick exit from Chapter 11, Ambac said it nonetheless
intends to file under Chapter 11 by the year’s end.  Ambac said it won’t make the payment due yesterday on 7.5
percent debentures due 2023. The grace period is 30 days. The
next interest payment is due Nov. 15. Total debt is $1.62
billion, Ambac said.  Ambac said it’s trying to avoid the loss of $7 billion in
net operating loss tax carry forwards. For other Bloomberg
coverage, click here.  Ambac previously said it might elect not to pay debt
service as early as the second quarter of 2010 even though
liquidity would be sufficient until the second quarter of 2011.  The Wisconsin insurance regulator created a so-called
special account in March for some of $35 billion in policies
issued by the principal operating subsidiary Ambac Assurance
Corp. The policies in the segregated account are for credit
default swaps, residential mortgage-backed securities, the Las
Vegas Monorail, and some student loans. No claims on the
policies will be paid until there is a rehabilitation worked out
in the Wisconsin court.  The Wisconsin court so far has held back challenges to the
regulator’s actions in the rehabilitation of the subsidiary.
Among other things, the Wisconsin court held that there was no
violation of the state or federal constitutions.  TV Movie Maker RHI Soliciting Votes on Prepack Plan  RHI Entertainment Inc. , a producer and distributor of
television programming, said yesterday in a regulatory filing
that it commenced soliciting votes on a prepackaged Chapter 11
reorganization.  RHI is seeking votes from holders of first- and second-lien
debt. Assuming affirmative votes are received, RHI hopes to file
the Chapter 11 petition around Nov. 15. The company said
unsecured claims of “certain critical” suppliers and foreign
creditors would be paid after the bankruptcy filing.  If RHI fails to attract sufficient votes, the filing with
the Securities and Exchange Commission said there will still be
a Chapter 11 filing.  The terms of the offer weren’t spelled out, although
current shareholders will lose their stock ownership.  RHI has $525 million in first-lien obligations and $75
million in second-lien debt, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Both levels of debt are in default. The stock fell
1.3 cents yesterday to 4.3 cents in over-the-counter trading.  RHI’s balance sheet showed assets of $544.6 million and
total liabilities of $827.8 million on June 30. For six months
ended June 30, the net loss was $50.8 million on total revenue
of $14.4 million.  New York-based RHI said the assets include 1,000 titles for
more than 3,500 broadcast hours of long-form programming. RHI
specializes in made-for-television movies and miniseries.  Chapter 15 Coming  Vitro Promises to Begin Court Reorganization Soon  Vitro SAB , Mexico’s largest glassmaker, is making another
exchange offer and intends to file for bankruptcy reorganization
in Mexico in the next two months, Chief Restructuring Officer
Claudio del Valle said in a conference call with reporters
yesterday.  To complement the Mexican proceedings, Vitro will file a
Chapter 15 petition in the U.S., del Valle said.  The exchange offer would give creditors a recovery up to 73
percent, the company said. Dec. 1 is the deadline for the
exchange offer where creditors are being offered cash, new debt
or convertible bonds. For Bloomberg coverage, click here.  Monterrey, Mexico-based Vitro has been attempting to
restructure $1.2 billion in debt that’s been in default since
last year.  Vitro first missed interest payments on the notes in
February 2009. The noteholders since then accelerated the debt,
making it all due and payable.  Chapter 15 isn’t a full-blown bankruptcy. If the U.S.
bankruptcy judge finds that proceedings in Mexico afford
adequate protections for creditors, the U.S. court will halt
creditor actions in the U.S., thus forcing creditors to take
their disputes with Vitro to the court in Mexico.  If the Mexican court approves a reorganization, the U.S.
court could be used to compel compliance in the U.S.  Exchange Offer News  Corrugated Steel, Pipe Maker Contech Completes Swap  Contech Construction Products Inc., a West Chester, Ohio-
based manufacturer of corrugated steel and plastic pipe, said
yesterday that it completed a “balance sheet restructuring”
that eliminated the $240 million owing in principal and interest
on mezzanine debt.  Contech said that Goldman Sachs Mezzanine Partners has
become majority owner. Covenants and the interest rate on the
senior secured credit were also modified, the company said.
Further details weren’t provided.  Before the announcement, Standard & Poor’s was giving the
company a CC corporate rating.  Briefly Noted  Innkeepers Has $2.53 Million September Operating Income  Innkeepers USA Trust , a real estate investment trust, filed
an operating report showing $24.6 million in revenue during
September. Operating income of $2.53 million turned into a net
loss of $4.41 million after $6.8 million of reorganization
items.  Innkeepers’ initial proposal for reorganizing was rejected
by the bankruptcy judge. Midland Loan Services Inc., as servicer
for $825 million in mortgage debt on 45 of Innkeepers’
properties, has been working on its own reorganization plan to
be financed by selling the new stock for $236 million to Five
Mile Capital Partners LLC.  Until blocked by the judge, Innkeepers was behind a Chapter
11 plan where the new equity would have been split between the
current owner,  Apollo Investment Corp. , and Lehman Ali Inc., a
subsidiary of  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.  that has $238
million in floating-rate mortgages on 20 properties.  Palm Beach, Florida-based Innkeepers has 72 extended-stay
and limited-service properties with 10,000 rooms in 20 states.
For details on Innkeepers’ rejected plan and Midland’s proposal
for a competing plan, click here for the Aug. 31 Bloomberg
bankruptcy report.  Apollo acquired the company in July 2007 in a $1.35 billion
transaction. The Innkeepers petition listed assets of $1.5
billion against debt totaling $1.52 billion.  The case is In re Innkeepers USA Trust, 10-13800, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Southern District New York (Manhattan).  Thompson Publishing Bonuses Approved With Proviso  Thompson Publishing Holding Co., a publisher of newsletters
and loose-leaf services, was authorized yesterday by the
bankruptcy judge to adopt two incentive programs. One would pay
up to $345,500 to 28 employees. The other, for a maximum
$500,000, is for 11 senior executives.  The court’s approval had a proviso. The secured lenders are
not compelled to fund the bonuses. The lenders are planning to
have the business sold at a Nov. 17 auction. Bids are due Nov.
12. The hearing for approval of the sale is set for Nov. 19.
Absent other offers, the first-lien lenders intend to buy in
exchange for $42 million in secured debt. The lenders also will
assume liabilities on subscriptions and obligations to
employees, including the bonuses, the company said in a court
filing.  Based in Washington, Thompson has 300 products and 70,000
subscribers. The company expects revenue will decline this year
to $49 million. Debt includes $122.6 million owing on first-lien
debt with PNC Bank NA serving as agent. Second-lien creditors,
owed $43.5 million, have Ableco Finance LLC as agent.  Controlled by Avista Capital Partners LP, Thompson
generated 74 percent of income from subscription. The company
also arranges conferences and employee training events.  The case is In re Thompson Publishing Holding Co.,
10-13070, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware
(Wilmington).  Casino Operator Centaur Given More Exclusivity  Casino and racetrack operator Centaur LLC fielded no
objections and was given an extension until Dec. 31 of the
exclusive right to propose a reorganization plan. The extension
was the third.  The bankruptcy court scheduled a confirmation hearing for
Dec. 13 to approve Centaur’s plan.  Centaur LLC and 12 affiliates filed Chapter 11 petitions in
March. Affiliates Centaur PA Land LP and Valley View Downs LP
filed for bankruptcy reorganization in October 2009 to keep the
Pennsylvania project alive. All the companies are subsidiaries
of closely owned Centaur Inc., which isn’t in bankruptcy.  The March filings listed assets of $584 million and debt of
$681 million. The newer cases resulted from the failure to make
payments due in October 2009 on a $382.5 million first-lien debt
and a $192 million second-lien credit. The companies have horse
racing and gambling facilities in five markets in Indiana and
Colorado.  The companies own Hoosier Park, a casino and horse
racetrack, in Anderson, Indiana, along with three offtrack
betting parlors in Indiana. Fortune Valley Hotel & Casino in
Central City, Colorado, was sold. The companies generated
revenue of $277.5 million in 2009.  The newer case is Centaur LLC, 10-10799, and the first case
was In re Centaur PA Land LP, 09-13760, U.S. Bankruptcy Court,
District of Delaware (Wilmington).  New Filing  Tetragenex Pharmaceuticals Files Prepack in New York  Tetragenex Pharmaceuticals Inc. , a developer of peptides to
treat depression, filed a prepackaged Chapter 11 petition on
Oct. 26 in Central Islip, New York. Creditors already voted in
favor of the plan that converts debt to equity.  The petition said assets are $133,000 against debt totaling
$3.75 million. The secured creditor, owed $85,000, agreed to
swap the debt for stock.  Previously named Innapharma Inc., the Syosset, New York-
based company has a patent for Nemefitide that expires in 2014.
The looming expiration of the patent doesn’t afford sufficient
time to compete testing and marketing of the drug in the U.S., a
court filing said.  The case is In re Tetragenex Pharmaceuticals Inc.,
10-78439, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Eastern District New York
(Central Islip).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bill Rochelle  in New York at 
 wrochelle@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 