-- Air Cargo Plot May Hurt Push to Ease Checks Ryanair Calls `Nuts'
-- B y   S t e v e   R o t h w e l l   a n d   H o w a r d   M u s t o e
-- 2010-11-02T00:01:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-02/cargo-bomb-plot-may-thwart-push-to-end-check-in-rules-ryanair-calls-nuts-.html
The discovery of explosive devices in
air-cargo shipments in the U.K. and Dubai last week may stymie a
push by carriers including  British Airways Plc  and  Ryanair
Holdings Plc  to ease security checks for passengers.  The seizures on Oct. 29 came three days after British
Airways Chairman  Martin Broughton  used an appearance at the U.K.
Airport Operators Association to appeal for the relaxation of
rules requiring passengers to remove shoes, take laptops from
cases and pack liquids separately during security screenings.  Complaints about the effect of the procedures on travel
times and costs have been loudest in Europe, with Broughton
criticizing Britain for accepting security stipulations from the
U.S., where domestic flights are exempt from some of the checks.
Ryanair Chief Executive Officer  Michael O’Leary  says he’s
concerned that rules may now be made stricter rather than eased.  “I’ll never cease to be amazed at the extent to which
bureaucrats can invent more procedures that do nothing for
safety except give people the impression that they’ve done
something,” O’Leary said in an interview. “We’ve got to stop
this nonsense of taking people’s shoes and water off them.”  The CEO said that while it would be hard “to screw up the
passenger experience any further,” he’s concerned that Cobra,
the U.K. government’s emergency planning committee, may impose
further measures, adding that airport security must be efficient
and effective but can never be 100 percent safe.  ‘Nuts’  “These guys are nuts,” O’Leary said. “They were saying
two years ago you couldn’t bring carry-on baggage at all, only a
pouch of toiletries -- mad stuff. Cargo flights will come under
more scrutiny, but none of this affects passenger security.”  Check-in regulation was tightened in the wake of the Sept.
11, 2001 terrorist attacks, with passengers denied sharp objects
such as pen knives or nail files in their hand luggage. The
practice to remove travellers’ shoes during screening was
introduced after an incident in December 2001 on a Miami-bound
flight from Paris involving convicted shoe-bomber Richard Reid.  Larger quantities of liquids were mostly banned from carry-
on luggage after the U.K. authorities foiled a plot in 2006 to
blow up airlines heading to the U.S. using liquid explosives
hidden in shampoo bottles.  British Airways spokesman  Philip Allport  said that
Broughton had been seeking to highlight the disparity between
different regimes and that the carrier, Europe’s third-largest,
complies with all security rules set by the government.  Printer Cartridges  The packages found last week -- printer cartridges packed
with explosives -- originated in Yemen and were addressed to
synagogues in Chicago. One was found at a  United Parcel Service
Inc . depot at East Midlands airport in England, to which it had
traveled via Cologne, the other at a  FedEx Corp . facility in
Dubai. Both courier companies have halted services to Yemen.  Security concerns for airlines are complicated by the fact
that the explosive device found in Dubai was transported from
Yemen in the hold of two Qatar Airways Ltd. passenger flights as
so-called “belly freight,” which travels unaccompanied.  A spokesman for the U.K. Department of Transport said he
doesn’t comment on the specifics of the airport security regime
because transparency makes the system easier to breach.  U.K. Home Secretary  Theresa May  said after yesterday’s
Cobra meeting that for the next month cargo from Yemen and
Somalia can’t be flown to Britain without an accompanying
person. Transport of ink cartridges will be limited to known
shippers.  “We will review all aspects of our freight security and
work with international partners to make sure our defenses are
as robust as possible,” May said.  Passenger Response  Qatar Airlines spokesman Updesh Kapur said by telephone
from Doha that the carrier’s safety procedures are above and
beyond what is required, though it’s likely now that “more
regulations will be put in place.”  At Heathrow airport, Europe’s busiest, passengers said
they’ve become accustomed to the more intense security checks.  David Mackay, a British Airways customer waiting to board a
Cairo service at London’s Heathrow airport yesterday who has
flown every six weeks for 30 years, said that while security is
becoming “ever tighter,” it probably shouldn’t be reduced.  “It’s not a problem for me,” said the 46-year-old tugboat
operator with Leer, Germany-based Hartmann Offshore GmbH. “I’m
happy to take my boots off and take out my laptop for them to
check if it keeps me safe.”  Steve Wheeler, 55, executive director of the European
contact lens trade association EuromContact, flying with British
Airways to Hong Kong, said that in his experience the rigor of
security checks varies from airport to airport.  “It’s the lack of consistency that’s the problem,” he
said. “You’d naturally imagine things would be as strict
elsewhere, but that’s not the case. Taiwan and mainland China,
with the exception of Beijing, are much less strict than
Britain.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Steven Rothwell  in London at 
 srothwell@bloomberg.net ;
 Howard Mustoe  in London at 
 hmustoe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at   kwong11@bloomberg.net ;
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net  