-- Carney Shuts Door on Liquidity Programs as Fed Readies QE2: Canada Credit
-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 2010-11-02T13:42:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-02/carney-shuts-door-on-liquidity-programs-as-fed-readies-qe2-canada-credit.html
Governor  Mark Carney  is closing the
door on liquidity programs the Bank of Canada started during the
credit crisis, just as the Federal Reserve may expand asset
purchases to sustain the U.S. economic recovery.  Canada’s central bank will reduce the relative amount of
bonds available to securities dealers at government auctions,
reversing steps it took in 2008 and 2009 that aimed to increase
market liquidity. All 18 primary dealers that trade with the Fed
forecast officials will announce a resumption of U.S. Treasury
purchases though so-called quantitative easing when a two-day
policy meeting ends tomorrow.  Bond prices may rise in Canada as there will be less supply
for private investors to buy, said  Michael Gregory , senior
economist at Bank of Montreal in Toronto. Demand for Canadian
bonds is rising this year, with record purchases by  foreign
investors  on signs the country will eliminate its budget deficit
before other Group of Seven nations.  “The auctions may become a little bit tighter because the
bank’s taking down a little bit more,” said Gregory. The Bank
of Canada announcement “has some impact in that it’s a slightly
larger share.”  The bank will auction C$3.5 billion ($3.46 billion) of
bonds maturing June 1, 2016, tomorrow and keep a minimum of
C$525 million, or 15 percent, of the bonds on its books. The
bank had cut its participation in government bond auctions to as
little at 5 percent, as part of an effort to offset assets added
to its balance sheet when it supported liquidity through
temporary purchases of other securities from bond dealers.  ‘Interesting Contrast’  “It is an interesting contrast,” between Canada and the
U.S., said  Eric Lascelles , chief economics and rates strategist
at Toronto-Dominion Bank in Toronto. “At the margin it would
send yields a little lower” in Canada, he said.  Elsewhere in credit markets, Canadian government yields
ended yesterday at 2.24 percent, up from 2.23 percent Oct. 29,
according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch data. The Merrill
index has generated a return of 7.3 percent so far this year,
compared with 8.59 percent for U.S. Treasuries.  Canadian 10-year bonds yield 27 basis points more than
their U.S. counterparts, down from a high for the year of 39
basis points on April 2.  The extra yield investors demand to hold the debt of
Canada’s corporations instead of its federal government rose to
143 basis points, or 1.43 percentage points, from 1.42
percentage points on Oct. 29. So-called spreads were as tight
this year as 114 basis points in March, then widened out to as
much as 154 basis points in June on concern over European
sovereign debt.  Financement Quebec  In provincial bond markets, relative yields were little
changed at 53 basis points yesterday from last week.  Financement Quebec, which seeks loans on behalf of schools,
universities and hospitals, added C$100 million to its bonds due
in June 2016, with a floating-rate coupon set quarterly at 27
basis points greater than the Canadian Dealer Offered Rate known
as CDOR.  Statistics Canada on Nov. 5 will probably report that
 employment  rose by 15,000 in October and the jobless rate was
unchanged at 8 percent, according to the median of 16 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News.  The Bank of Canada’s announcement last week is proof that
Canada’s won’t mimic any U.S. action in the bond market, said
 David Watt , a senior foreign exchange strategist at Royal Bank
of Canada’s RBC Capital Markets unit in Toronto. “Without the
announcement, chatter about stealth easing would likely
blossom,” he said.  Market Neutrality  The change allows the Bank of Canada to resume a goal of
neutrality in the bond market, where its holdings of treasury
bills and bonds mirror the relative weight of each security in
the market. That policy was upset in 2008 during the credit
squeeze when the bank sold some of its treasury-bill holdings
while making temporary purchases of securities from bond
dealers. The bank then cut its percentage of bond purchases to
match the reduction of treasury bills.  The bank’s announcement means “you have a bigger buyer.
The question is, does that take other buyers out of the market
by creating a richness in the sector” compared with other
terms, said  Benoit Lalonde , vice president of fixed income at
Laurentian Bank of Canada in Montreal.  In making  the announcement  last week, the bank said “ this
change is for balance-sheet purposes only and has no
implications for monetary policy.”  The Fed will probably begin a new round of unconventional
monetary easing by announcing a plan to buy at least $500
billion of long-term securities, according to economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News. In contrast, the Bank of Canada’s
entire balance sheet was C$58.2 billion on Oct. 27, down from
C$75.2 billion a year earlier,  central bank data  show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Greg Quinn  in Ottawa at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net  