-- Cezanne’s Card Sharks, Georgian Courtiers Star in London: Review
-- B y   M a r t i n   G a y f o r d
-- 2010-11-02T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-02/cezanne-s-card-sharks-georgian-courtiers-jostle-in-london-martin-gayford.html
The  Courtauld Gallery  is on a roll.  Once again it has come up with a splendid, tightly focused
exhibition in “Cezanne’s Card Players.” This London show is
small -- just one room -- yet rich in masterpieces. If it
doesn’t resolve the problems concerning these celebrated
pictures, such as why, where and in what order  Cezanne  (1839-
1906) painted them, that isn’t the curators’ fault.  Cezanne was enigmatic. There’s no solid information on his
motivation in choosing this subject nor the chronological
sequence of the pictures, though that hasn’t prevented
generations of art historians from speculating on these points.  The models were employees on the family estate outside Aix-
en-Provence, the Jas de Bouffan. In all, he produced five
versions of the “Card Players,” three with two figures, and
two with three. From the lining-up-the-ducks point of view, the
major flaw of the exhibition is that it only has three of those
five on show. Still, together with a number of drawings and oils
of individual figures, they give a powerful sense of Cezanne’s
mind at work.  His effort was to produce the maximum possible precision of
the weight, mass and geometrical form, while -- here’s what
makes him truly modern -- acknowledging that in the end such
accuracy is impossible. As the critic Roger Fry wrote, there are
few pictures after the early Italian Renaissance that give such
an “extraordinary sense of monumental gravity” as these.  Elusive Images  True enough, though there’s always something that doesn’t
fit. The bottle in the two-figure pictures, for example, seems
to be poised in space rather than resting on the table. In “The
Smoker” (c.1890-92), it takes awhile to realize that the still
life behind the man’s elbow is actually a painting on the wall.
Looking at Cezanne, Heisenberg’s uncertainty principle comes to
mind: however hard you try to fix one thing, there always will
be something else that eludes you.  If Cezanne was one of the most profound painters in art
history, Thomas Lawrence (1769-1830) was one of the most
superficial. Not necessarily in a bad way as the exhibition
“Thomas Lawrence: Regency Power & Brilliance” at the  National
Portrait Gallery  makes clear. Lawrence was literally superficial
in that he was a master of surfaces. Few painters have been
better at evoking silks and satins -- look at Elizabeth Farren
(1790), whose white, fur-trimmed cloak shimmers like Op Art.  Thigh Extension  Lawrence was good at making his sitters appear glossier,
more glamorous and more elegant than -- one guesses -- they
actually were (a useful knack for a portrait painter, also
employed by Titian and  Van Dyck ). You suspect that at times he’s
using skills like those of a society tailor to enhance his
sitters. Several look as if they’ve been given a discreet thigh
extension to produce an effect of elegant tallness. Miss Farren
(later Countess of Derby) gives the viewer a come-hither look
like a supermodel.  Lawrence was a prodigy. He was commissioned, aged just 20,
to paint a state portrait of Queen Charlotte, wife of George
III, and produced a tour de force. Given the right sitter, he
could come up with a portrait of true depth. Princess Sophia
(1825) is an example. She was a royal daughter forbidden to
marry for reasons of state but who, nonetheless, had an
illegitimate child. He presents her, at 48, as reflective,
spirited and evidently still ready for a bit of fun.  “Cezanne’s Card Players” is at the Courtauld Gallery,
London, through Jan. 16, 2011. “Thomas Lawrence: Regency Power
& Brilliance” is at the National Portrait Gallery until Jan.
23. Information:  http://www.courtauld.ac.uk  and
 http://www.npg.org.uk .  ( Martin Gayford  is chief art critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. His most recent book is “Man
With a Blue Scarf: On Sitting for a Portrait by Lucian Freud.”
The  opinions  expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
 Martin Gayford  in London at  martin.gayford@googlemail.com  or
Martingayford on  http://twitter.com/home .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 