-- Chile Mine Rescue Takes Pinera to New High in Polls
-- B y   R a n d y   W o o d s
-- 2010-11-02T18:03:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-02/chilean-mine-rescue-fever-sends-president-pinera-approval-to-record-high.html
Chilean President  Sebastian Pinera ’s
approval rating rose to the highest since taking office in March
after his government rescued 33 miners trapped underground for
more than two months, research group Adimark GfK said.  Pinera’s approval climbed to 63 percent in October from 53
percent in September and his previous high of 56 percent in
August, the Santiago-based research group said today. The poll
of 1,101 people from Oct. 6 to Oct. 27 has a margin of error of
about 3 percentage points. Pinera took office in March.  The president’s increased approval rating is “strongly
related” to the successful Oct. 13 rescue at the San Jose
copper and gold mine in northern Chile’s Atacama Desert, Adimark
said. Pinera will need to emphasize his successful management of
the economy if he wants to keep the rating above 50 percent as
the impact of the rescue dissipates in the coming months,
 Mauricio Morales , a political scientist at Diego Portales
University, said today.  “Pinera is enjoying his best moment right now -- a moment
of splendor,” Morales said by telephone from Santiago. “Once
the mining fever passes, his approval rating probably will
fall.”  Mining Minister  Laurence Golborne , who led the rescue
operation and helped convince congress to approve voluntary tax
increases for mining companies last month, was the most popular
member of Pinera’s cabinet for the third straight month in
October. Golborne’s rating was 91 percent in October, followed
by Education Minister and former presidential candidate  Joaquin Lavin  with 78 percent.  Economic Policies  Sixty-four percent of respondents approved of Pinera’s
handling of the economy in October, compared with 55 percent in
September and 58 percent in August, Adimark said. Finance
Minister  Felipe Larrain ’s approval rating increased four
percentage points in October to 69 percent as a result of the
government’s economic policies, the research group said.  Chile’s economy, which last year suffered its worst
recession in more than a decade, is set to grow as much as 5.5
percent in 2010, the most since 2005, the central bank said in
its latest forecast, published Sept. 8. The  unemployment rate 
fell to 8 percent in the three months through September from 9.7
percent in the  three months through January .  The president, whose political coalition supports slowing
the growth of government spending and cutting red tape, has
indicated he will use his increased popularity to implement
labor-safety reforms in a move that could help solidify his
support among lower-income voters,  Patricio Navia , a specialist
in Chilean politics at New York University, said.  ‘Defining Moment’  “This could be a defining moment for Pinera, who now must
convert the political capital he’s gained from the rescue into
political assets,” Navia said in a telephone interview a day
after the rescue operation. “Historically people see right-wing
presidents as supporting the interests of the wealthy. Pinera
has an opportunity to show that’s not the case.”  A Center for the Study of Contemporary Reality poll showed
Pinera’s approval rating climbed to 57 percent in September from
54 percent in May, the Santiago-based research group said in a
report published Oct. 7. The president’s approval among top
earners was 82 percent in the September poll, almost double that
of the lowest earners at 42 percent, according to the poll.  The Sept. 3 to Sept. 13 poll of 1,200 people has a margin
of error of 3 percentage points. Adimark’s October poll shows
Pinera has an approval rating of 65 percent among top earners
and 61 percent among the lowest income groups.  1 Billion Viewers  More than 1 billion people watched the rescue, the world’s
longest, live on television networks around the world, Chile’s
state broadcaster TVN reported.  Speaking one day after the final miner was rescued from the
mine last month, Pinera said in a televised speech that his
administration would propose changes to labor regulations to
make the workplace safer for Chileans. Pinera said a call by
shift supervisor Luis Urzua, the last miner rescued, to prevent
such accidents from occurring again “touched my soul.”  “Never again in our country will we allow workers to toil
in conditions as unsafe and inhumane as those in the San Jose
mine,” Pinera said outside the hospital where miners were being
treated. “We’ll never forget the lesson the San Jose mine
taught us.”  Pinera must focus on industries beyond just mining if he
wants to improve his popularity, Navia said.  “People will need to see that the commitment he’s shown
the miners is a commitment he has toward the poor and working
class in general,” Navia said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Randy Woods  in Santiago at 
 rwoods13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  