-- Chile Interest-Rate Swaps Fall on Speculation Peso Will Stem Rate Boosts
-- B y   S e b a s t i a n   B o y d
-- 2010-11-02T17:01:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-02/chilean-swaps-fall-as-traders-bet-region-beating-peso-will-halt-rate-rises.html
Chilean interest-rate swap rates fell
on speculation the central bank will stop raising borrowing
costs as soon as next month as Latin America’s best-performing
currency helps keep inflation under control.  The one-year swap rate fell 8 basis points, or 0.08
percentage point, at 12:43 p.m. New York time, extending a
decline to 15 basis points since the central bank published the
minutes of its last policy meeting. The two-year rate is down by
20 basis points and the three-year by 16 basis points in the
same period. The three-month swap rate of 3.05 percent implies
the bank will skip a rate increase in either December or
January, according to Bloomberg calculations.  The bank, which has increased its benchmark rate more than
any other major central bank tracked by Bloomberg this year,
plans to keep raising borrowing costs as the economy expands at
the fastest pace in six years, according to the minutes from an
Oct. 14 meeting. Policy makers lifted the rate by 25 basis
points to 2.75 percent on Oct. 14 after four half-point
increases. Under pressure to stem the peso’s rally they may stop
raising after this month, said  Benito Berber , an economist at
Nomura Holdings Inc. in New York.  “Despite the strength in the economy, despite domestic
demand and despite market inflation forecasts, it’s very
unlikely the central bank will raise the rate above 3 percent,”
Berber said by telephone.  Mitigating Inflation  In its minutes the bank acknowledged that the peso’s
appreciation, partly driven by the growing gap between rates in
Chile and those in developed economies, was mitigating inflation
and may reduce the need for future rate increases.  “The trajectory of domestic monetary policy shouldn’t be
immune from what was happening in the rest of the world,” one
of the bank’s policy makers said, according to the minutes.  “Several councilors suggested that the recent appreciation
in the exchange rate would contribute to reducing inflationary
pressures, which should be taken into account by monetary
policy,” the bank said.  Before the central bank’s last meeting the swaps market was
pricing in a series of quarter-point increases to 4.5 percent.
 Siobhan Morden , a strategist at RBS Securities Inc. in Stamford,
Connecticut said the bank may lift rates in December then pause
until July or August.  “To reach 4.5 percent the central bank would have to hike
for seven consecutive months,” Moren said. “Do you really
think they can do that without coming under pressure? I think we
have to price in a policy risk premium.”  Chile’s peso has gained 12 percent in the second half of
this year, the best performance among seven Latin American
currencies tracked by Bloomberg. It climbed 0.5 percent today.  Planned Measures  Chilean President  Sebastian Pinera  has already summoned the
bank’s policy makers to discuss the currency. While Pinera said
on Oct. 18 that he plans measures to curtail the peso’s gain,
bank President  Jose De Gregorio  told Diario Financiero in an
interview published Oct. 29 that the bank would already be
intervening in the currency if it thought it was justified. The
central bank won’t comment on policy ahead of its next meeting
on Nov. 16, press officer Jaime Troncoso said today.  The median forecast of 49 traders and investors in a
central bank survey on Oct. 26 was that inflation would reach
3.3 percent in a year’s time. The one-year breakeven inflation
rate implies that swaps traders expect annual inflation to
average about 3.3 percent over the next 12 months, according to
Bloomberg calculations. Swaps rates suggest inflation will then
slow to an average of 2.85 percent over the subsequent 12
months, according to  Bloomberg calculations.   Chile’s economy grew 7 percent in September from a year
earlier, according to the median forecast of 40 economists
surveyed by the central bank on Oct. 12. That would imply 7.2
percent growth in the third quarter, according to Bloomberg
calculations, the fastest since the fourth quarter of 2004.  Swaps traders are pricing in an interest rate of 5 percent
over the next 18 months, said  Roberto Melzi , a strategist at
Barclays Capital in New York.  “But it seems like there’s a pause,” Melzi said by
telephone. “The market doesn’t expect to see the rate going
over 4 percent in the next 12 months and we don’t disagree.”  To contact the reporter responsible on this story:
 Sebastian Boyd  in Santiago at 
 sboyd9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos in New York at  