-- China Lets HKMA Buy Yuan Assets, Diversify Reserves
-- B y   A n d r e a   W o n g
-- 2010-11-02T01:41:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-02/china-allows-hong-kong-central-bank-to-buy-yuan-assets-diversify-reserves.html
China granted the Hong Kong Monetary
Authority a license to invest in yuan stocks and bonds, giving
the city’s central bank the opportunity to diversify its $266
billion in reserves.  The China Securities Regulatory Commission included the
HKMA in its Qualified Foreign Institutional Investor scheme in
October, according to a statement posted on the regulator’s
website. It didn’t give details on how much it will be allowed
to invest. Bank Negara Malaysia, Government of Singapore
Investment Corp. and Abu Dhabi Investment Authority are among
sovereign wealth managers that have QFII permits.  “The HKMA has a conservative management style, so I think
it’ll target mainly government bonds,” said  Frances Cheung , a
Hong Kong-based senior strategist at Credit Agricole CIB. “I
expect yuan assets will account for five to 10 percent of its
portfolio in six months time.”  The HKMA would need to build up holdings of Chinese assets
to allow for the possibility of a shift in the Hong Kong
dollar’s exchange-rate peg to the yuan from the U.S. dollar in
coming years. Demand for yuan in the city has increased after
China loosened restrictions on its use in international trade
and allowed the development of an offshore market for the
currency this year in Hong Kong.  Hong Kong should end its pegged regime to the greenback, as
its monetary policy is tied to the “dithering” U.S. economy,
Deutsche Bank AG, the world’s biggest currency trader, wrote in
a report yesterday. HKMA Chief Executive  Norman Chan  said
yesterday that there was no plan to change the peg, which has
made the Hong Kong dollar Asia’s worst performer of 2010.  Peg Talk  “There is talk out there about the Hong Kong dollar being
displaced by the yuan,” said Cheung. “The HKMA wouldn’t want to
fuel the U.S. dollar depeg speculation, so it won’t buy too much
yuan assets in the short term.”  Yuan deposits  at the city’s banks more than doubled to a
record 149 billion yuan ($22 billion) in the six months ended
Sept. 30, monetary authority data show. The city’s central bank
was forced last week to tap its yuan swap arrangement with the
People’s Bank of China after demand for trade settlement using
the currency exceeded expectations.  The yuan has gained 24 percent since the start of 1999, the
fourth-best performance of 25 emerging-market currencies tracked
by Bloomberg. The currency’s lack of convertibility and
restrictions on holdings of China’s government debt means the
currency can’t take the place of the U.S. dollar in the existing
arrangement,  John Greenwood , architect of Hong Kong’s peg and an
adviser to the monetary authority, said in a separate e-mail.  Yuan Rally  The spot rate for yuan in Hong Kong rose 0.6 percent last
month versus the greenback and traded at 6.5935 today, stronger
than the Shanghai price of 6.6936. Non-deliverable forwards show
traders are betting on a 3.9 percent advance in the onshore rate
in the coming year. The Hong Kong dollar has been kept at about
HK$7.80 versus the greenback since 1983.  China’s economy expanded 9.6 percent from a year earlier in
the third quarter, while the U.S. had growth of 3.1 percent,
official figures show. A  gauge  of real-estate values in Hong
Kong has gained 16 percent this year, following a 29 percent
advance in 2009, according to an index produced by Centaline
Property Agency Ltd.  The regulator also granted FIL Investment (HK) Ltd. a QFII
license in September and Legg Mason Investments (Europe) Ltd. a
license in October, according to the CSRC’s website.  To contact the reporter on the story:
 Andrea Wong  in Taipei at 
 awong268@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 