-- China Rejects Clinton's Offer to Mediate With Japan Over Disputed Islands
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-11-02T09:02:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-02/china-rejects-clinton-s-offer-to-mediate-with-japan-over-disputed-islands.html
China rebuffed Secretary of State
 Hillary Clinton ’s offer to mediate a territorial dispute with
Japan and rejected her contention that the area at the center of
the row falls under the U.S. security blanket.  Relations between Asia’s two biggest economies soured after
a Sept. 7 collision between a Chinese fishing trawler and
Japanese Coast Guard boats near islands claimed by both nations.
Clinton offered on Oct. 30 to help resolve the discord and said
the isles, known as Diaoyu in Chinese and Senkaku in Japanese,
fall under “mutual treaty obligations” with Japan.  “The Diaoyu islands are Chinese territory, and the dispute
over the islands with Japan is a matter between China and
Japan,”  Ministry of Foreign Affairs  spokesman  Ma Zhaoxu  said in
a  statement  today. Clinton’s position is “extremely wrong” and
the U.S. should “correct its wrongful stance immediately,” Ma
said.  Clinton, speaking in Malaysia today, reaffirmed the U.S.
invitation. “The offer that I made that the United States would
be willing to host a trilateral with both Japan and China, if
that would facilitate dialogue, stands,” she said in an
appearance with Malaysia’s Foreign Minister  Anifah Aman .  Clinton originally made the offer at a summit of Asia-
Pacific leaders in Hanoi after Chinese Premier  Wen Jiabao 
refused to hold official talks with Japanese Prime Minister
 Naoto Kan . The two leaders met informally for about 10 minutes.  Hu-Kan Meeting  Hong Lei, another spokesman at China’s foreign ministry,
said today in Beijing that his government hoped Japan would
create the appropriate conditions for a meeting between Kan and
Chinese President  Hu Jintao  at the Asia-Pacific Economic
Cooperation summit in Yokohama on Nov. 13-14. Chinese Finance
Minister  Xie Xuren  canceled a trip to an APEC gathering this
weekend in Kyoto, the Nikkei newspaper reported today, without
citing anyone.  Clinton said at an Oct. 30 press conference that the U.S.
doesn’t take a position on sovereignty in regard to the
uninhabited islands in the East China Sea.  “But we have made it very clear that the islands are part
of our mutual treaty obligations, and the obligation to defend
Japan,” she said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yidi Zhao in Beijing at 
 yzhao7@bloomberg.net  and
 Nicole Gaouette  in Kuala Lumpur at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Austin at   billaustin@bloomberg.net ; 