-- Xueda, Education Provider, Advances in New York After $128 Million Offer
-- B y   C e c i l e   V a n n u c c i
-- 2010-11-02T20:45:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-02/china-s-xueda-education-raises-128-million-pricing-u-s-ipo-above-range.html
Xueda Education Group , the Beijing-
based provider of tutoring services for primary and secondary
school students in China, surged 32 percent after raising $128
million in its U.S. initial public offering.  Xueda advanced  $3  to $12.50 in New York Stock Exchange
trading after climbing as much as 55 percent. The company sold
13.43 million American depositary receipts for $9.50 each after
offering them at $7.25 to $9.25, a filing with the Securities
and Exchange Commission and a statement showed.  Chinese companies have accounted for 13 percent of the
$18.3 billion raised by IPOs in the U.S. this year, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg that excludes closed-end funds and
investment companies. Five of the 10 largest gains among
companies listing in New York this year have come from China,
whose gross domestic product is expanding faster than any other
major economy, the data show.  “The reason investors would be interested in China would
be the strong GDP growth,” said  Wayne Wilbanks , chief
investment officer at Wilbanks, Smith & Thomas in Norfolk,
Virginia, which manages about $1.7 billion. “It’s as much the
function of the insatiable demand for emerging market investment
and China in particular, and the subsequent jumps that these
things are having in the secondary market.”  Relative Value  Xueda, which operates 157 learning centers in 44 cities,
will use the proceeds to improve infrastructure and develop new
products, its prospectus said.  At the midpoint price of $8.25, Xueda would have been
valued at 23 times estimated earnings, IPODesktop.com of Marina
del Rey, California, said in a report. That’s 21 percent less
than  Ambow Education Holding Ltd.  and 77 percent cheaper than
 New Oriental Education & Technology Group Inc. , two Beijing-
based companies that Xueda cited as competitors in its
prospectus, according to the data.  The company’s sales in the first six months of 2010 doubled
to $77.9 million and surpassed its annual revenue for all of
2009, according to the filing. Profits increased almost fivefold
to $11.8 million in the first half.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. of New York led the sale. Each ADR
represents two shares of Xueda. ADRs are ownership stakes in an
overseas company that are issued by U.S. banks and usually trade
on American exchanges.  Chinese Demand  Three of the five sales from Chinese companies last month
climbed at least 36 percent.  TAL Education Group , a provider of
tutoring services also based in Beijing, jumped 50 percent.  The two best-performing IPOs this year are also from
mainland Chinese companies.  JinkoSolar Holding Co. , the maker of
silicon wafers in China’s Jiangxi province, has gained 221
percent since its May listing.  HiSoft Technology  International
Ltd., the Dalian, China-based company that helps businesses
outsource software development, has risen 167 percent.  China’s economy will expand 9.6 percent next year,
according to the Washington-based  International Monetary Fund .
In the U.S., where at least 55 companies have postponed or
withdrawn IPOs this year, economic growth will slow to 2.3
percent in 2011, the estimates show.  “If it’s China-related, everyone thinks it’s just going to
go higher,” said  Ed Butowsky , managing director at Chapwood
Capital Investment Management LLC in Addison, Texas.  Demand for offerings from Chinese companies has helped push
the amount raised through Asian IPOs to more than $139 billion
this year, the most on record, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
The U.S. share of global initial sales dwindled to a record low
of 11 percent last month, the data show.  This Week’s Offerings  Xueda was the first of seven companies that had scheduled
IPOs this week. They planned to raise a combined $1.02 billion,
which would be the most in four months, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  The next three sales will also come from non-U.S.
companies. SinoTech Energy Ltd. of Beijing, which provides
enhanced oil recovery services in China, is planning a $188
million offering today, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  SodaStream International Ltd. , the Airport City, Israel-
based seller of home soda makers, will also attempt to sell $95
million of shares.  Costamare Inc. , the Athens-based owner of
container ships, plans to raise $226 million on Nov. 3.  Three U.S. companies will offer shares the next day.  Fresh
Market Inc. , the Greensboro, North Carolina-based grocer, is
attempting the biggest IPO of the week with a $264 million
offering, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The grocery chain is selling 13.2 million shares at $18 to
$20 each, its SEC filing showed. At the middle of the forecast
range, Fresh Market would be valued at 16.4 times net assets,
according to IPODesktop.com.  Primo Water, Cutanea  That’s almost six times higher than the ratio of 2.9 for
Austin, Texas-based Whole Foods Market Inc., which Fresh Market
identified as a competitor in its regulatory filing.  Both grocery chains are valued at 25 times estimated
earnings, according to IPODesktop.com.  Primo Water Corp. , the Winston-Salem, North Carolina-based
provider of bottled water and water dispensers, and  Cutanea Life
Sciences Inc. , the Malvern, Pennsylvania-based developer of
treatments for skin conditions such as rosacea and acne, are
also scheduled to sell shares on Nov. 4.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Cecile Vannucci  in New York at 
 cvannucci1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net . 