-- Yuan Trade Settlement Almost Triples as Demand for Chinese Currency Surges
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-11-02T12:33:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-02/china-third-quarter-trade-settlement-almost-triples-to-126-5-billion-yuan.html
Trade settlement in the Chinese yuan
in the third quarter almost tripled from the previous period as
overseas demand for conducting transactions in the currency
surged.  Total trade settled using the Chinese currency was 126.5
billion yuan ($18.9 billion) in the July-to-September period,
the People’s Bank of China said in a  statement  on its website
today. That compares with 48.7 billion yuan in the previous
three months, according to Bloomberg data.  Demand for the yuan is growing overseas as China’s economy
expands at a 9.6 percent pace and Premier  Wen Jiabao  promotes
the currency’s role in international trade and finance. The Hong
Kong Monetary Authority last month was forced to tap its yuan
swap arrangement with the People’s Bank of China after demand
for trade settlement using the currency exceeded expectations.  “As global companies and investors try to get hold of the
yuan, the appreciation expectation will definitely get
stronger,” said Lu Zhengwei, an economist at Industrial Bank
Co. in Shanghai. “The accelerated yuan gains in offshore market
will have an impact on the onshore sentiment.”  China is under pressure from major trading partners
including the U.S. and Europe to let its currency appreciate
faster. Emerging economies have complained that near-zero U.S.
interest rates and Federal Reserve asset purchases have pushed
the dollar down and sent funds flooding into their markets,
stoking asset bubbles and inflation.  Inflation Expectations  The Chinese central bank said today that the current
economic environment is “relatively complicated” and that it
would step up use of price tools to manage  inflation 
expectations. China will also seek “moderate” growth in money
supply and loans, and continue “moderately loose” monetary
policy, the bank also said in today’s statement.  The nation may shift to “prudent” or event “cautious”
monetary policy at the appropriate time,  Li Daokui , an adviser
to the People’s Bank of China, said at a forum in Beijing today
before the central bank’s statement.  Officials overseeing the world’s second-biggest economy
stepped up efforts last month to cool inflation. The central
bank raised benchmark lending and deposit rates for the first
time since 2007. The increases were aimed at curbing speculation
in the nation’s property market and controlling inflation
expectations, the central bank said today.  Economic Growth  China’s economy will probably expand 10.5 percent this
year, the International Monetary Fund said on Oct. 6. The U.S.
will grow 2.6 percent, down from an earlier 3.3 percent
estimate, the Washington-based fund said.  China ran up a record $28 billion trade surplus with the
U.S. in August, according to figures released by the Commerce
Department on Oct. 14. That bolstered complaints from American
business groups and lawmakers that a weak Chinese currency gives
the Asian nation’s exports an unfair advantage.  China’s M2 money supply was 69.6 trillion yuan by the end
of September, the central bank said today.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jim Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  