-- China's Bond Yields, Rate Swaps Advance on Concern Inflation Will Quicken
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-11-02T05:34:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-02/china-s-bond-yields-rate-swaps-advance-on-concern-inflation-will-quicken.html
China’s government bond yields and
interest-rate swaps climbed on speculation the central bank will
struggle to curb inflation as commodity prices rise, deterring
investment in fixed-income assets.  The central bank raised benchmark lending and deposit rates
on Oct. 19, the first increase since 2007, after growth in
 consumer prices  accelerated to a 23-month high of 3.6 percent in
September. A purchasing managers’ index released by the nation’s
logistics federation yesterday rose to 54.7 last month, from
53.8 in September, with input prices advancing the most in six
months.  “People’s inflation expectations are strengthening as we
see rising commodity prices,” said  Hu Hangyu , a Beijing-based
debt analyst at Citic Securities Co., China’s biggest listed
brokerage. “We expect inflation to hover at a high level this
month, instead of slowing notably.”  The yield on the 3.28 percent note due August 2020 climbed
five basis points to 3.76 percent as of 1:17 p.m. in Shanghai,
according to data from the National Interbank Funding Center.  Oil rose for a second day to trade near a two-week high on
speculation the Federal Reserve will take steps to stimulate the
U.S. economy and after manufacturing in China expanded. China,
the world’s largest energy consumer, increased retail gasoline
and diesel prices by 3 percent last week.  Swaps, Money Rates  Five-year swaps, the fixed rate paid to receive the
floating seven-day repurchase rate, climbed nine basis points,
or 0.09 percentage point, to 3.6 percent, the highest level
since April, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The one-year
contract gained one basis point to 2.40 percent.  The People’s Bank of China sold 51 billion yuan ($7.6
billion) of one-year bills at a yield of 2.2913 percent today,
unchanged from last week, after allowing the rate to rise 20
basis points at the open-market auction a week ago.  The seven-day repo  rate , which measures lending costs
between banks, dropped 18 basis points to 1.83 percent,
according to a daily fixing rate published at 11 a.m. by the
National Interbank Funding Center.  -- Belinda Cao . Editors:  Simon Harvey   To contact the reporter on this story:
 Belinda Cao  in Beijing at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at   shendry@bloomberg.net  