-- Chinese President Hu Reiterates Yuan Reform Commitment, Le Figaro Reports
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-11-02T03:16:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-02/chinese-president-hu-reiterates-yuan-reform-commitment-le-figaro-reports.html
China’s President  Hu Jintao 
reiterated his country’s commitment to promote a “fair and
stable” yuan exchange rate, Le Figaro reported, citing an
interview ahead of his state visit to France this week.  China’s currency policy is ‘coherent and responsible’’, Hu
said in a written response to questions from the French daily.
The U.S. and Europe have been urging China to let its currency
appreciate faster to guard against criticism the exchange rate
gives Chinese exporters an unfair advantage.  Hu’s Nov. 4 to Nov. 7 visit to France and Portugal comes
ahead of next week’s Group of 20 leaders summit in Seoul. G-20
participants are likely to discuss "politically directed
exchange rates," the German government said in a position paper
shown to reporters yesterday.  China’s central bank in June signaled an end to a 23-month-
old peg to the dollar and vowed to increase exchange-rate
flexibility. It has since curbed the yuan’s rise to about 2
percent, with Premier  Wen Jiabao  saying on Sept. 22 that
excessive gains might lead to "major social upheaval."  The yuan has appreciated 23.7 percent from July 2005 to
October 2010, Hu wrote in Le Figaro. China will proceed with
further yuan reform, according to the principle of autonomy, he
said. The yuan gained 0.11 percent to 6.6928 per dollar as of
9:54 a.m. in Shanghai on speculation the government might permit
faster appreciation as an economic recovery gathers pace.  China’s economy grew 9.6 percent in the third quarter, the
smallest expansion in a year. The central bank raised interest
rates earlier this month to combat the twin threats of
accelerating inflation and asset bubbles.  The global recovery from the financial crisis is slow,
fragile and uneven with much uncertainty, and G-20 attendees
must focus on maintaining unity to solve problems caused by the
crisis, Hu wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yidi Zhao in Beijing at 
 yzhao7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Austin at   billaustin@bloomberg.net ; 