-- China Said to Seek Changes to Local Government Loans
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-11-02T09:32:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-02/china-said-to-tell-banks-to-seek-faster-payment-of-local-government-debts.html
China told banks to ask for faster
repayment of local-government infrastructure loans on concern
existing debt terms leave them with too much risk, a person with
knowledge of the matter said.  About 50 percent of loans to the financing vehicles of
local governments are for five years or more, with terms for
most credits requiring repayment of the principal on maturity,
said the person, who requested anonymity. China’s  bank regulator 
asked lenders to revise terms so that payments start when
projects are completed and are made in at least two installments
annually after that, the person said.  The government is trying to limit risks brought about by
last year’s  surge in loans  to local-government finance vehicles
for roads, bridges and railroads. Chinese banks may struggle to
recoup about 23 percent of the 7.7 trillion yuan ($1.1 trillion)
of such credits they’ve extended, a person with knowledge of
data collected by the industry regulator said in July.  “It’s time for the central government and various
departments to wield their power together before risks from
these financing vehicles get out of control,” said Yvonne Zhang,
a Beijing-based analyst at Moody’s Investors Service. “Any
significant economic slowdown could be disastrous to these
vehicles and banks, and ultimately to the government itself.”  Local governments have provided 3.6 trillion yuan of fiscal
guarantees for their financing vehicles, said the person, who
declined to be identified because the estimates are secret.
That’s more than the combined revenue of all local governments
in 2009.  Backed by Land  The China Banking Regulatory Commission is “steadily
pushing forward” to secure repayments of loans to local
government financing vehicles under State Council guidelines,
the regulator said in a text message to Bloomberg News.  Almost 50 percent of local-government finance vehicle loans
by value were backed by land subject to price fluctuations as of
Aug. 31, according to the China Banking Regulatory Commission’s
latest risk assessment, the person said. The 21st Century
Business Herald reported the value of guarantees earlier today,
citing an unidentified person.  Local governments’ revenues totaled 3.26 trillion yuan in
2009, while their outlays were 6.06 trillion yuan, according to
China’s finance ministry.  China in June  ordered  local governments, who set up
financing vehicles to fund projects such as highways and
airports to get around limits on their ability to borrow
directly, to stop providing guarantees for the units and ensure
debts get repaid.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  