-- China Can Use More Copper Than World Has Now With Yang’s Stove
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-11-02T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-02/china-seen-using-more-copper-than-world-produces-now-with-yang-s-new-stove.html
  China ’s worldwide search for copper
begins in the gnarled hands of 76-year-old Yang Caiguan, who is
fiddling with the cables of his digital television tuner.  “The red plug should go into the red hole,” he mutters to
himself, hesitating to make the connection.  Around him sit amenities of modern life -- flat-screen TV,
air conditioners, washing machine, water heater and gas-ignition
stove -- that were foreign to him and his wife until this year.
With their new apartment in the central Chinese town of Daojiang
in Hunan province, the couple acquired at least 41 kilograms (90
pounds) of copper in electrical wiring and appliances, about 10
times the nation’s annual per capita consumption of the metal.  As subsistence farmers they had used little copper for most
of their lives.  The Yangs’ transformation into urbanized consumers
epitomizes the Chinese government’s vision for the next -- and
potentially biggest -- phase of its economic rise: bringing the
prosperity of its coastal boomtowns inland, where more than half
of its 1.3 billion people live, mostly in rural homes.  China is on  pace  to almost triple its annual use of copper
to 20 million tons in 25 years, according to CRU, a London-based
metals and mining consulting firm. That’s more than the world
produces today. Rising demand will create a potential global
shortage of 11 million tons a year by 2035, CRU forecasts.  ‘Very Long Term’  “There is absolutely torrid growth taking place in central
China,” says Daniel Rosen, a principal of the Rhodium Group, a
New York-based economic advisory firm. “It’s going to build an
Eastern China over again.”  The per-capita gross domestic  product  of inland provinces
is less than half of that on the coast, according to data from
China’s National Bureau of Statistics. Even nationwide, China’s
GDP was $3,734 per person in 2009, ranking the country in
between Albania and  El Salvador , according to the  International
Monetary Fund .  “When politicians say China is a developing country, it’s
true,” says Wu Jian, director general of the Rio Blanco Copper
SA mine in  Peru , owned by Fujian province-based Zijin Mining
Group Co. “It doesn’t all look like  Shanghai  or Beijing.”  The rapid expansion of suburbs like Levittown on  Long
Island  after World War II helped lift consumer demand in the
U.S., the world’s largest economy. China, which leapfrogged
Japan in the second quarter this year to become the second-
biggest, similarly wants to grow towns and cities that will
create jobs, raise  living standards  and boost consumption.  The country’s 10 percent average growth rate since the
1980s puts its economy on a trajectory to surpass the U.S.
within 20 years, based on data compiled by Bloomberg.  Boost Consumption  Accelerating the urbanization of central and western China
will push economies there to grow, Vice Premier Li Keqiang said
in a speech in February. Boosting domestic demand and moving
people into cities are priorities to maintain China’s fast long-
term growth, he said. The government aims to quadruple per-
capita GDP from 2000 to 2020.  Copper is at the heart of the development. China’s
consumption of the metal has tripled in a decade to an estimated
6.8 million tons this year, according to CRU.  Atomic number 29 on the periodic table, the material is one
of the best conductors of heat and electricity. In use for
10,000 years, it provides the electrical core of homes, cars,
computers and mobile phones.  ‘Xiao Dao’  The Yangs were thrust into China’s consumer society by
their factory-owning son, Yang Dongsheng. He spent 350,000 yuan
($52,500) to buy and equip their four-bedroom apartment in
Daojiang, 500 kilometers (311 miles) from China’s southern
coastal manufacturing belt where he made his fortune.  He wanted to make them comfortable out of a feeling of
“xiao dao,” the Chinese expression for filial piety, says Yang
Dongsheng, who is 35 and the youngest child.  Before, the couple had lived eight kilometers and seemingly
a century away in a mud-brick house Yang built in the village of
Caoxieping, Chinese for “straw shoes floor.” There was no
running water, the toilet was an open cesspool and his 84-year-
old wife, Jiang Hejiao, cooked hunched over a wood-fired stove.  Their new home is in a gated development of 17 red-and-
yellow apartment blocks called Songlinyuan, or Pine Forest Court
for the trees that cover the hills behind. It’s the first of 10
new mid- and high-rise residential communities planned for the
town, according to Wang Xianjie, deputy chief of Dao county’s
urban planning bureau, in an attempt to attract natives back
from the coast and wealthier local residents.  Shopping Malls  Local government officials aim to double the size of
Daojiang, the main town in  Dao county . By 2012, three new
highways will connect it to the east and south coasts, as well
as to  Inner Mongolia  in the north. The first  rail line  through
Dao opened last year, connecting it to Luoyang in the north and
Zhanjiang on the south coast.  “Now the city is not a comfortable place to live,” says
 Tang Xianglin , the party secretary of Dao county, citing a lack
of decent housing complexes and nice shopping malls. “We’re
getting them now.”  In February, two weeks after moving to Songlinyuan, the
Yangs celebrated Lunar New Year’s Eve with 23 relatives. Yang
tells how the home buzzed with energy as they played cards or
watched TV in the heated living room under the lights of a pink
chandelier.  Traditional Banquet  Their traditional banquet of chicken, fish, duck, beef,
pork, and a dog stewed in soy sauce was prepared for the first
time on the burners of a China-made gas stove made with at least
4.6 kilograms of copper, according to its manufacturer  Guangdong
Chant Group.   “A new home needs a celebration,” says Yang, his left eye
blind because of keratitis.  After their guests left, the couple found themselves
surrounded by a sudden wealth of modern electronics they didn’t
know how to use. For a time, Yang would phone his children daily
asking how to operate them.  Jiang stopped cooking, afraid to use the electric-ignition
gas stove because of the way it whooshes when it lights up.  “They’re not used to modern life,” says their son.  For all the creature comforts, the older Yang isn’t sure if
their new life is better than the old.  “It’s a bit more comfortable living here,” Yang says.
“In terms of the routines, I’m more used to my old house. There
we were more at ease. I could spit on the ground freely and walk
around.”  Ice Cream  An inventory of their new conveniences shows how copper
underpins the  hopes of leaders like Vice Premier Li .  One of the elderly couple’s favorite accoutrements is the
freezer drawer of their refrigerator, which has 2 kilograms of
copper, according to Li Peng of  Hunan Vary Tech Co. , which
recycles large appliances. It’s brought them the simple joy of
all-you-can-eat ice cream at any hour. Yang opens it to show a
plastic bag of ice cream bars.  “Now we can buy them in bulk,” says Yang, whose other
pleasures include smoking tobacco in a bamboo pipe and drinking
the yam wine he brought to Songlinyuan from his village house.  The Yangs’ washing machine, with about 750 grams of copper,
is seldom used in summer, when they wash their clothes by hand.
In the bathroom there’s an unused shower connected to a  Usaton 
water heater that comprises another 500 grams of copper,
according to the manufacturer. They prefer to bathe in a brown
plastic tub they brought from their old home.  13 Kilograms  The air-conditioning is taking some getting used to. Yang
says he often gets up in the middle of the night to turn off
their bedroom’s wall-mounted Midea Group Co. unit because he’s
cold. Their home has two such models that contain 6 kilograms of
copper each, the Guangdong, China-based manufacturer says.  The wiring in a Chinese home of that size typically uses
about 13 kilograms of copper, says Liu Yuan, chief engineer of
 China Building Decoration Association . The TV has at least 110
grams of copper in its circuitry.  The number of kilograms of copper consumed per capita in
China last year was 3.9, compared with 6.5 for the U.S. and 8.6
for Japan, says  Jeremy Gray , global head of resources at
Standard Chartered Plc in  Hong Kong . As the country develops,
China’s consumption per person may rise to 5 kilograms by 2015,
he says.  Scores of other residents in the complex of seven-story
buildings were as flummoxed as the Yangs by their move into
21st-century housing. Wen Tao, a 20-year-old security guard,
says he’s grown tired of them asking questions, and arguing over
who uses the development’s basketball court.  Fulfilling Aspirations  “These people don’t know how to turn off the water
valve,” Wen says. “They buzz me for the pettiest things.”  He dreams of quitting his 800-yuan-a-month job and one day
starting a business that, he says, would enable him to live in
such modern housing and buy a foreign-brand car. He points to an
Audi A6 he admires parked alongside cheaper China-brand  Chery 
models in the parking lot of Songlinyuan.  Fulfilling such aspirations means China’s appetite for
copper will be “relentless,” says  Andrew Harding , chief
executive officer of Rio Tinto Group’s copper unit in Santiago,  Chile . The world’s third-largest mining company by revenue
generated 25 percent of its sales from China in the first six
months of this year, up from 14 percent from the same period in
2006.  “If you believe as I do that there’s a desire to match the
standard of living that’s seen in places like the U.S. or the
U.K. or  Australia , then they’ve got to do an enormous amount of
infrastructure, building of houses, cars and all that sort of
stuff,” he says.  Appliance Sales  Harding’s vision is beginning to play out in Daojiang.
Hand-painted advertisements for Midea air-conditioners and
Meiling fridges line the main road into the town from Guilin, a
popular riverside tourist destination to the west. The center,
where the Yangs’ daughters shopped for most of their parents’
new gadgets, boasts two electronics stores and a jewelry shop
opened in May.  Inside the showroom of the Yinfeng Home Appliances
Supermarket, sales hit a record 1.7 million yuan in July,
according to the owner, Jiang Zhongli.  Rural customers spent  67.8 billion yuan  buying home
appliances in the first half of 2010, more than the whole of
last year’s total, spurred on by government subsidies for
farmers. About 600,000 tons of refined copper consumed in China
last year went into home appliances, equivalent to the amount of
metal that would be needed to build 82  Eiffel Towers .  The Yangs’ Journey  Among the casually dressed staff taking turns to belt out
songs on a karaoke machine between serving shoppers is Cheng
Zhifang. The best salesman on the floor, by his own account, the
29-year-old quit itinerant jobs on the coast last year to come
back home in the hope of finding better prospects.  “Before, when villagers came into the shop and saw the
prices they looked uncomfortable,” says Cheng, who says he can
read buyers’ faces from the way they hold their eyes. “I’m
seeing less of that now.”  The Yangs’ journey traces China’s history during the
Communist era. Once local landlords living in a 300-year-old
ancestral mansion, they were considered class enemies when Mao Zedong launched the Cultural Revolution, he says. The family
escaped slaughter after village officials protected them during
 a bloody 1967 rampage  through Dao, according to Yang.  They were allocated 4 mu of farmland (two-thirds of an
acre, or 2,670 square meters) under reforms introduced after
Mao’s death as leader Deng Xiaoping began opening China’s
economy to market forces economy in 1978. Near there, Yang built
them a house of yellowing mud bricks.  Yellow Mud Bricks  On a visit in August, he pointed to ventilation holes high
in the walls of the tile-roofed house they relied on to provide
relief from the humid summer heat because the house has no air-
conditioning. He opens the door to an open-air toilet the family
used under the watchful eyes of three bulls they kept to work
the paddy fields.  “It doesn’t matter the bulls can see you,” Yang says,
hushing the animals back behind the bars.  Illiterate, Yang raised cattle, grew rice and yams and
later worked as a bricklayer to pay for his children to go to
high school in the hope they could break out of poverty.  “I was doing construction work in my late 60s,” says
Yang. “The job paid 20 yuan a day at most. My son wasn’t yet
rich.”  Yang Dongsheng is one of more than 150 million  migrants  who
have moved to the coast seeking better wages, an influx that
fueled China’s economic growth by providing a workforce for
labor-intensive export manufacturers.  One-Way Ticket  China’s industrial production has risen almost fivefold
since the country’s accession to the  World Trade Organization  in
2001. That’s double the fastest recorded increase in the U.S.,
during the 8 years after the Great Depression trough.  In 2000, with 200 yuan in his pocket, Yang Dongsheng bought
a one-way train ticket to Shenzhen. Working as a technician, he
picked up enough computer engineering skills to set up his own
business in 2004. His company,  Shenda Automation Machinery ,
employs 40 people in the southern Chinese manufacturing city of
Dongguan.  Yang Dongsheng says it’s too early to say whether he’ll
return home. He turned down a tax break to set up a plastic-
molding factory in Dao last year, he says. The area doesn’t have
adequate transportation and supply-chain infrastructure, he
says.  Foxconn Shifts Inland  Much depends on how many of his clients move inland, he
says. Shenda Automation makes customized machines for factories
that produce parts for companies including Foxconn Technology
Group, the electronics behemoth that makes  Apple Inc . iPhones,  Sony Corp . PlayStations and other products for export.  Foxconn’s flagship, Taipei-based Hon Hai Precision Industry
Co., is planning to join the migration inland, building
factories in Henan and Sichuan provinces as it recruits 400,000
more workers. The company’s main factory in Shenzhen, a southern
coastal city, had a spate of employee suicides this year.  “If Foxconn starts an operation in Dao, I will definitely
move back,” the younger Yang says.  Central China’s growth rate in fixed-asset investment --
spending on things like factories, buildings and machinery --has
outpaced the coast for the past five years, the Rhodium Group’s
Rosen says. In 2009, investment grew at 36 percent in central
China compared with 24 percent in the east.  China must succeed in building out counties like Dao, or
risk social turmoil, says Zhang Jun, director of the China
 Center for Economic Studies  at Fudan University in Shanghai.  Five-Year Plan  “There is no alternative,” says Zhang. “A failure will
exacerbate the imbalance with eastern China. That would impose a
huge threat to stability, not only to China but the whole
world.”  China’s next five-year development plan beginning in 2011
will promote domestic demand and more equitable social growth,
according to a statement by top officials of the party’s central
committee after an October meeting in Beijing.  It won’t be easy. Inland economies will find it more
difficult than their coastal counterparts did because they are
paying more for commodities, says  Ben Simpfendorfer , the Hong
Kong-based chief China economist at Royal Bank of Scotland Group
Plc.  “Clearly China can’t follow on the same development path
as did  Europe  and the  United States ,” he says. “It can’t
continue to consume copper at the current rate because there
aren’t enough mines.”  Rising Electricity Bill  State Grid Corp. of China , the country’s largest
electricity distributor, will absorb one million tons of copper
a year until 2015, according to Qu Yi, CRU’s Beijing-based
copper analyst. Dao county’s electricity transmission capacity
was boosted 150 percent after a new transformer with 20 tons of
copper was installed in June.  Power use by the Yangs rose dramatically with their move.
The couple were taken aback to find their new lifestyle led to a
monthly electricity bill of 200 yuan, equal to what they paid
for a full year back in the village, the family patriarch says.  A cool breeze stirs in the living room as he turns on the
Blue Spirit air-conditioning unit that stands six-feet tall
behind their three-seater brown leather sofa. The unit, with 8
kilograms of copper according to its maker, Zhuhai, Guangdong
province-based  Gree Electric Appliances Inc ., bears a label
saying it’s energy-efficient. Yang is skeptical.  “The meter runs really fast when this is turned on,” Yang
says. “Does it really save a lot of electricity?”  The couple still seeks out remnants of their old lifestyle
to escape the loneliness of their new environment.  At 8 a.m. most days, the two walk to a small road-side
house to gamble up to 10 yuan playing a traditional Chinese card
game with new acquaintances. Evenings are spent back at their
apartment, eating dinner and watching TV, sometimes under the
glare of colored spotlights in the ceiling that bathe the living
room in red, blue and green.  “We’ve got to get used to it,” he says. “We didn’t want
to move. My son wanted us to live here.”  To contact the Bloomberg News Staff on this story:
Fan Wenxin in Shanghai at 
 Wfan19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Melissa Pozsgay in Paris at 
 mpozsgay@bloomberg.net  