-- Christian Louboutin Plans Beijing Store to Sell $2,000 Boots Worn by Jolie
-- B y   W e n d y   L e u n g
-- 2010-11-02T05:29:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-02/christian-louboutin-plans-beijing-store-to-sell-200-boots-worn-by-jolie.html
Christian Louboutin, the French
shoemaker that counts  Angelina Jolie  among its customers, plans
to open stores in  China  and India as rising incomes buoy luxury
spending in Asia’s two fastest-growing major economies.  A Beijing store will open in July, and a second one will
start in Shanghai by the end of 2011, founder and designer
Christian Louboutin said in an interview in Hong Kong. The
luxury shoemaker, which produces its red-soled footwear in Italy,
may operate as many as five stores in China in the next three
years and may expand in Brazil, he said.  LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton SA  sales grew 16 percent
and  Hermes International SCA ’s surged 23 percent in the six
months through June as shoppers, particularly from  China , spent
more and distributors restocked inventories. Household wealth in
China may more than double to $35 trillion by 2015, surpassing
Japan to become the second highest, Credit Suisse AG said Oct. 8.  “China can still be considered as a new market, and
definitely Brazil is an emerging country,” Louboutin said in an
Oct. 29 interview in Hong Kong. The company will focus on Asia
and Brazil in the next three years and may open stores in India
in 2012, he said.  Christian Louboutin joins other luxury goods makers in
planning expansions in China as economic growth in the U.S. and
Europe slowed. Salvatore Ferragamo SpA , an Italian shoemaker
that supplied footwear to  Jennifer Lopez , may open as many as
eight new stores next year in the country.  ‘Some Danger’  “There’s some danger for this brand, since it’s not very
well known in China,” James Roy, a Shanghai-based senior analyst
for China Market Research Group said in a phone interview today.
“There is still room, especially on the super high end, but
Shanghai and Beijing might not be the best choices” because
wealthy consumers in those cities often shop abroad, he said.  Second-tier cities such as Shenyang and Dalian offer more
growth, because “very wealthy people there are still not
necessarily buying luxury items abroad,” said Roy, who estimates
China’s luxury spending, excluding yachts and cars, will reach
$9 billion this year from less than $8 billion in 2009.  Per-capita disposable income  grew 11 percent in the first
quarter in Liaoning, the province where Shenyang and Dalian are
located, compared with 10 percent for Shanghai and 8.6 percent
for Beijing, according to  data  from the National Bureau of
Statistics and Bloomberg calculations.  Rounded Toes  A pair of Christian Louboutin over-the-knee boots  sell  for
$2,495 on the  Neiman Marcus Group Inc. ’s website while Net-a-
Porter.com  sells  the brand’s knee-high boots for 706 pounds
($1,133).  The shoemaker may tailor its designs to fit the markets
it’s entering, Louboutin said. “Asians don’t like very high
heels with pointy shoes” and prefer rounded toes while his
customers in the Middle East prefer platform shoes, he said.  “Fabric is more popular in France, where women have linen
shoes, but not in China,” he said. “In China, when the shoe is
made expensive, they expect much more leather.”  Louboutin said he plans to keep making his shoes in Italy
and has no plans to start manufacturing in Asia.  “I’m very obsessed with quality,” he said. “I don’t want
to triple production in a year. If you do too much production,
you lose part of the quality.”  Keeping production in Europe will probably help market the
brand in China, said China Market Research Group’s Roy.  Christian Louboutin will open 12 stores next year,
including two in China, one in Brazil and two in the Middle East,
he said. The company plans two new stores each in Japan and the
U.S. and three in Italy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Wendy Leung  in Hong Kong at 
 wleung12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Longid at   flongid@bloomberg.net  