-- Citadel Broadcasting to Rescind Stock Awards for CEO, Board, Creditor Says
-- B y   D o n a l d   J e f f r e y
-- 2010-11-02T22:46:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-02/citadel-broadcasting-agrees-to-rescind-chief-s-restricted-stock-award.html
Citadel Broadcasting Corp.  agreed to
rescind a restricted-stock award to its chief executive officer
and directors, and replace it with a stock-option grant,
according to a creditor of the radio-station operator.  Because the grant has been revoked, a hearing to consider
the matter tomorrow in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in Manhattan was
postponed until Nov. 10, R2 Investments LDC, a Citadel debt
holder, said today in a court filing.  R2 said last month that Citadel  managers  and board members
improperly gave themselves restricted stock grants worth as much
as $110 million, instead of the stock options called for in the
Las Vegas-based broadcaster’s reorganization plan.  “To enable the company to focus on those business matters
that will maximize value for its shareholders, including the
anticipated refinancing, the members of Citadel’s executive
management team and board of directors have voluntarily agreed
to relinquish their restricted stock awards,”  Jonathan Doorley ,
a spokesman for Citadel, said today in an e-mailed statement.
“The company intends to issue such individuals options in
accordance with the plan originally filed with the bankruptcy
court.”  Jon Elsen, an outside spokesman for R2, said the company
had no comment.  CEO’s Share  Citadel CEO  Farid Suleman  would have gotten restricted
stock worth as much as $55 million over two years, R2 said in a
court filing. Under the original plan, he would receive stock
options based on the market price of the shares, vesting over
three years.  Citadel said the amended plan for managers was approved by
its new  board , six of whose seven members were appointed by the
company’s senior lenders, according to a filing last month in
response to the motion by R2, a unit of Fort Worth, Texas-based
Q Investments LP. The approved reorganization plan allowed the
new board to set compensation, Citadel said.  The new Citadel board decided June 9 to authorize the
issuance of restricted stock, Citadel said in its filing. The
company emerged from Chapter 11 creditor protection on June 3,
less than six months after its bankruptcy filing.  Citadel is the third-largest radio  broadcaster  in the U.S.,
with 224 stations including WLS in Chicago and WABC in New York.
The company sought Chapter 11 protection in December, saying the
recession had “put a chokehold on advertising spending,” its
main source of revenue.  The case is In re Citadel Broadcasting Corp., 09-17442,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Don Jeffrey  in New York at 
 djeffrey1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net  