-- Citigroup May Sell $570 Million of Stakes With CVC
-- B y   A n n e - S y l v a i n e   C h a s s a n y ,   B r a d l e y   K e o u n   a n d   S a i j e l   K i s h a n
-- 2010-11-02T21:07:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-02/citigroup-may-sell-570-million-of-stakes-in-cvc-funds-european-companies.html
Citigroup Inc. , the U.S. bank that’s
liquidating assets after its $45 billion bailout, may sell about
$570 million of investments with buyout firm CVC Capital
Partners Ltd., people with direct knowledge of the matter said.  For sale are about $250 million of interests in two Asia
funds managed by  CVC  and 15 million euros ($21 million) in a
European fund, said one person who requested anonymity because
the sale process is private. Citigroup also is selling about 210
million euros of stakes in more than a dozen European companies
that were accumulated as part of the bank’s role as co-investor
on CVC-led deals, another person said.  “There is a market for stuff that couldn’t be sold six or
12 months ago, and banks are taking advantage of it,” said
 Richard Bove , an analyst at Rochdale Securities in Lutz,
Florida, who rates Citigroup shares “buy.” “Buyers are
willing to step up and pay a little bit more.”  Citigroup, the third-biggest U.S. bank by assets, is
trying to clear out $2 billion of buyout holdings left in its
sale bin after completing a deal last week to turn over
management of $4 billion of interests in Citigroup-managed
buyout funds to StepStone Group LLC and sell stakes in the funds
to Lexington Partners Inc.  The CVC stakes are among  $421 billion of assets  in the
lender’s Citi Holdings division, created in 2009 to dispose of
businesses under a plan by Chief Executive Officer  Vikram Pandit , 53, to streamline the lender.  Citi Holdings ‘Shrinking’  “People are going to like the fact that Citi Holdings
keeps shrinking in size, bit by bit and piece by piece,” Bove
said.  Citigroup, based in New York, is still 12 percent owned by
the government after repaying $20 billion of its bailout money
last December.  Pandit is keeping two buyout units, Metalmark Capital
Partners, which invests in the U.S., and Citi Venture Capital
International, which targets emerging markets, according to the
company.  Shannon Bell , a Citigroup spokeswoman, said she couldn’t
comment on the CVC talks.  James Olley , a spokesman for CVC, said
the firm doesn’t comment on individual investors.  The value of the CVC stakes is based on estimates of their
current worth, the people said. A sale may loosen the links
between the bank and CVC stretching over  three decades . CVC was
started in 1981 as the European private-equity arm of Citigroup
predecessor Citicorp, and the unit’s managers bought it from the
bank in 1993. CVC raised a 10.8 billion euro buyout fund,
Europe’s second largest, in 2008.  Asia Funds  Citigroup was a joint venture partner with CVC on the $750
million CVC Capital Partners Asia Pacific fund in 2000, and on
the $1.975 billion CVC Capital Partners Asia Pacific II fund in
2005, according to an  April 2008 CVC press release . The bank
also was “expected to be a significant investor” in the $4.1
billion CVC Capital Partners Asia Pacific III fund in 2008,
according to the release.  The California Public Employees’ Retirement System, another
CVC investor, values its stake in the second Asia fund at about
10 percent less than the cash that was initially put in. The
third fund has lost 30 percent of its value on that basis,
according to Calpers. Citigroup is selling its stakes in both
funds, the people said.  Citigroup is also selling a stake in the CVC European
Equity Partners IV fund, the people said. That fund has returned
11.2 percent a year on average, according to Calpers.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anne-Sylvaine Chassany in Paris at 
 achassany@bloomberg.net ;
 Bradley Keoun  in New York at 
 bkeoun@bloomberg.net ;
 Saijel Kishan  in New York at 
 skishan@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 