-- Claim Jumper Restaurants Wins Bankruptcy Court Approval of Landry's Sale
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B a t h o n
-- 2010-11-02T20:45:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-02/claim-jumper-restaurants-wins-bankruptcy-court-approval-of-landry-s-sale.html
Claim Jumper Restaurants LLC, the
operator of a Western-themed restaurant chain in eight states,
won court approval to sell its assets to  Landry’s Restaurants
Inc.  in a deal valued at about $76.6 million.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge  Kevin Gross  said he would allow Claim
Jumper to complete the sale after minor changes are added at a
hearing today in Wilmington, Delaware.  “We were very pleased with the outcome of the auction,”
 Robert J. Moore , a lawyer for Claim Jumper, told Gross.  Landry’s, the Houston-based seafood chain, won an Oct. 28
auction that lasted more than nine hours and more than 100
rounds of bidding, court papers show. Landry’s will pay $48.3
million in cash, take on as much as $23.3 million in Claim
Jumper debt and provide $5 million in cash to collateralize
existing letters of credit.  The cash portion of the offer increased at the auction from
an initial bid of $27 million by GRP Acquisition Corp., an
affiliate of Black Canyon Capital LLC. The price was “a little
more” than Landry’s Chief Executive Officer  Tilman J. Fertitta 
expected to pay, he said in a Bloomberg News interview last
week.  Landry’s bought the assets of Oceanaire Inc. out of
bankruptcy in April for about $23.4 million, according to a
company statement. Fertitta took that seafood chain private for
$24.50 a share last month, the company said.  Claim Jumper, based in Irvine, California, listed assets of
as much as $100 million and debt of as much as $500 million in
Chapter 11 documents filed Sept. 10. The first Claim Jumper
restaurant opened in Los Alamitos, California, in 1977. The
chain comprises 45 restaurants in Arizona, California, Colorado,
Illinois, Nevada, Oregon, Washington and Wisconsin, according to
the company  website .  The case is In re Claim Jumper Restaurants LLC, 10-12819,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Bathon  in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 mbathon@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 