-- Clinton Says China Must Eventually Allow More Political Freedom to Prosper
-- B y   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 2010-11-02T08:14:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-02/clinton-says-china-will-need-more-political-freedom-as-prosperity-grows.html
Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton 
said China will eventually have to permit greater political
freedom to accompany growing prosperity in the world’s second-
largest economy.  “China has a lot of very positive results from economic
growth, but I will predict to you, I don’t know whether it’s
five years or 10 years or 15, there is an inherent conflict
between economic freedom and the lack of political freedom,”
she said in a speech in Malaysia today. “The political space
for speaking out has not grown.”  Clinton’s remarks come less than a week after China’s
Communist Party mouthpiece, the People’s Daily, disputed
criticism that political reform is lagging behind economic
achievements. The U.S. was among countries that last month urged
China to release jailed dissident  Liu Xiaobo  after he was
awarded the Nobel Peace Prize.  Clinton is in Malaysia as part of a two-week, seven-stop
trip through the Asia-Pacific to reaffirm U.S. engagement and
leadership in the region. The Obama administration has made Asia
a diplomatic priority and positioned itself as both a partner
and counterpoint to a rising China.  “There is a mismatch that will eventually have to be
remedied” between people becoming more active consumers and
“wanting to be heard,” Clinton said in remarks to 500 women
and civil society leaders and students at the  International
Institute for Islamic Thought and Civilization , a faculty of the
International Islamic University Malaysia.  China’s Clout  China’s growing clout in the region has been a theme
throughout Clinton’s trip, which includes further stops in
Australia, New Zealand and Papua New Guinea. She visited
Cambodia and Vietnam in the past week and delivered a speech in
Hawaii in which she said the U.S. would reassert its leadership
in Southeast Asia, in part by deepening alliances with nations
like Malaysia.  At the town hall meeting, when Clinton was asked about
Asian nations that might feel a tug between China and the U.S.,
she said it was important for every country “to have a series
of relationships.”  Relations between the U.S. and Malaysia have warmed under
Prime Minister  Najib Razak , who said at a Sept. 28 appearance at
the  Council on Foreign Relations , a New York policy group, that
one of his first decisions on becoming the country’s sixth
leader was to reengage with the United States.  Chicken Pox  Clinton will not meet with Najib during this visit as he is
sick with chicken pox. The two spoke by phone today, she said.
The U.S. is Malaysia’s third-largest trading partner, after
China and Singapore, with average monthly commerce between the
two countries reaching $3 billion in 2010.  Najib has also strengthened Malaysia’s non-proliferation
regime, a priority for President  Barack Obama , and pledged to
join the Trans-Pacific Partnership, a free-trade accord
involving countries on both sides of the Pacific that the U.S.
is also set to embrace.  “Few countries have come as far in terms of our bilateral
relationship as the one between the United States and
Malaysia,” Assistant Secretary of State for East Asian and
Pacific Affairs,  Kurt Campbell  said in an Oct. 26 briefing.
There has been “enormous progress on a number of issues --
proliferation issues, political coordination, and strategic
dialogue,” Campbell said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nicole Gaouette  in Washington at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Austin at 
 billaustin@bloomberg.net  