-- Collahuasi Union Snubs Offer as Talks Resume in Chile
-- B y   M a t t   C r a z e
-- 2010-11-02T20:14:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-02/collahuasi-workers-restart-negotiations-with-company-over-pay.html
A union at  Anglo American Plc  and
 Xstrata Plc’s  Collahuasi unit in northern Chile rejected a new
wage offer and warned members to prepare for a prolonged strike
at the world’s fourth-biggest copper mine.  Talks resumed today after a two-day recess as the company
seeks to avert a strike that may start Nov. 5, Collahuasi
spokeswoman Bernardita Fernandez said in a telephone interview.
The main workers union at the mine has a “preliminary negative
view” of the offer, it said in a statement.  “Members and their families should prepare for a long
standstill because of the company’s intransigence based on a
need to continue expanding at the expense of workers,” the
union said on its website. Everything points to a strike
starting Nov. 5, it wrote.  Chile’s Work Inspectorate mediated talks for a second day
after both sides failed to reach an agreement ahead of an Oct.
30 deadline. The mediated talks started Oct. 29. Collahuasi’s
workers almost unanimously rejected a company pay offer on Oct.
27 that included a bonus of 8.9 million pesos ($18,262). Workers
at BHP Billiton Ltd.’s Escondida copper mine were paid bonuses
of more than 14 million pesos to sign a new wage deal last year.  A strike at Collahuasi, which produces more than 3 percent
of the world’s mined supplies, would drive up copper prices,
said  Dan Major , an analyst at RBS Global Banking & Markets in
London.  Copper futures for December delivery gained 5.4 cents, or
1.4 percent, to $3.839 a pound to close at 1:13 p.m. on the
Comex in New York. The metal has jumped 33 percent since July 1
as the dollar slumped and inventories dropped.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Matt Craze  in Santiago at 
 mcraze@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at   dcrofts@bloomberg.net  