-- Colombian Peso Falls Most in Two Weeks as Government Steps Up Intervention
-- B y   A n d r e a   J a r a m i l l o
-- 2010-11-02T19:10:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-02/colombian-peso-falls-most-in-two-weeks-as-government-steps-up-intervention.html
Colombia’s peso fell the most in two
weeks after the government and central bank announced measures
to ease the local currency’s rally, including extending dollar
purchases and reducing import tariffs.  The peso dropped 0.2 percent to 1,844.30 per U.S. dollar at
2:02 p.m. New York time, from 1,840 yesterday. It earlier fell
as much as 0.6 percent, the biggest intraday decline since Oct.
19. Colombian markets were closed yesterday for a holiday.  The government said Oct. 29 that it will buy as much as
$3.7 billion through the currency forwards market to hedge
foreign debt payments. The same day, central bank chief  Jose Dario Uribe  said the institution will keep buying a minimum of
$20 million a day through auctions until at least March 15, two
months longer than previously planned. He also left open the
possibility of bigger purchases, saying the bank can buy dollars
in the market through a local clearing house “at any time.”  “What they are doing is managing expectations, letting the
market know that both the central bank and Finance Ministry can
intervene discretionally,” said  Benito Berber , an emerging
markets currency strategist with Nomura Securities Inc. in New
York. “All this reduces the chances the peso will strengthen
beyond 1,800.”  Finance Minister  Juan Carlos Echeverry  also said last week
that the government will eliminate most tax exemptions on
overseas borrowing to reduce the inflow of dollars.  ‘Currency War’  Colombia is among developing countries that are seeking to
weaken their currencies to protect their economy against inflows
of capital in what Brazilian Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  has
called a “currency war.” The moves come as Group of 20 finance
ministers and central bankers last month agreed to avoid
weakening their currencies to boost exports and to let markets
increasingly set foreign-exchange values.  The peso has gained 10.8 percent this year, the most among
Latin American currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  The central bank’s plan to make any extra dollar purchases
through a local clearing house instead of local bank dealers
will make it harder for traders to track the purchases,  Flavia Cattan-Naslausky , a strategist at RBS Securities Inc. in
Stamford, Connecticut, wrote in a report today.  “It means Banco de la Republica has greater flexibility to
spread out intervention purchases depending on market conditions
and potentially increase daily purchases beyond $20 million,”
she wrote.  Colombia’s participation in the market for non-deliverable
forwards, known as NDFs, will depend on the costs, Public Credit
Director  German Arce  told investors in a conference call today.  Dollars Overseas  Berber said it was unlikely the government will take part.  “Colombia has many more dollars it needs to bring in than
what it has to buy locally for external debt payments,” he
said.  Echeverry also said at the end of last week that the
government will keep $1.5 billion overseas “at least for the
first months of 2011” instead of bringing the money into
Colombia and converting it to pesos. The amount includes the
August and December dividend payments from state oil company
Ecopetrol SA.  The government will make up for money left abroad by using
regular cash flow and savings, Arce said today.  The government also made changes to its 2011 financing
plan, allowing it to reduce next year’s foreign debt issuance by
$384 million, Echeverry said.  Still, should the Federal Reserve announce plans tomorrow
to purchase U.S. government debt to spur growth, pressure on the
peso to strengthen will remain, according to Berber.  Fed Purchases  The Fed may buy at least $500 billion of U.S. bonds in an
unprecedented second round of unconventional monetary easing,
according to economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  “There’s not much Colombia can do to stop the peso from
gaining” under those circumstances, Berber said.  “The plethora measures that have been introduced across
Banco de la Republica and the Finance Ministry nonetheless make
us less sanguine on the peso’s ability to rally beyond” 1,785,
RBS’s Cattan-Naslausky wrote.  The yield on the nation’s benchmark 11 percent bonds due
2020 rose 10 basis points, or 0.1 percentage point, to 7.10
percent, according to Colombia’s stock exchange.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrea Jaramillo  in Bogota at 
 ajaramillo1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  