-- Commonwealth Bank Boosts Rates by Almost Double RBA, Risking Political Ire
-- B y   J a c o b   G r e b e r
-- 2010-11-02T06:39:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-02/commonwealth-boosts-australia-home-loan-rate-by-almost-double-rba-s-move.html
Commonwealth Bank of Australia , the
nation’s biggest home lender, will raise its standard mortgage
rate by almost double the central bank’s increase, a move
condemned by Treasurer  Wayne Swan  as a “cynical cash grab.”  Commonwealth Bank’s standard variable home loan interest
rate will be increased by 45 basis points, or 0.45 percentage
point, to 7.81 percent on Nov. 5, the Sydney-based bank said
today. It cited a “sustained increase” in wholesale funding
costs since the start of the global financial crisis.  The move comes amid criticism of Australian lenders, which
face a Senate inquiry into competition, fees and funding costs,
and opposition calls for improved regulation. The decision means
Commonwealth Bank customers will pay an extra A$1,056 ($1,054) a
year in repayments on an average A$300,000 mortgage.  “This is a cynical cash grab,” Swan told reporters in
Brisbane today. “Australians deserve a lot better.”  Reserve Bank of Australia Governor  Glenn Stevens  today
unexpectedly increased the nation’s benchmark interest rate by a
quarter percentage point to 4.75 percent in his first move in
six months. He’s led Group of 20 policy makers by boosting
borrowing costs seven times since October 2009.  ‘Expensive Funding’  “Our overall wholesale funding costs continue to increase
as cheaper funding expires and is replaced with more expensive
funding,”  Ross McEwan , CBA’s retail banking services group
executive, said in today’s statement.  Commonwealth Bank said the total funding cost at its retail
bank has climbed 1.35 percentage points in addition to central
bank rate increases since the start of the global financial
crisis. Of that, some 1.04 percentage points had been passed on
to home-loan customers until today, the bank added.  The Senate voted last week to hold an inquiry that will
include questioning of bank claims that they are compelled to
raise interest rates by more than the central bank because of
rising funding costs. Independent Senator  Nick Xenophon , who
called for the inquiry, said the nation’s four biggest banks
should testify about the state of competition between them and
non-bank lenders.  Bank borrowing costs are a political issue in Australia as
more than 90 percent of borrowers have  variable-rate home loans .  Mortgage rates are under review at Westpac and ANZ Bank,
according to spokesmen at the lenders.  National Australia Bank
Ltd . spokesman  George Wright  said no decision has been made “at
this stage.”  Slap in Face  Westpac faced criticism last December when it raised
interest rates by more than the central bank, with Swan at the
time saying the move was a “slap in the face” to customers
ahead of Christmas. Days later, National Australia Bank invited
Westpac customers to visit its branches after raising mortgage
rates in line with the Reserve Bank.  Measures to make the nation’s banking system more
competitive will be announced next month, Swan said today. “But
of course those reforms can’t deal with some of the arrogance
that we have seen from our banking system,” he said.  ANZ Bank Chief Executive Officer Mike Smith told the
Australian Broadcasting Corp. on Oct. 31 that any attempt by
lawmakers to control banks’ interest rates will take Australia
back to an era “long since gone.”  Australia’s largest banks lend more each year than they
accept in deposit accounts at home. That forces them to turn to
offshore markets for about 30 percent of their wholesale
funding.  Overseas Funding  According to Moody’s Investors Service, ANZ Bank and
National Australia need to raise as much as A$25 billion each
year selling long-term bonds to help fund lending.  Commonwealth
Bank  and Westpac will need as much as A$50 billion, Moody’s has
said.  ANZ Bank last week said second-half profit jumped 69
percent to a record A$2.58 billion, and National Australia Bank
said cash profit rose 32 percent to A$2.39 billion. Westpac Bank
is forecast by analysts Bloomberg surveyed to announce tomorrow
a 24 percent jump in cash earnings to A$2.9 billion.  Commonwealth Bank’s  net income  in the six months ended June
30 climbed 28 percent to A$2.72 billion. The bank is scheduled
to publish a quarterly trading update on Nov. 15.  To contact the reporter for this story:
 Jacob Greber  in Sydney at 
 jgreber@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  