-- Copper Rises for Second Day as Dollar Drops Before Federal Reserve Meeting
-- B y   Y i   T i a n   a n d   M a r i a   K o l e s n i k o v a
-- 2010-11-02T14:03:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-02/copper-rises-for-second-day-as-dollar-drops-before-federal-reserve-meeting.html
Copper rose for the second straight
day after the dollar dropped as the Federal Reserve prepared
more stimulus measures to bolster the U.S. economy.  Policy makers, who meet today and tomorrow, probably will
announce a plan to purchase at least $500 billion of long-term
securities, according to economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.
The greenback fell as much as 0.7 percent against a basket of
major currencies. Raw materials extended a rally to the highest
level since October 2008.  Increased debt purchases and a lower dollar will be
“supportive forces for commodities across the board,” said
 Adam Klopfenstein , a senior market strategist at Lind-Waldock in
Chicago. “Copper is in the driver’s seat to the upside.”  Copper futures for December delivery gained 4.8 cents, or
1.3 percent, to $3.833 a pound at 10:01 a.m. on the Comex in New
York. Before today, the metal jumped 32 percent since July 1 as
the dollar slumped and metal inventories dropped.  Copper may extend a rally next year as demand outpaces
supplies and “loose monetary policy” bolsters commodities,
 John DeAngelis , the director of metals strategy at Deutsche Bank
AG, said at a conference today in the Chinese city of Ningbo.  On Oct. 27, copper rose to a 27-month high of $3.90. Today,
the Thomson Reuters/Jefferies CRB Index of 19 raw materials
extended a rally to the highest level in two years as the
dollar’s slump bolstered the investment appeal of energy, crops
and metals and boosted prospects for U.S. exports.  Copper may “regress” depending on whether the Fed
announcement meets expectations by investors, Klopfenstein said.
“We may see a trade above $3.95 or below $3.73.”  On the London Metal Exchange, copper for delivery in three
months rose $119.25, or 1.4 percent, to $8,419.25 a metric ton
($3.82 a pound). Tin, lead, nickel, aluminum and zinc also
gained on the LME.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Yi Tian  in New York at 
 Ytian8@bloomberg.net ;
 Maria Kolesnikova  in Moscow at 
 mkolesnikova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net . 