-- Copper in a `Perfect Storm' for Bulls, May Reach New Highs, Deutsche Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-11-02T08:57:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-02/copper-in-a-perfect-storm-for-bulls-may-reach-new-highs-deutsche-says.html
Copper may reach new highs next year
as the market is in a “perfect storm” for bulls, said John 
 DeAngelis , director of metals strategy at Deutsche Bank AG.  Gains will be driven by strong physical demand combined
with low supply growth, strong investor buying and the potential
for physically backed exchange traded funds to amplify a tight
market, DeAngelis said at a conference in Ningbo today. He
didn’t give a precise forecast.  Copper in London last month reached the highest price since
July 2008, as a weaker dollar prompted investors to seek
alternative investments. The Federal Reserve will probably begin
a new round of unconventional monetary easing this week by
announcing a plan to buy at least $500 billion of long-term
securities, according to economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  “The loose monetary policy will result in higher commodity
prices whether it’s driven by real demand, investors chasing
yields or safe-haven needs,” he said.  Three-month copper on the London Metal Exchange traded at
$8,320 a metric ton at 4:36 p.m. in Singapore after swinging
between gains and losses. It reached $8,554 on Oct. 26, the
highest level in 27 months.  Consumption will outpace supply this year by 58,000 tons as
demand increases and supplies are disrupted, Standard Bank Plc
said Oct. 12. A “robust demand outlook for the fourth quarter,
low stock levels, supply disruptions, a weak dollar” and
improved risk appetite are positive for copper, analyst Leon
Westgate wrote in a report.  China’s copper consumption may climb to 8.5 million tons in
2015, from 7.5 million tons last year, as demand increases for
home appliances and the country develops its power grid, Zhang
Fengkui, head of nonferrous metals office at the Ministry of
Industry and Information Technology’s raw materials department,
said at the Ningbo conference.  -Helen Sun. Editors: Richard Dobson, Jake Lloyd-Smith  To contact the Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Helen Sun in Shanghai at 
 hsun30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  