-- Cosatu Is Trying to Change South Africa's Government, ANC's Mantashe Says
-- B y   F r a n z   W i l d
-- 2010-11-02T14:26:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-02/cosatu-is-trying-to-change-south-africa-s-government-anc-s-mantashe-says.html
South Africa’s ruling African
National Congress criticized the nation’s biggest labor
federation for campaigning against the government and said it
appeared to be creating an “opposition bloc.”  The Congress of South African Trade Unions was “weakening
and dividing” its alliance with the ANC by failing to invite the
party to a conference of civil-society groups in Johannesburg
last week at which the government “was prosecuted and found
guilty in absentia” for failed policies on jobs, health and
education, and for not fighting corruption, ANC Secretary-
General  Gwede Mantashe  said today.  “An action like the one of leading a charge for the
formation and for the mobilization of a mass civic movement
outside of the alliance partners and the ANC might indeed be
interpreted as initial steps for regime change in South
Africa,” Mantashe told reporters in Johannesburg.  Since helping to elect President  Jacob Zuma  in April last
year, labor unions have increasingly complained that his
administration has failed to deliver on pledges to create jobs
and improve health care and education.  Cosatu, with 2 million members, believes it needs to
mobilize support outside the ANC-led governing alliance to
pressure the party to deliver on its promises,  Steven Friedman ,
director of the Johannesburg-based  Centre for the Study of
Democracy , said today in an interview.  ‘New Low’  This dispute marks a “new low” in the relationship
between Cosatu and the ANC, he said.  “You are talking about something immensely significant
because you are mobilizing a citizen movement about corruption
and around several other issues,” Friedman said. “It‘s not
about leaving the alliance; it’s about leveraging the government
between elections.”  Participants at last week’s meeting agreed to establish
“bodies that have teeth” to hold the government accountable.  Mantashe said the ANC will seek an “urgent” meeting with
Cosatu to end the antagonism and strengthen the alliance that
dates to the struggle against white minority rule, which ended
in 1994.  South Africa lost 870,000 jobs last year as a result of the
global financial crisis. It shed jobs again in the third
quarter, undermining the recovery of the continent’s biggest
economy.  The number of people working fell by 86,000 to 12.98
million, leaving the jobless rate at 25.3 percent, little
changed from the previous three months, Statistics South Africa
said on Oct. 26.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Franz Wild  in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story: Peter
Hirschberg at   phirschberg@bloomberg.net . 