-- Cotton Extends Rally to Record; Chinese Demand Is `on Fire,' Plexus Says
-- B y   L e s l i e   P a t t o n
-- 2010-11-02T20:23:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-02/cotton-rallies-to-record-as-adverse-weather-rising-demand-tighten-supply.html
Cotton prices extended a rally to a
record on mounting demand from China, the world’s biggest user.  “The Chinese market is just on fire,” said  Peter Egli ,
the director of risk management in Chicago for Plexus Cotton
Ltd., a U.K.-based merchant. “We have seen a lot of the mills
back off, but China is still paying.”  On ICE Futures U.S. in New York, cotton for December
delivery jumped by the exchange limit of 5 cents, or 3.9
percent, to settle at $1.3426 a pound at 3:20 p.m. That marked
the highest price in 140 years of trading. The commodity has
soared 78 percent this year.  The China Cotton Association said the nation will boost
management of the industry after prices surged on adverse
weather and speculation. Major companies were urged to stabilize
the market, the group said in a statement on its website, citing
the National Development and Reform Commission.  Futures for March, May and July delivery also advanced by
the exchange’s maximum today in New York. The trading limit will
rise to 6 cents tomorrow, ICE said.  Last week, a cold spell in China and hailstorms in Texas
damaged crops. Before the bad weather, China’s harvest was
expected to be 18.5 million bales less than domestic use this
season, U.S. Department of Agriculture  data  show.  An area of thunderstorms near the Indonesian island of
Sumatra may develop into a tropical cyclone this weekend and
damage cotton crops in India, weather forecaster MDA Information
Systems Inc. said today.  ‘Panic’  “Worries over just how short China’s crop is with ongoing
weather issues has their mills in a near-constant panic,”
 Sharon Johnson , a senior analyst at First Capitol Group LLC in
Atlanta, said in a report yesterday.  Global demand will rise to 25 million metric tons in the
season that ends July 31, up 1.6 percent from last year, the
 International Cotton Advisory Committee  said yesterday.  The USDA estimated last month that world use will exceed
supply by 4.09 million bales this year. The agency will update
its crop  forecast  on Nov. 9. The U.S. is the biggest exporter.  Yesterday, cotton  inventories  monitored by ICE rose 1,260
bales, or 10 percent, to 13,546 bales. They have plunged from
this year’s high of 1.08 million on June 2.  A bale weighs 480 pounds, or 218 kilograms.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Leslie Patton  in Chicago at 
 lpatton5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  