-- Credit-Default Swaps Fall to Six-Month Low While Fed Decides
-- B y   M a r y   C h i l d s
-- 2010-11-02T21:36:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-02/credit-default-swaps-fall-to-six-month-low-while-fed-decides.html
The cost of protecting U.S. corporate
bonds from default fell to the lowest since May as investors
awaited a Federal Reserve decision on whether the central bank
would act to boost the economy and election results that may
divide Congress.  The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, which
investors use to hedge against losses on corporate debt or to
speculate on creditworthiness, fell 2 basis points to a mid-
price of 92.4 as of 4:56 p.m. in New York, according to index
administrator Markit Group Ltd. Swaps on Wells Fargo & Co.
dropped for the first time in five days.  “Everybody’s just waiting for the Fed and elections,”
said  Mikhail Foux , a credit strategist at Citigroup Inc. “This
week is going to determine the direction of the market for the
remainder of the year.”  The Fed, which began its meeting today, will probably
announce a plan tomorrow to purchase at least $500 billion of
long-term securities, according to economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index climbed to an
almost six-month high and has surged 14 percent since Fed
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  indicated in August that he was
considering pumping more cash into the economy.  A victory for Republicans today that hands them control of
the House of Representatives may aid efforts to curb President
 Barack Obama ’s policies on taxes, health care and financial
regulation. The Rothenberg Political Report predicts the party
will gain 55 to 65 seats, more than the 39 needed to become a
majority.  “People pared their bets and they’re on the sidelines”
while waiting for the election and Fed’s decision, Foux said.  Bank Swaps Fall  The cost to protect debt issued by Wells Fargo fell 6.9
basis points to 114.7 and contracts on JPMorgan Chase & Co.
dropped 3.9 basis points to 91.5, according to CMA. Swaps on
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. eased 5.1 basis points to 127.3, and
those on Citigroup fell 6.5 basis points to 144.3, CMA data
show.  The Markit CDX index, which typically falls as investor
confidence improves and rises as it deteriorates, ended May 3 at
90.4 basis points. Credit swaps pay the buyer face value if a
borrower fails to meet its obligations, less the value of the
defaulted debt. A basis point, 0.01 percentage point, equals
$1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mary Childs  in New York at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  