-- CSR Returns to Profit in First Half as Building Product Earnings Increase
-- B y   W e n d y   P u g h
-- 2010-11-03T05:24:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-02/csr-reports-a-first-half-profit-of-63-million-shares-decline-in-sydney.html
CSR Ltd. , the Australian building
products and aluminum company that’s selling its sugar division
for A$1.75 billion ($1.75 billion), returned to first-half
profit as earnings increased at its building unit.  Net income was A$63 million in the six months ended Sept.
30 compared with a loss of A$155.6 million a year earlier, the
Sydney-based company said today in a statement. The year-earlier
result included a A$250 million writedown on the value of its
Viridian glass business.  CSR is selling the sugar operations to  Wilmar International
Ltd.  to focus on building products operations, which include
supplying insulation, bricks, plasterboard and roof tiles. The
company, which also has interests in property, said today it
would reveal what it will do with the money from selling the
sugar unit once the sale is complete.  “We do expect to complete the sale later this month and
that announcement will enable us to proceed to the next stage,
which is to talk about our capital management initiatives,”
Chief Executive Officer  Jeremy Sutcliffe  told an analyst
briefing.  CSR  rose  0.6 percent to A$1.81 on the Australian stock
exchange at the 4:10 p.m. closing time in Sydney.  Earnings from continuing operations in its building
products business should be “slightly higher” for the 12
months ending March 31 compared with a year earlier, the company
said.  Residential Construction  Residential construction activity is expected to moderate
after improving in the year ended June 30, while non-residential
construction remains weak, the company said.  Building product earnings before interest and tax rose to
A$57.7 million in the half from A$48.5 million a year earlier
while sugar earnings dropped to A$66.7 million from A$114.2
million as rain delayed cane crushing, the statement said.  Wilmar’s offer for the Sucrogen sugar division includes
A$1.35 billion in cash and A$403 million in assumed net debt,
the Singapore-based company said in a statement July 5. The deal
is subject to approval from Australia’s Foreign Investment
Review Board, which has extended its review period to Nov. 9.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Wendy Pugh  in Melbourne 
 wpugh@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  