-- D.E. Shaw Moves Executive Committee's Gaudio to Asia to Increase Presence
-- B y   B e i   H u
-- 2010-11-02T04:03:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-02/d-e-shaw-moves-executive-committee-s-gaudio-to-asia-to-increase-presence.html
D.E. Shaw & Co., the $20 billion
asset manager founded by David Shaw, is moving  Julius Gaudio ,
one of its six executive committee members, to Hong Kong from
New York to increase the ranks of senior management in Asia.  Gaudio, the first member of the executive committee in Asia,
is also a joint supervisor of the New York-based company’s
global asset management businesses, said the e-mailed statement
today. He heads its corporate credit-related strategies.  “The Hong Kong office has quickly become an important hub
for our global operations only a few years after its
establishment,”  Meng Liang , chief executive officer of D.E.
Shaw’s Greater China private-equity unit, said in the statement.
Gaudio’s relocation “demonstrates the firm’s continued
commitment to the region.”  D.E. Shaw is joining global managers such as Davidson
Kempner Capital Management LLC, Moore Capital Management LLC and
GLG Partners Inc. in setting up Asian offices or adding to local
staff, according to  records  from Hong Kong’s Securities and
Futures Commission.  Fortress Investment Group LLC is moving  Adam Levinson , co-
chief investment officer of its global macro funds, to Singapore
early next year to lead the expansion of the New York-based
buyout and hedge-fund firm in the region.  D.E. Shaw’s Hong Kong office, set up in 2007, is one of six
it has in Asia, it added.  Gaudio joined D.E. Shaw in 1993 and has been involved in
research, development and trading with a focus on the
convertible and credit markets, and on direct capital activities,
according to the statement.  He set up D.E. Shaw’s convertible bond trading group. He is
also a member of the company’s risk committee as well as its
private-equity and real-estate investment committees.  D.E. Shaw, which lost investors after limiting withdrawals
in 2008, fired about 150 employees, about 10 percent of its
workforce, two people familiar with the cuts said in September.  Assets have fallen by nearly half from the peak of $39
billion in 2008.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bei Hu  in Hong Kong at 
 bhu5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Malcolm Scott at 
 mscott23@bloomberg.net  