-- Dell Plans Cloud-Computing Acquisition, Chief Says
-- B y   M a r k   L e e
-- 2010-11-02T14:05:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-02/dell-plans-cloud-computing-acquisition-chief-says-update1-.html
Dell Inc.  Chief Executive Officer
 Michael Dell  said the computer maker plans to announce an
acquisition in the cloud-computing market today.  “We continue to acquire new assets,” Dell, 45,  said
today at an event in Hong Kong. “We will announce an
acquisition that will accelerate this type of integration into
the cloud.” He didn’t provide further details.  The head of the world’s third-biggest maker of personal
computers said his company plans to expand in the market for
mobile phones and tablet devices. He also backed Microsoft
Corp.’s new operating system for smartphones, saying it beats
rival technologies by  Google Inc.  and  Apple Inc.  in aiding
application developers.  Windows Phone 7 “has done an even better job than the
Android at making it easy to develop the apps,” Dell said.  Dell’s comment is a boon for Microsoft, which is counting
on developers to design applications for smartphones running
Windows Phone 7 to attract users amid competition from Apple’s
iPhone and devices with Google’s Android system. Shipments of
smartphones may surpass PCs in 2012, according to research
company Gartner Inc.  Cloud computing technology allows companies to store and
access data via the Internet, rather than their own servers.  Dell, based in Round Rock, Texas, will introduce “a
significant number” of new tablet computers next year, the CEO
said at the event organized by the American Chamber of Commerce.  Dell fell 19 cents to $14.22 at 9:48 a.m. New York time in
Nasdaq Stock Market trading. The shares were little changed this
year before today.  New Applications  Apple is adding new applications “at an amazing pace,”
 Peter Oppenheimer , chief financial officer at the Cupertino,
California-based company, said last month.  Jill Tan , a Hong
Kong-based spokeswoman at Apple, declined to comment today.  Jessica Powell , a Tokyo-based spokeswoman at Google,
couldn’t immediately be reached by e-mail or mobile phone after
office hours.  The Android system was the most-popular smartphone software
in the U.S. in the second quarter, overtaking the iPhone and
 Research in Motion Ltd. ’s BlackBerry, according to data from
Gartner.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mark Lee  in Hong Kong at 
 wlee37@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at   ycho2@bloomberg.net  