-- Desire, Rockhopper Shares Advance on Possible Falkland Islands Oil Find
-- B y   K a r i   L u n d g r e n
-- 2010-11-02T10:18:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-02/desire-rockhopper-shares-advance-on-possible-falkland-islands-oil-find.html
Desire Petroleum Plc  and Rockhopper
Exploration Plc, two explorers looking for oil off the Falkland
Islands, climbed in London trading after saying oil was
encountered in a well during preliminary drilling.  Desire climbed as much as 15.25 pence, or 17 percent, to
107.25 pence ($1.72) and traded at 101 pence as of 10:16 a.m. in
London. Rockhopper, which has a 7.5 percent interest in the
prospect, rose 13.75 pence, or 4.5 percent, to 320 pence.  Desire said a mechanical failure at a sidetrack well made
it impossible to assess the significance of the oil at the
Rachel prospect, according to a statement today. The explorer
surged 76 percent one day last week on speculation it had struck
oil. Rockhopper earlier this year also reported a find at the
Sea Lion prospect off the south Atlantic islands.  “This result is encouraging and the potential for
commercial discovery cannot yet be ruled out until the prospect
is re-drilled,” said  Richard Rose , an analyst at Oriel
Securities, said in a note to investors.  The data from drilling “indicates that around 25 meters of
sand with oil shows was encountered,” Malvern, U.K.-based
Desire said. The well will be plugged and abandoned prior to
moving the drilling rig to a new location on the Rachel
prospect, the company said.  “The data that we have been able to gather has given us
sufficient encouragement to drill another well on the Rachel
prospect,”  Stephen Phipps , Desire’s chairman, said in the
statement. “Following the Sea Lion oil discovery by Rockhopper
Exploration, this is the second well to indicate the presence of
hydrocarbons in what is now termed the east flank play fairway
and gives us encouragement that further oil fields will be
discovered in this area.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kari Lundgren  in London at 
 klundgren2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  