-- DLF, Unitech Fall as Central Bank Proposes to Tighten Home-Loan Rules
-- B y   C h e r i a n   T h o m a s   a n d   R u t h   D a v i d
-- 2010-11-02T08:33:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-02/developers-dlf-unitech-fall-as-india-tightens-home-loans-to-curb-prices.html
DLF Ltd.  and Unitech Ltd., India’s
two largest real-estate developers, fell in Mumbai after the
central bank proposed tightening home loan norms as prices in
cities surpassed levels reached before the financial crisis.  DLF dropped 3.2 percent to 349.80 rupees as of 1:39 p.m.
local time, while  Unitech  slumped 3.3 percent and a  property
stocks  index lost 2.6 percent. The central bank plans to cap
loan-to-value ratios at 80 percent, raise the risk weighting on
larger housing loans and increase some provisioning requirements,
according to a statement in Mumbai.  “This will make it harder for home buyers to get loans,”
 Adhidev Chattopadhyay , a real-estate analyst at Edelweiss
Capital Ltd. in Mumbai, said by telephone today. “The sale of
new homes is the biggest concern.”  The Reserve Bank of India joins central banks across Asia
in seeking to prevent a steep rally in property prices fuelled
by debt. China last month raised interest rates and boosted
reserve requirements for the biggest lenders to curb inflation,
while Hong Kong and Singapore have taken steps including raising
down-payment ratios for home loans since August.  India’s commercial banks will have to increase the risk
weighting on home loans of 7.5 million rupees ($169,000) or more
to 125 percent, the Reserve Bank of India said today. The
previous risk weighting ranged from 75 percent to 100 percent,
it said.  Lenders will also have to increase provisions for so-called
teaser loans, which offer lower borrowing costs for the first
few years, to 2 percent, the central bank said.  ‘Short-Sighted’  “Residential property prices in metropolitan cities have
gone beyond the pre-crisis peak level,” while equities are
close to a record and gold prices are at an all-time high, the
RBI said.  Real-estate companies’ sales may be curbed since many of
them have begun to focus on the residential market following
excess supply in the commercial property market, Chattopadhyay
said today.  The bank’s views on the real-estate market are “short-
sighted,”  DLF  Executive Director  Rajeev Talwar  said today.  “I do not see any asset bubble in the housing market,” he
said in an interview with the Bloomberg-UTV television channel.
Still, the RBI “should have increased credit supply for the
housing sector so that the rates get moderated.”  The Reserve Bank in October 2009 asked lenders to increase
the funds set aside for commercial real-estate loans to 1
percent from 0.4 percent.  The Bombay Stock Exchange Realty Index fell 2.6 percent
today. The gauge, which tracks 13 property stocks, has declined
4.8 percent in the last 12 months, compared with a 28 percent
advance in the benchmark Sensitive Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Cherian Thomas  in New Delhi at 
 cthomas1@bloomberg.net ;
 Ruth David  in Mumbai at 
 rdavid9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Stephen Foxwell at 
 sfoxwell@bloomberg.net ;
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  