-- Diamond Bank Plans to Sell All Non-Banking Units, Comply With Revised Rule
-- B y   V i n c e n t   N w a n m a
-- 2010-11-02T16:14:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-02/diamond-bank-plans-to-sell-all-non-banking-units-comply-with-revised-rule.html
Diamond Bank Plc , a Nigerian lender,
said it will sell all of its non-banking units to comply with
revised central bank rules that don’t allow the institutions to
offer multiple services.  “We have taken a decision to divest from all the non-
banking subsidiaries in line with the new banking model,” the
Lagos-based company said in an e-mailed statement today.  Diamond has units operating in insurance, mortgages, stock-
broking and share registration, it said.  The Central Bank of Nigeria in September asked the nation’s
lenders to sell their non-banking units or adopt a holding
company model. All financial institutions regarded as universal
banks have to prepare plans to comply with the policy not later
than 90 days from Oct. 4, the central bank said.  The rules form part of reforms to the banking industry,
which amassed bad debts of about $10 billion that threatened to
collapse some of the operators. The central bank fired the chief
executive officers of eight of the country’s 24 lenders last
year and used 620 billion naira ($4.1 billion) to bail out the
industry. Diamond Bank passed a central-bank audit and didn’t
receive part of the bailout package.  Diamond will grow its loan book by a further 10 percent
before the end of the year, extending credit to companies
operating in manufacturing, construction and general commerce,
it said. Non-performing loans dropped by 2 percent to 59.1
billion naira in the three months to September, it said.  Energy, general commerce, and finance and insurance
industries accounted for more than 71 percent of all non-
performing loans “and this is a reflection of the impact of the
economic downturn of 2009,” it said.  Diamond Bank shares  retreated for a third day, dropping 0.7
percent to 7.6 naira by the 1:31 p.m. close in Lagos, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Vincent Nwanma  in Lagos via Accra at 
 vnwanma@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin in Johannesburg at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 