-- Dimon Beset by Bad Loans as JPMorgan Pushes Overseas
-- B y   D a w n   K o p e c k i
-- 2010-11-02T21:12:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-02/dimon-beset-by-75-billion-in-bad-wamu-loans-as-jpmorgan-pushes-overseas.html
  Jamie Dimon  wanted  Washington Mutual
Inc . and he wanted it bad.  The JPMorgan Chase & Co. chief executive officer was
determined to expand on the West Coast, and Seattle-based WaMu,
as it was called, was a prime target. Dimon had a team of
auditors poring over WaMu’s books in March 2008, at the same
moment the Treasury Department was pressing him to acquire
struggling investment bank Bear Stearns Cos.  While he initially couldn’t make a deal for the Seattle
lender, JPMorgan did buy WaMu in September 2008 after it was
seized by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp., which meant the
assets came at a bargain price of $1.9 billion, Bloomberg
Markets magazine reports in its December issue.  The 2,200 WaMu branches in  California ,  Washington  and 12
other states gave JPMorgan’s consumer bank, Chase, a total of
5,410 branches -- the second-biggest network in the nation. And
it moved Chase to first from third in deposits, with $905
billion after the deal closed.  Dimon, 54, got what he wanted -- and a lot that he didn’t
want. JPMorgan is now saddled with $74.8 billion in
nonperforming home loans inherited from WaMu, a third of the
$230.7 billion in mortgages on its books.  The WaMu losses are just one of the afflictions besetting
the man who, in the midst of the recession two years ago, was
dubbed the world’s most powerful financial executive by the  New
York  Times and labeled President Barack Obama’s “favorite
banker.”  King Jamie  New York magazine called him “ Good King Jamie ,” while a
biography of Dimon by author Duff McDonald is entitled Last Man
Standing (Simon & Schuster, 2009).  Back in 2008, Douglas Ciocca, managing director of St.
Louis-based asset manager Renaissance Financial Corp., compared
Dimon with J. Pierpont Morgan himself, who helped rescue the
financial system in the crash of 1907.  “He’s been a voice of reason throughout the industry
pretty much throughout the financial crisis,” Ciocca said.  A lot has gone wrong for Dimon since those halcyon days.
Both the WaMu mortgages and JPMorgan’s own home-equity loans are
spilling red ink. Dimon’s commodities-trading team, led by
Blythe Masters, has suffered a big setback. Dimon complains that
hundreds of millions of dollars in profits will be lost to the
Obama administration’s new financial regulations, which he
fought unsuccessfully to derail.  Basel Costs  Still more potential profits will be lost to the new Basel
rules, which will increase capital requirements for banks
worldwide beginning in 2013. The  Basel Committee on Banking
Supervision  pushed back the date the capital rules would take
effect because of the fragility of most of the big banks in the
U.S. and Europe.  In consumer banking -- JPMorgan’s biggest revenue source --
the bank is pushing against a regulation limiting it to 10
percent of national deposits. With more than $2 trillion in
total assets, JPMorgan is now the second-biggest U.S. financial
institution by assets, after  Bank of America Corp .  It’s the biggest U.S. credit card company, with $137.4
billion in outstanding loans, followed by Bank of America and  Citigroup Inc .  The latest bad news is that the Securities and Exchange
Commission is investigating whether JPMorgan failed to tell
investors that an Evanston, Illinois-based hedge fund called
Magnetar Capital helped select subprime mortgages for a
collateralized debt obligation, or CDO, that the bank created, a
person familiar with the matter said yesterday.  ‘Cooperating Fully’  Magnetar later bet against the security, the person said.
JPMorgan spokeswoman Kristin Lemkau said the company, “like
other firms, has received inquiries from the SEC related to
collateralized debt obligations. We are cooperating fully with
these inquiries.”  The bank’s shares dropped as much as 1.4 percent after the
investigative Web site ProPublica disclosed the probe yesterday,
closing down 21 cents, at $37.42. They fell 46 cents or 1.2
percent more today to a close of $36.96.  Dimon has ambitious plans for overseas expansion, yet is
hemmed in by banks with big international franchises, especially
in the so-called BRICs:  Brazil , Russia,  India  and  China . Just a
quarter of JPMorgan’s total revenue comes from outside the U.S.,
compared with more than half for Citigroup, says Anthony Polini,
an analyst at investment bank Raymond James Financial Inc.
International business, however, accounted for 61.6 percent of
JPMorgan’s net income in 2009.  Overseas Expansion  Dimon is likely to expand overseas through acquisitions,
Polini says -- the New York banker’s approach since he linked up
right out of Harvard Business School in 1982 with Sanford Weill
and helped Weill build the financial conglomerate that became
Citigroup.  Yet Dimon has made only one major acquisition since WaMu.
He’s been too busy putting out fires. In addition to the WaMu
losses, Dimon has to deal with $113 billion in risky subprime,
home-equity and adjustable-rate loans that JPMorgan originated.  In October, the bank halted foreclosures on thousands of
homes when lawyers for homeowners said that JPMorgan, Bank of
America, Ally Financial Inc. and other big banks had been
“robo-signing” foreclosure documents without verifying their
accuracy. JPMorgan temporarily stopped foreclosures in the 23
states where they are processed through the courts, later
expanding the number to 41.  Bank of America, the nation’s biggest mortgage holder,
stopped selling off homes in all 50 states before reversing
course.  Regulation Blues  Meanwhile, Dimon’s standing in Washington has declined
since he lobbied against parts of Obama’s financial regulation
law, which imposes new capital requirements on banks, forbids
proprietary trading and imposes new regulations on the trading
of derivatives, of which JPMorgan is the U.S.’s biggest dealer.  Dimon wasn’t included in the photo op when the bill was
signed, and he was absent from a May White House state dinner
attended by  American Express Co . CEO Kenneth I. Chenault,  Morgan
Stanley ’s James Gorman and Bank of America’s Brian T. Moynihan,
among other Wall Street leaders.  When a shareholder asked Dimon during JPMorgan’s annual
meeting in May whether he was still Obama’s favorite banker, he
replied, “I heard he has a new one.”  Dimon, a Queens, New York, native, is well-known for his
refusal to mince words. When he dresses down subordinates,
politicians or the media, he uses profanity liberally, according
to people who have heard him. In June, students at  Syracuse
University  protested when he was invited to give the school’s
commencement address.  Lap Dogs and Sycophants  He went ahead with the speech and congratulated them for
speaking their minds.  “Throughout my life and throughout this crisis, I’ve seen
many people embarrass themselves by failing to stand up, being
mealy-mouthed and acting like lemmings by simply going along
with the pack,” he told the graduates. “Along the way, you’re
going to face a lot of pressure -- pressure to go along, to get
along, to toe the line. Have the fortitude to do the right
thing, not the easy thing. Don’t be somebody’s lap dog or
sycophant.”  JPMorgan declined to make Dimon available for this story.  Dimon anticipated that his crown was likely to be knocked
askew. In 2009, he told attendees at a meeting, “I know exactly
what the headline will say when I make a mistake: ‘Dimon Loses
Luster,’” according to two people who heard the comments.  Best Big Bank  Yet Dimon’s bank is still the brightest star in a dim
firmament. While JPMorgan’s stock lost 14.4 percent in the three
years through today, investors did far worse buying the shares
of its competitors. Citigroup shares were down 89 percent in the
same three years, while Bank of America’s return was minus 74.7
percent and Wells Fargo & Co.’s stock fell 19.6 percent.  “Revenue headwinds such as slow loan growth, slim profit
margins and higher regulatory costs should continue to hammer
bank revenue not only next year but for the decade,” says Mike Mayo, an analyst at Credit Agricole Securities USA Inc. in New
York. “We think 2011 will be indicative of a year in a decade
for banks that has the worst revenue growth since the
Depression.”  The debacle in the housing market is still the biggest
headache for U.S. banks. Payments on some 8 million U.S.
mortgages were delinquent in late September, and almost 7
million of those may end up in foreclosure, says  Laurie Goodman ,
a senior managing director at Austin, Texas-based Amherst
Securities Group LP.  11.5 Million Seizures  Those projections exclude the 200,000 additional borrowers
that become delinquent each month for the first time, she says.  In total, Goodman estimates that 11.5 million homes could
be repossessed by banks during the next five years.  Profits are also being squeezed by the Federal Reserve’s
policy of keeping  interest rates  persistently low, which had
helped boost bank earnings during the worst of the credit
crisis, says Matthew O’Connor, an analyst at Deutsche Bank AG in
New York. The Fed’s near-zero target rate for interbank
overnight lending is compressing banks’ net interest margins,
the difference between what they pay to borrow money and what
they get for loans and securities.  “It’s a massive issue,” O’Connor says. “As you look out
over the next few quarters, it’s a potentially very dire
situation for the overall industry.”  JPMorgan’s results for the third quarter confirmed
O’Connor’s pessimism. Margins fell by 31 basis points to 3.01
percent at JPMorgan from March 31 to Sept. 30. (A basis point is
0.01 percentage point.) Combined with lower lending volumes, the
reduced margins translated to a decrease in net interest income
of $1.2 billion.  Revenue Drops  While third-quarter profit rose 23 percent from 2009 to
$4.42 billion, the company generated 11 percent less revenue, at
$23.8 billion. The profit included $1.5 billion the bank took
out of its reserves against bad credit card loans.  “Investors are still trying to figure out where revenue is
going to come from when they stop being able to release
reserves,” says Jason Tyler, a senior vice president at Ariel
Investments LLC in  Chicago . “That’s not clear yet.”  There may be more bad news hidden in JPMorgan’s books. The
bank set aside $30 billion against bad WaMu loans when it
acquired the thrift in 2008. Dimon predicted that number could
rise by $24 billion if unemployment hit 8 percent.  Unemployment was 9.6 percent in October, yet JPMorgan had
only upped its reserves by an additional $3 billion.  “WaMu was a top-to-bottom subprime lender,” says  Paul Miller , a bank analyst at FBR Capital Markets Corp. in
Arlington, Virginia. And its branch network outside California
is not worth much, he says. “They were very expensive branches,
not well placed.”  ‘Performing Better’  The company told analysts last month that the WaMu mortgage
portfolio could cost $3 billion more if losses continued at
current rates. “The portfolio is performing better than
expected in this type of environment,” says  Joe Evangelisti , a
JPMorgan spokesman.  Dimon says he doesn’t expect profits to be dented much by
the foreclosure scandal.  “It will cost us some money to go back and make sure it’s
done right,” he told analysts on the Oct. 13 earnings
conference call. “It will delay some foreclosures. But the
whole mortgage issue costs us so much money now, to me it will
be incremental.”  He said that no one had been evicted who shouldn’t have
been. JPMorgan is the third-largest mortgage servicer in the
U.S., with 13 percent of the market as of June 30, according to
industry newsletter  Inside Mortgage Finance .  50-State Probe  On the same day Dimon made his statement, attorneys general
in all 50 states announced a joint investigation into whether
banks and loan servicers used false documents and signatures to
foreclose on hundreds of thousands of homeowners.  In September, lawyers for defaulting borrowers disclosed
that a mortgage executive at Chase Home Finance in Florida said
in a May 17 deposition that she was among eight managers who
together signed about 18,000 affidavits a month attesting to
facts in foreclosure cases without personally checking loan
records.  JPMorgan said on Oct. 13 that it was reviewing the
documents for 115,000 loans. Nancy Bush, an analyst at
Annandale, New Jersey-based NAB Research LLC, says JPMorgan
can’t rid itself of the foreclosure mess so easily.  “Dimon was putting a happy face on this issue,” she says.
“He’ll review 115,000 foreclosures now in process. But what
about the rest that have already occurred?”  ‘Long-Term Problem’  Brian Battle, vice president of trading at Performance
Trust Capital Partners LLC in Chicago, says the bank’s
foreclosure flaws are just becoming apparent.  “That can be a big long-term problem, very expensive,” he
says. “The whole can of worms is wide open.”  Even as Dimon swims through a sea of trouble, he can brag
that JPMorgan remains the strongest big bank in the nation. It’s
the only major bank to have turned a profit in every quarter
since the crisis erupted in late 2007. Per-share earnings have
grown 14-fold since hitting a six-year low of 7 cents in the
fourth quarter of 2008. They were $1.01 in the third quarter.  The bank has generated $29.9 billion in net income since
taking over Bears Stearns in March 2008 -- an acquisition that
has been a huge boon to JPMorgan’s investment banking franchise.  When JPMorgan acquired Bear Stearns and WaMu, Dimon “had
the strongest balance sheet in the industry,” says Robert Willumstad, a former Citigroup chief operating officer who has
known Dimon since they both worked at Baltimore-based Commercial
Credit Co. in the 1980s. “That’s the exact position you want to
be in: You want to be the strongest player in the marketplace
when the government turns to you and says: ‘We’ve got a problem.
Can you take it off our hands?’”  Efficient Integrator  Dimon’s surpassing skill is his ability to hold down costs,
efficiently integrate new acquisitions and minimize risk,
Willumstad says. During his four years as CEO of Chicago-based
Bank One Corp., from 2000 to 2004, Dimon engineered a dramatic
turnaround that took the bank from a $511 million loss in 2000
to a $3.5 billion profit in 2003.  When Bank One merged with JPMorgan in 2004 in a $58 billion
deal, CEO William Harrison named Dimon president and chief
operating officer. Dimon overhauled management, shuttered
lagging businesses and instituted monthly management reviews in
local branches.  Dimon was named JPMorgan CEO on Dec. 31, 2005. He largely
avoided investing in the subprime housing loans that crippled
Bear Stearns and Merrill Lynch & Co. -- at least until he bought
WaMu. Since 2006, JPMorgan has generated $59.7 billion in profit
at a compounded annual growth rate of 22 percent.  Fees Double  Investment-banking fees, including those from trading and
extending credit lines to clients, were $20 billion during the
first nine months of 2010, up from $9.4 billion for the same
period in 2004.  Dimon honed his cost-cutting skills while managing the
serial acquisitions that he and Weill used to build Citigroup.
The two men worked together for 16 years, starting at American
Express. The list of institutions Weill and Dimon then took
control of reads like a history of modern finance: Travelers
Group Inc., Shearson, Smith Barney, Salomon Brothers, Citicorp
and Primerica, to name the largest.  By the time Dimon was fired from Citigroup in November 1998
by Weill and his co-CEO John Reed, Dimon and Weill had created a
banking, trading and insurance behemoth of unprecedented size
and scope.  No Fools Invited  In his various jobs under Weill, “Dimon didn’t suffer
fools,” says former Nasdaq Stock Market Inc. CEO Frank Zarb,
now chairman of consulting firm Promontory Financial Group LLC
in Washington. Zarb, 75, met Dimon in 1987 at Commercial Credit,
and they have remained close ever since. “He was young but
struck me as really smart and he called them like he saw them,”
Zarb says. Some called the young banker brash, Zarb adds. “I
call it intellectually honest,” he says.  At JPMorgan, Dimon hasn’t deviated from the management
practices that have brought him this far. JPMorgan’s acquisition
of Bear Stearns, the fifth-largest U.S. securities firm at the
time, has gone far smoother than that of WaMu.  The bank ended up paying roughly $1.5 billion in stock to
close the deal. The Federal Reserve Bank of New York agreed to
take $30 billion of the struggling investment bank’s mortgage-
backed securities, collateralized debt obligations and other
illiquid assets. JPMorgan assumed the first $1 billion in
losses.  JPMorgan got billions of dollars in new investment-banking
revenue and a prime-brokerage business serving hedge-fund
clients out of the deal. The acquisition boosted 2008 second-
quarter profits by $500 million.  Faltering Economy  JPMorgan’s investment bank carried the bank’s earnings
through 2008 and 2009. Fees and trading revenue began to falter
in 2010 due to the persistently weak economy and high
unemployment.  Dimon’s commodities division, run by Masters, was rocked in
the second quarter by an undisclosed loss in its coal
investments, when trader Chan Bhima took a position in the fuel
just before prices plunged. Masters sought to reassure her team
in an internal conference call on July 22, after what she called
“extremely difficult” dismissals, defections and a 2010 first
half in which some results were as much as 20 percent below
expectations.  “Don’t panic,” Masters said in the 35-minute call, a
recording of which was obtained by Bloomberg News. “No one’s
going to get screwed. We’re not going to do crazy things on
compensation at the end of the year.”  Commodities Firings  The company let go about 10 percent of the commodities
front-office staff in the third quarter. JPMorgan also shuttered
its commodities proprietary trading desk, affecting roughly 20
traders, most of them in  London . They had to reapply for jobs
elsewhere in the company.  The company said it cut the desk to comply with the Dodd-
Frank law, which limits banks’ ability to trade for their own
account. Other proprietary traders are being moved to JPMorgan’s
asset management division, where they will trade for clients.  Dimon doesn’t want to hear excuses for his executives’
failures. He has a sign in his office in big bold type that
reads “No Whiners.”  “It’s a looking-forward mentality: Don’t whine about it;
just get it done,” says Ron Seiffert, whom Dimon hired from
Huntington Bancshares Inc. to run Bank One’s small-business
lending in 2002.  Seiffert is now vice president of  Ohio Dominican
University .  Doubling Down  Seiffert says Dimon displayed his philosophy when United
Airlines filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection in 2002,
after being weakened by the 9/11 terrorist attacks. Bank One was
one of the airline’s biggest creditors. Instead of scaling back
his exposure, Dimon decided to extend even more credit to the
airline.  It was a risky bet that eventually paid off, Seiffert says.
“He said: ‘We made this decision. If we made the wrong
decision, I’ll go home, I’ll have a couple of martinis, I’ll
wake up the next day and we’ll come back,’” Seiffert says.  Dimon doesn’t always play the role of F-word-slinging tough
guy. Executives, including junior managers, whose work catches
his attention might get invited to sip wine in his office after
markets close on Friday afternoon, current and former employees
say. It’s a tradition begun under Weill, when Dimon was his
chief of staff at American Express.  Executive Shakeups  Dimon has been both the victim and author of executive
suite shakeups. After Harrison left the bank in 2006, Dimon
replaced many of his top staff with former colleagues from Bank
One and Citigroup. The most recent executive shuffle took place
in September 2009, when Bill Winters, now 48, a co-CEO of
JPMorgan’s investment bank, was fired and Dimon named James
“Jes” Staley CEO of the unit.  Steven Black, the other investment bank co-CEO, was moved
up to vice chairman; he has no operational departments reporting
to him, people familiar with the matter say. Black and Winters
declined to comment for this story.  Staley, 53, joined JPMorgan in 1979. He started out in
investment banking on the Brazil desk, later running JPMorgan’s
equity and capital markets group as well as its asset management
division.  Dimon’s brain trust -- the people he gathers around him in
times of crisis -- are a mix of new and old bankers, people
familiar with his decision making say. Dimon said in March that
he planned to rotate senior executives with an eye toward
picking a successor. He’s been grooming a handful of long-time
loyalists for the spot for years.  Brain Trust  Among them, besides Staley, are Heidi Miller, who was
promoted in June to head of international operations after
having started as Dimon’s assistant at Travelers Group in 1992;
Charlie Scharf, head of retail services, who first worked with
Dimon at Commercial Credit; Mike Cavanagh, head of treasury and
security services, who was hired by Dimon at Salomon Smith
Barney in 1993 and then again at Bank One in 2000; and Jay Mandelbaum, whom Dimon hired away from consulting firm McKinsey
& Co. in the mid-1990s and who now runs JPMorgan’s strategy and
business development division.  Dimon has also grown close to Stephen Cutler, the
enforcement chief of the Securities and Exchange Commission
under President George W. Bush who joined JPMorgan as general
counsel in 2007.  One of the inner circle’s challenges is to deal with the
raft of financial regulations passed by the Obama administration
in July. Dimon told investors on Sept. 14 that the bank will
lose about $750 million in profits just as a result of new
restrictions on the fees and interest it can charge on credit
cards.  Derivatives Hit  “No bank has more to lose with the new financial service
rules than JPMorgan,” says Joshua Rosner, a bank analyst at
independent research firm Graham Fisher & Co. in New York.  JPMorgan is especially vulnerable because it’s the U.S.’s
biggest creator and trader of derivatives, securities whose
value is derived from the price of stocks, bonds or commodities,
Rosner says. The notional value of the bank’s outstanding
derivatives contracts -- that is, the value of the securities
underlying them -- was  $75.6 trillion as of June 30 , according
to the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency.  A JPMorgan team led by Masters was among the first sellers
of the most controversial form of derivative, the credit-default
swap, which provides insurance against a security’s default.  $1 Billion Lost  The Dodd-Frank Act requires banks to move derivatives
trading to separately capitalized subsidiaries, which Dimon is
in the process of doing at what he says is a cost of $1 billion
in lost revenue. Standard derivatives must be traded on
exchanges, rather than over the counter.  “It’s an operational nightmare,” Dimon said on a July
conference call with analysts, of the bill’s restrictions on
derivatives trading. “In my opinion, it’s highly ill-conceived,
doesn’t reduce risk at all.”  Dimon says he is looking for ways to pass on all of the
extra regulatory costs to consumers and corporate clients. Fewer
borrowers will get loans and credit cards, he says. He estimates
that the passing on of costs will reduce the bank’s retail
customer base by about 5 percent.  “We are going to earn it all back, whatever the number
is,” Dimon told investors at a Sept. 14 conference hosted by
Barclays Capital in New York.  The bank hopes to replace some of its lost profits by
expanding overseas, particularly in the booming BRIC countries.  Throwing BRICs  “These emerging markets, primarily in Latin America and  Asia , offer much better economic prospects than the U.S. or
Western  Europe ,” Raymond James’s Polini says. “JPMorgan is
ramping up to go head-to-head with Citigroup.”  Miller says JPMorgan needs to expand internationally
because that’s where its corporate customers are.  “Multinationals operate in sometimes more countries than
we do,” Miller said at the time she took her new job. “We
increasingly see our clients look to us to provide services and
solutions throughout the world. We want to make sure we can do
it for them seamlessly.”  Investment bank head Staley laid out ambitious plans in
February to double the bank’s market share in Asia in the next
few years. U.S. banks, however, could have a difficult time
widening their footprint there, Peter Sands, CEO of London-based
Standard Chartered Plc, told Bloomberg News in October.  Global Blockade  Standard Chartered gets 90 percent of its revenue from
Asia, Africa and the Middle East, and he says both international
banks like his and local competitors could block new foreign
intrusions.  “The best of the competition probably comes from the best
of the local banks in most of our markets rather than from the
international class,” he says.  One sector where JPMorgan already has global stature is
commodities. Under Masters, JPMorgan has acquired a half dozen
international concerns, including UBS AG’s global agriculture
and Canadian commodities divisions in 2009. Buying Bear Stearns
gave the bank a business trading natural gas, coal and weather
contracts.  Last year, the company completed a $1.7 billion deal to buy
parts of commodities trader RBS Sempra, a joint venture between
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc and Sempra Energy. And in March
2008, the bank made itself a big player in European carbon
trading when it bought Oxford, England-based ClimateCare, which
sponsors projects that help reduce carbon emissions.  Commodities Leader  “What we have pulled off over the last three years is
unbelievable,” Masters said during the July internal call. “We
now, post-merger and post-all the other work we’ve done over the
last few years, have a phenomenal physical capability that’s
global, that involves storage, transportation across the
world.”  Dimon, like his counterparts at other banks, is waiting
impatiently for the housing crisis to ease so the bank can rid
itself of its huge portfolio of bad loans. In addition to the
WaMu writedowns, the bank faces an avalanche of litigation over
allegedly predatory and fraudulent WaMu mortgages and has set
aside a total of $3.5 billion in reserves to cover the cost of
mounting lawsuits.  Dimon blames the continuing home-loan losses on house
prices that keep falling, unemployment that remains high and an
economy that’s recovering at a snail’s pace. He predicted in
April 2008 that home prices would fall by a maximum of 9 percent
over the rest of that year; they fell by 16.5 percent.  Hiking Reserves  Meanwhile, the company set aside $34.5 billion in reserves
against potential losses on its mortgage, credit card and auto
loans in 2009, up from $20.4 billion the year before.  “It is just going to take a little bit of time before the
mortgage losses are run off and things normalize,” Dimon told
investors in September. That means Dimon has more time to mull
the question of whether buying Washington Mutual was that rarest
of events in his professional life: a bad deal.  To contact the reporter on this story: Dawn Kopecki in New York
at   Dkopecki@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story: Michael
Serrill at   mserrill@bloomberg.net . 