-- Disused Berlin Power Plant Hosts Model Cities, Techno Fans
-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   H i c k l e y
-- 2010-11-02T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-02/disused-berlin-power-plant-plays-host-to-model-cities-techno-fans-monks.html
On weekend mornings, techno dance
fans emerge from the basement of a vast, disused power plant in
central Berlin, blinking in the daylight like moles.  This is the home of the underground club  Tresor , a magnet
for partygoers from across Europe. The DJs start mixing at
midnight and the last stragglers leave around midday --
presumably to head straight to bed.  Until Nov. 28, they may cross paths with town planners and
architects on their way into the old turbine hall above. Dimitri
Hegemann, the founder and owner of Tresor, has adapted the
cathedral-sized space into a venue for events and exhibitions.
The first sprawling show,  Realstadt  (Real City), deals with
urban development in Germany.  About 250 model cities or parts of cities, both real and
imagined, are on display -- too much to take in on one visit.
One model shows communist East Germany’s vision for East Berlin,
a city of modern high-rises that ends abruptly where the wall
ran. Beyond are just empty gray spaces.  Leipzig’s planned Olympic village, a Hanover trash dump
that doubles as a leisure park, Frankfurt’s banking district,
Hamburg’s “Hafencity” port development and carefully restored
medieval market places in eastern Germany are also on show.  An alarming model by Jakob Michael Birn, called “A
Question of Lust,” shows a sinister, imaginary Berlin in 2057,
with the yet-to-be-rebuilt royal palace on Unter den Linden
adapted for the army. Sharpshooters keep watch from the roof of
the cathedral.  Berlin Wall Concrete  The  power plant  was built by the East German regime in the
same year -- 1961 -- and from the same concrete as the Berlin
Wall and decommissioned a few years after the wall fell. A huge
crane runs across the ceiling. The hall has an unfinished,
industrial look. Hegemann has made it safe and accessible with
metal staircases and railings, yet hasn’t undertaken a radical
refit. The vastness of the space, with its aisles, steps and
deep drops to lower floors, steals your breath.  “I prefer ruins to glamour,” Hegemann said during a tour
of the plant before the exhibition opened. “And that’s what
Berlin is about. This kind of off-the-wall culture is a
marketing factor for the city.”  He has plans for the turbine hall that are almost as
ambitious as some of the city visions it houses. In his view,
Berlin lacks a central public venue for contemporary arts and he
draws comparisons between the power plant and  Tate Modern’s 
Turbine Hall in London.  Hegemann is talking about a show with James Turrell -- the
American light installation artist currently exhibiting at the
 Gagosian Gallery , London -- and has invited Sasha Waltz’s  dance
company  to perform.  Piecemeal Finance  “Realstadt” is an initiative of the German Transport and
Construction Ministry. Still, Hegemann has secured no state
support for the construction work and said he financed it
piecemeal himself for about 2.5 million euros ($3.5 million).  “This is the space everyone has been waiting for,” he
said, adding that he will be choosy about what it is used for.
“I would rather have nothing in here than the wrong thing.”  In the hectic weeks of readying the power plant for the
first exhibition, Hegemann invited some Tibetan monks to
exorcise bad spirits and bless the building with chants and
incense-burning.  “Everything went much more smoothly after that,” he said.  “Realstadt. Wuensche als Wirklichkeit” runs through Nov.
28 in Kraftwerk Mitte, Berlin. For more information, go to
 http://www.realstadt.de/   ( Catherine Hickley  writes for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Catherine Hickley in Berlin at 
 chickley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 