-- Dot-Com Bears Lead Emerging-Market Bulls Buying Latest Bubble
-- B y   M i c h a e l   P a t t e r s o n
-- 2010-11-02T16:39:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-02/dot-com-bears-biggs-grantham-lead-emerging-market-bulls-buying-bubble-.html
Barton Biggs  warned of a U.S. stock-
market bubble as early as January 1997 and stayed bearish for
most of the following three years as the  Standard & Poor’s 500
Index  surged more than 90 percent to a record.  A decade later, Biggs says another bubble is beginning in
emerging-market  shares . This time, he’s bullish.  “We’re only halfway along the way to a gigantic eventual
bubble in the emerging markets,” Biggs, the managing partner of
New York-based hedge-fund firm Traxis Partners LLC and former
chairman of Morgan Stanley Asset Management, said in an Oct. 29
interview on Bloomberg Television. “The emerging markets,
particularly Asia, are a place where I want to have a really
major representation.”  Biggs’s view is shared by  Jeremy Grantham , whose investment
firm had its assets under management shrink 45 percent in the
late 1990s as his pessimistic outlook for high-priced  technology 
stocks spurred clients to buy better-performing mutual funds.
The chief strategist at Grantham Mayo Van Otterloo & Co. wrote
on Oct. 26 that his forecast for an “emerging emerging bubble”
was in “splendid shape” after the  MSCI Emerging Markets Index 
soared 146 percent in the past two years.  While the 49 percent plunge in the S&P 500 from March 2000
to October 2002 proved Biggs, 77, and Grantham, 72, were right
to warn of overvalued U.S. shares, their strategy now in
emerging markets shows investors are increasingly seeking to
profit from bubbles as the U.S. Federal Reserve increases its
unprecedented monetary stimulus.  Surging Growth  Investment strategists at Bank of America Corp., Credit
Suisse Group AG and Societe Generale SA have all said in the
past two weeks that emerging-market stocks may climb above
levels justified by companies’  assets  and earnings because of
surging economic growth and the Fed’s efforts to reduce yields
on debt securities.  Emerging-market asset prices “may be running ahead of
economic fundamentals” as “herding behavior” prolongs the
rally, Nouriel Roubini, the New York University professor who
predicted the global financial crisis, said at a conference in
Cape Town today.  The MSCI emerging-market index rose 1.4 percent yesterday
after a report showed China’s  manufacturing  strengthened and
data on American spending and incomes underscored pressure on
the Fed to announce more asset purchases this week. The index
climbed 0.4 percent to 1,124.74 at 12:27 p.m. in New York.  ‘Everyone’ Overweight  Investors poured more than $60 billion into emerging-market
stock mutual funds in 2010 amid developing-nation growth that
the International Monetary Fund says will reach 7.1 percent this
year, more than double the 2.7 percent pace in advanced
countries, data from Cambridge, Massachusetts-based EPFR Global
show. Professional investors are more bullish on emerging
markets than any region, according to a Bank of America survey
last month of money managers overseeing $492 billion.  “Everyone and his dog are now overweight emerging
equities, and most stated intentions are to go higher and
higher,” Grantham, who helps oversee about $104 billion, wrote
in his quarterly letter to clients posted on the firm’s website.
Developing nations’ faster expansion “will give a powerful
impression of greater value,” he said.  The MSCI emerging-market index’s 13 percent advance this
year has lifted its price to 2.1 times net assets, a record
relative to the  MSCI World Index  of developed-market shares,
which trades at a ratio of 1.8, according to weekly data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Analysts’ Estimates  Valuations are the “most stretched” in emerging markets,
making them vulnerable to a selloff should global growth
disappoint investors,  Bob Janjuah , the co-head of cross-asset
allocation strategy at Nomura International Plc, said in a
Bloomberg Television interview on Oct. 27.  The MSCI emerging-market gauge still trades at a cheaper
level than its October 2007 high of 2.9 times net assets, or
book value, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The S&P 500’s price-to-book ratio climbed as high as 5.3 in
March 2000 as technology companies including  Cisco Systems Inc. 
and  Microsoft Corp.  surged on speculation that widespread use of
the Internet would cause earnings to soar. Stocks plunged in the
next two years and Internet companies including Pets.com Inc.
failed.  This year’s best-performing equity benchmark index among
major developing nations, Indonesia’s  Jakarta Composite Index ,
has climbed 44 percent and trades for 3.4 times book value, 48
percent more than the average ratio since Bloomberg began
compiling the data in September 2001.  Emerging Premium  The emerging-market index trades at 13.1 times analysts’
estimates for 2010 earnings, a discount to the S&P 500’s ratio
of 14, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Grantham said in his Oct. 26 letter that developing-nation
shares will command premium price-earnings ratios in the next
few years because of faster economic growth and lower debt
levels. He recommended a “moderately overweight” position in
emerging-market equities.  Stocks, bonds and currencies in developing nations are
likely to climb to bubble levels as the Fed announces another
round of bond purchases this week,  Michael Hartnett , Bank of
America’s chief global equity strategist, wrote in an Oct. 21
report. Hartnett’s scenario, which he called the “most likely”
of three outcomes, assumes the Fed will seek to buy $500 billion
to $750 billion of debt securities and indicate it’s open to
more purchases if needed.  Bullish Options  Credit Suisse’s  Andrew Garthwaite  says the combination of
high savings rates, negative real interest rates and rising
asset prices has made emerging-market countries including China
and India vulnerable to speculative inflows.  “If ever the stage were set for an emerging-market bubble,
we think it is now,” Garthwaite, Credit Suisse’s London-based
global equity strategist, wrote in an Oct. 27 research report.  Stocks in the biggest developing nations may double as the
Fed’s stimulus sends valuations back to their 2008 peak,  Dylan Grice , a global strategist at Societe Generale, wrote in a
research report e-mailed Oct. 22. Buying call options on
emerging-market equities may be a cheap way to profit from a
“nascent” bubble, Grice wrote.  Investors use options to guard against fluctuations in the
price of securities they own, speculate on share-price moves or
bet that volatility, or stock swings, will rise or fall. Calls
give the right to buy a security through a specific date for an
agreed price.  “The headache posed by bubbles depends on the asset
managers’ perspective,” wrote Grice, who is based in London and
was ranked the No. 2 strategist behind SocGen’s  Albert Edwards 
in  Thomson Extel ’s Pan-Europe 2010 survey. “For skeptics the
pain is on the way up, for true believers it’s on the way
down.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Patterson  in London at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net . 