-- DragonBack in Talks to Provide Hedge-Fund Support After Closing Two Funds
-- B y   B e i   H u
-- 2010-11-02T01:13:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-02/dragonback-in-talks-to-provide-hedge-fund-support-after-closing-two-funds.html
DragonBack Capital Ltd., a Hong Kong-
based hedge-fund firm which managed as much as $600 million at 
its peak, has held talks with more than 30 managers to provide
support services as it seeks other business after closing its
hedge funds, said Chief Executive Officer  Rob Lance .  The Hong Kong-based company is targeting hedge-fund
startups, such as those set up by former bank proprietary
traders, and existing funds trying to increase or regain assets
without having to expand support staff, said Lance. It aims to
sign up as many as five hedge funds in the next six to nine
months, said  Philip Tye , DragonBack’s chief operating officer.  “The idea is that we make all the bad go away for hedge-
fund managers so they can just focus on their investment
decisions,” said Tye. “Independent risk control is key to what
investors want.”  Hedge funds in Asia are struggling to expand assets as
institutional investors have become more cautious and demanding
in terms of the organizational and risk management setups of the
managers they allocate money to. Some of the funds which have
lost assets have had to shed support staff to cut costs or to
focus on investments, said Tye.  DragonBack closed its two funds and returned less than $100
million to investors by August. Its eight-member investment team,
led by Chief Investment Officer  Matt Barnett , left. The 10 staff
members retained by DragonBack include the head of operations,
financial controller, investment services representatives and
the head of information technology.  Investor Withdrawals  DragonBack managed almost $600 million at its peak in 2008,
having boosted assets from $6.7 million when it started its
maiden  Asia-Pacific Equity Multistrategy Fund  in March 2007.  Its funds, which allowed investor withdrawals on a monthly
basis throughout the financial crisis, had been hit by
redemptions since the first quarter of 2009 as investors
withdrew money from more liquid funds to meet their cash needs
when other funds restricted redemptions, Lance said.  “It had become increasingly difficult to build out the
portfolios with the size of the redemptions that were coming
in,” said Lance.  The firm will now seek to provide services from fund
accounting to risk control and marketing.  Hedge funds overseeing $50 million or less made up 66
percent of the Asian industry by July, from 57 percent two years
ago, according to a September report by  Eurekahedge Pte . Nearly
all of the $23 billion inflows in the global industry in the
first half went to companies already managing more than $5
billion, Chicago-based Hedge Fund Research Inc. said.  Growing Hurdles  “The hurdles are becoming higher to getting to a point
where you have critical mass as a hedge fund to attract global
institutional investors,” said Lance.  DragonBack will take as much as 50 percent of the
managers’ management fees and as much as 25 percent of their
performance fees in return for their services, said Lance. The
fees are negotiable, with a sliding scale based on their
perceived potential to increase assets, he added.  DragonBack Equity Multistrategy Fund  gained 3.75 percent in
2008, when the HFR Fund-Weighted Composite Index dropped 19
percent in the industry’s worst annual return on record. The
fund that once managed as much as $587 million, lost 5.8 percent
last year.  DragonBack VolAsia Feeder Fund  posted profits in 2008 and
2009 and was flat this year before closing. The two funds were
closed down in July and August.  Lance, who set up DragonBack with Tye and Barnett, was a
former co-head of the equity division in Asia-Pacific at Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc. Tye worked as chief financial officer for
PMA Investment Advisors Ltd., a Hong Kong-based hedge-fund
manager, and a director of prime brokerage at Credit Suisse
Group AG before that.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bei Hu  in Hong Kong at 
 bhu5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  