-- DSC, Builder of India's Largest Toll Plaza, Said to Plan $675 Million IPO
-- B y   R u t h   D a v i d
-- 2010-11-02T11:53:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-02/dsc-builder-of-india-s-largest-toll-plaza-said-to-plan-675-million-ipo.html
DSC Ltd., builder of India’s largest
toll plaza, plans to raise as much as 30 billion rupees ($675
million) in an initial public offering, according to three
people with direct knowledge of the matter.  Credit Suisse Group AG  and  IDFC Capital Ltd.  were hired by
the Gurgaon, Haryana-based company, the people said, declining
to be named because the arrangements are confidential. DSC is
likely to file preliminary share-sale documents to the capital
markets regulator by the end of January, they said.  “Like most infrastructure companies, DSC Ltd. from time to
time evaluates various options to raise funds to fuel its
growth,” Manhad Narula, a director at DSC, said in an e-mailed
response to questions. “An IPO is one such option.”  DSC has started the process for an IPO in a year in which
Indian companies have raised a record 349 billion rupees in
first-time share sales, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The builder may lure investors as India, ranked below the war-
torn Sri Lanka for infrastructure, needs to spend $1 trillion
building roads, ports and utilities from 2012 to 2017.  DSC, controlled by New Delhi’s Narula family, built the
toll plaza that connects the nation’s capital to its satellite
town of Gurgaon and has 32 lanes for vehicles. The company has
developed roads, water treatment plants, railways and urban
infrastructure since it was set up in 1978, according to its
website.  Adam Harper , a spokesman for Credit Suisse in Hong Kong,
and Mona Mohan, IDFC Capital’s spokeswoman in Mumbai, declined
to comment.  IDFC Capital is ranked No. 9 in arranging IPOs in India
this year, and Credit Suisse is No. 14, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Kotak Mahindra Capital Co. is ranked
first in managing the sales, followed by Enam Securities Pvt.
and  Morgan Stanley , the data show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ruth David  in Mumbai at 
 rdavid9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  