-- Dubai Shares Decline Most in World on Fed Meeting, Asian Rate Increases
-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r
-- 2010-11-02T12:06:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-02/dubai-shares-decline-most-in-4-months-on-fed-meeting-asian-rate-increases.html
Dubai shares retreated the most in
more than five months, leading a drop in global equity markets,
on concern recent gains are overdone and before policy meetings
by the U.S. Federal Reserve and  Bank of Japan .
       Emaar Properties PJSC,  builder of the world’s tallest
skyscraper, retreated 3.1 percent.  Emirates NBD PJSC  slid the
most in more than a month. The  DFM General Index  slipped 2.2
percent, the worst performance among 88 equity markets tracked
by Bloomberg, to 1,742.14 at the 2 p.m. close in the emirate.
The measure gained 16 percent in the past two months. The  DFM
Real Estate Index  slid 3.1 percent and  Abu Dhabi’s  property
index lost 4.8 percent after the chief executive officer of
 Aldar Properties PJSC  resigned. The  ADX General Index  decreased
1.4 percent.  ”Investors are profit-taking today on signs that the
recent rally has been exhausted,” said  Mohammed Ali Yasin ,
chief investment officer at financial services company  CAPM
Investment PJSC . Also, there is concern that the Fed may buy
less than $500 billion of securities, he said.  The 32 companies listed on Dubai’s benchmark index are
trading at  14.6 times earnings , according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. That compares with  12.1 times  earnings for Abu
Dhabi’s gauge and 16 times for the  MSCI Asia Pacific Index.   The Federal Open Market Committee is meeting in Washington
starting today. Policy makers will restart a program of
securities purchases to spur growth, reduce unemployment and
increase inflation, said 53 of 56 economists surveyed last week.
Twenty-nine economists estimated the Fed will pledge to buy $500
billion or more, while another seven predicted $50 billion to
$100 billion in monthly purchases without a specified total.  Interest Rates  Five stocks declined for every four that advanced in the
 MSCI Asia Pacific Index,  which earlier fell as much as 0.2
percent, after the Reserve Bank of Australia unexpectedly
increased the benchmark interest rate and India’s central bank
raised rates for a sixth time this year. The Bank of Japan last
week advanced its policy meeting to Nov. 4-5, following the
Fed’s meeting.  Emaar decreased the most since July 25 to 3.75 dirhams and
Emirates NBD, the United Arab Emirates’ biggest bank by assets,
slipped 3 percent, the most since Sept. 27, to 3.20 dirhams.  In Abu Dhabi, Aldar tumbled 6.2 percent, the most since May
25, to 2.43 dirhams. Chief Executive Officer  John Bullough  left
the company and his replacement will be named after a board
meeting Nov. 8.  Saudi Arabia’s  gauge  dropped 0.2 percent at 1:35 p.m. in
Riyadh and Oman’s benchmark stock  index  lost 1 percent. The
Bahrain  All Share Index  and Qatar’s  QE Index  retreated 0.1
percent, while Kuwait’s  gauge  advanced 0.7 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Zahra Hankir  in Dubai at   zhankir@bloomberg.net  or  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net . 