-- Rand Paul, Tea Party Favourite, Wins Kentucky Senate Seat
-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   D o d g e
-- 2010-11-02T23:12:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-02/tea-party-backed-rand-paul-wins-kentucky-u-s-senate-seat-for-republicans.html
Republican  Rand Paul  won election to
the U.S. Senate from Kentucky, defeating Democrat  Jack Conway ,
according to the Associated Press.  Paul, 47, an ophthalmologist who hasn’t held public
office, is a favorite of the Tea Party movement. He won an
upset victory in the May Republican primary, beating a
competitor backed by the state’s party establishment, including
Senate Republican leader  Mitch McConnell .  With 6 percent of precincts reporting, Paul had 52 percent
of the vote and Conway, 41, had 49 percent.  The libertarian-leaning Paul is the son of Representative
 Ron Paul , a Texas Republican who sought the presidency in 2008
and advocates abolishing the Federal Reserve.  The Tea Party is intent on shrinking the federal
government, lowering taxes and rolling back the health-care law
pushed by President  Barack Obama  that was passed earlier this
year by the Democratic-controlled Congress.  In the campaign, Paul emphasized spending cuts and said he
wants a constitutional amendment requiring a balanced budget.  He favors smaller government and endorsed changes in
eligibility requirements for Social Security, as well as for
Medicare. He backs term limits for lawmakers.  Paul made early stumbles, drawing criticism after his
primary win for calling the White House’s criticism of  BP Plc 
“un-American” after the worst oil spill in U.S. history.  He also attracted national attention when he expressed
misgivings about a portion of the Civil Rights Act that forces
businesses to serve customers regardless of race, citing his
support of property rights.  He will replace retiring Republican Senator  Jim Bunning .  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Catherine Dodge  in Washington at 
 Cdodge1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  