-- Tea Party Gets Bad News From MIT’s Maier on Constitution Men
-- B y   D a v i d   M .   S h r i b m a n
-- 2010-11-02T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-02/tea-party-gets-bad-news-from-mit-s-maier-on-constitutional-framers-books.html
Americans have engaged in many great
debates over the years: What to do about slavery. Whether to
extend full rights to women, blacks, the disabled and gays.
Whether to fight in Mexico, Vietnam, Iraq and Afghanistan.
Through these debates and others, Americans have argued about
what the framers of the Constitution really meant -- and whether
their words should be interpreted for changing times.  What many people don’t realize is that none of these fights
was as vital as the question of whether to ratify the
Constitution itself.  For two years, in 1787 and ‘88, Americans argued over the
nature of democracy, the structure of government, the relative
power and prerogatives of the three branches, the relationship
between federal and state powers. No more important questions
have ever been taken up by the American people -- everything
else, including the Bill of Rights, flowed from this battle --
and yet we know almost nothing about these debates.  Pauline Maier , a professor at the Massachusetts Institute
of Technology and one of the most thoughtful historians of the
colonial period, has filled this gap with “ Ratification: The
People Debate the Constitution .” This book is a stunning
examination of what Maier calls “the beginning of American
national politics” -- the debate that explains the way we
Americans govern ourselves, resolve disputes, conduct diplomacy,
choose leaders and protect our freedoms.  ‘Federal Farmer’  This great debate was conducted in political assemblies but
also in tracts, newspapers, essays and broadsides -- often
written quickly, sometimes written badly, mostly with extremely
limited circulation. Indeed many of these arguments, put forth
by authors known only as “Centinel,” “Brutus,” “Publius”
and “Federal Farmer,” are far more widely available today than
they were at the time.  And though the Constitution established a national outlook,
most of the debates were local.  The opponents had few unified arguments or tactics. There
was bitter criticism of individual elements of the document,
particularly over the size and composition of the two houses of
Congress. Some critics wanted to retain the doomed Articles of
Confederation, which provided for only a weak central
government. Some wanted to change the new Constitution before it
was ratified. Some wanted to ratify it but amend it afterwards.
Some wanted to ratify it but add a bill of rights.  Value of Democracy  Accounts of these debates are hard going for the modern
reader, but amid detailed discussion of the power to tax and the
process of approving treaties are broad questions about
principles such as the character, or even the virtue, of
federalism and democracy themselves.  These were more than theoretical questions, and the very
act of asking them was part of creating the country. “Under
pressure,” Maier points out, even ratification’s most ardent
supporters “developed new understandings of the Constitution.”  This process -- and the book which for the first time
examines it in detail -- introduces us to many new characters in
the early post-colonial history of the United States and
reintroduces us to some of the hardy perennials of the period,
including  Hamilton ,  Washington ,  Madison  and  Jefferson , the men
who need no first names.  Perhaps the most vivid characters are New York Governor
George Clinton, a devout opponent of ratification, and  Patrick Henry,  the great skeptic of the Constitution, whom Maier says
“hijacked the debates” in Virginia.  With ratification came a sense of satisfaction -- and, as
Maier puts it, “a surprising quiet set over the land.” But the
battles, which had several twists and turns (and, in New York,
some suspense), didn’t really end with ratification.  The debates over how we govern ourselves are far from over.
They are being played out right now in the midterm elections and
in the coffee-shop and cable-television conversations of our own
time.  “Ratification: The People Debate the Constitution, 1787-
1788” is published by Simon & Schuster (589 pages, $30). To buy
this book in North America, click  here .  ( David M. Shribman  is executive editor of the Pittsburgh
Post-Gazette. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
David M. Shribman at  dshribman@post-gazette.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 