-- ECB Buys Irish Bonds as Spread Over Bunds Widens to Record, Traders Say
-- B y   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e
-- 2010-11-02T15:36:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-02/ecb-buys-irish-bonds-as-spread-over-bunds-widens-to-record-traders-say.html
The European Central Bank bought
Irish government bonds today, according to three traders with
knowledge of the transactions.  The ECB purchased debt maturing in 2019 and 2025, one of
the traders said under condition of anonymity because the deals
are confidential. A central bank spokesman declined to comment
when contacted by telephone in Frankfurt.  Irish 10-year bonds slid for a sixth day, driving the extra
 yield  investors demand to hold the debt instead of German bunds
to a record, as Finance Minister Brian Lenihan tries to build a
budget for next year that convinces investors he can get the
country’s finances in order. The premium on the debt has doubled
since August and is now wider than the spread  Greek debt  had
four days before the Mediterranean nation sought a European
Union-led bailout in April.  The difference in yield, or spread, for Irish 10-year debt
over bunds widened 18 basis points to 480 basis points at 3:30
p.m. in London.  The ECB’s bond purchases differ from so-called quantitative
easing policies pursued by the Federal Reserve and Bank of
England because the central bank mops up the liquidity created
by the purchases, meaning the net effect on the money supply is
neutral. The move is aimed primarily at reducing volatility in
the market.  The ECB began the program on May 10 to stabilize markets
rocked by the region’s sovereign-debt crisis. The purchases were
part of a European Union-led push to rescue the euro, which fell
to a four-year low on June 7 after Greece’s near default raised
concern that some nations in the region would struggle to
finance their budget deficits.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Anchalee Worrachate  in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  