-- Echeverry Says Colombian Government Peso Measures Are `Fiscally Balanced'
-- B y   H e l e n   M u r p h y
-- 2010-11-02T20:00:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-02/echeverry-says-colombian-government-peso-measures-are-fiscally-balanced-.html
Colombia Finance Minister  Juan Carlos Echeverry  said measures announced last week to reduce the supply
of dollars in the foreign exchange market and ease gains in the
peso are “fiscally balanced.”  Echeverry, who spoke today in a conference call from
Bogota, said the  steps  announced Oct. 29 will increase tax
revenue, reduce incentives to take overseas loans and help boost
employment as the productive sector becomes more competitive.
The measures won’t affect the government’s targets for deficits
next year, Echeverry said.  The government’s steps include a delay in bringing in $1.5
billion (2.77 trillion pesos) from abroad -- $1.4 billion of
which are dividends from state oil company Ecopetrol SA -- into
the $231 billion economy throughout the “first months” of 2011
to cut demand for the local currency. It will also make changes
to its 2011 external finance plan, reducing 2011 debt issuance
by $384 million, as well as hedge, using currency forwards, as
much as $3.7 billion in debt payments.  “These measures come short of more aggressive measures and
remain on the conservative side of intervention strategies,”
 Flavia Cattan-Naslausky , a strategist at RBS Securities Inc. in
Stamford, Connecticut, said in an e-mailed note to investors.
The plan introduces “more two-way risk in the market
particularly in respect to the Finance Ministry’s ability to
intervene in forward foreign exchange market as a complement to
the central bank’s spot intervention.”  The peso fell as much as 0.6 percent before paring declines
to close at 1844.30 per dollar, a 0.2 percent loss, from 1840.00
yesterday.  The currency has weakened 3.1 percent since closing at a
two-year high of 1786.50 per dollar on Oct. 11 on increasing
speculation the government would take steps to stem its rally.  Inflows  The government-central bank plan was announced after the
central bank’s Oct. 29  board  meeting in which policy makers
decided keep the overnight rate at a record low 3 percent.  The board also said it would continue to purchase “at
least” $20 million a day “at least” through March 15, two
months longer than previously planned to stem currency gains.  The peso has gained 10.8 percent against the dollar in 2010
-- the fourth-best performance among the 31 most-traded
currencies tracked by Bloomberg after Japan’s yen, Australia’s
dollar and Malaysia’s ringgit -- as foreign investors flood the
country with capital amid near-zero interest rates in the U.S.,
Japan and other developed economies.  Among Latin America’s economies, Brazil, Peru and Chile are
also like Colombia confronting surging inflows and currencies
and have adopted a variety of policy responses.  Currency volatility can increase costs to businesses, and a
stronger peso hurts exporters’ profitability.  The government will increase floating debt to make up for
the lower bond sales, Echeverry said. The hedges will be
“discretionary” in nature and depend on the cost to the
government.  ‘Appreciation Trend’  Most tax exemptions on foreign borrowing will also be
eliminated as the government seeks to make it less attractive to
borrow abroad.  The government also will help the agriculture exporting
sector in South America’s fourth-biggest economy implement
hedges worth up to 50 billion pesos and reduce import tariffs on
capital goods and other products, boosting demand for dollars,
he said.  “We maintain our view that downside for the peso appears
limited at these levels and continue to expect an appreciation
trend to re-establish itself,” Barclays Capital economist
 Jimena Zuniga  wrote in a report today. “The government’s recent
intense activity on this front, as well as the lingering
discretionary elements remaining in the hands of the government
and the central bank, render a sensational rally unlikely.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Helen Murphy  in Bogota at 
 hmurphy1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  