-- Lehman’s Archstone to Convert $237 Million More Debt
-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n   a n d   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 2010-11-02T21:12:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-02/lehman-s-real-estate-asset-archstone-to-convert-more-debt-into-equity.html
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.  said
apartment-complex owner Archstone, Lehman’s largest real estate
asset, needs to convert $237 million more of its debt into
equity to improve its financial prospects.  Terms set in May for a $5.2 billion restructuring of the
real-estate company are still being negotiated with lenders  Bank
of America Corp.  and  Barclays Plc , Lehman said today in a  filing 
in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in Manhattan.  “This filing demonstrates the progress we have made since
our filing in May toward effectuating a closing of the Archstone
restructuring,” Jeff Fitts, co-CEO of Lehman’s real estate
group, said in a separate statement. “The restructuring is a
positive event for the company, and will substantially improve
Archstone’s balance sheet and liquidity position.”  Archstone, which has required two previous bailouts from
its bankers since 2009 amid the real-estate slump, has ownership
interests in hundreds of apartment developments from Washington
and New York to Los Angeles and San Francisco.  Lehman was part of a group of investors that acquired
Archstone in 2007 in a $22 billion deal. Lehman, Barclays and
Bank of America provided financing for the deal and hold more
than 90 percent of Archstone’s common equity, according to court
papers.  Under the new terms of the restructuring, they will convert
$5.4 billion of debt into new equity interests, according to
court documents.  The case is In re Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., 08-13555,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David McLaughlin  in U.S. bankruptcy court in Manhattan
at   dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net ;
 Linda Sandler  in New York
at  lsandler@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 