-- Melco Crown Profit of $15.8 Million Beats Estimates on Second Macau Casino
-- B y   B e t h   J i n k s
-- 2010-11-02T15:11:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-02/melco-crown-profit-of-15-8-million-beats-estimates-on-second-macau-casino.html
Melco Crown Entertainment Ltd. , the
venture between an Australian billionaire and the son of Macau
gambling magnate  Stanley Ho , posted a profit in the third
quarter, beating analysts’ estimates, after a second casino
boosted its share of China’s gambling boom.  Net income was $15.8 million, or 3 cents per American
depositary receipt, compared with a loss of $39.5 million, or 8
cents, a year earlier, the Hong Kong-based company said today in
a regulatory  filing . Analysts had predicted a loss excluding
some items of 1 cent, the average of seven  estimates  compiled by
Bloomberg. It was Melco Crown’s first net profit in 10 quarters.  Chief Executive Officer  Lawrence Ho  and partner  James Packer ’s  Crown Ltd. , Australia’s biggest casino owner, opened
their second Macau casino, City of Dreams, on the Cotai Strip in
June 2009 and renamed and rebranded their smaller Crown Macau as
Altira. Macau, the world’s biggest gambling hub, is the only
Chinese city in which casinos are legal.  “We have turned the corner in being able to more
consistently deliver solid quarterly results,” Ho said today on
a conference call. “Macau is firing on all cylinders, and we
are fully participating in this growth. In fact we are taking
share.”  Macau-wide  casino gambling revenue  jumped 59 percent in the
first 10 months of this year to 152 billion patacas ($19
billion) from a year earlier, government data showed yesterday.
The economy of mainland China, where most of Macau’s visitors
come from, will probably grow 10 percent this year, according to
the median forecast of 17 economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  Shares Rise  Melco Crown’s ADRs  rose 30 cents, or 4.6 percent, to $6.82
at 10:56 a.m. in Nasdaq Stock Market trading, after reaching
$7.13, the highest intraday price in more than a year. They
gained 94 percent this year through yesterday.  Melco’s sales climbed 45 percent in the third quarter to
$727 million, beating the $629.5 million that analysts
estimated.  Adjusted earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization, a measure of cash flow, more than doubled to
$136.3 million, beating the $100.1 million analysts’ estimate.  Melco Crown has said it makes higher profit margins from
mass-market gamblers than high rollers brought in by junket
operators. Macau casinos pay junket agencies a capped 1.25
percent of the total betting chips purchased by the so-called
VIP gamblers they bring in, or a percentage of revenue.  Management Shift  The company has hired a recruitment firm to find a new
chief financial officer after  Simon Dewhurst  left in August. In
July, Ho said he would restructure management to make executives
responsible for companywide functions, instead of individual
properties, as Melco Crown shifted focus to resort operations
from development.  Melco Crown is one of six licensed Macau casino operators.
It competes with U.S.-based rivals Las Vegas Sands Corp.’s Sands
China Ltd., Wynn Resorts Ltd.’s Wynn Macau Ltd., MGM Resorts
International’s joint venture with  Pansy Ho , as well as Asia-
based Stanley Ho’s SJM Holdings Ltd. and Galaxy Entertainment
Group Ltd.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Beth Jinks  in New York at 
 bjinks1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at   apalazzo@bloomberg.net ;
Frank Longid at   flongid@bloomberg.net  