-- Electronic Cigarettes' Nicotine Vapor Stokes U.S. Regulators
-- B y   M o l l y   P e t e r s o n
-- 2010-11-02T18:42:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-02/electronic-cigarettes-nicotine-vapor-pits-anti-smokers-against-regulators.html
Electronic cigarettes are pitting
regulators against anti-smoking forces on whether to allow sales
now to speed efforts to help smokers quit or ban them until they
are proven safe and effective.  Proponents of the battery-powered devices that produce a
nicotine vapor instead of tobacco smoke urge the Food and Drug
Administration to consider them a tool for smokers seeking a
tobacco-free alternative. The  American Lung Association  wants
sales suspended unless proven in clinical drug trials.  “The tobacco-control community is kind of split” on e-
cigarettes, Kenneth Warner, dean of the  University of Michigan 
School of Public Health, said in an interview. “Some people are
convinced that anything that has any kind of nicotine or tobacco
in it must be subject to the FDA’s review and approval. Others
think it’s almost certainly less harmful than cigarettes.”  The FDA is  appealing  a U.S. District Court ruling that the
agency lacks authority to regulate the devices as drugs because
they are recreational, not therapeutic. Potential users spend
$1.2 billion on smoking-cessation products and $80 billion on
cigarettes a year, according to the  U.S. Centers for Disease
Control and Prevention . The FDA said e-cigarettes may work with
smokers the way methadone clinics wean heroin addicts by giving
them a less harmful form of an addictive substance.  Most e-cigarettes deliver a flavored, nicotine-filled vapor
-- and are sold with starter kits containing atomizers,
batteries and cartridges. They are available  online  starting at
about $40. The agency said it has blocked imports of more than
800 e-cigarette shipments since 2008, most from China.  Promoter Heigl  “While nicotine seems to be the primary ingredient in the
cartridges, it is simply unknown how many other chemicals are
present and in what amounts,”  Siobhan DeLancey , an agency
spokeswoman, said by e-mail. A 2009 FDA analysis found some
nicotine levels exceeded amounts specified in labels, she said.  E-cigarette demand is getting a boost from celebrity users
like actress  Katherine Heigl  as well as Internet availability.
Heigl puffed on one during an appearance in September on CBS’s
“Late Show,” telling host  David Letterman  the cigarette wasn’t
harmful.  SmokeStik International Inc., the producer of Heigl’s e-
cigarette, posted a  statement  after the appearance saying the
company doesn’t make health or safety claims, adding to similar
disclaimers already on its website and packages. The FDA can
regulate as drugs cigarette alternatives that carry therapeutic
claims, according to the court ruling.  FDA Warnings  The U.S. e-cigarette market consists of several dozen
closely held companies including Toronto-based  SmokeStik , which
hasn’t received FDA warnings and doesn’t market products as
smoking-cessation devices.  FDA officials warned five companies in September they were
making improper health claims. Las Vegas-based E-Cig Technology
Inc. violated agency rules by saying on its website that e-
cigarettes can “help you reduce or quit smoking habits,” the
agency said in a letter in September.  Warning letters were sent to Gamucci America, a unit of
Smokey Bayou Inc. in Jacksonville, Florida; Ruyan America Inc.
in Minneapolis; Johnson Creek Enterprises LLC in Johnson Creek,
Wisconsin; and E-CigaretteDirect LLC in Parker, Colorado.  Ruyan America hasn’t sold products containing nicotine in
the U.S. since May 2009, the company’s president,  Bill Bartkowski , said Sept. 9 in an interview. E-Cig Technology,
Johnson Creek and E-CigaretteDirect didn’t respond to e-mails
sent through websites, while Smokey Bayou didn’t reply to a
voicemail left at a listed phone number.  Competing With Patches  E-cigarettes need the same FDA drug review as nicotine gum,
patches and other approved cessation aids, said  Howard Marsh ,
chief medical officer of  GlaxoSmithKline Plc ’s consumer health-
care division.  Glaxo’s Nicorette was the top-selling brand-name drug for
nicotine replacement in the year through June, with $144.6
million in sales, or 12 percent of the smoking-cessation market,
based on data from IMS Health Inc., a research firm in Norwalk,
Connecticut.  “You’ve got to be fair to consumers,” Marsh said in an
interview. “They need the reassurance that these products have
undergone the same degree of rigor in terms of demonstrating
safety and efficacy.”  Smokers seeking to quit need alternatives to FDA-approved
nicotine replacement therapies such as gum and patches, which
have a “95 percent failure rate,”  Bill Godshall , founder and
executive director of Smokefree Pennsylvania, said Oct. 27 at an
FDA workshop.  Almost 500,000 smokers have switched to e-cigarettes in the
three years they have been available in the U.S., he said.  Approval Costs  Godshall agrees with a ruling in January by U.S. District
Court Judge  Richard Leon  that the FDA should regulate the
devices under a 2009 tobacco law which doesn’t require safety
and efficacy trials for cigarettes. The FDA won a delay of
Leon’s decision in February while awaiting a ruling from the
U.S. Court of Appeals in Washington.  E-cigarettes may save 5.3 million people who would
otherwise die from smoking-related illnesses in the next 20
years, said Joel Nitzkin, former chairman of the Green Cove
Springs, Florida-based  American Association of Public Health
Physicians  tobacco control task force.  Unless e-cigarette companies can prove the gadgets are
safe, “people should not use them because we don’t know what
they are,” said Paul Billings, vice president of national
policy and advocacy at the American Lung Association in
Washington.  For Elaine Keller, an e-cigarette user and vice president
of the nonprofit Consumer Advocates for Smoke-Free Alternatives
Association, the potential for risk is worth the benefit.  “Maybe it’s not 100 percent safe, but it certainly is
safer,” she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Molly Peterson  in Washington at 
 mpeterson9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net  