-- Elevator Presents Mobile Mattresses; Sausage Factory: Hot Art
-- B y   K a t y a   K a z a k i n a
-- 2010-11-02T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-02/elevator-presents-mobile-mattresses-sausage-factory-rapunzel-hot-art.html
The Lower East Side is known for tiny
store-front galleries, but three new exhibition spaces are
bucking the trend with soaring quarters and unexpected vantage
points.  The oddest venue is an elevator in  Sperone Westwater 
gallery, designed by  Norman Foster . The 12-by-20-foot room
slowly moves up and down between the second and third floors
while the visitors examine an installation by Argentine artist
Guillermo Kuitca.  The artsy rides are not for everyone. At the opening,  John McEnroe , tennis player and art collector, was in and out before
the doors had a chance to close.  Inside, 54 child-size mattresses line the walls like giant
tiles. Each floral or teddy-bear-stamped pad doubles as a
painting surface for maps of randomly selected locations from
around the world. Urban centers in Afghanistan, Poland and
Scotland are linked by red and black roads winding like
bloodlines.  Created in 1992, the work, “Le Sacre,” looks dingy, feels
creepy and sparks associations with the Holocaust’s mounds of
confiscated human possessions.  Kuitca’s paintings hang in a double-tier room with a 27-
foot ceiling. His layered imagery includes Cubist shapes,
fractured maps, torn architectural diagrams and crowns of
thorns.  Prices for paintings range from $50,000 to $500,000; “Le
Sacre” is not for sale. “Guillermo Kuitca: Paintings, 2008-
2010” runs through Nov. 6 at 257 Bowery; +1-212-999-7337;
 http://www.speronewestwater.com   Aggressive Canvases  Los Angeles-based artist Matthew Chambers came up with a
clever way to turn even failures into sellable 8-by-4-foot
paintings.  Successful canvases depict colorful, kitschy and crudely
painted images lifted from pop culture. There’s a teddy bear, a
cowboy, a rose, a footprint.  Unsuccessful pieces are shredded; the torn strips are
reassembled into abstract compositions that bring to mind Mark
Grotjahn’s “butterfly” paintings and Piero Manzoni’s white
monochromes.  The two groups appear in Chambers’s solo exhibition at
 Untitled  gallery, a new partnership between Joel Mesler, former
owner of scruffy yet savvy Rental gallery, and Carol Cohen,
former staffer in London’s blue-chip White Cube gallery.
Untitled opened in September in a cavernous 2,300-square-foot
ground-floor space on Orchard Street.  Highlighting the artist’s prolific output and its own
enviable dimensions, the dealers hung 33 canvases cheek by jowl
around the perimeter. Three others descend from the ceiling --
lest we ignore its 22-foot height.  Paintings are $8,000. “Matthew Chambers” runs through
Dec. 12 at 30 Orchard St.; +1-212-608-6002;
 http://nyuntitled.com   Rapunzel  Art dealer Kristen Dodge thought big when she decided to
open her first gallery in New York. A Boston native, she leased
a 2,500-square-foot former sausage factory on Rivington Street,
around the corner from the New Museum and called it  Dodge
Gallery .  The gallery’s first solo show by Providence, Rhode Island-
based sculptor Dave Cole marks an ambitious beginning. Titled
“Unreal City,” it alludes to the American frontier, militarism
and modernist literature.  A heave of golden braids worthy of Rapunzel (but made of
bronze) clings to two shotguns like yarn to spindles. Melted
bullets and split shells are repurposed for models of barren
landscapes in the “Leaves of Grass” series, named after  Walt Whitman ’s poem.  The show’s epicenter is a giant American flag stitched
together like a quilt with impressive craftsmanship. Cole
extracted all the red, white and blue from the flags of 192
countries that make up the United Nations. Colorful patches of
yellow, green, red and black lay discarded on the floor.  If you stand in front of it, the flag fills your entire
field of vision, transformed into a sea of mostly white and red.  Prices range from $2,500 to $150,000. “Unreal City” runs
through Nov. 7 at 15 Rivington St.; +1-212-228-5122;
 http://www.dodge-gallery.com   ( Katya Kazakina  is a reporter for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
her own.)  To contact the reporter of this story:
Katya Kazakina in New York at 
 kkazakina@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 