-- EMCF Expects Regulators to Agree Clearinghouse Links This Year
-- B y   N a n d i n i   S u k u m a r
-- 2010-11-02T16:37:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-02/emcf-expects-regulators-to-agree-deal-on-clearinghouse-links-this-year.html
European Multilateral Clearing
Facility NV said it still expects approval from regulators this
year on proposals that will allow European clearinghouses to
access each others’ systems, a move that may cut trading costs.  “Nothing has changed as far as we are concerned,” Willem
Mooijer, director of sales and relationship management at  EMCF ,
said by phone today. “We expect approval this year, sometime in
November or December maybe. The regulators still have some
questions and we are answering them. We didn’t expect any
conclusion this week.”  In February, U.K., Swiss and Dutch regulators reached an
agreement that would allow four central counterparties --  SIX X-
clear Ltd. , EuroCCP, LCH.Clearnet Group Ltd. and Amsterdam-based
EMCF -- to interoperate, or access each others’ systems, people
familiar with the situation said at the time. The watchdogs
asked clearinghouses to quantify the risks themselves and then
satisfy the regulators, the people said.  The clearinghouses made their submissions by August this
year and have been working with regulators to answer questions
since then, according to EMCF and EuroCCP, the European unit of
Depository Trust & Clearing Corp. The process is still on track,
they said. Financial News reported yesterday that a deal that
was expected to be agreed as early as this week has been
postponed to the end of the month at the earliest.  ‘Answer Is Imminent’  “We’ve always expected the regulators to come back to us
in the fourth quarter -- whether it’s the first part of the
quarter or the last part is of little consequence, compared to
the importance of minimizing the risks through this review,”
 Andrew Simpson , head of business development at EuroCCP, said by
phone. “There has never been a specific date but they seem to
be getting close and an answer is imminent.”  Interoperability offers traders a choice of who processes
their transactions. While the resulting competition may reduce
the cost of trading, it also increases the central
counterparties’ credit exposure to one another.  The European Union ’s voluntary  code of conduct  for
clearing, which included interoperability, was signed by
Europe’s leading exchanges and clearinghouses in November 2006.
It aimed to spur competition and improve a system that costs
investors as much as 5 billion euros ($7 billion) a year. The
process stalled with the bankruptcy of  Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc.  in September 2008 as regulators studied the risks of
clearinghouses being exposed to their peers.  Some clearinghouses act as CCP to every buy and sell order
executed on an exchange, reducing the risk that a trader
defaults on his obligation in a deal. Customers pay fees for
clearing, or post-trade processing services, which include
verifying that a buyer has the funds to execute a trade.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nandini Sukumar  in London at 
 nsukumar@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Merritt at   dmerritt1@bloomberg.net . 