-- Emerging Currencies, Debt to Beat Stocks on `Huge Inflows,' SocGen Says
-- B y   K r y s t o f   C h a m o n i k o l a s
-- 2010-11-02T15:51:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-02/emerging-currencies-debt-to-beat-stocks-societe-generale-says.html
Emerging-market currencies and bonds
are set to outperform stocks as they offer higher yields and are
set to rally on “huge inflows” from developed nations while
equities face “strong headwinds,”  Societe Generale SA  said.  The Egyptian pound, Indian rupee, Korean won and Polish
zloty are the French bank’s preferred emerging currencies in the
next year. Egyptian, Polish, South African and Czech bonds are
SocGen’s favored debt, according to a client report today.  Investors seeking alternatives to near-zero interest rates
in the U.S., the euro area and Japan pumped a net $39.5 billion
into developing-nation bond funds in the first nine months of
the year, headed for the biggest-ever annual inflow, according
to EPFR Global. Emerging-market stocks trade at an 18 percent
premium to those in developed nations, SocGen said.  “The need for global rebalancing suggests that
appreciation pressures on emerging-market currencies will
continue to build up in the period ahead, especially as a number
of currencies remain significantly undervalued from a long-term
fundamental perspective,” SocGen analysts wrote in the report.  The dollar weakened versus 12 of its 16 most-traded peers
and U.S. stocks rose as investors awaited the Federal Reserve’s
move to boost the world’s biggest economy. The central bank will
probably tomorrow announce a plan to buy at least $500 billion
of assets, according to economists surveyed by Bloomberg News,
extending the so-called quantitative easing previously adopted
by the Fed and central banks in the U.K. and the euro area.  ‘Directly Invested’  “The liquidity injected by central banks has been directly
invested in emerging-market assets,” the analysts led by Paris-
based  Alain Bokobza  wrote. “The second round of quantitative
easing from the Fed should allow this trend to continue in the
short term if the U.S. dollar continues to weaken.”  India today raised interest rates for a sixth time this
year and speculation the Polish central bank will lift rates
this year from record-low levels after September inflation
accelerated more than estimated and a manufacturing gauge
climbed to its highest since May 2004.  Central banks from Brazil to Korea have introduced capital
controls or are buying dollars and euros to stall currency
appreciation and boost the competitiveness of exports.  “Emerging-market equities face strong headwinds as
profitability would be under pressure as monetary policy
tightens and emerging-market currencies should continue to
strengthen,” the SocGen analysts said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Krystof Chamonikolas  in Prague at 
 kchamonikola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at   gserkin@bloomberg.net  