-- Official: Germany Won't Let Bondholders Shirk Crisis Cost
-- B y   T o n y   C z u c z k a   a n d   M a r k   D e e n
-- 2010-11-03T09:25:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-02/merkel-offers-no-respite-to-peripherals-as-crisis-fund-plans-push-up-yield.html
German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said the euro’s stability depends on making investors
pay for future debt crises, brushing aside warnings that
Germany’s demands are hurting Europe’s most indebted countries.  Schaeuble’s comments underscore Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s
push to shield German taxpayers from the risk of bailing out
other European countries as she steps up efforts to reshape debt
and deficit rules for the euro. EU leaders are due to set “key
features” of a permanent debt-crisis mechanism in December
after agreeing in principle last week, Schaeuble said.  “Participation of the private sector is a central element
of the mechanism,” Schaeuble said in a speech at the Sorbonne
University in Paris late yesterday. “I would like to remind
those who still have problems with such a crisis resolution
mechanism that the currency union was never designed as a model
for the enrichment of financial speculators.”  German attempts to put their stamp on the rule overhaul
risks alienating European officials including Spanish Prime
Minister  Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero , who are concerned that
telling bond investors they will have to shoulder a greater part
of any future bailout will spook traders at a time when Ireland
and Portugal are struggling to cut their budget deficits.  “Germany must support this instrument,” Economy Minister
 Rainer Bruederle  said in an interview today. Otherwise,
“markets can speculate with bonds without risk.”  Irish Bonds Fall  Irish bonds fell for a seventh day, sending the 10-year
yield to a euro-era record. Greek bonds were little changed
after a run of seven straight declines, the longest losing
streak since April. The euro was little changed at $1.4033 at
9:56 a.m. Frankfurt time.  European Central Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet  told EU
leaders last week he’s concerned that talk of a debt
restructuring model from 2013 will hurt the bonds of the euro-
region’s so-called peripheral nations, according to an EU
official familiar with the discussions.  Greece’s attempt to emerge from the crisis is currently
“at its most critical point,” Prime Minister  George Papandreou 
said yesterday, according to an e-mailed transcript of a speech.
The budget shortfall in 2009 is “expected to reach 15 percent
or more,” or at least five times the EU limit.  Bailout Fund  EU leaders on Oct. 29 backed Merkel’s call for a rewrite of
European treaties to create the permanent debt-crisis mechanism.
The EU now has a window to devise permanent safeguards for “a
lastingly strong and stable euro,” after setting up a 110
billion-euro ($154 billion) bailout for Greece and a temporary
750 billion-euro fund to backstop the currency, Schaeuble said.  Merkel, whose year-old governing coalition trails the
opposition in polls, is turning her tough stance on euro-area
debt and deficit violators into a theme as she faces six state
elections next year.  Her aim is to have governments keep the upper hand in what
she called “a battle of the politicians against the markets”
in May. “We have to think of our population, which justifiably
doesn’t want the taxpayer to always assume all the risk,” she
said on Oct. 29. Schaeuble warned against setting off “a
dangerous social time bomb” of popular dissatisfaction if
taxpayers are left to shoulder the burden alone.  ‘More Bite’  The proposed EU measures will yield rules with “more
bite” to protect the euro, Merkel said yesterday in a speech in
Bruges, Belgium. Along with steps to keep EU members from
running up excessive debt, a crisis mechanism enshrined in EU
treaties is necessary for the longer term, she said.  “Germany’s plans for burden-sharing in the event of a
euro-zone default and the re-statement of the no-bailout law
present challenges to the debt market,”  Steve Barrow , head of
research for Group-of-10 currencies at Standard Bank Plc, said
in a note. “We suspect that 10-year Greek spread over Germany
will scale 1,000 basis points and Ireland 500 basis points,
probably before the end of the year.”  The Greek-German yield spread was little changed at 832
basis points as of 8:39 a.m. in London. The yield on Irish 10-
year bonds against German bunds, the euro region’s benchmark,
gained 10 basis points to 493 basis points, the most since
Bloomberg began collecting the data in 1991.  Merkel said on Oct. 29 that she and Trichet differed on the
level of risk the rescue mechanism for indebted euro-area
countries means for those governments’ bonds. “I don’t quite
share Jean-Claude Trichet’s concern,” she said.  In Bruges, Merkel said steps to keep EU members from
running up excessive debt include sanctions that are brought in
quicker and earlier, as well as closer EU-wide coordination on
economic policy.  The debt mechanism intended to replace the euro fund when
it expires in three years “needs a clear legal basis” in EU
treaties, she said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Tony Czuczka  in Berlin at 
 aczuczka@bloomberg.net ;
 Mark Deen  in Paris at 
 markdeen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  