-- Estonia GDP Probably Grew Annual 6% in 3rd Quarter, Finance Ministry Says
-- B y   O t t   U m m e l a s
-- 2010-11-02T10:32:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-02/estonia-gdp-probably-grew-annual-6-in-3rd-quarter-finance-ministry-says.html
Estonia’s economy, recovering from
the second-worst recession in the European Union, probably
expanded “about” 6 percent in the third quarter from a year
earlier on export demand, the Finance Ministry said.  The $19 billion economy, due to adopt the euro in January,
enjoyed “robust” growth mainly due to accelerating industrial
output and improving revenue in the transport and financial
industries, Erki Lohmuste, an adviser at the ministry’s
economics department in Tallinn, said in an e-mailed response to
Bloomberg questions today.  “Exports achieved pre-crisis levels in the third quarter,”
Lohmuste said. “Private consumption could have had a slightly
positive contribution despite accelerating price growth, largely
thanks to car sales recovering from the spring. A decline in
investment has probably stopped and inventories should have
given a robust boost similar to the previous quarter.”  An export-led recovery will help Estonia’s economy expand
2.5 percent this year and 4.2 percent in 2011, after GDP shrank
by almost a fifth in 2008 and 2009, second in the EU to
neighboring Latvia, the central bank forecast in September. GDP
returned to annual growth in the second quarter, expanding 3.1
percent.  Estonia’s industrial production increased at the fastest
pace in at least a decade in September as demand for the
country’s goods and services increases in key markets including
Finland and Sweden.  The ministry’s estimate compares with a median forecast of
3.8 percent in a  Bloomberg survey  of six analysts. The
statistics office is due to report its preliminary estimate for
third-quarter GDP on Nov. 11.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ott Ummelas  in Tallinn at 
 oummelas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at 
 wmorris@bloomberg.net  