-- European Airlines Should Restructure to Compete, Etihad CEO Hogan Says
-- B y   Z a h r a a   A l k h a l i s i   a n d   S t e f a n i a   B i a n c h i
-- 2010-11-02T12:29:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-02/etihad-says-european-airlines-should-restructure-to-compete.html
Etihad Airways and other Gulf
airlines are enjoying advantages including lower costs compared
with European rivals, which must make changes to be
competitive, Chief Executive Officer  James Hogan  said.  “Most European carriers are 50 to 60 years old so they’ve
got challenges on restructuring, on their cost base and on
their employment practices,” Hogan said in an interview in Abu
Dhabi. “We don’t have that. Here at Etihad, we’re seven years
old and we started with a clean sheet of paper. That’s the
opportunity we have.”  Airlines in the Gulf region also profit from their
location and new technology that allow them to fly non-stop to
all parts of the world, said Hogan. “We can’t be blamed for
that,” he said. Etihad expects to carry 7.3 million passengers
this year, up from 6.3 million in 2009, and will increase
frequency on existing routes next year, said Hogan, who has
been CEO of Abu Dhabi’s flag-carrier since 2006.  Airlines in the Gulf Cooperative Council region such as
Etihad, Dubai’s Emirates and Qatar Airways have been criticized
by European airlines, which say government subsidies and access
to cheap financing have allowed their Gulf competitors to
expand rapidly. Emirates overtook Lufthansa last year as the
biggest carrier on international flights, following a sixfold
increase in traffic since 2000, when it ranked 24th. Emirates
posted a more than fourfold rise in first-half profit.  European carriers “are now finding due to their cost base
and structure that they can’t compete,” Hogan said. “They
should restructure their businesses and not use legislation to
force Gulf carriers to slow down.”  Export Credits  U.S. and European airlines are urging governments to limit
financing of aircraft exports to avoid giving an advantage to
competitors abroad buying from Airbus SAS and  Boeing Co .  “If there’s an issue with regard to export credits,
that’s a European opportunity that we’ve taken advantage of,”
said Hogan. “We would see no problem in that benefit being
extended to European carriers.”  The role of export financing has ballooned since the
credit crunch reduced banks’ willingness to lend. The share of
plane deliveries covered by government guarantees more than
doubled to 34 percent in 2009, according to figures from
Toulouse, France-based Airbus and Chicago-based  Boeing , the
world’s two biggest makers of commercial aircraft.  Fleet Expansion  Government-owned Etihad, which started operations in
November 2003, currently operates a fleet of 56 aircraft and
flies to 66 destinations. At the Farnborough Airshow in 2008,
the carrier placed an order for up to 205 aircraft - 100 firm
orders, 55 options and 50 purchase rights in a deal worth $20
billion. Over the next 10 years, Etihad plans to take delivery
of 106 Boeing and Airbus aircraft.  Etihad, the second-biggest carrier in the United Arab
Emirates after Emirates, is using its base to build up a global
network, competing with carriers such as Singapore Airlines
Ltd., Air-France-KLM Group and Deutsche Lufthansa AG.  “We’ll start to mature as a business and move toward
breakeven,” Hogan said. “We’re looking to breakeven at the
end of next year. If it hadn’t been for the financial crisis
we’d have broken even in 2010.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Zahraa Alkhalisi  in Abu Dhabi at 
 zalkhalisi@bloomberg.net 
 Stefania Bianchi  in Dubai at 
 sbianchi10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 Eevans3@bloomberg.net . 