-- Metro Lifts Forecast on Shape Savings, Eastern Europe
-- B y   H o l g e r   E l f e s
-- 2010-11-02T11:55:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-02/metro-raises-profit-forecast-on-shape-savings-recovery-in-eastern-europe.html
Metro AG , Germany’s largest retailer,
raised its profit forecast on savings from job reductions and a
sales recovery in eastern Europe.  Operating profit excluding some items will be 2.3 billion
euros ($3.2 billion) in 2010, compared with a previous forecast
of 2.2 billion euros, the Dusseldorf-based owner of Real
hypermarkets and the Kaufhof department-store chain said today.
Third-quarter net income rose to 149 million euros from 67
million euros a year earlier, beating the 114 million-euro
average  estimate  of eight analysts compiled by Bloomberg.  The retailer aims to lift  profit  by 1.5 billion euros over
four years through the Shape 2012 cost-saving program as it cuts
jobs at the Cash & Carry wholesale unit. Sales in eastern Europe
rose 10 percent in the quarter as countries such as Russia,
Ukraine and Turkey showed “a clear turnaround,” Metro said.  “The economic recovery in eastern Europe is helping Metro
and adds to the positive impact on earnings from cost-cutting,”
said  Thomas Rosenke , an analyst at WestLB AG in Frankfurt. He
has an “add” recommendation on the shares.  Metro rose 55 cents, or 1.1 percent, to 51.97 euros as of
12:38 p.m., heading for the highest closing price since April 3,
2008. The  stock  has gained 22 percent this year.  Sales growth in eastern Europe was helped as currencies
including the Russian ruble and the Polish zloty gained value
against the euro. In local currencies, revenue rose 4.8 percent.  ‘Making a Comeback’  “Eastern Europe is making a comeback as a growth driver,”
Chief Executive Officer  Eckhard Cordes  said in a statement.
Business remains weak in Romania, Hungary and Bulgaria, he said.  Most of the retailer’s 100 planned store openings this year
will be in the emerging markets of eastern European and Asia as
the company reduces its reliance on Germany, where  retail sales 
have stagnated for the past decade. Third-quarter sales
increased 24 percent in the Asia/Africa region and gained 0.2
percent in Germany, Metro said today.  Operating profit at the Media Markt/Saturn consumer
electronics division rose 7.8 percent to 124 million euros, or
6.5 percent excluding currency shifts, the company said.  The Real hypermarket unit posted a profit of 1 million
euros after a loss of 30 million euros a year earlier. At the
Kaufhof department stores, which Metro has said it would like to
sell, profit jumped to 7 million euros from 2 million euros.  Shape Expenses  Metro may not sell Kaufhof if it can’t obtain what it
considers a fair price, Cordes said at a press conference. The
company will make a decision on the future of its domestic Real
hypermarket unit at the end of 2011 at the earliest, he said.  “Our tolerance for underperforming businesses or countries
has come to an end,” Cordes said in an interview on Bloomberg
Television. The potential exit of the Saturn electronics chain
from France won’t be a “one-time event,” he said.  Expenses for the Shape program will be more than 170
million euros for the year and less than 130 million euros next
year, Metro also said. Plans to cut 17,000  jobs  have been
exceeded, with 19,000 eliminations so far, Metro said.  Metro also aims to improve  profitability  by selling more
private-label products and will introduce the first such
merchandise at the Media Markt/Saturn unit before Christmas.  Metro expects a “good” Christmas, Cordes said, without
giving a more detailed forecast. The season this year in most of
Metro’s markets has two more shopping days than last year.  Per-share earnings climbed to 46 cents from 20 cents. Sales
rose 4.5 percent to 16.3 billion euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Holger Elfes  in Dusseldorf at 
 helfes@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net . 