-- EU Observers Criticize Delay in Release of Ivory Coast Voting Results
-- B y   P a u l i n e   B a x   a n d   O l i v i e r   M o n n i e r
-- 2010-11-02T13:58:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-02/eu-observers-criticize-delay-in-release-of-ivory-coast-voting-results.html
Election observers from the European
Union criticized the slow pace of results being released from
Ivory Coast’s Oct. 31 presidential vote, warning that delays may
lead to “rumors and tension.”  Observers were not allowed to monitor the vote counting at
some centers, said Cristian Preda, the head of the EU’s group
that watched the polls in the  West African nation .  “It’s not at all normal to refuse access,” he told
reporters in Abidjan today. “We don’t even know whether the
electronic counting system is working or not,” he said,
referring to a system the electoral commission planned to use to
transmit results from the interior of the country to the
commercial capital.  Voters in the world’s top cocoa grower cast their ballots
in the first election in a decade as the country attempts to end
an eight-year division between a rebel-held north and
government-controlled south.  Yacouba Bamba and Baba Coulibaly, spokesmen for the
commission, did not answer calls made to their mobile phones
today.  Alassane Ouattara , a former prime minister, led among the
only publicly announced results, according to the news website
Abidjan.net. He took 50.68 percent of the votes cast among
Ivorians living abroad, while President  Laurent Gbagbo  received
33.61 percent, the website reported, citing figures from the
electoral commission.  The data are based on 9,628 valid votes cast and do not
include Ivorians living in France, the country’s former colonial
ruler, according to the  website .  The voting on Oct. 31 was completed in a “climate of peace
serenity,” the African Union said in an e-mailed statement
yesterday. Any potential disputes with the results should be
handed through “legal procedures,” the Addis Ababa-based body
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Pauline Bax  and  Olivier Monnier  in Abidjan via Accra at
   ebowers1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 