-- European Manufacturing Growth Accelerated More Than Estimated in October
-- B y   S i m o n e   M e i e r
-- 2010-11-02T09:39:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-02/european-manufacturing-growth-accelerated-more-than-estimated-in-october.html
Europe’s  manufacturing industries 
expanded at a faster pace in October than initially estimated as
export demand strengthened.  A gauge of manufacturing in the 16-nation euro region rose
to 54.6 from 53.7 in the previous month, London-based Markit
Economics said today. It had previously reported an increase to
54.1 in October. A reading above 50 indicates expansion.  The reading follows signs of strengthening manufacturing
industries in the U.S., U.K. and China and announcements by
companies such as  Daimler AG  and  BASF SE  that earnings this year
will be higher than previously anticipated. Still, a stronger
euro may curb export growth just as government budget cuts
hamper domestic spending.  “It’s surprisingly positive, not only in the euro region
but also in the U.S. and other countries,” said  Sylvain Broyer ,
chief euro-region economist at Natixis in Frankfurt. “Growth
will still weaken overall. The good news is that we won’t slide
into a double-dip recession.”  The euro rose as much as 0.2 percent after the report and
traded at $1.3979 as of 9:20 a.m. in London, up from $1.3893
yesterday.  Exports and Jobs  The euro-area gauge of export orders rose to the highest in
three months and employment growth was the fastest since March
2008, Markit said. In Germany, Europe’s largest economy, the
 manufacturing gauge  jumped to 56.6 from 55.1. Italy’s also
gained, to 53 from 52.6, while the French measure slipped to
55.2 from 56.  The report also highlights the continuing divergence
between Europe’s so-called core and peripheral economies. Greek
manufacturing shrank in October, Markit said, while measures in
Spain and Ireland just edged above the 50 mark.  “Manufacturing remains an important driver of the euro-
area recovery,”  Chris Williamson , chief economist at Markit,
said in the statement. “However, it’s clear that the recovery
has moved down a gear. National divergences will continue to
raise tensions for policymaking.”  Markit said on Oct. 21 that a euro-area  services gauge 
slipped to 53.2 in October from 54.1 in September, while a
 composite index  of manufacturing and services also declined.
Markit will release final figures for both indicators on Nov. 4.  German Boost  Germany  has led the region’s recovery as companies boosted
output and hiring to meet export demand. Stuttgart-based Daimler
on Oct. 28 raised its full-year forecast for operating profit
after surpassing analyst estimates for the third quarter.  BASF
SE , the world’s largest chemical maker, raised its sales and
earnings outlook for the full year.  “We see no signs of business activity weakening,” BASF
board member  Martin Brudermueller  said in an interview on Oct.
29. “The majority of our plants are operating close to full
capacity, especially in Asia.  In China, a  purchasing managers’ index  released by the
logistics federation yesterday rose to 54.7 in October from 53.8
the previous month. A second PMI, from HSBC Holdings Plc and
Markit, jumped to 54.8 from 52.9. A U.S.  factory index  increased
to 56.9 from 54.4, the highest in five months.  Still, U.S. economic growth is below the long-term goal of
the Federal Reserve, which is likely to start a fresh round of
stimulus tomorrow by announcing a plan to purchase at least $500
billion of long-term securities, according to economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News.  ‘Confident’  In the euro area, while the recovery may by hampered by the
euro’s 14 percent appreciation against the dollar since the
start of June, the European Central Bank has so far signalled
confidence in the economy’s strength. Council member  Yves Mersch 
saying on Oct. 26 that the bank may raise its economic forecasts
in December. His colleague  Axel Weber  said last month he’s
“confident” that there’s only a “negligible” risk of the
region sliding back into a recession.  The ECB, which has purchased government bonds and extended
emergency liquidity for banks into 2011, will probably keep its
 benchmark interest rate  at a record low of 1 percent when policy
makers meet on Nov. 4, a Bloomberg News survey shows.  “We’re probably seeing more of a slowdown in the economy
than some indicators suggest,” said  Nick Kounis , an economist
at ABN Amro in Amsterdam. “If growth had continued at the kind
of pace we saw in the first half of the year, the ECB would be
thinking about rate hikes.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Simone Meier  in Zurich at 
 smeier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net  