-- Teva Profit Rises on U.S. Generics, Ratiopharm Revenue
-- B y   N a o m i   K r e s g e
-- 2010-11-02T17:48:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-02/teva-s-quarterly-profit-rises-beats-estimates-on-ratiopharm-u-s-sales.html
Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. ’s
fourth-quarter profit may miss analyst estimates as the Israeli
drugmaker’s  acquisition  of Germany’s Ratiopharm GmbH weighs on
earnings.  Earnings this year will be $4.50 to $4.60 a share, Chief
Executive Officer  Shlomo Yanai  said on a conference call with
analysts today, reiterating the company’s forecast from July.
Given that the company earned $3.29 a share in the first nine
months of the year, the prediction implies fourth-quarter profit
will be $1.21 to $1.31, compared with an average estimate of
$1.31 from 13  analysts  surveyed by Bloomberg.  Teva’s American depositary receipts fell on disappointment
the company didn’t raise the forecast after reporting a 47
percent increase in third-quarter profit. The Petah Tikva,
Israel-based company agreed in March to buy German generic-drug
maker Ratiopharm for 3.63 billion euros ($5.09 billion), seeking
to reduce dependence on the multiple sclerosis treatment
Copaxone and the U.S. market.  “The real problem looking forward is of course what next
huge company they need to buy to generate growth,”  Gilad Alper ,
an analyst for Meitav Investment House Ltd. in Tel Aviv, said in
an interview. Alper has an “outperform” rating on the shares.  Teva fell 98 cents, or 1.9 percent, to $50.26 at 1:05 p.m.
New York time in Nasdaq Stock Market trading. The decline was
the fifth in six days. Teva’s Israeli shares sank 2.6 percent to
182.20 shekels in Tel Aviv, the biggest decline since Sept. 16.  Ratiopharm will cut 3 cents off earnings per share this
year, Chief Financial Officer  Eyal Desheh  said. The acquisition
will begin to contribute to profit in 2011, he said.  Seeking Targets  Teva is looking for more targets in women’s health after
buying  Merck KGaA ’s Théramex for 265 million euros last week,
Yanai said in a telephone interview today. The company wants
annual sales of contraceptives and related drugs to exceed $1
billion by 2015, he said.  “It’s a very good example to show how we think,” Yanai
said of the Théramex deal. “We have a good base in the U.S.,
and you see the strategic idea here -- how to take it from the
U.S. and become a more global player.”  Neurology, specialty drugs including women’s health and
respiratory treatments and copies of biological medicines will
drive growth in Teva’s branded business in years ahead, he said.  Earnings rose to $1.18 billion, or $1.30 a share, in the
third quarter, from $806 million, or 89 cents, a year earlier,
the company said in a statement today. Teva’s reported profit
excludes costs linked to acquisitions such as Ratiopharm. On a
net income basis, the company earned $1.05 billion, up 62
percent from $649 million in the year-ago period.  Sales rose 20 percent to $4.25 billion, missing the average
estimate of $4.67 billion from eight analysts surveyed.  Copaxone’s Rivals  Copaxone revenue rose 4 percent to $808 million, driven by
demand in the U.S. Cost cutting measures in Europe and the
negative impact of exchange rates helped drive Copaxone sales
down 6 percent outside the U.S. to $220 million. The company
said in January it expects to lose about $1 billion in revenue
from the drug to competitors by 2015.  About 19 percent of Teva’s sales come from the injectable
drug, which faces new competition after U.S. authorities in
September approved the first pill for multiple sclerosis,
 Novartis AG ’s Gilenya.  Sales this year will reach $16.4 billion, Yanai said on the
conference call.  Sales in Europe increased 21 percent to $1 billion, helped
by the Ratiopharm acquisition. In North America, revenue rose 22
percent to $2.72 billion. Copies of  Pfizer Inc. ’s Effexor XR
antidepressant,  Bayer AG ’s Yaz birth-control pills and  Shire
Plc ’s Adderall XR attention-deficit drug boosted generic-drug
revenue.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Naomi Kresge  in Berlin at 
 nkresge@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at   pserafino@bloomberg.net  