-- Ex-Liverpool Coach Benitez Slams Roy Hodgson's Comments: Soccer Roundup
-- B y   P e t e r - J o s e p h   H e g a r t y
-- 2010-11-02T10:55:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-02/ex-liverpool-coach-benitez-slams-roy-hodgson-s-comments-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. media, with clickable links to the Web.  Rafa Rant  Former Liverpool manager  Rafael Benitez  made an
“astonishing attack” on current Anfield boss  Roy Hodgson , the
 Daily Mirror  said.  It follows Hodgson’s criticism of the squad left behind by
Benitez and the new coach’s claim that Benitez marginalized
former player and manager  Kenny Dalglish  at the club, the Mirror
said.  “I feel that Mr. Hodgson, he doesn’t understand,” said
Benitez, who’s now at Inter Milan. “Every single press
conference is worse than the last one. He’s talking about things
he doesn’t know.”  He added that “some people cannot see a priest on a
mountain of sugar. He doesn’t understand, maybe he has been in
the job for not so long.”  Redknapp Riled  Tottenham manager  Harry Redknapp  said he’ll fight any
disciplinary action if the Football Association punishes him for
his remarks after the 2-0 loss at Manchester United at the
weekend,  the Sun  reported.  Redknapp criticized referee  Mark Clattenburg  after he
allowed a goal that followed confusion over whether a free kick
had been awarded.  The manager also said he wouldn’t go on television to
comment after games in future if he’s punished.  “If I cannot come on TV and answer a question in a
truthful manner then we shouldn’t be dragged out,” he said.
“Don’t expect me to go on TV after a game ever because I won’t.
I don’t care if it’s in the rules. ”  Alves for City?  Manchester City may bid 30 million pounds ($48 million) for
Barcelona defender  Dani Alves , the  Daily Mail  reported.  The 27-year-old looked set to sign a new contract at Barca
but may be attracted by the money at City, who signed his former
teammate  Yaya Toure  on 220,000 pounds a week, the newspaper
added.  Tevez Out?  City’s  Carlos Tevez , currently in Argentina, is likely to
miss next week’s derby with Manchester United after a setback in
his recovery from a thigh injury,  the Mirror  reported.  United’s  Wayne Rooney  has returned to training after injury
and could be fit in time for the game at Eastlands, according to
the  Daily Express .  Pulling Teeth  United manager  Alex Ferguson  described the Champions League
as the best football tournament and said he’d rather go to the
dentist than watch the World Cup,  the Mirror  reported.  “Have you seen the last six World Cups?” he asked
reporters before tonight’s Champions League game at Bursaspor.
“You’re better off going to the dentist.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Peter-Joseph Hegarty  in London at 
 phegarty@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net . 