-- Mexico's Nuevo Leon State to Build 1 Billion-Peso Police City
-- B y   T h o m a s   B l a c k
-- 2010-11-02T15:45:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-02/mexico-s-nuevo-leon-state-to-build-1-billion-peso-police-city.html
The Mexican state of Nuevo Leon plans
to call for bids early next year on a 1 billion-peso ($81
million) project to build housing exclusively for police in what
would be Mexico’s first police city.  Javier Trevino , secretary general for the northern
industrial state, said the government wants to form a public-
private partnership to build a neighborhood for 800 police
officers and their families.  “It’s a way of keeping them protected and for the good
police to be better off,” Trevino said in a Nov. 1 interview
from the state government palace in Monterrey. “It’s an issue
of professionalizing and dignifying the police.”  The housing benefit, in which officers won’t own the
housing and won’t pay for it while in service, is part of the
state’s long-term strategy to beat back organized crime violence
that flared in October. Nationwide, drug-related killings have
exceeded 28,000 since December 2006, when President  Felipe Calderon  took office and deployed troops to quell organized
crime.  Nuevo Leon’s strategy, which was presented to Calderon on
Oct. 29, includes ousting corrupt police, unifying municipal
police into one homogeneous state force and boosting spending to
build parks and other social projects in the poorest
neighborhoods, Trevino said.  Four Police Cities  The police city is one of four the state wants to
eventually build, Trevino said. The first will likely be in the
municipality of Garcia, just to the west of Monterrey, followed
by one each in the north, south and eastern part of the
metropolitan area. Officers can be forced to leave the
neighborhood if they are removed from the force, Trevino said.
The details of the financing are being worked on, he added.  Nuevo Leon increased salaries of state officers and will
apply the pay scale to local police once the unified police
force is completed, Trevino said. The base monthly salary for a
state police officer is 12,800 pesos ($1,040), up from 8,594
pesos, he said.  The housing benefit and higher pay will help Nuevo Leon
meet a goal of boosting its force to 14,000 officers from 8,000
now, including municipal police, he said. The benefits include a
life insurance policy of 1 million pesos and education
scholarships for officers’ children.  “This is very important because the good police officers
are going to stay,” Trevino said.  Machine Guns  The state is spending 2 billion pesos on security next
year, Trevino said. In one project, the government will spend
140 million pesos to build a park and clean up the Independencia
neighborhood, one of 70 poor areas in metropolitan Monterrey
that local universities identified in a study as prone to
violence and organized gangs, such as the Zetas.  “In these 70 sectors is where these 16- and 17-year-old
kids are coming out with their machine guns, and they convert
into Zetas,” said Trevino, a former communications director for
cement maker  Cemex SAB .  Nuevo Leon is calling on companies to help with the social
projects. The state is home to Cemex, the largest cement maker
in the Americas, in addition to soft-drink producer Fomento
Economico Mexicano SAB, the owner of Latin America’s largest
convenience-store chain, and chemical maker  Alfa SAB .  “ Many companies want to participate,” he said. “They
realize that is has been many years of not paying attention to
this.”  The state backs the federal government’s strategy of a
frontal attack on organized crime in coordination with local law
enforcement, Trevino said. Some states have adopted the stance
that organized crime is a federal issue that should be solved by
the central government, he said.  Joint Operations  Last year, state police and the military drew weapons on
each other in tense standoffs. Now, meetings between the
military, federal and local officials are being held more than
once a week to map out joint operations against criminals, he
said.  Recent attacks with grenades and machine gun fire on police
headquarters are retaliations for successful military-police
operations and efforts to weed out corrupt police, Trevino said.  “We’re saying, ‘Yes, this is our problem and we have to
face it in a very coordinated manner with the federal
government,’” Trevino said. “The only way to attack this
problem is with everything you’ve got.”  The peso gained 0.2 percent to 12.3097 per dollar at 11:44
a.m. New York time from 12.3365 yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Thomas Black  in Monterrey at 
 tblack@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 