-- Oil Leak From Yemen Pipeline Explosion Is Minimal, Korea National Oil Says
-- B y   S h i n h y e   K a n g   a n d   R o b e r t   T u t t l e
-- 2010-11-03T03:06:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-02/explosion-hit-pipeline-in-yemen-no-casualties-korea-national-oil-says.html
The damage from an explosion that
struck an oil pipeline in Yemen is minimal, said  Korea National
Oil Corp. , which operates the  Block 4  oil exploration region in
the Middle Eastern country.  “The oil leak is minimal as the block is still in the
development stage,” Kelvin Han, a spokesman at the state-run
South Korean company, said by phone today.  The explosion hit the pipeline before 8 a.m. local time
yesterday, Korea National Oil said in an e-mailed statement.
There were no casualties and the company is investigating the
reason, Han said.  The cause of the blast hasn’t been determined, South Korean
President  Lee Myung Bak  said today, after media reports it was
caused by terrorists. The incident is the second suspected
terrorist attack out of Yemen within a week, after U.S.
authorities found what they said were explosive packages sent
from the country.  South Korea’s government is prepared for any contingencies
at the G-20 summit in Seoul next week, Lee said.  Suspected Al-Qaeda militants tried to destroy the pipeline,
Agence France-Presse reported reported yesterday, citing a
security official it didn’t identify  Korea National Oil bought a 50 percent stake in Yemen
Company for Investment in Oil and Minerals’ share in 2007. About
150 barrels of oil a day was being produced in July from  Block
4 , according to the South Korean company’s website.  Explosives were found on Oct. 29 in air-freight shipments
originating from Yemen, U.S. authorities said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Shinhye Kang  in Seoul at 
 skang24@bloomberg.net ;
 Robert Tuttle  in Doha at 
 rtuttle@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net . 