-- Exxon Mobil, Shell, Japan Seek to Extend Abu Dhabi Crude Oil Concession
-- B y   A n t h o n y   D i P a o l a   a n d   A y e s h a   D a y a
-- 2010-11-02T18:02:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-02/exxon-seeks-abu-dhabi-oil-concession-extension-official-says.html
Exxon Mobil Corp. , Royal Dutch Shell
Plc and Total SA are seeking to extend contracts for producing
oil in Abu Dhabi, company executives said. Japan agreed to lend
$3 billion to the sheikhdom in anticipation of new contracts.  Exxon Mobil and Shell are concession-holders in  Abu Dhabi
Co. for Onshore Oil Operations , the onshore unit of state-owned
Abu Dhabi National Oil Co. also known as Adco, until 2014. Abu
Dhabi holds more than 90 percent of crude in the United Arab
Emirates, one of the few Middle East nations that allow foreign
companies to explore and produce oil within its borders.  “We are working to extend our concessions, which expire
shortly,”  Mark Nolan , Exxon Mobil’s vice president of
production in the Middle East and Russia, said today at a
conference in Abu Dhabi. “We are really looking forward to
negotiating a great future.”  Abu Dhabi is planning to spend as much as $60 billion over
the next decade to expand its oil and gas industry, including
boosting crude production capacity to 3.5 million barrels a day
from about 2.8 million now. Adnoc, as the parent company is
known, owns 60 percent of Adco with Exxon Mobil, Shell, Total,
BP Plc and Partex Oil & Gas holding the rest. Adco plans to
raise onshore output by 400,000 barrels a day to 1.8 million.  Exxon Mobil wants to use proprietary technology to help
raise output at deposits in the concession area. The company
would prefer to operate the fields alone rather than in the
current partnership, a change that would enable Exxon Mobil to
use its new technologies without having to share them with
commercial rivals.  ‘Unique Relationship’  “When you have a unique relationship, we can openly share
that technology,” Exxon’s Nolan said. “When you’re in a
competitive environment, it’s more difficult.”  Persian Gulf oil producers are seeking to increase capacity
on expectations that demand will recover from the global
economic slowdown. Saudi Arabia, the largest producer in the
Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries with a production
capacity of 12 million barrels a day, doesn’t allow foreign oil
companies in its upstream oil industry.  “We’ve been here since 1939,” John Barry, Shell’s Abu
Dhabi country chief, said today. “I sincerely hope we are
involved in Adnoc’s plans in the future. It is much too early to
be talking about a renewal. It is for Adnoc to express its
desired structure.”  Total  is “confident” it will continue to be a partner
with Abu Dhabi in developing the Persian Gulf emirate’s oil
reserves after its concession expires, Jean Luc Guiziou, Total’s
vice president for production in the Middle East, said Oct. 31.  Partnership  Adnoc and government-run  Japan Bank for International
Cooperation  signed an accord on an 11 billion-dirham ($3
billion) loan, Emirates News Agency reported today.  Japan Bank signed a memorandum of understanding with Abu
Dhabi, which “has the objective to mutually recognize that the
grant of new concessions to Japanese entities and the renewal of
existing concessions involving Japanese entities are significant
objectives of the JBIC mandate,” the news agency said.  Japan Oil Development Co., a unit of Japan’s biggest energy
explorer  Inpex Corp. , will see its stake in Abu Dhabi’s Zakum
Development Co. expire later this decade. Zakum Development
plans a $15 billion artificial islands project to boost offshore
production by about 40 percent to 750,000 barrels a day by 2018
from the Upper Zakum oil field.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Anthony Dipaola  in Dubai at 
 adipaola@bloomberg.net ;
 Ayesha Daya  in Abu Dhabi at 
 adaya1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net . 