-- Fast Retailing's Uniqlo Posts Smallest Store-Sales Decline in Three Months
-- B y   N a o k o   F u j i m u r a
-- 2010-11-02T07:01:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-02/fast-retailing-s-uniqlo-posts-smallest-store-sales-decline-in-three-months.html
  Fast Retailing Co. , Asia’s biggest
clothing chain operator, posted the smallest sales decline in
three months for its Uniqlo stores in Japan as cold weather in
the final week of October spurred demand for winter apparel.  October same-store sales, or sales at Uniqlo stores open at
least a year in Japan, dropped 1.1 percent, the Yamaguchi city,
Japan-based company said in a  statement  today. Revenue per
customer fell 0.9 percent. The company’s sales in October 2009
surged 36 percent.  Fast Retailing  benefited from cold weather toward the end
of October, which increased demand for winter apparel, the
company said. The retailer offered discounts on some of its
Heattech thermal underwear last month.  The company forecast full-year net income will fall for the
first time in four years, as as it faces increased competition
from domestic rivals such as  Aeon Co. , which have introduced
products similar to Uniqlo’s Heattech range.  Inditex SA ’s Zara
and  Hennes & Mauritz AB ’s H&M brands are also adding stores in
Japan.  Uniqlo’s same-store sales in Japan may fall 4.7 percent
this fiscal year, as it expects a 9.8 percent drop in the six
months ending Feb. 28, the company said last month. Comparable
sales, which strip out the effect of stores open less than a
year, plunged 25 percent in September, the biggest decline in
more than seven years.  Fast Retailing  fell 2.8 percent to 10,820 yen at the 3 p.m.
close on the Tokyo Stock Exchange before the announcement. The
stock has  slid  38 percent this year, compared with a 12 percent
decline for the broader  Topix index .  It snowed in northern island of Hokkaido last month and the
clothier offered discounts on the Heattech line on Oct. 23
and Oct. 24.  “Sales of winter gear went well all of a sudden” as
customers weren’t ready for the weather, spokesman Daisuke Hase
said in a phone interview today. Uniqlo shoppers also bought
fleece jackets and products from the Ultra Light Down product
line, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Naoko Fujimura  in Tokyo at 
 nfujimura@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Longid at   flongid@bloomberg.net  