-- Volcker Says Quantitative Easing May Create Inflation in Future
-- B y   S h a m i m   A d a m   a n d   L i z a   T a n
-- 2010-11-02T13:45:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-02/fed-s-quantitative-easing-program-may-create-inflation-surge-volcker-says.html
Former Federal Reserve Chairman  Paul Volcker , an adviser to President  Barack Obama , signaled that
some investors are concerned about the potential inflation risks
of quantitative easing and record-low interest rates.  “It does worry people” that “we’re going to create so
much money that down the road we’ll create inflation,” Volcker,
83, said in response to a question about the global implications
of quantitative easing at an event at the National University of
Singapore today. “I don’t think that’s beyond the capacity of
the central bank to deal with in the future. But they’re going
to have to deal with it.”  His comments come as Fed policy makers prepare to meet
today and tomorrow in Washington amid concern that economic
growth is not strong enough to reduce a U.S. unemployment rate
close to 10 percent. The Fed may announce a plan to purchase at
least $500 billion of long-term securities, according to
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  U.S. policy makers, pursuing unprecedented stimulus, have
cut the benchmark rate almost to zero and bought $1.7 trillion
in securities without generating growth fast enough to bring
down unemployment from near a 26-year high. Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said on Aug. 27 that the central bank “will do all it
can” to sustain the recovery, as investors anticipate further
Fed asset purchases after its first round of debt-buying from
December 2008 to March.  How Much?  Volcker, chairman of Obama’s Economic Recovery Advisory
Board, said the Fed’s debt buying in itself isn’t a concern as
the U.S. jobless rate, 9.6 percent in September, has little
chance of going down soon and the nation’s economic problems
can’t all be cured in the short run.  “It doesn’t alarm me that they’re thinking about buying
Treasuries,” he said, referring to quantitative easing. “It’s
the volume which they choose to do and we don’t know what that
is,” he said, adding that “if money is too easy for too long,
we’ll have more” asset bubbles.  As Fed chairman from 1979 to 1987, Volcker raised  interest
rates  to as high as 20 percent to tame inflation, triggering a
recession. “Dealing with inflation and inflation potentials is
always a challenge,” he said. “It’s manageable but not easy.”  The Federal Reserve’s preferred price measure, which
excludes food and fuel, was unchanged in September from the
prior month and was up 1.2 percent from a year earlier, the
smallest gain since September 2001.  Central Banks  As U.S. policy makers consider measures to boost the
economy against the backdrop of mid-term congressional
elections, other central banks are seeking to curb inflation.
India today raised borrowing costs for the sixth time this year,
while Australia also unexpectedly pushed up interest rates. Last
month, China raised rates for the first time since 2007.  Since Bernanke’s comments on Aug. 27 that the Fed was
prepared to add stimulus if necessary, the Standard & Poor’s  500
Index  has gained around 13 percent, while the dollar has
declined about 7 percent against a basket of six currencies.  The U.S. economy grew at a 2 percent annual rate in the
third quarter as consumer spending climbed the most in almost
four years, the Commerce Department said Oct. 29. Growth in the
2.5 percent to 2.8 percent range is consistent with keeping the
jobless rate stable, according to policy makers’ latest
forecasts.  ‘Misconception’  Volcker also commented on the president’s changes to the
financial system, saying they can’t happen overnight and Wall
Street’s attitudes haven’t changed even as the idea that Obama
is anti-business is a “misconception.” Banks shouldn’t engage
in proprietary trading, he also said.  U.S. regulators are implementing the most sweeping overhaul
of financial oversight since the Great Depression. Signed into
law by Obama in July, the rules were prompted by a credit crisis
that triggered the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. and
pushed the U.S. economy into a recession.  The law includes limits to investments by commercial banks
in private equity or hedge funds, known as the “Volcker Rule”
because of Volcker’s advocacy for the change. Under a measure
that may not take full effect for as long as a dozen years,
banks can invest in private-equity and hedge funds, though they
will be limited to providing no more than 3 percent of the
fund’s capital. Banks also can’t invest more than 3 percent of
their Tier 1 capital.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Shamim Adam  in Singapore at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at   canstey@bloomberg.net  