-- FIFA World Cup Corruption Probe Must Move `Quickly,' IOC Official Says
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2010-11-02T15:38:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-02/fifa-s-world-cup-corruption-probe-must-move-quickly-ioc-official-says.html
One of the  International Olympic
Committee’s  most senior officials said soccer’s rulers must act
quickly and decisively to avoid being tainted by corruption
allegations surrounding the World Cup.  Craig Reedie , who last year became the first Briton on the
IOC’s 15-member board in more than 60 years, said  FIFA  could
learn from the way the Olympics organizer dealt with the Salt
Lake City bribery scandal.  Two of the 24 men due to vote on where the World Cup, the
most-watched sports event, will be staged in 2018 and 2022 have
been suspended pending an inquiry after they allegedly told
undercover reporters their votes could be bought. The IOC, which
has about 100 members, forced out 10 officials accused of
accepting bribes during Salt Lake’s successful bid for the 2002
Winter Games. Ten others received reprimands.  “FIFA have to deal with it and deal with it quickly,”
Reedie, who was on the IOC during the bribery probe, said in an
interview yesterday. “It was without doubt the worst day I ever
had in sport to actually go through the business of disciplining
and expelling members. It was a hugely unpopular and difficult
thing to do.”  IOC President  Jacques Rogge  said Oct. 26 that FIFA
President  Sepp Blatter  has asked for advice since the Sunday
Times of London on Oct. 17 accused FIFA board members  Amos Adamu 
of Nigeria and Reynald Temarii of Tahiti of offering to trade
their votes for cash. An investigation has also been opened into
allegations of collusion between Qatar’s 2022 bid committee and
a joint offer from Spain and Portugal for 2018. FIFA’s ethics
committee will announce its findings Nov. 17. England, Russia
and a joint bid from the Netherlands and Belgium are also in the
running for 2018.  Tighter Rules  As well as expelling members, the IOC introduced reforms
including a ban on member visits to bid cities, and tighter
rules on potential conflicts of interest. It also created an
ethics commission, which has a majority of officials who aren’t
affiliated to the IOC. Members include former United Nations
Secretary General  Javier Perez de Cuellar  and  Thomas Buergenthal ,
an American judge who until September served on the
International Court of Justice in The Hague.  “I think if you’re going to have an ethics commission it’s
proper that you should have an outside body looking at your
affairs,” Reedie said. FIFA’s ethics panel is led by former
Swiss soccer player turned lawyer Claudio Sulser and includes
officials from 13 other soccer federations.  Other IOC officials also said the organization benefited
from its post-Salt Lake purge.  “People saw what we went through and kicked out 10 members,
we did what we had to do,” said Israeli  Alex Gilady , who’s been
a member since 1994. “It’s an everyday job to make sure your
organization is clean.”  The World Cup is worth as much as $5 billion to the hosts,
according to the U.S., which is competing with Qatar, Japan,
Australia and South Korea for the right to stage the 2022 event.
With such high stakes, the pressure on the 24 FIFA voters has
grown as the Dec. 2 date for the final vote approaches.  Under Scrutiny  Patrick Baumann, secretary general of international
basketball organization FIBA, said officials must expect their
decisions to come under scrutiny.  “We’ve never faced any difficulties but we’re always
subjected to pressure in one form or another,” said Baumann,
also an IOC member. “People will always try to lobby you and
try to make you feel their bid is better.”  England’s bid may be hurt because the allegations were made
in a London newspaper, some FIFA officials said.  Mohamed Bin Hammam , head of soccer in Asia, said  on his blog  Oct. 24 that
“forging identity, fabricating evidence and setting traps are
unethical behaviors in my point of view” and Blatter said
committee members were “entrapped” at an Oct. 29 press
conference.  ‘Uncomfortable’  Reedie said an undercover investigation by the British
Broadcasting Corp. in 2004 into IOC executives ahead of their
vote was an “uncomfortable experience” for the team that won
the right to stage the 2012 Summer Games in London.  He added he was “not comfortable” with entrapment by
newspapers, “but it is not illegal in Britain and if there are
accusations then FIFA have to deal with it, and deal with it
firmly.”  “One of the challenges we had in the London bidding
situation was the international perception of the British
media,” said Reedie, who’s also on the board of the 2012
organizing committee. Reedie, from Scotland, isn’t in England’s
bid team.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tariq  Panja in London at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at   celser@bloomberg.net . 