-- Human Genome Sciences Consultant Accused of Tipping Hedge Fund Gets Bail
-- B y   D o n   J e f f r e y   a n d   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2010-11-17T17:07:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-02/french-doctor-charged-by-u-s-with-tipping-hedge-fund-on-drug-trial-result.html
A  Human Genome Sciences Inc. 
consultant accused of tipping off hedge fund FrontPoint Partners
LLC about the results of trials involving the hepatitis-C drug
Albuferon was granted $3 million bail by a judge in New York.  Dr.  Yves Benhamou , 50, of France, was charged Nov. 2 by
prosecutors in the office of Manhattan U.S. Attorney  Preet Bharara  with insider-trading and conspiracy.  “We’re gratified that the court set conditions of bail
that we hope will permit Dr. Benhamou to resume his
communications with his patients,” said  David Zornow ,
Benhamou’s lawyer, after the hearing ended.  Assistant Manhattan U.S. Attorney Pablo Quinones said he
had no comment.  Benhamou, whose expertise is hepatitis and liver diseases,
was arrested in Boston while attending a conference after a two-
count criminal complaint was filed against him in federal court
in Manhattan.  He waived his rights to a hearing in Boston and agreed to
have a detention hearing in New York.  U.S. Magistrate  Frank Maas  set bail at $3 million, secured
by $1 million in cash or property in the U.S. Benhamou will have
“home incarceration” in the New York area and be monitored
electronically, Maas said. He’s being held until he posts the $1
million.  Cooperation  FrontPoint, which is being spun off from Morgan Stanley,
said in an e-mailed statement that it’s “cooperating fully”
with federal authorities in the case. Dr.  Chip Skowron , a co-
portfolio manager of the Greenwich, Connecticut-based firm’s
health care funds, was placed on leave pending the outcome of
the probe, the firm said.  FrontPoint held 3.3 million shares of Human Genome at the
end of the fourth quarter of 2007, valued at $34.3 million,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg News. It held none at
the end of the following quarter. Human Genome fell 44 percent
on Jan. 23, 2008, after saying it will change the dosing of its
experimental hepatitis-C drug Albuferon in patient tests.  Before joining FrontPoint, Skowron was an analyst at hedge
funds Millennium Partners LLC in New York and SAC Capital
Advisors LLC in Stamford, Connecticut, according to FrontPoint’s
marketing documents.  Dual Roles  Benhamou held dual roles, acting as a paid consultant to at
least six hedge funds while working as an adviser to Human
Genome, a developer of gene-based drugs, and serving on its
steering committee for Albuferon trials, prosecutors and the
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission alleged in a parallel
lawsuit.  Benhamou is no longer a Human Genome consultant and the
company has “cooperated fully” with the SEC,  Jerry Parrot , a
company spokesman, said.  “By profiting from his sensitive position and providing
the hedge fund an unfair advantage, Benhamou undermined the
integrity of the securities market and sold out his employer,”
Bharara said in a statement.  Benhamou repeatedly shared non-public information he
gleaned from working for Rockville, Maryland-based Human Genome
with his unidentified co-conspirator at the fund, prosecutors
alleged in court papers. For example, on Jan. 18, when the
company asked Benhamou for advice on a news release to disclose
negative information about the Albuferon trial, he immediately
shared the development with his co-conspirator, prosecutors
said.  Instant Message  The co-conspirator at the hedge fund seven minutes later
directed a trader at the fund by instant message to “sell the
HGSI” and “all of it,” prosecutors said.  The fund avoided about $30 million in  losses , Bharara’s
office said, by selling a total of about six million shares
before the adverse disclosures were publicly announced.  Benhamou, of Neuilly-sur-Seine, France, was charged in a
criminal complaint that accuses him of one count of conspiracy
to commit securities fraud and one count of securities fraud. He
faces as long as 20 years in prison if convicted.  The U.S. charged that from November 2007 through January
2008 the co-conspirator worked for the unnamed hedge fund as a
portfolio manager for health-care with the authority to have the
fund to sell 6 million of its  shares  of Human Genome.  On multiple occasions, Benhamou, because he was a member of
Human Genome’s steering committee, had access to non-public
information about “serious adverse effects” that occurred
during the Albuferon trials, the U.S. said.  Prosecutors said that in 2007, from Feb. 1 to Dec. 3, the
hedge fund bought about 6.2 million shares of Human Genome for
about $64 million at an average price of about $10.32 a share.  The case is U.S. v. Benhamou, 10-MAG-2424, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan). The SEC case
is SEC v. Benhamou, 10-CV-8266, U.S. District Court, Southern
District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Patricia Hurtado  in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net ;
To contact the reporter on this story:
 Don Jeffrey  in New York at 
 djeffrey1@bloomberg.net . 