-- Germany's DAX Climbs to 28-Month High; Fresenius SE, ThyssenKrupp Advance
-- B y   J u l i e   C r u z
-- 2010-11-02T17:10:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-02/fresenius-medical-hochtief-linde-metro-may-move-german-equity-preview.html
German stocks rose to the highest
level in 28 months as the Federal Reserve begins a two-day
meeting that’s expected to provide additional stimulus measures
to help the economic recovery.  Fresenius SE  advanced 2.6 percent as the parent company of
the world’s biggest provider of kidney dialysis raised its
outlook for 2010. ThyssenKrupp AG followed metal prices higher.
Fielmann AG and  Sky Deutschland AG  dropped as analysts
downgraded the shares.  The  DAX Index  climbed 0.8 percent to 6,654.31 at the 5:30
p.m. close in Frankfurt, the highest level since June 19, 2008.
The measure rallied 6 percent in October as investors speculated
that policy makers at the Fed would announce another round of
asset purchases, a tactic known as quantitative easing, at this
week’s meeting. The broader HDAX Index gained 0.7 today.  “It’s a very important and exciting week for equity
markets,” said  Matthias Jasper , head of equities at WGZ Bank AG
in Dusseldorf. “The market’s expectations about the
quantitative easing program are very high. The macroeconomic
data is still encouraging and we’re going to see a year-end
rally.”  Fed policy makers meeting today and tomorrow will restart a
program of securities purchases to spur growth, reduce
unemployment and increase inflation, said 53 of 56 economists
surveyed last week. Twenty-nine forecast the bank will pledge to
buy $500 billion or more, while another seven predicted it will
buy $50 billion to $100 billion in monthly purchases without
specifying a total. The remainder said the Fed would buy as much
as $500 billion or they didn’t quantify their estimates.  European Economy  Europe’s manufacturing industries expanded at a faster pace
in October than initially estimated as export demand
strengthened, a report showed today. A  gauge of manufacturing  in
the 16-nation euro region rose to 54.6 from 53.7 in the previous
month, London-based Markit Economics said. It had previously
reported an increase to 54.1 in October. A reading above 50
indicates expansion.  Fresenius preferred shares gained 2.6 percent to 64.89
euros, erasing yesterday’s 1.8 percent decline. The company said
it expects this year’s net income to rise 20 percent.  ThyssenKrupp, Germany’s biggest steelmaker, rose 1.4
percent to 26.72 euros as aluminum, copper, lead, nickel, tin
and zinc gained on the London Metal Exchange.  K+S AG  advanced 1.6 percent to 50.85 euros as Europe’s
biggest potash producer reported a jump in third-quarter profit
and raised its target for 2010 after prices for the crop
nutrient gained.  BASF Gains  BASF SE surged 3.2 percent to 54.23 euros. The world’s
biggest chemical company and Monsanto Co. said they have made
“significant progress toward launching next-generation dicamba-
based weed control systems for soybeans and cotton.” Dicamba
formulations could be available globally for farmers “this
decade,” the companies said in a joint statement.  Fielmann  fell 2.6 percent to 71.10 euros, the biggest
decline in almost two months. BofA Merrill Lynch Global Research
cut its rating on Europe’s largest chain of opticians to
“underperform” from “neutral.”  Sky Deutschland slid 13 percent to 1.11 euros, ending the
longest winning streak in five years. The pay-television
operator was downgraded to “neutral” from “buy” at UBS AG,
which said subscriber growth may disappoint.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Julie Cruz  in Frankfurt at 
 jcruz6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Merritt at   dmerritt1@bloomberg.net . 