-- FrontPoint Said to Be Hedge Fund in Albuferon Probe
-- B y   S a i j e l   K i s h a n ,   K a t h e r i n e   B u r t o n   a n d   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2010-11-02T20:56:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-02/frontpoint-partners-said-to-be-hedge-fund-in-u-s-probe-of-drug-trial-tip.html
FrontPoint Partners LLC is the hedge
fund whose employees allegedly received nonpublic information 
regarding Human Genome Sciences Inc.’s Albuferon drug from Dr.  Yves Benhamou , charged today with insider trading, according to 
a person familiar with the matter.  “We are cooperating fully with this investigation,” the
Greenwich, Connecticut firm that’s being spun out of Morgan
Stanley said in an e-mailed statement today. Dr.  Chip Skowron , a
co-portfolio manager of FrontPoint’s health care funds, was
placed on leave pending the outcome of the investigation, the
firm said.  Benhamou, 50, of France, was arrested today in Boston on
suspicion he tipped off a hedge fund about negative results of
Albuferon drug trials. The U.S. charged that from November 2007
through January 2008 a co-conspirator worked for the hedge fund
as a portfolio manager for health care with the authority to
cause the fund to sell its shares of HGSI, a developer of gene-
based drugs.  Benhamou held dual positions, both working as an adviser to
HGSI on the Rockville, Maryland-based company’s hepatitis C
drug’s Albuferon trials while also holding positions as a paid
consultant to at least six hedge funds, the U.S. said. According
to prosecutors, one hedge fund, which wasn’t named, used that
information to “avoid approximately $30 million in losses.”  FrontPoint held 3.3 million shares of HGSI at the end of
the fourth quarter of 2007, valued at $34.3 million, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg News. It held none at the end of
the following quarter. HGSI fell 44 percent on Jan. 23, 2008,
after saying it will change the dosing of its experimental
hepatitis-C drug Albuferon in patient tests.  $7 Billion Assets  Messages left by Bloomberg News for Skowron weren’t
returned.  Morgan Stanley, the sixth-largest U.S. bank by assets, last
month agreed to give up control of FrontPoint, four years after
it bought the firm as part of a push into alternative assets.
FrontPoint’s managers, led by co-chief executive officers  Daniel Waters  and Michael Kelly, are gaining a majority stake in the
asset manager and will replace Morgan Stanley affiliates as the
funds’ investment adviser and general partner.  FrontPoint had $7 billion of assets under management as of
Oct. 20, including $1 billion of net new money that the firm
attracted from clients this year.  Benhamou was arrested on two federal charges filed by
prosecutors in the office of Manhattan U.S. Attorney Preet
Bharara, the FBI in New York said.  Joseph Zwicker, a lawyer for Benhamou, didn’t immediately
return a voicemail message left at his office seeking comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Saijel Kishan  in New York at 
 skishan@bloomberg.net 
 Katherine Burton  in New York at 
 kburton@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  