-- FSA Arrests Two, Conducts Searches in U.K., German Insider-Trading Probe
-- B y   L i n d s a y   F o r t a d o
-- 2010-11-02T16:29:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-02/fsa-arrests-two-conducts-insider-trading-probe-searches-in-u-k-germany.html
The U.K.’s financial regulator and
police searched buildings in London and Germany and arrested a
“city professional” as part of an insider-trading
investigation.  The Financial Services Authority arrested a 37-year-old man
and a 28-year-old woman in London, the regulator said in  a
statement  today. City of London Police and the FSA also searched
two addresses in London and worked with police and prosecutors
in Hesse, Germany, to conduct a search there.  Frankfurt prosecutors assisted the FSA in the probe,  Doris Moeller-Scheu , spokeswoman for the Frankfurt prosecutors’
office, said in an interview today. She declined to comment
further.  The case isn’t related to any ongoing insider-trading
investigations, the regulator said. The FSA is currently
prosecuting 11 people for trading with insider information and
has convicted six men for the crime since March 2009. The agency
never prosecuted a criminal insider-trading case before 2008.  The regulator, facing dissolution by 2012,  is lobbying  for
its enforcement unit to become part of its replacement, the
Consumer Protection and Markets Authority. Along with the
independent CPMA, the U.K. government plans to create a
Prudential Regulatory Authority at the Bank of England to
oversee financial regulation. The FSA’s enforcement unit is
slated to become part of a planned economic-crime agency.  Prosecution Preferred  “Those who participate in market abuse such as insider
dealing can expect a criminal investigation by the FSA rather
than a simple regulatory one,” said  Neill Blundell , head of the
fraud group at the law firm Eversheds. “The FSA have made it
clear that, in such cases, a prosecution is the preferred option
for them. This case reinforces that.”  The FSA arrested a 64-year-old man in September on
suspicion of money laundering and providing false information as
part of an investigation into insider trading where six had
already been arrested last year.  In April, the regulator charged seven people who allegedly
made about 2.5 million pounds in illegal profits with data
leaked from London printers used by UBS AG and JPMorgan Chase &
Co.’s Cazenove unit. They are scheduled to go on trial in May.  In a separate investigation that ensnared employees from
Deutsche Bank AG, Exane BNP Paribas and Moore Capital Management
LLC the FSA in March arrested seven men.  To contact the reporter for this story:
 Lindsay Fortado  in London at 
 lfortado@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net . 