-- Giants End 56-Year World Series Drought as Renteria Stars
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2010-11-02T05:02:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-02/giants-beat-rangers-3-1-to-win-the-world-series-for-first-time-in-56-years.html
The San Francisco Giants ended
their 56-year World Series drought behind a homegrown
pitching staff and a lineup of “misfits and outcasts” who
delivered key hits in crucial situations.  The Giants beat the Texas Rangers 3-1 last night in
Arlington, Texas, as  Tim Lincecum  allowed one run over
eight innings and  Edgar Renteria  hit a three-run home run
during the seventh inning to snap a scoreless tie.  The Giants claimed their sixth  World Series title  and
first since 1954, four years before the franchise moved to
San Francisco from New York. Only two Major League Baseball
teams have longer ongoing World Series droughts -- the 
Chicago Cubs(102 years) and Cleveland Indians (62 years).  “It’s a euphoric feeling,” said Giants manager  Bruce Bochy , who was six months old when the team last won the
World Series. “The players wanted it as bad for the fans
as for themselves because they know how long it’s been.”  Renteria was voted the World Series Most Valuable
Player, 13 years after he won a championship for the
Florida Marlins with a run-scoring single in the 11th
inning of Game 7 against Cleveland. Renteria is the fourth
player to drive in the winning run in two World Series
clinching games, joining Hall of Fame members  Joe DiMaggio ,
 Yogi Berra  and  Lou Gehrig .  “I’ve been hurt all year, but I keep myself in shape,
keep working hard, and keep telling myself, ‘Let’s be
patient,’” said the 34-year-old Renteria, who was on the
disabled list three times this season. “Thank God
everything worked out.”  Champagne Celebration  Renteria and Lincecum were at the center of the post-
game celebration in the visitors’ locker room, where Giants
players dumped bottles of beer and champagne on one another
while wearing championship hats and t-shirts.  Lincecum and fellow starting pitchers  Matt Cain ,
 Jonathan Sanchez  and  Madison Bumgarner  -- all developed in
the Giants’ system -- combined for a 2.25 earned run
average in the World Series. They’re the first quartet of
homegrown starters to reach a World Series since the 1986
Boston Red Sox rotation of  Roger Clemens , Dennis ‘Oil Can’
Boyd, Bruce Hurst and  Al Nipper .  Cain, 26, didn’t allow an earned run in 21 1/3 innings
during the postseason. The 21-year-old Bumgarner went 2-0
in three starts and shut out the Rangers for eight innings
in the 4-0 Game 4 victory to become the fourth-youngest
pitcher to win a World Series game. Lincecum, 26, went 4-1
in five postseason starts with a 2.43 ERA.  “Unbelievable how good they’ve been,” Bochy said
after receiving the championship trophy. “They’re the
reason we’re here. To come in here and pitch like that
against a great hitting ballclub, it’s great to have these
guys in front of us for the future.”  Lincecum, Renteria  Lincecum, who won the Cy Young Award as the National
League’s best pitcher in 2008 and 2009, held the Rangers to
two hits over six shutout innings last night before
surrendering a solo home run to  Nelson Cruz  in the bottom
of the seventh.  Renteria, the fifth shortstop to win the World Series
MVP award, had given the Giants a 3-0 lead in the top half
of the inning with his two-out home run off  Cliff Lee  that
followed singles by  Cody Ross  and  Juan Uribe .  “We don’t have any superstars, we’re just a bunch of
guys that wanted to win,” said Ross, who led the Giants
with 10 runs batted in during the postseason after being
claimed off waivers during the season. Ross epitomized a
lineup that Bochy has described as “misfits and
outcasts.”  Lee was beaten by the Giants for the second time in
the World Series after going 7-0 in his first eight career
postseason starts. He allowed six hits in seven innings,
with no walks and six strikeouts.  Rangers Shut Down  The Rangers, who had the highest batting average in
the major leagues during the regular season, got outscored
29-12 in the series and were shut out twice. The Giants
were the third team to have four shutouts in a postseason.  Brian Wilson , who led the majors with 48 saves during
the regular season, retired the Rangers’  Josh Hamilton ,
 Vladimir Guerrero  and Cruz in the ninth inning.  After striking out Cruz to end the game, Wilson turned
and shouted as rookie catcher  Buster Posey  and the rest of
the Giants raced to the pitchers’ mound to celebrate.  “This is the ultimate high in baseball and I got to
experience it my first year in baseball,” Posey said in a
televised interview.  As Posey and his teammates celebrated in Arlington,
36-year-old Peter Santiago and his young daughter were
among the Giants fans rejoicing in San Francisco after
watching the game on a giant screen in front of City Hall.  San Francisco Celebration  “It’s the first championship in this city’s history -
- this is a great experience,” Santiago, a bail agent from
Danville, California, said as his daughter Destiny sat on
his shoulders wearing a fake black beard similar to
Wilson’s. “I was hoping they would do it at home, but a
win is a win.”  San Francisco Mayor  Gavin Newsom  said the Giants would
be honored with a ticker-tape parade tomorrow before
receiving a ceremonial key to the city. The parade route
will be the same as the one for the team’s arrival in San
Francisco in 1958.  The Giants clinched a playoff berth on the last day of
the regular season before eliminating the Atlanta Braves
and two-time defending NL-champion Philadelphia Phillies to
reach the World Series. In beating the Rangers, the Giants
become the fourth team to win the World Series after
spending less than 40 days atop their division during the
regular season.  “The key was we got contributions from everybody,”
Bochy said. “It was somebody different every day. It
wasn’t just one hitter or one pitcher.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Erik Matuszewski  in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  