-- GM Predecessor's Bonds Decline as $10.6 Billion IPO Plan Shows Valuation
-- B y   C r a i g   T r u d e l l   a n d   D a v i d   W e l c h
-- 2010-11-02T21:02:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-02/gm-predecessor-s-bonds-decline-as-10-6-billion-ipo-plan-shows-valuation.html
Bonds issued by  General Motors Co. ’s
bankrupt predecessor declined from the highest in almost six
months as the largest U.S. automaker was said to seek as much as
$10.6 billion in an initial public offering.  GM , 61 percent owned by the Treasury Department, may offer
about 365 million shares at $26 to $29 each, two people familiar
with the plan said yesterday. That values GM at $50 billion to
$60 billion,  Guy LeBas , chief fixed-income strategist and
economist at Janney Montgomery Scott LLC, wrote today in a note.  Creditors of  Motors Liquidation Co ., which get about a 10
percent stake in the new company, will receive about 31 cents to
37 cents in new GM stock for every dollar of the senior debt
they own, wrote LeBas, who is based in Philadelphia.  The 8.375 percent bonds due July 2033, which were issued by
old General Motors Corp. and convert to shares in the new GM,
fell 4.375 cents to 32.625 cents on the dollar at 4:45 p.m. in
New York, according to Trace, the bond-pricing service of the
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  “They’re trading pretty close to fair value,” LeBas said
today in a telephone interview. “The only question is, ‘What do
you think of the value of GM shares post-IPO?’ Traditionally,
there’s a bit of a post-IPO pop for stable companies like an
automaker.”  The bonds traded as high as 37.75 cents on the dollar
yesterday, the highest since May 3, according to Trace data.
They were the most actively traded bonds today, with 207 trades
of $1 million or more, Bloomberg data show.  ‘Key Determinant’  “The stake in GM is one of the few liquid assets that
Motors Liquidation has now, so that would be a key determinant
of what recovery will be available for the bonds,” said  Stephen Brown , a Chicago-based analyst with Fitch Ratings. “A decline
suggests that the numbers thrown out there today might be less
than what the investors of these bonds were expecting.”  Investors who buy GM bonds today would have to wait for a
return, said  David Whiston , an analyst with Chicago-based
research firm Morningstar Inc. A GM stock price of $85 a share
before the planned 3-for-1 split would equate to a recovery rate
of 21 cents on the dollar, he wrote in an Oct. 8 report.  A GM share price of $134 would give bondholders a recovery
rate of 38.9 cents to 46.6 cents on the dollar, depending on the
number of claims levied against the old GM in bankruptcy court,
he said in the report.  Waiting Game  “Bondholders will have to wait on the bankruptcy court to
execute the bankruptcy plan,” Whiston said today. “There are
better ways to get in on GM than the bonds.”  If bondholders have patience, GM’s notes could be a good
investment, said  Kirk Ludtke , senior vice president of CRT
Capital Group LLC in Stamford, Connecticut. The firm has a
“buy” rating on the bonds.  GM’s bonds imply a stock price of about $105 per share,
which is higher than the IPO is expected to price, Ludtke said.
GM could trade higher than the initial price so not all
investors may be able to get the stock at the IPO rate of $78 to
$87 a share before splits.  “Some bondholders are saying you may as well wait for the
stock,” Ludtke said. “You’re making a bet that you will be
able to get the stock at the IPO price.”  The IPO will reduce the U.S. and Canadian governments’
stakes in the largest U.S. carmaker, according to the people,
who asked not to be identified because the plans are private.
The Detroit-based automaker also will offer $2 billion to $3
billion of preferred shares that later will become common stock,
the people said.  Valuation Below Estimates  The expected price range for the IPO puts GM “well below”
Gimme Credit LLC’s $71 billion estimate of the company’s equity
value, said  Shelly Lombard , an analyst with the researcher.  “We expect the bonds to trade down near-term, but to trade
up again if the stock performs well post-IPO,” Lombard wrote
today in a note. “We also like GM’s long-term prospects.”  Chief Executive Officer  Dan Akerson  is working toward
returning the $50 billion GM received in a taxpayer bailout and
bankruptcy. The Treasury and other investors, seeking to win
higher prices in future offerings, are selling less than the $12
billion to $16 billion that people familiar with the situation
said GM and its investment banks had considered earlier.  Registration statement  An amended registration statement will be filed with the
 Securities and Exchange Commission  as soon as today, an election
day in the U.S., that contains the number of shares and the
price range for the offering, one of the people said.  The offering may price on Nov. 17 and the shares would
begin trading the following day, the person said. A roadshow in
which GM will pitch investors in North America and Europe will
begin tomorrow or Nov. 4, the person said.  Noreen Pratscher, a spokeswoman for GM, didn’t respond to a
message seeking comment today.  “It’s all up to the company” when it files with the SEC
and begins its roadshow, said  Steven Adamske , a spokesman for
the Treasury department.  GM said last week it plans to reduce debt and other
obligations by $11 billion through a plan that will include
buying back $2.1 billion of preferred stock from the Treasury.
The plan also includes a $2.8 billion payment to the United Auto
Workers retiree health-care trust.  ‘Cleaned up’  GM reported second-quarter net income of $1.54 billion on
Aug. 12 and had a profit of $1.07 billion in the first three
months of the year.  “Their books are cleaned up, so they’re going to get a
fresh start,” said  Mirko Mikelic , senior portfolio manager at
Fifth Third Asset Management, who oversees $14 billion of fixed-
income assets in Grand Rapids, Michigan. “Having said that,
they still have to post decent results. They have these past two
quarters, but investors and rating agencies probably want to see
a year or year and a half of decent results.”  General Motors Corp. filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy
protection on June 1, 2009, after posting $88 billion of losses
since 2004, the last year the company reported an annual profit.
General Motors Co. emerged 39 days later.  GM’s common shares will be listed on the  New York Stock
Exchange  under the ticker GM.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Craig Trudell  in New York at 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net ;
 David Welch  in Southfield, Michigan, at 
 dwelch12@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at   jbutters@bloomberg.net . 