-- Gold May Advance Toward Record, Barclays Capital Says: Technical Analysis
-- B y   S t e p h e n   M o r r i s
-- 2010-11-02T06:18:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-02/gold-may-advance-toward-record-barclays-capital-says-technical-analysis.html
Gold may advance toward a record
after closing above a resistance level last week, according to
technical analysis by Barclays Capital.  The attached chart shows the metal surpassed $1,350 an
ounce on Oct. 29, a level “needed to confirm a resumption of
the bull-trend,”  Phil Roberts , a London-based analyst at
Barclays Capital wrote in a report yesterday. Prices remained
below that level in the seven sessions prior to Oct. 29 and
reached a record $1,387.35 on Oct. 14.  “With daily momentum oscillators rolling bullish we look
for further gains in the week ahead for a move towards the
$1,387 highs of mid-October,” Roberts said. “There remains
significant capital still on the sidelines to push gold well
beyond its all-time highs towards secular channel resistance in
the $1,461 area.”  The second attached chart shows speculators’ net long
position in New York gold futures, or bets prices will rise, is
below the peak seen in 2009, according to data from the
Commodity Futures Trading Commission. Gold for immediate
delivery traded at $1,357.75 an ounce at 6:16 a.m. in London.  Bullion has risen 24 percent this year, outperforming
global equities, U.S. Treasuries, and most industrial metals, as
central banks maintained low interest rates and governments
spent trillions of dollars to spur growth. The Federal Reserve
meets today and tomorrow and policy makers are expected to
announce another round of government bond purchases.  In technical analysis, investors and analysts study charts
of trading patterns and prices to predict changes in a security,
commodity, currency or index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Stephen Morris  in London at 
 smorris39@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  