-- Gold Climbs on Speculation Interest Rates Will Remain Low; Silver Gains
-- B y   P h a m - D u y   N g u y e n   a n d   C l a u d i a   C a r p e n t e r
-- 2010-11-02T14:42:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-02/gold-may-advance-on-weaker-dollar-as-fed-meets-silver-near-30-year-high.html
Gold prices rose in New York for the
third time in four days on speculation that the Federal Reserve
will boost stimulus measures to spur growth, weakening the
dollar and lifting demand for precious metals.  The Fed is likely to announce tomorrow a plan to purchase
at least $500 billion of long-term securities, according to a
Bloomberg News survey of economists. Before today, gold jumped
8.2 percent since Sept. 1, reaching a record $1,388.10 an ounce
on Oct. 14, on bets a second round of unconventional monetary
easing will debase the dollar. The greenback  slumped  6.3 percent
against a six-currency basket in that time.  “Gold is poised to move higher on the weaker dollar,”
said  Frank Lesh , a trader at FuturePath Trading in Chicago.
“The dollar is gold’s main driver, and how much and how fast it
moves lower depends on what the Fed says.”  Gold futures for December delivery climbed $3.30, or 0.2
percent, to $1,353.90 an ounce at 10:38 a.m. on the Comex in New
York. Before today, the metal surged 23 percent this year.  “The whole world is expecting a substantial amount of
quantitative easing from the Fed,” said  Frank McGhee , the head
dealer at Integrated Brokerage Services in Chicago. “If it’s
just talk, then gold is mispriced.”  The U.S. central bank has kept its target interest rate at
zero percent to 0.25 percent since December 2008, making gold
more competitive against stocks and bonds. The metal doesn’t pay
dividends or interest and has added costs for storage and
insurance.  Australia Lifts Rates  Gold traded in Australian dollars fell after the central
bank unexpectedly raised interest rates, ending a five-month
pause. In India, the central bank boosted borrowing costs for
the sixth time this year. Bullion is mostly traded in U.S.
dollars.  “Rising interest rates should be bad for gold, but they’re
not perceived to be widespread enough to impact” prices in
U.S.-currency terms, said  Jonathan Spall , a product manager for
precious metals at Barclays Capital in London. “A number of
people are now saying quantitative easing in many countries will
never end.”  Silver futures for December delivery rose 24.3 cents, or 1
percent, to $24.795 an ounce on the Comex.  Platinum futures for January delivery climbed $8.10, or 0.5
percent, to $1,719.60 an ounce on the New York Mercantile
Exchange. Palladium futures for December delivery were little
changed at $648.65 an ounce.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Pham-Duy Nguyen  in Seattle at 
 pnguyen@bloomberg.net ;
 Claudia Carpenter  in London at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net . 