-- Goldman Sachs Aims for Top Five in High Yield, CreditSights Says
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   H a r p e r
-- 2010-11-02T17:28:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-02/goldman-sachs-aims-for-top-5-in-high-yield-debt-sales-creditsights-says.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  aims to
become one of the top five underwriters of high-yield debt
because that’s more profitable than selling bonds issued by
less-risky borrowers, said a report by  CreditSights Inc.   David Hendler , the New York-based analyst, wrote the report
after a meeting with Goldman Sachs Chief Financial Officer  David Viniar  as well as  Dane Holmes  and  Heather Miner  from investor
relations.  Michael DuVally , a spokesman for Goldman Sachs in New
York, declined to comment on the report.  “In contrast to investment-grade debt, high-yield debt
underwriting tends to generate wider margins and more attractive
fees,” Hendler wrote in the note today. “As such, the company
indicated that it aims to be a top five high-yield debt
underwriter.”  Goldman Sachs, which makes more money than any bank from
trading, ranks sixth among managers of high-yield debt sales
worldwide, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The last
time Goldman Sachs was in the top five was in 2007, when the
firm ranked third after  Citigroup Inc.  and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. ,
the data show.  High-yield bond sales have reached a record $303 billion so
far this year, which already exceeds any prior year’s total,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. JPMorgan and  Bank of
America Corp. , the second-biggest and biggest U.S. banks by
assets respectively, are ranked first and second in managing
global sales of high-yield bonds this year, the data show.
 Credit Suisse Group AG , Citigroup and  Deutsche Bank AG  are the
other banks in the top five this year.  Takeover Advice  Goldman Sachs is focusing its investment-banking efforts on
takeover advice and equity underwriting, Hendler’s note said.
Goldman Sachs is the top adviser on mergers and acquisitions
announced so far this year as well as on global equity
offerings, according to Bloomberg data.  The firm played down its reliance on revenue from
proprietary trading, or making bets with its own money,
according to Hendler’s note. Those activities will be prohibited
under the new Dodd-Frank regulatory reform law.  “The company noted that its business model is not so new
and that during the past three years it had gradually minimized
its proprietary trading operations and illiquid assets,” the
note said. “So while proprietary trading could be viewed as a
‘nice-to-have’ functionality, it is not a ‘must have’ for its
client-focused businesses.”  Goldman Sachs said the investment banking and capital
markets industry could be hampered because of slow economic
growth in the largest and most developed markets, and so the
firm’s plan is to seek growth opportunities in emerging
economies such as Brazil, Russia, India, China and Korea,
Hendler wrote.  “Goldman Sachs seeks to rank among the leaders in market
share of these markets across all major categories including
equity, M&A, higher-margin debt and other investment-banking
activities,” Hendler wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Christine Harper  in New York at 
 charper@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net . 