-- Greece Halts Foreign Mail Service on Athens Blasts, Merkel
-- B y   M a r i a   P e t r a k i s   a n d   T o n y   C z u c z k a
-- 2010-11-03T15:34:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-02/greece-halts-international-mail-for-48-hours-after-spate-of-parcel-bombs.html
Greece suspended mail deliveries to
foreign destinations after parcel bombs exploded at the Swiss
and Russian embassies in Athens and German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  was sent a package mailed from the country.  Overseas mail will be halted for 48 hours, Greek’s Civil
Aviation Authority said in a statement late yesterday. The move
came after police defused two makeshift explosive devices at
 Athens International Airport  and at least three other packages
around the city. No injuries or damage were reported.  The package for Merkel was sent from Greece three days ago
and discovered during a routine mail check at the Berlin
Chancellery yesterday, while she was in Belgium, German Interior
Minister  Thomas de Maiziere  said. “This was a functional
explosive device,” he said. “If it was the same type of device
as the package bombs in Athens, it could have caused not
inconsiderable damage.”  Greek police battled to defuse a barrage of letter bombs in
the capital of Athens yesterday, a day after one exploded at a
courier company, injuring an employee, and another three were
detected around the city. Two men, aged 22 and 24, were arrested
after being caught with two bombs addressed to the Belgian
embassy in Greece and to French President  Nicolas Sarkozy . There
is no relationship to international terror groups, government
spokesman  George Petalotis  said.  Embassy Blast  A small-scale explosion at the Swiss embassy in the central
Athens neighborhood of Kolonaki occurred after employees
detected a suspicious package, the police said in an e-mailed
statement. The package caused a fire but no explosion or
injuries, the Swiss Foreign Ministry said. Another small blast
occurred at the Russian embassy, the police said.  Bomb squads detonated suspicious packages near Parliament
in Athens intended for the Chilean embassy, another at the
Bulgarian embassy and one at a courier service addressed to the
German embassy. An alert was sounded in parliament after a
suspicious parcel was sent to former Prime Minister  Costas Simitis , according to the Athens News Agency.  Greek Prime Minister  George Papandreou  said his government
was working systematically to track down those responsible for
the attacks. “Democracy won’t be terrorised,” he said in
statements carried live on state-run NET TV. “These
irresponsible and foolish acts were designed and are designed to
hurt the great attempts of the Greek people to get the country
back on track, to get the economy back on track,” he said.  The package to Merkel was sent on Nov. 1 and gave the Greek
Finance Ministry as the sender, according to a  police statement 
today. A package addressed to Italian Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi  was destroyed by Italian authorities at Bologna
airport, the police said.  Suspects  No claim of responsibility has been made for the attacks.
The suspects, arrested carrying two pistols, ammunition, and
wearing bullet-proof vests and wigs, were yesterday charged with
crimes including intent to commit terrorism, according to the
Athens News Agency.  The 22-year-old suspect is wanted for participation in the
Conspiracy of the Cells of Fire urban guerrilla group, the
police said on Nov. 1. The police yesterday released photos of
another five men, aged between 21 and 30, wanted for involvement
in the Conspiracy group.  Ballistics tests on the guns showed they weren’t used in
terror attacks claimed by the Revolutionary Sect group, which
killed a journalist in Athens earlier this year and a police
officer last year.  This week’s parcel bombs follow a June 24 attack in which a
security guard was killed when opening a parcel bomb at the
country’s police ministry in Athens. The device was intended for
the Minister of Citizen Protection.  ‘Terrorist Threat’  The European Union called a special meeting of experts on
air safety for Nov. 5, following the explosions in Greece and
the discovery last week of bombs in air-cargo shipments
originating in Yemen that were bound for synagogues in Chicago.  “The European Commission is keeping a close eye on the
latest developments from the point of view of internal affairs
and transport,”  Michele Cercone , a spokesman for the
commission, the EU executive, told reporters in Brussels today.
“The terrorist threat is constant; we’ve seen that over the
last few months in particular.”  Germany’s de Maiziere said “there’s no evidence of any
connection” between the bomb sent to Merkel and the bombs that
originated in Yemen. The Interior Ministry ordered German
government offices and postal services to step up vigilance for
suspicious parcels and issued similar recommendations to
Deutsche Post AG, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Maria Petrakis  at 
 mpetrakis@bloomberg.net ;
 Tony Czuczka  in Berlin at 
 aczuczka@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net ;
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  