-- Grifols Slumps on The Deal Report That U.S. May Seek to Block Talecris Buy
-- B y   C h r i s   K a y
-- 2010-11-02T20:10:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-02/grifols-slumps-on-the-deal-report-that-u-s-may-seek-to-block-talecris-buy.html
Grifols SA , Europe’s largest maker of
blood-plasma products, fell the most in four months in Madrid
trading after The Deal reported that U.S. antitrust regulators
will seek to block the company’s purchase of  Talecris
Biotherapeutics Holdings Corp.   The Federal Trade Commission is preparing a lawsuit to halt
the $3.63 billion purchase, The Deal reported, citing a
Washington antitrust lawyer familiar with the agency’s
investigation.  Mitchell Katz , a spokesman for the commission,
declined to comment. Both companies said they had no knowledge
of FTC plans to try to block the transaction.  “Nothing has changed,” Grifols Deputy Chief Financial
Officer  Nuria Pascual  said in a phone interview today. “We have
had absolutely no notification or information or any additional
knowledge on the type of things the article in The Deal
mentioned. We don’t share any of the views that have been
included there.”  Should the FTC seek to block the deal, it would be the
second time Research Triangle Park, North Carolina-based
Talecris faced opposition to a sale on antitrust grounds.  CSL
Ltd.  scrapped a proposed $3.1 billion acquisition of Talecris in
2009 following an objection by the agency. Talecris Chief
Executive Officer  Lawrence Stern  hinted in an employee
newsletter last month that the sale to Grifols may not go
through, the Raleigh News & Observer reported last week.  Grifols’ Timetable  Approval of the acquisition would reduce the number of
companies within the blood plasma industry to three and the FTC
is determined to preserve the competition Talecris has bought to
the market, according to The Deal.  Grifols expects a resolution to the FTC review by the end
of the year, and completion of the purchase in early 2011,
Pascual said today. “The deal is under review by the FTC and
they have not taken any formal position on the deal at this
time,” Becky Levine, a spokeswoman for Talecris, said by e-
mail. She declined to comment on the report.  Grifols lost 53 euro cents, or 4.5 percent, to close at
11.04 euros at 5:30 p.m. Madrid time, the biggest decline since
June 29. Talecris declined 81 U.S. cents, or 3.3 percent, to
$23.61 at 4 p.m. New York time in Nasdaq Stock Market composite
trading.  “Whether U.S. and global regulatory authorities approve
the merger with Grifols, or we are once again left standing at
the altar, I’m confident we have the strategies, plans and
entrepreneurial team to embrace change and actively shape our
destiny,” Stern, the Talecris CEO, wrote in the employee
newsletter, according to the News & Observer. Levine confirmed
that the report was accurate.  Grifols’ Timetable  Grifols Chief Executive Officer  Victor Grifols  said on a
conference call June 7, the day the acquisition was announced,
that he didn’t foresee any problems with the FTC and the
acquisition probably would close in the fourth quarter.  “It seems to be taking longer than most people had
anticipated and when that happens that does certainly interject
some uncertainty into the situation,”  John Putnam , an analyst
at Capstone Investments Inc. in Milwaukee, said in a phone
interview today. He has a  “hold”  rating on Talecris.  The acquisition of Talecris isn’t likely to be blocked by
the FTC because Grifols has little presence in the U.S., UBS
analysts, including New York-based  Bruce Nudell , wrote in a note
Oct. 25. The commission and Grifols appear to be negotiating a
settlement that probably will involve the sale of Talecris’s
Melville plant to either Octapharma AG or Biotest AG, the
analysts said.  Talecris stockholders will receive $19 in cash and 0.641 of
a newly issued, non-voting Grifols share for each Talecris
share. The deal valued Talecris at about $28.93 a share based on
today’s closing price for Grifols.  Cerberus Capital Management LP, a New York-based private-
equity firm, owns about 49 percent of Talecris.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Chris Kay  in London at 
 ckay5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at   pserafino@bloomberg.net  