-- Icahn Accuses Lions Gate Managers of `Digging Themselves In'
-- B y   A n d r e w   M .   H a r r i s
-- 2010-11-03T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-02/icahn-opposes-lions-gate-s-demand-for-disclosure-of-mgm-acquisition-plans.html
Carl Icahn , denying  Lions Gate
Entertainment Corp. ’s claim he tried to discourage a merger with
 Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer Inc.  while improving his position, accused
the studio’s management of trying to avoid accountability.  Icahn, Lions Gate’s biggest shareholder, previously
disclosed his interest in MGM, his lawyers said in a filing
yesterday in federal court in Manhattan. Lions Gate accused the
billionaire in a lawsuit filed Oct. 28 of secretly acquiring MGM
debt at the same time he was telling the studio’s  shareholders 
that its  pursuit  of MGM was a “misguided strategy.”  Lions Gate lawyers asked U.S. District Judge  Harold Baer  on
Nov. 1 to order expedited legal disclosures by Icahn while it
seeks a court order barring Icahn from increasing his stake in
the Vancouver-based film and television studio.  “Lions Gate management has given new meaning to the word
‘entrenched’ by digging themselves in and engaging in a
successive volley of poison pills, dilutive stock issuances and
legal proceedings” to avoid accountability, according to
Icahn’s filing.  Lions Gate  counts among its productions the films “Crash”
and “Precious” as well as the cable-television series “Mad
Men.” Icahn, it has alleged, undermined the prospective
acquisition of MGM by calling it a “financial debacle.”  Icahn acquired a sufficiently large position in both
companies “at depressed prices to ensure that he maximized his
own profits,” Lions Gate said in court filings.  Mark Cuban  He was aided by  Mark Cuban , who sold his 5.4 percent stake
in the company to Icahn in June for $7 a share, after  Lions Gate 
told Cuban another buyer was willing to pay more, according to
the complaint.  Icahn yesterday denied having any “side deals” with
Cuban. He said Lions Gate’s claims based on information from
unidentified sources are “insufficient to warrant further
inquiry.”  Cuban, the billionaire co-founder of the TV network HDNet
and owner of the Dallas Mavericks basketball team, isn’t named
as a defendant in the Lions Gate lawsuit. Cuban has said he
didn’t have any side deals with Icahn.  The defendants in the case include Icahn, his Icahn
Partners LP and his son  Brett Icahn .  The case is Lions Gate Entertainment Corp. v. Carl Icahn,
10-cv-08169, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew M. Harris  in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 