-- Terra Firma Juror Dismissed After Citigroup Questions Movie Link
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2010-11-03T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-02/michael-moore-movie-tie-gets-juror-dropped-from-terra-firma-citigroup-suit.html
A juror with a link to a  Michael Moore  film was thrown off the jury in Terra Firma Capital
Partners Ltd.’s trial against  Citigroup Inc.  after the judge
commented on the movie’s appeal to “anti-bank prejudice.”  U.S. District Judge  Jed Rakoff  excused the woman, a New
York dancer and performer who was Juror No. 6, after determining
that she lied about an unrelated conversation on a courthouse
elevator during a break, according to a court transcript.  “It seems to me, that given that we have a juror who has
lied to the court about an important matter, that we need to
excuse her,” Rakoff told lawyers in the case.  The dismissal leaves eight jurors to begin deliberations
tomorrow on Terra Firma’s $2.2 billion claim against Citigroup
over the 2007 sale of  EMI Group Ltd.   Ted Wells , the lead lawyer for Citigroup, told Rakoff this
morning that juror and her husband were among dozens of people
thanked in the credits of “Capitalism: A Love Story.”  Rakoff, who said he hadn’t seen the film, said it appeared
to be “an extremely one-sided, scurrilous appeal to anti-bank
prejudice.” The 2009 film explores “the disastrous impact of
corporate dominance on the everyday lives of Americans,”
according to Moore’s website,  michaelmoore.com .  Wells argued that Juror No. 6, on the basis of her
connection to the film, should be thrown off the Manhattan
federal jury.  ‘Person Possessed’  “Out of nine people, I have one associated with the
Michael Moore movie who’s taking notes like a person
possessed,” Wells said, referring to the beginning of the case,
when Terra Firma was presenting its side. “We started putting
in our case and suddenly we’re seeing a different person.”  Wells said his side searched the juror’s name on Google.com
on Nov. 1 and discovered her connection to the film.  “I don’t know who she is,” Moore said yesterday in a
phone interview. “I’ve never met her.”  Moore said the juror may have been someone hired for a
scene not included in “Capitalism: A Love Story,” in which he
led a group that went to the headquarters of American
International Group Inc. with balloons, teddy bears, and an
oversized card, as if for a sick patient.  “I think he’s amazingly perceptive,” Moore said about
Rakoff’s opinion of his work. “It’s kind of like if I were
making a documentary about slavery, it would be kind of
one-sided in favor of the slaves and against slave-holders.”  Moore agreed with Rakoff, who said in the hearing that
“Michael Moore could not be a fair and impartial juror in this
case.”  ‘Shouted ‘Guilty”  “I just would have stood up and shouted ‘Guilty!’” Moore
said, laughing. “They’re all guilty, your honor.”  Moore said he hoped the juror didn’t get dismissed because
of her connection to his film. And he said he sympathized with
 Citigroup .  “You’ve got to feel sorry for Citigroup,” Moore said.
“They’re paying all this money to their attorneys and they
didn’t bother to Google her till last night.”  After  Citigroup  raised questions about the juror, a court
reporter told Rakoff that she shared an elevator with four
jurors, including Juror No. 6, at the lunch break.  “The juror in question said, ‘What could they possibly
have this afternoon?’” said the court reporter, Rebecca Forman,
according to a transcript. “‘It seems they’re just carrying on.
The problem with too much information is you don’t know what to
focus on.’”  When Rakoff questioned the juror about the elevator
incident, she denied making the remarks.  “It wasn’t me,” she told Rakoff.  Rakoff said he would order his courtroom deputy to phone
Juror No. 6 and tell her she’s been dismissed. He ordered that
the juror not communicate with anyone about the case until the
remaining jurors reach a verdict in the case.  The case is Terra Firma Investments (GP) 2 Ltd. v.
Citigroup, 09-cv-10459, U.S. District Court, Southern District
of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Bob Van Voris  in New York federal court at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 