-- Indian Software Companies Will Press Obama on Visa Restrictions
-- B y   K e t a k i   G o k h a l e
-- 2010-11-02T23:48:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-02/indian-software-companies-seek-relief-from-obama-on-whipping-boy-visas.html
Indian software executives plan to
press President  Barack Obama  to avoid further tightening of U.S.
visa requirements for foreign workers that threatens the growth
of the industry.  Nasscom , the group representing Indian software companies
such as  Tata Consultancy Services Ltd.  and  Infosys Technologies 
Ltd., will meet with Obama during his India visit this weekend
to lobby against legislation to add additional fees and
penalties to working visas for non-U.S. citizens.  India’s outsourcing industry has swelled 15-fold over the
last ten years as U.S. companies including  General Electric Co. 
and Citigroup Inc. have used it to cut costs. With U.S.
unemployment near a 26-year high, Obama has doubled the fees for
working visas, costing the industry as much as $250 million
annually.  “The visa issue is significant for a very simple reason --
it indicates a mindset of protectionism,” said  T.V. Mohandas Pai , head of human resources development at Bangalore-based
Infosys, India’s second-biggest software maker. “You want the
markets to be open. The only way for the world economy to grow
is to keep them open.”  Pending immigration  legislation  in the U.S. Congress
includes a bill sponsored by Illinois Senator  Dick Durbin  and
New Jersey Representative  Bill Pascrell , to make it harder for
employers to obtain the skilled worker visas by adding new
requirements, fees and penalties to the program.  On-site Staff  India-based companies that win  outsourcing contracts  need
U.S. visas as some clients ask for on-site staff to work as
coordinators and provide technical support. Apart from the visa
program, the Indian I.T. industry has created 35,000 jobs for
U.S. residents in the last five years, according to  Nasscom .  “There are many data points that say Indian I.T. is the
wrong target, but it’s just a very visible one and a good
whipping boy for job loss and bringing jobs back,” said  Partha Iyengar , head of research at Gartner Inc. in Mumbai.  The Indian government has described the additional visa
costs as “highly discriminatory.”  Adding to the industry’s concerns, Ohio issued an  executive
order  banning the use of public funds for outsourced services on
Aug. 6.  “We must do everything within our power to prevent
outsourcing jobs because it undermines our economic development
objectives, slows our recovery and deprives Ohioans and other
Americans of employment opportunities,” the government said.  Other States  “There’s some level of concern that that should not
spread,” said  P.R. Chandrasekar , chief executive officer of
 Hexaware Technologies  Ltd., an Indian software developer backed
by private equity firm General Atlantic LLC. “You don’t want
other states to do that, other sectors to do that.”  GE founded a back-office in Gurgaon, India in 1997 to serve
its finance unit. In 2004, it sold 60 percent of the unit, now
called Genpact, for $500 million to General Atlantic and Oak
Hill Capital Partners LP.  Citigroup also owned a back-office unit in India that it
sold to Tata Consultancy in 2008 for $505 million and orders
worth $2.5 billion over 9 1/2 years.  Indian technology companies used approximately 4,800 new  H-
1B visas  in fiscal year 2009, which equals to 0.003 percent of
the U.S. civilian labor force, according to an Aug. 12  report 
from the U.S. Chamber of Commerce.  New Contracts  The industry is still winning contracts in North America,
according to Chandrasekar. The company added its first
government contracts in North America, two “small” deals with
a state government, in the September quarter, he said.  Eight of the company’s 13 new customers added in the
quarter were based in North America, and the share of North
America revenue increased to 67 percent in the quarter, from
64.5 percent a year earlier, he said.  Indian executives say the U.S. unemployment rate, which
stood at 9.6 percent as of the end of September, makes it
unlikely their views will prevail. Economists surveyed by
Bloomberg last month said U.S. gross domestic product growth
rate will be 2.7 percent in 2010. India’s government expects the
economy to expand 8.5 percent in the year through March.  “The rhetoric has been worsening,” said Pai of Infosys.
“It’s a function of the economic environment.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ketaki Gokhale  in Mumbai at 
 kgokhale@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at   ycho2@bloomberg.net  