-- Subbarao Says India May Not Increase Rates for Next Three Months
-- B y   K a r t i k   G o y a l   a n d   U n n i   K r i s h n a n
-- 2010-11-03T05:43:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-02/india-central-bank-raises-rates-for-sixth-time-this-year-to-curb-inflation.html
India’s central bank said it probably
won’t raise interest rates in the next three months after
tightening monetary policy the most in Asia this year.  “Immediate future rate action is unlikely barring some
shocks,” Reserve Bank of India Governor  Duvvuri Subbarao  said
at a press conference in Mumbai yesterday after increasing
benchmark rates for a sixth time in 2010. “The question is what
is immediate future? I would believe it is three months.”  India’s 12-year bonds gained the most in more than two
months yesterday on Subbarao’s guidance as nations from Japan to
the U.S. consider additional monetary stimulus to support growth.
The prospective pause comes as Subbarao said that global
liquidity and interest-rate differentials with advanced nations
may lead to an “intensification” of capital flows into India.  “At this point the RBI has almost ruled out action in the
next policy decision,” said  Shubhada Rao , Mumbai-based chief
economist at Yes Bank Ltd. “There are uncertainties on the
horizon, especially the impact of global quantitative easing on
capital flows to India.” India’s central bank is scheduled to
announce its next rate decision on Dec. 16.  Yields on India’s most-traded debt due 2022 extended their
declines today, falling one basis point, or 0.01 percentage
point, to 8 percent, the lowest level since September, at 11 a.m.
in Mumbai. The rupee appreciated 0.1 percent to 44.345 per
dollar, while the Bombay Stock Exchange’s  Sensitive Index 
advanced 0.8 percent to 20,501.97.  India’s Move  India joined Australia in increasing borrowing costs amid
the greatest concentration of monetary-policy action by leading
central banks since the first week of October 2008, when they
met in emergency sessions to fight the global financial crisis.  Subbarao boosted the  repurchase rate  by a quarter-point to
6.25 percent and the reverse repurchase rate by a similar margin
to 5.25 percent. Australia’s central bank Governor  Glenn Stevens 
raised the overnight cash rate target a quarter point to 4.75
percent in Sydney yesterday. It was the RBA’s first move in six
months.  The U.S. Federal Reserve started a two-day meeting
yesterday to consider pumping additional stimulus into the
world’s largest economy. The Fed may today announce a plan to
buy at least $500 billion of long-term securities, according to
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  Fed’s Decision  About 18 hours after the Fed’s move, the Bank of England
will announce the result of its monetary policy meeting. The
European Central Bank will go public with its decision 45
minutes later.  The Bank of Japan cut rates on Oct. 5 and brought forward
the date of its next policy meeting to Nov. 4 and 5 to discuss
purchases of exchange-traded funds and real-estate investment
trusts.  Subbarao’s priority is to slow the fastest inflation after
Argentina in the Group of 20 nations and protect the purchasing
power of 75 percent of Indians who live on less than $2 a day.
Consumer prices rose 11.1 percent in Argentina in September,
while CPI for industrial workers gained 9.9 percent in India.  “Based purely on current growth and inflation trends, the
Reserve Bank believes that the likelihood of further rate
actions in the immediate future is relatively low,” Subbarao
said.  Services Growth  India’s services growth accelerated in October. The
Purchasing Managers’ Index rose to 56.2 from 55.6 in September,
HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics said in an emailed
statement today. A reading above 50 indicates expansion.  Subbarao said “concerted” policy actions by the central
bank will help slow benchmark wholesale-price  inflation  to 5.5
percent by March 31 from 8.6 percent in September. Subbarao
forecast India’s $1.3 trillion economy may expand 8.5 percent in
the year ending March 31, the fastest pace in three years.  “Inflation will probably slow soon and the RBI is
increasingly concerned about high capital inflows and rupee
appreciation,”  Vishnu Varathan , Singapore-based Asia economist
at Capital Economics Ltd., said in a note yesterday. He said the
Reserve Bank may increase borrowing costs one more time by a
quarter-point in early 2011.  Since Subbarao’s first rate increase on March 19, the
 spread  between India’s debt due in a decade and 10-year
Treasuries widened 117 basis points, or 1.17 percentage points,
to 537 yesterday. The gap, which has averaged 317 in the past
decade, reached a 10-year high of 567 basis points on Oct. 20.  Rupee Debt  Higher yields spurred an unprecedented $10 billion inflow
into rupee debt this year. Overseas funds also poured a record
$25 billion into Indian stocks on prospects of faster growth in
the South Asian nation, strengthening the currency and driving
the  Sensitive Index , or Sensex, to near a record.  Since Jan. 1, the rupee has risen 4.6 percent against the
dollar while the Sensex has jumped 16.5 percent.  The climb threatens software exporters including  Infosys
Technologies Ltd. , which said last month the currency’s move
will “kill” them. Infosys said it suffers a 0.4 percentage-
point drop in its operating margin for every 1 percent of
appreciation in the rupee versus the dollar.  Subbarao said “excess global liquidity” along with the
“significant” growth and interest-rate differentials between
advanced countries and India may result in an
“intensification” of capital flows into India.  ‘Volatile Capital’  “We will take action as warranted with a view to
mitigating any potentially disruptive effects of lumpy and
volatile capital flows and sharp movements in domestic liquidity
conditions, consistent with the broad objectives of price and
output stability,” Subbarao said.  The central bank, which last intervened to buy or sell
rupees in the market in 2009, says that the currency’s strength
will be limited by the nation’s deteriorating trade balance. The
 current-account deficit  widened to a record $13.7 billion in the
three months through June, the Reserve Bank said Sept. 30.  Even so, the bank isn’t in favor of the currency
appreciating past 43 against the dollar, a finance ministry
official with direct knowledge of the matter said on Oct. 15.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kartik Goyal  in Mumbai at 
 kgoyal@bloomberg.net ;
 Unni Krishnan  in New Delhi at 
 ukrishnan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net . 