-- India May Keep Nuclear Law, Won't Shield General Electric as Obama Visits
-- B y   B i b h u d a t t a   P r a d h a n   a n d   A r c h a n a   C h a u d h a r y
-- 2010-11-02T06:24:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-02/india-may-keep-nuclear-law-won-t-shield-general-electric-as-obama-visits.html
India is unlikely to alter its
nuclear law to shield  General Electric Co.  and other U.S.
equipment suppliers from accident claims, derailing hopes of
deals during President Barack Obama’s visit starting Nov. 6.  “There is no question of tweaking or changing the law --
that’s not possible,”  Prithviraj Chavan , minister for science
and technology, said in an interview yesterday. Rules will be
set to define the responsibility of each stakeholder, he said.  U.S. companies have refrained from signing contracts for a
share of $175 billion of nuclear power projects planned in
India, which wants to boost atomic generation 13-fold by 2030.
India enacted a bill in August that makes suppliers such as GE,
whose equipment generates about one-third of the world’s power,
potentially liable in the event of a nuclear accident.  Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s government added the clause
allowing compensation claims against suppliers to gain enough
lawmaker votes to pass the bill before Obama’s visit.  The South Asian nation set a 15 billion rupee ($337
million) cap on payouts by state-owned  Nuclear Power Corp. of
India , with the government responsible for damages beyond that.
After paying compensation, the atomic power monopoly can seek
money from suppliers for defective equipment or material.  Unavoidable Risk  “This is the risk the American companies have to take,”
said Bharat Karnad, a security analyst at the New Delhi-based
Centre for Policy Research. “There is no way around it. The
parliamentary act on nuclear liability overrides any obligation
India may have, like the Convention on Supplementary
Compensation for Nuclear Damage.”  India , which signed the convention in Vienna last week,
needs suppliers, including GE Hitachi Nuclear Energy and
Westinghouse Electric Co., to meet its nuclear power generation
target. The signing is a positive step that provides an
internationally established system of liability protection for
the benefit of all parties, GE said in an e-mailed statement
Oct. 29.  Westinghouse is “hopeful that India will move toward
implementing a nuclear liability policy that is consistent with
the international norm,” spokesman Scott Shaw said in an e-mail
yesterday. France’s  Areva SA  didn’t immediately respond to e-
mail seeking comment.  U.S. companies, trailing their French and Russian state-
owned rivals, which have sovereign backing, have held talks with
India’s nuclear operator.  “We’ve had a series of discussions with the U.S. suppliers
and we are confident that some kind of agreement will be worked
out,”  Jagdeep Ghai , finance director at Nuclear Power, said
Oct. 30.  France, Russia  Areva , the world’s biggest maker of atomic reactors, is
awaiting French parliamentary and regulatory approvals to sign
contracts with Nuclear Power. Russian companies won orders for
as many as 16 nuclear reactors from India during Prime Minister
Vladimir Putin’s visit to the country in March.  India won access to atomic fuels and technology in
September 2008 after the 45-member Nuclear Suppliers Group
lifted a three-decade ban on exports to the country on a
proposal made by former President George W. Bush after the two
countries signed a civilian nuclear accord.  “The main story is we have fulfilled all the commitments
made to President Bush in 2005,” Chavan said, referring to
obligations under the Indo-U.S. nuclear agreement. “We are
hopeful that all companies will come and do business with us.”  Bhopal Overhang  The government inserted the liability clause after some
political parties, including the main opposition  Bharatiya
Janata Party , fought attempts to shield foreign suppliers from
compensation claims. Their stand was bolstered June 6 by public
outrage over two-year jail terms awarded to former senior
employees of a local unit of Union Carbide Corp. for their role
in the 1984 Bhopal gas tragedy.  The leak of poisonous gas at the Union Carbide factory in
Bhopal city killed 3,800 people. Midland, Michigan-based Dow
Chemical Co., which acquired Union Carbide in 1999, says all
liabilities were settled in a $470 million accord between Union
Carbide and the Indian government in 1989.  “There will certainly be a discussion on the review of the
existing legal environment for nuclear liabilities during the
Obama visit,” said Arvind Mahajan, executive director at
consulting firm KPMG India Pvt. in Mumbai. “It’s clear that the
existing law has a bit of an overhang from Bhopal.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bibhudatta Pradhan in New Delhi at 
 bpradhan@bloomberg.net ;
Archana Chaudhary in New Delhi at 
 achaudhary2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Hari Govind at   hgovind@bloomberg.net ;
Stephen Foxwell at   sfoxwell@bloomberg.net . 