-- Indonesia's Tsunami Relief Efforts Hampered as Cyclone Hits Sumatra Coast
-- B y   E k o   L i s t i y o r i n i   a n d   Y o g a   R u s m a n a
-- 2010-11-02T09:23:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-02/indonesia-s-tsunami-relief-efforts-hampered-as-cyclone-hits-sumatra-coast.html
Indonesian relief workers are
battling 6-meter-high (20-foot) waves whipped up by Tropical
Cyclone Orchid as they ferry supplies to survivors of a tsunami
that hit the Mentawai Islands off Sumatra’s coast a week ago.  Rough seas are forecast for Sumatra’s west coast until Nov.
8, the Meteorology, Climatology and Geophysics Agency said on
its website. The death toll from the Oct. 25 tsunami was revised
down to 431 yesterday, from 450, with 88 people still missing,
according to the  National Disaster Management Agency .  “Rescue teams are facing great danger from the threat of
the tropical cyclone,” Ade Edward, operational head at the West
Sumatra Regional Disaster Management Agency, said by phone from
the provincial capital, Padang. “A rescue team that brought
logistics supplies was swept away by a high tide yesterday, and
they are still on an island somewhere near Mentawai.”  Indonesia is struggling to recover from two disasters that
struck the Southeast Asian nation within a day of each other.
The death toll from eruptions of Mount Merapi in central Java
since Oct. 26 reached 39, the disaster agency said.  Mount Merapi is still spewing ash, though is less active
today, said Oka Hamid, a spokesman at the Red Cross Indonesia’s
Yogyakarta branch. More eruptions are expected, R. Sukhyar, head
of the energy ministry’s geology agency, said yesterday.  “We gave counseling to the elderly people and children so
that they’re not traumatized,” Hamid said by telephone today.  Airlines Affected  Indonesia’s Transport Ministry ordered airlines to change
flight routes to avoid volcanic ash from Mount Merapi, spokesman
 Bambang Ervan  said, adding that airports in nearby cities
including in Solo, Yogyakarta and Semarang are still operating.  The ministry hasn’t received any reports of flight
cancellations by Malaysia’s AirAsia Bhd. or Singapore Airlines
Ltd.’s Silk Air, Ervan said by phone from Jakarta. AirAsia and
Silk Air temporarily canceled flights to airports near the
volcano, the Associated Press reported today.  Widijastoro Nugroho, the marketing and distribution
director at PT Indonesia AirAsia, didn’t answer calls to his
mobile phone today.  Rescuers set up additional shelters for people living near
the edge of Merapi’s 10-kilometer (6.2-mile) danger zone as the
number of evacuees increased to 73,446 earlier today, up from
69,000, Nelis Zuliasri, a spokeswoman for the  National Disaster
Management Agency , said by telephone from Jakarta.  The agency may continue to revise down the death toll from
the tsunami, after rescuers found survivors who were earlier
reported killed, Zuliasri said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Yoga Rusmana  in Jakarta at 
 yrusmana@bloomberg.net ;
 Eko Listiyorini  in Jakarta at 
 elistiyorini@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tony Jordan at 
 tjordan3@bloomberg.net ;
Clyde Russell at   crussell7@bloomberg.net  