-- Indonesia May Keep Rate Unchanged to Avoid Capital Inflows, Instability
-- B y   S h a m i m   A d a m   a n d   M a n i s h   M o d i
-- 2010-11-02T17:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-02/indonesia-may-keep-rate-unchanged-to-avoid-capital-inflows-instability.html
Bank Indonesia may keep its benchmark
interest rate unchanged as  inflation  within the central bank’s
target range gives policy makers room to delay an increase that
could spur capital inflows that destabilize the economy.  The reference rate will stay at the record-low 6.5 percent
level set in August last year, according to 18 of 19 economists
 surveyed  by Bloomberg News. One expects a quarter-point increase.
The decision will be announced in Jakarta tomorrow.  Officials’ reluctance to raise rates and risk luring more
cash from abroad contrasts with India yesterday moving for the
sixth time this year and Australia unexpectedly also pushing up
borrowing costs. Bank Indonesia has ordered lenders to set aside
larger reserves, aiming to rein in liquidity without hurting an
expansion that has boosted the main stock gauge to a record.  “It is clear that Bank Indonesia intends not to raise its
interest rate for the rest of year,” said  Gundy Cahyadi , an
economist at Oversea-Chinese Banking Corp. in Singapore.
“Further capital inflows remain a concern.”  Nations from Japan to the U.S. are considering additional
monetary stimulus that could increase the risk of an influx of
capital into markets where rate differentials are widening. The
World Bank cautioned Oct. 19 that East Asian economies need to
ward off asset bubbles stemming from excess liquidity to avoid
another financial crisis.  In Indonesia, the central bank said last week it is
assembling options if needed to address any capital inflows that
risk roiling the economy.  Bond Yields  Indonesia’s 10-year government debt is yielding 65 basis
points less than the 7.97 percent on similar maturity Indian
bonds, data compiled by Bloomberg show, as the Reserve Bank of
India increased its benchmark rates the most in Asia in 2010.  “Indonesia is not doing enough in terms of monetary
policy,” said  Sanjay Mathur , the Singapore-based chief Asia
emerging markets economist at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc.
“The risk-reward is better in India right now. Rate hikes are
more or less priced into the Indian yield curve.”  Even so, the rupiah has risen 5.4 percent against the
dollar this year as an accelerating economy and a benchmark rate
that’s higher than those in Malaysia, Thailand and the
Philippines lures investors. The  Jakarta Composite Index  has
gained 43 percent and reached a record 3,667.01 on Oct. 27,
boosting stocks of companies including lender PT Bank Central
Asia and noodle-maker PT Indofood Sukses Makmur.  Bank Indonesia Governor  Darmin Nasution  has said he wants
to avoid increasing rates, counting on lending and reserve rules
for banks to contain inflation and stoke growth. From this month,
Indonesian lenders must set aside larger reserves, a move that
may absorb 50 trillion rupiah ($5.6 billion) of excess liquidity.  Capital Inflows  Bank Indonesia is studying options for tackling capital
inflows including extending a holding period for foreign
purchases of central bank notes to three months from one,  Perry Warjiyo , director for monetary policy at Bank Indonesia, said
last week. Warjiyo reiterated the central bank’s view that no
further limits on capital flows are currently needed.  “Capital inflows are still going to be sustained no matter
what the Bank Indonesia does as excess liquidity is still being
channeled into the region,” Cahyadi said.  Indonesia’s inflation slowed in October to a 5.67 percent
annual pace from 5.8 percent in September, the Central Bureau of
Statistics said in Jakarta this week. The central bank expects
inflation to remain within a target range of 4 percent to 6
percent this year, and the statistics bureau said prices may
rise less than 6 percent in 2010.  “A more benign inflation picture could allay market fears
that the central bank is behind the curve in the near term, and
help support local risk sentiment, consumer confidence and
growth going forward,” said  Enoch Fung , an economist at Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. in Hong Kong. “We currently expect the central
bank to begin hiking the policy rate in December.”  Indonesia’s gross domestic product grew 6.2 percent in the
second quarter from a year earlier, the most recent figure
available.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Shamim Adam  in Singapore at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  