-- Inflation Is Running Out of Control in QE Land: Matthew Lynn
-- B y   M a t t h e w   L y n n
-- 2010-11-02T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-02/inflation-is-running-out-of-control-in-qe-land-commentary-by-matthew-lynn.html
When the  Bank of England ’s Monetary
Policy Committee meets this week, attention will be focused on
whether it will announce another round of quantitative easing.  The U.K. central bank should forget about printing more
money through the purchase of securities. That is the last thing
the economy needs. Instead, it should concentrate on the real
problem: an inflation rate that is fast getting out of control.  The bank is mandated to reach a target of 2 percent. It
isn’t anywhere close to that. Inflation has exceeded the
government’s 3 percent limit for the past seven months.  The situation is only going to get worse. There is no
persuasive evidence that quantitative easing, also known as QE,
has done anything other than boost asset prices. And the
emergency that prompted the need to ease is over: The economy is
in good enough shape, thanks to the depreciation of the pound
and low borrowing costs, to make restraining prices a top
priority once again.  The U.K. should avoid revisiting its inflationary nightmare
of the 1970s. It has to do something to reverse the trend soon
or it will be too late. During the financial crisis, the
inflation rate reached 5.2 percent as central banks flooded the
market with cash. The conditions no longer warrant such action
even if the government’s budget squeeze lowers demand somewhat.  For all the talk among central-bank officials and academics
about the threat of deflation, that isn’t what concerns ordinary
people. They are worrying about how prices are going up. They
certainly haven’t noticed much sign of them coming down.  Missed Targets  The official figures -- even though they are far from
perfect -- make clear what is happening to the British economy.
The  Office for National Statistics  reported last month that
consumer prices rose at an annual 3.1 percent rate in September.
No one expects that goal to be reached every month. But
breaching the government’s limit for seven straight months
suggests that something is seriously wrong.  Dig a little deeper into the figures and the picture is
even more alarming. Retail prices, a measure used by wage
negotiators, surged 4.6 percent in September. Some categories of
goods gained even more. Prices of clothing and footwear, for
example, jumped 6.4 percent. A packet of butter that cost 1
pound ($1.60) a year ago now costs 1.22 pounds, according to the
 official figures . An orange now costs 36 pence compared with 27
pence a year ago. A cauliflower costs 91 pence compared with 79
pence. These are big price increases, the sort that people
notice when they go shopping every week.  ‘Ask Your Parents’  Some members of the Monetary Policy Committee don’t seem to
think that matters much. The overshoot “is not genuinely high
inflation -- ask your parents what inflation was like in the
1970s and 1980s,” policy maker  Adam Posen  told students in  Belfast ,  Northern Ireland , last week.  True enough. British inflation reached 25 percent in 1975,
and averaged an annual rate of 13 percent  during that decade ,
according to the Bank of England. It’s not as bad as that now.  Even so, Posen’s argument is ridiculous. Just because a
patient has survived cancer doesn’t mean his doctor shouldn’t
treat a chest infection. Likewise, just because we haven’t
tipped into hyperinflation yet doesn’t mean there is nothing to
worry about.  Andrew Sentance  seems to be the only MPC member who
sees prices as a threat to the economy.  The Bank of England should clamp down on inflation right
now. Here’s why:  One, inflation is only going to get worse. There are
increases in the value-added tax scheduled for the start of next
year. That will feed through into prices. Add in the impact of a
weak pound, and a strengthening euro, and price increases are
going to keep escalating. If the deepest recession in living
memory didn’t stop retailers and manufacturers from jacking up
prices, they aren’t going to stop now.  Two, we’ll never know for sure what would have happened to
the U.K. economy without quantitative easing, but all it seems
to have done is push asset prices higher. Equities and bonds
have soared, and even property is resilient. All of that will
feed into inflation as well.  Three, the economy is growing perfectly well. The latest
figures surprised everyone: Gross domestic product increased 0.8
percent in the third quarter, and 1.2 percent in the three
months before that. The U.K. is doing better than could
reasonably be expected after a financial crash. The emergency is
over and it is safe to start worrying about prices again.  If the Bank doesn’t get serious about inflation soon,
people will think it has given up trying to control prices.  That would be a big mistake.  The U.K. is an inflation-prone economy. It has always
struggled to keep prices in check -- and in the 1970s came close
to a monetary breakdown. All the historical evidence suggests
that once inflation starts to rip, you need huge increases in  interest rates  to get it back down again. Given Britain’s
massive debts, that would be catastrophic.  How high does the inflation rate have to be before the Bank
of England decides this is a problem? Five percent? Ten percent?
It is crazy. The Bank should forget about quantitative easing
and start raising interest rates now to keep a lid on inflation.  (Matthew Lynn is a Bloomberg News columnist and the author
of “Bust,” a forthcoming book on the Greek debt crisis. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Matthew Lynn in London at 
 matthewlynn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  