-- Investment Canada Hasn't Made Recommendation on Potash Bid, Clement Says
-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 2010-11-02T18:24:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-02/investment-canada-hasn-t-made-recommendation-on-potash-bid-clement-says.html
Canadian Industry Minister  Tony Clement  said government officials haven’t sent him a
recommendation on  BHP Billiton Ltd.’s  $40 billion hostile bid
for Potash Corp. of Saskatchewan Inc., and he hasn’t made a
decision on the file.  “I am currently reviewing the facts of the case,” Clement
said today in an e-mailed statement. “As of yet no decision has
been made, and no decision or recommendation has been
communicated to the investor.”  The National Post reported yesterday that Investment
Canada, the agency reviewing the bid, recommended approving the
takeover with conditions. The Post cited unidentified people
within the Conservative Party as saying that that the
recommendation would be reviewed by Prime Minister  Stephen Harper .  “No recommendation has been provided by Investment Canada
officials,” Clement said. “As per the Investment Canada Act,
when a decision is made it will be made by me in my capacity as
Minister of Industry, not by the Prime Minister.”  The deadline for a decision is tomorrow unless BHP agrees
to an extension. The transaction is opposed by Saskatchewan
Premier  Brad Wall  and federal opposition parties, who have said
the agreement is bad for Saskatchewan, which controls 30 percent
of global potash production.  Saskatchewan Energy and Resources Minister  Bill Boyd  said
in a letter dated yesterday to Clement that allowing the
takeover would be “a profound betrayal of our province” and
that he may take “further steps” in response.  “The Province has said no, and the Conservatives would
ignore that advice at their peril,” Liberal Party Deputy Leader
 Ralph Goodale , a member of Parliament from Saskatchewan, said in
 a statement  yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Greg Quinn  in Ottawa at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net . 