-- IPCom, Eli Lilly, Nintendo, Discovery, Axel Braun: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2010-11-02T11:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-02/ipcom-nintendo-discovery-axel-braun-intellectual-property.html
IPCom GmbH & Co.  is confident it will
win a German case in which  Nokia Oyj  and  HTC Corp.  challenged a
patent held by the licensing company that could potentially
block sales of the handset makers’ devices in Germany, according
to Bernhard Frohwitter, IPCom’s chief executive officer.  Germany’s Federal Patent Court in Munich said Oct. 27 that
it would uphold IPCom’s patent protecting random access channel
technology, Frohwitter said yesterday in a phone interview.
Nokia and HTC said the court won’t make a final ruling in the
case until after additional arguments on Dec. 16.  The case is part of Pullach, Germany-based IPCom’s effort
to force Nokia and HTC to pay royalties for a portfolio of
mobile technology patents it acquired from  Robert Bosch GmbH  in
2007. This year, Nokia succeeded in overturning some IPCom
patents in a U.K. court and lost a bid to invalidate another
patent at the European Patent Office.  “This will give an incredible boost to our cases pending
in other German courts,” said Frohwitter. “We will finally get
the ruling Nokia has been trying to run away from for two
years.”  HTC’s German lawyer, Martin Chakraborty, said the court
hasn’t taken a final position on the issue and will only decide
it after hearing new arguments from HTC and Nokia.  “Nokia does not believe that any injunction can be imposed
on Nokia products in Germany based on these IPCom claims,”
company spokesman Mark Durrant said in an e-mailed statement. It
is “inaccurate” to claim the patent at issue has been found
valid, he said.  An eventual ruling by the patent judges can be appealed to
the Federal Court of Justice, Germany’s highest civil tribunal.  IPCom has filed separate infringement suits in German
courts to stop the handset makers from selling products in that
country. Some of the suits were put on hold while patent
authorities and patent courts rule on the validity of the
intellectual property.  All patents IPCom asserted against Nokia in Germany that
have come to judgment have been found to be invalid or not
infringed by Nokia products, Durrant said.  IPCom won an infringement case against HTC in a Mannheim
court that is now pending on appeal.  Lilly Loses Bid for Rehearing in Gemzar Patent Case  Eli Lilly & Co.  failed to win an appeals court rehearing
over its loss of patent protection for the cancer drug Gemzar,
which may lead to generic rivals in two weeks.  The U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit in
Washington said yesterday it would let stand a July 28 ruling
that a patent on the medicine expiring in May 2013 is invalid.
The patent is similar to one that expires Nov. 15, the court
ruled in a victory for Indian generic-drug maker Sun
Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd.  Gemzar, used for lung, breast, pancreatic and ovarian
cancers, generated $1.36 billion in global sales last year
including $747.4 million in the U.S., the Indianapolis-based
company said in its fourth-quarter earnings report.  Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. , Hospira Inc. and
 Novartis AG ’s Sandoz also are seeking to sell lower-cost
versions of the medicine.  “We are currently considering our remaining legal
options,” Mark Taylor, a Lilly spokesman, said in an e-mailed
statement. “We will not speculate on whether generic
competitors will be prepared to enter the market upon expiration
of Gemzar’s compound patent in mid-November.”  Lilly had asked that the original three-judge panel
reconsider the case or that it be heard before all active judges
of the court, which specializes in U.S. patent law.  Of the nine active judges, four said the case should have
been heard before the entire court, saying there are questions
about the legal standard to determine if there has been double
patenting.  The case is Sun Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. v. Eli Lilly
& Co., 10-1105, U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit
(Washington). The lower court case is Sun Pharmaceutical v. Eli
Lilly, 07-15087, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of
Michigan (Detroit).  Nintendo Avoids $21 Million Award as High Court Rejects Appeal  The  U.S. Supreme Court  refused to revive a $21 million
patent-infringement verdict against a unit of  Nintendo Co. , the
world’s biggest maker of video-game players.  Yesterday the justices rejected an appeal by Anascape Ltd.,
a closely held Texas company, leaving intact an appeals court
decision throwing out the award. The lower court also
invalidated a patent held by Anascape. The dispute was over
controllers, devices that move images, in Nintendo’s Wii and
GameCube systems.  The jury verdict had resulted in an order that ultimately
might have blocked sales of the Wii Classic Controller, as well
as the WaveBird and Nintendo GameCube controllers no longer sold
by Nintendo.  The Wii is Nintendo’s flagship product after replacing the
GameCube as the company’s main home video-game system. The
company, based in Kyoto, Japan, last month posted a 15 percent
drop in second-quarter profit after demand for the Wii console
and DS handheld players slumped.  The case is Anascape v. Nintendo of America, 10-301.  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Discovery’s Cake Boss Can Continue to Use Name, Court Rules  Discovery Communications Inc. ’s “Cake Boss” television
show can continue to use its name under a settlement agreement
in a trademark case.  The reality-based TV program features highly decorated
cakes created  at Carlo’s City Hall Bake Shop  in Hoboken, New
Jersey. The Cake Boss himself is  Bartolo “Buddy” Valastro , the
master baker who owns the shop.  Valastro, Discovery and its Learning Channel unit were sued
for trademark infringement in federal court in Seattle in March
2010.  Masters Software Inc.  of Cedar Park, Texas, a maker of the
 CakeBoss computer software  used for baking instruction in
culinary arts programs, claimed it was harmed and the public was
used by the television program’s unauthorized use of the mark.  Masters had argued that the program’s audience and its
potential software customers fell into similar categories. The
company said it had received more than 90 e-mails and letters
intended for the program, including requests for cakes made by
Valastro.  Every time Cake Boss aired, the software company’s website
was “compromised due to television fans attempting to find the
Cake Boss television show website,” the company said in its
complaint.  In July, U.S. District Judge Richard A. Jones barred the
program’s use of “Cake Boss.” He lifted the order and
dismissed the case in an Oct. 22 order, saying that the parties
had stipulated to this result. No financial terms were
disclosed.  The case is Masters Software Inc., v. Discover
Communications Inc., 2:10-cv-00405-RAJ, U.S. District Court,
Western District of Washington (Seattle).  Weather Channel Says Weather-Channel.org Domain Name Infringes  The Weather Channel Inc., the television station that
broadcasts weather news 24 hours a day, sued the New Hampshire-
based operator of a website for trademark infringement.  Eric Schifone of Nashua, New Hampshire, is accused of
operating a website -- weather-channel.org -- that infringed on
the television station’s trademarks. He’s accused of using the
allegedly infringing domain name to offer “information and
services of the same type” as offered by the Weather Channel.  The television station claims it’s been damaged and the
public is confused by Schifone’s website. It said the inclusion
of a hyphen and the “.org” top level domain indicator doesn’t
sufficiently distinguish his efforts from the company’s
trademarks.  Schifone offered to sell the allegedly infringing domain
name to the Weather Channel, according to the complaint filed
Oct. 29 in federal court in Atlanta. He also offered it for sale
for $50,000 on an Internet auction website,  flippa.com , the
Weather Channel said in its pleadings.  It asked the court to bar Schifone’s use of what it says is
the infringing domain name and that it be transferred to the
Weather Channel instead. Additionally, the television station
asked for awards of all of the defendants profits attributable
to the alleged infringement, money damages, attorney fees and
litigation costs.  The company also requested destruction of all infringing
material in Schifone’s possession.  The Weather Channel is represented by Sabina A. Vayner,
Judith A. Powell and Jessica Ash of Atlanta’s Kilpatrick
Stockton LLP.  The case is The Weather Channel Inc. v. Eric Schifone,
1:10-cv-03531-RWS, U.S. District Court, Northern District of
Georgia (Atlanta).  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Axel Braun Turns to Adult Copyright Co. for Infringement Case  Axel Braun Productions , a maker of adult films, sued 7,098
unidentified defendants for infringing the copyright to its
“ Batman XXX: A Porn Parody .” The film company is represented
by a lawyer from a company that works exclusively on adult-film
copyright-infringement cases.  Kenneth J. Ford of the  Adult Copyright Company  of Charles
Town, West Virginia, represents Axel Braun. According to the
company website, Adult Copyright is devoted exclusively to the
adult-film industry, which, it claims, has been harmed more by
illegal file sharing than any other segment of the content
industries.  Adult Copyright  says on its website  that it will pursue
infringement claims against illegal downloaders of adult-film
content ‘at no cost or expense to the rights holders.”  In the complaint filed Oct. 29 in federal court in
Martinsburg, West Virginia, the Porter Ranch, California-based
filmmaker said its product is infringed by unknown parties who
use the BitTorrent protocol to distribute copies of the film.
The use of this file-sharing method led to a “viral spreading”
of its film without authorization.  Axel Braun claimed that each defendant lives in the federal
judicial district of West Virginia, or “a substantial part of
the acts of infringement” occurred there. The company said it
has suffered “great and irreparable injury” at the hands of
the alleged infringers.  The filmmaker asked the court for an order barring future
infringement of its copyright, for money damages, and for awards
of attorney fees and litigation costs.  The case is Axel Braun Productions v. Does 1-7098, U.S.
District Court, Northern District of West Virginia
(Martinsburg).  For more copyright news, click here.  Obituary  Pioneer Biotech Patent Lawyer Bertram I. Rowland Dies at 80  Bertram I. Rowland , the lawyer who drafted and obtained the
patent on the Cohen-Boyer gene-splicing invention that kick-
started the biotech industry, died of pancreatic cancer Oct. 28
at the age of 80.  Rowland drafted and managed the application process for
more than 500 patents. In an account of his work on the Cohn-
Boyer patent -- patent 4,237,224 -- published on a George
Washington University website, Rowland said that one of the two
inventors -- Stanford University’s  Stanley Cohen  -- initially
insisted the invention had no commercial application and wasn’t
patentable. During its lifetime, the patent generated more than
$300 million.  Rowland had an undergraduate degree in chemistry from the
University of California at Los Angeles, a doctorate in physical
organic chemistry from the University of Washington and a law
degree from George Washington. He worked for  Chevron Corp.  as
patent counsel, had been a partner at the San Francisco firm now
known as  Townsend & Townsend & Crew LLP  and at  Leydig, Voit &
Mayer Ltd.  of Chicago.  He was president and chief executive of DrugAbuse Sciences
Inc. and was a member of the executive team at  Shalone Ventures 
of Palo Alto, California.  Rowland is survived by his wife and three children. A
memorial is set for 2 p.m. Nov. 28 at Ralston Hall at Notre Dame
de Namur University in Belmont, California.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Victoria Slind-Flor  in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 