-- IPod Nation's Revaluation Is No Panacea for U.S.: Yukon Huang
-- B y   Y u k o n   H u a n g
-- 2010-11-02T20:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-02/ipod-nation-s-revaluation-is-no-panacea-for-u-s-economy-yukon-huang.html
In a politically charged atmosphere,
the odds are increasing that China will be compelled to revalue
its currency by 5 percent in the coming months and perhaps 20
percent over the coming two or three years.  Arguments over China’s exchange-rate policy, though,
largely focus on the wrong thing. Instead of fixating on the
total trade figures, the regional supply chain -- where
sophisticated components of assembled goods are actually made --
needs to be better understood. With a closer look at the overall
picture in East Asia, it’s clear that even major currency
adjustments won’t necessarily reduce global trade tensions and
an appreciation of China’s currency may not benefit the West.  On one side of the debate, China critics say a major yuan
appreciation would reduce an unsustainable U.S.-China trade
imbalance. China defenders say a large adjustment by itself
wouldn’t help as the production of goods would shift to other
developing countries, not the U.S. It will also increase
American import prices or even make the U.S. trade gap worse.  By focusing on the aggregate quantity of trade, these
arguments miss the unique role played by the so-called
processing trade: components produced among several East Asian
countries, but assembled and exported from China to the West.  Trade Split  The share of China’s exports from processing trade surged
from about 25 percent in the mid-1980s to 55 percent in the mid-
1990s. Two-thirds of China’s imports for processing come from
East Asia and only 5 percent each from the U.S. and Europe. But
there’s an even split in the export of final goods from China --
as much as 45 percent go to East Asia and the same percentage to
the U.S. and Europe.  This means that China’s  trade surplus  is essentially its
surplus in processing trade -- significant deficits with the
rest of East Asia are offset by larger surpluses with the rest
of the world, notably the U.S. The rest of China’s ordinary
trade is typically in deficit.  And China so far provides only about 20 percent of the
total value of its process-related exports with the other 80
percent being foreign. In sum, the U.S.’s large bilateral
deficits aren’t really with China, but with East Asia. With this
in mind, a major appreciation of the yuan alone won’t do much to
resolve U.S. trade imbalances. An East Asia-wide appreciation
and multilateral, rather than bilateral, solutions are needed.  High-End Shift  Moving one level deeper, assume that East Asian exchange
rates, including China’s, appreciate in tandem. The end result
would probably be a change in the composition and regional
sources of the processing trade, which is recorded as Chinese
exports, but are actually regional exports. It would also affect
China’s non-processing related exports. But whether it would
resolve the problem of global imbalances is more complicated.  As the trade shifts in response to new exchange rates, it
will intensify the pressure on China to reshape the composition
of its exports and focus more on the high end of the technology
spectrum. This poses the greatest competitive threat to firms
based in the U.S. or Europe.  Some studies suggest China is unusual in its ability to
export at both the low and high ends of technology, even though
the country’s per-capita income is less than a 10th of those in
richer developed countries. Processing trade accounts for 90
percent of China’s high-tech exports and only 30 percent to 50
percent of the rest. The bulk of the high-tech components are
produced outside China. An  oft-cited example  is the $150 iPod
that is exported from China to the U.S. -- but the value added
originating in China is less than $5.  Migration of Production  Depending on the product, a significant revaluation of the
yuan in isolation will have varying consequences. While China’s
resource-based exports won’t be affected much by a yuan
appreciation, the production of labor-intensive exports will
migrate to other developing countries -- but not to the West --
and the competitive position on high-tech goods enjoyed by
regional rivals, such as South Korea and Japan, will be
strengthened in the short term.  If the yuan is revalued as part of a regional appreciation,
China is likely to react in two ways.  First, there will be a stronger incentive to produce
processing-related components domestically. China is already
improving internal-transport links so that cheaper interior
provinces become more competitive relative to production centers
located abroad.  Technology Grab  Second, like the other East Asian success stories --
notably Japan, South Korea, and Taiwan -- China will be
compelled to quickly transition to the higher end of the
technology scale. China is already using incentives to this
effect as evidenced in the U.S. government’s recent complaints
to the World Trade Organization about Chinese initiatives to
capture the renewable-energy market.  Even with major currency adjustments, global trade tensions
will continue -- but it won’t be the same. East Asian countries
that benefit today may be squeezed by lower-cost firms in
China’s interior for low-technology goods, and by more-
sophisticated producers on the coast for high-tech products.
American and European firms will begin to worry less about the
flood of cheap, labor-intensive goods and more about staying
ahead of China at the high end of the technology spectrum.  An appreciation of China’s currency may not be such a good
thing for the West after all.  ( Yukon Huang  is a senior associate at the Carnegie
Endowment and a former country director for the World Bank in
China. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Yukon Huang at  yhuang@ceip.org   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  