-- Ireland May Have One Month to Stave Off Bailout: Euro Credit
-- B y   D a r a   D o y l e
-- 2010-11-02T11:57:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-02/ireland-may-have-just-one-month-to-stave-off-bailout-danger-euro-credit.html
Irish Finance Minister  Brian Lenihan 
may have just one month to stave off an international bailout.  The extra yield that investors demand to hold Irish 10-year
bonds over German bunds surged to a record today as Lenihan
tries to put together a 2011 budget by Dec. 7 that convinces
investors he can get the country’s finances in order.  “The behavior of international bond markets suggests the
government’s various announcements haven’t convinced markets
that we are on a credible, stable path,” said Karl Whelan, an
economics professor at University College Dublin and a former
economist at the  Federal Reserve . “The budget is going to be
crucial in determining if we can change that attitude.”  The premium on Irish bonds has doubled since August and is
now wider than the spread on Greek debt four days before it
sought a European Union-led bailout in April. That’s putting
pressure on Lenihan to cut the deficit and overcome both an
economic slump and the rising cost of bailing out the country’s
banks.  While Ireland doesn’t need to raise money this year, its 20
billion euro ($28 billion) cash pile may only last until the
middle of 2011. Lenihan will pave the way for the budget when he
publishes a four-year roadmap for cutting the deficit in the
next two weeks.  Ireland’s bond premium rose 13 basis points to 475 basis
points today. That’s 46 basis points above the level on Sept.
30, when the country’s National Treasury Management Agency
canceled debt auctions scheduled for October and November.  Bailout Support  “The market seems to be worried that Ireland will have to
get support,” said Michiel de Bruin, who oversees about $35
billion as head of European government debt at F&C Netherlands
in Amsterdam. “People are worried about how the government will
be able to show that it’s able to anchor the deficit and the
debt, and at the same time maintain growth.”  Lenihan aims to narrow the budget gap to 3 percent of gross
domestic product by 2014 from about 12 percent this year. When
the costs of the banking rescue are included, this year’s
deficit jumps to 32 percent of GDP.  Irish Health Minister Mary Harney yesterday offered to pay
health workers to leave the government payroll. In an interview
with RTE radio, she said the government would save 200 million
euros a year if 4,000 to 5,000 workers take up an offer of
voluntary severance and early retirement.  “A successful re-entry to the market in the New Year is
still doable,” said Colm McCarthy, an economist who headed the
government’s spending review group last year. “If investors are
convinced and borrowing costs come down, a bailout is far from a
foregone conclusion. If not, then it’s touch and go.”  Pelted With Paint  Signs of resistance to the government’s plans are emerging.
Harney was pelted with red paint yesterday by a demonstrator
protesting spending cuts at an event in west Dublin.  “It’s how long the population can withstand this death by
a thousand cuts,” said  Stuart Thomson , a fund manager at
Glasgow-based Ignis Asset Management, who helps oversee about
$110 billion. “At some point within the next 12 to 18 months
there will be a movement against further austerity. That’s
inevitable.”  Investors have dumped Irish bonds in the past three months
after the government was forced to pump more money into its
banking system. The administration said on Sept. 30 that the
cost of rescuing the country’s lenders may jump to as much as 50
billion euros, or almost one third of GDP. Four weeks later, it
said it needs 15 billion euros of savings by 2014 to hit its
budget target.  The yield on Ireland’s 10-year bond has risen 224 basis
points since Aug. 2, climbing to 7.214 percent today.  Pessimism Bubble  “There’s a pessimism bubble out there on Ireland right
now,” said John McHale, an economics professor at Galway
University in western Ireland. “To break that, the government’s
four-year plan needs to convince investors we won’t need a
bailout and we won’t default. It needs to be as detailed as
possible and include legislation where possible.”  Credit-default swaps linked to Irish debt rose 28 basis
points to 526, according to CMA prices. The cost of insuring
Greek debt for five years was 850 basis points, the most
expensive in  Europe .  German proposals to put in place a permanent debt-crisis
mechanism at EU level are also adding to Ireland’s problems,
says  Harvinder Sian , a London-based analyst at Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc. While German Chancellor Angela Merkel
reiterated today that she wants to force bondholders to foot
some of the bill of any future bailout of a euro member, some
officials argue that could spook investors at a time when
countries such as Ireland and  Portugal  are trying to cut
deficits.  “Up to last week, I would have said that Ireland could
avoid a bailout by taking the measures needed to reduce the
deficit,” said Sian. “Now, the measures being proposed by  Angela Merkel  are casting a shadow, not just on Ireland, but
across the periphery.”  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Dara Doyle at   ddoyle1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at   jfraher@bloomberg.net  