-- Irish Bond Drop May Make Trading More Expensive as Margins Rise
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B r o w n
-- 2010-11-02T15:42:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-02/irish-bond-plunge-may-make-trading-more-expensive-as-margin-amounts-climb.html
Traders in Irish  government bonds  may
have to post bigger deposits, known as margins, when executing
transactions through LCH.Clearnet Ltd. after the value of the
securities plunged.  Trading may become more expensive because the yield spread
between Irish 10-year government bonds and an index of AAA-rated
euro-region debt has surpassed 450 basis points, said  John
Burke , head of fixed income at LCH in London. LCH will also
gauge Ireland’s credit-default swaps and implied credit rating
before deciding whether to increase margin requirements, he
said, declining to specify those trigger levels.  “LCH is doing what the market is doing and recognizing
there are various risks,” said Simon Penn, a market analyst at
UBS Warburg Ltd. in London. “If LCH makes a move and the market
recognizes this, then that could spin the spread onto 500 basis
points and beyond and we could be in the situation we were in
with  Greece .”  Ireland’s funding costs have soared on concern the cost of
bailing out the nation’s banks is increasing, with the 10-year
yield climbing more than 1.2 points in the past three weeks to
about 7.23 percent. Irish bonds currently yield about 454 basis
points more than the Bloomberg Fair Value Euro Sovereign
Benchmark 10-Year index, up from 441 yesterday.  Traders would have to lodge funds equal to 15 percent of
their trades with LCH, which handles about 8 billion euros ($11
billion) of Irish bond trades daily, Burke said.  ‘Credible Risk’  “We would only invoke that framework for any market if it
went convincingly through those levels” of 450 basis points, he
said. “It would be very easy for us to withdraw from this
market, but we’re in and we’re going to stay in. If the market,
through its pricing is saying there’s a credible risk in Irish
bonds, for instance, then we have to act on that.”  In a  notice to its members  dated Oct. 5, LCH said it would
“generally consider a spread of 450 basis points over the 10-
year AAA benchmark to be indicative of additional sovereign
risk,” prompting higher margin demands. There may also be
“further material increases in margin charged as the spread
deteriorates further,” the company said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Brown in  London  at 
 mbrown42@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles
 at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  