-- Irish Consumer Sentiment Falls on `Fear Factor' Over Bank Bailouts, Budget
-- B y   C o l m   H e a t l e y
-- 2010-11-02T12:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-02/irish-consumer-sentiment-falls-on-fear-factor-over-bank-bailouts-budget.html
Irish  consumer confidence  fell in
October to its lowest level in 17 months as the mounting cost of
bailing out banks and government spending cuts created a “fear
factor” among households.  The consumer sentiment index declined to 48.1 from 52.4 in
September, KBC Ireland and the  Economic & Social Research
Institute  in Dublin said today in an e-mailed statement. That’s
a fourth straight decline and leaves the index at its lowest
since May 2009. A measure of households’ expectations fell to
the lowest in 14 months.  Ireland may have to spend 50 billion euros ($70 billion) --
about one-third of gross domestic product -- to save lenders
including  Anglo Irish Bank Corp . Confidence may drop further
this month after Finance Minister  Brian Lenihan  said he needs
savings of 15 billion euros through higher taxes and spending
cuts over the next four years to reduce the budget deficit  “A range of bad news on the economic outlook, on banking
costs and on budget prospects have prompted a fear factor among
consumers,”  Austin Hughes , chief economist at KBC Ireland, said
in the statement. They “realise these developments will
seriously damage their spending power in 2011.”  Lenihan’s 15 billion-euro plan is intended to reduce the
deficit to the European Union limit of 3 percent of GDP in 2014
from about 12 percent this year and convince investors the
government won’t need external aid. Irish 10-year bonds fell
today, widening the  yield spread  against German bunds, the euro
region’s benchmark, by 13 basis points to 475 basis points, the
most since Bloomberg began collecting the data in 1991.  KBC’s gauge of consumer expectations weakened to 28.8 last
month from 37.9 in September, the lowest since August 2009. The
measure of how consumers view current economic conditions rose
to 76.7 from 73.8. There was also a “marginal improvement” in
the outlook for employment, KBC said.  “The future for most Irish consumers will be significantly
shaped by the looming four-year fiscal plan,” Hughes said.
“These developments could markedly alter the impression
suggested by the October sentiment survey that the Irish
consumer is down but not entirely out.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Colm Heatley  in Belfast at 
 cheatley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge at 
 ckeatinge@bloomberg.net . 