-- Japan Recalls Envoy to Russia Over Islands Dispute
-- B y   S a c h i k o   S a k a m a k i
-- 2010-11-02T14:55:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-02/japan-temporarily-recalls-russia-envoy-over-island-dispute-maehara-says.html
Japan recalled its ambassador to
Russia, the first such diplomatic step in at least five years,
in response to a renewed territorial dispute over islands
claimed by both countries.  Foreign Minister  Seiji Maehara  said he had asked Ambassador
Masaharu Kono “temporarily” to return to Tokyo after Russian
President  Dmitry Medvedev  yesterday visited the islands. The
chain lies near Sakhalin Island, where Russia ships liquefied
natural gas to Japan.  “I want to hear about the situation in Russia regarding
the trip by President Medvedev,” Maehara told reporters in
Tokyo. “Russia is an important country to us, and we have to
resolve this lingering territorial issue.”  Medvedev yesterday became the first Russian or Soviet
leader to visit to one of four islands called the Southern
Kurils in Russia and the Northern Territories in Japan. The
Soviet Union seized the islands six miles (10 kilometers) from
Japan’s Hokkaido Island at the end of World War II, and the
sovereignty dispute has prevented Russia and Japan from signing
a formal peace treaty.  Russian Foreign Minister  Sergei Lavrov  said Japan’s
decision to recall its ambassador is an “internal matter.”
Russia has no plans to bring its envoy home from Japan, Lavrov
told reporters in Oslo today.  ‘Power in Asia’  Medvedev plans to visit other islands in the Kuril chain,
Lavrov said. About 10,300 people live on the disputed islands,
with 7,100 of them on Kunashir, the site of Medvedev’s trip,
according to the Kremlin.  “Russia is trying to show that it’s a power in Asia, where
China is far more dominant,” said  Fyodor Lukyanov , an analyst
at the Council on Foreign Defense Policy in Moscow. “The visit
to the Kurils was intended to show that Russia is an important
player in Asia and won’t back down. Japan has given up ground
recently to the Americans over the U.S. base on Okinawa and
China over the trawler captain’s release.”  Maehara also said “nothing has been decided” regarding
whether Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  and Medvedev will hold a summit
meeting at this month’s Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation forum
on Nov. 13-14 in Yokohama. Chief Cabinet Secretary  Yoshito Sengoku  earlier said a meeting would probably take place.  Foreign ministry spokesman Satoru Sato said Japan hasn’t
recalled any ambassador in at least five years.  Public Disapproval  Russia sees no impediment to a Medvedev-Kan meeting in
Yokohama, the state-run RIA Novosti news service reported,
citing an unidentified presidential administration official.  The quarrel comes as public disapproval grows over Kan’s
handling of a separate fracas with China. Tensions between
Asia’s two biggest economies heightened after a Chinese fishing
trawler collided with two Japanese Coast Guard vessels on Sept.
7 near islands in the East China Sea claimed by both countries.  Kan’s popularity dropped to 36.4 percent from 48.5 percent
last month, according to a Sankei newspaper poll published
today. Almost three-fourths of respondents disapproved of his
handling of the Sept. 7 collision that frayed ties between
Asia’s two biggest economies. A Nikkei poll yesterday yielded
similar findings.  “Popular sentiment has been very critical about how the
Japanese have handled the dispute with China,” said  Nick Allan ,
Asia-Pacific regional director at London-based  Control Risks
Group , a risk consultant firm. “So the Japanese Prime Minister
believes he needs to be particularly firm over this issue with
the Russians.”  Almost 72 percent of the public doesn’t approve of Kan’s
diplomacy and security policies, the Sankei newspaper said. The
paper surveyed 1,000 people by telephone on Oct. 30-31 and
didn’t provide a margin of error.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sachiko Sakamaki  in Tokyo at 
 ssakamaki1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Austin at 
 billaustin@bloomberg.net  