-- Jefferies Hires Wendell, Mastrangelo From Citigroup for Technology Banking
-- B y   S e r e n a   S a i t t o
-- 2010-11-02T14:33:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-02/jefferies-is-said-to-hire-citi-s-wendell-mastrangelo-for-tech.html
Jefferies Group Inc. hired  Douglas Wendell  and  David Mastrangelo  from  Citigroup Inc.  as managing
directors in its global technology investment-banking group,
according to the company and people familiar with the situation.  Wendell, who spent the previous 12 years at Citigroup, will
be based in Waltham, Massachusetts, reporting to  Phil Berkowitz 
and  Paul Crisci , co-heads of Jefferies’ U.S. technology
investment banking group, Jefferies said in a statement today.
Mastrangelo will start in January, said the people, who declined
to be identified because his hire isn’t yet public.  “The addition of Doug Wendell is another step in the
continued evolution and expansion of our firm’s global
technology investment banking business,” said  Benjamin Lorello ,
global head of the Investment Banking and Capital Markets unit.
The technology group has added six managing directors and a
senior vice president in the past six months, he said.  Mastrangelo will be head of technology equity capital
markets in New York -- the same title he held at Citigroup --
reporting to  Mark Connelly , the firm’s global head of equity
capital, the people said.  Jefferies has increased its headcount by more than 25
percent since 2008, taking advantage of the collapse of larger
investment banks. As part of the expansion, the New York-based
bank said last month it hired UBS AG’s  Michael Herbst  as head of
European telecommunications investment-banking in London.  Hiring May Slow  Hiring may slow if market conditions don’t improve,
Jefferies Chief Executive Officer  Rich Handler  said on Sept. 22
after the firm announced third-quarter net income declined 46
percent while trading revenue slid 51 percent.  Michael Tedesco , Citigroup’s former global head of
technology investment banking, left last month to join Jefferies
in December as head of U.S. mergers and acquisitions and global
technology deal-making, based in San Francisco.  Jefferies also announced in October it hired Credit Suisse
Group AG’s  Roland Sand  to head investment banking in Germany,
and Bank of America Corp.’s  Simon Hampton  as European head of
real estate, gaming and lodging investment banking.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Serena Saitto  in New York at 
 ssaitto@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at   jsondag@bloomberg.net . 