-- Jefferies Group Plans Debt Sale as Hiring Increases
-- B y   S a p n a   M a h e s h w a r i
-- 2010-11-02T17:23:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-02/jefferies-group-plans-350-million-debt-offering-to-fund-banking-expansion.html
Jefferies Group Inc.  plans to sell
$500 million of five-year notes in a boosted offering to further
develop and diversify its business after increasing its  staff  31
percent in less than two years.  The company raised the size of the issue from $350 million,
according to a person familiar with the transaction. The notes
may yield 275 basis points more than similar-maturity
Treasuries, said the person, who declined to be identified
because terms aren’t set.  Jefferies, which  has increased  its headcount to 2,971 in
August from 2,270 in December 2008 as larger investment banks
scaled back operations, sold debt in June for the same purpose.
The New York-based firm will most likely use funds to “hire
talent and perhaps expand trading operations,” said  Guy LeBas ,
chief fixed-income strategist and economist at Janney Montgomery
Scott LLC.  “There’s going to be a transition of business from some of
the majors to some of the regional-type firms, particularly as
balance sheet becomes less available for trading,” said LeBas,
who’s based in Philadelphia. “The success of regional firms
tends to be contingent on intellectual capital rather than
financial capital.”  The debt will be senior unsecured obligations, Jefferies
said today in a regulatory filing that didn’t specify the size
or timing of the offering.  The bank reported third-quarter results on Sept. 22 that
missed analysts’ estimates on a decline in trading revenue.
Investment-banking revenue more than doubled to $246.2 million,
including an increase of $105.9 million in fees from advising on
mergers and acquisitions and restructurings.  Lorello, Newby  Since Jefferies hired  Ben Lorello  from UBS AG as global
head of investment banking and capital markets last year, it has
“continued the global build-out of our investment banking
client coverage and product capability,” Jefferies executive
committee chairman  Brian Friedman  said in a Sept. 22 conference
call with analysts.  “We are adding a number of managing directors in the U.S.
and Europe, including several sector group heads,” he said.  Jefferies said today it hired  Douglas Wendell  from
Citigroup Inc. as a managing director in its global technology
investment banking group. On Oct. 19, the firm said it hired
 William S. Newby  from UBS AG as global head of gaming investment
banking.  Jefferies may issue notes as soon as today, said the person
familiar with the transaction. The debt may be rated Baa2 by
Moody’s Investors Service and BBB by Standard & Poor’s, the
person said.  In June, Jefferies sold $550 million of bonds maturing in
2021, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The 6.875 percent
notes, issued at 385 basis points more than similar-maturity
Treasuries, traded on Oct. 22 at 106.902 cents on the dollar to
yield 5.98 percent, or a 342.5 basis-point spread, according to
Trace, the bond-price reporting system of the Financial Industry
Regulatory Authority. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sapna Maheshwari  in New York at 
 sapnam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  