-- JPMorgan Is Said to Be Investigated Over Disclosures in Subprime CDO Deals
-- B y   J o s h u a   G a l l u   a n d   D a w n   K o p e c k i
-- 2010-11-02T04:00:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-02/jpmorgan-said-to-be-investigated-over-subprime-cdo-disclosures.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co.  is the subject
of an investigation to determine if it failed to tell investors
in a financial product linked to subprime mortgages that hedge
fund Magnetar Capital helped select the underlying assets before
betting against them, a person familiar with the matter said.  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission is probing
whether JPMorgan allowed Magnetar to choose assets for a $1.1
billion collateralized debt obligation known as Squared,
according to the person, who declined to be identified because
the investigation isn’t public. JPMorgan lost about $880 million
on the deal, according to ProPublica, which reported the
investigation yesterday.  The inquiry is part of a broader investigation of how Wall
Street firms bundled and sold mortgage-linked investments as the
housing market declined in 2007, contributing to more than $1.8
trillion in losses and writedowns worldwide. Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. agreed to pay $550 million in July to resolve SEC claims it
misled investors by failing to disclose hedge fund Paulson &
Co.’s role in selecting underlying assets for a subprime-linked
investment.  “We, like other firms, have received inquiries from the
SEC related to collateralized obligations,” JPMorgan
spokeswoman  Kristin Lemkau  said. “We are cooperating fully with
these inquiries.”  The SEC has made similar inquiries at firms including
Morgan Stanley and  Bank of America Corp. , according to company
filings. SEC spokesman  John Nester  declined to comment.  “Magnetar did not select the assets for the Squared
transaction or require that any specific assets be put into the
transaction,” spokesman  Steven Lipin  said in a statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Joshua Gallu  in Washington at 
 jgallu@bloomberg.net ;
 Dawn Kopecki  in New York at 
 dkopecki@bloomberg.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story
Lawrence Roberts at   lroberts13@bloomberg.net . 