-- Terra Firma Judge Rules Out Punitive Damages Against Citigroup
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2010-11-02T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-02/judge-eliminates-punitive-damages-from-terra-firma-suit-against-citigroup.html
The judge presiding over the trial of
Terra Firma Capital Partners Ltd.’s lawsuit against  Citigroup
Inc.  said he won’t let jurors consider punitive damages in the
case.  U.S. District Judge  Jed Rakoff  said in a hearing after
yesterday’s testimony that punitive damages aren’t appropriate
in the case, which he called “a cat-fight between two rich
companies.”  “Punitive damages, in most jurisdictions, involve some
threat to the public,” Rakoff told lawyers in the hearing.
“This case doesn’t have that.”  In the trial, which is set to go to a jury this week,  Guy Hands ’s Terra Firma private-equity firm claims Citigroup banker
 David Wormsley  misled Hands in a May 2007 auction of  EMI Group
Ltd. , causing it to overbid for the London-based music company.  Rakoff, who last week barred Terra Firma from asking jurors
for lost profits damages, said today that he was inclined to
rule against permitting jurors to consider a claim for the
$112.2 million Terra Firma says it was forced to invest in June
to keep EMI from breaching debt covenants. Rakoff said he will
give the question one more look and rule today.  Hands claimed in testimony during the trial that Wormsley
falsely told him in three telephone calls the weekend before the
Monday, May 21, 2007, auction that Cerberus Capital Management
LP planned to submit a competing bid for EMI.  Cerberus had decided not to bid, leaving Terra Firma
without competition in the auction. Terra Firma claims that if
it had known the truth, it would have sought more information
about EMI’s business and finances and negotiated a better price.  Citigroup claims Wormsley said nothing to mislead Hands.
Citigroup said Terra Firma only claimed it was defrauded in 2009
after unsuccessful negotiations to restructure the debt.  The case is Terra Firma Investments (GP) 2 Ltd. v.
Citigroup, 09-cv-10459, U.S. District Court, Southern District
of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Bob Van Voris  in New York federal court at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 