-- Former BOE Panelist Julius Puts Chance of U.K. Recession at `10% or Less'
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n   a n d   A n d r e a   C a t h e r w o o d
-- 2010-11-02T14:29:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-02/julius-says-britain-faces-a-10-or-less-chance-of-falling-into-recession.html
Former Bank of England policy maker
 Deanne Julius  said the chance the U.K. economy will slip into
another recession is “10 percent or less.”  “We have all the mechanisms in place that we now need to
have in place to sustain the recovery,” she said on Bloomberg
Television’s ‘The Pulse’ with Andrea Catherwood in London today.
“It would take something quite unexpected to throw us into a
second dip.”  The  U.K. expanded  0.8 percent in the third quarter, twice
the pace forecast by economists, before a government budget
squeeze that may temper the recovery. At the same time,
September’s 3.1 percent  inflation rate  exceeded the government’s
upper limit for a seventh month in September, and Julius said
the central bank’s Monetary Policy Committee should raise the
 key interest rate  by a quarter point to limit price gains.  “The burden of proof around the MPC table is very much on
those people who think that there should be more stimulus,”
Julius said. “The biggest risk that the BOE faces now is that
it loses its credibility on targeting inflation.”  The bank, which aims to keep inflation at 2 percent, will
keep interest rates at a record low of 0.5 percent and hold its
 bond-purchase plan  at 200 billion pounds ($320 billion) this
week, according to the median forecast in two Bloomberg News
surveys of economists. The bank will announce the decision at
noon on Nov. 4 in London.  Deflation Threat  Policy makers split three ways at last month’s decision,
with  Andrew Sentance  arguing for an increase in the benchmark
interest rate and  Adam Posen  saying the bond-purchase plan,
known as quantitative easing, should be expanded. Seven of the
nine-member Monetary Policy Committee voted for no change.  Julius said while she would not vote for an increase in
bond purchases in Britain, arguments for the U.S. to expand its
asset purchases were stronger because the Federal Reserve is
battling a bigger deflation threat. The Fed will probably
announce a plan to buy at more long-term securities tomorrow,
according to a Bloomberg News survey of 56 economists.  “If I thought that deflation was a significant risk, which
in the U.S. I think you can make a case for, then I would have
to mitigate that risk by looking at more QE,” she said. In the
U.K. “it’s very difficult to argue that deflation is a
significant risk.”  “If you were arguing for more QE, as a few people may well
be, then you need to feel that the output gap in this country is
still quite large,” she said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jennifer Ryan  in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net ;
 Andrea Catherwood  in London at 
 acatherwood@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net  