-- Karmali Said to Shut Cypress Lane Fund After a Year
-- B y   B e i   H u
-- 2010-11-03T02:21:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-02/karmali-said-to-shut-cyprus-lane-hedge-fund-after-losing-10-in-14-months.html
Shafiq Karmali, a former  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc . trader, is shutting his hedge fund and
returning investors’ money a little more than a year after
starting it, said three people briefed on the decision.  Investors will get back their capital in Cypress Lane Asia
Fund, which bets on both rising and falling stocks in the region,
by the end of November, said one of the people, who asked not to
be identified because the information is private.  The fund, with $25 million of assets as of September, lost
almost 10 percent in the 14 months since its August 2009
inception, according to a letter sent to investors. Karmali
decided to shut the fund in October when it returned an
estimated 1.5 percent for the month, said the person.  Smaller hedge funds are struggling to attract new business
as investors channel most of the new money to larger firms and
shun managers without a track record following the financial
crisis. One in five funds globally may be liquidated by the
first quarter because smaller managers are starved for fees and
new capital, Justin Fredericks, head of U.S. capital
introductions on the prime brokerage team of Bank of America
Corp.’s Merrill Lynch & Co. unit in  New York , said in September.  “Irrespective of your pedigree, raising assets has been a
challenge over the last two years,” said Alexander Mearns,
chief executive officer of Singapore-based fund data provider
 Eurekahedge Pte .  Karmali, chief investment officer of Hong Kong-based
Cypress Lane Capital LLC, will move from  Hong Kong  to  Canada  in
the next three to six months to be closer to his family, said
the person. He will continue to manage his own money.  Karmali, 45, and Chief Operating Officer Bill Mui, declined
to comment.  Larger Managers  The HFRI Fund Weighted Composite Index, a measure of the
industry, returned about 12 percent between the end of July 2009
and September of this year.  While those returns and the financial market rebound have
helped hedge funds attract new money for the first time since
2007, most of that is going to larger managers. About 75 percent
of the $19 billion of net deposits globally in the third quarter
went to managers overseeing $5 billion or more, data compiled by
Chicago-based Hedge Fund Research Inc. show.  “Post 2008, the time horizon required for reaching
viability for many small funds has been pushed out
considerably,” said Charles Stucke, a Chicago-based senior
managing director of  Guggenheim Partners LLC . Few assets under
management and struggling performance puts stress on the
business and the manager, he said.  Global Closures  “At some point, the risk of loss, or realized personal
loss, on the business defeats the manager’s desire to stay in
business,” Stucke said. “Exiting these businesses is not a
high-cost decision.”  Cypress Lane joins Hong Kong’s Minerva Capital Management
Ltd., DragonBack Capital Ltd. and  Singapore ’s Amoeba Capital
Partners Pte. in shutting hedge funds. About 417 hedge funds
were liquidated globally in the first half of this year,
according to HFR data.  Stanley Ku, former Hong Kong head of Fortress Investment
Group LLC, shut his Minerva Macro Fund earlier this year, a
person with knowledge of the matter said in June. The fund,
which started investing in August 2009, lost 6.6 percent by the
end of March.  Amoeba, DragonBack  Amoeba Capital, run by the former head of Asian investments
at Morgan Stanley’s asset management unit, decided to return
investor capital in its stock hedge fund, citing tough industry
conditions, Managing Partner Ashutosh Sinha said in October.  DragonBack Capital, a Hong Kong-based hedge-fund firm which
at its peak managed almost $600 million, shut both funds by
August after assets fell below $100 million, Chief Executive
Officer Robert Lance said this month. The firm has held talks
with more than 30 managers to provide support services as it
seeks other business.  Karmali left Goldman Sachs in 2008 after 13 years with the
New York-based bank, where he managed an equities portfolio
within its principal strategies group in  Asia .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bei Hu in Hong Kong at 
 bhu5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  