-- Kayne Anderson Raises $600 Million for First Mezzanine Fund
-- B y   L a u r a   M a r c i n e k
-- 2010-11-02T17:11:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-02/kayne-anderson-raises-600-million-for-first-mezzanine-fund-beating-goal.html
Kayne Anderson Capital Advisors, the
Los Angeles-based investment firm founded by  Richard Kayne ,
raised $600 million for its first mezzanine fund.  The fund will be run in New York by  Ed Cerny  and  David Petrucco , former managing directors at  Blackstone Group LP ’s
corporate-debt group, who joined Kayne Anderson in 2008, the
firm said today in a statement. Kayne Anderson, which manages
$9.9 billion, beat its fundraising target of $500 million.  Mezzanine funds invest in loans that rank between senior
debt and equity in a company’s capital structure. Investors are
attracted to the loans by yields that are usually higher than
those on secured debt. Kayne Anderson’s fund will make quarterly
distributions.  “The world is changing from a world where you give someone
your money and then wake up in five years to see how you did,”
Petrucco said. “I think they like the protection of getting
their money back. They live off those funds. It removes
uncertainty.”  Kayne Anderson Mezzanine Partners fund will focus on
companies, including those owned by private-equity firms, with
annual earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization of $10 million to $50 million. Capital will be
invested within the first five years of the fund’s 10-year span.
Cerny and Petrucco have already invested a combined $90 million
in six deals, including refinancings, corporate expansions and
leveraged buyouts.  Kayne Anderson, founded in 1984, invests in master limited
partnerships, as well as in private deals in oil and gas
companies, non-energy growth equity and real estate.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Laura Marcinek  in New York 
 lmarcinek3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net . 