-- Kazakhstan's Tenge May Be Permitted to Strengthen on Inflation, HSBC Says
-- B y   E m m a   O ’ B r i e n
-- 2010-11-02T08:03:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-02/kazakh-tenge-may-be-allowed-to-gain-on-inflation-hsbc-says.html
Kazakhstan’s tenge may strengthen
more than 5 percent by the middle of next year as accelerating
inflation forces the central bank to allow the currency to
appreciate, HSBC Holdings Plc said.  The tenge may gain to 139.8 per dollar by the end of the
first half of 2011, as the  National Bank of Kazakhstan  lets the
managed currency strengthen in a bid to reduce prices on
imported goods and thereby bring down inflation,  Alexander Morozov , chief economist for Russia and the Commonwealth of
Independent States in Moscow, said in an e-mail today.  Kazakhstan’s  annual inflation  rate quickened to 7.3 percent
in October, boosting concerns policy makers won’t be able to
keep consumer prices within their 6 to 8 percent target range
next year, Morozov said. The central bank said in June it would
prevent the tenge from moving more than 0.3 percent against the
dollar each trading session, a policy it may abandon in favor of
a “managed float” after March next year, Chairman  Grigori Marchenko  said in an interview Oct. 21.  “With the central bank’s clear mandate for maintaining
price stability, most likely it would have to allow tenge
strengthening as the key tool against inflation,” Morozov said
in a separate e-mail to clients yesterday. “We expect that to
happen once the current currency band regime expires in late
March.”  Kazakh inflation accelerated for the second month in a row
in October to the fastest since February. The former Soviet
republic holds 3 percent of the world’s oil reserves, according
to BP Plc.  The tenge may be 7.7 percent stronger than current levels
at 137.1 per dollar by the end of next year, Morozov said. The
currency, which has traded at an average 147.45 throughout the
second half, was little changed at 147.5425 per dollar at 1:17
p.m. in the Kazakh financial capital, Almaty.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Emma O’Brien  in London at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at   gserkin@bloomberg.net  