-- Kellogg Third-Quarter Profit Falls 6.4% as Cereal Sales Decline
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B o y l e
-- 2010-11-02T20:25:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-02/kellogg-third-quarter-profit-falls-6-4-as-cereal-sales-slump-after-recall.html
Kellogg Co. , the largest U.S. maker
of breakfast cereal, said third-quarter profit dropped 6.4
percent as North American cereal sales continued to decline and
predicted 2011 earnings that trailed analysts’ estimates.  Net income fell to $338 million, or 90 cents a share, in
the quarter ended Oct. 2, from $361 million, or 94 cents, a year
earlier, the Battle Creek, Michigan-based company said today in
a statement.  Analysts  anticipated 90 cents, the average of
projections compiled by Bloomberg.  Kellogg cut its 2010 earnings  forecast  last month for the
second time this year, citing slumping demand for cereal after a
June recall and heightened competition. Earnings excluding
currency swings will rise at a “low single-digit” rate in
2011, the company said today. That was short of the average
analysts’ estimate.  “While some will argue that management is being
conservative, we expect anemic earnings growth at Kellogg as it
works through its execution issues, increased competition, and
weak demand in key cereal markets,”  Eric Serotta , an analyst at
Wells Fargo Securities, said in a note to clients.  He rates the
shares “market perform.”  Kellogg , also maker of Pop-Tarts and Keebler Club crackers,
fell $1.06, or 2.1 percent, to $49.69 at 4 p.m. in New York
Stock Exchange composite trading, the biggest loss in two
months. The shares have dropped 6.6 percent this year, while the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Packaged Foods Index gained 11 percent.  The 2011 earnings forecast means profit of as much as $3.40
excluding currency movements, said  Kris Charles , a Kellogg
spokeswoman. Analysts had predicted $3.61 on average. Analysts
including Serotta and  Tim Ramey  of D.A. Davidson lowered their
2011 profit estimates following the results.  New Products  Chief Executive Officer  David Mackay  plans to introduce new
products, including Crunchy Nut cereal and Special K with Oats
and Honey, to help boost demand. Mackay told investors on a
conference call that the company pulled back on innovation
during the recession, which lowered sales from new products by
about 25 percent in 2009 and 2010 compared with 2008.  Crunchy Nut and the new Special K variety, currently sold
in the U.K., tested well with U.S. consumers, Mackay said in an
interview. Crunchy Nut is Kellogg’s second-biggest brand in the
U.K. after Special K, he said.  Rising Commodity Costs  Kellogg will introduce new cereal products amid rising
costs for commodities such as wheat, corn, soybean oil, and
sugar. The company said it expects costs to increase about 6
percent in 2011, which will be partially offset by cost-savings
programs. Kellogg said it has hedged, or locked in lower prices,
on about 40 percent of its commodity costs for 2011.  Kellogg and other food makers will likely raise prices to
counter the higher production costs, according to  Alexia Howard ,
an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co.  General Mills Inc., the Minneapolis-based maker of
Cheerios, is raising prices on about one-quarter of its cereal
products to cope with “increasing input costs,”  Kirstie Foster , a company spokeswoman, said last month.  Mackay declined to comment on any planned price increases
in the interview.  The chief executive said he plans to boost online
advertising spending for brands such as Pop-Tarts. Ad spending
rose 9 percent in the third quarter, and will increase at a mid-
single-digit rate in 2011, Kellogg said on the conference call.  The cereal maker recalled about 28 million boxes of Froot
Loops, Honey Smacks, Apple Jacks and Corn Pops cereal in June.
The four brands represented about 16 percent of Kellogg’s U.S.
cereal sales annually, according to  Howard , the analyst at
Sanford C. Bernstein.  Mackay said on July 29 that the recall’s impact on sales
will last through balance of the year.  Revenue declined 3.7 percent to $3.16 billion last quarter.  North American sales fell 2.6 percent to $2.13 billion.
That included a 6 percent drop in cereal sales and a 5 percent
decline in frozen foods, where Eggo sales slumped because of a
slower-than-expected rebound from a supply disruption over the
past year. North America accounts for about two-thirds of
Kellogg’s business.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Matthew Boyle  in New York at 
 Mboyle20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at   rajello@bloomberg.net  