-- Khodorkovsky Says Prepared to Die in Russian Prison
-- B y   H e n r y   M e y e r
-- 2010-11-02T13:07:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-02/khodorkovsky-makes-closing-statement-in-moscow-oil-theft-trial.html
Mikhail Khodorkovsky , the jailed
former head of Yukos Oil Co., said he’s prepared to die in a
Russian prison as he faces an additional six years of
incarceration on oil theft charges, according to his lawyers.  “Living in prison is hard for me, as it would be for
anyone, and I wouldn’t want to die here,” Khodorkovsky said in
his  closing statement  in a Moscow court today. “But if that’s
what’s required, I won’t waver. My faith is worth my life. I
think I’ve proven that.”  Khodorkovsky said the verdict in his Moscow trial on
charges of oil theft will be “predictable” and an acquittal is
impossible. “No one believes that you can get an acquittal in
the Yukos affair in a Moscow court.”  Prosecutors are seeking a 14-year sentence for
Khodorkovsky, 47, once Russia’s richest man, and his business
partner  Platon Lebedev  on charges of stealing 350 million tons
(2.57 billion barrels) of oil from Yukos. The trial ended today
and the judge said he’ll begin reading the verdict on Dec. 15.
The two men are already serving eight-year jail terms for fraud.  Khodorkovsky’s lawyers say time already served will be
deducted from his sentence if he’s convicted, meaning he would
serve an additional six years in prison.  ‘Hijacked’ Trial  “I don’t think I’ll ever see him again,” Khodorkovsky’s
mother Marina told reporters outside the courthouse. “I’m 76
years old. Even if they only give him four years, I’m unlikely
to see him.”  Sandy Saunders, a lawyer for Khodorkovsky, said he expects
a guilty verdict and to appeal to the European Court of Human
Rights after exhausting all Russian legal channels.  “This trial continues to demonstrate that the Russian
judicial system has been hijacked by the powers-that-be,”
Saunders said in an interview.  Former Prime Minister  Mikhail Kasyanov , who testified as a
defense witness in the trial, said Khodorkovsky and Lebedev are
victims of a campaign waged by Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin .
“They should be released immediately. What is going on is a
demonstration of a political persecution show,” Kasyanov said
in an interview.  Khodorkovsky has said his 2005 conviction was motivated by
his opposition to Putin, who was president at the time of his
2003 arrest. Putin said Khodorkovsky “deserved his punishment”
in an interview with  Kommersant  newspaper in August.  Tax Claims  Yukos was bankrupted under a $30 billion tax claim and sold
off in pieces to state oil company OAO Rosneft.  The latest trial is “a reminder to every other citizen and
businessman in Russia that they are subject to the power of the
authorities and not to push the envelope too far,” Saunders
said.  Russia is the world’s most corrupt major economy, according
to Berlin-based Transparency International’s 2010  Corruption
Perceptions Index  released on Oct. 26, sliding to 154th among
178 countries and placing it alongside Tajikistan and Kenya.  Russians pay bribes totaling $300 billion a year,
equivalent to almost a quarter of gross domestic product,
according to Kirill Kabanov, head of the National Anti-
Corruption Committee.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Henry Meyer  in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Amanda Jordan at   ajordan11@bloomberg.net ;
Willy Morris at   wmorris@bloomberg.net  