-- Madison Square Garden to Resume Schedule on Nov. 5 After Asbestos Scare
-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 2010-11-04T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-02/knicks-game-is-canceled-as-debris-falls-at-garden-during-asbestos-cleaning.html
The New York Knicks host the
Washington Wizards tomorrow night at Madison Square Garden after
the arena was deemed safe from asbestos by city and
environmental officials.  The National Basketball Association game against the
Orlando Magic on Nov. 2 was postponed because of concerns that
debris dislodged from the ceiling contained asbestos. Tests
didn’t find the carcinogen in the air.  “The building is safe,” Farrell Sklerov, a spokesman for
the city’s Department of Environmental Protection, said in a
telephone interview.  A  Roger Waters  concert is scheduled on Nov. 6, followed by
a doubleheader on Nov. 7, with the Knicks playing the
Philadelphia 76ers in the afternoon and the New York Rangers
facing the St. Louis Blues at night.  A new date for the Orlando game will be announced soon, the
Knicks said in an e-mailed news release. Fans should retain
their tickets for the game, the team said.  It was the first cancellation since a Jan. 7, 1996,
snowstorm caused a Knicks game to be rescheduled.  During overnight maintenance following the Rangers’
National Hockey League game against the Chicago Blackhawks two
days ago, “dust-like material” fell from the attic above the
ceiling, Sklerov said. At the same time, “two monitoring
systems signaled elevated fiber levels,” he said.  “Tests were performed by the independent air-monitoring
contractor,” Sklerov said. “The elevated levels were not
asbestos. There is no health risk.”  $500 Million Upgrade  Cablevision Systems Corp . spun off the arena in February
into Madison Square Inc.  James Dolan , the president and chief
executive officer of Cablevision, is chairman of MSG. This
building, which opened in 1968, is the fourth to carry the
Madison Square Garden name.  It will undergo upgrades costing more than $500 million in
the next couple of years.  Renovation of the lower bowl is expected to be complete
before the 2011-12 basketball and hockey seasons, and the upper
bowl a year later. Most of the work will be done during the
summer months, leaving it fully operational during the seasons
of the Knicks and Rangers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nancy Kercheval  in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  