-- New Yorkers Have No `Major' Complaints on Voting After Primary `Screw-Up'
-- B y   A s h l e y   L u t z
-- 2010-11-02T18:02:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-02/new-yorkers-have-no-major-complaints-on-voting-after-primary-screw-up-.html
New York City voters have had no
“major” complaints over casting ballots in state general
elections today, a contrast to disruptions in the September
primaries that Mayor  Michael Bloomberg  called a “royal screw-
up.”  “We’ve had a handful of complaints, but nothing major,”
 Dennis Tompkins , a spokesman in New York for State Comptroller
 Thomas DiNapoli , said in a telephone interview. The
comptroller’s office is monitoring voting through a telephone
help line, he said.  In the primary election Sept. 14, some polls opened as much
as four hours late as workers grappled with new electronic
voting machines.  George Gonzalez , executive director of the
city’s Board of Elections, was dismissed last week after being
criticized for mishandling the primary.  At the 92nd Street Y polling site on Manhattan’s Upper East
Side, workers struggled to set up ballot machines but were able
to open on time, said Priscilla McCrorey, 47, the station
coordinator. Poll employees received “only one day of training,
as far back as September,” on how to use the system, she said.  “The machines now are more work for the poll station and
less work for the voters,” McCrorey said. “Still, I expected
it to be worse.”  Paper Ballots  The new machines, mandated by Congress after the disputed
2000 presidential election, require voters to fill in an oval
next to their candidate’s name on a paper ballot, which is fed
through a scanner. The machines create a permanent record that
can be used in a recount.  Peter Romano, 83, complained after voting at the  92nd
Street Y  that the print on the ballots was too small.  “How am I supposed to know who I’m voting for if I can’t
read the damn thing?” said Romano, a retired New York Daily
News production employee. “Who knows if I filled in the right
bubble?”  Another voter,  Jay Lefkowitz , 47, said the frenzy at the
polls had calmed down since the primaries.  “The atmosphere then was more frenetic,” said Lefkowitz,
an attorney and adjunct professor at the  Columbia Law School .
“Today, things went very well.”  Lack of Privacy  DiNapoli’s office released two reports in October detailing
problems that occurred in the primaries. Deficiencies included
late poll-site openings, lack of privacy, machine malfunctions,
difficulty reading ballots and insufficient poll-worker
training, he said in a  news release  at the time.  Some voters still aren’t being given enough privacy, said
Neal Rosenstein, project coordinator for the  New York Public
Interest Research Group , which is monitoring polling places.  “These problems are scattered all over the city,” he
said. At Public School 321 in Park Slope, Brooklyn, “Three of
10 voters weren’t offered a privacy sleeve, a manila folder that
allows for concealing the ballot after it’s been marked so
onlookers can’t see how one voted,” Rosenstein said.  Overall, “the general election is a clear improvement from
primary day,” he said. “It seemed like the Board of Elections
learned its lessons well.”  Mayor Bloomberg today asked voters to register complaints
through the city’s 311 telephone help line or by using Twitter
on the Internet. The  Twitter  feed -- #nycvotes -- had hundreds
of postings, with complaints mainly about small type on the
ballots.  The mayor is founder and majority owner of Bloomberg News
parent Bloomberg LP.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ashley Lutz  in New York at 
 alutz8@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net . 