-- New Zealand Private Equity Investment Rises to $130 Million, Survey Shows
-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 2010-11-02T12:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-02/new-zealand-private-equity-investment-rises-to-130-million-survey-shows.html
New Zealand’s private equity
investment swelled in the six months ended June 30 with the
value of deals completed rising to the highest in three years,
according to a survey.  Private equity, venture capital and leveraged buyout deals
totaled NZ$170 million ($130 million) in the period, up from
NZ$82 million a year earlier, according to the survey by Ernst &
Young and the  New Zealand Private Equity & Venture Capital
Association .  Investment has slumped since the NZ$1.1 billion of deals in
the first half of 2007, dominated by  Telecom Corp. ’s sale of its
Yellow Pages directories business to CCMP Capital Asia Pte and a
unit of Ontario Teachers’ Pension Plan. The decline in investor
confidence and the squeeze on credit may be reversing after the
global financial crisis, Ernst & Young partner Andrew Taylor
said in the report.  “The top end of the market is still quiet, reflecting
market challenges and the small number of merger and acquisition
transactions,” he said in an e-mailed statement. Still “there
was heartening levels of activity in other market segments.”  There were eight deals in the so-called mid-market sector
where New Zealand-based investors are active, valued at NZ$68
million, up from NZ$52 million a year earlier, the report
showed.  A majority of investors in the mid-market sector have
substantial committed but undrawn capital, NZVCA Chairman Kerry
McIntosh said. Local funds have been successfully raising new
money, demonstrating a willingness from local investors to
consider alternate asset opportunities, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tracy Withers in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Iain Wilson 
 iwilson2@bloomberg.net  