-- News Corp. Says Times Online Sites Have 105,000 Paying Readers
-- B y   K r i s t e n   S c h w e i z e r
-- 2010-11-02T09:44:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-02/news-corp-says-times-online-sites-have-105-000-paying-readers.html
News Corp. (NWSA) ’s U.K. newspapers, The
Times of London and The Sunday Times, have more than 105,000
paying online customers subscribing to the newspapers’ websites,
iPad application and Kindle edition.  About half the customers are monthly subscribers, while
others are single-copy or pay-as-you-go users, News Corp.’s
international unit said in a statement today. There are also
about 100,000 joint digital and print subscribers.  Today’s statement is the first time News Corp. has
commented on reader figures since launching the paid-for
websites in early July. Newspapers with paywalls, such as the
 Financial Times , say paying niche audiences that advertisers can
target are more valuable than visitors who don’t subscribe and
find articles from  search engines  such as Google.  “In the few months since we launched these new products,
the total paid circulation of The Times has grown,” said  James Murdoch , chairman of News Corp. for  Europe  and  Asia . “This
reinforces our belief that our journalism is valuable and that
customers will respond to the investment, innovation and quality
that are hallmarks of our titles and our company.”  Many of the U.K.’s digital subscribers are “relatively
affluent” and use the sites often, News Corp. said. Users
register a “high level of engagement” with the downloaded
application and most would recommend it to their friends, the
company said.  The websites are available for one pound ($1.60) a day or
two pounds per week. The Times iPad app costs 9.99 pounds a
month. An app for The Sunday Times is expected to launch
shortly, the company said.  Nielsen Co. said last week the online audience for both
newspapers shrunk about 42 percent since they re-launched behind
the paywalls. Four out of five visitors to the sites didn’t
access content behind the free home pages in the third quarter,
Nielsen said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristen Schweizer in  London  at 
 kschweizer1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at   vroot@bloomberg.net . 