-- LNG's Asia Premium to U.S. Gas Advances to 20-Month High: Energy Markets
-- B y   D i n a k a r   S e t h u r a m a n
-- 2010-11-03T08:02:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-02/lng-s-asia-premium-to-u-s-gas-advances-to-20-month-high-energy-markets.html
The premium of Asian liquefied
natural gas over U.S. benchmark prices for the fuel, at the
highest level in 20 months, may increase amid colder-than-normal
weather in China and rising use by factories.  The  difference  between LNG in Japan, Asia’s biggest gas
importer, and the average monthly U.S. Henry Hub price rose to
$7.19 a million British thermal units in September, the most
recent month for which  customs  data is available. That’s 48
percent higher than a year earlier and the biggest gap since
January last year.  Rising demand for gas from manufacturers in Japan, South
Korea and Taiwan helped increase worldwide LNG imports by more
than 20 percent in the first half, according to Bank of America
Merrill Lynch. China started providing home heating earlier than
normal ahead of the winter to cope with freezing temperatures,
Xinhua News Agency said yesterday.  “Asian gas prices are trading at a significant premium to
other international markets and this will continue,” said  Neil Beveridge  and  Angus Chan , analysts at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co.
in Hong Kong. A lack of LNG supplies and rising production costs
“will push prices higher,” they said.  The price of LNG imported to Japan averaged $11.09 a
million Btu in September, customs data released yesterday showed.
That compares with $7.25 in June 2009, the lowest level in more
than three years.  Global gas prices are diverging as U.S. customers switch to
cheaper, domestically produced gas from shale deposits, while
Asian importers continue to pay prices linked to oil. Shale gas
will account for 34 percent of U.S. production by 2035, compared
with 18 percent in 2008, Energy Department estimates show.  New Projects  New projects in Qatar, Yemen, Indonesia and Norway in the
past two years, coupled with the deepest recession since World
War II, created a glut of LNG, reducing prices of the fuel for
immediate delivery to $5 per million Btu last year, according to
Asian customs data.  “LNG supply growth has peaked this year and the surplus in
the global LNG market is diminishing,” said  Sabine Schels , an
analyst in London at Merrill Lynch, which predicts worldwide
capacity will have expanded a record 16 percent this year.
“With utilization rates heading toward 90 percent as early as
next year on the back of growing demand in the Pacific Basin, we
believe the LNG market will move toward balancing, and perhaps
even deficit, much faster than what is commonly assumed.”  The gas glut, caused by the global recession, may disappear
in a decade based on current demand from China, International
Energy Agency Executive Director  Nobuo Tanaka  said in Singapore
on Nov. 1. Surplus production capacity last year was estimated
at 200 billion cubic meters, according to the IEA’s Medium-Term
Oil & Gas Markets 2010 report published in June.  Shrinking Capacity  Excess production capacity will shrink by about 50 percent
by 2012 while usage increases to 91 percent next year, Merrill
Lynch said. It was 85.7 percent in 2009. Global oversupply of
LNG, which is gas chilled into liquid form for shipment, is
about 3.9 billion cubic feet a day, equivalent to about 1
percent of world demand, according to the bank.  LNG import capacity will more than double in the next five
years in Asia as usage increases, research from Sanford C.
Bernstein shows. Demand for the fuel in Japan and South Korea
may grow by 7 percent and 31 percent this year, respectively, it
said. Usage may grow 20 percent in China and 30 percent in India,
compared with 4 percent in the U.S.  China’s economy may grow 10.5 percent this year and 9.6
percent in 2011, according to the International Monetary Fund.
India’s may expand 9.4 percent in 2010 and 8.4 percent next year,
the IMF estimates.  “Weather is key, not just in Asia, as cold weather in
north west Europe will impact U.K. National Balancing Point,
which impacts Asian prices,”  Frank Harris , global head of LNG
at Wood Mackenzie Consultants Ltd., said in an e-mail today.
“Any significant and unanticipated supply outage will impact
the spot market.”  Gas for delivery next month at the National Balancing Point,
the U.K. benchmark, rose 0.6 percent to 47.9 pence a therm at
7:59 a.m. in London.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Dinakar Sethuraman  in Singapore at 
 dinakar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Clyde Russell at 
 crussell7@bloomberg.net  