-- Nigeria to Sell a $500 Million Eurobond by Mid-December, Debt Office Says
-- B y   S a m   O l u k o y a
-- 2010-11-02T14:00:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-02/nigeria-to-sell-500-million-eurobond-by-mid-december-debt-office-says.html
Nigeria will sell its planned $500
million Eurobond by the middle of December with bookrunners for
the sale to be appointed next week, said  Abraham Nwankwo ,
director-general of the country’s Debt Management Office.  After naming “the two companies chosen to serve as
bookrunners,” Nigeria expects to “harvest the money” by the
middle of December, Nwankwo told reporters in Lagos today.  Barclays Capital and FBN Capital Ltd., a unit of  First Bank
of Nigeria Plc , were last month named as advisers for the sale,
which Finance Minister  Olusegun Aganga  said on Sept. 3 will act
as a benchmark for local companies to price their bonds. The
securities will be sold by year-end, Aganga said on Oct. 19.  Nigeria, the continent’s largest oil producer and sub-
Saharan Africa’s second-biggest economy, plans to use funds from
the sale to develop roads, railways and housing and reduce
dependence on oil exports, the source of more than 80 percent of
government revenue.  “It is likely to be over-subscribed,” Nwankwo said.
“We’ve seen interest from the U.S., Europe and Asia.”  Standard & Poor’s today affirmed Nigeria’s B+ long-term
rating, four steps below investment grade on its scale.  “The outlook is stable, reflecting our expectation that
Nigeria will maintain its strong external and fiscal balance
sheet and that its budgetary performance will gradually improve
over the next few years,” S&P said in a statement today. “We
consider that the ratings on Nigeria are constrained by high
political risk, but supported by a strong balance sheet.”  Fitch Ratings lowered the outlook on Nigeria’s BB- rating
to negative from stable on Oct. 22, concerned about withdrawals
from the excess crude account and a drop in foreign currency
reserves.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sam Olukoya  in Lagos at 
 solukoya2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  