-- Nigeria Gives Nitel Bidder Two Days to Pay $750 Million First Installment
-- B y   P a u l   O k o l o
-- 2010-11-02T13:16:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-02/nigeria-gives-nitel-bidder-2-days-to-pay-750-million-first-installment.html
Nigeria’s government gave the buyers
of a 75 percent stake in Nigerian Telecommunications Ltd., or
Nitel, two more days to pay the first installment of $750
million.  New Generation Telecom Ltd., which includes China Unicom
(Hong Kong) Ltd., was given 10 calendar days from Oct. 25 to pay
the money, the Abuja-based Bureau of Public Enterprises said in
an e-mailed statement today. The balance of $1.75 billion should
be paid within 60 days of the receipt of an offer letter, which
will be issued when the first payment is made, the bureau’s
spokesman, Chukwuma Nwokoh, said in the statement.  “We’re making efforts to meet the deadline despite the
short notice,” Usman Gumi, chief executive officer of Abuja-
based Gicell Wireless Ltd. and spokesman for the bidding group,
said in a telephone interview today.  President  Goodluck Jonathan  suspended the sale of Nitel on
March 12, a month after New Generation made the highest bid in
an auction for the stake, and told a committee to conduct
further due diligence on the bidders. The sale was finally
approved on Oct. 12. The group includes China Unicom, Minerva
Group of Dubai and Nigeria’s GiCell Wireless.  Jonathan ordered the review after China Unicom, China’s
second-biggest mobile-phone carrier, denied any involvement in
the winning group. The Chinese operator later said one of its
units was interested in “providing technical and managerial
support.”  Omen International, which also includes China Unicom, came
second in February’s auction for Nitel with an offer of $956.9
million, according to the Bureau of Public Enterprises.  A previous attempt in 2006 to sell Nitel and MTel, its
mobile unit, to Transnational Corp. Plc was canceled after the
Lagos-based investment company failed to comply with sale
conditions. Nitel has lost market share to rivals including MTN
Nigeria Ltd., a unit of MTN Group Ltd., Africa’s biggest mobile-
phone company.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Paul Okolo  in Abuja 
 pokolo@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net . 