-- Niger Voters Approve New Constitution That Will Curb Presidential Powers
-- B y   D j i b r i l   S a i d o u
-- 2010-11-02T17:38:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-02/niger-voters-approve-new-constitution-that-will-curb-presidential-powers.html
Voters in  Niger  accepted a new
constitution in a referendum that will limit presidential powers
and begin a return to civilian rule in the West African nation.  The electoral commission said 90.18 percent of voters cast
ballots in the Oct. 31 referendum in favor of the charter, with
turnout of 52.65 percent. The results will be validated by the
country’s constitutional court before Nov. 19, Abdourahamane
Gousmane, the commission’s president, told reporters in Niamey
today.  The document would re-establish a limit of two five-year
presidential terms, which was scrapped by former President
 Mamadou Tandja  in August 2009. He was ousted in a military coup
in February.  The referendum is “an important step toward the return to
constitutional rule,” the Addis Ababa-based African Union said
in an e-mailed statement yesterday.  Soldiers would be barred from running for office and the
government would be forced to publish figures for the country’s
oil and mining revenue. Areva SA, the world’s largest supplier
of nuclear equipment and services, has  mines in Niger , the
world’ sixth-biggest uranium producer.  Muslim leaders called for a boycott of the constitution
because it establishes a secular state in a country where about
99 percent of the population follows Islam.  Niger has a population of 15.3 million people and a $5.4
billion economy, according to World Bank statistics for 2009.
That equates to gross domestic income per capita of $340,
compared with an average of $1,096 for the whole of sub-Saharan
Africa. The presidential election is scheduled for Jan. 31, with
the new leader to be sworn in April 6.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Djibril Saidou  in Niamey via Accra at 
 ebowers1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 