-- China's Yuan Settlements Jump 160% as Nokia Shuns Dollars
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-11-03T07:22:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-02/nokia-metro-spur-160-jump-in-yuan-settlement-china-credit.html
International trade transactions
settled in yuan more than doubled to a record in the third
quarter as companies including Nokia Oyj and Metro AG turned to
a currency that rose 24 percent against the dollar in six years.  The value of settlements jumped 160 percent from the prior
three months to 126.5 billion yuan ($19 billion), the People’s
Bank of China reported late yesterday. The amount exceeded all
but one of seven forecasts in a Bloomberg survey of analysts.
 Metro , Germany’s biggest retailer, says paying Chinese suppliers
in yuan benefits both parties.  “Doing business with China is much easier now,” said
Thomas Burkhalter, finance director of Metro’s Hong Kong-based
purchasing unit. “In the past, we have faced problems when
there was a sudden movement in the U.S. dollar, which led
suppliers to demand additional costs to cover exchange losses.”  While yuan settlements accounted for 2.4 percent of China’s
$794 billion of  imports  and  exports  during the last quarter, the
pace of growth was more than 10 times faster than the expansion
in overall trade. The dollar has weakened against all 16 major
currencies tracked by Bloomberg since June, when China scrapped
a two-year currency peg and said it would allow a more flexible
exchange rate.  Nokia , the world’s largest maker of mobile phones, has used
yuan for international trade, the Espoo, Finland-based company
said last week in an e-mailed response to questions. Sweden’s
Ikea, the biggest home-furnishings retailer, also has used yuan
for trade, according to  Linda Xu , the public relations manager
for its Chinese subsidiary. Oak Brook, Illinois-based  McDonald’s
Corp.,  the No. 1 restaurant chain, has made cross-border
transfers in the currency, its China unit said last week in an
e-mailed response to questions.  ‘Fair Share’  The Hong Kong Monetary Authority tapped a yuan swap
arrangement last week with China’s central bank after demand for
the currency exceeded expectations. The proportion of China’s
international trade settled in yuan could reach 20 percent in
five years, according to  Mark McCombe , the chief executive
officer for Hong Kong at HSBC Holdings Plc.  “If you consider that China is the biggest exporting
country in the world now, with the fastest-growing economy, you
can definitely see yuan trade settlement taking at least its
fair share,” McCombe said yesterday in an interview.  Premier  Wen Jiabao  is encouraging greater use of the
Chinese currency for international trade and investment to
reduce reliance on dollars as the Federal Reserve prints money
to support the U.S. economy. The central bank bought $1.7
trillion of debt from December 2008 through March to help end a
recession in the U.S. and economists surveyed by Bloomberg
predict at least another $500 billion of so-called quantitative
easing will be announced when a policy meeting concludes today.  U.S. Pressure  The yuan’s advance in the past six years makes it the
eighth best of 25 emerging-market currencies tracked by
Bloomberg. The Brazilian real jumped 67 percent in that period,
India’s rupee gained 2.4 percent and the Russian ruble weakened
6.4 percent. U.S. President  Barack Obama  is under pressure to
seek faster appreciation in the yuan after the American trade
deficit with China reached a record $28 billion in August.  China’s currency has strengthened 2.3 percent to 6.6749 per
dollar, including a 0.4 percent advance yesterday, since June 19,
when the central bank said it would pursue a more flexible
exchange rate after keeping the currency at about 6.83 for
almost two years.  Hong Kong  In Hong Kong’s offshore market, where multinationals
repatriating yuan from China can sell the currency, the exchange
rate was 6.5995 per dollar as of 3:15 p.m. local time, a 1.1
percent premium to the spot rate in Shanghai. Non-deliverable
forwards reflect bets the currency will strengthen 3.6 percent
from the onshore rate in the coming 12 months.  “The general market view is the yuan will appreciate in
the near term,” said  Neil Daswani , regional head of transaction
banking for Northeast Asia at Standard Chartered Plc. “It’s
very advantageous for multinational companies to receive
proceeds in yuan.”  Confidence in China’s dollar debt is improving.  Five-year
credit-default swap contracts  on China’s U.S. dollar bonds fell
one basis point in the last two days to 59 points in New York,
CMA prices show. That followed a seven basis point slide in
October and 19 basis point drop in September. Credit-default
swaps typically decline as investor confidence improves and rise
as it deteriorates.  Yields Rise  Yields on China’s 3.28 percent bond due August 2020 rose
eight basis points to 3.80 percent, according to National
Interbank Funding Center. The rate jumped as much as 37 basis
points, or 0.37 percentage point, last month as the central bank
raised interest rates for the first time since 2007 to tame the
fastest inflation in two years.  The  extra yield  investors demand to hold China’s 10-year
bonds rather than similar-maturity U.S. government debt grew to
113 basis points, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The Hong Kong Monetary Authority plans to draw 10 billion
yuan through its swap arrangement in the currency with the
People’s Bank, Deputy Chief Executive Officer  Arthur Yuen  said
Oct. 28. The two central banks agreed on a 200 billion yuan
facility in January 2009 to help ease yuan shortages and bolster
Hong Kong’s role as a foreign-exchange hub.  ‘Swap Line’  China signed a three-year 150 billion yuan currency swap in
July with the Monetary Authority of Singapore. Transactions with
Hong Kong and Singapore accounted for 87 percent of all yuan
settlement business, the People’s Bank said on Aug. 5.  “In terms of total demand for yuan in Hong Kong, the 10
billion yuan is nothing but a drop in the ocean,” said  Isaac Meng , a senior economist at BNP Paribas SA in Beijing. “If the
settlement continues to expand rapidly, it’s possible Singapore
may be the next central bank to tap a swap line with China.”  More than half of Hong Kong-based exporters and importers
plan to use yuan for trade settlement in the next six months,
reflecting the currency’s widening acceptance, HSBC said in
September, citing a global survey. In Malaysia, 49 percent of
companies predicted they would use yuan for some transactions
and in Singapore the proportion was 17 percent.  China first approved yuan use for trade settlement in July
2009 and Zheng Yang, an official at the People’s Bank of China’s
Shanghai branch, on Sept. 27 said the value of such transactions
may reach 200 billion yuan by the end of this year. The total
for the first nine months was 197.1 billion yuan, yesterday’s
central bank data showed.  The table below shows analysts’ projections for the value
of international trade settled in yuan during the third quarter.  -- Andrea Wong ,  Judy Chen . With assistance from  Diana Ben-Aaron 
in Helsinki,  Belinda Cao  in Beijing and  Stephanie Tong  in
Hong Kong. Editors:  James Regan ,  Sandy Hendry   To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
 Andrea Wong  in Hong Kong at +852-2977-6532 or
 awong268@bloomberg.net ;
 Judy Chen  in Shanghai at +86-21-6104-7047 or
 xchen45@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 