-- Gjedrem Signals Opposition to Losing Norway's $520 Billion Fund
-- B y   J o s i a n e   K r e m e r
-- 2010-11-02T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-02/norway-central-bank-boss-signals-objection-to-losing-520-billion-oil-fund.html
Norges Bank Governor  Svein Gjedrem 
signaled his opposition to removing Norway’s $520 billion oil
fund from the central bank after the government said the fund’s
size may require putting it under new management.  “Norges Bank has been important for the oil fund in the
past and I think also in the future that may be the case,”
Gjedrem said in an interview in Oslo yesterday. Asked whether
there is any need to change the management structure, he said
“not if you look at the results of the fund; they have been
very satisfactory.”  Gjedrem, who’s due to step down as governor when his second
and final six-year term ends in December, said the current
management setup has “functioned well” and will probably do so
in future. His successor may be less resistant to change.
 Oeystein Olsen  said in an Oct. 23 interview with Finansavisen it
may be “natural” to separate the fund from the central bank
because of its size. It will grow to twice the value of Norway’s
economic output in a decade, Gjedrem said in a speech yesterday.  “There is a clear division of labor between the Finance
Ministry, as the owner that gives the central bank a mandate,
and the individual investment decision is the responsibility of
the Norges Bank Investment Management,” Gjedrem said.  Finance Minister  Sigbjoern Johnsen  has said he can’t rule
out that the fund may be separated from the central bank in
future, without elaborating on whether a separate unit might be
created to manage the fund. His ministry has formed a council
with external members that will present an evaluation of the
fund’s strategy later this year.  ‘Clear Division’  “A clear division of responsibility between the Ministry
of Finance as owner and Norges Bank as manager is an important
component of the Norwegian model,” Gjedrem said in the speech.
“It is important that transparency and accountability are
prominent features.”  The  Government Pension Fund Global , built from Norway’s oil
and gas revenue, gets its investment guidelines from the
government and is managed by the  central bank . Norway is the
world’s seventh-biggest oil producer and second-largest gas
exporter. The state requires the fund to keep about 60 percent
in stocks, 35 percent in bonds and 5 percent in property
investments.  The fund mostly buys securities in proportion to their
weights in global indexes. By using its leeway to stray from
those benchmarks using active management, the fund aims to boost
investment returns. The strategy was criticized after active
management of its bond holdings contributed to a record loss in
2008.  Management Scope  The  Finance Ministry  this year proposed tightening the
range by which the fund can deviate from the benchmark it
tracks. The scope for management, measured as an estimated
tracking error, should be cut to 1 percentage point from 1.5
percentage points, according to the proposal.  The fund in October proposed adding infrastructure and
private equity investments to its portfolio. The Finance
Ministry said it would comment on the proposal in the spring.  The fund invests petroleum revenue outside the country of
4.9 million people to avoid stoking inflation and is Europe’s
biggest owner of stocks. It is the world’s second-biggest
sovereign wealth fund after the Abu Dhabi Investment Authority
and has had a nominal annual return of 4.33 percent since 1998.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Josiane Kremer in Oslo at 
 Jkremer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  