-- NYSE Euronext Profit Beats Estimates as Costs Decline
-- B y   T a r a   L a c h a p e l l e   a n d   N a n d i n i   S u k u m a r
-- 2010-11-02T21:14:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-02/nyse-euronext-profit-beats-estimates-as-operating-costs-headcount-decline.html
NYSE Euronext , the biggest operator
of U.S. stock exchanges, reported profit that beat analysts’
estimates as operating costs declined.  Third-quarter net income rose to $128 million, or 49 cents
a share, from $125 million, or 48 cents, a year earlier, the New
York-based company said today in a statement. Earnings excluding
some items were 46 cents a share, beating the 43-cent average
estimate from 21 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Fixed operating
expenses declined to $419 million from $426 million.  Chief Executive Officer  Duncan Niederauer  has been
countering competition for market share and lower trading volume
by reducing costs and diversifying revenue. The exchange has cut
headcount by 11 percent since September 2009, NYSE said in
today’s statement.  “It was an okay quarter with higher-than-expected revenues
and better expenses,”  Donald Fandetti , a New York-based analyst
at Citigroup Inc., wrote in a note to investors. “The beat was
driven by higher net revenues, better operating expenses and a
lower tax rate. NYSE’s European derivatives, which are a key
engine of growth, continue to see muted volumes.”  NYSE declined 2.7 percent to $29.61 at 4 p.m. in New York.
Before today, the shares have advanced 21 percent in New York
this year,  compared  with a 5.6 percent gain in the  FTSE/Mondo
Visione Exchanges Index , which tracks 18 companies. The exchange
operates markets in Paris, Lisbon, Amsterdam and Brussels in
addition to the New York Stock Exchange.  Rising Expenses  Fourth-quarter expenses will increase, Chief Financial
Officer  Michael S. Geltzeiler  said on a conference call. The
shares fell because of the rising cost forecast and because most
of the third-quarter improvement was driven by a $21 million tax
benefit, Christopher Allen, a New York-based analyst with
Ticonderoga Securities LLC, said in an e-mail.  Derivatives trading declined 5 percent in the quarter to
$188 million and accounted for 31 percent of net revenue, NYSE
said. Sales from cash trading and listings dropped 9 percent to
$298 million, while information services and technology
solutions revenue was $113 million, a 20 percent gain.  NYSE has a goal to reach $1 billion in technology revenue
by 2015.  Dominique Cerutti , president and deputy chief executive
officer, said today that he already sees about $750 million in
organic and business development opportunities, and acquisitions
will likely be part of the plan to reach the rest of the goal.  Initiatives  The company is preparing initiatives that include
“extending our global network, extending our data service
business, building the service platform and one day or another
attracting other market venues,” he said on a conference call
today. “This is not a long-term dream because we are working on
that as we speak.”  Today’s results included $25 million of pretax merger
expenses and exit costs and a $21 million deferred tax benefit
related to the reduction of the U.K. corporate tax rate, the
company said.  “Despite lackluster near-term volume trends, we are
focusing on those areas of our business model that are within
our control,” Geltzeiler said in the statement. “We continue
to develop additional cylinders of growth with new initiatives
and our technology services business, we are continuing to
reduce our fixed-cost base and are focused on better managing
our capital for the benefit of our shareholders.”  Cost Guidance  NYSE said today it now expects full-year 2010 fixed
operating expenses to be below the lower end of the  currency -
adjusted range of $1.71 billion to $1.75 billion.  The company will pay a 30-cent  dividend  per share on Dec.
31, which represents a pay out of a little more than 50 percent
of the adjusted net income, Geltzeiler said in an interview
after the call. NYSE doesn’t plan to use the dividend as a
profit-sharing mechanism and probably would only increase it if
it’s sustainable and after the payout ratio shrinks to a range
of about 35 percent to 45 percent.  “We’re no longer in a massive de-leveraging mode and at
the same time our cash flows are improving,” he said. “Because
we are going live with our two data centers, it means I don’t
need to continue to spend the $600 million to $700 million I
spent in the last three years on that.”  Buyback Program  Excess  cash  would be put toward buying back shares before a
dividend increase, Geltzeiler said. A $1 billion repurchase
program that has about $650 million left was put on hold during
the financial crisis, and he said the next step “could be that
we eliminate the suspension on the buyback authorization that’s
outstanding.”  Nasdaq OMX Group Inc., the second-biggest U.S. stock
exchange operator, reported third-quarter profit on Oct. 29 that
beat analyst estimates as it gained market share in options,
offsetting slower equity trading. Deutsche Boerse AG, Europe’s
largest exchange operator by market value, said on Oct. 28 that
profit and sales rose and cut its full-year cost forecast.  CBOE
Holdings Inc. , owner of the Chicago Board Options Exchange,
posts quarterly results on Nov. 4.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Tara Lachapelle  in New York at 
 tlachapelle@bloomberg.net ;
 Nandini Sukumar  in London at 
 nsukumar@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 