-- Obama Tells Lee U.S. Wants Progress on Trade Accord
-- B y   H a n s   N i c h o l s   a n d   J u l i a n n a   G o l d m a n
-- 2010-11-02T21:36:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-02/obama-tells-south-korea-s-lee-u-s-seeks-progress-on-free-trade-agreement.html
President  Barack Obama  told his South
Korean counterpart that he hopes to use next week’s talks at the
Group of 20 summit in Seoul to make progress on completing a
free-trade agreement, according to a White House statement.  South Korean President  Lee Myung Bak  telephoned Obama last
night to discuss the summit, scheduled for Nov. 11-12.  “The president underscored that we hope to use the next
week to make progress toward an agreement,” the White House
statement said. “If we can reach a satisfactory agreement on
the key issues for American workers, we will have a deal.”  At the last G-20 summit, Obama set the goal of finishing a
deal during his visit to Seoul, with plans to submit a reworked
accord to Congress.  The free-trade pact, signed by the two countries in 2007,
was never sent to lawmakers in the U.S. and has been reopened to
address objections from industry and labor groups on issues
including autos and beef. Agreements with Colombia and Panama
also are pending.  In the current talks, the U.S. is urging that South Korea
accept American car safety and emissions standards on vehicles
sold in that country. Ford Motor Co. and the United Auto Workers
say South Korea has used tax and regulatory barriers to block
sales of U.S. automobiles in that country.  Completing the accord with South Korea is central to the
U.S. president’s goal of doubling exports over the next five
years to help American manufacturing and agriculture.  The U.S. Chamber of Commerce has  estimated  that failure to
enact the accord with the world’s 14th largest economy means the
loss of $35 billion in exports and 345,000 jobs. South Korea
signed a rival agreement with the European Union last year that
calls for 99 percent of commerce to be duty free within five
years.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Hans Nichols  in Washington at 
 hnichols2@bloomberg.net 
 Julianna Goldman  in Washington at 
 jgoldman6@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net . 