-- Loehmann's Said to Consider Filing for Bankruptcy Protection
-- B y   L a u r e n   C o l e m a n - L o c h n e r   a n d   J o n a t h a n   K e e h n e r
-- 2010-11-02T18:43:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-02/loehmann-s-said-to-consider-filing-for-protection-as-early-as-next-week.html
Loehmann’s Inc. , the New York-based
seller of discounted designer goods, may file for bankruptcy
protection as soon as next week after failing to reach an accord
with creditors that would let it restructure outside court
protection, said two people familiar with the plan.  The retailer is preparing a so-called prepackaged
bankruptcy, in which a company and its  creditors  agree to key
terms before filing a petition with the court, according to the
people, who asked not to be identified because the deliberations
are private.  “Discussions are ongoing, so the company is not prepared
to comment further now,” said  Amy Rosenberg , a spokeswoman for
Loehmann’s.  Loehmann’s, founded almost 90 years ago, sells clothes from
brands such as Michael Kors, Calvin Klein and Donna Karan at more than
55 U.S. stores, according to its website. Istithmar World PJSC,
the investment arm of state-owned holding company Dubai World
that bought  Loehmann’s  in 2006, is weighing a new equity
investment in the reorganized company of as much as $15 million,
one of the people said.  Loehmann’s is working with law firm Cleary Gottlieb Steen &
Hamilton LLP and Perella Weinberg Partners, according to the
people. Representatives for Cleary, Perella and Istithmar
declined to comment.  On Oct. 29, acting Istithmar Chief Executive Officer  Andy Watson  said his company “continues to be supportive” of
Loehmann’s.  Istithmar is “actively working with management, bondholders
and other stakeholders to find a mutually agreeable position to
save the company,” Watson said, according to an e-mailed
statement then.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Lauren Coleman-Lochner  in New York at 
 llochner@bloomberg.net ;
 Jonathan Keehner  in New York at 
 jkeehner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net ;
David E. Rovella at 
 drovella@bloomberg.net  