-- Oil Rises to a Three-Week High on U.S. Stimulus Bets, Fuel Supply Forecast
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 2010-11-02T12:38:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-02/oil-rises-a-second-day-on-u-s-stimulus-speculation-chinese-manufacturing.html
Oil surged to its highest level in
three weeks as the dollar weakened before a Federal Reserve
meeting tomorrow which will probably signal a new round of
unconventional monetary easing.  Crude gained a second day before a government report
forecast to show that U.S. supplies of diesel and heating oil
are at their lowest level since July. U.S. stockpiles of
distillate fuels probably declined 1 million barrels last week,
according to a Bloomberg News survey before tomorrow’s Energy
Department report. Consumers are happy with oil between $70 and
$90 a barrel, said  Ali al-Naimi , Saudi Arabia’s oil minister.  “Prices have been supported by the Saudis increasing their
expected trading from $70 to $80, to $70 to $90,” said
Thorbjoern Bak Jensen, a Global Risk Management analyst based in
Middelfart, Denmark. “The most important thing for the market
this week will be the central bank meetings.”  Crude for December delivery rose as much as $1.19, or 1.4
percent, to $84.14 a barrel in electronic trading on the New
York Mercantile Exchange. That’s the highest price since Oct. 7.
It was at $84.04 at 12:33 p.m. London time. Brent crude for
December settlement rose as much as $1.04, or 1.2 percent, to
$85.66 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange.  The Fed, meeting in Washington today and tomorrow, is
expected to restart a program of securities purchases to spur
growth, reduce unemployment and increase inflation, said 53 of
56 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  The dollar lost 1 percent to trade at $1.4025 against the
single European currency.  Economic Revival  “Market participants want to see the result of the Fed
meeting,” said  Ken Hasegawa , a commodity derivative sales
manager at brokers Newedge in Tokyo. “For the rest of the year,
the market should be sustained around this level. Like the Saudi
minister said, that’s a pretty happy price for everyone.”  Manufacturing in the U.S. expanded at the fastest pace in
five months in October, the Institute for Supply Management’s
U.S. factory index showed yesterday, pointing to renewed
strength in the industry that led the country out of recession.
Separately, China’s Federation of Logistics and Purchasing said
the country’s  purchasing managers’ index  climbed in October to a
six-month high.  U.S.  crude inventories   probably increased  1.7 million
barrels last week, based on the median estimate from 12 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg News before an Energy Department report
tomorrow. They surged 5 million barrels in the week ended Oct.
22, the most since July. Stockpiles were at 366.2 million, 13
percent above the five-year average level.  “The market is very well-supplied,” Al-Naimi said at an
industry gathering in Singapore yesterday. “A little bit
oversupplied but it doesn’t seem to be depressing the price.”  Saudi Arabia is the biggest producer in the Organization of
Petroleum Exporting Countries, a 12-member group that pumps
about 40 percent of the world’s crude.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Yee Kai Pin  in Singapore at 
 kyee13@bloomberg.net 
 Grant Smith  in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  