-- Oil Rises to a Six-Month High on U.S. Stimulus Bets, Fuel Supply Forecast
-- B y   M a r g o t   H a b i b y
-- 2010-11-02T20:48:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-02/oil-rises-to-a-three-week-high-on-u-s-stimulus-bets-fuel-supply-forecast.html
Crude oil surged to its highest level
in six months as the dollar weakened against major currencies on
speculation the Federal Reserve will take measures to stimulate
the economy.  Crude rose 1.2 percent as the dollar’s decline boosted the
appeal of commodities as an alternative investment. The Fed will
probably start a fresh round of stimulus tomorrow, announcing a
plan to purchase at least $500 billion of long-term securities,
according to economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  “It’s the weaker dollar and expectations for the stimulus
package,” said  Tom Bentz , a broker with BNP Paribas Commodity
Futures Inc. in New York. “Half a trillion dollars was
supposedly priced in since we rallied from September to October,
but people are already anticipating that it could be larger.”  Crude for December delivery rose 95 cents to $83.90 a
barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange, the highest
settlement price since May 3. Oil has risen 7.4 percent in the
past year.  Prices increased from the settlement after the American
Petroleum Institute reported at 4:30 p.m. that U.S. crude-oil
stockpiles decreased 4.14 million barrels to 367.6 million.
December oil rose $1.49, or 1.8 percent, to $84.44 a barrel in
electronic trading at 4:39 p.m., the highest intraday price
since May 4.  The Fed, meeting in Washington today and tomorrow, is
expected to announce a program of securities purchases to spur
growth, reduce unemployment and increase inflation, said 53 of
56 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  The  Dollar Index , which tracks the U.S. currency against
six major peers, slid 0.7 percent to 76.738 at 3:25 p.m. in New
York, the lowest level in two weeks on a closing basis.  Commodity Inflation  “Today, the bulls have the dollar working in their
favor,” said  Peter Beutel , president of Cameron Hanover Inc., a
trading-advisory company in New Canaan, Connecticut. “It looks
like commodity inflation will be the name of the game as the
economy recovers.”  The  Thomson Reuters/Jefferies CRB Index  of 19 commodities
advanced 1.1 percent to 304.98, the strongest level in two
years. Sixteen of the commodities increased.  “Oil prices are likely to immediately react to movements
in the U.S. dollar” after the Fed meeting, according to a
report today by  JPMorgan Chase  & Co. analysts led by  Lawrence Eagles , the head of commodity strategy in New York. “We would
use any oil weakness as a buying opportunity.”  $90 Brent  The price of Brent oil in London may rise above $90 a
barrel by the end of the year because of the quantitative
easing, or asset-purchase, program in the U.S., according to a
report today by  Francisco Blanch , head of global commodity
research at  Bank of America Corp. ’s Merrill Lynch unit in New
York.  Brent crude for December settlement gained 79 cents, or 0.9
percent, to $85.41 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures
Europe exchange, the highest level since May 4.  “With oil demand on a robust upward trend, winter weather
around the corner and more QE ahead, we believe global oil
demand is set to hit a new record in 2011,” Blanch said in the
report, dated yesterday. Brent could top $90 if the Fed decides
on an asset purchase program of $500 billion or more, he said.  The International Energy Agency raised its demand forecasts
for this year and next by 300,000 barrels a day each last month,
citing increased consumption in industrialized nations. Global
oil use will increase 1.5 percent in 2011 to 88.2 million
barrels a day and by 2.5 percent this year to 86.9 million.
Demand contracted in 2008 and 2009.  Saudi Arabian Oil Minister  Ali al-Naimi  said yesterday in
Singapore that consumers are happy with oil between $70 and $90
a barrel and that the market is “very well supplied.”  ‘OPEC Shift’  Those comments “were confirmation of the OPEC shift,”
JPMorgan’s Eagles said in his report, adding that $70 has become
a floor for oil prices and $80 the mid-point. “We would even go
so far as questioning whether $90 is the ceiling.”  Crude climbed for a second day before a government report
forecast to show that U.S. supplies of distillate fuel,
including diesel and heating oil, are at their lowest level
since July. Inventories probably declined 1 million barrels last
week, according to the median of 17 analyst responses in a
Bloomberg News survey before tomorrow’s Energy Department
report. All those surveyed said supplies would fall.  U.S.  crude stockpiles   probably increased  1.5 million
barrels, the survey showed. They rose 5.01 million barrels to
366.2 million, the highest level since July and 13 percent above
the five-year average.  Gasoline Inventories  Gasoline supplies were probably unchanged from the week
before at 214.9 million barrels. U.S. gasoline demand fell 0.8
percent last week to 9.03 million barrels a day, the lowest
level in three weeks,  MasterCard Inc . said today in its
SpendingPulse report.  Oil volume in electronic trading on the Nymex was 431,615
contracts as of 3:03 p.m. in New York. Volume totaled 596,923
contracts yesterday, 14 percent below the average of the past
three months. Open interest was 1.42 million contracts, the
highest level in two weeks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Margot Habiby  in Dallas at   mhabiby@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at   dstets@bloomberg.net . 