-- U.S. Homeownership at Decade Low as Foreclosures Rise
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   M .   H o w l e y
-- 2010-11-02T15:00:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-02/homeownership-in-u-s-stays-at-lowest-level-in-decade-as-foreclosures-rise.html
The U.S. homeownership  rate  was
unchanged at a 10-year low in the third quarter as banks stepped
up property seizures from borrowers who defaulted on mortgages.  The homeownership rate was 66.9 percent, matching the
second-quarter level that was the lowest since 1999, the U.S.
Census Bureau said in a report today. The homeowner vacancy
 rate , or the  share  of properties vacant and for sale, was
unchanged at 2.5 percent, according to the report.  Lenders are repossessing properties as borrowers fall
behind in mortgage payments after the worst housing crash since
the Great Depression. Banks seized a record 288,345 homes in the
third quarter, up 22 percent from a year earlier, according to
an Oct. 14 report from RealtyTrac Inc. in Irvine, California.  “A lot of foreclosed homes are sitting on the market,”
said  Brian Bethune , chief U.S. financial economist for IHS
Global Insight in Lexington, Massachusetts. “Demand for them is
weak because of the economy.”  The homeownership rate fell from 67.6 percent in the third
quarter of 2009. The rate reached a record high of 69.2 percent
in the second and fourth quarters of 2004.  There were 18.8 million vacant  homes  in the third quarter,
including foreclosures, residences for sale and vacation homes,
down from 18.9 million in the second quarter, according to
today’s Census report from Washington.  Empty Properties  Foreclosures  are included in a part of the Census Bureau
report that also includes vacation homes intended for year-round
use and homes that are unoccupied because they are under
renovation or tied up in legal proceedings. There were 3.6
million such properties empty in the third quarter, down from
3.7 million in the second quarter, the report said. A year
earlier, the number was 3.4 million.  Foreclosures could also be counted as vacant homes for sale
or  rent , or as owner-occupied properties if lenders have not yet
evicted previous owners, the federal agency said.  There were 1.9 million empty properties on the market, down
from 2 million in the second quarter, according to the  report .  The Obama administration’s primary anti-foreclosure plan,
the Home Affordable Modification Program, or  HAMP , has resulted
in 466,708 permanent modifications since March 2009, according
to U.S. Treasury Department data. The terms of about 1.4 million
mortgages have been changed on a temporary basis.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kathleen M. Howley  in Boston at 
 kmhowley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net . 