-- Londoners Face Travel Delays as Subway Staff Start Third Strike
-- B y   J a c k   J o r d a n
-- 2010-11-02T14:00:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-02/londoners-face-travel-delays-as-subway-staff-start-third-strike.html
Millions of London commuters face
more travel chaos as a third 24-hour strike on London
Underground begins tonight.  The strike by the Rail, Maritime and Transport Union and
the Transport Salaried Staffs’ Association is to protest about
800 planned job cuts among ticket office workers and station
managers. The stoppage is due to begin at 7 p.m.  London Underground, known as the Tube, carries an estimated
3.5 million passengers a day.  Disruption is likely on most subway journeys, with services
not expected to return to normal until the morning of Nov. 4,
Transport for London said on its  website .  Some lines will close “earlier than usual,” and some
stations will close after 10 p.m., according to a  statement  on
TfL’s website today. Trains will run tomorrow on all lines
except the Circle line, and some sections of lines may have no
service, according to the statement. The website also lists 80
stations that will be closed during the strike period.  The RMT called the list of stations “pure fantasy” in a
e-mailed statement today, saying “many more” will be closed or
opened without staff. Passengers could be dropped off at closed
stations, the union said.  Passenger Safety  The proposed job losses could affect passenger safety, the
RMT said on its  website . TfL said there will be no impact on
safety. Talks between London Underground and the unions broke
down on Sept. 22.  “All we have been asking is that the London mayor stick to
the pledge he made during his election campaign, when he too
recognized that people wanted to see stations staffed
properly,” RMT general secretary  Bob Crow  said in a statement
on the union’s website. “The message is simple: suspend these
cuts and we will suspend our action.”  The stoppage, the sixth to shut London Underground since
2002, will involve around 11,000 employees, according to the
RMT. TfL has laid on more than 100 extra buses and capacity for
around 10,000 more river journeys to get Londoners to work.
London Underground ran 40 percent of its normal services during
the last stoppage on Oct. 3, TfL said.  The previous strike was estimated to have cost businesses
48 million pounds ($77 million), according to forecasts by the
London Chamber of Commerce and Industry.  “Whether by bus, boat or bike, when Londoners beat the
strike for a third time I hope the RMT and TSSA leaderships will
face facts and see that their action achieves nothing aside from
depriving their members of another day’s pay,” Mayor  Boris Johnson  said in the TfL statement yesterday.  A further stoppage is planned for Nov. 28.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jack Jordan  in London at 
 jjordan22@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge at 
 ckeatinge@bloomberg.net . 