-- Hong Kong Should End Exchange-Rate Peg to U.S. Dollar, Deutsche Bank Says
-- B y   A n d r e a   W o n g
-- 2010-11-02T01:23:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-02/hong-kong-should-end-exchange-rate-peg-to-u-s-dollar-deutsche-bank-says.html
Hong Kong should end its pegged
regime to the greenback, as its monetary policy is tied to the
“dithering” U.S. economy, according to Deutsche Bank AG, the
world’s biggest currency trader.  While the best solution for the city is to move away from
exchange-rate links, the city has a “longstanding institutional
preference” that will prevent such a switch, strategists  Mirza Baig  and  Dennis Tan  wrote in a report yesterday. They expect
Hong Kong will peg to the yuan when China’s capital account is
“sufficiently open” in five to 10 years.  China’s economy expanded 9.6 percent from a year earlier in
the third quarter, while the U.S. had growth of 3.1 percent,
official figures show. Hong Kong’s gross domestic product gained
6.5 percent in the second quarter. The People’s Bank of China
last month raised its benchmark interest rates for the first
time since 2007, while the Federal Reserve may announce this
week it will pump more money into the U.S. economy.  “Our base case is that Hong Kong will attempt to ride out
the reflation tide with its current policy,” the strategists
wrote. “The public would gradually move to using renminbi, and
the Hong Kong dollar would fall into relative disuse. Once
China’s capital account is sufficiently open, five to 10 years
later, Hong Kong would endorse the shift towards China through
a formal peg to the renminbi at the then prevailing exchange
rate.”  Yuan deposits  at the city’s banks more than doubled to a
record 149 billion yuan ($22 billion) in the six months ended
Sept. 30, monetary authority data show, igniting a debate over 
whether the local dollar’s 27-year peg to the greenback should
be scrapped in favor of a link to China’s currency.  HKMA Chief Executive  Norman Chan  said yesterday that there
was no plan to change the peg, which has made the Hong Kong
dollar Asia’s worst performer of 2010. The yuan is a
denomination of China’s currency, the renminbi.  To contact the reporter on the story:
 Andrea Wong  in Taipei at 
 awong268@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 