-- SAP Board Knew of Copying, Oracle Says as Trial Opens
-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 2010-11-02T22:40:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-02/oracle-sap-trial-over-software-downloads-begins-in-oakland-federal-court.html
Oracle Corp.  told a federal jury that
 SAP AG ’s board of directors knew as far back as 2005 that a
software maintenance unit was illegally downloading Oracle
software and infringing on its copyrights.  Instead of competing fairly after Oracle threatened SAP’s
dominance in the business software market through acquisitions,
Germany-based SAP purchased a U.S. company in 2005 that was
improperly accessing Oracle’s intellectual property,  Geoffrey Howard , the company’s attorney, said today. The value of the
infringed software is in the billions of dollars, he said.  “It chose to buy TomorrowNow, a company that the board of
directors of SAP knew was infringing Oracle’s software,” Howard
said in opening arguments at a trial in Oakland, California.
“They chose to take that risk because they expected to make
enormous amounts of money.”  Leo Apotheker , SAP’s former chief executive officer who is
now head of Oracle rival  Hewlett-Packard Co. , was “very
involved” in the purchase of TomorrowNow “and very involved in
TomorrowNow after that,” Howard said. He showed a photo of
Apotheker on a screen with a quote attributed to the executive:
“The entire software industry was founded on IP rights.”  Redwood City, California-based Oracle, the second-largest
maker of software for business applications behind SAP, sued in
2007 and seeks at least $2.3 billion in damages for what its
German rival acknowledges were TomorrowNow’s “inappropriate”
downloads of Oracle materials.  Oracle’s Larry Ellison  Howard told jurors they would hear testimony from Apotheker
and other SAP executives, as well as Oracle CEO  Larry Ellison 
and former Oracle president  Charles Phillips .  Walldorf, Germany-based SAP says its executives were
unaware of the downloading at TomorrowNow, which was closed in
2008. Oracle’s damage estimates are “grossly exaggerated” and
the lawsuit is aimed at harassing competitors, SAP’s lawyers
said in court filings.  SAP’s damages to Oracle are $35 million to $40 million, not
in the billions,  Robert Mittelstaedt , SAP’s attorney, told the
jury today. SAP should have to pay Oracle for profits Oracle
lost, and profits SAP gained, when Oracle customers used
TomorrowNow’s services and because of that then bought SAP
software, he said.  Oracle Lost Customers  Oracle lost customers for reasons unrelated to TomorrowNow,
including fear that Oracle wouldn’t support the software of
companies that it acquired, Mittelstaedt said. He cited an e-
mail by Oracle co-president  Safra Catz , who was present in the
courtroom, in which she said Oracle has lost customers to SAP
“for other reasons.”  “But now they are trying to get us to compensate that for
them and that goes beyond the line I think,” he said.  TomorrowNow, acquired by SAP for $10 million, offered
lower-cost software maintenance and support to customers using
products by companies that Redwood City, California-based Oracle
had bought, including PeopleSoft Inc. and JD Edwards & Co.  Oracle’s attorneys said in court filings that TomorrowNow
unlawfully copied software code needed to support customers
without buying licenses to access it. TomorrowNow made thousands
of duplicates of copyrighted software obtained by illegally
accessing electronic materials from Oracle’s customer-support
websites, the lawyers said.  There’s an ongoing investigation by the Justice Department
and FBI “into some facts and circumstances” involved in the
Oracle lawsuit against SAP, according to an Aug. 5 court filing
by SAP. Kyle Waldinger, an assistant U.S. Attorney in San
Francisco who was present at the trial today, declined to
comment.  “We have said we have cooperated,”  Bill Wohl , a spokesman
for SAP, said in an e-mail.  ‘Worst Personnel Decision’  Apotheker went to Hewlett-Packard after  Mark Hurd  resigned
as CEO amid a scandal over a personal relationship with a
company contractor. Ellison, 66, hired Hurd, saying in a letter
to the New York Times that Hewlett-Packard’s board had made
“the worst personnel decision since the idiots on the Apple
board fired  Steve Jobs  many years ago.”  Apotheker, 57, didn’t become SAP’s sole chief executive
until after TomorrowNow was shut down, Wohl said.  Oracle and SAP filed an agreement with the court in Oakland
about attorneys’ fees that was sealed from public view.
Computerworld reported today that SAP agreed to pay Oracle $120
million in lawyers’ fees, citing a document filed in the case.  Wohl and Oracle spokeswoman  Deborah Hellinger  declined to
comment on that report. Wohl did say SAP increased its reserve
for the lawsuit to $160 million from $100 million.  The case is Oracle Corp. v. SAP AG, 07-01658, U.S. District
Court, Northern District of California (Oakland).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Karen Gullo  in San Francisco at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at 
 drovella@bloomberg.net . 