-- Terra, MGA, Galleon, Goldman, JPMorgan in Court News
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2010-11-02T12:32:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-02/oracle-skilling-kissel-ppl-galleon-jpmorgan-in-court-news.html
The judge presiding over the trial of
Terra Firma Capital Partners Ltd.’s lawsuit against  Citigroup
Inc.  said he won’t let jurors consider punitive damages in the
case.  U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff said in a hearing after
yesterday’s testimony that punitive damages aren’t appropriate
in the case, which he called “a cat-fight between two rich
companies.”  “Punitive damages, in most jurisdictions, involve some
threat to the public,” Rakoff told lawyers in the hearing.
“This case doesn’t have that.”  In the trial, which is set to go to a jury this week, Guy
Hands’s Terra Firma private-equity firm claims Citigroup banker
David Wormsley misled Hands in a May 2007 auction of  EMI Group
Ltd. , causing it to overbid for the London-based music company.  Rakoff, who last week barred Terra Firma from asking jurors
for lost profits damages, said yesterday that he was inclined to
rule against permitting jurors to consider a claim for the
$112.2 million Terra Firma says it was forced to invest in June
to keep EMI from breaching debt covenants. Rakoff said he will
give the question one more look and rule today.  Hands claimed in testimony during the trial that Wormsley
falsely told him in three telephone calls the weekend before the
Monday, May 21, 2007, auction that Cerberus Capital Management
LP planned to submit a competing bid for EMI.  Cerberus had decided not to bid, leaving Terra Firma
without competition in the auction. Terra Firma claims that if
it had known the truth, it would have sought more information
about EMI’s business and finances and negotiated a better price.  Citigroup claims Wormsley said nothing to mislead Hands.
Citigroup said Terra Firma only claimed it was defrauded in 2009
after unsuccessful negotiations to restructure the debt.  The case is Terra Firma Investments (GP) 2 Ltd. v.
Citigroup, 09-cv-10459, U.S. District Court, Southern District
of New York (Manhattan).  Oracle Seeks $2.3 Billion in SAP Download Trial  Oracle Corp. , in a trial that began yesterday against  SAP
AG , wants at least $2.3 billion in damages for what its German
rival acknowledges were a now-defunct unit’s “inappropriate”
downloads of Oracle materials.  The trial in federal court in Oakland, California, may
feature testimony by former SAP Chief Executive Officer  Leo Apotheker  and Oracle CEO  Larry Ellison . Apotheker, who Oracle
says oversaw the TomorrowNow unit’s conduct, began his new job
yesterday as CEO of another Oracle rival,  Hewlett-Packard Co.   SAP, the world’s  biggest maker  of business-management
software, says its executives were unaware of the downloading at
its TomorrowNow software maintenance unit, which was closed in
2008. Oracle’s damage estimates are “grossly exaggerated” and
the lawsuit is aimed at harassing competitors, SAP’s lawyers
said in court filings.  “The whole goal here is humiliation,” said Joshua
Greenbaum, a software industry analyst at Enterprise
Applications Consulting. In saying it might call Apotheker as a
witness, Oracle “has now extended that to Hewlett-Packard,”
Greenbaum said.  Oracle’s attorneys said in court filings that TomorrowNow
illegally copied software code needed to support customers
without buying licenses to access it. TomorrowNow made thousands
of duplicates of copyrighted software obtained by illegally
accessing electronic materials from Oracle’s customer-support
websites, the lawyers said.  Apotheker went to Hewlett-Packard after Mark Hurd resigned
as CEO amid a scandal over a personal relationship with a
company contractor. Ellison, 66, hired Hurd, saying in a letter
to the New York Times that  Hewlett-Packard’s board  had made
“the worst personnel decision since the idiots on the  Apple 
board fired  Steve Jobs  many years ago.”  Oracle  is seeking damages for lost business, copyright
infringement, disgorgement of SAP’s profits and payment for
costs SAP avoided by not having to develop its own software.  The case is Oracle Corp. v. SAP AG, 07-01658, U.S. District
Court, Northern District of California (Oakland).  For more, click here.  Enron ’s Skilling Seeks Retrial; U.S. Asks to Uphold Verdicts  Jeffrey Skilling , the former Enron Corp. chief executive
officer convicted of leading a fraud that destroyed the world’s
largest energy trader, is seeking a new trial over government
objections.  A three-judge panel of the New Orleans appellate court is
reviewing verdicts yesterday against Skilling after the U.S.
Supreme Court determined in June that prosecutors used an
invalid legal theory to convict him.  Skilling is serving a 24-year sentence in a Colorado
federal prison after he and former Enron Chairman  Kenneth Lay 
were found guilty of deceiving investors about the company’s
true financial condition.  “The convictions cannot stand,” Daniel Petrocelli,
Skilling’s lead lawyer, said in papers filed in advance of
yesterday’s hearing in Houston federal court. “Skilling must be
retried before a jury not exposed to, and not invited to convict
on, an invalid fraud theory.”  Prosecutors, who obtained 19 verdicts against Skilling at a
2006 jury trial in Houston federal court, told the appellate
court that jurors likely convicted Skilling under an alternate
legal theory presented during the trial.  “Skilling and his co-conspirators engaged in a conspiracy
to manipulate Enron’s earnings to satisfy Wall Street’s
expectations,” Paul Pelletier, Principal Deputy Chief of the
Justice Department’s criminal fraud section, said in court
papers. “No rational jury could have failed to find that
Skilling conspired to commit securities fraud.”  More than 5,000 jobs and $1 billion in employee retirement
funds were wiped out when Enron plunged into bankruptcy in
December 2001 after widespread accounting fraud was uncovered.
Investors sued to recover more than $60 billion in market
losses.  Skilling and Lay were convicted of using off-balance sheet
entities to hide billions in debt and losses, which prosecutors
claimed allowed Enron to report falsely inflated earnings. Lay
died before he had a chance to appeal, and his conviction was
erased.  Skilling’s lawyers have consistently argued that he didn’t
commit any crimes and relied upon the advice of his accountants
and lawyers, who approved Enron’s accounting and shareholder
disclosures.  The case is U.S. v. Skilling, 06-20885, U.S. District
Court, U.S. Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit (New
Orleans).  For more, click here.  MGA Wins New Trial, Mattel’s $100 Million Award Voided  MGA Entertainment Inc. said it won a new trial on all
issues decided in a 2008 trial that gave Mattel Inc. rights to
most of MGA’s Bratz dolls products.  Judge David Carter in Santa Ana, California, on Oct. 29
granted MGA’s request for the new trial, and invalidated the
$100 million damages verdict awarded to Mattel in the case, MGA
said in an e-mailed statement.  In July, a three-member appeals court panel overturned a
December 2008 order that gave Mattel rights to most of MGA’s
Bratz products. A jury in the case found that the designer who
created the dolls was working at Mattel when he conceived of the
idea and the name and made the initial drawings for the pouty
and multiethnic dolls.  The U.S. Court of Appeals in San Francisco last month
denied Mattel’s petition for rehearing and review by a larger
panel of judges.  “MGA is gratified that the prior erroneous rulings and
jury instructions have been corrected,” the company said in the
statement.  Jules Andres, a  spokeswoman for El Segundo, California-
based Mattel, didn’t immediately return a call seeking comment
after regular business hours.  The district court case is Bryant v. Mattel, 04-09049, U.S.
District Court, Central District of California (Riverside).  Kissel Seeks to Halt Retrial for Murdering Husband  Nancy Kissel, who claimed she killed her  Merrill Lynch &
Co.  banker husband in self-defense in 2003, asked a Hong Kong
court to stop her retrial for murder.  The 46-year-old mother of three, who remains in custody
after having been sentenced to life in prison, would be freed
immediately if the application for a permanent stay of
proceedings is successful.  Judge Andrew Macrae yesterday ordered the media not to
report on the details of the hearing, which is expected to last
five days. The retrial is scheduled to begin on Jan. 10 if
Kissel’s lawyers fail to win a halt.  Hong Kong’s top court in February overturned Kissel’s 2005
conviction, ruling the judge wrongly allowed hearsay evidence
and prosecutors improperly questioned her during the trial.
Jurors heard in the three-month trial that she drugged her
husband with a milkshake, bludgeoned him to death and hid his
body in a carpet.  Robert Kissel moved to Hong Kong from New York in 1998 with
his wife and worked as co-head of Asian special situations for
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  Merrill hired him in 2000 to head its
distressed-assets business in Asia.  Nancy Kissel testified in her original trial that her
husband was a cocaine addict and that she suffered years of
abusive sex. She admitted to killing him and said it was in
self-defense.  Prosecutors said that the banker had intended to divorce
his Michigan-born wife after discovering she was having an
affair with an electrical technician in Vermont.  Kissel’s lawyers had said a manslaughter charge, which
would carry a sentence of eight to 12 years, was more justified,
before prosecutors indicted her again for murder.  The case is Nancy Ann Kissel and HKSAR, HCCC55/2010, Hong
Kong Court of First Instance.  PPL  May Get U.S. High Court Review of $50 Million Award  The  U.S. Supreme Court  signaled it may review a decision
that would require a  PPL Corp.  unit to pay more than $50 million
to Montana for the use of riverbeds under the company’s
hydropower facilities.  The justices yesterday sought advice on PPL’s appeal from
acting U.S. Solicitor General Neal Katyal, the Obama
administration’s top courtroom lawyer. The high court usually
takes the solicitor general’s recommendations on pending
petitions for review.  PPL Montana is appealing a Montana Supreme Court ruling
that said the state owns the riverbeds and is entitled to demand
rent payments. The company argues that the riverbeds are owned
either by private parties or the federal government.  A Montana state trial court ordered the company to pay $40
million in past rent, plus an unspecified amount for rent
starting in 2008. PPL Montana earlier this year recorded a
pretax charge of $56 million to cover estimated payments through
the first quarter of this year.  The dispute centers on dams on the upper Missouri, Madison
and Clark Fork rivers. PPL is based in Allentown, Pennsylvania.  The case is PPL Montana v. Montana, 10-218, U.S. Supreme
Court (Washington).  For the latest trial and appeals news, click here.  Lawsuits/Pretrial  Judge Rejects Move by Goldman’s Tourre to Toss Suit  Goldman Sachs Group Inc . trader Fabrice Tourre’s request to
throw out the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission’s lawsuit
against him was rejected by a federal judge in New York.  U.S. District Judge  Barbara S. Jones  yesterday dismissed
Tourre’s motion seeking a judgment in the case. He had argued
that the SEC can’t sue him over a Goldman Sachs deal involving
collateralized debt obligations because the transaction didn’t
take place in the U.S.  In the same order, Jones said the SEC can file an amended
complaint by Nov. 22.  “Defendant Tourre’s motion for judgment on the pleadings
is dismissed without prejudice and with leave to renew after
plaintiff has filed its amended complaint,” Jones wrote.  Pamela Chepiga, a lawyer for Tourre, didn’t return a call
seeking comment. SEC spokesman  John Heine  declined to comment.  The U.S. Supreme Court ruled in June that U.S. securities
laws don’t apply to claims of foreign buyers of non-U.S.
securities on foreign exchanges, lawyers for the Goldman
executive director said in a court filing in September. The
collateralized debt obligations, known as Abacus, at issue in
the SEC’s complaint weren’t listed on any exchange and the sole
investor in the notes was a foreign bank that bought them
overseas, according to the filing.  Jones said that, because the SEC sued before the Supreme
Court decision came out in June, the agency can file an amended
complaint.  The case is SEC v. Goldman Sachs, 10-CV-3229, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Wells Fargo ‘Robo-Signer’ Draws Dismissal Motion in Maryland  A Maryland homeowner asked a court to dismiss any  Wells
Fargo & Co.  foreclosure actions in the state that involve
affidavits given by a bank employee who said she signed
documents without completely checking their accuracy.  Susan Saidman asked a Montgomery County court to recognize
as a class all defendants in Maryland cases with foreclosure
papers signed by Xee Moua for Wells Fargo. In a March deposition
in a Florida case, Moua said she didn’t verify all the
information in filings she signed, sometimes processing as many
as 500 in two hours.  To permit “foreclosure actions to proceed based upon these
false and fraudulent papers would be to accept dishonest and
bogus behavior in Maryland courts,” Saidman said in a motion
filed Oct. 29. “Such a result would be an assault on the rule
of law.”  Saidman raised the defense against members of Shapiro &
Burson LLP, a law firm that she said brings foreclosure actions
on behalf of Wells Fargo and other secured lenders. The law firm
couldn’t be reached by telephone yesterday after regular
business hours.  Wells Fargo, the biggest U.S. home lender, said last week
that it will file supplemental foreclosure affidavits to courts
in about 55,000 proceedings after finding some statements “did
not strictly adhere to the required procedures.” The San
Francisco-based bank has said it chose to resubmit the documents
out of “an abundance of caution” and that none of “these
instances led to foreclosures which should not have otherwise
occurred.”  The Maryland case is Burson v. Saidman, 323096V, Circuit
Court, Montgomery County (Rockville); the Ohio case is Piwinski
v. Wells Fargo Bank, 2010-CV-1373, Fairfield County Court of
Common Pleas (Lancaster).  For more, click here.  Cohmad, Principals Settle SEC’s Madoff-Related Suit  Cohmad Securities Corp. and three of its principals have
settled a U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission lawsuit over
what the firm told and didn’t tell investors whom they referred
to  Bernard L. Madoff .  The firm, Chairman Maurice J. Cohn, daughter and Chief
Operating Officer Marcia B. Cohn and Vice President  Robert M. Jaffe  agreed to an order barring them from violating securities
laws governing material misrepresentations and omissions,
resolving a case filed in June 2009. The agreement requires the
approval of U.S. District Judge Louis Stanton in Manhattan.  The SEC said New York-based Cohmad -- which shared offices
with Madoff’s firm -- and the individual defendants fed investor
funds to Madoff.  Theirs is the only firm to face U.S. regulator claims that
it solicited money for him.  “The Cohns have decided that resolving this matter with
the SEC and avoiding lengthy litigation is in the best interest
of their family,” defense attorney Steven Paradise said in an
e-mailed statement.  They neither admitted nor denied the claims, Paradise and
the SEC said separately.  The Cohmad defendants “referred hundreds of investors and
billions of dollars to Madoff, according to a revised complaint
filed by the SEC yesterday at the U.S. courthouse in Manhattan.  Madoff, 72, is serving a 150-year federal prison term after
pleading guilty to running the biggest Ponzi scheme in history
through his Bernard L. Madoff Investment Securities LLC.  The case is Securities and Exchange Commission v. Cohmad
Securities Corp., 09-cv-5680, U.S. District Court, Southern
District of New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  Rajaratnam Renews Wiretap Objections in Insider Case  Galleon Group hedge-fund firm co-founder Raj Rajaratnam
renewed his objections to the use of government wiretaps in his
insider-trading prosecution.  In a brief filed in Manhattan federal court yesterday,
Rajaratnam called papers filed by the prosecution on the subject
last week ‘‘a model of misdirection.’’  Rajaratnam claims the judge who authorized the wiretaps,
U.S. District Judge Gerald Lynch, wouldn’t have done so if he
had been told that investigators had been gathering evidence for
a year before asking for a wiretap warrant.  The wiretaps are a key part of the evidence against
Rajaratnam, 53, who’s accused of using tips from company
executives, hedge-fund employees and others in a multimillion-
dollar insider-trading scheme. He’s the central figure in an
investigation in which 21 were charged.  The case is U.S. v. Rajaratnam, 09-cr-01184, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Madoff Aide Bongiorno, Husband Fight U.S. to Keep Homes, Cash  Former Bernard Madoff aide Annette Bongiorno and her
husband asked a federal judge to halt the U.S. government from
seizing homes in Florida and New York and more than $2 million
in cash.  Bongiorno, who worked for Madoff for 40 years, and her
husband Rudy, a former electrician with the New York City
Department of Transportation, filed papers yesterday in
Manhattan federal court contesting the government’s seizure
attempt.  ‘‘This is simply procedurally the first step to challenge
the government’s forfeiture action,” Roland Riopelle, a lawyer
for the couple, said in an interview.  In their court filing, the couple asserts ownership to cash
held in several bank accounts, homes in Boca Raton, Florida, and
Manhasset, New York, two Mercedes Benzes, and a Bentley.  Government lawyers sued in June seeking to seize assets
allegedly tied to Madoff’s fraud. She hasn’t been criminally
charged in the case.  Annette Bongiorno knowingly aided Madoff’s fraud by
communicating with clients, answering questions about their
investments and overseeing the preparation of phony account
statements, trade confirmations and other records, prosecutors
said in a complaint.  Madoff, 72, is serving a 150-year federal prison term in
North Carolina after pleading guilty to running the biggest
Ponzi scheme in history from his firm, Bernard L. Madoff
Investment Securities LLC.  The case is U.S. v. $304,041.01 on Deposit at Citibank
N.A., 10-cv-04858, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New
York (Manhattan).  For the latest lawsuits news, click here. For the latest new
suits news, click here. For copies of recent civil complaints,
click here.  Verdicts/Settlement  Lions Gate  Deal to Boost Rachesky’s Stake Is Upheld  Lions Gate Entertainment Corp. ’s deal to increase the
number of shares held by board member Mark Rachesky, a move
challenged by hostile suitor Carl Icahn, was upheld by a
Canadian court.  Icahn’s petition to undo the deal was dismissed, the
British Columbia Supreme Court said in a ruling yesterday
provided by Lions Gate’s attorneys. Icahn, who is attempting to
buy the independent film and TV studio for $7.50 a share, argued
management conspired with large  shareholders  to thwart his bid.  Icahn, 74, was seeking to reverse an equity-for-debt swap
that hindered his hostile bid for the studio by putting more
shares in the hands of Rachesky, who has backed management in
the takeover fight.  “In my view, the Icahn Group complains of conduct which
affects it not as a shareholder but as a bitter bidder,” Judge
John Savage wrote in the 70-page judgment. “I have found that
the Lions Gate Board did not act in a manner that was oppressive
or unfairly prejudicial to the petitioners’ interests.”  JPMorgan Wins U.K. Appeal Over Russian Securities Investments  JPMorgan Chase & Co. , the third-biggest U.S. bank, won a
London lawsuit brought by a private banking client seeking
hundreds of millions of dollars over investments in Russian
securities.  The Court of Appeal in London rejected a suit filed by the
Polemis family, one of Greece’s oldest shipping clans. A lower
court was right to dismiss allegations of professional
impropriety made against the bank, the three-judge panel ruled
yesterday.  The Polemis family had sued the bank for more than $700
million over claims JPMorgan steered them into “poor quality”
corporate bonds and notes linked to Russian government
securities. They claim they lost about half their portfolio in
August 1998, when Russia devalued the ruble and defaulted on its
debts.  Reynolds Porter Chamberlain, the London law firm that
represented the Polemis family business that filed the lawsuit,
declined to immediately comment. JPMorgan’s law firm, Clifford
Chance, also declined to comment.  The case is JPMorgan Chase & Co. v. Springwell Navigation
Corp., A3/2009/0702, Court of Appeal, Civil Division (London).  For the latest verdict and settlement news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Elizabeth Amon  in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 