-- Oracle to Buy Art Technology Group for $1 Billion
-- B y   K a t i e   H o f f m a n n
-- 2010-11-02T20:14:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-02/oracle-agrees-to-buy-art-technology-group-for-1-billion-or-6-a-share.html
Oracle Corp. , the world’s second-
largest software maker, agreed to buy  Art Technology Group Inc. 
for about $1 billion in cash to add e-commerce programs.  Art Technology  investors  will receive $6 a share, Oracle
said in a statement today. That’s 46 percent more than the
company’s closing price yesterday.  Oracle , building on a run of more than 65 acquisitions
during the past five years, is looking to purchase makers of
industry-specific software, Chief Executive Officer  Larry Ellison  said in September. Art provides companies such as
retailers with technology for online merchandising, marketing,
automated recommendations, and live-help services.  Art, based in Cambridge, Massachusetts, rose $1.85 to $5.95
at 4 p.m. New York time in Nasdaq Stock Market trading.  Oracle ,
based in Redwood City, California, climbed 40 cents to $29.53.  Oracle, which trails  Microsoft Corp.  in software sales, had
$23.6 billion in cash and short-term investments as of Aug. 31,
the end of its fiscal first-quarter. Art Technology is the ninth
acquisition Oracle has announced in 2010.  The deal price is 33 times earnings before interest, tax,
depreciation and amortization, compared with the median multiple
of 17 times Ebitda for similar deals in the past six years,
according to Bloomberg data.  Dot-Com Bust  Art filed for its initial public offering in May 1999, as
investors backed startups in the growing market of Internet
advertising. Its shares hit a high of $122 in July 2000. Less
than a year later, the dot-com bubble burst and the company
faced four straight years of sales declines through 2004. Its
shares plummeted 95 percent in that time period.  Oracle, along with competitors Hewlett-Packard Co. and
 International Business Machines Corp.,  are acquiring companies
as they bolster their offerings of corporate software and
technology within data centers. HP has announced 8 deals so far
this year, and IBM has announced 15.  This year, Oracle completed its purchase of Sun
Microsystems Inc. for $7.4 billion, positioning itself to
compete against HP and IBM in the server-computer market.
Ellison said in September he’s also on the hunt to purchase
semiconductor companies, aiming to follow the approach of  Apple
Inc.  by owning more of the intellectual property behind computer
chips.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Katie Hoffmann  in New York at 
 khoffmann4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at   pelstrom@bloomberg.net  