-- Morning Jacket Wears Well on 5 Nights; Deerhunter Bends Genres
-- B y   J a i m e   W i d d e r
-- 2010-11-02T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-02/morning-jacket-dresses-5-nights-deerhunter-bends-genres-november-music.html
On Oct. 21, the third night of a
five-night run  at  Terminal 5 ,  My Morning Jacket  was also on its
third album, “It Still Moves.”  The Louisville, Kentucky, quintet featured a different
album from start to finish for each show, and this one
highlighted the band’s departure from a mellowed-down style to
full-throttle rock ‘n’ roll. The place erupted as lead singer
Jim James opened with “Mahgeetah.”  The slower “Golden” featured guitarist Carl Broemel and
highlighted James’s voice, a pristine, soothing tenor that can
make the hair on the back of your neck stand up.  The anthemic rocker “One Big Holiday” picked up the pace
and the crowd sang along word for word. The big moments
continued as we were brought into “Run Thru” and “Steam
Engine,” a song that moves from moments of silence to
enthralling rock -- as did the crowd.  The band returned for an encore of dead-on covers that left
everyone grinning. James’s voice sounded spectacular on  Bob Dylan ’s “Tonight I’ll Be Staying Here With You” and the Band’s
classic “It Makes No Difference.” The closer was  Lionel Richie ’s “All Night Long.”  At the end of the five-night run, My Morning Jacket had
played exactly 100 songs. The band should be back in 2011 with a
new album and plenty of touring.  No Cross-Dressing  A few days earlier, I found myself in ersatz fog at  Webster
Hall  as smoke machines pumped and the members of Deerhunter
assembled on stage. The quartet, led by Bradford Cox, has
abandoned the bizarre shows of years past in favor of one that
focuses solely on the music. Among other things, that means no
more cross-dressing.  Still, the band continues to bend genres on their latest
release, “Halcyon Digest,” and to evade pigeonholing.  The opener “Desire Lines” pulls the crowd into head-
bopping mode with its infectious melody. Just a few tunes later,
feedback resonates before Cox’s harmonica takes us into the
bouncy pop of “Memory Boy.”  Some bands that move around from genre to genre tend to
lose the crowd. This isn’t the case with Deerhunter. The songs
are all well-structured and seem to flow into one another.  “Nothing Ever Happened” featured a hard-rocking intro
followed by calm vocals until the song picked up speed and Cox
began to jam out with scratchy and distorted moments. Several
minutes passed in an ambient vocal chant and then we were back
into the complex number with a finger-tapping guitar solo.  After a 70-minute set, the guys returned to play “Basement
Scene.” From this dreamy number with repetitious lines the band
morphed into “Spring Hall Convert.” Cox’s voice yearns over
minimal music. A smooth transition led to the eerie beginning of
“Fluorescent Grey,” which quiets the room, setting us up for a
Sonic Youth-like moment of tweaked-out sounds. Then it was all
over.  Here’s a selection of New York-area shows in November.
Please note that opening bands aren’t always listed. Shows
marked (SO) are sold out, although online services such as
Craigslist often have tickets:  ( Jaime Widder  works in sales for Bloomberg News. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on this story:
Jaime Widder in New York at 
 jwidder@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 