-- Mortgage Bond Returns Accelerate as Fed Moves Toward QE2: Credit Markets
-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n
-- 2010-11-03T15:41:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-02/mortgage-bond-returns-accelerate-as-fed-moves-toward-qe2-credit-markets.html
Relative returns on government-backed
mortgage bonds are showing investors have little confidence the
Federal Reserve’s efforts to contain interest rates will break
the gridlock in homeowner refinancing.  U.S. agency mortgage bonds returned 92 basis points, or
0.92 percentage point, more than similar government debt in
October, Barclays Capital index  data  show. It was the second-
best performance on record and the most since April 2008, the
month after the nation’s central bank calmed markets with its
rescue of Bear Stearns Cos.  While Fed support for debt markets has enabled a record
$235 billion of high-yield corporate bond sales in 2010,
homeowners are struggling to get mortgages with home-loan rates
hovering near their  lows . Speculation has dissipated that U.S.
regulators or lawmakers will loosen refinancing standards for
agency mortgages, a move that would punish bondholders by
removing higher-rate loans from the securities sooner than
anticipated.  “That had people concerned for about a month to six weeks,
but nothing came of it,” said  Chris Ames , a senior portfolio
manager in New York for mortgage- and asset-backed securities at
Schroder Investment Management Ltd. “Now people are more
comfortable” with mortgage bonds trading for more than face
value, he said. Investors get paid back at par when underlying
mortgages are retired.  More Gains  Debt in the $5.3 trillion market carries guarantees from
government-supported Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac or federal
agency Ginnie Mae. The Fed purchased $1.25 trillion of the
securities as it bought $1.7 trillion of debt through March. The
central bank said in August it would begin reinvesting principal
proceeds from those  acquisitions  into Treasuries.  The Fed will likely announce a plan today to purchase more
Treasuries, according to a Bloomberg News survey of economists.
Bond buyers may find additional reasons to purchase agency
mortgage securities if the central bank fails to match
investors’ expectations, said analysts at Barclays Capital,
JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Nomura Securities International Inc.  Elsewhere in credit markets, the extra yield investors
demand to own company bonds instead of similar-maturity
government debt fell 1 basis point to 164 basis points, down
from this year’s high of 201 on June 11, according to Bank of
America Merrill Lynch’s Global Broad Market Corporate Index.
Yields averaged 3.45 percent, from 3.463 percent Nov. 1.  Credit-Default Swaps  The cost of protecting bonds from default in the U.S.
declined for a third day. The Markit CDX North America
Investment Grade Index, which investors use to hedge against
losses on corporate debt or to speculate on creditworthiness,
decreased 0.1 basis point to a mid-price of 92.4 basis points as
of 11:40 a.m. in New York, according to Markit Group Ltd. The
index typically falls as investor confidence improves and rises
as it deteriorates.  Credit swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails
to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A
basis point equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10
million of debt.  Burlington Coat Factory Warehouse Corp., the Bain Capital
LLC-owned operator of discount apparel, plans to sell $500
million of eight-year senior unsecured notes, the company said
today in a statement distributed by Business Wire. Proceeds may
be used to repay the company’s term loan facility, tender for
outstanding debt and make a distribution to equity holders,
according to the statement. Burlington Coat Factory is also
seeking a $1 billion term loan to repay debt and for a dividend
payment.  Trailing Treasuries  Before last month’s rally, agency mortgage bonds trailed
Treasuries with maturities similar to their projected lives for
two straight months, with the gap reaching 52 basis points in
September, the most since November 2008, according to Barclays
data that extends back to 1988. Excess returns this month total
11 basis points.  The rate at which homeowner refinancings and other
prepayments paid down 30-year mortgages in Fannie Mae securities
rose to a pace in September that would eliminate about 25
percent of the debt in a year, according to data compiled by
JPMorgan based on reports released Oct. 6.  The so-called constant prepayment rate compares with the
record of 60 in June 2003, as an almost 30 percent drop in home
 prices  and tighter lending standards limit how many borrowers
qualify for new loans. October reports are scheduled for release
Nov. 4. The  average  rate on 30-year mortgages reached a record
low of 4.17 percent in the middle of last month, according to
Freddie Mac.  Wells Fargo  Wells Fargo & Co. , the largest U.S. mortgage lender and
second-largest servicer, is seeing the “widest ever spread”
between current new-loan rates and those on the loans it manages
for others, which averaged 5.46 percent on Sept. 30,  Howard Atkins , the San Francisco-based bank’s chief financial officer,
said on an Oct. 20 conference call.  Such disparities may eventually lead policy makers to
address the refinancing hurdles, said Schroder’s Ames, whose
firm oversees about 50 billion pounds ($80 billion) of fixed-
income assets.  For the Fed, “refinancing borrowers is a nice ancillary
benefit if it happens, but it’s not the main objective of
another round” of quantitative easing, JPMorgan mortgage-bond
analysts led by  Matt Jozoff  in New York wrote in an Oct. 29
report.  Monetary Easing  The central bank will probably introduce an unprecedented
second round of unconventional monetary easing today by
announcing a plan to buy at least $500 billion of long-term
securities, according to 29 of 56 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News. All but three of the economists expect some plan
for additional debt buying, with seven predicting $50 billion to
$100 billion in monthly purchases without a specified total.  If the Fed surprises investors with a smaller-than-
anticipated initiative, mortgage bonds may outperform Treasuries
because it will add less relative demand for government debt and
benchmark interest rates may rise, reducing the amount of
homeowner refinancing that is moving debt from the central
bank’s balance sheet to the market, Barclays analysts in New
York led by  Ajay Rajadhyaksha  wrote in an Oct. 29 report.  Higher absolute  yields  may also “entice more banks” into
mortgage securities, the JPMorgan analysts wrote. At the same
time, recent climbs in interest rates are causing investors to
begin to be concerned that mortgage securities will be repaid
too slowly, rather than too quickly, and higher borrowing costs
may spark more of that worry, they said.  ‘Natural Choice’  If the central bank signals it may buy more than $600
billion of debt, the Fed may be forced to turn to securities
aside from Treasuries because of a self-imposed limit in which
it purchases no more than 35 percent of a particular issue,
Nomura analysts led by  Ohmsatya Ravi  said. Agency mortgage
securities would be “a natural choice,” they wrote Oct. 29.  The JPMorgan analysts also see an “increased possibility”
the Fed may buy more mortgage securities because of the limit
and because officials have indicated they will be watching
mortgage-bond spreads. Still, the record failures of dealers to
fulfill mortgage-bond sale  contracts  in a timely manner suggest
the central bank may want to avoid further sapping supply from
the market, they said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jody Shenn  in New York at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  