-- Mortgage Modification Failures Push Borrowers Into Foreclosure
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   M .   H o w l e y ,   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l   a n d   D a n i e l l e   K u c e r a
-- 2010-11-02T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-02/mortgage-modifications-meant-to-save-u-s-homes-push-them-into-foreclosure.html
Jill Gray of Mesquite, Texas, said
her three-year-old son, Anthony, often tells her before he goes
to bed: “I wanna go to the other house.”  Jill, Anthony and Tiffy, their black Labrador-mix dog,
moved about 12 miles to a rental home three weeks ago after
their one-story brick house in Garland was auctioned in a
foreclosure. Gray, 38, tried for almost a year to get her
mortgage modified, only to have the approval rescinded.  Bank of
America Corp.  said documents were missing -- papers that Gray
said she sent.  Gray’s experience, in which homeowners get evicted while
participating in programs designed to avert  foreclosures , is
being repeated thousands of times at the biggest mortgage firms,
according to groups that aid borrowers. The government’s Home
Affordable Modification Program came under fire at hearings last
week for “trial” arrangements that allow late fees and debts
to stack up and documents to disappear, triggering seizures.  “Many homeowners end up facing foreclosure solely on the
basis of the arrears accumulated during a trial modification,”
said  Julia Gordon , senior policy counsel at the Center for
Responsible Lending, in Oct. 27 Congressional testimony. “One
incomplete payment or one accounting mistake can land you on an
apparently unstoppable conveyor belt to eviction.”  With as many as 7 million homes facing foreclosure or
already taken, according to Zillow Inc., both the government and
companies such as Bank of America and JPMorgan Chase & Co., the
two biggest U.S. lenders, offered programs to forestall seizures
by easing mortgage terms. Changes include cutting interest rates
for as long as five years and extending repayment to 40 years.  More Payments  About half the 1.4 million temporary or “trial”
modifications granted since the program’s March 2009 inception
have been canceled, according to U.S. Treasury Department  data .
Only 466,708 borrowers have received permanent modifications.
About one in five of the canceled modifications is either in
foreclosure or bankruptcy, according to a Treasury survey of the
nation’s eight largest mortgage servicers, which handle billing,
collections and foreclosures.  Even borrowers who do win approval and never miss a payment
can wind up in foreclosure, the Office of the Special Inspector
General for the Troubled Asset Relief Program, or SIGTARP, said
in an Oct. 26  report  to Congress. “They may face back payments,
penalties and even late fees that suddenly become due on their
‘modified’ mortgages and that they are unable to pay, thus
resulting in the very loss of their homes that HAMP is meant to
prevent,” the report said.  Lost Paperwork  Mortgage firms make the problem worse by losing paperwork,
according to testimony from  Richard Neiman , the New York State
superintendent of banks. In a May and June survey of 40
counselors representing as many as 14,000 borrowers, the
California Reinvestment Coalition found 100 percent said
servicers had lost or ignored documents, according to associate
director  Kevin Stein , whose San Francisco organization works
with low-income communities.  “It’s more common to hear that banks have lost paperwork
than to hear that they received it and properly handled it,”
said Joe Ridout, a spokesman for Consumer Action, an education
and advocacy group based in San Francisco with a network of
9,000 community organizations nationwide.  That leaves HAMP participants vulnerable to foreclosure, a
process that has been tainted by allegations of “robo-
signing,” in which mortgage firms signed and submitted court
documents to justify home seizures without verifying they were
accurate. Attorneys general in all 50 states are investigating.  Treasury Responds  HAMP modifications reduce mortgage payments to 31 percent of
a homeowner’s monthly gross income. The process often results in
a larger mortgage as accrued interest and other charges are
tacked onto the balance. Some HAMP modifications add so-called
balloon payments to the loan that are due when a house is sold
or the mortgage paid off.  “The program continues to perform well,”  Andrea Risotto ,
a Treasury spokeswoman, said in a phone interview. “The target
of affordability that HAMP put in place - this idea of 31
percent debt to income -- which was far more aggressive than
what was done historically, is helping homeowners sustain the
modification over time.”  Tom Kelly , a JPMorgan spokesman, said the New York-based
lender is able to track paperwork because it scans every
document as soon as it’s received. At Ally Financial Inc.,
spokeswoman  Gina Proia  said the Detroit-based lender requires
homeowners to submit paperwork at the start of the modification
process, leading to a “higher likelihood” of permanent
modifications and lower re-default rates.  Jumana Bauwens , a Bank
of America spokeswoman, declined to comment on matters tied to
lost paperwork.  Processing Fees  Richard Cormier, in Rialto, California, had made eight
payments on a trial modification of his mortgage when  Wells
Fargo & Co.  told him Oct. 12 his home was being auctioned at the
end of the month. The San Francisco-based bank told Cormier his
file was missing documents.  “Every time I try to do something they ask, it’s never
right,” said Cormier, 56.  Tom Goyda, a spokesman at Wells Fargo, the biggest U.S.
mortgage lender, said yesterday the modification will be
approved. As of June, the company has started to assign one
employee to handle a modification from start to finish so that a
homeowner “knows who they’re working with,” Goyda said.  Under HAMP guidelines, final foreclosure sales are banned
until 30 days after an applicant has received a notification of
rejection. A  sale  can’t take place until servicers provide
foreclosure attorneys with written certification that all
modification efforts have been exhausted.  Delayed Responses  “Our normal policy is to continue with the foreclosure
process while we review a customer for a loan modification,”
Bank of America’s Bauwens said in an e-mailed statement. “If we
have not finished our review, we will postpone the foreclosure
sale automatically.”  Some lenders take as long as nine months to approve
modifications, something that should take as little as 45
minutes, said Rick Rogers, an attorney in Bannockburn, Illinois,
who represents borrowers. Witnesses at last week’s hearing
pointed in part to understaffing.  “Lenders are overwhelmed,”  Nathalie Martin , a professor
at the University of New Mexico School of Law, in an interview.
“A lender is duty-bound to hire enough people to be able to
service their loans.”  Falling Behind  Gray, the Texas mother, said she fell behind on her
mortgage bills last year after paying for medical treatments for
her son that weren’t covered by insurance. When her home was
auctioned in September, there were no bidders, so it reverted to
the mortgage holder, Mclean, Virginia-based Freddie Mac, taken
over by the government in 2008. The house is now listed for sale
at $55,000.  When Gray, a part-time Avon Products Inc. saleswoman,
received the modification offer in December from Bank of
America, based in Charlotte, North Carolina, she said she
immediately signed and returned the contract using the supplied
 FedEx Corp.  envelope.  Bauwens said the bank didn’t receive it by the due date.
For Gray’s three subsequent applications, she said she faxed
copies of pay stubs and financial statements requested by the
bank. Bauwens said the bank didn’t get key documents.  Gray kept a record of her calls to the bank, in addition to
printed confirmations of documents she faxed. The log reads, in
part: “Sept. 9: Called, was disconnected. Called again. Spoke
to Christina. While transferred to supervisor I was
disconnected. Called back. Ruby answered. She referred me to
their REO Dept.”  Reviewing Rejections  HAMP conducts regular  reviews  of servicers as part of its
Second Look compliance program that includes analyzing some
files of homeowners who were denied modifications, said Risotto,
the Treasury spokeswoman. If loans are under a Second Look
review, foreclosure sales are suspended, and if reviewers
conclude that servicers aren’t following guidelines, they may
require applications to be re-evaluated, she said.  Gray is again being considered for a modification and the
foreclosure sale may be rescinded, Bank of America’s Bauwens
said. Gray, who works in the building permit department in a
city called Fate, said she doesn’t expect to be approved. Now
that she’s been evicted, she has to pay $775 a month in rent --
boosting her expenses beyond the program’s guidelines.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Kathleen M. Howley  in Boston at 
 kmhowley@bloomberg.net ;
 Dakin Campbell  in San Francisco
at   dcampbell27@bloomberg.net ;
 Danielle Kucera  in New York at 
 dkucera6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at   kwetzel@bloomberg.net ;
Rick Green in New York at 
 rgreen18@bloomberg.net . 