-- Most Asian Stocks Fall as Australia Raises Interest Rates; Leighton Slumps
-- B y   S h a n i   R a j a   a n d   J o n a t h a n   B u r g o s
-- 2010-11-02T03:53:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-02/most-asian-stocks-fall-before-fed-reserve-bank-of-japan-policy-meetings.html
Most Asian  stocks  fell as Australia’s
central bank raised interest rates before policy meetings this
week by the U.S. Federal Reserve and Bank of Japan.  Leighton Holdings Ltd., Australia’s biggest construction
company, slumped 7.8 percent.  Elpida Memory Inc.  and Honda Motor
Co. sank at least 2.6 percent in Tokyo on concern a stronger yen
will hurt the value of overseas sales. Earnings statements drove
up  Dena Co. , a Japanese operator of shopping websites, and
office-equipment maker Brother Industries Ltd. by more than 5
percent.  Five stocks declined for every four that advanced in the
 MSCI Asia Pacific Index , which rose 0.2 percent to 130.51 as of
12:50 p.m. in Tokyo. The gauge fluctuated before a Fed policy
meeting later today and tomorrow that may herald a new round of
monetary easing to bolster the world’s largest economy,
according to economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. The index
climbed 2.4 percent in October for its second monthly advance.  “The market has been buying in expectation of further
quantitative easing in the U.S.,” said  Lee King Fuei , a
Singapore-based fund manager at Schroders Plc, which held $245
billion of assets as of June. “Clearly, that’s not sustainable.
If the first quantitative easing didn’t work in turning around
the economy and boosting employment, why a second one would work
becomes a bigger question.”  Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 Index dropped 0.1 percent,
reversing an earlier gain of 0.1 percent, after Reserve Bank of
Australia policymakers unexpectedly increased the benchmark
interest rate by a quarter percentage point to 4.75 percent.  The  Nikkei 225 Stock Average  lost 0.3 percent in Japan,
where markets are closed tomorrow for a holiday. The Bank of
Japan last week advanced its policy meeting to Nov. 4-5,
following the Fed’s meeting.  South Korea’s Kospi Index sank 0.2 percent, while China’s
Shanghai Composite Index rose 0.3 percent. New Zealand’s NZX 50
Index rose 0.7 percent after the statistics bureau reported the
nation’s wage growth nation accelerated for the second straight
quarter.  Futures on the U.S.  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  were little
changed. The index was little changed yesterday as growth in
Chinese and American manufacturing and speculation the Fed will
pump cash into the economy overshadowed a report that JPMorgan
Chase & Co. was being probed for mortgage deals. The Institute
for Supply Management said its factory index climbed last month
to the highest level since May.  To contact the reporters for this story:
 Shani Raja  in Sydney at 
 sraja4@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Burgos in Singapore at 
 jburgos4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net . 