-- Most Asian Stocks Fall as India, Australia Raise Rates Before Fed Meeting
-- B y   S h a n i   R a j a   a n d   J o n a t h a n   B u r g o s
-- 2010-11-02T10:25:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-02/most-asian-stocks-fall-as-australia-raises-rates-before-fed-boj-meetings.html
Most Asian  stocks  fell as India and
Australia raised interest rates before policy meetings this week
by the U.S. Federal Reserve and Bank of Japan.  Leighton Holdings Ltd., Australia’s biggest construction
company, slumped 7 percent after reporting a writedown on a
project.  DLF Ltd. , India’s biggest developer, sank 3.4 percent.
 Elpida Memory Inc.  and Honda Motor Co. sank at least 2.3 percent
in Tokyo on concern a stronger yen will hurt the value of
overseas sales. Earnings statements drove up  Dena Co. , a
Japanese operator of shopping websites, and office-equipment
maker Brother Industries Ltd. by more than 6 percent.  Five stocks declined for every four that advanced in the
 MSCI Asia Pacific Index , which rose 0.2 percent to 130.60 as of
7:24 p.m. in Tokyo. The gauge fluctuated today before a Fed
policy meeting later today and tomorrow that may herald a new
round of monetary easing to bolster the world’s largest economy,
according to economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. The index
climbed 2.4 percent in October for its second monthly advance.  “The market has been buying in expectation of further
quantitative easing in the U.S.,” said  Lee King Fuei , a
Singapore-based fund manager at Schroders Plc, which held $245
billion of assets as of June. “Clearly, that’s not sustainable.
If the first quantitative easing didn’t work in turning around
the economy and boosting employment, why a second one would work
becomes a bigger question.”  Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 Index rose less than 0.1 percent.
It fell earlier after the Reserve Bank of Australia unexpectedly
increased the benchmark interest rate by a quarter percentage
point. India’s  Sensitive Index  fluctuated after the central bank
raised interest rates for a sixth time this year.  Wage Growth  The  Nikkei 225 Stock Average  gained less than 0.1 percent
in Japan, where markets are closed tomorrow for a holiday. The
Bank of Japan last week advanced its policy meeting to Nov. 4-5,
following the Fed’s meeting.  Taiwan’s Taiex index sank 0.4 percent, while China’s
Shanghai Composite Index lost 0.3 percent. New Zealand’s NZX 50
Index gained 0.8 percent after the statistics bureau reported
the nation’s wage growth accelerated for the second straight
quarter.  Futures on the U.S.  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  rose 0.3
percent. The index was little changed yesterday as growth in
Chinese and American manufacturing and speculation the Fed will
pump cash into the economy overshadowed a report that JPMorgan
Chase & Co. was being probed for mortgage deals. The Institute
for Supply Management said its factory index climbed last month
to the highest level since May.  Australian Dollar  Leighton tumbled 7 percent to A$33.75 in Sydney after
saying an airport infrastructure project will contribute A$85
million ($84 million) in writedowns. Overseas earnings will also
be hurt by the stronger Australian dollar, Chief Executive
Officer Wal King said in a statement today. The currency climbed
as much as 1.3 percent after today’s rate decision.  Shares of Indian property developers declined after the
Reserve Bank of India raised interest rates and ordered
commercial banks to increase so-called risk weighting on home
loans. DLF slumped 3.4 percent to 349.2 rupees.  Unitech Ltd. ,
India’s second-biggest developer by assets, dropped 3.4 percent
to 86.25 rupees.  Shares of Japanese exporters fell after the yen appreciated
to 80.22 yesterday, the strongest level since 1995. It recently
weakened to 80.56. A stronger yen lowers the value of Japanese
companies’ overseas sales when repatriated.  Currency Trend  Elpida, the world’s third-biggest maker of computer-memory
chips, slumped 5.1 percent to 764 in Tokyo. Electronics-maker
 Sony Corp.  lost 0.9 percent to 2,627 yen. Honda, Japan’s second-
largest carmaker, sank 2.3 percent to 2,725 yen.  “People don’t know whether the yen’s trend will change or
not, so they cannot price in strong earnings,” said  Yoshinori Nagano , a senior strategist in Tokyo at Daiwa Asset Management
Co., which oversees about $104 billion.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index increased 8.2 percent in 2010
through yesterday, compared with gains of 6.2 percent by the S&P
500 and 4.9 percent by the Stoxx Europe 600 Index. Stocks in the
MSCI measure are valued at an  average  14.2 times estimated
profit, compared with 14 times for the S&P 500 and 12.2 times
for the Stoxx 600.  The Asia Pacific gauge has rallied 12 percent since Fed
Chairman Ben S. Bernanke said on Aug. 27 that more securities
purchases may be warranted if growth slows. The Fed is likely to
start a fresh round of stimulus tomorrow by announcing a plan to
purchase at least $500 billion of long-term securities,
according to economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  Waiting For The Fed  “The wait-and-see mood is evident ahead of the major
events,” said  Park Young Yeol , a fund manager at ING Investment
Management Korea Ltd., which manages $16 billion in assets.
“Investors are reluctant to make decisive directions in their
bets before they get the sense of the magnitude of the Fed’s
measures.”  Dena surged 6.9 percent to 2,293 yen in Tokyo today, the
 MSCI Asia Pacific Index ’s fourth-biggest advance, after
reporting a fourfold jump in first-half net income. The company
said profit jumped to 14.2 billion yen ($176 million) from 3.5
billion yen a year earlier as sales almost tripled.  Brother Industries jumped 6.3 percent to 1,094 yen after
raising its full-year profit forecast by 30 percent to 24
billion yen on higher sales.  About 150 companies of almost 1,000 in the MSCI Asia
Pacific Index are scheduled to announce earnings this week,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Since the start of
October, about 15 companies have exceeded  profit estimates  for
every 13 that have fallen short, based on Bloomberg data
compiled from about 380 companies that have reported quarterly
results in that time.  South Korea’s Hanjin Heavy Industries & Construction Co.
surged 9.3 percent to 46,000 won, the MSCI Asia Pacific’s
biggest advance. The stock was  rated  a “buy” in new coverage
at NH Investment & Securities.  To contact the reporters for this story:
 Shani Raja  in Sydney at 
 sraja4@bloomberg.net ;
 Jonathan Burgos  in Singapore at 
 jburgos4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net . 