-- Tottenham Beats Inter 3-1 in Champions League; United Wins Away
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2010-11-02T23:57:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-02/tottenham-hands-inter-first-loss-of-champions-league-defense-united-wins.html
Tottenham beat Inter Milan 3-1 in
soccer’s Champions League to hand the Italian club the first
defeat of its European Cup defense.  Rafael van der Vaart ,  Peter Crouch  and  Roman Pavlyuchenko 
scored for Tottenham last night at White Hart Lane in north
London to lift the tournament newcomer atop Group A on goal
difference ahead of Inter. Both teams have seven points.  “That was a fantastic match, from first to last we played
unbelievable,” Spurs manager  Harry Redknapp  said in an
interview with Sky Sports. “It was an amazing performance.”  Both Group C games finished 3-0 with Manchester United
beating Bursaspor and Valencia defeating Rangers. Barcelona tied
1-1 with FC Copenhagen in Group D, while the game between Rubin
Kazan and Panathinaikos finished scoreless.  Benfica beat Lyon 4-3 in Group B and Hapoel Tel-Aviv and
Schalke tied 0-0. FC Twente won 2-0 at Werder Bremen in the
other Group A match.  Tottenham winger  Gareth Bale , who scored a hat trick in his
team’s 4-3 loss in Milan on Oct. 20, set up two goals last night
to help lift Spurs to the victory.  The Premier League team took the lead after 18 minutes as
 Luka Modric  went past two defenders and slid a pass to Van der
Vaart, who shot past goalkeeper Luca Castellazzi.  Spurs doubled their lead in the 61st minute when Bale raced
from the halfway line before sending in a cross for Crouch to
put in. Inter made it 2-1 in the 80th minute when  Samuel Eto ’o
scored his competition-leading seventh goal.  Bale Praise  Tottenham then sealed the win in the final minute as Bale
broke down the left flank and curled a cross which Pavluychunko
tapped past Castellazzi.  “He’s now one of our best players, every week he’s strong
and everyone’s scared of him,” Van der Vaart said of Bale in an
interview with Sky Sports. “It’s a fantastic night to win 3-1
against the Champions League winners, a great feeling.”  FC Twente kept alive its hopes of advancing to the next
round with two goals in the last 10 minutes against Werder
Bremen. Nacer Chadli and Luuk de Jong scored after Bremen’s
 Torsten Frings  was shown the red card in the 75th minute.  Darren Fletcher ,  Gabriel Obertan  and Bebe got second-half
goals to lift Manchester United past Bursaspor in Turkey.  “We got one early in the second half, which makes a
difference,” United manager  Alex Ferguson  said. “From that
point on basically we were in control of the match. They had a
couple of half chances and you can never be sure, but the second
goal killed the match.”  United leads Group C with 10 points and will advance if it
avoids defeat against Rangers in its next game.  Soldado Double  Roberto Soldado scored two goals as Valencia moved above
Rangers into second place in the group. Tino Costa also scored
for Valencia, which trails United by three points.  Barcelona missed a chance to secure a place in the next
round by drawing with Copenhagen in Denmark.  Lionel Messi  gave Barcelona the lead after 31 minutes
before Claudemir made it 1-1 a minute later. The result leaves
Barcelona atop Group D with eight points, one more than
Copenhagen. Rubin Kazan has three points and Panathinaikos has
two after their draw.  “In the 2 1/2 years I’ve been Barca’s coach, we’ve never
encountered a team as intense and physical as this one,”
Barcelona manager  Pep Guardiola  told reporters. “All my players
are completely exhausted after this match.”  Lyon was also denied qualification into the knockout stage
with its away loss to Benfica.  Fabio Coentrao scored two goals and Alan Kardec and Javi
Garcia had one each to give Benfica a 4-0 lead. Yoann Gourcuff,
Bafetimbi Gomis and Dejan Lovren then scored in the final 20
minutes for Lyon.  Lyon still leads Group B with nine points, two more than
Schalke. Benfica is third on six and Hapoel Tel-Aviv remains
last after picking up its first point.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bob Bensch  in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at   celser@bloomberg.net . 