-- Toyota Says Sudden-Acceleration Lawsuits Don't Identify an `Actual Defect'
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k
-- 2010-11-02T19:19:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-02/toyota-acceleration-suits-don-t-identify-actual-defect-company-says.html
Lawsuits against  Toyota Motor Corp. 
claiming sudden-acceleration recalls caused economic damages
fail to identify an “actual defect” and should be dismissed,
the company said in court papers.  Toyota faces about 400  lawsuits  alleging lost vehicle value
or injury or death from sudden acceleration. The economic loss
lawsuits, brought as class, or group, actions claim a defect in
Toyota’s electronic throttle control system can trigger episodes
of inadvertent acceleration.  The plaintiffs haven’t defined a technical problem with the
electronic throttle control system in  Toyota vehicles , the
company said in a court filing yesterday. Few of the vehicles in
question have experienced any sign of sudden, unintended
acceleration and few owners have sustained any loss, Toyota
said.  “The most interesting point may be plaintiffs’ continued
inability to point to an actual defect in the automobiles at
issue,” the company said in the filing. “The suggestion that
at some undisclosed time in the future, when these plaintiffs
might attempt to sell their vehicles, they will suffer some loss
legally traceable to a defect that they have never experienced,
is sheer speculation.”  Defects Disclosure  The economic loss  lawsuits , combined for pretrial filings
and rulings in federal court in Santa Ana, California, claim
Toyota drove down the value of vehicles by failing to fix or
disclose defects that triggered unintended acceleration. Federal
lawsuits claiming death or injury caused by such episodes are
also combined in the Santa Ana court.  The company, based in Toyota City, Japan, has recalled more
than 8 million vehicles for repairs related to sudden,
unintended acceleration. In September, the automaker announced a
recall of 3.8 million Toyota and Lexus vehicles because of a
defect that may cause floor mats to jam accelerator pedals. The
company later recalled vehicles over defects involving the
pedals themselves.  “We believe the evidence clearly shows that Toyota
recognized -- and could replicate -- sudden, unintended
accelerations with their vehicles for nearly a decade,”
plaintiffs’ attorney  Steve Berman , of Seattle-based  Hagens
Berman Sobol Shapiro LLP , said today in an e-mail. “We also
believe Toyota knew how to fix the problem using a brake-
override system -- standard equipment with other carmakers.”  The cases are combined as In re Toyota Motor Corp.
Unintended Acceleration Marketing, Sales Practices and Products
Liability Litigation, 8:10-ml-02151, U.S. District Court,
Central District of California (Santa Ana).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Margaret Cronin Fisk  in Southfield, Michigan, at   mcfisk@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 