-- Persian Gulf Lacks Sufficient Supertankers for First Time in Almost a Year
-- B y   A l a r i c   N i g h t i n g a l e
-- 2010-11-02T16:57:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-02/persian-gulf-lacks-sufficient-supertankers-for-first-time-in-almost-a-year.html
The  Persian Gulf , the world’s biggest
crude-oil loading region, has too few supertankers to haul the
fuel for the first time in almost a year, potentially helping to
sustain a rally in freight costs.  There are 1 percent fewer very large crude carriers, or
VLCCs, for hire over the next 30 days than there are cargoes,
according to the median estimate of eight shipbrokers and owners
surveyed by Bloomberg News today. There was a 20 percent surplus
a week ago.  “We are looking for a healthy winter market, and we are
looking for rates to go further up,”  Axel Styrman , an analyst
at Carnegie ASA in Oslo, said  by  phone today. The drop in supply
is due to “normal seasonal factors” that are causing ship
bookings to rise, he said.  Demand may continue strengthening into the first quarter of
2011 as members of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and
Development bolster imports, Styrman said.  About 20 percent of the world’s crude demand is met by
shipments carried on tankers that loaded in the Middle East,
according to data from Oil Movements, a Halifax, England-based
consultancy, and the International Energy Agency.  Fifth Gain  Charter rates  for VLCCs hauling Saudi Arabian crude to
Japan, the route used to settle freight derivatives, climbed 11
percent to 82.06 Worldscale points today, the fifth straight
advance, according to data from the London-based Baltic
Exchange.  Daily  rental income  from the route jumped 27 percent to
$42,517, according to the bourse. Returns have surged almost 26-
fold since Oct. 8. Frontline Ltd., the biggest operator of
VLCCs, requires $30,900 a day to break even on them.  The supply reduction stems from a drop in the number of oil
company-owned vessels that are being marketed for hire, said
 Nikos Varvaropoulos , a Dubai-based official at Optima
Shipbrokers Ltd. Some of those vessels have been chartered and
others have been reserved for the companies’ own cargoes, he
said.  The tightened supply-demand balance and consequent rally in
freight rates suggest owners are overcoming a tanker-fleet
expansion that’s likely to set a record over the next two years,
according to Morgan Stanley estimates and data from Clarkson
Plc, the world’s largest shipbroker.  A  shortfall in vessel supply  last occurred on Nov. 16,
2009. Charter rates on the Saudi Arabia-to-Japan route advanced
about 20 percent in the month that followed.  Middle East crude suppliers will ship 17.29 million barrels
a day in the four weeks to Nov. 13, according to Oil Movements.
Global crude demand will be 86.9 million barrels a day this
year, according to the Paris-based IEA, adviser to 28 nations.  The  Baltic Dirty Tanker Index , a wider measure of crude-oil
transportation costs, advanced 1.8 percent to 777 points today,
according to the Baltic Exchange.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alaric Nightingale  in London at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 