-- Peru Sol Climbs Most in Seven Weeks on Bets Fed Stimulus to Boost Inflows
-- B y   J o h n   Q u i g l e y
-- 2010-11-02T21:26:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-02/peru-sol-climbs-most-in-seven-weeks-on-bets-fed-stimulus-to-boost-inflows.html
Peru’s sol climbed the most in seven
weeks on speculation that measures to bolster the U.S. economy
will spur demand for higher-yielding assets in emerging markets
with steeper interest rates.  The sol gained 0.2 percent to 2.7943 per U.S. dollar at
4:50 p.m. New York time, from 2.7985 on Oct. 29. Peruvian
markets were closed yesterday for a national holiday.  U.S. policy makers meeting today and tomorrow will probably
announce a plan to purchase at least $500 billion of long-term
securities, according to economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.
Five interest rate increases this year in Peru, as well as the
potential for higher prices for its commodity exports, make the
country a magnet for investment as the U.S. boosts the money
supply, said  Bertrand Delgado , an economist at Roubini Global
Economics LLC in New York.  “Managers want a larger part of their portfolios invested
in” fast-growing Latin American countries, Delgado said.  Gross domestic product in Peru, the world’s second-biggest
copper exporter, may rise 8 percent this year, according to the
central bank.  Peruvian policy makers may keep the benchmark interest rate
at 3 percent for the rest of this year,  Alejandro Grisanti , an
analyst Barclays Plc, in an e-mailed note to clients yesterday
after the national statistics agency reported the second
consecutive monthly decline in consumer prices because of
cheaper food.  The central bank’s reference rate may rise to 4 percent by
the end of next year, Grisanti said.  Lower costs for chicken and vegetables led consumer prices
to fall 0.14 percent last month from September and caused the
annual inflation rate to slow to 2.1 percent from 2.37 percent,
the national statistics office said yesterday.  The yield on Peru’s benchmark 8.6 percent sol-denominated
bond due August 2017 declined two basis points, or 0.02
percentage point, to 4.81 percent, according to Deutsche Bank
AG’s local unit.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 John Quigley  in Lima at 
 jquigley8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  