-- Pioneer Says Profit May Slump 95% After Agreeing to Record Antitrust Fines
-- B y   N i c k y   S m i t h   a n d   R o n   D e r b y
-- 2010-11-02T15:18:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-02/pioneer-food-to-pay-72-million-to-settle-antitrust-probe-of-milling-unit.html
Pioneer Foods Ltd. , the South African
maker of Weet-Bix breakfast cereal, said annual profit may slump
95 percent and it won’t offer a final dividend after agreeing to
pay 500 million-rand ($72 million) to settle antitrust cases.  “Pioneer Foods undertakes in future not to make any
utterances that may reasonably be construed as a threat to enter
into a price war or an inducement to raise prices,” the company
said today in a statement. “Given the expected decline in
earnings, a final dividend will not be declared.”  The producer, based in Paarl, Western Cape, settled cases
over price fixing in flour and maize, collusion in flour, bread
and maize, “exclusionary conduct” against independent bakeries
and anti-competitive practices in poultry and egg supply, South
Africa’s  Competition Commission  said in a separate news release.  “Anti-competitive conduct in these important food sectors
has impacted negatively on consumers and the ability of small
and medium firms to enter and grow in these markets,” it said.  The payments, combined with a fine of 195.7 million rand
imposed on Pioneer on Feb. 3 for agreeing with rivals to raise
bread prices, represent the largest overall settlement imposed
on a single company by the commission,  Ebrahim Patel , economic
development minister, said in an e-mailed statement.  Pioneer Managing Director  Andre Hanekom  wasn’t immediately
available to comment when Bloomberg called his mobile phone.  The company rose 1 percent to 50 rand by the 5 p.m. close
of Johannesburg trading, valuing it at 10 billion rand.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nicky Smith  in Johannesburg at 
 nsmith38@bloomberg.net 
 Ron Derby  in Johannesburg at 
 rderby1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at 
 vroot@bloomberg.net  