-- Polish Manufacturing Confidence Hits Six-Year High in October, HSBC Says
-- B y   M o n i k a   R o z l a l   a n d   K a t y a   A n d r u s z
-- 2010-11-02T08:18:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-02/polish-manufacturing-confidence-hits-six-year-high-in-october-hsbc-says.html
Poland’s manufacturing industry grew
at the fastest pace in more than six years on a rise in new
orders, HSBC Holdings Plc said.  The purchasing managers’ index, a gauge of manufacturing,
advanced to 55.6 in October from 54.7 a month earlier, HSBC said
today in an e-mailed statement summarizing a survey by Markit
Economics. That was the highest level since May 2004 and the
third-best reading in survey history, HSBC said. The median
estimate of 10 economists in a Bloomberg survey was for a
reading of 54.4.  Poland’s  industrial output  and  exports  have been growing at
a pace faster than 10 percent for five months, boosted by
recovering demand in the European Union. In Germany, Poland’s
main trading partner,  business confidence  last month
unexpectedly rose to the highest level in three and a half
years. The German Retail Federation upgraded its outlook for
2010  retail sales  in October, projecting growth of 1.5 percent
after previously forecasting stagnation.  “New orders and new export orders remain on a firm
expansionary trend, abetting the impressive performance in the
manufacturing sector,”  Murat Ulgen , HSBC’s chief economist for
central and eastern Europe, said in the statement. “Overall,
production momentum in Poland appears robust, but it’s important
to watch out for possible price pressures in the pipeline.”  Poland’s PMI has remained above 50, the threshold
indicating overall improvement in conditions, for the past nine
months. The headline HSBC Poland Manufacturing PMI is a
composite of five indexes -- new orders, output, employment,
suppliers’ delivery times and stock purchases.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Monika Rozlal  in Warsaw at 
 mrozlal@bloomberg.net   Katya Andrusz  in Warsaw at 
 kandrusz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at 
 wmorris@bloomberg.net  