-- Tanzanians Protest as Election Results Trickle In
-- B y   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r
-- 2010-11-02T18:59:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-02/political-tensions-rise-in-tanzania-as-results-of-oct-31-vote-trickle-in.html
Tanzanians protested in at least
three cities today over the slow pace at which results of the
Oct. 31 presidential election are being announced, the heads of
two foreign observer groups said.  The  National Electoral Commission of Tanzania  has announced
the winners in 115 of the East African nation’s 239
constituencies, with President  Jakaya Kikwete  ahead in 94 of
those counts.  The commission needs to accelerate the count, Paul East,
head of the Commonwealth’s observer mission, told reporters
today in Dar es Salaam, the commercial capital. The European
Union’s monitoring team also complained that it hadn’t been
allowed into the commission’s ballot validation centers.  “I will suggest more must be done to speed up the
process,” said East. Protests have occurred in Dar es Salaam,
the northern cities of Mwanza and Moshi and other places, he
said.  Kikwete, 60, is seeking a second term in which he has
pledged to maintain fiscal policies that are expected to drive
the economic-growth rate to 6.5 percent this year and 6.7
percent in 2011. Tanzania is Africa’s fourth-largest gold
exporter after South Africa, Ghana and Mali. Companies including
 Barrick Gold Corp. , the world’s largest producer of the precious
metal, and  AngloGold Ashanti Ltd.  have mines in the country.  ‘Slightly Angry’  EU monitors are “disappointed, even slightly angry, that
we’ve not been allowed access” to the validation centers, David
Martin, the head of mission, told reporters in Dar es Salaam
today.  “We are concerned by any delays in the announcement of the
results as this creates both uncertainty and suspicion among the
electorate,” said Martin.  The results announced by the electoral commission show
 Ibrahim Lipumba  of the Civic United Front won the largest share
of votes in 19 constituencies, while Wilbrod Slaa of the
opposition Chadema party won the most votes in two others.  The commission isn’t providing the percentage of votes
obtained by the candidates. Those tallies will be published and
the winner announced once all ballots have been counted,
probably no later than Nov. 5, the commission said.  On Zanzibar, an archipelago in a political union with
mainland Tanzania,  Ali Mohamed Shein  of the ruling Chama cha
Mapinduzi party was declared president of the islands late
yesterday, defeating  Seif Sharif Hamad  of the Civic United
Front.  The African Union is satisfied with the way the election
has been conducted, the Addis Ababa-based body said in an e-
mailed statement today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sarah McGregor  in Nairobi at 
 smcgregor5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 