-- Proprietary Trader First New York Securities Said to Plan First Hedge Fund
-- B y   S a i j e l   K i s h a n
-- 2010-11-02T14:30:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-02/proprietary-trader-first-new-york-securities-said-to-plan-first-hedge-fund.html
First New York Securities LLC, a
proprietary trading firm that manages about $350 million, plans
to start its first hedge fund, according to a person with
knowledge of the matter.  The New York-based firm, whose more than 200 traders make
bets using partners’ capital, is set to begin raising money from
investors in the first quarter, said the person, who asked not
to be identified because the information is private. First New
York may hire as many as 40 traders in the next six months, the
person said.  First New York is seeking outside money after returning an
annual average of about 20 percent in the past five years, said
the person. Industry-wide, the number of hedge-fund startups has
dropped 25 percent to 340 this year through September, as
investors gravitated toward established managers, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  “It’s a tremendously difficult fundraising environment at
the moment, but if you have a demonstrable track record and
you’re investing alongside clients, then it shouldn’t be a
problem,” said  Michael Gray , an attorney at Chicago-based Neal
Gerber Eisenberg LLP, whose clients include hedge funds.  About 75 percent of the $19 billion of net deposits in the
industry in the third quarter went to managers overseeing $5
billion or more, data from Chicago-based Hedge Fund Research
Inc. show.  Russell Sherman , a spokesman for the closely held firm,
declined to comment.  New CEO  First New York is planning to open a multistrategy hedge
fund, an approach used by firms such as SAC Capital Advisors
LLC, Diamondback Capital Management LCC and Balyasny Asset
Management LP.  First New York, founded in 1986 by  Don Erenberg , 70, and
Michael Friedman, 77, trades globally in a range of assets,
including stocks, bonds, currencies and interest rates. Its
traders hold positions for an average of three to 30 days.  The firm, which in the past has invested in managers who
left to start their own hedge funds, is run by  Joseph Schenk ,
51, who became chief executive officer last month. Schenk, a
former executive vice president and chief financial officer of
Jefferies Group Inc., joined in March 2009.  The company is seeking to hire traders as banks including
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and JPMorgan Chase & Co. are disbanding
proprietary-trading teams to comply with new U.S. rules aimed at
curbing risk. A provision of the Dodd-Frank financial-overhaul
act prohibits banks from risking capital by betting for their
own accounts.  First New York last month sold its prime-brokerage unit,
which provides hedge funds and other clients with services such
as stock lending and trade clearing, to Direct Access Partners
LLC, a New York-based brokerage firm, more than seven months
after starting the business.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Saijel Kishan  in New York at 
 skishan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  