-- Randy Moss Is Waived After Four Games, 13 Catches With Minnesota Vikings
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i   a n d   A a r o n   K u r i l o f f
-- 2010-11-02T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-02/randy-moss-is-waived-after-four-games-13-catches-with-minnesota-vikings.html
Randy Moss  was waived by the
Minnesota Vikings, a move that coach  Brad Childress  said was in
the best interests of the National Football League team.  Moss’s departure from Minneapolis came less than a month
after the Vikings acquired the seven-time Pro Bowl receiver in a
trade with the New England Patriots.  His exit came a day after he had one catch for eight yards
in a 28-18 loss at New England and then criticized his new team
while complimenting Patriots coach  Bill Belichick  and his former
teammates.  “This decision was made based on what we thought was in
the best interests of the Minnesota Vikings, both in the short
and long term,” Childress said last night in a  statement  on the
team’s website. “We wish Randy the best as he moves forward in
his career.”  Childress didn’t elaborate on his decision to release Moss,
whose 153 touchdown catches are second to  Jerry Rice  in NFL
history. Moss ranks ninth in career receptions with 948 and
fifth with 14,778 yards receiving.  “I was shocked by it a little bit,” Vikings linebacker
 Ben Leber  told reporters. “It’s something we have to stand
behind. We’re not going to let it be a distraction or anything
like that. It’ll be news today and then we’ll come back on
Wednesday and it will be forgotten about.”  13 Receptions  Moss, 33, played in four games for the Vikings, catching 13
passes for 174 yards and two touchdowns.  After Minnesota fell to 2-5 with its loss two days ago in
New England, Moss wore a black Boston Red Sox cap to his
postgame news conference and said the Vikings disregarded his
input into how to prepare for the game. Moss played three-plus
seasons for the Patriots.  “They come over to me and say, ‘Dag Moss, you was right
about a couple of plays and a couple of schemes that they were
going to run,” Moss said of the Vikings. “It hurts as a player
that you put a lot of hard work in all week and toward the end
of the week, Sunday, when you get on the field, that’s when they
acknowledge about the hard work you put in. That’s actually a
disappointment.”  Moss called Belichick “the best coach in football
history” and praised the Patriots’ work ethic.  “I miss them guys, man,” said Moss, who hugged Patriots
quarterback  Tom Brady  after the game. “I miss this team. It was
hard for me to come here and play. It’s been an up-and-down
roller-coaster emotionally all week.”  No Return  Childress said yesterday that he’d permitted Moss to remain
in New England after the game.  “I allowed him to stay back there and visit with his
family since he’s from there and he’ll be back here Wednesday
morning or Tuesday night,” Childress told reporters.  Childress later said that Moss won’t be returning at all to
Minnesota, the team he started his NFL career with as a first-
round draft pick in 1998. A four-time All-Pro selection, Moss
played his first seven seasons in Minnesota, catching 574 passes
for 9,142 yards and 90 touchdowns during those years -- all of
which trail only  Chris Carter  in franchise history.  “Randy is very sad to find out about being waived by the
Vikings this morning,” Moss’s agent,  Joel Segal , wrote in an e-
mail to the Minneapolis Star Tribune yesterday. “He has and
always will remain fond of the fans in Minnesota. We will let
the process of the waiver wire take its course and we will move
on from there.”  Moss is eligible to be claimed by clubs in reverse order of
this season’s standings. The Buffalo Bills (0-7) have the first
option, followed by the Carolina Panthers and Dallas Cowboys
(both 1-6). With the best record in the NFL at 6-1, New England
would have the last option to claim Moss. If Moss isn’t claimed,
he becomes a free agent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Erik Matuszewski  in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net ;
 Aaron Kuriloff  in New York at 
 akuriloff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  