-- TransDigm Group Markets Debt as Lowest-Rated Sales Rise: New Issue Alert
-- B y   T i m   C a t t s
-- 2010-11-02T08:41:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-02/transdigm-plans-debt-as-lowest-rated-sales-rise-new-issue-alert.html
TransDigm Group Inc. , the aircraft-
components manufacturer that’s buying rival supplier McKechnie
Aerospace Holdings Inc., is marketing debt as issuance of the
lowest-rated junk bonds surges.  TransDigm plans to sell $780 million of senior subordinated
notes and is seeking an additional $1.2 billion in loans to help
pay for the acquisition, the Cleveland-based company said in a
filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Moody’s
Investors Service assigned the notes a grade of B3, six steps
below investment grade.  Sales of high-yield, high-risk debt with rankings
equivalent to or lower than TransDigm’s rose to $20.1 billion
last month, the most this year, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Investors are wagering that junk-rated companies
won’t default as the Federal Reserve supports the economic
recovery through a plan to buy long-term securities, said
 Kingman Penniman , chief executive officer of KDP Investment
Advisors in Montpelier, Vermont.  “What’s giving the market some confidence is an awful lot
of optimism on quantitative easing and that the Fed will
backstop the economy and stop it from sliding,” Penniman said.
“They’re looking at QE2 as being good for risk products.”  Quantitative Easing  The Fed previously deployed $1.7 billion to help shore up
the economy in a securities-purchase program that ended in
March. It will probably begin a new round of unconventional
monetary easing this week by announcing a plan to buy at least
$500 billion of securities, according to economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News. Policy makers meeting today and tomorrow will
restart a program of securities purchases to spur growth, reduce
unemployment and increase inflation, said 53 of 56 economists
surveyed last week.  The extra yield investors demand to buy high-yield debt
widened 14 basis points to 596 basis points yesterday from Oct.
29, according to the Bank of America Merrill Lynch U.S. High
Yield Master II index. Yields rose 13 basis points to 7.75
percent.  High-yield, high-risk debt is rated below Baa3 by Moody’s
and less than BBB- by Standard & Poor’s. A basis point is 0.01
percentage point.  SunGard Data Systems inc. sold $1.6 billion of debt
expected to be rated Caa1 by Moody’s and B by S&P, Bloomberg
data show. The sale led $2.03 billion of issuance graded at
least as low by one of the credit-ratings companies.  New York Times  New York Times Co. sold $225 million of six-year notes after
boosting the size of its offering from $200 million, Bloomberg
data show. High-yield sales totaled $500 million a week earlier.  Corporate debt graded below B3 by Moody’s and less than B-
by Standard & Poor’s made up 58 percent of October’s $34.4
billion of speculative-grade issuance, Bloomberg data show.
That’s the highest portion of total sales since February, when
61 percent of offerings were rated as low or lower.  In addition to financing its acquisition of McKechnie,
TransDigm plans to use the proceeds of its bond offering and new
loans to repay bank debt, according to the filing.  Spreads on investment-grade bonds widened 2 basis points to
179 basis points yesterday from Oct. 29, while yields on the
debt rose to 3.65 percent, according to the Bank of America
Merrill Lynch U.S. Corporate Master Index.  Northrop Grumman Corp., the third-largest U.S. defense
contractor after Boeing Co. and Lockheed Martin Corp., sold $1.5
billion of debt and Chicago-based Northern Trust Corp. issued
$500 million of notes to lead $2.35 billion of investment-grade
corporate debt offerings, Bloomberg data show. That compares
with $3.52 billion on Oct. 25.  The following is a description of at least $3.37 billion of
pending sales of dollar-denominated bonds in the U.S.  Investment Grade  KOREA NATIONAL OIL CORP. hired Barclays Plc, BNP Paribas
SA, Credit Suisse Group AG, Deutsche Bank AG and Korea
Development Bank for a benchmark sale of dollar bonds, according
to a person familiar with the transaction. The company started
marketing the debt on Oct. 27, said the person, who declined to
be identified because terms aren’t set. The company known as
KNOC said in September it plans to raise $500 million to $1
billion to fund acquisitions. KNOC is rated A1 by Moody’s and A
by S&P. A benchmark issue is typically at least $500 million.  TRANSNET LTD., South Africa’s state-owned ports, rail and
pipeline operator, said it may sell $1 billion worth of bonds in
international markets to pay for expansion. Transnet has 35.2
billion rand ($5 billion) of debt outstanding.  Split-Rated  KAZMUNAIGAZ NATIONAL CO., a Kazakh state-owned oil and gas
producer, hired Credit Suisse Group AG, Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc and UBS AG to manage a sale of bonds denominated in
U.S. dollars, according to a person familiar with the offering,
who declined to be identified because terms aren’t set. Moody’s
 grades  the company Baa3 and S&P ranks it BB+, one step lower.  (Added Nov. 2. See  KMGZ KZ  .)  Not Rated  CYRELA BRAZIL REALTY SA EMPREENDIMENTOS E PARTICIPACOES ,
Brazil’s biggest homebuilder, hired Banco do Brasil SA, Credit
Suisse Group AG, Itau Unibanco Holding SA and Morgan Stanley to
arrange bond investor meetings, according to a person familiar
with the matter. Cyrela will meet with investors in Asia, Europe
and the U.S., said the person, who declined to be identified
because the conversations are private.  (Added Nov. 2. See  CYRE3 BZ  .)  SPANSION INC., the maker of flash-memory chips that emerged
from bankruptcy in May, plans to sell $200 million of seven-year
notes, the company said in an Oct. 28 statement distributed by
PR Newsire Proceeds will be used to repay borrowings under a
$450 million term loan, Spansion said.  STERICYCLE INC. plans to issue $175 million of seven-year,
3.89 percent notes and $225 million of 10-year, 4.47 percent
debt after receiving informal commitments from 22 institutional
investors to buy the securities, it said in a statement
distributed by Business Wire.  High Yield  TRANSDIGM GROUP INC., the aircraft-components manufacturer
that’s buying rival supplier McKechnie Aerospace Holdings Inc.,
plans to sell $780 million of senior subordinated notes to help
fund the acquisition, the Cleveland-based company said in a
filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The company
is also planning a $900 million term loan and a $300 million
revolving credit line, according to the filing. The notes were
rated B3 by Moody’s.  FRAC TECH SERVICES LLC plans to sell $550 million of senior
notes due in 2018, according to a statement on its  website .
Proceeds may be used for general corporate purposes and to repay
debt, fund capital spending and return capital to equity owners,
the Cisco, Texas-based company said. The notes may be issued
through the company’s Frac Tech Finance Inc. unit, according to
the statement.  (Added Nov. 2. See {www.fractech.net})  PT MNC SKY VISION, an Indonesian provider of pay-television
services, hired HSBC Holdings Plc and Standard Chartered Bank
for a sale of five-year senior secured guaranteed notes that are
callable after three years, according to two people with
knowledge of the sale, who declined to be identified because
terms aren’t set.  WII COMPONENTS INC., the manufacturer of wood cabinet doors
owned by Behrman Capital LP, plans to sell $115 million of
senior secured five-year notes, the company said in an Oct. 25
statement distributed by Business Wire. The notes may be used to
help fund a tender for outstanding 10 percent senior securities
due 2012, according to the statement. S&P assigned the debt a
grade of B-, it said in a statement.  DUNKIN’ BRANDS INC., owner of Dunkin’ Donuts and Baskin-
Robbins restaurants, plans to sell $625 million of senior notes
and obtain a $1.35 billion senior credit line to repay
securitized debt and help fund a dividend, the company said in
an Oct. 25 statement distributed by Business Wire. The notes
will be issued through Dunkin’ Finance Corp., according to the
statement. JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Deutsche Bank AG will manage
the bond sale, according to a person familiar with the
negotiations, who declined to be identified because the terms
are private.  RURAL/METRO CORP., the provider of medical transportation
and fire protection, plans to sell $200 million of senior notes
due 2018 through a private offering, the company said in an Oct.
18 statement distributed by Marketwire.  {Added Oct. 19. See  RURL US  .)  Offerings in Pipeline  PTT EXPLORATION & PRODUCTION PCL, Thailand’s only listed
oil and gas explorer, plans to sell bonds denominated in U.S.
dollars, according to a person familiar with the transaction.
PTT Exploration hired Barclays Plc to manage the sale, said the
person, who declined to be identified because terms aren’t set.
Barclays is arranging a U.S. dollar-denominated medium-term note
program for the company, the person said.  INTERNATIONAL PETROLEUM INVESTMENT CO. plans to meet bond
investors in the United Arab Emirates, according to two people
with knowledge of the marketing. Goldman Sachs Group Inc., Bank
of America Corp., HSBC Holdings Plc, National Bank of Abu Dhabi,
Standard Chartered Bank and Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc are
arranging the meetings, said the people, who declined to be
identified because terms aren’t set.  QATAR NATIONAL BANK plans to sell dollar-denominated bonds,
according to two people with knowledge of the sale. The company
will meet with investors in Asia and Europe, said the people,
who declined to be identified because terms aren’t set. Barclays
Capital, BNP Paribas SA, JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Standard
Chartered Bank will manage the issue with QNB Capital, the
people said.  MB PETROLEUM SERVICES, a Middle East oilfield services
provider, plans to sell $350 million of bonds, according to a
banker involved in the transaction. Barclays Capital, HSBC
Holdings Plc and Standard Chartered Plc are managing the issue,
which will follow investor meetings in Asia, the United Arab
Emirates, Europe and the U.S., the banker said, declining to be
identified because terms aren’t set. The notes will be
guaranteed by Mohamed Al Barwani Holding Co.  (Added Oct. 28. See website:   http://www.mbpetroleum.com  )  PTA BANK , or Eastern and Southern African Trade and
Development Bank, hired HSBC Holdings Plc and Standard Bank
Group Ltd. to arrange bond investor meetings in Europe and Asia,
according to two people with knowledge of the sale. The meetings
will be held in Hong Kong, Singapore, Zurich, Geneva and London,
said the people, who declined to be identified because terms
aren’t set. The company may sell dollar bonds after the
meetings, the people said.  MAQUINARIA ESPECIALIZADA MXO TRUST , a special-purpose
company expected to provide construction machinery services to
Corporacion GEO SAB de CV, hired Banco Santander SA to arrange
bond investor meetings, according to a person with knowledge of
the sale. A dollar bond sale may follow the meetings, to be held
in London, Boston, New York and Los Angeles, said the person,
who declined to be identified because terms aren’t set.  CREDIT BANK OF MOSCOW plans to sell five-year dollar bonds,
according to a person familiar with the transaction. The sale of
Reg S securities is being arranged by Commerzbank AG, ING Groep
NV and Raiffeisen Bank International, the banker said.  DOHA BANK QSC, Qatar’s third-largest bank, hired Morgan
Stanley and JPMorgan Chase & Co. to manage a planned $500
million bond sale, its chief executive officer said. The
offering, announced on the Qatar Exchange website, will be
marketed to investors in the U.S., Europe and the Middle East,
 Raghavan Seetharaman  said in an Oct. 20 telephone interview.  BELARUS may sell debt in the U.S. and Asia, according to
Finance Minister Andrei Kharkovets. “We will undoubtedly enter
the Asian and the American markets,” Kharkovets said in an Oct.
15 interview in Moscow, declining to comment on the timing of
possible sales.  GEORGIAN RAILWAY LLC, the former Soviet republic’s state-
owned rail company, is preparing a bond roadshow in the U.S.,
Giorgi Gagnidze, the company’s financial director, said in
comments broadcast on Rustavi-2 television.  ICICI BANK LTD., India’s second-largest lender, hired
Barclays Capital, Citigroup Inc. and Deutsche Bank AG to sell as
much as $1 billion of bonds with maturities between five and 10
years, according to three people familiar with the offering.
India’s second-biggest lender is rated Ba1 by Moody’s and BBB-by
S&P.  IRVING PLACE CAPITAL may issue $250 million of senior
secured notes to help pay for its leveraged buyout of Thermadyne
Holdings Corp. and refinance the company’s debt, Thermadyne
Chief Financial Officer Steven Schumm said in an Oct. 5
interview. The company will also arrange a $60 million asset-
based revolving credit line. Jefferies Group Inc. and Royal Bank
of Canada will manage the sale of six-year bonds, Schumm said.  AL BARAKA BANK EGYPT ESC, a unit of Bahrain-based  Albaraka
Banking Group , may sell dollar-denominated Islamic bonds in the
second half of 2011, the bank’s chairman said Sept. 29. The bank
has not decided on the size of the bond, he said.  AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC.  is planning its first
debt offering since its bailout two years ago as the insurer
moves toward independence from the U.S. government, Chairman
Steve Miller said Sept. 29.  TURKIYE IS BANKASI AS , a Turkish bank, applied to Turkey’s
capital markets regulator to sell dollar-denominated bonds
abroad, according to a filing with the Istanbul Stock Exchange.  AEGIS LTD., an outsourcing unit of Essar Group, may sell
the first non-convertible dollar bonds from an Indian
information technology company. The company, which bought
PeopleSupport Inc. in 2008, may sell its bonds as part of a
financing package that would include a loan of as much as $350
million to consolidate debt, Chief Financial Officer C.M. Sharma
said.  GATX CORP ., a Chicago-based company that leases railroad
cars and other equipment, filed a shelf registration with the
Securities and Exchange Commission to sell debt securities and
pass-through certificates. The debt securities may be senior or
subordinated, according to the filing.  JSW STEEL LTD , India’s third-largest steelmaker, plans to
sell dollar bonds for the first time in three years and as
rupee-denominated finance costs rise. JSW has applied for credit
ratings before a possible offshore bond sale to help build a 200
billion rupee ($4.3 billion) steel and power plant in West
Bengal, Chief Financial Officer  Seshagiri Rao  said.  ARGENTINA may sell $1 billion of bonds due in 2017, El
Cronista newspaper reported, without saying how it obtained the
information. The government is also planning to offer an
exchange for dollar bonds due in 2011 and 2012, the Buenos
Aires-based publication said.  RURAL ELECTRIFICATION CORP., India’s state-owned lender to
power projects, may sell as much as $300 million of bonds in
U.S. dollars, Finance Director  Hari Das Khunteta  said in a
telephone interview. Rural Electrification plans to raise $500
million from debt sales in the year ending March 31, he had said
on April 16.  CZECH REPUBLIC plans to sell as much as $2 billion of
dollar bonds to diversify from koruna and euro debt,  Eduard Janota , former finance minister, said in an interview for Mlada
Fronta Dnes  newspaper .  POTASH CORPORATION OF SASKATCHEWAN INC. , the world’s
largest fertilizer company by capacity, filed a registration
statement with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission for
$2 billion of debt securities.  INDONESIA plans to name three banks to help it sell about
$650 million of Islamic bonds,  Dahlan Siamat , director for
Islamic financing at the finance ministry, said in a telephone
interview in Jakarta. The government sold its first
international Islamic dollar bonds in April 2009.  JORDAN plans to sell about $500 million of bonds, Finance
Minister Mohammad Abu Hammour said in an interview on June 23.
The sale will be denominated in U.S. dollars “as it’s a stable
currency and the Jordanian dinar is pegged to it,” Abu Hammour
said.  URUGUAY may sell as much as $1 billion of bonds in 2011,
including $500 million of dollar-denominated debt,  Carlos Steneri , director of public credit at Uruguay’s Ministry of
Economy and Finance, said June 3 at a Latin Finance conference
in London. The dollar-denominated bonds may have a maturity of
20 years or more, Steneri said.  MALAYSIA plans to raise about $1 billion from its first
sale of conventional dollar bonds in eight years after drawing
bids for five times the Islamic debt it offered, a finance
ministry official said. The government may hire banks including
CIMB Group Holdings Bhd. and HSBC Holdings Plc to arrange the
sale by Sept. 30, said the official, who declined to be named as
the discussions are private. Malaysia raised $1.25 billion from
a Shariah-compliant dollar bond on May 27. Malaysia is rated A3
by Moody’s and A- by S&P.  GHANA is considering selling its second dollar bond in 2011
to tap investor demand as the start-up of oil production boosts
economic growth and narrows the budget deficit, Deputy Finance
Minister  Fifi Kwetey  said. The government was considering a
“no-deal roadshow” to gauge international investors’ appetite,
Kwetey said in a May 26 interview in Abidjan. Ghana sold its
first global bond in 2007, raising $750 million to help fund the
construction of roads and power plants.  ANGOLA received credit ratings from Moody’s, S&P, and Fitch
Ratings that put it on par with Nigeria, Lebanon and Belarus,
and paved the way for a planned sale of international bonds. The
southern African nation’s creditworthiness was rated at B+ by
S&P and Fitch, four levels below investment grade. Moody’s
assigned an equivalent ranking of B1.  MONGOLIA plans to raise $500 million selling bonds in 2010
and the remainder of a planned $1.2 billion program will be sold
according to market conditions,  Batbayar Balgan , director
general of the financial and economic policy department of
Mongolia, said at a forum in Ulan Bator on June 16. The
government scaled back its plans for global bond sales after
Europe’s debt crisis drove up borrowing costs. Investment banks
are advising Mongolia to issue debt with maturities of 5 years
to 10 years, Finance Minister Sangajav Bayartsogt said in a Feb.
9 interview. The securities may yield 8 percent to 11 percent,
he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Timothy Catts  in New York at 
 tcatts1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net . 