-- Reckitt Benckiser Quarterly Profit Rises on Dettol Hand Wash
-- B y   C l e m e n t i n e   F l e t c h e r
-- 2010-11-02T09:09:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-02/reckitt-benckiser-quarterly-profit-rises-on-dettol-hand-wash.html
Reckitt Benckiser Group Plc , the
world’s largest maker of household cleaners, said third-quarter
profit rose 19 percent as the company sold more health and
personal-care products including Dettol hand wash in emerging
markets.  Net income increased to 426 million pounds ($685 million)
from 357 million pounds a year earlier, the Slough, England-
based company said today in a statement. Profit beat the 405.1
million-pound average of seven analyst estimates  compiled  by
Bloomberg. Sales rose 11 percent to 2.11 billion pounds.  The company today said it aims for group net revenue growth
for the year, at constant exchange rates and excluding the
acquisition of  SSL International Plc , of more than 6 percent,
and net income growth of more than 16 percent. Reckitt posted 18
percent growth in net revenue in developing markets in the
quarter, boosted by Vanish fabric care and shower gels.  “We believe Reckitt Benckiser should over-deliver on
guidance,” said  Andrew Wood , an  analyst  at Sanford C.
Bernstein. Reckitt also maintained its forecast for full-year
sales to rise by 5 percent and operating profit by 10 percent,
excluding its pharmaceutical unit and currency shifts.  The  shares  rose as much as 3.4 percent, or 121 pence, to
3,646 pence in London, and traded up 1.4 percent at 9:08 a.m.
local time.  New Finance Director  The company is seeking a new  finance director  after it
announced Oct 22. that  Colin Day  would step down from the post,
causing Reckitt’s shares to plunge the most in more than 20
months. Day declined to comment on whether it was his decision
to leave the company when asked on a conference call today and
wouldn’t discuss the matter further.  Total revenue at constant exchange rates increased 7
percent in the quarter, said Reckitt, which also makes Nurofen
painkillers. Excluding the drug unit, sales adjusted for
currency shifts rose 5 percent.  Sales of items including Dettol antiseptic liquid and
Strepsil sore-throat and flu treatments helped revenue increase
8 percent at the health and personal-care unit. Reckitt bought
London-based SSL, the maker of Durex condoms, for 2.54 billion
pounds to expand in emerging markets such as China. Fabric care
sales were unchanged at constant rates of currency, while home
care sales rose 7 percent and dishwashing sales advanced 4
percent.  Suboxone  The pharmaceutical division, which makes the Suboxone
heroin-dependency treatment, reported a 33 percent increase in
currency-adjusted revenue to 195 million pounds. The division’s
U.S. revenue may slump by as much as 80 percent should generic
competitors enter the market after Reckitt’s exclusive rights to
make the product in the country expired in October 2009, the
company said in July. The company has not yet encountered any
generic versions of Suboxone, Chief Executive Officer  Bart Becht 
said today on the conference call.  Sales in Europe , which accounted for 42 percent of
Reckitt’s net revenue, fell 19 million pounds to 843 million
pounds in the third quarter. Excluding currency effects, sales
growth was flat.  “The consumer environment continues to be challenging in
western Europe and North America, with little to no growth,”
Becht said. “I don’t see much change” the rest of this year,
he said.  Group operating margin, a measure of profitability,
increased 2.2 percentage points to 26.7 percent, helped by
input-cost savings and cost-cutting programs.  SSL Purchase  The  purchase  of SSL added Scholl foot-care products and a
range of local brands such as Silkoplast adhesive bandages to
Reckitt’s lineup. The takeover won European Union antitrust
approval after Reckitt agreed to sell some of SSL’s oral-care
products in the U.K. and Ireland.  The manufacturer said in July that it’s aiming for cost
savings from the acquisition of 100 million pounds a year by
2012. Reckitt will cut an unspecified number of jobs at  SSL  as
part of the purchase, the Observer newspaper reported on Oct.
31. Becht declined to comment on workforce reductions, saying
that any announcement “will not be this year.” Savings from
the acquisition will primarily be from administrative and
operational overlaps, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Clementine Fletcher  in London at 
 cfletcher5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net . 