-- Renault-Nissan Aims for Control of AvtoVAZ, May Buy Part of Troika's Stake
-- B y   A n t o n   D o r o s h e v   a n d   L a u r e n c e   F r o s t
-- 2010-11-02T15:44:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-02/renault-nissan-aims-for-avtovaz-control-with-blessing-from-russia-s-putin.html
The Renault-Nissan alliance aims to
take control of Russian automaker  OAO AvtoVAZ  after Prime
Minister  Vladimir Putin  gave the deal his blessing, Chief
Executive Officer  Carlos Ghosn  said.  “It seems like a very logical way for the partnership to
develop,” Ghosn told reporters in Moscow today. How and when
Renault-Nissan will increase its holding in AvtoVAZ “will be
discussed with the other shareholders,” he added.  Renault SA  and its Japanese affiliate  Nissan Motor Co.  may
double their holding to 50 percent plus one share, Troika
Managing Director  Serguei Skvortsov  said today. Renault is in
talks with Troika to purchase at least part of Troika’s 25
percent holding, which was worth 12.27 billion rubles ($397
million) at yesterday’s close, the two parties said last week.  Renault-Nissan had until now resisted pressure from Putin’s
government to increase the 25 percent stake in AvtoVAZ that
Renault bought for $1 billion in 2008. In addition to Renault’s
cash investment, the alliance is already contributing equipment
and proprietary technology to enable AvtoVAZ’s Togliatti plant
to build cars under the Renault, Nissan and Lada brands.  Russia’s auto market will reach 4 million in sales by 2015,
Ghosn said. Renault, Nissan and AvtoVAZ aim for a combined
market share of 40 percent, or 1.6 million vehicles annually, by
then, the CEO said, reiterating earlier statements. The
carmakers had a nine-month market share of 37 percent.
Industrywide sales in the period in Russia were 1.32 million.  The companies are looking at ways to increase capacity at
the AvtoVAZ plant in Togliatti from its current 900,000 units,
Renault spokeswoman  Axelle de Ladonchamps  said in Paris,
relaying comments made by Ghosn.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Anton Doroshev  in Moscow at 
 adoroshev@bloomberg.net ;
 Laurence Frost  in Paris at 
 lfrost4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  