-- Democrats Face Biggest House Midterm Defeat in Years
-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   D o d g e   a n d   L i s a   L e r e r
-- 2010-11-02T12:49:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-02/republicans-approach-biggest-house-midterm-win-in-seven-decades.html
The Republicans are poised to retake
the U.S. House and narrow Democrats’ margin in the Senate,
delivering a rebuke to President  Barack Obama ’s party in a
campaign shaped by voter anxiety over jobs and the economy.  Republicans, who need a net gain of 39 seats to take
control of the House, may pick up at least 50 in today’s
elections, capitalizing on concerns about government spending
and a 9.6 percent  unemployment rate . The party may win as many
as eight seats in the Senate, just shy of the 10 needed for a
majority.  “It’s going to be one of those elections that 10 to 15
years from now people look back and point to as a midterm
bloodletting,” said  Stuart Rothenberg , editor of the
Washington-based Rothenberg Political Report. Voters “are just
in a foul mood,” he said.  Amid criticism of Obama’s domestic agenda, including
health-care and economic-stimulus measures, Democratic losses in
the House could top the 54 seats Republicans gained in their
1994 resurgence. The Democrats’  losses  could be the deepest
since the 1938 midterms, when the party lost 72 seats.  The Rothenberg Political Report predicts Republican gains
of 55 to 65 seats in the House. The Washington-based Cook
Political Report puts Republican House gains at 50 to 60 seats,
possibly higher. Both reports see Democrats losing six to eight
seats in the Senate, where Democratic leaders are working to
stop Republican inroads.  Business Policies  With Republicans winning control of the House and gaining
seats in the Senate, companies from  Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  to
health insurer  Wellpoint Inc.  may gain support in efforts to
undermine what they consider anti-business policies of Obama on
taxes, health care and financial regulation.  Exporters from  Caterpillar Inc.  to  United Parcel Service
Inc.  say a Republican-controlled House is more likely to work
with Obama to approve pending free-trade agreements with South
Korea, Colombia and Panama. Nuclear power may win more support
from the new Congress also, said David Crane, chief executive
officer of Princeton, New Jersey-based electricity producer  NRG
Inc.   Legislative Goals  The shift in power also would mean unions face little
chance of achieving their major legislative goals, such as
easier organizing rules, mandatory paid sick leave, bigger fines
for workplace safety violations and tougher mine-safety rules,
according to  Harley Shaiken , a professor of labor relations at
the University of California at Berkeley.  Airlines such as  United Continental Holdings Inc.  and  Delta
Air Lines Inc.  would benefit because Republicans oppose
legislation to limit the outsourcing of maintenance work abroad
and to subject global airline alliances to antitrust regulation.
A shift in lawmakers setting House transportation policy also
would benefit FedEx Corp. by scrapping Democratic efforts to
ease union organizing at the company’s Express unit.  The  S&P 500 Index  rose 3.4 percent in October after surging
7.5 percent last month, the best September since 1939. Chances
that Republicans will win control of the U.S. House rose to 93.2
percent yesterday, according to bets placed on Intrade, a
Dublin-based online prediction market. Democrats retaining
leadership of the Senate was about 46.3 percent likely at close
yesterday, Intrade data show.  Anticipated Gains  The anticipated Republican gains may increase calls for
greater transparency at the Federal Reserve. Split power in
Congress may also place greater onus on the central bank to
revive the economy in the event Republicans and Democrats are
unable to find common cause on fiscal policy.  Fed policy makers meeting today and tomorrow will consider
steps to support an economy growing too slowly to reduce
unemployment near a 26-year high. The central bank has asked
bond dealers and investors for projections of central bank asset
purchases over the next six months as it seeks to gauge the
possible impact of new efforts to spur growth.  In the Senate, Republicans are poised to pick up seats of
retiring Democrats  Evan Bayh  in Indiana and  Byron Dorgan  in
North Dakota, as well as oust Democratic incumbent  Blanche Lincoln  in Arkansas. Democrats also risk losing Obama’s old seat
in Illinois to Republican Representative  Mark Kirk .  Some longtime Democratic senators also find their careers
imperiled. In Wisconsin,  Russ Feingold  faces a loss after 18
years in Congress.  Patty Murray , a three-term senator from
Washington, is fighting for her career against Republican  Dino Rossi .  Challenge to Reid  Even Majority Leader  Harry Reid , the most powerful senator
in Washington, faces a challenge in his home state after helping
Obama win Nevada by 12 percentage points  two years ago .  His opponent,  Sharron Angle , a former state assembly
member, saw her electoral fortunes rise with help from Tea Party
activists and independent voters frustrated with the state’s
14.4 percent unemployment rate. Her closing message was an
attack linking Reid to Obama and the state’s economic struggles.  “Harry Reid and Barack Obama -- together they promised
change,” an announcer says, over images of Obama campaign
rallies. “What change did that bring to Las Vegas? We now
suffer heartbreaking job losses while our state now leads the
nation in home foreclosures and bankruptcies.”  Anger over record federal deficits and government spending
fueled the emergence of the Tea Party in Nevada and nationwide.
The groups were championed by former Republican vice
presidential candidate  Sarah Palin , South Carolina Senator  Jim DeMint  and Fox News commentator  Glenn Beck .  Senate Leadership  A loss by Reid, a former boxer, would kick off a leadership
battle, as Democrats vie to replace the four-term senator. New
York’s  Chuck Schumer  and Illinois’  Dick Durbin  are expected to
be top contenders.  Republican control of either chamber would open the door to
investigations of the Obama administration by new committee
chairmen armed with subpoena power and the ability to influence
policy on everything from the implementation of the new health-
care law and overhaul of the U.S. financial-regulatory system.  Both parties made their closing arguments to voters
yesterday. Republican House leader  John Boehner  of Ohio, who is
set to lead his party as House speaker, criticized Obama in a
rally in Cincinnati last night as a champion of big government
who isn’t listening to the American people.  ‘Out of Control’  “Your government is out of control,” Boehner said, in
prepared remarks to the crowd. “Do you have to accept it? Do
you have to take it? Hell no, you don’t.”  Obama and Democrats say electing Republicans will be a
return to policies favoring corporate and special interests that
led to the deepest economic crisis since the Great Depression.  “Washington Republicans have tried to block our progress
at every turn,” Obama said in an e-mailed appeal to voters.
“They’re campaigning on taking us back to the exact same agenda
that brought us to the brink of disaster.”  Over the weekend, Obama campaigned in four states,
Pennsylvania, Connecticut, Illinois and Ohio, in an effort to
limit losses.  The election is the most expensive non-presidential contest
in U.S. history, with spending expected to reach $4 billion,
according to the Center for Responsive Politics.  Outside groups that aren’t required by law to disclose
their donors, such as  Karl Rove ’s Crossroads GPS, emerged as
pivotal forces. Such groups spent more than $100 million on the
elections in September and October.  The Federal Election Commission also approved the creation
of political action committees that can take in unlimited
corporate, union and individual donations to pay for spending
independently of campaigns.  House Leaders  A Republican victory in the House may force California’s
 Nancy Pelosi , 70, to consider stepping aside as party leader,
according to two House Democratic leadership aides who spoke on
condition of anonymity.  House Speaker  Dennis Hastert , the last Republican to hold
the position, gave up his leadership post after his party lost
control of the House to Democrats in the 2006 election. He
resigned from the House in November 2007.  Nadeam Elshami , a spokesman for Pelosi, declined to comment
on the possibility that the speaker would step aside as party
leader if Republicans capture the House.  “The Democrats continue to campaign throughout the country
on behalf of America’s middle class and we will be in the
majority,” he said.  Endangered Incumbents  A Republican wave may end the careers of several veteran
lawmakers in close races, including Budget Chairman  John Spratt ,
a 14-term incumbent from South Carolina.  Other long-timers facing defeat are  Chet Edwards  of Texas,
a 10-term lawmaker who is chairman of an appropriations
subcommittee; Missouri’s  Ike Skelton , elected in 1976 and head
of the Armed Services Committee;  Earl Pomeroy  from North Dakota,
who is seeking his 10th term, and  Jim Oberstar , who has
represented his northern Minnesota district for 36 years.  Today’s elections may also push out first-term Democrats
swept into office on the popularity of Obama in 2008, including
 Tom Perriello  and  Glenn Nye  of Virginia,  Frank Kratovil  of
Maryland,  Debbie Halvorson  of Illinois,  Betsy Markey  of
Colorado,  Mary Jo Kilroy  of Ohio and  Suzanne Kosmas  of Florida.  Former President  Bill Clinton , who has crisscrossed the
country to try to help Democrats, campaigned yesterday in
Watertown, New York, for Democratic Representative  Bill Owens ,
who is locked in a close race with Republican challenger  Matt Doheny , a former Deutsche Bank managing director.  New York Lineup  New York epitomized Democratic gains in recent elections.
In 2002, the breakdown of House members was 19 Democrats and 10
Republicans. It’s now 26 Democrats and two Republicans, with one
seat vacant.  Republicans are now looking to win back as many as six
seats in the state.  “On the House side, it looks like a walloping,”
Rothenberg said.  In some Senate races, Tea Party groups succeeded in
muscling out Republican incumbents in favor of their own, often
less-experienced nominees.  In Florida, Governor  Charlie Crist  opted to run for the
Senate as an independent after Tea Party backers boosted the
candidacy of former state House Speaker  Marco Rubio . Polls in
the last week show Crist  trailing  Rubio by double digits.  Tea Party  Tea Party candidates like  Ken Buck  in Colorado and Angle in
Nevada are attempting to beat out more experienced Democratic
opponents.  Democrats painted Tea Party-backed candidates as extremist,
citing their support for ideas like abolishing the Federal
Reserve, eliminating government agencies like the Department of
Energy, and outlawing abortion even in cases of rape or incest.  “Colorado’s no place for Ken Buck’s extreme ideas,” an
announcer says in an ad by the campaign of Democratic Senator
 Michael Bennet .  In some cases, Tea Party candidates could cost Republicans
the race. In Alaska, Tea Party-backed candidate  Joe Miller , with
his primary defeat of incumbent Republican Senator  Lisa Murkowski , forced her into a write-off campaign. The three-way
race has given Democrats an opportunity to pick up the seat.  In Delaware’s primary contest,  Christine O’Donnell  upset
Republican Representative  Mike Castle , who had been considered a
sure bet to win the seat once held by Vice President  Joe Biden .
Democrats now are on course to hold the seat.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Catherine Dodge  in Washington at 
 Cdodge1@bloomberg.net ;
 Lisa Lerer  in Washington at 
 llerer@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  