-- Reserve Bank's Stevens Says a `Modest' Rate Increase Is Prudent (Text)
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   B a t c h e l o r
-- 2010-11-02T03:38:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-02/reserve-banks-s-stevens-says-modest-australian-rate-rise-prudent-text.html
Following is the  text  of a statement
by Reserve Bank of Australia Governor Glenn Stevens explaining
the board’s decision today to raise interest rates:  At its meeting today, the Board decided to raise the cash
rate by 25 basis points to 4.75 per cent, effective 3 November
2010.  The global economy grew faster than trend over the year to
mid 2010. Global growth will probably ease back to about trend
pace over the coming year as strong recoveries in the emerging
world give way to a more sustainable pace of expansion and
growth remains subdued in the United States and Europe. At the
same time, concerns about the possibility of a larger than
expected slowing in Chinese growth have lessened recently and
most commodity prices have firmed, after a fall earlier in the
year. The prices most important to Australia remain at very high
levels, with the result that the terms of trade are at their
highest since the early 1950s. The turmoil in financial markets
earlier in the year has abated, though sentiment remains fragile.  Information on the Australian economy indicates growth
around trend over the past year. Public spending was prominent
in driving aggregate demand for several quarters but this impact
is now lessening. While there has been a degree of caution in
private spending behaviour thus far, the rise in the terms of
trade, which is now boosting national income very substantially,
is likely to lead to stronger private spending over the next
couple of years, especially in business investment.  Asset values are not moving notably in either direction,
and overall credit growth remains quite subdued at this stage
notwithstanding evidence of some greater willingness to lend.
The exchange rate has risen significantly this year, reflecting
the high level of commodity prices and the respective outlooks
for monetary policy in Australia and the major countries. This
will assist, at the margin, in containing pressure on inflation.  The demand for labour has continued to firm. While the
labour market is not as tight as in 2007 and 2008, some further
strengthening would appear to be in prospect, judging by the
trends in job vacancies. After the significant decline last year,
growth in wages has picked up somewhat, as had been expected.
Some further increase is likely over the coming year.  Given these conditions, the moderation in inflation that
has been under way for the past two years is probably now close
to ending. Recent information suggests underlying inflation
running at about 2.5 per cent, with the CPI inflation rate a
little higher due mainly to increases in tobacco taxes. Both
results were helped somewhat in the latest quarter by unusual
softness in food prices. Inflation is likely to rise over the
next few years. This outlook, which is largely unchanged from
the Bank’s earlier forecasts, assumes some tightening in
monetary policy.  For some time, the Board has held the stance of monetary
policy steady, which has resulted in interest rates to borrowers
being close to their average of the past decade. This allowed
some time to observe the early effects of previous policy
changes and to monitor the uncertain global outlook. The Board
is also cognisant of differences in the degree of economic
strength by industry and by region.  However, the economy is now subject to a large expansionary
shock from the high terms of trade and has relatively modest
amounts of spare capacity. Looking ahead, notwithstanding recent
good results on inflation, the risk of inflation rising again
over the medium term remains. At today’s meeting, the Board
concluded that the balance of risks had shifted to the point
where an early, modest tightening of monetary policy was prudent.  To contact the reporter for this story:
 Victoria Batchelor  in Sydney at 
 vbatchelor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  