-- Romanian Central Bank Leaves Benchmark Interest Rate at Record-Low 6.25%
-- B y   I r i n a   S a v u
-- 2010-11-02T14:47:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-02/romanian-central-bank-leaves-benchmark-interest-rate-at-record-low-6-25-.html
Romania’s central bank kept its
benchmark rate unchanged as policy makers stick to a “prudent
stance” because of concerns about rising prices prompted by a
tax increase and the impact of the government’s fiscal policy
amid political tensions.  The  Banca Nationala a Romaniei  in Bucharest today left the
monetary policy rate at a record-low 6.25 percent for the
fourth meeting in a row, matching the expectations of all seven
economists surveyed by  Bloomberg . The central bank also said it
will set an “ambitious” annual fixed target for inflation of
2.5 percent, plus or minus 1 percent, from 2013 and set a 3
percent target for 2012.  “The central bank is setting a quite ambitious inflation
target,” said  Miroslav Plojhar , an economist at JP Morgan Chase
& Co. in London, after the interest-rate announcement. “The
bank would like to push the target toward the ECB’s one to keep
the current target of euro adoption alive.”  The government, which secured 20 billion euros ($27.8
billion) of loans from the International Monetary Fund, the
European Union and other lenders to stay afloat, raised the VAT
by 5 points to 24 percent in July, boosting inflation to the
fastest pace in more than two years.  The central bank sees the higher VAT having a “gradual
pass-through of its first round effect.” Policy makers stopped
cutting borrowing costs in June after lowering rates four times.
The Balkan nation’s economy is mired in the worst recession on
record.  New Target  Policy makers will discuss the new inflation target with
the government, the central bank said today after approving an
report that will be made public at a press conference later this
week.  The bank forecast on Aug. 4 that inflation will end the
year at 7.8 percent and slow to 3.1 percent at the end of 2011
after the effects of the VAT increase disperse.  “Concerns remain over the possible second-round effects of
the VAT rate hike, a potential higher-than-anticipated
adjustment in administered prices compared with the envisaged
when the forecast was prepared and uncertainties related to the
impact of fiscal consolidation measures given the tense
political and social climate, thus requiring a continued prudent
monetary policy stance,” the central bank said in a statement
after the decision.  No Confidence  The government, which survived two no-confidence votes in
parliament this year over unpopular wage cuts and VAT increase,
is struggling to get next year’s budget and pension laws
approved to meet the terms of its international bailout, as the
opposition and unions try to persuade the ruling coalition
lawmakers to bring down Prime Minister  Emil Boc ’s cabinet.  Boc will probably face a third no-confidence vote over a
proposed education law as early as this week because of
opposition Liberal and Social Democrat challenges.  The bank left its minimum reserve requirements at 25
percent on foreign-exchange deposits and at 15 percent on lei
savings. The leu weakened 0.3 percent to 4.291 as of 4:25 p.m.
in Bucharest trading after the decision.  ‘True Tightening’  “Inflation is likely to drop toward 4 percent in the
second half of next year,” Plojhar said. The key interest rate
“will be higher at the end of 2011, given an expected recovery
in domestic demand and therefore in inflation, up about 50 basis
points, so rather a signal than true tightening.”  Romania’s economy will probably contract as much as 2
percent in 2010 as austerity measures damp consumer demand, IMF
Mission Chief to Romania  Jeffrey Franks  said yesterday. The
economy will likely return to growth in the fourth quarter of
this year, Franks said.  Romania’s economy contracted in the third quarter because
of the wage cuts and higher VAT, Franks said. GDP growth may be
“perhaps slightly positive” in the fourth quarter and
“certainly” expand in the first and second three-month periods
in 2011, he said.  Romanian monetary policy is “broadly appropriate,” Franks
said in an interview in Bucharest yesterday. The central bank
has room to lower its benchmark interest rate if inflation slows
as the effects of the VAT increase dissipate next year, he said.  “The central bank has made a decision to pause,” he said.
“If inflation begins to come down, then there may be room in
the future for additional interest-rate easing.”  The central bank’s  main interest rate  accommodates a
“temporary” surge in inflation, which is expected to end the
year at 7.8 percent, Deputy Governor  Cristian Popa  said on Oct.
20. Such a result would be above the bank’s target of 2.5
percent to 4.5 percent. Popa said he expects the effect of the
VAT change on inflation to start slowing after July 2011.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Irina Savu  in Bucharest at 
 isavu@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez in Prague at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  