-- Tropical Storm Tomas Strengthens in Carribean; Haiti Braces for Hurricane
-- B y   L e e l a   L a n d r e s s   a n d   A l e x   M o r a l e s
-- 2010-11-02T21:47:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-02/tropical-storm-tomas-strengthens-as-haiti-braces-for-potential-hurricane.html
Tropical Storm Tomas, with top winds
of 40 mph, held to a westward track over the Caribbean Sea as
Haiti braced for the system to strike as a hurricane at the end
of the week.  “Haiti looks like they are really under the gun,” said
 Jim Rouiller , a senior energy meteorologist with Planalytics
Inc. in Wayne, Pennsylvania.  A well-defined trough of low pressure moving into the Gulf
of Mexico will turn the storm northward on Nov. 4, and weaker
steering currents will slow its movement, Rouiller said. Tomas
is forecast to strengthen and reach southern Haiti with
hurricane-force winds of at least 74 mph (119 kph) on Nov. 5 or
Nov. 6, according to the  National Hurricane Center  in Miami.  “The storm is going to be moving slower than first
thought, which means really heavy rain and devastating flash
floods and landslides,” Rouiller said.  Given its expected track, speed and intensity 2 to 4 inches
of rainfall is expected in Port-au-Prince and possibly more than
4 to 8 inches south and southeast of the city, according to Jim
Andrews, a senior meteorologist for AccuWeather Inc. in State
College, Pennsylvania. Slower storm movement could easily double
the rainfall, Andrews said.  Haiti’s government, the United Nations and humanitarian
agencies are working on a response based on a projection that
the storm  may affect  500,000 people, according to a statement on
the website of the UN’s Office for the Coordination of
Humanitarian Affairs.  Cholera Outbreak  The nation is already reeling from a cholera outbreak and
the aftermath of a magnitude-7.0 earthquake in January that
killed an estimated 300,000 people and caused $7.8 billion in
damage.  More than 1 million Haitians have been living in camps
since the January earthquake, while an outbreak of cholera has
killed 337 people and infected more than 4,764, the  World Health
Organization  regional branch  said  yesterday.  “The storm is going to make a difficult situation even
worse because cholera mainly spreads through water and more
water supply disruption will increase the risks for cholera,”
said  Daniel Epstein , a spokesman for Pan-American Health
Organization.  Tomas’s Location  Tomas was 385 miles south of the Haitian capital, Port-au-
Prince, and heading west at 14 mph, according to a hurricane
center advisory posted at 5 p.m. Miami time. A hurricane watch
has been issued for Jamaica, according to the latest bulletin
from the hurricane center.  The trajectory of the storm is expected to bring wind and
rain to Haiti for several days and the departments of Southeast,
South, Nippes, Grande Anse and West are at risk of flooding,
landslides and winds, the UN agency said.  The UN said health facilities, roads and bridges may be
weakened or damaged by winds and rain, hindering services to
those affected by the storm.  The Haitian government has agreed to allow the  U.S.S. Iwo
Jima  to dock in Port-au-Prince if needed for disaster relief,
according to the UN. Emergency groups are stocking up on
tarpaulins, blankets, soap, hygiene kits and rehydration salts,
it said.  Tomas is the 19th storm of the Atlantic hurricane season,
which runs from June 1 through Nov. 30. This year is the third-
most-active on record, tied with 1995 and 1887, according to
 Dennis Feltgen , a spokesman for the hurricane center. In 2005, a
record 28 storms formed in the Atlantic.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Leela Landress  in Houston at 
 llandress@bloomberg.net ;
 Alex Morales  in London at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  