-- Roubini Says Emerging Markets Face Asset Bubble; `Party' Will Last a While
-- B y   M i k e   C o h e n   a n d   R e n e e   B o n o r c h i s
-- 2010-11-02T09:58:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-02/roubini-says-emerging-market-economic-rebound-to-outpace-developed-markets.html
Nouriel Roubini, the New York
University professor who predicted the global economic crisis,
said emerging markets may face an asset-price bubble, though the
“party” can go on for a while.  “Prices may be running ahead of economic fundamentals,”
Roubini said at a conference in Cape Town today. For the moment
though, “emerging markets are the place to be.”  Investors have poured more than $60 billion into emerging-
market stock mutual funds this year amid economic growth that
will more than double that in advanced economies, data from
Cambridge, Massachusetts-based EPFR Global show. That shift is
being encouraged by near-zero interest rates in industrialized
nations, with investors borrowing at lower costs and investing
in markets offering higher returns.  Roubini’s comments echo those by  Barton Biggs , the managing
partner of New York-based hedge-fund firm Traxis Partners LLC
and former chairman of Morgan Stanley Asset Management, who
warned of a U.S. stock-market bubble as early as January 1997.  “We’re only halfway along the way to a gigantic eventual
bubble in the emerging markets,” Biggs said in an Oct. 29
interview on Bloomberg Television. “The emerging markets,
particularly Asia, are a place where I want to have a really
major representation.”  ‘Problematic’  Attempts to halt the rally in emerging-market currencies by
building reserves remain “problematic,” as do controls on
inflows, Roubini said.  South Africa’s government said on Oct. 27 that it will use
higher-than-expected tax revenue this year to build foreign
reserves, rather than add to fiscal stimulus. It will also ease
exchange controls to weaken the rand.  Following quantitative easing in developed economies such
as the U.S. and the U.K, money will continue to flow into
emerging markets, Roubini said.  International investors are buying more South African  bonds 
than at any time in the past 15 years, lured by slowing
inflation, a stronger rand and higher interest rates than in
developed markets.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Mike Cohen  in Cape Town at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net ;
 Renee Bonorchis  in Johannesburg at 
 rbonorchis@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net . 