-- Roubini Says Advanced Economies to Show Anemic Growth
-- B y   M i c h a e l   C o h e n   a n d   R e n e e   B o n o r c h i s
-- 2010-11-02T10:19:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-02/roubini-says-world-s-advanced-economies-are-poised-to-show-anemic-growth.html
Nouriel Roubini, the New York
University professor who predicted the global financial crisis,
said the world’s advanced economies will show “anemic” growth,
while Japan is an “accident waiting to happen.”  U.S. house prices may fall further and economic growth may
slow to 1 percent by year-end, Roubini told a conference in Cape
Town today. As the U.S. prepares to go to the polls today,
Roubini said the prospect of Republican control of the House of
Representatives will discourage further fiscal stimulus.  “Economic recovery will be U-shaped,” Roubini said. “The
next year is going to see a painful process of deleveraging,
both in the private and public sector, lower consumption, lower
spending, lower budget deficits, more savings, reduction of
debt. That implies an anemic economic recovery.”  The risk of a double-dip recession remains, which will
probably prompt the Federal Reserve to announce another round of
debt purchases, known as quantitative easing, this week, Roubini
said. The U.S. unemployment rate is close to a 26-year high,
even with deposit returns at 0.25 percent in the U.S., 0.5
percent in the U.K. and 0.1 percent in Japan.  “Most central banks in developed markets may do another
round of quantitative easing,” Roubini said. While this is
unlikely to have much effect on growth, it will help avoid a
return to recession.  Carry Trades  The Bank of Japan unexpectedly lowered its benchmark
interest rate at its meeting last month and pledged to spend 5
trillion yen ($62 billion) to buy assets including government
bonds and corporate debt.  Economic growth in Japan is low because of demographics and
low productivity, with an ageing population implying “massive
unfunded liabilities” for the public sector, Roubini said.
“The economy has not done the structural reform needed even
after 15 years of near depression and politically there is a
total stalemate. Japan is also an accident waiting to happen.”  Near-zero interest rates in industrialized nations are
encouraging investors to borrow at lower costs and invest in
markets offering higher returns, prompting rallies in local-
currency debt from Indonesia to Brazil. The transactions, known
as carry trades, have strengthened South Africa’s rand and its
local-currency bonds.  Different  “Emerging markets will be different,” Roubini said.
China, most of emerging Asia, many parts of Latin America and
part of the Middle East “are in much better shape” and
recovery for them is “V-shaped.”  China is under pressure from major trading partners,
including the U.S. and Europe, to let its currency appreciate
more quickly. Emerging economies have complained that low U.S.
interest rates and Federal Reserve asset purchases have pushed
the dollar down and sent funds flooding into their markets,
expanding asset bubbles and stoking inflation.  While some emerging markets are seeking to weaken their
currency, China may not let the yuan appreciate by more than 4
percent to 5 percent a year, Roubini said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Mike Cohen  in Cape Town at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net ;
 Renee Bonorchis  in Johannesburg at 
 rbonorchis@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net . 