-- Brazil's Dilma Rousseff Calls for Ending Currency War
-- B y   C a r l a   S i m o e s   a n d   R o b i n   S t r i n g e r
-- 2010-11-02T12:38:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-02/rousseff-urges-g-20-to-end-currency-war-won-t-lower-brazil-s-cpi-target.html
Brazilian President-elect  Dilma Rousseff  said the world is engaged in a currency war and that
the solution is to strengthen multinational institutions in
order to prevent it.  The Group of 20 nations and other organizations should be
strong enough to “force certain countries” to value their
currencies realistically, Rousseff said in an interview on TV
Record, her first since being elected President  Luiz Inacio Lula 
da Silva’s successor on Oct. 31.  Rousseff, who will take office on Jan. 1, said in a
separate interview on Rede TV that “international experience
with competitive devaluations is absolutely tragic.” In the TV
Record interview she said she would not lower the government’s
inflation target, which is 4.5 percent this year and in 2011.  “We will not play with inflation,” said the 62-year-old
Rousseff. “We are living a delicate moment. President Obama
spoke to me today about the high unemployment affecting the
United States. In this crisis period, when the developed nations
are not recovering, it’s prudent to maintain the established
inflation target.”  Rousseff, a former Marxist guerrilla who had never run for
public office before, became the first woman ever elected to
Brazil’s presidency on Oct. 31, with 56 percent of the vote
compared with 44 percent for  Jose Serra , the former governor of
Sao Paulo state.  Consumer Prices  Consumer prices rose 5.03 percent in the year through mid-
October. Policy makers’ prediction that inflation will cool to
the 4.5 percent target depends on slower growth in government
spending next year, according to the minutes of the central
bank’s Oct. 19-20 board meeting.  Lula said in his weekly column on the presidency’s website
today that interest rates charged by banks need to fall under
the next government without “losing sight of the battle against
inflation.”  Traders are wagering that policy makers, who have kept the
benchmark Selic rate unchanged in their past two meetings after
raising it to 10.75 percent from a record low 8.75 percent
earlier this year, will be forced to resume increases early next
year to curb inflation.  Latin America’s biggest economy will grow 7.3 percent this
year, the fastest pace since 1986, according to estimates by the
central bank.  Rousseff pledged on TV Record to control public spending
because “the most important characteristic of a government in
today’s world is not to spend what it can’t spend.”  ‘Use All Weapons’  In a TV Globo interview yesterday she said that Brazil’s
foreign-exchange  reserves  of $284 billion protect it from
“currency war” and that she will “use all weapons” to fight
dumping or pricing policies harmful to the nation’s industry.  No decisions have yet been taken regarding who will serve
in the Cabinet, Rousseff said in the interview on TV Record,
adding that she will discuss appointments in the coming weeks
and will take the “utmost care” with the choices to head the
central bank and the Finance Ministry. On TV Globo she said
there would be no “fragmented, scattered, or individual”
announcements and that ministers would be named in “blocks.”  Rousseff met yesterday with top advisers to discuss her
transition to power. Workers’ Party President Jose Dutra and
federal deputy  Jose Eduardo Cardozo  will take charge of
negotiations with other parties in her ruling coalition, O
Estado de S. Paulo newspaper reported, without saying where it
obtained the information.  Former Finance Minister  Antonio Palocci  and former Belo
Horizonte Mayor Fernando Pimentel will oversee institutional
relations, while special adviser  Marco Aurelio Garcia  will
supervise international questions, Estado reported.  Garcia told reporters yesterday that Rousseff’s formal
transition team has not yet been defined.  To contact the reporters responsible for this story:
 Carla Simoes  in Brasilia at 
 csimoes1@bloomberg.net 
 Robin Stringer  in Sao Paulo at 
 rstringer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  