-- Rousseff Vows `Sustainable' Reduction in Brazil's Rates By Lowering Debt
-- B y   K a t i a   C o r t e s
-- 2010-11-03T02:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-02/rousseff-says-she-wants-to-reduce-brazil-interest-rates-by-lowering-debt.html
Brazilian President-elect  Dilma Rousseff  said she will reduce her country’s debt levels so that
interest rates, which are the second-highest in the world after
inflation, can fall in a “sustainable” way.  Rousseff, in a television interview yesterday, said her
goal is to reduce net debt to 38 percent of gross domestic
product, from 42 percent today. She didn’t provide a timeframe.  “At this level there is no technical reason for Brazil’s
interest rates not to converge to international levels,”
Rousseff said in an interview with SBT television, one of at
least four TV appearances since she was elected Oct. 31.  Rousseff yesterday named former Finance Minister  Antonio Palocci  to lead her transition team along with Vice President-
elect  Michel Temer , Workers’ Party chief  Jose Eduardo Dutra  and
Congressman  Jose Cardozo . Palocci’s reduction of Brazil’s debt
and budget deficit during Lula’s first term won the support of
international investors including Pacific Investment Management
Co., manager of the world’s biggest bond fund.  Now a congressman from Sao Paulo state, he served as
Rousseff’s main economic adviser during her campaign.     Under
Palocci’s watch, from 2003 to 2006, Brazil’s  inflation  rate
slowed to 5.3 percent from 17.2 percent and the  Bovespa  stock
index more than doubled.  Interest Rate Bets  Before she named her transition team, traders were betting
Rousseff wouldn’t be able to cut the fiscal deficit enough to
allow the central bank to lower the benchmark rate, which was
left unchanged last month at 10.75 percent.  The interest-rate futures contract due in January 2015, the
month Rousseff’s first term would end, yielded 11.55 percent on
Nov. 1, a level that suggests traders expect policy makers will
raise the benchmark rate about 0.75 percentage point during the
next four years, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Markets were
closed yesterday in Brazil for a public holiday.  Rousseff, a former Marxist guerrilla who had never run for
public office before, became the first woman ever elected to
Brazil’s presidency with 56 percent of the vote compared with 44
percent for  Jose Serra , the former governor of Sao Paulo state.  The 62-year-old said she hasn’t decided who she will invite
to join her Cabinet that takes over from President  Luiz Inacio Lula  da Silva’s government on Jan. 1. Cabinet appointments will
be based on technical capacity and leadership skills and will be
announced in blocks, she said.  Debt Reduction  During the campaign, Rousseff said she wanted to reduce net
debt to about 30 percent of GDP by 2014 so that Brazil’s real
interest rate of about 6 percent, the second-highest in the
world after Croatia, could fall. Any reduction of borrowing
costs must not come at the expense of inflation, she said.  “Rates will only fall if we keep the public debt on a
downward trend,” she said in a separate interview with Band TV.  The president-elect told Band she will continue the
government’s policy of annually increasing the country’s minimum
wage based on a formula that combines the previous year’s
inflation, as measured by the INPC index, with the percentage
growth of GDP from two years prior.  Since Latin America’s biggest economy stalled during the
global financial crisis last year, the wage increase for 2011
will be a little above inflation, she said. Lula raised the
minimum wage 9.7 percent this year, to 510 reais ($299), and
proposed an increase of 5.5 percent in 2011 to 538 reais.  ‘Tough Measures’  While Lula will lead negotiations with Congress over the
minimum wage increase and 2011 budget before leaving office,
Rousseff said she doesn’t expect the outgoing government to
enact special legislation to ease her transition to power.  “I only want what is necessary,” Rousseff told SBT. “I
don’t think the president will take tough measures.”  Rousseff told Band she plans to create a regulatory
framework for media that would allow Brazil to integrate new
technologies and ensure fair competition, as well as provide
rules for foreign ownership of local companies.  She also reiterated campaign pledges to reduce payroll
taxes and levies on investment, as well as work with state
governments to reduce taxes on prescription drugs, sanitation
and electricity.  Rousseff told Band she would not comment on speculation she
would seek re-election in 2014 or stand down to allow Lula to
try and return to power.  “It’s usual” for presidents in Brazil to seek re-
election, she told Band. “But to talk about this now without
even being sworn in is inconceivable.”  On foreign affairs, Rousseff said she would continue the
Lula government’s “south-south” diplomacy focused on extending
ties with the developing world. She said she had the “best of
impressions” of U.S. President Barack Obama and hoped bilateral
relations between the two countries will be “very close.”  The two will meet when Rousseff travels to South Korea next
week with Lula to attend a summit of leaders from the Group of
20 nations.  To contact the reporters responsible for this story:
 Katia Cortes  in Brasilia at 
 kcortes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  