-- Royal Bafokeng Platinum's Offer Pricing Said to Be Set at Middle of Range
-- B y   Z i j i n g   W u   a n d   C a r l i   L o u r e n s
-- 2010-11-02T11:45:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-02/royal-bafokeng-platinum-ipo-pricing-said-to-be-set-at-middle-of-range.html
Royal Bafokeng Platinum Ltd. , a South
African miner of the precious metal, has orders for all stock on
sale in its 3 billion rand ($431 million) initial public
offering at around the middle point of the price range it
sought, a person familiar with the matter said.  Managers for the IPO, Macquarie Group Ltd., Morgan Stanley
and FirstRand Ltd.’s Rand Merchant Bank, will stop taking orders
for the sale at 5 p.m. today in Johannesburg, said the person,
who declined to be named before a public announcement is made.
Royal Bafokeng Platinum is selling 49.2 million shares at 56
rand to 65 rand each.  “It sounds like a fair price,” said  Garth Mackenzie , a
derivatives trader at Imara S.P. Reid in Johannesburg, on the
mid-point price of 60.50 rand a share.  The IPO, the biggest in South Africa’s mining industry in
at least 16 years, follows share sales by  Optimum Coal Holdings
Ltd. , which raised 1.4 billion rand in a private placing before
listing in Johannesburg in March, and  Keaton Energy Holdings
Ltd. , which raised 100 million rand before its April 2008
listing. The company needs funds for a section of its Bafokeng
Rasimone mine venture northwest of Rustenburg.  Charmane Russell , a spokeswoman for Royal Bafokeng
Platinum, said the company won’t comment until the process is
completed.  Developing Rasimone  Royal Bafokeng Platinum, a unit of Royal Bafokeng Holdings
Ltd., wants to develop Bafokeng Rasimone’s Styldrift 1 section.
The Rasimone venture is 67 percent held by Royal Bafokeng
Platinum, while  Anglo Platinum Ltd. , the world’s largest
producer of the metal, owns the rest. The venture produces about
270,000 ounces of platinum concentrate annually and plans to
spend 11.8 billion rand digging the Styldrift 1 section.  Royal Bafokeng Platinum’s IPO consists of 16.5 million new
shares and 32.7 million shares held by existing holders,
including the over-allotment amount, according to terms of the
sale obtained by Bloomberg News on Oct. 18. After the IPO, 30
percent of the company will be publicly tradable.  Royal Bafokeng Platinum had revenue of 1.2 billion rand
last year, while earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and
amortization were 330 million rand, it said in a statement on
Oct. 18. Royal Bafokeng Platinum is the platinum arm of the
Royal Bafokeng nation, a community of about 300,000 people based
near South Africa’s Sun City. The country has the world’s
largest reserves of the metal.  A 3 billion-rand IPO would be the largest among South
African mining companies since at least 1994, when Bloomberg’s
share-sale data for the country begin.  The shares are due to start trading on the stock exchange
in Johannesburg on Nov. 8, according to the terms.  Nedbank Group
Ltd.  is also a co-lead manager for the stock sale.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Zijing Wu  in London at   zwu17@bloomberg.net ;
 Carli Lourens  in Johannesburg at 
 clourens@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net ;
Amanda Jordan at   ajordan11@bloomberg.net . 