-- DSM Profit Misses Analyst Estimates on Raw-Material Price Gains
-- B y   J e r o e n   M o l e n a a r
-- 2010-11-02T09:04:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-02/royal-dsm-profit-falls-on-one-time-costs-from-selling-citric-acid-plant.html
Royal DSM NV  reported third-quarter
profit that fell short of analysts’ estimates after the maker of
chemicals used in foods and fibers struggled to pass on raw-
material price increases.  Earnings before interest, taxes and one-time items rose 14
percent to 188 million euros ($262 million), the Heerlen,
Netherlands-based company said. That compared to an average 204
million euros of 14 analyst  estimates  in a Bloomberg survey.  DSM is having “tough” pricing negotiations with
automakers and other buyers of its chemicals and materials as it
seeks to offset higher costs, Chief Financial Officer  Rolf- Dieter Schwalb  said today. While sales jumped 25 percent at
DSM’s Performance Materials unit, raw-material inflation limited
earnings growth to 6.7 percent.  “No customer likes price increases,” Schwalb told
reporters on a call. “We’re pushing it. You can’t just open up
a contract and increase the prices.”  Schwalb declined to give a time-frame for when DSM will
have recouped the extra costs, indicating the last contract
renegotiations with customers will take place in March. The
company booked a 38 million-euro loss from the sale of a citric
acid unit.  Net income  plunged 79 percent to 79 million euros. 
The company booked one-time gains of 274 million euros in the
year-earlier period.  DSM shares fell as much as 2.8 percent to 37.42 euros in
Amsterdam, the steepest plunge since June 29. The stock traded
at 37.59 euros as of 9:04 a.m. local time, giving the company a
value of 7.1 billion euros.  The 108-year-old former Dutch state mining company is
selling the last remnants of its commodity chemical businesses,
comprised of elastomers and maleic anhydride used in resins. The
maker of artificial fibers for Royal Philips Electronics NV and
enzymes for foodmakers including Nestle SA will seek medium-
sized, bolt-on acquisitions to help it reach its goal of
doubling operating profit in the next three years, Schwalb said
today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jeroen Molenaar  in Amsterdam at 
 jmolenaar1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net ;
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net  