-- Rubber Advances Most in Two Weeks as Floods in Thailand to Tighten Supply
-- B y   S u p u n n a b u l   S u w a n n a k i j   a n d   A y a   T a k a d a
-- 2010-11-02T07:25:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-02/rubber-may-advance-as-flooding-in-thailand-tightens-supply-yen-weakens.html
Rubber advanced by the most in more
than two weeks as heavy rains and floods in southern Thailand,
the largest producer, raised concerns that supply will tighten.  The most-active contract on the Tokyo Commodity Exchange
gained 1.4 percent to settle at 331.9 yen per kilogram ($4,120 a
metric ton), the biggest daily increase since Oct. 13. The
contract earlier fell as much as 0.4 percent.  “The market regained ground after inching lower on profit-
taking on reports that heavy rains and floods in Thailand will
likely lower production, inspiring investors to snap up the
commodity,” Sureerat Kunthongjun, an analyst at AGROW
Enterprise Ltd., said by phone from Bangkok today.  Floods spread to seven provinces in Thailand’s south after
a tropical depression brought heavy rain to the area, the
Department of Disaster Prevention and Mitigation said today. The
death toll from floods that took place since Oct. 10 rose to 104,
according to the agency.  “Floods in key producing areas in Thailand’s south
increase worries that low supply will be squeezed further,
boosting prices,”  Chaiwat Muenmee , an analyst at commodity
broker D.S. Futures Co., said by phone from Bangkok. The
company’s branch in Songkhla was forced to close temporarily
today due to the floods, he added.  Floods in Songkhla province, where the cash rubber market
is located, raised concerns that rubber trading and
transportation may be disrupted, Ploenjai Jjirajarus, an analyst
at Capital Nomura Securities, said by phone from Bangkok.
Officials in Songkhla couldn’t be reached for comment.  Hat Yai Hit  Songkhla’s business district Hat Yai was hit by major
flooding after 40-hour downpours that continued yesterday
evening, newspaper The Nation reported today. The floods are
worse than ones that hit the province 10 years ago, it said.  Natural-rubber output in Thailand, the world’s largest
producer and exporter, may decline 4.1 percent in the fourth
quarter to 930,000 tons, as heavy rains have disrupted latex
tapping,  Luckchai Kittipol , President of  Thai Rubber Association ,
said by phone yesterday.  “Supplies are quite low as rainfalls persist since July,
lowering production,” Luckchai said from Bangkok. “Low supply
will continue to support prices.”  Rising crude oil prices and a weakening yen are also
supportive, AGROW’s Sureerat said. Increasing crude oil prices
improve the appeal of natural rubber against rival synthetic
rubber made from petroleum.  Crude Rises  Crude oil rose for a second day, trading above $83 a barrel
after climbing to a two-week high on growth in Chinese
manufacturing and expectations the Federal Reserve will take
steps to stimulate the U.S. economy.  Fed policy makers meeting today and tomorrow will likely
announce a program to buy at least $500 billion of long-term
securities in a monetary-stimulus strategy known as quantitative
easing, according to economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  The yen retreated from near a 15-year high against the
dollar after a New Zealand report today showed wage growth
accelerated for the second quarter and Chinese data yesterday
showed  manufacturing  expanded at the fastest pace in six months.  May-delivery rubber on the Shanghai Futures Exchange
climbed 2 percent to 32,055 yuan ($4,794) a ton. The price
climbed to a record 33,320 yuan Oct. 26.  Higher rubber prices have forced tire makers to raise
prices. Bridgestone, Firestone and associate brand passenger,
light truck, medium truck, bus, agricultural and off-road tire
prices will increase up to 8 percent, Bridgestone Americas Tire
Operations said yesterday on its website.  “We continue to face a number of market pressures
including increased costs for energy, transportation and raw
materials,” said Eduardo Minardi, BATO chairman, CEO and
president. “We have reached a point where we must respond.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Supunnabul Suwannakij  in Bangkok at 
 ssuwannakij@bloomberg.net 
 Aya Takada  in Tokyo at 
 atakada2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  