-- Ruble Bond Market Expanding as Belarus Prepares First Sale: Russia Credit
-- B y   M a r i a   L e v i t o v
-- 2010-11-03T14:03:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-02/ruble-bond-market-expanding-as-belarus-prepares-first-sale-russia-credit.html
Belarus will become the first country
outside Russia to sell bonds denominated in rubles as the
government seeks to attract investors from its biggest trading
partner and borrow at cheaper rates than in U.S. dollars.  The former Soviet state plans to offer as much as 15
billion rubles ($489 million) of securities this month,
according to  OAO Sberbank , Russia’s biggest lender. Borrowing in
rubles may save Belarus about 2.5 percentage points in annual
interest compared with debt in dollars, said  Nikolay Podguzov ,
the head of fixed-income strategy at VTB Capital in Moscow.  “This is a trailblazer,” said  Alexander Morozov , chief
economist for Russia and the former Soviet Union at HSBC
Holdings Plc in Moscow. “For Belarus, it’s a good way to
diversify. Expecting emerging-market currencies to outperform,
investors are becoming increasingly interested in local bonds.”  Borrowing costs in rubles are tumbling after investors
poured a record $41 billion into emerging-market bonds this
year, according to data from EPFR Global, a research firm based
in Cambridge, Massachusetts. Emerging-market bonds denominated
in local currencies climbed an annual 19 percent on Oct. 28,
JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s  GBI-EM Global Diversified Index  shows.  Russian President  Dmitry Medvedev  is promoting the ruble as
an international reserve currency, just as Brazil is trying to
stem inflows to prevent further strengthening of the real.  “We use the ruble in common trade, so it’s a logical step
for us,” Belarusian Finance Minister Andrei Kharkovets said in
an Oct. 15 interview in Moscow. Belarus will open Russia’s ruble
debt market for other sovereigns so “this debut issue is of
interest for us and for the Russians,” he said.  Junk Status  Belarus, which last year turned to Russia and the
International Monetary Fund to help rescue its economy, sold its
first foreign bonds in July to finance the budget. The 8.75
percent, dollar-denominated five-year bonds gained, pushing the
yield to a low of 7.716 percent on Sept. 13. They yielded 7.783
percent today, down from a high of 8.731 percent on Aug. 26.  The yield on Belarus’s dollar bonds is 653 basis points
over benchmark swap rates, according to prices compiled by
Bloomberg. The difference compares with a spread of 380 basis
points over Russia’s benchmark non-deliverable forwards for
bonds with the same ratings and maturity in rubles sold by OAO
Mechel. The comparison shows the yield on ruble bonds may be
about 250 basis points lower for Belarus than if the government
sold dollar-denominated notes, VTB’s Podguzov said by telephone
on Oct. 27.  Belarus and Moscow-based Mechel are both rated B+ by
Standard & Poor’s and B1 by Moody’s Investors Service, four
levels below investment grade.  ‘External Enemy’  While political relations have been strained, Belarus
derives about half of its trade from Russia. President  Alexander Lukashenko  said last month his relationship with Moscow “leaves
much to be desired.” In June last year, Russia banned the
import of Belarusian dairy products.  Lukashenko , 56, is building his campaign for re-election
next month on promoting the image of Russia as an “external
enemy,” Russian President Dmitry Medvedev, 45, said on Oct. 3.
Relations with Russia have “hit a dead-end,” Medvedev’s
spokeswoman,  Natalya Timakova , said a day later.  “Everyone is afraid of political risk,”  Sergey Dergachev ,
who helps manage $6 billion of emerging-market debt at Union
Investments in Frankfurt and holds Belarusian dollar bonds, said
on Oct. 27. “What is holding many back from investing is the
lack of clarity with the political situation.”  Ukrainian Trade  Russia accounted for 48 percent of total Belarusian trade
last year, according to the Russian Economy Ministry. The two
countries formed a customs union with Kazakhstan this year,
which they plan to expand into a common economic space by 2012.  Ukraine, another former Soviet republic, discussed selling
Russian ruble bonds as relations between the countries improved
after the election of President  Viktor Yanukovych  in February.  “It would make sense for us to borrow in rubles,” if
Russia agrees to use rubles and hryvnia in trade, Prime Minister
 Mykola Azarov  said in an interview on Sept. 3. The two countries
are considering switching to ruble payments, Ukrainian Finance
Minister Fedir Yaroshenko told reporters in Kiev on Oct. 27.  Besides Belarus and Ukraine, Armenia and Tajikistan may
also consider issuing bonds in rubles, HSBC’s Morozov said.  “We see that the ruble is strengthening its position as a
currency,” Russian Deputy Finance Minister  Dmitry Pankin  said
in an interview in Kiev, the Ukrainian capital, on Oct. 27.
“Belarus will issue ruble bonds on the Russian market. This
means that the ruble is really gaining an international status.
We think this process will continue.”  Ruble, Bonds  The ruble was little changed at 30.7510 per dollar by the 5
p.m. close in Moscow today, its strongest level since Oct. 28.
Non-deliverable forwards, or NDFs, which provide a guide to
expectations of currency movements and interest rate
differentials and allow companies to hedge, show the ruble at
31.0466 per dollar in three months.  The yield on Russia’s dollar bonds due in 2020 fell 18
basis points, or 0.18 percentage point, to 4.177 percent, the
lowest since Oct. 13. The price of the country’s ruble notes due
August 2016 climbed 0.4 percent, pushing the yield down 9 basis
points to 7.19 percent.  The cost of protecting Russian debt against non-payment for
five years using credit-default swaps fell half a basis point to
141.5 yesterday, down from this year’s peak of 217 points,
according to data provider CMA. The contracts pay the buyer face
value in exchange for the underlying securities or the cash
equivalent should a debtor fail to adhere to its agreements.  Credit-default swaps for Russia, rated Baa1 by Moody’s, its
third-lowest investment grade rating, cost 12 basis points more
than contracts for Turkey, which is rated four levels lower at
Ba2. Russia swaps  cost  as much as 40 basis points less on April
20.  Narrower Spread  The extra yield investors demand to hold Russian debt
rather than U.S. Treasuries fell 6 basis points to 198 points,
according to JPMorgan EMBI+ indexes. The difference compares
with 130 for debt of similarly rated Mexico and 177 for Brazil,
which is rated two steps lower at Baa3 by Moody’s.  The  yield   spread  on Russian bonds is 39 basis points below
the average for emerging markets, near the smaller difference
since September 2009 and down from a 15-month high of 105 in
February, according to JPMorgan Indexes.  For Belarus, a premium of about 3 percentage points to the
country’s Eurobond means “the sale can be a success,”  Dmitry Dudkin , head of fixed income research in Moscow at UralSib
Financial Corp., said by telephone on Oct. 26.  The Belarusian ruble is correlated with the Russian ruble,
making borrowing in the currency less risky, according to
 Anastasia Golovach , a Renaissance Capital analyst in Kiev.  Currency Basket  Belarus’s currency is pegged to a basket comprising the
Russian ruble, the dollar and the euro in equal proportions,
with scope for fluctuation within a 10 percent band around
central parity, Golovach said in an e-mail.  Belarus also may sell as much as $1 billion of Eurobonds
through 2011, Pavel Ladik, an aide to the finance minister, said
by telephone from Minsk on Oct. 26. He declined to comment on
the maturity or provide further details of the ruble bonds.  Political tension between Russia and Belarus won’t derail
the sale,  Dmitry Peskov , Russian Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin ’s
spokesman, said by telephone on Oct. 27.  “You shouldn’t confuse economics and politics,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Maria Levitov  in Moscow at 
 mlevitov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net . 