-- Rupee Rally Means Highest M&A Premiums in BRICs: India Credit
-- B y   D a v i d   Y o n g
-- 2010-11-03T07:44:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-02/rupee-s-strength-allows-for-highest-bric-acquisition-premium-india-credit.html
The rupee’s 17 percent rally in the
past 20 months and falling dollar borrowing costs are making it
possible for India’s billionaires to pay higher premiums for
acquisitions than companies in Brazil, Russia and China.  Indian companies paid an average 28 percent premium above
the share prices of their targets, the most among the BRIC
nations, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The rupee’s 5
percent appreciation this year against the dollar shaved about
$2 billion off the cost of acquiring fuel, steel and mobile-
phone businesses in local-currency terms.  “Stronger emerging-market currencies mean that when the
time comes to repay those dollar bonds, Indian companies will be
in a good position to benefit,” said  Ramana Kumar , who manages
$1.1 billion of bond investments in Riyadh at Banque Saudi
Fransi, which is partly owned by Credit Agricole SA. If credit
remains available Indian buyers “will almost certainly”
participate in more mergers and acquisitions next year he said.  Sunil Mittal ’s Bharti Airtel Ltd. and  Mukesh Ambani ’s
Reliance Industries Ltd. led $39.6 billion of cross-border deals
by Indian companies this year, the most since Bloomberg started
compiling the data in 1998 and up from $2.8 billion in 2009.
Dollar-denominated bond sales from India more than tripled this
year to $6.5 billion, Bloomberg data show. Indian  corporate debt 
returned 87 percent in the past two years, a JPMorgan Chase &
Co. index shows.  Hoarding Cash  Acquisitions last year slumped from $19 billion in 2008,
after Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. went bankrupt, freezing the
global credit markets. Companies spent 2009 “building up cash
balances” before reviving plans they had put on hold, Kumar
said in an interview yesterday.  Elsewhere in India’s credit market, the nation’s central
bank raised interest rates yesterday in a bid to contain
inflation, sparking a rally in the rupee and government bonds.
The Reserve Bank of India boosted the  repurchase rate  to 6.25
percent from 6 percent, its sixth increase this year.  The rupee gained for a second day, rising 0.1 percent to
44.34 per dollar. The currency will strengthen 1.9 percent by
the end of 2011, with the dollar falling to 43.50 rupees,
according to the median forecast in a Bloomberg survey of 16
analysts.  Inflation slowed to 8.62 percent in September from 11
percent in April. RBI Governor  Duvvuri Subbarao  said in a
statement the likelihood of further policy tightening in the
“immediate future is relatively low,” signaling no increase in
the next three months.  Yields Fall  India’s 10-year note yield fell for a third day, sliding
three basis points to 7.943 percent, the least since Oct. 6. The
securities yield 539 basis points more than similar-maturity
U.S. Treasuries. The  spread  is down from 567 on Oct. 20, the
widest since January 2001. Comparable securities pay 12.20
percent in Brazil, 7.32 percent in Russia and 3.60 percent in
China, Bloomberg data show.  “The policy is positive for bonds as the RBI hints at
staying put on rates in the near future,”  Deepali Bhargava , a
strategist at ING Groep NV in Mumbai, wrote in a research note
yesterday.  The cost of one-year interest-rate swaps, or derivative
contracts used to guard against fluctuations in borrowing costs,
dropped. The rate, a fixed payment made to receive floating
rates, fell 1.5 basis points to 6.59 percent, following a 12.5
percent plunge yesterday.  Indian dollar-denominated corporate debt yielded an average
of  4.75 percent  on Nov. 2, down from 6.595 percent at the end of
last year, the JPMorgan index show. The  spread  over Treasuries
narrowed to 380 basis points from 409 on Dec. 31 and 1,307 two
years ago. ICICI Bank Ltd.’s 7.25 percent dollar-denominated
perpetual bond returned 16.5 percent this year, while Tata Power
Co.’s 8.5 percent note due August 2017 gained 9.5 percent.  Default Swaps  The cost to protect against a default by  State Bank of
India , a state-owned lender that is the nearest measure for
sovereign debt, fell 12 basis points to 164 basis points on Nov.
2 from a one-year high reached on May 25, according to New York-
based data provider CMA’s credit-default swaps prices.  The contracts typically falls as investor confidence
improves and rises as it deteriorates. The swaps pay the buyer
face value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations, less the
value of the defaulted debt. A basis point, 0.01 percentage
point, equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10
million of debt.  Funds based abroad have increased holdings of rupee
corporate and government bonds by $8.7 billion this year to
$16.2 billion as of Oct. 29, according to the Securities and
Exchange Board of India. The government increased the cap on
their debt holdings on Sept. 23 by 50 percent to $30 billion.  Acquisition Premium  The premium paid by Indian bidders for acquisitions, the
highest since 2003, exceeds the 21 percent paid by companies in
Brazil, 19 percent in Russia and 1 percent in China, according
to Bloomberg data.  “These acquisitions are mostly strategic in nature and the
premium is justified,” Ashvin Parekh, the head of financial
services practice in Mumbai at Ernst & Young LLP, said in a
phone interview on Oct. 28. “A stronger rupee has contributed
to their buying power.”  Corporate bonds denominated in rupees have also gained,
with the extra yield investors demand to hold India’s top-rated
company debt over government securities falling to 70 basis
points from 86 basis points, or 0.86 percentage point, at the
start of the year.  Bharti, India’s largest mobile-phone company, paid $10.7
billion in June for the rival business of Zain Africa BV, in the
biggest overseas foray this year.  Reliance, Essar  Reliance Industries, India’s biggest company by market
value, was the most aggressive, with six deals in the U.S.
totaling $946 million. Essar Group, controlled by the Ruia
brothers, and Adani Enterprises Ltd., billionaire  Gautam Adani ’s
energy company, are spending almost $1 billion to add U.S. coal-
mining assets to their books.  A stock market  rally  this year has boosted the value of
Mumbai-based companies managed by some of Asia’s richest
businessmen. Adani stock advanced 72 percent, making it cheaper
to issue shares to part-fund acquisitions, said  Stefan Hagman , a
fund manager in Stockholm at Svenska Handelsbanken AB, Sweden’s
second-largest lender.  “There are great opportunities to expand,” Hagman said in
an e-mail on Oct. 29. “M&A is a cheaper and better way to enter
overseas markets.” He manages a 286 million-euro ($397 million)
India  country fund , which handed investors a 23 percent return
this year.  Citigroup Inc. and HSBC Holdings Plc are the biggest
managers of foreign-currency bond sales this year, Bloomberg
data show.  “When it comes to funding those transactions, there are
still limitations,” said Parekh at Ernst & Young. “Indian
banks have not been able to participate as much as we’d like to
see, either due to regulation or size of the industry’s balance
sheets. That’s a little unfortunate.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Yong  in Singapore at 
 dyong@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 