-- Masked Men Raid Billionaire Alexander Lebedev, Rusnano Building in Moscow
-- B y   H e n r y   M e y e r   a n d   L y u b o v   P r o n i n a
-- 2010-11-02T15:59:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-02/russian-billionaire-lebedev-s-national-reserve-bank-is-raided-by-police.html
Masked police raided offices of a
bank controlled by billionaire  Alexander Lebedev , the Kremlin
critic who owns the Novaya Gazeta opposition weekly in Moscow
and Britain’s Evening Standard and Independent newspapers.  The search of Lebedev’s National Reserve Bank was part of
an “ongoing criminal investigation,” police spokesman  Viktor Biryukov  said in comments reported by state-run RIA Novosti news
service and confirmed by his office. Biryukov didn’t elaborate.  Dozens of armed officers surrounded and sealed off the
building before noon, while three men in civilian clothes, also
clad in balaclavas, entered and demanded a meeting with Lebedev,
Novaya Gazeta said on its  website . The siege was lifted at about
2 p.m. local time without arrests, the newspaper said.  A call to Lebedev’s mobile phone at 6:15 p.m. local time
was answered by his spokesman,  Artyom Artyomov , who said the
billionaire was in Moscow while city police investigators
continued the search.  “The armed men are gone, investigators continue their
work,” Artyomov said by phone. “This is a very strange
demonstrative action whose motivation is unclear,” he said.
Police made no claims against the bank or Lebedev, he said.  ‘Attempt to Intimidate’  “There’s no other way to look at this other than as an
attempt to intimidate Lebedev,” said Dmitry Muratov, Novaya
Gazeta’s editor-in-chief. “He is completely independent and
promotes civil society and a free press,” Muratov said by
phone. “This doesn’t please the security men in power.”  Investigators said they were searching for documents
related to Rossiisky Kapital, a lender Lebedev bailed out after
the 2008 collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., according to
Novaya Gazeta.  Lebedev, 50, a former KGB spy who once worked undercover in
London as an economic attaché, bought into Novaya Gazeta in 2006
with the support of former Soviet President and Nobel Peace
Prize winner  Mikhail Gorbachev . Forbes magazine estimated
Lebedev’s net worth at $2 billion this year, making him the
488th richest person in the world.  The National Reserve Bank building in southwest Moscow is
also home to Rusnano Corp., the government’s holding company for
nanotechnology ventures.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Henry Meyer  in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net 
 Lyubov Pronina  in Moscow at 
 lpronina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at 
 wmorris@bloomberg.net  