-- Russian Dispute Adds to Japan's Woes as Kan Popularity Sinks
-- B y   S a c h i k o   S a k a m a k i   a n d   T a k a s h i   H i r o k a w a
-- 2010-11-02T03:18:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-02/russian-islands-dispute-adds-to-japanese-woes-as-kan-s-popularity-sinks.html
Japan’s Prime Minister  Naoto Kan ,
already under fire for his handling of a territorial dispute
with China, may face further public criticism over a revived
diplomatic row with Russia.  Kan’s popularity dropped to 36.4 percent from 48.5 percent
last month, a Sankei newspaper poll published today said. Almost
three-fourths of respondents disapproved of his handling of the
Sept. 7 collision between a Chinese fishing boat and Japan’s
Coast Guard that frayed ties between Asia’s two biggest
economies. A Nikkei poll yesterday yielded similar findings.  Yesterday’s visit by Russian President  Dmitry Medvedev  to
an island chain also claimed by Japan may further inflame
criticism over Kan’s foreign policy as he prepares to host an
Asian leaders’ summit this month. He is also struggling to
maintain an export-led economic recovery, and has proposed a
second stimulus to counter falling prices and a surging yen.  “It’s impossible for Kan to win any remarkable diplomatic
victories because he’s facing issues that can’t be solved
quickly,” said  Koichi Nakano , a political science professor at
Sophia University in Tokyo. “He has to show results in domestic
policy by passing the stimulus package.”  Almost 72 percent of the public doesn’t approve of Kan’s
diplomacy and security policies, the Sankei newspaper said. The
paper surveyed 1,000 people by telephone on Oct. 30-31 and
didn’t provide a margin of error.  Stimulus Package  Kan’s Cabinet last week approved a 5.1 trillion yen ($62.2
billion) package to help cope with the rising yen, which
yesterday reached the strongest against the dollar since April
1995. The plan still needs parliamentary approval, and while the
ruling  Democratic Party of Japan  controls the lower house, it
needs opposition support in the less-powerful upper chamber.  Chief Cabinet Secretary  Yoshito Sengoku  today said Kan and
Medvedev will probably hold talks at the Asia-Pacific Economic
Cooperation summit on Nov. 13-14 in Yokohama, Japan. Kan
yesterday said Medvedev’s trip to one of four islands known as
the Southern Kurils in Russia and the Northern Territories in
Japan, was “very regrettable” and Foreign Minister  Seiji Maehara  summoned Russia’s ambassador to object.  Japan may also recall its ambassador from Russia, the
Mainichi newspaper said today, without citing anyone. Foreign
ministry spokesman Satoru Sato called the report
“speculation,” adding that Japan hasn’t recalled any
ambassador in at least five years.  Sovereignty Dispute  The Soviet Union seized the islands six miles (10
kilometers) from Japan’s Hokkaido Island at the end of World War
II, and the dispute over their sovereignty has prevented Russia
and Japan from signing a formal peace treaty. The chain lies
near Sakhalin Island, where Russia ships liquefied natural gas
to Japan.  The row with Russia comes as Japan seeks to diffuse a
separate dispute with China. The collision between the Coast
Guard boats and the fishing trawler was near uninhabited islands
in the East China Sea claimed by the Japanese and Chinese
governments.  Chinese Premier  Wen Jiabao  refused to have an official
meeting with Kan last weekend at a summit of Asia-Pacific
leaders in Hanoi, though the two met informally for about 10
minutes. China accused Japan of ruining the atmosphere for talks
by giving “untrue” media statements, Xinhua News Agency cited
Chinese Assistant Foreign Minister Hu Zhengyue as saying.  The dispute prompted China to block exports of rare-earth
minerals used in hybrid cars and batteries, according to
Japanese government officials. Wen pledged a steady supply of
the metals at the Hanoi summit.  In a Nikkei poll released yesterday, Kan’s approval rating
dropped to 40 percent from 71 percent a month ago. His handling
of diplomatic and security policy was cited as the biggest
source of discontent at 28 percent, followed by economic policy
at 21 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Sachiko Sakamaki  in Tokyo at 
 Ssakamaki1@bloomberg.net ;
 Takashi Hirokawa  in Tokyo at 
 thirokawa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Austin at 
 billaustin@bloomberg.net  