-- S&P Says Political Instability `Key Risk' to Italy's Effort to Cut Deficit
-- B y   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o
-- 2010-11-02T14:04:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-02/s-p-says-political-instability-key-risk-to-italy-s-effort-to-cut-deficit.html
Standard & Poor’s Ratings Service
warned that political instability may jeopardize Italy’s bid to
cut the budget deficit, even as it affirmed the credit rating of
the euro-region’s most indebted economy.  Italy’s ratings “could come under downward pressure if
political instability were to impede the implementation of the
current plan,” S&P said in a statement today, affirming Italy’s
A+ long-term and A-1+ short-term sovereign credit rating with a
“stable” outlook. “Potential political instability could be a
key risk,” S&P said.  Surging  borrowing costs  triggered by Greece’s near-default
and Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis prompted Prime Minister
 Silvio Berlusconi ’s government to pass deficit cuts worth 24.9
billion euros ($34.9 billion). The budget adjustment, which
parliament approved in July, aims to reduce the  deficit  an
additional 1.6 percent of  gross domestic product  to bring the
shortfall within the European Union limit of 3 percent of GDP in
2012 from 5.3 percent last year.  The yield premium, or  spread , that investors charge to hold
 Italian 10-year bonds  over comparable  German bunds , the European
benchmark, widened by 6 basis points to 151.5 basis points
today, the most in almost a month.  Berlusconi’s grip on power has weakened since his long-
standing ally,  Gianfranco Fini  left the ruling People of Liberty
party three months ago and founded a splinter group which has
enough votes to sink the government. Tensions between the two
intensified this week amid newspaper reports that Berlusconi
allegedly secured the release of a 17-year-old woman from police
custody in Milan.  Rift with Fini  Fini said Oct. 31 that Berlusconi will have to resign
should it prove he used his powers to secure her release. When
asked about the case, Berlusconi didn’t deny intervening, saying
he only sent a friend to the police station to take custody of
the girl because of the woman’s “tragic circumstances.”  “The increasing fragility of the current governing
coalition makes implementing growth-enhancing structural reforms
politically more challenging in the near term,” S&P said today.  On Sept. 29, Italy’s government maintained its budget-
deficit forecast, while predicting stronger economic growth this
year and higher debt.  GDP  will increase 1.2 percent in 2010, up
from the 1 percent the government  predicted  on May 6. The $2.3
trillion economy will expand 1.3 percent next year.  Debt Levels  The government raised its  debt forecast  to 118.5 percent of
GDP this year and 119.2 percent next year. It kept its deficit
target of 5 percent of GDP this year and 3.9 percent next.  “Even if the government’s measures are fully implemented,
we expect the gross debt ratio in Italy to touch 120 percent in
2011,” S&P credit analyst  Eileen Zhang  said in today’s report.  While Moody’s Investors Service has kept its rating of
Italy unchanged at Aa2 since May 2002, S&P has been more willing
to cut, slashing its rating twice in that period -- in July 2004
to AA- and again in October 2006 to A+. On May 7, Moody’s said
that Italy is not among the countries most at risk from Europe’s
debt crisis and its credit outlook for 2010 remained stable.  The euro region’s third-largest  economy  emerged in the
third quarter of 2009 from its worst recession since World War
II. It grew 0.5 percent in the three months through June as
exports more than offset flat  consumer spending .  -- Editors:  Andrew Davis ,  Jeffrey Donovan   To contact the reporter on this story:
 Lorenzo Totaro  in Rome at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
John Fraher at   jfraher@bloomberg.net  