-- S&P Affirms Nigeria's Credit Ratings, Cites Fiscal and External Balances
-- B y   P a u l   O k o l o
-- 2010-11-02T15:40:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-02/s-p-affirms-nigeria-s-credit-ratings-cites-fiscal-and-external-balances.html
Standard & Poor’s Ratings Services
affirmed its ‘B+’ long-term rating on Nigeria, Africa’s most
populous nation and top oil producer, with a stable outlook
before a $500 million Eurobond sale next month.  The agency also affirmed its ‘B’ short-term foreign and
local currency sovereign credit ratings on the West African
nation, it said in a statement today.  “The outlook is stable, reflecting our expectation that
Nigeria will maintain its strong external and fiscal balance
sheet and that its budgetary performance will gradually improve
over the next few years,” it said.  The announcement “will help to allay the concern of
potential investors in Nigeria’s Eurobond,” especially after
Fitch Ratings cut its outlook on the country to negative from
stable on Oct. 22, said  Bismarck Rewane , chief executive officer
of Financial Derivatives Co. Ltd., a fund manager.  Nigeria plans to appoint bookrunners next week for its
first-ever Eurobond sale, planned for mid-December,  Abraham Nwankwo , director general of the Debt Management Office, said
today.  “The ratings on Nigeria are constrained by high political
risk, but supported by a strong balance sheet,” Standard &
Poor’s said in the statement.  Elections  The nation of about 150 million people is scheduled to hold
general elections in April in which incumbent President Goodluck
Jonathan, from the mainly Christian south, has said he will run.
Politicians from the predominantly Muslim north say that
decision runs counter to an agreement by the ruling  People’s
Democratic Party  to reserve the office for the region until
2015. Jonathan stepped in to the office after the death of
former President  Umaru Yar’Adua , a northern Muslim, on May 5.  Fitch Ratings lowered its outlook on Nigeria’s BB- rating
to “negative” on Oct. 22, concerned about withdrawals from the
excess crude account and a drop in foreign currency reserves.
The decline in reserves increased the risk to the economy from
any renewed drop in oil prices, Fitch said.  Nigeria’s foreign-exchange reserves fell 7.6 percent to
$33.9 billion in the month to Oct. 21, according to data on the
website of the Central Bank of Nigeria.  Nigeria’s economy, the second-biggest on the continent
after South Africa, is expected to grow 7.8 percent in 2010, up
from 7 percent last year, driven by non-oil industries such as
agriculture, central bank Governor  Lamido Sanusi  said on Sept.
21.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Paul Okolo  in Abuja 
 pokolo@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net . 