-- San Francisco Giants' World Series Victory Gives Bay Area Economy a Boost
-- B y   R y a n   F l i n n
-- 2010-11-03T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-02/san-francisco-giants-world-series-victory-gives-bay-area-economy-a-boost.html
The Giants aren’t the only ones
celebrating their World Series success -- San Francisco got an
economic boost as baseball fans filled hotel rooms, restaurants
and bars, and snapped up team merchandise.  The Giants beat the Texas Rangers 3-1 two nights ago to
claim their sixth World Series title and first since 1954, when
they were based in New York. The opening two games of the best-
of-seven series were played at AT&T Park in San Francisco and
the Giants hosted five other postseason games this year.  Without providing an estimate for the amount of money spent
by visitors during the postseason, Kurt Fuchs, a senior
economist for San Francisco’s  Economic Analysis Office , said the
eventual tally may help persuade organizers of other sporting
events, such as sailing’s America’s Cup, to choose the city.  “From a fiscal standpoint, it’s a shot in the arm,” said
Fuchs. “It would be nice to use the experience of the World
Series to extrapolate for the America’s Cup bid.”  Larry Ellison , chief executive officer of Redwood City,
California-based software maker  Oracle Corp ., won the right to
choose the site for the 34th edition of the America’s Cup, which
could last several weeks. Ellison’s BMW-Oracle Racing team has
 said San Francisco  is its only U.S. choice for the regatta.  Visitors were willing to pay premium hotel prices rather
than shopping for a discount, said Matt Stiker, executive vice
president of the San Francisco Convention and Visitors  Bureau .
Stores and street vendors are still drawing lines for orange and
black Giants T-shirts, caps and fake beards inspired by relief
pitcher  Brian Wilson .  ‘Orange Market’  “That economic impact really spread to restaurants and
bars, and then throughout the retail community,” Stiker said.
“Walking around the city, I feel like if I had captured the
orange market, I’d be sitting pretty right now.”  To tap into demand, the Giants opened a seventh team-owned
Dugout store in a recently vacated unit across the street from
AT&T Park.  “We’re doing 26 times the business we did last October,”
said Dave Martinez, director of retail operations for the team.  The Giants, who moved from New York in 1958 and spent four
decades in wind-swept Candlestick Park, will be honored with a
ticker-tape parade today before receiving a ceremonial key to
the city, San Francisco Mayor  Gavin Newsom  said. The parade
route will be the same as the one for the team’s arrival in San
Francisco 52 years ago.  $357 Million Stadium  AT&T Park was built for $357 million in private funds on a
site once filled with docks laden with bananas and opium. Giants
President  Larry Baer  said he also wants to transform the mostly
neglected area behind the ballpark it into a cultural,
residential and retail complex.  “It’s really the last frontier in San Francisco,” Baer,
53, said in an interview last week in his ballpark office.
“There’s nowhere else in San Francisco left to build.”  The parking lots eyed by the Giants for development are
bordered on the north by McCovey Cove, where kayakers race for
home-run balls hit into the water, and on the south by new
buildings with signs offering “prestigious waterfront office
space.” The cove is named for 72-year-old Giants Hall of Fame
first baseman  Willie McCovey .  Getting to the World Series was a boon for  fan   Traci Des Jardins , who is the chef and a partner in two restaurants at
AT&T Park.  Even though the deciding game took place 1,722 miles away
in Arlington, Texas, diners packed her locations to watch the
action. The outlets sold 6,000 bottles and about 300 kegs of
beer during the World Series, about 10 times more than a typical
baseball weekend.  “It was really crazy down there,” she said, “so I can’t
imagine what it might have been had we actually clinched it
here.”  Having two more games in San Francisco would have been
nice, she said.  “You do sort of wake up this morning with a little let
down -- is it really over?”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ryan Flinn  in San Francisco at 
 rflinn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  