-- Saskatchewan to Sue Canada If BHP's Potash Bid Is Approved
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   D o n v i l l e
-- 2010-11-03T21:31:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-02/saskatchewan-urges-canada-to-reimburse-taxes-lost-from-takeover.html
Saskatchewan is poised to sue the
federal government if Canada approves  BHP Billiton Ltd. ’s $40
billion hostile takeover offer for  Potash Corp. of Saskatchewan
Inc. , Premier  Brad Wall  said.  “We’ve made a well-rounded, compelling case that the
answer in this takeover bid from Investment Canada should be
‘no,’ and that the wishes of the province should be respected,”
Wall told reporters yesterday in Regina, the provincial capital.
“If we are going to make a legal challenge, it will have to
happen quickly, and it will.”  Canadian Industry Minister  Tony Clement  plans to say today
whether Canada will allow the deal to proceed after markets
close at 4 p.m. New York time, a person familiar with the
announcement said. Saskatchewan has said the takeover of Potash
Corp. by Melbourne-based BHP would cut provincial tax revenue by
C$3 billion ($2.97 billion) over 10 years, lead to fewer jobs
and forfeit Canadian control of a “strategic” resource.  Wall said the Canadian government should reimburse the
province for revenue lost if it approves BHP’s bid.  “If they want to make this deal, then they can indemnify
the province of Saskatchewan against the costs,” Wall said.
“It will be Ottawa’s deal, not Saskatchewan’s deal, and the
people of Saskatchewan will not be on the hook for it.”  While Potash Corp., based in Saskatoon, Saskatchewan, has
rejected BHP’s $130-a-share offer as too low, the proposed
transaction has stirred debate across Canada over the sale of
some of the country’s largest natural-resources companies to
foreign buyers.  Resource-Company Acquisitions  In 2006, Switzerland’s Xstrata Plc made a successful bid
for nickel producer Falconbridge Ltd., while Brazil’s Vale SA
agreed to buy miner Inco Ltd. In addition, Rio Tinto Group,
based in London, bought aluminum producer Alcan Inc. in 2007.  Russia asked local fertilizer makers to consider a joint
bid to counter BHP, according to OAO Acron, the nation’s third-
largest producer of nitrogen soil nutrients. Acron told the
government it wouldn’t join the plan after receiving a letter
from the Industry and Trade Ministry on Nov. 1 proposing a
combined bid, Chairman  Alexander Popov  said today by telephone
in Moscow. Artur Gimatdinov, a ministry spokesman, wasn’t
immediately able to comment when contacted by Bloomberg.  If BHP’s acquisition of Potash Corp. is approved by Clement
and the transaction proceeds, the deal would be the largest
takeover of a Canadian company since Vivendi SA’s $46.1 billion
purchase of distiller Seagram Co. in 2000.  ‘Massive Transfer’  The BHP-Potash deal represents “a massive transfer of
control outside of Canada,”  Ralph Goodale , a Saskatchewan
lawmaker and deputy leader of the opposition Liberal Party, told
reporters in Ottawa yesterday. “I think Saskatchewan has an
important case to test in the courts.”  Potash Corp. rose 52 cents to $145.50 at 4:15 p.m. in New
York Stock Exchange composite trading, 12 percent more than
BHP’s bid.  BHP  climbed 3 pence to 2,280 pence in London.  “The political side is always difficult, because they come
from a different agenda, but that’s the wild card,” said  Greg Eckel , who helps manage C$900 million at Morgan Meighen &
Associates Ltd. in Toronto. “I’m sort of a split personality on
this. I’d love to see it taken out for a quick gain, but I
wouldn’t know what to replace it with as a longer-term
investment.”  Case Under Review  Buying Potash Corp. would give BHP, the world’s largest
mining company, its first production of fertilizer, allowing it
to benefit from the projected increase in demand as an expanding
global population consumes more food.  BHP has said it would make Saskatchewan home to its
headquarters for potash operations, continue developing its C$12
billion Jansen potash mining project in the province, maintain
current employment levels and propose a Canadian nominee for
election to its board.  Under the  Investment Canada Act , the federal government can
block any transaction valued at C$299 million or more if it
finds the deal doesn’t provide a “net benefit” to the country.
Clement said as of yesterday he hadn’t made a decision on the
bid.  “I am currently reviewing the facts of the case,” he said
in an e-mailed statement. “As of yet no decision has been made,
and no decision or recommendation has been communicated to the
investor.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Christopher Donville  in Vancouver at 
 cjdonville@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at   scasey4@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net . 