-- Semiconductor Manufacturing Posts Net Income for Second Quarter in a Row
-- B y   M a r k   L e e
-- 2010-11-02T13:52:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-02/semiconductor-manufacturing-posts-net-income-for-second-quarter-in-a-row.html
Semiconductor Manufacturing
International Corp. , China’s biggest chipmaker, reported a
second straight quarter of profit, helped by demand for chips
used in computers and mobile phones.  Net income was $30.4 million, or 6 cents per American
depositary receipt, compared with a loss of $69.3 million, or
15.5 cents, a year earlier, the said in a Hong Kong stock
exchange filing today. SMIC was expected to post a net loss of
$573,000, the average of three analysts’ estimates compiled by
Bloomberg. Sales increased 27 percent to $410 million.  The Shanghai-based contract manufacturer is increasing
investment in plants to meet rising orders.  Taiwan Semiconductor
Manufacturing Co. , the world’s biggest contract manufacturer of
chips, last month forecast sales that exceeded analysts’
estimates amid a surge in demand for smartphones.  “If it does not increase capital investment, it stays
behind in technology,”  Vaibhav Dhasmana , an analyst at CLSA
Ltd. in Hong Kong, said before the announcement.  Semiconductor Manufacturing closed unchanged at 66 Hong
Kong cents in Hong Kong trading today, before the earnings
statement. The stock has gained 32 percent this year, compared
with an 8.2 percent rise in the benchmark Hang Seng Index.  Sales of more-advanced chips using 65-nanometer technology
are increasing, Chief Executive Officer  David Wang  said in
August.  Semiconductor Manufacturing’s earnings included a $10.8
million one-time gain from securities it issued to Taiwan
Semiconductor as part of a settlement of a trade-secrets lawsuit
last year. Taiwan Semiconductor dropped the complaint last year
in return for $200 million, plus stock and share warrants.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mark Lee  in Hong Kong at 
 wlee37@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at   ycho2@bloomberg.net  