-- Somalia Pirates' Success Rate Rises, Stunting East Africa Economies
-- B y   B i l l   V a r n e r
-- 2010-11-02T19:23:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-02/somali-pirates-success-rises-even-against-warships-of-u-s-japan-china.html
The international naval presence off
the coast of Somalia is failing to reduce the success rate of
pirates whose attacks on commercial ships are stunting the
economies of East Africa, the  United Nations  said.  UN Secretary-General  Ban Ki-moon  reported to the  Security
Council  that 37 of 164 attacks on ships operating off the coast
of Somalia succeeded in the first nine months of this year. That
22.6 percent rate of successful hijackings compares with 17.1
percent, of 193 attempts, for the same period in 2009.  “Piracy in the region has had an immense impact on the
economies of East Africa and also the wider world,” Ban said in
his report. “International trade routes are threatened and
goods in the region as well as Somalia are becoming more
expensive. This is made worst by the bleak state of the global
economy.”  The pirates concentrate on the Gulf of Aden, a chokepoint
leading to the Suez Canal that is used by 30,000 ships a year
carrying about one-tenth of world trade. Attacks have spread to
the Indian Ocean, as much as 1,000 miles from shore.  The rate of successful hijackings increased even with the
presence of warships from the European Union, North Atlantic
Treaty Organization and 25 other nations including the U.S.,
China, India, Iran and Japan. Commercial ships are using
defensive measures such as netting, wire, electric fences and
fire hoses to prevent boarding.  More Sophisticated Weapons  Ban said the pirates have countered with more sophisticated
weaponry and use of “action groups” consisting of a large
command boat towing attack skiffs.  “I am afraid that the problem will not only be with us for
a long time to come, but also has the potential to become worse
unless both Somalis and the international community address its
root causes,” Ban said. “There is an urgent need to combine
vital sea-based and judicial counter-piracy initiatives.”  Somalia hasn’t had a functioning central administration
since the ouster of former dictator  Mohamed Siad Barre  in 1991.
Most of southern and central Somalia is under the control of
insurgents led by the Islamic terrorist group al-Shabaab, which
has pledged loyalty to al-Qaeda.  The Transitional Federal Government, which controls only
portions of Mogadishu and whose mandate expires in August 2011,
is emerging from a political crisis following the resignation of
Prime Minister  Omar Abdirashid Ali Sharmarke .  Mohamed Abdullahi 
was approved as prime minister by Somalia’s parliament on Oct.
31 after his taking of the office was delayed by a dispute over
whether the vote would be secret.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bill Varner  at the United Nations at 
 wvarner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  