-- Spain's Cajamar Savings Bank May Pay Record Yield Premium on Covered Bonds
-- B y   E s t e b a n   D u a r t e
-- 2010-11-02T13:57:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-02/spain-s-cajamar-may-pay-record-yield-premium-on-covered-bonds.html
Cajamar Caja Rural SC, Spain’s
largest rural savings bank, is selling covered bonds at a record
yield premium for the guaranteed notes.  Cajamar is offering 285 basis points to 295 basis points
more than the benchmark swap rate to sell more of its 3.5
percent covered bonds due 2014, said two people with knowledge
of the transaction. That compares with 260 basis points that
rival Bancaja offered last month on covered bonds due 2013,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Spreads on four-year Spanish covered bonds have widened
from as low as 45 basis points in January amid investor concerns
about losses from banks’ sovereign debt holdings. The yield on
10-year Spanish government bonds over German debt widened today
to 182 basis points, the biggest gap in a month, on concern over
the ability of the region’s peripheral nations to cut deficits.  “It’s a surprise that a Spanish rural savings bank dares
to go to the market,” said  Thomas Nyegaard,  a covered bonds and
securitization analyst at F&C Asset Management Plc in London.
“It will be a real test of the limits of the demand of Spanish
paper as it’s a small lender coming at a time when spreads of
debt from peripheral countries are again approaching records.”  Since July, Spanish lenders have raised at least 10.8
billion euros ($15 billion) from sales of covered bonds, a type
of debt backed by mortgages or public sector loans and
guaranteed by the issuer.  Spanish banks are returning to capital markets as they seek
to reduce their reliance on central bank loans. Lenders in the
country cut their funding from the European Central Bank to 97.6
billion euros in September from 109.7 billion euros in the
previous month and as high as 130 billion euros in July, Bank of
Spain data show.  Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA, Goldman Sachs Group
Inc., JPMorgan Chase & Co., Landesbank Baden-Wuerttemberg and
UBS AG are managing the sale for Almeria-based Cajamar, said the
people, who declined to be identified before the deal is
completed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Esteban Duarte  in Madrid at 
 eduarterubia@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Armstrong at   Parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  