-- U.S. Stocks Gain Before Fed Policy Meeting, Midterm Elections
-- B y   N i k o l a j   G a m m e l t o f t
-- 2010-11-02T20:54:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-02/stock-index-futures-advance-before-start-of-fed-s-two-day-policy-meeting.html
U.S. stocks rose, sending benchmark
indexes to six-month highs, as investors awaited the Federal
Reserve’s plans to bolster the recovery and an election outcome
that may hand Democrats their biggest defeat in seven decades.  MasterCard Inc.  rallied 3 percent as third-quarter profit
exceeded most Wall Street forecasts after more consumers paid
with credit and debit cards.  U.S. Steel Corp.  advanced 3.6
percent after being added to UBS AG’s short-term “buy” list as
the price for the metal may rise.  Dollar Thrifty Automotive
Group Inc.  increased 3 percent as earnings topped predictions.
Home Depot Inc. added 2.6 percent, the biggest gain in the Dow
Jones Industrial Average.  The S&P 500 added 0.8 percent to 1,193.57 at 4 p.m. in New
York, the highest since May 3. The benchmark gauge yesterday
recovered from a late-day tumble on speculation the Fed will
pump more cash into the economy to support the expansion. The
Dow climbed 64.10 points, or 0.6 percent, to 11,188.72. The 30-
stock index earlier touched 11,219.52, the highest since
September 2008.  “About $500 billion of Fed asset purchases are priced in
by the market; if it’s smaller then there will be
disappointment,” said  Dan Greenhaus , chief economic strategist
at Miller Tabak & Co. in New York. “But we have to keep in mind
that the reason the Fed would be doing less is because the
economy is getting better.”  The S&P 500 has  rallied  14 percent since Bernanke indicated
in August that he was considering pumping more cash into
financial markets. Policy makers meet today and tomorrow to
consider stimulating the world’s largest economy through an
asset-purchase technique known as quantitative easing. The
central bank is likely to announce a plan to purchase at least
$500 billion of long-term securities, according to economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News.  Mid-Term Elections  Republicans are poised to retake the U.S. House and narrow
Democrats’ margin in the Senate, according to the Rothenberg
Political Report, delivering a rebuke to President  Barack Obama ’s party in a campaign shaped by voter anxiety over jobs
and the economy.  The  S&P 500  has surged 48 percent on average starting in
the second year of each U.S. presidential term, measured from
its lowest level through the high the next year, according to
data going back to 1928 compiled by Bloomberg. That compares
with trough-to-peak gains of 38 percent in other years.  The  index  has advanced 15 percent on average in years when
there was a Democratic president and Republican majority in
Congress, the most of any combination, according to Strategas
Research Partners.  ‘Positive for Investors’  “A Republican takeover of the House and gains in the
Senate may slow legislation that is perceived as anti-business,
and that’s a positive for investors,” said  Greenhaus . “There
will be a significant sell-off if substantial Republican gains
in the House do not materialize.”  The S&P 500 gained 6.7 percent in the 12 months after the
2006 midterm election, when Republicans and President  George W. Bush  lost control of both houses of Congress. In the 1994
congressional elections under President  Bill Clinton , Democrats
gave up their majority in the House and Senate. That preceded
the S&P 500’s 34 percent  surge  in 1995, the biggest in 37 years,
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “If we actually have gridlock, there will initially be
this very short-term view that this is okay, and then people
will begin to realize that further delay in addressing both our
intermediate and long-term problems is very bad for America,”
said  Ralph Schlosstein , the chief executive officer of Evercore
Partners Inc., the investment bank founded by former U.S. Deputy
Treasury Secretary  Roger Altman . “Historically we’ve had
gridlock when the economy and the markets have been pretty good.
We have some very serious short-term and long-term problems in
this country.”  Republican Gains  The Rothenberg Political Report predicts that Republicans,
who need a net gain of 39 seats to take control of the House,
may win 55 to 65 seats in the House, while the Cook Political
Report puts Republican House gains at 50 to 60 seats, possibly
higher. The Washington-based reports see Democrats losing six to
eight seats in the Senate, where the Republicans need 10 seats
for a majority.  MasterCard , the world’s second-biggest payments network,
jumped 3 percent to $246.09 after posting third-quarter profit
of $3.94 a share. The average estimate of 29 analysts surveyed
by Bloomberg was for earnings of $3.54 a share.  Worldwide spending on MasterCard cards climbed 7.9 percent
to $514 billion based on local currencies while spending by
consumers outside their home countries surged 15 percent.
Processed transactions rose 0.6 percent to 5.8 billion.  American Express Co. , the biggest U.S. credit-card issuer
by purchases, gained 2 percent to $42.39.  Dollar Thrifty Earnings  Dollar Thrifty , which is being acquired by Avis Budget
Group Inc., rose 3 percent to $47.13 after reporting a third-
quarter profit excluding some items of $1.51 a share. The
average estimate of analysts surveyed by Bloomberg was for a
profit of $1.48 a share.  Harman International Industries Inc.  increased the most in
the S&P 500, rallying 12 percent to $37.58. The maker of audio
systems for homes and vehicles posted first-quarter profit
excluding some items of 35 cents a share, beating the average
analyst estimate by 32 percent, according to Bloomberg data.  Earnings-per share have topped estimates at 79 percent of
the 345 companies in the  S&P 500  that have posted results since
Oct. 7, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Rising Prices  U.S. Steel, the country’s largest producer of the metal by
volume, gained 3.6 percent to $44.85 after it was given a short-
term “buy” recommendation by UBS, which cited the prospect of
rising steel prices.  A measure of  consumer discretionary  stocks climbed 1.1
percent as Home Depot, the largest-home improvement retailer,
rose 2.6 percent to $31.51.  Archer-Daniels Midland Co. slid 6.6 percent to $31.19, the
biggest decline in the S&P 500. The world’s largest grain
processor reported first-quarter profit fell more than analysts
estimated after a drought cut crops in the Black Sea region.  Art Technology Group Inc. surged 45 percent to $5.96 for
the largest advance in Russell 2000 Index. Oracle Corp. agreed
to buy the Internet relationship management company for about $1
billion in cash, or $6 a share.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Nikolaj Gammeltoft  in New York at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 