-- Sudanese Authorities Arrest Nine Darfur Activists, Human Rights Group Says
-- B y   M a r a m   M a z e n
-- 2010-11-02T15:50:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-02/sudanese-authorities-arrest-nine-darfur-activists-human-rights-group-says.html
Sudanese authorities arrested nine
peace activists from the western region of Darfur and are
holding them without charge, said AlBaqir Alafif Mukhtar, head
of a human rights group.  Eight activists were arrested on Oct. 30 after a meeting of
youth organizations at the  Al-Khatim Adlan Center for
Enlightenment and Human Development  in Khartoum, the capital, to
discuss  Southern Sudan ’s independence referendum in January,
Mukhtar, the center’s director, said today.  After the participants left the meeting, “the security
came to them in their offices and collected them,” Mukhtar said
by telephone from Khartoum. “Nobody knows where they are,” he
said.  The oil-rich southern region’s Jan. 9 referendum is a key
component of the 2005  peace agreement  that ended two decades of
civil war between the Muslim north and the south, where
Christianity and traditional beliefs dominate. About 2 million
people died in the conflict, and more than 4 million were
displaced.  “These arrests are clearly part of a wider pattern of
stifling expression about ongoing human rights abuses in
Darfur,” Rona Peligal, Africa director at Human Rights Watch,
said today in an e-mailed statement. “The government continues
to clash with rebels and attack civilians, in violation of
international humanitarian laws, and these activists are among
the very few speaking out about it.”  Bar Association  The Sudanese Human Rights Monitor group, in a statement
today, said the detainees include Adelrahman Mohammed Al Gasim,
a member of its executive committee who is the legal-aid
coordinator of the Darfur Bar Association.  The  African Center for Justice and Peace Studies , which has
offices in Africa, London and New York, urged the authorities in
an e-mailed statement today to allow the detainees to see their
families and lawyers and to release the detainees immediately or
to charge them.  The Darfur Bar Association urged the Ministry of Justice to
reveal the whereabouts of the detainees, Mukhtar said.  Khartoum chief police Mohamed al-Hafez and police spokesman
Hashem Ali didn’t answer calls seeking comment.  Eight of the nine detainees are from the Khartoum-based
Human Rights and Advocacy Network for Democracy, known as HAND,
which monitors human rights violations in Darfur, Mukhtar said.  One more activist was arrested since then, and the offices
of HAND were shut down, New York-based Human Rights Watch said.  Warrants for President  The  International Criminal Court  has issued arrest warrants
for President  Umar al-Bashir , accusing him of responsibility for
genocide and war crimes in Darfur. He denies the charges.  Violence broke out in Darfur in 2003 when rebels took up
arms, accusing the authorities in Khartoum of neglecting the
region. The conflict has led to the death of as many as 300,000
people, mainly due to illness and starvation, and forced about
2.7 million people to flee their homes, according to United
Nations estimates.  The Sudanese government has put the death toll at about
10,000.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Maram Mazen  in Khartoum via the Cairo newsroom at
   mmazen@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net . 