-- Sugar May Jump 19% on Dry Weather in Brazil, Newedge Predicts
-- B y   P r a t i k   P a r i j a
-- 2010-11-02T09:52:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-02/sugar-may-jump-19-on-dry-weather-in-brazil-asia-demand-newedge-predicts.html
Raw sugar may climb 19 percent by
March if dry weather in  Brazil , the world’s biggest producer,
persists, amid growing demand from countries including  China ,
according to broker Newedge USA.  The price may reach as high as 35 cents a pound,  Michael McDougall , a senior vice president at Newedge, said in a phone
interview from  New York  yesterday. A rally to that level will
make the commodity the most expensive since November 1980.  Raw sugar in New York has more than doubled since reaching
a 13-month low on May 7 on concern adverse weather will reduce
output in Brazil,  Russia , China and Pakistan. The market needs
supplies from India, the second-biggest producer, to meet a
deficit, McDougall said.  “If there’s less rain than normal in Brazil until March
you could potentially see a reduction in the cane harvest and
then you have a potentially big problem,” he said. McDougall in
August correctly forecast that sugar will exceed 23 cents.  Futures rose for a fourth straight session yesterday amid
speculation that  India  may curb exports as it builds stockpiles.
Raw sugar for March delivery climbed 1.1 percent to settle at
29.45 cents ICE Futures U.S.  “Current prices show that the market needs Indian sugar,”
McDougall said.  India was the largest buyer last year as adverse weather
damaged crops. Its reserves are at about 4 million metric tons,
compared with the nation’s preferred level of 10 million tons,
according to Rabobank International.  Surplus  The country should ship its 3-million ton surplus by the
end of the fiscal year on March 31 to gain from high prices as
output is likely to exceed demand for the first time in three
years,  Narendra Murkumbi , managing director of  Shree Renuka
Sugars Ltd ., India’s biggest refiner, said in an e-mailed
response to questions last week.  “Nothing can be more suitable than exporting in our peak
season when farmers have to be paid, and coincidentally world
prices are at a high,” Murkumbi said.  The government may consider allowing exports in the second
week of November, Farm Minister  Sharad Pawar  said last week.  “I think that’s a possibility,” McDougall said, referring
to India’s plan to ship 3 million tons.  The global surplus may be 2 million tons for 2010-2011,
said Sergey Gudoshnikov, economist at the International Sugar
Organization, in an interview on Oct. 26, less than 3.22 million
tons forecast two months ago.  National Australia Bank Ltd. said last week it had doubled
its forecast for China’s imports in 2010-2011 to 2 million tons.
Pakistan will buy 1.2 million tons in the year started Nov. 1,
exceeding 700,000 tons forecast previously, the U.S. Department
of Agriculture’s Foreign Agricultural Service said Oct. 1.  “There is a fair amount of deficit in the market,” said
McDougall. “The Chinese have been buying large amounts. The
Russians still have to buy. They will probably come into the
market around March-April.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pratik Parija in  New Delhi  at 
 pparija@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  