-- Sweden Tells Currency Manipulators to Seek Trade Edge Elsewhere
-- B y   N i k l a s   M a g n u s s o n
-- 2010-11-03T11:44:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-02/sweden-tells-currency-manipulators-to-find-alternative-competitive-edge.html
Swedish Prime Minister  Fredrik Reinfeldt  said countries that try to protect their exports
through currency manipulation are prolonging competitive
disadvantages that exchange rates can’t fix.  “This is a discussion that is ongoing in the world, but
the way to deal with currencies is that they should be market
valued,” Reinfeldt said in an interview in Reykjavik yesterday.
“Then the politics will have to react to the competitive
problems in other ways.”  Since Brazil’s Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  more than a
month ago said there’s a global “currency war,” policy makers
in Europe, the U.S. and Asia have tried to prevent a wave of
outright protectionist measures that would undermine trade
relations. Group of 20 Finance Ministers and central bankers
last month vowed to avoid “competitive devaluation,” leaving
the details to government leaders at a Nov. 11-12 Seoul summit.  “Sweden has moved on from the idea that you can only
maintain competition through currency manipulation,” Reinfeldt
said.  The Federal Reserve is likely to announce plans to buy $500
billion or more in securities at today’s meeting, according to
29 of 56 economists surveyed by Bloomberg. Economists, including
 James D. Hamilton , at the University of California, San Diego,
and Nobel Prize laureate  Robert Mundell  warn the measure risks
shaking up currency markets as investors sell the dollar.  ‘Developments’  “Currencies are going to play a part because there are
different developments in different countries so this is
certainly going to be an issue,” Norway’s Finance Minister
Sigbjoern Johnsen said in an interview in Oslo today.  Sweden’s krona is the best performer against the euro and
the dollar since mid-June of the 16 major currencies tracked by
Bloomberg, having gained 2.6 percent against the euro and 17
percent against the greenback in the period. Reinfeldt signaled
the gains may continue, given the outlook for Sweden’s economy.  “It is not difficult to understand the strengthening of
the krona when looking at the Swedish fundamentals at a time
when many other countries have deep problems,” he said.  The krona today traded weaker, losing 0.1 percent against
the euro to 9.3235 by 11:53 a.m. and was flat against the dollar
at 6.6352.  Output Gap  The largest Nordic economy will expand 4.8 percent this
year, the government estimates, putting it on track to deliver
the European Union’s biggest rebound as it recoups most of
2009’s 5.1 percent contraction. Sweden also boasts the EU’s
smallest budget deficit.  The central bank has raised  rates  three times since July as
it steers the economy through the recovery. Policy makers lifted
the benchmark a quarter point to 1 percent last month.  Still, Sweden’s output gap means the government doesn’t
need to exercise the same fiscal restraint as neighboring
Norway, Reinfeldt said. Norway’s government is trying to shape
economic policy to allow Norges Bank to keep rates as low as
possible.  “The krone is an important consideration for how we
construct the fiscal policy,” Johnsen said. “It’s a concern
that we manage to keep this tight fiscal policy in order not to
increase the interest rate differential between Norway and our
main trading partners.”  Johnsen said he expected very low borrowing costs in Europe
for a long period.  ‘Gratifying’  “We don’t have those kinds of capacity problems,”
Reinfeldt said. “The latest inflation report shows available
capacity and a very gratifying development with a higher job
range.”  The Riksbank, which on Oct. 26 said it will scale back its
monetary tightening plans to adjust to slower global growth and
low interest rates in the U.S. and Europe, expects headline
inflation to average 1.2 percent this year and 1.7 percent in
2011. That compares with the bank’s 2 percent target. Inflation,
adjusting for mortgage costs, will lag behind the Riksbank’s
price target for the next three years, it predicts.  Sweden has no timeline for adopting the euro. Unlike
neighboring Denmark, it doesn’t peg its krona to Europe’s single
currency.  Sweden’s central bank in 1992 raised its main rate to 500
percent in an effort to defend its peg in the Exchange Rate
Mechanism -- a precursor to monetary union in Europe. It was
forced to abandon its peg when speculation against the krona
overwhelmed central bank resources.  -- With assistance from Josiane Kremer in Oslo Editors:  Tasneem Brogger ,  Chris Kirkham .  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Niklas Magnusson  in Stockholm at 
 nmagnusson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  