-- Britain, France to Share Nuclear-Test Facilities, Carriers
-- B y   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n   a n d   H e l e n e   F o u q u e t
-- 2010-11-02T14:41:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-02/u-k-france-to-share-nuclear-test-facilities-carriers-in-defense-treaty.html
Britain and France will share
nuclear-testing facilities and use each other’s aircraft
carriers under treaties on defense cooperation signed today.  The two accords, signed by U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron  and French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  after talks in
London, will also allow the formation of a joint troop
expeditionary force capable of deploying at short notice.  Cameron hailed a “new chapter” in defense cooperation,
saying the agreements will allow the countries to cut defense
costs while retaining their global military clout. Together, the
nations represent 45 percent of Europe’s military budget, 55
percent of its operational forces and 70 percent of its military
research and technology.  “Britain and France are and will always remain sovereign
nations able to deploy our armed forces independently and in our
national interests when we choose to do so,” Cameron told a
joint news conference with Sarkozy. “It is about defending our
national interest. It is about practical, hard-headed co-
operation.”  One of the treaties will allow for a team of Britons to
share testing resources at  Valduc , 28 miles (45 kilometers)
northwest of Dijon, France. A French team will share nuclear
technology development at the  Atomic Weapons Establishment  at
Aldermaston, 45 miles west of London.  Nuclear Deterrent  “While we will always retain an independent nuclear
deterrent, it is right we look for efficiencies in the
infrastructure required to develop and sustain our separate
deterrents,” Cameron said. The British government estimates
sharing nuclear facilities will save hundreds of millions of
pounds.  Both nations will retain sovereignty over their own nuclear
experiments and data. The agreement will preclude the sharing of
submarine patrols or the transfer of nuclear warheads.  “It’s an unprecedented decision and shows a level of
confidence between our two nations never reached before in our
common history,” Sarkozy said. “These are two great European
nations that are adding up and combining their efforts”  The U.K. is cutting its defense budget by about 8 percent
by 2015, part of an attempt to tackle its record budget deficit.
It is seeking ways to make up future shortfall in its military
capability. The treaty will bind both nations for 50 years.  Rapid-Reaction Force  An Anglo-French joint expeditionary force, which will not
be a standing military unit, could include a rapid-reaction
force and be deployed as soon as next year. In the event of its
use, both countries will agree an overall political and military
strategy. Troops will act under a single commander of either
nation.  The troops will communicate in English, in line with the
operational policy of deployments by joint forces under command
of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization.  Britain and France will also share each other’s aircraft
carriers. Cameron said Oct. 19 that the U.K. will press ahead
with the construction of two aircraft carriers, although the
launch of the first will be deferred to 2020 from 2016 and only
one will be in operation at one time.  The countries plan to share the use of whichever carrier
the U.K. brings into service first, probably HMS Queen Elizabeth
II, alongside France’s  Charles De Gaulle  carrier when one is out
of service. Neither country will be obliged to deploy its
carrier in the service of the other.  Training and Maintenance  Today’s agreements also include plans to support training
and maintenance on Airbus SAS A400M military transport aircraft
and greater cooperation on unmanned air vehicles, missile
systems and complex weapons systems.  Also discussed was the possibility France will absorb any
spare capacity that is available when the U.K. takes delivery of
its  future strategic tanker aircraft  for air-to-air refueling.  French Finance Minister  Christine Lagarde  met her U.K.
counterpart  George Osborne  today, Immigration Minister  Eric Besson  met  Damian Green , Defense Minister  Herve Morin  saw Liam
Fox and Foreign Minister  Bernard Kouchner  held talks with
 William Hague .  Those meetings contained discussions about satellite
communications, counter-terrorism, cyber security and the
security of the Channel Tunnel, the transport tunnel that links
Britain and France.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Kitty Donaldson  in London at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net ;
 Helene Fouquet  in Paris at 
 Hfouquet1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net . 