-- U.S. Corn Shipment Rejected by China May Go to Japan, Unipac's Chino Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-11-02T06:28:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-02/u-s-corn-shipment-rejected-by-china-may-go-to-japan-unipac-s-chino-says.html
A shipment of U.S. corn rejected by
China on the grounds that it contained a genetically modified
strain not approved in the country may be resold to Japan for
livestock feed, Unipac Grain Ltd. said.  Japan approves all varieties of U.S. genetically modified
corn that are in commercial production,  Nobuyuki Chino ,
president of the Tokyo-based trading company, said by phone
yesterday. Chino has traded grains for more than 30 years.  China rejected a 54,000 ton cargo bought by Cofco Ltd. from
a Japanese trading company, two officials with direct knowledge
of the matter have said. This was the first time China rejected
a U.S. corn cargo, and the grain, stored in the southern port of
 Shenzhen  since September, will probably be ordered out of the
country, the officials said.  China, the world’s second-biggest corn consumer, has bought
about 1.5 million tons of the U.S. grain this year, the most
since about 1995, as the government sought to cool domestic
prices that gained 27 percent in the past year. Futures have
surged 52 percent in Chicago as drought in Russia and Ukraine
and floods in Canada pushed up global grain prices.  The quarantine department’s decision to reject the cargo
was reached after tests on as many as eight samples, one
official said. The government may make an announcement in the
next few days, one official said. They declined to be identified
as they are not authorized to discuss the matter publicly.  The press office at the General Administration of Quality
Supervision, Inspection and Quarantine declined to comment. The
Cofco press office also declined to comment.  -- William Bi ,  Aya Takada . Editor:  James Poole   To contact the reporter on this story:
 William Bi  in Beijing at 
 wbi@bloomberg.net 
Aya Takada in Tokyo at 
 atakada2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  