-- U.S. Auto Sales May Reach Fastest Pace in 14 Months for October
-- B y   C r a i g   T r u d e l l   a n d   T i m   H i g g i n s
-- 2010-11-02T22:45:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-02/u-s-auto-sales-may-reach-fastest-pace-in-14-months-for-october.html
U.S. automobile  sales  in October may
have run at the fastest pace in 14 months as buyers show they’re
willing to pay more for 2011 model-year vehicles.  Industrywide deliveries, most of which will be released
tomorrow, may have reached an annual rate of 11.9 million
vehicles last month, the average of nine analysts’ estimates
compiled by Bloomberg. That would top the 11.8 million pace of
September, the fastest since the government’s “cash for
clunkers” program in August 2009. Seven automakers today
reported increases.  Consumers are showing a slow and steady willingness to buy
new vehicles as the model-year changeover begins at dealerships,
said  Jeremy Anwyl , chief executive officer of automotive website
Edmunds.com. Deliveries are running about 30 percent slower than
the 16.8 million annual average from 2000 to 2007.  “The business is moving from 2010s being sold at big
discounts to 2011s sold at a premium,” said Anwyl, who is based
in Santa Monica, California. “The 2011s are doing OK, so there
is some indication that consumers are willing to pay more for
the newer models. They’re hesitant but feeling a bit better.”  The U.S. economy expanded at a 2 percent annual rate in the
third quarter, the Commerce Department reported Oct. 29.
Confidence among consumers fell last month to the lowest level
in almost a year, according to the Thomson Reuters/University of
Michigan final  index  of consumer sentiment, as the jobless rate
is projected to stay above 9 percent through next year.  The U.S. auto selling rate has stayed above 11 million
since March, according to Autodata Corp., a research firm based
in Woodcliff Lake, New Jersey.  Ford Sales Gain  Ford Motor Co.  may post a 14 percent sales increase, the
average of six analysts’ estimates. The Dearborn, Michigan-based
automaker reported third-quarter net income of $1.69 billion
last week. Ford shares have risen 44 percent this year and
closed at $14.43, the highest since April 26.  The industrywide rate may have topped 12 million,  George Pipas , Ford’s sales analyst, said today in an interview.  Chrysler Group LLC, based in Auburn Hills, Michigan, may
have led U.S. automakers for the third straight month with a 41
percent sales increase, the average of six analysts’ estimates,
helped by higher deliveries to fleet customers.  Deliveries by Detroit-based  General Motors Co.  may have
declined 6.3 percent, the average of three estimates. Incentive
spending by the largest U.S. automaker probably fell 15 percent
from a year earlier, according to TrueCar.com, an automotive
pricing website based in Santa Monica, California.  GM IPO  GM plans to sell as much as $10.6 billion in an initial
public offering this month, a smaller sale than it originally
targeted, two people familiar with the matter said yesterday.  “Without crazy incentive spending, you’re not going to get
to a 14 million annual sales rate anytime soon,”  Jesse Toprak ,
vice president of industry trends at TrueCar, said in a
telephone interview. “But if automakers are able to make money
with sub-12 million sales, perhaps this is a healthier way to
recover.”  Toyota Motor Corp. ’s U.S. deliveries may have declined 5.6
percent, the average estimate of four analysts. The world’s
largest automaker had smaller discounts on 2010 model year
vehicles compared to its competitors, said Ivan Drury, an
Edmunds.com analyst.  ‘Huge Gap’  “If you go into a dealership expecting a huge discount on
2010s versus 2011s and there really isn’t that much of an
incentive difference, you might look toward another automaker
that does provide that huge gap in incentives,” Drury said in
an interview. “Toyota has one of the smallest gaps of the Big
6.”  Sales of the Corolla and Camry may be lower, while truck
deliveries gained,  Chris Ceraso , an analyst with Credit Suisse
Group AG, wrote yesterday in a note.  Sales of  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG’s  namesake brand rose
17 percent in October to 19,272 vehicles, the Munich-based
company said today in a statement. Sales were helped by a 49
percent increase of X5 SUVs.  U.S. sales of  Volkswagen AG’s  mainstream brand rose 18
percent to 20,084 in October, the company said in a statement
today. Volkswagen’s Audi luxury line reported deliveries climbed
10 percent to 8,128.  Daimler AG said today in a statement that its Mercedes-Benz
brand boosted sales 0.9 percent to 18,351. The figure excludes
deliveries of Sprinter, Freightliner and Maybach vehicles.  Hyundai Sales  Hyundai Motor Co. ’s U.S. sales rose 38 percent to 42,656,
while affiliate Kia Motors Corp.’s deliveries increased 39
percent to 31,199, the Seoul-based automakers said today.  Tata Motors Ltd.’s  Jaguar posted a 47 percent gain in sales
to 1,295 vehicles. The company’s Land Rover division sold 2,958
vehicles for the month, a 37 percent increase, the company said
in a statement.  After Ford’s profit last week topped the 107-year-old
automaker’s previous record for third-quarter earnings, GM
announced it would reduce debt and other obligations by $11
billion. The actions signaled GM’s cash flow must be improving,
said  Joe Phillippi , principal of AutoTrends Inc., a consulting
firm in Short Hills, New Jersey.  Recovering auto sales helped the four largest U.S. auto
retailers to their best quarter for revenue in two years,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Auto Retailers  AutoNation Inc. ,  Penske Automotive Group Inc. ,  Sonic
Automotive Inc.  and  Group 1 Automotive Inc.  combined to report
sales of $9.26 billion, the most since the four had revenue of
$9.38 billion in third quarter 2008.  “New-vehicle traffic and selling rates in October are
better than we expected,”  Earl Hesterberg , CEO of Group 1, said
in a telephone interview on Oct. 26. “There appears to be a
very good chance that this will be the best seasonally adjusted
selling month of the year.”  Group 1 shares rose 8.5 percent after the company reported
earnings on Oct. 26. Net income climbed to $18.99 million, the
highest since the third quarter of 2007.  AutoNation, the largest U.S. auto retailer, repeated its
forecast for 11.5 million new-vehicle deliveries for the year,
which would imply a rate of about 12 million units in the fourth
quarter, CEO  Mike Jackson  said in an interview. Sales are being
helped by improved access to credit, the company said.  “The prime segment is all the way back, the near-prime
segment is performing well,” Chief Operating Officer  Michael Maroone  said in a telephone interview. “It’s really the
subprime segment that’s still under pressure.”  Subprime Borrowers  Maroone said the one exception to tight credit for
borrowers with weaker credit history was General Motors
Financial Co., the subprime lender formerly known as AmeriCredit
Corp. that GM acquired and renamed. Contracts with the subprime
lender more than doubled by volume from a year earlier, he said.  Honda Motor Co.’s  deliveries may have climbed 16 percent,
according to four analysts’ estimates.  Nissan Motor Co.’s  sales
may have increased 13 percent.  Honda may have more than doubled incentive spending from a
year earlier, according to TrueCar.  The following table shows estimates for car and light-truck
sales in the U.S. Estimates for companies are a percentage
change from October 2009. Forecasts for the seasonally adjusted
annual rate, or SAAR, are in millions of vehicles.  October had 27 selling days, one fewer than a year earlier.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Craig Trudell  in New York at 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net ;
 Tim Higgins  at 
 thiggins21@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters in Southfield, Michigan at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net . 