-- Republicans Projected to Win Majority in U.S. House
-- B y   L i s a   L e r e r   a n d   C a t h e r i n e   D o d g e
-- 2010-11-03T02:15:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-02/u-s-midterm-elections-draw-to-close-as-republicans-seen-taking-back-house.html
Republicans were projected to take
control of the U.S. House and had picked up at least two Senate
seats in U.S. midterm elections marked by voter anxiety over
jobs and the economy.  Republicans gained House seats in Virginia, Florida and
Indiana, and took Senate seats from Democrats in Indiana and
Arkansas, according to projections. CNN, CBS and MSNBC
predicted Republicans won enough races to get a House majority,
delivering a rebuke to President  Barack Obama . The party needed
a net gain of at least 39 seats to control the chamber next
year.  Republicans faced an uphill battle in their quest for
Senate control.  The midterm campaign has been shaped by a national
 unemployment rate  at or above 9.5 percent for the last 14
months, criticism of the White House’s domestic agenda and an
anti-Washington sentiment reflected in the Tea Party movement.  “Tonight was a referendum on the Obama agenda, and the
American people rejected it,” said Representative  Darrell Issa 
of California, the top Republican on the Oversight and
Government Reform Committee. “The American people have sent a
clear and direct message to Washington that they want less
spending, limited government and more accountability.”  Paul, Rubio Win  As voting continued on the West Coast, Tea Party favorites
 Rand Paul  in Kentucky and  Marco Rubio  in Florida gave
Republicans early Senate victories.  “We’ve come to take our government back,” Paul, an
ophthalmologist who hasn’t held public office, said in his
acceptance speech. “Tonight there’s a Tea Party tidal wave and
we’re sending a message,” he said.  The Republicans will gain significant power in Washington
forcing the White House and congressional Democrats to reshape
their agenda.  Voters “are just in a foul mood,” said  Stuart Rothenberg , editor of the Washington-based Rothenberg Political
Report.  In the Senate, Democrats faced a hard-fought race in West
Virginia, with networks projecting a victory for  Joe Manchin ,
the state’s governor. His winning of the seat that Democrat
 Robert Byrd  held until his death in June makes it harder for
Republicans to reach a Senate majority.  ‘Tough Haul’  “The Senate was going to be a tough haul for us,”
 Michael Steele , the Republican National Committee chairman,
said on MSNBC.  The Democrats captured House and Senate control in the
2006 midterm elections, when Republican  George W. Bush  was
still in the White House.  Amid criticism of Obama’s domestic agenda, including
health-care and economic-stimulus measures, Democratic losses
in the House could top the 54 seats Republicans gained in their
1994 resurgence. The  losses  could be the deepest since the 1938
midterms, when the party lost 72 seats.  The Republican takeover of the House may force House
Speaker  Nancy Pelosi  of California to consider stepping aside
as the Democratic minority leader in the new congressional
session, according to two House Democratic leadership aides who
spoke on condition of anonymity.  Republican control opens the door to investigations of the
Obama administration by new committee chairmen armed with
subpoena power and the ability to influence policy on
everything from the implementation of the new health-care law
and overhaul of the U.S. financial-regulatory system.  House Races  Democrats suffered blows in House races in Virginia, where
Republican  Morgan Griffith  ousted 14-term House Democratic
incumbent  Rick Boucher  and Democratic freshman  Glenn Nye  lost
to Republican challenger Scott Rigell. Also, Republican  Robert Hurt  defeated Democratic incumbent  Tom Perriello , the
Associated Press projected. The loss comes after Obama
campaigned for Perriello Oct. 29.  Nye and Perriello were part of the class of Democratic
House members in competitive districts elected on a wave of
support for Obama two years ago.  In Florida, freshman Democrat  Suzanne Kosmas  lost her re-
election bid to state Representative  Sandy Adams , AP projected.  In Indiana, Republicans laid claim to the House seat
vacated by Democrat  Brad Ellsworth . And Republican challenger
Todd Young defeated Democratic incumbent  Baron Hill .  In Ohio, Republican  Rob Portman  was the projected winner
over Democratic Lieutenant Governor  Lee Fisher  for the Senate
seat vacated by Republican  George Voinovich , who is retiring.
Portman was the top international trade official under Bush and
also served as head of his budget office.  Delaware Race  In Delaware, Democrat  Chris Coons  was projected by AP to
beat  Tea Party-backed Republican Christine O’Donnell , enabling
Democrats to keep the seat once held by Vice President  Joe Biden . Republicans had targeted that seat for a pickup, but
those hopes suffered a blow when the state’s Republicans
nominated O’Donnell over Representative  Mike Castle  in
September.  In Indiana, former Senator  Dan Coats , a Republican, beat
Democrat  Ellsworth . Coats will replace Democrat  Evan Bayh , who
is retiring. As expected, Republican Senator  Jim DeMint  of
South Carolina won re-election.  Lincoln Loses  In Arkansas, Democratic incumbent  Blanche Lincoln  was
ousted by Republican Representative  John Boozman . Lincoln was
one of the leading voices in Congress for tougher regulation of
Wall Street in the wake of the financial crisis.  Support from Tea Party activists, who advocate for less
government spending, fueled the insurgent campaign bids of both
Paul and Rubio.  Rubio, 39, defeated Governor  Charlie Crist , a one-time
Republican who ran as an independent, and Representative
 Kendrick Meek , the Democratic nominee, for an open seat that
has been held by a Republican. Crist, once viewed by Republican
leaders as a rising star, withdrew from the party primary in
April after polls showed him trailing Rubio for the Senate
nomination.  Democrats held a Senate seat in Connecticut, where state
attorney general  Richard Blumenthal  beat Republican nominee
 Linda McMahon , former chief executive officer of World
Wrestling Entertainment Inc, who spent millions of her own
fortune on the race.  The Republican victory in the House helps companies from
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  to health insurer  Wellpoint Inc.  gain
support in efforts to undermine what they consider Obama’s
anti-business policies on taxes, health care and financial
regulation.  Trade Issues  Exporters such as  Caterpillar Inc.  and  United Parcel
Service Inc.  say a Republican-controlled House would be more
likely to work with Obama to approve pending free-trade
agreements with South Korea, Colombia and Panama.  The election has been the costliest non-presidential
contest in U.S., with spending expected to reach $4 billion,
according to the Center for Responsive Politics.  With polls on the West Coast closing late in the night and
surveys showing that crucial races remain tight, final results
may not be known for days. A three-way race sparked by the
write-in campaign of incumbent Republican Senator  Lisa Murkowski  in Alaska could delay results in that state for
weeks. Counting of the write-in ballots, if necessary, won’t
begin until Nov. 18, according to  Gail Fenumiai , Alaska
Division of Elections director.  Democrats worked to get out their voters, hoping to stem
losses for the party just two years after they celebrated
Obama’s election as the nation’s first black president.  “Across the country polls are still open so many of us
have to get back on the phone to urge people to get out the
vote,” said Pelosi, a California Democrat, in comments to
supporters gathered in Washington.  Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid  faces a challenge in his
home state after helping Obama win Nevada by 12 percentage
points  two years ago .  A loss by Reid would kick off a leadership battle, with
other Democratic senators vying to replace him as leader.  To contact the reporters on this story:  Lisa Lerer  in
Washington
at   llerer@bloomberg.net ;  Catherine Dodge  in
Washington at   Cdodge1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  