-- Undefeated Zenyatta Seeks Record 20th Victory in Breeders' Cup Classic
-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 2010-11-03T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-02/undefeated-zenyatta-seeks-a-record-20th-victory-in-breeders-cup-classic.html
Undefeated Zenyatta may earn the tag
as “the best horse of all time” if she gets her 20th
consecutive win in the $5 Million Breeders’ Cup Classic, the
richest thoroughbred horse race in North America.  Zenyatta, who became the first filly or mare to win the
Classic last year, is looking for her third straight Breeders’
Cup title after taking the Ladies Classic in 2008. She was given
8-5 odds by  Mike Battaglia , handicapper for Churchill Downs
racetrack.  The 6-year-old will compete in her final race before
retirement against 11 horses in the 1 1/4-mile Classic on Nov.
6. The 27th  Breeders’ Cup Championships , which consist of 14
races with $26 million in purses, start Nov. 5 at Churchill
Downs in Louisville, Kentucky.  “It’s going to be a tough race,” Johnny Avello, executive
director of race and sports operations at Wynn Resorts Ltd. in
Las Vegas, said in a telephone interview. “This is not a cruise
in the park. After this race, you’ll hear she’s the best horse
of all time.”  Avello, who originally set her odds at 5-2 in his future
book, has since seen them fall as race day nears. If Zenyatta
wins, he said he’ll lose a lot of money in his future book.  ‘A Great Story’  “But I don’t care,” he said. “It’s a great story.”  Churchill Downs’ Battaglia said he originally set
Zenyatta’s odds at 5-2 until his wife told him the mare was
listed as one of talk-show host and entertainer  Oprah Winfrey ’s
most influential females. Then he dropped them again when
Zenyatta appeared this past weekend on CBS Corp.’s “60
Minutes.”  “She’s not only a star on the racetrack,” he said in an
interview on the  Breeders Cup website . “She’s a Hollywood
superstar.”  Trainer  Bob Baffert  will run Preakness Stakes winner Lookin
At Lucky against Zenyatta in the Classic. The 3-year-old,
starting from the outside post, was given odds of 6-1.  “I’ve been kind of fortunate to watch her run in
California, and she’s become such a popular mare,” Baffert said
during a teleconference last week. “She puts on a show for
everybody with her little antics and she’s a really smart
mare.”  Souvenir Betting Slips  Avello figures there will be bets on Zenyatta that won’t be
cashed in.  “There are going to be a lot of $2 tickets that will not
be cashed,” Avello said. “They’ll keep them as souvenirs.”  Blame, ridden by Garrett Gomez, is the second favorite at
9-2, and Quality Road, with  John Velazquez  aboard, is third at
5-1.  Zenyatta, owned by  Jerry Moss , the founder of A&M Records
Inc., and his wife, Ann Moss, was brought out of retirement this
year. She was named for the Police’s 1980 album “ Zenyatta
Mondatta .”  “Everyday with her is a celebration,” Ann Moss said on
the website. “We’re always going from race to race and she’s
had a good time. She’s grazed and found the grass is shorter
with leaves on it.”  Ann Moss said the No. 8 post position is “one of our
favorite numbers.”  Jerry Moss said the contest is “a tough race. These are
great horses. She beats this group -- it will be something.”  Horse of Year  Even though she won last year’s Classic, Zenyatta missed
Horse of the Year honors as Rachel Alexandra, the first filly to
win the Preakness in 85 years, received 130 votes to 99 for the
mare.  Jess Jackson ’s 4-year-old was retired in September before
the thoroughbreds could meet.  Last year, Zenyatta was the top-earning North American
thoroughbred at $3.3 million and won honors as the 2009 champion
older filly or mare.  In her traditional racing style, Zenyatta dances her way to
the track, poses for the cheering fans and then gives them a
performance in which she hangs at the back of the pack until
jockey Mike Smith gives her the sign to move.  “She knows where the wire is, it’s almost like a game to
her,” Baffert said. “She’s like a killer whale playing with
the seals. And she just turns for home. She locks down on the
leader and just gets after them and just runs the last part of
it. I get goose bumps just watching the replays of her race.”  Trainer John Shirreffs said Zenyatta has no problem
handling noise and crowds.  “She seems to really get a kick out of it, so I don’t
anticipate any problem with that at all,” Shirreffs said during
a teleconference.  Zenyatta won her 14th straight race in last year’s Classic
on a synthetic track at Santa Anita Park in Arcadia, California.
The mare, who was purchased by Moss as a yearling for $60,000,
won her first 13 races against fillies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nancy Kercheval  in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  