-- Hungary Budget ‘Hole’ After 2012 Calls for Austerity
-- B y   K r y s t o f   C h a m o n i k o l a s
-- 2010-11-02T17:26:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-02/hungary-faces-3-6-billion-budget-hole-after-2012-morgan-unicredit-say.html
Hungary must cut spending because a
plan to impose temporary taxes and retain pension-fund savings
will fail to control the fiscal deficit from 2013 and risk long-
term funding,  Morgan Stanley  and  UniCredit SpA  said.  The end of special corporate taxes, designed to bring down
the deficit through 2012, and the introduction of a flat
personal-income tax rate will create a shortfall in 2013 of
about 700 billion forint ($3.6 billion), or 2.5 percent of gross
domestic product, estimates from the two banks show.  “We found no clarity at all on measures to fill this
structural hole, which will emerge fully in 2013, and we do not
think it is likely that any will be announced any time soon,”
Morgan Stanley analysts  Pasquale Diana  and  Chuan Lim  in London
wrote in a report to clients yesterday.  Prime Minister  Viktor Orban  imposed a three-year tax on the
financial, energy, telecommunications and retail industries to
generate 343 billion forint of budget revenue this year.
Hungary, which received a bailout in 2008 to avert default, is
trying to convince investors it can finance itself without
International Monetary Fund assistance.  The European Union country will cut as many as 30,000
public-sector jobs next year to help cut the fiscal gap to 2.94
percent of GDP from 3.8 percent this year and will use revenue
from private pension savings to reduce the country’s debt,
Economy Minister  Gyorgy Matolcsy  said on Oct. 30.  Financing Risks  “Although the measures will undoubtedly improve the near-
term deficit outlook, we believe the long-term financing risks
are increasing,”  Gyula Toth , an emerging-market strategist at
UniCredit in Vienna, wrote in an Oct. 31 report.  The forint has been the world’s best-performing currency in
the past eight weeks, with a 6.3 percent gain versus the euro.
The government pledged on Sept. 8 to narrow the gap to 3.8
percent of GDP this year and below 3 percent in 2011, abandoning
a fight with the IMF and EU over the same targets.  The government’s measures extend “uncertainty” about the
country’s credit rating,  Manik Narain  and  Gyorgy Kovacs ,
economists at  UBS AG  in London, said in an e-mailed note late
yesterday. Moody’s Investors Service and Standard & Poor’s are
reviewing Hungary’s grades for possible reduction.  ‘Increase Uncertainty’  “The government’s commitment to the 3 percent deficit and
the likely acceleration of reduction in the public debt stock is
positive,” Narain and Kovacs wrote. “On the other hand the
reversal of pension fund reform and heavy reliance on temporary
measures increase uncertainty.”  Hungary plans to partly use the proceeds from the new taxes
to finance a reduction in the personal-income tax rate to 16
percent, a move designed to help boost growth. The economy is
recovering from its worst recession in 18 years and the IMF last
week said growth and tax revenue may miss government forecasts.  “Assuming no more expenditure cuts, the end of the crisis
taxes and the introduction of a flat personal-income tax” would
“increase the deficit by 2.5 percent to 3 percent of GDP in
2013,” UniCredit’s Toth wrote. “This comes on top of a hefty
redemption schedule in 2013.”  The government will have to repay about 6 billion euros
($8.3 billion) of local-currency debt and 6.4 billion euros of
external debt in 2013, compared with total redemptions of 8
billion euros next year, according to UniCredit’s estimates.  ‘Adjust Expenditures’  “In order to compensate for this, the government will need
to adjust its expenditures and/or hope for a significant
acceleration of GDP growth,” Toth wrote.  Hungary’s parliament on Oct. 26 approved the suspension of
mandatory social-security payments to private pension funds
until the end of next year. That will boost 2011 state revenue
by 360 billion forint, and another 540 billion forint may come
from savers who will choose to move their private pension-fund
portfolios to the state, Matolcsy said.  “Another, very serious long-term issue is what will happen
to the pension system after December 2011, when in principle the
government should once again start making payments” into
private pension funds, the Morgan Stanley analysts wrote.  The government may continue to divert all contributions to
the state-run system beyond 2011, heading toward “full-scale
nationalization of the pension funds,” Diana and Lim wrote.
While that would bring “short-term improvements” in deficit
and debt levels, relying solely on the public pay-as-you-go
system “is probably not viable in the long run,” they wrote.  Bonds, CDS  Longer-term Hungarian bonds have declined in the past three
weeks on concern the new taxes will hurt the economic recovery,
lifting the yield on the forint-denominated note due in 2015 to
6.726 percent at 5:53 p.m. in Budapest from 6.481 percent on
Oct. 13. The 10-year yield has risen to 7.028 percent from 6.771
percent in the period, while two-year bonds are little changed.  The cost of protecting Hungarian bonds against non-payment
with credit-default swaps advanced to 281 basis points yesterday
from 258 on Oct. 13, CMA data show. The price of default swaps,
or CDS, rises as risk perceptions deteriorate.  “We recommend taking profit on outright CDS seller
positions,” UniCredit’s Toth said. “We also see logic in
switching long-maturity Hungarian bonds to shorter maturities.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Krystof Chamonikolas  in Prague at 
 kchamonikola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at   gserkin@bloomberg.net  