-- VW’s Skoda to ‘At Least’ Double Sales in 10 Years
-- B y   A n d r e a s   C r e m e r
-- 2010-11-02T14:24:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-02/volkswagen-s-skoda-unit-aims-to-at-least-double-sales-in-next-10-years.html
Skoda Auto AS will “at least”
double global sales through 2020 as the Czech carmaker plans to
expand operations in Russia, India and China, Chief Executive
Officer  Winfried Vahland  said.  The division of  Volkswagen AG  will “noticeably expand”
its business in the three nations, where sales of passenger
cars and light commercial vehicles may surge to 30 million
units by 2020 from 17 million last year, Vahland said today at
an automotive conference in Berlin.  “Skoda is facing a new advance to its international
growth,” said Vahland, who took the helm at Mlada Boleslav-
based Skoda on Sept. 1.  Volkswagen  is seeking to reposition Skoda under Vahland
and reinforce the carmaker’s traditional focus on Eastern
Europe and Asia. Europe’s largest carmaker aims to achieve
sales of 10 million units by 2015, three years ahead of its
previous plan, as VW tries to pass  Toyota Motor Corp.  as the
world’s biggest automaker, a person with direct knowledge of
the matter said Oct. 21.  Skoda expects sales and operating results to
“significantly” improve this year, the company said Oct. 27.
The carmaker sold 569,000 vehicles, including Superb station-
wagon and Octavia hatchback models, in the first nine months, a
13 percent gain from the same period a year earlier, while
operating profit almost doubled to 314 million euros ($441
million) from 162 million euros.  Entry-Level Brand  “We’re strengthening our role as the entry-level brand
within VW group,” said Vahland. “Skoda stands for
inexpensive, not cheap, family-oriented models.”  VW, based in Wolfsburg, Germany, is losing 500 million
euros in profit every year as the namesake brand’s customers
flock to cheaper models at Skoda and Spanish unit Seat,
according to  Ferdinand Dudenhoeffer , director of the Center for
Automotive Research at the University of Duisburg-Essen.  The unwanted crossover between Skoda and VW-brand models
contributed to Skoda’s previous CEO,  Reinhard Jung , losing his
position to Vahland, who led the carmaker’s China operations
before joining the Czech division, Dudenhoeffer has said.  Built on the same technology platform, Skoda’s Superb
model sells for 2,500 euros less than VW’s Passat while the
Fabia compact is 1,695 euros cheaper than VW’s Polo.  Vahland dismissed analyst views that Skoda is encroaching
on VW’s customer base as “a great fairy tale.”  “We’re focusing on our competitors, the Koreans,” the
CEO said. “That’s where we want to score.”  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreas Cremer at 
 acremer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at   kwong11@bloomberg.net  