-- Westfield Shares Halted Amid Newspaper Reports of Stock Sale, Asset Split
-- B y   N i c h o l a   S a m i n a t h e r   a n d   V i c t o r i a   B a t c h e l o r
-- 2010-11-02T07:24:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-02/westfield-group-s-shares-halted-before-statement-on-possible-transaction.html
Westfield Group  shares were halted
from trading in Sydney pending an announcement on a “possible
transaction” after media reports speculated the company may be
set to sell shares or split assets.  The shopping mall operator is considering an equity raising
of A$3 billion ($2.99 billion), the Australian Financial Review
reported on its website, without saying where it got the
information. The Australian newspaper said there is speculation
of an asset sale or a split of the company’s Australian and U.S.
assets, without citing anyone.  Westfield “notes speculation in the media about possible
transactions,” it said in a statement. The retailer said it
requested the shares remain untraded until the market opening
tomorrow, unless it asks for the halt be lifted before then.
Westfield spokeswoman Julia Clarke didn’t return a message left
on her voicemail seeking comment.  The cost of protecting  Westfield  bonds from default surged
the most in almost five months, jumping 10 basis points to 130
basis points as of 5:48 p.m. in Sydney, according to Australia &
New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. prices. That’s the biggest
increase since June 7 and the highest level since Oct. 8, prices
from data provider CMA show.  The  Sydney-based company , which has so far limited its
business to Australia, New Zealand, the U.S. and the U.K., is
looking for new opportunities and will consider expanding into
other markets if conditions are right, Chairman  Frank Lowy  said
in May.  Play for Trust  “It could be a play for a listed trust elsewhere, but it’s
not evident who’d be a target in that respect,” said  John White , who helps oversee $3 billion as Melbourne-based managing
director for Asia-Pacific public real estate securities at real
estate management firm Heitman. “A demerger seems quite
strange. They’d have a highly geared U.S. vehicle with lower
growth that’s not conducive to a standalone entity.”  The company last week opened its A$1.2 billion Westfield
Sydney shopping mall in the city center, with about 130 stores
starting trade. A further 100 stores are expected to open
between now and mid-2011, the company said in an e-mailed
statement.  It has about A$10 billion of future project opportunities
across its markets, and plans to start up to A$1 billion of
development work each year after 2010, the company said at its
half-year results presentation on Aug. 18.  Westfield is in discussions to sell a stake of up to 750
million pounds ($1.2 billion) in its Stratford shopping center
in London, currently under development, to a new fund being set
up by Henderson Global Investors, the Financial Times reported
on Oct. 25 without saying where it got the information.  Westfield  got about 49 percent of its net operating income
from its Australian shopping centers, 39 percent from the U.S.,
7 percent from New Zealand and 5 percent from the U.K. as of
June 30. It has 55 malls in the U.S., 45 in Australia, 12 in New
Zealand and eight in the U.K.  The  shares  rose 1.9 percent to A$12.81 in Sydney trading
before the halt.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nichola Saminather in Sydney at 
 saminather1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 papuc1@bloomberg.net ; 