-- Westfield to Create New Australia, New Zealand Listed Trust
-- B y   N i c h o l a   S a m i n a t h e r
-- 2010-11-03T08:39:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-02/westfield-to-create-new-australia-retail-trust-sell-3-5-billion-of-stock.html
Westfield Group , the world’s largest
owner of shopping centers, will spin off a trust owning stakes
in its 54 Australian and New Zealand malls in a bid to reverse a
17 percent share  price  decline since a 2004 consolidation.  The real estate investment trust that will be separately
listed will seek to raise A$3.5 billion ($3.5 billion), the
Sydney-based company said in a statement to the Australian stock
exchange. Westfield Retail Trust will have A$12.2 billion of
assets, including stakes in the Bondi Junction mall in Sydney
and the Doncaster center in Melbourne, the company said.  The move partially reverses a  merger  of Westfield’s three
businesses six years ago, which created the world’s biggest
shopping mall operator. Westfield’s share  price  remains about
half its February 2007 peak.  “They obviously think that the market misprices the group
in its current form,” said  Prasad Patkar , who helps manage
about $1.8 billion at Platypus Asset Management in Sydney.
“Separating the Australian assets into a separate REIT will
reduce capital intensity of the group and boost return on
equity. If this one works, you’d expect overseas assets to be
spun off in similar transactions in the future.”  Westfield’s Australian and New Zealand shopping centers,
which made up 47 percent of its portfolio, accounted for 56
percent of the company’s profits in the six months ended June
30. Its U.S. malls, which account for a similar proportion,
contributed 39 percent to earnings.  Domestic Trust  While U.S. labor market sentiment in October, including
confidence in job and income growth, continued to decline,
consumer confidence and employment rose in Australia, the only
developed economy to skirt last year’s global recession.  The new trust’s creation “responds directly to significant
market demand for a domestic trust,” Chairman  Frank Lowy  said
in the statement. “Rather than sell interests in our portfolio
to outside parties, this proposal provides the opportunity for
our security holders to participate in our joint venture partner
and benefit directly from the ownership of our portfolio in
Australia and New Zealand.”  Standard & Poor’s placed its A- rating of Westfield Group
on “creditwatch with negative implications” on an expected
increase in  risk  to the existing company from the creation of
the new trust. Moody’s Investors Service put its A2 ratings on
review for a possible downgrade, citing the potential “material
decline” in contributions from Westfield’s Australian and New
Zealand assets.  ‘Material Reweighting’  The shift of half of its Australian and New Zealand assets
into the new trust “would represent a material reweighting of
the group’s earnings and business risk profile” toward
Westfield Group’s U.S. and U.K. asset portfolios, and toward the
group’s development and construction activities, S&P credit
analyst  Paul Draffin  wrote in a statement.  S&P, which will examine factors including Westfield Group’s
future earnings potential, growth strategy and appetite for
risk, expects to resolve the creditwatch, either by affirming
the current rating, or lowering it by one notch to BBB+, after
the shareholder vote on the new trust.  Westfield Retail Trust will have a separate management
team, with Westfield Group acting as joint venture property and
development manager, and as responsible entity for the trust for
no fee, the company said. While the trust and group plan to make
most future investments together, they may pursue developments
or acquisitions independently, managing director  Peter Lowy  said
in a webcast investor presentation.  Capital Raising  The cost of protecting Westfield  bonds  from default climbed
5 basis points to 135 basis points as of 9:51 a.m. in Sydney,
according to Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. credit-
default swap prices. The swaps surged 13.2 basis points
yesterday, the most since May 7, prices from data provider CMA
show.  Credit default swap  prices usually rise as investor
perceptions of credit worthiness deteriorates.  Existing holders will be given one Westfield Retail Trust
share for each Westfield Group share they own, equating to A$7.3
billion, to compensate for the dilution to their investment, the
company said. They’ll also have a chance to invest in the new
trust through a A$1.5 billion offer to existing shareholders, in
addition to a A$2 billion public share sale, the company said.  Westfield’s shares remained halted today pending the
capital raising. The sale to existing institutional investors
runs to the end of this week, and the individual and public
offering will go from Nov. 11 to Dec. 6. Investors will vote on
the creation of the new trust on Dec. 9.  2004 Merger  Westfield merged its three entities -- Westfield Trust,
which operated its Australian and New Zealand properties,
Westfield America Trust, which held the group’s U.S. centers,
and Westfield Holdings -- into the world’s biggest shopping mall
group in 2004. The move was designed to make it easier to
finance the group’s planned shopping center developments and
acquisitions, it said at the time.  Since then, the company has invested more than A$22 billion
to expand its global business, about a third in acquisitions and
the rest in developments, it said today.  “The Board and management regularly review the Group’s
capital structure and, as the global economies emerge from the
recent crisis, it is desirable to make a change to the Group’s
structure and continue the evolution,” it said today.  Westfield reiterated its plan to spend up to A$1 billion
annually on new developments, and to assess possibilities for
acquisitions in both new and existing markets.  Bridge Loan  Westfield Retail Trust has arranged a A$3.7 billion bridge
loan from a group of banks to fund the purchase of assets from
Westfield Group, according to the statement. The proceeds from
the share sale will be used to pay back as much as A$3.5 billion
of the loan, with the remaining A$200 million used for working
capital purposes, the filing states.  Westfield Retail Trust, which will take on A$4.4 billion of
 Westfield Group ’s debt, will seek credit ratings from Standard &
Poor’s and Moody’s, and may sell bonds with maturities ranging
from three to 10 years to help repay the acquisition loan,
according to the statement.  Its ratio of debt to assets will be 9.4 percent if the
offer is fully subscribed, compared with the parent company’s 36
percent, following the plan’s implementation, the company said.  “Because debt  levels  are lower in the new retail entity,
raising or renewing debt in this entity may be more cost
effective going forward,”  Angus Gluskie , who manages about
A$350 million, including Westfield shares, at White Funds
Management Pty. in Sydney, said in an e-mail. “If they didn’t
do this the growth in the development and overseas business was
reducing the yield offered to investors, leading to lower levels
of interest by Australian investors.”  The trust will hold stakes in 42 Australian assets and 12
in New Zealand, the company said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nichola Saminather  in Sydney at 
 saminather1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 papuc1@bloomberg.net  