-- Westpac's Second-Half Profit Almost Triples as Bad Debts Drop
-- B y   J a c o b   G r e b e r
-- 2010-11-03T06:15:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-02/westpac-banking-s-second-half-profit-almost-triples-as-bad-debts-decline.html
Westpac Banking Corp. , Australia’s
second-largest bank, said second-half profit almost tripled as
it considers whether to raise borrowing costs by more than the
central bank’s increase.  Net income climbed to A$3.47 billion ($3.46 billion) in the
six months ended Sept. 30 from A$1.27 billion a year earlier as
bad debts plunged, Westpac said in a statement to the stock
exchange today. The median forecast of seven analysts Bloomberg
surveyed was for profit of A$2.87 billion.  Surging earnings may increase pressure on the government to
curb the power of Australia’s four biggest banks, which boosted
market share during the global financial crisis by buying
smaller rivals.  Commonwealth Bank of Australia , the nation’s
biggest home lender, yesterday raised its mortgage rate by
almost double the central bank’s quarter-point increase, a move
condemned by Treasurer  Wayne Swan  as a “cynical cash grab.”  The political pressure “is not a positive development”
for banks, said  Prasad Patkar , who helps manage about $1.8
billion at Platypus Asset Management in Sydney. Federal
lawmakers “are upping the ante for political reasons and not
economic reasons,” he said.  Westpac’s shares rose 0.5 percent to A$23.42 at 4:10 p.m.
in Sydney, paring this year’s decline to 7.4 percent. The shares
are the second-worst performers on the six-member  S&P/ASX 200
banks index , which dropped 4 percent.  ANZ, NAB  Second-half cash earnings, which exclude some tax charges,
jumped 26 percent to A$2.93 billion from a year earlier, the
bank said today.  Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd., the country’s
best-performing bank stock this year, last week said second-half
profit jumped 69 percent to a record as bad debts declined and
lending to home buyers increased.  National Australia Bank Ltd. ,
the biggest lender to companies, reported a 32 percent gain in
cash profit as it expanded its share of the business loan market
by targeting smaller borrowers.  Westpac Chief Executive Officer  Gail Kelly , 54, joins
rivals in reporting surging earnings amid criticism of
Australian lenders, which face a Senate inquiry into competition,
fees and funding costs, and opposition calls for improved
regulation.  “The banks should not underestimate for one moment the
determination of this government to put in place a range of
reforms which will make the system more competitive,” Swan told
reporters in Sydney today.  Bank Inquiry  The Senate voted last week to hold an inquiry that will
include questioning of bank claims that they are compelled to
raise interest rates by more than the central bank because of
rising funding costs. Independent Senator  Nick Xenophon , who
called for the inquiry, said the nation’s four biggest banks
should testify about the state of competition between them and
non-bank lenders.  Westpac Chief Financial Officer  Phil Coffey  told reporters
in Sydney today that the bank hasn’t yet decided how much it
will raise its mortgage rates after the RBA’s unexpected
quarter-percentage point increase yesterday, and said it will
take a few days to consider the issue.  Mortgage rates are under review at ANZ Bank, according
Sydney-based spokesman  Kevin Foley . National Australia spokesman
 George Wright  said yesterday that no decision had been made on
interest rates after the RBA move.  Commonwealth Bank’s standard variable home loan interest
rate will be increased by 45 basis points, or 0.45 percentage
point, to 7.81 percent on Nov. 5, the Sydney-based bank said
yesterday. The decision means Commonwealth Bank customers face
an extra A$1,056 a year in costs on an average A$300,000
mortgage.  ‘Cash Grab’  “This is a cynical cash grab,” Swan told reporters in
Brisbane yesterday. “Australians deserve a lot better.”  Swan said today the government will announce next month
reforms to make the banking system “more competitive” and put
pressure on lenders “to behave in a better way.”  Bank borrowing costs are a political issue in Australia as
more than 90 percent of borrowers have  variable-rate home loans ,
and debate has intensified as the biggest lenders increased
their share of the mortgage lending market during the financial
crisis.  Commonwealth Bank bought Western Australia-focused lender
BankWest from the U.K.’s HBOS Plc in 2008, the same year Westpac
took over the fifth-biggest lender, St. George Bank Ltd.  Lenders have also benefited from government guarantees on
deposits and debt sales, introduced by Swan at the height of the
financial crisis following the collapse of Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc.  Opposition treasury spokesman  Joe Hockey  proposed last week
a nine-point plan to increase regulation of the nation’s banks,
and said “we must have a debate on whether we have lost
adequate banking competition in Australia.”  Lessons from Chavez  “Not only have small players been squeezed but
international banks operating in Australia have become far less
active,” Hockey said.  ANZ Bank’s CEO  Mike Smith  told the Australian Broadcasting
Corp. on Oct. 28 that it would appear Hockey has “been taking
economics lessons from Hugo Chavez,” the president of Venezuela
who has nationalized companies in the oil, food, cement and
metals industries as part of his push for socialism since
winning office in 1999.  Any attempt by Australian lawmakers to control banks’
interest rates will take the country back to an era “long since
gone,” said Smith.  Australia’s largest banks lend more each year than they
accept in deposit accounts at home. That forces them to turn to
offshore markets for about 30 percent of their wholesale funding.  Funding Costs  According to Moody’s Investors Service, ANZ Bank and
National Australia need to raise as much as A$25 billion each
year selling long-term bonds to help fund lending. Commonwealth
Bank and Westpac will need as much as A$50 billion, Moody’s has
said.  Westpac’s second-half net interest margin, or the
difference between what it earns from loans and pays to
depositors, narrowed to 2.17 percent from 2.39 percent a year
earlier. Provisions for credit impairments in the second half
shrank to A$577 million from A$1.68 billion, the bank said.  The bank will pay a second-half dividend of 74 Australian
cents, taking the full-year payout to A$1.39.  “Westpac certainly came through the crisis better than
some others,” said  Angus Gluskie , who manages about A$350
million at White Funds Management Pty. in Sydney. “Employment
is strong and that’s the biggest driver of falling bad debts,
and business conditions are slowly improving.”  To contact the reporter for this story:
 Jacob Greber  in Sydney at 
 jgreber@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  