-- Western Asset Favors Emerging Bonds, Echoing Gross
-- B y   W e s   G o o d m a n
-- 2010-11-02T04:23:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-02/western-asset-likes-emerging-market-debt-asia-currencies-corporate-bonds.html
Western Asset Management Co., Legg
Mason Inc.’s bond unit, is favoring emerging-market debt and
Asian currencies while warning that Federal Reserve asset
purchases in the U.S. may spur inflation.  The company bought Brazil local-currency debt and South
Korean won in the past month, said  Ken Leech , head of the global
investment strategy committee, in a presentation to investors at
the company’s office in Singapore. Western is also bullish on
U.S. investment-grade corporate bonds, he said.  “We are optimistic on the global economy,” said Leech,
who helps oversee $482.2 billion for Western Asset, based in
Pasadena, California. Emerging markets have “low debt, plenty
of growth. As an investor, you need to be in these areas.”  Some of the biggest bond firms are adding emerging debt at
the expense of Treasuries.  Bill Gross , who oversees about $1.24
trillion as co-chief investment officer of Newport Beach,
California-based Pacific Investment Management Co., said last
week the 30-year bull market is almost finished because
“certain maturities can’t go much lower in yield.”  Gross’s $252 billion  Total Return Fund  cut holdings of
government-related debt to 33 percent of assets in September
from 36 percent the previous month, according to Pimco’s  website .
Emerging-market debt was increased by one percentage point to 12
percent, the most since June 2000, when the Pimco figures on its
website begin.  Comparative Returns  An index of global emerging-market bonds returned 19
percent this year, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch
data. U.S. corporate bonds handed investors a 12 percent gain,
while Treasuries returned almost 9 percent, the indexes show.  Two-year Treasuries yielded 0.35 percent as of 12:31 p.m.
in Tokyo, versus the record low of 0.327 percent set Oct. 12.  Fed officials are meeting today and tomorrow to discuss
whether to increase their asset purchases, a strategy known as
quantitative easing, to spur the U.S. economy. Policy makers
said Sept. 21 they were prepared to act to support the recovery
and increase the inflation rate, feeding speculation they will
increase their government bond purchases.  “If they’re successful ultimately in raising the inflation
rate,” Leech said, “that could be bearish for bonds.”  Gross, in his investment outlook last week, said a renewal
of purchases will likely hurt bonds.  “Check writing in the trillions is not a bondholder’s
friend,” Gross wrote on the Pimco website. “It is in fact
inflationary.”  Inflation Expectations  The  difference  between yields on 10-year notes and Treasury
Inflation Protected Securities, a gauge of trader expectations
for consumer prices, widened to 2.209 percentage points, the
most since May.  Western Asset is “underweight” bonds issued by the so-
called peripheral European nations such as Greece and Spain
because of the sizes of their budget deficits, Leech said.  The Western Asset Core Bond  Portfolio  returned almost 15
percent in the past year, beating 92 percent of its competitors,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Western is a unit of
Legg Mason Inc., which is located in Baltimore.  Pimco’s Total Return  Fund  gained 11 percent in the past 12
months, outperforming 77 percent of its peers, Bloomberg data
show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Wes Goodman  in Singapore at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net . 