-- Treasuries Rise, Led by 30-Year, Before Federal Reserve Decision on Easing
-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s
-- 2010-11-02T21:04:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-02/two-year-treasury-yields-near-record-on-easing-prospects-before-fed-meet.html
Treasuries  rose, led by 30-year
bonds, amid forecasts the Federal Reserve will expand asset
purchases to drive borrowing costs lower after tomorrow’s two-
day policy meeting.  Ten-year note yields declined for the third time in four
days as economists surveyed by Bloomberg said the U.S. central
bank will announce plans to buy at least $500 billion of long-
term securities. Polls show Republicans may retake the U.S.
House and narrow Democrats’ margin in the Senate in elections
today, reducing the likelihood of additional fiscal spending and
limiting government borrowing.  “The Fed will do whatever they have to do to cap rates,
especially on the long end, so investors want to extend out the
yield curve,” said  Larry Milstein , managing director in New
York of government and agency debt trading at R.W. Pressprich &
Co., a fixed-income broker and dealer for institutional
investors. “Thirty-year notes hitting four percent has made the
sector more valuable on a relative basis, sparking buying.”  Ten-year note yields fell four basis points, or 0.04
percentage point, to 2.59 percent at 5:05 p.m. in New York,
according to BGCantor Market Data. The 2.625 percent notes due
in August 2020 rose 10/32, or $3.13 per $1,000, to 100 10/32.
The notes touched a one-month high of 2.73 percent on Oct. 27.  Thirty-year bond yields fell eight basis points to 3.93
percent. Treasury two-year yields were near a  record low ,
yielding 0.35 percent.  Fed Approach  Fed policy makers said after their last meeting on Sept. 21
they were prepared to act to support the recovery and increase
the inflation rate, raising speculation they will add to their
government bond purchases. That helped send the two-year note
yield to an  all-time low  0.327 percent on Oct. 12.  U.S. policy makers will restart a program of securities
purchases known as quantitative easing to spur growth, reduce
unemployment and increase inflation, said 53 of 56 economists
surveyed last week.  Twenty-nine estimated the Fed will pledge to buy $500
billion or more, while seven predicted $50 billion to $100
billion in monthly purchases without a specified total. The
remainder said the Fed would buy as much as $500 billion or
didn’t quantify their forecast.  “The tricky alchemy of trying to fashion a market outlook
will be much easier once all of the wash is complete and the
clothes are out on the line,” said  William O’Donnell , U.S.
government bond strategist at Royal Bank of Scotland Plc’s RBS
Securities unit in Stamford, Connecticut, one of 18 primary
dealers that trade with the Fed. “The current trading range for
10’s is seen at 2.38 percent to 2.85 percent.”  Options Play  Derivatives traders were snapping up options that insure
against a rally in Treasury 30-year bonds should the Fed
announce another round asset-purchase program that includes more
longer-term debt.  “If there is a risk going into the Wednesday afternoon
FOMC statement, it would be that the Fed’s QE2 program targets
yields a little bit further out the curve, perhaps in the 17- to
20-year sector,” said  John Brady , senior vice president in the
interest-rates product group at MF Global Holdings Ltd. In
Chicago.  The Rothenberg Political Report and Cook Political Report
both predict the Republicans will gain at least 50 House seats,
more than the 39 they need to take control. Both reports see
Democrats losing six to eight seats in the Senate, just shy of
the 10 needed for a Republican majority.  Political Fallout  “The stalemates would lead to more cautious spending,
smaller deficits and possibly a policy mix skewed toward more
Treasury buying from the Fed,” a team of Societe Generale SA
analysts led by  Vincent Chaigneau  in London said in a report
today. “Investors have seen the polls, so presumably are
positioned for a Republican victory.”  In its quarterly refunding, the Treasury will auction $31
billion of three-year notes, $24 billion of 10-year notes and
$16 billion of 30-year bonds, according to the median forecast
of a Bloomberg News survey of 12 primary dealers. In August, the
Treasury sold $34 billion of three-year debt, $24 billion of 10-
year notes and $16 billion of 30-year bonds.  Expectations the Fed will succeed in sparking inflation
pushed the difference between yields on 10-year notes and
Treasury Inflation Protected Securities, a gauge of expectations
for inflation known as the  break-even rate , to 2.209 percentage
points today, the most since May.  QE Debate  The efficacy of more quantitative easing is still being
debated.  “Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  has made clear he will do
everything he can to make sure the U.S. economy doesn’t pull a
Japan,” wrote  Joseph Balestrino , fixed-income strategist at
Federated Investors Inc. in Pittsburgh, which oversees about
$336 billion in assets. “That means a reduced likelihood of a
double dip, nothing more. We’re just not convinced that however
much the Fed pushes, it can change the slow-growth rut we’re
stuck in.”  Treasuries are in “a real dangerous area,” said  Donald Yacktman , co-chief investment officer at Yacktman Asset
Management Co., whose $2.3 billion Yacktman Fund has
outperformed 97 percent of funds with similar objectives during
the past five years, in an interview with  Margaret Brennan  on
Bloomberg Television’s “InBusiness” program. “The Fed’s
policies have more impact in the short term. I think in the
longer term the fiscal policy will have impacts in regards to
growth rates”  U.S. employers added 60,000 positions in October, after a
loss of 95,000 in September, according to a Bloomberg survey of
economists before the Labor Department’s Nov. 5 report. The
unemployment rate is forecast to be 9.6 percent for the third
straight month, which would make it the 15th month of
joblessness at 9.5 percent or higher, the longest stretch since
records began in 1948.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Cordell Endings  in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net . 