-- Woman Top Cop in Mexico Offers Wall Street Model: Susan Antilla
-- B y   S u s a n   A n t i l l a
-- 2010-11-02T01:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-02/woman-top-cop-in-mexico-offers-wall-street-model-susan-antilla.html
If heroes could be publicly traded as
stocks, the chasm between supply and demand would dispatch
shares of Marisol Valles Garcia on a bull-market tear.  Valles Garcia, 20, is the college-student mom who took over
as police chief of the drug-ravaged Mexican town Praxedis
Guadalupe Guerrero, near the Texas border, on Oct. 20. As this
column was being prepared for publication, the number of Google
hits on her name had topped 800,000. Before the news that she
had been sworn in as top cop of a town of 8,500 terrorized by
drug lords, Valles Garcia didn’t even register as clutter on the
media radar screen.  The decision by a criminology student and mother of an
infant son to put herself in harm’s way -- in a town that could
make the bloodiest scenes from “ No Country for Old Men ” look
like a romp through Disneyland -- has captured the world’s
attention.  Is that because  Mexico  is under attack by drug cartels?
Nope, that story was out there already. Because she is young and
pretty and thus indulges readers’ prurient interests? Unlikely,
because there’s nothing about her demeanor or dress that
suggests she’s prepping for a Playboy magazine spread. If she’s
a player in some sinister publicity stunt or a front for the
drug lords, she’s bamboozled me along with a heap of admirers
worldwide.  I think what’s really in back of the fame and admiration
she’s garnered is how starving we all are for a hero. Or rather,
a heroine. Valles Garcia is a woman putting her life on the line
to stand up for families locked behind closed doors out of fear.
She has guts.  Rare Women  From my perch watching the comings and goings of women on
 Wall Street , I guess I’m particularly sensitive to the dearth of
women willing to step up to the plate.  When’s the last time you can remember any of the tiny
cluster of C-suite women on or off Wall Street speaking publicly
about discrimination and harassment? Or making enough noise
about gender inequities that they embarrassed their male
colleagues into making substantial changes in company policies?
Moves like that aren’t even life-threatening. But they would
take guts.  I wish our top women had some of Valles Garcia’s bravery.
Why are there so few people like her?  I asked that question of  Lois Shapiro-Canter , a former
president of the New York State chapter of the National
Organization for Women who today is president and chief
executive officer of the Saratoga Foundation for Women Worldwide
Inc., a group based Saratoga Springs,  New York , that advances
human rights with a focus on women. Shapiro-Canter says leaders
like Robert Kennedy or Bella Abzug rose up during trying
periods.  “In suffering and depravation, people rise to what the
time commands,” she said in a telephone interview.  New Approach  That perhaps accounts for the emergence of Valles Garcia.
Conditions in her tiny town are extreme. Rather than requisition
ever-larger supplies of weapons, she and her lieutenants will go
through the town, unarmed, to visit homes and, among other
things, send a message to children that there are careers to be
had apart from the ubiquitous drug trade.  When readers post messages on the Web to comment on
articles about her, some say she is naive. A more common
reaction, though goes something like this: Stocking up on bigger
and better guns hasn’t worked so far, so why not try something
different?  “Something different,” or at least a diversity of voices
and approaches, is one of the often-cited reasons to get more
women into boardrooms and top managements at companies to Valles
Garcia’s north. Sadly, it is usually nothing more than talk.  Falling Behind  When women do speak up, usually in the form of
discrimination lawsuits, two new twists have emerged. One is
that statistics are showing not only that women aren’t moving
closer to parity on pay and promotions, but that they actually
are slipping even after decades of lawsuit settlements that
promised changes in the workplace.  The other is the suspicious rise of the female employee or
former employee from the accused company who comes forward with
the “I never saw that stuff happen” argument after a lawsuit
is filed. “I made lots of money there and was treated fairly,”
the woman will say to a reporter, or in an op-ed column. It of
course strains credulity to think that a senior woman, say, at a
Wall Street firm, could spend a career unaware of the sometimes
barbaric behavior of her male coworkers.  Too bad some of those same women don’t think to follow a
more courageous path, but the fact that they don’t isn’t
surprising.  “The price of admission to the club is that you make no
public criticism,” says  Christine Sgarlata Chung , an assistant
professor at  Albany  Law School in Albany, New York, who has
written about Wall Street’s cultural response to women.  Still, a brave woman in Mexico has reminded us that there’s
something powerful about taking a stand and taking a chance. I
hope she stays alive and thrives.  ( Susan Antilla , a Bloomberg News columnist, is the author
of the 2002 book, “Tales from the Boom-Boom Room.” The
opinions expressed are her own.)  Click on “Send Comment” in the sidebar display to send a
letter to the editor.  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at 
 jgreiff@bloomberg.net  