-- Yemen Packages, Stolen Identity Show `Wild West' of Air Cargo
-- B y   M a r y   J a n e   C r e d e u r   a n d   A n g e l a   G r e i l i n g   K e a n e
-- 2010-11-02T20:12:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-02/yemen-packages-stolen-identity-show-wild-west-of-air-cargo-screening.html
Bombs sent from Yemen with the use of
a stolen identity show how  United Parcel Service Inc.  and  FedEx
Corp.  face a patchwork of cargo screening in developing
countries, security specialists said.  UPS and FedEx often use local partners and passenger
airlines to ferry packages from nations such as Yemen to sorting
centers where the companies’ stricter practices are used, said
 Walter Beadling , managing partner of Union, New Jersey-based
 Cargo Security Alliance Inc. , which advises shippers.  “The risk is what happens before that package gets into
the hands of UPS or FedEx,” Beadling said in an interview.
“It’s still the Wild West in some of these places.”  That ratchets up the burden on cargo carriers to verify who
shippers are and what their packages contain, especially for
items handled by an outside partner and originating in regions
with a history of violence, Beadling said. A 22-year-old Yemeni
student whose name was used to send the U.S.-bound explosives
was a victim of identity theft, officials in that country said.  The chairman of the U.S. House Homeland Security Committee
asked the Government Accountability Office today to investigate
the screening of U.S.-bound cargo. Representative  Bennie Thompson , a Mississippi Democrat, said the Yemen shipments were
a “grave reminder” of the threats to U.S. transportation.  Working With Investigators  UPS, the world’s biggest package-delivery company, and
FedEx, operator of the world’s largest cargo airline, declined
to comment on security systems and procedures, and said they are
cooperating with investigators.  “Ultimately, FedEx and UPS are responsible for what
happens on their own planes and in their own systems, and
they’re pretty good at that,” Beadling said. “Nobody will talk
about it because they don’t want the public to know, but maybe
FedEx or UPS’s own systems caught these packages.”  The explosives found last week were modified printer
cartridges placed inside computer printers, which were sent from
Yemen’s capital of Sana‘a and addressed to a Chicago synagogue,
according to U.S. officials. An airline may have taken one
device to a Dubai facility for Memphis, Tennessee-based FedEx.  Qatar Airways Ltd. said Oct. 31 it flew an “explosives”
shipment that couldn’t be detected by X-rays or dogs, then said
today another carrier may have been involved. An “intelligence
tipoff” led to the discovery, Qatar Airways said. The bomb
found at a U.K. center for Atlanta-based UPS moved via Cologne,
Germany.  High-Risk Shipments  While the Yemen packages may have slipped past some
commonly used scanners, carriers can close that gap by targeting
high-risk shipments for extra scrutiny, said Brandon Fried,
executive director of the Washington-based  Airforwarders
Association . Yemen is the home of the terrorist group al-Qaeda
in the Arabian Peninsula.  “It’s coming out of Yemen, unknown shippers, going to
synagogues in Chicago,” Fried said. “This probably would have
been one of the telltale signs.”  While U.S. law requires screening of all cargo carried in
bellies of passenger planes, there is no such requirement for
air freighters.  Security specialists and industry groups have said such
blanket checks would be impossible because of the volume of air
shipments.  Satish Jindel , president of SJ Consulting Group in
Sewickley, Pennsylvania, has estimated that UPS and FedEx move
about 20 million pieces a day.  “Cargo originating from countries of interest” should be
subjected to immediate screening, U.S. Representatives  Edward Markey  of Massachusetts and  Nita Lowey  of New York, both
Democrats, said today in a statement urging President  Barack Obama  to take that step.  Markey said this week he plans to introduce legislation
requiring inspections of freight on cargo planes as well as of
shipments carried by passenger aircraft.  UPS and FedEx both halted service from Yemen last week, and
Germany barred passenger flights and the U.K. restricted package
shipments.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Mary Jane Credeur  in Atlanta at 
 mcredeur@bloomberg.net ;
 Angela Greiling Keane  in Washington at 
 agreilingkea@Bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net ;
Larry Liebert at   lliebert@bloomberg.net  