-- Yen Trades Near One-Week Low Against Euro on Stock Gains, Global Recovery
-- B y   R o n   H a r u i
-- 2010-11-03T07:03:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-02/yen-trades-near-one-week-low-against-euro-on-stock-gains-global-recovery.html
The yen retreated from near a 15-year
high against the dollar as signs the worldwide economic recovery
is gathering momentum boosted Asian shares, sapping demand for
the Japanese currency as a refuge.  The yen fell for a third day versus South Korea’s won after
Australian figures showed the services industry expanded for the
first time in six months and before a U.S. report that may show
non-manufacturing businesses grew at a faster pace. The dollar
rose versus 12 of 16 major counterparts after networks predicted
Republicans won enough elections to capture a U.S. House
majority, fueling speculation they will advance policies
favorable to businesses.  “Against a backdrop of upbeat economic data and buoyant
equity market sentiment, investors are trimming positions in
safe-haven currencies such as the yen and the dollar,” said
 Mike Jones , a foreign-exchange strategist at Bank of New Zealand
Ltd. in Wellington. “Trading is expected to be subdued as
players square positions and reduce risk exposure heading into
the Fed’s decision.”  Japan’s currency traded at 80.66 per dollar at 6:55 a.m. in
London from 80.63 in New York yesterday, after reaching 80.22 on
Nov. 1, the highest level since April 1995. It was at 112.92 per
euro from 113.15 yesterday, when it fell to 113.48, the weakest
since Oct. 25.  The greenback rose to $1.3999 per euro from $1.4034
yesterday, when it touched $1.4058, the lowest since Oct. 25.
The yen declined to 13.764 South Korean won from 13.813. Japan’s
financial markets are closed for a national holiday today.  Asian Stocks Gain  The MSCI  Asia Pacific Index  of regional shares rose 0.5
percent. Benchmark interest rates are 2.25 percent in South
Korea and 4.75 percent in Australia, compared with as low as
zero in the U.S. and Japan, making the nations’ higher-yielding
assets attractive to investors.  Australia’s dollar was just short of parity with the U.S.
currency after Commonwealth Bank of Australia and the Australian
Industry Group said in Sydney today the performance of services
 index  rose 5.1 points to 50.7 in October, the highest since
April. A figure above 50 indicates expansion. Demand for the
Aussie weakened after Bureau of Statistics data showed home-
building approvals fell in September.  The Institute for Supply Management’s index of  non-
manufacturing businesses , which covers about 90 percent of the
U.S. economy, rose to 53.5 in October from 53.2 in September,
according to a Bloomberg News survey of economists before
today’s report.  Australia’s currency bought 99.71 U.S. cents from 99.95
cents yesterday when it touched $1.0024.  U.S. Elections  The greenback advanced against the euro as CNN, CBS and
MSNBC forecast that Republicans would take control of the U.S.
House and narrow the Democrats’ hold on the Senate seats in
midterm elections.  “As the results of the elections stream in, the
Republicans are likely to win the House,” said  Lee Wai Tuck , a
currency strategist at Forecast Pte in Singapore. “I would
think this is positive for the dollar. They may be more pro-
business.”  With polls showing Americans frustrated with the slow pace
of economic recovery and the 9.6 percent unemployment rate,
Republicans are expected to easily achieve the net gain of 39
seats needed to reach the majority in the 435-seat House.  Gains in the  dollar  may be limited on prospects the Fed
will buy more government debt to support the economic recovery.
The U.S. central bank will probably announce at the end of a
two-day meeting today a plan to purchase at least $500 billion
of long-term securities, a Bloomberg survey showed.  ‘Anything Less’  “Anything less than that and you may see a knee-jerk sell-
off of the Aussie and a U.S. dollar rally,” said  Tim Kelleher ,
vice-president of institutional banking and markets at
Commonwealth Bank of Australia in Auckland. “The risk is we’ll
see a little profit-taking ahead of the Fed.”  The  Dollar Index , which tracks the dollar versus the
currencies of six major U.S. trading partners including the euro,
increased 0.2 percent to 76.862. It touched 76.636 yesterday,
the least since Oct. 15.  Taiwan’s dollar strengthened to a two-year high on
speculation the Fed will expand easing. The currency also rose
after overseas investors added to purchases of the island’s
equities, buying $925 million more than they sold in the past
two days and taking the year’s total to $5.6 billion.  “The Fed’s easing adds to the trend that the Taiwan dollar
will rise because of hot-money inflows,” said  Eric Hsing  , a
bond trader at First Securities Inc. in Taipei. “The central
bank will continue to slow the currency’s gain.”  The Taiwan dollar rose 0.9 percent to NT$30.448 against its
U.S. counterpart, according to Taipei Forex Inc. The currency
reached NT$30.375 earlier, the strongest level since July 2008.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ron Harui  in Singapore at 
 rharui@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  