-- Zain, Etisalat Said to Sign Term-Sheet Accord on Stake Purchase Within Day
-- B y   F i o n a   M a c D o n a l d
-- 2010-11-02T13:00:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-02/zain-etisalat-said-to-sign-term-sheet-accord-on-stake-purchase-within-day.html
Zain  and Etisalat expect to sign a
term-sheet accord in the next 24 hours on the sale of a 46
percent stake in Kuwait’s biggest phone company to Etisalat for
about $12 billion, a person familiar with the talks said.  The term-sheet agreement is set to be signed within a day
after  Emirates Telecommunications Corp.  or Etisalat as the
United Arab Emirates’ largest phone company is known, holds a
board meeting today, the person said, declining to be identified
because the talks are private.  The next step will be for Etisalat to submit a request to
carry out due diligence of Zain, the person said. Abu Dhabi-
based Etisalat said on Sept. 30 it offered 1.7 Kuwaiti dinars
($6.1) a share for the stake in Mobile Telecommunications Co.,
or Zain as the Kuwaiti company is known.  The sale is being led by the Kharafi Group, Zain’s second-
 largest shareholder . Salem Al Sharhan, chief financial officer
at Etisalat, declined to comment as did a spokesman for Zain,
who said the company doesn’t comment on its shareholders’
decisions.  The deal is valued on the basis of 4.3 billion Zain shares
outstanding, which at current exchange rates makes the stake
worth about $12.1 billion.  The deal would give Etisalat majority control of Zain and
extend its reach in the Middle East, where Zain operates in
countries from Kuwait and Iraq to Bahrain. Etisalat offers
telecommunications services in 18 countries in the Middle East,
Africa and Asia, counting more than 100 million customers,
according to its website. The seven emirates of the U.A.E make
up about 86 percent of Etisalat’s sales.  Etisalat had 11.3 billion dirhams ($3.08 billion) of cash
at the end of last year, earnings statements show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Fiona MacDonald  in Kuwait at 
 fmacdonald4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  