-- Zloty Advances, Bonds Decline on Polish Manufacturing, Inflation Forecast
-- B y   P i o t r   S k o l i m o w s k i
-- 2010-11-02T16:37:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-02/zloty-advances-bonds-decline-on-polish-manufacturing-inflation-forecast.html
Polish bonds dropped, pushing the
yield on five-year notes to the highest in two months, and the
zloty strengthened after a manufacturing report and government
inflation forecast fueled speculation interest rates will rise.  The yield on the note maturing in April 2015 rose 8 basis
points to 5.27 percent as of 4:54 p.m. in Warsaw. A close at
this level would be the highest since Sept. 6. The zloty gained
0.4 percent to 3.9492 per euro, the biggest advance among more
than 20 emerging-market currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  Poland’s manufacturing industry grew at the fastest pace in
more than six years, a survey showed today. The purchasing
managers’ index rose to 55.6 in October from 54.7 a month
earlier, according to a survey by Markit Economics for HSBC
Holdings Plc. The inflation rate probably increased to 2.9
percent, an eight-month high, in October from 2.5 percent in
September, the Finance Ministry said in a statement. The central
bank’s target is 2.5 percent.  “A clear increase in PMI for Polish manufacturing confirms
that October was another strong month for domestic industrial
output,” Bank Zachodni WBK SA economists in Warsaw wrote in a
report. “If confirmed by hard data this could argue for a rate
increase as inflation is getting closer” to the upper end of
the central bank’s range, which is one percentage point higher
or lower than that 2.5 percent ideal, they wrote. A change is
unlikely in November, they wrote.  Industrial Output  Poland’s  industrial output  has been growing at a pace
faster than 10 percent for five months, boosted by recovering
demand for its exports in the European Union. The central bank
considered lifting borrowing costs in August and September as
climbing employment boosted consumer demand. Policy makers voted
to leave the  main rate  unchanged at a record-low 3.5 percent
last month on concern higher rates may attract capital inflows,
strengthening the zloty and undermining an export-led recovery.  Poland’s central bank should “seriously” consider raising
interest rates,  Jan Winiecki , a member of the Monetary Policy
Council, said in an interview with TVN CNBC today.  A sustained advance in the inflation rate could play a
“significant” role in convincing policy makers to tighten
monetary policy,  Elzbieta Chojna-Duch , another council member,
was quoted today as saying by PAP newswire after the Finance
Ministry released its estimate. Governor  Marek Belka  led members
of the rate-setting panel 6-4 in rejecting a motion to increase
the benchmark rate in August, the latest available vote
breakdown showed on Oct. 29. Winiecki and Chojna-Duch voted
against the rate increase in August.  Swaps  “If data continue to surprise like that it can help the
hawkish camp on the council to reassert themselves,”  Thu Lan Nguyen , an analyst at Commerzbank AG, said by phone from
Frankfurt. “But the situation is very uncertain because Marek
Belka is clearly against the hike.”  Polish two-year interest rate swaps, which bond investors
use to protect against changes in borrowing costs, rose 8 basis
points to 4.86 percent. A close at this level would be the
highest since March 10. Three month forward-rate agreements,
used to speculate on rates within three months, were at 4.2650
percent. The agreements are trading 42 basis points above the
current three-month  Warsaw interbank offered rate  of 3.85
percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Piotr Skolimowski  in Warsaw at 
 pskolimowski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at   gserkin@bloomberg.net  