-- Tabcorp Plans to Spin Off Casinos From Gaming, Wagering Assets
-- B y   R o b e r t   F e n n e r
-- 2010-10-18T07:19:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-17/tabcorp-to-split-casino-sports-betting-units-seeks-to-raise-425-million.html
Tabcorp Holdings Ltd. , Australia’s
biggest gambling company, plans to spin off its casinos into a
separate company from its betting shops as it raises A$430
million ($425 million) in an entitlement offer.  Investors  will get a share in each company on a 1-for-1
basis, in a split expected to be completed in July 2011,
Melbourne-based Tabcorp said in a statement today. Separate
companies will enable the businesses to pursue different growth
strategies, Chairman  John Story  said on a conference call.  Tabcorp  proposed the breakup as it seeks to renew a
betting-shop monopoly in Victoria state and boost spending on
venues to lure high-stakes gamblers. Both businesses may need
capital to pay for expansion as the company plans a A$175
million revamp of casinos in Queensland state in addition to the
existing A$860 million refurbishment of  Star City  in Sydney.  “Both of these companies are going to have issues,” said
 Theo Maas , who helps manage A$5 billion of equities at Arnhem
Investment Management in Sydney. “There’s a lot happening in
terms of bidding for licenses and regulation.”  Tabcorp , whose shares are halted from trading pending the
entitlement offer, closed at A$7.10 on the Australian Securities
Exchange on Oct. 15 and has gained 2.2 percent this year. The
stock hasn’t posted an  annual advance  since 2006.  Corporate Credit Rating  Standard & Poor’s placed Tabcorp’s BBB+ corporate credit
and debt ratings on “creditwatch” with negative implications.  “The proposed demerger of the casino business will reduce
Tabcorp’s cash flow diversification through loss of casino
revenues, which, in addition to the loss of most of its
Victorian gaming revenues from 2012, will weaken its business
risk profile,” the rating company said in a statement today.  Investors will be able to buy one new share at A$6.25 for
every nine they hold under the entitlement offer. UBS AG is
acting as sole underwriter and manager of the stock sale.  Tabcorp  expects the betting and slots business will have an
investment-grade credit rating after the split, while no rating
is expected for the casinos, according to the statement.  Creating separate companies may boost the share price and
enable potential bids for either of the businesses, Maas said.  “People will start looking at the separate assets because
they are probably worth more than they are combined,” he said.  Star City  Australians gamble more than A$17 billion a year, or about
A$1,123 per capita, according to the Queensland state
government’s  Office of Economic and Statistical Research .  Tabcorp owns three casinos in Queensland as well as Star
City, the only one in Australia’s largest city. It has betting-
shop monopolies in two states, with the Victorian permit to
expire in 2012, the same year it loses a duopoly with  Tatts
Group Ltd.  for 27,500 slot machines in the state.  Australian casinos are typically local monopolies, with no
competing venues in the same city.  Chief Executive Officer  Elmer Funke Kupper , who has been in
the role since July 2007, will oversee the separation before
stepping down and taking a non-executive position on the board
of the slot-machine and betting business, which will keep the
Tabcorp name.  Larry Mullin , who heads the company’s four casinos, will
continue as CEO of the business once it is spun off. He joined
the company last year along with two colleagues from the Borgata
Hotel Casino & Spa, the most profitable gambling house in
Atlantic City.  David Attenborough  will run Tabcorp’s betting shops, slot
machines and other non-casino assets.  The company also issued a trading update, with revenue in
the first quarter ended September rising 4.1 percent. Casino
sales increased 7.1 percent while betting-shop revenue climbed
4.1 percent and slot-machine sales gained 0.9 percent.  The cost of protecting Tabcorp Holdings bonds from default
surged after the announcement. Credit-default swaps on Tabcorp
jumped 13 basis points to 125 basis points as of 10:15 a.m. in
Sydney, according to Nomura Holdings Inc. That’s the highest
since July 17 last year and the biggest increase since May 7,
CMA prices show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Robert Fenner  in Melbourne 
 rfenner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Longid at 
 flongid@bloomberg.net  