-- Crop Surge Drives U.S. Export Boom as Obama Channels Kansas Corn
-- B y   W h i t n e y   M c F e r r o n ,   J e f f   W i l s o n   a n d   S h r u t i   D a t e   S i n g h
-- 2010-10-18T20:35:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-17/agriculture-surge-means-booming-u-s-exports-with-obama-channeling-kansas.html
Record U.S. agricultural exports are
providing an unexpected boost to President  Barack Obama ’s target
of doubling overseas sales by 2015 and driving earnings for Agco
Corp., CF Industries Holdings Inc. and Cargill Inc.  The 66 percent gain in corn prices from June lows and as
much as doubling in wheat are leading a jump in U.S. farm
revenue that JPMorgan Chase & Co. expects will increase demand
for Deere & Co.’s tractors and Mosaic Co.’s fertilizer. Farm
exports from the U.S., the world’s largest grain shipper, may
top the 2008 record of $115.3 billion in 2011, said  Joe Glauber ,
chief economist at the U.S. Department of Agriculture.  While agriculture accounts for just 1 percent of the $14.3
trillion U.S. economy, the actual impact of surging prices may
be 10 times more once spending on equipment, seeds, grain
handling and food making are added, said  Jason Henderson , an
economist at the Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City. The boom
may continue through 2011, with wheat predicted to average $7.28
a bushel and corn $5.83, as much as 98 percent above the 10-year
average, a Bloomberg News survey of seven U.S. analysts showed.  “It’s going to be the best year American farmers have had
in two and a half decades,” said  Dennis Gartman , an economist
and editor of the Gartman Letter in Suffolk, Virginia. “The
next big winners are obviously the fertilizer companies and
farm-equipment manufacturers. The winner no one seems to be
talking about is small banks in the Midwest.”  Farm Machinery  Farm income and spending contrasts with the U.S. economy,
where unemployment is running at 9.6 percent and economic growth
slowed to an annualized 1.7 percent in the second quarter, from
3.7 percent in the previous three months. Congressional
elections take place Nov. 2 and more than four of 10 likely
voters who say they once considered themselves Obama backers now
are either less supportive or no longer support him, according
to a Bloomberg National Poll conducted Oct. 7-Oct. 10.  Sales of farm equipment are correlated to growers’ cash
receipts, which should rise 24 percent to $118.4 billion for
major crops in the 2010-2011 season,  Ann Duignan , an analyst at
JPMorgan in New York, said in an Oct. 8 report. That will
bolster sales for Moline, Illinois-based  Deere , the world’s
largest farm-equipment maker, Amsterdam-based CNH Global NV and
Duluth, Georgia-based Agco, she said.  Cargill, the Minnetonka, Minnesota-based grain handler and
the largest closely held company in the U.S., said Oct. 12 that
farm-price volatility and its 64 percent stake in Mosaic drove a
68 percent surge in profit in the most recent quarter.  Reinvest Wealth  “Farmers historically are pretty savvy in what they do, so
they would reinvest a lot of their increased wealth potentially
into new tractors, new equipment,” said  Ralf Oberbannscheidt , a
co-fund manager of agribusiness strategy at New York-based
Global Thematic Partners LLC, which invests $3.5 billion in
food-related equities.  Deere’s per-share  profit  will more than double to $4.25 in
the current fiscal year from $2.06 in 2009, according to the
mean estimate of eight analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. At Agco,
earnings may jump to $1.948 a share from $1.44 last year, and
CNH’s profit will reach $1.30, compared with an 80-cent loss in
2009, according to analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  While Deerfield, Illinois-based fertilizer maker CF
Industries probably will see a decline in earnings this year,
profit will jump to $8.45 a share in 2011, according to five
analysts surveyed, compared with an estimated $5.36 in 2010.  Droughts, Floods  Grain prices surged as drought in Russia, flooding in
Canada and parched fields in Kazakhstan and Europe ruined crops.
Russia, once the world’s third-biggest wheat exporter, banned
overseas sales in August. Ukraine, the biggest barley shipper,
said Oct. 12 it would introduce grain quotas.  Corn, wheat and soybeans jumped the most allowed by the
Chicago Board of Trade on Oct. 8 after the USDA predicted less
supply. On Oct. 15, Goldman Sachs Group Inc. boosted its 12-
month forecast for corn to $6.25 a bushel from $5.  “I am very bullish on farm commodities for the next many
years,” Agco Chief Executive Officer  Martin Richenhagen  said in
an Oct. 13 interview. Demand probably will increase from the end
of this year, he said.  Sales are already strengthening at Sloan Implement Co., a
closely held dealer in Deere equipment with more than a dozen
locations in Illinois and Wisconsin.  “Farmers are like all of us,” Chief Executive Officer  Tom Sloan  wrote in an e-mail. The “more money we earn, we tend to
spend it.”  Farmers are taking advantage of low interest rates to buy
land and machinery, said Tom Neher, a vice president for AgStar
Financial in Rochester, Minnesota. The bank issued twice as many
farm-equipment loans as expected during a recent promotion.  New Combines  “I’ve seen more brand-new combines bought this year than
I’ve seen for a long, long time,” said Neher, who helps manage
$2.1 billion in grain-related loans and leases for AgStar.
“When you can get a machinery loan for 4 percent interest,
that’s about as low as it ever gets.”  In September, sales of four-wheel-drive tractors in the
U.S. were 21 percent higher than at the same time last year, and
sales of combine harvesters jumped 12 percent, the Association
of Equipment Manufacturers said Oct. 13.  Brandon Hunnicutt , who farms about 3,600 acres of mostly
corn and soybeans in Giltner, Nebraska, said he may spend more
on fertilizer and improve equipment.  “Some of those purchases maybe you were hoping you could
make we should be able to make now because you have $5 corn,”
said Hunnicutt, who’s also the president of the Nebraska Corn
Growers Association. “Five-dollar corn makes it a whole lot
easier to justify some of that.”  No ‘Gold Rush’  While many growers are benefiting from the boom in crop and
farmland prices, there are limits to how much that will trickle
down to the rest of rural America, said  Ernie Goss , a professor
of economics at Creighton University in Omaha.  “It’s not like the old gold rush days, when they’d buy up
all the liquor in the local saloon,” Goss said. “That’s not
how it works now. You have fewer and  fewer farms , and fewer and
fewer farm families, so it hasn’t spilled into small businesses
like the drug store, or the shoe store.”  The rural economy contracted in September for the third
straight month, as hiring and home sales slumped, according to a
monthly Creighton  survey  of small-town banks in 10 states. The
agricultural industry is “experiencing healthy growth,” with
land and farm-equipment sales rising, according to the survey.  Profit margins for restaurants and grocery stores may
narrow because some may be unable to pass on higher commodity
costs to consumers, Goss said. Farm prices have been supported
by a lower dollar, which is boosting exports, and not by rising
domestic demand, he said.  Greeley, Not Beijing  Small businesses “are mystified by all these reports about
how wonderful the rural economy is,” he said. “That’s because
they’re selling in Greeley, Nebraska, and the farmer out there
is selling in Beijing.”  The number of Americans receiving food stamps rose to a
record 41.8 million in July, the USDA said Oct. 5. The  Standard &
Poor’s GSCI Agriculture Index  of eight commodities gained 33
percent in the third quarter, the most since 1974, and the
measure is up 45 percent since the end of June. The gauge fell
0.3 percent as of 3:21 p.m. in New York.  Agricultural output, including forestry, fishing and
hunting, was $136.4 billion in 2009, according to the Bureau of
Economic Analysis. Agriculture’s share of the economy shrank
from 8.6 percent in 1948 to about 1 percent in the past decade.  The boom in agriculture “isn’t enough to give us an extra
burst nationally,” said  David B. Oppedahl , a business economist
at the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago. “In some regions with a
strong agricultural base, it should help those areas recover
more quickly.”  Doubling Exports  In his State of the Union address on Jan. 27, Obama said
U.S. jobs will depend in part on the country’s ability to boost
overseas sales. Meeting his target would mean exports reaching
$3.14 trillion by 2015 from $1.57 trillion in 2009, according to
the White House.  “Agriculture is central to our exports,” said  Howard Rosen , who studies trade and labor issues as a visiting fellow
at the Peterson Institute for International Economics in
Washington. “We’re going to need to depend on agriculture in
order to meet the goal.”  In the first eight months of 2010, U.S. agricultural
exports climbed to $69.8 billion from $61 billion in the same
period a year earlier, according to the most recent USDA data.  China will become the second-biggest U.S. agricultural
trading partner in 2011 as it buys more cotton, pork, corn and
soybeans, the USDA estimates. Shipments to the world’s most-
populous nation will total $15 billion, compared with Canada’s
$16.8 billion and Mexico’s $14.6 billion.  Income Surge  Rising trade will contribute to a projected 24 percent gain
in net farm income in the 2010 calendar year to $77.1 billion,
the USDA said Aug. 31. Since that  report  was issued, corn
futures have surged 27 percent. The department will update its
forecast next month.  Lower debt and rising income this year means growers will
tap just 47 percent of their  loan-paying capacity , compared with
63 percent in 2009, the USDA said in August.  “It is a perfect situation for U.S. farmers, the best
since the early 1970s,” said  Bill Adams , a trader at ACT
Currency Partner AG, a currency and commodity specialist in
Zurich. “There will be quite a few Cadillacs sold in the
Midwest this Christmas.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Whitney McFerron  in Chicago at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net ;
 Jeff Wilson  in Chicago at 
 jwilson29@bloomberg.net ;
 Shruti Date Singh  in Chicago at 
 ssingh28@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net . 