-- Ai Weiwei Takes China Battle to Tate, Attacks State `Machine'
-- B y   F a r a h   N a y e r i
-- 2010-10-17T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-17/ai-weiwei-takes-china-politics-to-tate-attacks-state-machine-interview.html
Ai Weiwei  poses for the cameras on
the carpet of sunflower seeds he created for  Tate Modern .  The 53-year-old Chinese artist -- who has spread more than
100 million of the hand-painted porcelain sculptures across the
Turbine Hall of the London museum -- sports scruffy black
casuals, dusty walking shoes and a wiry black beard that drops
well below his chin.  More photogenic is his son Ai Lao, 18 months, who lounges
on the seed bed. Nattily clad in a seersucker blazer, the
toddler attempts to swallow a handful of his dad’s artworks.  Days later, on Oct. 15, Tate Modern declares the
installation off-limits for visitors, because the dust the seeds
kick up might cause respiratory problems. The vision of Ai
Weiwei and his baby boy strutting across it is history.  In Mao’s revolutionary vocabulary, sunflower seeds were
symbols of the people of China. Ai Weiwei’s were crafted over
two years in a town with a 1,000-year-old porcelain tradition.  Ai previously co-designed the  Beijing 2008 Olympic Stadium ,
and then condemned the games as propaganda. He fights power on
all fronts: art, tweets, court battles.  On the day that “Sunflower Seeds” opened, I joined Ai for
a conversation in Tate’s red auditorium, and began by asking
whether his artwork -- part of the annual  Unilever Series  -- was
a reference to China’s sprawling population.  Ai: I don’t think we can interpret it so literally. But
it’s made by a big mass of labor and time because it’s
individually sculpted. You can sense the kind of numbers that
often relate to China, because we have such a population, and
only China can make a work like this, because of the production
costs and the intensiveness of labor and skill.  Political Context  Nayeri: Why does your work always have to be so political?  Ai: Not all my work has to be political, but I’m in very
political surroundings. I was born in a political situation.  Today, China is still very political. It’s still a state
with no freedom of expression, such strong censorship and no
free action. Sixty-one years of a nation, and they still think
people are not well educated, and democracy is not feasible for
them.  You become very frustrated, because by doing so they are
really taking away the younger generations’ opportunity to be
well educated or to be well informed. This is a condition you
cannot really be disassociated from.  People’s Pain  Nayeri: You were physically hurt in the past, and suffered
head injuries presumably associated with your activity as an
artist. Are you not afraid of doing what you do?  Ai: If I lost the ability to sense the pain, not the pain
caused to me but the pain caused to people, then I would be
afraid. Not because of the violence.  Nayeri: You’re best known for the Olympic Stadium from
which you’ve distanced yourself. Don’t you like that building?  Ai: I like that building. The building is beautiful. It’s a
beautiful product. It’s the kind of political activities
associated with it that I think are disgusting.  Nayeri: Does the Nobel  Peace Prize  given to Chinese
activist  Liu Xiaobo  make it easier for artists and citizens?  Ai: I don’t think a single event will make it easier. We
noticed after he was named that many young people had been
arrested even just for celebrating, just having a dinner.  You can see it’s a machine: This kind of society is
machinery. It will crash down (on) anything questioning its
authority.  “Sunflower Seeds” by Ai Weiwei is at Tate Modern,
Bankside, London, SE1 9TG. The show runs through May 2, 2011. It
is part of the Unilever Series, an annual commission sponsored
by Unilever Plc. Information:
 http://www.tate.org.uk/modern/exhibitions/unileverseries2010   To contact the writer on the story:
 Farah Nayeri  in London  at
 Farahn@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 