-- AIA May Pay Dividend From Second Half of 2011, Prospectus Says
-- B y   B e i   H u
-- 2010-10-17T16:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-17/aia-won-t-pay-dividend-until-at-least-middle-2011-after-14-9-billion-ipo.html
AIA Group Ltd. , taking orders for
what’s likely to be Hong Kong’s largest initial public offering,
said that it won’t pay a dividend before the second half of next
year.  The board will determine semi-annual dividends from the end
of the first half, the Hong Kong-based company said in an IPO
prospectus released yesterday.  “Once we have done all the work in terms of looking at the
investment that we need into the businesses going forward, then
we will come out with a clear dividend policy,”  Mark Tucker ,
AIA’s chief executive officer, told reporters via a video link.
“We’re still doing work to clarify that.”  AIG is selling down its stake in AIA during the IPO to help
repay $182.3 billion of government bailout. The listing went
back on the agenda after  Prudential Plc  backed out of a deal to
buy the unit for $35.5 billion in June.  AIG is selling 5.9 billion existing shares, or a 48.6
percent stake in AIA, at HK$18.38 to HK$19.68 each for as much
as HK$115.3 billion ($14.9 billion), the prospectus said. AIG
may use options to increase the number of shares sold to as many
as 8.1 billion, or a 67 percent stake, it said.  At the top of the price range, the enlarged sale would
eclipse the $16 billion raised by Industrial & Commercial Bank
of China Ltd. in 2006 as the largest Hong Kong IPO, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The shares will be priced Oct. 22.  Asian Reach  The IPO of the company marketing itself as the Asian life
insurer with the broadest geographical reach has drawn strong
investor interest, Tucker said without giving details.  Bankers at the press conference declined to comment on an
Oct. 9 Reuters report that investors have bid for five times the
AIA IPO shares on offer or an Oct. 6 Hong Kong Economic Times
report that Warren Buffett ordered $1.5 billion of AIA shares.  “The major concern we have is that there are not enough
hours in the day to have all the meetings that we need to
have,” Tucker said. “There’s been an incredibly enthusiastic
response to this and if we could add another 20 hours a day,
that would be perfect.”  Tracing its roots in the region to more than 90 years ago,
AIA operates in 15 Asian markets with 309,000 agents, 24,500
employees and more than 23 million in-force policies. It
forecasts operating profit of at least $2 billion for the year
ending November.  Distant Admirer  Tucker, who built up Prudential’s Asian operations before
becoming Prudential CEO, was picked by AIG CEO  Robert Benmosche 
to head AIA in July.  “I have admired AIA from a distance for a long while,” he
said yesterday.  AIG’s status as AIA’s controlling shareholder after the
public listing will not affect the way the Asian unit is run,
Tucker said.  “AIG is very supportive of allowing AIA to be able to run
the company for the benefits and value of all shareholders,” he
said.  AIG or its units cannot vote on AIA’s dividend payout as
long as AIG owns more than 10 percent of the outstanding shares
of the Asian unit or controls more than 10 percent of voting
rights, according to the prospectus.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bei Hu  in Hong Kong at 
 bhu5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at   apapuc1@bloomberg.net  