-- AK-47, Everyman’s Gun, Gave Us Boy Killers, Flags, Vodka: Books
-- B y   A n d r e w   D u n n
-- 2010-10-17T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-17/ak-47-everyman-s-gun-gave-us-boy-killers-flags-vodka-books.html
It’s plentiful, portable, durable,
and so simple that even a child can use one. It’s the Avtomat
Kalashnikova, or AK-47, the assault rifle that  Josef Stalin  gave
to the world and that long outlived the Cold War.  Named for the man credited with its invention,  Mikhail Kalashnikov , and the year the Soviet Union adopted it, 1947, the
AK-47 is an in-between weapon -- lighter and shorter than
previous infantry rifles yet more accurate and powerful than a
submachine gun.  C.J. Chivers , in his exhaustive and bleak
history “ The Gun ,” concludes that the weapon will have a
strong influence on armed conflict for decades to come.  The AK-47 had fewer moving parts than typical automatic
rifles, and those parts were loose-fitting and massive, making a
dirty gun less likely to jam. The Soviets gave these durable
machines to just about anyone who might advance their goals, and
even helped their neighbors -- including China -- build their
own AK factories. The world is awash in AKs and their progeny.  “These weapons began as a means to equip standing
armies,” Chivers writes. “But the nations that made them lost
custody of them, and then control, and now in much of the world
they are everyman’s gun.”  Small arms were the weapon of choice in 46 of 49 major
conflicts in the 1990s, in which 4 million people died, Chivers
says, citing a United Nations report. AKs and AK knockoffs were
the primary rifles used.  Flags and Vodka  Today they appear on  flags  and as props in terrorist
videos. U.S. Marines practice breaking down and reassembling
them, “just in case.” There’s even a  Kalashnikov Vodka .  Chivers, a New York Times senior writer who served in the
Marine Corps in the Gulf War, combines a soldier’s experience
with a historian’s skepticism. You probably won’t be able to
trade a chicken for an AK, as is sometimes asserted, he says;
one can be had for a few head of cattle. More tellingly, he
shows how the price of an AK is a barometer of how dangerous a
place has become.  His tale starts in the 1860s with inventor and businessman
 Richard Gatling  and proceeds to  Hiram Maxim , the sadist and
possible trigamist, Chivers says, who developed one of the first
viable automatic weapons.  When you fire a rifle, it recoils and releases a burst of
gas. Automatic weapons harness that wasted energy to eject the
spent cartridge and push back a bolt. The bolt then bounces off
a spring and smashes into the next cartridge, setting the
process in motion again. After Maxim, automatics grew smaller
and deadlier, culminating in the abattoir that was World War I.  Creature of Propaganda  The life of Kalashnikov himself is obscured in Soviet
secrecy and mendacity. He may have been the resourceful tinkerer
of popular myth. Yet according to Chivers he was also the
willing creature of a propaganda machine that gave him more
credit than he deserved for the work of many hands.  Kalashnikov, who celebrated his 90th birthday last
November, seeks credit when his gun is put to uses he likes --
such as defending the motherland -- and disavows responsibility
for the destruction it causes elsewhere.  “I have always tried to knock down that annoying
stereotype: if you are a weapons designer, you are a murderer,”
Chivers quotes him as saying.  Chivers contrasts the AK with the American-made M16, which
he says was issued to U.S. troops in Vietnam before it was ready
for jungle duty. It corroded and jammed, sometimes with fatal
consequences. Some soldiers would abandon their M16s in favor of
captured AKs. Though the American weapon has since been
improved, the damage was done.  The greatest strength of “The Gun” lies in the stories
told by rank-and-file gunfighters. Chivers devotes space to
child soldiers in Uganda, Marines in Southeast Asia and Kurdish
bodyguards in northern Iraq. One by one, they describe what it’s
like to shoot, and be shot by, this killing machine, a device
that can unload hundreds of bullets in a minute.  “The Gun” is published by  Simon & Schuster  in the U.S.
and by  Allen Lane  in the U.K. (481 pages, $28, 25 pounds). To
buy this book in North America, click  here .  ( Andrew Dunn  writes for Bloomberg News. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the reporter on the story:
 Andrew Dunn  in New York at 
 adunn8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net  