-- Al-Khalij, Arabtec, Dana Gas, DFM, Boubyan Bank, NBO: Gulf Equity Preview
-- B y   D a n a   E l   B a l t a j i   a n d   Z a h r a   H a n k i r
-- 2010-10-17T05:31:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-17/al-khalij-arabtec-dana-gas-dfm-boubyan-bank-nbo-gulf-equity-preview.html
The following stocks may rise or
fall in Gulf Arab markets. Stock symbols are in parentheses and
prices are from the last close.  The  Dubai Financial Market General Index  fell 0.7 percent
and Kuwait’s  gauge  lost 0.9 percent. Abu Dhabi’s  measure 
increased 0.5 percent.       Abu Dhabi Commercial Bank PJSC  (ADCB UH): The third-largest
lender in the United Arab Emirates by assets said it completed
the acquisition of the U.A.E. business of the Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc. The shares increased 0.4 percent to 2.51
dirhams.       Al-Khalij Holding  (KHCD QD): The Qatari holding company
said its nine-month profit dropped 46 percent to 33.5 million
riyals ($9.2 million). The shares declined 0.7 percent to 14.8
riyals.  Arabtec Holding Co.  (ARTC UH): The biggest publicly listed
builder in the U.A.E. and Egypt’s Amer Group will set up a
contracting company in Egypt, Mansour Amer, chairman and chief
executive officer of Amer Group said in Cairo on Oct. 14. The
shares slipped 0.9 percent to 2.28 dirhams.  Boubyan Bank KSC  (BOUBYAN KK): The Kuwaiti lender is
studying the possibility of exiting many foreign investments in
the “long-term” as it seeks to increase its focus on banking
operations and hold on to a “few profitable foreign
investments,” Vice Chairman  Adel Abdul Wahab Al-Majed  told CNBC
Arabiya TV channel. The shares decreased 3 percent to 640 fils.  Dubai Financial Market  (DFM UH): Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
is in the final stages of completing a study to merge the Dubai
Financial Market and the Abu Dhabi Securities Exchange, Al Bayan
reported, without saying where it got the information. The
shares retreated 1.1 percent to 1.82 dirhams.        Dana Gas PJSC  (DANA UH): The U.A.E. energy company said
Chief Financial Officer  James Dewar  will leave his position. The
shares jumped 2.4 percent to 85 fils.  National Bank of Oman SAOG  (NBOB OM): The sultanate’s
second-biggest bank by assets said nine-month profit rose 11
percent to 21.7 million rials ($56.3 million). The shares
advanced 0.3 percent to 0.35 rial.  Saudi Ceramic Co. (SCERCO AB): The maker of bathroom
fixtures and electric water heaters said third-quarter profit
declined 13 percent to 46.2 million riyals from a year-earlier
as sales fell. The shares lost 2.3 percent to 139 riyals.  Southern Province Cement Co.  (SOCCO AB): The largest cement
producer in Saudi Arabia posted a 16 percent decline in third
quarter profit to 119 million riyals from a year earlier. The
shares increased 0.4 percent to 65.25 riyals.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Dana El Baltaji  in Dubai at 
 delbaltaji@bloomberg.net ;
 Zahra Hankir  in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler in Dubai at   cmaedler@bloomberg.net  