-- Allergan, Cablevision, Lulu Athletica, Supertex, WD-40: Equity Preview
-- B y   I n y o u n g   H w a n g
-- 2010-10-17T18:28:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-17/allergan-cablevision-lulu-athletica-supertex-wd-40-equity-preview.html
Shares of the following companies
may have unusual moves in U.S. trading tomorrow. Stock symbols
are in parentheses.       Allergan Inc.  (AGN US) climbed 7.8 percent to $74.24. The
maker of anti-wrinkle injections said the U.S. Food and Drug
administration approved Botox for the preventive treatment of
chronic migraines in adults.       Cablevision Systems Corp.  (CVC US): The New York-area
cable-TV provider resumed talks with News Corp., after reaching
an impasse on Oct. 15, in a fee dispute that disrupted Fox
broadcasts. News Corp. cut the Fox broadcast signal, which
blacked out today’s New York Giants-Detroit Lions National
Football League game for Cablevision customers.  Daimler AG  (DDAIF US): The German luxury automaker’s shares
may touch $75 or higher as more Chinese buy Mercedes cars and
demand gains for its medium- and heavy-duty trucks, Barron’s
reported, citing analysts and investors.  Lulu Athletica Inc.  (LULU US): The biggest Canadian yoga-
wear retailer may fall as much as 30 percent as sales growth
slows, Barron’s reported, citing analysts.  Pioneer Natural Resources Co.  (PXD US): The Irving, Texas-
based oil exploration company expects to record $127.6 million
in derivative gains in the third quarter.  Supertex Inc.  (SUPX US) slumped 6.3 percent to $21. The
maker of chips for telecommunications and medical instruments
said sales in the second-quarter will be no more than $22.5
million, lower than the average analyst estimate of $25.1
million.       WD-40 Co.  (WDFC US): The San Diego-maker of lubricants and
hand soap reported fourth-quarter earnings of 41 cents a share,
beating the average analyst estimate of 38 cents a share. Sales
during the period were $80.7 million, exceeding analysts’
projection of $76.1 million.  Wilmington Trust Corp.  (WL US): Delaware’s biggest bank may
be a likely takeover target, Barron’s reported, citing analysts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Inyoung Hwang  in New York at 
 ihwang7@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Theo Mullen at   tmullen11@bloomberg.net . 