-- Aluminium Bahrain Seeks to Raise $541 Million From Initial Share Offering
-- B y   R o b e r t   T u t t l e
-- 2010-10-17T13:27:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-17/aluminium-bahrain-said-to-sell-shares-at-1-25-dinars-each-in-initial-sale.html
Aluminium Bahrain BSC, the operator
of an 850,000-metric-ton-a-year smelter, plans to raise as much
as 204 million dinars ($541 million) from an initial share sale
as Persian Gulf markets recover from the global credit crisis.  Mumtalakat Holding Co. , Bahrain’s sovereign wealth fund,
plans to sell as many as 163.3 million shares between Oct. 24
and Nov. 4 in the IPO, Aluminium Bahrain, known as Alba, said in
an e-mailed statement today. Retail investors will be offered
shares at 1.25 dinars apiece and institutional investors between
0.9 dinar and 1.25 dinars. Global depository receipts will be
sold for $11.97 and $16.62, with each GDR representing five
ordinary shares.  Persian Gulf companies are joining a surge in emerging
market share sales to raise funds as regional stock markets
rebound and companies restructure their debt. Nawras, the Omani
mobile-phone company controlled by Qatar Telecom QSC, is in the
middle of a book-built IPO. Axiom Ltd., a unit of a Dubai-based
phone retailer, plans to sell a 35 percent stake in an IPO by
the end of the year.  “The window of opportunity is opening up for the regional
issuers after a long lull,” said Robert McKinnon, chief
investment officer at Dubai-based Asas Capital Ltd. “You will
see more names coming to the market as long as positive
sentiments are there. But I haven’t yet seen the most attractive
names coming to the market. For example, Emirates Airline and
Jumeirah Group LLC are some names in which we will be
interested.”  Raised Profile  Alba appointed  J.P. Morgan Securities Ltd.  as sole global
coordinator and bookrunner for the IPO. The bank will manage the
sale of GDRs with Citigroup Global Markets Ltd. as co-manager.
Gulf International Bank BSC, Bahrain Islamic Bank BSC, National
Bank of Bahrain BSC and Al Salam Bank-Bahrain BSC will be the
underwriters. The company plans to list ordinary stock on the
Bahrain Stock Exchange and GDRs on the London bourse.  “The listing on both the London and Bahrain stock
exchanges will raise Bahrain and Alba’s profiles in the
international markets and illustrates the progress Bahrain is
making as a productive, globally competitive economy,”  Talal Al Zain , chief executive officer of Mumtalakat, said in the
statement.  The Bahraini government holds 77 percent of Alba and Saudi
Arabia owns 20 percent through chemicals maker Saudi Basic
Industries Corp. The partners will proportionally split a 3
percent stake owned by Breton Investments Ltd., once Alba
completes the purchase of that company’s holding in the smelter.  Financial Flexibility  Alba said in June  it plans to convert itself into a public
joint stock company to add financial flexibility and allow its
aluminum smelter to compete in international markets. The
company last month reported a first-half profit of $200 million,
beating its own forecasts. Alba said it may exceed internal
profit targets this year, without disclosing projected earnings
or providing comparison data for the previous year.  The final offering price will be announced on Nov. 8 on the
basis of an institutional book-building process, according to
the statement. Book-building is a process in which potential
investors say how many shares they would buy and at what price.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Robert Tuttle  in Doha at 
 rtuttle@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net . 