-- Hands Says He Was Tricked by Citigroup Banker in EMI Bidding
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s   a n d   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2010-10-18T17:35:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-17/hands-says-he-was-tricked-by-citigroup-banker-wormsley-in-bidding-for-emi.html
Guy Hands , whose Terra Firma Capital
Partners Ltd. paid $6.7 billion for EMI Group Ltd. at the height
of the buyout boom in 2007, says he was tricked into overpaying
by a  Citigroup Inc.  banker.  Hands is going to try to prove in a trial that started
today in federal court in Manhattan that Citigroup’s  David Wormsley  lied to him when he said that Cerberus Capital
Management LP planned to submit a competing bid for EMI, the
113-year-old music publishing company whose recording stars have
included  Enrico Caruso , the Beatles,  Miles Davis  and Radiohead.  Terra Firma claims $8.3 billion in damages, saying it would
have paid less for EMI had it known that Cerberus wasn’t going
to bid. In the meantime Queen,  Paul McCartney , and the Rolling
Stones have all quit the label, while the company slipped from a
profit of 86 million pounds ($137 million) in 2006 to a loss of
1.57 billion pounds in 2009 and 512 million pounds in 2010.  The suit has been interpreted as a move by Hands “directed
at putting pressure on Citi to bring them to the table to
renegotiate the financing of EMI,” said  Claire Enders , chief
executive officer of Enders Analysis Ltd., an entertainment
industry research firm based in London.  Citigroup, which provided 3 billion pounds in loans to
finance the acquisition, says Wormsley didn’t lie to Hands and
didn’t even know that Cerberus had decided not to bid. Terra
Firma based its bid on its own estimate of EMI’s value, not on
any statements by Wormsley, according to Citigroup.  Day in Court  “Terra Firma’s allegations are categorically untrue,”
Citigroup said in an e-mailed statement. “Citi and Mr. Wormsley
have treated Mr. Hands and Terra Firma at all times in a
forthright and honorable fashion. We look forward to our day in
court and are confident that we will prevail.”  Terra Firma’s key witness will be Hands, 51, who claims he
had three telephone conversations with Wormsley between May 18
and May 21, 2007, as the deadline for bids on EMI approached.  According to Hands, Wormsley told him that Cerberus, which
had withdrawn from the auction, planned to bid 2.62 pounds a
share. Terra Firma claims its bid of 2.65 pounds a share was
based on its desire to beat the non-existent Cerberus bid.  Wormsley, Terra Firma’s “trusted adviser,” was “playing
two sides of the street at the same time,”  David Boies , the
lead lawyer for Terra Firma, told jurors in his opening
statement today.”  Fiction Alleged  Afterward, Citicorp covered up the fraud, by perpetuating
the fiction of a Cerberus bid after the auction was over, Boies
said.  “They knew that they had lied and they made Terra Firma
make this bid on the fictional idea that there were other
bids,” Boies said.  “There was no fraud, there were no lies,” said Citigroup
lawyer  Theodore Wells  in his opening statement. “Guy Hands
wanted to buy EMI. He wanted to win.”  Enders said the EMI transaction was “immensely
overvalued” and that the company has “bumped along from one
short-term financial crisis to the next” since the sale. Hands
has tried unsuccessfully to persuade Citigroup to come to an
agreement that would reduce EMI’s debt, she said.  New York Jurors  “From the beginning, we have said this case was about
fraud committed by Citi and we have strong evidence to support
our claims,” said  Jonathan Doorley , a Terra Firma spokesman, in
an e-mailed statement. “We look forward to the commencement of
the trial on October 18, when Citi will have to answer to a
group of New York jurors.”  Citigroup was trading on the New York Stock Exchange for
about $53 in May 2007. The shares rose 13 cents to $4.08 as of
11:12 a.m. today.  In addition to Hands and Wormsley, likely witnesses include
 Simon Borrows , chairman of Greenhill & Co.; Cerberus Capital
managing director  Alexander Wolf ; Chad Leat, chairman of
Citigroup’s alternative asset group;  Paul Simpkin , co-head of
European loans and leveraged finance at Citigroup; and Michael
Klein, former Citigroup co-head of markets.  The suit was filed in New York state court in December,
more than two years after Terra Firma won the bidding for EMI.
It was moved to federal court in Manhattan.  Judge Rakoff  U.S. District Judge  Jed S. Rakoff , who will preside over
the trial, has twice denied requests by Citigroup to throw the
case out entirely. In March, he rejected Citigroup’s argument
that the case must be tried in the U.K. Last month, Rakoff
dismissed two of Terra Firma’s legal theories, allowing the case
to go to trial on claims of fraudulent misrepresentation and
fraudulent concealment.  The parties told Rakoff that the trial may take as long as
two weeks.  The Terra Firma legal team is led by Boeis, who represented
former U.S. Vice President  Al Gore  in his unsuccessful
litigation over the 2000 presidential election and argued
against California’s gay marriage ban. His opponent, Wells,
represented former vice presidential aide Lewis “Scooter”
Libby on charges of obstructing a CIA leak investigation.  The two lawyers faced each other in front of Judge Rakoff
in a 2009 trial in which Boies successfully defended American
International Group Inc.’s former chief executive officer
Maurice “Hank” Greenberg against a suit by AIG, represented by
Wells.  The case is Terra Firma v. Citigroup, 09-cv-10459, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Bob Van Voris  in U.S. District Court in Manhattan at
   rvanvoris@bloomberg.net ;
 Patricia Hurtado  in U.S. District Court in Manhattan at
   pathurtado@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 