-- Arabtec Unit Wins $53 Million Property Contract From Amer Group in Egypt
-- B y   A l a a   S h a h i n e   a n d   S h a j i   M a t h e w
-- 2010-10-17T11:57:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-17/arabtec-unit-wins-53-million-property-contract-from-amer-group-in-egypt.html
Arabtec Holding Co ., the biggest
builder in the United Arab Emirates by market value, said a unit
was awarded a contract to build a project in Egypt valued at
more than 195 million dirhams ($53 million).  Egypt’s  Amer Group Holding SAE , the developer of the
Hanging Gardens project, awarded the contract to Arabtec Egypt
for Construction SAE, Arabtec said in a statement to the Dubai
bourse today.  “This award comes as part of the company’s strategy to
diversify geographically outside of the U.A.E.,”  Riad Kamal ,
chief executive of Dubai-based Arabtec, said in the statement.  Half of all planned real estate projects in the emirate of
Dubai were cancelled after the global financial crisis caused
demand to collapse and a housing glut drove property prices
down. The slump has persuaded construction and real estate
companies to look for projects elsewhere.  Construction in Egypt expanded 12.5 percent in the third
quarter, helping the economy of the most populous Arab country
grow 5.6 percent, the government said last week.  Arabtec’s Saudi unit won a 5-billion riyal ($1.3 billion)
order to build 5,000 villas for Saudi Binladin Group in the
kingdom’s Eastern Province, the company said on Oct. 4.  OAO Gazprom Neft, the oil arm of Russia’s natural-gas
exporter, hired Arabtec to build what may become Europe’s
tallest building. Construction of the tower in the center of St.
Petersburg is planned to start in the spring of 2011 after
Gazprom won final approval from the government. The project has
faced a popular protest.  Shares of Arabtec fell 1.75 percent to 2.24 dirhams at the
2:00 p.m. close today in Dubai, extending this year’s decline to
16.4 percent according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.  Amer Group develops luxury resorts in Egypt, including
Porto Marina on the Mediterranean and Porto Sokhna on the Red
Sea. The Hanging Gardens is made up of six residential buildings
with 726 apartments at Golf Porto Sokhna, Arabtec said in
today’s statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alaa Shahine  in Cairo at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Inal Ersan at 
 iersan@bloomberg.net  