-- Arabtec Sees 2010 Revenue Falling 12.5% in U.A.E., Seeks Egypt Expansion
-- B y   A l a a   S h a h i n e
-- 2010-10-17T15:57:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-17/arabtec-holding-expects-up-to-1-75-billion-in-revenue-for-2010-ceo-says.html
Arabtec Holding Co. , the biggest
builder in the United Arab Emirates by market value, expects
sales to drop by at least 12.5 percent in 2010 as the country’s
construction industry struggles to recover from the recession.  Revenue may range between $1.5 billion and $1.75 billion
this year, Chief Executive Officer  Riad Kamal  told reporters
today in Cairo, where the company signed an agreement to set up
a unit in Egypt. Revenue in 2009 was about $2 billion, he said.  “The bulk of our presence is in the U.A.E. and the U.A.E.
market has been on a decline,” he said. “This is the reason
why we are spreading very fast outside.”  Half of all planned real estate projects in the emirate of
Dubai were canceled after the global financial crisis caused
demand to collapse and a housing glut drove property prices
down. The slump has forced construction and real estate
companies to look for projects overseas.  The company today set up Arabtec Egypt for Construction SAE
with  Amer Group Holding  and won a contract valued at more than
195 million dirhams ($53 million) to develop Amer’s Hanging
Gardens on the Red Sea. Amer Group develops luxury resorts in
Egypt, including Porto Marina on the Mediterranean and Porto
Sokhna on the Red Sea. The Hanging Gardens project includes six
residential buildings with 726 apartments at Golf Porto Sokhna,
Arabtec said in a statement today.  Construction in Egypt expanded 12.5 percent in the third
quarter, helping the economy of the most populous Arab country
grow 5.6 percent, the government said last week.  Arabtec plans to compete for more infrastructure projects
in Egypt through the unit, Kamal said. It also plans to bid for
a contract from Islamabad’s airport in Pakistan, he said.  The shares fell 1.75 percent to 2.24 dirhams at the 2:00
p.m. close today in Dubai, extending this year’s decline to 16.4
percent according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alaa Shahine  in Cairo at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net 
Peter Hirschberg at  phirschberg@bloomberg.net  