-- David Jones Ex-CEO McInnes Settles Harassment Charges
-- B y   J o e   S c h n e i d e r
-- 2010-10-18T01:41:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-17/mark-mcinnes-former-david-jones-ceo-settles-sexual-harassment-charges.html
David Jones Ltd.  and former Chief
Executive Officer  Mark McInnes  agreed to pay A$850,000 ($840,000)
to settle claims of sexual harassment from a former publicist,
the largest amount made public in such a case in Australia.  David Jones, Australia’s second-biggest department store
operator, will pay most of the settlement, with McInnes paying a
portion, the Sydney-based company said in a statement, without
elaborating.  The settlement, 2.3 percent of the A$37 million Kristy
Fraser-Kirk sought in a federal court lawsuit, compares with the
A$466,000 a federal judge  awarded  in June 2009 to Malgorzata
Poniatowska for sexual harassment and wrongful termination at
Employment Services Australia Ltd. A woman who was raped at her
workplace received A$492,000 in the biggest sexual harassment
award in Australia, according to  Lawyers Weekly.   “It’s a large settlement for a sexual harassment case,”
Gerard Phillips, the national practice group leader at
Middletons Workplace Relations Group, said in a phone interview.
“Traditionally, plaintiffs get a very modest return.”  Fraser-Kirk, 27, sued in August claiming McInnes, 45, made
unwelcome sexual advances at two company functions, including
putting his hand under her clothing and trying to kiss her. The
company and its directors ignored her complaints and failed to
enforce rules against sexual harassment, Fraser-Kirk said.  ‘Difficult Journey’  She sought 5 percent of the company’s  profit  and McInnes’s
earnings from 2003 to 2010, amounting to about A$37 million. She
said the money would be given to charity.  “This has been a difficult journey but one that I felt was
important,” Fraser-Kirk wrote in an e-mailed statement today.
“The case has led to real debate taking place which I am
confident will lead to change.”  McInnes said “the vast majority” of Fraser-Kirk’s
allegations were untrue and that the lawsuit was an abuse of the
legal process. He said in court papers that Fraser-Kirk
initiated sexually suggestive banter at a June 7 function and
that he did nothing wrong in inviting her for a drink at a
restaurant.  “I welcome today’s settlement,” McInnes said in an e-
mailed statement. “It brings to an end a difficult time in many
people’s lives.”  Fraser-Kirk’s settlement may not be a precursor of future
awards, said Phillips, who wasn’t involved in the case. Her
decision to take on an iconic department store and McInnes
having quit created an “almost perfect litigation storm,” he
said.  Future Cases  Future plaintiffs may not be willing to be chased by the
media and have their pictures in the papers and on television as
Fraser-Kirk has, Phillips said. Companies also won’t be as
willing to remove people who are being complained about, since
that didn’t make a difference in this case and may have been
taken as admission of wrongdoing, he said.  McInnes, who quit in June following Fraser-Kirk’s
complaints, said he plans to resume his career next year. He
didn’t say what he plans to do.  Fraser-Kirk said she won’t be able to give money from the
settlement to charity and that she plans to participate in
charitable work in the future.  -- Terje Langeland ,  Jonathan Annells   To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joe Schneider  in Sydney at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  