-- Aussie-Dollar Parity March Set for `Failure' on Export Drag: Chart of Day
-- B y   C a n d i c e   Z a c h a r i a h s   a n d   S h a n i   R a j a
-- 2010-10-17T22:55:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-17/aussie-dollar-parity-march-set-for-failure-on-export-drag-chart-of-day.html
The Australian dollar’s surge to
parity with its U.S. counterpart may be short-lived, as the
currency’s slide over the past year against Japan’s yen signals
concern exporters will face lower margins.  “The real indicator in terms of pure Australian
fundamentals is against the yen and not the dollar,” said  Todd Gordon , a technical strategist and trader at GAIN Capital
Holdings Inc. in New York. “The U.S. dollar weakness story,
which is causing Australian dollar strength, is really putting a
stress on Australia’s export markets, including commodity
exports.”  The CHART OF THE DAY maps Australia’s exchange rate against
the yen and U.S. dollar, and the performance of the S&P/ASX 200
Index stocks benchmark. The currency reached $1.0004 on Oct. 15,
its strongest against the greenback since 1982, amid speculation
Federal Reserve policy to boost the American economy will weaken
the U.S. currency. The Aussie has fallen 3.5 percent this year
against the yen. Australia’s key stock gauge slumped 3.7 percent
in 2010, while the MSCI Asia Pacific Index gained 8.8 percent.  Exporters such as  Billabong International Ltd. , the world’s
biggest publicly traded surfwear maker, and James Hardie
Industries, the biggest seller of home siding in the U.S., have
helped drag Australia’s main stocks index lower. Goldman Sachs &
Partners Australia Pty said this month that growth in earnings
per share for resources firms may drop to 30 percent from 48
percent, partly because a stronger currency cuts the value of
overseas revenue. Australia is the world’s largest exporter of
iron ore and coal.  The Aussie traded at 99.02 U.S. cents as of 8:41 a.m. in
Sydney and has advanced 8.1 percent over 12 months. It bought
80.61 yen, a 3.2 percent drop over the past year.  The currency’s breach of parity with the greenback will
prove “a failure” as the Federal Reserve is likely to
disappoint market expectations for increased monetary stimulus,
driving equities and other risky assets lower, Gordon said. That
may drop the currency to below 94 U.S. cents, he said.  (To save a copy of the chart, click here.)  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Candice Zachariahs  in Sydney at 
 czachariahs2@bloomberg.net ;
 Shani Raja  in Sydney at 
 sraja4@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net . 