-- Australian, New Zealand Dollars Fall on Prospects Fed to Add Less Stimulus
-- B y   C a n d i c e   Z a c h a r i a h s
-- 2010-10-18T05:30:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-17/australian-new-zealand-dollars-fall-on-prospects-fed-to-add-less-stimulus.html
The Australian dollar fell from near
its strongest since exchange controls were removed in 1983 on
speculation the Federal Reserve will add less monetary stimulus
than some expect, damping demand for higher-yielding assets.  New Zealand’s currency declined for a third day before U.S.
central bank officials including Atlanta Fed President  Dennis Lockhart  and Chicago Fed President  Charles Evans  are scheduled
to speak on the economy this week. Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  last
week didn’t offer new details on how the Fed would undertake
easing or give assurances the bank will act at its November
meeting. Nomura Holdings Inc. recommended investors bet
Australia’s dollar will decline before the Fed meeting.  “Markets appear to have priced in around $1 trillion in
terms of quantitative easing from the Fed, so it’s difficult to
see what is going to deliver further substantial U.S. dollar
weakness,” said  Mike Jones , a currency strategist at Bank of
New Zealand Ltd. in Wellington. “We’ll probably see a deeper
pullback in the Aussie.”  Australia’s currency fell to 98.54 U.S. cents as of 4:23
p.m. in Sydney from 99.07 cents in New York on Oct. 15, when it
rose as high as $1.0004. The currency dropped 0.9 percent to
79.98 yen. New Zealand’s dollar declined 0.5 percent to 75.21
U.S. cents, and weakened 0.9 percent to 61.04 yen.  ‘Costs and Limitations’  “There would appear -- all else being equal -- to be a
case for further action,” Bernanke said Oct. 15. He said the
central bank could expand asset purchases or change the language
in its statement, while saying “nonconventional policies have
costs and limitations that must be taken into account.”  Nomura strategists including  Jens Nordvig , a New York-based
managing director of currency research, recommended investors
sell the Australian dollar near 98.80 U.S. cents after
Bernanke’s speech prompted declines in U.S. bonds. They should
exit the trade if the Aussie gains to $1.001, the analysts wrote.  “Going into the November FOMC meeting we see risks skewed
towards further disappointment,” the analysts wrote in the note
dated Oct. 17. “Short Australian dollar-U.S. dollar positions
offer good risk-reward from a tactical perspective.”  Futures traders reduced  bets  the Australian currency will
gain against the greenback, figures from the Washington-based
Commodity Futures Trading Commission show.  The difference in the number of wagers by hedge funds and
other large speculators on a gain in the Australian dollar
compared with those on a drop -- so-called net longs -- was
67,691 Oct. 12, compared with net longs of 69,036 a week earlier.  RBA Minutes  The Australian dollar was still within two U.S. cents of
parity with the greenback before minutes of the Reserve Bank of
Australia’s most recent meeting are released tomorrow.  Policy makers unexpectedly kept rates unchanged for a fifth
month at the Oct. 5 meeting where 19 of 25 economists had
forecast an increase. There is a 36 percent chance the central
bank will increase its benchmark on Nov. 2, according to a
Credit Suisse AG  index  based on swaps.  Benchmark interest rates are 4.5 percent in  Australia  and 3
percent in New Zealand, compared with as low as zero in the U.S.
and Japan, attracting investors to the South Pacific nations’
higher-yielding assets. The risk in such trades is that currency
market moves will erase profits.  N.Z. Inflation  Declines in the New Zealand dollar were limited after a
report showed  inflation  accelerated in the third quarter, led by
higher government charges on tobacco and energy.  Consumer prices rose 1.1 percent from the previous three
months, Statistics New Zealand said, compared with the median
estimate in a Bloomberg News survey for a 1 percent gain.  The data was “mildly positive for the currency and
negative for bonds,”  Michael Turner , a fixed-income and
currency strategist at RBC Capital Markets Ltd. in Sydney, wrote
in a note. “The RBNZ will look to restart their policy
normalization process as the data begins to improve.”  New Zealand’s currency, which has climbed 5.8 percent in
the past three months, is hurting exporters though business
confidence and employment will recover, Prime Minister  John Key 
said today. Currency intervention “does not work,” he said at
a news conference in Wellington.  Central bank Governor  Alan Bollard  kept borrowing costs
unchanged on Sept. 16 and cut his outlook for economic growth
amid sluggish domestic spending and a slowdown in global demand.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Candice Zachariahs  in Sydney at 
 czachariahs2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net . 