-- Treasurer Swan Rejects Intervention to Counter Rise in Australian Currency
-- B y   J a c o b   G r e b e r
-- 2010-10-18T04:19:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-17/australian-dollar-parity-reflects-strength-of-country-s-economy-swan-says.html
Australian Treasurer  Wayne Swan  said
the rise of the nation’s currency to parity with the U.S. dollar
reflects the strength of the economy and warned of international
retaliation if the Aussie was artificially weakened.  Government efforts to try to lower the Australian
currency’s value would “encourage retaliation from our trading
partners, not something that’s in the interests of our export
industries,” Swan in remarks today to parliament.  Australia’s currency reached parity with the dollar on Oct.
15 for the first time since exchange controls ended in 1983 as
the biggest mining boom in more than a century and U.S. stimulus
prospects spurred demand for the nation’s assets.  The so-called Aussie gained the most among the dollar’s 16
most-traded counterparts over the past three months as China’s
demand for Australian coal and iron ore helped drive economic
growth to the fastest pace in three years. Parity was reached
after Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said that
additional monetary stimulus may be warranted.  “Some of us remember well the last time Australia
attempted to fix its currency at the same time we were
experiencing a terms of trade boom in the mid-1970s,” Swan said
in his  weekly economic  note yesterday. “The result was headline
inflation rose from around 5 percent to 17.6 percent in a little
over two years.”  ‘Overvalued’  “The Australian dollar is significantly overvalued,”  Mike Hawkins , chief investment officer at Evans & Partners Pty, told
the Australian Broadcasting Corp. in an interview yesterday.
“The Australian economy, or large chunks of it, is very
uncompetitive” and the dollar’s strength sends a signal to
domestic consumers to spend their money overseas, he said.  Australia’s dollar slipped 0.6 percent to 98.46 U.S. cents
at 2:52 p.m. in Sydney today, from 99.07 cents Oct. 15. It rose
last week touched $1.0004, the highest since the currency was
freely floated.  Consequences of artificially lowering the currency would
also include “higher inflation and then higher interest rates,
and with it a global collapse of confidence in the management of
the Australian economy,” Swan said today.  “This would hurt our manufacturing, agricultural and
tourism industries, as well as homeowners,” he added.  Rate Outlook  The median estimate of analysts polled by Bloomberg News is
for the Aussie to trade at 95 U.S. cents by year end. Banks
including Credit Suisse Group AG and Wells Fargo & Co. forecast
the Aussie will remain at or above parity through 2011.  “The parity with the U.S. dollar is an absolute killer”
for attracting overseas students from nations such as China,
Monash University Vice-Chancellor  Ed Byrne  told the ABC in an
interview.  Australia’s largest university generates about 20 percent
of its income, or A$350 million ($344 million), from foreign
students, and is considering measures such as setting school
fees in yuan to help smooth currency fluctuations, Byrne said on
ABC’s “Inside Business” program yesterday.  Controls on the currency ended on Dec. 12, 1983, and it
closed trading that day at 91.75 U.S., according to the Reserve
Bank of Australia. It was last equal to its U.S. counterpart on
July 28, 1982, when the Aussie was pegged to a trade-weighted
basket of currencies.  Peg Ended  Then-Prime Minister  Bob Hawke  and his Treasurer  Paul Keating  oversaw the decision to eliminate foreign-exchange
controls and announced early in December 1983 that they were
ending the Australian dollar’s peg to a basket of other
currencies.  Parity is a “milestone” that reflects the “stark
difference in the strength of our economy relative to other
nations,” Swan said yesterday. The floating currency has also
served Australia well for more than a quarter of a century as a
“shock absorber against global events,” he said.  After its float, the Aussie dropped by about a third within
three years, hitting a then-record low of 59.80 U.S. cents on
July 31, 1986, less than three months after Keating warned
Australia could become a “banana republic” unless it
strengthened the nation’s manufacturing industries.  The currency reached as high as 98.50 U.S. cents in July
2008 before falling to as low as 60.09 cents three months later
as the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. froze credit
markets and prompted investors to dump riskier assets.  RBA Policy  Australia’s  dollar has become a favorite for traders
because of the country’s relatively high interest rates. The
central bank has raised its benchmark borrowing rate to 4.5
percent from 3 percent over the past 12 months, as the Fed and
European Central Bank kept theirs unchanged at all-time lows.
The Bank of Japan on Oct. 5 cut its rate to “virtually zero.”  “We know that there are swings and roundabouts from the
higher dollar,” Swan said. “While the dollar has beneficial
impacts for consumers through cheaper goods and some businesses
through cheaper capital equipment, it also makes it much harder
for trade-exposed sectors of our economy to compete.”  The treasurer said he will be working closely with Group of
20 members in South Korea this coming weekend on issues
including currency reform to ensure the global recovery is
“balanced.”  To contact the reporter for this story:
 Jacob Greber  in Sydney at 
 jgreber@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at   ptighe@bloomberg.net  