-- Axelrod Says `More Growth and Jobs' Are Top Priority Next Year
-- B y   J i m   S n y d e r
-- 2010-10-17T18:25:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-17/axelrod-says-more-growth-jobs-will-be-white-house-top-priority-in-2011.html
White House adviser  David Axelrod 
said generating “more growth and jobs” will be the Obama
administration’s top priority next year.  “That’s fundamental,” Axelrod said today on CNN’s “State
of the Union” program. Axelrod also said the Democratic
administration would focus on the U.S. “fiscal situation” and
push immigration overhaul next year.  The economy remains a central issue in the Nov. 2 midterm
elections, in which Republicans are poised to pick up seats in
the Senate and possibly win control of the U.S. House of
Representatives. While the U.S. is no longer in a recession, the
 Bureau of Labor Statistics reported  last month that  unemployment 
remained relatively high at 9.6 percent. The Labor Department
reported that 95,000 jobs were shed in September.  “We’re in a tough political environment because the
country’s in a tough economic environment,” White House
spokesman  Robert Gibbs  told NBC’s “Meet the Press.”  While Axelrod predicted that Republicans will gain seats in
Congress in November and pledged to work with them, he said tax
cuts for the wealthiest Americans shouldn’t be extended and
wouldn’t stimulate the economy.  Hostage Tax Cuts  Cuts to middle-class households shouldn’t be “held
hostage” by Republican supporters of extending all the tax cuts
Republican President  George W. Bush  pushed through Congress
during his administration, Axelrod said.  Gibbs said Republicans want to return to economic policies
that led to the recession and would repeal the Wall Street
financial regulatory overhaul that Congress adopted this year.  Senator  Lindsey Graham , a South Carolina Republican, said
on CBS’s “Face the Nation” that Democrats were in trouble
because they have governed from the “left ditch,” citing
health care, the economic stimulus and Wall Street regulatory
overhaul as instances in which the party overreached.  He said Republican majorities in Congress would moderate
the administration’s political agenda and that there would be a
“good bit” of cooperation between parties, particularly on
extending the Bush tax cuts.  “You’ll see some Democrats and Republicans working early
on to try to moderate things,” Graham said.  Chamber’s Donors  As Republican-leaning groups promise to spend tens of
millions of dollars to defeat Democrats, Axelrod and Gibbs also
continued the administration’s push to pressure groups like the
 U.S. Chamber of Commerce  in Washington to disclose their donors.  Axelrod said voters should know whether insurance
companies, Wall Street banks, and oil and gas producers are
backing the Chamber’s election push. He has called on the
Chamber to prove that no money from foreign corporations is
being used in political advertisements in the U.S., which would
be illegal.  The Chamber had pledged to spend $75 million backing pro-
business candidates. Chamber officials have denied the
allegation that foreign corporations are funding the effort.  Axelrod said “secret funds” were a threat to democracy,
and also noted the efforts of  Karl Rove , a former top Bush aide,
to defeat Democratic candidates.  Rove advises  American Crossroads , which discloses its
donors, and Crossroad Grassroots Policy Strategies, which
doesn’t. The groups have said they would spend more than $50
million this election.  Axelrod told CNN that the administration believes “deeply
in disclosure.”  “They say, trust us, trust us, we’re -- everything is
cool, everything is kosher, don’t worry about it, but we’re not
going to disclose,” Axelrod said. “Let me tell you something,
people don’t disclose, there’s a reason.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jim Snyder  in Washington at 
 jsnyder24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva@bloomberg.net  