-- BHP, Rio Drop Iron Ore Venture as Regulators Oppose
-- B y   R e b e c c a   K e e n a n
-- 2010-10-18T16:36:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-17/bhp-billiton-rio-tinto-abandon-proposal-to-create-iron-ore-joint-venture.html
BHP Billiton Ltd.  and  Rio Tinto
Group  abandoned a plan to create the world’s largest iron-ore
exporter after regulators from Europe and Asia were concerned it
would limit competition.  The changes, including asset sales, demanded by regulators
were unacceptable to both companies, London-based Rio said today
in a statement. Melbourne-based BHP confirmed the end of the
deal to combine the two companies’ mines, railroads and ports in
Australia’s remote Pilbara region in a separate statement.  BHP and Rio, the world’s largest and third-largest mining
companies, may miss out on more than $10 billion in savings by
dropping the plan. It’s the second time BHP Chief Executive
Officer  Marius Kloppers , 48, failed to consummate a deal with
Rio after scrapping a hostile $66 billion takeover bid in 2008.  “Rio has got more to gain from ending this deal because
they have more infrastructure alternatives,” said  Tim Schroeders , who helps manage about $1 billion at Pengana Capital
Ltd. in Melbourne, including BHP and Rio shares. The
infrastructure “flexibility that Rio has was something that BHP
wanted to leverage into in terms of fast-tracking expansions.
Rio now holds the winning hand.”  Shares Fall  BHP  declined 0.6 percent to 2,185.5 pence at the 4:35 p.m.
close of London trading.  Rio  fell 1.5 percent to 4,080 pence.  BHP  earlier slid 1.1 percent to close at A$41.18 in Sydney
today, while  Rio  dropped 0.3 percent to A$82.98, paring its gain
since the joint venture was announced on June 5, 2009, to 57
percent. BHP has risen 17 percent over the period.  Antitrust authorities in Germany and Japan last week said
they opposed the deal. The European Commission was also likely
to raise formal objections, two people familiar with the plan
said last week. The companies were informed of the results of
the commission’s preliminary investigation on Oct. 15.  The Japan Iron and Steel Federation welcomed the decision
to scrap the venture, it said today in a statement. The tie-up
would have hampered fair competition in the industry, it said.  “The full value of the synergies on offer from a 50-50
joint venture was a prize well worth pursuing,” Rio’s Chief
Executive Officer  Tom Albanese , 53, said today. “The regulators
did not agree with us.”  No Break Fee  BHP  had agreed to pay Rio $5.8 billion to form the venture
in a so-called equalization payment. Neither company will pay
the $276 million break fee, they said.  The two companies had agreed on the deal when Rio, battling
high levels of  debt , scrapped an investment from Aluminum Corp.
of China in favor of raising $21 billion from a share sale and
the joint venture. The deals allowed Rio to slash debt without
selling bonds and stakes in its largest mines, defusing a
backlash from shareholders and politicians.  “Marius Kloppers has totally underestimated how hard it
would be to get these two deals done, the takeover and the joint
venture,”  Gavin Wendt , an analyst at Mine Life Resources, said
today.  BHP abandoned its hostile bid for Rio two years ago, citing
Rio’s high level of  debt  and economic uncertainty. Kloppers is
now fighting to acquire  Potash Corp. of Saskatchewan Inc. , the
world’s largest producer of the potassium-based crop nutrient.
Potash Corp., based in Saskatoon, Canada, rejected BHP’s $130-a-
share bid in August and has said it’s evaluating alternative
options.  Pilbara Partnership  A Pilbara joint venture had been studied in 1999 and was a
key driver behind BHP’s takeover bid for Rio, Citigroup Inc.
said in a May 2009 report.  “The imperative at the time of the deal given Rio’s
balance-sheet problems is not really an issue at this point in
time given the strong commodity price environment,” Pengana’s
Schroeders said.  The two companies have already agreed on a so-called Plan
B, involving sharing infrastructure and blending ore,  Paul Galloway , an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein Ltd., wrote in an
Oct. 15 report. BHP probably has more to gain from such an
arrangement, according to the report.  Under a June agreement with the West Australian state
government, BHP and Rio are allowed to blend product and share
infrastructure. The legislation allowing such co-operation is
expected to be introduced by the end of the year and the
companies have committed to make the combined A$350 million
payment agreed in June,  Colin Barnett , the state’s premier, told
reporters today in Perth.  Gains in Prices  The revised venture may save the companies $5.6 billion in
costs, UBS AG said Sept. 21, compared with the joint venture
which may have saved $11.5 billion. Most of the savings, or
about $3.4 billion, would come from blending different types of
iron ore, UBS said.  Fitch Ratings today maintained its credit ratings on  BHP 
and  Rio , saying the loss of the venture and its “significant
synergies” didn’t preclude the possibility of cooperation
between the companies in some form.  Gains in iron-ore prices in the 16 months since Rio and BHP
proposed the deal mean Rio may benefit more than BHP from the
venture’s collapse because it produces more of the steelmaking
raw material, Schroeders said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rebecca Keenan  in Melbourne at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  