-- Blindness in Seniors Slowed by ReVision Therapeutics Drug, Study Concludes
-- B y   D a v i d   O l m o s
-- 2010-10-17T12:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-17/blindness-in-seniors-slowed-by-revision-therapeutics-drug-study-concludes.html
ReVision Therapeutic Inc. ’s
experimental drug helped to slow vision loss in patients with
the most common form of the eye disease known as macular
degeneration, the leading cause of blindness in the elderly, a
study found.  In the research, patients treated with the drug fenretinide
had a 37 percent lower risk of developing a more serious form of
macular degeneration than those given a placebo, researchers
reported today at an  American Academy of Ophthalmology  meeting
in Chicago.  There is no current treatment for the dry form of macular
degeneration, the most common type of the disease that is
expected to affect  2.95 million  Americans by 2020, according to
the Atlanta-based  Centers for Disease Control and Prevention .
The disease damages a person’s central vision, affecting their
ability to read and drive, and is the leading cause of blindness
in people ages 65 and older.  “When you have a disease with no treatment at all, it’s
exciting to see something that is acting in this way,” said
 Jason Slakter , an ophthalmologist at New York University’s
School of Medicine who presented the study at the Chicago
conference, in an Oct. 15 telephone interview. “I can’t yet say
whether it will work” in larger studies, he said.  The research, the second of three phases of clinical trials
typically required for U.S. approval, was funded by closely held
San Diego-based ReVision. The company hopes to begin a larger
study of fenretinide in 2011, said  Jay Lichter , ReVision’s chief
executive officer, in a telephone interview.  Vitamin A Derivative  Fenretinide, a synthetic derivative of vitamin A, has been
studied for use in treating rheumatoid arthritis and certain
forms of cancer. The drug is believed to slow the progression of
macular degeneration by reducing inflammation, inhibiting
abnormal growth of blood vessels and reducing levels of vitamin
A in the retina, which can cause the formation of lesions that
impair vision in people with the disease.  Of the patients with dry macular degeneration who took
fenretinide, 13.8 percent progressed to wet macular
degeneration, a more serious form of the disease, compared with
22 percent in the placebo group, the researchers found.  Patients who took fenretinide also had less deterioration
of their vision after two years, the study found. Those taking
the drug lost, on average, the equivalent of about one line of
vision on an eye-test chart, compared with two lines of lost
vision among the placebo group, according to the study.  Dry, Wet Forms  More than 70 percent of cases of age-related macular
degeneration are the dry form of the disease, which usually
affects both eyes, according to the CDC. The wet form is caused
by abnormal growth of blood vessels in the retina, which
triggers bleeding and scarring that can lead to blindness.  “As a clinician, the No. 1 problem I have is that we have
some effective treatments for the wet form but nothing for
patients with the dry form,” Slakter said. “We tell them not
to smoke and to eat green leafy vegetables. Now we have the
possibility of a treatment that is acting the way we thought it
would.”  There were no severe drug-related side effects of the
treatment, according to the study.  In the U.S.,  Roche Holding AG  markets Lucentis for the
treatment of the wet form of the eye disease. The therapy
generated $1.1 billion in 2009 sales, according to Bloomberg
data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Olmos  in San Francisco at 
 dolmos@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 Rgale5@bloomberg.net  