-- Bondholders Losing to Shareholders With Mergers, Buybacks: Credit Markets
-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e   a n d   S h a n n o n   D .   H a r r i n g t o n
-- 2010-10-18T17:46:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-17/bondholders-losing-to-shareholders-with-mergers-buybacks-credit-markets.html
Companies have more incentive to
reward shareholders at the expense of bondholders as the
benefits of maintaining high ratings disappear, signaling two
years of improved creditworthiness may be peaking.  Non-financial companies rated A by Standard & Poor’s have
an average cost of capital 10 basis points, or 0.1 percentage
point, more than those rated one tier lower at BBB, according to
Morgan Stanley analysts. The higher-rated companies had a 30
basis-point advantage 18 months ago.  Corporations that hoarded more than $1.8 trillion of cash
and liquid assets and face slowing economic growth are
increasingly turning to mergers, dividends and share buybacks to
boost stocks. Improved credit quality has helped company bonds
gain 11.5 percent this year, according to Bank of America
Merrill Lynch indexes, compared with 7.15 percent for the S&P
500 including reinvested dividends.  “The cash is essentially burning a hole in their pocket,
sitting on their balance sheet earning zero,” said  Michael Collins , senior investment officer at Newark, New Jersey-based
Prudential Investment Management Inc., which has about $254
billion of fixed-income assets under management. “There’s an
argument to be made that credit quality is in the process of
peaking out.”  Buyout Firms  Companies from  Dell Inc.  to  Raytheon Co.  have issued debt
in part to repurchase shares. Equity buybacks of $273.5 billion
this year have more than quadrupled from the first three
quarters of 2009, according to Birinyi Associates Inc. Companies
are also taking on more debt with buyout firms led by Blackstone
Group LP announcing takeovers at the fastest rate since 2007.  Borrowers that slashed debt and costs following the worst
financial crisis since the Great Depression will come under
increased pressure from shareholders to boost returns, reversing
the improvement in their balance sheets, said  Mark Gray , a
managing director at Moody’s Investors Service in New York.  Elsewhere in credit markets, Wal-Mart Stores Inc., the
world’s biggest retailer, may sell bonds as soon as today after
borrowing costs fell to a record low last week. Hedge fund
Tennenbaum Capital Partners LLC is leading a group of creditors
set to take over Bulgarian phone-company Vivacom AD and a
benchmark gauge of corporate credit risk in the U.S. held near
the highest in two weeks.  Wal-Mart  may issue debt maturing in 3, 5, 10 and 30 years
in a benchmark offering, according to a person familiar with the
transaction. Proceeds may be used for general corporate
purposes, said the person, who declined to be identified because
terms aren’t set. Benchmark sales are typically at least $500
million in size.  ‘Transparent Restructuring’  Tennenbaum Capital’s group of lower-ranked junior lenders,
which include Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc, plans to swap
about 425 million euros of debt for Vivacom’s equity, according
to four people familiar with the matter, who declined to be
identified because the negotiations are private.  PineBridge Investments LLC, the investment-management firm
of Hong Kong businessman  Richard Li , may lose its majority stake
in Vivacom by Oct. 29 under terms of a debt restructuring agreed
by lenders after the phone company breached terms on 1.5 billion
euros ($2.1 billion) of loans. PineBridge is asking lenders to
consider an alternative restructuring, said the people.  A spokesman for Tennenbaum Capital in Santa Monica, who
declined to be identified citing company policy, wouldn’t
comment.  Ryan O’Keeffe , an external spokesman for New York-based
PineBridge, said the firm is “committed to a consensual and
transparent restructuring of the group’s financial liabilities”
that will “preserve and maximize value for all stakeholders.”
He declined to give further details about PineBridge’s plan.  Credit Risk  A benchmark indicator of corporate credit risk in North
America held near the highest in two weeks as production in the
U.S. unexpectedly dropped in September for the first time in
more than a year.  Credit-default swaps on the Markit CDX North America
Investment Grade Index, which investors use to hedge against
losses on corporate debt or to speculate on creditworthiness,
fell 0.4 basis point to a mid-price of 98.5 as of 1:24 p.m. in
New York, according to index administrator Markit Group Ltd. The
index earlier rose to as high as 100.6 basis points, the highest
since Oct. 5.  Swaps insuring European junk-rated bonds rose today, with
the Markit iTraxx Crossover Index climbing 2.6 basis points to
472.75, the highest since Oct. 7, Markit prices show. A basis
point equals $1,000 annually on a credit-default swap contract
protecting $10 million of debt.  Raytheon Spreads  Credit swap indexes typically rise as investor confidence
deteriorates and fall as it improves. Contracts pay the buyer
face value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations, less the
value of the defaulted debt.  U.S. investment-grade bond spreads have dropped 31 basis
points since peaking on June 11 to 182 basis points, according
to Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data. Yields on the debt
fell as low as 3.55 percent last week, the lowest borrowing cost
on record in data going back to October 1986.  Raytheon , rated Baa1 by Moody’s and A- by S&P, sold bonds
last week with a spread tighter than top-ranked debt typically
pays. The world’s biggest missile maker, based in Waltham,
Massachusetts, issued $400 million of 5-year, 1.625 percent
notes to yield 60 basis points more than Treasuries. The average
AAA bond pays a spread of 66 basis points as of Oct. 15,
according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch data.  Cost of Capital  Proceeds from the Raytheon offering, part of a $2 billion
debt sale, will refinance bonds and may be used for share
buybacks and acquisitions, according to a regulatory filing.  Dell, the Round Rock, Texas-based maker of personal
computers, sold $1.5 billion of bonds last month and said
proceeds would be used to buy back stock, or for investments,
additional working capital, acquisitions or capital
expenditures.  The weighted cost of capital, which incorporates debt and
equity metrics, for companies rated A is 7.1 percent on average,
compared with 7 percent for BBB companies, according to Morgan
Stanley data.  The average cost of capital for companies rated B, the
second-highest non-investment grade tier, was 200 basis points
more than for companies with BBB ratings, the lowest investment-
grade tier. The difference was 460 basis points in May 2009, the
data show. In December 2006, when credit markets were nearing
their pre-crisis peak, BBB companies were paying 170 basis
points less than B rated companies.  ‘Less Incentive’  “It does feel like there’s increasingly less incentive for
companies to do massive improvements to credit quality,
particularly within the investment-grade space,” said  Rizwan Hussain , a credit strategist at Morgan Stanley in New York.
“Because the pace of credit repair broadly across the market is
going to slow down, and potentially reverse in some specific
names, the pace of spread tightening should basically mimic
that.”  Investors are pouring cash into bond funds this year as the
Federal Reserve holds interest rates near zero to avoid
deflation and help curb unemployment. Investors committed $181
billion to U.S. bond mutual funds this year through September,
according to data from research firm EPFR Global, in Cambridge,
Massachusetts.  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said last week additional
monetary stimulus may be warranted because inflation is too low
and unemployment is too high.  In another sign that creditworthiness may be at a peak,
nonfinancial companies’ total liquid assets fell to $1.845
trillion in the second quarter from $1.847 trillion, the first
decline since 2008, according to Federal Reserve data.  The number of companies on review for possible downgrade by
Moody’s rose to 42 in August, the highest since July 2009.  Takeovers, Dividends  There have been $1.59 trillion worth of takeover deals
announced in 2010, on pace to top last year’s $1.78 trillion,
according to Bloomberg data. The third quarter was the busiest
in two years, with $562.6 billion of announced transactions, led
by  BHP Billiton Ltd. ’s unsolicited $43 billion offer for Potash
Corp. of Saskatchewan Inc., the largest announced this year.  In the third quarter, 13.6 percent of companies in the
Russell 3000 Index increased their dividends, compared with 9
percent during the same period in 2009, Bloomberg data show.  “The M&A thing is a really big deal, and I think that is
going to continue or even increase,” said Collins of
Prudential. “You’d still rather see that than to have them buy
back stock or pay dividends. Those are the worst thing for
bondholders because the cash leaves the enterprise value and
goes right to the shareholders. We’re definitely seeing an
increase in that.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 John Detrixhe  in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net ;
 Shannon D. Harrington  in New York at 
 sharrington6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  