-- Brazil's Green Party, Silva Will Stay`Independent' in Presidential Runoff
-- B y   F e l i p e   F r i s c h   a n d   M a r i a   L u i z a   R a b e l l o
-- 2010-10-17T19:04:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-17/brazil-s-green-party-silva-will-stay-independent-in-presidential-runoff.html
Marina Silva , Brazil’s third-place
finisher in the first round of presidential elections, said she
won’t support either of the Oct. 31 runoff candidates as her
 Green Party  decided today to remain independent.  Members of the party are allowed to individually support
 Dilma Rousseff , a former cabinet chief and President  Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva ’s choice, or opposition candidate  Jose Serra , Sao
Paulo’s former governor, Silva said during a speech in Sao
Paulo.  “We’ll remain as mediators, not choosing a path doesn’t
mean we are neutral,” Silva said while reading an open letter
to party members. “Our being independent will favor the
democracy and the debate about what matters to Brazil,” she
told reporters afterwards.  Rousseff won 47 percent of the first-round vote on Oct. 3,
compared with 33 percent for Serra and 19 percent for Silva, an
evangelical Christian.  “By being independent, we want to push candidates to start
adding to their agenda points that are precious to us,
environmental issues, social matters,” Jose Luiz Penna, head of
the Green Party, told reporters in Sao Paulo.  Silva’s ability to attract more votes than polls had
predicted has led both campaigns to seek support among her
backers. Fifteen representatives were elected from her party to
the Lower House, out of 512 seats.  “This decision benefits Dilma Rousseff because an
endorsement of Serra was expected,”  David Fleischer , a
political analyst at the University of Brasilia, said in a
telephone interview. “Being independent means you can negotiate
public policies on either side, no matter who wins.”  Shrinking Lead  Rousseff’s lead over Serra before the runoff fell to 6
percentage points last week from 7 percentage points on Oct. 8,
a Datafolha poll published Oct. 15 showed.  Rousseff had 47 percent of support from voters, down from
48 percent in the Oct. 9 Datafolha survey. Serra remained at 41
percent, according to the poll commissioned by Folha de S. Paulo
newspaper and Rede Globo television channel.  The latest survey interviewed 3,281 people and has a margin
of error of 2 percentage points.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Felipe Frisch  in Sao Paulo at 
 ffrisch1@bloomberg.net 
 Maria Luiza Rabello  in Brasilia at 
 mrabello@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  