-- Business-Jet Rebound Delayed by Economy, Honeywell Says
-- B y   R a c h e l   L a y n e   a n d   J u l i a n n   N e h e r
-- 2010-10-18T21:49:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-17/business-jet-recovery-slides-to-2012-on-economy-perception-survey-finds.html
The business-jet industry’s recovery
may take a year longer than forecast, picking up in late 2011
and accelerating in 2012, as companies defer purchases amid
doubts about the economy,  Honeywell International Inc.  said.  Global deliveries probably will fall to a range of 675 to
700 planes in 2010 and stay at fewer than 700 next year, down
from 849 in 2009, according to Honeywell, an avionics and
cockpit-instruments maker that surveyed about 1,200 corporate
flight departments worldwide.  Honeywell’s findings underscore how the recession damped
demand for aircraft used for executive and corporate travel.
Planemakers hurt by the slump include  Textron Inc. ’s Cessna,
which said last month it would slash 700 more jobs after cutting
half its 16,000-person workforce since 2008 because orders
remain weak.  “It’s more about perception and feeling than it is about
hard economic data,”  Rob Wilson , president of Honeywell’s
business and general aviation unit, said in an interview. “It’s
‘OK, am I going to make a purchase in light of that
uncertainty?’”  About 11,000 new planes should be delivered through 2020
for a market of about $220 billion, according to Honeywell,
which released its forecast as the  National Business Aviation
Association  meets in Atlanta this week for its annual
conference.  Orders probably will rise 2 percent next year and 3 percent
in 2012, Morris Township, New Jersey-based Honeywell said its
survey showed.  Five-Year Outlook  North American companies’ five-year purchase plans are
mostly unchanged from a 2009 survey, while overseas markets are
rising, albeit more slowly than last year, Honeywell said. North
America will remain the biggest region for deliveries over the
period, with 58 percent, according to the survey.  Recoveries for business-jet makers typically lag behind a
return to growth in U.S. corporate profits. With the U.S.
economy pulling out of its deepest slump since the Great
Depression, the industry’s rebound is taking longer.  “We had always forecast a relatively slow recovery for
business jets in 2010, 2011, and picking up again in ‘12,” said
 John Saabas , who runs Pratt & Whitney Canada, the biggest maker
of engines for small- and medium-size aircraft. The ratio of
orders to cancellations “is now a positive number, but it’s
small,” he said in an interview.  Dassault’s View  Dassault Aviation SA , whose business jets include the 7X,
has opened service centers in China and may reap U.S. orders in
2011 as the largest companies get back into the market, said
 John Rosanvallon , who oversees the Paris-based company’s Falcon
division.  “We see the famous bashing of business of aviation mostly
behind us,” Rosanvallon said in an interview. “People in the
U.S. are feeling more comfortable with the idea of buying.”  Honeywell’s Wilson said demand for larger jets may rebound
more quickly than for small- and medium-size models, in part
because of their ability to handle longer international routes.
“Range is helping sell these big aircraft,” he said.  While  Cessna’s  Mustang seats five passengers and can fly
1,323 miles (2,129 kilometers), Bombardier Inc.’s  Global Express
XRS  can carry 19 people and fly almost 7,100 miles, according to
the companies’ websites. Bombardier, the largest maker of
business jets, unveiled two long-range models on Oct. 16 to take
on newer planes from  General Dynamics Corp. ’s Gulfstream.  Bigger Planes  “The Global 7000 and Global 8000 jets will give our
customers the ability to reach more destinations non-stop than
ever before,” said  Steve Ridolfi , who runs business jets for
Montreal-based Bombardier. The planes, to be introduced in 2016
and 2017, can reach 7,300 miles and 7,900 miles respectively.  The business-jet market has “shifted dramatically,”
Ridolfi said today in an interview. “Where it was traditionally
very North America-centric, much of the demand is offshore --
Asia Pacific, Middle East, even Africa.”  Gulfstream’s newest long-range model should enter service
in 2012, and there is a backlog of about 200 orders, the company
said last month.  Honeywell based its survey on projected expansion in U.S.
gross domestic product of 2.3 percent to 2.6 percent this year.  The industry’s current slide has dragged on longer than
past slumps in part because of an unusual glut of used aircraft
and a dearth of financing for small- and medium-sized jets
priced at less than $24 million, according to a July
presentation by consultant Teal Group of Alexandria, Virginia.  “This is a three-year affair, not a two-year one,”
 Richard Aboulafia , a Teal Group analyst, said before Honeywell
released its results. “People just aren’t used to the idea of a
three-year downturn. It’s always been an 18-month to 24-month
affair.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Rachel Layne  in Boston at 
 rlayne@bloomberg.net ;
 Juliann Neher  in Washington at 
 jneher@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  