-- Cameron Aims to Outdo Thatcher as He Tackles U.K. Welfare State
-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n   a n d   T h o m a s   P e n n y
-- 2010-10-18T12:26:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-17/cameron-seeks-to-outdo-thatcher-s-cuts-as-he-tackles-u-k-welfare-state.html
British Prime Minister  David Cameron 
threw a party Oct. 14 to celebrate his predecessor  Margaret Thatcher ’s achievements. This week, he will set out plans to
tackle something even she couldn’t in her three terms: the
U.K.’s welfare state.  In doing so, he’s challenging the doctrine that the
government should offer, in  Winston Churchill ’s words, security
“from the cradle to the grave,” and he risks opposition from
all sectors of society -- including his Liberal Democrat
coalition partners -- after the  longest recession  on record.  “Thatcher would have liked to do these reforms,” said  Tim Bale , author of “The Conservative Party from Thatcher to
Cameron” and professor of politics at Sussex University. “The
problem is, when you have 2-3 million unemployed, to be seen to
be making things harder for them is politically difficult.”  Cameron, 44, aims to virtually eliminate the biggest
peacetime budget deficit by 2016, with cuts in ministries
averaging 25 percent under a June 22 blueprint that protects the
National Health Service.  Total government spending  would fall by
0.7 percent a year in real terms. Under Thatcher, 85, who was
known as the Iron Lady, it rose by an annual 1.2 percent over
her 11 years in power to 1990.  First Cut  Opposition Labour Party lawmakers say that with one of his
first cuts, removing child-benefit payments from wealthy
parents, Cameron is more than stoking the fury of stay-at-home
mothers. They say he’s undermining the principle of
“universality” that has underpinned British welfare, health
and education services for 60 years -- that everyone had access
regardless of wealth.  Cameron defended the move in Parliament Oct. 14, telling
Labour leader  Ed Miliband  it was wrong that poor voters in
Miliband’s district should pay taxes to provide child benefits
for their representative in the legislature.  “It’s a worrying line of argument,” said  Stephen Timms , a
Labour spokesman on welfare and pensions. “It could be applied
equally well to the health service. It’s an alarming pointer to
Conservative thinking.”  The budget plan is winning over investors. Gilts have
returned 7.4 percent since Cameron replaced Labour Prime
Minister  Gordon Brown  in May, more than the 4.5 percent gain by
German bunds and the 6 percent increase in U.S. Treasuries,
according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the European
Federation of Financial Analysts Societies.  Economy Risks  As he enacts the spending cuts in the Oct. 20 Comprehensive
Spending Review, Cameron risks derailing an economic recovery.
Jobless claims in September had the biggest increase in eight
months, a sign growth is losing momentum. Unemployment in the
quarter through August totaled 2.45 million.  “This looks like it’s going to turn the economy right down
and I think it’s going to be a terrible, terrible mistake,”
former Bank of England policy maker  David Blanchflower  said
today in a Bloomberg Television interview. “My fear is that”
the first quarter of next year “is really going to look
terrible.”  Sterling fell against 13 of its 16 most-traded peers today.
The U.K. currency dropped 0.6 percent to $1.5893 at 1:17 p.m. in
London. It was little changed at 87.47 pence per euro, near the
lowest in five months.  Welfare State  The principles of the  British welfare state  were laid down
during World War II and implemented in its aftermath. It was a
cross-party project, with Churchill, a Conservative premier,
giving his support.  It included setting up the National Health Service, to
provide free treatment for all, the introduction of free
secondary schooling, payments to mothers of school-age children,
and payments to pensioners, the unemployed and the sick.  According to Bale, Cameron follows the tradition of the
“One Nation” group of Tories who opposed making many of these
benefits universal on the grounds they would tie the middle
classes into the state and discourage individual initiative.  In Cameron’s speech to the  Conservative Party ’s annual
conference Oct. 5, he said the modern welfare state had
“measured success in tackling poverty by the size of the check
that we give people.” Instead, he said, “let us measure our
success by the chance that we give.”  Cameron, though, is appealing to an electorate that polls
show is divided on the merits of the cut in child benefits.
After the move was announced, a  YouGov Plc poll  found that while
83 percent supported the step in principle, 46 percent said
basing it on individuals’ incomes was unfair.  Labour’s Attack  “The government, which claims ‘fairness,’ has put itself
in the absurd position of saying that children should play a
bigger role in getting the deficit down than the banks,” Labour
Treasury spokesman  Alan Johnson  said today in his first economic
policy speech since he was appointed Oct. 8. “Families take the
strain while the bankers grab the bonuses.”  “I understand there needs to be a cut-off point, but I
don’t think it’s been thought through fairly or correctly. I
don’t think it’s fair,” said Paul Bygrave, 34, a father of two
who lives in Dartford, southeast of London, a district that
switched from Labour to Conservative in the May 6 election.
Bygrave, parts manager at a BMW dealership, said he won’t lose
out because both he and his wife earn below the 44,000-pound
($70,000) annual threshold even though their combined income
exceeds it.  Living on Benefits  Cameron and Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  have
both spoken about the anger of people who get up to go to work
while their neighbors stay in bed and live off benefits, a line
that resonated with voters like Bygrave. He has a cousin with
seven children who is out of work and has everything paid for by
the state.  “Financially, they’re probably better off than I am and
they don’t work. I work a 45-hour week to be in the same place
they’re at,” Bygrave said. “They could be doing more to help
themselves.”  The YouGov poll found that view is widely held, with 86
percent of voters backing a 26,000-pound-a-year cap on the
benefits a family can receive. Implementing it will present more
of a challenge.  “People will lose their houses and there’s no doubt that
the Tories have set themselves up for really bad headlines when
the first families are made homeless,” said  Roy Sainsbury , a
professor of social policy at York University who has advised
lawmakers on welfare. “People will realize that these people
aren’t scroungers but people in really dire circumstances.”  Liberal Democrat Concern  Ministers should be concentrating policy making on helping
the “99 percent” of unemployed people who want to work, rather
than following newspaper headlines and concentrating on people
who abuse the system, Sainsbury said.  Some Liberal Democrat lawmakers have  expressed concerns 
that cuts to the welfare budget are targeting the worst off.
Osborne said yesterday that persistent welfare cheats face
having their benefits cut off for three years.  “The government’s got to be careful because there’s
already children in poverty in this country and if too much is
cut it could make the situation worse,” said Kelly Jarvis, 30,
as her daughter played in Dartford’s park. “They have to be
careful to make sure that people who genuinely need it aren’t
penalized for it.”  Jarvis, who is worried she may lose the disability
allowance paid to her 11-year-old son with cerebral palsy, is
already feeling the pinch in the government’s austerity program.
The number of diapers provided for her son has been cut to four
from five a day.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Robert Hutton  in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net ;
 Thomas Penny  in London at 
 tpenny@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  