-- China's Record Deposits May Drive Stocks Higher: Chart of the Day
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-10-17T20:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-17/china-s-record-deposits-may-drive-stocks-higher-chart-of-the-day.html
China’s stocks may extend this
month’s rally as record household deposits pave the way for more
investment into Asia’s second worst-performing equity market
this year.  “We’ve seen money chasing real estate, commodities, art
and even garlic this year,” said  Leo Gao , who helps oversee
$600 million at APS Asset Management Ltd. in Shanghai. “If you
look around, nothing is cheaper than stocks.”  The CHART OF THE DAY shows household deposits increased
1.04 trillion yuan ($156 billion) in September, the biggest rise
in seven months, to 29.9 trillion yuan. The benchmark Shanghai
Composite Index has gained 14 percent in the past seven trading
days, its longest winning streak in 11 months. Still, the
equities gauge trades at 16 times forecast 2010 earnings, close
to record low levels.  Individual investors, comprising 99 percent of the nation’s
150 million trading accounts, will move deposits into stocks as
returns on savings are eroded by inflation and the government
cracks down on property speculation, said  Zhang Zhiwei , an
economist in Hong Kong at China International Capital Corp. The
inflation rate in August was 1.25 percentage point above the
benchmark one-year deposit rate.  Property prices  in 70 cities rose 0.5 percent in September
from the previous month and the value of real-estate sales
surged 56 percent, underscoring the need for further government
curbs to discourage speculation. Policymakers have this year
tightened down-payment requirements, suspended loans for third-
home purchases and pledged to speed trials of a property tax.
Nomura Holdings Inc. expects average home prices to fall as much
as 10 percent by the end of 2011.  China’s current household savings exceeded the combined
gross domestic product of Brazil, India and Russia, according to
Bloomberg data. The Shanghai Composite has fallen 9.3 percent
this year, lagging the 9.9 percent decline by Japan’s Nikkei 225
Stock Average.  (To save a copy of the chart, click here.)  -- Luo Jun , with assistance from  Chua Kong Ho  in Shanghai,  Li Yanping  in Beijing and Jay Wang in Singapore. Editors:  Richard Frost ,  Allen Wan   To contact Bloomberg News staff of this story:
Luo Jun in Shanghai at +8621-6104-7021 or
 jluo6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  