-- Colorado's Senate Candidates Bennet, Buck Trade Allegations Over Rape Case
-- B y   J e f f   P l u n g i s   a n d   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 2010-10-17T17:15:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-17/colorado-s-senate-candidates-bennet-buck-trade-allegations-over-rape-case.html
Colorado’s Democratic Senator
 Michael Bennet  accused his Republican opponent, Ken Buck, of
showing insensitivity in handling an alleged date-rape case as
district attorney in Weld County.  Buck used the term “buyer’s remorse” to describe how a
jury might view the woman’s change of heart about the man she
accused of the rape. That’s the “wrong way to talk about these
issues” for a prosecutor, Bennet, 45, said during a joint
appearance on NBC’s “Meet the Press.”  The case had been reviewed by an attorney with more than 30
years experience before his office declined to prosecute, Buck
said. Three other attorneys looked at the case and agreed with
the decision, he said.  The race between Bennet and Buck, 51, is one of a handful
of close contests as Democrats seek to stave off Republican
gains in the Senate. A  poll  released yesterday found Bennet had
45 percent support to Buck’s 47 percent.  The nonpartisan  Cook Political Report  projects that
Democrats will lose 7 to 9 seats in the 100-member Senate where
they currently have a 57-seat majority that includes the backing
of two independents.  The two Colorado candidates differed over government
spending and debt on NBC. Voters are tired of politicians not
answering questions directly, Buck said.  ‘Live With Less’  “We have to tell the people that we’re willing to live
with less,” Buck said.  Bennet, when asked to explain what he meant by a statement
that the U.S. has “nothing to show” for the $13 trillion in
debt on its balance sheet, said all the spending hadn’t made a
dent in the condition of the nation’s roads and bridges.  “That stimulus package kept us out of a second Great
Depression, but that’s hardly enough to improve on what our
parents left us,” Bennet said.  Senate fundraising reports submitted Oct. 15 showed Bennet
raised $2.7 million between July 22 and Sept. 30, leaving him
with $1 million in cash at the end of the month. Buck raised
$2.1 million in that time and had $1.4 million in the bank.  Colorado is also the top battleground for independent
groups, which reported spending $9.4 million on federal
campaigns there, more than any other state, between Sept. 1 and
Oct. 12. Eighty percent, or $7.5 million, went to help
Republican candidates, records show.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jeff Plungis  in Washington at 
 jplungis@bloomberg.net ;
 Nicole Gaouette  in Washington at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net  