-- DAX Benchmark Advances; Lufthansa, K+S Climb, ThyssenKrupp Shares Decline
-- B y   A d a m   E w i n g
-- 2010-10-18T15:51:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-17/commerzbank-hochtief-douglas-k-s-may-be-active-german-equity-preview.html
German stocks climbed as gains by
 K+S AG  and  Deutsche Lufthansa AG  outweighed a slide by
 ThyssenKrupp AG .  K+S rose 1.2 percent after its chief executive said that
the company can’t rule out becoming a takeover target.
Lufthansa, Europe’s biggest airline by sales, advanced 3.5
percent after Citigroup Inc. said European airline profitability
probably jumped in the third quarter. ThyssenKrupp fell 1
percent.  The benchmark  DAX Index  added 0.4 percent to 6,516.63 at
the 5:30 p.m. close in Frankfurt, its fourth straight gain. The
measure increased 3.2 percent last week as investors speculated
that the U.S. Federal Reserve will announce plans to stimulate
economic growth at its November meeting. The broader HDAX Index
also rose 0.3 percent today.  Production in the U.S. unexpectedly dropped in September
for the first time in more than a year, as the industry that led
the economy out of the recession cooled down.  Output at factories, mines and utilities fell 0.2 percent,
the first decline since the recession ended in June 2009,
figures from the Federal Reserve showed today.  Factory
production  also decreased 0.2 percent, as orders for consumer
durable goods, such as appliances and furniture, dropped.  “Sooner or later investors will have to make up their mind
if there is a new recession coming up or not,”  Ben Hauzenberger , a Zurich-based fund manager at Swisscanto Asset
Management AG, which manages $53 billion, said today. “Of
course, U.S. data is important, but monthly data is merely a
best ‘new’ guess.”  K+S, Lufthansa  K+S climbed 0.8 percent to 46.81 euros, its second gain.
Europe’s biggest potash producer can’t rule out becoming a
takeover target and would examine any offer, Chief Executive
Officer  Norbert Steiner  told Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung.  The German company plans to expand in Asia, selling
industrial salts to the continent’s major economies, Steiner
said in an interview with the newspaper.  Lufthansa rose 3.5 percent to 15.39 euros, its third
advance in four days. Citigroup said underlying third-quarter
earnings for European airlines may quadruple and net income
increase fivefold. Lufthansa was listed as a top pick by the
broker. The airline is also adding flights and three new
destinations to its winter schedule.  ThyssenKrupp, Germany’s largest steelmaker, retreated 1
percent to 26.42 euros, paring the stock’s 1.8 percent gain on
Oct. 15. European basic-resources stocks dropped for the second
consecutive day.  Wacker Chemie AG  slipped 1.3 percent to 147.7 euros, the
shares’ first fall in seven days. The German chemicals company
was cut to “neutral” from “buy” at UBS AG.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Adam Ewing  in Stockholm at 
 aewing5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Merritt at 
 merritt1@bloomberg.net . 