-- Covepoint's Ko Reaps a 22% Gain on Emerging Currencies Converging to G-10
-- B y   B e t h   W i l l i a m s   a n d   Y e   X i e
-- 2010-10-17T22:24:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-17/covepoint-s-ko-reaps-22-gain-on-emerging-currencies-converging-to-g-10.html
Melissa Ko  says the blurring line
between emerging markets and developed countries offers
opportunities for foreign-exchange investors.  The founder of hedge fund  Covepoint Capital Advisors LLC 
should know. Ko, who oversees the firm’s $785 million flagship
Covepoint Emerging Markets Macro Fund with a team of three co-
managers, has racked up gains of 22 percent a year on average
from its inception in 2005 through September. She started the
fund at Bear Stearns Asset Management, and after Bear Stearns
Cos. was bought by  JPMorgan Chase & Co.  in 2008, the bank spun
the fund out to Covepoint.  Since foreign exchange is a two-sided asset, Ko says she
and her New York-based team look for opportunities in
relationships between currencies, Bloomberg Markets 
magazine reports in its November issue.  “Our focus traditionally has been emerging-market
currencies, but with the division between emerging markets and
developed markets becoming more and more nebulous, we focus on
G-10 currencies just as much,” she says.  Financial turmoil of the sort that started with the
subprime-mortgage meltdown in the U.S. in 2007 and roiled other
developed countries isn’t exactly new for emerging-markets
veterans such as Ko.  Ko, 43, started her career as a trader on Citibank’s
emerging-markets currency desk in 1994, just before the Mexican
peso crisis sent Latin America into a skid. While Thailand
devalued the baht in 1997, Russia defaulted in 1998 and
Argentina in the late 1990s headed for a financial crisis, Ko
worked as a market maker and proprietary trader in developing
currencies at Citibank, Bankers Trust and Deutsche Bank AG.  Trading Off Extremes  “Many of the dynamics I learned in trading emerging-market
currencies have been very helpful,” Ko says. One lesson is to
try to take advantage of extreme reactions. “When other people
panic, then you see it as an opportunity, and when other people
are too complacent, you should start to question,” she said in
a September interview at Covepoint’s midtown Manhattan office,
which has a view of Central Park.  The difference this time is that it’s the U.S. and
countries in Europe where government balance sheets are
strained. Developing nations such as Brazil and China have some
of the best finances and growth prospects in the world, she
says.  As macro investors, Ko and her team make bets based on
their reading of broad global economic and market trends. They
invest 80 percent to 85 percent of the fund in currencies and
related instruments and also trade some fixed-income and
exchange-traded funds.  “We tend to be contrarian -- certainly not for the sake of
being contrarian -- but we do question the prevailing themes to
see if they really make sense,” Ko says.  Fund Outperformer  Her willingness to move in and out of markets can create
ups and downs in the fund’s monthly performance. “We tend to be
aggressive,” she says. Longer-term, the performance has
exceeded benchmarks.  The fund’s gain of 22 percent annually since inception
through September compares with 8.7 percent for JPMorgan Chase &
Co’s  Emerging Local Markets ELMI Plus Index , which tracks U.S.
dollar returns as investments in 24 emerging-market currencies.  Through September, the fund gained 18.4 percent in 2010
versus 5.2 percent for the benchmark.  Ko and her team seek to anticipate shifts in market
sentiment that can create trading opportunities, says  Karthik Sankaran , a principal at Covepoint who joined Ko at Bear Stearns
in 2006.  “You have to have your mind on the fundamentals, but at
the same time you also have to have a sense of what is the
dominant narrative at any given moment,” Sankaran, 46, says.
“The point of maximum opportunity is when that changes.”  Brazil Bet  The Covepoint fund surged almost 63 percent in 2009 after
Ko and her team bet correctly on Brazil. In late 2008, they
wagered that Brazil’s central bank would break with tradition
and lower, not raise, interest rates in response to the global
financial upheaval.  “In many of their crises before, the response was always
to hike rates massively, trying to stem capital flight,” Ko
says. Since the crisis didn’t originate in Brazil, Ko and her
team figured the bank would act differently, she says.  The bet paid off when Brazilian central bankers cut the
benchmark  Selic rate  five times from 13.75 percent over the
course of 2009 to a low of 8.75 percent.  “Our trade didn’t start to make a lot of money right away;
it wasn’t the consensus for a long time,” she says. “We had to
wait for it to pan out.” The real strengthened 33 percent
against the U.S. dollar in 2009, trading at 1.7445 at year-end.  Trading Their Books  Ko and her colleagues have different backgrounds, and each
trades his or her own book based on a particular viewpoint and
style, she says.  Ko, who was born in South Korea and moved with her family
to the U.S. when she was 13, came to trading by way of
 Massachusetts Institute of Technology  in Cambridge, where she
majored in chemical engineering and minored in economics before
earning a graduate degree in business at the University of
Pennsylvania’s Wharton School.  Sankaran studied 19th-century European history as both an
undergraduate and graduate student at Columbia University in New
York. He then worked as a journalist covering emerging markets
for a time before turning to finance. Sankaran met Ko in 1997
while he was working at AIG Trading, the currency-trading unit
of American International Group Inc., and Ko was one of his
clients.  Music, Math  Another Covepoint principal,  Nicholas Britell , 30, is a
classically trained pianist who went to Manhattan’s Juilliard
School in the pre-college division before studying psychology at
Harvard College.  Alexander Glasser , 26, a portfolio manager at
Covepoint, also went to Harvard, where he studied math and
physics.  Ko says each member of the team has gravitated toward
particular areas of expertise. Ko tends to make directional bets
on the market, she says. Sankaran is involved more with exotic
options and relative value, while Britell tends to focus on
frontier markets such as Egypt and Vietnam as well as emerging
markets as a whole. Glasser’s work has been more model-driven.  “The kind of relationship we have in regard to managing
the portfolio book really works well,” Ko says. “We all know
what one another is doing.”  These days, Ko and her team are betting that currencies of
 commodity-exporting  nations will strengthen over time as growth
in China and other developing nations fuels demand for raw
materials.  New Fund  The firm launched the Covepoint Commodity Currency Fund in
September 2009 to invest in a basket of commodity exporters such
as Chile, Norway and Peru using funds borrowed in currencies of
low-yielding, slower-growing countries such as the U.S.  “In a sense, that kind of gives you our view of how the
world is going to pan out,” says Sankaran, who runs the $14
million fund, which returned 4.96 percent in the last four
months of 2009 and lost 1.54 percent this year through
September.  “At least right now, we think there’s something to this
idea that the developed world does have severe challenges.”
Sankaran says developing economies such as China are exerting an
increasing influence over global foreign exchange. “From a
macro point of view, emerging markets are driving a lot of
what’s happening in the FX market,” he says.  “Because of the importance of China as the growth driver
for the world, through reserve accumulation, through the impact
on global growth -- it changes the terms of trade,” Sankaran
says. “If you have a more commodity-intensive pattern, it
benefits commodity exporters.”  G-10 Bets  In its flagship fund, Covepoint has done more trading in
the euro and other developed-market currencies lately, Ko says.  This year, the fund gained on a bet against the euro as the
Greek debt crisis sent the European currency lower, she says.
When the euro got to about $1.25 versus the dollar, she reversed
the bet, missing out as the euro sank further. Ko says the
extent of the declines didn’t make sense given the commitments
made in May by Germany and other stronger economies in the
region to support debt-laden peripheral countries such as
Greece.  “Our tendency to question the consensus -- it’s more art
than science,” Ko says. “Sometimes I am too early.”  Ko says the fund gained in early July as the euro rebounded
from a four-year low it reached in early June. “While there’s
still a lot of issues around many EU members, the euro wasn’t
going to implode and cease to exist right away.” The euro
traded at $1.2883 on Sept. 13, up from a low of $1.1877 on June
7.  Zooming Out  Glasser says his focus has been more on the U.S. and
broader macroeconomic trends. His views on particular smaller
markets were being overwhelmed by fluctuations tied to global
themes such as rising government debt loads in developed
economies such as the U.S., he says. Instead of focusing on
whether the Colombian central bank was behind the curve in terms
of inflation, for example, he says it was more profitable to
zoom out.  “When monetary policy is the focus, it makes a lot of
sense to pay attention to more idiosyncratic stories,” he says.
“When fiscal policy becomes more important, you are in a
different framework, where people are more biased to be risk
averse.”  For Ko, the aversion to risk that sent investors piling
into U.S. Treasuries and drove  10-year yields  to as low as 2.47
percent in August may be overdone.  “A lot of the bearishness has to do with looking into the
rearview mirror in terms of wanting not to repeat 2008 again,”
she says. Because of that, Ko says it’s possible the market may
rally in the fourth quarter. “At the end of the day, rates are
zero, and people have to put their money somewhere,” she says.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Beth Williams  in New York at 
 bewilliams@bloomberg.net ;
 Ye Xie  in New York at 
 yxie6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Laura Colby at 
 lcolby@bloomberg.net ;
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  