-- Czech Premier to Push Ahead With Budget Cuts After Local Election Defeat
-- B y   D o u g l a s   L y t l e
-- 2010-10-18T14:14:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-17/czech-premier-to-push-ahead-with-budget-cuts-after-local-election-defeat.html
Czech Premier  Petr Necas  vowed to
continue spending cuts after support for the governing parties
declined in municipal and Senate elections that the opposition
framed as a referendum on the performance of his Cabinet.  Necas’s Civic Democrats lost Prague for the first time
since the Czech Republic became an independent state in 1993,
and the opposition Social Democrats forced runoffs in 22 of 27
Senate contests, giving it a chance to take control of the upper
house of parliament. Public Affairs, the smallest of the three
coalition parties, failed to win control of any local councils.  The government has pledged to cut the  budget deficit  to the
European Union limit of 3 percent of economic output by 2013,
from 5.8 percent last year, pushing bonds and the koruna higher.
Those policies have enraged state workers who protested proposed
cuts in their wages with a march through Prague on Sept. 21 and
are considering a general strike.  “The effect may be quite significant because Public
Affairs lost in a very big way and I personally expect some
tension in that party,” said  Jiri Pehe , director of New York
University in Prague. “If they stay in the government they may
try to modify some of the reforms. I think Necas may find it
harder to push some of his reforms through.”  The three governing parties -- Civic Democrats, TOP09 and
Public Affairs -- saw their share of the Prague vote drop to 59
percent from 62.4 percent during national elections in June. The
biggest decliner was Public Affairs, which dropped to 5.7
percent from 10.3 percent. Support for the Social Democrats rose
to 17.9 percent from 15.2 percent. A breakdown of the national
vote wasn’t immediately available.  Mayor Tuma  In Prague, Europe’s fifth-richest city by per capita gross
domestic product, former central bank Governor  Zdenek Tuma  is
likely to become mayor after TOP09 won 30.3 percent of the vote,
beating the Civic Democrats at 23.1 percent.  Necas, 45, said on state-run TV yesterday that combined
support for parties backing leaner government and lower taxes
exceeded votes for the Social Democrats and that he will
continue to govern on the mandate given to him during national
elections in June. Local candidates won or lost on local issues,
not because voters were unhappy with the government, he said.  “It’s not true that this was a rejection of the governing
politics,” Necas said. “The voters decided on their trust of
specific leaders in specific places.”  Social Democrat Chairman Bohuslav Sobotka said on the same
program that the elections show “the government’s policies have
lost.” He called for voters to cast their ballots against the
government candidates in the Senate runoffs next weekend to
ensure there is legislative balance.  Senate Control  “If the Social Democrats manage to gain a majority in the
Senate, there could be a reaction in markets to the potential
delay in enacting budget cuts, said  Pavel Sobisek , chief
economist at UniCredit SpA in Prague. “But I don’t expect any
reaction right now.”  The governing coalition wouldn’t win a majority in the
lower house if elections were held today, a new poll released by
company STEM showed. The parties would have 95 mandates in the
200-seat chamber, while a coalition between the Social Democrats
and the Communists would take 105 seats, the survey, conducted
between Oct. 1 and Oct. 9 of 1,244 eligible voters, showed. The
margin of error was between 1.5 percent and 2.5 percent.  Public Affairs ran in national elections for the first time
this year and held an Internet referendum on its program.  Debt Rating  The Czech Republic’s A debt rating may be raised if the
government follows through on pledges to reduce spending,
including an overhaul of the pension system, Standard & Poor’s
said Aug. 10. S&P revised its outlook on the rating to
“positive” from “stable.”  The yield on the benchmark 10-year government bond fell 1
basis point to 3.441 percent at 3:55 p.m. in Prague, from 4.339
percent before the May 28-29 elections. The koruna has gained
5.4 percent against the euro since that time, making it the
world’s best-performing currency after the Swiss franc in that
period, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The koruna was
little changed against the euro in trading today to 24.517 in
Prague.  Less than half the eligible voters turned out for the
weekend elections, data from the statistics office showed.  Public Affairs  Public Affairs, which ran in national elections for the
first time this year, called for an “ideas conference” in the
coming weeks to discuss the results. Chairman and Interior
Minister Radek John said yesterday that he believed his party
had succeeded and he wouldn’t resign.  The coalition, which has 118 votes in the 200-member lower
house of parliament, would have won 10 fewer seats if the
national election had been held in September, a survey conducted
Sept. 3-13 by polling company  Stem  estimated.  The Czech Republic has a history of government breakups due
to internal disputes. The country has had two minority
governments and two interim Cabinets in the past 12 years.  Whether the Cabinet will face tensions in coming months
depends on how politicians react to the results, Pehe said.  “It really depends on how Public Affairs interprets its
defeat,” said Pehe, who was a political adviser to former
President  Vaclav Havel . “If it’s just a minor stumble, they may
be able to go on. But I suspect they may realize they” have
betrayed some of their voters by joining “this neo-liberal
coalition and that may cause some problems.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Douglas Lytle  in Prague at 
 dlytle@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at   wmorris@bloomberg.net 
James Gomez at   jagomez@bloomberg.net  