-- De Wever Offers Tax Concessions in Bid to End Belgian Political Stalemate
-- B y   J o h n   M a r t e n s
-- 2010-10-17T19:54:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-17/de-wever-offers-tax-concessions-in-bid-to-end-belgian-political-stalemate.html
Belgium’s N-VA party leader  Bart De Wever , the top vote-getter in elections four months ago, offered
concessions for more regional tax powers in a proposal to break
the political deadlock in the linguistically divided nation.  De Wever, 39, offered as much as 350 million euros ($489
million) of additional funds for the Brussels capital district
and said French speakers in six Flemish municipalities outside
Brussels would retain their rights. The Flemish nationalist
party leader maintained his demand to transfer almost half of
personal-income-tax revenue to the country’s regions from
federal  coffers .  “Amendments are open for discussion, but whoever touches
the fundamentals of this text, risks making the whole house of
cards collapse,” De Wever told reporters at a briefing in the
Senate in Brussels today. Charged by  King Albert II  with a 10-
day mission that ends tomorrow, De Wever repeated that he
expects an answer from all potential coalition partners by noon
tomorrow before a scheduled meeting with the monarch.  If the French-speaking parties accept De Wever’s 48-page
document, it will serve as a blueprint for a sixth overhaul of
Belgium’s governing structure and lead to the start of formal
government talks, including a trajectory of spending cuts to
balance Belgium’s  budget  by 2015. A rejection would deepen the
political stalemate, and likely lead to new elections.  To hold Belgian 10-year bonds, investors demanded a yield
 82 basis points  higher than that of German sovereign debt of
similar maturity on Oct. 15, up from 79 basis points before the
June 13 election. The extra yield, a measure of the risk of
investing in Belgium, compares with 375 basis points for Ireland
and 162 basis points for Spain.  ‘Increasing the Tensions’  De Wever’s proposals, “some of which are provocative, risk
increasing the tensions between Flemish and French speakers,”
 Elio Di Rupo ’s French-speaking socialist party said in an e-
mailed statement. “The proposed financing mechanisms will
strangle the development of Wallonia and Brussels.”  Flanders has progressively gained more authority in five
constitutional revamps over four decades, as its growing wealth
has surpassed the older industries that concentrated power in
the southern French-speaking region for more than a century
after Belgium’s founding in 1830.  About 14 percent of Belgians want to split the country,
according to a  La Libre Belgique  poll published on Sept. 7. The
majority, 57 percent, called for the quick formation of a
government, and 12 percent wanted new elections.  Both the French-speaking humanists and ecologists called on
De Wever to return to the negotiating table to reach a balanced
agreement, Belga news agency reported, citing party statements.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 John Martens  in Brussels at 
 jmartens1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net  