-- Democrat Coons Says Extending Bush's Tax Cuts Could Help Jumpstart Economy
-- B y   J e f f   P l u n g i s
-- 2010-10-17T15:48:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-17/democrat-coons-says-extending-bush-s-tax-cuts-could-help-jumpstart-economy.html
Democratic U.S. Senate candidate
 Chris Coons  said a quick decision on extending most of the Bush
administration’s tax cuts would give investors the certainty
they need to jumpstart the economy.  “There’s a trillion dollars in private capital sitting on
the sidelines right now,” Coons said. “All that money is
sitting there waiting for clear signals about health-care costs,
about where we’re going in tax policy.”  Coons and his opponent, Republican  Christine O’Donnell ,
traded barbs on taxes in taped interviews broadcast today on
ABC’s “This Week.” Democrats’ chances of holding Delaware’s
open U.S. Senate seat, once held by Vice President  Joe Biden ,
have risen as the party seeks to retain control of the chamber
in the Nov. 2 elections.  A recent  poll  in the state gives Coons, 47, county
executive of New Castle County, Delaware’s largest county, a 19-
point lead over Republican  Christine O’Donnell , 41, a marketing
consultant. The Oct. 8-11 survey by Monmouth University in West
Long Branch, New Jersey, showed Coons leading O’Donnell 57
percent to 38 percent among likely voters.  In a recent political ad, O’Donnell said Coons would raise
taxes on “everything out there.” Extending all the Bush-era
tax cuts would benefit owners of small businesses such as dry
cleaners and pizzerias, she said.  ‘Scare Tactic’  “There’s this scare tactic coming from the Democrats
saying that these tax cuts for the rich are these billionaires
who are trying to find places to dock their yachts,” O’Donnell
said on “This Week.”  The nonpartisan Cook Political Report projects Democrats
will lose at least 40 seats in the House, costing the
president’s party control, and lose 7 to 9 seats in the Senate.
Democrats currently have a 57-seat majority in the 100-member
Senate, with two independent members also supporting the party.  President  Barack Obama  and Biden traveled to Wilmington on
Oct. 15 to raise money for Coons.  White House Communications Director  Dan Pfeiffer , a
Delaware native, said Obama made the campaign stop because
the contest is “important” and the political climate this year
is volatile.  “We leave no stone unturned,” Pfeiffer said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jeff Plungis  in Washington D.C. at 
 jplungis@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net . 