-- Eurotunnel Says Deutsche Bahn Passes Safety Tests for Train Link
-- B y   B r i a n   P a r k i n   a n d   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 2010-10-18T07:55:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-17/deutsche-bahn-may-run-german-u-k-routes-after-channel-tunnel-test-success.html
Deutsche Bahn AG passed safety tests
carried out at the weekend that may lead to a high-speed train
link between Germany and the U.K., according to  Groupe
Eurotunnel SA , operator of the Channel Tunnel.  Deutsche Bahn is required to comply with stringent tunnel
safety rules as it seeks to offer services between Germany and
London via the tunnel from 2013. The Berlin-based operator ran
fire-evacuation tests with its Siemens AG-made ICE-3 train,
Eurotunnel spokeswoman  Fabienne Lissak  said in an interview.  “The tests were a success,” Lissak said by telephone.
“Eurotunnel now sees no reason why the safety rule book can’t
be augmented to allow access to these trains, opening the door
to offering more services to passengers in Europe.”  Backed by Eurotunnel, both Deutsche Bahn and Eurostar Group
Ltd., the operator that runs tunnel services linking Paris,
Brussels and London, seek safety-book amendments as they try to
compete with airlines by cutting rail travel times and offering
more attractive routes. The European Union opened cross-border
high-speed services to competition on Jan. 1.  Eurotunnel, operator of the 30-mile (48-kilometer) undersea
link, has said it wants to add routes as it targets 2 million
new passengers by 2015. The Paris-based company reported today
that its third-quarter revenue rose 27 percent to 212.1 million
euros ($294 million), helped by contribution from newly acquired
freight units.  New Tender?  French Trade Minister  Christian Estrosi  today called on
Eurostar to cancel and reopen a contract tender for 10 high-
speed trains after Paris-based Alstom SA lost out on the 700
million-pound ($1.1 billion) order to Siemens.  Eurostar’s majority owner, state-owned French railway SNCF,
“doesn’t have the possibility” to disagree with the government’s
position that the order should be rebid, Estrosi told RTL radio
today. “This matter is not over.”  The terms of the tender did not take into account all of
the necessary safety requirements, Estrosi said, citing problems
with train length and the motors underneath that would prevent
the trains from getting authorization to operate.  SNCF owns 55 percent of Eurostar. Alstom trains that
Eurostar operates are the only ones that meet safety criteria
including the ability to split in two in the event of a fire and
a 375- meter length requirement linked to evacuation procedures.  Julie Vion-Broussailles, a spokeswoman for SNCF, didn’t
have a comment when reached by Bloomberg News.  The evacuation tests using two coupled ICE trains included
the reversal of the ventilation system, according to Deutsche
Bahn. Eurotunnel will detail its test findings in a report this
month for an intergovernmental committee of French and British
officials, Lissak said.  Eurotunnel  fell  as much as 13.1 cents, or 1.9 percent, to
6.86 euros and traded at 6.98 euros as of 9:54 a.m. in Paris.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Brian Parkin  in Berlin at 
 bparkin@bloomberg.net ;
 Tara Patel  in Paris at   tpatel2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net 
Will Kennedy at   wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  