-- Chinese Developer Bonds Top Asia Debt on Home Price Gains
-- B y   K a t r i n a   N i c h o l a s   a n d   S h e l l e y   S m i t h
-- 2010-10-18T10:29:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-17/developer-bonds-top-asia-debt-on-home-price-gains-china-credit.html
Chinese property bonds are beating
company dollar debt across Asia this month after home values
unexpectedly rose in September and Standard & Poor’s said
developers can withstand price drops of as much as 10 percent.  Evergrande Real Estate Group Ltd.’s $1.35 billion of 13
percent bonds due in January 2015 returned 4.2 percent, the most
among the top 50 companies in Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s
Asian Dollar Corporate index. Agile Property Holdings Ltd.’s
$650 million of 8.875 percent notes due April 2017 delivered 2.8
percent and Country Garden Holdings Co.’s similar-maturity 11.25
percent notes returned 2.1 percent, compared with a 1 percent
regional average, the index and data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Home values climbed 0.5 percent last month from August and
9.1 percent from a year earlier, beating economists’ estimates
and increasing for the first month since May, even as Premier
 Wen Jiabao  and policy makers in the world’s fastest-growing
major economy added to measures aimed at cooling the property
market. Developers’ bonds have rallied since May after real
estate prices jumped the most on record in April and China
posted 10.3 percent second-quarter economic growth.  “It’s a cheap sector,”  Viktor Hjort , a Morgan Stanley
credit strategist, said in a telephone interview from Hong Kong.
“It’s misguided to focus on policy alone in order to try and
gauge where this sector is going.”  Relative Value  Faced with near-zero interest rates in Japan and the U.S.,
the extra yield investors demand to own Guangdong-based Country
Garden’s 11.25 percent bonds instead of Treasuries fell 420
basis points, or 4.2 percentage points, since May to 772 basis
points, according to ING Groep NV. The spread on Los Angeles-
based KB Home’s similar-maturity 9.1 percent notes was last at
592, according to Trace, the bond-price reporting system of the
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  Country Garden has a  Ba2 rating  from Moody’s Investors
Service, the risk assessor’s second-highest speculative grade.
KB Home, which focuses on first-time buyers in the U.S., is
ranked two steps lower at B1.  S&P said on Oct. 11 that China’s property companies can
withstand price declines of as much as 10 percent in major
cities over the next 12 months because they have “adequate
liquidity and have already locked in the majority of their
revenue for 2010.” Nomura Holdings Inc. predicts drops of as
much as 10 percent by the end of next year as cities including
Shanghai introduce their own measures to cool increases.  Double-Digit Declines  “The authorities may not see the property curbs as
successful until prices fall by double-digits from a year
earlier, so the current restrictions may last into next year,”
 Zhang Zhiwei , a Hong Kong-based economist at China International
Capital Corp., said before the September housing data were
published on Oct. 15. “Cash-rich developers may be able to
resist cutting prices for a while.”  The International Monetary Fund forecast on Oct. 6 that
China’s gross domestic product will grow 10.5 percent this year,
outpacing expansion of 2.6 percent in the U.S. China’s foreign-
exchange reserves rose to a record $2.65 trillion on Sept. 30,
the central bank reported last week.  Exports  climbed 25.1
percent last month from a year earlier, leading to a trade
surplus of $16.9 billion, according to the customs bureau.  The yield on China’s benchmark local currency 10-year bond
slid 8 basis points this month to 3.39 percent. Similar-maturity
bonds yield 8.11 percent in India, 7.73 percent in Russia and
11.59 percent in Brazil.  Yuan Forwards  Twelve-month non-deliverable yuan forwards advanced 2
percent this month to 6.4175 per dollar in Hong Kong, reflecting
bets for a gain of 3.5 percent from the onshore spot rate of
6.6441. The currency strengthened 0.4 percent in the five days
ended Oct. 15, advancing for a sixth week.  Chinese government bond risk is falling, according to
traders of credit-default swaps. Five-year  contracts  on the
nation’s debt declined 28 percent in the past month, the biggest
drop among more than 80 nations, and closed at 57 basis points
on Oct. 15, according to data compiled by CMA and Bloomberg.  Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange
for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a
government or company fail to adhere to debt agreements.  Chinese developers raised $7.8 billion from bonds since
January, paying coupons as high as 14 percent and an average
10.8 percent, data compiled by Bloomberg show. U.S. real estate
company bonds yield an average 4.04 percent and returned 0.93
percent this month, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s
U.S. Real Estate Corporate Index.  Mortgage Distress  Falling prices in North America mean almost one quarter of
home sales in the second quarter involved properties in some
stage of mortgage distress, RealtyTrac Inc. said on Oct. 1. In
August, lenders took possession of a record 95,364 homes and
issued foreclosure filings to 338,836 homeowners, or one out of
every 381 U.S. households, according to the Irvine, California
based data-provider.  In China “the measures being implemented by the government
don’t seem to have any effect on the bond prices,” said  Chew May Tan , who helps oversee $1.5 billion of Asia-Pacific fixed-
income assets at Aberdeen Asset Management Asia Ltd. in
Singapore. “Investors are in a search for yield mode so there’s
a lot of demand for these bonds.”  Agile’s 8.875 percent bonds rose to 106 cents on the dollar
last week from a low of 86 cents on May 25, the same day China’s
Ministry of Housing and Urban-Rural Development warned home
price increases could spread to multiple regions. The bonds fell
to 104.5 cents on the dollar today, according to ING prices.
Country Garden’s 11.25 percent notes rose to a record 109.75
cents last week from a low of 87 cents on May 25. The notes were
last quoted at 108.75 cents on the dollar.  Loan Limit  China’s banks extended 595.5 billion yuan of  new loans  last
month, for an increase in the first nine months of 6.3 trillion
yuan, according to the People’s Bank of China. A record 9.59
trillion yuan of new lending last year prompted regulators to
impose a 7.5 trillion yuan annual limit on banks this year.  “Credit growth has always been the best leading indicator
for this sector because these are levered companies and their
clients use leverage in order to transact,” said Morgan
Stanley’s Hjort. “Between now and the end of the year China
property bonds will continue to outperform.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Katrina Nicholas  in Singapore at 
 knicholas2@bloomberg.net 
 Shelley Smith  in Hong Kong at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will McSheehy at   wmcsheehy@bloomberg.net  