-- Yen Gains on Speculation Japan to Refrain From Intervention; Euro Slides
-- B y   Y a s u h i k o   S e k i   a n d   R o n   H a r u i
-- 2010-10-18T07:39:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-17/dollar-trades-near-15-year-low-versus-yen-on-fed-easing-g20-speculation.html
The yen rose against all its major
peers on speculation Japan will refrain from intervening to
weaken its currency ahead of this week’s meeting of policy
makers from Group of 20 nations.  Japan’s currency traded near the strongest level in more
than 15 years versus the greenback before a report tomorrow
forecast to show U.S. housing starts fell, supporting the case
for additional monetary easing. The euro slid for a second day
against the dollar before data that may show investor confidence
in Germany is near the lowest level in 21 months.  “The so-called currency war issue is likely to be
discussed at the G-20 meeting, which will make it harder for
Japanese authorities to carry out any intervention,” said
 Toshiya Yamauchi , a senior currency analyst at Ueda Harlow Ltd.
in Tokyo. “The yen may test the all-time high of 79.75 versus
the dollar if there’s no threat of intervention.”  The yen strengthened to 81.22 per dollar as of 8:29 a.m. in
London, from 81.45 in New York on Oct. 15, when it touched
80.88, the strongest level since April 1995 and near its post-
World War II high of 79.75 yen reached the same month.  The euro fell to $1.3878, from $1.3977 on Oct. 15, when it
reached $1.4159, the most since Jan. 26. The euro sank to 112.49
yen, the least since Sept. 24, before trading at 112.69 yen,
from 113.88 last week.  Finance ministers and central bankers of the G-20 nations
are due to meet on Oct. 22 and 23 in South Korea. South Korea
will also host a summit meeting of top politicians from the G-20
nations next month.  ‘Devaluation Race’  European Central Bank Chief Economist  Juergen Stark  said it
would be “fatal” if the world’s currency areas were to engage
in a “devaluation race,” Handelsblatt reported last week,
citing an interview. Competitive devaluations can lead to
protectionism, one of the main causes of the world economic
crisis during the 1930s, Stark told the newspaper.  The G-20 nations must take the lead to prevent a global
“currency war” in which each country tries to weaken its
currency at the expense of others, South African Finance
Minister  Pravin Gordhan  said last week.  South Korea will focus on working out currency tensions
between countries at the G-20 summit it will host in November,
the JoongAng Ilbo reported, citing a government official it
didn’t identify.  Japan plans to set up a Cabinet Office study group to
examine how to increase the amount of trade settled in yen so as
to minimize the impact of currency fluctuations, Kyodo News
reported yesterday, citing Economy Minister  Banri Kaieda .  ‘Strong Yen’  Kaieda’s comments “spurred speculation that Japan would
simply accept a strong yen,” said  Takashi Kudo , general manager
of market information service at NTT SmartTrade Inc., a unit of
Nippon Telegraph & Telephone Corp. in Tokyo.  The Federal Reserve will release on Oct. 20 its Beige Book
survey of regional Fed banks. Last month, the report found the
economic rebound showed signs of slowing. Minutes of the Fed’s
September meeting released on Oct. 12 indicated that policy
makers were poised to take more easing steps “before long.”  U.S. builders  broke  ground on 580,000 homes at an annual
rate in September, down 3 percent from the previous month,
according to a Bloomberg News survey of economists before
tomorrow’s data.  Futures on the CME Group exchange show a 32 percent chance
the Fed will cut its target rate for overnight bank lending to
zero by November, up from a 24 percent probability a month ago.
The rate is currently in a range from zero to 0.25 percent.  ZEW Report  The euro declined before a German report tomorrow that may
show investor confidence dropped for a sixth month in October,
adding to signs the 16-nation region’s recovery may be slowing.  The  ZEW Center for European Economic Research  in Mannheim
will say its  index  of investor and analyst expectations, which
aims to predict developments six months ahead, dropped to minus
7 in October, the least since January 2009, according to a
Bloomberg News survey of economists.  “The longer the euro stays far above its long-term fair
value levels of $1.20, the faster the economy will suffer
another downturn,”  Mansoor Mohi-uddin , Singapore-based chief
currency strategist at UBS AG, wrote in an e-mail.  Current Account Surplus  The yen has gained 84 percent against a basket of the most-
traded currencies since the start of 1986, including a 13
percent gain in 2010, as the nation posted a surplus every year
in its  current account , the broadest measure of trade. Unlike
the U.S. or the 16-nation euro region, Japan doesn’t rely on
foreign capital to finance its budget deficit.  As a result, money is flowing into Japan from traders
concerned about indebted nations’ funding as growth in the
global economy slows. Bets the currency will strengthen were
about the highest this year, even after the Bank of Japan sold 2
trillion yen last month in its first intervention since 2004.
The central bank and Ministry of Finance say Japan needs a
weaker currency to bolster exports.  “Any attempts to weaken the yen will be futile,” said
 Richard Franulovich , a senior foreign-exchange strategist at
Westpac Banking Corp. in New York. “Intervention, when it
fights against the underlying fundamentals of a currency, is
doomed to fail.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Yasuhiko Seki  in Tokyo at 
 yseki5@bloomberg.net ;
 Ron Harui  in Singapore at   rharui@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at   rswift5@bloomberg.net  