-- Du Earnings Will Continue to Grow Amid U.A.E. Competition, CEO Sultan Says
-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r
-- 2010-10-17T16:10:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-17/du-earnings-will-continue-to-grow-amid-u-a-e-competition-ceo-sultan-says.html
Emirates Integrated
Telecommunications Co . expects earnings to continue to grow even
as competition in the United Arab Emirates intensifies, Chief
Executive Officer  Osman Sultan  said.  “If we’re talking compared to last year, Du is a good
growth story and will continue to grow” with respect to
earnings, Sultan said in Dubai today.  Profit  at the company known as Du more than doubled in the
second quarter from a year-earlier as its client base grew. Du
may this week announce a 57 percent increase in third-quarter
 earnings  to 123 million dirhams ($33.5 million) according to a
mean estimate of two analysts in a Bloomberg survey.  Shares of the company, which competes with  Emirates
Telecommunications Corp.,  or Etisalat, surged 32 percent in the
third quarter and closed at 2.95 dirhams on the Dubai bourse
today.  Du has about 4 million active  mobile subscribers  and
expects its customer base to grow at a slower pace next year.
The company has a 37 percent share of the mobile market in the
U.A.E. and sees that rising to 40 percent by the end of next
year.  “Growth is going to become more and more challenging
because of the levels of penetration, I see this intensifying,”
Sultan said. The company expects “substantial” growth among
internet and data users in 2011.  Chinese Loan  The Dubai-based phone company obtained $255 million in
financing from the Export-Import Bank of China this month as it
seeks to repay  debts  and upgrade its network. Du plans to spend
at least 2.2 billion dirhams this year and about the same amount
in 2011, Sultan said May 11.  The phone company does not plan to issue bonds in the
immediate future, Sultan said. “At the end of the year we will
study different things we may need to do.”  The company will start offering services through a network-
sharing arrangement with Etisalat in the first half of 2011
after a delay, Sultan said. The company has no plans to expand
operations outside the U.A.E. and plans to grow through offering
regional internet and digital services.  “Du going in the track of regional expansion in the
traditional model either by licenses or acquisition will be
value destructive for the company and its shareholders,” Sultan
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Zahra Hankir  in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler in Dubai at   cmaedler@bloomberg.net  