-- Eurostar, Thalys Suspend Services on Belgian Strike, Causing Traffic Chaos
-- B y   J o h n   M a r t e n s
-- 2010-10-18T10:10:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-17/eurostar-thalys-users-face-disruption-from-belgian-train-strike-on-monday.html
High-speed train operators Eurostar
Group Ltd. and Thalys suspended services to and via Brussels
today amid a strike at Belgium’s state-owned railroad company.  The 24-hour walkout by the socialist CGSP union began at 10
p.m. local time yesterday and halted train  services  on all
important connections, Frederic Petit, a spokesman for Belgian
railroad-network manager Infrabel, said by telephone today.
Petit expects normal services to resume as of 5 a.m. tomorrow.  Eurostar, the operator of high-speed trains through the
Channel Tunnel, advised travelers to postpone trips and is
providing a “very limited coach service” between Lille and
Brussels during the strike. The first Brussels-bound train will
leave London St. Pancras station at 7:34 p.m. local time. Thalys
International SCRL suspended services today to all destinations
on its high-speed rail network linking Paris to Brussels,
Amsterdam and the German city of Cologne, according to a
 statement  on its website.  Belgian commuters struggled to get to work this morning.
Rush-hour traffic jams totaled 350 kilometers (220 miles)
because of a combination of road congestion and accidents,
according to the Flemish Traffic Center’s website. Motorists are
advised to consult  online traffic information  before beginning
their journeys home, according to a statement on its website.  The CGSP/ACOD union, the biggest measured by the number of
members at Belgium’s railway SNCB/NMBS, called the stoppage to
protest management demands for more flexibility and a change in
labor conditions at  SNCB ’s unprofitable cargo-hauling business.
The CSC/ACV union doesn’t support the strike action and said it
prefers to await the outcome of talks before consulting its
members at the end of this month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 John Martens  in Brussels at 
 jmartens1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net  