-- Rangers Beat Yankees 7-2, Evening Baseball's AL Championship Series at 1-1
-- B y   R o b   G l o s t e r
-- 2010-10-17T01:30:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-17/texas-rangers-beat-yankees-7-2-evening-al-championship-series-at-1-1.html
This time, the Texas Rangers held
on to an early lead against the Yankees -- and headed to New
York tied 1-1 in their American League Championship Series.  The Rangers, who blew a five-run lead in Game 1, took a
five-run lead again today and went on to win 7-2 for the first
postseason home victory in club history.  Colby Lewis , who was dumped by three Major League Baseball
teams in 2007 and then spent 2008-2009 in Japan, got the win
for Texas by allowing two runs in 5 2-3 innings.  “We just knew what we needed to do,” Lewis said in a
news conference. “We had two games here at home. We just
needed to come out today and split and go back to their place,
plain and simple.”  Game 3 in the best-of-seven series is set for Oct. 18,
with the Rangers’  Cliff Lee  facing the Yankees’  Andy Pettitte 
in a battle of left-handed starters.  The National League Championship Series opened tonight in
Philadelphia with a highly anticipated pitching matchup. The
Phillies started  Roy Halladay , who pitched a no-hitter in the
divisional sweep of the Cincinnati Reds, against two-time
reigning Cy Young Award winner  Tim Lincecum  of the San
Francisco Giants.  The Rangers entered the game with a 0-7 record at home in
the postseason and a 10-game postseason losing streak to the
Yankees -- who defeated Texas in the AL playoffs in 1996, 1998
and 1999.  Postseason Winner  Lewis, 31, has had a long journey from first-round draft
choice of the Rangers in 1999 to a postseason winner. He was
waived by the Rangers in 2004 after having rotator cuff
surgery, and then released or waived by the Washington
Nationals, Oakland Athletics and Kansas City Royals in 2007. He
then spent two seasons in Japan with the Hiroshima Toyo Carp
before rejoining the Rangers.  Texas opened the scoring in the first inning when  Elvis Andrus  reached base on an infield single, moved to second on a
wild pitch by  Phil Hughes  and then stole third and home -- the
latter swipe coming as part of a double steal.  The Rangers added two runs in the second inning on a solo
home run by  David Murphy  and a run-scoring double by  Michael Young . They made it 5-0 in the third on RBI doubles by Murphy
and  Bengie Molina .  Hughes, who won 18 games during the regular season,
allowed seven runs on 10 hits and three walks in four innings.
The night before, New York starter  CC Sabathia  allowed five
runs on six hits and four walks in four innings.  “Our starters have not pitched well so far,” Yankees
manager  Joe Girardi  said in a news conference. “I believe in
our guys and I believe that they will pitch well as we continue
forward here.”  New York scored its first run in the fourth on a run-
scoring single by  Lance Berkman , only to have Texas respond
with two runs in the fifth on an RBI triple by  Ian Kinsler  and
a run-scoring single by  Mitch Moreland .  The Yankees’  Robinson Cano  hit a solo home run, his second
in as many games, in the sixth to make it 7-2.  Neither team scored after the sixth inning, leaving the
Yankees with a 16-0 cumulative advantage in runs starting in
the seventh inning in the 12 playoff games between the teams.
That includes a 12-inning game in 1996.  The Rangers also had a 5-0 lead last night, only to have
the Yankees score one in the seventh inning and five in the
eighth to win 6-5.  “When you get to this point of the season, you can’t let
one night affect the next,” Rangers manager  Ron Washington 
said in a news conference. “That’s what it’s all about.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rob Gloster  in San Francisco at 
 rgloster@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  