-- FIFA Investigating Vote-Selling Claims Linked to Bids to Be World Cup Host
-- B y   P e t e r - J o s e p h   H e g a r t y
-- 2010-10-17T16:59:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-17/fifa-investigating-vote-selling-claims-linked-to-bids-to-be-world-cup-host.html
FIFA, soccer’s ruling body, is
investigating a report that two members of its executive
committee offered to sell their votes to select a future World
Cup tournament host.  The London-based Sunday Times said its story, published
today, was based on evidence gathered by undercover reporters
posing as lobbyists for a U.S. bid at meetings with an official
from the West African Football Union and a member of the  Oceania
Football Confederation .   FIFA  said it has asked the newspaper to provide “all of
the information and documents related” to its report.  “FIFA will immediately analyze the material available and
only once this analysis has concluded will FIFA be able to
decide on any potential next steps,” it said in an e-mailed
statement. Its ethics committee has “closely monitored” the
bidding processes for the 2018 and 2022 tournaments, it added.  The Oceania Football Confederation -- which covers New
Zealand, Papua New Guinea and Pacific island nations -- said it
is also investigating the newspaper’s claims.  “OFC is aware of the story that appeared in the Sunday
Times in England,” the British Broadcasting Corp. cited the
confederation as saying in a statement. “OFC is currently
looking into the matter.”  Joint Bids  The West African Football Union, based in Abidjan, Ivory
Coast, did not immediately answer a telephone call from
Bloomberg today seeking comment.  The U.S. said Oct. 15 it was withdrawing from the bidding
for the 2018 event to concentrate on 2022. That left England,
Russia and joint bids from Spain and Portugal and Belgium
together with the Netherlands still in contention for 2018.
FIFA’s executive committee is scheduled to announce the winning
bids for both tournaments on Dec. 2.  FIFA President  Sepp Blatter  said the newspaper report
created a “very unpleasant situation” and a “very negative
impact” on the bidding processes for 2018 and 2022.  In a  letter  to the FIFA Executive Committee, posted on the
organization’s website today, Blatter said FIFA will open an
“in depth” investigation, involving its ethics committee and
Secretary General  Jerome Valcke .  Countries bidding to host the World Cup were warned by FIFA
last month to stick to the rules after speculation about voting
collusion.  Speculation  FIFA was aware of speculation about vote-sharing between an
unidentified European bidder for the 2018 tournament and a
candidate for the 2022 event, Valcke said on Sept. 21. Soliciting
single votes or block votes from rival bidders isn’t allowed.  Bidders are prohibited from entering into any kind of
agreement with any other member association or bid committee
during the bid process, according to FIFA rules.  “The Sunday Times report today makes it clear, but it
bears emphasis and repeating, that the USA Bid Committee had no
involvement with any aspect of the reporting that resulted in
this story,”  Sunil Gulati , committee chairman and president of
U.S. Soccer, said in an e-mailed statement. “This is a matter
that is totally under the governance of FIFA.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Peter-Joseph Hegarty  in London at 
 phegarty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Elser at 
 phegarty@bloomberg.net  