-- French Truckers Block Roads as Refinery Strikes Crimp Supplies
-- B y   G r e g o r y   V i s c u s i   a n d   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 2010-10-18T13:43:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-17/french-refineries-shut-as-government-seeks-to-guarantee-supply-of-fuel.html
French truckers blocked highways and
officials deployed police to prevent strikers from cutting fuel
supplies as the standoff hardened over President  Nicolas Sarkozy ’s plans to raise the retirement age to 62.  With all the country’s refineries on strike, industry
groups said about 15 percent of service stations are dry, and
the Interior Ministry activated a crisis committee to manage
energy supplies.  Prime Minister  Francois Fillon  said the government won’t
give in to demands that it suspend parliamentary debate on the
pension bill and keep the minimum retirement age at 60.
Sarkozy’s ministers sought to guarantee fuel supplies, as police
moved to ensure access to storage sites amid a second week of
refinery strikes.  “When there is a blockade, we will take the necessary
measures,” Industry Minister  Christian Estrosi  said on RTL
radio today. “We respect the right to strike, not the right to
put up blockades.”  Unions have called for a day of protests tomorrow, to be
accompanied by the fourth national strike in two months. The
Senate is scheduled to complete passage of the pension bill the
following day. France’s eight major unions will meet on Oct. 21
to decide how to continue their movement.  France’s civil-aviation authority has asked airlines
tomorrow to cancel half their flights from Paris’ second airport
at Orly, and 30 percent at Roissy-Charles de Gaulle, the
largest. Air France SA said it will limit cancelations to
domestic and European destinations.  Running Dry  About 15 percent of France’s 12,000 service stations have
run out of some or all types of fuel, Alexandre de Benoist, head
of the Independent Fuel Importers Union, or UIP, said by
telephone. “There are stocks but we can’t get at them in some
cases because of blockages at fuel depots,” he said.  Total SA, Europe’s biggest refiner, said about 400 service
stations out of the 4,000 it operates in France had run out of
some products. Diesel, which powers 77 percent of cars sold in
France, is the product with the tightest supply, they said.  Television stations throughout the weekend showed long
lines at service stations and carried interviews with
exasperated motorists.  Estrosi also said the country isn’t running out of fuel.
“France has enough refined products in sufficient quantities
that everyone will be guaranteed supply for many more weeks,”
he said.  Highways Blocked  Today, truckers partially blocked the main north-south A6
highway between Lyon and Paris, as well as south of Lille in the
north of the country. They also blocked industrial zones near Le
Mans and Bordeaux, LCI television reported.  Fillon and Interior Minister  Brice Hortefeux  said in
separate television interviews last night that they won’t allow
truckers to block the country’s 200 fuel depots.  The government today ordered 30 workers at Total’s
Grandpuits refinery near Paris back to work to transport fuel,
according to the CGT union, which protested the move.  Paris’s airports are being supplied with jet fuel, and
fewer than 2 percent of France’s service stations have run dry,
Transport Minister  Dominique Bussereau  said on Europe1 radio.  The lower  National Assembly  has already passed the pension
legislation, which raises the minimum retirement age to 62, and
the age for a full pension to 67 from 65. The government says
it’s still open to some small changes and has already made
concessions that will allow people in difficult jobs as well as
working mothers with three children to retire earlier.  ‘Key to Financing’  “Raising the retirement age is the key to the financing of
the system,” Fillon said in an interview on TF1 television
yesterday. “The debate and vote in the Senate will go ahead.”
He said he won’t allow the strikes to “suffocate” the economy.  Under Sarkozy’s proposal, by 2018 a person would need to
work 41 ½ years to retire with a full pension at 62, and
otherwise would have to wait until they reach 67. Germany has
decided to raise its retirement age to 67 from 65, though
Germans can retire on a reduced pension at 63 if they’ve worked
35 years, according to the Organization for Economic Cooperation
and Development. The retirement age in Italy is 65, though
working 40 years guarantees a full pension at any age.  In the U.S., what the OECD calls the “normal” retirement
age is increasing to 67 from 66, though early retirement with
reduced benefits is available from the age of 62.  Pension Payouts  In France, the average retiree gets a net 65 percent of
their average qualifying wage in government pension payouts,
compared with 61.5 percent in Germany, 47 percent in the U.S.
and 44 percent in Britain,  according to the OECD .  Sarkozy’s government says the measures are needed to
balance the pension system’s budget by 2018. The overhaul is
part of its struggle to reduce the overall deficit. This year,
the gap will stand at 7.7 percent of gross domestic product and
Sarkozy plans to cut it to 6 percent next year.  Staff at all 12 French refineries are on strike, Eric
Sellini, a CGT union representative, said yesterday by
telephone. “No crude is arriving, no refined products are
leaving,” he said. Six of the refineries are run by  Total SA .  Excluding the mothballed Dunkirk refinery, France is
capable of processing 1.84 million barrels of crude a day,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The port of Marseille has been on strike for two weeks
because of an unrelated protest. That movement has now spread to
other ports because of the pension issue. The Marseille port
said in a statement yesterday that 61 merchant ships are
blocked, including 29 crude-oil tankers, 18 tankers of refined
products, and 10 tankers carrying natural gas.  Trains  Paris commuter trains and local rail services throughout
France ran at half service today, the national railway company
SNCF said, while one out of two scheduled high-speed trains
operated. In Paris, metros and buses have run normally for the
past three days.  Thalys trains to Brussels were disrupted today by an
unrelated strike in Belgium.  Students have increasingly joined the protests, and
students at 400 out of the country’s roughly 3,000 high-schools
were protesting today, according to student union UNL.  Since the unions’ first protest strike on Sept. 7, the  risk
premium  on French bonds has increased. Investors demand 39 basis
points more to buy 10-year French bonds than comparable German
securities, compared with 30 basis points on Sept. 6.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Gregory Viscusi  in Paris at 
 gviscusi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  