-- Jets Rally to Beat Broncos 24-20, Pushing NFL Winning Streak to Five Games
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i   a n d   D e x   M c L u s k e y
-- 2010-10-18T05:06:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-17/giants-hand-detroit-24th-straight-road-loss-roethlisberger-steelers-win.html
The New York Jets head into their
off week with the best record in the National Football League
after beating the Denver Broncos 24-20 to extend their winning
streak to five games.  LaDainian Tomlinson  scored the winning touchdown with 1:13
left, a two-yard run that came after the Broncos were flagged
for a 46-yard pass-interference penalty on fourth down.  The Jets were among four teams with 4-1 records entering
Week 6 of the NFL season. The Atlanta Falcons, Chicago Bears and
Baltimore Ravens all lost yesterday before the Jets sealed their
win in Denver when  Dwight Lowery  recovered a fumbled snap with
35 seconds left. It’s the Jets’ first 5-1 start since 2004 and
sixth in franchise history.  “We did a great job of stepping up to the challenge,”
Tomlinson said during a news conference at Invesco Field.
“Usually if you turn the ball over three times, you lose the
game, but we kept fighting. It didn’t look good for us but in
the end it came out the right way.”  The New York Giants beat Detroit 28-20 to hand the Lions
their 24th straight road loss, and Pittsburgh defeated the
Cleveland Browns 28-20 in  Ben Roethlisberger ’s return for the
Steelers after a four-game suspension.  Ryan Longwell  kicked a 38-yard field goal with 4:05
remaining and the Minnesota Vikings held on for a 24-21 win over
the Dallas Cowboys in a matchup of 1-3 teams that started the
season as top Super Bowl contenders, according to Las Vegas
oddsmakers.  Jets’ Rally  Quarterback  Mark Sanchez  had two of the Jets’ three
turnovers -- throwing his first two interceptions of the season
-- before leading an 82-yard drive that extended New York’s NFL-
best winning streak.  Trailing 20-17 with just over a minute left, the Jets had a
fourth-down-and-6 play from the Broncos’ 48-yard line when
Sanchez threw a deep pass for  Santonio Holmes . Broncos safety
 Renaldo Hill  was penalized after reaching back and hooking his
finger on Holmes’s facemask, giving the Jets a first down at
Denver’s two-yard line.  “I don’t think Mark Sanchez would have made that throw
last year,” Jets coach  Rex Ryan  said. “He had the presence of
mind to say, ‘You know what, I have one-on-one coverage out
there. I’m going to throw it to a great football player who’s
down in the end zone and either (Holmes) is going to catch it or
they’re going to have to foul him.’ He launched it up there and
that’s exactly what happened.”  Tomlinson scored his second touchdown of the game on the
next play and the Jets held on for the victory when Lowery
pounced on a fumble after a snap slipped off the fingers of
Broncos’ quarterback  Kyle Orton . Lowery’s interception return
for a touchdown in the closing minutes clinched the Jets’ win
over the Vikings six days earlier. The Jets have a bye this week
before next playing Oct. 31 at home against Green Bay.  Tebow’s Touchdown  Rookie quarterback  Tim Tebow  made his first appearance for
the Broncos (2-4) since opening week and had six rushes for 23
yards, including his first NFL touchdown.  Baltimore had a three-game winning streak snapped with a
23-20 overtime loss to the New England Patriots, Chicago was
upset at home 23-20 by the Seattle Seahawks and Atlanta was
beaten 31-17 by the Philadelphia Eagles.  The Patriots, who were off last week, improved to 4-1 after
beating the Ravens on a 35-yard field goal by  Stephen Gostkowski 
in overtime.  Brandon Jacobs  had two rushing touchdowns at New
Meadowlands Stadium in East Rutherford, New Jersey, as the
Giants logged their first home win over the Lions since 1990.
Detroit is still seeking its first win away from home since a
16-7 victory at Chicago on Oct. 28, 2007.  Roethlisberger’s Return  Roethlisberger passed for 257 yards and three touchdowns in
his return for the Steelers, who are 4-1 after last week’s bye.
The 28-year-old quarterback, who led Pittsburgh to two Super
Bowl titles, was banned for a violation of the league’s personal
conduct policy after being accused of sexually assaulting two
women. Roethlisberger denied the accusations and no criminal
charges have been brought against him.  The San Francisco 49ers got their first win after a 0-5
start, beating the Oakland Raiders 17-9, while the Miami
Dolphins won 23-20 in overtime against the Green Bay Packers.  The Indianapolis Colts beat the Washington Redskins 27-24
as  Peyton Manning  had his 60th career 300-yard passing game,
three behind Dan Marino for the most in league history.  Houston outscored Kansas City 35-31, St. Louis knocked off
San Diego 20-17 and New Orleans beat Tampa Bay 31-6.  Tennessee visits Jacksonville in tonight’s game, while
Buffalo, Cincinnati, Arizona and Carolina are off this week.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Erik Matuszewski  in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net 
 Dex McLuskey  in Dallas  at
 dmcluskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 