-- Gold May Pause Its Surge on `Shooting Star' Formation: Technical Analysis
-- B y   T o n y   C .   D r e i b u s
-- 2010-10-17T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-17/gold-may-pause-its-surge-on-shooting-star-formation-technical-analysis.html
Gold’s advance may pause after it
failed to extend its rally at the end of last week and developed
a “shooting star” formation, an indication that prices may
decline, according to technical analysis by Barclays Capital.  The attached chart shows the metal formed a shooting star
on Oct. 14 and failed to hold the record $1,387.35 an ounce it
reached that day. Gold may fall toward a trend line of $1,327 if
prices move below a previous trend channel high, currently at
about $1,368, the bank said.  Shooting stars “indicate near-term indecision and warn of
a downside correction, particularly as daily momentum
oscillators are posting bearish divergences,” Barclays analysts
including New York-based  MacNeil Curry  said in an Oct. 14
report. “A break of the old channel highs, now support at
$1,368, would confirm” such a correction and push prices toward
the trend line support at $1,327, the analysts said.  Gold climbed 10 percent since the end of the second quarter
as the dollar slumped against the euro and on speculation the
Federal Reserve will ease policy further, boosting assets in
gold-backed exchange-traded products to an all-time high. Fed
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said Oct. 15 that additional monetary
stimulus may be warranted. Bullion for immediate delivery ended
trading last week at $1,368.40 an ounce.  The second attached chart shows the recent rally has driven
the metal’s relative strength index above 70, a sign that prices
may be poised to drop. Still, “the bull trend remains on firm
footing” as long as prices stay above the $1,300 level and a 2
1/2-month trend line, the bank said.  In technical analysis, investors and analysts study charts
of trading patterns and prices to predict changes in a security,
commodity, currency or index. A shooting star formation emerges
when securities that have been rising register an open, daily
low, and close far from the session’s high.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tony C. Dreibus  in London at 
 tdreibus@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 