-- Micex Easing Foreign Investor Rules to Double Bond Market: Russia Credit
-- B y   E m m a   O ’ B r i e n
-- 2010-10-18T14:54:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-17/micex-easing-foreign-investor-rules-to-double-bond-market-russia-credit.html
Russia is seeking to lure buyers for
a record amount of debt sales by easing foreign investor
restrictions and offering futures on government bonds for the
first time.  Moscow’s Micex exchange plans to curb requirements to buy
and sell bonds through local brokers, cut the number of trading
accounts needed and merge settlement systems into a single unit,
 Alexander Ageev , director of non-resident client relations, said
in an a telephone interview. The exchange also will extend the
period for settling trades to three days from the same day to
bring Russia in line with global standards and expand the use of
contracts to hedge, Ageev said.  The amount of domestic securities outstanding represents 29
percent of Brazil’s, 12 years after Russia’s bond market
collapsed as the nation defaulted on $40 billion of local debt,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. While Brazil, Thailand
and South Korea are trying to stem foreign investment in their
notes to halt currency gains, Russia needs buyers after returns
on government ruble securities this year were 15 percentage
points below those for real-denominated debt, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  “The market needs to be increased and improvements to the
system are the only way to improve that capacity,” said  Nikolai Podguzov , head of fixed-income strategy at VTB Capital in
Moscow, a unit of Russia’s second-largest bank. “The capacity
of the government bond market could be extended substantially,
it could be double the size it is now.”  Record Borrowing  Russia returned to the international capital markets for
the first time since 1998 in April with the sale of $5.5 billion
of dollar bonds to help repair government finances after the
country’s worst recession since Soviet times last year. The
world’s largest  energy exporter  is also raising a record 839
billion rubles in domestic debt this year, according to the
Finance Ministry’s website.  Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin ’s administration plans to
sell 1.3 trillion rubles of bonds next year to help plug a
budget deficit the government forecasts will reach 3.6 percent
of  gross domestic product . Borrowing will peak at 1.5 trillion
rubles in 2012, according to the Finance Ministry.  Russian companies have issued 595.6 billion rubles of debt
so far this year, the highest amount ever, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  Lagging Behind  While gains in ruble bonds reduced the yield on the
government’s local-currency OFZ notes due in January 2013 to a
record-low 5.78 percent on Oct. 15, from 7.28 percent in
January, the returns have lagged behind other emerging markets.
 Ruble bonds  returned 11.5 percent this year in dollar terms,
compared with 26.3 percent for Brazilian  real bonds  and 13.8
percent for JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s  GBI-Emerging-Markets Broad
Index.   The price of Russian government benchmark ruble notes due
August 2016 fell, leaving the yield four basis points, or 0.04
percentage point, higher at 7.09 percent.  Russia has $220 billion of outstanding government and
corporate bonds in rubles, dwarfed by Brazil’s $771 billion of
real-denominated debt, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “It’s been a real boost for other emerging markets that
have made it easier for foreign investors to buy their local
debt,”  Sergey Dergachev , who helps manage the equivalent of
$8.5 billion of emerging-market debt, including Russian
corporate bonds, at Union Investments Privatfonds in Frankfurt,
said in a phone interview. “The supply pressure is huge so it’s
absolutely essential that they make reforms.”  Biggest Complaint  The biggest complaint the Micex receives from foreign
investors is the stipulation that investors trade through a
broker who must also act as the custodian, Ageev said. While the
Micex is lobbying for this rule to be changed, “we can’t
predict exactly when this will happen,” he said.  The process of setting up a local broker relationship is
made more difficult because investors need to have separate
accounts to trade on different markets within the Micex, Ageev
said. Investors will be able to use one account for all Micex
trading from the end of next year, Ageev said.  Union Investment has been negotiating a broker agreement
for a year, Dergachev said. Completing the documentation to
enlist a local broker takes at least three months,  Dmitry Dudkin , head of fixed income research at UralSib Financial Corp.
in Moscow, said in a phone interview.  Switch to T+3  Aviva Investors, the fund management arm of the U.K.’s
second-biggest insurer, is in the process of negotiating a
brokerage agreement to be able to buy federal bonds and ruble-
denominated corporate securities, said  Kieran Curtis , who helps
manage $2 billion of emerging-market debt at the London-based
company.  “In Brazil you also need a local custodian but you don’t
need a local brokerage agreement,” Curtis said in e-mailed
comments.  By the end of the year, the Micex will amalgamate two
clearing houses, the  National Depositary Center  and the
exchange’s own settlement house, which currently both charge
investors separate fees, said Ageev.  The Micex will also replace its practice of immediate
settlement for trades, which has been in place since at least
1997. Instead, traders will be allowed as many as three days, or
T+3, to complete transactions, said Ageev. The switch will bring
the Micex into line with the U.S. and European norms.  “Foreign investors will support this as they need time to
convert their dollars or euros into rubles,” Ageev said in a
telephone interview.  Iceberg, Midpoint  The exchange also plans to start trading futures on short-
term interest rates and on long- and medium-term federal bonds,
Ageev said. Futures are contracts giving the right to buy or
sell a specific amount of a commodity or security at a specific
price and time.  The bourse also may introduce the Iceberg and Midpoint
systems for bonds and equities, which enable investors to
conceal the size of their trades, said Ageev, who was head of
investment banking at JPMorgan in Moscow before he was hired in
April.  The ruble slid 0.8 percent to 30.47 per dollar today, its
weakest level since Oct. 1. Non-deliverable forwards, or NDFs,
which provide a guide to expectations of currency movements and
interest rate differentials and allow companies to hedge against
currency movements, show the ruble at 30.62 per dollar in three
months.  The yield on Russia’s dollar bonds due in 2020 fell one
basis point to 4.227 percent.  Default Swaps  The cost of protecting Russian debt against non-payment for
five years using credit-default swaps rose two basis points to
136 today, down from this year’s peak of 217, according to data
provider CMA. The contracts pay the buyer face value in exchange
for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a
government or company fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  Credit-default swaps for Russia, rated Baa1 by Moody’s
Investors Service, its third-lowest investment grade rating,
cost the same as contracts for Turkey, which is rated four
levels lower at Ba2. Russia swaps  cost  as much as 40 basis
points less on April 20.  The extra yield investors demand to hold Russian debt
rather than U.S. Treasuries rose three basis points to 201,
according to JPMorgan EMBI+ indexes. The difference compares
with 149 for debt of similarly rated Mexico and 179 for Brazil,
which is rated two steps lower at Baa3 by Moody’s.  ‘Currency War’  The  yield   spread  on Russian bonds is 50 basis points below
the average for emerging markets, down from a 15-month high of
105 in February, according to JPMorgan Indexes.  Russia’s steps to attract foreign bondholders are at odds
with other emerging markets. Brazilian Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  warned of a “currency war” of competitive devaluation
on Sept. 27 and doubled the tax on foreigners’ purchases of
bonds on Oct. 4.  South Korea’s Finance Ministry said on Oct. 5 that it would
start auditing banks to ensure their holdings of foreign-
currency derivatives didn’t exceed limits. Thailand will remove
a 15 percent tax exemption for foreigners on income from
domestic bonds in a bid to slow inflows into the debt market
that have pushed up the baht, Finance Minister  Korn Chatikavanij 
said on Oct. 12.  Tax Change  As part of its plan to expand access to foreigner
investors, Russia will simplify the taxation of federal bonds,
Deputy Finance Minister  Dmitry Pankin  said at the International
Monetary Fund meeting in Washington on Oct. 8. Investors will be
charged one levy of 20 percent on the securities as opposed to
the current 15 percent tax on coupon payments and 20 percent
charge on profits from selling OFZs, Pankin said. The change was
requested by investors, he said.  The Finance Ministry started issuing yield guidance to
bondholders before its debt auctions for the first time last
month to improve transparency.  “They need to make it much easier for foreign investors
to make that decision to come to the Russian market,” said
VTB’s Podguzov.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Emma O’Brien  in Moscow at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  