-- Israel Economy Grows 4.5% in Second Quarter as Exports, Construction Surge
-- B y   A l i s a   O d e n h e i m e r
-- 2010-10-17T11:28:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-17/israel-economy-grows-4-5-in-second-quarter-as-exports-construction-surge.html
Israel’s economy expanded an
annualized 4.5 percent in the second quarter, little changed
from the government’s previous estimate, as exports and home
construction surged.  Growth accelerated from a revised 3.7 percent in the first
quarter, the Jerusalem-based  Central Bureau of Statistics  said
today on its website. The statistics bureau reported on Sept. 16
that the economy grew a preliminary 4.6 percent in the three
months through June and 3.8 percent in the first quarter.  Israel’s economy will probably expand 4 percent this year,
powered by exports, consumer spending and home construction, the
Central Bureau of Statistics said today. In 2009, the expansion
was 0.8 percent.  “Growth in the second quarter was very strong,”  Yaniv Hevron , head of macro-strategy at Ramat Gan, Israel-based
Excellence Nessuah Investment House Ltd., said by telephone
before the announcement. “The third quarter will be affected by
a slowing in foreign trade, due to the moderation in growth in
the U.S. and Europe.”  The benchmark  TA-25  stock index has gained more than 20
percent in the past 12 months, led by Avner Oil Exploration LP
and Delek Drilling-LP, two of the partners in gas fields off
Israel’s coast.  Exports climbed 22.7 percent in the second quarter, the
bureau said today. Residential building rose 17.8 percent, and
private consumption increased 8.5 percent, it said.  Bank of Israel Governor  Stanley Fischer  raised the
benchmark interest rate at the end of September to 2 percent,
the sixth increase in 13 months, citing a surge in housing
prices.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alisa Odenheimer  in Jerusalem at 
 aodenheimer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net . 