-- Liverpool `Pressure' Rises After Everton Loss; Manchester City Goes Second
-- B y   J a m e s   C o n e
-- 2010-10-17T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-17/liverpool-loses-2-0-at-everton-in-first-game-under-red-sox-owner-group.html
Roy Hodgson  said the pressure is
building after Liverpool lost its first game under new
ownership.  The Reds went down 2-0 at Everton yesterday and dropped one
spot to 19th in soccer’s 20-team Premier League.  Tim Cahill  and
 Mikel Arteta  scored at Goodison Park for the Toffees, who had
failed to beat their city rival in the league for three seasons.  “Every game we don’t win, the pressure builds up even
more,” Liverpool coach Hodgson told reporters. “That will
affect people’s confidence in the long run.”  Everton climbed six spots to 11th with nine points, while
Liverpool is tied on six points with Wolverhampton Wanderers and
last-place West Ham. The bottom three teams drop to the second
tier at the end of the season. Manchester City moved into second
spot on 17 points after a 3-2 victory yesterday at Blackpool,
two points behind defending champion Chelsea.  Liverpool has one win from its opening eight league games.
It was the club’s first match since the owners of the Boston Red
Sox baseball team three days ago ended a legal fight for the 18-
time English champion by concluding the purchase of the team for
300 million pounds ($480 million).  New England Sports Ventures LLC, controlled by  John W. Henry  and  Tom Werner , was able to take advantage of the forced
sale by Americans  Tom Hicks  and  George Gillett . The former
owners, who were in default for 280 million pounds to Royal Bank
of Scotland Group Plc and Wells Fargo & Co., last week tried to
block the purchase in courts in the U.K. and Texas before
dropping their case.  Henry Looks On  Henry was a spectator at the game yesterday as his team
took 23 minutes to create a scoring chance,  Fernando Torres 
testing goalkeeper  Tim Howard  with a header that was tipped over
the bar.  “The dream was we would come here on the back of new
owners and win, but we had to play a game of football,” Hodgson
said.  There were few other opportunities in the match for the
visitors, who went behind after 34 minutes. Seamus Coleman
charged forward to the right of the penalty area before setting
up Cahill to fire past  Jose Reina .  The lead was doubled five minutes after halftime as Arteta
struck a powerful shot through a crowd of players.  Everton had chances to increase its lead, while Torres had
Liverpool’s best opportunity of the second half -- Howard saving
with his legs.  Hodgson said he hoped the new owners would back him in the
so-called transfer window in January, but “the first thing” is
to start winning matches.  “Hopefully we can do that and get ourselves in a better
position, then if the owners can find a way to back us and
improve the team in the transfer window we will obviously do
so,” he said.  City Victory  Manchester City won its fourth straight game to close the
gap on Chelsea, which was held to a 0-0 tie at Aston Villa two
days ago.  Carlos Tevez  got two goals, while  David Silva  also scored
at Bloomfield Road for City.  Marlon Harewood  and Gary Taylor-
Fletcher got the home team’s goals.  “We managed to ride the storm, score three good goals, and
hung on at the end,” City winger  James Milner  told Sky Sports.
“The best is to come but it’s the sign of a good team when they
can win and not play the best football.”  City is three points ahead of Arsenal, Manchester United
and Tottenham. Two days ago, Arsenal beat Birmingham 2-1,
Manchester United let a two-goal lead slip to draw 2-2 against
West Bromwich Albion, and Tottenham won 2-1 at Fulham.  In other games, Wolves and West Ham drew 1-1, Newcastle
rallied to tie 2-2 against Wigan, and Bolton defeated Stoke 2-1.
Blackburn hosts Sunderland today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 James Cone  in London at 
 jcone@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at   celser@bloomberg.net . 