-- Japanese 10-Year Bond Futures Advance on Yen's Strength, Economic Concerns
-- B y   M a s a k i   K o n d o
-- 2010-10-18T07:09:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-17/japan-s-bonds-may-fall-on-speculation-u-s-recovery-signs-to-boost-stocks.html
Japan’s 10-year  bond  futures rose,
following their first weekly decline in a month, on speculation
the yen’s appreciation will hurt corporate earnings and
undermine the nation’s recovery.  Expectations for more monetary easing by the Bank of Japan
are likely to persist until there is a sign the yen’s strength
will subside, Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley Securities Co. said
in a report today. The benchmark 10-year yield was near a seven-
year low after figures showed demand for services dropped for
the first time in three months and sales at department stores
extended a  streak  of declines since February 2008.  “Yields at these lows suggest the market remains bullish
for Japanese bonds, supported by the nation’s economic outlook
as well as the stronger yen,” said  Makoto Noji , a Tokyo-based
strategist at Mizuho Securities Research & Consulting Co.  Ten-year bond futures for December delivery rose 0.04 to
143.88 at the 3 p.m. close of the Tokyo Stock Exchange. Futures
on Oct. 15 completed their first weekly slump since Sept. 10.  The  yield  on the benchmark 10-year bond fell half a basis
point to 0.87 percent at 3:48 p.m. in Tokyo at Japan Bond
Trading Co., the nation’s largest interdealer debt broker. The
0.8 percent bond due September 2020 added 0.046 yen to 99.361.  The yield sank to 0.82 percent on Oct. 6, the lowest since
July 2003. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  Japan’s tertiary index, which indicates demand for services
from companies and households, declined 0.2 percent in August
from the previous month, the Trade Ministry said in Tokyo today.
The index gained 1.6 percent in July.  Department store sales fell 5.2 percent in September from a
year ago, the Japan Department Store Association said today.  Stronger Yen  The yen appreciated to 80.88 per dollar on Oct. 15, the
strongest since April 1995 and near its post-World War II high
of 79.75 reached the same month. A stronger yen reduces the
value of overseas sales at Japanese companies when repatriated.  The Bank of Japan on Oct. 5 cut its key interest rate to a
range of zero to 0.1 percent and announced the creation of a 5
trillion yen ($61.6 billion) fund to buy government and
corporate debt and other assets. BOJ Governor Masaaki Shirakawa
said last week it’s still necessary to “pay attention to the
economy’s downside risks.”  A slowdown in economic growth may threaten the BOJ’s
forecast that core prices will stop falling in the year starting
April 2011. It will update forecasts at an Oct. 28 meeting.  Japan’s five-year yield fell a basis point to 0.25 percent
after gaining four basis points last week. The  Ministry of
Finance  will sell 2.4 trillion yen in five-year notes tomorrow.  ‘Accommodative’ Policy  “We expect buying from Japanese banks at the auction given
that the BOJ will likely keep the monetary policy very
accommodative over the coming few years,”  RuiXue Xu , a
strategist at RBS Securities Japan Ltd., wrote in a report today.
“The BOJ’s easy monetary policy will continue to keep five-year
yields moving at relatively low levels given the strong yen will
maintain pressure on the Bank to take more action.”  The prior sale on Sept. 10 drew bids valued at 2.79 times
the amount on offer, the lowest since October 2009. Primary
dealers, which are required to bid at government debt sales,
often reduce holdings of bonds in case prices decline before
they can pass on the new securities to investors.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Masaki Kondo  in Tokyo at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net . 