-- Yen Gains as Japan Sinks Shows Current Account Surplus No Boon
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B r o w n   a n d   Y o s h i a k i   N o h a r a
-- 2010-10-18T12:20:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-17/japan-sinks-on-strong-yen-as-current-account-surpluses-are-shown-overrated.html
Japan’s success in building an
economy that supplies the world with everything from cars to
electronics is now undermining its own efforts to keep the  yen 
from rising at a time when few countries want a strong currency.  The yen has gained 84 percent against a basket of the most-
traded currencies since the start of 1986, including a 13
percent gain in 2010, as the nation posted a surplus every year
in its  current account , the broadest measure of trade. Unlike
the U.S. or the 16-nation euro region, Japan doesn’t rely on
foreign capital to finance its budget deficit.  As a result, money is flowing into Japan from traders
concerned about indebted nations’ funding as growth in the
global economy slows. Bets the currency will strengthen were
about the highest this year, even after Japan sold 2 trillion
yen ($24.6 billion) last month in its first intervention since
2004. The central bank and Ministry of Finance say Japan needs a
weaker currency to bolster exports.  “Any attempts to weaken the yen will be futile,” said
 Richard Franulovich , a senior foreign-exchange strategist at
Westpac Banking Corp. in New York. “Intervention, when it
fights against the underlying fundamentals of a currency, is
doomed to fail.”  Japan has fallen in and out of recessions since the early
1990s, when its real estate market collapsed. Economic growth
may slow to 1.4 percent in 2011 from 3.05 percent this year, the
median estimate of 11 economists surveyed by Bloomberg shows.  Bold Action  Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  said in parliament on Oct. 15 that
he was “very concerned” about the yen’s rise, while Finance
Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  repeated the same day that he’s ready to
take “bold” action in markets. The central bank carries out
intervention operations on behalf of the Minstry of Finance.  Since intervening in the foreign-exchange market on Sept.
15, the Bank of Japan cut its main interest rate to as low as
zero and set up a fund to buy assets such as government bonds.  None of that has done any good, as the yen continued to
strengthen, and an International Monetary Fund meeting in
Washington last week failed to produce an agreement on foreign
exchange coordination.  Japan’s currency appreciated 0.6 percent last week,
reaching 80.88 to the dollar on Oct. 15, a 15-year high. It
strengthened 0.2 percent to 81.34 per dollar as of 1:04 p.m. in
London.  Japan’s current-account balance represented about 2.8
percent of its economy last year, compared with minus 2.68
percent in the U.S. and negative 2.49 percent for the euro zone.  Trade Surplus  “They run a trade surplus and therefore it’s something
that implies a greater demand for yen,” said  Robert Lynch , head
of currency strategy at HSBC Holdings Plc in New York.  Analysts have raised their year-end forecasts for the yen
since the Sept. 15 intervention, which sparked the biggest drop
in 22 months that day.  The yen will end 2010 at 85 against the dollar, compared
with a prediction of 87.5 yen a day before the Bank of Japan
acted, according to the median of 36 forecasts compiled by
Bloomberg. On Oct. 15, Nomura Holdings Inc. raised its estimate
for the yen to 85 against the dollar this fiscal year from 89,
and to 81 in the following two years from 88.  Trading in options today suggest there’s a 74 percent
chance the yen will strengthen beyond its post-World War II high
of 79.75 to the dollar by year-end. It’s up 12.6 percent this
year, the best performer in a basket of 10 currencies, according
to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes.  Yen Bets  Japan’s currency is also rising as domestic investors keep
more of their money at home as record-low  bond yields  in the
U.S. limit returns from overseas.  The low end of the Bank of Japan’s  main rate  is now the
same as the Federal Reserve’s. The difference in yield between
two-year U.S. Treasury notes and similar-maturity Japanese
securities narrowed to 0.22 percentage point today from a high
this year of 0.99 percentage point reached on April 5.  “Because global interest rates have converged towards
those in Japan to a large extent in recent years, there has been
less incentive for Japanese investors to move capital abroad,”
Lynch said.  Hedge funds and other large speculators’  net wagers  that
the yen will rise against the dollar stood at 48,285 contracts
on Oct. 12, data from the Commodity Futures Trading Commission
in Washington on Oct. 15 showed. In May, there were a net 65,612
contracts on a decline.  Carry Trade  The 120-day correlation between dollar-yen and the spread
between U.S. and Japanese two-year yields was as high as 0.69
this year, while the relationship between euro-dollar and U.S.
and German rates hasn’t been above 0.27 in the period. A reading
of 1 means the two measures move in lock step.  The yen is also gaining as Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  prepares to print more money to boost the U.S. economy.
The rally may end, causing the yen to drop “substantially,” if
the Fed disappoints investors by purchasing fewer bonds than
forecast, said  Simon Derrick , chief currency strategist in
London at Bank of New York Mellon Corp., the world’s biggest
custody bank.  The Fed will buy $1 trillion of Treasuries in the next
year, commencing at its next policy meeting, Bank of America
Merrill Lynch said in an Oct. 13 report. UBS AG sees purchases
of $35 billion to $65 billion per month, while Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. expects about $500 billion through about the middle
of 2011, according to reports this month.  Success by the Fed in boosting U.S. growth should also lead
to a stronger dollar, said  Pierre Lequeux , London-based head of
currency management at Aviva Investors, a unit of Aviva Plc,
which manages about $371 billion.  Weaker Yen Predicted  “In six months time, people will start to talk more about
an exit, rather than how much more they are going to do, which
is what the market is focusing on at the moment,” said Lequeux.
“That will have an implication for interest-rate curves and can
play for a stronger dollar-yen.”  Lequeux predicts the yen will depreciate to between 90 and
100 to the dollar next year.  Should the BOJ intervene again, it will probably act alone
after finance chiefs at the IMF meeting earlier this month
failed to eliminate currency tensions. Treasury Secretary
 Timothy F. Geithner  has said China is keeping the yuan
undervalued, while low U.S. rates were criticized by officials
including Brazil central bank President  Henrique Meirelles  for
flooding emerging markets with cash.  ‘Coordinated Efforts’  “The market doesn’t believe the BOJ has stepped away, but
in the current environment it’s very difficult for them to
prevent the yen strengthening,” said  Henrik Gullberg , a
currency strategist at Deutsche Bank AG in London. “They can
slow its advance, but for it to succeed you need coordinated
efforts and nothing of that sort came out of the IMF meetings.”  Strength in the yen is hurting the Japanese economy as the
nation tries to cope with paying for an aging population.  Japanese  exports increased 15.8 percent in August from a
year earlier, the slowest pace since December, the Ministry of
Finance said last month. Growth in the second quarter slowed to
a 1.5 percent annual rate from 5 percent in the first quarter.  Almost 23 percent of Japan’s 126 million people will be
older than 65 at the end next year, the highest proportion among
Group of Seven nations, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
That compares with 13 percent in the U.S. and 20 percent in
Germany.  “The convergence of the U.S. and Europe to Japan is the
reason for yen strength,” said  David Woo , head of global rates
and currency research at Bank of America Merrill Lynch in New
York. “I don’t hold that much hope for the U.S. and Europe to
come storming back as the aging population issue kicks in.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Matthew Brown  in London at 
 mbrown42@bloomberg.net ;
 Yoshiaki Nohara  in Tokyo at 
 ynohara1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net ;
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  