-- KKR's Perpetual Bid May Spark Australian Funds Mergers
-- B y   J a c o b   G r e b e r
-- 2010-10-18T23:26:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-17/kkr-offers-to-buy-australian-money-manager-perpetual-for-up-to-40-share.html
Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Co. ’s
offer of as much as A$1.75 billion ($1.73 billion) for
 Perpetual Ltd.  may spur consolidation among Australian firms
overseeing the world’s fourth-biggest pool of managed funds.  “If you want to buy wealth management assets whilst the
market is in a bit of a trough, now is the time to do it,”
said  Angus Gluskie , who manages $325 million at White Funds
Management Pty. “Their timing might be pretty good.”  KKR’s offer yesterday came after Perpetual’s shares
tumbled almost two-thirds from a 2007 peak. The proposal may
stoke interest in rivals such as Platinum Asset Management
Ltd. And  Axa Asia Pacific Holding Ltd. , said Gluskie, who
bought Perpetual stock after National Australia Bank Ltd.
announced a A$13.3 billion bid for Axa Asia last year. That
offer failed last month.  The bid is “a strong positive for the sector,
highlighting the inherent longer-term value in the Australian
funds management industry,”  Richard Coles , an analyst at
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc in Sydney, said in a report
yesterday. “Whilst this bid could arouse speculation of
possible counterbids, we think there is a fairly low
probability.”  Biggest Takeover  If successful, the Perpetual deal will be the country’s
biggest takeover of an asset manager since National Australia
Bank agreed to buy MLC Ltd. in April 2000. That transaction
came a month after Commonwealth Bank of Australia agreed to
buy Colonial Ltd. in the biggest ever acquisition of an asset
manager in March 2000 for A$8.2 billion in stock.  Departing Managing Director  David Deverall  has overseen
a recovery in Perpetual’s earnings in an  economy  that skirted
last year’s global recession. Perpetual’s  net income  in the
year to June 30 more than doubled to A$90.5 million, from
A$37.7 million a year earlier, helped by investment returns.  Growth is expected to strengthen in the industry that
manages Australia’s A$1.35 trillion pool of managed funds
after more than doubling in the past 10 years. The government
has proposed increasing employers’ compulsory contributions
to employee pensions to 12 percent from 9 percent.  “There are only a handful of these intermediate-sized
asset managers” left in Australia after the nation’s biggest
banks expanded into fund management, Sydney-based Gluskie
said.  Share Slide  Perpetual  shares  tumbled 63 percent through Oct. 15 from
a record in May 2007. After surging 22 percent yesterday, the
stock today dropped 1.5 percent to A$37.24 as of 10:12 a.m.
in Sydney trading. Australia’s benchmark S&P/ASX 200 Index
was up 0.3 percent at the same time.  Investment manager  Challenger Financial Services Group
Ltd.  gained 1 percent, following yesterday’s 3.9 percent
climb. Fund manager  IOOF Holdings Ltd.  rose 1.3 percent.  France’s Axa SA and AMP Ltd., Australia’s second-largest
asset manager, are continuing talks on whether to make a bid
for Axa Asia Pacific and are making progress, the Australian
newspaper reported yesterday, without saying where it got the
information.  Aussie Parity  KKR’s offer comes even as the Australian dollar surged
to parity with the U.S. currency on Oct. 15 for the first
time since foreign-exchange controls ended in 1983. The
nation’s currency has jumped about 20 percent since May 25,
driving up the cost of the nation’s assets for foreign
investors.  Private equity firms pool money from investors to take
over companies, financing the purchases mostly with debt,
with the intention of selling them later for a profit.  KKR’s offer follows National Australia Bank’s failed
A$13.3 billion bid for asset manager Axa Asia Pacific, which
the bank dropped last month after regulators blocked the
agreed deal.  National Australia Bank’s offer for Melbourne-based Axa
Asia Pacific had valued its Australian and New Zealand
operations at 19.5 times estimated 2010 earnings, National
Australia Bank said when it announced the bid in December.
Perpetual on Oct. 15 was  valued  at 13.6 times earnings, 29
percent below its average of 19.2 times over the past five
years, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Axa Asia Pacific is valued at 17.1 times earnings and
Platinum shares are  trading  at 20.6 times profits.  Legg Mason  KKR, founded by buyout pioneers  Henry Kravis  and  George Roberts  in 1976 and listed on the New York Stock Exchange
this year, acquired a $1.25 billion stake in Legg Mason Inc.
in 2008 to help the Baltimore-based money manager replenish
capital as it struggled with subprime-linked losses.  Perpetual was founded in Sydney in 1886 by a group that
included Edmund Barton, who became Australia’s first prime
minister in 1901. As of June 30, Perpetual managed more than
A$27 billion in investment funds, administered A$210 billion,
and advised on more than A$8 billion of investments,
according to its website.  To contact the reporter for this story:
 Jacob Greber  in Sydney at 
 jgreber@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: Philip
Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  