-- U.S. Ranks 15th, South Korea No. 1 in Cisco Broadband Rankings
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g
-- 2010-10-17T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-17/korea-stays-at-top-u-s-is-15th-in-cisco-broadband-rankings.html
South Korea extended its worldwide
fixed-line broadband Internet leadership and the U.S. held onto
joint 15th place as the technology’s speed and availability
expanded, according to a poll carried out by  Cisco Systems Inc.   South Korea, which has 100 percent broadband penetration,
topped  Cisco ’s list for the third year in a row. Fixed-line
customers’ broadband access in the U.S., which shared its
ranking with four nations, rose to 75 percent this year from
69 percent in 2009, Cisco said today in a statement.  Internet-download speeds in South Korea increased by 55
percent from a year earlier, said Cisco, the largest maker of
routers and switches that direct Web traffic over networks.
While the U.S. improved its broadband quality, it won’t be fully
prepared for technologies such as high-definition Internet
television being developed by Apple Inc. and  Google Inc.  until
next year,  Fernando Gil de Bernabe , senior director at Cisco,
said in a phone interview from Oxford, England.  The broadband-quality rankings, developed by San Jose,
California-based  Cisco  and the University of Oxford, measure the
proportion of households and businesses with access to
broadband, combined with Internet-connection speeds. The global
quality score rose 24 percent, Cisco said. The U.S. held joint
15th place with France, Canada and Latvia.  The U.K. declined one position to share 18th place with
Germany and Estonia, as the list was expanded by six countries
to 72 nations. Israel ranked 17th.  Britain will “jump in leadership” next year as broadband
providers roll out high-speed fiber networks, de Bernabe said.  BT Group Plc , the U.K.’s largest phone company, is rolling
out a high-speed broadband network. London-based BT said in May
that it will spend 2.5 billion pounds ($4 billion) on a fiber
network serving two-thirds of the country’s homes by 2015.
Competitor  Virgin Media Inc.  is preparing to introduce 100
megabits-per-second broadband at the end of this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jonathan Browning  in London at 
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at   vroot@bloomberg.net . 