-- New Zealand Opposition Party Urges Tighter Foreign Investment Restrictions
-- B y   P h o e b e   S e d g m a n
-- 2010-10-17T23:30:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-17/new-zealand-opposition-party-urges-tighter-foreign-investment-restrictions.html
New Zealand’s main opposition Labour
Party will tighten restrictions on overseas purchases of the
country’s assets if it is elected to government next year.  The “overwhelming majority” of applications would be
rejected unless potential buyers could prove the purchase would
create jobs, bring new technology to the country or increase
exports, leader  Phil Goff   said  at a party conference yesterday.  “No overseas person has the right to buy our land,” he
said in a speech posted on the party website. “It is a
privilege we have granted too easily. Today you have my
commitment that Labour will turn the rules on selling land to
foreigners on their head.”  New Zealand this year altered rules to require foreign
buyers of large tracts of farmland to show how an acquisition
benefits the nation’s economy. The decision came after a
backlash against overseas purchasers targeting farmland.  A  TV3  poll in August showed 76 percent of respondents
wanted rules toughened following reports a Chinese company
planned to acquire a number of properties including the nation’s
largest family-owned dairy company, Crafar Farms.  Labour attracted 33 percent support in a TV3 poll of 1,000
voters in the week ended Oct. 6, lagging behind the governing
National Party with 54 percent. The next general election must
be called before November 2011.  The new policy would apply to all foreign investors,
including Australians, wanting to buy tracts of land exceeding
five hectares (12 acres), Goff said.  Labour would also prevent foreign purchases of more than 25
percent of monopoly businesses including airports, ports and
water services, Goff said in a  Television New Zealand   interview 
before the conference.  To contact the reporter for this story:
 Phoebe Sedgman  in Wellington at 
 psedgman1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Iain Wilson 
 iwilson2@bloomberg.net  