-- New Zealand's Third-Quarter Consumer Prices Rise 1.1% From Prior Quarter
-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 2010-10-17T23:00:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-17/new-zealand-third-quarter-consumer-prices-accelerate-on-government-charges.html
New Zealand inflation accelerated in
the third quarter, led by higher government charges on tobacco
and energy introduced ahead of an Oct. 1 increase in the
nation’s sales tax.  Consumer  prices  rose 1.1 percent from the second quarter
when they advanced a revised 0.2 percent, Statistics New Zealand
said in Wellington today. The median estimate in a Bloomberg
News survey of 11 economists was for a 1 percent gain.  Annual
inflation  slowed to 1.5 percent, the lowest in six years.  Reserve Bank of New Zealand Governor  Alan Bollard , who
expected prices would rise 0.9 percent, has forecast the gauge
will surge 2.3 percent in the fourth quarter after the goods and
services tax increased to 15 percent from 12.5 percent. Last
week, he said it is critical that businesses and labor groups
don’t try to pass on higher prices because that could stoke
inflation expectations.  “There’s the risk that inflation expectations aren’t as
benign as what the Reserve Bank is assuming,” said  Nick Tuffley ,
chief economist at ASB Bank Ltd. in Auckland. “If we get too
many inflation-related outcomes that start piling up, we’d
expect to see a slight change in their view on the inflation
outlook around about March.”  New Zealand’s dollar was little changed. It bought 75.45
U.S. cents at 11:48 a.m. in Wellington from 75.49 cents
immediately before the report.  Alcohol, Tobacco  Alcohol taxes rose on July 1, while there was a further 4
percent increase in cigarette and tobacco prices reflecting the
delayed effects of a 10 percent rise in excise taxes on April 29.  Power prices climbed from July 1 after the government
introduced carbon charges affecting generators. Electricity
increased 2.8 percent, also reflecting higher sales taxes
charged by power companies in September, today’s  report  showed.  A measure of local and central government charges increased
3.5 percent in the quarter, the report showed. The measure
excludes the impact of carbon charges.  Annual inflation slowed from a revised 1.7 percent in the
12 months ended June 30. The gauge was the slowest since the
first quarter of 2004.  Second-quarter inflation was revised down from 0.3 percent
after a processing error in used-car prices.  Inflation Target  Bollard, who is required by the government to keep annual
inflation in a range of 1 percent to 3 percent, forecast on Sept.
16 that the gauge would peak at 4.8 percent in the year ending
June 30, 2011, and would decline to 2.2 percent a year later.  The governor is able to ignore one-time effects such as the
sales tax. On that basis, Bollard expects  inflation  will go no
higher than 2.1 percent next year.  The inflation forecast and a sluggish outlook for the
economy prompted Bollard to keep the  official cash rate 
unchanged at 3 percent last month. All 14 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News expect the rate will be unchanged until at least
January.  New Zealand’s recovery “is certainly proving brittle,
uncertain and full of surprises,” Bollard said in the central
bank’s annual report published on Oct. 12. Last month, he cut
his 2011 growth forecast to 2.5 percent from 3.8 percent.  Finance Minister  Bill English  said Oct. 14 that consumers
are being careful with their spending, which is curbing the
housing market and slowing the pace of economic growth.  Core Prices  Bollard’s primary focus is on non-tradable inflation, a
core measure of prices that aren’t influenced by currency
fluctuations and fuel.  Non-tradable prices rose 1.2 percent from the second
quarter, today’s report showed. The measure gained 2.5 percent
from a year earlier.  Non-tradable inflation was stoked by electricity, land
taxes, vehicle relicensing fees and water supply. Land taxes
charged by local authorities increased 4.4 percent. The cost of
purchasing a new house, which reflects construction expenses,
rose 0.5 percent.  Tradable prices rose 0.9 percent from the second quarter.
Food prices climbed, led by a 20 percent surge in vegetables.
Fuel prices dropped 1.3 percent. The price of imported
televisions and appliances fell. From a year earlier, tradable
prices gained 0.3 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tracy Withers  in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at   canstey@bloomberg.net  