-- News Corp., Cablevision Report No Progress on Dispute; Talks Resume Monday
-- B y   K e l l y   R i d d e l l
-- 2010-10-17T20:42:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-17/news-corp-cablevision-report-no-progress-on-dispute-talks-resume-monday.html
News Corp.  and  Cablevision Systems
Corp.  ended negotiations today with an agreement to resume
talking tomorrow after the media company cut its Fox broadcast
signal to Cablevision’s 3 million customers in New York and
Philadelphia in a dispute over program fees.  The blackout affects WNYW Channel 5 and WWOR 9 in New York,
WTXF 29 in Philadelphia, Fox Business, Nat Geo Wild and Fox
Deportes. Cablevision customers were blocked from watching
today’s New York Giants-Detroit Lions football game and
tonight’s Philadelphia Phillies-San Francisco Giants baseball
playoff game. News Corp. urged Cablevision customers to switch
to another pay-TV provider.  “No material progress was made” in talks today and “we
continue to remain far apart,” a Fox statement e-mailed by
spokesman  Scott Grogin  said. The two sides agreed to “continue
talking tomorrow,” the statement showed.  The two companies reached an impasse Oct. 15, said  Scott Grogin , a spokesman for Fox, in an e-mail. The two sides met
yesterday afternoon, spokesmen for the two companies said.  “The longer this shameful News Corp. blackout of the NFL
and Major League Baseball continues, the more obvious it becomes
to everyone, including political leaders of both parties, that
binding arbitration is the fastest and fairest way to return Fox
programming to Cablevision customers,” Cablevision Executive
Vice President  Charles Schueler  said in a statement today.  Cablevision said in a statement yesterday that Fox failed
to negotiate in good faith and called the decision to remove the
programming “a black eye for broadcast television in America.”  Higher Fees  Broadcasters such as Fox are trying to extract fees from
pay-TV operators for signals that were once free. Pay-TV
operators are resisting the charges, which are typically passed
to the customer, arguing the channels are free over the public
airwaves and on the Web. The dispute between Cablevision and
News Corp. doesn’t affect Fox News, FX and local sports
channels.  “I remain hopeful that these two companies will do what is
in the best interest of consumers and find a way quickly to
resolve their differences,” U.S.  Federal Communications
Commission  Chairman  Julius Genachowski  said in a statement.  Cablevision, based in Bethpage, New York, said  News Corp. 
wants more than $150 million a year in so-called retransmission
fees for the Fox stations and some cable channels, up from $70
million a year it already pays the media company. Fox said it
wants “fair compensation.”  Laser Focus  “Fox is laser-focused on capturing significant retrans
dollars and we see no reason why they would give in,”  Rich Greenfield , an analyst at BTIG LLC, said in an Oct. 15 note. The
fact that Fox holds the rights to air local sports programming,
like the Giants and New York Yankees games, gives them leverage
over Cablevision, he said.  This year, squabbles between channel owners and
distributors over fees have led to the most TV blackouts in at
least a decade.  In March, Cablevision subscribers lost access to  Walt
Disney Co. ’s ABC network and the start of the annual Oscars
telecast before a deal was struck. The cable operator also lost
the Food Network and HGTV for about two weeks before a deal was
made and the channels restored.  Cablevision on Oct. 14 said it would accept binding
arbitration with Fox that would allow them to continue the
negotiations without the threat of a blackout. U.S.
Representatives  Steve Israel , a New York Democrat, and  Peter King , a New York Republican, sought the commitment in a letter
to both companies.  Kerry Comments  Senator  John Kerry , a Massachusetts Democrat, chairman of a
subcommittee overseeing communications, technology and the
Internet, said he plans to introduce legislation keeping such
disputes from taking channels off the air until the FCC is able
to decide on the need for arbitration.  “This is the best way to empower consumers, increase
transparency, and preserve the free market,” Kerry said in an
e-mailed statement.  Fox, in a statement, rejected that approach, saying
arbitration would “reward Cablevision for refusing to negotiate
fairly,” and would “ensure that more unnecessary disputes
arise in the future.” Fox said direct negotiation was the only
way to resolve the issue.  Separately,  Dish Network Corp. , based in Englewood,
Colorado, is battling with News Corp. over costs to carry Fox
regional sports networks and two cable channels. Those networks
went dark on the satellite operators’ system on Oct. 1 and
remain off while the two parties negotiate. The dispute may
intensify later this month when Dish’s contract to carry the Fox
broadcast network, the home of “The Simpsons,” expires.  Fox Demands  Genachowski said at a news conference on Oct. 14 the
commission continues “to be concerned about the potential
effect” these battles have on consumers, and that the FCC wants
“greater information and notice to consumers” as these
negotiations affect subscribers’ viewing options.  The FCC had urged Fox to extend the deadline until Oct. 19
and invited both to Washington for arbitration with a third
party.  News Corp., controlled by Chairman and Chief Executive
Officer  Rupert Murdoch , gained 11 cents to $14.19 Oct. 15 in
Nasdaq Stock Market  trading . Class A shares of the New York-
based company have increased 3.6 percent in 2010.  Cablevision ,
controlled by the Dolan family, advanced 14 cents to $26.66 and
has risen 25 percent this year.  Time Warner Dispute  News Corp. was in a similar dispute with Time Warner Cable
Inc., the nation’s second-largest cable operator, late last
year. News Corp. sought $1 a month per subscriber for its Fox
stations, people familiar with the matter said at the time.  The two sides reached a deal without any channels being
pulled in a multiyear contract that climbs to 75 cents a
subscriber, Greenfield said.  David Joyce , an analyst at Miller Tabak & Co. in New York,
estimates News Corp. is seeking $62.6 million a year from
Cablevision for its Fox broadcast channels.  The media company is also seeking $18.4 million a year for
Fox Business, $14.7 million for Nat Geo Wild, and $2.3 million
for Fox Deportes, Joyce wrote in an Oct. 13 report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kelly Riddell  in Washington at 
 kriddell1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at   pelstrom@bloomberg.net . 