-- Hochtief, Commerzbank, Fugro, Iberia, Intesa, Total: Europe Equity Preview
-- B y   I n y o u n g   H w a n g
-- 2010-10-17T23:50:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-17/hochtief-commerzbank-fugro-iberia-intesa-total-europe-equity-preview.html
The following companies’ shares may
have unusual moves in  European  trading. Stock symbols are in
parentheses.  The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index  advanced 0.1 percent to 265.83.
The  Stoxx 50 Index  rose 0.2 percent to 2,548.42. The  Euro Stoxx
50 Index , a benchmark for nations using the euro, gained 0.2
percent to 2,841.65.  Actividades de Construccion & Servicios SA  (ACS SM): ACS
called a shareholders’ meeting for Nov. 19 to approve a capital
increase tied to its bid for Germany’s Hochtief AG, the builder
said in a statement. The shares rose 0.2 percent to 37.89 euros.  Aeroports de Paris SA  (ADP FP): Paris’s airports are being
supplied with jet fuel, Transport Minister Dominique Bussereau
said on Europe1 radio after Roissy-Charles de Gaulle said it
only had fuel until Oct. 19 because of a national refinery
strike. The shares fell 1.1 percent to 63.40 euros.  Air France-KLM Group  (AF FP): France’s largest airline is
among companies interested in buying a stake in Poland’s state-
owned Polskie Linie Lotnicze LOT SA, Rp.pl reported. The shares
dropped 0.5 percent to 12.19 euros.  Amplifon SpA  (AMP IM): The maker of hearing aids is
considering a plan to sell new shares to an industrial investor,
Milano Finanza reported, without saying where it got the
information. Amplifon may offer the buyer 20 million new shares,
equivalent to about 10 percent of the company, by the year end,
the weekly said. The shares rose 2.4 percent to 3.74 euros.  Centrica Plc  (CNA LN): The U.K.’s biggest energy supplier
will sell “non-core” assets from its North Sea oil and gas
fields worth as much as 400 million pounds ($640 million) to
focus investment on more lucrative fields. The stock fell 1
percent to 324.3 pence.  Commerzbank AG  (CBK GY): The German lender may raise as
much as 10 billion euros ($14 billion) in a share sale next year
to pay back some of the state aid it received, WirtschaftsWoche
said, citing an unidentified banker.  The Frankfurt-based lender may return the entire state aid
within two years, the German magazine said in an e-mailed
preview of a report to be published in its next issue. The
shares of the bank declined 0.3 percent to 6.42 euros.  Compagnie Industriale Riunite SpA  (CIR IM): Axa Private
Equity is studying whether to acquire Morgan Stanley’s 16.4
percent stake in KOS SpA, CIR’s health-services unit, Il Sole 24
Ore said, without saying where it got the information. CIR
shares lost 1.6 percent to 1.59 euros.  Credit Suisse Group AG  (CSGN VX): The Swiss bank could
transfer systemically important units, such as its monetary
transactions and credit business, during a crisis to units
including Neue Aargauer Bank and Clardien Leu, Der Sonntag said,
citing an interview with Chairman Hans-Ulrich Doerig. The shares
dropped 1.5 percent to 42 francs.  Det Norske Oljeselskap ASA  (DETNOR NO): The Norwegian oil
and gas explorer said production at the Froey field won’t start
until 2014 “at the earliest,” rather than 2013. The Norwegian
company and Premier Oil Plc are evaluating the possibility of
gas injection at the field which could lift the recovery rate
and increase recoverable volumes. The shares slipped 0.9 percent
to 22.5 kroner.  EDP-Energias de Portugal SA  (EDP PL): Portugal’s energy
regulator Erse proposed a 3.8 percent average rise in
electricity tariffs for domestic consumers next year. EDP
advanced 1.2 percent to 2.679 euros.  Electricite de France SA  (EDF FP): France’s biggest power
producer is seeking a 4 billion-euro ($5.6 billion) credit line
to refinance debt, according to two people familiar with the
transaction. The shares lost 0.6 percent to 30.80 euros.  Fugro NV  (FUR NA): The world’s largest surveyor of
deepwater oil fields said its Fugro LADS Inc. unit won an order
from the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration in the
U.S. worth as much as $30 million. Fugro declined 0.2 percent to
50.91 euros.  Hochtief AG  (HOT GY): The German government will examine
changing its takeover law after a bid by Spain’s Actividades de
Construccion & Servicios SA for Hochtief AG, Spiegel said.  The government will consider adding new rules to create a
level playing field with other European countries, the German
news magazine said in a report on its website today. Essen,
Germany-based Hochtief is the country’s biggest construction
company. The company’s shares rose 0.7 percent, or 45 cents, to
63.52 euros.  Iberia Lineas Aereas de Espana SA  (IBLA SM): Talks between
the Spanish airline and its pilots’ union over renewing a labor
accord broke down over pay, Cinco Dias said. The company said in
an e-mailed statement it believed discussions were still open.
The shares rose 2.2 percent to 3.191 euros.       Intesa Sanpaolo SpA  (ISP IM): Italy’s second-biggest-bank
agreed to buy a 51 percent stake in Banca Monte Parma SpA from
Fondazione Monte Parma for 159 million euros ($223 million).
Intesa also agreed to participate in a capital increase by Monte
Parma by acquiring 51 percent of the company’s planned 75
million euro share issuance, the lender said in a statement. The
shares rose 0.4 percent to 2.52 euros.  Iren SpA  (IRE IM): The utility may sell its stakes in
Italian electricity company Edipower and Edison SpA, the
country’s second-biggest generator, to focus on its own growth,
Chairman Roberto Bazzano told Milano Finanza. The shares
increased 2.2 percent to 1.28 euros.  JCDecaux SA  (DEC FP): The outdoor advertising company won a
10-year contract from Saudi Arabia’s General Authority of Civil
Aviation to provide advertising at airports in the kingdom, the
official Saudi Press Agency reported. The shares gained 0.3
percent to 20.32 euros.       Sanofi-Aventis SA  (SAN FP): Actavis Group hf, a maker of
generic drugs, won U.S. approval for a 6.25 milligram dose of
extended-release zolpidem tartrate, the Food and Drug
Administration said. Sanofi-Aventis sells the drug as Ambien CR.
The stock roses 1.4 percent to 50.47 euros.  Telecom Italia SpA  (TIT IM): Italy’s biggest phone company
may review the structure of its South American assets to improve
its debt rating, Il Giornale said, without saying where it got
the information. The shares slipped 1.7 percent to 1.05 euros.  Total SA  (FP FP): France’s 12 refineries, six of which are
owned by France’s largest oil company, remain closed because of
strike action. Total shares rose 0.7 percent to 39.19 euros.  Vedanta Resources Plc  (VED LN): The mining company
controlled by Indian billionaire Anil Agarwal may seek to raise
500 million pounds selling shares in London in its KDC Zambian
copper unit, the Observer reported. The stock fell 0.6 percent
to 2,288 pence.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Inyoung Hwang  in New York at 
 Ihwang7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  