-- Lockheed-to-Tenet Tumble Showing Contractors See Election Peril
-- B y   I n y o u n g   H w a n g   a n d   W h i t n e y   K i s l i n g
-- 2010-10-18T20:12:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-17/lockheed-to-tenet-nosedive-shows-government-contractors-see-election-peril.html
Companies that count on state and
federal spending are trailing the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
for the first time in a year, a sign they’ll lose sales should
Democrats give up control of Congress.  Lockheed Martin Corp., which gets almost all its revenue
from defense projects, has fallen 5.9 percent since July as the
S&P 500 rallied 16 percent, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
Tenet Healthcare Corp. depends on the U.S. for about 33 percent
of sales and is down 17 percent this year. A Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. index of contractors getting at least 20 percent from
governments started lagging behind the S&P 500 last quarter
after beating it since September 2009.  Budget cuts spurred by Republican victories in the House or
Senate may lead to more declines in the shares, which until
August had matched the S&P 500’s gain since the start of the
bull market, according to BlackRock Inc., Fifth Third Asset
Management Inc. and Harris Private Bank. The party will hold a
20-seat majority in the House of Representatives after the Nov.
2 vote, according to FiveThirtyEight, a New York Times blog that
forecasts elections by analyzing polls.  “There’s going to be a bridle put on U.S. government
spending,” said Keith Wirtz, who oversees $18 billion as chief
investment officer at Fifth Third in Cincinnati. “The market’s
looking through its binoculars and suggesting less government
spending in 2011 and 2012 will hurt the fundamentals of these
companies.”  Trailing the Market  Stocks climbed last week, with the S&P 500 reaching a five-
month high on Oct. 13, as investors bet the Federal Reserve will
purchase Treasury bonds to stimulate the economy. The 1 percent
gain to 1,176.19 brought the index’s 2010 return to 5.5 percent,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Goldman’s index of 54 government contractors gained 12
percent since July 2, when the S&P 500 slipped to its 2010 low
of 1,022.58 before starting a 16 percent advance. The S&P 500
rose 0.7 percent to 1,184.71 at 4 p.m. today in New York.  The companies benefited after President Barack Obama began
one of the biggest economic rescue programs in U.S. history
within two months of taking office, making fiscal 2009’s federal
deficit the largest ever. The fiscal 2010 budget gap of $1.29
trillion was about 8.9 percent of gross domestic product, data
from the Treasury Department showed last week. It’s projected to
widen to $1.42 trillion.  Two Wars  Spending to pay for wars in Iraq and Afghanistan boosted
Lockheed and ITT Corp. Obama’s health-care overhaul signed in
March would bring more insured customers to hospital-operator
Tenet Healthcare, reducing losses from unpaid bills of patients
who lack insurance.  House Republicans announced a governing agenda on Sept. 23
that would cut federal spending, extend expiring tax cuts and
repeal the health-care law. FiveThirtyEight’s analysis shows
Democrats will have a four-seat advantage in the Senate.  Spending by state and local governments rose 0.6 percent in
the second quarter, after dropping 3.8 percent in the first
three months of the year, the steepest decline since the
recession began in December 2007, the Commerce Department said.  Companies with the biggest share of sales to the government
“will likely be passed over as we tighten our belts,” said
Jack Ablin, chief investment officer at Chicago-based Harris
Private Bank, which oversees $55 billion.  Government contractors may bounce back as investors
recognize that the threat of reductions is overblown, according
to Scott Armiger, who helps manage about $5.6 billion at
Christiana Bank & Trust in Greenville, Delaware.  Three-Step Process  “Cutting government spending is a two, three steps
process,” he said. “Washington doesn’t change quickly. I don’t
see it happening in just one midterm election. These companies
will be OK for the next couple of years. It’s an overreaction to
the downside and it could actually be a buying opportunity.”  Armiger said weakness in the Goldman Sachs measure may be
caused by concern medical companies will be hurt by changes to
the health-care law. The industry accounts for about half of the
Goldman Sachs index. Defense and aerospace make up 20 percent.  A 25 percent reduction in government revenue would raise
the median price-earnings ratio of companies in the Goldman
Sachs index to 16.6 from 14.9, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg using sales and income reported to the Securities and
Exchange Commission. The S&P 500 trades for 15.6 times profit.  While potentially hurting these stocks, the loss of
Democratic control of Congress may keep Treasury yields around
record lows. President Bill Clinton was forced to drop spending
initiatives after the 1994 congressional elections, helping send
the rate on 10-year notes from 8.03 percent after the November
1994 election to 5.57 percent by the end of 1995, the data show.  Treasury Returns  Treasuries have returned 8.45 percent this year, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. The yield on the benchmark 2.625
percent note due in August 2020 rose 17 basis points last week.  Lockheed slipped 5.9 percent since the S&P 500’s low as
Defense Secretary Robert Gates said he wanted to save as much as
$100 billion through 2015. The world’s largest defense company,
which gets 98 percent of sales from the government, agreed to
build its fourth batch of F-35 Joint Strike Fighters last month,
an order that may be valued at more than $5 billion.  Lockheed, based in Bethesda, Maryland, doesn’t speculate on
national spending, according to Jeffery Adams, a spokesman for
the company.  “We have undertaken a series of actions that are
consistent with the new reality of a marketplace in which our
customers are pursuing new productivity and savings goals in the
face of escalating demands and increasing constraints on
resources,” Adams wrote in an e-mailed note.  ITT, Lockheed  ITT Corp., which gets 58 percent of its revenue from its
defense segment, has trailed the S&P 500 by about 9 percentage
points since July 2. The value of ITT’s uncompleted contracts
fell 21 percent in the second quarter to $4.1 billion after
order deferrals.  David Albritton, spokesman for White Plains, New York-based
ITT, didn’t immediately return calls and e-mails for comment.  “ITT and Lockheed are both in the defense industry, a
category that probably enjoyed its best period in the last
decade because of Iraq and Afghanistan,” Wirtz from Fifth Third
said. “For those that are looking at the next five years,
there’s a basis for why you want to avoid those stocks.”  Fifth Third sold 11,512 shares of ITT in the second
quarter, reducing its holdings to about 50,000, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. It kept its position in Lockheed
almost unchanged at about 56,000 shares.  ‘Going to Be Tight’  Raytheon Co. in Waltham, Massachusetts, the world’s largest
missile maker, has declined 4.4 percent since July 2.
Wilsonville, Oregon-based Flir Systems Inc., which makes night-
vision cameras for the U.S., has dropped 12 percent.  “It’s going to be tight for companies in defense,” said
John Carey, a Boston-based money manager at Pioneer Investments,
which oversees about $250 billion. “It’s one area where we’re
going to have to pay a lot of attention with the winding down of
the war in Iraq and depending on what happens in Afghanistan.”  Tenet, the third-largest publicly traded U.S. hospital
chain, rallied 9 percent on March 22 after the House approved
Obama’s health-care reform bill, which will extend benefits to
32 million uninsured Americans in 2014. The Republican agenda
calls for a repeal of the bill.  Health-Care Reform  “We saw health-care reform as a net positive for us over
the long-haul,” said Rick Black, a spokesman for Dallas-based
Tenet. “The more people that are covered will be beneficial to
the whole system, as well as to hospitals like us.”  While rising 7.7 percent since July, Tenet shares have
trailed the S&P 500 as speculation grew that Republicans will
win control of House. Black declined to comment on the revenue
impact of the Republican agenda.  In August, Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the Republican
leader in the Senate, opposed a proposal to add $16 billion to
the federal budget to help states pay for the Medicaid health-
care system for the poor. Some states already counted on the
money when they drew up their budgets, and dropping the funding
would add to nationwide shortfalls projected at $84 billion,
according to data from the National Conference of State
Legislatures.  House Republicans have pledged to cut $100 billion from the
federal budget next year, which may include health research,
Medicaid and Medicare for low-income seniors.  ‘Significant Force’  “The midterm election can be a significant force on
companies that rely on government expenditures,” said Eric
Teal, chief investment officer at First Citizens Bancshares Inc.
in Raleigh, North Carolina, which manages $4.5 billion. “We’ve
been paring back exposure to government spending a bit, too.”  Bob Doll, who helps oversee $3.4 trillion as vice chairman
of BlackRock, said prospects for Republican victories and
austerity among Democrats are weighing on the stocks and may
lead to more declines before the year is over.  “Do we have fewer defense stocks in our portfolio than we
had a couple years ago? The answer to that question is yes,”
said Doll, who is based in Plainsboro, New Jersey. “The budget
and the deficits are coming more under scrutiny, and as a result
we’ve got to pay more attention.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Inyoung Hwang in New York at 
 ihwang7@bloomberg.net ;
Whitney Kisling in New York at 
 wkisling@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 