-- London Home Sellers Raise Prices, Defy Economic Gloom
-- B y   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l
-- 2010-10-18T09:07:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-17/london-home-sellers-raise-prices-by-5-as-housing-weathers-budget-squeeze.html
  London  home sellers raised asking
prices by the most in six months in October as owners across the
U.K. brushed off the challenges posed by the biggest fiscal
squeeze since World War II,  Rightmove Plc  said.  Average asking prices in the capital increased 5 percent
from September to 418,778 pounds ($671,301), the most since
February, the operator of Britain’s biggest property website
said in a report published in London today. Across the U.K.,
prices rose 3.1 percent to 236,849 pounds.  The report contrasts with data from Halifax on Oct. 6
showing U.K. house prices plunged in September by the most since
at least 1983. While Ernst & Young LLP’s Item Club predicted
today that the housing market “clearly looks” as if it is
heading for a double dip,  Bank of England  policy maker  Andrew Sentance  said last week that price declines were a sign of
“volatility” rather than a renewed property slump.  “It’s seemingly illogical against all the poor market
fundamentals that new sellers coming to the market after the
summer break should actually put their prices up,”  Miles Shipside , commercial director of Rightmove, said in a Bloomberg
Television interview today. “It shows that despite the economic
difficulties we’re going through, they’re finding it hard to
adjust to the new market and the different fundamentals.”  Recovery Fading  While the U.K. economy grew at the fastest pace in nine
years in the second quarter, recent data indicates the recovery
is weakening. Manufacturing growth slowed in September, jobless
claims rose and  Nationwide Building Society ’s consumer-
confidence gauge fell to an 18-month low as Britons braced for
the government’s spending cuts to reduce the  budget deficit .  Rightmove said the weekly rate of new properties on the
market rose 11 percent in October from a year earlier. With
banks still rationing credit, sellers may have to accept lower
offers amid “greater competition” for buyers, it said.  The “fundamentals remain unsupportive” for the housing
market, Ernst & Young said in a report published today. It
expects prices to decline into 2011 and said the recovery “will
be slow.”  Recent house-price data has been mixed. Halifax, the
mortgage-lending division of  Lloyds Banking Group Plc , said on
Oct. 7 that values plunged 3.6 percent in September. By
contrast, Nationwide said values rose 0.1 percent last month.  ‘Hard Knock’  Areas with a greater proportion of government employees are
likely to “take a disproportionately hard knock over the coming
months” as the public spending cuts are implemented, according
to property website Zoopla.co.uk. In England, Oxford and
Cambridge will be most affected, while the  City of London  will
be least hurt, according to an e-mailed statement today.  In London, demand from abroad may help support property
values there, Rightmove’s Shipside said.  “Cash buyers are more the norm than the exception in many
areas of London,” he said. “With agents reporting a flurry of
buyers from Greece and Italy seeking safe investment havens for
their cash, London’s international popularity will prevent top-
end prices suffering as much as the rest of the country.”  “There can be little doubt that many sellers are ‘trying
it on’ and deliberately asking inflated prices,”  Howard Archer ,
chief European economist at IHS Global Insight in London, said
in an e-mail today. “We expect  house prices  to trend down
relatively gradually over the final months of 2010 and in 2011
to lose around 10 percent.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Svenja O’Donnell in London at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net  