-- Hong Kong Losing to Shanghai Means Goodbye to Long Lunch
-- B y   H a n n y   W a n
-- 2010-10-17T16:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-17/hong-kong-losing-business-to-shanghai-means-say-goodbye-to-two-hour-lunch.html
Equities traders in Hong Kong may
soon have to say goodbye to lunches of sautéed ostrich and
crispy pigeon at Michelin-starred restaurants and settle for a
sandwich at their desks instead.  Hong Kong Exchanges & Clearing Ltd.  Chief Executive Officer
 Charles Li  wants to cut in half the two-hour break, the longest
of the world’s 20 largest bourses, to bring trading in line with
China’s financial markets. Bankers like  Alex Wong  say the break
is useful for meeting clients and attending presentations.  “One hour just isn’t enough,” said Wong, asset-management
director at Ample Capital Ltd., whose lunch haunts include the
Golden Leaf at the Conrad Hotel and restaurants at the Four
Seasons, Shangri-La and Marriott. “The time will have gone by
the time I’ve walked out of the office -- waiting for the
elevator alone could take 10 minutes during lunch.”  The difference in trading hours gives traders in Shanghai
and Shenzhen a head start over Hong Kong investors in reacting
to market news, said Li. Mainland companies accounted for 47
percent of the HK$19.69 trillion ($2.5 trillion) market value of
Hong Kong’s Main Board on Sept. 30,  exchange data  shows, up from
16 percent in 1997, when the U.K. returned Hong Kong to China.  Chinese and Hong Kong markets trade for four hours daily.
Shanghai’s trading hours run from 9:30 a.m. to 3 p.m. with a 90-
minute break between 11:30 a.m. and 1 p.m. Hong Kong runs from
10 a.m. to 4 p.m. with a two-hour break from 12:30 p.m.  Li proposed Hong Kong starts trading half an hour earlier,
with a 1-hour or 1 ½-hour break at noon, keeping the close at 4
p.m. -- increasing daily trading by up to 90 minutes.  International Market  “His thinking is more on how to get Hong Kong to become an
international market for international players, rather than
catering to investors who are already based in Hong Kong,” said
 Pauline Dan , chief investment officer at Samsung Investment
Trust, which oversees about $78 billion in assets. “That time
is when we can make the best use for lunch presentations and
meetings. One hour definitely isn’t enough.”  The two-hour lunch break, in place since the stock exchange
was formed in 1986, harks back to a slower pace of life during
colonial days, said Francis Lun, general manager at Fulbright
Securities Ltd.  “Back in the colonial days, those expatriate bankers --
super emperors -- had to live an easy life,” he said. “They
couldn’t take things too quickly.”  Li invited brokers and investors at the Hong Kong exchange
to respond to a consultation paper on the change in hours by
Oct. 29. On the London Stock Exchange there hasn’t been a
lunchtime trading break since at least 1950, spokesman Jonny
Blostone said, while New York had lost the luxury of a lunch
hiatus by 1887.  Last Battle  Frankfurt, Paris and London open for more than 8 hours
daily, while New York trades for 6 1/2 hours. Singapore is
proposing to boost its hours to eight from 6 1/2 by also cutting
its lunch break. Tokyo is considering increasing trading to more
than 6 hours from 4 ½.  Hong Kong’s brokers have battled to keep their long lunch
in the past. Seven years ago the exchange withdrew an attempt to
shorten the lunch break amid opposition from traders.  “I’d only have time to hop downstairs,” said  Castor Pang ,
research director at Cinda International Holdings Ltd., who uses
his lunchtimes for meetings or to attend company presentations.
“Lunches at the  Landmark Mandarin Oriental  would be history.”  Many in the finance industry support Li’s proposal,
pointing out the business advantages of trading at the same time
as mainland bourses.  “I can foresee more new products, including bond, fund,
insurance products, and listed securities by companies, followed
by arbitrage activities,” said  Benson Chan , chief executive
officer of CASH Financial Services Group Ltd. in Hong Kong. “If
trading hours in Hong Kong and the mainland don’t overlap, it
would be difficult for such arbitrage.”  iPad Broking  Chan pointed out that some of his firm’s brokers already
trade for their clients from outside the exchange via mobile
devices such as netbooks and  Apple Inc.  iPads.  “At the end of the day, these are just a change of
habit,” he said.  Or a change of menu, suggests Susanna Lo, the Conrad’s
marketing and communications manager. “A lot of traders like to
dine with us,” she said, suggesting that customers pressed for
time might opt to switch to dim sum instead of a three-course
meal with main dishes like sautéed ostrich or roasted whole
crispy pigeon.  At Liberty Exchange Kitchen and Bar in Two Exchange Square,
a two-minute walk from the trading floor, manager Paul Tai is
preparing for the possible change in hours.  “If you put yourself into their shoes, you’d realize one
hour just isn’t enough, not just for the brokers, but lawyers or
accountants who work closely with them,” said Tai. “Probably
more people will order takeout or delivery.”  Loss of Trade  Hong Kong-based shareholder activist  David Webb  said the
city’s long lunch break causes a loss of trading business from
European investors as they start their working day. According to
a survey of almost 600 responses on his  website , only 19 percent
want to keep the two-hour break, while more than half think it
should be done away with altogether.  “Just go for a single 9:30 a.m.-4 p.m. session,” Webb
said. “An increasing amount of retail broking takes place
online anyway and computers don’t need to shut down for lunch.”  Hong Kong Exchanges  said in its three-year strategic plan
released in March, the first under Li’s stewardship, that it
plans to become a primary channel for investing by Chinese
nationals overseas. The plan also proposed new products such as
yuan-denominated bonds.  “As Hong Kong and the exchange move to have more renminbi-
denominated instruments, it’s only logical that trading times
align more closely to the mainland,” said  Gavin Parry , managing
director of Parry International Trading Ltd. “Shortening the
market lunch break is another piece of the old-school brokers
life that is being dragged into modern times.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Hanny Wan  in Hong Kong at 
 hwan3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net . 