-- Watergate Return Inevitable as Cash Floods Elections: Albert Hunt
-- B y   A l b e r t   R .   H u n t
-- 2010-10-17T15:00:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-17/more-cash-blots-out-sunlight-in-u-s-elections-albert-hunt.html
A prediction: The U.S. is due for a
huge scandal involving big money, bribery and politicians. Not
the small fry that dominates the ethics fights in  Washington ;
really big stuff; think Watergate.  It is axiomatic in politics that without accountability
there is abuse. This year, there is a massive infusion of
special-interest money into U.S. politics that is secret, not
reported. Corporations and other interests will spend more than
$250 million of undisclosed funds to affect the outcome of the
Nov. 2 national elections.  One of the villains is Citizens United, a sweeping Supreme
Court decision last January that gave the green light for the
use of corporate and union funds to try to sway elections.  Chief Justice  John Roberts ’ five-member Supreme Court
majority argued that massive amounts of special-interest cash
don’t create an appearance of corruption; none of these five
jurists ever faced a voter.  A former justice who did,  Sandra Day O’Connor , was
dumbstruck by the Citizens United case, cracking, “I step away
for a couple years and there’s no telling what’s going to
happen.”  One of the few good elements in the case was that the Court
came down on the side of disclosure of this campaign money. It’s
the Federal Election Commission -- which for most of its 35-year
history has been more interested in protecting politicians than
the public interest -- that has done nothing to prevent groups
from hiding the source of these contributions.  ‘Voters Know Less’  “As a result, we have more money flowing into this
campaign than ever before,” says Anthony Corrado, a professor
at Colby College in Waterville,  Maine , who specializes in
campaign finance. “But voters know less about the source of
that funding.”  The Obama administration didn’t help when it clumsily
suggested these secret funds might include illegal foreign
contributions, charging, without proof, that the U.S. Chamber of
Commerce used money from overseas for some of its $75 million,
pro-Republican campaign.  Corrado, noting the Chamber’s political sophistication,
doubts that. It really misses the point. It would be perfectly
legal, for example, for the Chamber to receive secret money from
a U.S. subsidiary of London-based BP Plc, or Houston-based Citgo
Petroleum Corp., the U.S. subsidiary of the Venezuelan  oil
company , or health-insurance companies, or big  oil companies , or
smut peddlers. The issue is that the public doesn’t know the
source.  Rove Group  The Chamber, of course, knows who gave and what they want
for it. So do the architects of what may be the biggest secretly
funded initiative this year, run by  Karl Rove  and  Ed Gillespie ,
former Bush White House aides. Rove and Gillespie, with their
 American Crossroads  and its subsidiary  Crossroads GPS , already
have brought in $56 million -- they make little secret that this
is possible under the protection of anonymity afforded all
donors to GPS -- and are attacking Democratic candidates around
the country.  When criticized, they say they’re just a part of a
conservative citizens’ revolt. In reality, their brainchild
surely relies on a lot of the special interests and wealthy
contributors that flourished during the Bush years.  They are shrewd at deflecting attention from their
clandestine operations. Gillespie says the Democrats always
operate the same way; in an e-mail he cites a news report that
labor unions and their political-action committees spent almost
$450 million to help the Democratic nominee,  Barack Obama , in
the 2008 presidential contest.  Donor Identity  Gillespie, a former Republican Party chairman, intimately
familiar with the rules, knows political-action committees have
to disclose contributors; and unlike in the case of Crossroads
GPS, voters know the identity and general purpose of money spent
by a labor union.  Rove, donning his civil-libertarian cap, expresses outrage
at government or politicians threatening to reveal the identity
of secret, wealthy campaign contributors.  “There’s a case for a need to protect an anonymous,
obscure pamphleteer,” says Walter Dellinger, who served as
solicitor general in the Clinton administration and is one of
the foremost scholars of the U.S. Constitution. “That hardly
justifies allowing major multinational corporations to operate
in American politics behind the veil of secrecy. This is the
mother of all other issues for democratic governance.”  ‘Lobbyist for Liberal Causes’  On the Fox News network, Rove said the criticism is
partisan sniping, taking particular aim at the longtime
campaign-finance reformer Fred Wertheimer, president of
Democracy 21. When Democratic groups spent huge sums in the 2004
presidential campaign, “we never heard one whisper from this
lobbyist for liberal causes, Mr. Wertheimer,” Rove said.  Rove, who directed President  George W. Bush ’s 2004 re-
election campaign, must realize that this is the same Wertheimer
who filed a  Federal Election Commission  complaint against two
Democratic outside groups that year. In the 1990s, Wertheimer
called for a Justice Department investigation of the Clinton
White House fundraising tactics; in the 1980s, he triggered the
probe of the so-called Keating Five, four Democratic senators
and one Republican.  The influence of money in politics is always controversial.
The U.S. spends far more to elect politicians than most
countries; this year’s congressional elections may cost as much
as $4 billion.  McCain-Feingold Law  Ever since Watergate, politicians have debated rules on the
size and scope of campaign contributions. The 2002 McCain-
Feingold measure, which cracked down on contributions and was
signed by Bush, a Republican, was the culmination of years of
intense struggle. In subsequent years, the courts, dominated by
conservatives, have chipped away at the law,  Citizens United 
representing the latest and most sweeping decision.  All campaign funds aren’t the same. Even the purest
campaign-finance overhaul advocates have trouble faulting small
grassroots contributions: most of the $750 million that Obama
raised in the 2008 presidential campaign or the $14 million that
Sharron Angle, a Tea Party-supported Republican candidate for a
Nevada U.S. Senate seat, raised over the past three months.  Large contributions from corporations, unions, trade
associations or wealthy individuals are another matter; these
donors often expect something in return. Few of those making
sizeable and secret gifts to the Rove-Gillespie effort are
engaged in selfless acts of good governance.  There is no legitimate case against transparency.
“Sunlight,” the late Supreme Court Justice Louis Brandeis
famously noted, is “the best of disinfectants.”  ( Albert R. Hunt  is the executive editor for Washington at
Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Albert R. Hunt in Washington at 
 ahunt1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net . 