-- Osborne Says Government Negotiations on Spending Cuts Have Been Completed
-- B y   G o n z a l o   V i n a
-- 2010-10-17T13:04:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-17/osborne-says-u-k-government-s-spending-negotiations-have-been-completed.html
Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  said the four-month negotiations on the biggest cuts in
U.K. government spending since World War II have been completed,
with only a few details left to be ironed out with Prime
Minister  David Cameron .  The 83 billion-pound ($133 billion) squeeze over four years
includes steps to deprive persistent welfare cheats of benefits
and to put pressure on banks to pay more tax, Osborne said. He
is due to present his proposals to Parliament on Oct. 20.  “Our plan is the plan that will restore credibility,”
Osborne told BBC1 television in London today. “The plan is
complete; we’re putting the finishing touches to it today.”  The Comprehensive Spending Review, intended to slash most
ministerial budgets by a quarter, comes after months of
wrangling over where the ax should fall. Osborne says his
measures to almost eliminate the  156 billion-pound deficit 
within four years are essential to prevent a loss of confidence
from investors.  The chancellor said he will discuss the plan with Cameron,
Deputy Prime Minister  Nick Clegg  and Treasury Chief Secretary
 Danny Alexander  at Chequers, the prime minister’s weekend
residence northwest of London today. Clegg and Alexander
represent the Liberal Democrats, the junior partners in the
Conservative-led coalition.  Welfare Cheats  Osborne reiterated that the spending review will target the
194 billion-pound welfare budget. He said people who repeatedly
make fraudulent claims would be deprived of benefits for as much
as three years and that he will stick to plans to deprive 1
million higher-earning families of child benefits, until now
paid to all mothers with children.  The chancellor said he will put pressure on banks to sign
up to a tax code that binds them to ending tax evasion and that
the authorities will do more to pursue rich people who evade
paying taxes.  “Tax evasion is totally unacceptable at a time like
this,” Osborne said. “It is unacceptable at the best of times;
it is immoral at times like these.”  The most contentious discussions came to a head on Oct. 16,
when Osborne and Defense Secretary  Liam Fox  reached agreement on
the security and defense budget for the military and security,
according to a person familiar with the negotiations.  “It has been the most difficult of all the budgets,”
Osborne said. “It was a budget that was 38 billion pounds
overcommitted.”  Aircraft Carriers  The reduction in military spending will be about 7 percent
to 8 percent, less than the 10 percent the Treasury was seeking,
a person involved in the discussions said.  Fox confirmed in a BBC interview today that the U.K. will
go ahead with building two aircraft carriers, though he declined
to say which type of aircraft they will be equipped with.  “It’s not obvious what planes will fly off these things,”
Osborne said, suggesting that he has a plan that will eventually
deliver the aircraft so that the carriers “live up to their
name.”  The government will scrap plans for a 30 billion-pound
tidal power project in the Severn Estuary, the  Independent on
Sunday  newspaper reported.  The Observer , citing leaked
documents, said 30 percent cuts to the Justice Ministry budget
will end legal aid for family disputes, close hundreds of court
rooms and reduce the number of prisoners.  ‘Economic Masochism’  The pace of the coalition’s cuts was criticized by the
opposition Labour Party’s chief economic spokesman,  Alan Johnson , who told the BBC that they risk derailing the economic
recovery.  Osborne’s plan is “economic masochism, an opportunity to
shrink the size of the state,” Johnson said.  Failure to implement his program risks a downgrade of
Britain’s top-notch credit rating, market turmoil and rising
interest rates, Osborne says.  In an effort to maintain public support, the government
will soften the impact for poor pensioners, according to the
Treasury. The 15 billion-pound annual social care budget
provided by health agencies and local authorities for the
elderly will be protected over the next four years.  Osborne’s warnings have resonated with voters. A ComRes
survey in the Independent on Sunday showed the Conservatives had
the support of 40 percent of those polled, compared with 34
percent for Labour.  Cameron and Osborne are also preferred to handle the
economy, with 45 percent backing them compared with 23 percent
backing Miliband and Johnson. ComRes, which gave no margin of
error for the poll, interviewed 2,009 adults on Oct. 13-15.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Gonzalo Vina  in London at 
 gvina@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net . 