-- How Hitler Won Over Germans; Berlin Shows Toy Soldiers, Games
-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   H i c k l e y
-- 2010-10-17T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-17/how-hitler-won-over-germans-berlin-museum-shows-toy-soldiers-card-games.html
In their neatest handwriting,
hundreds of children wrote to  Adolf Hitler  congratulating him on
his 43rd birthday in 1932. One letter is on Mickey Mouse writing
paper; others enclose photos of their diminutive authors posing
in “Heil Hitler” salutes or waving swastikas.  “I hope that you will save Germany in the election on
April 24!” writes 12-year-old Elga. “Here in Liebenburg, 90
percent of the people are Nazis and voted for you!”  More than 65 years after Hitler’s death and the collapse of
the Third Reich, the  German Historical Museum  is seeking answers
to a question that each generation asks anew: How did Germany,
known as a nation of poets and thinkers, fall under Hitler’s
spell and let him commit some of the worst crimes in history?  The new exhibition, called “Hitler and the Germans, Nation
and Crime,” is the first in Berlin to focus exclusively on the
dictator and his influence over the people. That is not to say
that Hitler is still a taboo topic in Germany, as some of the
international coverage of the exhibition would have it.  Far from it. Hitler sells. Television news channels such as
N-TV and N-24 broadcast Hitler documentaries back-to-back in
non-peak hours. Der Spiegel news magazine has put him on its
cover no fewer than 40 times since 1947. The first academic
biography of Eva Braun, published this year, became a
bestseller. The fascination extends beyond Germany: the English-
language film rights to the book have already been snapped up.  Matter of Time  It was just a matter of time until this show took place.
The German Historical Museum -- located in the center of Berlin,
opposite where the Nazis held book-burning ceremonies -- first
mooted the idea of an exhibition about Hitler several years ago.
The museum’s academic advisory board nixed it on the grounds
that it would be open to charges of lionizing the dictator and
pandering to a fascination for evil.  Since then, there has been an increasing acceptance that
public exhibitions about the Nazi era should address the
perpetrators as well as the victims. After all, understanding
how the terror arose is crucial to preventing it recurring.  In April, an exhibition focusing on the ideology and crimes
of the SS opened at Wewelsburg castle, which Heinrich Himmler
planned to turn into a center for elite meetings. The Topography
of Terror in Berlin, the site of the SS and Gestapo
headquarters, opened a new building and exhibition in May.  No Relics  Taboos remain. The German Historical Museum rejected
displaying personal items belonging to Hitler, such as his
uniforms, on concern they would be viewed as “relics” that
could be construed as a homage.  “We are not exploring Hitler as a person,” said Hans
Ottomeyer, the director of the museum. “Presenting Hitler to
the public is always tricky: Is it allowed? Can you do it?
Should you do it if you can do it?”  The exhibition focuses on the propaganda that accompanied
Hitler from the early days of the Nazi Party and shows how the
personality cult infiltrated the everyday life of Germans.  Bizarre displays include a showcase stuffed with the busts
of the Nazi leader that were mass-produced for homes and
offices. Toy soldiers sport Nazi uniforms; among them, a
miniature Hitler stands behind a lectern, arm raised in salute.
A tapestry for a church in Rotenburg an der Fulda features
images of the town’s women and their houses, interspersed with
the Lord’s Prayer -- and swastikas. A card game called
“Fuehrer-Quartett” features portraits of Hitler and other Nazi
leaders.  Many Germans willingly allowed him to intrude into their
private lives. A 1933 telegram to the chancellery, from someone
called Wedekind, asks: “Permission to give son second name
Hitler.”  Maintaining Mystique  Maintaining the “Fuehrer mystique” was another important
aspect of Hitler’s hold over his people. His outsize chancellery
was part of his larger-than-life persona. Enormous offices
require enormous furniture to match, and one of the most
imposing exhibits is a vast sideboard, inlaid with swastikas and
eagles, designed for the chancellery by Albert Speer.  An emergency-red Stormtroopers’ standard, featuring two
swastikas and an eagle, urges “Germany, Awake!” Copies of
“Mein Kampf,” Hitler’s book, translated into several different
languages, signposts for “Adolf Hitler Platz,” and popular
photographs of the Fuehrer at leisure also feature.  The conclusion reached by curator Hans-Ulrich Thamer is
that Germans were yearning for salvation -- for someone to
rescue them from poverty and chaos. The British historian Ian
Kershaw, writing in the catalog, quotes a Hitler speech from
Sept. 13, 1936. “It is the miracle of our time that you have
found me,” Hitler said in Nuremberg. “You found me among so
many millions! And the fact that I found you, that is Germany’s
fortune!”  Warped Ideology  A quiet, darker section of the exhibition focuses on the
other side of the story -- the murderous consequences of
Hitler’s warped racial ideology. It showcases a homemade tin
sieve used by concentration-camp survivors on the “death
marches” at the end of the war. The starving victims would
reduce pieces of tree bark in it, and boil them up into a kind
of broth.  Less sensational than a swastika banner, it is still a much
more powerful symbol of Hitler’s terror.  “Hitler and the Germans, Nation and Crime” is showing at
the Deutsches Historisches Museum through Feb. 6, 2011. For more
information, go to  http://tinyurl.com/2aas8d2   To contact the writer on the story:
 Catherine Hickley  in Berlin at 
 chickley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 