-- Philippines Issues Top Storm Alert, Emergency Services Brace for Typhoon
-- B y   C e c i l i a   Y a p   a n d   S t u a r t   B i g g s
-- 2010-10-18T10:09:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-17/philippines-issues-highest-storm-alert-as-typhoon-megi-heads-for-landfall.html
Supertyphoon Megi made landfall in
the Philippines, dumping heavy rain and uprooting trees on the
nation’s most populous island of Luzon. One man drowned after
authorities declared an emergency state of calamity.  The storm swept ashore near Divilacan Bay, southeast of
Tuguegarao, at 11:25 a.m. local time, the  Philippine
Atmospheric, Geophysical & Astronomical Services Administration 
said. Megi had sustained winds of about 270 kilometers per hour
(168 miles per hour) before the eye crossed the coast, the U.S.
Navy Joint Typhoon Warning Center  said .  Megi, known in the Philippines as Juan, is forecast to
weaken and cross northern Luzon by early tomorrow before heading
into the South China Sea on a track toward southern China. On
the five-step Saffir-Simpson wind-intensity scale, Megi had been
rated Category 5, capable of catastrophic damage.  The government, criticized for its response last year when
Tropical Storm Ketsana left about 460 people dead and flooded
Manila, is “better prepared now,” Executive Secretary  Paquito Ochoa  said today. “Everybody is conscious about their jobs.”  The body of Vicente Decena, a 53-year-old candidate in next
week’s village council elections who had been missing in
Cagayan, was found today by authorities in a river. At least
five were reported hurt as well during the storm.  One child was injured, according to the National Disaster
Coordinating Council, two women were injured in a restaurant in
Tuguegarao, said Lieutenant General Gaudencio Pangilinan, the
military’s commander in Northern Luzon, and two Department of
Public Works employees were hurt while clearing a highway, the
agency said.  ‘State of Calamity’  Isabela province, where Megi made landfall, was declared
under a state of calamity, Office of Civil Defense Administrator
Benito Ramos said at a briefing in Manila. A decision for
Cagayan province immediately to the north may be delayed because
some communication lines are down, he said.  Signal No. 4, the highest storm alert, was issued for the
provinces of Isabela, Cagayan, Kalinga, Mountain and Ifugao, the
 weather agency  said. Megi’s center was 50 kilometers south-
southwest of Tuguegarao at 3 p.m., the weather bureau said.  The country may lose 600,000 metric tons of its rice crop,
Agriculture Undersecretary Antonio Fleta said in a phone
interview from Manila today. Half of the 157,000 hectares
(388,000 acres) of land planted with rice in Cagayan and Isabela
have yet to be harvested, he said. The Philippines is the
world’s largest rice importer.  Flight Cancellations  Cebu Air Inc. cancelled eight flights, the Philippines’
largest budget airline said. Philippine Airlines cancelled
flights to Laoag north of Manila, spokeswoman Cielo Villaluna
said.  About 270 ferry passengers were stranded as vessels
remained in port, the National Disaster Coordinating Council
said. About 3,700 people were evacuated from their homes.  Megi may bring rains “similar” to Ketsana, Graciano
Yumul, officer in charge of the weather bureau, said in Manila.  The Philippine agency  said  Megi’s winds weakened as it
crossed land and were blowing at 190 kilometers per hour as the
storm moved west-southwest at 17 kph. The storm may dump as much
as 60 millimeters (2.4 inches) of rain per hour.  Preparing Medicines  Food packs and medicines were prepared in northern
provinces, the National Disaster Coordinating Council said in an
earlier  advisory . Schools in affected areas were closed.  National Grid Corp. of the Philippines, which operates the
country’s high-voltage transmission network, said it activated
command centers at its main and regional offices to minimize the
impact from the storm. Megi disrupted power supply in Cagayan
and Isabela provinces, the disaster council’s advisory said.  Emergency services are on alert and ready to carry out
evacuations, President  Benigno Aquino  said in a statement on his
website. “We do not want to unduly alarm the public, but there
is nothing lost by being prepared,” he said.  Storms in the northwest Pacific are designated as
supertyphoons when their wind speed exceeds 241 kph, according
to the  U.S. National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration .  Almost 5 million people were affected by floods as Ketsana
swept across Luzon in September last year. Manila may escape
last year’s levels of flooding as Megi passes to the north,
Yumul said.  The Philippines is regularly battered by tropical cyclones
that form in the Pacific Ocean east of the country. Typhoon
Conson left 102 people dead in July and destroyed or damaged
more than 70,000 homes, the disaster coordinating council  said .  The storm is forecast to cross the South China Sea and may
hit China’s south coast to the east of Hong Kong with winds of
185 kph, the U.S. Navy  said . Megi will “severely” affect the
coast, China’s National Meteorological Center said in a
statement on its website today.  Megi, the name of a catfish in South Korea, is related to
the feeling of getting wet, according to the Hong Kong
Observatory, which lists names assigned to storms in the
northwest Pacific. It is the 15th storm of the season.  To contact the reporters for this story:
 Cecilia Yap  in Manila at 
 cyap19@bloomberg.net 
 Stuart Biggs  in Tokyo at 
 ssbiggs3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net 
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash@bloomberg.net  