-- Production Probably Driving U.S. Recovery as Home Construction Languishes
-- B y   B o b   W i l l i s
-- 2010-10-17T04:00:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-17/production-probably-driving-u-s-recovery-as-home-construction-languishes.html
Builders in the U.S. probably
started fewer homes in September, while production rose for a
seventh month, evidence of uneven growth, economists said before
reports this week.  Work  began on 580,000 houses at an annual rate, down 3
percent from August, according to the median estimate of 56
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News before Commerce Department
figures on Oct. 19. A Federal Reserve report tomorrow is
forecast to show output at the nation’s factories, mines and
utilities increased 0.2 percent for a second month.  Mounting foreclosures, home sales near record lows and a
lack of jobs will make it difficult for housing to recover from
the worst recession since the 1930s. Manufacturers, responding
to rising business investment and stronger economies overseas,
remain a bright spot for the recovery, which Fed officials have
said may require an additional boost from easier policy.  “Housing has remained a drag in this recovery and the
growth has really come from manufacturing,” said  Michelle Meyer , a senior U.S. economist at BofA Merrill Lynch Global
Research in New York. “Key to a sustained recovery is job
creation and that’s been insufficient. Given the backdrop of
unemployment and continued weakness in the housing market, we
believe the Fed will ease policy further.”  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  last week said more action may
be warranted because inflation is too low and unemployment is
too high. “There would appear -- all else being equal -- to be
a case for further action,” Bernanke said in remarks given at a
Boston Fed conference.  Shares Rally  Speculation that the Fed may purchase bonds has spurred a
rally in stocks and pushed down Treasury yields to record lows.
The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index has gained 12 percent since the
end of August.  Housing’s inability to rebound is one reason the economic
recovery is not strengthening.  Housing permits , a sign of future
construction, probably rose last month, according to the median
estimate, a sign the real estate market has at least stabilized.  After reaching a record low in March 2009, permits climbed
through April this year, the deadline to sign purchase contracts
and become eligible for a government tax credit. Since the end
of the incentive worth as much as $8,000, sales and construction
have again weakened.  Foreclosure Investigations  With foreclosures reaching a record in September, U.S.
regulators last week said they were investigating whether
employees of lenders including Ally Financial Inc.,  JPMorgan
Chase & Co . and  Bank of America Corp . had falsified documents
used in the proceedings. Ally Financial and Bank of America are
among banks that have suspended some foreclosures or evictions
to review paperwork, which may further delay a recovery in
housing.  Carmakers are among manufacturers seeing a pickup in the
U.S.  Auto sales  increased in September, reaching a seasonally
adjusted 11.8 million pace, the fastest since the federal
government’s “cash for clunkers” incentive program last year.  Another report from the  Philadelphia  Fed on Oct. 21 will
show the region’s factories expanded this month after
contracting in each of the prior two months, according to
economists surveyed.  Companies such as  Caterpillar Inc.  and General Motors Co.
are benefiting from expanding markets in China and Brazil and
ongoing capital investment in the U.S. even as unemployment
restrains consumer spending.  Rising Shipments  CSX Corp . Chief Executive Officer  Michael Ward  said Oct. 13
increased U.S. auto production is helping drive a gradual
economic recovery. Total shipping volumes at the second-largest
publicly traded U.S. railroad rose 10 percent and sales
increased 16 percent.  Except for housing, “we’re seeing things continue their
gradual recovery,” Ward said in a telephone interview.  The Conference Board’s index of leading economic
indicators, due Oct. 21, rose 0.3 percent in September for a
second month, according to economists surveyed. The gain signals
the economy will keep expanding in the next three to six months.  Stronger-than-forecast retail sales and inventory numbers
prompted economists at Credit Suisse last week to raise their
forecast for third-quarter economic growth to 2.6 percent from 2
percent before the report. They lowered their fourth quarter
growth forecast to 1.6 percent from a prior 2.2 percent
estimate, partly due to less homebuilding.  The economy expanded at a 1.7 percent annual pace in the
second quarter after a 3.7 percent rate the previous three
months.  With the approaching Nov. 2 congressional elections,
Americans continue to have a dimmer view of Congress and
President  Barack Obama ’s handling of the economy. Obama’s job
approval over a three-day period that ended Oct. 12 was 45
percent, compared with 52 percent at the same time last year,
according to a poll from Princeton, New Jersey-based Gallup.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bob Willis  in Washington at 
 Bobwillis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  