-- Regional Fed Presidents Back More Policy Action Against Deflation Threat
-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 2010-10-17T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-17/regional-fed-presidents-back-more-policy-action-against-deflation-threat.html
Two regional Federal Reserve
presidents said the central bank should consider more policy
action to stimulate the economy while seeking to avert a
debilitating, broad-based decline in prices.  Chicago Fed President  Charles Evans , speaking at a Boston
Fed conference yesterday, advocated targeting a path for the
price level as a way to stop the inflation rate from falling. He
said the U.S. economy is in a liquidity trap and more
accommodation is not a “close call.” Boston’s  Eric Rosengren 
 said  “insuring against the risk of deflation may be much
cheaper than” trying to eradicate it after it takes hold.  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  and the Federal Open Market
Committee are considering strategies, before their Nov. 2-3
policy meeting, to raise inflation expectations and purchase
additional assets to help reduce  unemployment  persisting at more
than 9 percent. Bernanke said in a speech opening the conference
that there appears to be a “case for further action.”  Evans said further action was needed because the U.S. is
caught in a “bona fide liquidity trap” where additions to the
money supply fail to stimulate the economy. “This belief is not
a new development for me; instead it is a dawning realization,”
Evans said to the Boston Fed’s 55th Economic Conference.  Evans’ comments are among the strongest of any Fed official
in favor of additional  easing steps . With projections for
unemployment to be at 8 percent and for inflation excluding food
and energy to be at 1 percent by the end of 2012, “the Fed’s
dual mandate misses are too large to shrug off,” Evans said.  Price Path  He gave his support to a target for the path of the price
level over a “reasonable period of time” that is communicated
“regularly and often” to the public. Such a policy could
complement large-scale asset purchases and be a change to the
FOMC’s statement to include a pledge to keep  rates near zero  for
longer than “an extended period.”  Targeting a path for the price level would help the Fed
push inflation higher “for a time,” Evans said. The central
bank would need to state the terms for exiting the policy, he
said.  “I’ll admit that my views on this are evolving,” Evans
said in response to audience questions at the conference.  “The central banks of the world, including ours, have been
on an inflation targeting regime and moving to a brand new
regime like that is quite difficult to explain” and poses “the
danger of undermining credibility,” said  Alan Blinder , a former
Fed Vice Chairman and now an economist at Princeton University.  Damping Demand  Some Fed officials are concerned that expectations of lower
inflation will become self-fulfilling, damping demand by
increasing borrowing costs in real terms, minutes of the
September meeting said. By encouraging Americans to believe
prices will start rising at a faster pace, the Fed would reduce
inflation-adjusted  interest rates  and stimulate the economy.  Japan’s battle with deflation shows policy makers should
take action to stimulate growth before price levels drop,
Rosengren said.  The Bank of Japan pledged last week to keep its benchmark
interest rate at “virtually zero” until deflation has ended,
after first introducing the rate policy in 1999. Japan also
created a fund to buy government debt and other assets.  “The fact that Japan is still battling deflation
highlights how pernicious deflation can be, and how difficult it
is to counteract once it has been firmly established,”
Rosengren said.  Several Options  In the minutes, the Fed gave several options for raising
short-term price expectations, including providing more
information on the inflation rate policy makers consider
consistent with their long-term goals and targeting a path for
the price level. For the first time, the Fed said it could also
target a path for nominal gross domestic product, which isn’t
adjusted for inflation.  Treasuries fell on Oct. 15, driving 30-year yields to a
two-month high, and the Dollar Index rebounded from its 2010 low
amid confidence Bernanke will succeed in stoking inflation. U.S.
stocks rose as technology shares rallied, overshadowing losses
in banks and  General Electric Co .  Fed presidents rotate voting on monetary policy. Evans
doesn’t vote on the rate-setting FOMC this year. He votes every
other year on the FOMC, as does Cleveland Fed President  Sandra Pianalto . Rosengren votes this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Joshua Zumbrun  in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  