-- ECB's Trichet Rejects Weber's Call to End Bond Purchase Program
-- B y   C h r i s t i a n   V i t s
-- 2010-10-17T22:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-17/trichet-says-overwhelming-majority-of-ecb-council-backs-bond-purchases.html
European Central Bank President
 Jean-Claude Trichet  rejected Bundesbank President  Axel Weber ’s
call to end the bond purchase program that has provided a
lifeline for European governments and banks trying to shore up
their finances.  “This is not the position of the Governing Council, with
an overwhelming majority,” Trichet said when asked to respond
to Weber’s Oct. 13 call for an end to the program, according to
 a transcript  of an interview published yesterday in Italian
newspaper  La Stampa .  Weber, who also sits on the ECB’s 22-member decision-making
council, said the risk of “exiting too late” from the
emergency measures was greater than pulling out too soon. The
remarks, the strongest from any ECB official advocating a
removal of stimulus, came as governments and banks in  Ireland ,
 Portugal  and  Greece  struggle to convince investors they can
control their finances in the aftermath of this year’s sovereign
debt crisis.  “Trichet is sending a clear signal to Weber,” said
Carsten Brzeski, an economist at ING Group NV in Brussels. “The
majority seems to favor a safety belt option for the moment and
isn’t comfortable with sending conflicting signals to the
markets.”  Extending Backstop  Trichet also backed the possibility of extending in some
form the European Union’s temporary financial backstop for
financially stressed nations. The EU set up the European
Financial Stability Facility in June after Greece’s near default
led to soaring borrowing costs for other high-deficit nations.
The 440 billion-euro ($614 billion) emergency fund is set to be
shut down in June 2013 if no loans are made by then.  Extending the aid mechanism “could be imagined in the
future,” he said at a press conference yesterday in Rimini,
Italy. “We would then have to respect a number of criteria.”
Any aid program should not encourage “moral hazard and it
should be based on a very, very strong conditionality.”  The ECB started buying government  bonds  in May after
agreeing to support the EU-led package of 110 billion euros of
emergency loans for Greece. The purchases were part of the EU-
wide push to rescue the euro, which fell to a four-year low on
June 7, after the Greek crisis threatened to undermine the 16-
nation currency bloc.  “This non-standard measure, like all other such measures,
was designed to help restore a more normal functioning of our
monetary policy transmission mechanism,” Trichet said,
according to the la Stampa interview.  Sole Spokesman  Trichet also said that as ECB president he is the only one
who speaks on behalf of the Governing Council. Weber, who
opposed the bond purchases since their inception in May, is
regarded by economists as a frontrunner to succeed Trichet when
his non-renewable eight-year term expires in just over a year.  “There is only one  single currency ; there is one Governing
Council, only one monetary policy decision, and one president,
who is also the porte-parole of the Governing Council,” he told
La Stampa.  “Trichet’s comments highlight that he is not pleased with
the ongoing public criticism of some council members regarding
the securities market program,” said Juergen Michels, chief
euro-area economist at Citigroup Inc. in London. “Trichet’s
comments highlight that the program will continue.”  Weber’s fellow council member, Austria’s  Ewald Nowotny ,
also opposed terminating the bond-purchase program. “It makes
sense to use it as a safety belt,” Reuters cited him as saying
Oct. 13. “I would not throw it away too early.”  Purchases ‘Temporary’  ECB Executive board member  Juergen Stark  said in an
interview with Germany’s Handelsblatt on Oct. 15 that the bank
will keep buying government bonds “as long as necessary.”
Still, in a speech at the same day he added the bond purchases
are “temporary in nature.”  To avoid having to fall back on emergency support measures,
Trichet said the euro region must adopt “more ambitious” rules
to force members to control their budget deficits that should
include “greater automaticity” in doling out punishments for
those who violate deficit limits.  “All deadlines under the excessive deficit procedure should
be significantly reduced: sanctions should be applied quasi-
automatically on the basis of clearly defined criteria, without
scope for discretion for exceptional circumstances or waivers,”
Trichet said in a speech in Marrakech on Oct. 16. “The debt
reduction should in some cases be more ambitious than proposed
by the commission,” Trichet said.  Ministers Meet  EU finance ministers meet in Luxembourg today to consider
European Commission proposals to fix budget management and avoid
runaway deficits that led to Greece’s  near-default . France is
balking at calls for the faster imposition of sanctions on
deficit-ridden governments, putting it at odds with Germany and
the ECB over how to prevent a repeat of the debt crisis.  Trichet reiterated that the current  interest-rate  level was
“appropriate” and said in the la Stampa interview that the
inflation expectations in the euro-region were “extremely well-
anchored” for the next 5 to 10 years.  The central bank had a “very, very remarkable track
record” on maintaining price stability, with the euro region
having an average  inflation rate  of 1.97 percent, in line with
the ECB’s 2 percent ceiling, in the 11 1/2 years that the ECB
has been in charge of monetary policy. Raising the central
bank’s inflation goal would have “disastrous consequences” he
said in Marrakech.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Christian Vits  in Rimini, Italy, at  cvits@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at   jfraher@bloomberg.net  