-- Sabic Third-Quarter Profit Soars 46% on Chemical Prices, Demand
-- B y   G l e n   C a r e y
-- 2010-10-17T13:07:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-17/sabic-profit-jumps-46-as-fertilizer-plastic-demand-rises-prices-boosted.html
Saudi Basic Industries Corp. , the
world’s biggest petrochemicals maker, said third-quarter profit
jumped 46 percent on higher prices, increased demand for its
products and income from units.  Net income  advanced to 5.33 billion riyals ($1.42 billion)
from 3.65 billion riyals a year earlier, the Riyadh-based
company said in a statement to the Saudi bourse today. The
median of five analyst estimates was for a profit of 4.63
billion riyals, according to data compiled by  Bloomberg .  Sabic  expanded sales of fertilizer and plastics as demand
increased and petrochemical prices rose from last year. The
Saudi Arabian economy is expected to grow 3.5 percent this year
as the Arab world’s largest economy gains momentum from
government spending and higher oil prices, central bank Governor
 Muhammad al-Jasser  said last month.  The third-quarter results were helped by “the improvement
in the company’s capacity utilization rate at its plants,”  Syed Taimure , a senior analyst at  Global Investment House KSCC , said
before the results were announced. “There is better demand
coming from China and Europe, and prices are higher from the
previous year’s period.”  Sabic shares  closed 2.3 percent higher at 89 riyals at the
3:30 p.m. close in Riyadh today. The stock gained 7.9 percent
this year compared with a 2.3 percent rise in the benchmark
 Tadawul All Share Index . BASF SE, the world’s largest chemical
company, has gained 17 percent this year.  Units Gain  Sabic has expanded production at home to meet demand as the
government invests to diversify its economy away from oil. Saudi
Arabia, the largest oil supplier, spurred economic growth with a
$400 billion, five-year investment package announced late 2008.  The company has gained funding from local banks for
expansion as it seeks to triple petrochemicals output to 130
million metric tons by 2020. Saudi Kayan Petrochemical Co., 35
percent owned by Sabic, got a 4.5 billion-riyal loan from
National Commercial Bank in August to finance part of its Jubail
petrochemicals plant.  Saudi Arabian Fertilizer Co. , a unit of Sabic, which posted
a 30 percent jump in third-quarter profit. Yanbu National
Petrochemicals, another Sabic unit, posted a profit of 356.2
million riyals in the third quarter after a loss a year earlier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Glen Carey  in Riyadh at 
 gcarey8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at  phirschberg@bloomberg.net . 