-- King's Battle With Clerics Dictates Fate of Saudi's Oil Economy
-- B y   G l e n   C a r e y
-- 2010-10-17T20:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-17/saudi-king-s-battle-with-conservative-clerics-dictates-fate-of-oil-economy.html
When Saudi  King Abdullah  appeared in
a newspaper photo with 40 veiled women in April, he broke a
taboo by mixing with the opposite sex in public.  Since then, the 86-year-old monarch has crimped the power
of conservative Muslim clerics more than any of his five
predecessors since the foundation of the  kingdom in 1932 . He
prohibited unauthorized religious edicts, or fatwas, and shut
some of the websites where they’re issued. In the past month, he
backed supermarkets employing females for the first time.  “This is really a part of the struggle over who controls
Saudi Arabia,”  Robert Lacey , author of 2009 book ‘Inside the
Kingdom,’ said in a telephone interview from the Saudi city of
Jeddah. “Ten to 15 years ago, it would have been very difficult
for a Saudi king to discipline the clergy.”  The friction between king and clerics underscores a shift
in Saudi society away from the dominance of strict Islamic law.
The king is spearheading the move by forging a Saudi national
identity and bringing women into the workforce as part of an
attempt to make the economy less dependent on oil.  As well as women appearing as cashiers in supermarkets, the
Sept. 23 national day, initiated by King Abdullah in 2005 when
he came to power, had men and women mingling together, flouting
Saudi religious restrictions. The kingdom was founded after a
30-year campaign of conquest by the current king’s father,
Abdulaziz, that extended the Al Saud family’s control beyond the
ancestral home around Riyadh.  “The fatwa ban will allow the government to take more
antagonizing economic measures, if needed, without fearing
independent clerics,” Mohammed al-Qahtani, an economist working
at the  Institute of Diplomatic Studies  in Riyadh, said in an
interview. “It definitely silenced independent clerics.”  Economic Overhaul  Under a pact dating back to 1744 between the Al Saud and
Muhammad bin Abdul Wahhab, the kingdom maintains an austere
brand of Islam, known as Wahhabism, in return for the Sunni
Muslim hierarchy’s acceptance of the crown.  Saudi Arabia depends on oil exports to expand its economy
and provide social benefits to its people. The king wants to
enhance job skills, and develop science and technology to
diversify the economy.  The government announced in August a $385 billion, five-
year spending plan as the kingdom tries to reduce a jobless rate
of as high as 43 percent for Saudis between the ages of 20 and
24. The overall rate was 10.5 percent in 2009, according to data
from the  Central Department of Statistics and Information .  ‘Message of Deterrence’  The same month, King Abdullah issued a royal decree
allowing only the Council of Senior Islamic Scholars to issue
religious edicts. The  communications authority  closed websites
for violating the decree, Sultan al-Malik, a spokesman for the
regulator, said in September.  “It sends a message of deterrence to clerics around the
country to make them think twice before they issue a
controversial statement or an inflammatory remark,”  Thomas
Hegghammer , a senior research fellow at the Oslo-based Norwegian
Defense Research Establishment and the author of ‘Jihad in Saudi
Arabia,’ published in April.  The Wahhabi clerical establishment had controlled the
educational and legal systems, and influenced public opinion
through their edicts. Their control intensified following the
1979 attack on the Grand Mosque in Mecca by extremists demanding
a stricter enforcement of Islamic law, as the government
scrambled to bolster its religious credibility.  In 2002, religious police prohibited girls from leaving a
burning school in Jeddah because their heads weren’t veiled.
Fourteen died in the incident, causing uproar in the kingdom.  Incite to Fight  In the past, Saudi clerics could incite men to fight
religious war or issue edicts on economic matters without
government approval or regulations. In 2007, cleric Mohammed al-
Ossaimi called on Muslims to shun the sale of shares by
billionaire  Prince Alwaleed bin Talal ’s Kingdom Holding Co.
because its business was believed to be un-Islamic.  Videos posted on YouTube condemned Prince Alwaleed for
encouraging women working in his office to take off the abaya,
or black cloaks covering the body.  Clerics used their websites, text messages and radio shows
to issue fatwas to the public. In February, Sheikh Abdul Rahman
al-Barrak called for supporters of the mixing of genders in the
workplace and schools to be put to death.  Then in June, Sheikh Abdul-Mohsen al-Obeikan, an adviser to
the royal court, issued a religious ruling saying unrelated
women could mingle with an unrelated man if he drank her breast
milk five times from a glass, a way around gender segregation.
The fatwa was aimed at women who worked with unrelated men.  “Embarrassing” Fatwas  “Fatwas have gone from threatening to embarrassing,” said
Lacey, a British historian.  Islam Today , run by the cleric Salman al-Oudah, closed the
website’s fatwa section, which received 4,000 questions a day,
Arab News reported in September.  Azizia Panda United Co., the supermarket unit of Saudi food
producer  Savola Group , started employing women in September.
Marhaba, a supermarket chain in Jeddah, followed, Arab News
reported, citing an unidentified women who was hired.  Azizia  Panda  received permission from the Ministry of Labor
to hire women, the company said in a statement. “It was done to
make more chances for women to work,” according to the
statement.  An increase in the number of working women might give Saudi
and international companies higher-skilled employees, since
almost 60 percent of Saudi university students are women. Less
than 15 percent of the labor force is female, according to a
 study  by consulting company Booz & Co.  Help Minorities, Women  “The king’s ban on fatwas will be positive for minorities
and women,” Ibrahim AlMugaiteeb, the president of the al-
Khobar-based  Human Rights First Society , said by telephone.
“This isn’t something all clerics will agree on.”  Grand Mufti Sheikh Abdulaziz Al-Asheikh, the most senior
religious cleric, ordered preacher Youssef al-Ahmed to stop
issuing unauthorized fatwas after he called on people to boycott
Panda shops for employing women, Arab News reported.  During national day celebrations last month in Riyadh,
women clad in abayas, with their heads covered in scarves,
cheered and whistled as an all-male traditional Saudi band
played instruments and danced on stage. Religious police later
made no effort to separate mixed crowds of men and women as they
looked at stalls selling souvenirs. Children wore green and
white headbands, the color of the Saudi flag, with slogans,
saying “The Nation is in Our Hearts.”  Under the strict interpretation of clerics, who demand that
kings are buried in unmarked graves, all symbols, whether
national or religious, are prohibited. The conservative clergy
only recognize Islam’s two holidays after the end of Ramadan, a
month of fasting from sundown to sun set.  For Hegghammer, the fatwa ban is just a question of who’s
in charge. It’s “a means to facilitate state control over of
the religious political arena,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Glen Carey  in Riyadh at 
 gcarey8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at    phirschberg@bloomberg.net  