-- Scary IPOs Are Price We Will Pay for Zero Rates: William Pesek
-- B y   W i l l i a m   P e s e k
-- 2010-10-17T19:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-17/scary-ipos-are-price-we-will-pay-for-zero-rates-william-pesek.html
Prasarn Trairatvorakul  struggled for
balance as the ferry taking him across a Bangkok river pitched
in choppy waters.  “It’s a bit like the world economy these days,” the Bank
of Thailand governor deadpanned as he plopped down next to me on
a ferry deck chair. “Very hard to control.”  Prasarn would certainly know. Thailand may offer the best
example of a curious phenomenon: how the Federal Reserve’s
ultralow interest rates are benefiting Asia more than America.
Excess central-bank liquidity explains the disconnect. Asia is
getting loads of it, U.S. assets are getting little.  This hot money is making  waves  in Asia. It’s pumping up
growth, real estate and stocks and, according to many
economists, breathing new life into the “Asia decoupling”
narrative. Asia hasn’t decoupled from the West so much as it has
mutated into a giant net catching money emanating from
Washington, Frankfurt and Tokyo. The result may be huge bubbles,
the next wave of which could be dodgy stock offerings.  Going forward, “the average quality of new offerings is
beginning to fray slightly around the edges,” says  Jeff Coggshall , a hedge fund manager at Tiburon Partners LLP. Why
does it matter? “A number of deals have mysteriously been
pulled forward,” he adds. “It will doubtless not be long
before some genuinely frightening IPOs begin hitting our
desks.”  Bernanke’s Money  If Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  wants to know who is
benefiting most from his policies, Bangkok is as good a place as
any to look. Thai stocks are up a spectacular 52 percent this
year, while the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index is up 5 percent.  Thailand, which is growing 9.1 percent, isn’t alone.
Singapore’s 10.3 percent growth is another case in point. So are
growth rates in Malaysia (8.9 percent), the Philippines (7.9
percent), South Korea (7.2 percent) and Hong Kong (6.5 percent).
Stock markets are booming even as America’s funk is deepening.  The reason: investors know that any move by the Fed to
further ease monetary policy means more liquidity is about to
zoom Asia’s way. It’s ironic, really. The U.S. is desperate to
aid its beleaguered export industry and all it’s doing is
exporting the stimulus needed at home.  It’s not as fun as it sounds for Asian policy makers. They
are caught by the biggest economies flooding markets with money
and warring over currencies.  “I am concerned,” says Prasarn. “Thailand is not a large
economy, but we are very open. The saying goes that when
elephants fight, the grass is trampled.”  Thai Challenge  That’s quite a challenge for Prasarn, who took over as
central bank head on Oct. 1. Asia has too much of a good thing
on its hands as money gravitates this way. The trick is to make
sure it is used productively and to avoid dangerous bubbles.  The trick for Bernanke, meanwhile, is making sure that the
U.S. economy captures more of the Fed’s stimulus. How that can
be accomplished is easier said than done. Capital controls? A
tax on investment outflows?  Over lunch in Bangkok, I posed these questions to well-
known economists  Barry Eichengreen  of the University of
California, Berkeley,  Takatoshi Ito  of University of Tokyo and
 Eswar Prasad  of Cornell University -- all of whom were in town
for a Bank of Thailand symposium. They agreed it’s unclear how
the U.S. can adequately address its monetary-leakage problem.  The answer for Asia may be as simple as tightening fiscal
policy. That, Eichengreen says, could take some of the heat out
of economies being overwhelmed by hot money. Even so, there’s no
getting around the fact that loose international monetary
conditions are swamping domestic policy steps.  Floodgates Open  Sure, officials in Bangkok or Seoul could raise rates, but
it would make little difference with the world’s main monetary
authorities leaving the floodgates open. Also, higher borrowing
costs could backfire, attracting even more capital as yield-
hungry investors reach for better  returns .  Asia’s initial public offering activity is worth eyeing in
the months ahead. Recent surveys show the highest levels of
investor sentiment in months. Will too much liquidity chasing
too few good IPOs create demand for weaker ones?  There’s lots of anecdotal evidence, London-based Coggshall
says, that “investors’ positioning has swung sharply towards
’risk on,’ and while we too find it difficult to argue against
the notion that unlimited liquidity trumps all else, the level
of activity is just frothy enough to make us uncomfortable.”  The good news is that Asian policy makers are fully aware
that they are on the front lines of a monetary tsunami the likes
of which the world have never seen. The bad news is that with
the U.S., Japan and the euro zone holding rates at, or close to,
zero and China maintaining an undervalued currency, it’s all too
easy for smaller economies to get overwhelmed.  My chat with Prasarn on a Bangkok ferry was an ideal
metaphor for where  Thailand  finds itself -- navigating the rough
waters of today’s global markets. While they are doing a fine
job staying afloat, Thai officials never know when and where the
next giant wave of capital will crash. Frightening, indeed.  ( William Pesek  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
 William Pesek  in Bangkok at 
 wpesek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  