-- Spain Plans Sale of 15-Year Bonds to Shorten Borrowing Needs: Euro Credit
-- B y   P a u l   D o b s o n
-- 2010-10-18T12:24:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-17/spain-plans-sale-of-15-year-bonds-to-shorten-borrowing-needs-euro-credit.html
Spain , the country with the euro
region’s highest unemployment, plans to sell 15-year debt this
week, taking advantage of a rebound in the euro-region bond
market to reduce pressure on its short-term borrowing needs.  The Iberian nation will auction bonds that mature in July
2025 for the fourth time this year, and also will sell
securities on Oct. 21 that are due in July 2032. The extra yield
that investors demand to hold 10-year Spanish debt rather than
benchmark German bunds declined to 159 basis points as of 12:36
p.m. in London, the lowest in more than two months.  Spanish bonds have added to the biggest quarterly gain
since the end of 2008 even as a jobless rate above 20 percent
crimps economic growth. The government is extending the
maturities of its debt after relying on shorter-dated securities
to raise funds as pessimism about a possible default roiled the
so-called euro peripherals.  “You do want your maturity profile to be longer, but you
don’t want to be paying over the odds for it,” said  Johan Jooste , a strategist at Bank of America Corp.’s Merrill Lynch
Global Wealth Management in London, which oversees about $1.4
trillion for clients. “Prudence suggests getting a smoother
profile is better and I think at the margin they can lengthen
out the maturity without getting punished by the market.”  Spanish, Portuguese and Greek 10-year bonds rose relative
to German bunds last week as the nations’ financial institutions
reduced their reliance on funding from the European Central
Bank, indicating the sovereign debt crisis is easing. Yields on
10-year Greek bonds remain the highest in the euro region, at
8.93 percent, 655 basis points more than German bunds.  Greece to France  Greece, Portugal, the Netherlands and Spain are selling
short-dated debt this week, while France will offer bills, notes
and index-linked bonds. Greece isn’t currently issuing bonds as
it receives financial support from the European Union and
International Monetary Fund, while Ireland has suspended sales
until the end of the year.  “They can’t indefinitely refinance debt with six-month and
one-year sales,” said  Vincent Treulet , chief strategist at
Paris-based BNP Paribas Investment Partners, which oversees 533
billion euros ($740 billion).  The  extra yield  investors demand to hold 10-year Spanish
bonds reached 221 basis points over bunds on June 16, a euro-era
record, on concern it would struggle to refinance 25 billion
euros of bills and bonds due in July. After passing that hurdle,
the yield spread narrowed.  Maturing Bonds  “You don’t want this maturity wall hitting the market
every six months,” Jooste said. “Under normal circumstances
that comes and goes without anyone taking notice, but when
you’re under the microscope it’s a different matter.”  The proportion of shorter-dated bills as a percentage of
overall Spanish debt will increase to almost 18 percent by the
end of this year from about 11 percent in 2007,  Chiara Cremonesi 
a strategist at UniCredit SpA in London, wrote in a report to
customers last week. The use of two- and three-year notes rose
to 26 percent this year from 12 percent in 2007.  Spain has almost 117 billion euros of bonds and loans
coming due in 2011, compared with 36 billion euros in Greece and
24 billion euros in Portugal, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
Spain’s gross domestic product is more than quadruple the size
of Greece and six times larger than Portugal’s economy.  “The heavy reliance on short-term funding has had an
impact on Spain refinancing risk,” Cremonesi wrote in the Oct.
13 note. “The good news in this respect is that Spain should
start lengthening its debt maturity already next year, according
to the debt agency, and likely some improvement should already
be evident this year.”  ‘Average Life’  In a presentation on the  website  of Spain’s debt agency
that was updated Oct. 8, a slide says that “lengthening the
average life of debt outstanding remains an objective.”  Spanish bonds returned 4.1 percent in the third quarter and
handed investors a 1.1 percent gain this month, according to
indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the European Federation of
Financial Analysts Societies. Debt maturing in 10 years or more
gained 1.6 percent this month, compared with a 0.55 percent
increase for notes due in one to three years, the indexes show.
German bonds were little changed for the month.  Spain is battling to slash the third-largest budget deficit
in the euro region without strangling the recovery. Prime
Minister  Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero , facing a decline in
popular support and opposition from unions, has cut public
workers’ wages, increased value-added tax, and frozen pensions
for next year in a bid to stem borrowing costs.  Avoiding Peripherals  The government has forecast that GDP will decline 0.3
percent in 2010. Spain’s unemployment rate, at 20.5 percent in
August, remains the highest in Europe.  “We’ve got through the big funding humps this year, but we
haven’t seen the end of volatility in peripheral Europe,” said
 Tom Sartain , a fund manager at London-based Schroders Plc, which
doesn’t own Spanish, Greek, Irish or Portuguese securities among
its government bond holdings. “These countries face a mammoth
task implementing their austerity programs while still
generating GDP growth. We need to see this can be done before
we’d be convinced to invest.”  Credit-default swaps insuring Spain’s government debt cost
196 basis points on Oct. 15, while insurance on German debt was
32 basis points and 681 basis points for Greece, according to
data provider CMA.  Spain plans to sell 192 billion euros of bills and bonds
next year, according to budget documents presented to the
nation’s parliament on Sept. 30. The nation’s debt was 53
percent of GDP in 2009, compared with 64 percent in Ireland, 115
percent in Greece, 77 percent in Portugal and 116 percent in
Italy, according to EU data.  Spain’s  IBEX 35 Index  of equities has dropped 9.5 percent
this year, compared with a 4.8 percent gain for the Stoxx Europe
600 Index of shares.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Paul Dobson  in London at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  