-- U.K. to Press Ahead With Two Aircraft Carriers Amid 8% Defense Budget Cut
-- B y   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n
-- 2010-10-17T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-17/u-k-to-press-ahead-with-two-aircraft-carriers-even-as-costs-cut-fox-says.html
Defense Secretary  Liam Fox  said the
U.K. will press ahead with building two aircraft carriers,
though he declined to say which type of plane they will carry,
amid the biggest government spending squeeze since World War II.  “There is a very good reason to have carrier strike; it’s
about whether we can project air power where we will need it,”
Fox told BBC1 television’s “Politics Show” yesterday. “The
one thing we can be sure about a carrier is that it is a bit of
sovereign territory.”  The defense ministry will have to cut its budget by 7
percent to 8 percent, a person involved in the discussions said.
That represents a victory for Fox after Chancellor of the
Exchequer  George Osborne  asked for reductions of as much as 20
percent. The U.S. said last week it was concerned the squeeze
might damage NATO’s fighting abilities.  The carriers will be built by a group including  BAE Systems
Plc , Babcock International Group Plc and Thales SA at a cost of
4.9 billion pounds ($7.8 billion). Fox wouldn’t specify which
variant of  Lockheed Martin Corp. ’s F-35 Joint Strike Fighter
will be chosen to fly from the carriers, a decision that affects
the ship’s cost, depending on whether more expensive planes that
can take off over a short distance are used.  “It would have been more expensive to get out of the
contract than to sustain it, but that is not to say there is not
utility in it,” Fox said.  Job Losses  Prime Minister  David Cameron  will give details of cuts to
weapons programs to help tackle the  record budget deficit  and
redefine military needs for the post-Cold War era when he
announces the results tomorrow of a review of Britain’s
strategic defense capability. As many as 25,000 defense-ministry
civil servants may lose their jobs, the person said.  “In terms of the new carriers that we are having, there
will be new aircraft to launch the new carriers when the new
carriers are built,” Fox said, dismissing suggestions that new
planes might be delayed. “We are looking to the United States
to the F-35, the Joint Strike Fighter, to be sure that we have
proper interoperability with the United States. There are a lot
of questions about which type, which variant.”  Harrier jump jets, made by Boeing Co. and London-based BAE,
might be retired early under the plans, said the person, who
declined to be identified because the talks are confidential.  Cameron personally intervened in the negotiations late on
Oct. 16 to ensure the defense ministry had a budget it could
work with, the person said.  ‘Ghastly Legacy’  “It is always helpful to have the prime minister on your
side when you get into any spending round,” Fox said. “It’s
not a matter of winning or losing. Everybody in the country is
having to undergo reductions in spending because of what we
inherited. We were left a ghastly economic legacy by Labour,”
which ruled for 13 years until losing the May 6 election.  Troop numbers will inevitably fall in future, Fox said,
giving no further detail.  Osborne will give details of cuts to most other ministries’
spending on Oct. 20, a day after the defense announcement.  The dispute over the military budget has been the most
public within Cameron’s coalition, with Fox dubbing it a “soap
opera.” Fox told the premier in a letter leaked last month that
deep cuts while Britain is at war in Afghanistan would hurt
soldiers’ morale.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kitty Donaldson  in London at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net . 