-- U.S. Didn't Have Advance Warning of Mumbai Terrorist Attack, Officials Say
-- B y   J e f f   P l u n g i s   a n d   J i m   S n y d e r
-- 2010-10-17T22:19:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-17/u-s-didn-t-have-advance-warning-of-mumbai-terrorist-attack-officials-say.html
The U.S. regularly provided
intelligence on threats to the Indian government before the 2008
terrorist plot in Mumbai and didn’t have information that would
have prevented the attacks, U.S. officials said.  “The United States regularly provided threat information
to Indian officials in 2008 before the attacks in Mumbai,” said
 Michael Hammer , spokesman for the National Security Council.
“Had we known about the timing and other specifics related to
the Mumbai attacks, we would have immediately shared those
details with the government of India.”  One of David C. Headley’s three wives had warned federal
investigators in New York in 2005 that he was training in
Pakistan with Lashkar-e-Taiba, the militant group that later
carried out the attack in Mumbai,  ProPublica  reported Oct. 15.
The three-day siege left 166 people dead.  In the three years between the warning and the attack,
Headley was sent by the group, Lashkar-e-Taiba on reconnaissance
missions around the world, ProPublica, a nonprofit investigative
journalism website, reported.  Faiza Outalha, a 27-year-old Moroccan woman also believed
to be Headley’s wife, told American authorities in Pakistan in
2007 that she believed her husband was a member of Lashkar-e-
Taiba and was plotting an attack, the New York Times reported
today.  Headley has pleaded guilty to plotting the attack in a U.S.
federal court. In 2008, Headley was operating as chief
reconnaissance scout for the group, setting the stage for the
Mumbai killings, according to the Times.  Solemn Duty  “It is our government’s solemn duty to notify other
nations of possible terrorist actions on their soil,” State
Department spokesman  Noel Clay  said in an interview.  U.S. authorities took the warnings of Headley’s former
wives seriously, according to an administration official. The
information was general and didn’t suggest any particular
terrorist plot, the official said.  The New York Joint Terrorism Task Force acted on
information provided by Headley’s American wife in 2005, which
included allegations of domestic abuse, the official said. The
task force couldn’t link the other information to a specific
threat, the official said.  India has accused the Pakistan Inter-Services Intelligence
Directorate, that country’s military spy agency, of running the
November 2008 Lashkar-e-Taiba attack that killed 166 people in
Mumbai, citing Indian investigators’ interrogation of Pakistani-
American Headley.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jeff Plungis  in Washington at 
 jplungis@bloomberg.net ;
 Jim Snyder  in Washington at 
 jsnyder24@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva@bloomberg.net  