-- Water Authority to Study Social, Economic Effects of Murray Basin Plan
-- B y   J a c o b   G r e b e r
-- 2010-10-17T05:31:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-17/water-authority-to-study-social-economic-effects-of-murray-basin-plan.html
Australia will study the social and
economic effects of a plan to cut irrigation by as much as 37
percent in the Murray-Darling Basin, which accounts for almost
half the nation’s farms, after protests from local communities.  “Over the last few days, we’ve heard loud and clear the
call by regional communities across the basin for further,
updated research into the local community effects of the
proposed basin plan,” Murray-Darling Basin  Authority  Chairman
Michael Taylor said today in an e-mailed statement from Canberra.
The new study is scheduled for completion by March 15.  Some 5,000 farmers and locals confronted water officials in
the New South Wales town of Griffith on Oct. 14 where boxes of
the authority’s  report  were thrown on a bonfire, the Australian
Broadcasting Corp. reported. Water Minister  Tony Burke  said
today that any final water plan will need approval from
parliament, where the government needs the support of a Green
Party lawmaker and three independents from farming districts.  The authority, which manages water resources in an area
almost 1-1/2 times the size of Texas, recommended this month
that the government buy as much as 4,000 gigaliters of water
from irrigators and divert it to the river system. About 93
percent of Australia’s fresh food comes from the region, which
accounts for A$15 billion ($14.9 billion) of Australian crop and
livestock exports, according to government figures.  “The one thing I’m determined we don’t end up with is a
situation where we decide it’s all too hard and we end up with
no reform or something gets signed off by me and then gets
knocked over in the parliament,” Burke told the Australian
Broadcasting Corp.’s Insiders program.  The authority’s study will “consider the range of likely
negative and positive human, social, financial and economic
implications of the proposed basin plan,” the statement said.  To contact the reporter for this story:
 Jacob Greber  in Sydney at 
 jgreber@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  