-- Yankees Lose to Rangers, Giants Top Phillies as Castoffs Shine in Playoffs
-- B y   R o b   G l o s t e r
-- 2010-10-17T05:17:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-17/yankees-lose-to-rangers-giants-top-phillies-as-castoffs-shine-in-playoffs.html
The Texas Rangers held on to a big
lead this time against the Yankees, sending the American League
Championship Series to New York with the teams tied 1-1.  In the opening game of the National League Championship
Series,  Tim Lincecum  outpitched  Roy Halladay  and  Cody Ross  hit
two solo home runs as the San Francisco Giants won 4-3 last
night at the Philadelphia Phillies.  It was a night for players rejected by other teams.
Midseason castoffs Ross and  Pat Burrell  had crucial hits for the
Giants, and  Colby Lewis  -- who was dumped by three Major League
Baseball teams in 2007 and then spent 2008-2009 in Japan -- got
the win for Texas against the Yankees.  “We have some characters here, whether you want to call
them castoffs or misfits,” Giants manager  Bruce Bochy  said of
his roster. “I compare them to the Dirty Dozen. That’s the way
they play, but they’ve coalesced into a team that goes out
there to win.”  The Rangers, who blew a five-run lead in Game 1 against
the Yankees, took a five-run lead again yesterday and went on
to win 7-2 for the first postseason home victory in club
history.  Game 3 in the best-of-seven series is set for tomorrow
night, with the Rangers’  Cliff Lee  facing the Yankees’  Andy Pettitte  in a battle of left-handed starters.  The Rangers entered the game with a 0-7 record at home in
the postseason and a 10-game postseason losing streak to the
Yankees -- who defeated Texas in the AL playoffs in 1996, 1998
and 1999.  “We just knew what we needed to do,” Lewis, who allowed
two runs in 5 2/3 innings, said in a news conference. “We had
two games here at home. We just needed to come out today and
split and go back to their place, plain and simple.”  Lewis’s Long Journey  Lewis, 31, has had a long journey from first-round draft
choice of the Rangers in 1999 to a postseason winner. He was
waived by the Rangers in 2004 after having rotator cuff
surgery, and then released or waived by the Washington
Nationals, Oakland Athletics and Kansas City Royals in 2007. He
then spent two seasons in Japan with the Hiroshima Toyo Carp
before rejoining the Rangers.  Texas opened the scoring in the first inning when  Elvis Andrus  reached base on an infield single, moved to second on a
wild pitch by  Phil Hughes  and then stole third and home -- the
latter swipe coming as part of a double steal.  The Rangers added two runs in the second inning on a solo
home run by  David Murphy  and a run-scoring double by  Michael Young . They made it 5-0 in the third on RBI doubles by Murphy
and  Bengie Molina .  NY Starters Struggling  Hughes, who won 18 games during the regular season,
allowed seven runs on 10 hits and three walks in four innings.
The night before, New York starter  CC Sabathia  allowed five
runs on six hits and four walks in four innings.  “Our starters have not pitched well so far,” Yankees
manager  Joe Girardi  said in a news conference. “I believe in
our guys and I believe that they will pitch well as we continue
forward here.”  New York scored its first run in the fourth inning on a
run-scoring single by  Lance Berkman , only to have Texas respond
with two runs in the fifth on an RBI triple by  Ian Kinsler  and
a run-scoring single by  Mitch Moreland .  The Yankees’  Robinson Cano  hit a solo home run, his second
in as many games, in the sixth to make it 7-2.  Neither team scored after the sixth inning, leaving the
Yankees with a 16-0 cumulative advantage in runs starting in
the seventh inning in the 12 playoff games between the teams.
That includes a 12-inning game in 1996.  Rangers Rebound  The Rangers also had a 5-0 lead in Game 1, only to have
the Yankees score one in the seventh inning and five in the
eighth to win 6-5.  “When you get to this point of the season, you can’t let
one night affect the next,” Rangers manager  Ron Washington 
said in a news conference. “That’s what it’s all about.”  In Philadelphia, Halladay extended his streak of not
allowing a postseason hit through seven Giants batters before
Ross homered to left field in the third inning.  Carlos Ruiz 
responded in the bottom of the inning for the Phillies with a
leadoff home run off Lincecum, the two-time reigning Cy Young
Award winner as the NL’s best pitcher.  Ross, who was waived by the Florida Marlins in mid-August
and taken by the Giants, hit another home run into the left-
field stands in the fifth. San Francisco made it 4-1 in the
sixth on an RBI double by Burrell, who was released by the
Tampa Bay Rays in mid-May, and a run-scoring single by  Juan Uribe .  ‘Dream Come True’  “Two months ago, I was down in South Florida and I
thought my season’s about to end, I’m going to be on the couch
watching the playoffs,” Ross said. “And next thing I know, I
got the opportunity to come over here. And it’s just been a
dream come true.”  Jayson Werth  hit a two-run home run in the bottom of the
sixth to pull the Phillies within a run.  Lincecum gave up three runs on six hits in seven innings
and struck out eight hitters. Halladay allowed four runs on
eight hits in seven innings, striking out seven.  Jonathan Sanchez  will start for the Giants tonight in Game
2 of the series against Philadelphia’s  Roy Oswalt .  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rob Gloster  in San Francisco at 
 rgloster@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  