-- Youku Transcends YouTube as China Becomes Center of Internet
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-10-17T16:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-17/youku-transcends-youtube-as-internet-s-center-of-gravity-shifts-to-china.html
Youku.com Inc.  Chief Executive
Officer  Victor Koo  says he’s tired of being asked whether his
company, China’s biggest online-video provider, is the nation’s
version of YouTube or Hulu. It’s both and better, he says.  “We are in the midst of an arguably more interesting
opportunity: Hulu at a YouTube scale,” Koo, 44, said in an
interview. “The  Internet  TV opportunity in China is unique and
also arguably more attractive than the rest of the world.”  Koo is among dot-com executives gathering in Beijing today
and tomorrow to sell the idea that Chinese online services from
Youku to  Tencent Holdings Ltd. ’s QQ are catching up to the world
and western companies will soon turn to  China  for innovation.
Their edge in detecting trends: an Internet population of 420
million, more than the number of people in the U.S. and Germany.  “The Internet’s center of gravity is shifting toward
China,” said  Duncan Clark , chairman of BDA China in Beijing, a
technology consultant. “China has almost double the number of
U.S. Internet subscribers. That concentration matters.”  Xu Rongsheng , 63, agrees. The  Institute of High Energy
Physics  researcher, credited by the government with setting up
the nation’s first website in 1994, said China has a chance to
influence usage in the rest of the world.  “We cannot live without the Internet,” Xu said in an
interview. “The Internet is like life.”  Some investors may already be ahead of the curve. Tencent
and Baidu Inc., China’s largest Internet companies, are larger
than  EBay Inc.  and  Yahoo! Inc.  by market value. Alibaba Group
Holding Ltd.’s  Alibaba.com  unit is also among the 10 biggest
Internet companies globally by market capitalization.  Tencent’s QQ  While Google Inc. and Yahoo have struggled to operate in
China, where the government requires Web content to be censored,
domestic companies such as Tencent have thrived.  Tencent expanded its QQ online-chat software to offer
additional features that appeal to youths, helping it beat
services from Skype Technologies SA and  Microsoft Corp. ,
according to  Jake Li , an Internet analyst at Guotai Junan
Securities Co. QQ boomed after Tencent allowed messages to be
sent to offline users and allowed subscribers to send files and
photos, he said.  QQ controlled 77 percent of China’s instant-messaging
market as of December, compared with 4.2 percent for Microsoft’s
MSN, according to researcher Analysys International.  Taobao.com, China’s biggest online-shopping site, overtook
San Jose, California-based EBay within three years of its
founding in 2003 by waiving commissions from transactions
between its users. The approach by Taobao appealed more to
China’s cost-conscious Internet users, according to James
Hawkins, managing director at  DGM Asia , which buys advertising
from Internet companies in China.  Expanding to the U.S.  Taobao’s parent,  Alibaba , is expanding outside China. In
August the company announced its second U.S. acquisition this
year when it agreed to buy Auctiva.  While the number of so-called “netizens” trumps those of
any other country, Chinese Internet companies have yet to become
household names, according to BDA’s Clark.  “Tencent is among the largest Internet companies in the
world but most people outside of China haven’t even heard of
it,” said Clark, who will be joining Koo as a speaker at the
Stanford University-sponsored conference in Beijing,
“China 2.0: The Rise of a Digital Superpower.”  China also trails the U.S. in revenue. Sales from online
advertising reached 20.7 billion yuan ($3.1 billion) last year,
according to data from Beijing-based iResearch Inc. By
comparison, ZenithOptimedia estimates U.S. Internet
advertisements in 2009 were valued at $54.2 billion.  Trailing in Innovation  China lags behind the U.S. in terms of educational and
social conditions to foster innovation, said Mark Natkin,
managing director of Marbridge Consulting Ltd., a Beijing-based
market research firm. Still, its Internet population guarantees
China will impact the Web’s future, he said.  For Youku’s Koo, Chinese Internet companies are developing
superior business models to their counterparts in the U.S. and
Europe.  Youku’s business model combines the strengths of YouTube
and Hulu, Koo said. About 70 percent of the videos on Youku’s
site are professionally produced, and the rest are user-
generated. Whereas U.S. video sites are dominated by music
videos and short clips, about 60 percent of Youku’s content is
longer, such as movies, he said.  Different Model  Hulu LLC, founded in 2007 by  General Electric Co. ’s NBC
Universal and  News Corp. ’s Fox, doesn’t have enough users to
challenge YouTube, while YouTube lacks professional content
because it’s dominated by user-generated videos, Koo said.
YouTube, owned by Google, is inaccessible in China.  YouTube aims to be a comprehensive global video site that
allows everyone to broadcast their work to the world and also
offers premium content from media companies, said David Marx, a
YouTube spokesman.  As Chinese Internet companies find unique strategies that
work, they will be adopted by competitors elsewhere, Koo said.  “In the early days China lagged years behind the U.S. or
Europe,” Koo said. “Now we see an environment where
information is transferred so quickly, that models and ideas
about models get transferred on almost real time basis.”  -- Edmond Lococo  in Beijing,  Mark Lee  in Hong Kong. Editor:
 Young-Sam Cho ,  Lena Lee   To contact Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Edmond Lococo in Beijing at +86-10-6649-7507 or
 elococo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at   ycho2@bloomberg.net  