-- Moody's may downgrade A$83 billion of Australian RMBS
-- By  Cecile Lefort
-- Sun Feb 3, 2008 10:34pm EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2008/02/04/businesspro-australia-rmbs-dc-idUSSYD9782020080204

 

 SYDNEY  (Reuters) - Moody's Investors Service may downgrade 
A$83 billion ($75.5 billion) worth of Australian 
mortgage-backed debt, in the latest spillover from the U.S. 
subprime crisis. 

  Moody's said on Monday it had taken the action after 
placing U.S. bond insurer PMI Mortgage Insurance Ltd on watch 
for a possible downgrade following rising loan losses in the 
United States.  Since PMI has an Australian operation that guarantees 
residential mortgage-backed securities (RMBS), some 325 
tranches from 144 Australian issues were automatically put on 
watch.  While the action was not seen as an indicator of rising 
risk in the Australian RMBS market, which has never seen a 
default, it could scare away already skittish investors.  "It's not good news for new RMBS issues because investors 
are already suspicious of structured finance ratings including 
subordinated insured tranches," said David Goode, portfolio 
manager at Challenger Financial Services Group.  "It's not good for overall RMBS market sentiment and 
liquidity," he said.  Australia has the world's fourth largest RMBS market, with 
total outstanding issues of A$173 billion.  Moody's said the review would take up to three months.  Still, market participants emphasized Moody's action did 
not reflect a weakness in the Australian housing market, which 
in fact remains strong.  Government data out on Monday showed house prices in 
Australia's major cities rose by 12.3 percent in 2007, in 
contrast to the United States where prices are falling at 
record rates.  According to Standard & Poor's latest statistics, the real 
level of loans in arrears in Australia actually fell marginally 
in October. Loans with arrears greater than 30 days were a tiny 
1.04 percent in October, according to S&P.  Unlike in the UK or the U.S., Australian prime RMBS are 
insured by mortgage insurers, giving investors greater security 
but also a lower return.  PMI is one of two major mortgage insurers in Australia. 
Genworth Financial Mortgage Insurance, whose Aa2 ratings were 
affirmed by Moody's last week, is the other.  Moody's said there was a very small likelihood that PMI 
would default on its debt and any ratings downgrade did not 
necessarily mean investors would lose money.  "A number of things would have to go wrong for Australian 
RMBS note holders to loose their investments," said Henry 
Charpentier, managing director of structured finance at 
Moody's.  "We are talking about a distant default."  The chain of events that would lead to a loss for RMBS 
investors would need to start with a much higher number of 
mortgage defaults in the securitized pool.  Moody's said that depending on the proportion of loans 
insured by PMI, their seasoning (time since issue) and other 
structural features, a number of these transactions may see 
their ratings confirmed on the conclusion of the review 
process.  (Editing by  Jonathan Standing )  (cecile.lefort@reuters.com; +612-9373-1234; Reuters 
Messaging: cecile.lefort.reuters.com@reuters.net))