-- Fed officials stay focused on inflation risks
-- By  Alister Bull
-- Thu Apr 26, 2007 10:05pm EDT
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2007/04/27/businesspro-usa-fed-dc-idUSN2642988620070427

 

 AUSTIN, Texas  (Reuters) - Inflationary pressures in the 
U.S. economy are likely to ebb but there is not enough proof in 
the data so far to feel reassured, Federal Reserve officials 
said on Thursday. 

  And with risks to both inflation and growth on the rise, 
policy-makers gave no indication they plan a change to the 
Fed's steady-as-she-goes stance on interest rates.  "The best course for policy is watchful waiting," San 
Francisco Fed President Janet Yellen said late on Thursday in a 
speech to the Money Marketeers of New York University.  "The current stance of policy is likely to foster 
sustainable growth with a gradual ebbing of inflation over 
time. However, the inflation risks are skewed to the upside," 
Yellen said.  Earlier, Richard Fisher, the Dallas Fed president, told a 
group of investment advisers in Austin that he wants to see 
"verified" a reduction in inflation trends and expectations.  Fisher and Yellen spoke less than two weeks before the next 
scheduled meeting of the U.S. central bank's policy-setting 
Federal Open Market Committee on May 9. Neither is a voting 
member of the FOMC this year.  Financial markets expect the Fed to hold its benchmark fed 
funds rate at 5.25 percent at least through its May and June 
meetings. The FOMC last raised interest rates in June 2006.
  AWASH IN MONEY  Fisher said there was plenty of liquidity in the global 
economy and that accounted for the shape of the so-called yield 
curve, which measures the relative risks investors see between 
short- and long-term securities.  In the past, an inverted yield curve -- in which rates on 
long-term securities are lower than those on short-term 
securities -- has been associated with a heightened risk of 
recession, but Fisher and Yellen both played down that concern.  The yield curve currently is virtually flat.  "Declines in risk premia are ... understandable against the 
background of sustained, robust growth worldwide, the 
concomitant reduction in volatility of the global 
macro-economy, and less inflation risk," Fisher said.  Fisher also played down worry that rising mortgage 
defaults, a spinoff from problems in the subprime mortgage 
market that services the riskiest borrowers, could tip the 
economy into recession.  "I don't think it will pose the kind of systemic risk that 
we are paid to worry about," Fisher said. "There are offsetting 
forces that will continue to carry the economy forward, at a 
slower pace, but keeping us from slipping into recession."  Default rates on subprime loans for borrowers with tainted 
credit have soared, and dozens of subprime lenders have gone 
out of business this year.  Yellen said the problems with subprime mortgages raise 
issues for bank regulators but were unlikely to have a big 
effect on the overall U.S. economy.  "My best guess is that real GDP will pick up a bit in 
2007," she said.  Still, Yellen said the housing downturn would affect 
economic growth for a while.  "I still see a substantial drag from housing" on the 
economy, she later said in a question-and-answer session.  Yellen also spoke at length about the potential that trend 
productivity growth in the U.S. economy might have slowed, with 
wide-ranging implications for the jobs market, business 
investment, trend GDP growth and the rate of inflation.  "The implication for inflation is that real GDP would have 
to grow at a slower rate than we previously thought was 
necessary to generate more slack," she said.
  THIS JUST IN - TRADE PROMOTES REFORM  Fed Governor Frederic Mishkin, also speaking on Thursday, 
steered clear of any comment on current economic conditions and 
monetary policy in speech on globalization to the International 
Monetary Fund.  Mishkin reprised a familiar theme that freer trade will 
help promote financial reform in key economies, including 
China's, and that it is in the global economy's best interest 
for rich countries to keep markets open to emerging economies.  "We are seeing how the globalization of trade is driving 
financial reform in China," Mishkin said. "Although it has 
taken time, globalization is helping to generate the demand for 
an improved financial system, which is driving the reform 
process."  (To access other stories on Fed policy click on  <FED/AHEAD>)  (Additional reporting by  Mark Felsenthal  in Washington and 
Tamawa Kadoya in New York)