-- Barnard College's Bunker Replaced by Elegant Student Center
-- James S. Russell
-- 2010-02-08T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-02-08/barnard-college-s-bunker-replaced-by-elegant-student-center.html

          
          
             You could walk by the new Diana
Center at Barnard College without noticing it.  
 That's good news: here's a seven-story glass box wedged
into a tiny four-acre campus crammed with brick-and-stone Ivy
League knockoffs.  
 Barnard, the 2,300-student, 120-year-old women's college,
did not merely replace its student center, a concrete pillbox
that symbolized the need to ward off the menace of New York in
the declining 1960s.  
 This new Diana Center is meant to engage with the life of
the city along a stretch of scrappy Broadway with Parisian
pretensions that runs up to Barnard from 72nd Street. (The name
evokes the Roman goddess considered a protector of women, while
honoring lead donor Diana T. Vagelos, who, with her husband Roy,
made a $15 million gift.)  
 The new $70 million center, which opened Feb. 3, is almost
five times the size of the old one, but its long, wedge-shaped
form makes Lehman Lawn, Barnard's only bit of green, feel more
generous. Its angled campus-side wall extends the lawn in a
terrace to the stout bulk of Milbank Hall, which anchors the
north end of the campus, but which was obscured by the old
student center.  
 Wife and husband architects Marion Weiss and Michael
Manfredi wrestled an unwieldy mix of requirements into the
glass-wrapped seven stories. This isn't the sleek, chilly
surface of modernist cliche.  
 High Salons  
 Most of the glass panels are coppery toned and softly
opaque. The color seeps into polished clear panels, where it 
wispily dissolves. It's just an etched pattern, but you might
think wood shutters had been left standing partly open inside.
The illusion evokes the comfortable texture of the surrounding
brick and carved stone without imitating its lifeless stolidity.  
 On the Broadway side, four high salons stair-step up the
length of the building, opening a dramatic diagonal vista. Only
clear glass panels divide a cafe at ground level (that spills
out to the lawn) from the dining room one level up, then a
reading room and gallery at the top.  
 Fort Barnard has lowered its defenses in lovely contrast to
Columbia University's brawny neo-Renaissance fortifications
across the street.  
 On the Diana's inward-facing side, wedges of clear glass
pop out of the coppery box, showing off stairways that weave
like waterfalls around classrooms, studios, offices and student
clubs. The stairs empty into ponds of informal gathering space
at each level, aglow with daylight pinstriped by the etched
glass that wraps the inner walls of the salons.  
 Roof Plantings  
 Weiss and Manfredi encourage an easy sociability by mixing
rather than neatly separating disciplines. They tucked a
general-use classroom up high, near the architecture studio.  
 Environmental-education students tend roof plantings. Dance
and theater mavens share a 100-seat black box theater
underground. A basement wood-paneled oval, called the Forum,
hosts parties when it is not seating 500 for lectures and
discussions. The Diana Center begs comparison to 41 Cooper
Square, the aggressively undulating building by Morphosis that
the Cooper Union opened in the East Village last year.  
 Both take aim at the problem of tall academic buildings
that smother social spontaneity as they convey people
mechanistically on elevators and down bleak hallways to their
designated slot.  
 At Cooper, an elaborately expressionistic stair lunges to
and fro from one department to the next like an architectural
bull in a China shop. This roguery is exciting, while the Diana
Center's low-key invitation grows on you. It enfolds its rich
experiences in radiance rather than theatricality.  
 Below the Radar  
 I'm not surprised. In Seattle, Weiss and Manfredi created
an Olympic Sculpture Park that took the city skyline, gorgeous
harbor views, a railroad trunk line, and a busy arterial and
effortlessly united them into a place that's great for looking
at art.  
 The Diana Center so clearly belongs at Barnard that it is
easy to take it for granted, which may be why Weiss and Manfredi
fly below the celebrity-architect radar. I don't know how they
do it, except to suspect, as a teacher with Buddhist leanings
once told me, "you must sometimes strive to be non-striving."  
 (James S. Russell is Bloomberg's U.S. architecture critic.
The opinions expressed are his own.)  
 To contact the writer of this column:
James S. Russell in New York at 
 jamesrussell@earthlink.net .  
          
          


  


        