-- Billionaire Koch Expects More Fake-Wine Lawsuits in 2010
-- Elin McCoy
-- 2010-02-08T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-02-08/billionaire-koch-expects-more-fake-wine-lawsuits-in-2010.html

          
          
             I think of the past 10 years as the
counterfeit-wine decade.  
 While the number of fakes began exploding in the mid-1990s,
the problem was only widely acknowledged a few years ago and
promises to heat up even more in 2010, partly thanks to
billionaire collector William I. Koch.  
 In the past 3 1/2 years, Koch, founder and president of
Florida-based Oxbow Group, has sued auction houses, collectors,
a retailer and a wine importing company, saying all of them sold
wines to him that turned out to be fakes.  
 “The sun is shining here,” he said by phone from his Palm
Beach home, where he keeps his 40,000-bottle cellar. “But my
lawsuits are grinding out at a slow pace.”  
 All have yet to come to trial. Some allegations of auction-
house fraud and negligent misrepresentation were dismissed
because the sale catalogs contain broad disclaimers that the
wine is auctioned “as is” and Koch didn’t inspect the bottles
before the sales, according to court documents. Other claims of
his remain to be decided. No court has yet judged any of the
wines fake.  
 The collector said he has rejected offers from several
defendants to return his money -- he wants to force auction
houses to change the way they do business, obtain punitive
damages, and even see a couple of people go to jail.  
 “I’m gearing up to file more in 2010,” said the 69-year-
old, sounding charged up at the prospect. Koch’s litigious
history includes lawsuits against his brothers over a 20-year
period.  
 Thomas Jefferson’s Wine  
 His wine-based suits started in 2006, when he filed a
complaint on Aug. 31 against German wine dealer and former pop
music manager Hardy Rodenstock, who sold wines he claimed had
once belonged to Thomas Jefferson. Koch says the “Jefferson
bottles” he purchased from retailers supplied by Rodenstock are
counterfeits.  
 Koch’s initial lawsuit was dismissed as the judge ruled the
court lacked jurisdiction to try it. Koch refiled two amended
complaints in 2008. The wines were authenticated, Rodenstock
said in letters to Koch that were attached to the refiled suit.  
 In 2007, Koch sued Internet entrepreneur and wine collector
Eric Greenberg and Scarsdale, New York-based Zachys Wine
Auctions. Koch claims 19 wines he purchased -- 11 of them
consigned by Greenberg -- were or might be fakes, and that
Greenberg knew his wines weren’t genuine.  
 Charity Wine Tasting  
 Anthony Coles, Greenberg’s attorney, said in an e-mail that
the allegations in Koch’s lawsuit are false and that Koch had
declined the offer of a full refund and a charity wine-tasting
to benefit children.  
 In March 2008, Koch sued the Chicago Wine Co. and Chicago-
based Julienne Importing Co. and a month later went after New
York auction house Acker Merrall & Condit, accusing all of them
of selling him fakes.  
 Acker auction director John Kapon and Devin Warner,
president of Chicago Wine Co. said in phone calls they couldn’t
comment on the cases. James Ricker, owner of Julienne Importing
Co., didn’t respond to a phone message asking for comment. Jeff
Zacharia, president of Zachys, didn’t respond to a phone call or
e-mail seeking comment.  
 “It’s a bigger story than an actual problem,” Kapon said.  
 Last September, Koch filed suit against Los Angeles-based
collector Rudy Kurniawan, claiming he was the consignor of five
counterfeits Koch bought at Acker. Kurniawan hasn’t denied the
claim in any court papers and didn’t return phone calls seeking
comment.  
 Experts Search  
 Altogether, Koch’s complaints include more than 40 bottles
for which he paid almost $1 million. He estimates he’s spent
about $5 million in legal fees and on gathering evidence. Two
wine experts he hired turned up several hundred suspect bottles
in his own collection, he said. That works out to about 1
percent of Koch’s 40,000 bottles.  
 “Every wine I’ve bought at a charity auction is fake, I
think,” he said, chuckling. “I haven’t decided what to do
about that.”  
 Coordinating all this is Koch’s representative Brad
Goldstein, who says he’s contacted other collectors, asking them
to work with Koch. “I can think of four CEOs whose cellars are
inundated with fakes,” Goldstein said. “But we’ve been told
they don’t want to get involved.”  
 It’s easy to see why. Prominent people have reasons to
maintain their privacy. As a consequence, wine industry insiders
can only guess at how big the problem is.  
 “Counterfeits have become more sophisticated in the past
decade,” said Jamie Ritchie, Sotheby’s senior vice president of
wine, North America. “Distribution is broader. In the 1990s we
saw mostly Bordeaux. Now it’s Burgundy, too.”  
 Suspect Burgundies  
 At an April 2008 Acker sale, 22 lots of Domaine Ponsot
Burgundies consigned by Kurniawan were pulled when Laurent
Ponsot questioned their authenticity. Ever since, Ponsot has
been sleuthing to find the ultimate source of these wines.  
 Russell H. Frye, who settled his own wine-fraud lawsuit
against a California retailer out of court in 2008, said he sees
new fake-wine players at every level.  
 “Some auction houses are less willing to offer
questionable bottles due in part to the threat of criminal
prosecution and civil litigation,” Frye said in an e-mail. Two
years ago Frye started Web site wineauthentication.com as a
place where wine lovers could report and discuss counterfeits.  
 Another effect of Koch’s lawsuits, said Marc Lazar,
president of St.-Louis-based Cellar Advisors LLC, “is that
vendors are now incredibly accommodating about reimbursement if
a collector thinks a bottle he’s purchased is fake. The word
counterfeit is radioactive.”  
 But what happens to bottles clients have returned? “That’s
ultimately Koch’s point,” Lazar said. “Unscrupulous merchants
just sell to someone else.”  
 Gray Market  
 Lazar said he sees fewer counterfeits at high profile
retailers and auction houses, but that they flourish on the so-
called gray market, where brokers with little or no stock buy
and sell wines held by others.  
 These days everyone in the fine-wine business has at least
one fake-wine story.  
 Everett Love, managing partner of Carlsbad, California-
based RL Liquid Assets Llc, bought 6 bottles of 1982 Chateau
Lafite-Rothschild last year from a Los Angeles broker who’d
bought it from another broker in the Bay Area. Love sent them to
a client in China, who pulled off the loose capsule on a bottle
and discovered the cork was stamped 1981, a vintage that sells
for a quarter of the price of the 1982. Love set about getting
his money back and trying to track down the source of the wine.  
 “I believe there is a network in the Bay Area faking
wine,” he said in a phone interview.  
 “The joy and anticipation has been sucked out of old, rare
wines like 1921 Chateau Cheval Blanc,” said Robert Schagrin,
managing partner of New York’s Crush Wine company, said in a
phone interview. I told him I’d never tasted that vintage.  
 “Neither have I,” Schagrin said. “Though I drank a
bottle that had the label.”  
 (Elin McCoy writes on wine and spirits for Bloomberg News.
The opinions expressed are her own.)  
 To contact the writer of the story:
Elin McCoy at  elinmccoy@gmail.com .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     William Koch, wine collector and founder/president of the Oxbow Group, in his Palm Beach, Florida, library. Since Aug. 31, 2006, billionaire Koch has filed lawsuits claiming collectors, auction houses, a retailer and an importing company have sold him fake wines. Source: William Koch via Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
