-- U.S. Losing AAA Is Way to Rein in Pelosi, Reid: David Reilly
-- David Reilly
-- 2010-02-09T02:00:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-02-08/u-s-losing-aaa-is-way-to-rein-in-pelosi-reid-david-reilly.html

          
          
             When it comes to America’s AAA debt
rating, we have to ask whether we would be better off without
it.  
 That notion is pure heresy, and Treasury Secretary  Timothy Geithner  was quick this weekend to try and dispel any thought
that the U.S. would ever be in for a downgrade.  
 “That will never happen to this country,” Geithner said
during an interview with ABC News. The remark came after Moody’s
Investors Service last week said the pristine U.S. rating will
come under pressure unless something is done about mounting
deficits.  
 Geithner shouldn’t have fought Moody’s report. He should
have embraced it. What better way to impress upon Congress that
the U.S. is very much in crisis and needs to face up to its
problems.  
 That reality has yet to set in on Capitol Hill. Two weeks
ago, for example, the Senate shot down a proposal to create a
deficit-reduction commission. The measure failed because the
Left worries such a committee will cut spending, while the Right
is afraid it will call for tax hikes.  
 So no spending cuts or tax hikes, which is what we need --
just deficits as far as the eye can see. Let’s break out the
fiddles already and watch Rome burn.  
 This is why concerns over the so-called PIGS -- Portugal,
Ireland, Greece and Spain -- or those on the geographic and
economic periphery of the European Union are really a sideshow.
The real danger to markets lies with the DOLTS, or Dangerously
Over-Leveraged Triple-A Superpowers.  
 That club currently consists of the U.S.  
 Let’s Pretend  
 So far, membership has allowed the U.S. and its elected
representatives to pretend urgent action isn’t needed. After
all, DOLTS have the world’s reserve  currency  and nukes.  
 This supposedly means we can spend our way out of debt
because creditors like China will forever lend us money. Failing
that, we can just print more dollars.  
 Yet even these benefits can’t change the fact that the U.S.
is on an unsustainable course with deficits rising, the national
debt soaring, and Social Security and Medicare preparing to go
bust. At 10 percent of gross domestic product, the $1.6 trillion
budget deficit for 2010 forecast by the Obama administration
ranks as the highest such ratio since World War II.  
 The administration predicts that this ratio will fall to
about 4 percent by 2015. For that to happen, though, the
economic recovery mustn’t sputter.  
 U.S. Weakening  
 Debt, meanwhile, is set to climb to 77 percent of gross
domestic product by 2019, according to Moody’s, while “debt
affordability would be weakened by higher interest costs in the
next several years.” That compares with government expectations
at the end of 2008 of a future debt-to-GDP ratio of about 40
percent by the end of this decade.  
 No wonder investors like  Marc Faber , who publishes the
Gloom, Boom and Doom report, say the U.S. would carry a below-
investment grade, or junk, rating if the country were a company.  
 And starting in 2020, things will get even worse. “It is
worth noting that after 2019 is when the most serious pressures
resulting from Social Security, Medicare, and Medicaid will
develop, so that failure to rein in the deficits would make it
even more difficult to deal with such pressures,” Moody’s said
in a credit opinion last week.  
 State and local governments are also in crisis, and, like
their federal counterparts, are unwilling to face the harsh
reality confronting them.  
 California Dwarfs Greece  
 The mire facing California, for example, makes Greece’s
woes look somewhat manageable. California, staring at a $20
billion budget gap over the next 17 months, accounts for about
13 percent of the U.S. economy. Greece accounts for just 3
percent of the economy of countries that use the euro.  
 Things are so bad in Nevada, meanwhile, that the state
could lay off every worker paid from its general fund and it
would still be $300 million in the red, according to state
Assembly Speaker Barbara Buckley.  
 Given all this, Geithner should be using Moody’s AAA talk
as a cudgel to beat some reality into congressional heads. So
far, though, President  Barack Obama  has preferred to kowtow to
House Speaker  Nancy Pelosi  and Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid , rather than lead them.  
 From the earliest days of his administration, Obama has
tried to appease both, or stood by as they hijacked and then
wrecked his initiatives. This started with Obama’s acquiescence
to a pork-laden stimulus bill and continued as the president
gave Congress control over initiatives like the health-care
overhaul and financial reform.  
 Getting Worse  
 The result is that the government has accomplished little
in the face of the greatest financial crisis since the Great
Depression. And things may easily get worse.  
 An emboldened and divided Congress, meanwhile, shows no
sense of recognizing the true extent of the meltdown. Unless
there is a sense of immediate danger, there’s little chance it
will do anything differently.  
 So while the threat of a downgrade might be unsettling,
allowing the country to continue along its present course is far
worse.  
 ( David Reilly  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  
 Click on “Send Comment” in the sidebar display to send a
letter to the editor.  
 To contact the writer of this column:
David Reilly at   dreilly14@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        