-- Blankfein Avoids Apology as London Risks Suicide: Mark Gilbert
-- Mark Gilbert
-- 2010-01-28T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-01-27/blankfein-avoids-apology-as-london-risks-suicide-mark-gilbert.html

          
          
             When almost every media mention of
your institution is accompanied by the nickname “vampire
squid,” you might think it prudent to learn a little humility.
Not, it seems, if your name is  Lloyd Blankfein .  
 The Goldman Sachs Group Inc. chief executive officer missed
another opportunity to express contrition when he appeared
before the U.S. Financial Crisis Inquiry Commission earlier this
month. While his answers weren’t quite belligerent, he offered
little in the way of an apology.  
 He may regret not saying sorry if President  Barack Obama 
makes good on his threat to geld the banking industry by
imposing new regulations on proprietary trading, private-equity
investments and future balance-sheet growth. More importantly,
the furious White House reaction to the seeming indifference of
finance chiefs to the economic chaos they created threatens to
inspire a patchwork of unilateral rule changes around the world.  
 Without coordination, financial reform won’t work. If
countries go their own way, the result will be what Barclays Plc
Chairman  Marcus Agius  last week called “regulatory arbitrage,”
with financial firms shopping between different jurisdictions to
find the least onerous regimes.  
 A piecemeal approach to new rules may result in the
regulatory equivalent of an arms race. Bashing bonus-hunting
bankers has never been more popular, and no politician will want
to miss this opportunity to play to the gallery.  
 Public Wrath  
 Finance chiefs  still don’t seem to comprehend just how much
anger they have aroused among ordinary folk, or how appalled
most of the world is at the lack of either an apology or an
acknowledgment that even the strongest players only survived the
credit crunch because of the transfusion of billions of dollars
of taxpayers’ money.  
 If different administrations around the world reckon they
can win more popular support by retaliating more fiercely than
the country next door, those desired improvements in banking
oversight could become too tough.  
 The U.K., for example, has been championing the
introduction of a so-called Tobin tax, designed to pinch a
sliver of revenue every time a security is traded anywhere in
the world. The proceeds would be set aside to build a rainy-day
fund to protect us from future financial crises.  
 ‘Arbitrage and Speculation’  
 The tax was initially proposed in 1971 by Nobel Prize-
winning economist  James Tobin . Back then, central banks were
struggling to manage monetary policy after the collapse of the
Bretton Woods system of pegging currencies. So Tobin, a
professor emeritus of economics at Yale University before he
died in March 2002, proposed a tax on currency trading, say 0.05
percent, to deter what he himself termed “speculators.”  
 Tobin argued in an article published in the Financial Times
in September 2001 that a tax would help underpin monetary
policy. “Market arbitrage and speculation tend to keep money-
market interest rates (risk-adjusted) the same in every currency
throughout the world, preventing a central bank from adjusting
its monetary policy to its local economy,” Tobin wrote. “If
such arbitrage and speculation require repeated taxed
transactions, one nation’s interest rates can differ from those
in New York or Tokyo.” A tax, Tobin said, would “preserve some
measure of national monetary autonomy.”  
 On the surface, the idea is seductive. The authorities
could sell it to the public as killing two birds with one stone,
raising some much-needed revenue at the same time as deterring
those pesky speculators.  
 Farmer’s Futures  
 Problems arise when you try to distinguish between, say, a
legitimate hedging transaction in the futures market by a farmer
seeking to guarantee the price of next season’s crop, and a
trader punting on the price of wheat to boost this year’s bonus.
A further complication springs up when a particular country
decides that not implementing the tax will win it market share
in financial trading.  
 That’s a particular issue for London. U.K. Prime Minister
 Gordon Brown  has to face an election in the first half of this
year, and is behind in the opinion polls. There’s a non-
negligible risk that he might seek salvation for his government
by putting Britain at the forefront of financial regime change
with the solo introduction of a transaction tax -- a surefire
vote-winner, albeit spelling commercial suicide for the City of
London as a financial center.  
 Public wrath will filter into government policies designed
to lash safety air bags around the banking community. The next
time a senior banker finds himself on public trial for the
misdemeanors of his profession, it might be wise to show some
remorse for the $1.7 trillion of financial-asset writedowns and
the 25 percent drop in global stock-market values from the
December 2007 peak -- otherwise those bindings are more likely
to smother than merely chafe.  
 ( Mark Gilbert , author of “Complicit: How Greed and
Collusion Made the Credit Crisis Unstoppable,” is the London
bureau chief and a columnist for Bloomberg News. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  
 Click on “Send Comment” in the sidebar display to send a
letter to the editor.  
 To contact the writer of this column:
 Mark Gilbert  in London at 
 magilbert@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Lloyd Blankfein, chairman and chief executive officer of Goldman Sachs Group Inc., listens during a panel discussion at the Clinton Global Initiative's annual meeting in New York, on Sept. 23, 2009. Photographer: Jin Lee/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
