-- Does the Apple iPad Make Strategic Sense?
-- Scott Anthony
-- 2010-01-28T04:04:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-01-27/does-the-apple-ipad-make-strategic-sense-.html

          
          
             You have to give it to Apple. The company has an uncanny knack for seizing the moment and whipping journalists and consumers into a frenzy. The latest wave comes from today's launch of the iPad tablet with iBookstore content store.  

 As always, there's a lot to like about Apple's device. The user interface looks great, the bookstore seems intuitive, and Apple set a price point (at least for the entry level iPad) that positions the device well in the marketplace. The hype bar was set so high that inevitably some people were disappointed - Dan Frommer from Silicon Alley Insider  called it a big "yawn"  that won't define publishing the way many experts projected. 
Are there reasons to suggest that the iPad won't be Apple's third game-changer in a decade, following the iPod family of products and the phenomenal iPhone, which has turned into a mutli-billion dollar business in less than three years? 
There are at least three things that give me pause.  
First, I wonder if Apple hasn't actually created too good an interface for content providers. One of the things I love about my Kindle is it has just the right sets of features for reading books and many magazines. It is basic content delivered easily at reasonable prices.  
Apple's device allows textbook publishers and others to pour on multimedia features like pictures and videos. Publishers love that option because it seemingly gives them options to charge higher prices. But is it possible that many customers don't actually want the extra bells and whistles? They just want the basic content at affordable prices. 
Of course, that's not true for all customers, some surely want as many features as they can get, but it is possible that content providers jumping onto the iPad platform will overshoot the market's mainstream, providing more room for Amazon's Kindle and other simpler readers (of course, Amazon is trying to figure out how to get third-party applications onto the Kindle so it can compete with Apple). 
Also, the iPad is entering a pretty crowded space. Not only are there are growing number of e-readers, multifunctional netbooks share many of the same features as the iPad (without the slick design, of course), and other major manufacturers are coming up with their own tablets as well. I'm sure there are a class of consumers who will look at Apple's device and not see a place for it in their arsenal of gadgets. 
And that leads to my third concern. I wonder whether Apple is beginning to get into uncomfortable territory where it will face hard choices about the degree to which it cannibalizes itself. One of the great things about the iPod is that it was all new growth for the company. The iPhone might have cannibalized the iPod a bit, but for the most part it was all new growth for the company. Apple surely hopes the iPad slots in nicely between its phones and its computer lines, but if it doesn't, Apple might have a difficult balancing act on its hands. 
It's hard to bet against Apple. The two things I admire most about the company are its ability  to think holistically about business models  (iPod + iTues, iPhone + the App store, iPad + iBookstore) and its willingness to keep innovating. Imagine how different it would have been if Apple stopped at the first generation iPod, or just rode the iPod for as long as it could. Its willingness to step out and enter into new categories is an important lesson for all companies. 

