-- Tea Party Herds the Angry, Lands in Hot Water: Margaret Carlson
-- 
-- 2010-01-28T02:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-01-27/tea-party-herds-the-angry-lands-in-hot-water-margaret-carlson.html

          
          
             The Tea Party activists claimed a
huge victory in Massachusetts when  Scott Brown , a former
Cosmopolitan centerfold driving a pickup, captured the hallowed
seat of Ted Kennedy.  
 In November, they claimed the scalp of Dede Scozzafava, the
mainstream Republican forced to drop out of a special
congressional election in  New York  when the tea partiers found
her insufficiently conservative.  
 Florida  state senator  Marco Rubio  happily credits tea
partiers for helping him pull ahead of the once-popular
governor, Charlie Crist, for the Republican nomination for  U.S.
Senate  in Florida.  
 Three symbolically important Senate seats are now up for
grabs, those formerly held by President  Barack Obama  in  Illinois 
and Vice President Joe Biden in Delaware, and that of Senate
Majority Leader Harry Reid in  Nevada . Ask yourself this: If the
sitting vice president’s son, who served in  Iraq  and is  Delaware 
attorney general, decides not to run for his father’s seat, how
bleak are the prospects for any other Democrat?  
 Democrats are right to be worried about keeping those
seats, but there’s a bright spot in the trouble the tea partiers
are having raising their game to the next level.  
 The  National Tea Party Convention  at Opryland in Nashville,
 Tennessee , next week is unraveling. And no wonder. Herding cats
is never easy, and a convention, as opposed to demonstrations,
is antithetical to the anti-establishment Tea Party philosophy.  
 Disparate Passions  
 Who could hope to corral the disparate passions of  Birchers 
and birthers, gold bugs, strict constructionists, secessionists,
militiamen, vaccine deniers, anti-papists and flat-earthers?
They collectively obscure the more silent majority of those
legitimately concerned that America has lost its way.  
 The immediate reason for trouble is money. Rank-and-file
tea partiers are balking at what the host, Tea Party Nation, is
charging for admission to the big shindig. A ticket will cost
$549 -- plus $9.95 shipping and handling. With airfare and
hotel, the average tea partier, whose motivating ethos is fiscal
restraint, would have to shell out $1,000 or more to hear, among
others, former Alaska Governor Sarah Palin -- who according to
the Associated Press and Politico will be paid $100,000.  
 How soon a populist adjusts to being elite. Politicians
give paid speeches, sure, but usually not to a nascent voters’
group trying to get off the ground.  
 Smell of Scam  
 The “real” populists are pushing back. One constituent
group, the National Precinct Alliance, dropped out, claiming Tea
Party Nation was “profiteering.” The Federation for American
Immigration Reform, listed as a “bronze” sponsor, bailed. And
one of the largest sponsors, the American Liberty Alliance,
asked to be removed from the list of sponsors. The influential
editor of RedState.com, Eric Erickson,  wrote  that the
“convention smells scammy.”  
 Sprouting up a year ago and spreading like kudzu, the tea
partiers are the most visible and energetic political group
around, pulling off several memorable rallies around the
country. On the National Mall in  Washington  last summer, with
the help of Glenn Beck, perhaps as many as 100,000 members (or
more than 1 million, if you  listen to  the organizers) showed up
to protest the corrupt elites running a central government that
was ruining the lives of ordinary Americans.  
 Bringing the tea partiers indoors for a mainstream meeting
in a hotel ballroom is more difficult than bringing tens of
thousands to demonstrate outdoors, as the left has learned as
well. If it doesn’t get disciplined enough to channel its
energy, the Tea Party movement won’t matter in the end. We’re
not a nation run by renegades.  
 Wary Republicans  
 The weakness of the movement, and a bright spot for
Democrats, is not that organizers are skimming a profit but that
the  Republican Party  they’ve aligned themselves with is wary of
a wholehearted association. Joining with the tea partiers is
like dancing with a porcupine. Yes, with the decline of the
Christian right, the tea partiers could become the foot soldiers
of the coming elections. Yet the uglier part of the group may
alienate as many voters as it attracts.  
 At the rally on the Mall, the gathering had the air of a
state fair without the prize bull. Amid some who were hostile
and angry, there were many more who came by bus or carpool and
are like the people you know -- only more actively anxious about
the decline of America.  
 My sweet father, a member of the Knights of Columbus and a
disillusioned Democrat, would be a prime target for membership,
if he were alive. But he’d also have been a prime candidate to
drop out when, at the Washington rally, he saw the sign, “The
Zoo Has an African Lion and the White House has a Lyin’
African.”  
 That  Kenya  Thing  
 Some Republican stars such as Representative  Michele Bachmann  are at home with those who contend Obama is a Muslim
born in Kenya and fully embrace the tea partiers. She’s a
headliner at the convention.  
 Others, including House Minority Leader  John Boehner , waltz
decorously with the movement, hoping to capitalize on voter
discontent while avoiding backlash.  
 For all the help tea partiers gave Senator-elect Brown in
 Massachusetts , he pretended they didn’t exist and is distancing
himself even more as he assumes office. Two years from now, he
may well not be pure enough to be their choice for reelection.  
 ( Margaret Carlson , author of “Anyone Can Grow Up: How
 George Bush  and I Made It to the White House” and former White
House correspondent for Time magazine, is a Bloomberg News
columnist. The opinions expressed are her own.)  
 Click on “Send Comment” in the sidebar display to send a
letter to the editor.  
 To contact the writer of this column:
Margaret Carlson in Washington at 
 mcarlson3@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        