-- Wells Fargo Hedges Misbehave at Just Right Time: Jonathan Weil
-- Jonathan Weil
-- 2010-01-28T02:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-01-27/wells-fargo-hedges-misbehave-at-just-right-time-jonathan-weil.html

          
          
             A strange thing happened last
quarter at Wells Fargo & Co. A bunch of derivatives that were
supposed to act as hedges on other assets seemed to go berserk.  
 The good news for Wells shareholders is that the oddly
behaving derivatives boosted the bank’s fourth-quarter earnings.
There’s more to the story, though. The windfall might be a sign
that Wells executives aren’t so great at judging some of the
company’s risks, meaning there may be more risk than they think.  
 The combined gains on the derivatives -- which Wells calls
“economic hedges” -- and the assets they purportedly were
hedging accounted for almost half of Wells’s $4 billion of
pretax profit last quarter. That’s a lot of low-quality
earnings.  
 About $1.1 billion came from writing up the value of
mortgage-servicing rights through changes to inputs in the
mathematical models Wells uses to estimate their worth. Another
$830 million came from gains on the derivatives that supposedly
were hedging this portion of the servicing rights’ value.  
 That’s right: The hedges and hedged items both went up.
This scenario should have been as likely as both sides of a see-
saw rising at the same time. Nothing quite like this had
happened before at Wells, at least not to this magnitude.  
 Indeed, while Wells may refer to the derivatives as hedges,
they don’t qualify for hedge accounting under the Financial
Accounting Standards Board’s rules, which is why Wells has to
use the weasel word “economic” in the label.  
 Airy Assets  
 Mortgage-servicing rights are intangible assets that
consist of rights to receive fees from third parties in exchange
for doing things like collecting and forwarding monthly payments
from homeowners. Unlike other intangibles, such as goodwill or
trademarks, companies have the option under the accounting rules
of marking them at their fair market values on a quarterly
basis, and then running the changes in value through their
earnings.  
 Wells’s latest balance sheet showed $16 billion of
mortgage-servicing rights that the company was carrying at fair
value as of Dec. 31. The tricky part is that such assets are
notoriously difficult to value.  
 In accounting parlance, the gains on the mortgage-servicing
rights were of the Level 3 variety. In layman’s terms, that
means they can be pretty much whatever management wants them to
be.  
 Under the FASB’s rules, Level 1 means the value for a given
asset comes from quoted prices in actively traded markets, known
as mark-to-market. Level 2, or mark-to-model, means the value is
measured using “observable inputs,” such as recent transaction
prices for similar items where market quotes aren’t available.  
 Make Believe  
 Then there’s Level 3. This means a company measures the
fair value of an asset using one or more “unobservable
inputs,” or, as I call it, mark-to-make-believe. Companies
can’t actually see the changes in value. Yet they get to book
them through earnings anyway, based on management’s own
subjective assumptions.  
 The last time I took a close look at this subject for a
column on Wells was in August 2007, after the company reported
quarterly earnings that got a huge boost from Level 3 gains on
its servicing rights.  
 Back then Wells had reported a $2 billion gain, or more
than half its pretax profits, from changes to inputs in its
servicing rights’ valuation models. However, the company said I
would be wrong to make comparisons between the size of its Level
3 gains and its overall profits.  
 Up and Down  
 Its argument: Doing so would ignore the effect that rising
interest rates at the time had on the values of both the
servicing rights (which went up) and the corresponding
derivatives Wells said it was using as economic hedges (which
went down). The derivatives, which generally fall into the Level
1 and Level 2 camps, had declined by about $2.2 billion.  
 I wrote the column anyway, expressing skepticism that these
derivatives were hedges in any real sense. It turns out I
probably wasn’t skeptical enough.  
 Wells’s spin on the latest results is that its hedges
worked. On the company’s Jan. 20 earnings call, Wells’s chief
financial officer, Howard Atkins, explained the gains by saying
“hedging results in the mortgage business were strong” and
“could remain relatively high as long as short-term rates
remain low and the hedge performs effectively.”  
 He added that Wells manages its mortgage business “very
holistically” and that “actual hedge results in any quarter of
course will reflect how much of the servicing asset we hedge and
the effectiveness of the particular instruments we use to
hedge.”  
 Not Telling  
 Similarly, in its earnings release, Wells said the $1.9
billion of gains largely reflected “the continuation of strong
carry income and effective hedge performance.”  
 What’s carry income? Actually, it doesn’t really matter,
because Wells declined to disclose how much it was. And
“effective” hedge performance? Give me a break. Remember, the
gains on the derivatives were almost as large as the gains on
the items they were supposed to be hedging.  
 For all we know, there could come a time when Wells’s
derivatives misbehave at the same time the market values of the
mortgage-servicing rights plunge. That would mean a double hit
to earnings, rather than a windfall. Oh, but what are the odds
of that happening, since Wells seems to have it all figured out?  
 Meantime, one step in the right direction would be for
Wells to stop calling these things hedges, economic or
otherwise. This bank’s derivatives seem to have a mind of their
own.  
 (Jonathan Weil is a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  
 Click on “Send Comment” in the sidebar display to send a
letter to the editor.  
 To contact the writer of this column:
Jonathan Weil in New York at   jweil6@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        