-- Bank of America Shareholders Find Their Champion: David Pauly
-- David Pauly
-- 2009-09-17T01:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2009-09-16/bank-of-america-shareholders-find-their-champion-david-pauly.html

          
          
             God bless Judge Rakoff. Somebody
with clout is speaking up for the company owners.  
 U.S. District Court Judge Jed Rakoff in New York this week
rejected Bank of America Corp.’s settlement with the Securities
and Exchange Commission in the case of the surreptitious bonuses
paid by Merrill Lynch & Co. before the nation’s biggest bank by
assets bought the stockbroker in January.  
 Rakoff said the $33 million Bank of America agreed to pay
was “trivial.” For goodness’ sake, the SEC had charged the
bank with defrauding its own stockholders by not disclosing $3.6
billion in Merrill bonus payments when the owners voted on the
takeover that cost them about $29 billion.  
 What’s more, if the stockholders were the ones cheated why
should they be on the hook for the $33 million?  
 Rakoff has asked repeatedly during court proceedings why
Bank of America executives and lawyers weren’t being sued.
Shareholders everywhere -- who watched helplessly as richly paid
executives screwed up their companies -- have to be applauding.  
 Instead of approving the agreement, Rakoff ordered a trial
of the SEC charges to begin Feb. 1.  
 With Rakoff goading the parties, perhaps someone will
finally take responsibility for what has been a fiasco in
corporate governance.  
 The SEC said Bank of America had a plan in place granting
as much as $5.8 billion in bonuses to Merrill staff at a time
when the investment firm’s losses from subprime mortgages were
mounting. The red ink for 2008 turned out to be $27.6 billion.  
 Under Pressure  
 Merrill Lynch Chief Executive Officer John Thain lost his
job after the bonuses were disclosed, but it has never been
clear who knew what when. Bank of America CEO Kenneth Lewis has
said he was under great pressure from the government to acquire
the struggling Merrill.  
 Bank of America officials claim they did nothing wrong,
saying they wanted to settle the case to get rid of it. The bank
treated the $33 million as nuisance money, backing up Rakoff’s
contention that the amount agreed to by the SEC was trifling.  
 Rakoff’s rejection of the settlement may in the long run be
as helpful to the SEC as it is to shareholders. He depicted the
agreement between the bank and the agency as a “contrivance”
that let management off easy without assigning blame and let the
government claim victory in a high-profile enforcement case.  
 The SEC traditionally has ended its investigations with
settlements in which companies agree to abstain from doing what
they didn’t admit to doing in the first place.  
 Deterrent Effect  
 To be fair, the agency probably hasn’t had the resources to
pursue cases more diligently. It figured its settlements put
companies and executives up to public scorn and may have had a
deterrent effect.  
 Maybe now the SEC -- criticized for its failures to police
Wall Street and to uncover Bernard Madoff’s Ponzi scheme -- will
be given the horses it needs to strive for guilty pleas rather
than consent decrees.  
 Judge Rakoff, with his white beard and apt phrases, has the
makings of a folk hero. Earlier this month, when he sentenced
former Monster Worldwide Inc. Chief Operating Officer James
Treacy to two years in prison for improperly accounting for
backdated stock options, Rakoff said, “It is appalling, it is
disgusting that this practice went on.”  
 In his latest opinion, Rakoff quoted Oscar Wilde’s
definition of a cynic: someone who knows the price of everything
but the value of nothing.  
 If there were more Judge Rakoffs around, perhaps there
wouldn’t be so much cynicism about American business.  
 (David Pauly is a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  
 To contact the writer of this column:
David Pauly in Normandy Beach, New Jersey   dpauly@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff poses in this photo provided by the court. Source: Office of Judge Jed Rakoff via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff  
                       
                         
                           Office of Judge Jed Rakoff via Bloomberg 
                         
                         U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff poses in this photo provided by the court. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff poses in this photo provided by the court. Source: Office of Judge Jed Rakoff via Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
