-- Repsol Pledges EU32.8 Billion Spending Through 2012
-- Victor Marquez
-- 2008-02-28T17:06:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2008-02-28/repsol-pledges-eu32-8-billion-spending-through-2012-update5-.html

          
          
             Repsol YPF SA ,  Spain 's  largest  oil
company, plans to spend 32.8 billion euros ($49.5 billion)
through 2012 in a bid to accelerate profit growth.  
 The investment plan is aimed at almost tripling earnings
during the period and raising dividends, Repsol said in a
presentation today. The new strategy replaces the company's 28
billion-euro spending program for the five years ending in 2009.  
 Chairman  Antonio Brufau  has sought to stem five years of
dwindling oil and gas reserves and 10 consecutive  quarters  of
falling output by shifting exploration and production away from
 Latin America , where governments have capped growth. He's relying
on projects in North Africa, Central America and the  Gulf of
Mexico  to spur output.  
 ``I'm not sure exactly how they are going to make this work;
the targets may be a little too optimistic,'' said Jacobo Penaranda, a  fund manager  at Barclays Fondos in Madrid, where he
helps oversee about 7 billion euros, including Repsol shares.  
 Outside Argentina, the company forecasts discovering 25
percent more oil than it pumps through 2012, Brufau said in a
television interview today. Output will grow 5 percent a year to
at least 410,000 barrels of oil a day, he said.  
 For the overall company, reserve replacement through 2012
will be no more than 70 percent of the oil and gas produced, he
forecast.  
 Profit  
 Fourth-quarter  net income  rose 56 percent to 740 million
euros, the Madrid-based company said today. Full-year profit was
3.19 billion euros. The company rose 0.7 percent to close at
23.08 euros in  Madrid  trading today.  
 Earnings grew 58 percent between 2003 and 2007, according to
Bloomberg calculations. Brufau said  earnings  in 2012 will be 2.8
times 2008 profit, making the rate of growth five times greater
than in the previous period.  
 ``There is nothing magic about these numbers, they're
fact,'' said Brufau. ``More refining, more LNG and higher prices,
and our estimates for prices are conservative.''  
 Repsol aims to spend 9 billion euros exploring for oil and
gas outside Argentina. The company plans to invest 10.5 billion
euros in refining, its second-largest business, as it expands the
Bilbao and Cartagena plants in Spain.  
 In Argentina, Repsol will invest 7.8 billion euros on
improving recovery. It has reserves of about 4.2 billion barrels
of oil and gas in  Argentina , Brufau said, without commenting on
how much may be recovered after the investment. Repsol will also
explore for new reserves this year.  
 North Africa  
 The company aims to sell 18 billion cubic meters of
 liquefied natural gas  in 2012, up from 4 billion cubic meters
planned for 2008. It's planning to have two new LNG plants
running in Peru and Canada by then.  
 Repsol has so far focused on exploration in North Africa,
especially Libya, and on boosting production in  Trinidad &
Tobago .  
 In December, Repsol found gas in  Bolivia  and joined a
project to search for the fuel in  Angola . This year, the company
discovered deposits in the Peruvian jungle and won licenses to
explore off  Alaska ,  Mexico  and Spain.  
 Under the previous investment plan, Repsol said it would
increase production to 1.3 million barrels of oil equivalent a
day in 2009. It was forced to lower that forecast to 1.18 million
barrels a day after writing down reserves by a quarter in 2006.
The company will meet that 1.18 million target, Brufau said today
in a meeting with journalists.  
 Tarragona Expansion  
 Separately, he said Repsol may expand its refinery in
Tarragona, eastern Spain, costing about 2 billion euros. As for
Spanish partner  Gas Natural SDG SA (GAS) , Brufau said Repsol will
support every strategic decision made by that gas supplier.  
 Repsol's 2007 dividend will rise to around 1 euro a share,
though dividend growth won't necessarily keep pace with profit
growth, he said.  
 Production in Argentina declined at a faster-than-forecast
rate, and higher taxes in Bolivia were responsible for the
writedown of reserves, mostly gas. Repsol also lost control of
its ventures in Bolivia and Venezuela as their respective
presidents,  Evo Morales  and  Hugo Chavez , nationalized resources.  
 Repsol has not yet reached an agreement with  Ecuador  over
the nation's plans to renegotiate production contracts, Brufau
said.  
 ``We have suffered more than most from energy nationalism,''
Brufau told analysts in a Webcast today.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristian Rix in Madrid at 
 krix@bloomberg.net ;
Victor Marquez in Madrid at 
 vmarquez@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles in London at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        