-- Wall Street Makes It Hard to Earn Legal Living: Alice Schroeder
-- Alice Schroeder
-- 2009-11-13T02:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2009-11-12/wall-street-makes-it-hard-to-earn-legal-living-alice-schroeder.html

          
          
             A group of university students I 
spoke to recently asked if it was possible to make a living on 
Wall Street without compromising your values. I had to tell 
them no.   
 Wall Street has many decent, honorable people, but they
work in a system that fundamentally compromises people’s ethics.
The high pay is like an anesthetic that numbs you from feeling
how you are being corrupted. Not only that, many honest people
who work there would agree with an even more extreme statement:
It’s hard to make a living legally on Wall Street.  
 The goal of investing is to get an edge, whereas the
 securities laws  presume all investors should have the same
information at once. If ever there was a recipe for a system
rife with abuse, this is it. The harder that money managers,
traders and analysts must work to get information that gives
them that edge, the more likely some are to cross a legal line.  
 This week, Manhattan federal court dealt with a case of
insider trading when Michael Koulouroudis pleaded guilty to
charges that he traded on secret tips from UBS AG investment
banker  Nicos Stephanou , who previously took a guilty plea.
 Joseph Contorinis , a former money manager for Jefferies Group
Inc.’s Paragon Fund, was indicted by a federal grand jury last
week for his role in the scheme.  
 People who are looking from the outside at the Galleon
hedge fund insider-trading case may also be thinking, “How
could they have been so stupid?” Admittedly, naming the
ringmaster “ Octopussy ” wasn’t the brightest move, yet the
reason insider traders create networks to exchange illegal
information isn’t because they are dumb. It is because so few
money managers outperform market averages over time.  
 Not Enough Alpha  
 There is only so much alpha -- that excess return above a
baseline average -- to be had in an efficient market. The
incentive to create some artificial alpha one way or another is
very high. Those who bend the rules successfully post good
numbers, which adds to pressure on other Wall Streeters to push
the gray boundaries of legal information flow.  
 One had to wonder if that’s what happened when the volume
of 3Com Corp. call options surged to the highest level since
September 2007 before Hewlett Packard Co. said it would buy the
computer-networking equipment maker for $2.7 billion this week.  
 Investors also form an “us against them” mentality of
sleuthing by whatever means is necessary to counter the
stonewalling and obfuscation of company executives. A lot of
inappropriate blabbing on Wall Street takes place by people who
are outraged at some atrocity that is being committed by a
company whose stock is overvalued.  
 Lying Managers  
 The tippees feel self-righteous about using the
information, no matter how it was obtained. They see themselves
as leveling a playing field skewed by lying company managers who
are aided and abetted by cynical investment bankers and
invertebrate analysts who (still) do bankers’ bidding out of
concern for their careers.  
 Beyond that, big money managers feel entitled to even more
information by virtue of clout: the first phone call from
analysts; a heads-up that a salesperson thinks a downgrade on a
stock may be coming; preference in a hot banking deal. This is
simple economics. It goes without saying (because it can’t be
publicly acknowledged) that the millions of dollars of business
that an institutional client is doing with an investment bank
means they will be treated much better than a small retail
client who is paying a 1 percent wrap fee on a $50,000 account.  
 The better class of financial advisers tries to make up for
this crooked system with creativity and pride in the way they
serve their clients. They resist pressure from their employers
to sell products only because they are profitable.  
 Over Legal Line  
 They have another, bigger problem, the same one faced by
the large institutions. There is only so much alpha to be had in
the market, and they are chasing it along with everybody else.  
 The aggregate number of people trying to carve fees out of
investor returns simply overwhelms the potential gains for
stockholders. It is this oversupply of overhead that creates so
much pressure to cross the legal line.  
 Victims of their own success, the banks have severely
aggravated this situation by going public, then taking on too
many masters to “diversify” earnings: institutional money
managers, retail investors, investment-banking clients, prime
brokerage clients, “financial sponsors” (private-equity and
buyout funds), their own asset-management arms, and proprietary
traders. It is all but impossible for people at investment banks
to serve all these clients -- whose interests conflict -- while
doing their real job: to satisfy the quarterly earnings
expectations of the banks’ investors.  
 Incentives to Cheat  
 Breaking up the banks into their constituent parts and
forcing them to return to privately funded partnerships might
reduce the apparatus that provides all parties with the
incentives to cheat.  
 Even in the very unlikely case that this happened, it would
still leave a shortage of alpha. As long as working on Wall
Street is the most prestigious and financially rewarding job in
the U.S., too many mouths will show up every morning to be fed.  
 Here, I sense a breath of change in the air. Kids who left
college to import crafts made by women war  refugees in Sudan  are
beginning to be envied by junior bankers who toil 80 hours a
week creating spreadsheets. That’s a trend to be encouraged.  
 Aspiring young bankers and hedge-fund managers, be assured
of this: The more of you who choose to import crafts from Sudan,
the easier the rest of you will find it to make a living legally
on Wall Street.  
 ( Alice Schroeder , author of “The Snowball: Warren Buffett
and the Business of Life” and a former managing director at
Morgan Stanley, is a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions
expressed are her own.)  
 Click on “Send Comment” in the sidebar display to send a
letter to the editor.  
 To contact the writer of this column:
Alice Schroeder at  aliceschroeder@ymail.com .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        