-- Fed's Yellen says U.S. economy faces subpar growth
-- By  Ros Krasny
-- Thu Sep 4, 2008 2:35pm EDT
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2008/09/04/businesspro-usa-fed-yellen-dc-idUSN0430902120080904

 

 SALT LAKE CITY, Utah  (Reuters) - U.S. economic growth will 
be "subpar" in the second half of the year and interest rates 
must be set at levels that reflect the "substantial headwinds" 
facing the economy, San Francisco Federal Reserve Bank 
President Janet Yellen said on Thursday. 

  "The slightly negative real (benchmark federal) funds rate 
does not imply a highly accommodative policy stance," Yellen 
told a lunch sponsored by the San Francisco Fed's Salt Lake 
City branch.  Yellen is not a voting member of the U.S. central bank's 
policy-setting Federal Open Market Committee in 2008.  "My forecast is for sluggish growth in the second half of 
this year, with substantial downside risks -- especially 
emanating from the financial system," she added in her remarks, 
the text of which was made available in advance.  In her first public remarks on the economy in almost two 
months, Yellen gave no hint that she wants the Fed to raise 
official short-term interest rates soon, and instead focused on 
what she said were much-improved prospects for inflation.  "It seems clear that inflation risks have diminished 
somewhat in recent months as commodity prices have come down 
from their highs," Yellen said. That trend "has improved the 
policy choice facing the Committee."  Both core and headline inflation should be "a bit over 2 
percent" in 2009, she said.  Financial markets currently side with Yellen, and see very 
little chance that the Fed will raise rates this year, despite 
a drumbeat of hawkish commentary from some Fed officials.
  GIVE ME THREE GOOD REASONS  Among key economic issues, Yellen said problems in 
financial markets "are ongoing and perhaps deepening" as banks 
and other financial firms scale back balance sheets and shrink 
lending.  Other reasons why out-sized second-quarter growth would 
prove "ephemeral" were the end of fiscal stimulus from tax 
rebates and the rising U.S. dollar, which along with slower 
global growth would likely crimp export demand, she said.  "We can no longer count on exports as an important source 
of strength," she said.  The jobless rate is likely to rise in the second half of 
2009, Yellen said.  The interaction of rising unemployment with falling home 
prices, tighter credit and weak consumer spending could deepen 
the vicious cycle that has been at work in the U.S. economy for 
several quarters, she said.  Yellen said the kind of wage-price spiral that European 
policy-makers are current fearful of shows few signs of setting 
up residence in the United States.  "Outside of a few booming sectors such as energy, we hear 
no reports of escalating wage pressures even though higher food 
and energy prices have eroded the real incomes of American 
workers," she said.  (Reporting by Ros Krasny; Editing by  James Dalgleish )