-- Wall St. weighs Alabama debt offer
-- By Melinda Dickinson
-- Thu Sep 4, 2008 3:06pm EDT
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2008/09/04/businesspro-usa-alabama-debt-dc-idUSN0431733020080904

 

 BIRMINGHAM, Alabama  (Reuters) - Wall Street financiers face 
no strict deadline on a proposal to restructure $3.2 billion of 
auction-rate and other debt from Alabama's Jefferson County and 
may respond by next week, a county official said on Thursday. 

  Creditors, county officials and Gov. Bob Riley, who last 
week stepped into negotiations that have been going on for 
months, on Friday made some progress in the standoff on 
reworking the debt that could have led to a Chapter 9 
bankruptcy filing by Jefferson County.  A bankruptcy filing by Jefferson County, which is home to 
Alabama's biggest city, over its sewer debt would be the 
biggest by a U.S. local government since Orange County, 
California, filed for protection in December 1994.  Such a filing would also make the county the latest 
casualty of the global credit crunch, hit by its exposure to 
the auction-rate securities market. Municipal bankruptcies are 
rare in the United States and do not usually affect essential 
government services.  The county is proposing to bankers, bond insurers and other 
parties a swap of existing variable-rate sewer bonds for 
fixed-rate bonds with longer maturities, according to Riley.  "The county commission would like to see a response from 
Wall Street sometime next week but there is no hard deadline," 
said Jefferson County Commissioner Jim Carns, a Republican who 
oversees the county's sewer and environmental operations.  Particulars of the proposal were kept secret but the 
Birmingham News reported on Wednesday that the county wanted 
debt with lower rates and that a resolution would include no 
new taxes, no issuance fees and possible sewer fee hikes of as 
much as 2.85 percent a year. In addition, interest-rate swap 
agreements that have aggravated the debts would be eliminated, 
according to the newspaper..  County officials in Birmingham declined to comment on 
specifics in the report.  Many sewer-system customers, whose fees have risen by more 
than 300 percent in the last decade, had complained to county 
commissioners by phone, fax and email, officials said.  County officials and financiers remain in telephone contact 
and were occupied on Wednesday by how details of the proposal 
had leaked, according to county officials.  "I do not think the leak will impair negotiations in any 
way," Carns said in an interview.  Jefferson County originally sold the debt to pay for 
upgrades to its sewer system.  The $3.2 billion of sewer bonds is made up of about $2 
billion of auction-rate securities, $850 million of 
variable-rate demand notes and the remainder in fixed-rate 
bonds, according to Standard & Poor's Ratings Services 
analysts. The county so far has only defaulted on the insured 
variable-rate debt, which is being held by liquidity providers, 
they added.  Friday's talks also resulted in a promise of another 
stand-still agreement against default penalties that would 
expire on September 30. Several stand-still agreements have 
already been reached during the financial crisis that began in 
February.  (Writing by  Michael Connor  in Miami, Editing by Chizu 
Nomiyama,)