-- Stanford's Lawyers Say They Need Two More Years to Prepare for Fraud Trial
-- B y   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s
-- 2010-12-24T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-24/allen-stanford-s-lawyers-seek-two-year-delay-of-7-billion-fraud-trial.html
Lawyers for  R. Allen Stanford , the
Texas financier accused of a $7 billion Ponzi scheme, asked to
delay a trial set to begin Jan. 24 for at least two years so
they can prepare their defense.  Stanford’s trial preparation suffered during the first nine
months of this year because his previous lawyer “focused on
attempting to obtain funds from the insurance provider” more
than on the financier’s defense,” the lawyers, Ali Fazel and
Richard Scardino, said yesterday in a court filing. “During
this period of time, the accused determined that little progress
was made toward actual trial preparation.”  Fazel and Scardino were appointed as Stanford’s attorneys
in October, after U.S. District Judge  David Hittner  in Houston
declared the former billionaire indigent. They told Hittner in
October that they would try to be ready for a January trial,
which was then about 90 days away.  In requesting a delay yesterday, the lawyers said they
won’t have enough time to properly analyze more than 5 million
documents and dozens of potential witnesses before the current
trial date.  Stanford, 60, has been detained as a flight risk since June
2009 on charges he swindled investors through the sale of bogus
certificates of deposit by Antigua-based Stanford International
Bank Ltd. His lawyers also have asked that Stanford be released
on bond, claiming he is too heavily medicated in prison to
participate in his defense.  Mental Fitness  Stanford’s personal doctor declared him incompetent to
stand trial in court papers this month, and his lawyers have
asked for a hearing to gauge the financier’s mental fitness,
according to court records. Prosecutors received court approval
to conduct their own psychiatric evaluation of Stanford,
according to court records.  Fazel said in yesterday’s filing that the government, while
it doesn’t oppose a delay, “wishes to be heard on the length of
the continuance.”  Laura Sweeney , a Justice Department spokeswoman, declined
to comment.  Stanford, who denies all wrongdoing, is on his fifth team
of criminal defense lawyers after losing a court fight over
access to $100 million in legal defense insurance coverage
through his Stanford Financial Group of companies.  Stanford fired two successive criminal-defense lawyers in
2009 after each experienced what they described as personality
and strategic conflicts with the jailed financier. Stanford was
also briefly represented by the Houston Federal Public
Defender’s Office and by two lawyers who were allowed to
withdraw from the case after Stanford lost his insurance
coverage in September.  Jets, Yachts, Island  Stanford was ranked by Forbes magazine as one of the
world’s richest men in 2008, with an estimated net worth of more
than $2 billion including a fleet of jets, yachts and a private
Caribbean island. All of his corporate and personal assets were
frozen by court order when the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission accused him of running a “massive” Ponzi scheme in
February 2009.  The criminal case is U.S. v. Stanford, 09-cr-00342, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of Texas (Houston). The SEC
case is Securities and Exchange Commission v. Stanford
International Bank, 09-cv-00298, U.S. District Court, Northern
District of Texas (Dallas).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Laurel Brubaker Calkins  in Houston at 
 laurel@calkins.us.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 