-- Alimera, Chipotle, Magnum Hunter, Regeneron: U.S. Equity Movers
-- B y   I n y o u n g   H w a n g
-- 2010-12-27T14:43:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-24/amkor-dean-foods-goldman-sachs-mylan-u-s-equity-preview.html
Shares of the following companies
are having unusual moves in U.S. trading. Stock symbols are in
parentheses, and prices are as of 9:40 a.m. in New York.  Alimera Sciences Inc.  (ALIM US) sank 15 percent to $9.53.
The biopharmaceutical company received a complete response
letter from the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, delaying its
decision on the approval of Iluvien for diabetic macular edema.  Cal-Maine Foods Inc.  (CALM US) fell 3.9 percent to $32.50.
The egg producer reported second-quarter earnings excluding some
items of 63 cents a share, missing the estimate of 74 cents in a
Bloomberg survey with two analysts.  Cisco Systems Inc.  (CSCO US) rose 0.8 percent to $19.84.
The largest maker of networking equipment may rise as demand for
the equipment grows and the company initiates a dividend,
Barron’s reported.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  (GS US) rose 0.4 percent to
$168.33. The bank said it may grant bonuses that depend on
future earnings in addition to stock performance amid pressure
from regulators to design pay packages for top employees that
would discourage excessive risk-taking.  H&R Block Inc.  (HRB US) fell 6.2 percent to $11.90. The
U.S. tax preparer said an “11th-hour” decision by U.S.
regulators prevents a lending partner from offering tax-refund
loans and that it’ll be hard to fully roll out alternative
products in time for the 2011 season. The Office of the
Comptroller of the Currency told HSBC Holdings Plc not to make
refund-anticipation loans, prompting the bank to end an
exclusive contract with H&R Block three years early, the tax
preparer said in a statement.  Magnum Hunter Resources Corp.  (MHR US) dropped 4.2 percent
to $6.44. The oil and natural gas explorer will acquire  NGAS
Resources Inc.  (NGAS US) in an all-stock transaction. NGAS
holders will get 0.0846 shares of Magnum Hunter per share.  NGAS surged 27 percent to 49 cents.  Netflix Inc.  (NFLX US) slid 2.7 percent to $179.69. The
DVD-rental and streaming company may fall as higher charges for
acquiring movies hurts profitability, Barron’s reported.  Regeneron Pharmaceuticals Inc.  (REGN US) slipped 0.6
percent to $33.29. The Tarrytown, New York-based drugmaker said
in a filing that U.S. regulators halted development of an
experimental pain killer it’s developing with Sanofi-Aventis SA
after a similar treatment caused the death of bone tissue in
another drugmaker’s study.  Sierra Wireless Inc.  (SWIR US) climbed 5.3 percent to
$14.08. Shares of the maker of wireless modems for personal
computers are cheap and may rise as growth in 4G and other
mobile devices boosts demand for its technology, Barron’s said
in its “The Trader” column.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Inyoung Hwang in New York at 
 ihwang7@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 