-- ANZ Bank Contests Australian Tax Office Bid for Vanuatu Customer Data
-- B y   J o e   S c h n e i d e r
-- 2010-12-24T01:25:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-24/anz-contests-australia-tax-office-bid-for-vanuatu-customer-bank-data.html
Australia and New Zealand Banking
Group Ltd. , Australia’s third-biggest lender, is seeking a court
ruling to stop the country’s tax office from accessing its
customer records in the South  Pacific Ocean  nation of Vanuatu.  The bank, based in Melbourne, said it contested in the
federal court of Australia yesterday ATO’s request for the
information and is seeking guidance from the court about its
obligations to comply. A copy of the filing wasn’t immediately
available.  “We treat customer information sensitively and
respectfully,”  Michael Rowland , chief executive of ANZ’s
Pacific region, said in an e-mail today. “We’re committed to
keeping customer information confidential.”  The ATO, which is  investigating  promoters of tax havens and
their clients, on Dec. 17 sought access to the records of 13,000
ANZ customers in Vanuatu. ANZ has the largest operation in the
island nation of Australia’s four major banks.  The release of the customer data would breach Vanuatu
criminal law and put ANZ’s license to operate in the country at
risk, the bank said. The bank has worked to resolve the Vanuatu
dispute with the ATO for more than 18 months, Rowland said.  “We have cooperated as much as possible with the ATO’s
request while meeting our obligations under Vanuatu law,” he
said.  A spokeswoman for ATO, who requested her name not be used
because of the agency’s policy, declined to comment on the case.  Outstanding Taxes  Under the probe, called Project Wickenby, the investigating
agencies, which include the tax office and the Australian Crime
Commission, have identified A$935 million ($938 million) in
taxes owing, according to a Sept. 30  report  on the tax office’s
website. The agencies have recovered A$513 million in
outstanding taxes, the office said.  The Australian newspaper first reported the dispute today.
A hearing in federal court on ANZ’s request is scheduled for Feb.
17, the newspaper said.  The ATO signed a tax information agreement with Vanuatu in
April, giving it more ability to track down offshore tax evaders,
according to a  statement  on the agency’s website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joe Schneider  in Sydney at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Iain Wilson at 
 iwilson2@bloomberg.net  