-- Copper Approaches Record as Swiss Franc Weakens on Global Recovery Signs
-- B y   S t e p h e n   K i r k l a n d   a n d   M a t t   W a l c o f f
-- 2010-12-24T18:11:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-24/asian-stocks-decline-for-first-time-in-four-days-korean-won-yen-weaken.html
Copper rose to almost a record high
amid speculation the global recovery will continue into 2011.
The Swiss franc declined and U.K. shares advanced for a fifth
day before the holiday weekend.  Copper gained 0.7 percent, extending this year’s rally to
27 percent. The franc depreciated 0.4 percent against the euro.
The FTSE 100 Index added 0.2 percent,  swinging  to a gain from a
loss in the final minutes of trading. The S&P/TSX added 0.1
percent at 1:10 p.m. in Toronto. The MSCI Emerging Markets Index
fell less than 0.1 percent, the first drop in four days, as
North Korea threatened to wage a “sacred war” if attacked. U.S.
markets were closed for the Christmas holiday.  Confidence among American consumers probably improved this
month, economists said before the Conference Board’s report due
to be released on Dec. 28. U.S. stocks completed a fourth
straight weekly gain yesterday after data showed the nation’s
economy grew more in the third quarter than initially reported
and Americans increased spending in November for a fifth month.  “The continuing advance of base metals continues to prove
the strength of economic growth and the tortuous business of
turning on additional supplies of metals,” said Michael Smedley,
who helps manage C$1.2 billion ($1.19 billion) as a money
manager at Morgan Meighen & Associates Ltd. in Toronto. “In
South America, the great major mines have been topping out for
some time in production. It is not going to get easier,
therefore, the pricing should not be getting easier.”  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index surpassed 1,251.70 this
week, exceeding its closing level on Sept. 12, 2008, the last
trading session before Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.’s
bankruptcy sent the economy into a tailspin and spurred a 46
percent retreat through March 9, 2009.  Copper, Nickel, Gold  Copper rose as high as $9,371 a metric ton on the London
Metal Exchange, approaching the record of $9,392 set on Dec. 21,
after stockpiles fell in China, the world’s largest buyer of the
metal. Nickel gained 2.3 percent. Gold for immediate delivery
added 0.3 percent to $1,383.72 an ounce.  The franc weakened against all 16 major counterparts,
slipping 0.4 percent versus the dollar. The country’s central
bank said it’s ready to counter deflation risks if necessary.  While most markets in Europe were closed, the  FTSE 100 
extended its fourth straight weekly advance, the longest streak
of gains since September. The benchmark gauge has rallied 11
percent this year. Randgold Resources Ltd. dropped 4.3 percent
in London after the metals producer said the “political
impasse” in Ivory Coast will affect its fourth-quarter results.
JJB Sports Plc surged 24 percent after the retailer announced
measures to shore up its finances.  67% Surge  In the Canadian stock market, Western Financial Group Inc.
surged 69 percent to C$4.15. Desjardins Financial Group,
Canada’s largest credit union, agreed to buy the insurer for
C$443 million ($439 million), or C$4.15 a share, to expand in
British Columbia and Alberta.  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index  fell 0.3 percent, ending a
three-day advance. Nissan Motor Co. retreated 1.3 percent in
Tokyo. Advantest Corp., the world’s biggest maker of chip-
testing equipment, dropped 1.8 percent after revising a takeover
offer. Hyundai Merchant Marine Co. plunged 5.7 percent in Seoul
after selling new shares at a discount.  Automakers led a 0.7 percent drop in China’s  Shanghai
Composite Index  after Beijing said it will limit the number of
new passenger cars in the Chinese capital. South Korea’s Kospi
Index declined 0.4 percent after North Korea threatened to wage
a “sacred war” using nuclear weapons if attacked.  Investors pulled money from emerging-market equity mutual
funds for the first time since May in the week ended Dec. 22
amid concern that rising commodity prices will prompt China to
tighten monetary policy, according to EPFR Global. The funds
have taken in a record $92.5 billion this year as the MSCI
emerging-market gauge advanced 14 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Stephen Kirkland  in London at 
 skirkland@bloomberg.net ;
 Matt Walcoff  in Toronto at 
 mwalcoff1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 