-- Aurora Plans U.S. Drilling, Debt in ‘Ambitious’ 2011
-- B y   J a m e s   P a t o n
-- 2010-12-24T03:55:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-24/aurora-plans-u-s-drilling-debt-in-ambitious-2011-update1-.html
Aurora Oil & Gas Ltd. , the best
performer in Australia’s 200-member  benchmark index  this year,
plans to raise as much as $100 million in debt next year as it
hunts for further Texas shale acquisitions.  The company, which has $95 million in cash, intends to
participate in drilling about 60 new wells in 2011,  Jon Stewart ,
chairman of the Perth-based explorer, said by phone. Aurora is
weighing more Eagle Ford Shale transactions after the completion
today of a $120 million cash purchase of interests in the
Sugarkane field.  “We have an ambitious outlook,” he said. “We think there
are further opportunities for us and want to stay fairly close
to home. We’re very interested in staying in the Eagle Ford
Shale and in the part we understand and have experience in.”  Producers are tapping into shale rock formations seeking
new supplies of gas, oil and petroleum liquids across the U.S.
and Canada. Chesapeake Energy Corp., the second-biggest U.S.
natural gas producer, completed the sale last month of a $1.08
billion stake in its Eagle Ford shale project to  Cnooc Ltd.   Aurora , whose shares have risen eightfold to A$2.15 from 27
cents at the start of the year, was added to the S&P/ASX 200
Index earlier this month, Stewart said. Aurora was up 3.9
percent at 1:58 p.m. in Sydney, while the  benchmark index 
dropped 0.5 percent. JPMorgan Chase & Co. owns about 8 percent
of Aurora, and Stewart’s family has about 5 percent, he said.  “No one had heard of us several months ago.”  North American Listing  Aurora may raise between $50 million and $100 million in
debt, potentially through a bond sale, he said.  The funding plans depend on possible acquisitions of U.S.
shale stakes, said Stewart. “If the opportunities are accretive
to us on reserves, we’re interested in looking at them.” Aurora
doesn’t currently have  any debt .  The Australian company aims to convert its possible
reserves into the proven and probable category over the next 12
months and seeks to have its shares trade on a North American
exchange early next year, in addition to the Australian listing,
Stewart said.  The Sugarkane acquisition boosts its proven, probable and
possible reserves 50 percent to 84 million barrels of oil
equivalent, the company said in a statement today. A stronger
Australian dollar made the transaction more attractive, he said.  The shares were downgraded to “reduce” from “hold” on
Dec. 3 by Hartleys Ltd. Perth-based analyst  David Wall ,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Wall couldn’t be
reached by telephone today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Paton in Sydney   jpaton4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at   aprakash1@bloomberg.net . 