-- Australian, Canadian Uranium Stocks `Undervalued' on Pent-up Global Demand
-- B y   S h a n i   R a j a
-- 2010-12-24T02:18:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-24/australian-canadian-uranium-stocks-undervalued-on-pent-up-global-demand.html
Uranium stocks, already trading at
higher valuations than their national benchmark indexes, will
rise further amid predictions the price of the fuel may surge as
much as 30 percent, investors and analysts said.  Uranium prices, which last month climbed to the highest
level in more than two years amid a pickup in demand from China,
will rally as the global economic recovery spurs countries in
Europe and Asia to increase purchases, they said.  Uranium spot prices rose 40 percent this year and 34
percent since the end of September to $62.50 a pound on Dec. 20,
according to Roswell, Georgia-based  Ux Consulting , which tracks
the industry. Producers in Australia and Canada forecast demand
for the metal will increase as countries, including India,
expand their use of nuclear power to curb emissions from burning
coal.  “Uranium spot prices have rallied strongly over the past
few months on strong Chinese demand,” said  Tim Schroeders , who
helps manage $1 billion in Melbourne at Pengana Capital Ltd.
“With an improving global economy, it’s not unreasonable to
expect uranium demand to improve, to fuel increased economic
activity.”  Uranium rose to the highest price in more than two years
last month after China Guangdong Nuclear Power Co. agreed to
long-term supply contracts with the world’s two largest
producers, Denver-based pricing service  TradeTech LLC  said in a
Nov. 26 report.  Nuclear Plants  China Guangdong, the country’s second-biggest builder of
nuclear-power plants, agreed to buy 29 million pounds of uranium
through 2025 from  Cameco Corp. , based in Saskatchewan, Canada,
after striking a deal with the miner’s larger rival,
Kazakhstan’s state-run Kazatomprom.  According to  Jamie Coutts , a Singapore-based analyst at BGC
Partners, a 30 percent gain in uranium prices next year isn’t
unrealistic as China boosts purchases and after countries
including France indicated they will increase nuclear-power
generation, while Malaysia and Vietnam outlined plans to build
their first nuclear plants.  Pengana’s Schroeders is more reticent about that figure.  “Whilst an expectation of higher uranium prices is not
unreasonable, a 30 percent rise within 12 months from current
levels would surprise,” he said.  Uranium stocks have had a mixed performance this year, with
Cameco, the world’s No. 2 producer, soaring 18 percent in
Toronto through yesterday, while  Energy Resources of Australia
Ltd. , controlled by Rio Tinto Group, has plunged 53 percent in
Sydney.  Top Picks  Coutts said among his top picks in Australia in the
industry are  Paladin Energy Ltd. , which produces the metal in
Africa and has climbed 18 percent this year in Sydney through
yesterday, and Extract Resources Ltd., which has risen 7 percent
and isn’t yet producing.  Paladin traded at 63 times  estimated earnings  as of the
close of trading yesterday, compared with 14 times for
Australia’s benchmark S&P/ASX 200 Index, while Energy Resources,
even after this month forecasting as much as an 83 percent
decline in profit for the year, traded at 25  times . Cameco
traded at 38 times estimated earnings in Toronto, compared with
18 times for Canada’s  Standard & Poor’s/TSX Composite Index .  “Investors have to do their homework and find out which
stocks really have the upside and are most leveraged to an
increase in uranium prices,” Coutts said. “But when you look
overall at the supply-demand metrics of the sector, it really
does become a compelling case for higher prices.”  Spot Prices  Both Paladin and  Extract ’s businesses are more tied to
potential gains in uranium spot prices because of the nature of
the contracts the companies negotiated, Coutts said. Others, for
instance Energy Resources, have sealed more longer-term deals
that are less influenced by potential gains in spot prices, he
said.  While Energy Resources, which sells uranium to utilities in
Asia, Europe and North America, has signed long-term contracts,
the prices it gets are still influenced by spot prices,  Lyndon Fagan , a Sydney-based analyst at Royal Bank of Scotland Group
Plc said earlier this year.  Most uranium is currently delivered under term contracts,
according to  Eric Webb , Senior Vice President of Information
Services at Ux Consulting.  “Many contracts today are combination offers, although you
do still have a few pure market-related ones,” he said.  Paladin Energy’s Chief Executive Officer  John Borshoff  told
analysts last month that the company expects uranium prices will
keep rising after China “piled up” contracts. Last week, the
company said it acquired uranium assets for C$260.9 million
($258.4 million) from Fronteer Gold Inc. in a deal that gives
the Canadian company 52.1 million Paladin shares.  Atomic Expansion  China and India are leading the biggest atomic expansion
since the decade after the 1970s oil crisis in order to reduce
air pollution and power their economies. Chinese uranium demand
may rise to 20,000 tons annually by 2020, more than a third of
the 50,572 tons mined globally last year, according to the  World
Nuclear Association .  Macquarie Group Ltd. reported last month that Chinese
uranium imports had increased, especially between June and
September.  Vietnam’s government said in June the country plans to
build as many as 13 nuclear-power plants with a capacity of
16,000 megawatts by 2030, and that it welcomes overseas
assistance.  Malaysia is considering building two 1,000-megawatt
nuclear-power plants to start operations in 2021 and 2022
respectively, state news agency Bernama reported this week,
citing Energy, Green Technology and Water Minister  Peter Chin .  Romania, Lithuania and the U.K. plan to build new nuclear
plants, while France and Finland are already doing so. Italy
plans a return to atomic energy after more than two decades.  Nuclear energy accounts for about a third of electricity
production in the European Union, where 14 nations have atomic-
power plants.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Shani Raja  in Sydney at 
 sraja4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 