-- Pinera Sells Chile Soccer Club Stake for $7.4 Million, Reversing Decision
-- B y   E d u a r d o   T h o m s o n
-- 2010-12-24T16:09:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-24/billionaire-president-pinera-sells-shareholding-in-chilean-soccer-team.html
Chile’s billionaire President
 Sebastian Pinera  sold his shareholding in the company that owns
the country’s most popular soccer team for $7.4 million.  Pinera sold 11 million Blanco y Negro SA shares to the
brokerage unit of Corpbanca for 250.03 pesos each and 2.75
million shares to Larrain Vial at 261.5 pesos apiece in an
auction on the Santiago exchange. The buyers’ clients weren’t
disclosed. Blanco y Negro runs the  Colo Colo  soccer club.  The president, a Harvard-trained economist, reversed a pre-
election decision to retain the shares after opposition
politicians including Senator  Jorge Pizarro  made allegations
that he played a role in the ousting of Harold Mayne-Nicholls as
soccer association president last month. Pinera denied those
allegations in comments transmitted on state-owned station  TVN .  “It’s not the first and won’t be the last time that Pinera
wants to hold on to something and then has to give in to public
opinion,” said  Carlos Huneeus , executive director of the
Santiago-based Center for the Study of Contemporary Reality, an
independent polling group. “That affects his image.”  During the presidential campaign, rivals compared Pinera’s
media and soccer holdings to those of Italian Prime Minister
Silvio Berlusconi. He concluded the sale of his biggest asset
after taking office in March, offloading a 26 percent stake in
 Lan Airlines SA  for $1.5 billion as part of a pre-election
pledge. In August, he agreed to sell Red de Television
Chilevision SA to Time Warner Inc., the New York-based media and
entertainment group, for an undisclosed sum. He assigned the
administration of other assets to blind trusts.  Gabriel Ruiz Tagle , who resigned as chairman of Blanco y
Negro to become Pinera’s sports undersecretary, sold his 25
percent stake in August at 270 pesos per share.  “Everybody knows that I wanted to remain in Colo Colo,”
Pinera told reporters Dec. 22. “In life, you can’t always do
what you want.”  Larrain Vial’s brokerage also won bidding for another block
of 3.62 million Blanco y Negro shares from a seller that wasn’t
identified in today’s auction.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Eduardo Thomson  in Santiago at 
 ethomson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  