-- BlackRock Blames Loan Crisis for Clean-Energy Outflow
-- B y   B e n   S i l l s
-- 2010-12-24T12:02:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-24/blackrock-blames-credit-crisis-as-record-outflows-hit-clean-energy-funds.html
Renewable-energy funds  suffered
record outflows this year, reversing their direction from 2009,
as money managers including  BlackRock Inc.  said the credit
crunch dimmed the outlook for solar and wind power projects.  Investors pulled 931 million euros ($1.2 billion) in the
first 10 months, already eclipsing the full-year withdrawals in
2008 when the global financial crisis spooked investors,
according to data compiled by Lipper Inc. Last year clean-energy
funds captured 1.3 billion euros of new money, Lipper said.  Tighter loan terms for clean-power projects, greater
competition from Chinese manufacturers and reduced subsidies
from European governments hammered some of the stocks that had
been favorites of fund managers before 2010, such as  Vestas Wind
Systems A/S , the world’s largest wind-turbine maker. Funds that
held oil and gas companies were gainers, a separate survey said.  “The new-energy market and related stocks were
significantly impacted by the credit crisis,”  Robin Batchelor ,
manager of the $2.9 billion  BlackRock New Energy Fund , said in
an e-mail. Reduced demand for energy and “the fact that
governments were perceived to have many new worries on their
agenda combined to create a difficult environment,” he said.
New York-based BlackRock is the world’s largest money manager.  Conventional energy stocks saw the biggest increase in
holdings and were the largest bets for funds, according to a
Bank of America Merrill Lynch survey of 209 money managers
controlling $569 billion, conducted Dec. 3 to Dec. 9.  Environmental Funds  The clean-energy sell-off is a blow to policymakers in the
U.S., Japan and the European Union who pledged last year in
Copenhagen to ramp up investment as they channel $100 billion a
year in climate aid to developing nations by 2020.  The withdrawal extended to environmental funds, which had
net withdrawals of 373 million euros, also a record, according
to Lipper, a unit of New York-based Thomson Reuters Corp.  At BlackRock, whose clean-tech fund is one of the world’s
largest, assets dropped to $2.9 billion on Oct. 31 from $3.8
billion 12 months earlier, and the fund’s value fell 8 percent.
That suggests clients pulled about 560 million euros, or 15
percent of assets, according to Bloomberg calculations.  A BlackRock spokeswoman didn’t immediately comment on the
calculation. Batchelor declined to comment on outflows.  Climate negotiators meeting in Cancun, Mexico, this month
agreed to limit global warming to 2 degrees Celsius (3.6 degrees
Fahrenheit) without reaching a deal on how to achieve it.
Current pledges by individual nations will lead to 4 degrees of
warming by 2100, according to Climate Interactive scientists who
model warming scenarios.  Best, Worst Performers  “There was positive progress, but without the urgency or
on the scale needed to meet the 2-degree goal,” said  Peter Sweatman , chief executive officer of Climate Strategy &
Partners, a Madrid-based consulting firm. “The warning lights
are flashing red.”  The worst performing environmental or clean energy fund in
the Lipper database that tracks returns of individual pools was
Azemos Asset Management AG’s  Hornet Renewable Energy Fund II ,
which lost 24 percent in the 12 months to Sept. 30 investing in
stocks such as SMA Solar Technology AG and  Meyer Burger
Technology AG . The top performer was the  Jupiter Environmental
Income Fund , managed by  Christopher Watt , which gained 18
percent. Watt didn’t immediately respond to phone and e-mail
requests for comment.  183 Funds Tracked  This year’s sell-off reduced the total cash invested by 183
renewable-power and environmental funds Lipper tracks to 12.1
billion euros from 13.4 billion euros at the end of last year.  U.S. investment slumped this year amid investor doubt about
government energy policy, while the sovereign debt crisis has
limited prospects for economic growth in Europe. Governments in
Germany, Spain and Italy cut subsidies for photovoltaic panels.  The industry is “exhausted,” said  Thiemo Lang , manager of
the SAM Group Holding AG’s 510 million-euro Smart Energy Fund.
“There are price pressures, there are worries about reductions
in incentives and there are worries about new production
capacity that will lead to oversupply.”  Lang’s Luxembourg-based fund, whose share price fell 6.6
percent in the first 10 months, has attracted new investments of
more than 70 million euros this year.  Vestas , which soared four-fold in Danish trading in the two
years through June 2008, lost 46 percent this year through
yesterday to 178.80 kroner. The WilderHill New Energy Global
Innovation Index fell 15 percent in the period.  “Performance is always going to be key,” said Ed Moisson,
head of U.K. and cross-border research at Lipper. “If your
performance isn’t there, people aren’t going to buy the fund.”  Lipper’s parent company  Thomson Reuters  competes with
Bloomberg LP.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ben Sills  in Madrid at   bsills@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at   landberg@bloomberg.net  