-- Blockbuster Creditor Sues Carl Icahn Over Equity-Stake Conversion Claims
-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t
-- 2010-12-24T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-24/blockbuster-creditor-sues-carl-icahn-over-equity-stake-conversion-claims.html
Carl Icahn  was sued by a  Blockbuster
Inc.  creditor who accused the billionaire investor of improperly
converting his equity stake to debt to take control of the
company after its reorganization in bankruptcy.  The creditor, Lyme Regis Partners LLC, previously sought to
subpoena information about Icahn’s investments in the bankruptcy
of the  world’s largest  movie-rental company.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge  Burton Lifland  in New York ruled Dec.
16 that Lyme Regis couldn’t pursue a probe of its own. The
creditor filed its adversary case against Icahn yesterday.  Icahn, his companies and investment funds including Icahn
LP used “their position of power and inside information to sell
their equity interests and essentially convert them into a
potentially controlling” amount of debt because the notes
allowed Icahn to gain control of Dallas-based Blockbuster
“during and after it emerged from bankruptcy,” according to
the filing.  Lyme Regis said in yesterday’s filing that it holds more
than $570,000 of Blockbuster’s unsecured notes.  Blockbuster  filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy Sept. 23, with
the support of lenders who held 80 percent of its secured notes
and agreed to finance operations in bankruptcy.  Probe of Liens  Creditors in the case, who already have permission to seek
documents from Blockbuster in an investigation of its
bankruptcy, have said in court papers that a probe of the liens
of senior noteholders is needed. Secured debt will be converted
to equity in the reorganized company under the bankruptcy plan
and unsecured creditors will get a “de minimis,” or negligible
return, the creditors said.  Icahn Partners LP was one of the lenders, along with
Monarch Capital Master Partners LP, Owl Creek Asset Management
LP, and others.  Dominick Ragone , the chief financial officer and a
spokesman for Icahn Enterprises LP, didn’t immediately return a
call seeking comment after regular business hours yesterday.  The case is In re Blockbuster, 10-14997, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joel Rosenblatt  in San Francisco at   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 