-- BOJ Has Done All It Can to Overcome Deflation, Cabinet Office's Wada Says
-- B y   T a t s u o   I t o   a n d   K e i k o   U j i k a n e
-- 2010-12-24T02:37:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-24/boj-has-done-all-it-can-to-overcome-deflation-cabinet-office-s-wada-says.html
A Japanese government official who
attends Bank of Japan policy board meetings said the central
bank has provided adequate stimulus and it’s the “government’s
turn” to try boosting demand.  “The BOJ has pretty much done everything it can do,”
Takashi Wada, a parliamentary secretary at the Cabinet Office
and a ruling party member, said in an interview in Tokyo on
Dec. 22. “It’ll probably be hard for the Bank of Japan to find
more effective policy tools. So, it will be the government’s
turn to make more of an effort with policy steps.”  Wada’s remarks reflect reduced political pressure on the
BOJ to further ease credit as the yen retreats from 15-year
highs against the dollar and stocks gain. While a group of
ruling Democratic Party of Japan politicians last month urged
the BOJ to supply more liquidity to eradicate price declines,
Wada said instead the government needs to get banks to lend more
rather than invest in bonds to overcome deflation.  “The central bank has created the right environment” to
encourage banks to extend more loans, said Wada, 47. “It’s
strange that private banks can’t lend. They are pouring money
into  government bonds  even though they have sufficient funds to
extend loans. Their money should go into companies rather than
government bonds.”  Anti-Deflation Group  Prices of corporate debt and real estate investment trusts
have climbed since BOJ Governor  Masaaki Shirakawa  introduced in
October a 5 trillion yen ($60 billion) fund to buy those assets
as well as government and corporate debt. The BOJ also lowered
its target interest rate to between zero and 0.1 percent.  The yen has dropped more than 3 percent against the dollar
from a 15-year high of 80.22 reached Nov. 1. The Japanese
currency traded at 83.05 as of 11:11 a.m. today. The  Nikkei 225
Stock Average  has gained more than 9 percent this quarter.  The DPJ’s anti-deflation group last month said the BOJ
should adopt an inflation target to stop price declines and
increase employment, and called for the revision of law that
guarantees the bank’s independence to ensure the BOJ pursues
those policy goals. The group consists of about 150 lawmakers,
more than a third of the party’s total members in the diet.  Underscoring the deflationary pressure on Japan’s economy,
nationwide consumer prices excluding fresh food fell for the
20th straight month in October.  Lending Decline  Bank lending  decreased for a 12th month in November,
extending the longest streak of declines since 2005, central
bank figures show. Corporate  demand for loans  has slid for six
quarters as some businesses pare investments, according to a
Bank of Japan survey of loan officers.  Japanese lenders held 278.8 trillion yen of Japanese
government debt as of Sept. 30, compared with 270.2 trillion yen
as of June 30, according to the Bank of Japan’s flow of funds
data released last week.  Wada, who worked at the Finance Ministry from 1988 to 2003,
said the BOJ’s 5-trillion yen fund will benefit the economy. He
has attended BOJ policy board meetings along with Finance
Ministry officials as a government representative.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Tatsuo Ito  in Tokyo at 
 tito2@bloomberg.net .
 Keiko Ujikane  in Tokyo at 
 kujikane@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net . 