-- Cathay Pacific Wins 75% Reduction in Damages for Fired Pilots
-- B y   W i n g - G a r   C h e n g   a n d   D e b r a   M a o
-- 2010-12-24T08:21:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-24/cathay-pacific-wins-reduction-in-damages-it-must-pay-pilots-fired-in-2001.html
Cathay Pacific Airways Ltd.  won a 75
percent reduction in damages it must pay a group of pilots fired
in 2001 to HK$14.5 million ($1.9 million), after Hong Kong’s
Court of Appeal ruled that the previous award was too high.  Judges  Frank Stock ,  Susan Kwan  and  Johnson Lam  today
reduced the damages for defamation per pilot to HK$700,000 from
HK$3.3 million each and overturned a wrongful dismissal judgment,
sparing Hong Kong’s biggest carrier from having to pay the
pilots a month’s salary apiece.  The almost decade-long case centers on 18 pilots who were
among 49 fired by Cathay on a single day in 2001. The group in
 November 2009  won a total award of HK$58.7 million, including
damages for defamatory statements made about them during an
industrial dispute. The judges today upheld an award of
HK$150,000 per pilot for being fired because of their perceived
participation in union activities.  “It’s a significant reduction,” said Cathay’s lawyer  Nick Hunsworth . Each pilot, except Gregory Stephen England who is
deceased, will receive the payment for having been defamed. Each
pilot, except George Crofts who won a separate award from a U.K.
court, will receive the payment for having been unfairly fired.  Benedict Chiu, a lawyer for the pilots, declined to comment.
The pilots could seek an appeal to Hong Kong’s highest court.  Legal Costs  The judges today also set aside the lower court’s award of
costs to the pilots and instead said they should now pay some of
Cathay’s costs.  “We welcome the court’s ruling,” said  Carolyn Leung , a
Cathay spokeswoman.  The carrier fell 1.2 percent to HK$21.55 at the close of
Hong Kong trading.  Cathay’s Chief Executive Officer  Tony Tyler , then director
of corporate development, issued a statement on July 9, 2001,
saying the pilots “cannot be relied upon to act in the best
interest of the company.” Cathay had lost confidence in the
employees, he said.  The appeals judges rejected Cathay’s argument that the
statement wasn’t defamatory and said Cathay didn’t act
responsibly in casting implications that may damage the
reputation of the pilots.  The case is Blakeney-Williams Campbell Richard and Others v.
Cathay Pacific Airways Ltd. and Another, CACV66 and 268/2009 in
the Hong Kong Court of Appeal.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Wing-Gar Cheng  in Hong Kong at 
 wgcheng@bloomberg.net ;
 Debra Mao  in Hong Kong at 
 dmao5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  