-- MCB Bank Plans Expansion in Pakistan, Abroad, Ignoring Domestic Slowdown
-- B y   F a r h a n   S h a r i f
-- 2010-12-24T05:00:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-24/mcb-bank-s-ceo-says-pakistan-s-slowing-growth-won-t-derail-expansion-plans.html
MCB Bank Ltd. , Pakistan’s largest
lender by market value, plans to expand overseas and add
branches and employees at home even as economic growth slows
after the worst floods in the nation’s history.  The lender will add 70 outlets in its home market and
increase staff as it expands trade financing, remittances
management and mobile-banking operations, Chief Executive
Officer  Mohammad Usman Ali Usmani , 68, said in an interview in
Karachi yesterday. MCB may open branches in China, the Middle
East, Europe, Singapore and Indonesia if it gets regulatory
approvals, he said.  The investments may bolster MCB’s lead over rivals
struggling to fend off profit declines as credit growth stalls
in an economy forecast to expand 2.5 percent in the year ending
June 30, missing the government’s initial target of 4.5 percent.
Usmani, who took the helm at MCB in June, forecasts his bank’s
profit will climb as much as 8 percent in 2011 while the
nation’s lenders on average post a drop of as much as 7 percent.  “MCB has been known for its aggressive investment strategy
and capital strength,” said  Mustufa Bilwani , a research analyst
at JS Global Capital Ltd. in Karachi who rates MCB as a
“hold.” “ It’s always good to invest during a downturn.”  Shares of MCB rose 0.1 percent to 223.20 rupees at 9:55
a.m. on the  Karachi Stock Exchange . The stock has  advanced  12
percent this year, compared with a 26 percent gain in Pakistan’s
benchmark  Karachi Stock Exchange 100 Index .  Surplus Funds  Only half of MCB’s 500 billion rupees ($5.8 billion) in
capital has been deployed, and deposits are climbing at about 15
percent a year amid a slump in demand for loans, leaving the
bank with surplus cash, Usmani said. The lender will aim to
reduce its cost of funds from about 4 percent, he said.  Pakistan’s central bank last month raised its benchmark
rate for the third time since July to stem the most inflation in
Asia. Credit growth in the nation slowed to 2.2 percent this
year as of Dec. 10, compared with 18.3 percent for the same
period of 2008, according to central bank data.  National Bank of Pakistan, the country’s biggest lender by
assets, and local rivals may post a 10 percent profit drop next
year as higher interest rates curb loan demand and the economy
falters, Chairman  Syed Ali Raza  said in an interview this week.  MCB is considering buying Abu Dhabi Group’s 21 percent
stake in Pakistan’s  United Bank Ltd. , the nation’s third-biggest
lender, because of its potential dividend returns, Usmani said.
Abu Dhabi Group on Dec. 15 said it contacted buyers to gauge
their interest in buying its stake.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Farhan Sharif in Karachi, Pakistan at 
 Fsharif2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net . 