-- China's Stocks Fall, Capping Sixth Weekly Drop in Seven; Automakers Slide
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-12-24T07:43:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-24/china-stocks-fall-on-rising-loan-costs-auto-limits-head-for-weekly-loss.html
China’s stocks  fell, driving down
the benchmark index for a sixth week out of seven, on concerns a
cash shortage will make it difficult for companies to borrow for
expansion and new regulations in Beijing may limit car sales.  SAIC Motor Corp.  fell to the lowest in four months after
China’s capital announced measures to restrict the number of new
vehicles.  Baoshan Iron & Steel Co.  led declines for steelmakers
on the prospect slumping auto demand would curb earnings.  Yunnan
Greenland Biological Technology Co.  pace a retreat for small
companies amid speculation higher banks’ reserve-requirement
ratios have led to a cash crunch.  “It won’t be a surprise if the government announces
further reserve ratio or interest-rate hikes by the year end as
curbing inflation is the top priority for decision makers at the
moment,” said  Wu Kan , a fund manager at Dazhong Insurance Co.,
which oversees $285 million. “The market is also suffering from
a liquidity crunch approaching the year end and that will keep
it fluctuating for the short term.”  The  Shanghai Composite Index , which tracks the bigger of
China’s stock exchanges, dropped 20.1, or 0.7 percent, to
2,835.16 at the 3 p.m. close The index slid 2 percent this week.
The  CSI 300 Index  lost 0.8 percent to 3,162.96. The CSI Smallcap
500 Index fell 1.5 percent to the lowest close since Dec. 9.  The  Shanghai Composite , the worst performer among major
Asian benchmarks this year, has fallen 13 percent in 2010 on
concern the central bank will raise interest rates for a second
time since October as part of policy tightening measures to slow
inflation that reached a 28-month high last month.  Auto Stocks  SAIC Motor lost 2.3 percent to 15.63 yuan, the lowest close
since Aug. 26. Beiqi Foton Motor Co. dropped 4.5 percent to
24.88 yuan.  Beijing introduced measures including limiting the number
of new passenger vehicles in the Chinese capital to ease
congested roads. The government will issue a quota of 240,000
new vehicle license places through a lottery system next year,
with about 88 percent allocated to individual buyers, according
to a statement released yesterday.  Nomura International lowered its forecast for 2011
passenger vehicle sales by 3 percent to 13.4 percent to reflect
the potential effects from the policy, Nomura analyst Yankun Hou
said in a report today.  “Such measures will have substantial impact on auto
sales,” said Hou in the note. “Catalysts will be policy
clarifications from central and local governments.”  Baoshan Iron & Steel, China’s biggest publicly traded
steelmaker, declined 0.2 percent to 6.61 yuan. Wuhan Iron &
Steel Co. lost 0.5 percent to 4.45 yuan.  Aluminum Stocks  Aluminum Corp of China Ltd., the nation’s largest maker of
the metal, fell 2.6 percent on speculation a shortage of power
supply may curb output and revenue. Yunnan Aluminum Co. dropped
1.7 percent to 12.14 yuan.  Aluminum smelters in China may face a “critical shortage”
of power that prevents them from ramping up output in the first
quarter of 2011, helping to buoy prices as stockpiles decline
further, according to Macquarie Group Ltd.  “Our recent visit to Shanxi and Henan provinces suggested
the power supply would still be in critical shortage over the
winter due to tight supply of coal,” analysts including Bonnie
Liu wrote in a report today. Aluminum prices may gain over the
next three or four months, they wrote, without giving a forecast.  China’s finance ministry sold 16.76 billion yuan ($2.53
billion) of 91-day securities, falling short of the planned 20
billion yuan target, according to traders at the lead
underwriters of government debt, who asked not to be identified.  Cash Crunch  The government has ordered banks to boost their reserve
requirements six times this year to curb loan growth and prevent
asset bubbles. The seven-day repo rate, which measures lending
costs between banks, jumped 150 basis points to 5.67 percent,
the highest level since October 2007, according to yesterday’s  The  smallcaps gauge  fell for a third day, the longest
losing streak since September. Even with this week’s drop, the
index trades at 49.6 times reported earnings, compared with 18.8
times for the CSI 300. Yunnan Greenland plunged by the 10
percent daily limit for a second day to 30.89 yuan, adding to a
22 percent slide this week. Tianjin Zhonghuan Semiconductor
Joint-Stock Co. slid 8.2 percent to 25.85 today.  China’s  property stocks  may rebound 25 percent from the
current level until the middle of January in the absence of
further measures to rein in housing prices, according to Guotai
Junan Securities.  The rebound may raise developers’ valuations to 13 times
estimated earnings for 2011 from the current 10.5 times, Sun
Jianping and Li Pinke, analysts at the brokerage wrote in a
report today. Investors shouldn’t have high expectations about
loosening policy curbs in the short term, because of fast price
gains in China’s second- and third-tier cities, the report said.  Stocks Outlook  China Vanke Co., the biggest developer, added 1.9 percent
to 9.01 yuan. Gemdale Corp. climbed 5 percent o 6.58 yuan.  The government’s policy tightening measures will be
“largely over” by next spring, spurring a rally for equities
in the second half, according to  Donald Straszheim , director of
China research at International Strategy & Investment Group.  “China’s economy will continue to grow rapidly in 2011 and
inflation will come down,” he said in a Bloomberg Television
interview. “The monetary policy tightening will be largely over
by the spring of the year. That will set up a ‘buy’ for the
second half of 2011, a very nice rally in China’s equities.”  -- Irene Shen . Editors:  Allen Wan ,  Richard Frost   To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
 Irene Shen  in Shanghai at +86-21-6104-3049 or
 ishen4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  