-- Yen Weakens as Recovery Signs Prompt Shift to Higher-Yielding Currencies
-- B y   L u c y   M e a k i n   a n d   R o n   H a r u i
-- 2010-12-24T10:12:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-24/dollar-set-for-weekly-drop-versus-higher-yielding-peers-on-recovery-signs.html
The yen fell against most major
peers amid reports that Japan said it will likely increase its
reserves for intervening in the currency market.  The euro gained for the first time in eight days versus the
yen after Standard & Poor’s yesterday affirmed France’s standing
as one of the world’s safest borrowers. The dollar is poised for
a weekly loss against 13 of its 16 most-traded counterparts as
positive U.S. economic data spurred investments in riskier
assets. Reports next week may show confidence among U.S.
consumers improved even as housing remained weak.  “Japan announcing this is just a warning shot to markets
saying don’t bother next year pushing dollar-yen any lower,”
said  Geoffrey Yu , a London-based foreign exchange strategist at
UBS AG. “It would encourage taking off those short dollar-yen
positions but what we’re really looking for are those structural
flows to come out of Japan. Japanese foreign money investors
need to see foreign yields to go up first and we’re seeing some
signs of that.”  The yen weakened 0.1 percent to 108.82 per euro as of 9:59
a.m. in London, and was little changed at 82.89 per dollar. The
U.S. currency slipped 0.1 percent to $1.313 per euro. One pound
bought 128.1 yen compared with 127.91 yesterday. It depreciated
0.1 percent to 62.01 per New Zealand dollar.  Japan will likely increase its reserves set aside for
intervening in the currency market by 5 trillion yen ($60
billion) in the next fiscal year, Reuters reported, citing
unidentified people. The pool is currently 145 trillion yen,
according to the report.  Treasuries Dropped  The yen has gained 12.1 percent in the past year according
to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes, which track
a basket of 10 developed-country currencies.  Treasuries dropped this week, pushing 10-year note yields
to their longest stretch of weekly increases in 19 months, after
reports showed initial jobless claims fell and consumer spending
advanced.  The euro gained versus the dollar after S&P said yesterday
that France deserves a AAA sovereign credit rating because of
the “wealth and depth” of its economy and the view that
President  Nicolas Sarkozy ’s government will consolidate its
budget gap.  France’s top credit rating was vulnerable to a rethink by
the credit rating companies because of its budget deficit and
because its banks are the biggest holders of debt issued by so-
called peripheral countries, analysts said before yesterday’s
announcement.  Vote of Confidence  The vote of confidence in France came hours after Fitch
Ratings cited concern about the “financing environment” for
Portugal’s government and banks as well as the economic outlook
as it cut the nation’s long-term foreign and local currency
issuer default rating to A+, the fifth-highest level, from AA-.
The outlook is negative.  The euro will end 2011 near $1.50 as European growth
accelerates led by Germany,  Gavin Stacey , an interest-rate
strategist at Barclays Capital in Sydney, said in an interview
with Bloomberg Television.  “If the euro gets down to around the $1.25 level, then
that’s a good time to load up on the European growth story
because Germany is growing fast,” he said.  China Voices Support  Demand for the common currency was also boosted as Chinese
officials this week expressed support for the European Union.
The strengthening of the euro’s status will help “promote the
building of a diversified global currency system,” China’s
ambassador to the EU Song Zhe said yesterday in a  statement  on
the Foreign Ministry’s website.  His comments follow those of Chinese Vice Premier  Wang Qishan , who said on Dec. 21 that his nation has taken “concrete
action” to help the EU address its debt crisis.  The Conference Board’s  sentiment index  for U.S. consumers
rose to 56.3, according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg
survey before the New York-based group’s report due Dec. 28.  An S&P/Case-Shiller  index  of home values in 20 U.S. cities
fell 0.2 percent in October from the same month in 2009, the
first year-on-year decline since January, a report is predicted
to show on Dec. 28. The gauge probably declined 0.7 percent from
the prior month after adjusting for seasonal variations.  “Recoveries around the world appear to be picking up,”
said  Tsutomu Soma , a bond and currency dealer at Okasan
Securities Co. in Tokyo. “There seems to be risk-on sentiment,
which is likely negative for the yen and dollar.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Lucy Meakin  in London at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at   dtilles@bloomberg.net . 