-- Emerging Markets Stocks Drop for First Time in Four Days on Korea Threat
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-12-24T17:19:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-24/emerging-stocks-drop-paring-weekly-gain-on-inflation-concern.html
Emerging-market  stocks  fell for the
first time in four days as North Korea threatened to wage a
“sacred war” if attacked and concern deepened that inflation
will force Asian central banks to raise interest rates.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index  retreated 0.04 percent to
1,127.31 at 12:06 p.m. in New York, trimming this week’s gain to
1.1 percent. Almost two stocks fell for every one that rose.
South Korea’s  Kospi Index  lost 0.4 percent and the won weakened
0.2 percent against the dollar. China’s Shanghai Composite Index
slipped 0.7 percent on concerns a cash shortage will make it
difficult for companies to borrow for expansion.  Mexico’s IPC index fell 0.1 percent, while Chile’s IPSA
index climbed 0.2 percent. Markets in Brazil were closed before
the Christmas holiday.  North Korea said it will use nuclear weapons if attacked as
South Korea held a military exercise with jet fighters and
mobile artillery near the Demilitarized Zone that separates the
countries. Investors pulled money from emerging-market equity
mutual funds for the first time since May in the week ended Dec.
22 amid concern that rising commodity prices will prompt China
to tighten monetary policy, according to EPFR Global.  “It won’t be a surprise if the government announces
further reserve ratio or interest-rate hikes by the year end as
curbing inflation is the top priority for decision makers,”
said  Wu Kan , a fund manager in Shanghai at Dazhong Insurance
Co., which oversees $285 million.  Year-to-Date  The MSCI emerging-market gauge has advanced 14 percent this
year, following a record 75 percent gain in 2009. The index is
down 2.5 percent from its 2010 peak on Nov. 5. Emerging-market
stock funds have taken in a record $92.5 billion this year and
developing-nation bond funds had inflows of $52.5 billion, also
an all-time high, according to EPFR.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries declined 1 basis point to 2.40
percentage points, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI+
Index.  The  Shanghai Composite  index extended this year’s decline
to 13 percent. China’s Finance Ministry failed to draw enough
demand at a bill sale for the second time in a month, reflecting
a cash squeeze sparked by seasonal demand for funds and higher
reserve-requirement ratios.  Increased demand for food in Asia will help to boost prices
next year, fueling faster inflation, according to Yougesh Khatri
at Nomura Holdings Inc., who flagged rising costs as a “key
theme” for 2011 in an interview on Bloomberg Television.  Carmakers Drop  SAIC Motor Corp.  led declines among Chinese automakers
after the city of Beijing said it will limit the number of new
passenger vehicles. SAIC, the nation’s biggest carmaker, slumped
2.3 percent to a four-month low.  Vietnam’s  VN Index  slipped 0.6 percent as the country’s
annual inflation rate accelerated to 11.75 percent, the fastest
in 22 months.  Rising metal prices boosted shares of producers. South
Africa’s AngloGold Ashanti Ltd. advanced 1.2 percent as gold
gained 0.3 percent in London and platinum added 0.7 percent.  United Co. Rusal  rose in Moscow as the Russian depositary
receipts of the world’s biggest aluminum producer started
trading. The RDRs, the first of their kind, reached $15.60 on
the RTS Stock Exchange. The RTS said yesterday the receipts,
which equal 10 common shares, would be listed at the equivalent
of 460 rubles ($15.04).  Cencosud SA , Chile’s largest retailer by sales, rose 1.3
percent to 3,649.8 pesos and led gains among Chilean stocks as
it plans to invest approximately $1 billion in 2011 in the five
countries it operates. In Mexico,  America Movil SAB  fell 0.1
percent to 35.01 pesos after announcing yesterday an agreement
with the Mexican unit of Spain’s Telefonica SA to reduce
interconnection fees.  -- Zhang Shidong , Michael Patterson. With assistance from  Irene Shen  in Shanghai, Rajhkumar K Shaaw in Mumbai and Eduardo
Thomson in Santiago. Editors: Linda Shen, Brendan Walsh  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
 Zhang Shidong  in Shanghai at +86-21-6104-3040 or
 szhang5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net  