-- Emerging Equity Funds Post First Outflows Since May, Trimming Record Year
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B u r g o s
-- 2010-12-24T04:28:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-24/emerging-equity-funds-post-first-outflows-since-may-trimming-record-year.html
Emerging-market equity funds posted
the first net withdrawals since May in the week ended Dec. 22
amid concern China will continue tightening monetary policy,
trimming a record-setting year for inflows, EPFR Global said.  For the year, emerging-market stock funds have taken in a
record $92.5 billion and bond funds investing in developing
economies had inflows of $52.5 billion, nearly seven times their
previous annual inflows on record.  “Uncertainty about inflationary trends, investors’ fear of
being caught up on the wrong side of capital controls and basic
profit-taking kept the pressure on EPFR Global-tracked emerging
markets funds going into the final week of 2010,” the
Massachusetts-based research firm in an e-mailed statement.  China’s central bank raised bank reserve requirements on
Dec. 10 for the third time in five weeks as inflation quickened
to its fastest pace in 28 months in November. Home prices in 70
Chinese cities climbed 7.7 percent in November from a year
earlier, even after the government raised borrowing costs for
the first time in three years, suspended mortgages for third-
home purchases and pledged to introduce a property tax.  The Shanghai Composite Index fell 0.5 percent as of 11:30
a.m. local time, on course for a 1.8 percent weekly retreat. The
measure has lost 13 percent this year, making China the worst-
performer among Asian stock markets, according to data tracked
by Bloomberg. The MSCI Emerging Markets Index, tracking 21
developing nations, sank 0.2 percent, snapping a three-day gain.  Stock funds overall took in $4.5 billion during the week,
while bond funds had net redemptions of $2.3 billion, according
to the research company.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jonathan Burgos  in Singapore at 
 jburgos4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at   ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 