-- European Stocks Climb for Fourth Week; Paper Makers, ARM, Xstrata Advance
-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 2010-12-25T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-24/european-stocks-climb-for-fourth-week-paper-makers-arm-xstrata-rally.html
European  stocks climbed for a fourth
week, the longest stretch of gains since April, amid speculation
that the economic recovery will continue into 2011.  UPM-Kymmene Oyj  led a rally in paper makers after the
company agreed to acquire two rivals.  ARM Holdings Plc  surged as
Microsoft Corp. is set to unveil a version of its Windows
computer operating system that runs on the British company’s
technology for the first time.  Xstrata Plc  and Antofagasta Plc
led raw-material shares higher as metal prices were boosted by
reports on economic growth.  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index climbed 1.6 percent to 280.90
this week, extending this year’s rally to 11 percent. The gauge
has recovered from the plunge that followed Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc.’s collapse in September 2008 as companies reported
higher  earnings , the European Union bailed out Greece and
Ireland and the Federal Reserve unveiled $600 billion of
additional bond purchases to help the economy.  “Growth will continue to progress, although at a slower
pace,” said  Giordano Lombardo , who oversees about 186 billion
euros ($244 billion) as chief investment officer at Pioneer
Global Asset Management SpA in Milan. Attractive valuations and
strong corporate profits “will underpin equities as the
strongest candidate for the best asset class of next year,
provided there are no major policy mistakes in the U.S. or
Europe.”  Revised Increase  The U.S. economy, the world’s largest, expanded at a 2.6
percent annual rate in the third quarter. The revised increase
in gross domestic product compares with a 2.5 percent estimate
issued last month, figures from the Commerce Department showed
Dec. 22.  Separate U.S. reports on Dec. 23 showed consumer spending
and new-home purchases increased, fewer people filed
applications for jobless-benefit claims and consumer sentiment
climbed to a six-month high.  Concern about the ability of some European governments to
reduce their budget deficits eased this week as Chinese Vice
Premier  Wang Qishan  said the world’s second-largest economy has
taken “action to help some EU members counter the sovereign-
debt crisis.” China holds a record $2.65 trillion in foreign-
exchange reserves.  Trading volume on the Stoxx 600 declined every day this
week as the Christmas holiday approached, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Shift in Demand  UPM surged 11 percent after Europe’s second-biggest
papermaker agreed to buy Myllykoski Oyj and Rhein Papier GmbH
for about 900 million euros as the industry consolidates in
response to higher production costs and a shift in demand to
digital publications.  Stora Enso Oyj  soared 10 percent, the
third-biggest rally on the Stoxx 600. Mondi Plc, Europe’s
largest maker of office paper, climbed 4.7 percent.  ARM gained 9.1 percent. The new product will debut at the
Consumer Electronics Show in January, said two people familiar
with the plans, who asked not to be identified because
Microsoft’s plans are confidential.  Microsoft  will tailor the
operating system for battery-powered devices, such as tablet
computers and other handhelds, the people said.
      Xstrata  climbed 3.1 percent and Antofagasta advanced 4.9
percent as copper posted its fourth straight weekly increase.
Basic-resource companies posted the biggest gains of all 19
industry groups on the Stoxx 600.  EFG Eurobank Ergasias SA  led Greek banks lower, tumbling 16
percent, as Fitch Ratings Ltd. placed five Greek banks on review
for a possible downgrade after putting the country’s sovereign
debt rating on review earlier in the week.  National Bank of Greece SA, Alpha Bank SA, Eurobank and
Piraeus Bank SA, Greece’s four biggest lenders, and state-
controlled Agricultural Bank of Greece SA were placed on rating
watch negative. Fitch based its assessment on “the likelihood
of them receiving support should this become necessary,”
according to the statement Dec. 22.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Adam Haigh  in London at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Merritt at   dmerritt1@bloomberg.net . 