-- German Bunds Rise for First Week in Two Months as Region's Debt Woes Grow
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B r o w n
-- 2010-12-25T07:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-24/german-bunds-rise-for-first-week-in-almost-two-months-on-europe-debt-woes.html
German 10-year government bonds
posted their first weekly gain since the beginning of November
as renewed concern over the region’s most-indebted countries
spurred demand for bunds as a haven.  The  yield  on the bund, Europe’s benchmark government
security, fell from near a seven-month high reached on Dec. 16.
Portuguese bonds declined as its credit rating was downgraded by
Fitch Ratings, which also said it may cut Greece to non-
investment grade. France’s AAA rating was affirmed on Dec. 23 by
Standard & Poor’s with a stable outlook. Spanish bonds rose.  “Worries over the periphery are still valid going into the
New Year and that’s been supporting core bonds,” said  Eric Wand , an interest-rate strategist at Lloyds Corporate Bank.
“Without a dramatic surprise from EU policy makers, I can’t see
that situation altering.”  The 10-year bund yield ended the week at 2.98 percent, from
3.03 percent on Dec. 17, while the two-year yield declined to
0.96 percent from 1.06 percent. The Portuguese 10-year yield
climbed to 6.84 percent from 6.68 percent, and the equivalent
Irish yield gained 62 basis points to 9.22 percent. The Spanish
10-year yield fell four basis points to 5.52 percent.  Portugal’s debt rating was downgraded one level on Dec. 23
by Fitch Ratings to A+, which said the economy faces a
“deteriorating” outlook as the government struggles to curb
the euro region’s fourth-largest budget deficit. The outlook is
negative. The rating may be cut one or two levels by Moody’s
Investors Service, the company said on Dec. 21.  Ratings Downgrades  Greece may have its credit rating cut to non-investment
grade by Fitch Ratings within six weeks after a review of the
nation’s “fiscal sustainability,” the agency said on Dec. 21.
Moody’s slashed Ireland’s credit rating by five levels on Dec.
17 and said further downgrades are possible as the government
struggles to contain losses in the country’s banking system.  Fitch said in a separate report that there is a risk the
European Union will need to rescue other euro member states
after bailouts of Ireland and Greece.  “While the euro zone’s underlying credit fundamentals are
stronger than current levels of risk pricing indicate, Fitch
believes that the crisis is systemic in as much as it reflects
concerns about the viability of the euro as well as country-
specific vulnerabilities,” the ratings company said.  The euro will overcome the region’s deficit crisis and
support the stability of the international monetary system, Song
Zhe, China’s ambassador to the European Union, said on Dec. 23.  Chinese Vice Premier  Wang Qishan  said on Dec. 21 his nation
had taken “concrete action” to help the European Union with
its debt problems.  German bonds returned 6.1 percent this year, compared with
5.4 percent for U.S. Treasuries, according to indexes compiled
by Bloomberg and the European Federation of Financial Analysts
Societies. Irish bonds handed investors a loss of 14 percent,
Greek bonds 20 percent and Portuguese bonds 8.1 percent, indexes
show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Matthew Brown  in London at 
 mbrown42@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  