-- Glaxo's Kidney-Cancer Drug Votrient Wins U.K. Backing With Price Agreement
-- B y   A l b e r t i n a   T o r s o l i
-- 2010-12-24T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-24/glaxo-s-kidney-cancer-drug-votrient-wins-u-k-backing-with-price-agreement.html
GlaxoSmithKline Plc , Europe’s
second-largest drugmaker by sales, won the backing of the U.K.
 National Institute for Health and Clinical Excellence  for the
Votrient kidney-cancer pill after agreeing to lower the price.  Glaxo will provide the drug, which costs about 2,200 pounds
($3,388) a month, at an immediate 12.5 percent discount, Glaxo
and NICE, both based in London, said in separate statements
today. NICE advises the U.K.’s  National Health Service  on the
cost-effectiveness of treatments.  The company also agreed to pay a “partial rebate” to the
NHS if a trial comparing Votrient to  Pfizer Inc .’s Sutent, which
is now the standard treatment, doesn’t show comparable
effectiveness with Sutent, said Simon Jose, the company’s
general manager in the U.K., in a phone interview. The trial
results are expected by the middle of 2012, he said.  “You don’t always have the evidence you need at the time
you need it, especially in oncology,” Jose said. “You need
flexibility to manage that.” The agreement will help achieve a
“balance between fast and equitable access for patients, value
for money for the NHS and fair return for innovation for GSK,”
he said.  Once-daily Votrient, also known as pazopanib, was approved
for use in the U.S. last year for advanced renal-cell carcinoma.
An estimated 58,240 new cases of kidney cancer were diagnosed in
the U.S. this year, and about 13,040 people will die from the
disease, according to the  American Cancer Society . Many patients
don’t know they have the cancer until it has reached an advanced
stage because small tumors can’t be felt and aren’t easily
detected.  ‘Unmet Need’  “Because there is such high unmet medical need, our
priority was to quickly get the product to the patients, to give
them the choice of a different treatment option,” Jose said.  NICE recommended Votrient as a first-line treatment option
for people suffering from advanced renal-cell carcinoma who
haven’t received cytokine therapy and who are relatively healthy
given the status of their disease, according to the statement.  Surgery to remove the kidney was the standard cancer
treatment before the FDA approved Sutent and Nexavar, from  Bayer
AG  and  Onyx Pharmaceuticals Inc ., five years ago. Sutent, or
sunitinib, works by choking off a tumor’s blood supply.  "Sunitinib is recommended by NICE for first-line treatment
of advanced renal-cell carcinoma," said Carole Longson, director
of the agency’s Health Technology Evaluation Centre, in the
statement. "Pazopanib will offer patients an additional option,
and, for some, a more favorable side effect profile."  Side Effects  Votrient has been shown to effectively slow down the
progression of advanced kidney cancer while maintaining quality
of life compared with placebo, Glaxo said in today’s statement.
The treatment’s most common side effects are diarrhea, hair-
color change, high blood pressure and nausea, Glaxo said.  Advanced renal cell carcinoma is an aggressive form of
kidney cancer that’s resistant to chemotherapy, radiotherapy and
hormone therapy, all common treatments for tumors. In the U.K.
alone, more than 8,000 people are diagnosed with kidney cancer
each year and about one-third of them show signs of advanced
disease at the time of diagnosis, Glaxo said in the statement.  The U.K. drugmaker is testing pazopanib against other
tumors, including those in the breast and lungs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Albertina Torsoli  in Paris at 
 atorsoli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  