-- Gold May Increase This Week on Demand for Wealth Protection, Survey Shows
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   L a r k i n
-- 2010-12-31T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-24/gold-may-advance-on-concern-debt-woes-will-continue-according-to-survey.html
Gold, set for a 10th consecutive
annual gain, may advance as investors seek a protection of
wealth and alternative to currencies, a survey found.  Eighteen of 22 traders, investors and analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg, or 82 percent, said the metal will rise next week.
Two predicted lower prices and two were neutral. Gold for
February delivery was up 1.9 percent for this week at $1,407.20
an ounce at 10:34 a.m. yesterday on the Comex in New York.  Futures gained for the first week in three last week and
were heading for a 28 percent gain this year by yesterday.
Prices reached a record $1,432.50 on Dec. 7 as investors sought
an alternative to currencies amid government asset purchases and
concerns about government debts in Ireland, Spain and Greece.  “Gold’s short-term trend has turned upwards after last
week’s higher close” and an increase this week is “important
technically,” said Mark O’Byrne, executive director of
brokerage GoldCore Ltd. in Dublin. Demand for wealth
preservation is “set to continue due to concerns about
sovereign debt, the fragile economic recovery and growing
inflation pressures in China and internationally,” he said.  The attached chart tracks the results of the Bloomberg
survey, with the red bars derived by subtracting bearish
forecasts from bullish estimates. Readings below zero signal
that most respondents expect a decline. The green line shows the
gold price. The data are as of Dec. 24.  The weekly gold survey that started six years ago has
forecast prices accurately in 195 of 343 weeks, or 57 percent of
the time.  This week’s survey results: Bullish: 18 Bearish: 2 Neutral: 2  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicholas Larkin in London at 
 nlarkin1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 