-- Guinea Leader May Ask Rusal for Better Terms, Russia Envoy Says
-- B y   H e n r y   M e y e r   a n d   I l y a   K h r e n n i k o v
-- 2010-12-24T05:17:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-24/guinea-s-new-leader-could-ask-miners-for-improved-terms-russia-envoy-says.html
Guinea’s new President  Alpha Conde 
is likely to ask for better terms from foreign miners operating
in the West African nation, including  United Co. Rusal , the
world’s biggest aluminum maker, according to Russian President
 Dmitry Medvedev’s  envoy to Africa.  “There is a global battle for Guinean bauxite,”  Alexei Vasiliev  said in an interview in Moscow on Dec. 22. “It would
be logical for Guinea to demand more favorable terms for the
operations of foreign companies.”  Conde, a long-time opposition leader who was named winner
in the Nov. 7 runoff vote and was inaugurated on Dec. 21, vowed
ahead of the election that he would review all mining deals to
make them more favorable to the state. Guinea holds as much as
50 percent of global reserves of bauxite, an ore used to make
aluminum, according to the U.S. State Department.  Any review of contracts should be resolved “on the basis
of compromise and in the interests of all sides,” Vasiliev
said. If Guinea is embarking on “a democratic path,” it must
respect existing laws, he said.  Moscow-based Rusal is the largest foreign employer in
Guinea with 2,300 people and relies on the African nation for 40
percent of its bauxite needs. The aluminum producer has said it
plans to invest $5.5 billion in a new mine there, Dian Dian.  The company doesn’t expect any new demands from Guinea, it
said in an e-mailed statement. “As one of the biggest employers
in the country, we operate fully within the law and play an
important socio-economic role, carrying out major social
projects in the cities where we operate,” Rusal said.  Dian Dian Project  Along with other foreign companies in Guinea, Rusal may
have to negotiate with Conde’s government on its tax and social
contributions, said Vasiliev. Rusal may also need to hold talks
about the terms of Dian Dian, he said.  Guinea’s Mines Minister  Mahmoud Thiam  didn’t answer calls
to his mobile phone when Bloomberg News called seeking comment,
and didn’t immediately respond to e-mailed questions. Prime
Minister  Jean Marie Dore’s  resignation was accepted on Dec. 22
and Conde is yet to appoint his replacement, who will then name
a new cabinet.  Rusal, along with London-based  Rio Tinto Group , has already
faced difficulties in Guinea after the military junta which
seized power in December 2008 following the death of long-
serving President  Lansana Conte  launched a review of all foreign
mining deals.  Simandou Ownership  Rio faced a dispute over its ownership of the Simandou
iron-ore project. The junta also threatened to revise the terms
of Rusal’s license to develop Dian Dian, take back state control
of a bauxite and alumina plant sold to the Russian company in
2002, and levy tax claims of $860 million.  Rusal on June 15 said it had reached “a number” of
accords, including to develop Dian Dian and to continue its
current tax and customs system, after the company’s billionaire
Chief Executive Officer  Oleg Deripaska  met the country’s
government for talks in Conakry, the capital.  Dian Dian, located 350 kilometers (220 miles) north of
Conakry, contains about 1 billion metric tons of bauxite ore
with a high aluminum content, according to Rusal.  Other companies operating in the country include  Aluminum
Corp. of China Ltd. ,  AngloGold Ashanti Ltd. , Africa’s biggest
gold miner, and Brazil’s  Vale SA , the largest iron-ore producer.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Henry Meyer  in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net ;
 Ilya Khrennikov  in Moscow at 
 ikhrennikov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amanda Jordan at   ajordan11@bloomberg.net  