-- Indian Rail Raises Freight Rates Hindering Singh's Efforts to Cool Prices
-- B y   S u b r a m a n i a m   S h a r m a
-- 2010-12-24T00:41:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-24/indian-rail-raises-freight-rates-hindering-singh-s-efforts-to-cool-prices.html
Indian Railways , the nation’s
biggest train operator, will raise charges for hauling iron,
steel and other products by about 4 percent from Dec. 27 to
offset higher wages and fuel costs.  Rates for coal, coke, cement, caustic potash and some
petroleum products will also be raised by a similiar amount,
according to a Dec. 20  circular  posted on the Ministry of 
Railways’ website. Charges for food grains and fertilizers 
will remain unchanged, while rates for salt and sugar will
rise marginally, it said.  “Costs such as employee wages, fuel and operational inputs
have risen,” said Anil Kumar Saxena, a spokesman for the
railway ministry. “Still, about 50 percent of the increase has
been absorbed by the railways.”  Higher freight rates may hinder Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s efforts to curb price rises that have sparked strikes
and public protests. Food inflation accelerated to a six-week
high in the week ended Dec. 11.  “It will add to inflationary pressure,” said  Shubhada Rao ,
chief economist at Yes Bank Ltd. in Mumbai. “The government has
to balance between coming closer to market rates, reducing the
subsidy burden and simultaneously ensuring it doesn’t cascade
into sharper inflationary pressures.”  State-owned Indian Railways carried 593.4 million tons of
freight from April to November, 3.3 percent more than a year
earlier, according to a  press release .  The charges for transporting cement, coal and coke for a
distance of between 501 kilometers and 510 kilometers will
increase to 489.90 rupees from Dec. 27 from 471 rupees,
according to the  table  posted on the ministry’s website. The
rates for alloys, metals, iron and steel will go up to 587.90
rupees from 565.20 rupees, the ministry said. The increases vary
based on the product and distance hauled.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Subramaniam Sharma  in New Delhi at 
 ssharma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  