-- Indian Investigators Raid Games Chief's Home as Singh Cracks Down on Graft
-- B y   B i b h u d a t t a   P r a d h a n
-- 2010-12-24T13:32:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-24/indian-investigators-searching-homes-of-commonwealth-games-chief-kalmadi.html
India’s federal investigators
searched the residences of an organizer of the New Delhi
 Commonwealth Games  as Prime Minister Manmohan Singh cracks down
on graft within his ruling Congress party.  Officials of the  Central Bureau of Investigation  raided the
office and homes of  Suresh Kalmadi , the chief of the organizing
committee of the sporting event, and his private secretary in
New Delhi, Pune and Mumbai, the bureau’s spokeswoman Binita
Thakur said. Documents found during the searches are being
scrutinized, she said.  “I have not taken any decision alone,” Kalmadi told
reporters in New Delhi today, adding he cooperated fully with
investigators. “All decisions have been taken by the executive
board.”  Local organizers of the October games, which attracted
attention worldwide after newspaper headlines described filthy
accommodation for athletes, missed construction deadlines and a
collapse of a stadium footbridge, are under probe for alleged
financial irregularities. Singh has faced criticism from
opposition parties for spiraling costs and corruption as the
government spent $4.6 billion for the event.  Kalmadi is the latest official to be probed by the bureau
after former telecommunications minister Andimuthu Raja, who
resigned two days before the nation’s chief auditor reported
last month that an auction of phone licenses in 2008 “lacked
transparency” and may have cost the state $31 billion. Raja,
who has denied any wrongdoing, faced queries from investigators
today in New Delhi.  ‘Acting Under Pressure’  “The government should’ve acted faster,” said New Delhi-
based Anupama Jha, executive director of the India chapter of
 Transparency International . “It is only reacting under pressure
from media and the opposition in taking some action.”  Singh, at a Congress party conclave near New Delhi on Dec.
20, vowed to punish those guilty in the phone-license and games
cases. The ruling party’s President Sonia Gandhi unveiled an
action plan a day earlier to tackle corruption, advocating a new
system to expedite cases against government officials and
politicians.  Opposition demands for a cross-party probe into the award
of the phone permits stalled parliament for 22 days in November
and December.  ‘Exorbitant’ Contract  Kalmadi resigned as a member of the Congress Parliamentary
Party in November, while the investigative agency said in a
 statement  the same month that it had registered a case of
criminal conspiracy against two officials of the  Organizing
Committee  who “abused their official position” to award a
contract at an “exorbitant” cost of 1.07 billion rupees ($23.6
million) for getting timing and scoring systems.  Besides the federal investigating agency, the Comptroller &
Auditor General of India, Central Vigilance Commission,
Enforcement Directorate and other agencies are investigating the
alleged irregularities in hosting the games.  Some 74 percent of Indians believe that the country has
gotten more corrupt in the past three years, and only a quarter
feel that the Singh government has been effective in fighting
graft, according to  Transparency International’s 2010 Global
Corruption Barometer . Indians consider political parties to be
the most corrupt institutions in the country, the report said.  Corruption and bureaucratic inefficiency help make India
the  riskiest country in Asia  for investors, according to this
year’s survey by Hong Kong-based  Political & Economic Risk
Consultancy Ltd .  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bibhudatta Pradhan  in New Delhi at 
 bpradhan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Hari Govind at 
 hgovind@bloomberg.net  