-- Inter Milan Is Said to Plan Appointment of Leonardo as Benitez Successor
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2010-12-24T11:58:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-24/inter-milan-is-said-to-plan-appointment-of-leonardo-as-benitez-successor.html
European and Italian soccer champion
Inter Milan plans to replace fired coach  Rafael Benitez  with
former Brazilian national team player Leonardo, according to a
person familiar with the situation.  Leonardo, 41, whose only previous coaching experience was
with Inter’s cross-town rival AC Milan last season, has been
mentioned as the leading candidate by Italian newspapers
including La Gazzetta della Sport. Benitez was ousted yesterday,
only six months after signing a two-year contract.  Inter will make an official announcement within two days,
said the person, who declined to be identified until the
appointment is disclosed to the public. Inter didn’t immediately
respond to calls and an e-mail seeking comment.  “The only thing I can say now is Merry Christmas to
everyone,” Leonardo said late yesterday in Milan when asked to
comment by broadcaster SkyTG24.  Benitez guided Inter to the Club World Cup title six days
ago. That 3-0 victory over African champion TP Mazembe Englebert
was the highlight in a campaign that has seen Inter struggle to
recapture the form that produced a record sweep of three titles
under former coach Jose Mourinho last season.  Inter has slipped to seventh place in Italy’s Serie A under
Benitez, winning six of 15 league games, leaving it 13 points
behind leader AC Milan, the team owned by Italian Prime Minister
Silvio Berlusconi. The failure to finish ahead of Tottenham in
its Champions League group resulted in a draw with Bayern Munich
in the last 16 of the competition. Inter beat the four-time
European champion 2-0 in May’s final.  Criticizing Management  After victory in the Club World Cup last weekend, Benitez
criticized Inter owner  Massimo Moratti  and the club’s management
for failing to buy new players before the season started, saying
“four or five” might be needed.  In recent days, Benitez returned to England where he still
has a house near Liverpool. The Spaniard is getting a severance
payment of 3 million euros ($3.9 million) from Inter, according
to Italian news agency Ansa. U.K. press reports said he received
at least 4 million pounds ($6.2 million) when he left Liverpool
in June.  Leonardo played more than 120 matches for Milan before
joining the team as a technical director in 2008. He was
promoted to manager following Carlo Ancelotti’s move to Chelsea
in May 2009.  Milan finished third under the Brazilian and he was
replaced by Massimilano Allegri at the end of the season. He
remains a popular figure with Milan supporters, who chanted his
name after his last match in charge, a 3-0 home victory over
Juventus in May.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tariq Panja  in London at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  