-- Liverpool Preparing $8 Million Bid for Stoke's Robert Huth: Soccer Roundup
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2010-12-24T10:45:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-24/liverpool-preparing-8-million-bid-for-stoke-s-robert-huth-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable links to the Web.  Hodgson’s Berlin Wall  Liverpool  manager Roy Hodgson is preparing a 5 million
pound ($7.7 million) bid for Stoke defender Robert Huth, the
 Daily Mirror  reported.  Hodgson wants to buy the German international, nicknamed
the Berlin Wall, in order to boost his defensive line-up as both
Jamie Carragher and Daniel Agger are struggling with injuries.  Birmingham Keen on Keane  Signing  Robbie Keane  from Tottenham Hotspur is one of
Birmingham manager Alex McLeish’s top priorities, the  Guardian 
reported.  McLeish will “urge” his board to make the move for Keane
happen, as he is also wanted by West Ham. Anyone taking the
Irishman on loan until the end of the season would have to cover
his 65,000 pounds-a-week wages and pay 6 million pounds in the
summer for a long-term deal, the paper said.  Crazy Money for Young?  Aston Villa’s Ashley Young may be sold, should anyone offer
“crazy money” for the player next month, the  Daily Mirror 
cited his manager Gerard Houllier as saying.  Young, 25, has only 18 months left on his contract and in
October turned down a new agreement at Villa Park.  “In January the best clubs keep their best players but you
never know if someone comes with crazy money,” the paper quoted
Houllier as saying. “We hope to keep him and he knows that the
club’s will is to keep him.  Young has sparked the interest of both Liverpool and
Manchester United.  Davies’ Villa Return  Curtis Davies has turned down attempts by Leicester City
manager  Sven Goran Eriksson  to sign him permanently and will
instead return to Aston Villa on Jan. 4, the  Daily Mirror 
reported.  Although Eriksson had been willing to meet Villa’s 2.5
million pound price tag for the defender, Davies wanted to come
back to Villa so he can stay in the Premier League. Leicester
plays in the Championship.  Super Mario Dropped  Manchester City ’s Mario Balotelli will be on the bench
against Newcastle on Boxing Day because his manager Roberto
Mancini thinks he doesn’t work hard enough, the  Sun  reported.  ‘‘Mario is a special player but you have to put strength
and heart into your performances,” the paper quoted Mancini as
saying.  The Italian, who also managed Balotelli while in charge of
Inter Milan, added: “We do have a good relationship but he must
play well, must work hard every day, like the other players.”  Balotelli earlier this week said he was the second-best
player in the world after Barcelona’s Lionel Messi.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Danielle Rossingh  in London at 
 drossingh@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at   celser@bloomberg.net . 