-- Jailed Khodorkovsky Says Love for Dogs Only Crack in Putin's `Icy Armor'
-- B y   L y u b o v   P r o n i n a
-- 2010-12-24T13:48:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-24/jailed-khodorkovsky-says-love-for-dogs-only-crack-in-putin-s-icy-armor-.html
Jailed former Yukos Oil Co. owner
 Mikhail Khodorkovsky  wished Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin 
kindness and tolerance and said he pitied a man who felt only
love for dogs.  “Love for dogs is the only sincere, kind feeling, breaking
through the icy armor worn by the national symbol of the early
2000s,” Khodorkovsky wrote in an  article  published by
Nezavisimaya Gazeta today. “A man in such an armor cannot be
happy.”  Khodorkovsky, already serving an eight-year term on charges
of tax evasion, awaits the verdict in a second trial on related
charges that may add six years to his sentence. During Putin’s
presidency, Yukos, once Russia’s largest company by market
value, was bankrupted under $30 billion of tax claims and sold
off in pieces.  Khodorkovsky has called the case against him retribution
for his political opposition to Putin. Speaking in his annual
call-in show with the nation on Dec. 16, Putin said that “a
thief should sit in jail,” referring to Khodorkovsky’s
conviction in his first trial for fraud.  Putin, 58, described as an “alpha dog” in U.S. embassy
cables posted by WikiLeaks.org, is often shown on state
television as an action man in close proximity to animals
including whales, tigers and bears.  Putin was asked in his annual call-in show in December last
year whether he is happier in the presence of animals than his
ministers.  ‘Acute Problems’  “I believe the Prussian King Frederick the Great once
said: ‘The better I know people, the more I like dogs,’” Putin
answered. “I simply love all animals and use my current
position to help solve some especially acute problems.”  In the call-in show last week, Putin said when asked about
his new dog Buffy: “He is a very nice fellow and I love him
very much.”  Passing on his New Year’s wishes, Khodorkovsky said that he
wished for Putin that “people did not fear him but loved him.
Perhaps not everyone, but sincerely and selflessly. Not just
dogs.”  Khodorkovsky lamented the vertical command structure Putin
has built over the last decade.  “It is clear that he is incapable of tearing himself away
from the unwieldy oar of the monstrous slave galley he has
built,” Khodorkovsky said. “A galley which indifferently moves
over people’s fate, a galley with a black pirate flag waving
more and more often at Russian citizens.”  Putin said in February 2008 that he had worked “like a
galley slave” during his eight years as president.  The court will begin reading the verdict Dec. 27 and may
take two weeks, according to Khodorkovsky lawyers.  Maxim Dbar , a spokesman for his defense team, confirmed by
phone today that the article was written by Khodorkovsky.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Lyubov Pronina  in Moscow at 
 lpronina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at   wmorris@bloomberg.net  