-- Japan's 10-Year Bonds Rise Most Since October Before Consumer Prices Data
-- B y   Y o s h i a k i   N o h a r a
-- 2010-12-24T23:52:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-24/japan-s-10-year-bonds-rise-most-since-october-before-consumer-prices-data.html
Japan’s  10-year bonds  completed the
biggest weekly gain since October before a report next week that
economists said will show consumer prices continued to drop,
boosting demand for the fixed payments of debt.  Bonds gained as local stocks fell, enhancing the appeal of
safer assets.  Bank of Japan  Governor  Masaaki Shirakawa  on Dec.
21 warned about risks to the economy from bond yield gains after
the central bank left its credit programs unchanged and kept the
benchmark interest rate between zero and 0.1 percent.  “Deflation is likely to persist next year even if a drop
in prices slows down,” said  Akira Terabayashi , a researcher in
Tokyo at Norinchukin Research Institute Co., the central bank
for Japan’s agricultural, forestry and fishery cooperatives.
“Investors maintained an appetite for buying on dips throughout
this week, weighing on yields.”  The yield on the 1.2 percent bond due December 2020 fell
4.5 basis points to 1.15 percent this week in Tokyo at Japan
Bond Trading Co., the nation’s largest interdealer debt broker.
That’s the biggest yield drop since the week ended Oct. 8. The
price gained 0.403 yen to 100.447 yen.  Ten-year yields touched 1.125 percent on Dec. 22, the
lowest since Dec. 1. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  Ten-year bond futures for March delivery dropped 0.08 to
139.73 this week at the Tokyo Stock Exchange. The  Nikkei 225
Stock Average  fell 0.7 percent yesterday.  Deflation  Japan’s consumer prices excluding fresh food declined 0.6
percent from a year earlier in November, according to the median
estimate of economists in a Bloomberg News survey before the
government reports the data on Dec. 28.  Five-year inflation bonds  yield  0.6 percentage point more
than similar-maturity regular notes, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. Inflation-adjusted securities typically yield less
than regular bonds because their principal payment increases at
the same rate as inflation. Deflation enhances the value of the
fixed payments on debt.  Demand for bonds was limited on prospects signs of U.S.
economic recovery will damp demand for safer assets.  The Conference Board’s sentiment index gained to 56.3 this
month from 54.1 in November, according to the median estimate of
economists in a Bloomberg News survey before the data due Dec.
28. U.S. household purchases advanced 0.4 percent last month
after a 0.7 percent increase in October, the Commerce Department
reported on Dec. 23.  “Long-term yields in Japan and the U.S. have shifted to a
higher range,” said  Akitsugu Bandou , a senior economist in
Tokyo at Okasan Securities Co. “Investors find it hard to make
big moves as foreign markets start the holiday. Japan’s bonds
are highly correlated to the U.S. market.”  Treasury 10-year yields gained four basis points to 3.39
percent on Dec. 23.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Yoshiaki Nohara  in Tokyo at 
 ynohara1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net . 