-- Japan's Budget May Fail to Spur Growth While Debt Stays High, Shinkin Says
-- B y   T o r u   F u j i o k a   a n d   A k i   I t o
-- 2010-12-27T02:00:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-24/japan-s-kan-plans-to-keep-bond-sale-cap-in-record-budget-to-revive-demand.html
Japan’s budget plan for next year
may fail to achieve the government’s goal of spurring private
demand, while making little progress on reducing the country’s
debt, Shinkin Asset Management Co. said.  Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  will keep new debt sales at 44.3
trillion yen ($534 billion) in 2011 to finance a record budget
of 92.4 trillion yen in the year starting April 1, according to
a proposal approved on Dec. 24 by the Cabinet in Tokyo.  The Kan administration is trying to reduce a public debt
burden about twice the size of  gross domestic product , stimulate
an economy hit by deflation and a strong yen hurting exporters,
and bolster social security spending for an aging society. His
latest budget plan may not do much to revive demand, said
economist  Hiroshi Miyazaki .  “The government barely scraped by getting revenue to match
spending,” said Miyazaki, Tokyo-based chief economist at
Shinkin Asset Management, which manages about $6 billion. The
budget “doesn’t work to improve the state of public finances
but it doesn’t do anything to spur the economy either.”  Kan’s budget and his plan to reduce the effective corporate
tax rate by 5 percentage points will boost Japan’s GDP by 0.02
percentage point next fiscal year, the Nikkei newspaper reported
on Dec. 25, citing calculations by its data service NEEDS.  Japan’s economy is expected to contract this quarter as
government stimulus measures that bolstered spending expire and
the strong yen threatens exporter profits. The government said
on Dec. 22 it was forecasting growth to slow to 1.5 percent next
fiscal year from 3.1 percent.  Job Cuts  JVC Kenwood Holdings Inc. , a Japanese maker of audio
equipment, video cameras and televisions, last week said it
plans to eliminate 500 jobs at its Victor Japan unit because the
yen’s appreciation and Asian competition have reduced revenue.  The market’s reaction to Japan’s budget plan was limited.
The dollar traded at 82.96 yen at 10:21 a.m. in Tokyo from 82.88
yen last week. Japan’s currency rose to a 15-year high of 80.22
last month. The Nikkei 225 Stock Average rose 0.4 percent to
10,324.88 at 10:22 a.m. The yield on the benchmark 10-year
Japanese government bond was unchanged at 1.15 percent.  Japan’s fiscal situation means that not even domestic
investors will be interested in 10-year Japanese government
bonds should yields fall below 1 percent, said  Ayako Sera , a
strategist in Tokyo at Sumitomo Trust & Banking Co., which
manages about $310 billion. “What’s most problematic is that
there is almost no visible clue to how Japan will consolidate
its finances,” Sera said.  Social Security Outlays  Total spending will increase 0.1 percent compared with this
fiscal year’s initial budget.  Social security outlays will rise 5.3 percent, while
education and science-related spending will decrease 1.4 percent,
public works expenditures will drop 5.1 percent, and the defense
budget will shrink 0.3 percent, according to Kan’s plan.  Kan will submit the plan to parliament, where the main
budget itself only needs Lower House approval according to
Japanese law. However, other bills related to the budget
including one to authorize bond issuance need the go-ahead of
the Upper House, controlled by the opposition.  Resistance from the opposition parties may complicate Kan’s
effort to enact the budget bills, at a time when Kan’s
popularity is falling.  Passage in Parliament  “The biggest focus is not on the content of the budget,
but on how the DPJ’s going to pass it in parliament,” Shinkin’s
Miyazaki said. “But with the state of the Upper House, it’s
unlikely the government’s plan as it is right now will remain
intact as it goes through the negotiations.”  Kyodo News said yesterday that budget plan received a
disapproval rating of 76 percent in its opinion poll. The Nikkei
newspaper reported today that public support for Kan declined
four percentage points from a month earlier to 26 percent.  Kan has pledged to keep bond sales unchanged for three
years to lower Japan’s debt burden. The government expects new
bond issuances will exceed tax revenue of 41 trillion yen for a
second consecutive year. Receipts from levies have shrunk more
than a third after peaking at 60.1 trillion yen in 1990.  The premier tapped some 7 trillion yen from unused accounts
and reserves to pay for the plan, including money from a
foreign-exchange reserves account and accumulated funds
belonging to a government-affiliated railway agency. Finance
Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  has said the government needs to find a
more sustainable source of funds.  ‘Worrisome’ Initiatives  To meet Kan’s budget guidelines, the DPJ abandoned its
pledge of doubling childcare handouts to households, limiting
the increase to families with children under three-years old.  Yoshimasa Hayashi , a lawmaker of the opposition Liberal
Democratic Party, said Kan’s spending plans are increasing the
risk of a bond market collapse and his Cabinet needs to
implement more aggressive measures to restore the nation’s
fiscal health. “There are many worrisome spending initiatives”
in the budget proposals, he said in a Dec. 20 interview in Tokyo.  The nation’s aging population is putting strains on its
coffers. Social-security expenses, which have increased more
than 60 percent since 2000, will account for 53 percent of
general spending next year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Toru Fujioka  in Tokyo at 
 tfujioka1@bloomberg.net ;
 Aki Ito  in Tokyo at 
 aito16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  