-- Japan Stocks Drop for Second Day as Metal Prices Fall; Exporters Decline
-- B y   N o r i e   K u b o y a m a   a n d   T o s h i r o   H a s e g a w a
-- 2010-12-24T07:38:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-24/japanese-stocks-drop-for-second-day-as-metal-prices-fall-yen-strengthens.html
Japanese  stocks  fell for a second
day after the dollar weakened against the yen while the Tokyo
market was closed yesterday, damping the outlook for export
earnings.  Honda Motor Co., Japan’s second-largest carmaker, lost 1.1
percent. Kyocera Corp., an electronic-equipment maker that earns
a third of its revenue from the U.S. and Europe, slid 1.1
percent.  Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group Inc. , a bank whose share
price has advanced almost 15 percent in the past two months,
retreated 0.7 percent. Mitsui O.S.K. Lines Ltd., the operator of
the world’s biggest merchant fleet, declined 2.5 percent after
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. cut its rating to “sell” and cargo
rates dropped to a five-month low.  “The stronger yen will likely lead investors to sell
shares to lock in profits,” said  Juichi Wako , a senior
strategist at Tokyo-based Nomura Holdings Inc.  The  Nikkei 225 Stock Average  fell 0.7 percent to 10,279.19
as of the 3 p.m. close in Tokyo. The broader Topix lost 0.5
percent to 901.66, with more than three times as many shares
declining as advancing. Both gauges had the biggest drop since
Dec. 20 and sank to the lowest levels since then.  For the week, both the Nikkei 225 and the Topix lost 0.2
percent. The Nikkei 225 dropped for the first time in eight
weeks, and the broader gauge slid for the first time in four.  The Topix has  retreated  about 9.7 percent from its high
this year on April 15 as Europe’s debt crisis, China’s steps to
curb property prices and concern about U.S. economic growth
damped confidence in a global recovery. Shares in the broader
index are valued at 15.7 times  estimated earnings  on average,
near a four-month high.  Exporters Decline  Carmakers contributed the most to the Topix’s decline among
its  33 industry groups , followed by banks and electronics makers.  Honda Motor Co., an automaker that gets about 80 percent of
their sales abroad, slid 1.1 percent to 3,265 yen. Toyota, the
world’s biggest carmaker, fell 0.5 percent to 3,225 yen. Mazda
Motor Corp., Japan’s second-largest car exporter, sank 2.5
percent to 239 yen.  Kyocera lost 1.1 percent to 8,420 yen. Murata Manufacturing
Co., a maker of precision electronics that gets more than 80
percent of its revenue outside of Japan, fell 1.8 percent to
5,560 yen.  Weaker Dollar  The dollar depreciated to as low as 82.86 against the yen
yesterday in New York, the weakest level since Dec. 14. The euro
weakened to as low as 108.46 against the Japanese currency
yesterday, near the lowest level this month. That reduces the
value of overseas income at Japanese companies when converted
into their home currency. Japanese stock markets were closed
yesterday for a public holiday.  Mitsubishi UFJ Financial, Japan’s biggest publicly traded
bank, slipped 0.7 percent to 440 yen. Sumitomo Mitsui Financial
Group Inc., which is Japan’s second-largest lender and jumped
almost 20 percent in the past two months, slipped 0.8 percent to
2,888 yen. Sumitomo Mitsui was the most-active stock by value in
Japan.  Bank stocks as a group rose 15 percent in the past two
months, beating the Topix’s 9.8 percent gain in the same period.  “The stock market has been rising lately and it may be
about time for investors to take a rest,” said  Hisakazu Amano ,
who helps oversee about $29 billion at Tokyo-based T&D Asset
Management Co. “Investors in buy positions may be clearing
their positions as it’s the end of this year.”  Light Trading  About 1.46 billion shares were traded on the Tokyo exchange
today, the  lowest level  since Aug. 23, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Markets in Australia, Hong Kong and
Singapore shut early for Christmas Eve.  “Investors are in a wait-and-see mood,” said  Naoteru Teraoka , general manager at Tokyo-based Chuo Mitsui Asset
Management Co., which oversees about $26 billion. “There isn’t
any sole Japanese news big enough to boost stocks amid many
foreign investors taking vacation.”  Mitsui O.S.K. tumbled 2.5 percent to 554 yen after its
investment rating was cut to “sell” from “buy” by Goldman
Sachs. Nippon Yusen K.K., Japan’s largest shipping line by sales,
fell 1.4 percent to 364 yen and Kawasaki Kisen Kaisha Ltd., the
third-biggest, slid 1.4 percent to 353 yen after Goldman cut
their target prices and maintained its “neutral” rating on
both stocks. Shipping companies had the  steepest percentage
decline  among the Topix’s industry group.  The Baltic Dry Index  of shipping costs for commodities
declined 1.9 percent yesterday, a 13th consecutive retreat to
the lowest level since July 21. Copper futures for March
delivery dropped 0.4 percent yesterday in New York. The  London
Metal Exchange Index  of six metals including copper and aluminum,
slipped 0.8 percent yesterday, falling for a second straight day.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Norie Kuboyama  in Tokyo at 
 nkuboyama@bloomberg.net ;
 Toshiro Hasegawa  in Tokyo at 
 thasegawa6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nicolas Johnson at   nicojohnson@bloomberg.net . 