-- JJB Sports Stock Surges on Share-Sale Survival Plan
-- B y   D a v i d   A l t a n e r
-- 2010-12-24T12:46:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-24/jjb-sports-aims-to-raise-49-million-in-share-sale-for-short-term-survival.html
JJB Sports Plc , the unprofitable
U.K. sporting-goods chain, plans to raise at least 31.5 million
pounds ($48.7 million) in a share sale to help it survive after
a sales recovery was halted by Britain’s snowy weather.  JJB rose 24 percent in London trading after the Wigan,
England-based company said the new shares will be sold at 5
pence each, more than yesterday’s closing share price of 4.3
pence. The plan has the support of JJB’s main shareholders,
while the company’s lender, Bank of Scotland, has agreed to
waive a January test of banking covenants.  JJB is seeking emergency funding after snow kept shoppers
at home and a shortage of inventory at some stores caused sales
to miss company forecasts. The money won’t meet “medium- and
longer-term working capital requirements,” which the board will
address after it finishes business plans, the company said.
Chairman  John Clare  will step down and be replaced  Mike McTighe ,
a former head of global operations at Cable & Wireless Plc.  “The scary thing is that even today’s placing will only
tide JJB over for a few months, and we suspect that the key
shareholders supporting JJB are simply throwing good money after
bad,” said  Nick Bubb , an analyst with Arden Partners who has no
recommendation on the stock. Suppliers want to keep JJB in
business to avoid Sports Direct International Plc dominating the
U.K. market, Bubb wrote in a note to investors.  Finance Chief  Clare , a former head of U.K. consumer-electronics retailer
Dixons Retail Plc, will leave immediately. JJB needs a chairman
with restructuring skills to complement the retailing background
of CEO  Keith Jones , Clare said in today’s statement.  The company also said Finance Director  Lawrence Coppock 
will be replaced on Jan. 17 by  Dave Williams , who is joining
from discount stores operator TJ Hughes Ltd.  Harris Associates LP, JJB’s biggest shareholder with 19
percent, will invest 11.9 million pounds in the fund raising.
The retailer also expects investments of 4.5 million pounds from
Crystal Amber Fund Ltd., 11.6 million pounds from Invesco
Perpetual, 1.5 million pounds from the Bill & Melinda Gates
Foundation Trust and 2 million pounds from GoldenPeaks Capital.  The combined shareholdings of the five investors could rise
to 71.7 percent from 44.3 percent after the placing, according
to  Katharine Wynne  and  David Jeary , analysts at Investec
Securities. They have a “sell” rating on the shares.  Board roles will be offered to some of the investors.  JJB shares rose 1.04 pence to 5.34 pence in London, paring
the stock’s decline this year to 79 percent.  Sales at stores open at least a year fell 15.7 percent from
Nov. 8 to Dec. 19, JJB said today, while gross  profit margins 
narrowed to 35.4 percent from 45.3 percent a year earlier.  Sports Direct said on Dec. 16 it expects to meet full-year
earnings forecasts as it sold more cold-weather clothing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Altaner  at   daltaner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge in London at 
 ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  