-- KB Financial Rules Out Woori Bid, Targets 13% Return on Equity Next Year
-- B y   S e o n j i n   C h a
-- 2010-12-24T07:18:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-24/kb-financial-rules-out-woori-bid-targets-13-return-on-equity-next-year.html
KB Financial Group Inc.  Chairman  Euh Yoon Dae  ruled out a bid for rival Woori Finance Holdings Co.
and said he’ll continue cutting jobs to help quadruple return on
equity by next year.  Euh, 65, reiterated his opposition to buy the South Korean
government’s $6 billion stake in Woori even as a state entity
said it would change the sale process after a group of bidders
dropped out. KB Financial, owner of the country’s biggest lender,
will seek growth in non-banking businesses to boost  return on
equity  to 13 percent, he said.  “The return on equity is more important” over the next
two years than expanding by acquiring a stake in Woori, Euh said
in an interview at his office in Seoul yesterday. “We’ll try to
fulfill a certain level of ROE, rather than focusing on size.”  Euh, who began a three-year term as chairman in July, has
pledged to cut costs and boost fee income with new services. The
company’s Kookmin Bank unit slashed 3,244 jobs, about 12 percent
of its workforce, in November. KB posted a record 335 billion
won ($290 million)  loss  for the second quarter and a 53 percent
plunge in third-quarter profit from a year earlier because of
provisions for soured construction loans.  To bolster return on equity, a measure of how well a
company uses reinvested earnings, to 13 percent, Seoul-based KB
Financial will widen its net interest margin and expand
 businesses  such as life insurance and investment banking, Euh
said. KB, set up as a financial holding group in September 2008,
had return on equity of 3.25 percent in 2009, according to the
company.  Euh didn’t specify how many additional jobs he’ll cut.  ‘Reasonable Profit’  KB Financial’s ROE for 2010 as a whole may be negative, as
the company expects a fourth-quarter loss amid about 680 billion
won in costs for an early-retirement program at its bank unit,
Euh said. Net  income  plunged 39 percent to 315 billion won in
the first nine months of the year.  “After clearing up bad loans with pre-emptive provisions
and staff reduction, KB Financial will see a reasonable profit
for its size next year,” said  Ku Yong Uk , a banking analyst at
Daewoo Securities Co. in Seoul who advises investors to buy the
stock. “The chairman may want to look for some takeovers maybe
after one year or so.”  KB Financial  slid 0.8 percent to 58,500 won at 3 p.m. close
in Seoul. The stock has dropped 2 percent this year compared
with the key Kospi index’s 21 percent gain.  More Competition  South Korea plans to review the proposed Woori stake sale
after the Public Fund Oversight Committee said Dec. 17 that it
would suspend the divestment process following the withdrawal by
a group of potential buyers led by Woori employees.  The group, seen as the strongest candidate to purchase the
57 percent stake in the country’s largest financial company by
assets, said on Dec. 13 that it abandoned the plan because the
government was asking for too high a  price .  Hana Financial Group Inc.’s planned takeover of Korea
Exchange Bank, which will make Hana the nation’s third-largest
financial company by assets ahead of Shinhan Financial Group Co.,
will mean “tougher competition” for KB Financial, Euh said.  “Hana will become more efficient than now because of
diversity in its business lines,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Seonjin Cha  in Seoul at 
 scha2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  