-- Nitto Denko to Boost Spending Next Year on Sharp, Apple Touch-Panel Demand
-- B y   A d a m   L e   a n d   M a s a t s u g u   H o r i e
-- 2010-12-24T01:06:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-24/nitto-denko-to-boost-spending-next-year-on-sharp-apple-touch-panel-demand.html
Nitto Denko Corp. , maker of optical
film for about a third of the world’s LCD panels, will boost
spending for the first time in five years as companies such as
Sharp Corp. and Apple Inc. sell new tablet PCs and smartphones.  “Capital spending in equipment and facilities next fiscal
year will be bigger than this year,” President  Yukio Nagira 
said in a Dec. 22 interview, declining to give a specific figure.  Investment related to factories and production equipment,
 down  by about 50 percent from 2006, is the company’s highest
priority for using its cash, followed by dividend payouts,
mergers and acquisitions, and stock buybacks, according to a
 document  released in May. Nitto Denko spent about 75 billion yen
($903 million) on equipment and facilities in 2006, and plans to
invest 36 billion yen this fiscal year.  Demand for touch panels used in smartphones, tablet
computers and electronic book readers will grow “explosively,”
said Nagira, who has been president of the Osaka-based
manufacturer since 2008.  Researcher  ISuppli Corp . in a September report estimated
shipments of e-readers will rise more than five-fold from last
year to 26.5 million units by 2014. Apple between April and
September this year sold 7.46 million units of its iPad, which
also has e-reader functions, according to Bloomberg data.  Acquisitions  Nitto Denko  said  in July it would invest about 20 billion
yen over two years to increase production capacity of optical
films for liquid-crystal displays. Nagira said the company will
focus its investment on medical science, environmental
technologies and new energy, including batteries, and is also
considering acquisitions in these areas.  Nitto Denko hasn’t made an acquisition since it bought
Florida-based Elan Transdermal Technologies Inc., a maker of
skin patches, for $45 million in 2003.  The  shares  have risen 17 percent this year, outperforming
the 1 percent increase by its peers in the 119-member Topix
Chemical Index. Nitto Denko traded 0.4 percent lower at 3,785
yen as of 9:22 a.m. on the Tokyo Stock Exchange.  Sales of liquid-crystal display-related materials accounted
for 44 percent of  revenue  last fiscal year. Films for touch
panels now make up about 10 percent of Nitto Denko’s optical
film sales, and the company is looking to increase investment in
that area next year, Nagira, 62, said.  “Our touch panel film making facilities are sufficient at
the moment, but we don’t know by how much demand will grow,”
Nagira said. “We’ll look at the situation and decide on how to
invest.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Adam Le  in Osaka at 
 ale14@bloomberg.net ;
 Masatsugu Horie  in Osaka at 
 mhorie3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Drew Gibson in Osaka at 
 dgibson2@bloomberg.net . 