-- Oil Consumers Wary as Some OPEC Members Target $100 Before Cairo Meeting
-- B y   O l a   G a l a l   a n d   L a n a n h   N g u y e n
-- 2010-12-24T11:55:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-24/oil-consumers-wary-as-some-opec-members-target-100-before-cairo-meeting.html
Oil importers are growing wary of
the impact of prices near two-year highs as some OPEC members
foresee a further rally to the $100-a-barrel level and Arab oil
ministers gather for a meeting in Cairo.  Japan’s economy minister said today the government needs to
keep an eye on climbing prices while the deputy governor of the
Chinese central bank said inflation pressures are rising.  Shokri Ghanem , chairman of Libya’s National Oil Corp., was
the latest OPEC official to forecast $100. Iran and Venezuela
have also said that represents a fair price while Saudi Arabia,
the group’s biggest exporter, said it prefers prices centered on
$75, a level that oil has traded above since September.  “An issue for OPEC will obviously be prices edging
higher,” said  Bill Farren- Price, chief executive officer of
Winchester, U.K.-based consultants Petroleum Policy
Intelligence. “The issue is whether we’re in a new rally and
for now the jury’s out on that. And I don’t think anyone in OPEC
would disagree with that.”  Brent crude oil on London’s ICE Futures Europe exchange
advanced 21 percent this year, and traded today as high as
$94.74 a barrel. Crude oil futures on the New York Mercantile
Exchange gained 15 percent so far this year.  Ghanem, Libya’s top oil official, told reporters yesterday
that oil will rise to $100 a barrel. He was speaking in Cairo
before a meeting tomorrow of the  Organization of Arab Petroleum
Exporting Countries . OAPEC, as the Arab group is known, includes
several members of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting
Countries, the broader 12-nation group that influences prices by
setting supply quotas.  Japan, China  Japan, the world’s third-largest oil consumer after the
U.S. and China, is monitoring rising crude and gasoline prices,
Economy Minister  Banri Kaieda  said today.  “I’ve realized myself that it’s becoming very expensive,”
Kaieda said at a media conference in Tokyo. “We need to keep an
eye on this. It’s unlikely this trend will continue.”  Japan depends on oil imports for almost all of its needs.
Five Middle Eastern OPEC nations supplied about 77 percent of
Japan’s crude purchases last year, according to U.S. Energy
Department  data .  China’s central banks said inflation pressures are rising
and inflation expectations are still strong, according to a
statement posted to the People’s Bank of China website today
citing Deputy Governor  Hu Xiaolian .  OAPEC was established in 1968 to foster the development of
the petroleum industry in member states as part of an economic
integration plan among Arab countries. It contains seven nations
that are also within OPEC.  June Meeting  OPEC, which accounts for 40 percent of global oil supply,
decided at its last meeting in Quito, Ecuador, on Dec. 11 to
maintain its production target of 24.845 million barrels a day,
set in 2008. OPEC’s next formal meeting is scheduled for June
2011.  Market conditions will determine whether OPEC decides to
increase production quotas next year, Ghanem said, without
specifying a timeframe. Ghanem said today he’s “not happy”
with OPEC’s quota compliance, urging fellow members to adhere
better. Members are achieving about 60 percent of a pledged 4.2
million barrel-a-day supply reduction, he said.  Libya, Saudi Arabia, Qatar, Kuwait, Iraq, the United Arab
Emirates and Algeria are all members of both OPEC and OAPEC.  Demand Rising  “Demand is picking up, there’s an uneven global economic
recovery and while that doesn’t mean everything is plain
sailing, people believe the market is moving in the right
direction,” Farren-Price said.  Global oil consumption is expected to rise to a record
level next year, according to the Paris-based International
Energy Agency and other forecasters.  Saudi Arabian Oil Minister  Ali al-Naimi  arrived in Cairo
today without commenting to reporters. He said in Quito on Dec.
11 that oil at $70 to $80 a barrel is a good price, that the
market is stable and supply and demand are in balance, while
Kuwaiti Oil Minister  Sheikh Ahmad al-Abdullah al-Sabah  said then
that he was satisfied with prices near $90.  Qatar’s Oil Minister  Abdullah bin Hamad al-Attiyah  has said
oil in the $80s is best for producers and consumers. Algerian
Oil Minister  Youcef Yousfi  said at a conference in Doha on Dec.
1 that the market is in a “normal situation” and prices are
likely to be stable for months.  Some Wall Street strategists expect prices will return to
$100 for the first time in two years during 2011 amid rising
global demand, including Goldman Sachs Group Inc., Morgan
Stanley, JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Bank of America Merrill Lynch.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ola Galal  in Cairo at 
 ogalal@bloomberg.net 
Lananh Nguyen in London at 
 lnguyen35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  