-- Hong Kong's 2010 Pollution Level Is Worst on Record, Hurting City's Image
-- B y   J o h n   D u c e
-- 2010-12-24T03:55:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-24/hong-kong-ends-2010-with-worst-pollution-since-readings-collected-in-1999.html
Hong Kong will record the worst 
year for roadside pollution since the city started collecting 
readings in 1999, according to calculations made by
Bloomberg based on government data.  Roadside  smog  reached “very high” or “severe” levels on
the city’s air pollution index, triggering government health
warnings, at least 12.6 percent of the time at monitoring
stations this year, even without including data collected this
month, Bloomberg calculations show. That compares with very high
or severe roadside pollution recorded 10.62 percent of the time
during the whole of 2009.  Business leaders including the General Chamber of Commerce
have said pollution is harming the city’s ability to recruit top
executives to Hong Kong. About 25 percent of respondents to a
survey published earlier this month said smog has led them to
consider leaving the city because of concerns over their health.  “It’s obvious from the roadside pollution we’ve seen this
year that efforts to tackle this problem need to be redoubled,”
said  Joanne Ooi , chief executive officer of the advocacy group
Clean Air Network. “The chief executive and government have
acknowledged that this is a problem, but quicker and stronger
action needs to be taken,” she said by telephone.  The pollution index topped 100 at all three of the city’s
roadside monitoring stations today, as it has every day since
Dec. 20. “Very high” or “severe” levels of roadside
pollution were recorded 1.86 percent of the time in 2000, the
first full-year of publicly available data, according to
calculations made by Bloomberg.  Low-Emission Zones  The higher incidence of roadside pollution is due to an
increase in levels of nitrogen dioxide, created by older
vehicles’ exhaust emissions and higher levels of ozone in the
atmosphere, a statement from the government’s  Environmental
Protection Department  said.  Measures to tackle the problem announced by the Chief
Executive  Donald Tsang  in October included fitting equipment to
clean exhaust fumes from older buses and a pilot project to set
up low-emission zones in parts of the city, the department said.  Levels of roadside pollutants including sulfur dioxide fell
36 percent from 2005 to 2009 after the government improved
emission standards for new vehicles and offered subsidies to
encourage drivers to buy newer, cleaner diesel trucks, according
to the statement.  “In recognition of the urgency to take action to improve
air quality we are sparing no effort in introducing air quality
improvement measures,” the department said.  Dirty Diesel  Truck drivers buying cheaper and dirtier diesel fuel in
mainland China and emissions from ships’ engines in the harbor
contribute to the smog, according to  Michael DeGolyer , an
academic at Hong Kong Baptist University who studies the issue.  “When you combine ships being unloaded onto trucks, then
you really have some sections of Hong Kong where the roadside
pollution is extremely high,” DeGolyer said today in an
interview with Bloomberg Television.  If smog reaches “very high” levels at roadside, the
government warns Hong Kong’s 7 million people that anyone with
heart or respiratory illnesses should avoid prolonged stays and
reduce physical exertion in heavy traffic areas.  People in the city are the unhappiest in the world with
their air quality, with 70 percent of those polled expressing
discontent about the levels of smog, according to a Gallup
 survey  of adults in 153 countries released in April. The next
most disgruntled country was Chad.  About 774 people died prematurely in Hong Kong due to
illnesses related to air pollution so far this year, according
to an estimate from the  Hedley Environmental Index , a Web site
run by the School of Public Health at the University of Hong
Kong.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 John Duce  in Hong Kong at 
 Jduce1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Bruce Grant at 
 bruceg@bloomberg.net ; 