-- Hong Kong Judge's Niece in Jail After Her Christmas Eve Bail Appeal Fails
-- B y   K e l v i n   W o n g
-- 2010-12-24T05:14:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-24/hong-kong-judge-s-niece-is-refused-bail-after-violation-of-probation-rules.html
A Hong Kong judge’s niece was
refused bail and ordered to stay in jail after violating
probation conditions in a police assault case.  High Court Judge Alan Wright today refused the request from
lawyers for Amina Mariam Bokhary, who was jailed yesterday by
Magistrate Amanda Woodcock. Bokhary’s probation, on her third
conviction for police assaults, was criticized by law
enforcement groups and others in Hong Kong for being too lenient.  Woodcock yesterday had also declined an offer of HK$100,000
($12,856) bail for Bokhary, the niece of  Court of Final Appeal Justice Kemal Bokhary . Amina, 34, breached five of seven
conditions laid down in her probation. She had two prior
convictions for assaulting police officers that resulted in
fines and community service.  One of her lawyers, Peter Duncan, told the hearing
yesterday that Bokhary had breached the conditions, including
failing to contact her probation officer since October, after
becoming paranoid over “the media publicity surrounding the
case” and felt that “she had become a target of abuse.”  The Department of Justice had  applied  to the Hong Kong High
Court for a review of Bokhary’s probation sentence, saying a
prison sentence would have been more appropriate for a repeat
offense of assaulting a police officer and failing to submit to
a breath test. A hearing is scheduled for Jan. 11.  Bokhary crashed her vehicle into a bus while driving on the
wrong side of the road on Jan. 27. A local television crew
captured her slapping police officer Tang Man-wai on camera. She
was also fined in August for careless driving.  The case is Hong Kong SAR v Amina Mariam Bokhary
HCMA960/2010 in the Hong Kong High Court.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kelvin Wong  in Hong Kong at 
 kwong40@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Dirk Beveridge at 
 dbeveridge1@bloomberg.net ;
Douglas Wong at   dwong19@bloomberg.net  