-- Taiwan Should Consider Capital Controls to Curb Currency Swings, Liu Says
-- B y   C h i n m e i   S u n g
-- 2010-12-24T06:03:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-24/top-taiwan-planner-calls-for-capital-controls-as-currency-threatens-growth.html
Taiwan should consider a package of
capital controls if it wants to curb currency swings driven by
speculative fund inflows, the island’s chief economic planner
 Christina Liu  said.  “We should actually discuss and talk about a capital
control package if we really want to have capital controls,”
Liu said yesterday in an interview in Taipei. “If no countries
impose them, that will be best. But if some economies start to
impose capital controls, then those who don’t will suffer the
most. So we have to figure out some kind of capital control,
too.”  Officials from Asia to Latin America have sought to curtail
inflows drawn by higher growth rates to limit currency gains
threatening exports. Taiwan last month restricted foreign
investment in government debt, and the central bank aims to
halve speculative money in the island’s financial markets.  “We don’t want to be the target for speculators, forced to
appreciate more than the fundamentals,” said Liu, head of the
Council for Economic Planning and Development and a former
presidential adviser. The central bank so far “doesn’t
discuss” the issue of capital controls with other ministries,
“so I don’t know what’s in their mind,” she said.  The Taiwan dollar has risen 5.5 percent over the past three
months against its U.S. counterpart, the most in Asia, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. It traded at NT$29.830 as of 2:01
p.m. local time.  Export Sales  Further increases risk crimping export competitiveness at
firms such as  Taiwan Semiconductor  Manufacturing Co., the
world’s largest custom manufacturer of chips, in an economy
where exports are equivalent to two-thirds of gross domestic
product.  The U.S. Federal Reserve’s plan to inject $600 billion into
the world’s largest economy is spurring investment into Asia,
Liu said. “A lot of it is speculative funds,” she said.  The island in November said it will restrict offshore funds
to investing no more than 30 percent of their portfolios into
domestic government bonds and money-market products.  Governor  Perng Fai-nan  said Nov. 29 that the central bank
wants to halve so-called hot money flows to Taiwan to NT$150
billion ($5.03 billion). He also said no decision had yet been
made on whether to levy a fee on deposits by foreigners at banks
on the island.  The central bank has bought the U.S. dollar in late trading
almost every day for the past eight months to shield exporters,
traders said this month. They declined to be identified as the
monetary authority doesn’t publicly disclose such details.  Currency Stability  Taiwanese exporters seeking exchange-rate stability should
hedge currency risk, as the fact that some companies might
struggle doesn’t mean the government should restrain the local
dollar over the long term, Liu said. They should also target
Asian consumers, not just European and U.S. ones, she said.  Asian economies from Thailand to South Korea have taken
steps this year to curb currency gains. Thailand is ending a 15
percent tax exemption on income from domestic bonds held by
overseas buyers.  South Korea has tightened oversight of foreign-currency
derivatives and backed the revival of taxes on overseas
investors in treasury and central bank bonds. It also aims to
apply a levy on foreign-exchange borrowings by banks to guard
against sudden capital outflows.  Aligned in Asia  It’s “extremely important” that Taiwan is “in line with
other Asian economies and other Asian currencies,” said Liu,
who was economic adviser to President  Ma Ying-jeou  from 2008 to
2010.  Taiwan dollar appreciation can be seen as a “healthy
development” as long as it reflects the economy’s performance
and is comparable with other Asian currencies, she said.  Recent reports signaled Taiwan’s economy is weathering the
increase in its currency.  Industrial production  rose for the
15th straight month in November, while the  unemployment rate 
fell to a two-year low.  The island’s GDP is set to grow 9.32 percent this year, one
of the world’s fastest rates, according to International
Monetary Fund data. Domestic demand and closer economic links
with China have been contributing to the expansion, Liu said.  All 11 economists in Bloomberg News  survey  expect the
central bank to raise the  benchmark interest rate  by 0.125
percentage point to 1.625 percent at its next quarterly
interest-rate policy meeting on Dec. 30, following two increases
of the same amount in each of June and September.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Chinmei Sung  in Taipei at 
 csung4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey in Tokyo at   canstey@bloomberg.net  