-- Toshiba to Sell Chipmaking Facility to Sony, Outsource Output to Samsung
-- B y   P a v e l   A l p e y e v   a n d   J u n   Y a n g
-- 2010-12-24T09:03:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-24/toshiba-to-sell-chipmaking-facility-to-sony-outsource-output-to-samsung.html
Toshiba Corp. , Japan’s biggest
chipmaker, plans to sell a semiconductor factory to  Sony Corp. 
and outsource some output to bigger rival  Samsung Electronics
Co.  as it tries to improve profitability at the chip business.  Sony will buy Toshiba’s plant in Nagasaki, western Japan,
which makes the Cell graphics chips used in PlayStation 3 video
game consoles, the two companies said in a joint statement
today, without disclosing financial details. Toshiba is also in
talks to shift more production of its non-memory products to
other chip manufacturers, including Samsung, said Hiroki
Yamazaki, a spokesman for the Tokyo-based company.  Toshiba shares rose to the highest level in three weeks in
Tokyo today. The company, which will shut a plant this month to
phase out low-end chips, can cut costs and improve efficiency by
selling the factory and teaming up with other manufacturers,
said  Takeo Miyamoto , a Tokyo-based analyst at Deutsche Bank AG.  “It’s about cutting expenses,” he said in a phone
interview. “The factory they’re selling back to Sony, it wasn’t
profitable or efficient for them.”  Shares Gain  Toshiba’s shares rose 0.7 percent to 441 yen at the 3 p.m.
close of trading, the  highest level  since Dec. 6.  The company will continue to produce some system LSI chips,
whose functions range from processing images for television
screens to crunching data, it said.  Samsung, Asia’s biggest maker of chips, will manufacture
wafers for Toshiba using its 40-nanometer technology, the Suwon,
South Korea-based company said in a statement today. Sales of
products that Samsung manufactures for other companies may
account for about 15 percent to 20 percent of its current system
LSI semiconductor sales,  Seo Won Seok , a Seoul-based analyst at
NH Investment & Securities Co., said.  In June, Samsung said it will invest $3.6 billion to expand
capacity at its 12-inch chip plant in Austin, Texas. The new
facilities, which will be in full operation by late 2011, will
be used to make LSI chips,  Bill Cryer , a Samsung spokesman, said
on June 9.  Breaking Even  Toshiba’s chip division broke even in 2009 after incurring
a 280 billion yen ($3.4 billion) operating loss in the previous
year. System LSI chips will account for 30 percent of the 1.2
trillion yen in sales Toshiba forecasts from its chip business
this year, according to the company.  Toshiba also said today it will consolidate production of
analog and imaging chips at its plant in Oita, on the
southwestern island of Kyushu, and in Iwata, northern Japan.  Sony will buy back the Nagasaki facility for about 50
billion yen to double its monthly production capacity of the
sensors, used in digital cameras and smartphones, to about
40,000 units, the Nikkei newspaper  reported  yesterday. Sony sold
the plant in Nagasaki prefecture to Toshiba in 2008.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Pavel Alpeyev  in Tokyo at 
 palpeyev@bloomberg.net ;
 Jun Yang  in Seoul at 
 jyang180@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net  