-- Toshiba Shares Rise in Tokyo After Report of Samsung Agreement on Chips
-- B y   J u n   Y a n g
-- 2010-12-24T06:27:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-24/toshiba-shares-rise-in-tokyo-after-report-of-samsung-agreement-on-chips.html
Toshiba Corp. , the world’s second-
largest maker of flash-memory chips, rose to the highest level
in three weeks in Tokyo after the Nikkei said the Japanese
company will outsource fabrication of system chips to  Samsung
Electronics Co.   Toshiba  rose  0.7 percent to 441 yen at the close of
trading, the highest level since Dec. 6, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Samsung, the world’s biggest maker of
memory chips, fell 1.2 percent to 925,000 won in Seoul.  Kiyoshi Kobayashi, president of the chip unit, said
last month that the company will outsource the production of
next-generation system LSI chips, which are being jointly
developed with International Business Machines Corp., by as
early as next fiscal year. Toshiba, which is shutting a plant
by December to phase out low-end chips, needs to team up with a
company to reduce costs, an analyst said.  “It could be burdensome for Toshiba to develop its own
production systems, so they need a strategic partner,” said Seo
Won Seok, a Seoul-based analyst at NH Investment & Securities
Co. Sales of chips that Samsung manufactures for other companies
may account for about 15 percent to 20 percent of its total
system LSI chip sales this year, Seo said.  Image Processing  System LSI chips, whose functions range from processing
images for television screens to crunching data, will account
for 30 percent of the 1.2 trillion yen ($14 billion) in sales
Toshiba forecasts from its chip business this year, according to
the company.  James Chung , a Seoul-based spokesman for Samsung, said he
couldn’t immediately confirm or deny the Nikkei English News
report. Hiroki Yamazaki, a spokesman at Toshiba, wasn’t able to
confirm the report when contacted by Bloomberg News.  Samsung will manufacture chips designed by Toshiba from
next fiscal year, Nikkei newspaper reported. Toshiba chose
Samsung as a partner because of the South Korean company’s
technologies and ability to produce chips at low costs, the
report said, without citing anyone.  Toshiba’s chip division broke even in 2009 after incurring
a 280 billion yen operating loss in the previous year.  In June, Samsung said it will invest $3.6 billion to expand
capacity at its 12-inch chip plant in Austin, Texas. The new
facilities, which will be in full operation by late 2011, will
be used to make LSI chips,  Bill Cryer , a Samsung spokesman said
on June 9.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jun Yang  in Seoul at 
 jyang180@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net . 