-- Toyota to Maintain Japan Employment Level as Productivity Gain Offsets Yen
-- B y   M a k i k o   K i t a m u r a   a n d   M a s a t s u g u   H o r i e
-- 2010-12-24T10:02:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-24/toyota-s-niimi-says-japanese-labor-productivity-is-improving.html
Toyota Motor Corp. , Japan’s biggest
manufacturer, said leaner manufacturing methods will help it
maintain domestic staffing levels while other carmakers focus
more on overseas output to escape a strengthening yen.  “As the currency swings, the question is not where we
should be manufacturing, but how we approach manufacturing in
Japan,” Executive Vice President  Atsushi Niimi  said today at a
briefing in Nagoya, central Japan. The carmaker has no plans to
stop any domestic production lines, he said.  The automaker has been able to boost labor productivity 7
percent in the past seven months, Niimi said, helping offset an
11 percent jump in the Japanese currency this year. The company
makes more cars in Japan than rivals  Honda Motor Co. ,  Nissan
Motor Co.  and  Suzuki Motor Corp.  combined.  Toyota’s Japan production will be about 40 percent of its
global output next year, based on figures the carmaker released
on Dec. 21. Output will fall 5 percent to 3.1 million vehicles.
Honda Motor Co. and Nissan Motor Co. both make less than 30
percent of their vehicles in Japan, based on company data.  The yen’s appreciation trimmed Toyota’s  operating profit  by
120 billion yen ($1.4 billion) in the six months through
September, compared with 49 billion yen at Honda and 55 billion
yen at  Nissan , according to the companies.  Toyota also intends to maintain annual capital spending at
about 700 billion yen globally over the next five years, Niimi
said today.  The company also wants to develop its own batteries for use
in electric vehicles that can be charged from an electrical
outlet as well as halving the cost of producing the hybrid
system used in its Prius model, Niimi said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Makiko Kitamura  in Tokyo at 
 mkitamura1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Kae Inoue 
 kinoue@bloomberg.net  