-- Paris Charles De Gaulle Cuts Flights 35% on Shortage of De-Icing Chemical
-- B y   B l a n c h e   G a t t   a n d   F a b i o   B e n e d e t t i - V a l e n t i n i
-- 2010-12-24T12:51:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-24/paris-charles-de-gaulle-cuts-flights-50-on-antifreeze-shortage-weather.html
Paris’s Charles de Gaulle airport,
Europe’s second busiest, will cut flights by 35 percent for the
rest of the day because of a shortage of antifreeze, used to
remove ice from aircraft wings, and forecasts for more bad weather.  The airport faces “problems in supply of antifreeze liquid
for planes,” French DGAC civil-aviation authority said in an e-
mailed statement. The airport had already reduced flights before
1 p.m. by 50 percent. An emergency shipment of de-icing fluid was
flown in from the U.S., the Associated Press reported.  Major U.K. airports and Frankfurt were operating near-
normal services after snowstorms and cold weather caused travel
disruption across Europe in the lead-up to the Christmas
holidays.  Air France has cancelled “many” short and medium-haul
flights from Charles de Gaulle today, according to its  website .
Long-haul flights and services from Orly are unaffected, the
airport said.  Heathrow, Gatwick, Glasgow and Edinburgh airports are all
open, according to their websites. They all said that passengers
should expect some knock-on delays and cancellations as a result
of the recent weather conditions.  British Airways Plc , the U.K.’s biggest carrier, plans to
fly all scheduled long-haul flights out of Heathrow today, and
most inbound long-haul services, according to a statement on its
 website . The carrier is also hiring planes and putting larger
aircraft on European routes to move more passengers, it said.  Eurostar ‘Near Normal’  The U.K. will likely experience “very cold” weather, with
snowstorms mostly confined to the east and west coasts,
according to a Met Office  forecast .  Eurostar Group Ltd., the operator of trains through the
Channel Tunnel, said on its  website  that it’s planning to
operate a “near normal” service. Only passengers with valid
tickets for travel should go to the station, it said.  Fraport AG, operator of the Frankfurt airport, said on its
website that the situation has “improved significantly,”
allowing it to offer travelers normal pre-night check-in.  Deutsche Lufthansa AG , Germany’s biggest carrier, ran a
regular schedule at Frankfurt yesterday, it said on its website.
The carrier is running all scheduled flights, aside from a few
weather-related exceptions.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Blanche Gatt  in London at 
 bgatt@bloomberg.net ;
 Fabio Benedetti-Valentini  in Paris at 
 fabiobv@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  