-- Pimco Says U.S. Yields ‘Fully Reflect’ Growth Outlook
-- B y   W e s   G o o d m a n
-- 2010-12-24T01:11:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-24/pimco-says-rising-yields-fully-reflect-outlook-for-growth.html
Pacific Investment Management Co.,
which runs the world’s biggest bond  fund , said Treasury yields
have priced in forecasts for faster economic growth after
surging to a seven-month high earlier in December.  “Changes in U.S. interest rates and bond prices over the
last four or five weeks, in our opinion, fully reflect the
upgrade in U.S. growth prospects for 2011,”  Saumil Parikh , a
portfolio manager for the Newport Beach, California, company
wrote on Pimco’s  website .  Pimco plans to focus on credit markets after earlier this
month increasing its forecast for U.S. economic growth to a
range of 3 percent to 3.5 percent from 2 percent to 2.5 percent,
Parikh wrote. It is recommending bank loans, Build America Bonds
and emerging markets, according to the report.  Benchmark 10-year Treasury  yields  climbed to 3.56 percent
on Dec. 16, the most since May, as the U.S. economy gained
traction. The trend will reverse in the first quarter of 2011, a
Bloomberg survey of banks and securities companies shows. Ten-
year rates will drop to 3.10 percent by March 31, from
yesterday’s 3.39 percent, the survey shows.  Trading in Treasuries was closed today for the Christmas
holiday.  Short-term yields, those most sensitive to expectations for
what the Fed will do with its target for overnight bank lending,
have priced in “a significant amount of Fed tightening,”
Parikh wrote.  Widening Spread  Two-year  yields  have climbed to 41 basis points more than
the central bank’s rate target from this year’s low of eight
basis points in November. The five-year average spread is four
basis points, or 0.04 percentage point.  Improving gross domestic product makes high-yield bank
loans attractive, Parikh wrote. Build America Bonds “are an
incredible opportunity” because they offer higher yields than
Treasuries, the report said. Emerging markets will have “fast”
economic growth, it said.  Treasuries have handed investors a 2.4 percent loss this
month, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes. The
last time U.S. sovereign debt fell more in a month was in
December 2009, when it dropped 2.6 percent.  U.S. corporate bonds lost 1.1 percent in December, the
indexes show.  Pimco’s record $250 billion Total Return  Fund  gained 8.1
percent this year, beating 72 percent of its competitors,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The company is a unit
of unit of Munich-based insurer  Allianz SE .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Wes Goodman in Singapore at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net . 