-- U.K. Pound Declines For a Second Week as Data Shows Growth May be Slowing
-- B y   K e i t h   J e n k i n s   a n d   E m m a   C h a r l t o n
-- 2010-12-24T13:26:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-24/pound-strengthens-for-second-day-against-the-dollar-paring-weekly-decline.html
The pound depreciated against the
dollar for a second consecutive week as economic data stoked
concern the recovery may be slowing.  The pound headed for weekly declines against all 16 of its
most-actively traded counterparts. Sterling reached a three-
month low against the U.S. currency on Dec. 22 as the Office for
National Statistics said gross domestic product rose 0.7 percent
in the three months to September, below the initial estimate of
0.8 percent announced in October. Second-quarter growth was
revised lower to 1.1 percent from 1.2 percent. The budget
deficit swelled to a record and home-loan approvals dropped to
the lowest since March 2009.  “It hasn’t been the best run of data in the course of the
last few sessions and sterling is looking a little softer,”
said  Jeremy Stretch , executive director of foreign-exchange
strategy at Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce in London. “The
GDP data has been slightly disappointing, and it doesn’t provide
a huge amount of positivity to take into the end of the year.”  The pound was little changed at $1.5440 as of 12:40 p.m. in
London. That’s a decline of 0.7 percent from $1.5533 on Dec. 17.
It reached $1.5356 on Dec. 22, its weakest level since Sept. 14.
The British currency was at 85.05 pence per euro from 84.91
pence a week ago.  Data released Dec. 21 showed the U.K.’s November budget
deficit swelled to a record. Net government borrowing rose to
22.8 billion pounds, up from 16.7 billion pounds a year earlier,
the ONS said. The burgeoning deficit underscores the challenge
facing Prime Minister  David Cameron  as his government prepares
to implement the deepest spending cuts since World War II.  Home Loans  A British Bankers Association report Dec. 23 showed U.K.
banks granted 29,991 home loans in November, compared with
30,689 a month earlier. That was the fewest mortgage approvals
since March 2009, when the economy was in the depths of the
recession, the data showed.  “The housing market isn’t showing any signs of recovery
any time soon with fiscal tightening likely to weigh,” CIBC’s
Stretch said.  The pound has lost 1.1 percent in the past week, according
to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes, which track
a basket of 10 developed-country currencies.  Since the end of 2009, Britain’s currency has lost
6.4 percent, compared with a 10.5 percent decline by the euro
and a 1.4 percent loss by the dollar.  The U.K. currency pared its declines as Bank of England
Markets Director  Paul Fisher  said in a newspaper interview on
Dec. 23 that interest rates may rise to “a normalized
position” of about 5 percent.  ‘Not Impossible’  “I don’t think a change of 25 or even 50 basis points is
going to trigger a recession,” Fisher told the Daily Telegraph
newspaper. “But what we need to do is to trigger the mindset in
people that that’s where rates will eventually go back to.”  The central bank official also said it’s “not impossible”
the economy may contract for one quarter.  Minutes of the Bank of England’s December meeting showed on
Dec. 22 that policy makers remained split in their decision to
keep the benchmark interest rate at a record low 0.5 percent and
the asset-purchase program unchanged at 200 billion pounds.  Monetary Policy Committee member  Adam Posen , who has called
for the bank to increase stimulus, said last week policy makers
shouldn’t “overreact” to inflation. His colleague  Andrew Sentance  has voted to increase rates since June.  The 10-year gilt yield gained two basis points to
3.51 percent, from 3.56 percent on Dec. 17. That’s its first
weekly decline in four. The two-year note yield rose by one
basis point on the week to 1.21 percent.  Gilts have returned 6.7 percent this year, according to
indexes compiled by the European Federation of Financial
Analysts Societies and Bloomberg. Treasuries gained 5.4 percent
and German debt, the euro-area’s benchmark securities, returned
6.1 percent, the EFFAS indexes show.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Emma Charlton  in London at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net 
 Keith Jenkins  in London at 
 Kjenkins3@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  