-- Treasury 10-Year Yields Increase for a Fourth Week as Economy Strengthens
-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s
-- 2010-12-24T05:00:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-24/treasury-10-year-yields-increase-for-a-fourth-week-as-economy-strengthens.html
Treasury 10-year note yields rose
for a fourth week, the longest stretch of gains in 19 months, as
reports showing the economy expanded, consumer spending advanced
and orders for capital goods increased bolstered speculation the
recovery is gathering momentum.  Government securities have lost 2.4 percent in December, the
biggest monthly drop in a year, according to Bank of America
Merrill Lynch index data. The Treasury will sell $99 billion of
two-, five- and seven-year notes next week, the same amount in
the previous two months.  “Economic data of late has been better, and with firms
upping their growth forecasts the risk is to higher yields from
here,” said  Gary Pollack , who helps oversee $12 billion as head
of fixed income trading at Deutsche Bank AG’s private wealth
management unit in New York.  The 10-year note yield advanced five basis points, or 0.05
percentage point, to 3.39 percent, according to BGCantor Market
Data. The  price  of the 2.625 percent security maturing in
November 2020 dropped 13/32, or $4.06 per $1,000 face amount, to
93 21/32.  Ten-year yields touched a seven-month high of 3.56 percent
on Dec. 16 and extended their stretch of weekly  increases  to the
longest since May 2009, when they completed a seven-week gain on
concern government borrowing would overwhelm demand.  Trading of Treasuries is closed today for observance of
Christmas. U.K. trading will remain closed Dec. 27 and Dec. 28
in observance of Christmas and Boxing Day.  Treasury Volume  About $89 billion of  Treasuries  changed hands yesterday
through ICAP Plc, the lowest level since Dec. 24, 2009, which
was the day before Christmas last year. The average daily volume
this year has been $251 billion, according to figures from the
company, the world’s largest inter-dealer broker.  The Treasury announced yesterday that it will auction $35
billion in two-year notes on Dec. 27, the same amount of five-
year debt the next day and $29 billion in seven-year securities
on Dec. 29.  “Next week is all about supply,” said  David Ader , head of
government bond strategy at CRT Capital Group LLC in Stamford,
Connecticut. “The economic data has improved enough to make us
believe that the double-dip risk has decreased, but at the same
time there is more balanced information here than meets the eye.
We still have 9.8 percent unemployment and very low inflation.
The market is trying to find some stability.”  Consumer Spending  Household purchases rose 0.4 percent after a 0.7 percent
increase in October that was almost twice as large as previously
estimated, figures from the Commerce Department showed
yesterday. The agency also reported a 2.6 percent gain in
bookings for capital goods such as computers and electronics.
The Fed’s preferred measure of inflation held at a record low.  The U.S. economy expanded at a 2.6 percent annual rate in
the third quarter after a 1.7 percent increase in the second
quarter, the Commerce Department said Dec. 22.  The  jobless rate  rose in November to 9.8 percent, the
highest level since April, while hours worked and earnings
stagnated, the Labor Department reported Dec. 3.  The Fed purchased $26 billion in Treasury notes this week
as a part of its effort to keep long-term interest rates low and
generate economic growth. Next week the central bank will
conduct two rounds of asset purchases, buying $6 billion to $8
billion in notes maturing from June 2013 to November 2014 on
Dec. 28 and $4 billion to $6 billion of notes maturing from June
2012 to June 2013 on the following day.  Fed Debt Buying  The  central bank  bought $14.6 billion in debt in two
operations on Dec. 20, the biggest amount in a single day under
the second round of quantitative easing.  “Yields are moving higher as the Fed has been the only
buyer with the rest of the market on hold until the new year and
pressured from data that has been on the better side of weak,”
said  Paul Horrmann , a broker in New York at Tradition Asiel
Securities Inc., an interdealer broker. “Money is flowing out
of bond funds, and that sentiment, combined with supply, will
push yields higher into the end of the year.”  Bond mutual funds had the biggest client withdrawals in
more than two years last week. U.S. bond funds experienced
withdrawals of $8.62 billion in the seven days ended Dec. 15, up
from $1.66 billion the week before, according to the Investment
Company Institute, a Washington-based trade group.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Cordell Eddings  in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  