-- Trichet Exit Looms as Sovereign Debt Woes Keep ECB Rate at 1%: Euro Credit
-- B y   J a n a   R a n d o w   a n d   S i m o n   K e n n e d y
-- 2010-12-24T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-24/trichet-exit-looms-as-sovereign-debt-woes-keep-ecb-rate-at-1-euro-credit.html
Jean-Claude Trichet  will retire as
European Central Bank president next October with the euro area
still needing record-low interest rates, according to economists
who accurately predicted the region’s monetary policy this year.  The Frankfurt-based central bank will keep its  key interest
rate  unchanged throughout 2011 amid low inflation, moderate
growth and persisting fallout from the sovereign-debt crisis,
said 12 of 17 economists in a Bloomberg News survey. The sample
was taken among forecasters who correctly anticipated in January
that the ECB’s benchmark would stay this year at 1 percent.  The new year approaches with Trichet celebrating his 68th
birthday this week after leading Europe’s response to the
turmoil, which at one point threatened to destroy the single
currency and has already engulfed Greece and Ireland. Even after
those nations received international bailouts, the cost of
insuring Greek debt rose yesterday to the highest in a month and
investors speculate that Portugal may be next to require aid.
The euro has fallen 8.7 percent against the dollar in 2010.  “Problems in the banking sector won’t be resolved quickly,
and banks in peripheral countries will continue to need
support,” said  Juergen Michels , chief euro-region economist at
Citigroup Inc. in London. “There won’t be any major inflation
pressures that would warrant a rate increase before 2012.”  The 17 economists questioned this month participated in a
similar survey of 61 forecasters in January on the outlook for
 ECB  policy in 2010. The median forecast then was the benchmark
would be at 1.5 percent now with Deutsche Bank AG and Bank of
America Merrill Lynch analysts among those predicting 2 percent.  Buying Bonds  The ECB cut its rate to 1 percent in May 2009 to fight the
worst recession in its history. A year later the central bank
began buying government bonds for the first time to ease credit-
market tensions as investors focused on outsized budget
deficits. As recently as this month, the ECB was forced to delay
a further withdrawal of unlimited liquidity support to euro-area
banks.  Lingering questions on whether Portugal and Spain require
external help will keep the ECB “patient, cautious and
prudent” as it leaves its rate on hold through next year, said
 Cedric Thellier , an economist at Natixis in Paris. He says the
region faces a sluggish recovery even as Germany’s strength
offsets weakness in the so-called peripheral economies.  Portugal’s credit rating was downgraded yesterday by Fitch
Ratings to A+ from AA-. The company predicted the nation will
suffer a recession next year.  The ECB this month forecast growth will slow in 2011 to
about 1.4 percent from this year’s 1.7 percent, while inflation
will advance to 1.8 percent from 1.6 percent. That’s still under
the bank’s target of just below 2 percent. The region will
expand in size in January as Estonia becomes its 17th member.  Recession Prospects  David Owen , chief economist at Jefferies International Ltd.
in London, said the ECB’s numbers imply the “weakest growth on
record.”  Carl Weinberg , chief economist at High Frequency
Economics Ltd. in Valhalla, New York, predicts the economy will
“lapse into a deep recession, squeezed by a credit crunch and
plagued by multiple bank failures.” Both forecasters expect no
change in the main interest rate next year.  Adding to pressure on growth is the push to curb budget
deficits to pacify investors. Portuguese 10-year bond yields
rose by almost half a percentage point in the past two weeks.
Those on similar  Greek  securities have returned to the 12
percent level they reached in May. The cost of insuring Greek
debt jumped 38 basis points yesterday to 1,019, according to CMA
prices for credit-default swaps.  Deficit Measures  Measures to restore order to budget deficits will amount to
1.3 percent of the euro zone’s gross domestic product in 2011,
with Ireland and Portugal cutting back about 4 percent and
Greece as much as 6 percent, according to  Julian Callow , chief
European economist at Barclays Capital. He also forecasts no
rate change in 2011.  Analysts at UniCredit SpA, Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc
and Standard Chartered Plc are among five forecasters expecting
the ECB to begin rate increases in the second half of 2011.  “The ECB will want to start re-establishing its anti-
inflation credentials,” said  Sarah Hewin , senior economist at
Standard Chartered in London, whose forecast for a 1.75 percent
rate was the highest of those surveyed.  Jacques Cailloux , chief
euro-area economist at RBS, expects an increase to 1.5 percent
as strength in core economies such as Germany keep them “ring-
fenced” from debt strains.  Surging bond yields prompted the ECB to step up bond
purchases following Ireland’s aid package. The region’s central
banks have bought 72.5 billion euros ($95 billion) of government
debt since the bond program was announced in May. The ECB has
also committed to aid banks with as much liquidity as needed
through the first quarter for periods of up to three months.  Crisis Response  “The ECB made very clear that in their view the crisis
needs to be resolved by governments,” said  Ken Wattret , an
economist at BNP Paribas SA in London and another forecaster who
was right in 2010. “But governments aren’t very quick, so the
ECB is going to feel continuously obliged to step in.”  Economists are divided over how long the ECB will take to
return to its pre-crisis refinancing system of cash auctions.
While  Greet Vander Roost  at KBC Asset Management in Brussels
expects the exit to be finished by the end of the second
quarter, Citigroup’s Michels says the ECB will keep supplying
unlimited liquidity in weekly operations into 2012.  Michels’s scenario would turn responsibility for
normalizing ECB monetary policy to the next president as
Trichet’s central banking  career  comes to an end after almost
two decades and eight years at the ECB. Who will replace him
will be a subject of heated debate for leaders next year with
Bundesbank President  Axel Weber  and Bank of Italy Governor  Mario Draghi  most often linked to the job.  “By next November it ought to be a lot clearer how the
crisis is playing out,” said Callow of Barclays Capital. “The
challenge for Trichet’s successor is to mold the euro area into
a more cohesive economic and financial entity.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jana Randow  in Frankfurt at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net ;
 Simon Kennedy  in London at 
 skennedy4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at   jfraher@bloomberg.net  