-- Rubber in Tokyo Advances to a Record on High Oil Prices, Tight Thai Supply
-- B y   J a e   H u r   a n d   S u p u n n a b u l   S u w a n n a k i j
-- 2010-12-24T10:03:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-24/rubber-in-tokyo-advances-to-a-record-on-high-oil-prices-tight-thai-supply.html
Rubber climbed to a record after
crude oil climbed to the highest level in more than two years,
boosting the cost of making rival synthetic products, and heavy
rains curbed supplies from Thailand, the largest shipper.  The June-delivery contract, which listed on the Tokyo
Commodity Exchange on Dec. 22, surged to as high as 419 yen per
kilogram ($5,054 a metric ton) during the so-called night
session. Trading in this session is settled on Monday.  “Higher oil prices and tight supply from Thailand have
pushed rubber prices higher,” said  Hiroyuki Kikukawa , general
manager of research at IDO Securities Co. in Tokyo.  New York crude oil jumped 1.1 percent yesterday after the
Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan final index of  consumer
sentiment  for December climbed to 74.5 from 71.6 in November.
Americans increased spending in November for a fifth straight
month and companies stepped up orders for equipment, signaling
that the economic recovery is accelerating.  Crude oil for February delivery rose $1.03 to close at
$91.51 a barrel in New York, the highest settlement since Oct.
3, 2008. The market is closed today for the Christmas holiday.  Rubber gained 4.5 percent this week, a fourth weekly climb,
and is poised to rise in December for a sixth month. That would
be the longest winning streak since 1979.  Prices may stay at higher levels early next year as estates
in Thailand, the world’s biggest producer, and Indonesia enter
their low-production season, known as wintering, Kikukawa said.  Record Cash Price  The cash  price  in Thailand climbed 0.3 percent to a record
149.05 baht per kilogram, tracking higher oil prices, according
to the Rubber Research Institute of Thailand. Supplies are
inadequate to meet demand, it said today.  Prices are likely to stay “high” as demand increases amid
tight global supplies and rising oil prices,  Apichart Jongskul ,
secretary-general of the Office of Agricultural Economics said
today, without giving a forecast.  Production of natural rubber in Thailand may increase 3.9
percent to 3.23 million tons next year as tapping areas
increase, Apichart said at a Bangkok conference.  May-delivery rubber in Shanghai climbed as much as 1.4
percent to 37,700 yuan ($5,673) a ton before closing at 37,300
yuan. The contract climbed to a record 38,920 yuan Nov. 11.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jae Hur  in Tokyo at 
 jhur1@bloomberg.net ;
 Supunnabul Suwannakij  in Bangkok at 
 ssuwannakij@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Richard Dobson at 
 Rdobson4@bloomberg.net  