-- Rusal's Norilsk Stake Worth $3 Billion More Than Offered, Rothschild Says
-- B y   M a r i a   K o l e s n i k o v a
-- 2010-12-24T15:08:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-24/rusal-s-norilsk-stake-worth-3-billion-more-than-offered-rothschild-says.html
United Co. Rusal ’s stake in  OAO GMK
Norilsk Nickel  is worth at least $15 billion, said  Nathaniel Rothschild , chairman of the holding company for billionaire  Oleg Deripaska ’s Rusal shares. That’s $3 billion more than Norilsk
bid for the stake last week.  The 25 percent of Norilsk that’s held by Rusal is worth
“conservatively $15 billion, and arguably a great deal more,”
Rothschild, chairman of EN+ Group, said in an e-mail.  Norilsk, the world’s biggest nickel producer, offered $12
billion to Rusal on Dec. 16 to buy back its shares. Rusal’s exit
could bring an end to a long-running feud between Deripaska and
fellow Norilsk shareholder  Vladimir Potanin  over company
strategy, Nomura Holdings Plc said last week.  Rusal, which initially rebuffed Norilsk’s proposal, said
Dec. 22 that its directors would study the offer. The aluminum
producer may sell the shares at $12 billion to $15 billion,
billionaire  Mikhail Prokhorov , who holds 17 percent of the
company, told Vedomosti newspaper on Dec. 20.  Norilsk is studying a possible stock buyback from minority
owners in the event that Rusal rejects the bid, Erzhena
Mintasova, a Norilsk spokeswoman, said after the management
board held a meeting in Moscow late yesterday.  Earnings Outlook  Norilsk should “comfortably” produce $9 billion to $10
billion in earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and
amortization next year, Rothschild said yesterday. “On an even
modest multiple of six, the business is worth $54 billion to $60
billion,” he said.  A Bloomberg survey of analysts shows Norilsk may report
Ebitda of $7.15 billion this year and $7.63 billion in 2011,
according to the median of 12  estimates .  “Norilsk is trading at an approximate 40 percent to 45
percent corporate-governance discount,” Rothschild said.  Rusal has sought to replace Norilsk Chief Executive Officer
 Vladimir Strzhalkovsky  and the company’s board. Yesterday, Rusal
requested a meeting of Norilsk shareholders to elect new
directors after the nickel producer agreed to sell an 8 percent
stake to Trafigura Beheer BV without board approval.  At least one other party has approached Norilsk’s
independent directors to buy those shares at a “significant
premium” to the market price, Rothschild said, without
identifying the company. Norilsk’s Mintasova wasn’t immediately
available to comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Maria Kolesnikova  in Moscow at 
 mkolesnikova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amanda Jordan at 
 ajordan11@bloomberg.net  