-- Russia Must Purge Regional Government of Corrupt Officials, Medvedev Says
-- B y   H e n r y   M e y e r   a n d   I l y a   A r k h i p o v
-- 2010-12-24T11:15:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-24/russia-must-purge-corrupt-officials-from-regional-government-medvedev-say.html
Russia needs to “purge” criminals
from government, President  Dmitry Medvedev  said today, as he
promised to step up his fight against corruption.  “I believe we’ve managed to clean things up at the federal
level in recent years,” Medvedev said in a live question-and-
answer session with the heads of Russia’s three main television
channels. “But at the regional level, there are a lot of people
who work according to a different code and there we need to
carry out purges.”  In the capital Moscow, which accounts for nearly a quarter
of Russia’s gross domestic product, there is “unprecedented”
corruption, which new Mayor  Sergei Sobyanin  is battling, said
Medvedev. The president in September fired  Yury Luzhkov ,
Moscow’s mayor since 1992, after state media reports accusing
him of corruption and favoritism toward his wife, billionaire
developer  Yelena Baturina . The couple denied the allegations.  Medvedev, 45, hand-picked by his predecessor, current Prime
Minister  Vladimir Putin , is in the third year of his term begun
May 2008. He has made his priority fighting corruption, which he
terms a major threat to national security, modernizing the
economy away from oil dependency and revamping civil
institutions.  Russia is the world’s most corrupt major economy, according
to Berlin-based Transparency International’s 2010  Corruption
Perceptions Index  released in October, sliding to 154th among
178 countries and placing it alongside Tajikistan and Kenya.  Corruption  Medvedev’s promises to reduce corruption haven’t produced
any visible progress and won’t succeed unless law enforcement is
improved, according to Kirill Kabanov, head of the National
Anti-Corruption Committee.  Russians pay bribes totaling $300 billion a year,
equivalent to almost a quarter of GDP, Kabanov’s national anti-
corruption committee estimates.  Medvedev said about 2,700 Russians have been jailed this
year for bribery, including 1,700 for giving bribes and about
1,000 for taking them.  The Russian president, a former lawyer who has promised to
fight “legal nihilism,” said a new law aimed at improving the
performance of the police should come into force in the second
quarter of next year.  Drunken Officers  The law was proposed after repeated reports of people
falling victim to violent or drunken officers. A draft posted on
the Kremlin website received more than 30,000 comments, most of
them critical.  One of Medvedev’s proposals would change the name of the
main law enforcement agency from militsia, literally militia in
Russia, to politsiya, police. Fifty-two percent of Russians said
the effort to overhaul law enforcement would boil down to a
cosmetic name change and personnel reshuffling, according to a
Levada Center  poll  published Sept. 13.  Putin, 58, a former KGB spy who is still viewed as the most
powerful politician in Russia, backed Medvedev as his successor
in 2008 because of a constitutional ban on three consecutive
presidential terms. He hasn’t ruled out returning to the
presidency in 2012 elections.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Henry Meyer  in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net ;
 Ilya Arkhipov  in Moscow at 
 iarkhipov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at 
 wmorris@bloomberg.net  