-- Bank Rossii Keeps Key Refinancing Rate Unchanged, Increases Deposit Rate
-- B y   M a r i a   L e v i t o v
-- 2010-12-24T13:34:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-24/russia-s-central-bank-leaves-benchmark-interest-rate-unchanged-at-7-75-.html
Russia’s central bank left its key
interest rate unchanged for a seventh month and increased the
rate charged on ruble deposits as policy makers assessed the
impact of  inflation  on the  economy .  The bank kept the key refinancing rate at 7.75 percent and
left the repurchase rate charged on one- and seven-day loans on
hold at 6.75 percent, Moscow-based  Bank Rossii  said in an e-
mailed statement today. The bank raised the deposit rate by a
quarter-point to 2.75 percent. Sixteen of 17 economists polled
by Bloomberg expected the refinancing rate to be kept on hold
with one analyst predicting an increase to 8.25 percent.  “Inflation risks determined by monetary conditions remain
moderate, but deserve greater attention from monetary
authorities,” the  statement  said. “Narrowing Bank Rossii’s
interest-rate corridor by raising the deposit rates aims to
increase the effectiveness of interest-rate policy.”  The central bank will raise the deposit rates, which is
interest earned on rubles Russian lenders keep with the central
bank, from Dec. 27, including increasing the one-week deposit
rate to 3 percent from 2.75 percent, it said. This rate change
“won’t lead to a significant increase of borrowing costs for
end borrowers, but will help lower the volatility of market
interest rates in the future,” the statement said.  Weighing Increase  Policy makers are weighing the first refinancing rate
increase since 2008 after inflation accelerated in November to
an annual 8.1 percent, the fastest in 11 months. Central bank
Chairman  Sergey Ignatiev  yesterday said monetary policy makers
next year will focus on keeping inflation between 6 percent and
7 percent as rate setters no longer target the ruble’s exchange
rate.  Bank Rossii is concerned about ruble depreciation “even
more than inflation,” VTB Capital’s economist  Aleksandra Evtifyeva  said by phone yesterday. “To prevent this they need
to hike the deposit rate as it is the rate which defines the
attractiveness of ruble assets.” Analysts from Moscow-based VTB
Capital were among the four of 12 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg to predict a 0.25 increase for the deposit rate.  The ruble weakened every month between May and October
against the dollar-euro basket used to the central bank to
manage the currency, as Russia’s 14 cuts to benchmark borrowing
costs between April 2009 and May this year spurred investors to
hunt down higher-yielding assets in places like Brazil, where
the target rate is 10.75 percent.  The ruble strengthened 0.5 percent to 30.4500 rubles per
dollar at 4:04 pm in Moscow. Moscow’s MICEX Index fell 0.6
percent to 1674.12.  Russia’s economic recovery trend continued in November and
interest rates on bank loans reached “record low levels,” the
central bank said today. Food price growth continues to fuel
inflation, it said.  ‘Beginning to Worry’  The International Monetary Fund on Dec. 9 urged Russia to
focus “squarely on reducing inflation” as the lender raised
its 2010 price-growth forecast to 8.5 percent from about 6
percent. Ignatiev on Dec. 9 said the central bank will primarily
use its interest-rate policy to control rising prices, which are
“beginning to worry” policy makers.  Bank Rossii can also use reserve requirements and the
ruble’s exchange rate to curb inflation, First Deputy Chairman
 Alexei Ulyukayev  said in an interview on Dec. 1.  The central bank lowered its main refinancing rate 14 times
between April 2009 and May this year. Since then, it has kept
the rate at 7.75 percent as policy makers sought to avoid
derailing the  economy’s  recovery from a 7.9 percent slump last
year.  Gross domestic product is set to rise an annual 3.8 percent
this year after increasing a seasonally adjusted 0.5 percent in
November from the previous month. Economy Minister  Elvira Nabiullina  told reporters on Dec. 22 that the Economy Ministry
forecasts 4.2 percent growth in 2011.  “The main question for next year is how high inflation
will be,”  German Gref , the chief executive officer of  OAO
Sberbank , Russia’s biggest lender, said on Dec. 14. Gref expects
a rate increase in the first half of 2011, he said.  The median forecast of 16 economists surveyed by Bloomberg
is for an 8 percent refinancing rate at the end of the first
quarter and 8.25 percent at the end of the second quarter next
year. Price growth won’t exceed an annual 7 percent next year,
according to the Economy Ministry’s forecast.  Russia needs a lower refinancing rate in the long term,
Finance Minister  Alexei Kudrin  told reporters on Dec. 10.  “All of our policies should lead to lower rates,” he
said. “This is a basic condition for any modernization.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Maria Levitov  in Moscow at 
 mlevitov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at 
 wmorris@bloomberg.net  