-- Singapore's November Industrial Output Rises at Fastest Pace in Six Months
-- B y   S h a m i m   A d a m
-- 2010-12-24T05:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-24/singapore-s-november-industrial-output-rises-at-fastest-pace-in-six-months.html
Singapore’s  industrial production 
rose at the fastest pace in six months as electronics and
pharmaceutical manufacturers increased output to meet demand.  Manufacturing, which accounts for about a quarter of the
economy, climbed 39.8 percent in November from a year earlier,
after a revised 29.8 percent increase in October, the  Economic
Development Board  said in a statement today. The median estimate
of 14 economists  surveyed  by Bloomberg News was for a 32.8
percent gain.  Asian economies have led a global recovery this year that’s
been restrained by sovereign credit woes in Europe and a U.S.
job market where unemployment has exceeded 9 percent since May
2009. Singapore is forecasting a record economic expansion in
2010 even after gross domestic product contracted last quarter
as manufacturing growth slowed.  “There is more confidence that global export demand is on a
recovery trajectory and that will continue to benefit Singapore
and other Asian countries,”  David Cohen , Singapore-based head of
Asian forecasting at Action Economics, said before the release.
“While there will still be month-to-month volatility,
Singapore’s industrial production and export outlook is expected
to remain healthy.”  The government predicts non-oil  export  growth of as much as
24 percent this year and as much as 8 percent in 2011.
Manufacturing will probably increase 30.1 percent in 2010, and
climb 5.6 percent next year, according to the median estimate in
a survey of 22 economists by the central bank released this
month.  Industrial production  climbed a seasonally adjusted 1.1
percent in November from October, when it gained a revised 1.8
percent from the previous month, today’s report showed.  Electronics production increased 23.1 percent from a year
earlier after rising a revised 9.4 percent in October.
Pharmaceutical output surged 189 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Shamim Adam  in Singapore at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at   canstey@bloomberg.net  