-- Southern Sudan Wants Debt Forgiven, `Soft Borders' With North, Envoy Says
-- B y   A n t o n y   S g u a z z i n
-- 2010-12-24T12:51:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-24/southern-sudan-wants-debt-forgiven-soft-borders-regional-envoy-says.html
Southern Sudan wants international
lenders to forgive debt owed by Sudan if a Jan. 9 referendum
paves the way for the creation of an independent state, the
region’s envoy to South Africa said.  Overseas borrowing stood at $35.7 billion in 2009, with
more than $30 billion in “arrears,” or past due dates, the
World Bank and the International Monetary Fund said in a
statement on Dec. 13.  “The best option is for the two parties to convince the
international partners to cancel these debts,” said John Gai
Yoh, head of the Southern Sudan mission in South Africa,
according to the transcript of an interview published by
Johannesburg’s Financial Mail magazine today.  Oil-producing Southern Sudan will hold the referendum to
decide whether the region will secede from Sudan. The vote is
the centerpiece of a 2005  peace agreement  that ended a 21-year
civil war between Sudan’s northern and southern regions. About 2
million people died in the conflict and 4 million fled their
homes.  Southern Sudan accounts for as much as 80 percent of
Sudan’s 490,000 barrels of daily oil production. Sudan is sub-
Saharan Africa’s third-largest producer, according to the  BP
Statistical Review of World Energy .  Dual Citizenship  If Southern Sudan does become independent it wants its
people to retain citizenship in the north of the country because
of economic links, Gai Yoh said.  “We insist the people in the north and the those of the
south should be allowed dual citizenship,” he said. “The two
parts of the country should work towards close economic
cooperation, hopefully leading to the creation of soft
borders.”  In September the state-run SMC news agency reported that
the Southern Sudanese would lose the right to citizenship,
residency and work in the north, should their region vote to
secede. They would also lose the right to buy and sell goods and
to treatment in state hospitals, the Khartoum-based agency said,
citing Kemal Ebeid, the Sudanese information minister.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Antony Sguazzin  in Johannesburg at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Matthew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net . 