-- South Korea Says Rate Increases May Fuel Foreign Capital Inflow
-- B y   W i l l i a m   S i m   a n d   F r a n c e s   Y o o n
-- 2010-12-24T08:48:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-24/south-korea-finance-ministry-says-rate-rises-raise-risk-of-asset-bubbles.html
South Korea may face the risk of a
foreign capital influx and asset bubbles if borrowing costs are
increased further to curb inflation, the finance ministry said.  “Raising interest rates to contain inflation could easily
cause herd behavior in foreign capital inflow and create asset
bubbles,” the  Ministry of Strategy and Finance  said in an e-
mailed statement prepared for a ministerial meeting today on
international economic policies.  The country this week announced measures to control
incoming foreign funds and prevent sudden capital flight of the
type that caused a financial crisis in Asia in 1997-98. Nations
from Brazil to Taiwan are trying to limit currency swings as
near-zero borrowing costs in advanced economies spur demand for
higher-yielding assets in emerging markets.  “The Korean cabinet has often tried to pressure the
central bank typically in this direction, to hold off on rate
hikes when maybe the central bank is looking to hike rates,”
said  David Cohen , head of Asia forecasting at Action Economics
in Singapore.  South Korean President  Lee Myung Bak’s  government in
January started sending a vice finance minister to central bank
policy meetings after Bank of Korea Governor  Kim Choong Soo’s 
predecessor said the bank shouldn’t be too slow to raise rates.  Board members in May sought to have the official leave the
room for the vote on rates, a step agreed to in June. The
central bank started raising rates a month later.  Currency Gains  The won has appreciated about 33 percent against the dollar
since March last year, the most in Asia, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The currency slipped 0.2 percent to
1,150.75 per dollar as of the 3 p.m. close in Seoul, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The Bank of Korea left the  benchmark interest rate  at 2.5
percent this month after raising it by 0.25 percentage point in
each of July and November from a record-low 2 percent.  Inflation 
moderated to 3.3 percent in November from a 20-month high in
October that breached the central bank’s 4 percent ceiling.  A rise in China’s inflation rate could drive up local
prices by boosting import costs, the ministry also said in
today’s statement.  South Korea’s  gross domestic product  is likely to expand
4.5 percent in 2011, compared with 6.1 percent this year, the
central bank forecast in a statement on Dec. 10. Consumer prices
may increase 3.5 percent next year, after a 2.9 percent gain in
2010, it said.  The government aims to apply a levy on banks’ foreign-
exchange borrowings, will strengthen punishment for
inappropriate reporting of currency trades and may tighten rules
on derivatives, the ministry said on Dec. 20. The administration
has already backed the revival of taxes on overseas investors in
treasury and central bank bonds.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 William Sim  in Seoul at 
 wsim2@bloomberg.net ;
 Frances Yoon  in Seoul at 
 fyoon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey in Tokyo at   canstey@bloomberg.net  