-- South Africa Is Asked to Join as a BRIC Member to Boost Emerging Markets
-- B y   N a s r e e n   S e r i a
-- 2010-12-24T15:17:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-24/south-africa-asked-to-join-bric-to-boost-cooperation-with-emerging-markets.html
South Africa has been formally asked
to join the BRIC group of major emerging markets, comprising
Brazil, Russia, India and China, bolstering its position as
Africa’s champion.  Chinese President  Hu Jintao  wrote a letter to his South
African counterpart,  Jacob Zuma , to inform him of the decision
and inviting him to the BRIC’s third heads of state meeting in
Beijing next year, Chinese Foreign Minister  Yang Jiechi  said in
a  statement  on his ministry’s website today.  South Africa, which has a population of 49 million compared
with China’s 1.36 billion, is betting on raising its clout on
the world stage by joining BRIC, while strengthening political
and trade ties within the bloc. The country accounts for about a
third of gross domestic product in sub-Saharan Africa and will
offer BRIC members improved access to 1 billion consumers on the
continent and mineral resources including oil and platinum.  Joining the group is “the best Christmas present ever,”
South Africa’s Minister of International Relations and
Cooperation  Maite Nkoana-Mashabane  told a reporters in Pretoria
today. “We will be a good gateway for the BRIC countries. While
we may have a small population, we don’t just speak for South
Africa, we speak for Africa as a whole.”  Zuma has made state visits to all of the BRIC nations since
coming to power in May last year and the government has
“lobbied very hard” to be included in the group, which will
now be known as BRICS, Nkoana-Mashabane said.  ‘Powerful Country’  Africa’s biggest economy is a “powerful country,” even
though it’s small compared with the other BRIC nations, Alexei
Vasiliev, Russian President  Dmitry Medvedev ’s envoy to Africa,
said on Dec. 22.  South Africa has an economy of $286 billion, which is less
than a quarter of that of Russia, the smallest of the BRIC
nations. Its population is also dwarfed by India’s 1.2 billion,
Brazil’s 191 million and Russia’s 142 million.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. economist  Jim O’Neill  coined the
BRIC term in 2001 to describe the four nations that he estimates
will collectively equal the U.S. in economic size by 2020.  “South Africa’s economy is very small,” O’Neill, who is
now chairman of Goldman Sachs Asset Management International,
said in an interview from London today. “For South Africa to be
treated as part of BRIC doesn’t make any sense to me. But South
Africa as a representative of the African continent is a
different story.”  ‘Big Boys’  At their first summit in Russia in June last year, the BRIC
heads of state called for emerging economies to have a greater
voice in international financial institutions and for a more
diversified global monetary system.  “South Africa as a country is small, but if we go there as
a regional market, that’s a different story,” said Martyn
Davies, chief executive officer of Johannesburg-based Frontier
Advisory, which provides research and corporate finance services
on emerging markets. “For South Africa, it’s nice to be
associated with the big boys.”  South Africa is the only African nation represented in the
Group of 20, and will take up a two-year seat on the United
Nations’ Security Council along with India and Brazil next year,
resulting in all BRIC nations being represented on the council.
The African nation is also part of a trilateral group with India
and Brazil, known as IBSA, created in 2003 to coordinate action
between the three emerging economies in global forums.  “We bring the most diversified and most advanced economy
on the continent,” said Nkoana-Mashabane. “We may not be the
same size, but we can open up opportunities for them and through
that, we can complete our economic integration on the continent.  South Africa’s rand gained against the dollar to its
strongest level since Jan. 15, 2008, trading at 6.7308 to the
dollar as of 5:13 p.m. Johannesburg time.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nasreen Seria  in Johannesburg at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net . 