-- South Korea May Get at Least 11 Spot LNG Cargoes, Ship-Tracking Data Show
-- B y   D i n a k a r   S e t h u r a m a n
-- 2010-12-24T07:10:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-24/south-korea-may-get-at-least-11-spot-lng-cargoes-ship-tracking-data-show.html
South Korea, the world’s second-
largest buyer of liquefied natural gas, may receive at least 11
spot cargoes of the fuel in December and January to meet demand
for heating in winter, according to ship-tracking data.  LNG Ogun may reach a South Korean terminal on Dec. 28,
according to calculations based on transmissions from ships
captured by AISLive on Bloomberg. BP Plc’s British Innovator
vessel may arrive on Jan. 7. South Korea received 18 cargoes
from the Atlantic Ocean area in December and January last year,
according to  customs  data.  State-run Korea Gas Corp. said Oct. 12 it expects the
nation’s gas demand between October and March to increase 11
percent as an economic recovery boosts consumption. South Korea
typically uses about 70 percent of its LNG during the period
because of heating needs.  “We are seeing spot LNG deals done at $10.50 in North East
Asia, but it all depends on the weather,” said  Tony Regan , a
consultant for Tri-Zen International Ltd. in Singapore, in an e-
mail on Dec. 22. That is about $1.44 more per million British
thermal units higher than benchmark U.K. gas, used to price spot
cargoes in Asia.  Prices of ex-ship spot LNG into East Asia for delivery 30
days ahead were $9.95 per million Btu as of Dec. 22, according
to bids and offers gathered by Spectron Group, the brokerage
owned by Imarex ASA.  Seri Angkasa, a MISC Bhd. tanker, may arrive on Jan. 5 with
an Egyptian cargo and Excel, an Exmar NV vessel, may deliver a
cargo on Jan. 15. Sevilla Knutsen may reach Incheon, which
supplies the Seoul metropolitan area, on Jan. 11 with a cargo
from the Atlantic basin.  In addition there are five spot cargoes heading to
undisclosed destinations in the Far East from the Atlantic,
according to the data.  South Korea received spot cargoes earlier this month from
tankers including Arctic Princess, LNG Lokoja, Golar Viking,
British Trader, LNG Akwa Ibom and Methane Nile Eagle, according
to ship data.  South Korea bought 105,169 tons of the fuel in November for
$441.50 a ton in the spot market from Trinidad & Tobago and
176,261 tons for $480.80 a ton from Nigeria, according to
today’s customs. The cleaner-burning fuel cost more than twice
the price of benchmark gas futures at Henry Hub in the U.S.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Dinakar Sethuraman  in Singapore at 
 dinakar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Clyde Russell at   crussell7@bloomberg.net  