-- Sugar May Reach 40 Cents as Weather Hurts Global Crops, Thai Miller Says
-- B y   S u p u n n a b u l   S u w a n n a k i j
-- 2010-12-24T06:31:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-24/sugar-may-reach-40-cents-as-weather-hurts-global-crops-thai-miller-says.html
Raw sugar in New York may climb to
40 cents a pound by January on concern dry weather in Brazil,
the biggest exporter, and record rainfall in Australia may
tighten supplies, said the Thai Sugar Millers Corp.  “Bad weather conditions are threatening crops around the
globe,” said Vibul Panitvong, executive chairman of the company
that represents the country’s 46 millers. Thailand is the
world’s second-largest exporter.  Raw sugar in New York yesterday gained to the highest level
in 30 years on speculation that shipments from Brazil and India,
the top producers, may be too low to meet demand. Rain in
Queensland state this month after Australia’s wettest spring on
record forced producers to leave some cane unharvested.  “Frost in Florida and heavy snow in Europe will also
worsen the supply situation,” said Vibul. The U.S. is
considering increasing imports by 300,000 metric tons in
2010-2011, while European countries may not have adequate supply
for overseas shipments this year, he said.  Freezing weather in Florida,  the biggest U.S. producing
state , earlier this month “severely damaged” cane crops, U.S.
Sugar Corp said Dec 17. About 60 percent of the mature crop
hasn’t been harvested, and new plants faced temperatures
“significantly below” 28 degrees Fahrenheit (minus 2.2
Celsius) for four hours, it said in statement.  Global sugar demand will reach 165.3 million tons, almost 3
million tons more than supply in the marketing year that ends
Sept. 30, ABN Amro Bank NV and VM Group said Dec. 10, reversing
an earlier forecast for a surplus. Dry weather early in the
growing season and rain during harvest hurt crops in Brazil, it
said.  Wet Weather  Raw sugar for March delivery on ICE Futures U.S. gained 2.6
percent to 33.98 cents per pound yesterday. The price earlier
reached 34.06 cents, the highest level for a most-active
contract since November 1980. The exchange is closed today for
the Christmas vacation.  Sugar production this year in Australia may be 3.62 million
tons, compares with a usual range of between 4.5 million to 5
million tons, industry group Canegrowers said Dec. 22.  More than 5 million tons of cane would be unharvested this
season because of wet weather, causing a “continued dampening
of productivity and profitability in 2011,” the Brisbane-based
group said.  Thai Output  Still, sugar production in Thailand may increase 5.8
percent from the previous year as wet weather improved yields
after drought earlier this year parched cane plantations, said
Vibul.  “Rains have improved yields, potentially boosting sugar
output to be higher than last year,” said Vibul. Output in the
year started Nov. 27 is likely to be around 7.3 million tons
with cane output estimated about 67.5 million tons, he added.  That compared with 6.9 million tons and cane production of
68.5 million tons in the previous year, according to the  Office
of the Cane and Sugar Board , an industry regulator.  Recent rains will probably boost production yields to 108
kilograms per ton of cane from 101 kilograms in the previous
crop year, Vibul said. The La Nina weather event has brought
heavier-than-usual rains across Asia, hurting production of rice
and rubber and boosting prices.  Shipments may be 4.8 million tons in 2011, Vibul said. That
is higher than 4.4 million tons estimated by the Office of Cane
and Sugar Board.  China Demand  China, the world’s biggest food consumer, may import as
much as 3 million tons of sugar in 2011 on increasing
consumption of food and sweets, Vibul said.  The country may have a refined sugar shortage of 2.5
million tons in the 2010-2011 marketing year that needs to be
met by imports or selling from reserves, the China Merchandise
Reserve Management Centre said Dec. 1.  Demand is projected to be 14.5 million tons, while output
may be 12 million tons, Xie Liangjun, a researcher at the
country’s sugar reserve manager wrote in a report on the
agency’s website.  China’s central government has built up sugar reserves of
3.2 million tons, Commerce Minister Chen Deming said Dec. 22.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Supunnabul Suwannakij  in Bangkok at 
 ssuwannakij@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Richard Dobson at 
 Rdobson4@bloomberg.net  