-- Sugar Prices May Advance as Brazilian Supplies Ebb, Acoording to Survey
-- B y   S t e p h e n   M o r r i s   a n d   D e b a r a t i   R o y
-- 2010-12-24T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-24/sugar-prices-may-rise-as-brazil-s-supplies-ebb-survey-shows.html
Sugar futures in New York and
London may climb next week, heading for a third consecutive
year of gains, on signs that supplies from Brazil won’t be
enough to meet demand, according to a survey.  Eight of 11 traders, analysts and brokers surveyed by
Bloomberg News said raw sugar traded in New York will rise. One
predicted that prices will fall, and two forecast they will be
little changed.  There is a “deteriorating outlook” for supplies as
Brazil enters into a period of reduced exports after the cane
harvest in the Central South, which usually ends this month,
according to C. Czarnikow Sugar Futures Ltd. The region is the
county’s biggest producer.  “The market will be very thin due to the holidays,”
 Jonathan Bouchet , an analyst at OTCex Group in Geneva, said in
a telephone interview. “Prices may rise as there is no sugar
in the market. Who would want to sell now with the market
fundamentals so bullish?”  The commodity climbed 4.6 percent this week to 33.98 cents
a pound on ICE Futures U.S. in New York. Yesterday, the most-
active contract touched 34.06 cents, the highest level since
1980, extending its annual gain to 26 percent. The exchange is
closed today for the Christmas holiday.  Seven of 11 survey respondents said refined sugar on NYSE
Liffe in London will gain, one predicted a loss, and three
projected little change. The price has advanced 3.8 percent
this week to $820.90 a metric ton.  Refined sugar’s premium over raw sweetener will narrow,
according to five of 11 people surveyed. Three said it will
widen, while another three said it will be little changed.  In the attached chart, red bars are derived by subtracting
bearish forecasts from bullish estimates for raw sugar, with
readings above zero signaling that most respondents expect
higher prices. The green line shows raw-sugar prices, and the
blue line shows white sugar.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Stephen Morris  in London at 
 smorris39@bloomberg.net ;
 Debarati Roy  in New York at 
 droy5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  