-- Mumbai Police Strengthen Security on Terror Attack Intelligence
-- B y   B i b h u d a t t a   P r a d h a n   a n d   U n n i   K r i s h n a n
-- 2010-12-24T12:01:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-24/mumbai-police-bolster-security-search-for-four-said-to-plan-terror-attack.html
Police in Mumbai increased security
and intensified the search for four men from a Pakistan-based
terrorist group said to be planning an attack in the city during
year-end celebrations.  The  men , members of the Lashkar-e-Taiba group, entered the
city to carry out “violent” attacks during Christmas and New
Year festivities, Joint Commissioner of Mumbai Police Himanshu
Roy said at a press conference yesterday.  “They have come here for extremely dangerous activities,”
he said, while releasing a sketch of one of the suspected
terrorists. The Lashkar-e-Taiba is blamed by India and the U.S.
government for the 2008 terror attack in Mumbai that killed 166
people.  Mumbai is a target for terror attacks as it symbolizes
India’s economic growth. The city is home to India’s biggest
companies such as  Reliance Industries Ltd . and the Tata Group,
and the two main stock exchanges. It is also a center for
trading in currencies, bonds, commodities, gold and diamonds.
Mumbai was attacked in 1993, when the Bombay Stock Exchange was
among the targets, and again in 2006.  Intelligence reports earlier this week warned of a possible
terror attack aimed at foreigners in Mumbai, said a federal
home ministry official, who declined to be identified as the
matter is sensitive.  Barricaded Roads  Security barricades have been put up across the city and
the road outside the  Taj Mahal Palace & Tower  hotel, where 31
people died during the 2008 assault on Mumbai, was closed to
traffic.  “We are taking necessary action based on the
information,” U.C. Sarangi, additional chief secretary of the
home department of the state of Maharashtra, of which Mumbai is
the capital, said today.  The forewarning may stall plans of the suspected attackers,
said  Ajai Sahni , executive director of New Delhi’s Institute for
Conflict Management.  “Police have got some specific information about the
people,” planning the attack, he said. “It’s likely the police
will able to trace them, catch them or make it difficult for
them to execute the plan.”  The raid by 10 terrorists armed with assault rifles,
grenades and explosives in Mumbai from Nov. 26-29 in 2008
targeted two luxury hotels, a railway terminal, a Jewish center
and a restaurant popular with tourists. The attack added a new
dimension to militancy in India as the perpetrators targeted
business travelers and foreigners.  Following the Mumbai attacks India has created a federal
agency to combat terrorism, strengthened coastal patrols,
bolstered intelligence agencies and recruited more security
personnel.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bibhudatta Pradhan in New Delhi at 
 bpradhan@bloomberg.net ;
Unni Krishnan in New Delhi at 
 ukrishnan2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Hari Govind at   hgovind@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Anstey at   canstey@bloomberg.net . 