-- Vietnam's Inflation Jumps to 22-Month High on Weak Currency, Loan Growth
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-12-24T09:22:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-24/vietnam-s-inflation-jumps-to-22-month-high-on-weak-currency-loan-growth.html
Vietnam’s inflation rate accelerated
to the highest level in 22 months after currency devaluations
stoked import costs and credit expansion spurred domestic demand.  Prices increased 11.75 percent in December from a year
earlier, compared with 11.09 percent in November, according to
figures released today by the General Statistics Office in Hanoi.
The reading is the highest since February 2009. Prices rose 1.98
percent from November, the fastest monthly pace since June 2008.  The government is struggling to restrain inflationary
pressures stoked by  economic expansion , higher food costs and a
weaker currency. Moody’s Investors Service said officials have
been unwilling to tighten monetary policy effectively when it
cut Vietnam’s debt rating on Dec. 15, and Standard & Poor’s
cited “sensitive” domestic sentiment on  inflation  in lowering
its rating on Dec. 23.  “Inflation is showing no signs of slowing down,” said
 Sherman Chan , a Hong Kong-based economist at  HSBC Holdings Plc .
“The extent of the jump in the year-on-year figure isn’t as bad
as we saw last month, but it’s still pretty concerning.”  Overall food prices jumped 16.18 percent from a year
earlier, with the pace of increase in the sub-category including
rice reaching 17.96 percent, according to today’s figures.
Vietnam is the world’s fifth-biggest rice consumer.  “If you look at food prices, there’s an upside risk,”
said Chan of HSBC. “Rice prices are set to rise further.”  Credit Ratings  Moody’s lowered Vietnam’s long-term foreign-currency rating
to B1 from Ba3, with a negative outlook, citing balance-of-
payments and reserves risks as inflation quickens and the
nation’s currency weakens. Standard & Poor’s cut its long-term
foreign-currency rating to BB- from BB, with a negative outlook,
citing a greater susceptibility of the banking system to a
financial or economic shock.  “To get more stable prices, they are going to have to slow
growth down,”  Ari Kokko , a professor at Copenhagen Business
School’s Center for International Business and Emerging Markets,
said by telephone on Dec. 21 after visiting Vietnam last month.
“Inflation in Vietnam is closely related to domestic policies
and in particular to credit expansion.”  The government has devalued the dong three times since
November last year. The currency’s depreciation is playing a
“significant role” in the acceleration of inflation, according
to the International Monetary Fund.  Black Market  The currency’s official exchange rate was 19,498 per dollar
as of 11:14 a.m. in Hanoi, compared with 19,099 before the most
recent devaluation in August. On the so-called black market, the
dong traded today as weak as 21,110 as of 2:20 p.m. in Ho Chi
Minh City, according to a telephone information service run by
the state-owned Vietnam Posts & Telecommunications Group.  The central bank raised  interest rates  on Nov. 5 for the
first time in almost a year, a day after the government said
curbing inflation was a greater priority than boosting growth.  Vietnam should aim for inflation of 3 percent to 4 percent,
in line with other countries in the Association of Southeast
Asian Nations, the IMF said this month.  The government forecasts economic growth of approximately
6.7 percent this year. The pace of expansion may accelerate to 7
percent in 2011, Minister of Planning & Investment  Vo Hong Phuc 
said on Dec. 8.  -- Jason Folkmanis  in Berkeley, California. Editors: Sunil
Jagtiani,  Alan Soughley   To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jason Folkmanis  in Berkeley, California at 
 folkmanis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey in Tokyo at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  