-- Vinashin May `Jeopardize' Vietnam Companies' Access to Debt, Moody's Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-12-24T07:46:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-24/vinashin-may-jeopardize-vietnam-access-to-global-markets-moody-s-says.html
Vietnam and its state-backed
companies will face greater difficulties borrowing money after
reports Vietnam Shipbuilding Industry Group defaulted on a loan,
according to Moody’s Investors Service.  Vinashin, as the shipbuilder is known, failed to meet an
extended deadline to make a $60 million loan payment to foreign
creditors yesterday, the Financial Times reported, citing
unidentified people familiar with the situation. Vinashin
Chairman  Nguyen Ngoc Su  declined to comment when contacted on
his cell phone by Bloomberg News today.  “The implication of the Vinashin default is that it might
not be company-specific after all,”  Alan Greene , a Moody’s
senior credit officer, said in a phone interview from Singapore.
“The question now is why, seemingly for the sake of $60 million,
has Vietnam jeopardized access to credit markets?”  Vietnam’s debt rating was cut by Standard & Poor’s
yesterday by one rung to BB-, three levels below investment-
grade, putting it on par with Bangladesh and Mongolia. The
downgrade followed a similar move by Moody’s earlier this month,
adding to pressure on a government striving to tackle inflation
of 11.75 percent, a 22-month high, and a weakening currency.  Vinashin, which the government says had debt of about 86
trillion dong ($4.4 billion) as of June, asked lenders for a
one-year delay on repayments on a $600 million loan, organized
by Credit Suisse Group AG in 2007, Chairman Su was quoted by the
Vietnam News Agency as saying Dec. 20. The first payment of $60
million was due the same day.  Vinacomin  State-owned miner Vietnam National Coal-Mineral Industries
Group, or Vinacomin, was downgraded to B2 from Ba3 by Moody’s on
Dec. 15, and its outlook was lowered to negative from stable by
Standard & Poor’s yesterday.  Vinacomin may be downgraded again if Moody’s takes further
rating action on the sovereign, Greene said. The Hanoi-based-
coal miner postponed a planned sale of as much as $500 million
of 10-year bonds, a person familiar with the matter said last
month.  Vinashin’s debt issues may be linked to politics before the
Communist Party Congress next month, Hanoi-based  Tony Foster , 
managing partner at law firm Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer, 
said in a telephone interview. “It’s not an economic
decision, it’s something political going on,” Foster said.  Prime Minister  Nguyen Tan Dung  faced calls for a confidence
vote at a National Assembly meeting last month as lawmakers
demanded accountability for Vinashin’s deteriorating finances.  Credit Swaps  The cost to insure Vietnam’s debt against default soared
to the highest level in almost 18 months on Dec. 21 after
closing at 300 basis points, the most since July 15, 2009, CMA
prices show. Credit-default swaps were little changed at 305
basis points as of 11:05 a.m. today in Singapore, according to
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc prices. A basis point is 0.01
percentage point.  A lender steering committee, including representatives from
Credit Suisse, Standard Chartered Plc and hedge fund Elliott
Advisors Ltd., was set up to negotiate with Vinashin, a person
with direct knowledge of the matter said. KPMG LLP confirmed
earlier this month it had been hired as advisers by Vinashin.  Vinashin Chairman Su and Chief Executive Truong Van Tuyen
also didn’t respond to faxed questions about the payment.
Officials at the Ministry of Finance weren’t available for
comment.  Credit Suisse’s Hong Kong-based spokesman  Adam Harper 
declined to comment, as did Standard Chartered’s Hong Kong-based
spokeswoman Joyce Li, citing client confidentiality.  Pledged foreign investment in Vietnam totaled $18.6 billion
in 2010, “slightly lower” than expected, according to a
statement today on the Vietnam government’s website, which cited
figures from the Foreign Investment Agency.  “To allow this deadline to come and go would be a blow to
Dung, definitely,”  Carlyle A. Thayer , professor of politics at
the Australian Defence Force Academy in Canberra, said in a
telephone interview.  -- Katrina Nicholas  in Singapore and  Nicholas Heath  in Hanoi.
Editors:  Hugh Chow ,  Tom Kohn   To contact the reporters on this story:
Katrina Nicholas in Singapore at 
 knicholas2@bloomberg.net ;
Nicholas Heath in Hanoi at 
 nheath2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Kohn at 
 tkohn@bloomberg.net  