-- Watch Out Blumenthal, Chef Simon Rogan Setting Sights on London
-- B y   R i c h a r d   V i n e s
-- 2010-12-25T01:44:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-24/watch-out-heston-blumenthal-chef-simon-rogan-eying-london-richard-vines.html
Simon Rogan  is known in the U.K.
food world as an innovative and slightly quirky chef, a unique
talent going his own way at L’Enclume, a restaurant in the Lake
District of northern England.  It required a visit from  Steve Coogan  and Rob Brydon in
their BBC series “ The Trip”  to put Rogan, 43, on the map for a
broad audience. The comedians took over L’Enclume for two days,
hired extras to play fellow diners and improvised around the
menu, including a green-hued aperitif they compared to mucus.  “We’ve always been classed as the  Heston Blumenthal  of the
north,” Rogan said, referring to the chef at the Fat Duck.
“But we’re very different. Yes, we use the techniques but we’re
not throwing liquid nitrogen in people’s faces. It would
probably freeze their faces off,” he said, and started
laughing. “We keep things a lot more subtle.”  L’Enclume, in the pretty village of Cartmel, was named Best
U.K. Restaurant 2010 in the  BMW Square Meal  awards and Rogan is
hoping to open in London, traveling hundreds of miles each week
to visit potential sites, only to find they have been snapped up
by other chefs. Why does he feel the need to open another
establishment in London?  “We don’t get much international exposure,” he said,
citing the World’s 50 Best restaurant awards. “Unless you’re in
London, forget it. Because it’s the center of media and where
things are at, then obviously if you want your name up in lights
and you want to feed your ego that’s where you need to be.”  Barcelona Inspiration  He’d like to create a venue inspired by Dos Palillos, a
tapas bar opened in  Barcelona  this year by Albert Raurich, the
former head chef at El Bulli. The layout is similar to that of
L’Atelier de Joel Robuchon in London, with diners seated at a
bar around the cooking area. The food would be midway between
that of L’Enclume and  Rogan & Co ., his casual eatery in Cartmel.  “I’d be interested in something really casual,” he said.
“The West End is the place we’ve looked at most, Mayfair, but
we’ve looked in the City as well. I thought the City might be a
good option because if we just opened from Monday to Friday, I
could be in London in the early part of the week and then at
 L’Enclume  at the weekend, when it is busiest.”  Rogan said that he has simplified his cooking in recent
years. He has acquired the nearby  Howbarrow Farm , where he grows
vegetables, fruit, herbs and flowers for the restaurant.  “The main thing is we’re really connected to our
surroundings,” he said. “In the past, we’ve tried to
deconstruct a carrot and do all sorts of flashy things with it.
Now, we’re just trying to cook the perfect carrot. I don’t know
whether it’s growing up or less showing off or whatever.  Splitting Atoms  “There’s so many people coming into the industry that want
to split the atom before they know how to do the basics. We’ve
had certain people from certain very avant-garde restaurants
that can’t even make a bloody stock and for me it’s very
important that you learn the basics. So we’ve tried to distance
ourselves a little bit from that.”  Don’t go thinking that Rogan’s cooking lacks ambition. I
had a superb 12-course dinner there recently featuring dishes
such as Cumberland sauce jelly and butternut squash, blood
sausage, rocket and rye toast; and iced celery and chestnuts,
white chocolate and English truffles. Or how about my favorite
dish: salt and vinegar crispy rice, cod “yolk,” bacon,
watercress, cream of egg and garlic?  “We prepare a salt-cod mousse mixture, but we make it
quite slack, so it’s got the consistency of a yolk when you cut
into it when it’s warm,” Rogan said. “We freeze it into
spheres, dip it in a fish jelly which is colored with turmeric
so when you take it out it looks like a yolk. Then we defrost
them. And the jelly, you can warm it through and when you pick
it up it’s got the feeling of a soft egg yolk.  Spoon Destruction  “Then -- for a bit of texture -- we puff up some wild rice
and put a vinegar powder through it, so it tastes like salt-and-
vinegar puffs. Then finish it off with a hot garlic-and-egg
cream. It’s served in a little bowl so you can delve around with
your spoon and destroy it basically. You pick up all those
lovely flavors and textures. And there’s a bit of bacon and a
bit of watercress.”  Well, that’s one of the 12 courses taken care of.  Late in the evening, when the last diners were leaving
L’Enclume, Rogan was to be found in the pub, drinking with his
kitchen team and still talking about food and restaurants. He’s
obsessed, in the way that many great chefs are. I have my
fingers crossed that he finds somewhere in London.  L’Enclume restaurant with rooms, Cavendish Street, Cartmel,
Nr Grange Over Sands, Cumbria, LA11 6PZ. Tel. +44-15395-36362 or
click on  http://www.lenclume.co.uk/ .  The Bloomberg Questions  Cost? The 12-course tasting menu costs 80 pounds ($123).  Sound level? Not noisy: 70-75 decibels.  Inside tip? Don’t miss the breakfast.  Special feature? Vegetables straight from the farm.  Will I be back? Yes.  Date place? You may find yourself proposing marriage.  Rating? ****  ( Richard Vines  is the chief food critic for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
 Richard Vines  in London at 
 rvines@bloomberg.net  or Richardvines on
 http://twitter.com/home .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 