-- West Africa May Use `Legitimate Force' If Ivory Coast's Gbagbo Won't Quit
-- B y   E l i s h a   B a l a - G b o g b o
-- 2010-12-24T20:29:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-24/west-africa-may-use-legitimate-force-if-ivory-coast-s-gbagbo-won-t-quit.html
West African leaders urged Ivory
Coast President  Laurent Gbagbo  to step down peacefully for
President-elect  Alassane Ouattara , saying “legitimate force”
may be used if he fails to do so.  Presidents from 11 of the 15-member Economic Community of
West African States, or Ecowas, were joined by foreign ministers
of Mali, Gambia and Guinea in resolving that the call on Gbagbo
to quit was “immutable,” according to a statement issued at
the end of a summit today in Nigeria’s capital, Abuja.  The group “would be left with no alternative but to take
other measures, including the use of legitimate force to achieve
the goals of the Ivorian people,” they said in the statement.  Ivory Coast, the world’s top cocoa grower, has been roiled
by violent political unrest since Gbagbo rejected the result of
a Nov. 28 election won by Ouattara. Gbagbo has spurned
international calls to step down as the leader.  The Central Bank of West African States has recognized
Ouattara as Ivory Coast’s president, giving him control over
state reserves previously governed by Gbagbo, the central bank,
or BCEAO, said on its website today. The seven finance ministers
of the member states except Ivory Coast backed Ouattara at a
meeting in Guinea-Bissau yesterday, underlining Gbagbo’s
isolation in the face of support for his rival by the United
Nations, the African Union and Ecowas.  Ecowas will send a “high-level delegation” to Ivory Coast
to brief Gbagbo on the latest decision of regional leaders,
according to the statement in Abuja.  Political violence has left 173 people dead since Dec. 16,
when security forces opened fire on Ouattara supporters
protesting in the commercial capital, Abidjan, according to the
UN. The political standoff began when the Constitutional Council
rejected the election results and declared Gbagbo, 65, the
winner. The electoral commission gave victory to Ouattara, 68.  Gbagbo’s defeat is “irrefutable” and he must step down,
 Philip Crowley , a U.S. State Department spokesman, said in
Washington on Dec. 22.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Elisha Bala-Gbogbo  in Abuja at 
 ebalagbogbo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 