-- West Africa Central Bank Says Alassane Ouattara Controls Ivory Coast Funds
-- B y   F r a n z   W i l d ,   P a u l i n e   B a x   a n d   O l i v i e r   M o n n i e r
-- 2010-12-24T14:16:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-24/west-africa-central-bank-says-alassane-ouattara-controls-ivory-coast-funds.html
The Central Bank of West African
States recognized  Alassane Ouattara  as Ivory Coast’s president,
giving him control over state reserves previously governed by
 Laurent Gbagbo .  The seven finance ministers of the member states except
Ivory Coast backed Ouattara at a meeting in Guinea-Bissau
yesterday after the United Nations, the African Union and the
Economic Community of West African States supported him as the
winner of the Nov. 28 election, the central bank, or BCEAO, said
on its website today. Gbagbo has rejected international calls to
step down as the leader of the world’s top cocoa grower.  The finance ministers decided to “only allow the
rightfully appointed representatives of the legitimate
government of Ivory Coast to carry out any transactions on the
accounts that are open in its name,” the BCEAO said.  Ouattara is holed up in a hotel, surrounded by the military
that backs Gbagbo. Winning control over the nation’s financial
reserves may undermine Gbagbo’s grip over the army, which has
allowed him to defy international calls to step down, analysts
including  Kissy Agyeman-Togobo , a partner with London-based
Songhai Advisory, said before the meeting.  “If Gbagbo is not able to access funds from BCEAO, that
would be cutting off his lifeline and the army could very well
turn,” Agyeman-Togobo said in an interview.  The West African franc, which Ivory Coast uses, is pegged
to the euro in an arrangement with the Bank of France.  ‘Big Step’  “It’s a big step, because it officially shows that Laurent
Gbagbo doesn’t have the power anymore,” Anne Ouloto, a
spokeswoman for Ouattara, said by phone from Abidjan. “When we
lose the financial power, we lose the power.”  Yao Gnamien, an adviser to Gbagbo, didn’t answer calls to
his mobile phone seeking comment today.  Political violence has left 173 people dead since Dec. 16,
when security forces opened fire on Ouattara supporters as they
protested in the commercial capital, Abidjan, according to the
UN. The political standoff began when the Constitutional Council
rejected the election results and declared Gbagbo the winner.
The electoral commission had given victory to Ouattara, 68.  Abidjan was calm today, with many people doing their
Christmas shopping.  Charles Ble Goude , a pro-Gbagbo minister who
is under UN sanctions for inciting youth gangs to violence,
called for a rally in support of Gbagbo on Dec. 29.  Eurobonds  It remains unclear whether Ivory Coast will meet a $29
million interest payment on its Eurobonds on Dec. 31, said  Max Wolman , a London-based portfolio manager with Aberdeen Asset
Management Plc, which holds about $6 billion in emerging-market
debt. Non-payment would leave the country in technical default,
even though it has a 30-day grace period, he said.  “The uncertainty of non-payment is still there,” Wolman
said in an interview from London today. “Ouattara’s still not
the sworn-in president and it’s not clear who actually signs off
on the payment.”  The Eurobonds, Africa’s biggest, have fallen for seven
days, dropping to a bid price of 42.5 cents on the dollar today
from 51 cents on Dec. 15, pushing the yield to 15.041 percent as
of 12:06 p.m. in Abidjan. Bond yields move inversely to prices.  The political standoff has driven cocoa prices up 8 percent
since the Nov. 28 runoff. The cost of the chocolate ingredient
for March delivery fell for the first time in five days on
London’s Liffe exchange, declining 1.2 percent to 2,016 pounds
($3,113) as of 11:56 a.m. local time.  The UN yesterday formally recognized Ouattara as Ivory
Coast’s president, accepting his representative to the body in
New York, Agence France-Presse reported.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Franz Wild  in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net . 