-- My Wife's Cancer Holds Lesson for Health Care: David Klein
-- B y   D a v i d   H .   K l e i n
-- 2010-12-24T02:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-24/my-wife-s-cancer-holds-lesson-for-health-care-commentary-by-david-klein.html
In July 2008, my wife Linde was
diagnosed with advanced  squamous cell carcinoma  of the oral
cavity. Her subsequent treatment has led me to view U.S. medical
care from a different perspective. What Linde and I have learned
over the past two years has broadened my fundamental beliefs
about medicine. In sum, while amazing advances have been made
and miracles are occurring, medicine remains very much an art.  I’ve spent almost 40 years on the business side of the
health-care industry, including the last seven as chief
executive officer of a health plan. I believed my network of
contacts would serve us well. I presumed there were unambiguous
answers to questions about the best treatment plan and the best
providers.  What I learned was that for uncommon diseases like Linde’s,
if not all diseases generally, clear answers often don’t exist.
I will never forget one doctor telling me that the information I
sought wasn’t available and that I would have to trust my gut.
This is pretty incredible when you think about how much as a
society we spend on health care.  The new federal health-care reform law promotes the
adoption of health-information technology and supports
comparative effectiveness research to understand the marginal
contributions of new drugs, devices and procedures. But what we
learned with Linde’s treatment is that data on innovations,
especially for less common diseases, isn’t sufficient to broadly
create evidence-based medicine.  Risk Adjustments  Often medical research, even when coordinated and summed
across the industry, doesn’t have enough patients suffering with
a particular disease to test alternative treatments using
scientific -- trial and error -- methods. I can’t tell you how
many times I heard from physicians that every patient is
different.  The same deficiency exists for assessing a practitioner’s
expertise with a particular treatment for a disease. To evaluate
a doctor or treatment, it’s necessary to risk adjust for
differences in patients. Generally, it’s more challenging to
care for an older patient than a younger one. Similarly,
treating patients with  diabetes  is more difficult than those
without. There are myriad risk factors and standardizing for
them is difficult if not impossible.  This has implications for what we consider the best places
to receive care and how doctor performance should be reported.
We really don’t want clinicians to avoid riskier cases to
achieve better grades.  Work in Progress  In the face of these limitations, clinicians often rely on
their understanding of underlying disease processes to decide
the best course of action. Leading medical organizations convene
panels of experts to provide opinions about the most effective
approach for diagnosis and treatment. The work of these panels
is important, but sometimes their opinions are later found to be
wrong.  The recently developed human genome provides promise for
gaining disease process insight, but it’s a work in progress.  Bottom line, there isn’t as much hard science as one would
like.  So, what do we do? I wish there was an answer that offered
real value. After all, I’m a business executive who runs a
 health plan  providing benefits to thousands of employers. I’m
also a taxpayer who supports government programs. Unfortunately,
there are no such assurances, but there are steps we can take.  Best Course  As a society, we need to be honest about treatment
limitations. Patients should be well informed about what the
industry knows and doesn’t know. There should be candor about
the likelihood that care will make them worse instead of better.
Patients should be empowered to be the treatment decision
makers.  In recognition of the uncertainty patients face, we need to
compassionately acknowledge their pain and fear. We need to
counsel that aggressive intervention isn’t always the best
course of action.  I share these conclusions not to suggest dissatisfaction;
Linde and I are grateful for her care. Her clinicians included
the country’s most respected doctors who did what they were
trained to do -- aggressively seek a cure.  Rather, these observations are offered to challenge the
U.S. health-care industry to be more explicit about medical
treatment being as much an art as a science and to provide
emotional and spiritual support to improve patient and caregiver
experience.  Course of Disease  There may be an economic benefit to this. As patients learn
more about the limits of medicine, some may choose less
intensive and costly care. As a nation, our health-care spending
increases as patients near the end of life.  Since its onset, Linde’s cancer has come back twice. The
first time, she continued a courageous and valiant fight. The
second time, she learned that further treatment would be
painful, risky and probably leave her partially disabled and
deformed. She was further told that the likelihood of having an
extended, high quality life was remote.  With this knowledge, she opted for palliative care favoring
quality of life over extending life. My acceptance of her
decision, while difficult, was the best way I could show my love
and support.  Linde commends her clinicians for being great teachers.
They were candid, patient, used non-clinical terms, and shared
their uncertainty about the effectiveness of suggested
treatment. Their support of her as the decision maker was
wonderful.  Linde and I have opted to share our journey because we hope
the understanding of medicine we have developed will be helpful
to others.  (David H. Klein is president and chief executive officer of
 Excellus BlueCross BlueShield  in Rochester, New York. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
David H. Klein at  david.klein@excellus.com   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  