-- Yinfu Gold Planning Share Sale in Hong Kong Next Year to Fund Acquisitions
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-12-24T03:25:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-24/yinfu-gold-plans-hong-kong-share-sale-in-2011-to-fund-purchases-expansion.html
Yinfu Gold Corp. , a Chinese gold
exploration and mining company, plans to sell shares in
Hong Kong to fund acquisitions and investments in the mainland
and Southeast Asia.  Yinfu will sell the shares in the second half of 2011 after
it completing its transfer to the Nasdaq Stock Market from the
OTC Bulletin Board, Chairman  Wilson Huang  said in a phone
interview from Hong Kong, where the company is based. He hasn’t
decided on the size of the offering in Hong Kong. Macquarie
Group Ltd. is the underwriter.  Gold has risen 26 percent this year, set for a 10th annual
gain, as the sovereign debt crisis in Europe and so-called
quantitative easing in the U.S. hurt currencies. IPOs in Hong
Kong may raise HK$400 billion ($51 billion) next year, according
to a Dec. 21 estimate by Ernst & Young LLP.  “We’ve been to South East Asia, including Cambodia,
Indonesia and Thailand to study gold projects, and next year,
we’ll go to Western Australia and talk with government
departments on potential investment opportunities,” Huang said.  Yinfu Gold  fell 30 cents, or 30 percent, to 70 cents a
share when last traded on Dec. 22 on the OTC Bulletin Board
stock market. Its gained 56 percent since trading began Jan. 20.
The company applied to sell shares on the Nasdaq in September.  Yinfu Gold ’s mine in Penglai, in Shandong province, will
start producing in February with a capacity of as much as 5,000
tons of gold ore a month, Huang said. It will be the company’s
first producing mine.  Gold Demand  The company signed initial agreements in September to
purchase the Gansu Zhaishang and Liaoning Maoling gold mines in
China. The projects need further discussions to be completed.  Gold may peak between $1,600 and $1,615 an ounce in 2011
and may average above $1,400 for the entire year, Philip
Klapwijk, chairman of GFMS Ltd, a London-based research company
said on Dec. 3 in Shanghai.  “The appeal of gold will continue,” Huang said. “Chinese
banks are promoting gold products and Chinese have a traditional
love for gold. Government measures to cool the property market
have also boosted gold demand as an alternative investment.”  China’s gold imports jumped almost fivefold in the 10
months to October,  Shen Xiangrong , Chairman of Shanghai Gold
Exchange said on Dec. 2.  Yinfu Gold in April acquired a majority stake in Legarleon
Precious Metals Ltd., a Hong Kong-based precious metals futures
trader. Yinfu Gold will use trading by Legarleon to hedge its
production, Huang said.  -- Xiao Yu . Editors:  Alan Soughley ,  Andrew Hobbs   To contact the Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Xiao Yu in Beijing at   yxiao@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs in Sydney at 
 Ahobbs4@bloomberg.net . 