-- Hyundai Merchant Falls as Shareholders Shun Offering, Damping Bid Optimism
-- B y   K y u n g h e e   P a r k
-- 2010-12-24T06:49:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-24/hyundai-heavy-rejects-chance-to-buy-hyundai-merchant-share-in-rights-offer.html
Hyundai Merchant Marine Co.  fell the
most in almost a month in Seoul trading after four of its
biggest shareholders rejected the chance to buy shares in a
rights offering, damping speculation about a takeover battle.  Hyundai Heavy Industries Co.  and unit  Hyundai Samho Heavy
Industries Co. , which have a combined 25.5 percent stake in the
shipping line, will sit out the sale,  Kim Ki Young , a spokesman
for Ulsan, South Korea-based Hyundai Heavy, said today by phone,
without elaboration. Hyundai Engineering & Construction Co. and
 KCC Corp.  also said today that they would waive their rights.  The companies’ rejection may make it harder for billionaire
 Chung Mong Koo , the head of Hyundai Motor Group, to challenge
sister-in-law  Hyun Jeong Eun  for control of Hyundai Merchant,
the cornerstone of her Hyundai Group. Hyun’s grip has been
endangered by Chung’s efforts to buy a stake in construction
company Hyundai Engineering, the owner of 8.3 percent of the
shipping line.  “The Hyundai brothers may have wanted to avoid giving the
impression that they were single-mindedly trying to take over
not only the builder, but also Hyundai Merchant,” said  Lee Sokje , an analyst at Mirae Asset Securities Co. in Seoul. “But
it’s still too early to say if this is the end of the fight.”  Hyundai Merchant  dropped 5.7 percent to 37,150 won at the
close of trading in Seoul.  Hyundai Heavy , the world’s biggest
shipbuilder, advanced 3.8 percent to 456,500 won.  Hyundai
Engineering  rose 1.7 percent to 71,600 won.  No one was immediately available for comment at Hyundai
Merchant’s press office. The shipping line said in an Oct. 28
statement that it will decide what to do with shares rejected in
the rights offering after discussions with the arrangers.  Hyundai Heavy  Hyundai Merchant offered new common shares at 32,000 won
apiece. Hyundai Heavy and Hyundai Samho, the second and fourth-
biggest shareholders in the Seoul-based shipping line, had the
chance to buy a combined 10.2 million. Chung’s younger brother
 Chung Mong Joon  is the biggest shareholder in Hyundai Heavy. The
shipbuilders also own preferred stock in the shipping line.  Hyundai Engineering, the third-biggest shareholder in
Hyundai Merchant, didn’t say why it wasn’t buying the new shares
in its statement today. The builder has an 8.3 percent stake in
Hyundai Merchant, including preferred shares.  KCC , set up by Chung’s uncle and the owner of 4.3 percent
of Hyundai Merchant, said today it wouldn’t take part in the
rights offering as it’s focusing investments on making materials
for solar cells.  Hyundai Elevator Co. , controlled by Hyun and the biggest
shareholder in Hyundai Merchant, said yesterday that it will buy
1.82 million new shares in the shipping line.  Shareholders selling 35 percent of the Hyundai Engineering
said this week that they may begin talks with Chung’s Hyundai
Motor Group after ending negotiations with Hyun’s Hyundai Group.
The two groups made rival offer for the stake extending a
decade-long family feud.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kyunghee Park  in Singapore at 
 kpark3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  