-- Bank Bashing Makes Passing Wall Street Tax Riskier: Ann Woolner
-- Ann Woolner
-- 2010-01-27T02:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-01-26/bank-bashing-makes-passing-wall-street-tax-riskier-ann-woolner.html

          
          
             When it comes to forcing a little
humility, a spark of gratitude, a tiny payback from financial
firms that taxpayers rescued, President Barack Obama and
Congress walk a thin line.  
 They can keep on stoking the fury of Americans who lost
their jobs, their homes, their retirement cushions while they
bailed out banks that pay seven-figure bonuses. That’s easy.  
 And that anger is what Obama is appeasing in proposing the
Financial Crisis Responsibility Fee, a tax on firms with more
than $50 billion in consolidated assets.  
 “Much of the turmoil of this recession was caused by the
irresponsibility of banks and financial institutions on Wall
Street,” Obama said in his weekly radio address Jan. 16.
“These financial firms took huge, reckless risks in pursuit of
short-term profits and soaring bonuses.”  
 Obama is fond of calling those who run the firms “fat
cats” and their bonuses “obscene.”  
 That’s the sort of name-calling that makes the tax sound
like punishment. And, while exacting a penalty appeals to me,
that is precisely the problem. When Congress singles out someone
or a group to penalize, it is a bill of attainder, which is as
unconstitutional as you can get.  
 “No bill of attainder or ex post facto law shall be
passed,” declares the Constitution. Period.  
 The idea is that courts -- not the president or Congress --
punish individual wrongdoers.  
 Obama’s Defenders  
 Punishment isn’t what is happening here, the fee’s
defenders insist. There is nothing punitive about levying a tax
on the debts of unnamed firms that benefited from the
government’s largess to discourage over-leveraging, Harvard Law
professor Laurence Tribe, an adviser to the Obama campaign, told
Bloomberg News.  
 He calls the tax “constitutionally invulnerable.” But it
looks like a closer question than that.  
 A bill of attainder includes any law that “takes away the
life, liberty or property of a particular named or easily
ascertainable person or group of persons because the legislature
thinks them guilty of conduct which deserves punishment,” the
Supreme Court wrote in 1867.  
 In jolly old England, Parliament needed nothing as banal as
actual evidence to accuse whomever it wished of a serious
misdeed. It would pass a bill of attainder, so named for the
taint on the wrongdoer’s name, and could take away everything
owned by the accused, and even his life.  
 Singling Out Enemies  
 The authors of the U.S. Constitution hated the practice for
the power it gave lawmakers to single out their enemies at will.
With the constitutional ban in place, Congress has never passed
anything it called a bill of attainder. But some people who felt
victimized by lawmakers have invoked the claim anyway.  
 Among them was Richard Nixon, having been run out of the
White House for outrageous abuses of power. Wearing his
perpetual mantle of victimhood, Nixon sued when Congress passed
a law that forced the preservation of his papers and tapes and
took them out of his control.  
 The former president claimed the law singled him out for
punishment and was therefore a bill of attainder and hence
unconstitutional. The U.S. Supreme Court disagreed on that
point, as well as every other argument he raised.  
 However singled out Nixon may have felt, Congress’s purpose
was to preserve and make available “judicial evidence and
historically relevant materials,” the Supreme Court found. He
was named individually only because he was the sole former
president who hadn’t already made his papers available to
government archivists.  
 Out to Get Him  
 In a part of the ruling that Obama should read, the court
said there was nothing in the record to support Nixon’s claim
that Congress was out to get him.  
 When debating the bill, lawmakers refrained from the sort
of finger-wagging and cries for revenge that now precede the
introduction of the Financial Crisis Responsibility Fee.  
 True, it isn’t easy to convince the Supreme Court that
lawmakers have passed a bill of attainder. But it has been done.  
 In 1965, the court struck down a law forbidding Communist
Party members from holding office in labor unions. Nearly a
century earlier, after the Civil War, the justices in 1867
struck down a Missouri law requiring clergymen wishing to keep
their jobs to swear they hadn’t supported the Confederacy. The
court tossed out a similar law in Arkansas.  
 The big financial firms and insurer American International
Group could argue they are being singled out in a similar way.
Most have already paid back the government, and some never
borrowed money in the first place.  
 Cooler Rhetoric  
 To be on the safe side, a ratcheting down of rhetoric is in
order for Obama to justify hitting all the big financial firms
with a tax because they benefited when Washington bailed out
Wall Street.  
 Be careful about condemning their bonuses, their
recklessness and the near-ruination of the economy, as that
could be used to challenge the tax in a court of law.  
 But if the proposed tax is simply a vehicle to appeal to
angry voters, have at it. Just this week a CNN poll found that
60 percent of those surveyed believe Obama is more interested in
appeasing Wall Street than he is in helping the middle class.  
 Or maybe the chest-beating is meant to distract us from
wondering why Washington didn’t write tougher claw-back
provisions into the 2008 bailout package in the first place.
True, the statute promised a return to the issue of executive
compensation.  
 But it’s so much harder after the fact. For all the tough
talk about limiting compensation, the banks and AIG, which
soaked up billions of government dollars, are still stuffing
obscenely high bonuses into their pockets.  
 I’m angry, too. And I wouldn’t mind exacting a little
punishment myself. I like the idea of socking them with another
tax.  
 But that is precisely why Congress would risk a
constitutional challenge if it did.  
 (Ann Woolner is a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions
expressed are her own.)  
 Click on “Send Comment” in sidebar display to send a
letter to the editor.  
 To contact the writer of this column:
Ann Woolner in Atlanta at 
 awoolner@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        