-- Sniping at U.S. Haiti Role Shows EU Weakness: Celestine Bohlen
-- Celestine Bohlen
-- 2010-01-26T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-01-26/sniping-at-u-s-haiti-role-shows-eu-weakness-celestine-bohlen.html

          
          
             Most Americans are probably unaware
that the rapid dispatch of U.S. troops and military equipment to
Haiti after the Jan. 12 earthquake was an occupation.  
 At least, that’s what the leaders of Bolivia, Nicaragua and  Venezuela  are calling it: Venezuelan President  Hugo Chavez  went
so far as to  claim  that the earthquake was set off by U.S.
weapons testing.  
 You can count on Chavez going over the top, but this
actually began with a French official angered by the U.S.
military’s delay in landing a French government aid plane at the
Port-au-Prince airport.  
 “This is about helping Haiti, not about occupying Haiti,”
Alain Joyandet, the government official in charge of
humanitarian assistance, said in a radio interview that was
picked up around the world, from  China  to the  Persian Gulf .  
 This kind of cheap shot was way out of line given the
conspicuous failure of the European Union’s newly installed
leaders to take active charge of a collective response to the
disaster in Haiti. It’s a given that the EU lacks the military
muscle required but even its public diplomacy has been
disappointing.  
 The French government quickly tried to undo the damage done
by Joyandet by piling on praise for the U.S. effort, issuing odd
reassurances like this one from French Foreign Minister Bernard Kouchner, speaking to a French parliamentary committee: “Obama
is not at all an imperialist.”  
 Outdated Jargon  
 OK, so the U.S. president isn’t an imperialist. Who said he
was? Joyandet and  France ’s Doctors Without Borders, a
humanitarian agency, were justified in complaining that the 23rd
Special Tactics Squadron of the U.S. Air Force  gave priority  to
a private flight that brought Pennsylvania Governor Edward G. Rendell to  Haiti  ahead of doctors and surgeons, but that doesn’t
make the U.S. an occupier.  
 Criticizing is one thing. Slipping into outdated jargon is
just ridiculous.  
 The U.S. first response was to send in 5,500 U.S. infantry
soldiers and Marines within 24 hours of the disaster,
complemented by more than half a dozen U.S. military ships,
including the aircraft carrier USS Carl Vinson, and the Navy
hospital ship USNS Comfort. Two weeks later, the number of U.S.
troops was 11,000.  
 Since then, the world community has done its share. The  United Nations Security Council , meeting on Jan. 19, agreed to
send an additional 3,500 soldiers and civilian police,
augmenting the 9,000 peacekeeping troops already in place. Six
countries in the European Union are now ready to commit some 300
police: individual countries have provided reinforcements -- 400
from France, 1,300 from  Brazil .  
 Being Generous  
 Given its size and proximity, it was inevitable that the
U.S. commitment would be disproportionately large, and that its
offer of assistance would be generous. The size of U.S. help
isn’t the issue.  Europe  too has been  generous , with pledges of
aid totalling $575 million.  
 This is about U.S. military might. That’s what has sparked
all the phony rhetoric about occupation and imperialism.  
 There’s a bigger point. If not the U.S., then who? That is
a question that the Europeans might want to ask themselves
before officials like Joyandet takes pot shots at the U.S.
military’s faulty handling of the chaotic situation at the
airport.  
 Given their level of defense spending, the Europeans simply
couldn’t do what the Americans did in Haiti two weeks ago. They
don’t have the military muscle because they are loath to spend
money on defense. For the past half-century, they could get away
with it, because they could rely on the U.S. military umbrella.  
 Spending Priorities  
 According to a  study  by the European Defense Agency, an EU
organization designed to help defense capabilities, 26 of the 27
EU member states (excluding  Denmark ) spent 200 billion euros
($281 billion) on defense in 2008, less than half the 466
billion euros spent by the US. The per capita expenditure among
the combined 26 European countries was 406 euros, compared with
1,532 euros for the U.S.  
 How much money to spend on fancy weaponry or troop strength
is a decision for every nation. The Europeans have other
priorities, including universal health care, which Americans can
only envy. That means when it comes to conducting an operation
like the one in Haiti, it has to fall to the U.S.  
 It has been almost two months since the EU’s Lisbon Treaty
took effect, giving the group of 27 nations an institutionalized
presidency, and an enhanced Foreign Ministry. So far, this new
power structure has delivered little in the way of leadership,
on Haiti or anything else.  
   Catherine Ashton , the new EU foreign minister, has defended
her decision not to go to the stricken island, noting that she
is neither a doctor nor a fire fighter. That was a smart move:
Haiti has had its fill of the likes of Rendell and Joyandet.  
 There was much that the EU could have done to coordinate
efforts, present a  united front  and finally speak with one
voice.  
 Sadly, that is still lacking.  
 (Celestine Bohlen is a Bloomberg News columnist. The
opinions expressed are her own.)  
 Click on “Send Comment” in the sidebar display to send a
letter to the editor.  
 To contact the writer of this column:
Celestine Bohlen in Paris at 
 cbohlen1@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        