-- Women in Emerging Markets: Tap Into Their Talent
-- Sylvia Ann Hewlett
-- 2010-01-26T20:00:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-01-26/women-in-emerging-markets-tap-into-their-talent.html

          
          
             As I looked around the conference room at  Pfizer 's regional headquarters in Dubai, I was stunned by the view. No, not the view of the  Palm Jumeirah artificial island  or the sail-shaped  Burj al Arab skyscraper , but something much closer.  

 Sitting around me were eight Pfizer senior executives, including the finance director and the head of HR for Africa and the Middle East. As the vanguard of Pfizer's strategy to establish a new regional hub, all are at the top of their game.  

 As recently as five years ago, this kind of group would have been pale and male. Today, they were  all  women — five Arab women (from Lebanon, Egypt and Saudi Arabia), one from Turkey, one from Brazil and one from Canada.  

 I'm not pretending that the Pfizer leadership in Dubai is exclusively female. But it says a lot that it is now possible to pull together a critical mass of female executives in what used to be — and is often still thought of as — an exclusively male bastion.  

 These eight hotshot women aren't so much outliers as representatives of what's happening in this region. I was there as a panelist at the  second annual Arab Women's Leadership Forum , a vibrant two-day gathering of over 400 Arab women from academic, economic, social and cultural circles to discuss "Women's Leadership in Organizations: Towards new conceptions of work-life balance." 

 The topic couldn't be more timely. As multinational corporations turn to emerging markets as the primary engines of future growth, women will be one of their chief dynamos.  The Center for Work-Life Policy  is in the midst of a major new study (full disclosure: the research is sponsored by Pfizer,  Siemens ,  Intel ,  Bloomberg  and  Booz & Co. ) on Women in Emerging Markets, including BRIC economies and the United Arab Emirates. Our research finds that women constitute a pool of highly qualified talent just waiting to be tapped: 
 More than half of all global tertiary degrees in education are granted to women. 
 92 percent of UAE women aspire to hold a top job. Their level of ambition is nearly two-and-a-half times that of their American counterparts and on par with their male peers. 
 UAE women love their jobs and display enviable levels of dedication to their work, with 90 percent willing to go the extra mile for their companies.  
 Yet at the same time, female executives in the Middle East are hampered from performing at their peak because of a three-way squeeze: 
 An extreme job work environment exacerbated by different time zones and cultural mores. For example, few in the U.S. realize that the weekend in Dubai falls on Friday and Saturday. Factor in the nine-hour time difference — 2 p.m. in New York is 11 p.m. in Dubai — and end-of-week conference calls slice a huge chunk of out a much-needed break. 
 Heavy-duty cultural pressures against working mothers, wives and daughters. 
 Local regulations and work rules that are stacked against women. 
 What can Pfizer — or any multinational corporation — do to better support and leverage its talented women? 

 I don't pretend to have all the answers, but our study suggests some useful initiatives, ranging from simple "this isn't rocket science" amendments to more complex cultural attitude adjustments. They include: 
 Check the world clock.  Rotate conference calls so that they are equally "inconvenient" for executives in all time zones and be sensitive to local customs regarding weekends and holidays. 
 Mitigate isolation.  Breaking the mold takes its toll. Senior women across the region could greatly benefit from a network where they could share advice and receive support from their peers.  
 Run interference with local authorities.  Many women professionals in the Middle East are unfairly disadvantaged when dealing with day-to-day demands. Create a concierge service to handle everything from electricians to emergency childcare. 
 Strengthen family support.  In addition to childcare, eldercare is an enormous concern in a region where dutiful daughters traditionally look after aging parents.  
 Multinational companies are on a journey of discovery as they mine a vast new talent source and move into emerging markets. Learning to leverage the first will be the secret to success in the second. 

