-- Hedge-Fund Guy Seduces Buffett to Safeguard Bonus: Mark Gilbert
-- Mark Gilbert
-- 2010-01-14T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-01-13/hedge-fund-guy-seduces-buffett-to-safeguard-bonus-mark-gilbert.html

          
          
             Dear investor, it’s that time of the
year when we share our thoughts on how we plan to invest your
money here at My, What Lovely Deep Pockets That Nice Mr. Warren
Buffett Has Asset Management.  
 Some of you may be wondering about the decision to rebrand
our hedge fund. Hey, if a favor-currying name-change is good
enough for the tallest building in the world, it’s good enough
for us. We, too, would have doffed our caps to the sheikhs of
Abu Dhabi, if we didn’t think they’ve got enough on their plates
keeping the tower cranes of Dubai upright.  
 If Mr. Buffett would like to show his gratitude, we take
gold, Californian IOUs, or anything that isn’t a U.S. Treasury.
I plan to pay my bonus this year in Venezuelan bolivars, just as
soon as I can work out which of the multiple exchange rates is
most advantageo . . . I mean, most appropriate.  
 We are dismayed to say that the stellar profit we were
hoping to deliver to you along with this report has been
obliterated after a massive, coordinated, highly sophisticated
attack on our computerized trading systems by a shadowy cabal
known only as “the global trading community.” We suspect the
hackers responsible are based in Beijing. Or Greenwich,
Connecticut. Or possibly Mayfair, London.  
 Anyway, they say life is binary, and by the close of
trading last week all that was left in our profit-and-loss
account was a lot of zeroes without that all-important “1” at
the beginning to keep us afloat. So much for betting that our
lenders would never be able to foreclose on our sinking Dubai
real-estate investments.  
 Flights of Fancy  
 We considered telling you that we tied a bunch of balloons
to your profits and claiming that they floated away on a strong
breeze; our chief economist said the story would be about as
believable as a Greek economic statistic.  
 We thought about seeking a bailout from the International
Monetary Fund, figuring Turkey will get its cash soon, and
wanting to get in line before Greece finally realizes it’s about
as popular with its fellow euro members as an orphaned suitcase
at an airport. Frankly, we’d get better terms from Big Louis the
Loan Shark; how is the global economic recovery supposed to take
hold if I have to sell my Bentley?  
 So, instead of a large dividend payment, enclosed with this
report you will find a pair of flimsy plastic spectacles,
through which we suggest you view the accounts printed at the
end of the missive. Hey, if three-dimensional viewing works for
a movie about blue-skinned aliens, it should easily enhance the
optical aesthetics of our balance sheet.  
 Secrets and Lies  
 Some of you may be puzzled by the plethora of sentences
that have been blacked out in this report. Our new lawyer, who
used to work at the Federal Reserve Bank of New York when
Treasury Secretary  Timothy Geithner  ran the shop, brought his
special Goldman Sachs Group Inc. “anti-highlighter” pen with
him. If anyone wants to know about the secret payments made to
my Cayman Islands account, you know where to send the subpoena.  
 The burning question we face for the coming year is how to
grow your investments and the size of our fund so that we can
join the “Too Big to Fail” gang, along with the global
investment banks, thus ensuring an adequate level of taxpayer
support will always be available should our sophisticated
trading algorithms mistakenly choose red instead of black at the
roulette table.  
 One of the plans currently under consideration is whether
we should split the portfolio in two to create a “good fund”
and a “bad fund.”  
 Unfortunately, rigorous statistical modeling designed to
filter the current holdings of the fund through the gauze of a
Gaussian screening filter suggests one fund will be left empty,
while the second will contain a steaming pile of what, at the
risk of descending into scatology, can only be described as two-
year Greek government notes. The confidential nature of our
proprietary analytical software precludes me from revealing
which is which.  
 Yours, Hedge-Fund Guy.  
 ( Mark Gilbert  is the London bureau chief and a columnist
for Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  
 Click on “Send Comment” in the sidebar display to send a
letter to the editor.  
 To contact the writer of this column:
 Mark Gilbert  in London at 
 magilbert@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        