-- Pin the Tail on Blankfein Is a Game Nobody Wins: David Reilly
-- David Reilly
-- 2010-01-14T02:00:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-01-13/pin-the-tail-on-blankfein-is-a-game-nobody-wins-david-reilly.html

          
          
             Goldman Sachs Group Inc. , in the
billiard room, with a rope and a blood-stained collateralized
debt obligation. That seemed to be the answer the Financial
Crisis Inquiry Commission was aiming for yesterday as it kicked
off a giant game of “Clue” meant to solve the mystery of who
killed the financial system.  
 Now don’t get me wrong. A bit of  Goldman  bashing is good
sport, since the firm is one of the biggest and most  profitable 
on Wall Street. And there are plenty of serious questions that
need probing regarding products it created and its dealings with
 American International Group Inc.   
 It’s just that the commission’s first day of public
hearings needed to focus less on Goldman and more on the wider
rot within the financial system. This misfire made for an
inauspicious start for the panel, whose hot seat was filled by
Goldman Chief Executive Officer  Lloyd Blankfein ,  JPMorgan Chase
& Co.  CEO  Jamie Dimon ,  Morgan Stanley  chief  John Mack  and  Bank
of America Corp. ’s newly minted honcho,  Brian Moynihan .  
 The poor showing will only reinforce the perception among
many people that this commission, coming after financial-reform
 legislation  has reached an advanced stage, is doomed to
irrelevance.  
 To avoid that fate, the commission in subsequent hearings,
as well as in its final report due by year’s end, must do more
than focus on the events of 2007 and 2008, or engage in academic
discussions of risk-management practices.  
 ‘Perfect Storm’  
 It’s imperative to employ a wider, and more historical,
context than was displayed on the first day of hearings. That
means questioning the very foundations of modern Wall Street and
looking to which events over the past 20 years led the financial
system to its current predicament.  
 Commission Chairman  Philip Angelides  hinted at this
possibility at one point, saying, “I do believe that one of the
issues we must explore is: Was this purely a perfect storm, or
was it a man-made perfect storm in which the clouds were
seeded?”  
 Figuring that out means asking the likes of Blankfein or
Dimon basic yet pointed questions such as whether their business
model was, and possibly still is, broken.  
 That didn’t happen. Instead we got Commissioner  John Thompson  asking Morgan Stanley’s Mack for suggestions on “how
to think about innovation and managing the risks associated with
innovation.”  
 Goldman’s Survival  
 Similarly, the commission needed to spend less time
grappling with Blankfein over whether Goldman would have
survived without government assistance. That’s an unanswerable
question that does little more than let Dimon chuckle over how
easy a ride he gets compared with Blankfein.  
 Commissioners also have to do more homework. Commissioner
 Peter Wallison  wasted time quizzing the bankers about their
leverage -- borrowed money banks use to amplify returns. A staff
member should have gone to the Securities and Exchange
Commission’s  Web site , called up the firms’ financial statements
and plugged the balance-sheet figures into a spreadsheet. It’s
that easy, and, once done, would have allowed Wallison to ask
meaningful questions.  
 The panel members also should lob questions at the right
targets. It was surprising that Commissioner  Brooksley Born 
aimed questions about over-the-counter derivatives at Blankfein
and Mack, rather than Dimon, whose bank is the biggest player in
the area.  
 Let’s also be less solicitous of those testifying. The
group’s stance should be adversarial, forcing witnesses to
answer tough questions and cough up the names of individuals who
contributed to the crisis.  
 Pinning Accountability  
 Holding individuals in government and on Wall Street
accountable may well prove one of the commission’s toughest
tasks. Yet it can’t shy away from it. And doing so means more
than just playing pin the tail on Blankfein.  
 Of course, Wall Street doesn’t want too much
accountability. Speaking earlier this week on Bloomberg
Television, Sullivan & Cromwell LLP Chairman  Rodgin Cohen  warned
that “the worst thing that can come out of it is a search for
villains, because if we vilify individuals we’re going to miss
the real causes of the crisis.”  
 Uh, no. As Angelides said, the storm that swamped markets
wasn’t an act of God. “These were acts of men and women.” So
name ‘em.  
 There is also no need for the panel to duplicate work done
in Congress. So rather than discuss how much interest a bank
should retain in securitizations -- an already well-plowed area
-- commissioners could have poked their nose into areas where
Congress won’t go.  
 Fannie and Freddie  
 One potential gold mine: the intersection of politics and
finance. Given that the firms represented yesterday pay out
millions each year in congressional campaign  contributions , a
few questions about how they influence legislation would have
been in order.  
 In that vein, the commission is uniquely positioned to dig
into the influence of Congress on the housing market and its
stewards,  Fannie Mae  and  Freddie Mac .  
 The flip side is that the group can play a vital role in
putting the crisis into a much-needed, non-political focus. Too
many Americans view events of the past two years through a
political prism.  
 Those on the right believe all problems stem from Congress,
specifically House  Financial Services Committee  Chairman  Barney Frank , regulation and the doings of Fannie and Freddie; those on
the left think unfettered greed at big banks and on Wall Street
is solely to blame.  
 The truth lies somewhere in between. Getting to it will
require a wider, deeper and more coherent effort than we saw
yesterday.  
 ( David Reilly  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  
 Click on “Send Comment” in the sidebar display to send a
letter to the editor.  
 To contact the writer of this column:
 David Reilly  at   dreilly14@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          Jan. 14 (Bloomberg) -- Bloomberg columnist David Reilly talks with Deirdre Bolton about the Financial Crisis Inquiry Commission's investigation of the causes of the financial crisis.
     The FCIC yesterday held a hearing with the chief executives of four major U.S. banks, including JPMorgan Chase & Co. Jamie Dimon, Goldman Sachs Group Inc.'s Lloyd Blankfein, Morgan Stanley's John Mack and Bank of America Corp.'s Brian Moynihan. The hearing continues today in Washington. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
