-- FCC OKs commissioner to vote on AT&T-BellSouth
-- 
-- Fri Dec 8, 2006 5:59pm EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2006/12/08/businesspro-bellsouth-fcc-dc-idUSN0844903720061208

 

 WASHINGTON  (Reuters) - U.S. Federal Communications 
Commissioner Robert McDowell will be permitted to cast the tie- 
breaking vote on AT&T Inc.'s ( T.N ) proposed acquisition of 
BellSouth Corp.BLS.N, the agency's general counsel said on 
Friday. 

  FCC general counsel Samuel Feder said in a memorandum 
released by the agency that McDowell should be allowed to weigh 
in on whether to approve the deal in order to break a deadlock 
among the other four commissioners.  "You are now free to participate if you choose to do so," 
Feder said in the memo.  McDowell could abstain, but that is seen as unlikely by 
some analysts.  McDowell originally said he would not vote on the matter 
because he previously worked for an association that 
represented competitors of the two companies. He said in a 
statement he was reviewing Feder's opinion.  "In the meantime, I strongly urge the participating parties 
and my four colleagues to resolve their differences in the same 
amicable and unified manner they did in the similar merger 
between SBC and AT&T just last year," McDowell said in a 
statement.  The FCC has been reviewing the proposed acquisition for 
more than seven months and the four other commissioners -- two 
Republicans and two Democrats -- have been trying to break a 
deadlock for weeks over what conditions to attach.  FCC Chairman Kevin Martin said a week ago the negotiations 
had reached an impasse and sought an opinion by the general 
counsel on McDowell's possible participation, a rare move.  The agency usually tries to reach agreement via consensus.  The talks most recently have centered on an arbitration 
process to resolve disputes over rates for competitors to lease 
lines, as well as prioritizing Internet content from providers 
who pay a fee, according to FCC filings.  Since McDowell, a Republican, has sat out the 
deliberations, he would likely have to read the draft order to 
approve the deal and hold meetings with the companies and other 
interested parties, a process that could take weeks.