-- IPG troubles persist as Wal-Mart drops ad account
-- By  Paul Thomasch  and  Nicole Maestri
-- Fri Dec 8, 2006 6:51pm EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2006/12/08/businesspro-walmart-interpublic-dc-idUSN0841198720061208

 

 NEW YORK  (Reuters) - When Draft FCB won a coveted 
advertising account from Wal-Mart Stores Inc. ( WMT.N ), the new 
business was trumpeted as proof of a turnaround at its parent 
company. 

  Interpublic Group of Cos Inc. ( IPG.N ) Chief Executive 
Michael Roth bragged about the success of its newly formed 
Draft FCB agency to an audience of investors as recently as 
Monday.  "Clearly this is one that everyone has been writing about 
and looking at, and it's off to a tremendous start," he said of 
Draft FCB at the UBS conference. The agency was created in June 
through the combination of a direct marketing firm and a 
traditional advertising agency.  Three days later, everyone was still looking at Draft FCB 
but for an altogether different reason: the agency had just 
been dismissed by Wal-Mart, the world's largest retailer, from 
the high-profile account it had won in October.  News of the setback pushed IPG shares down 6 percent on 
Thursday, as investors worried about the impact on its parent 
company, IPG, which has been rocked by client defections, 
account losses and management turnover.  The account loss is "disappointing as this would have been 
a good account to leverage into other new business wins and 
more business from Wal-Mart itself," Credit Suisse First Boston 
analyst Debra Schwartz wrote in a note to clients on Friday.  The account would likely have had little impact on IPG's 
bottom line as the contract was shared with Aegis Group's 
AGS.L Carat. Wal-Mart spent $580 million on advertising last 
year.  Schwartz estimated the contract would have been worth $20 
million to $30 million in revenue for IPG, and said, "This win 
was more about the headline than the financial impact."  On Friday, IPG shares closed up 6 cents at $11.60 on the 
New York Stock Exchange.
  "SEPARATE WAYS"  Wal-Mart said on Thursday it would reopen the search for an 
advertising agency, days after the departure of Julie Roehm, 
the retailer's head of marketing communications.  Wal-Mart said Draft FCB would be blocked from bidding again 
due to "new information we obtained over the past few weeks." 
Wal-Mart declined to elaborate. It said Carat could submit 
another proposal.  Speculation swirled about the decision, with analysts and 
media reports raising questions over whether Roehm's departure 
was related to possible violations of Wal-Mart's policy banning 
staff from accepting gifts from vendors. Roehm attended a 
dinner at Nobu, a New York restaurant, hosted by Draft FCB.  Roehm told Reuters that entertaining was a normal course of 
business in advertising and denied any inappropriate activity.  "In many instances, we certainly did have dinners with all 
of the agencies involved and obviously this was an example of 
it," she said, adding that she assumed the cost was being 
billed back to Wal-Mart by Draft FCB.  Roehm said Wal-Mart did not bring the issue up when they 
"agreed to separate ways." She also denied a New York Times 
report that she had an inappropriate relationship with a 
subordinate.  A spokesman for Draft FCB said, "We're disappointed and 
we're moving forward."  IPG, which owns a string of advertising and marketing 
agencies, still has a chance to win the account.  Many people in the advertising industry believe that IPG's 
The Martin Agency, WPP Group Plc's ( WPP.L ) Ogilvy & Mather and 
Omnicom Group's ( OMC.N ) GSD&M are best positioned to take over 
the account, since they were among the agencies that were in 
the late running before Draft FCB won.  Paul Ginocchio of Deutsche Bank, in a note to clients, 
described the loss as "a negative for Draft FCB but not a 
hindrance in future pitches."  Wal-Mart worked for 20 years with GSD&M as well as 
independent Bernstein-Rein, building campaigns like its smiley 
face and low-prices slogan.  The retailer first put its account up for review in the 
spring as it moved toward a more polished image, which included 
adding more upscale items such as flat-panel TVs and trendy 
clothing.  "Now they (Wal-Mart) need to regroup, and these guys have 
had to regroup every time we turn around. That, I think, is the 
biggest problem -- it just seems like they can't catch a break 
at this point," said Patricia Edwards, a money manager at 
Seattle-based Wentworth, Hauser and Violich.