-- `Hand of God' Reappears to Send Uruguay Past Ghana to World Cup Semifinal
-- Ron Derby
-- 2010-07-03T00:58:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-03/-hand-of-god-reappears-to-send-uruguay-past-ghana-to-world-cup-semifinal.html

          
          
             The “hand of God” reappeared
at soccer’s World Cup last night, this time to take Uruguay
into the semifinals for the first time in 40 years.  
 With Uruguay and Ghana tied 1-1 and approaching the
end of extra time in Johannesburg, striker Luis Suarez
stopped a goal-bound header with his hand, earning a red
card and giving Asamoah Gyan the chance to win the game for
Ghana from the penalty spot.  
 Gyan’s kick struck the crossbar, sending the match
into a penalty shootout that the Uruguayans won 4-2 when
the Ghanaians missed two more efforts from the spot.  
 “The hand of God, now it’s mine,” Suarez said with a
laugh in reference to  Diego Maradona ’s handballed goal
against England at the 1986 World Cup. “I couldn’t help myself.”  
 The match at Soccer City near Soweto went to extra
time after Uruguay striker  Diego Forlan  struck a 55th-minute 
free kick to cancel out  Sulley Muntari ’s 30-yard shot in the
second minute of first-half stoppage time.  
 After 30 minutes of extra time failed to produce a
winner, Uruguay goalkeeper Fernando Muslera saved penalties
from John Mensah and Dominic Adiyiah, before  Sebastian Abreu  
chipped in the decisive spot-kick for the South Americans.  
 Suarez, who left the field in tears after he was red-
carded only to start punching the air when he turned to see 
Gyan’s miss, was held aloft on the shoulders of several 
teammates as the Uruguay squad celebrated following its triumph.  
 Uruguay’s Savior  
 “The way the game finished was incredible,” Forlan
told reporters after collecting the man-of-the-match award.
“Instead of scoring goals, Suarez saved one. He won us the
game.”  
 From a free kick into the penalty area in the 120th
minute, Suarez blocked  Stephen Appiah ’s shot on the
line and then stopped Adiyiah’s header from the rebound
with his hand. Gyan then thumped his penalty against the
bar, opting for power instead of placement.  
 “It’s hard luck, we had the opportunity to win this
game, but that is football,” Gyan told reporters. “I would 
say he’s a hero now in his own country, because the ball was 
going in and he held it with his hand. He is a hero now.”  
 Uruguay’s shootout victory set up a semifinal against
the Netherlands in Cape Town on July 6. The Dutch yesterday
beat pre-tournament favorite and five-time champion Brazil 2-1.  
 It also ended the run of Africa’s last representative
in the first World Cup to be hosted by the continent. Ghana
was the third African team to reach the last eight, after
Cameroon in 1990 and Senegal in 2002.  
 “It was really shocking,” Ghana coach Milovan
Rajevac said in an interview. “I think we deserved to go
through. That’s football injustice, what can we say?”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ron Derby  in Johannesburg at 
 rderby1@bloomberg.net ;  Franz Wild  in Johannesburg at +27-
   fwild@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        