-- Abengoa, Abound to Get $1.85 Billion in U.S. Solar-Project Loan Guarantees
-- Nicholas Johnston
-- 2010-07-03T10:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-03/abengoa-abound-to-get-1-85-billion-in-u-s-solar-project-loan-guarantees.html

          
          
             President  Barack Obama  today
announced $1.85 billion in loan guarantees to  Abengoa SA ’s
Abengoa Solar unit and Abound Solar Inc. to build sun-powered
facilities in the U.S. that he said will create thousands of new
jobs.  
 In his weekly address on the radio and Internet, Obama said
the money from the Department of Energy will help the U.S.
transition to a “clean energy economy” that creates hundreds
of thousands of jobs in the future.  
 “We’re going to keep competing aggressively to make sure
the jobs and industries of the future are taking root right here
in America,” Obama said.  
 The loan guarantees will come from money in the $862
billion economic stimulus program enacted early last year. Obama
announced the funding the day after government figures showed
private employers adding fewer workers than forecast in June,
reinforcing concerns the economic recovery will weaken.  
 “The recession from which we’re emerging has left us in a
hole that’s about 8 million jobs deep,” Obama said. “And as
I’ve said from the day I took office, it’s going to take months,
even years, to dig our way out.”  
 Abengoa Solar, a unit of the Seville, Spain-based
engineering company, will receive a $1.45 billion loan guarantee
to build a solar-power plant in Arizona that will create 1,600
construction jobs and 85 permanent jobs, according to White
House documents released in conjunction with Obama’s address.  
 The power plant will be the first of its kind in the U.S.
and generate enough energy to power 70,000 homes, Obama said.  
 Creating Jobs  
 “After years of watching companies build things and create
jobs overseas, it’s good news that we’ve attracted a company to
our shores to build a plant and create jobs right here in
America,” he said.  
 Abound Solar, a closely held company based in Loveland,
Colorado, will receive a $400 million loan guarantee to expand a
solar-panel manufacturing plant in Longmont, Colorado, and to
open a new plant in Tipton, Indiana. The two plants will employ
about 1,500 people, according to the White House documents.  
 “When fully operational, these plants will produce
millions of state-of-the-art solar panels each year,” Obama
said.  
 In the Republican address, Senator  Saxby Chambliss  of
Georgia warned that the  national debt , which is more than $13
trillion, will be a burden on future generations that will have
to pay higher taxes because of “out-of-control spending” by
the government now.  
 ‘Enough is Enough’  
 “At some point we have to say ‘enough is enough.’ We have
to make tough decisions about spending beyond our means,” he
said.  
 Chambliss also said the nation is vulnerable because so
much of America’s debt is held by foreign countries,
particularly  China , and called it a “national security issue.”  
 “Just as with our energy and food supplies, America is
vulnerable when we disproportionately rely on other nations,”
he said. “It is a matter of great concern that we are in deep
debt to countries that often don’t share our values or
positions.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nicholas Johnston  in Washington at 
 njohnston3@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        