-- Biden in Iraq to Visit Troops, Iraqi Leaders, White House Statement Says
-- Timothy R. Homan
-- 2010-07-03T21:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-03/biden-in-iraq-to-visit-troops-iraqi-leaders-white-house-statement-says.html

          
          
             Vice President  Joe Biden  is in Iraq
to celebrate the July 4 holiday with U.S. troops and meet with
Iraqi leaders, according to the White House.  
 Biden, a former chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations
Committee, will “discuss recent developments” with Iraqi
political leaders including President  Jalal Talabani , Prime
Minister  Nuri al-Maliki , and  Ayad Allawi , the head of the
Iraqiyya party, the statement yesterday said.  
 Iraq’s parliament has failed to choose a prime minister and
form a government since elections March 7. No group won enough
seats to govern alone and political leaders have been seeking
allies since the vote. The maneuvering coincides with U.S.
preparations to cut its Iraq force to 50,000 from 86,000 by
September, before a full withdrawal next year.  
 “With the paralysis in Iraqi politics right now, the goal
is to encourage the Iraqis to put aside partisan sectarian
differences and then begin to move on with the normal activities
of governance,” said  William Martel , a professor of
international security studies at Tufts University in Medford,
Massachusetts. “The trip will also reaffirm our commitment to
the U.S. troops there” at a time when “Iraq has moved off the
radar screen for the American people.”  
 Increased Violence  
 Violence increased after the March election failed to
produce a clear winner, though attacks haven’t reached the
levels of 2006-2007 when the country tipped toward civil war. An
Iraqi oil pipeline was bombed June 29, with no casualties. At
least 27 people were killed June 20 when two car bombs exploded
outside a state-owned trade bank in Baghdad, a week after al-
Qaeda suicide bombers and gunmen stormed the Central Bank of
Iraq, leaving at least 15 dead.  
 Under Iraq’s constitution, the largest bloc gets to form
the government only if it has a premiership candidate. Two
Shiite Muslim-led groups that merged in June to create the
biggest bloc of seats in parliament have agreed on a candidate
for prime minister,  Ali al-Dabbagh , the official government
spokesman and a member of the bloc, said June 30.  
 The Shiite National Alliance, which includes Prime Minister
Nuri al-Maliki’s State of Law party and the Iraqi National
Alliance, will announce its selection for prime minister “in
the coming days,” al-Dabbagh said. He declined to identify the
candidate. The Shiite bloc needs four more seats to reach the
163 needed for a majority in the 325-seat assembly.  
 State of Law had previously insisted al-Maliki should stay
for another four years. The INA had opposed al-Maliki, favoring
one of its own leaders. Committees were formed to represent al-
Maliki’s and Allawi’s camps and were scheduled to meet in the
next few days, al-Dabbagh said June 30.  
 Allawi’s Iraqiyah party, which was mostly backed by Sunni
Muslim and secular voters, came first in the March elections,
winning 91 of the 325 seats. State of Law came second, with 89
seats, and the INA third, with 70.  
 Biden is also scheduled to meet with the United Nations
Secretary General’s Special Representative for Iraq, Ad Melkert,
the White House statement said.  
 To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
 Timothy R. Homan  in Washington at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        