-- BP Bringing in Equipment to Double Amount of Oil Caught From Leaking Well
-- Jessica Resnick-Ault
-- 2010-07-03T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-03/bp-bringing-in-equipment-to-double-amount-of-oil-caught-from-leaking-well.html

          
          
             BP Plc  will put equipment in place
this weekend that will allow the company to double the amount of
crude being caught from its leaking Gulf of Mexico well.  
 BP has been using two vessels to capture an average of
25,000 barrels a day from the Macondo well. The company plans to
connect the Helix Producer I, a floating platform which alone
can process as much as 25,000 barrels daily and can easily be
disconnected in case of a hurricane, by July 8.  
 Collection from the vessel was originally slated to begin
this week. U.S. National Incident Commander Thad Allen said
choppy waters associated with Hurricane Alex made it impossible
for BP to connect. Alex, which came ashore in Mexico, pushed
waves as high as 8 feet (2.4 meters) into the spill site.  
 “The weather has had an impact on this, and indications
are that it’s going to calm down,” said  Toby Odone , a spokesman
for the London-based company. “We’ll be able to have the
vessels out there. We will continue getting the equipment out on
the site.”  
 The Helix Producer I’s successful connection will allow BP
to collect 40,000 to 53,000 barrels a day, accounting for most
of the leaking oil, according to government estimates. A U.S.
panel commissioned to study the flow rate has said 35,000 to
60,000 barrels daily may be gushing from the well.  
 Measuring Flow Rate  
 Increasing the collection rate may allow scientists to
gauge a more accurate flow rate, said  Brian Youngberg , an
analyst at Edward Jones in St. Louis, who has a “sell” rating
on BP’s shares.  
 “Is this leak 50,000 barrels or 75,000 barrels, or what?”
Youngberg said. “The more they collect, it just helps get
everyone a better feel for how much it is.”  
 Connection of the Helix Producer I follows a model BP has
already used in connecting the Q4000, a vessel that is currently
collecting crude, said  David Pursell , a managing director at
Tudor, Pickering Holt & Co. in Houston.  
 “The mechanics of getting a mirror-image set-up is pretty
easy,” Pursell said.  
 The Helix Producer I will connect to a riser pipe that will
link it to the seafloor, where it will plug into a manifold
pipe-collection system. That will then take crude from lines
running out of the blowout preventer, a five-story tall stack of
safety valves.  
 Unlike the Q4000, a rig that’s already been capturing oil
at the site, the Helix Producer I will use a buoy to link to the
riser pipe, making a disconnection in the event of a hurricane
or major storm easier, said Pursell.  
 ‘Big Float’  
 “What is more optimal is to have a big float on top of the
pipe that sits 300 feet below the surface of the water,” he
said. The pipe then connects through a hose to the ship.  
 If the ships that are currently in place need to pull away
due to a hurricane, they need to leave earlier, Pursell said.  
 While Hurricane Alex didn’t interrupt collection of crude
from the Macondo well, there is more than a 40 percent chance of
at least one storm passing by the well by the end of August,
according to Risk Management Solutions Inc., a Newark,
California-based consulting firm.  
 There is about a 13 percent chance a hurricane will pass
directly over the slick, and a 7 percent chance that it will be
an intense hurricane of Category 3 or higher on the Saffir-
Simpson scale, Risk Management said earlier this week.  
 The Helix Producer I and Q4000 are owned by Houston-based
 Helix Energy Solutions Group, Inc. , which also builds subsea
equipment and operates natural-gas and oil properties.  
 In several weeks, BP plans to connect a larger cap, which
will enable it to capture as much as 80,000 barrels a day of
crude. Installing that cap requires federal approval, which is
still pending, said BP’s Odone.  
 Ultimately, a relief well will be used to pump mud and
cement to permanently seal the leaking one, Allen said
yesterday. That effort is still on track for completion by mid-
August, he said. The well is within 600 feet (182 meters) of
intercepting the leak, he said.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jessica Resnick-Ault  in New York at 
 jresnickault@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        