-- Brazil Stock Trading to Rebound Following World Cup Favorite's Elimination
-- Alexander Ragir
-- 2010-07-03T04:00:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-03/brazil-stock-trading-to-rebound-following-world-cup-favorite-s-elimination.html

          
          
             Brazil’s stock  trading , which
dropped to the lowest levels this year during soccer’s
World Cup, will rebound after the tournament favorite was
eliminated, according to MM Milioni Investimentos in Sao
Paulo.  
 Stock trading on the  Bovespa  exchange fell as Brazil’s
national soccer team sought its sixth World Cup title,
sliding to the lowest level this year on June 28 as Brazil
beat Chile 3-0 to reach the quarterfinals. The previous
2010 lows were June 15 and June 25, when Brazil played
North Korea and Portugal in first-round matches.  
 The value of stocks that changed hands sank to the
third-lowest level this year yesterday as the Netherlands
upset Brazil 2-1 to reach the semifinals. Brazilian banks
shortened their business hours on game days and the
nation’s securities regulator shut down, according to a
statement.  
 “Now investors are going to return and volumes should
go back to normal,” said  Milton Milioni , president of MM
Milioni Investimentos and counselor for Brazil’s analyst
association. “It was weird that the market was left open
even when the banks were closed.”  
 Equity trading on the Bovespa fell to 4.1 billion
reais ($2.3 billion), 40 percent less than the average for
the previous year, on June 15, the day Brazil played North
Korea. The daily value should return to 4.5 billion reais
to 5 billion reais, said  Guilherme Sand , who helps manage
380 million reais at Solidus Brokerage in Porto Alegre,
Brazil.  
 “I think volumes should increase but Brazil is very
tied to soccer, so people are still going to be interested
in who wins,” said Sand, who will be rooting for Germany
because he has descendants from the European nation.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alexander Ragir  in Rio de Janeiro at 
 aragir@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        