-- China's Central Bank Deputy Signals Big Currency Move Remains Unwelcome
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-07-03T09:01:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-03/china-s-deputy-central-banker-hu-signals-that-big-currency-moves-unwelcome.html

          
          
             China’s deputy central bank governor
 Hu Xiaolian  said big moves in currencies hurt the global economy,
signaling the government is unlikely to give in to pressure from
the U.S. and European Union over the strength of the yuan.  
 A nation’s current account balance can be used as a
“window” to watch if its exchange rate is at an equilibrium
level,  People’s Bank of China  Deputy Governor Hu said at a
financial conference in Shanghai today. The ratio of China’s
current account surplus to gross domestic product has been
declining, she said.  
 The level of an exchange rate is based on market demand and
supply, she said. It’s "good" to have currencies with a certain
amount of flexibility, while "big" fluctuations in major
currencies are "bad", she said.  
 China is seeking to allow the yuan to strengthen to deflect
criticism from its trading partners and curb inflation, while
protecting a recovery in its exports. The currency has
strengthened 0.8 percent since the  central bank  said June 19 it
will allow greater flexibility in the exchange rate.  
 To assess a currency’s level, we should look at a 
"comprehensive and effective exchange rate" instead of 
looking at the bilateral exchange rate only, said Hu.  
 Chinese authorities had prevented the currency from
strengthening against the dollar since July 2008 to help
exporters cope with the global financial crisis. The currency
appreciated 21 percent in the three years after a managed float
against a basket of currencies was introduced in 2005.  
 Cross-border Yuan  
 The use of yuan for cross-border trade settlement has been
expanded to a total 20 provinces and cities, the People’s Bank
of China said June 22, almost a year after such payments were
approved for five cities. Trade settlement using the yuan
totaled 18.4 billion yuan ($2.7 billion) in the first quarter,
five times more than the amount in the second half of 2009,
according to central bank data on May 10.  
 The authorities aim to provide more channels for overseas
companies to invest their holdings of the currency, which is not
fully convertible. The Asian nation has foreign-exchange
 reserves  totaling $2.45 trillion, the world’s largest.  
 The yuan will reach 6.7 per dollar by the end of this year,
according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of
27 analysts.  
 -- Judy Chen . Editor:  Ben Richardson .  
 To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
 Judy Chen  in Shanghai at +86-21-6104-7047 or
 xchen45@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        