-- Christie, New Jersey Senate Democrats Reach Agreement on Property-Tax Cap
-- Terrence Dopp
-- 2010-07-03T17:15:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-03/christie-new-jersey-democrats-said-to-reach-property-tax-cap-agreement.html

          
          
             New Jersey  Governor  Chris Christie 
and the Democrats who control the Legislature are set to
announce a plan to curb growth of the property taxes used to
fund local government and schools, according to a Democratic
official with direct knowledge of the talks.  
 Under the legislative proposal, the tax increases would be
capped at 2 percent with exemptions for rising health-insurance
costs, bond payments and school enrollment growth, according to
the Democratic official in the Senate who declined to be named
in advance of the announcement.  NJ.com  reported the agreement
earlier, citing three unidentified people with knowledge of the
talks.  
 The tax ceiling is lower than a 2.9 percent threshold in
legislation passed by Democrats earlier this week. Christie, a
Republican, had called for a constitutional amendment capping
property taxes at 2.5 percent with exceptions only to cover bond
payments and through a public referendum.  
 The person said the agreement will allow communities to
exceed the cap with voter approval. Any bill would have to clear
the full Assembly and Senate.  
 Christie declined to comment today in the state capitol
after he emerged from a meeting with Republicans in the state
Senate. His spokesman,  Michael Drewniak , also declined to
comment. Senate President  Stephen Sweeney , a Democrat from West
Deptford, didn’t comment on the plan. Tom Hester, a spokesman
for Assembly Speaker  Sheila Oliver , said the Democrat hasn’t
spoken to the governor and hasn’t reached an agreement.  
 Christie, 47, who was elected in November amid discontent
with taxes and the U.S. recession, and lawmakers had reached an
impasse after he called them to a special legislative session
dedicated to the caps.  
 New Jersey has the highest average property-tax bills of
any U.S. state at $7,281 in 2009, according to state  data . The
levies, which increased 72 percent since 1999, are the prime
source of revenue for the state’s 566 municipalities and more
than 600 school districts.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Terrence Dopp  in Trenton at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        