-- Deutsche Bank Warned in Advance of CO2 Tax Probe Raids, Prosecutor Says
-- Karin Matussek
-- 2010-07-03T10:23:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-03/deutsche-bank-warned-in-advance-of-co2-tax-probe-raids-prosecutor-says.html

          
          
             Deutsche Bank AG  employees, who are
suspects in a nationwide probe over possible tax evasion linked
to trading of emissions allowances, were warned beforehand about
a raid in the case, a prosecutor said.  
 The information was leaked to them before prosecutors
searched Deutsche Bank’s Frankfurt headquarters on April 28,
Guenter Wittig, spokesman for the city’s General Prosecutor’s
Office said in an interview. His office opened a separate probe
in May to investigate who may have leaked the information, he
said.  
 German prosecutors and tax investigators on April 28
searched Deutsche Bank, HVB Group and  RWE AG  as part of raids on
230 offices and homes. The German investigation involves 180
million euros ($226 million) of possible tax evasion and is
targeting 150 suspects at 50 companies. The U.K.  Revenue  &
Customs office, raided 81 premises in the U.K. and arrested 13
people in England and eight in Scotland on the same day.  
 Munich’s Sueddeutsche Zeitung newspaper  reported  the leaks
today, citing transcripts of the suspects’ phone conversations
intercepted by police. The transcripts didn’t indicate that the
employees took any action to destroy or obscure evidence,
according to Sueddeutsche.  
 Wittig declined to comment on the Sueddeutsche report.  
 Deutsche Bank believes the allegations against its
employees in the case can be rebutted and is fully cooperating
with investigators, spokesman  Klaus Winker  said in an e-mailed
statement.  
 Winker rejected Sueddeutsche’s report which said that
prosecutors suspect the bank may not have taken enough care when
choosing business partners in emissions trading. Before trading
CO2 certificates with any company, the lender checked it with
heightened diligence and rejected several companies, he said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Karin Matussek  in Berlin at 
 kmatussek@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        