-- EADS Chief Gallois Says WTO Ruling Won't Hinder A350, Urges Appeal by EU
-- Francois de Beaupuy
-- 2010-07-03T11:02:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-03/eads-chief-gallois-says-wto-ruling-won-t-hinder-a350-urges-appeal-by-eu.html

          
          
             European Aeronautic Defence &  Space
Co.  said the  World Trade Organization  decision that Airbus SAS
benefited from illegal subsidies to build some aircraft won’t
hinder the development of the A350 plane.  
 There’s not “a single” current project that’s affected,
EADS Chief Executive Officer  Louis Gallois  told journalists in
Aix-en-Provence, France. “The aid that is related to the A350
project isn’t in the scope” of this week’s WTO decision.  
 The WTO said on June 30 that Airbus, which is controlled by
EADS, benefited from support of European governments, with money
for the A380 jumbo topping the list of violations.  
 The panel opinion backed arguments from the U.S. government
and  Boeing Co.  that loans by European governments constituted
unfair aid. In the case of the A380, the panel ruled the aid
constituted the strongest violation, because interest rates on
loans were too low and the support was linked to export
performance.  
 Gallois said today that the decision was mixed and urged
European Union authorities to appeal the ruling.  
 “The WTO clearly indicated that the Americans couldn’t
prove that support for Airbus affected Boeing’s competitiveness
or employment,” he said.  
 Boeing , which lost its industry lead to Airbus in 2003,
hailed the WTO ruling as a “sweeping legal victory,” and said
the verdict called for Airbus to repay $4 billion in illegal
launch aid for the A380, a statement that Airbus said is
“deliberately misleading” and “wrong.”  
 The WTO decision spurred Boeing allies in Congress to urge
the Pentagon yesterday to penalize a bid from EADS for a $35
billion contract to build a tanker plane for the U.S. Air Force.
Even so, Gallois said EADS plans to submit a bid for the
contract later this month.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mark Deen  in Aix en Provence, France at 
 markdeen@bloomberg.net ;
 Francois de Beaupuy  in Aix en Provence, France   fdebeaupuy@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        