-- Employment Shortfall Sets the Stage for Slowdown in U.S. Economic Recovery
-- Steve Matthews
-- 2010-07-03T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-03/employment-shortfall-sets-the-stage-for-slowdown-in-u-s-economic-recovery.html

          
          
             The U.S. recovery is poised to slow
in the second half of 2010 after smaller-than-forecast growth in
private payrolls for June capped a month of data indicating
weakness in industries from housing to manufacturing.  
 Employment fell by 125,000 workers, the first drop
this year, reflecting government census cutbacks, while
companies added 83,000 to payrolls, Labor Department figures in
Washington showed yesterday. Reports last month showed a plunge
in  home sales , a slump in consumer  confidence , cooler
manufacturing and less growth in the first quarter.  
 The lack of jobs will curtail consumer spending, which
accounts for about 70 percent of the world’s largest economy,
and restrain sales at retailers including  Barnes & Noble Inc. 
The rebound from the worst recession since the 1930s faces risks
from the European debt crisis and slower growth in China at the
same time that fiscal stimulus measures fade.  
 “Consumer spending will continue to be quite modest,”
said  Nariman Behravesh , chief economist at IHS in Lexington,
Massachusetts. “We are still paying the price for this big
financial crisis we’ve been through. Credit is still tight and
housing is suffering.”  
 The jobless  rate  fell to 9.5 percent, the lowest level
since July 2009, from 9.7 percent in May. The decline reflected
a 652,000 decrease in the size of the labor force. Economists
called for the jobless rate to rise to 9.8 percent, according to
a Bloomberg News survey.  
 Protracted Rebound  
 The pace of hiring signals it will take years for the U.S.
to recover the more than 8 million jobs lost during the
recession that began in December 2007.  
 Economists projected overall payrolls would decline by
130,000, according to the median forecast in a Bloomberg News
survey. The government cut 225,000 temporary workers conducting
the 2010 census. Private payrolls were forecast to rise 110,000.  
 The U.S. faces headwinds from abroad as a slowdown in China
and Europe threaten demand for American  exports . Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. this week cut its forecast for 2010 growth in China
to 10.1 percent from 11.4 percent as government restrictions on
lending and real estate slow expansion in the world’s fastest-
growing major economy.  
 The European debt crisis and signs of a global slowdown are
weighing on U.S. stocks. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index dropped
12 percent from April through June, breaking a four-quarter
winning streak that sent the benchmark gauge up 47 percent. The
drop was the biggest since the last three months of 2008.
Treasury securities soared, sending the yield on the benchmark
10-year note down to 2.93 percent at the close on June 30
compared with 3.83 percent on March 31.  
 Fed Action  
 Federal Reserve policy makers last month repeated their
pledge to keep the benchmark interest rate near a record low for
an “extended period” and warned that financial-market turmoil
linked to the European sovereign-debt crisis may harm U.S.
growth.  
 Other countries are raising rates. India’s central bank
increased its target rate for the third time this year in an
unscheduled announcement yesterday as inflation pressures from
faster economic growth outweighed risks from Europe.  
 Some economists, such as  Jeffrey Frankel , a member of the
National Bureau of Economic Research’s panel that dates U.S.
business cycles, say recent data raise the risk of dipping back
into a recession.  
 “You cannot rule out a double dip, in light of Europe’s
problems,” said Frankel, who is also a Harvard University
professor. “The biggest cloud on the horizon globally is the
spillover of sovereign debt concerns from Greece. I think the
next couple months of indicators will be more telling than the
last couple months.”  
 Manufacturing Cools  
 Manufacturing, which accounts for about 11 percent of the
economy, helped lead the U.S. out of recession during the second
half of last year. Those gains may slacken as the industry
cools. A report this week from the  Institute for Supply
Management  showed manufacturing expanded in June at the slowest
pace this year as orders and exports cooled.  
 “Everything we have seen in the last several weeks, plus
the continued contraction in total bank credit and weak money
supply growth, all suggest the economy is losing altitude,”
said  Paul Kasriel , chief economist at the Northern Trust Corp.
in Chicago. “It is not that it will hit the deck; it is
adjusting to an even slower rate of growth in the second half of
the year.”  
 Best Buy  Co., the world’s largest consumer-electronics
retailer, last month reported first-quarter profit that rose
less than analysts projected as some U.S. shoppers bought fewer
games and movies. Declines in hours worked and earnings make it
more likely consumers will pull back further.  
 Hours, Earnings  
 The average work week for all workers declined to 34.1
hours in June from 34.2 hours the prior month, yesterday’s
report showed. Average hourly earnings fell 2 cents to $22.53.  
 “The risk of a double dip is still uncomfortably high,
with little left in our arsenal of fiscal and monetary stimulus
to fight it,” said  Diane Swonk , chief economist of Chicago-
based Mesirow Financial Holdings Inc. “It is a bit like being
stuck in a traffic jam. We are moving forward, but at such a
slow pace it is causing more frustration and tension than sense
of progress.”  
 The economy, employment and the budget deficit are likely
to be the main campaign issues leading up to the November
elections that will decide which political party controls
Congress. The Obama administration is already facing public
pessimism about the state of the labor market.  
 “Make no mistake, we are headed in the right direction,”
President  Barack Obama  said yesterday after the employment
report. “We are not headed there fast enough for a lot of
Americans. We’re not headed there fast enough for me either.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Timothy R. Homan  in Washington at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net ;
 Steve Matthews  in Atlanta at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     The lack of jobs will curtail consumer spending, slowing down U.S economic recovery. Photographer: Ronda Churchill/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
