-- Europe's Economic Recovery Is `Well on Track,' ECB's Tumpel-Gugerell Says
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-07-03T09:48:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-03/europe-s-economic-recovery-is-well-on-track-ecb-s-tumpel-gugerell-says.html

          
          
             Europe’s recovery from a debt crisis
that roiled global markets is “well on track,” a member of the
European Central Bank governing council said in Shanghai today.  
 “We have the right policies in place to ensure the return
to the levels of growth we have seen prior to the crisis,”
 Gertrude Tumpel-Gugerell  told a financial conference in the
city. “Low interest rates all along the money market yield
curve” are cutting funding costs. “The economy is expanding
and we see a positive growth outlook.”  
 The central bank on June 10 raised its euro-region growth
forecast for this year to 1 percent, from a previous forecast of
about 0.8 percent. The ECB has kept its  benchmark interest rate 
at a record low of 1 percent since May 2009.  
 Four areas of policy are needed for the recovery to be
sustainable over the long term, said Tumpel-Gugerell. These are:
structural changes to strengthen overall growth prospects;
financial market sector revamping, which she described as “well
on track;” fiscal consolidation which she also said is “well
on track;” and “the continuous concentration of monetary
policy to be directed at medium term price stability.”  
 EU officials are devising fiscal rules to prevent a repeat
of the European sovereign debt crisis, which was sparked when
Greece’s budget spiraled out of control and forced it to seek an
EU-led bailout. European leaders plan to outline the
strengthened enforcement system by October after hammering out a
750 billion euro ($938 billion) rescue program in May.  
 The ECB is buying government bonds and lending banks as
much money as they need to contain the effects of the debt
crisis, which has driven the euro down 14 percent against the
dollar this year.  
 Banks Wary  
 Financial institutions are wary of lending to each other
after the debt crisis fueled concern that some governments may
struggle to refinance their debts, prompting investors to shun
bonds sold by nations including Greece, Portugal and Spain.  
 China will support European measures to improve fiscal
stability and achieve economic recovery, said  Hu Xiaolian ,
deputy governor of the People’s Bank of China, at the Shanghai
conference.  
 “The Chinese government is very closely watching the
economic picture at home and the state of other economies before
we decide on our economic policies,” including the exchange
rate,  Zhang Tao , director of the international department of
China’s central bank, said last month.  
 A nation’s current account balance can be used as a guide
to whether its exchange rate is reaching an equilibrium, Hu said
today. The ratio of China’s current account surplus to its gross
domestic product has been shrinking, she said.  
 Flexibility Desirable  
 While some flexibility in currencies is desirable, big
moves by major currencies hurt the global economy, Hu said.  
 To assess a currency’s level, we should look at a
“comprehensive and effective exchange rate” instead of looking
at the bilateral exchange rate only, said Hu.  
 China is seeking to allow the yuan to strengthen gradually
to deflect criticism from its trading partners and curb
inflation, while protecting a recovery in its exports. The
currency has strengthened 0.8 percent since the  central bank 
said June 19 it will allow greater exchange rate flexibility.  
 Chinese authorities had prevented the currency from
strengthening against the dollar since July 2008 to help
exporters cope with the global financial crisis. The currency
appreciated 21 percent in the three years after a managed float
against a basket of currencies was introduced in 2005.  
 -- Judy Chen ,  Christian Vits . Editors:  Ben Richardson ,  Leon Mangasarian .  
 To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
 Judy Chen  in Shanghai at +86-21-6104-7047 or
 xchen45@bloomberg.net ;
Christian Vits in Frankfurt at +49-69-92041-341 or
 cvits@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        