-- Former Premier Diallo Leads Balloting, Faces Presidential Runoff in Guinea
-- Emily Bowers
-- 2010-07-03T00:20:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-03/former-premier-diallo-leads-balloting-faces-presidential-runoff-in-guinea.html

          
          
             Cellou Dalein Diallo , a former prime
minister, led a first-round of balloting yet faces a runoff in
the presidential election in the West African nation of Guinea,
the world’s biggest bauxite exporter, the Associated Press said.  
 Diallo, 58, got almost 40 percent of the vote in the June
27 election, AP reported, citing electoral commission head Ben
Sekou Sylla.  Alpha Conde , 72, was second with about 20 percent
of the ballots and would face Diallo in a second round of voting
if the results are confirmed by the Supreme Court, AP said. Ex-
premier  Sidya Toure , 65, was third with about 16 percent.  
 Twenty-four candidates competed for the presidency. A
runoff was to be held if no candidate garnered at least 50
percent of the vote.  
 The election was held a year-and-a-half after army Captain
 Moussa Dadis Camara  seized power following the death of former
President  Lansana Conte , who ruled the country for two decades.
Guinea hasn’t had a democratic transfer of power since it gained
independence from France in 1958.  
 Guinea holds as much as half of the world’s reserves of
bauxite, used to make aluminum, more than 4 billion tons of
“high-grade” iron ore, “significant” diamond and gold
deposits, and uranium, according to the U.S. State Department’s
 website . The  African Development Bank  estimates that 53 percent
of the Guinea’s 10.3 million people live in poverty.  
 ‘Essential Step’  
 The election “marks an essential step toward putting in
place new democratic institutions” in Guinea, the  European
Union’s observer mission  said on June 30. Voting was done
“freely” amid some organizational problems, said European
Parliament member  Alexander Graf Lambsdorff , who headed the
mission.  
 Observers from the U.S.-based  Carter Center  found no
evidence of “fraud or malicious intent,” former Nigerian
military leader  Yakubu Gowon , who headed the mission, told
reporters on June 29.  
 Guinea attracted investment commitments of $6.9 billion in
the first quarter from companies including Rio de Janeiro-based
 Vale SA , the world’s largest iron-ore producer, and Beijing-
based  Chinalco , China’s biggest producer of the metal, said  Rob Edwards , London-based mining analyst at Moscow-based investment
bank Renaissance Capital.  
 The three main candidates pledged last month to review
mining agreements to establish whether they are favorable to the
country.  
 Rio Tinto Dispute  
 Guinea is already in a dispute with London-based  Rio Tinto
Group  over ownership of resources at its Simandou iron-ore mine,
after the country told the world’s third-largest mining company
it planned to take a 20 percent stake in blocks 3 and 4 at the
site. Rio was ordered in December 2008 to hand over blocks 1 and
2 of the concession to closely held Guernsey-based BSG Resources
Ltd.  
 In April, Vale agreed to pay $2.5 billion for deposits in
Guinea, including those blocks.  
 A spokeswoman for Rio in London declined to comment on the
election or its potential impact on the company.  
 Hong Kong-based China International Fund will spend $3
billion building the infrastructure for Jersey, Channel Islands-
based  Bellzone Mining Plc ’s Kalia project in the center of the
country.  
 Mines Minister  Mahmoud Thiam  said Guinea is now more
attractive to foreign companies and needn’t fear affecting
confidence because of the dispute with Rio.  
 “The market will not turn from Guinea because of Rio,”
Thiam said in an interview in Conakry on June 24.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Alpha Camara  in Conakry via Johannesburg at 
 acamara@bloomberg.net ;
 Emily Bowers  in Conakry via Johannesburg at 
 ebowers1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        