-- Fuel Truck Explosion in Eastern Congo Kills About 230, United Nations Says
-- Michael J. Kavanagh
-- 2010-07-03T20:42:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-03/fuel-truck-explosion-in-eastern-congo-kills-about-270-united-nations-says.html

          
          
             A fuel truck explosion in eastern
Democratic Republic of Congo yesterday killed 230 people and
injured 196, the United Nations mission in Congo said.  
 Casualties continue to mount as the UN and local officials
investigate the aftermath of the explosion, UN spokesman,
Madnodje Mounoubai, said by phone in Kinshasa.  
 “The truck was moving and it had an accident,” Olamide
Adedeji, acting director for public information for the United
Nations Mission in Congo, said by phone from  Kinshasa  earlier in
the day. “People in the nearby village were trying to take some
fuel from the vehicle and while they were doing that it
exploded,” she said.  
 The explosion occurred in the village of Sange in South
Kivu province at about 6 p.m., setting homes on fire, Adedeji
said. The UN has sent a helicopter and ambulances to evacuate
the wounded, the organization said in an e-mailed statement.  
 Red Cross volunteers have been helping to bury bodies and
transport the wounded since this morning, Inah Kaloga, a
spokeswoman for the International Committee of the Red Cross,
said by phone from Kinshasa.  
 A UN helicopter transported 33 seriously wounded victims by
helicopter to Bukavu, the provincial capital, over the course of
the day, Kaloga said. More medical evacuations are expected
tomorrow. Eight people have already been brought to nearby Uvira
hospital by the ICRC, she said.  
 At least 208 people were killed immediately by the blast,
Kaloga said.  
 Congo is still recovering from almost a decade of war that
officially ended in 2003 and claimed the lives of millions.
Conflict continues in the country’s east, and UN-supported
military operations against Rwandan and Congolese rebel groups
are continuing in South Kivu.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Kavanagh  in Johannesburg at 
 mkavanagh9@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        