-- Germany Defeats Argentina 4-0 Led by Miroslav Klose, Moves to Semifinals
-- Bob Bensch
-- 2010-07-03T17:33:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-03/germany-defeats-argentina-4-0-to-advance-to-soccer-s-world-cup-semifinals.html

          
          
             Germany beat Argentina 4-0 to reach
the semifinals at the World Cup for the third straight time and
hand the two-time champion its worst loss at the tournament in
36 years.  
 Miroslav Klose  scored two goals, and Thomas Mueller and
 Arne Friedrich  had one each at Green Point Stadium in Cape Town.
Germany will play Spain or Paraguay, who meet today, in Durban,
South Africa, on July 7.  
 “My team showed great resolve, great willingness to win,”
Germany coach  Joachim Loew  said at a news conference. “In doing
so, it wasn’t just high-level internationally, but a true
champion’s performance.”  
 It’s the second straight World Cup the Germans have
eliminated Argentina in the quarterfinals, following a penalty
shootout win in 2006. The loss is Argentina’s worst at the World
Cup since a 4-0 defeat against the Netherlands in 1974.  
 “This is really like a kick in the face,” Argentina coach
 Diego Maradona  told reporters. “I have no more energy for
anything.”  
 Klose’s two goals give him 14 for his career at the World
Cup and tie former German striker  Gerd Muller  for second on the
all-time list, one behind Brazil’s Ronaldo.  
 Germany went in front less than three minutes into the game
as Mueller got in front of defender Nicolas Ottamendi to head in
 Bastian Schweinsteiger ’s free kick.  
 Offsides  
 FIFA World Player of the Year  Lionel Messi  hit the German
wall with a free kick late in the first half and the ball wound
up in the net off the rebound, but the score was disallowed as
four Argentina players were offside.  
 Germany took control by scoring twice in six minutes as a
wide-open Klose put home a pass from  Lukas Podolski  in the 68th
minute. Schweinsteiger then went past three defenders in the
area before centering to Friedrich, who tapped the ball into the
open goal.  
 Klose added his second goal in the 89th minute. He and
Mueller each have four goals this year to tie Argentina’s
 Gonzalo Higuain , the Netherlands’s  Wesley Sneijder , Spain’s
 David Villa  and Slovakia’s  Robert Vittek  atop the scoring list.  
 “Everything went superbly and to send Argentina packing 4-
0, well, what can you say,” Mueller, who will be suspended for
the semifinal after picking up his second yellow card of the
tournament, said in a televised interview. “We did it as a team
and I can’t pick out any individuals. We all pulled together for
this win.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bob Bensch  in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        