-- Germany Ends Argentina's Bid for Third World Cup, Keeps Maradona Clothed
-- Mike Cohen
-- 2010-07-03T22:01:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-03/germany-ends-argentina-s-bid-for-third-world-cup-keeps-maradona-clothed.html

          
          
             Argentina’s worst soccer World Cup
loss in 36 years ended the country’s bid for a third title and
spared the nation the sight of  Diego Maradona  running naked in
the streets of Buenos Aires.  
 Maradona, 49, said in May he would streak if his team
lifted the trophy in South Africa. He’ll instead return home
feeling like he’s been “kicked in the face” after yesterday’s
4-0 quarterfinal defeat to Germany in Cape Town.  
 “This sadness is really strong,” Maradona told reporters.
“It’s tough because we wished to go beyond today and be among
the four best in the world by beating Germany. Instead the
opposite happened.”  
 Maradona, who led Argentina to its last World Cup victory
as a player in 1986, made ambiguous statements about his future
following the loss.  
 “I haven’t thought about leaving,” Maradona said. “I
have to check with my family, the players, there’s a number of
things I have to consider.”  
 Germany, which eliminated Argentina in the quarterfinals
for the second straight time, will now meet European champion
Spain on July 7 in Durban.  
 Joachim Loew ’s team matched Brazil’s 1970 record of scoring
four times in three games at the same World Cup. The Germans
beat England 4-1 last week and opened the tournament on June 13
with a 4-0 rout of Australia.  
 Germany took the lead in the third minute when midfielder
Thomas Mueller headed  Bastian Schweinsteiger ’s free kick in off
the shin of goalkeeper Sergio Romero.  
 Uphill Fight  
 “You have to start fighting uphill with a goal against
you,” Maradona said. “Every time they got the ball they had
the possibility to score and we didn’t.”  
 Argentina had more possession, shots on target and corners
during a game in which FIFA World Player of the Year  Lionel Messi  was surrounded by several German players whenever he got
the ball. He failed to force goalkeeper Manuel Neuer into a
save.  
 “We tried to keep him in control and neutralize him in a
fair way by putting him under pressure,” Loew said.  
 Maradona said the Barcelona forward, who leaves the
tournament without scoring a goal, was in tears in the locker
room after the game.  
 “He played a great World Cup,” Maradona said. “Seeing
Messi cry in the dressing room the way I did, anybody who would
suggest that he didn’t honor the Argentina shirt would be a
stupid person.”  
 Mueller, who has scored four goals in five matches in South
Africa, will be suspended for the semifinal after collecting his
second yellow card of the tournament during the first half.  
 Klose Double  
 Following Mueller’s opener, Germany got three breakaway
goals with Miroslav Klose claiming two to put him one behind the
record of 15 held by Brazil’s  Ronaldo . Defender  Arne Friedrich 
got his first goal for his country in his 77th appearance.  
 Each time Loew’s team scored, German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  leapt from her seat next to South African President  Jacob Zuma . Merkel visited the players in the locker room after the
game to congratulate them on the victory.  
 “She said she was shaking until we scored the third
goal,” Mueller said. “Even when we were winning 2-0 she was a
bit nervous. When we scored the third goal, she turned to Zuma
and told him: ‘we are going to win.’”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Tariq Panja  in Cape Town at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net ;
 Mike Cohen  in Cape Town at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        