-- Christie, Democrats in New Jersey Legislature Are at Impasse on Tax Plan
-- Dunstan McNichol
-- 2010-07-03T04:00:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-03/governor-christie-democrats-in-n-j-legislature-at-impasse-on-tax-plan.html

          
          
             New Jersey  Governor  Chris Christie 
and the Democrats who control the Legislature have hit an
impasse over curbing the state’s property taxes, as lawmakers
said they’ll boycott a special session he’s called for today.  
 Assembly Speaker  Sheila Oliver  said Democrats, who control
her house 47-33, won’t attend a session called by the Republican
governor. Democrats in the Senate will also skip the meeting,
Senate President  Stephen Sweeney , a Democrat from West Deptford,
said.  
 Christie, 47, who was elected in November amid discontent
with taxes and the U.S. recession, has threatened to sue
legislators to force them to work on his call for a 2.5 percent
annual cap on a rise in the levies. The governor is seeking a
ceiling that can only be exceeded to cover current union
contracts, bond payments or by public referendum. Democrats want
more exemptions.  
 “Ordering us to come in on the July 4th weekend was mere
petulance on the part of the governor and he should know better
than that,” Senator  Raymond Lesniak , a Democrat from Elizabeth,
said yesterday in a telephone interview. “This has nothing to
do with defiance of the governor. There is absolutely no reason
for us to be in this weekend.”  
 New Jersey has the highest average property-tax bills of
any U.S. state at $7,281 in 2009, according to state  data . The
levies, which increased 72 percent since 1999, are the prime
source of revenue for the state’s 566 municipalities and more
than 600 school districts.  
 ‘Political Theater’  
 The skipped session would be the second for Democrats in
the Senate, where 22 of the 23 Democrats didn’t attend one
yesterday. Assembly Minority Whip  Jon Bramnick , a Republican
from Westfield, said his party plans to show up for every
session ordered by Christie.  
 Assembly members convened yesterday as Christie had
demanded for a 53-second meeting without conducting any
business.  
 Sweeney said the nonpartisan Office of Legislative Services
has indicated that lawmakers fulfilled their duties by meeting
July 1. He and Oliver have said legislative committees will hold
weekly meetings to discuss ways to control the levies.  
 Christie had demanded an  amendment  to the state
constitution to curb increases in property levies. On July 1, he
agreed to accept a less rigid, legislated cap, while insisting
on rapid action. The full Senate and Assembly must meet when
Christie finds a compelling reason, his spokesman  Michael Drewniak  said.  
 ‘Cannot Take a Break’  
 Christie said a 2.9 percent ceiling on tax increases
approved by the Legislature had too many loopholes.  
 “We cannot leave this town for the summer and leave our
citizens with an ever-growing property tax bill to pay because
we refused to act,” Christie told lawmakers July 1 in a 13-
minute speech. “We must work every day until we get a solution.
Our citizens cannot take a break.”  
 The proposed amendment would need to be approved by three-
fifths of the Legislature by early July for the issue to appear
on the November ballot, Christie has said. Adoption requires a
simple majority of the popular vote.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Terrence Dopp  in Trenton at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net ;
 Dunstan McNichol  in Trenton at 
 dmcnichol@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        