-- Greeks Are Divided on Need for Pension Overhaul Ahead of Vote, Poll Shows
-- Maria Petrakis
-- 2010-07-03T21:17:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-03/greeks-are-divided-on-need-for-pension-overhaul-ahead-of-vote-poll-shows.html

          
          
             Greeks are divided on the need for
changes to the state-run pension system, an opinion poll showed,
as the government of Prime Minister  George Papandreou  prepares
to push an overhaul through parliament.  
 More than 35 percent of 1,002 people polled by Kapa
Research for  To Vima newspaper  said the pension overhaul bill
was unfair yet necessary. Just 14.2 percent fully supported the
bill by saying the changes were necessary and imperative.
Nineteen percent said the changes are “catastrophic” and 29.6
percent said the bill should be withdrawn.  
 Parliament will vote next week on changes that will include
increasing the retirement age, curtailing early retirement and
calculating payments over a longer period of employment. Greek
unions called a sixth general strike for July 8, the day
lawmakers vote on the pension overhaul.  
 Changes to pensions and the way workers are hired and fired
are required by the European Union and the International
Monetary Fund in return for 110 billion euros ($135 billion) of
emergency loans to avert a default on Greece’s debt. Next week’s
pension vote will be the first major test for Papandreou since
the May 6 vote on the package that pledged 30 billion euros of
wage and pension cuts and tax increases over the next three
years.  
 Rebellious Lawmakers  
 Three of Papandreou’s lawmakers rebelled over the package,
leading the premier to expel them from his Pasok party. That
left him with 157 lawmakers in the 300-seat chamber.  
 The Kapa poll showed 70.4 percent were opposed to
government plans to reduce the cost of firing workers, with 82.9
percent opposed to lifting restrictions on the number of workers
who can be fired.  
 Papandreou’s Pasok party would receive 23.4 percent of the
vote were elections to be held July 11, the poll showed, with
the center-right New Democracy party receiving 15.6 percent.
Forty percent said they didn’t know who they’d vote for. The
poll has a margin of error of 3.1 percentage points.  
 A separate survey of 2,003 people by Rass for  To Paron 
newspaper showed support for Pasok at 24.7 percent, 5.4
percentage points ahead of New Democracy with 19.3 percent. That
poll, with a margin of error of 2.2 percentage points, showed 79
percent of Greeks said the measures taken to combat the crisis
had “exceeded the limits of tolerance.” Seventy-seven percent
said there were alternatives to the measures taken so far to
avoid default.  
 Papandreou, whose union-backed party won elections last
October, has reduced wages for state workers and raised sales,
fuel and alcohol taxes. The 58-year-old leader argues the
measures, aimed at reducing a budget deficit of 13.6 percent of
economic output, are needed to prevent the country from
defaulting on its debts.  
 Kapa’s poll in To Vima was conducted June 30 to July 1. The
Rass poll was conducted from June 24 to July 1.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Maria Petrakis  in Athens at 
 mpetrakis@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        