-- IMF `Impressed' With Romanian Government's Deficit Commitment, Franks Says
-- Irina Savu
-- 2010-07-03T18:38:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-03/imf-impressed-with-romanian-government-s-deficit-commitment-franks-says.html

          
          
             The International Monetary Fund was
“very impressed” with the Romanian government’s commitment to
its bailout agreement after it raised a sales tax to win
approval, said  Jeffrey Franks , the fund’s mission chief to the
country.  
 The lender’s board of directors agreed yesterday to
disburse $1.15 billion to Romania, which increased its value-
added tax rate by 5 percentage points and cut wages as of July 1
to reach the deficit target attached to the loan. The European
Commission, one of the country’s other lenders, will probably
unlock 1.15 billion euros ($1.45 billion) in payments in
September, Franks said in a phone interview from Washington
today.  
 The government , relying on 20 billion euros in loans from
the IMF and the European Union to finance its deficit, raised
the VAT to 24 percent after the constitutional court threw out a
proposal to cut pensions to narrow a budget deficit target to
6.8 percent of gross domestic product. The austerity program is
undercutting the government’s support at a time it is struggling
to pull the country out of a stubborn recession.  
 “Broadly speaking,” IMF directors “were very supportive
of Romania’s efforts, in particular, several directors mentioned
that they were very impressed,” said Franks. “There are
certain concerns that the economy is continuing to be very
sluggish and they want to make sure that the authorities
continue in their efforts to maintain the reform process going
forward.”  
 2010 Contraction  
 The east European country’s economy, mired in the worst
recession in two decades, will probably contract at least 1
percent in 2010, more than previously forecast, Finance Minister
 Sebastian Vladescu  said on June 29. There will probably be
“higher inflation and a different exchange rate” because of
the increase in VAT, according to Vladescu, who declined to give
a figure because the ministry is still working on a new
forecast.  
 The IMF and the government estimate GDP will contract as
much as 0.5 percent this year after shrinking a record 7.1
percent in 2009. The central bank forecasts year-end inflation
will be 3.7 percent.  
 In addition, the VAT increase will have a “significant
one-time effect on inflation,” Franks said. The inflation rate
will probably rise to 7 percent to 8 percent at the end of 2010
from 4.4 percent in May, he said, with the impact probably
disappearing in 12 to 18 months.  
 Maintaining Forecast  
 Franks said the IMF is maintaining its economic contraction
forecast. A mission will visit Romania at the end of July to
review the country’s progress under the bailout loan and will do
a revision at that time.  
 “We do not think there will be much additional negative
effect on GDP growth from VAT compared with the expenditure cuts
that were previously planned,” Franks said. “So the impact may
be actually slightly less negative and the reason for this is
because pensioners are quite likely to spend all the money that
they receive whereas if you put a tax on the broader population
then they cut spending by somewhat less.”  
 Frank said Romania has “already done very, very large
measures to attempt to reach the deficit target,” including
cutting public sector wages by 25 percent and some transfer
payments by 15 percent,  
 “Those are very significant measures,” Franks said. “At
this time, I think we’ve seen very important steps from them,
it’s likely to be sufficient, but we’ll have to calculate this
during our next mission, as we always do, to see what is
happening with revenue and expenditure as they come in.”  
 Leu Recovery  
 The leu strengthened as much as 1.2 percent to 4.2891 per
euro, the most since May 2009, and traded 1.1 percent higher at
4.2943 in Bucharest yesterday, the largest rally among more than
170 global currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  
 The currency tumbled 3.5 percent in three trading days
ending June 29 to its weakest level against the euro on record
after the court ruled the proposed pension cuts were illegal,
sparking speculation the next disbursement of the IMF loan will
be delayed.  
 The currency has since recovered almost two-thirds of those
losses on speculation today’s IMF meeting indicated Romania may
be nearer to getting funding.  
 “The markets have been nervous because they were concerned
whether the measures will be approved, whether they would be
implemented, whether the IMF disbursement will go ahead,”
Franks said. “I would anticipate that the vote of the IMF board
yesterday would give them some confidence in believing that the
program is on track and that the authorities will execute the
measures they had agreed and therefore there is no reason for
concern at this time.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Irina Savu  in Bucharest at 
 isavu@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Romanian Finance Minister Sebastian Vladescu. Photographer: Mark H. Milstein/ Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
