-- Liz Cheney Says Party Chief Steele Should Quit After Afghanistan Remarks
-- Timothy R. Homan
-- 2010-07-03T17:30:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-03/liz-cheney-says-party-chief-steele-should-quit-after-afghanistan-remarks.html

          
          
             Liz Cheney joined some fellow
Republicans in calling on  Michael Steele  to resign as chairman
of the  Republican National Committee  over remarks suggesting
that the U.S. cannot win the war in Afghanistan.  
 “It is time for Chairman Steele to step down,”  Cheney ,
daughter of former U.S. Vice President Dick Cheney and head of a
group called Keep America Safe, said yesterday in a  statement .
She said his comments were “deeply disappointing and wrong.”  
 Speaking at a Republican fundraising  event  in Connecticut
on July 1, Steele said the conflict in Afghanistan “was a war
of Obama’s choosing” and “is not something that the United
States has actively prosecuted or wanted to engage in.”  
 The U.S. will reassess its Afghanistan strategy in December
and is trying to train enough Afghan soldiers and police to
allow a withdrawal of U.S. troops there beginning in July 2011.
President  Barack Obama  last year authorized the deployment of
30,000 additional troops in an effort to halt a resurgence of
the Taliban that has increased U.S. and allied combat deaths to
the fastest pace of the nine-year war, the longest in American
history.  
 Conservative commentator  Bill Kristol , editor of the Weekly
Standard, yesterday published an open  letter  to Steele. “I ask
you to consider, over this July 4 weekend, doing an act of
service for the country you love: Resign as chairman of the
Republican Party,” Kristol wrote. “There are, of course, those
who think we should pull out of Afghanistan, and they’re
certainly entitled to make their case. But one of them shouldn’t
be the chairman of the Republican Party.”  
 Afghan Timetable  
 Some Republican lawmakers, including Senators  John McCain 
of Arizona and  Lindsey Graham  of South Carolina, oppose the
troop drawdown slated to begin next July. McCain last week said
a timetable leaves “our troops on the ground in some ways
confused about what the long-term strategy will be,” and the
Taliban insurgents “think we’re going to leave.”  
 Steele also drew Democratic criticism for his comments.
“Michael Steele would do well to remember that we are not in
Afghanistan by our own choosing, that we were attacked and that
his words have consequences,”  Brad Woodhouse , communications
director for the Democratic National Committee, said yesterday
in a statement.  
 Steele on July 1 said, referring to Obama, “if he’s such a
student of history, has he not understood that, you know, that’s
the one thing you don’t do is engage in land war in Afghanistan?
Because everyone who has tried, over a thousand years of
history, has failed. And there are reasons for that.”  
 Steele clarified his July 1 remarks yesterday by saying,
“The stakes are too high for us to accept anything but success
in Afghanistan.” In the same  statement  he said that “for the
sake of the security of the free world, our country must give
our troops the support necessary to win this war.”  
 The U.S.-led war in Afghanistan began after the Sept. 11,
2001, terrorist attacks in the U.S. by al-Qaeda, which had been
given a safe haven by the militant Islamic Taliban that then
controlled the country.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Timothy R. Homan  in Washington at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Republican Steele’s Afghanistan Remarks  
                       
                         
                           Freddie Lee/Fox News Sunday via Bloomberg 
                         
                         Michael Steele, Republican National Committee chairman. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Michael Steele, Republican National Committee chairman. Photographer: Freddie Lee/Fox News Sunday via Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
