-- Nakheel Assumes Management Responsibilities for Dubai Developer Limitless
-- Mourad Haroutunian
-- 2010-07-03T12:32:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-03/nakheel-assumes-management-responsibilities-for-dubai-s-limitless-llc.html

          
          
             Nakheel PJSC, the indebted Dubai
World unit that built palm-shaped islands off Dubai’s coast, was
put in charge of another unit, Limitless LLC, as part of the
emirate’s efforts to restructure its property companies.  
 The Supreme Fiscal Committee, set up to oversee Dubai World
and its units, gave Nakheel’s board responsibility for Limitless
“in a step aimed at setting united strategies and programs to
deal with the real estate sector,” the Dubai government’s press
office said in e-mailed statement today.  
 The decision will “take advantage of technical and
administrative personnel of Nakheel and Limitless so as to
achieve the best result for developers, the construction sector
and project investors,” the Dubai Media Office said.  
 In helping transform the emirate as a regional hub, Dubai
World and its property units, Nakheel and Limitless, used loans
to finance real-estate projects such as the Palm Islands. The
companies struggled to refinance their borrowings as the global
credit crunch choked off lending.  
 Dubai World, one of the emirate’s three main state-owned
business groups, reached an agreement on May 20 with its main
creditors to restructure $23.5 billion of loans. Nakheel began
making payments on June 30 to its biggest contractors as the
Dubai World-owned property company seeks to alter terms on $10.5
billion of unpaid bills and loans amid falling property prices
in the emirate.  
 The Supreme Committee also named a new board for the
 Economic Zones World , an investment company owned by the
emirate’s government, the Dubai Media Office said in the
statement. Hisham Abdullah Al Shirawi will be the new chairman
of the Dubai government-owned builder of business parks.  
 Economic Zones World agreed in June 2008 to buy Wal-Mart
Stores Inc.’s international warehouse and logistics-center
development business Gazeley Ltd. for an undisclosed sum.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Glen Carey  in Riyadh at 
 gcarey8@bloomberg.net ;
 Mourad Haroutunian  in Riyadh at 
 mharoutunian@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        