-- Most Read on Bloomberg: Global Stocks Slide, Wall Street Hires, ECB Lends
-- Audrey Barker
-- 2010-07-03T07:22:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-03/most-read-on-bloomberg-global-stocks-slide-wall-street-hires-ecb-lends.html

          
          
             The following list comprises the
most-read Bloomberg News reports from the past week.  
 STORIES  
 1. Stocks Slide, Treasuries Jump on Concern Over China  
 June 29 (Bloomberg) -- Stocks sank from Shanghai to New
York, with the MSCI World Index losing the most in 14 months,
and two-year Treasury yields slid to a record low on concern
over weakening growth in China and a slump in U.S. consumer
confidence. The euro fell to an eight-year low versus the yen.  
 2. Wall Street Hiring Jumps as Guaranteed Bonuses Return  
 June 28 (Bloomberg) -- Leverage is back on Wall Street --
and this time it’s the bankers who have it.  
 3. Stocks, Commodities, Dollar Drop on Concern About Recovery  
 July 1 (Bloomberg) -- Stocks, commodities and the dollar
slumped as data on manufacturing, jobless claims and home sales
fueled concern the economic recovery is faltering. The yen
surged to a seven-month high versus the U.S. currency.  
 4. China Stocks Drop Signals 65% Rally to Morgan Stanley  
 June 30 (Bloomberg) -- China, the worst-performing stock
market after Greece, looks like a buy by almost any measure,
according to top-ranked analysts of the Asian nation’s shares.  
 5. ECB Lends Less Than Forecast in Three-Month Tender  
 June 30 (Bloomberg) -- The European Central Bank said it
will lend banks 131.9 billion euros ($161.5 billion) for three
months, less than economists forecast and a sign that the
region’s financial industry may be stronger than investors
estimated.  
 6. U.S. Economy: Private Payroll Growth Trails Forecasts  
 July 2 (Bloomberg) -- Private employers added fewer workers
to payrolls in June than forecast, reinforcing concerns the
recovery will weaken as Americans curtail spending.  
 7. U.S. Economy: Confidence Sinks on Concern Over Jobs  
 June 29 (Bloomberg) -- Confidence among U.S. consumers sank
in June more than forecast as Americans became distressed over
the outlook for jobs and incomes.  
 8. Morgan Stanley Said to Plan Hiring of 500 Bankers  
 July 1 (Bloomberg) -- Morgan Stanley, owner of the world’s
largest brokerage, hired 100 bankers to offer more products such
as jumbo mortgages and structured loans to Morgan Stanley Smith
Barney clients and may quintuple their numbers by the end of
2011, a person with knowledge of the strategy said.  
 9. U.S. Economy: Income Gains Boost Spending, Savings  
 June 28 (Bloomberg) -- Incomes grew faster than spending in
May, making it possible for American households to
simultaneously increase savings and support the economic
recovery.  
 10. ‘Deep Cover’ Spies Worked to Glean Data for Russia  
 June 30 (Bloomberg) -- Three of the accused “deep-cover”
Russian spies may have had jobs that put them in contact with
opinion makers, corporate executives or aspiring technology
industry workers.  
 COLUMNS  
 1. LeBron James Leaves Scorched-Earth Legacy: Scott Soshnick  
 June 30 (Bloomberg) -- Tomorrow, at long last, at an
undisclosed location in Ohio, two years of speculation and
salivation becomes something tangible. Our national sports
obsession -- make that international -- with all things LeBron
James takes a giant leap toward resolution.  
 2. Ibn Saud Wed 200 Virgins, Found Huge Oil Reserves: Lewis
Lapham  
 July 2 (Bloomberg) -- In 1932, the fierce warrior Ibn Saud
united the lands he conquered as the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia. To
refute rumors that he’d been made impotent in battle, Ibn Saud
would pick a village virgin, marry her on the spot and take her
into the royal tent.  
 3. IPhone-Haters With Big Paws May Love Droid X: Rich
Jaroslovsky  
 July 3 (Bloomberg) -- Apple Inc.’s new-product launches
tend to suck the oxygen from anyone else who dares unveil a
gadget around the same time. Such is the fate of the Droid X,
the sequel to the phone that launched Motorola Inc.’s comeback
effort last year.  
 4. Soros Talks Obama’s Book in Threat to Euro: Amity Shlaes  
 June 29 (Bloomberg) -- George Soros has been making what he
calls a “grave accusation” against Germany. The financier-
philanthropist said last week that Germany is endangering the
European Union by keeping wages down and pursuing a balanced
national budget too aggressively. Germany’s parsimonious
attitude, Soros suggests, may bring down the euro.  
 5. Congress Puts Out ‘Sell’ Order on American Banks: David Pauly  
 June 29 (Bloomberg) -- U.S. lawmakers and their Wall Street
supporters may have guaranteed another financial disaster like
the one we’re still recovering from.  
 MULTIMEDIA  
 1. Germany, Argentina Reach Last Eight at World Cup  
 June 28 (Bloomberg) -- Three-time champion Germany beat
England 4-1 yesterday to reach a soccer World Cup quarterfinal
against Argentina, a 3-1 winner against Mexico. Both games were
overshadowed by controversial decisions from match officials.
(Source: BBC) (Not available due to ESPN restrictions.)  
 2. Rogers Says He’s ‘Short’ Emerging Market, Nasdaq ETFs  
 June 30 (Bloomberg) -- Jim Rogers, chairman of Rogers
Holdings, talked with Bloomberg-UTV’s Rahul Arora yesterday
about his investment strategy for global stocks.  
 3. RCM’s Dwane Says 2011 Profit Estimates ‘Too Aggressive’  
 June 29 (Bloomberg) -- Neil Dwane, chief investment officer
for Europe at Allianz Global Investors’ RCM unit, talks about
the outlook for the global economy and his equities investment
strategy.  
 4. Gross Says 10-Year Treasuries Are ‘Decently Valued’  
 July 2 (Bloomberg) -- Bill Gross, manager of the world’s
biggest bond fund at Pacific Investment Management Co., talks
about the Treasury market and investment strategy.  
 5. Ira Jersey Discusses Bond Market, Inflation  
 June 30 (Bloomberg) -- Ira Jersey, director of interest-
rate strategy at Credit Suisse Securities, talks about the
outlook for the bond market and inflation.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Audrey Barker  in New York at 
 Abarker3@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        