-- Poles Vote in Presidential Election That May End Rift With Prime Minister
-- Monika Rozlal
-- 2010-07-04T16:48:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-03/poles-vote-in-presidential-election-that-may-end-rift-with-prime-minister.html

          
          
             Polish voters are casting ballots
today in a presidential runoff that may determine how quickly
the country moves forward with efforts to reduce the budget
deficit and adopt the euro.  
 Bronislaw Komorowski  of Prime Minister  Donald Tusk’s  Civic
Platform garnered 41.5 percent of the vote in the first round of
balloting two weeks ago, compared with 36.5 percent for  Jaroslaw Kaczynski  of the Law & Justice Party. Some opinion polls this
week showed the race had narrowed and was too close to call. By
5 p.m., 42.1 percent of voters had cast ballots, more than at
the same hour in the June 20 first round. Voting ends at 8 p.m.,
when the first exit polls will be announced  
 A win for Komorowski, 58, would end a rift with the cabinet
that arose under the late President  Lech Kaczynski  and help Tusk
trim a budget  deficit  that widened to 7.1 percent of gross
domestic product last year, more than twice the European Union
limit. Lech Kaczynski, Jaroslaw’s twin brother, died in an April
10 plane crash in Russia.  
 “It seems quite easy to predict what will happen under a
Komorowski presidency: He will cooperate with the government and
they will start reforms,” said Olgierd Annusewicz, a political
scientist at Warsaw University. If Kaczynski wins, the
government will “need to find ways of passing new legislation
despite a quite difficult political constellation.”  
 Jaroslaw Kaczynski, 61, performed better than opinion polls
forecast in the first round of voting. The mean of 17 polls
taken in the three weeks before the June 20 vote predicted an 11
percentage point margin of victory for Komorowski, compared with
the 5-point spread in the final result.  
 Parties Clash  
 Civic Platform and Law & Justice have clashed for five
years. Lech Kaczynski unexpectedly won the presidency over Tusk
in 2005. Two years later, Tusk’s party took control of
parliament after Law & Justice lost its mandate. Since then,
Civic Platform has said its efforts to modernize Poland were
blocked by  Lech Kaczynski .  
 The president represents Poland abroad, is head of the army
and can veto legislation. Overriding a veto requires a three-
fifths majority in parliament.  
 Lech Kaczynski died when a plane carrying many of Poland’s
top civilian and military officials crashed outside Smolensk,
Russia, killing all 96 people on board. They were on their way
to honor 22,000 Polish prisoners of war killed by Soviet secret
police in the Katyn forest in 1940.  
 Urban, Rural Split  
 Jaroslaw Kaczynski is strongest in rural areas and eastern
Poland, where unemployment rates are higher than the national
average of 11.9 percent and many residents say they haven’t
shared in the benefits of EU membership. Komorowski does better
among urban voters and those in western parts of the country.  
 In the first round of voting, Kaczynski outpolled
Komorowski 45.3 percent to 31.0 percent in rural districts. By
contrast, Komorowski received 46.0 percent in urban areas to
Kaczynski’s 31.8 percent.  
 Law & Justice last year called for increased spending to
offset the impact of the global economic crisis. Kaczynski has
campaigned to raise benefits for older people and boost the
minimum salary.  
 “Poland has to be fair to every Pole,” Kaczynski said
June 24 in the southeastern city of Rzeszow. Civic Platform
intends to “make richer regions that are already rich,” he
said.  
 While Kaczynski has opposed setting a deadline for joining
the euro, Komorowski said June 14 that Poland needs a target
date to “create pressure” for meeting the fiscal requirements
of membership.  
 Spending Proposals  
 Tusk’s government has proposed limiting increases in
discretionary spending to no more than 1 percent above
inflation, saving an estimated 9 billion zloty ($2.7 billion) a
year by 2013. That will help narrow the deficit to less than the
EU limit of 3 percent of GDP within three years, Finance
Minister  Jacek Rostowski  said June 11.  
 Twenty-five percent of Kaczynski’s supporters favored
adopting the euro, compared with 68 percent of those who backed
Komorowski, according to an April survey of 1,056 people by
Warsaw-based researcher CBOS.  
 “I’ve got well-off children and grandchildren who are
studying,” said Miroslaw Zietek, a 68-year-old pensioner from
Bydgoszcz, about 220 kilometers (137 miles) northwest of Warsaw.
“I want to live in a country that belongs to Europe, has modern
economy and reasonable government.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Dorota Bartyzel  in Warsaw at 
 dbartyzel@bloomberg.net 
 Monika Rozlal  in Warsaw at 
 mrozlal@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Exit polls in Poland's presidential election show Bronislaw Komorowski with a slight edge over the late president's identical twin brother, Jaroslaw Kaczynski. Photographer: Janek Skarzynski/AFP/Getty Images  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
