-- Rafael Nadal Favored to Beat Tomas Berdych for Second Wimbledon Title
-- Danielle Rossingh
-- 2010-07-03T23:01:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-03/rafael-nadal-favored-to-beat-tomas-berdych-for-second-wimbledon-title.html

          
          
             A year after sore knees left him
unable to defend his Wimbledon title,  Rafael Nadal  is favored to
win his second title at the All England Club.  
 The second-seeded Nadal is the 2-7 favorite to beat  Tomas Berdych  in today’s championship match at U.K. bookmaker
Ladbrokes. That means a successful $7 bet would return $2 plus
the original stake. Berdych, the No. 12 seed from the Czech
Republic, is at 5-2.  
 “He’s the best of his half of the draw, so for that reason
he’s in the final,” Nadal said of Berdych, who ousted six-time
champion  Roger Federer  of Switzerland in the quarterfinals.
“Not one opponent can be more difficult than Tomas to play this
final.”  
 In his three previous Wimbledon finals, the 24-year-old
Nadal faced Federer. The Spaniard lost the 2006 and 2007
championship matches against the Swiss, and then defeated
Federer in an epic five-set match in 2008.  
 Berdych has been coached by Tomas Krupa since January 2009.
He started played tennis when he was 5 and won the Czech
Republic 12-and-under junior title.  
 He’s trying to become the second Czech man to win the
Wimbledon singles title, joining 1973 champion Jan Kodes. He’s
the first Czech man to reach the championship match on the
London grass courts since  Ivan Lendl  in 1987.  
 Berdych, 24, said making his first Grand Slam semifinal at
last month’s French Open -- in his 27th major -- boosted his
belief that he can win a title.  
 “I really improved, got more and more confidence after
semis in Paris,” Berdych said yesterday in a news conference.
“It just gave me the point of view that there is a real chance
to play, to beat all those top players.”  
 Betting on Nadal  
 Betting companies are counting on a Nadal win.  
 The Spaniard is 11-8 to win his eighth major title in
straight sets against Berdych.  
 “Anything other than an easy Nadal win would be a
surprise,” David Williams of Ladbrokes said in an e-mailed
statement. “Punters are backing him as if defeat is out of the
question.”  
 Nadal has defeated the Czech in six straight matches and 14
consecutive sets.  
 Nadal won 6-3, 7-6 (8-6), 6-4 in the semifinals against
 Andy Murray , who was trying to become the first British man to
reach the Wimbledon final since 1938. Berdych advanced to the
final by winning 6-3, 7-6 (11-9), 6-3 against third-seeded  Novak Djokovic  of Serbia.  
 “You need to be aggressive, and don’t give him too many
chances, and play my game,” Berdych said yesterday about facing
the No. 1 player in the world rankings. “My game is to be
aggressive on court.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Danielle Rossingh  at Wimbledon through the London sports
desk at   drossingh@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        