-- Treasurer Swan Says Mining Tax Negotiations `Got Fair Value' for Australia
-- Ben Sharples
-- 2010-07-03T06:38:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-03/treasurer-swan-says-mining-tax-negotiations-got-fair-value-for-australia.html

          
          
             Australia’s proposed tax on mining
profits delivers economic reform for the long-term and provides
“fair value” to the public in the world’s biggest exporter of
coal and iron ore, Treasurer  Wayne Swan  said.  
 “We as a country need a profits-based tax because the
prices of our commodities are going to continue to increase,”
Swan said in an interview on Sky News. “Our terms of trade are
increasing and the Australian people are entitled to a better
share of those resources that they own 100 percent.”  
 Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  agreed to cut the planned tax
to 30 percent from 40 percent and raise the levy’s trigger
level, a week after ousting  Kevin Rudd  as the nation’s leader to
defuse a row that’s damped the government’s election prospects.
Xstrata Plc, which led the campaign against the initial tax
proposal with  BHP Billiton Ltd.  and Rio Tinto Group, resumed
work yesterday on a copper project in Queensland state.  
 “The broader industry hasn’t been consulted,” said  Gavin Wendt , senior resource analyst with Mine Life Pty Ltd. in
Sydney. “So far it’s only been BHP, Rio and Xstrata. You’d have
to think that whatever’s been reached is going to be favorable
to the big companies, and not necessarily for the small to mid-
sized companies.”  
 Gillard’s compromise minerals tax takes effect July 1,
2012. It will apply only to coal and iron ore mines and affect
320 companies instead of the 2,500 under Rudd’s proposal. The
pact gives “certainty to the mining industry,” Gillard told
reporters today in Mackay, Queensland, according to an e-mailed
transcript from her office.  
 Work Restarts  
 Xstrata, which had shelved spending on A$6.6 billion of
projects in Australia, resumed work on a A$586 million expansion
at its Ernest Henry copper mine after the tax announcement. The
company, based in Zug, Switzerland, is the world’s fourth-
largest copper producer.  
 Fortescue Metals Group Ltd. , Australia’s third-largest iron
ore miner, and Xstrata had suspended work on a total of $21
billion of projects because of the tax.  
 Projects also will be entitled to a 25 percent extraction
allowance that reduces taxable profits, and mining companies
will be allowed to use the market value of a mine instead of the
book value for the purposes of the tax. Rudd sought the tax to
pay for infrastructure, retirement and company levy reforms.  
 As part of the change, the 26-year-old Petroleum Resource
Rent Tax will be extended to cover onshore as well as offshore
oil and gas projects.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ben Sharples  in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        