-- Russia Is Welcome to Join in Missile Defense, Clinton Tells Polish Leaders
-- Lucian Kim
-- 2010-07-03T14:54:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-03/russia-is-welcome-to-join-in-missile-defense-clinton-tells-polish-leaders.html

          
          
             Russia is still welcome to join a
trans-Atlantic missile defense shield even as the U.S. pushes to
make the system operational earlier than originally planned,
Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  said.  
 “We continue to look to cooperate with Russia on missile
defense because we think that’s in our mutual interest,”
Clinton said at a meeting with her Polish counterpart  Radoslaw Sikorski  in Krakow, Poland. “Thus far there has not been a
willingness by Russia to respond positively, but the door is
open.”  
 Polish and U.S. officials today signed an amendment to an
agreement initiated by former-President  George W. Bush  on
deploying elements of a missile defense shield to Poland. While
President  Barack Obama  last year scrapped the Bush-era plan to
base interceptor missiles on Polish soil, the amendment foresees
using an existing  SM-3 missile defense system  in Poland.  
 The change will allow missile defense to protect areas of
Europe from attacks by states such as Iran “years earlier”
than planned, according to Clinton. It also goes from a
unilateral U.S. initiative to a commitment bringing in the
entire North Atlantic Treaty Organization, she said. U.S.
officials didn’t say when the system will become operational in
Poland.  
 “This is purely a defensive system,” Clinton told
reporters. “It’s not directed at Russia. It does not threaten
Russia.”  
 Poland favors the new plan over the old Bush plan because
it uses existing technology and is capable of defending against
a bigger range of threats, Sikorski said.  
 “We want the facility to be as transparent as possible,”
he said. “We’d like the Russian Federation in particular to
have confidence that the facility is built for the declared
aims.”  
 Reciprocal inspections are possible, Sikorski said.  
 Clinton is on a four-day trip through five countries that
until two decades ago were either part of the Soviet Union or
under its influence. She was in Ukraine yesterday and travels on
to Azerbaijan, Armenia and Georgia after Poland.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Lucian Kim  in Krakow at  lkim3@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        