-- Saudi Arabian Stocks Fall to Lowest in Four Weeks, Led by Samba and Sabic
-- Mourad Haroutunian
-- 2010-07-03T13:34:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-03/saudi-arabia-stocks-fall-to-lowest-in-four-weeks-led-by-riyad-bank-sabic.html

          
          
             Petrochemical companies and banks led
Saudi shares to retreat for a fifth day, sending the  Tadawul All
Share Index  to its lowest level in almost a month.  
 Saudi Basic Industries Corp. , the world’s largest
petrochemical maker,  Samba Financial Group , the kingdom’s
second-biggest bank by market value, and  Saudi British Bank 
paced the decline, as all 15 industry groups dropped. The index
fell 1 percent to 6,033.91, the lowest level since June 8.  
 “It should be of little surprise that Saudi shares are
down today, given that global equities were in a downward mode
over the past two days and oil is down to $72,” said  John Sfakianakis , chief economist at Banque Saudi Fransi in Riyadh.
It is Tadawul’s longest losing streak since May 25.  
 European and U.S. stocks declined after reports showing
slower-than-estimated growth in U.S. jobs and factory orders and
amid concern China’s economy has slowed. The  Stoxx Europe 600
Index  lost 4.5 percent this week, the biggest drop for six
weeks. The  Dow Jones Industrial Average  recorded its first
seven-day losing streak since 2008.  
 Crude oil for August delivery fell 1.1 percent yesterday to
$72.14 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange, the lowest
settlement since June 8. Prices slipped 8.5 percent in five
days, the biggest weekly drop since the week ended May 7.  
 Worries about second-quarter results for Saudi companies
also contributed to the decline. Younas Malick, senior economist
at the National Commercial Bank in Jeddah, said that “although
earnings will be fine and supportive to the market, investors
are worried about the unknown ripple impact of the global
recovery and the US market in particular.”  
 Saudi Basic Declines  
 Saudi Basic, or Sabic, decreased 2 percent to 84 riyals
($22.40). Samba declined 1.3 percent to 56.25 riyals, and Saudi
British dropped 3.1 percent to three-month low of 40.7 riyals.  
 Jabal Omar Development Co. , a real-estate developer in
Saudi Arabia’s holy city of Mecca, advanced 0.3 percent to 18.35
riyals after its second-quarter loss narrowed to 7.6 million
riyals from 18.3 million riyals in the year-earlier period.  
 Sabic’s  Saudi Arabian Fertilizer Co.  unit, known as Safco,
gained 4.1 percent to 133.7 riyals after it decided to
distribute a dividend of 1.5 billion riyals, or 6 riyals a
share, for the first half of the year.  
 Saudi Arabia’s index is the only Arab Gulf index tracked by
Bloomberg that trades on Saturday.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mourad Haroutunian  in Riyadh at 
 mharoutunian@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        