-- Serena Williams Wins at Wimbledon, Tops King With 13th Grand Slam Title
-- Danielle Rossingh
-- 2010-07-03T23:01:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-03/serena-williams-wins-at-wimbledon-tops-king-with-13th-grand-slam-title.html

          
          
             Summers used to be difficult for
 Serena Williams , whose dad made her and elder sister Venus
practice twice daily on the public tennis courts of the Los
Angeles suburb of Compton.  
 Williams raised 13 fingers yesterday to her father,
Richard, on the Centre Court of Wimbledon after beating Russia’s
 Vera Zvonareva  6-3, 6-2 for her fourth trophy on the London
grass courts. Her 13th Grand Slam singles title moved her one
ahead of mentor  Billie Jean King , who applauded the American
from the Royal Box.  
 “I hated the summers, because I think we had two practices
a day,” Williams said after the match in an interview with a
small group of reporters.  
 “We would always go in the morning, from 8 a.m. to 11
a.m., and then we would have lunch at the park and then right
after lunch we’d go back to practice. It was tough. But when
you’re that young, you don’t really think about it. At the time,
my dad would go sometimes next door to the liquor store to buy
us the latest sports drink. It’s all those memories and all that
hard work that you just never forget. And, eventually, it pays
off.”  
 At least one of the sisters has appeared in 10 of the last
11 Wimbledon finals.  
 Serena also won in 2002, 2003 and 2009. Venus won her fifth
title in 2008, beating her younger sister. In the past decade,
only Russia’s  Maria Sharapova  in 2004 and  Amelie Mauresmo  of
France in 2006 have broken the Williams’s domination.  
 Nadal-Berdych Final  
 Top-ranked  Rafael Nadal  of Spain will be seeking his second
Wimbledon title today in the men’s final against No. 12  Tomas Berdych  of the Czech Republic. Nadal has a 13-match winning
streak at Wimbledon.  
 Williams said she dedicated her fourth championship to her
serve. The No. 1-ranked player on the WTA Tour produced a new
Wimbledon women’s record of 89 aces on her way to the title. She
faced no break points against Zvonareva in the final.  
 “The French Open is why my serve is so good, because I
thought I served so bad in my quarterfinal match,” Williams
said.  
 After she blew a match point and lost to eventual Roland
Garros finalist  Samantha Stosur  of Australia in three sets,
Williams flew home right away.  
 “I usually take a day off,” Williams said. “But I went
straight home, and said I’m going to have to work on my serve
because if I serve like this again, I don’t know how much longer
I’m going to be out here.”  
 Williams Sixth  
 Williams now ranks sixth on the career list of major
winners. She is five Grand Slam titles behind  Chris Evert  and
 Martina Navratilova .  Margaret Smith Court  holds the record at
24, followed by  Steffi Graf  with 22 and Helen Wills Moody with
19.  
 Navratilova, a nine-time Wimbledon champion, told the
British Broadcasting Corp. yesterday that Williams, 28, is
“just head and shoulders above anyone else,” and that she
might catch Graf.  
 Williams doesn’t want to set such targets for herself.  
 “I’m still in my career, and I never look outside of it
while I’m in it because I don’t want to be like, ‘Oh wow, I’ve
done that, and I’ve done that,’” she said. “Because then I can
become happy and satisfied, and I will probably lose my desire.
I just really try to live in the moment and live for the day,
and not think too much.”  
 Williams said she celebrated by dancing around the
clubhouse holding the champion’s Venus Rosewater dish, with
 Frank Sinatra  singing “Fly Me to the Moon” in her head.  
 ‘My Lucky Number’  
 “Billie Jean, I got you,” she told her mentor during the
prize ceremony after ending the 67-minute match with a smash.
“This is No. 13 for me now. It’s actually my lucky number.”  
 Williams, who also triumphed at the Australian Open in late
January, spoke to King after yesterday’s victory.  
 “She just said good job, and she said she was proud of me,
and to keep going,” Williams said. “Go out there and win some
more.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Danielle Rossingh  at Wimbledon through the London sports
desk at   drossingh@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        