-- Singapore Denies U.S. Report That It Has Serious Human Trafficking Problem
-- Simeon Bennett
-- 2010-07-03T05:40:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-03/singapore-denies-u-s-report-that-it-has-serious-human-trafficking-problem.html

          
          
             Singapore doesn’t have a serious
human trafficking problem, its government said in a response to
a U.S. State Department report that said the city-state had
regressed in its battle against the practice.  
 The State Department last month put Singapore, Thailand and
Vietnam on a watchlist of middle-tier countries for trafficking,
one level above the worst offenders such as North Korea, Myanmar
and Saudi Arabia. Singapore showed an “ inadequate response ” to
sex trafficking with only two convictions last year, and didn’t
prosecute anybody under its forced labor laws, the report said.  
 The report’s reliance on reported and prosecution figures
was “superficial and perfunctory at best,” the government said
in a  six-page response  received today by e-mail. The low numbers
show that Singapore’s approach to combating trafficking in
persons, or TIP, has been effective, it said.  
 “Different countries adopt different approaches and it is
a matter of what works for each country,” the government said.
“Singapore will continue with its calibrated and pragmatic
approach to TIP issues, and review this if necessary, rather
than blindly follow a one-for-all operating model just to
achieve a better technical ranking on the US TIP Report.”  
 Singapore’s police conducted 2,600 anti-vice operations and
arrested 7,614 women for suspected vice activities last year,
compared with 1,400 operations and 5,047 arrests in 2008,
according to the statement. A total of 476 employers were
prosecuted for breaching their employment obligations, last year.
Authorities investigated 32 cases of alleged trafficking, and
prosecuted two, the government said.  
 “A low absolute number of reported and convicted cases is
therefore no basis for concluding that Singapore has a serious
TIP problem,” the government said. “Singapore takes a stern
view of practices leading to the exploitation or abuse of
vulnerable persons and we investigate and prosecute such
offences vigorously.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Simeon Bennett  in Singapore at 
 sbennett9@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        