-- Spain Beats Paraguay 1-0 in World Cup Play; Germany Defeats Argentina 4-0
-- Bob Bensch
-- 2010-07-03T21:41:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-03/spain-beats-paraguay-1-0-in-world-cup-play-germany-defeats-argentina-4-0.html

          
          
             Spain beat Paraguay 1-0 last night to
reach the semifinals of the World Cup for the first time.
Germany defeated Argentina 4-0, handing the South Americans
their worst loss at the tournament in 36 years.  
 David Villa  scored in the 83rd minute to give Spain the
quarterfinal victory in Johannesburg, while Germany’s  Miroslav Klose  scored twice in the second half in Cape Town. The two
teams meet July 7 in a rematch of Spain’s 1-0 victory in the
2008 European Champions final.  
 “We’ll be playing Germany again but it has nothing to do
with what happened two years ago,” Spain midfielder  Andres Iniesta  told reporters. “Germany has played a brilliant World
Cup so far, they must be tremendously motivated. We are keen to
progress as far as we can in this World Cup.”  
 The Netherlands will play Uruguay in the other semifinal
July 6. The Dutch knocked out favored Brazil two days ago and
Uruguay beat Ghana in a penalty shootout to become the only one
of four South American teams to win in the quarterfinals.  
 Villa’s goal capped a second half at Ellis Park in which
both goalkeepers stopped penalty kicks.  
 Spain’s Pedro Rodriguez hit the post with seven minutes
left and the ball went right to Villa, whose shot hit the right
post then bounced across the goal line and hit the left post
before going in for his tournament-leading fifth goal.  
 Spain’s  Iker Casillas  stopped Oscar Cardozo’s penalty in
the 59th minute and one minute later Spain’s Xabi Alonso scored
from the spot.  
 Re-kick, Rebound  
 Referee Carlos Batres, however, waved the goal off and
ruled players had encroached the penalty area. Paraguay’s Justo
Villar stopped Alonso’s re-kick and appeared to trip  Cesc Fabregas  in the area as he went for the rebound but no foul was
given.  
 Paraguay’s  Nelson Valdez  put the ball in the net in the
41st minute but it was disallowed for offside against Oscar
Cardozo.  
 Spain had lost its three previous trips to the
quarterfinals, while Paraguay was in the final eight for the
first time.  
 “I don’t feel happy or satisfied,” Paraguay coach Gerardo
Martino told reporters. “Making history was trying to be there
in the last week of this World Cup.”  
 Argentina suffered its worst World Cup loss since a 4-0
defeat to the Netherlands in 1974 and was ousted by Germany in
the quarterfinals for the second straight time.  
 “This is really like a kick in the face,” Argentina coach
 Diego Maradona  told reporters at Green Point Stadium. “I have
no more energy for anything.”  
 Klose Ties Muller      
 Klose now has 14 career World Cup goals to tie former
German striker  Gerd Muller  for second all-time, one behind
Brazil’s Ronaldo. Thomas Mueller and  Arne Friedrich  also scored.  
 “My team showed great resolve, great willingness to win,”
Germany coach  Joachim Loew  said at a news conference. “In doing
so, it wasn’t just high-level internationally, but a true
champion’s performance.”  
 Germany went in front less than three minutes into the game
as Mueller headed in  Bastian Schweinsteiger ’s free kick.  
 FIFA World Player of the Year  Lionel Messi  hit the German
wall with a free kick late in the first half and the ball wound
up in the net off the rebound, but the score was disallowed as
four Argentina players were offside.  
 Klose made it 2-0 by scoring off a pass from  Lukas Podolski 
in the 68th minute and Friedrich tapped in Schweinsteiger’s
cross six minutes later. Klose then scored his second goal in
the 89th minute.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bob Bensch  in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        