-- `Pete the Pirate' Tells U.K. to Steer Clear of Banker Shipmates
-- Andrew MacAskill
-- 2010-07-20T08:39:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-19/-pete-the-pirate-tells-fellow-britons-to-steer-clear-of-banker-shipmates.html

          
          
             Gordon Dickson learned something
during his transformation from  Bank of Scotland Plc  risk officer
and sterling millionaire to “Pete the Pirate,” an eyepatch-
wearing children’s entertainer -- don’t invest in banks.  
 The 62-year-old Glaswegian, also known as “Mr. Giggles,”
lost a million pounds ($1.52 million) when the bank shares he’d
bought over three decades collapsed during the financial crisis.
Now he advises fellow Britons to shun the government’s proposed
“People’s Bank Bonus,” the sale of taxpayer shares in  Royal
Bank of Scotland Group Plc  and Lloyds Banking Group Plc.  
 “Banks need to demonstrate their goodness before it’s safe
to buy again,” he said in an interview at his suburban home in
Renfrew,  Scotland . “I wouldn’t buy bank shares at the moment”
and other people should also steer clear, because share values
won’t rise “for a long, long time,” he said.  
 Britain’s new coalition government said last month that it
plans a cut-price sale of bank shares to the public to foster
what Prime Minister  David Cameron  termed “popular capitalism.”
Government  figures  show that the proportion of quoted shares
held by private individuals fell to a record low of 10 percent
at the end of 2008 from around 20 percent in 1990, when  Margaret Thatcher  was displaced as premier.  
 “Banks, as we have found over the last few years, are very
volatile investments,” said  Colin Morton , a fund manager at
Rensburg Fund Management in Leeds, England, who does not own
Lloyds or RBS shares. “The idea of encouraging people to invest
in one bank, even at a discount, is very risky. Who is to say
that we will not go through another downturn?”  
 Dividends Halted  
 RBS , which reported losses of 28 billion pounds in the last
two years, said it plans to return to profit in 2011. Lloyds
said in April it reported a quarterly profit for the first time
since 2008, without disclosing how much.  
 The credit crisis inflicted damage to the wealth of British
bank investors on two levels. Firstly, share values plunged,
with the  FTSE 350 Index  of Britain’s biggest banks losing 211
billion pounds of market capitalization between its February
2007 peak and March last year. Secondly, banks like Lloyds
halted dividend payments in 2008 and the U.K. lender has not yet
resumed them to its 2.5 million individual shareholders.  
 As the crisis developed, Dickson suffered months of
depression and an end to his early retirement as dividends dried
up. In 2008, he turned to “Pete the Pirate,” a children’s
party character he’d created as a hobby, for a way out of the
bind.  
 Magic and Puppets  
 The pirate charges about 200 pounds per event, works as
many as seven days a week and enjoys his job, Dickson said. He’s
hired at a range of events, including this month’s Scottish Open
 golf tournament  at Loch Lomond, where he entertained the
players’ children with a mixture of magic tricks, puppet shows,
games and dancing.  
 “I am ashamed to be known as a banker, I am much happier
being known as ‘Pete the Pirate,’” said Dickson, a married
father of two whose home is littered with pictures of his
daughters. “The bankers of old were very decent people, very
cautious people. We looked after other people’s money, we didn’t
speculate with it.”  
 Dickson joined Bank of Scotland in 1965 when he left school
and ended his career as a senior risk officer a year before the
merger with Halifax Building Society created HBOS Plc in 2001.
The combined entity came close to collapse in 2008 after other
banks refused to lend it money and was taken over by  Lloyds .
HBOS had a dividend yield of 6.97 percent at the end of 2007,
Bloomberg data show.  
 ‘Lost Focus’  
 “Somewhere along the way banks have lost their focus,”
said Dickson. “The banks need to rebuild the trust. It is like
virginity. Once it has gone, that’s it forever.”  
 Dickson says he is still in shock at the collapse of HBOS,
in part because its predecessor, Bank of Scotland, was founded
in 1695 and survived every previous crisis except the occupation
of Edinburgh by  Bonnie Prince Charlie ’s army in 1745, when it
was forced to close its doors.  
 The government has about 71.5 billion pounds invested in
bank stock after rescuing RBS, Lloyds and  Northern Rock Plc 
during the financial crisis. That equates to about 3,000 pounds
for every household in Britain, according to  U.K. Financial
Investments , which manages the taxpayer stakes.  
 Ministers announced the deepest spending cuts since World
War II last month to reduce a budget deficit standing at 156
billion pounds at the end of May. RBS Chief Executive Officer
 Stephen Hester  said in April the sale of the bank’s shares can
make a “very big dent” in the deficit.  
 ‘Special Offers’  
 In return for taxpayer support, Britons “would have the
chance to buy shares in the state-owned banks at a discounted
price,” the Conservatives  said  in February. “Special offers
would encourage younger people and those on modest incomes.”  
 The public sale would be one of several ways in which the
government’s 83 percent stake in  RBS  and 41 percent holding in
Lloyds are returned to private ownership. There is no timetable
for the sell-offs.  
 Opposition Labour party politicians have attacked the
“People’s Bonus” policy as a gimmick, warning the plan offered
a poor return to the taxpayer and describing it as an attempt to
buy votes.  
 Britons taking up the offer will be those willing to accept
high risk, according to  Tom Kirchmaier , who lectures on finance
and corporate governance at the  London School of Economics .
Those who have already lost money through bank shares “will
probably need a lot of convincing to do so again.”  
 Dickson accepts that as a risk officer he should have
spread his investments across more sectors.  
 ‘Terribly Sad’  
 “A lot of it was my own fault, having so much trust and
faith in the organization and not realizing life had moved on,”
said Dickson.  
 He and other savers should have been more alive to the
dangers, according to Kirchmaier. While it’s “terribly sad”
that people lost their savings during the financial crisis,
“everybody who invests in shares should know that it’s risky.”  
 Dickson says he ignored advice from family members that the
bank was in trouble and only woke up to the danger when lying on
a deck chair on holiday in Tenerife, the largest of the  Canary
Islands .  
 “I happened to look over at this person who had a
newspaper opened up that said ‘HBOS collapsed,’” Dickson said.
“I couldn’t even wait to buy a newspaper. I went over to this
guy and said ‘Excuse me, can I have this paper for a minute?’
And that’s when it became apparent.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew MacAskill  in London at 
 amacaskill@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Britain’s new coalition government said last month that it plans a cut-price sale of bank shares to the public to foster what Prime Minister David Cameron termed “popular capitalism.” Photographer: Christopher Furlong-WPA Pool/Getty Images  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
