-- `World Cup Effect' May Push South African Interest Rate Cut Into September
-- Nasreen Seria
-- 2010-07-20T12:03:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-19/-world-cup-effect-may-push-south-african-interest-rate-cut-into-september.html

          
          
             South African Reserve Bank Governor
 Gill Marcus  probably will resist calls this week from labor
unions and exporters to cut interest rates to prevent a rebound
in inflation. Investors are betting she’ll give way by year-end.  
 Policy makers will leave the  benchmark rate  at 6.5 percent
on July 22, according to 18 out of 26 economists  surveyed  by
Bloomberg. Traders are speculating the rate will drop later this
year: Bond yields have fallen as much as 43 basis points since
the end of June and  money-market futures  slumped to record lows.  
 Marcus may hold off on making the eighth interest rate
reduction since December 2008 after the soccer World Cup, which
ended on July 11, fueled price increases and enabled workers to
push for higher wages. A faltering  economic recovery  may prompt
her to change tack in September, forward rate agreements show,
making South Africa the only Group of 20 nation where paring
rates is still an option.  
 “There’s not enough evidence in the economic data to back
a cut at this meeting,”  Esther Law , an emerging-market rates
strategist at Societe Generale in London, said in a phone
interview. “The World Cup effect on growth and inflation isn’t
clear yet and there’s also wage increases to consider. The
market is definitely pricing in the risk of further cuts going
forward.”  
 Inflation  in Africa’s biggest economy has slowed for 14 of
the past 15 months, reaching 4.6 percent in May and giving the
Reserve Bank scope to reduce its key rate by 5.5 percentage
points since December 2008. The bank left the rate unchanged on
May 13 as South Africa’s economy began to recover from last
year’s 1.8 percent contraction.  
 ‘Hesitant, Fragile and Uneven’  
 The European debt crisis has weakened the outlook for
manufacturing and growth. The  purchasing managers’ index  fell
below 50 for the first time in eight months in June, indicating
shrinkage in factory output, Kagiso Securities Ltd. said on July
1. Europe accounts for almost a third of South African exports.  
 “The recovery is taking place, but it is hesitant, fragile
and uneven,” Marcus said in a speech in Johannesburg on July 7.
“Its sustainability will be dependent on the global recovery in
general and in Europe in particular.”  
 Money market investors are pricing in a more than 50
percent chance that policy makers will lower the key rate by
half a point on Sept. 9, compared with a 20 percent chance of a
cut this week, said  George Glynos , managing director of
 Econometrix Treasury Management , a fixed income advisory in
Johannesburg.  
 The cost of  three-month forward-rate agreements  slumped to
a record low of 6.21 percent today, almost 32 basis points below
the  Johannesburg interbank agreed rate . That’s the lowest so-
called FRA rate for cash contracts due in three months since the
central bank first introduced its repurchase rate in 1999.  
 Odd One Out  
 A rate cut would make South Africa the exception among G-20
peers such as Australia, Brazil, Canada and India, which have
raised interest rates this year, and the U.S., U.K. and the 16
nations sharing the euro, which have kept rates close to zero.
Russia, which dropped its key rate by a quarter point to 7.75
percent on June 1, said on June 30 that interest rates will
probably remain unchanged “in the coming months.”  
 Policy makers in South Africa, the fourth-poorest of the G-
20 nations based on  per-capita income , confront an economy that
shed 171,000 jobs in the first quarter, adding to the 870,000
lost last year. The nation’s  unemployment rate  of 25.2 percent
is the highest of 62 countries tracked by Bloomberg.  
 Finance Minister  Pravin Gordhan  said on July 8 that
economic growth moderated in the second quarter, after reaching
an annualized 4.6 percent in the first three months of the year.
While conditions are improving for consumers, “many South
Africans are still facing hardships,” he said.  
 Inflation  
 Rising wage and electricity costs may dissuade Marcus from
cutting interest rates this week. Labor unions won wage
increases of as much as 11 percent this year, almost double the
central bank’s inflation target.  
 “We are concerned about the job losses and we want to turn
the corner,”  Zwelinzima Vavi , general secretary of the Congress
of South African Trade Unions, said in an interview. “The only
way we can do that is to make money cheap for manufacturers so
that they can afford to borrow and expand firms and jobs.”  
 South Africa’s hosting of the World Cup may also have
driven up inflation as hotels and restaurants pushed up prices
and state-owned South African Airways increased rates for
domestic flights by as much as 50 percent, prompting
investigations by antitrust authorities.  
 Timing  
 Manufacturers, such as Johannesburg-based  Sasol Ltd. , the
world’s largest maker of motor fuel from coal, and
Vanderbijlpark-based  ArcelorMittal South Africa Ltd. , a unit of
the world’s biggest steelmaker, are calling for lower rates and
a weaker rand to stimulate growth.  
 “Rates should come down substantially to help businesses
who want to invest, stimulate consumer demand and weaken the
rand,” said  Roger Pitot , executive director of the
Johannesburg-based  National Association of Automotive Component
and Allied Manufacturers , which is calling for a 1 percentage
point cut at this week’s meeting.  
 “There’s a good likelihood rates will come down some time
this year,” said  Nigel Rendell , an emerging-market strategist
at RBC Capital in London. “The only issue is the timing.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Garth Theunissen  in Johannesburg 
 gtheunissen@bloomberg.net ;
 Nasreen Seria  in Johannesburg at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     South African Reserve Bank Governor Gill Marcus may hold off on making the eigth interest rate reduction since December 2008. Source: South African Reserve Bank via Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
