-- Abraaj Capital to Invest $700 Million in Mideast Companies, Speechley Says
-- Arif Sharif
-- 2010-07-19T09:47:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-19/abraaj-capital-to-invest-700-million-in-mideast-companies-speechley-says.html

          
          
             Abraaj Capital Ltd., a Dubai-based
buyout fund managing $6.6 billion, plans to buy stakes in more
than 100 small- and medium-sized Middle East companies over the
next four years to tap growth and boost productivity.  
 Abraaj will spend about $700 million from its Riyada
Enterprise Development fund along with partner investors to buy
“influential minority stakes” in companies, Tom Speechley, an
executive director at  Abraaj , said in an interview in Dubai
yesterday. “Our first five investments are currently in the
execution phase and another five close to execution.”  
 Small and medium-sized enterprises, which account for 70
percent of the employment in the Middle East and North Africa
region, only contribute 28 percent of gross domestic product, so
there is an “opportunity” to boost productivity, he said.  
 Gulf Arab economies pump more than 20 percent of the
world’s crude oil and have been spending tens of billions of
dollars on infrastructure and industry to boost growth. Oil
exporting economies of the Middle East and North Africa will
expand by an average 4.2 percent this year and by 4.6 percent in
2011, according to the  International Monetary Fund .  
 Abraaj set up the $500 million Riyada fund last year to
feed smaller country funds and focus on small and medium
enterprises. In June, Overseas Private Investment Corp.
committed $150 million to the fund following U.S. President
 Barack Obama ’s announcement last year that the U.S. would start
an investment fund to support technological development in
Muslim-majority countries.  
 Development  
 “We are investing for profit but we know there will be a
positive, developmental impact because the SME segment is vital
to the economies of the region,” said Speechley at Abraaj’s
office at the Dubai International Financial Center.  
 Abraaj plans to invest in health care, manufacturing,
education, information and communication technologies,
logistics, agribusiness and food industries in countries that
include Egypt, Lebanon, Jordan, Algeria, Pakistan and Turkey,
the Palestinian territories and the six Gulf Arab nations that
make up the Gulf Cooperation Council.  
 “We are looking at 30 to 40 percent ownership and in some
cases majority ownership so that we have enough involvement in
the business and a sense of partnership with the entrepreneur,”
Speechley said. Investments will range from $500,000 to $15
million, he said.  
 Abraaj has previously invested in small and medium
companies through other funds and generated average returns of
5.7 times its original cost from 14 such deals, the company said
in a statement.  
 Private Equity Deals  
 One of the Middle East’s biggest private equity firms,
Abraaj has invested in 35 transactions across 11 countries since
being set up in 2002. It owns stakes in  Air Arabia PJSC , the
Middle East’s oldest low-cost carrier, and Turkish hospital
company Acibadem Healthcare Group.  
 Abraaj last year cut the size of its fourth buyout fund by
half to $2 billion due to a “tight funding environment” and on
expectations of a decline in the average deal size as asset
prices dropped, according to the firm’s annual report.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Arif Sharif  in Dubai at   asharif2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        