-- AFK Sistema, Gazprom, Polyus Gold May Move: Russian Stock Market Preview
-- Yuriy Humber
-- 2010-07-19T02:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-19/afk-sistema-gazprom-polyus-gold-may-move-russian-stock-market-preview.html

          
          
             The following companies may have
unusual price changes in Russian trading. Stock symbols are in
parentheses and share prices are from the previous close.  
 Russia’s 30-stock  Micex Index  fell 0.9 percent to 1,327.55
at the July 16 close in Moscow. The dollar-denominated  RTS Index 
fell 1 percent to 1,389.92.  
 AFK Sistema  (AFKC RX): Russia will require all cell phone
makers to provide handsets compliant with the Glonass navigation
network, a rival to the U.S. Global Positioning System, for use
in the country. Devices not equipped with a Glonass chip will be
banned after Russia adopts a law requiring the use of the new
system, billionaire  Vladimir Yevtushenkov , whose AFK Sistema
promotes commercial use of the system, said in a briefing with
Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin . Sistema fell 1.1 percent to 27.12
rubles.  
 OAO Gazprom  (GAZP RX): Azerbaijan’s Energy Minister, Natig
Aliyev, said the country doesn’t want investors other than
current partner BP Plc to develop its natural-gas field at Shah
Deniz. Gazprom Chief Executive Officer  Alexei Miller  said last
month that the Russian company would consider buying a stake in
Shah Deniz if offered.  
 Also, Russia and Bulgaria agreed July 17 on the Gazprom-led
South Stream pipeline project and lower gas prices for Bulgaria,
Interfax reported. Gazprom fell 1.2 percent to 155.28 rubles.  
 OAO Polyus Gold  (PLZL RX):  Evgeny Ivanov , chief executive
officer of Russia’s biggest producer of the precious metal, said
the company will consider any losses of mining licenses in
Kazakhstan due to a current investigation “unlawful”  and
would take action. Polyus fell 1.8 percent to 1,418.98 rubles.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Yuriy Humber  in Moscow at 
 yhumber@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        