-- Africa's Standby Security Force to Start by Year-End, African Union Says
-- Fred Ojambo
-- 2010-07-19T13:11:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-19/african-standby-security-force-to-start-by-year-end-african-union-says.html

          
          
             Africa’s proposed standby conflict-
intervention force will become operational before the end of
this year, the African Union Commission said.  
 Regional units of the force are training the personnel,
some of whom will be ready for deployment in September,  Ramtane Lamamra , the commissioner for peace and security, said today in
an interview in the Ugandan capital, Kampala. Africa’s eastern,
southern, central, western and northern regions will each
provide 5,000 soldiers, police officers and civilians, he said.  
 “The five regional brigades are training their officers,”
said Lamamra.  
 The African Union summit will have the authority to deploy
the force to fight terrorism, drug trafficking, piracy and to
work in conflict zones, he said. The headquarters will be in
Addis Ababa, Ethiopia, he said.  
 The African Union Commission is liaising with the United
Nations and other international agencies for financial and
military hardware support for the proposed force, Lamamra said.  
 More countries are willing to send troops to Somalia to
stem the spread of terrorism by the al-Shabaab group after it
claimed responsibility for the twin bombings in Kampala that
killed 76 people and injured dozens of others watching the final
of the soccer World Cup played in South Africa on July 11, he
said, without providing details.  
 More Troops  
 Uganda has 2,700 soldiers in Somalia and Burundi has 2,550,
according to the website of the  Francophone Research Network on
Peace Operations .  
 Ethiopia, Kenya, Uganda, Sudan and Djibouti, through their
Intergovernmental Agency for Development, plan to
“immediately” send an extra 2,000 troops to Somalia, and the
UN Security Council pledged to help raise another 20,000 troops
to stem the spread of terrorism, the Ugandan presidency said on
July 5.  
 Somalia is in its 19th year of civil war and hasn’t had a
functioning central administration since the overthrow of former
dictator  Mohamed Siad Barre  in 1991.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Fred Ojambo  in Kampala via Johannesburg at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        