-- AIG's Tucker Said to Tell AIA Staff He'll Triple Unit's Value
-- Hugh Son
-- 2010-07-19T22:22:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-19/aig-s-tucker-said-to-tell-staff-he-ll-triple-aia-s-value-to-100-billion.html

          
          
             Mark Tucker , who was named head of
 American International Group Inc. ’s main Asia division, told
staff that he plans to triple the unit’s value to $100 billion,
according to a person with knowledge of his remarks.  
 Tucker, 52, said during a town-hall style meeting yesterday
in Hong Kong that being chief executive officer of  AIA Group
Ltd.  will be his last job, according to the person, who declined
to be identified because the meeting was private. AIG CEO  Robert Benmosche  introduced Tucker at the gathering, the person said.  
 Tucker has to quell employee anxiety and retain workers
after replacing  Mark Wilson , who held management positions at
AIA since 2006 and was CEO of the division for more than a year.
AIG, which is divesting subsidiaries to repay loans in its
$182.3 billion U.S. bailout, plans to hold an initial public
offering of AIA after a $35.5 billion deal to sell the unit to
Prudential Plc fell apart in May.  
 “There’s a lot of uncertainty at the organization after
Wilson was forced out,” said  Clark Troy , an analyst for
research firm Aite Group. Tucker is “trying to calm them
down.”  
 Tucker declined to be interviewed, said  Mark Herr , a
spokesman for New York-based AIG. Tucker, named head of AIA
yesterday, is former CEO of Prudential and had 15 years of
experience building the London-based insurer’s Asia operations,
Benmosche said yesterday in an employee memo. Benmosche had
clashed with Wilson over how to divest the unit.  
 ‘Ready to Go’  
 Benmosche, who started at AIG in August, said in the memo
that the management change at AIA was needed to prepare for the
division’s IPO. Benmosche had demanded more control over AIA
last month at a board meeting, pushing for Wilson’s dismissal,
said a person with knowledge of the event.  Harvey Golub  stepped
down last week as AIG’s chairman after the board rejected a
reduced bid from Prudential that Benmosche had supported.  
 The unit’s public offering would be “ready to go in the
coming months when market conditions are optimal,” Benmosche
said in the letter, adding that he couldn’t speculate about the
precise timing. Wilson will assist Tucker through the end of
this year, AIG said.  
 AIA has more than 23 million customers and offices in at
least 15 countries including China, India and Australia. The
unit had about $1.44 billion in operating profit in 2009, down
from $1.59 billion in 2008, Prudential said in a March filing.  
 Asian Expansion  
 AIA’s value could have been boosted by 80 percent within
three years of a takeover, Prudential CEO  Tidjane Thiam  told
investors while trying to convince them to approve the deal.
Shareholders balked at the $35.5 billion price, leading to the
deal’s collapse. Thiam is Tucker’s successor at Prudential.  
 Tucker stepped down as CEO of Prudential in September after
four years at the helm of the U.K.’s biggest insurer. During his
tenure, Tucker pulled out of a separate bid to buy AIA,
continued to expand sales in the company’s Asian unit and raised
the share price 35 percent.  
 After completing the firm’s planned IPO, Tucker may bid for
Prudential Asia Corp., the unit he ran from 1993 to 2003,
according to Panmure Gordon & Co.’s  Barrie Cornes .  
 Tucker’s appointment “raises the possibility that Pru
might be able to sell its Asian operation to AIA at some later
date,” said Cornes, who has a “buy” rating on Prudential.
“AIA may well be able to finance such a deal via its Hong Kong
listing.”  Edward Brewster , a spokesman for Prudential, didn’t
immediately return a phone call seeking comment.  
 Treasury Department  
 The U.S. Treasury Department, which helped fund AIG’s
bailout, was told by AIG’s bankers that the company may
eventually garner $35.5 billion by taking the unit public. The
company may first sell a portion of its AIA holding in an
offering in Hong Kong and then divest its remaining stake at a
pace determined by market conditions.  
 Tucker approached regulators and potential investors in
Asia about the possibility of selling AIA stakes of more than $5
billion to hasten its independence from AIG, the Financial Times
reported.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Hugh Son  in New York at 
 hson1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Mark Tucker head of American International Group Inc.’s main Asia division. Source: HBOS via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 20 (Bloomberg) -- Clark Troy, an analyst for research firm Aite Group, talks with Bloomberg's Susan Li about the outlook for AIA Group Ltd., American International Group Inc.’s main Asia division.
     Mark Tucker, who was named head of AIA, told staff that he plans to triple the unit’s value to $100 billion, according to a person with knowledge of his remarks. (Source: Bloomberg)
  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 19 (Bloomberg) -- Ben McLannahan of the Financial Times' Lex commentary team discusses American International Group Inc.'s appointment of Mark Tucker as chief executive officer of its Asian unit, a sign that AIG may eventually be planning a takeover bid of Prudential Plc's division in the region. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 19 (Bloomberg) -- Bloomberg's Margaret Brennan reports on major newsmakers in today's Movers & Shakers. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
