-- AIG Said to Select Tucker to Succeed AIA's Wilson
-- Kevin Crowley
-- 2010-07-19T07:19:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-19/aig-said-to-select-tucker-to-succeed-aia-s-wilson.html

          
          
             American International Group Inc. ,
the insurer bailed out by the U.S. government, named  Mark Tucker 
as chief executive officer of AIA Group Ltd. as it pushes ahead
with plans for a Hong Kong initial public offering of its Asian
life unit.  
 Tucker, a former Asia and group chief executive of
 Prudential Plc , was also named executive chairman, AIG said in
an e-mailed statement.  Mark Wilson , AIA’s current CEO, will stay
until the end of the year to ensure a smooth transition before
leaving to “pursue other opportunities,” it added.  
 AIA was the subject of a $35.5 billion takeover bid from
Prudential, Tucker’s former employer, this year. AIG’s board
rejected a revised lower offer from Prudential after the U.K.
insurer struggled to win over its investors at the previously
agreed price. Harvey Golub, AIA’s former chairman, stepped down
last week after falling out with  Robert Benmosche , AIG’s chief
executive officer, for blocking the sale to Prudential.  
 “After reviewing various options to monetize AIA’s
substantial value, we have concluded that an IPO is our best
option,” Benmosche said in today’s statement. “Mark Tucker has
the public company experience, track record, relationships,
judgment, and leadership qualities that will help us accomplish
our ambitious goals of not just taking a company of AIA’s size
and scope public, but building on this great platform for the
long term to create Asia’s pre-eminent, publicly traded
insurance company.”  
 Prudential  
 Tucker, 52, stepped down as group CEO of Prudential in
September last year after four years at the helm of the U.K.’s
biggest insurer. During his tenure, Tucker pulled out of a
separate bid to buy AIA, continued to grow sales in the
company’s Asian unit and raised the share price 35 percent.  
 Before taking up the top job in May 2005, Tucker spent two
years as finance director at HBOS Plc, formerly the U.K.’s
biggest mortgage lender. Previously, he spent 18 years at
Prudential, a decade of which was as head of its Asian division.
When he announced his departure from the insurer in March 2009,
the Briton said he had “one more big job in me.”  
 Benmosche, 66, needs to divest the Asia business to help
repay $182.3 billion of government rescue money. Earlier this
year, he and Wilson disagreed over the proposed sale of AIA to
Prudential, with Wilson preferring an IPO, a person familiar
with the matter said.  
 Collapsed Deal  
 AIG had planned an IPO of AIA earlier this year until
Benmosche struck a deal in March to sell the unit to Prudential.
Wilson, who has led AIA since May 2009, told friends he’d step
down if the Prudential transaction was completed because of
doubts the integration would be successful, the Financial Times
reported May 25, citing an unidentified person.  
 The deal  collapsed  after Prudential investors balked at the
price and AIG directors including Golub rejected a reduced bid
that Benmosche had endorsed, a person familiar with the matter
said at the time. Benmosche threatened to quit at a June 25
board meeting unless Golub left the company, the person said.
The CEO also demanded more control over AIA and urged the board
to dismiss Wilson, the person said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bei Hu  in Hong Kong at 
 bhu5@bloomberg.net 
 Kevin Crowley  in London at 
 kcrowley1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 15 (Bloomberg) -- American International Group Inc. Chairman Harvey Golub stepped down from the bailed-out insurer after feuding with Chief Executive Officer Robert Benmosche over the stalled divestiture of an Asia division. Bloomberg's Sheila Dharmarajan reports. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
