-- AIG Hiring of Tucker May Trigger Bid for Prudential Unit
-- Bei Hu
-- 2010-07-19T09:49:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-19/aig-hiring-of-tucker-to-head-asia-may-trigger-bid-for-prudential-division.html

          
          
             American International Group Inc. ’s
appointment of  Mark Tucker  as chief executive officer of its
Asian unit shows AIG may eventually be planning a takeover bid
of  Prudential Plc ’s division in the region, analysts said.  
 AIA Group Ltd.  today named Tucker, who headed Prudential
for four years from 2005, as CEO and executive chairman,
replacing  Mark Wilson . After completing the firm’s planned
initial public offering, Tucker may bid for Prudential Asia
Corp., the unit he ran from 1993 to 2003, according to Panmure
Gordon & Co.’s  Barrie Cornes .  
 Tucker’s appointment “raises the possibility that Pru
might be able to sell its Asian operation to AIA at some later
date, once AIA has floated,” said London-based Cornes, who has
a “buy” rating on Prudential. “AIA may well be able to
finance such a deal via its Hong Kong listing.”  
 AIA was the subject of a $35.5 billion takeover bid from
Prudential, now run by Tidjane Thiam, this year. AIG’s board
rejected a revised lower offer from Prudential after the U.K.
insurer struggled to win over its investors at the previously
agreed price.  Harvey Golub , AIA’s former chairman, stepped down
last week after falling out with  Robert Benmosche , AIG’s chief
executive officer, for blocking the sale to Prudential.  
 “This news is likely to generate considerable speculation
that one of AIA’s first moves as a quoted company will be to
launch a bid for Prudential, with the aim of acquiring Pru’s own
Asian units and combine them with its own,” said  Eamonn Flanagan , a Liverpool, England-based analyst at Shore Capital
Plc who has a “buy” rating on Prudential.  
 AIA’s IPO  
 AIG will proceed as soon as possible with an IPO of AIA,
listing the division on the Hong Kong Stock Exchange, the New
York-based insurer said today in a statement. Former CEO  Hank Greenberg  said in June the insurer would struggle to reach the
$30 billion Prudential was eventually prepared to pay for the
division in an IPO.  
 “There’s a lot of knots they have to untangle before they
can raise money” by selling shares, said  Ben Collett , head of
equities at Louis Capital Markets (Hong Kong) Ltd. Replacing
Mark Wilson, AIA’s current CEO, may fuel “uncertainty” around
the offering, he said.  
 Wilson will stay at AIA until the end of the year to ensure
a smooth transition before leaving to “pursue other
opportunities,” AIG said today in the statement.  
 Tucker, 52, stepped down as group CEO of Prudential in
September last year after four years at the helm of the U.K.’s
biggest insurer. During his tenure, Tucker pulled out of a
separate bid to buy AIA, continued to expand sales in the
company’s Asian unit and raised the share price 35 percent.  
 Departed Last Year  
 Before taking up the top job in May 2005, Tucker spent two
years as finance director at  HBOS Plc , formerly the U.K.’s
biggest mortgage lender. Previously, he spent 18 years at
Prudential, a decade of which was as head of its Asian division.
When he announced his departure from the insurer in March 2009,
the Briton said he had “one more big job in me.”  
 Tucker didn’t immediately respond to a request for comment.  
 Benmosche, 66, needs to divest the Asia business to help
repay $182.3 billion of government rescue money. Earlier this
year, he and Wilson disagreed over the proposed sale of AIA to
Prudential, with Wilson preferring an IPO, a person with
knowledge of the matter said.  
 AIG had planned an IPO of AIA earlier this year until
Benmosche struck a deal in March to sell the unit to Prudential.
Wilson, who has led AIA since May 2009, told friends he’d step
down if the Prudential transaction was completed because of
doubts the integration would be successful, the Financial Times
reported May 25, citing an unidentified person.  
 The deal  collapsed  after Prudential investors balked at the
price and AIG directors including Golub rejected a reduced bid
that Benmosche had endorsed, a person with knowledge of the
matter said at the time. Benmosche threatened to quit at a June
25 board meeting unless Golub left the company, the person said.
The CEO also demanded more control over AIA and urged the board
to dismiss Wilson, the person said.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Bei Hu  in Hong Kong at 
 bhu5@bloomberg.net ;
 Kevin Crowley  in London at 
 kcrowley1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     AIA Group Ltd announced Mark Tucker as CEO and executive chairman. Source: HBOS via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 19 (Bloomberg) -- Ben McLannahan of the Financial Times' Lex commentary team discusses American International Group Inc.'s appointment of Mark Tucker as chief executive officer of its Asian unit, a sign that AIG may eventually be planning a takeover bid of Prudential Plc's division in the region. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
