-- Malaysia Food Companies to Refrain From Raising Prices After Subsidies Cut
-- Ranjeetha Pakiam
-- 2010-07-19T06:58:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-19/malaysia-food-companies-pledge-to-refrain-from-passing-on-price-increases.html

          
          
             Malaysian food and drinks companies
gave assurances that they won’t pass on higher sugar and fuel
costs to consumers after the government cut subsidies last week,
a minister said.  
 Representatives of almost 500,000 manufacturers,
restaurateurs and coffee-shop owners, including  Nestle Malaysia
Bhd.  and  Fraser & Neave Holdings Bhd. , met today with  Ismail Sabri Yaakob , Minister for Domestic Trade, Co-operatives and
Consumerism, to discuss potential risks to inflation.  
 “They have given the commitment to the government that
they will not raise prices of food and drink,” Ismail Sabri
told reporters today in Putrajaya, near Kuala Lumpur. “I hope
this will relieve consumers and they can report to the ministry
if there are any price increases.”  
 The Southeast Asian nation trimmed subsidies for sugar,
gasoline, diesel and liquefied petroleum gas on July 16 in a
first step toward scaling back aid on essential items. Malaysia
aims to almost halve its budget deficit in the next five years
as it widens the tax base and cuts expenses under a plan to make
the economy more competitive, the government said last month.  
 The country  spends  about 73 billion ringgit ($23 billion) a
year on subsidies on goods from fuel to flour, Prime Minister
 Najib Razak  said in April, calling the amount “not
sustainable.”  
 Sugar prices were raised by 25 sen to 1.90 ringgit per
kilogram as a result of last week’s subsidy cuts, which the
government said on July 15 would save it more than 750 million
ringgit between now and the end of the year.  
 Paying Suppliers  
 Malaysia pays suppliers to keep many consumer goods below
their true market values. The decades-old system, aimed at
helping the poor, has also benefited the rich and encouraged
smuggling to neighboring countries where prices are higher.  
 The government has said it plans to ease these subsidies
gradually over a number of years to avoid triggering excessive
 inflation . An earlier attempt to cut the amount the state pays
to subsidize gasoline caused consumer-price gains to surge to a
26-year high in 2008.  
 Companies understand why the government needs to revamp its
subsidies, Ismail Sabri said. Still, the government has no
mechanism to fine any business that doesn’t keep its pledge to
refrain from passing on the higher costs to consumers, he said.  
 “It will eat into our profits, but we won’t lose that
much,” said R. Ramalingam Pillai, president of the Malaysian
Indian Restaurant Owners’ Association, which has about 1,300
members with some 5,000 eateries. “It is manageable.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ranjeetha Pakiam  in Kuala Lumpur at 
 rpakiam@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        