-- Talisman Energy, Orlen to Start Drilling for Polish Shale Gas Next Year
-- Ewa Krukowska
-- 2010-07-19T15:38:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-19/talisman-energy-of-canada-to-start-drilling-for-polish-shale-gas-next-year.html

          
          
             Talisman Energy Inc. , the Canadian
oil and natural gas explorer, and PKN Orlen SA, Poland’s largest
oil refiner, plan to start drilling for shale gas in the central
European country next year.  
 “Talisman identified Poland as a country with attractive
geological conditions and access to European gas markets,” Tony
Atherton, Talisman’s country manager for Poland, said today at
the  Global Shale Gas Summit  in Warsaw.  
 Poland’s reserves of shale and tight gas may be as much as
3 trillion cubic meters, according to estimates by Advanced
Resources International. That could potentially turn the country
into a net exporter of gas and reduce Europe’s dependence on
Russian supplies.  
 Shale development, where rock formations are horizontally
drilled and fractured using water and other liquids under high
pressure, is driving a surge in U.S. gas output. Still, drilling
shale gas fields in Europe profitably may prove harder than in
the U.S., according to geologists.  
 The European Commission, the regulatory arm of the 27-
nation European Union, has advised a cautious approach over
Poland’s potential shale resources.  
 “We’re still in assessment phase, prospects for
unconventional gas are unclear and we have to further analyze
the details and assess the environmental impact” said Michael
Schuetz, policy officer at the commission’s energy department.
“We definitely need more data on the potential.”  
 Shale gas in Poland has already started to draw interest
from producers including Exxon Mobil Corp. and Chevron Corp.
Talisman has three licenses to search for shale in three large
blocks in the Baltic basin in northern Poland with San Leon
Energy Plc.  
 “Gas potential, fitness, depth, organic richness are all
comparable to the shales in Marcellus and Montney,” Atherton
said, referring to reservoirs in the northeastern U.S. and in
British Columbia.  
 Orlen, which has five licences to search for shale gas,
also plans to start drilling next year, Wieslaw Prugar, the head
of its exploration unit, told reporters. It will follow Polskie
Gornictwo Naftowe i Gazownictwo SA, Poland’s dominant gas
company, which started hydraulic fracturing at its first shale
gas well earlier this month.  
 “It’s still a long way before we can make a business
decision,” Prugar said. “The first exploring stage is planned
for five years and if during this time we confirm the presence
of shale gas in a scale that would allow future investments then
it will mean starting a game that takes 25-35 years.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ewa Krukowska  in Warsaw at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        