-- Halliburton Adds Jobs as Onshore Drilling Boosts Profit After Gulf Spill
-- Edward Klump
-- 2010-07-19T13:39:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-19/halliburton-adds-jobs-as-onshore-drilling-boosts-profit-after-gulf-spill.html

          
          
             Halliburton Co. , the biggest
provider of land-based oilfield services in the U.S., added
1,700 jobs in the second quarter as gains in onshore drilling
spurred an 83 percent jump in profit.  
 New hires increased Houston-based Halliburton’s  workforce 
by about 3 percent, according to company spokeswoman  Cathy Mann ,
and followed the addition of 1,200 jobs in the first quarter.
Net income surged to $480 million, or 53 cents a share, as gains
in onshore business cushioned the impact of BP Plc’s oil spill
in the Gulf of Mexico,  Halliburton  said today in a statement.  
 Earnings in North America advanced more than fivefold, even
as the oil spill, the largest in U.S. history, led to a ban on
new deep-water wells and a slowdown in shallow-water drilling
permits. The number of active U.S.  onshore  rigs jumped 76
percent from a year earlier at the end of June to a 17-month
high as producers increasingly targeted oil and natural-gas
deposits trapped in shale formations and so-called tight sands.  
 “Their overall position in North America vis-a-vis the
shale plays certainly appears to be stronger than just the
industry in general,” said  Roger Read , an analyst at Natixis
Bleichroeder in Houston who has a “buy” rating on Halliburton
shares and owns about 500. “It’s  Halliburton ’s ability
obviously to work in that high end of the market segment that’s
creating this opportunity.”  
 Per-share profit from operations Halliburton is keeping was
52 cents, 15 cents higher than the average of 32 analyst
 estimates  compiled by Bloomberg. Revenue in the second quarter
climbed 26 percent from a year earlier to $4.39 billion.  
 Fatal Blast  
 Halliburton  rose $1.43, or 5.2 percent, to $28.94 at 9:38
a.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. Before today,
the stock had dropped 17 percent since the April 20 rig
explosion that triggered the spill.  
 The blast aboard the Deepwater Horizon drilling rig, which
Transocean Ltd. leased to London-based  BP , killed 11 workers.
Halliburton provided cementing services on the well BP was
drilling. Halliburton Chief Executive Officer  David Lesar  said
in May that the company is fully indemnified from costs related
to the spill.  
 The deep-water moratorium will  cut  earnings per share by 5
cents to 8 cents per quarter in this year’s second half,
Halliburton said today. The spill “will usher in a new
regulatory climate and will have a profound impact on how
deepwater drilling is performed,” Lesar said in the statement.  
 Crews Moved  
 The company derived about 6 percent of its  global  revenue
from the Gulf of Mexico in this year’s first half, Chief
Financial Officer  Mark McCollum  told investors today on a
conference call. Halliburton is relocating about 20 percent of
its 2,200 Gulf workers to other markets around the world as the
spill slows business in the region.  
 Utilization of Halliburton’s equipment in North America
surpassed peak levels of 2008 in the second quarter, which the
company said led to opportunities to raise rates. Global  profit 
margins widened by five percentage points to 17 percent in the
latest quarter, Halliburton said.  
 “There’s two things that are going to push margins up
normally -- one would be pricing and the other would be
operating efficiencies,” said  Philip Weiss , an analyst at Argus
Research in New York who has a “hold” rating on Halliburton
shares and owns none.  
 Halliburton  is the largest provider in North America of
pressure pumping, a service in which materials such as water and
sand are injected into a reservoir to fracture rocks and help
gas or oil to flow. Producers use pressure pumping to tap
unconventional deposits such as those in shale formations.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Edward Klump  in Houston at 
 eklump@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Halliburton Chief Executive Officer David Lesar said in May that the company is fully indemnified from costs related to the spill. Photographer: F. Carter Smith/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 19 (Bloomberg) -- Jim Noe, senior vice president and general counsel of Hercules Offshore Inc., says the Obama administration could "dismantle" the shallow-water drilling industry if the U.S. fails to issue new permits.
     Drilling company executives have said Interior Department rules issued in response to the BP Plc oil spill have brought exploration in shallow waters to a halt. Noe spoke July 16 in Washington. Bloomberg's Lizzie O'Leary reports. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
