-- Halliburton Profit Rises as Onshore Drilling Increases After Gulf Oil Leak
-- Edward Klump
-- 2010-07-19T11:05:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-19/halliburton-profit-rises-as-onshore-drilling-increases-after-gulf-oil-leak.html

          
          
             Halliburton Co. , the biggest
provider of land-based oilfield services in the U.S., said
second-quarter profit rose as gains in onshore drilling made up
for a halt to new wells in the Gulf of Mexico.  
 Net income increased to $480 million, or 53 cents a share,
from $262 million, or 29 cents, a year earlier, Houston-based
 Halliburton  said today in a Business Wire statement.  
 The energy industry is grappling with a moratorium on new
deep-water wells in the Gulf of Mexico and a slowdown in
shallow-water drilling permits in the wake of BP Plc’s record
U.S. oil spill. The number of active U.S.  onshore  rigs jumped 76
percent from a year earlier at the end of June to a 17-month
high, as producers increasingly targeted oil and natural-gas
deposits trapped in shale formations and so-called tight sands.  
 The spill was triggered by an April 20 explosion aboard the
Deepwater Horizon drilling rig, which Transocean Ltd. leased to
London-based  BP . Halliburton provided cementing services on the
well BP was drilling. Halliburton Chief Executive Officer  David Lesar  said in May that the company is fully indemnified from
costs related to the spill.  
 The company derived about 13 percent of its  North American 
revenue from the Gulf of Mexico in the first quarter. Last
month, Halliburton said it planned to relocate workers and
equipment to other markets as appropriate.  
 The earnings statement was released before the opening of
regular trading on U.S. markets.  Halliburton  ended last week at
$27.51 in New York Stock Exchange composite trading, leaving the
shares 17 percent lower than before the rig blast.  
 Halliburton  is the largest provider in North America of
pressure pumping, a service in which materials such as water and
sand are injected into a reservoir to fracture rocks and help
gas or oil to flow. Producers use pressure pumping to tap
unconventional deposits such as those in shale formations.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Edward Klump  in Houston at 
 eklump@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        