-- America's AAA Rating Is Cut in Land of Bubbles: William Pesek
-- William Pesek
-- 2010-07-19T19:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-19/america-s-aaa-grade-is-cut-in-land-of-bubbles-commentary-by-william-pesek.html

          
          
             Moody’s Investors Service , Standard
& Poor’s and Fitch Ratings can’t be happy.  
 Last week, the world’s credit-rating giants got scooped on
the biggest rating decision: whether to strip the U.S. of AAA
status. Worse, the U.S. was downgraded by a company that few
people have ever heard of, and a Chinese one at that.  
 While Moody’s and S&P ignore the wreckage that America’s
finances have become, Beijing-based Dagong Global Credit Rating
Co. is uncorrupted by the system that enables developed-world
debt addicts to appear fiscally clean. It rates U.S. debt AA,
two levels below the top grade.  
 Dagong is right to turn the world of A- and Baa1 on its
head even though rating China higher than the U.S. is hubristic
at best. Anyone who thinks China deserves a top rating or is
devoid of debt landmines isn’t looking very hard.  
 In its first foray into sovereign problems, Dagong raises
some vital questions. One is whether ideology in favor of the
West has more to do with ratings than the ability of governments
to repay debt.  
 An alien arriving from outer space might take one look at
America’s balance sheet, conclude it’s an emerging nation and
buy Indonesian debt instead. The same goes for Japan and its
demographic time bomb. France, Germany and the U.K. possess
challenges that might necessitate lower ratings if true
objectivity were to enter into the mix.  
 Dropping the Ball  
 It has been a humbling 15 years for credit raters. They
completely missed the 1997 Asian crisis. They were asleep at the
controls as the dot-com bubble burst. They lavished top ratings
on junk and helped turn the U.S. subprime crisis into a global
one. They were slow to fathom Europe’s debt fiasco.  
 Dagong Chairman  Guan Jianzhong  is absolutely right when he
says: “The essential reason for the global financial crisis and
the Greek crisis is that the current international rating system
cannot truly reflect repayment ability.”  
 It’s the right message, wrong messenger. Hedge-fund
managers aren’t betting against China gratuitously. It’s in no
one’s interest to see the third-biggest economy crash. The idea
that China’s national balance sheet is sound is a reach, though.  
 New York-based hedge-fund manager  Jim Chanos  of Kynikos
Associates Ltd. says the massive stimulus efforts that saved
China from the global crisis of 2008 are creating unbalanced
growth. They are fueling bubbles and may be setting China up for
a bad-loan debacle worse than Japan’s, he says.  
 Epic Credit  
 A report by Fitch last week makes for interesting reading.
The epic credit boom of 2009 was so successful that China is
struggling to keep a lid on growth. Herculean efforts didn’t
stop the economy from zooming along at 10.3 percent in the
second quarter. The concern is that data are understating the
long-term costs of this growth.  
 In the first half of this year, Chinese bank  lending  was 28
percent higher than official numbers suggest, Fitch says. The
reason: more and more loans are being repackaged into investment
products, distorting the data.  
 Anyone arguing China doesn’t have a housing  bubble  on its
hands may want to reconsider. We don’t know how far the
Enronization of Chinese credit goes. It seems clear that
financial institutions have been engaged in complex deals that
hid the nature and size of lending.  
 Repackaging loans and moving them off balance sheet is
exactly what got corporate America into trouble and almost
killed  Wall Street . Such practices raise the odds that China is
paving the way for a wave of bad debts.  
 Booming China  
 No one doubts China is booming. Less clear is the quality
of that growth. It’s one thing if stimulus efforts create a
broad middle class of consumers to replace exports. It’s quite
another if China’s  growth  rests on a shaky foundation of soaring
asset prices.  
 It may not be a coincidence that  Agricultural Bank of China
Ltd.  didn’t impress the bulls last week after its initial public
offering. Investors may be wondering about the ability of
lenders to collect on loans. If you think Wall Street lacks
transparency, just imagine investors trying to get to the bottom
of China’s state-owned banks.  
 China is working to cap housing prices, slow credit growth
and halt efforts to move liabilities off balance sheets. Doing
so is more art than science. Move too aggressively and the
economy becomes more volatile. Act too timidly and today’s
imbalances morph into tomorrow’s crisis.  
 The biggest problem with Dagong’s decision to rate China
above the  U.S.  -- AA+ with a stable outlook versus AA with a
negative one -- may be its faith in the power of growth. Just
because China is booming today doesn’t mean it will be five
years from now. Japan, remember, assumed that accelerating
growth would lighten its debt load. As if.  
 Few trust our system of rating debt. Even fewer should view
China’s bright fiscal outlook as a given.  
 ( William Pesek  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  
 To contact the writer of this column:
 William Pesek  in Tokyo at 
 wpesek@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        