-- Apple, Harvard Offer Best Value for Russian Spies: Matthew Lynn
-- Matthew Lynn
-- 2010-07-19T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-19/apple-harvard-offer-russian-spies-best-value-commentary-by-matthew-lynn.html

          
          
             If you wanted to infiltrate a
Western economy, where would you place your agents?  
 Microsoft Corp.  and  Barclays Plc  don’t make much sense. The
Russian spy ring that was uncovered in the U.S. last month chose
those two companies as their targets. The successors to the KGB
clearly don’t have a clue about how the modern economy works.  
 If they had picked  Apple Inc. , Moody’s Investors Service or
Harvard Business School, they might have had some real influence
and gained access to useful information.  
 The story of how Russian agents burrowed into ordinary
communities has kept the world enthralled for weeks. At least
two had found their way into important businesses. It emerged
last week that a 12th member of the group worked as a software
tester for Microsoft. Earlier, we learned that Anna Chapman,
when she wasn’t making sure there were plenty of pictures of
herself in lingerie ready to fill the newspapers and blogs after
her eventual capture, worked for Barclays in London.  
 Now we know why PowerPoint takes so long to load up, and
usually puts your graph upside down on the screen: It’s a plot
by Russian Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin  to make every middle-
ranking executive die of embarrassment.  
 Russia was going after the wrong guys. Microsoft is a big
lumbering beast of a company that seems to have forgotten why it
exists. Barclays is a retail British bank that was lucky to
survive the credit crunch, and while it may be expanding its
investment banking, it isn’t at the cutting edge of anything.  
 If you really want to go undercover in the global economy,
and manipulate it to your own ends, here’s where to go:  
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc.: The U.S. investment bank is on
the inside of every deal. It is ahead of most trends. And its
 alumni network  is the most powerful in the world. Infiltrate it
successfully, and within a couple of decades you should have one
of your spies running at least one of the major central banks,
and probably a finance ministry or two.  
 Harvard Business School : Get one of your agents installed
at the world’s most influential center of learning and you can
wreak havoc for years. Teach a whole generation of bright and
ambitious students some crazy theory -- that options trading
makes markets safer by spreading risk, for example -- then sit
back and watch the financial system collapse 20 years later when
your moles are running it.  
 A debt rater: As we saw during the Greek debt crisis,
ratings companies have the real power to make or break
economies. Even better, they can just make this stuff up. One
minute Greece was investment grade, the next it was junk,
although not much had changed about the country in the meantime.
Choose a nation that you want to destroy, then get your agents
installed as analysts at the three main assessors -- Fitch
Ratings, Standard & Poor’s and Moody’s. At the right moment,
pull the trigger, whack it with three downgrades, and watch the
implosion. It will be much easier than nuking the place.  
 Apple: Apple has taken control of a whole generation. If
you release a  brand-new app  the same day you invade one of your
neighbors, everyone in the West will be too busy downloading it
to respond. Or perhaps even notice. Microsoft is hardly at the
cutting edge of anything these days -- the Xbox 360 was its last
hit product but unless you want to take over the minds of a few
million 13-year-old boys, that is hardly a target worthy of your
spy ring. Apple is a different story, and not just because your
agents should feel right at home in an organization that
worships a control-freak leader, and is intolerant of criticism.  
 Quantum Fund: The greatest of the big-picture hedge funds
is still a force to be reckoned with 40 years after it was
founded by  George Soros  and  Jim Rogers . It can make or break
currencies, and have meetings with just about any prime minister
or president in the world. The rest of the hedge-fund industry
still follows its strategies. Influence Quantum to move into or
out of a nation, and the rest of the money markets will follow
like a bunch of obedient puppies. That is a power worth having.  
 Of course, maybe the agents at Barclays and Microsoft were
just a clever double-bluff -- a ruse to throw the Central
Intelligence Agency off the scent. A whole troop of attractive
interns may be sitting down at their desks at Goldman and
Moody’s this summer, making coffee, doing perfect photocopying,
and starting their sinister rise to the heart of the economic
system. They may become the chief executives of tomorrow.  
 ( Matthew Lynn  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  
 To contact the writer of this column:
Matthew Lynn in London at 
 matthewlynn@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        