-- Argentines Bet Against UBS Peso Plunge Call as CDs Jump to 16-Month High
-- Drew Benson
-- 2010-07-19T20:58:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-19/argentines-bet-against-ubs-peso-plunge-call-as-cds-jump-to-16-month-high.html

          
          
             Argentines are pouring the most
money into peso-denominated certificates of deposit in at least
16 months as a bet the currency is unlikely to fall as fast as
Barclays Plc and UBS AG are predicting.  
 Peso certificates of deposit climbed 3.7 percent in June to
117.2 billion pesos ($29.8 billion), the highest since in at
least April 2009, while all dollar-denominated accounts declined
3 percent to $15.7 billion, according to the central bank. CDs
accounted for 47 percent of all peso deposits.  
 Barclays is predicting the peso will slide 8.5 percent to a
record low 4.3 per dollar by year-end while UBS is calling for
4.5 per dollar as the fastest inflation in four years hurts
exporters. Depositors are more bullish, said  Aldo Pignanelli ,
who served as central bank president in 2002.  
 “People don’t foresee an exchange-rate risk in Argentina
from now until the end of the year,” said Pignanelli, who
forecasts the peso will slide to 4.05. “That’s one of the
fundamental reasons why certificates of deposits are growing.”  
 The peso will weaken to 4.2 per dollar by year-end from
3.9350 today, according to the median estimate of 13 economists
in a Bloomberg survey. It fell 3.3 percent in the past year,
compared with an 7.5 percent gain in the Brazilian real and 7
percent rally in the Colombian peso. Argentina’s peso fell 0.1
percent today.  
 Deposits in 30-day peso-denominated certificates of deposit
are paying 9 percent on average, compared with 0.2 percent for
dollar-denominated accounts, according to the central bank.  
 Yield Gap  
 The extra yield investors demand to hold  Argentine  dollar
bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries fell 30 basis points, or 0.3
percentage point, to 726 today, according to JPMorgan. The
difference is down from 846 on July 1.  
 The cost of protecting Argentine debt against non-payment
for five years with credit-default swaps climbed 12 basis points
to 920, according to data compiled by CMA DataVision. Credit-
default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for the
underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a government
or company fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  
 Yields on Argentina’s benchmark dollar bonds due in 2015
slid 14 basis points today to 11.6 percent, according to pricing
from Deutsche Bank AG. Warrants linked to economic growth rose
0.2 cent to 8.6 cents on the dollar.  
 The peso fell to 3.9369 on July 15, the weakest level since
the currency’s inception in 1992, as the central bank bought
dollars. The purchases have pushed  reserves  to a record $50.7
billion, according to the central bank.  
 ‘Weird’  
 “The accumulation of international reserves is a pillar of
the Argentine macroeconomic model,” central bank President
 Mercedes Marco  del Pont said in a July 15 statement. “These
funds made it possible to sustain a competitive exchange rate
policy during the past seven years that has stimulated growth,
development of the domestic market and employment.”  
 Central bank spokesman  Fernando Meanos  declined to comment
on peso forecasts.  Alvaro Vivanco , an economist at UBS in New
York, didn’t return a message seeking a comment on his forecast.  
 Building dollar reserves pumps pesos into the economy,
fueling consumption and inflation,  Guillermo Mondino , an analyst
with Barclays in New York, said in a July 16 telephone
interview. While the government said consumer prices rose 11
percent in June from a year earlier, Mondino estimates inflation
is about 25 percent.  
 Economists and politicians including Vice President  Julio Cobos  have questioned Argentina’s inflation data since January
2007, when then-President  Nestor Kirchner  began changing
personnel at the national statistics institute. Economy Minister
 Amado Boudou  says the figures are accurate.  
 Argentina’s inflation rate means that in real terms the
peso will appreciate this year, Mondino said.  
 “That looks weird,” Mondino said. “But Argentina is
weird because it has such high inflation.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Drew Benson  in Buenos Aires at 
 abenson9@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 19 (Bloomberg) -- Mitul Kotecha, head of global foreign-exchange strategy at Credit Agricole CIB, talks with Bloomberg's Linzie Janis about the outlook for the euro.
     Kotecha, speaking in Hong Kong, also discusses stress tests by European regulators on a total of 91 of the biggest banks and the implications of the tests for the common currency. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    


 
     
         Attachment:  BCRA Monetary Report for June 2010. 
     
         

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
