-- Argentine Manufacturers Face Natural-Gas Shortages on Record Cold Weather
-- Rodrigo Orihuela
-- 2010-07-19T15:31:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-19/argentine-industries-face-gas-shortages-as-record-cold-winter-spurs-demand.html

          
          
             Argentine industrial users such as
 Dow Chemical Co.  are suffering gas shortages amid a record cold
winter in the Latin American country where temperatures fell
below those in the South Pole.  
 “We’ve been facing gas shortages for three or four years,
but this year is worse, maybe because of the cold,” Soledad
Echague, Dow’s public affairs director in Argentina, said today
in a telephone interview from Buenos Aires.  
 Dow, the world’s second-largest chemical maker, is
importing ethane to fuel a polyethylene plant to make plastics
while one of its ethylene plants is closed and another is
working at minimum capacity because of the shortages, she said.  
 Argentine gas supplies are being reduced this month as
demand increased during a polar front that brought snow to 12 of
the country’s 23 provinces and pushed temperatures below those
of Antarctica. Temperatures in Mendoza, the wine-producing
region in western Argentina, fell as low as -8.9 degrees Celsius
(16 degrees Fahrenheit) on July 15.  
 Daily electricity demand set a record for three consecutive
days between July 14 and July 16, according to Argentine’s
Federal Planning Ministry.  
 Argentina started to face energy shortages in 2004 as price
caps curtailed investments and demand was driven by an average
economic growth of 8.5 percent between 2003 and 2008. The
government cut gas exports to Chile in the period and started in
2008 to import liquefied natural gas to meet demand.  
 Argentina has an estimated 300 industrial consumers
including Siderar SAIC, Bunge Ltd. and Cargill Inc. MetroGas SA
and Gas Natural Ban SA are among natural-gas suppliers.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rodrigo Orihuela  in Buenos Aires at 
 rorihuela@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        