-- Asia Currencies Drop as U.S. Slowdown Threatens Exports, Curbs Risk-Taking
-- Yumi Teso
-- 2010-07-19T09:08:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-19/asia-currencies-drop-as-u-s-slowdown-threatens-exports-curbs-risk-taking.html

          
          
             Asian currencies dropped, led by
South Korea’s won and Malaysia’s ringgit, as mounting signs the
U.S. economic recovery is losing traction worsens the outlook
for regional exports and deters investment in riskier assets.  
 The MSCI Asia Pacific excluding Japan  Index  of shares
slumped the most in two weeks after a private report showed
confidence among American consumers dropped to an 11-month low
in July. Thailand will tomorrow report the slowest growth in
 overseas sales  since February and Taiwan is expected to announce
the smallest increase in export orders since October, according
to economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  
 “We’ve seen a pretty substantial increase in global risk
aversion,” said  Dariusz Kowalczyk , Hong Kong-based senior
economist at Credit Agricole CIB. “That came particularly from
the U.S., which led investors to pare long positions in risk
assets.”  
 The won slumped 1 percent to close at 1,215.65 per dollar
in Seoul, the biggest decline this month, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The ringgit weakened for a third day,
sliding 0.6 percent to 3.2270 as of 5 p.m. in Kuala Lumpur.
India’s rupee fell 0.6 percent to 47.035 and China’s yuan
slipped 0.04 percent to 6.7779.  
 Chinese Premier Wen Jiabao said the global economy is
recovering at a “very slow” pace and the government will
maintain policies to ensure favorable conditions for businesses,
according to a State Council statement published yesterday. The
State Information Center predicts export growth will cool to
16.3 percent in the second half from 35.2 percent in the last
six months, according to a China Securities Journal report today.  
 U.S. Slowdown  
 The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan preliminary
 index  of U.S. consumer sentiment decreased to 66.5 this month,
less than the most pessimistic forecast in a Bloomberg survey of
economists, according to data released July 16. The annual rate
of new-home construction in the world’s biggest economy fell 2.2
percent last month following a 10 percent drop in May, based on
a separate survey before a government report tomorrow.  
 “The ringgit market has turned a bit cautious with
increasing talk of a double-dip recession in the U.S. in recent
weeks,” said D. Sivadass, a foreign-exchange forwards trader at
EON Bank Bhd. in Kuala Lumpur. “As long as it tracks other
regional currencies, it’s not something to worry about.”  
 Exports Moderating  
 Thailand’s overseas sales increased 34.5 percent in June
from a year earlier, according to the median estimate in a
Bloomberg survey of economists. Shipments rose 42.1 percent in
May, the most since July 2008.  Export orders  in Taiwan gained
21.7 percent following a 34 percent advance in May, a separate
poll showed.  
 The baht declined 0.1 percent to 32.26 per dollar, snapping
a three-day gain, and Taiwan’s currency slipped 0.04 percent to
NT$32.155.  
 “It’s not positive for risk-taking at the moment,” said
 Suan Teck Kin , an economist in Singapore at United Overseas Bank
Ltd. “Asian currencies should be on a weak footing.”  
 The Philippine peso dropped 0.3 percent to 46.435 versus
the greenback. Demand for electronics exports may ease starting
in the third quarter, Semiconductor and Electronics Industries
of the Philippines Inc. President Ernesto Santiago said last
week. Electronics account for more than half of the nation’s
shipments, which rose 37.3 percent in May.  
 Elsewhere, the Singapore dollar weakened 0.2 percent to
S$1.3783 and the Indonesian rupiah fell 0.2 percent to 9,065.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Yumi Teso  in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        