-- Asia Naphtha, Fuel Oil Fall as Economic Growth Concern Cuts Margins: Wrap
-- Yee Kai Pin
-- 2010-07-19T04:32:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-19/asia-naphtha-fuel-oil-fall-as-economic-growth-concern-cuts-margins-wrap.html

          
          
             Asia naphtha led a decline in fuel
oil and gasoil swaps as product crack spreads weakened with
crude on concern the global economic recovery may falter.  
 Benchmark Japan open-specification naphtha forwards for
second-half August delivery were bid at $613 a metric ton
against offers at $616 at 11:55 a.m. Singapore time, according
to broker Ginga Petroleum Singapore Pte. That’s more than 2
percent below the July 16 close of $629.75. Singapore naphtha
swaps were at $5.61 a barrel below Dubai crude, the Asian
benchmark. A  premium  crack spread indicates refining profit.  
 Oil dropped for a fourth day in New York as Asian equities
pulled back on concern growth in the U.S., the world’s biggest
energy consumer, may slow. Reports this week will probably show
sales of existing homes decreased and an index of leading
indicators declined for the first time in more than a year.  
 “Investors will be looking for signs that the recovery may
be back on track,”  Peter Beutel , president of energy adviser
Cameron Hanover Inc. in New Canaan, Connecticut, said in a note.
“As we start this new week, oil’s future seems tied to equity
prices. These, in turn, are likely to be affected by economic
data, as it is released.”  
 In Singapore, Asia’s biggest oil-trading center, gasoline’s
premium to naphtha was at $12 a barrel on July 16 after reaching
a one-year high of $12.60 last week, based on Bloomberg
calculations. A wide  reforming margin  shows the motor fuel is
more profitable than naphtha to produce.  
 Refining Losses  
 High-sulfur fuel oil  fell for a third day. August swaps
lost $6, or 1.3 percent, to $448 a ton, the lowest in four days,
according to data from broker PVM Oil Associates. The product’s
 discount  to Dubai crude was little changed at $4.43 a barrel,
signaling continued refining losses.  
 The premium of 180-centistoke fuel oil to 380-centistoke
grade was unchanged after dropping to $7.50 a ton on July 16,
PVM data showed. A wide  viscosity spread  indicates bunker prices
decreased more than higher-quality fuel oil cargoes.  
 August  gasoil , or diesel, swaps slipped 40 cents, or 0.5
percent, to $85.20 a barrel, PVM said. The product’s premium to
Dubai crude improved for a second day to $11.85. This  crack
spread  is a measure of refining profit.  
 Jet fuel’s premium to gasoil was unchanged after slipping
July 16 to $1 a barrel, according to PVM. A narrow  regrade 
indicates aviation fuel is less profitable than diesel.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Yee Kai Pin  in Singapore at 
 kyee13@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        