-- Asia Bonds Beating Bunds Leads Pictet to Triple Funds (Correct)
-- Lilian Karunungan
-- 2010-07-21T02:17:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-19/asian-bonds-offering-double-bund-return-lead-pictet-to-triple-fund-assets.html

          
          
             Asia’s emerging-market bonds
delivered double the returns of U.S., German and Japanese debt
this year, drawing record inflows as budget deficits widened in
developed nations.  
 Pictet Asset Management Ltd., part of Switzerland’s largest
privately held bank for the wealthy, said its Asian Local
Currency Debt fund tripled in size to $1.2 billion in 2010
because interest rates and currency reserves are higher than in
developed economies. Japan’s Kokusai Asset Management Co.
doubled assets in its equivalent fund to $206 million.  
 Pictet, Kokusai and Western Asset Management Co., which
together oversee $639 billion, say nations that were bond-market
pariahs during the currency crisis of 1997-98 are now relatively
safe because of mounting issuance in the U.S., Europe and Japan.
Moody’s Investors Service upgraded its debt rating for South
Korea and raised its outlook for Indonesia in the second quarter,
while cutting Greece below investment grade and warning the U.S.
may lose its top ranking.  
 “They used to be risky assets,” said Wee-Ming Ting, head
of Asian fixed income in Singapore at Pictet, which manages the
equivalent of $101 billion globally. “Now investors see them as
a safe haven. Economic growth in Asia is still doing well.”  
 Bond funds focused on Asia excluding Japan have taken in a
record $2.4 billion in 2010, compared with net withdrawals of
$679 million in the same period of last year, according to EPFR
Global, a U.S. research firm that tracks investment flows.  
 Outperforming Bunds  
 JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s index of Asian local-currency debt
excluding Japan returned 12.8 percent in 2010. Global sovereign
bonds returned 4 percent in that period, Bank of America Merrill
Lynch indexes show. Bonds gained 6.1 percent in the U.S., 6.4
percent in Germany and 2.3 percent in Japan. An index tracking
Greece, Ireland, Italy, Portugal and Spain fell 1.7 percent.  
 Asian bonds beat stocks by the most since JPMorgan started
tracking the figures in 2003 as the MSCI Asia Pacific Index of
shares excluding Japan fell 5.3 percent, including reinvested
dividends. China’s yuan debt gained 3.2 percent in 2010,
according to an HSBC Holdings Plc index, while the Shanghai
Composite Index of stocks dropped 22 percent as the government
curbed lending to avert a real-estate bubble.  
 Clients in Europe and America are showing increased
interest in diversifying toward Asian bonds as regional shares
underperform, said Rajeev De Mello, the head of Asian debt for
Western Asset in Singapore.  
 ‘Asia Is Safer’  
 “People aren’t getting much from stocks, and at least
they’re getting an income stream from bonds,” said De Mello,
who helps oversee $482 billion at Western, the Pasadena,
California-based fixed-income unit of Legg Mason Inc. “People
are looking at debt-to-GDP figures, and they’re seeing that Asia
is safer.”  
 U.S. publicly traded debt has risen to a record $8.1
trillion, 57 percent of gross domestic product. The similar
figure for Japan is 197 percent, or $9.7 trillion. By contrast,
India’s is $417 billion, 36 percent of its GDP, and Indonesia’s
is $89 billion, or 17 percent, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  
 Moody’s raised South Korea’s rating by one level to A1 in
April, citing a “relatively small” deficit. It boosted its
outlook on Indonesia’s Ba2 grade last month, forecasting
“sustained strong growth.” The U.S.’s top ranking will come
under pressure unless additional measures are taken to reduce
projected record budget deficits, Moody’s said in May.  
 Foreign Reserves  
 Asia’s developing nations have accumulated $5 trillion of
foreign-exchange reserves. China has $2.45 trillion, the world’s
biggest holdings, while Taiwan, South Korea, India, Hong Kong
and Singapore also rank among the top 10.  
 “Asian currencies look very stable in comparison with
other emerging-market currencies because of their record
reserves,” said Masataka Horii, a money manager in Tokyo for
Kokusai, which runs Asia’s largest debt fund as part of its
$56.2 billion in assets and is bullish on India and Indonesia.  
 Regional bonds remain risky because prices for goods and
services may rise as economies improve, eroding the value of
their fixed payments, said Sergey Dergachev, who helps manage
about $6 billion of emerging-market debt at Union Investment in
Frankfurt, Germany’s third-largest money manager.  
 Inflation Risk  
 “Due to increasing inflationary pressures, there is risk
of a tightening monetary policy environment,” Dergachev said.
“Rising interest rates will hurt direct bond performance.”  
 In China, consumer prices climbed 2.9 percent in June from
a year earlier and 3.1 percent in May, the biggest increases
since October 2008, official figures show. India’s wholesale
price index has recorded increases of more than 10 percent in
each of the last five months and the central bank raised
interest rates for the third time this year on July 2.  
 The Bank of Thailand raised borrowing costs on July 14 for
the first time since 2008, joining central banks in South Korea,
India, Malaysia and Taiwan in having increased rates in the past
month. Singapore, which reported record economic growth of 18.1
percent for the first half, is targeting a “gradual
appreciation” of its currency to combat inflation.  
 De Mello, whose most recent purchases include bonds in
Malaysia, predicts economic expansion will fuel currency gains
and support the region’s yield advantage. Asia’s developing
economies will expand 9.2 percent this year, outpacing growth of
3.3 percent in the U.S. and 1 percent in the euro area, based on
IMF projections published on July 7.  
 Currencies, Yields  
 Malaysia’s ringgit, Indonesia’s rupiah and China’s yuan are
among the 10 best-performing emerging-market currencies this
year. Ten-year government bonds yield 3.91 percent in Malaysia,
4.92 percent in South Korea and 8.19 percent in Indonesia,
compared with 2.95 percent on U.S. debt.  
 Faster growth will lead to “a sustained tendency for
currencies to appreciate versus the euro, yen, and the U.S.
dollar,” said Michael Hasenstab, who oversees more than $80
billion as co-director of international fixed income at San
Mateo, California-based Franklin Templeton Investments. The
company manages $573 billion globally.  
 The Templeton Global Bond Fund returned 11 percent on
average over the past five years, beating 97 percent of its
competitors, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Hasenstab
is betting on bonds in South Korea, Malaysia and Indonesia,
according to holdings the company published as of May 31.  
 Pictet’s fund has returned 11 percent over the past year,
while Western Asset’s gained 13 percent. Kokusai, betting on
India and Indonesia, is up 8 percent.  
 Mitsubishi UFJ Asset Management Co., a unit of Japan’s
biggest publicly traded bank, bought Singapore dollars in April
and plans to purchase Indonesian rupiah, said Hideo Shimomura,
the chief investor.  
 “We are confident that Asian currencies are quite safe,”
said Shimomura, who helps oversee the equivalent of $56.2
billion in Tokyo. “They are good for hedging against the U.S.
dollar and the euro.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Wes Goodman in Singapore at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net ;
Lilian Karunungan in Singapore at 
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        