-- Tata Steel in Talks With Citigroup, RBS to Refinance $5.4 Billion in Loans
-- George Smith Alexander
-- 2010-07-19T14:15:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-19/tata-steel-in-talks-with-citigroup-rbs-to-refinance-5-4-billion-in-loans.html

          
          
             Tata Steel Ltd. , India’s biggest
producer, began talks with lenders including Citigroup Inc. to
refinance as much as 3.5 billion pounds ($5.4 billion) in loans
for its U.K. unit, six people with knowledge of the matter said.  
 Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc , Standard Chartered Plc
and BNP Paribas SA are also part of the negotiations, the people
said, declining to be identified before an official announcement.
The  existing debt  is due to be paid from 2012 to 2014 and the
talks may be completed early next month, one of the people said.  
 Tata Steel took out the loans to fund its $12.9 billion
acquisition of Corus Group Plc in 2007 just before the global
economic slump pared demand for steel and caused banks to
curtail lending.  
 “The company’s balance sheet is still in trouble because
of Corus,” said  Nikhil Agarwal , an analyst at Kim Eng
Securities India Pvt. who has a “sell” rating on Tata Steel’s
shares. “We have to wait and see if they are able to
restructure their debt successfully.”  
 About 500 million pounds of existing loans are in the form
of a revolving line of credit for working capital, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 For 2 billion pounds of the debt, the Indian company is in
talks for a five-year loan, with the bulk of payments due toward
the end of the tenor, two of the people said. Interest rates for
the loans are likely to be more than 300 basis points above the
London interbank offered rate, or Libor, one of the people said.
A 100 basis points is equal to a percentage point. Tata Steel is
also considering selling bonds, two of the people said.  
 Koushik Chatterjee , chief financial officer of the Mumbai-
based company, declined to comment today, saying “there is
nothing on the table.” Spokespeople at the banks didn’t
immediately respond to e-mailed enquiries.  
 The company’s  shares  rose 0.5 percent to 511.30 rupees at
close of trading in Mumbai. The benchmark Sensitive Index of the
Bombay Stock Exchange fell 0.2 percent.  
 “Efforts are ongoing to further extend the debt maturity
profile of Tata Steel Europe,” the company said in an annual
report posted on its website this month.  
 The company may repay as much as 400 million pounds of the
loans, three of the people said. Tata Steel is in the process of
raising as much as 16 billion rupees ($343 million) by selling
shares and warrants to its parent.  
 Bond Exchange  
 Tata Steel in November received 56 percent acceptance for a
bond exchange on debt raised to fund its purchase of Corus. The
company sold $546.9 million of new 2014 convertible bonds to
repay investors who agreed to take $493 million of the $875
million of 1 percent convertible alternative reference
securities due 2012, according to a statement on Singapore stock
exchange.  
 The group, including Corus, posted its first quarterly
profit in a year in the three months ended Dec. 31 as demand
improved from automobile, construction and engineering companies
in Europe following the worst recession since World War II.  
 “The demand scenario in Europe has again turned weak,
which may adversely affect the company’s performance there,”
Agarwal said.  
 Corus, which accounts for two-thirds of the group’s output
of about 30 million metric tons, partially mothballed its
Teesside operations in February as long-term buyers walked away
from an accord to buy 78 percent of the plant’s output. The
company is now looking for a buyer for the mothballed units.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 George Smith Alexander  in Mumbai 
 galexander11@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        