-- Nakheel Yields Double 2007 Level Signal `Closed' Market: Islamic Finance
-- Dana El Baltaji
-- 2010-07-20T01:30:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-19/bahrain-plans-bourse-to-attract-sukuk-from-london-dubai-islamic-finance.html

          
          
             Dubai World-owned Nakheel PJSC’s
Islamic bonds are trading at yields twice as high as in 2007
even after a four-month rally, underscoring the difficulty for
Persian Gulf real-estate companies to borrow through debt sales.  
 “Access to the market is still difficult for companies
operating in the real-estate sector,”  Mohamed Damak , Paris-
based credit analyst and co-chair of the Islamic finance working
group at Standard & Poor’s, said in an interview yesterday.
“The market is somewhat closed for these entities.”  
 The yield on Nakheel’s 2.75 percent sukuk fell to 15.4
percent yesterday from 86 percent on March 25, when Dubai’s
government said it would support the company with $9.5 billion,
according to prices compiled by Bloomberg. Nakheel, a builder of
palm-shaped islands off Dubai’s coast, is a unit of Dubai World,
the world’s third-largest port operator.  
 S&P, Moody’s Investors Service and Fitch Ratings said in
interviews this week that Persian Gulf companies will struggle
to tap the Islamic bond market until property prices rebound
after a 50 percent slump in the United Arab Emirates from their
peak in August 2008. The slide in Dubai cut investor appetite
for bonds that comply with Shariah law because property tends to
be used as the underlying asset, Bashar Al-Natoor, director at
Fitch’s Europe Middle East Africa corporates team, said in an
interview.  
 “So long as the companies are connected to the real-estate
market in Dubai, raising capital when property prices are
falling will be challenging,” Al-Natoor said in yesterday’s
interview in Dubai. “That’s one of the reasons why we’ve seen
more sovereign issuances and less corporate debt.”  
 GCC Issuance  
 The market may not recover from falling prices until 2013,
he wrote in an e-mailed note on July 18.  
 Three issuers from Persian Gulf states sold $2.5 billion of
Islamic notes so far in 2010, down 24 percent from a year
earlier, and the lowest level since 2005, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. Twenty five companies from Malaysia raised 9.5
billion ringgit ($2.9 billion) from sukuk sales in the period,
according to the data.  
 Saudi Electricity Co ., the state-controlled power producer,
raised 7 billion riyals ($1.9 billion) issuing sukuk in May, at
a floating-rate 95 basis points more than the three-month Saudi
interbank offered rate. The  National Bank of Abu Dhabi PJSC , the
U.A.E. lender 70.5 percent owned by the Abu Dhabi Investment
Council, sold 500 million ringgit of Islamic bonds in Malaysia
in June at a coupon rate of 4.75 percent.  
 ‘Ample Proof’  
 “There is ample proof that market conditions are still not
conducive for sukuk issuance,”  Ahmad Alanani , the London-based
associate director for the Middle East and North Africa at
Exotix Ltd., an investment bank specializing in illiquid bonds,
loans and asset management, said in an interview on July 18.
“There are a multitude of companies who would like to issue
sukuk but the market remains closed to non-sovereign linked
issuers.”  
 Islamic Development Bank, the Jeddah, Saudi Arabia-based
multi-lateral lender, is planning a $1 billion sale of bonds
based on the exchange of assets rather than interest. Doha-based
 Qatar Islamic Bank , the state’s biggest Shariah-compliant lender,
plans to sell as much as $750 million this year, Chief Executive
Officer Salah Mohammed Jaidah said in May.  
 The average yield on Islamic notes sold by Persian Gulf
borrowers rose 152 basis points to 7.27 percent since Nov. 18,
according to the  HSBC/NASDAQ Dubai GCC US Dollar Sukuk Index. 
The similar yield on the broader  dollar sukuk index , made up of
bonds from the Gulf to Southeast Asia and the U.S., widened 52
basis points in the same period to 6 percent.  
 Dubai Restructuring  
 The yield gap between the Dubai Department of Finance’s
6.396 percent sukuk maturing in November 2014 and Malaysia’s
3.928 percent Islamic note due June 2015 has widened 27 basis
points to 429 basis points in the past week, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  
 Islamic securities returned 7 percent this year, according
to the  HSBC/NASDAQ Dubai US Dollar Sukuk Index . Debt in
developing markets gained 7.9 percent over the same period,
according to  JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global Diversified
Index .  
 Dubai World said on May 20 it had reached an agreement with
its seven biggest lenders and the Dubai government to
restructure $23.5 billion of liabilities. They will present the
new terms to the remaining creditors on July 22, a person
familiar with the matter said on July 11, declining to be
identified because the process is private. Nakheel on July 14
won “unanimous support” from creditors to renegotiate terms on
$10.5 billion of debt.  
 Dubai Risk  
 “Investors do feel that there’s still some risk with Dubai,
although the fear is not as bad as it was,”  Ng Kit Ho , co-head
of debt capital markets at the Royal Bank of Scotland Group
Plc’s Malaysian unit, said in an interview on July 16 in Kuala
Lumpur.  
 The drop in Dubai’s property prices may delay sukuk sales
from the Middle East and investors will be more selective on
issuance from the Gulf Cooperation Council region,  Mohamad Damshal Awang Damit , managing director at Amundi Islamic
Malaysia Sdn Bhd. said in an interview yesterday in Kuala Lumpur.
The GCC countries are Bahrain, Kuwait, Oman, Qatar, Saudi Arabia
and the United Arab Emirates.  
 “Investors have learnt their lessons from the Dubai crisis
and they want to ensure that most of the things are in order
when it comes to costs and protection to them,” Damshal said.
“Investors would welcome any new issuances either from Asia or
the Gulf region but after the Dubai crisis they would be more
careful toward the GCC.’  
 Sales Pick Up  
 Amundi Group was formed by the merger between the asset
management arms of Paris-based Credit Agricole and Societe
Generale, with a total of $960 billion of assets.  
 The U.A.E.’s economy will expand 1.3 percent this year,
after a 0.7 percent contraction in 2009, the International
Monetary Fund said in its World Economic Outlook on April 21.
Dubai’s economy shrank 2.5 percent in 2009, preliminary
government estimates show.  
 Sukuk issuance may pick up in the Gulf in the first half of
2011 once yield spreads “normalize and economic stability”
returns,  Khalid Howladar , a Dubai-based senior analyst at
Moody’s, said in an interview yesterday.  
 “Only the strongest sovereigns can borrow at ‘reasonable’
rates,” Howladar said. “From what may have been a shaky start
they seem to be doing all they reasonably can to encourage
transparency and orderly resolution with creditors.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Dana El Baltaji  in Dubai at 
 delbaltaji@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        