-- Bank of America Said to Market $300 Million CLO for Tetragon
-- Pierre Paulden
-- 2010-07-19T14:30:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-19/bank-of-america-said-to-revive-clo-market-with-300-million-tetragon-fund.html

          
          
             Bank of America Corp. is arranging a
$300 million collateralized loan obligation as Wall Street seeks
to revive investments that help fuel leveraged buyouts,
according to people familiar with the situation.  
 LCM Asset Management LLC, a $2.35 billion investment firm,
will manage the CLO, a form of collateralized debt obligation
that bundles high-yield, high-risk loans and slices them into
securities of varying risk, according to a copy of the marketing
documents.  Tetragon Financial Group Ltd. , a Guernsey, Channel
Islands-based publicly traded company that bought LCM in January
to capitalize on recovering credit markets, is helping fund the
deal, one of the people said, who declined to be identified as
the talks are private.  
 Citigroup Inc., Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and other banks
are trying to restart CLOs after issuance dwindled at the end of
2007 when investors fled securities that repackage debt amid
losses on subprime mortgage securities. Prices of the safest CLO
portions have risen to 91 cents on the dollar from a record low
69 cents in April 2009, according to Morgan Stanley data, as
corporate defaults declined and leveraged loans had
unprecedented gains.  
 Carissa Ramirez, spokeswoman for Tetragon, based in New
York, declined to comment. Danielle Robinson, a spokeswoman for
Charlotte, North Carolina-based Bank of America, couldn’t
immediately provide comment.  
 LCM VIII Ltd. would be the fourth CLO of its type that
repackages broadly syndicated loans this year, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. A $212 million portion of the transaction
has the highest rankings from Moody’s Investors Service, the
prospectus obtained by Bloomberg News said. There is also a $47
million unrated piece, the document shows.  
 Leverage Loan Issuance  
 High-yield, high-risk loan issuance has risen 2.5 times to
$180.2 billion this year versus the same period last year,
Bloomberg data shows.  
 Banks are increasingly willing to lend after the Standard &
Poor’s/LSTA US Leveraged Loan 100  Index  gained a record 52.2
percent last year after losing 21.8 percent in 2008.  
 Even as optimism over last year’s economic rebound has
receded, the index has risen 2.18 percent this year, beating the
4.5 percent loss in the S&P 500 Index through Friday. High-yield
corporate defaults in the U.S. have declined to 6.3 percent from
12.1 percent a year ago, according to Moody’s data.  
 High-yield, high-risk debt is rated below Baa3 by Moody’s
and lower than BBB- by S&P.  
 CLO Sales  
 Bank of America, Barclays Capital and Credit Suisse Group
AG last week agreed to provide $2.4 billion of debt to back the
Carlyle’s Group’s $3.8 billion takeover of Ronkonkoma, New York-
based NBTY Inc., the maker of Nature’s Bounty and MET-Rx
nutritional supplements, according to a person familiar with the
discussions. The financing will be the largest such obligation
for a leveraged buyout this year, according to Bloomberg data.  
 CLOs sales fell to 17 deals totaling $26.5 billion in 2009,
its lowest level in more than a decade, according to Moody’s
Investors Service. That followed CLO issuance of about $100
billion in both 2006 and 2007, from $32 billion in 2004,
according to data from Credit Suisse Group AG.  
 Investors bought the securities because they had higher
returns than similarly rated debt, boosting demand for the
leveraged loans packaged inside them. The increase enabled CLOs
to finance almost two-thirds of the loans that backed the record
$616 billion of leveraged buyouts in the first half of 2007, S&P
LCD data show.  
 LCM Default Rate  
 Credit Agricole SA’s Calyon started LCM, formerly Lyon
Capital Management, in 2001. Until 2008, the New York-based firm
didn’t have a default in the portfolio, the CLO marketing
document said. In 2009, LCM’s default rate rose to 1.93 percent
of its assets, versus 10.67 percent for the overall loan market,
the document said.  
 Tetragon, which has $17 billion in assets and is run by
principals of Polygon Credit Management LP, a U.K.-based
investment firm, has returned about 9.85 percent this year
including reinvested dividends after gaining 50.5 percent in
2009.  
 “We expect to continue to explore other potential
acquisitions to grow our asset management platform,” Michael
Rosenberg, a principal at Polygon told analysts in May on
Tetragon’s earnings call. Tetragon “may be able to capitalize”
on newly issued CLO prospects in 2010, he said.  
 Citigroup priced a $525 million CLO overseen by WCAS Fraser
Sullivan Investment Management LLC in March, the first new issue
backed by widely syndicated loans in a year. The New York-based
bank also arranged a $325 million CLO for  Leon Black ’s Apollo
Management LP in May. That month, Goldman arranged a $450
million CLO for manager Doral Money Inc., with Babson Capital
Management LLC as the collateral adviser.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Pierre Paulden  in New York at 
 ppaulden@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        