-- Bank of Israel Survey Shows Economic Growth Slowing in the Third Quarter
-- Alisa Odenheimer
-- 2010-07-19T15:16:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-19/bank-of-israel-survey-shows-economic-growth-slowing-in-the-third-quarter.html

          
          
             The Bank of Israel’s survey of
companies shows economic growth slowing in the third quarter as
exports weaken, Governor  Stanley Fischer  said.  
 “Expectations for the third quarter are significantly less
good than what has happened in the second,” Fischer said at a
briefing today for the foreign press in Jerusalem. “We’ve
already had a few months of negative export growth in May-June,
and the companies are not expecting that situation to improve
much.” He didn’t give figures from the survey.  
 Data collected by the central bank suggest that  growth  in
the second quarter may have been “more rapid” than in the
first, Fischer said. The first-quarter growth figure of 3.4
percent, released yesterday, was “lower than we expected,”
Fischer said.  
 Israel’s rebound from the global financial crisis has been
powered by exports, which make up close to 50 percent of gross
domestic product. The economies of the U.S. and Europe, Israel’s
main export markets, look “less good” than hoped, and export
growth is likely to be lower unless a rapid switch can be made
to divert exports to Asia, Fischer said.  
 “What is going on in the rest of the world negatively
affects growth,” Fischer said. “The world situation is not a
‘W,’ it’s not a double-dip, but it’s not growing as rapidly as
we had hoped,” Fischer said.  
 As exports slow, growth is becoming more driven by domestic
demand, which has remained strong, Fischer said.  
 Consumer Spending  
 “Israeli consumers continue to feel good, and they
continue to buy,” he said.  
 While housing prices have risen more than 20 percent in the
past year, “there is not yet a bubble in the housing sector,”
Fischer said, adding that if prices continue to rise at their
current pace, a bubble may develop. While the best way to
prevent this would be by increasing the supply of housing, it
isn’t likely that this will happen, he said.  
 Fischer said that the background surrounding his next
 interest rate  decision, due July 26, is “a very complicated
situation,” in part because there are “mixed signals” in the
Israeli economy.  
 The purchasing managers index showed a contraction in
manufacturing in May and June, while the Bank of Israel’s
companies survey said growth may have been “quite high” in the
second quarter. While inflation has dropped to within the Bank
of Israel’s 1 percent to 3 percent target, expectations are that
it will accelerate.  
 Fischer is likely to keep the benchmark interest rate
unchanged at 1.5 percent at the end of July for a fourth month,
four out of seven economists  surveyed  by Bloomberg said at the
beginning of the month. The remaining three predicted a quarter-
point increase to 1.75 percent.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alisa Odenheimer  in Jerusalem at 
 aodenheimer@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        