-- Barclays Plans Inverse VIX ETN That Rallies When Options Measure Declines
-- Zeke Faux
-- 2010-07-19T20:00:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-19/barclays-to-issue-u-s-etn-meant-to-rise-when-vix-options-measure-retreats.html

          
          
             Barclays Plc listed the first
exchange-traded note whose price rises when a benchmark measure
of U.S. stock volatility known as the “fear gauge” falls.  
 Barclays’ product, which is called “Inverse S&P 500 VIX
Short-Term Futures Exchange Traded Notes,” started  trading 
today on the NYSE Arca exchange.  
 The ETN moves in the opposite direction of the Chicago
Board Options Exchange Volatility Index, known as the  VIX ,
according to a prospectus filed with the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission. That index measures the price of using
options to bet on a decline or gain in the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index of U.S. stocks and tends to rise when the measure of U.S.
stock prices falls.  
 Last year, Barclays issued two ETNs that track the VIX. The
notes, known by their ticker symbols  VXX  and VXZ, now have a
combined market capitalization of about $2 billion, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Barclays listed the inverse ETN
because of interest from investors, according to  Tim Edwards , a
vice president of investor solutions at Barclays in New York.  
 “The VXX has been very popular with people who were using
it to short,” Edwards said in a telephone interview today.  
 The VIX, which climbed as high as 45.79 on May 20, has
since fallen 43 percent to 26.25 as of Friday. In the two weeks
ended June 30, the number of shares of Barclays’ VXX being  sold
short  rose to a record 24.2 million, Bloomberg data show. VXX
has declined 20 percent this year to $27.37 as of Friday.  
 Shorting a stock involves borrowing shares to sell in the
market with the intention of buying them back later at a lower
price, pocketing the difference. Options are contracts that give
their holder the right, but not the obligation, to buy or sell a
stock at a fixed price in the future.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Zeke Faux  in New York at 
 zfaux@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        