-- BBVA Offers Investors Record Spread on 2 Billion Euros of Covered Bonds
-- Esteban Duarte
-- 2010-07-19T16:07:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-19/bbva-offers-investors-record-spread-on-2-billion-euros-of-covered-bonds.html

          
          
             Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA 
offered a record spread to sell 2 billion euros ($2.59 billion)
of covered bonds, according to Barclays Capital, the first issue
from a Spanish lender in three months.  
 The three-year notes were priced to yield 195 basis points
more than the swap rate, according to a banker involved in the
sale.  Bank of Ireland  sold the securities, backed by mortgages
or public-sector loans, with a spread of 190 basis points in
September, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 “It’s the highest-ever spread paid on a covered bond, so
it’s hard to say it’s not attractive,” said  Leef Dierks , a
Frankfurt-based analyst at Barclays, whose data is based on
public sales of benchmark-sized deals. “It’s an encouraging
sign to see issuers from peripheral countries returning to the
covered bond market.”  
 Investors have shunned Spanish financial company debt on
concern that banks will be hurt by losses on holdings of
government bonds in the wake of Europe’s budget deficit crisis.
The nation’s lenders raised a record 126.3 billion euros from
the European Central Bank in June.  
 A spokesman for BBVA, Spain’s second-biggest lender,
declined to comment. Natixis, Nomura Holdings Inc., Societe
Generale SA and UBS AG are helping the bank manage the sale.  
 The extra yield that investors demand to hold covered bonds
over swaps has jumped 53 basis points to 112 basis points since
the beginning of the year, Bank of America Merrill Lynch index
data show. The ECB last month completed its 60 billion-euro
program of purchases of the notes that was implemented to help
free up banks’ balance sheets and encourage lending.  
 The last public covered bond sale from a Spanish issuer was
in April when La Caixa, the nation’s largest savings bank,
raised 1 billion euros of three-year notes that were priced to
yield 72 basis points more than swaps, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Sonja Cheung  in London at 
 scheung58@bloomberg.net ;
 Esteban Duarte  in Madrid at 
 eduarterubia@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        