-- Belarus May Sell Bonds With `Hefty Premium' After Ukraine's Cancelation
-- Denis Maternovsky
-- 2010-07-19T15:04:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-19/belarus-may-sell-bonds-with-hefty-premium-after-ukraine-s-cancelation.html

          
          
             Belarus, a former Soviet republic
bordering Russia and the European Union, may have to offer
investors a “hefty premium” to sell its debut foreign-currency
debt after Ukraine cancelled its sale last week, according to
Renaissance Capital.  
 The country may need to offer a premium “in excess of 200
basis points” over Ukraine debt, or a yield of about 9 percent
for five-year bonds, “in order to ensure a smooth placement,”
Renaissance analysts  Petr Grishin  and  Nikolai Podguzov  wrote in
a research note today.  
 Belarus hired  BNP Paribas SA ,  Deutsche Bank AG ,  Royal Bank
of Scotland Group Plc  and  OAO Sberbank  for a debut Eurobond
offering and met foreign investors earlier this month for a
potential sale as the country seeks to bolster its finances
after export revenue tumbled. The sale may happen this week,
according to Renaissance.  
 There is “less certainty about the market’s assessment of
Belarus’s risk,” after Ukraine canceled its dollar bond sale
last week, according to the report. Still, the country’s
“ability to print the deal is greater than in the case of
Ukraine” because of support from Sberbank and “exemplary”
fiscal discipline, it said.  
 Ukraine abandoned plans to sell its first Eurobond since
2007 as investors sought yields of more than 9 percent. That was
more than the government was willing to pay after it struck a
second loan agreement with the International Monetary Fund.  
 The government of  Aleksandr Lukashenko , who has run Belarus
since 1994, shelved plans to issue Eurobonds in November 2008,
citing the global financial turmoil. The country turned to the
IMF for a $3.5 billion bailout loan instead to meet spending
commitments after export revenue slumped.  
 Belarus is rated B1, four levels below investment grade, by
Moody’s Investors Service and an equivalent B+ by Standard &
Poor’s, the same level as Bosnia & Herzegovina and Uganda.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Denis Maternovsky  in Moscow at 
 dmaternovsky@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        