-- Beware Greedy Relatives If You Hope to See 2011: Kevin Hassett
-- Kevin Hassett
-- 2010-07-19T01:00:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-19/beware-greedy-relatives-if-you-hope-to-see-2011-kevin-hassett.html

          
          
             I suppose you’re wondering why I
gathered all you distinguished Americans here today.  
 So far you have survived the worst crisis in financial
markets since the Great Depression. You have held onto your
sizable wealth, which presents us with a tax-planning scenario
that only  Agatha Christie  could have dreamed up: There is a new
and possibly significant risk to your continued survival that
runs through the end of this year.  
 You no doubt heard about the death of New York Yankees boss
 George Steinbrenner  last week, and you may know he died at an
opportune time for his heirs. Your own children and
grandchildren, nieces and nephews probably learned something
that could put you in danger.  
 You see, thanks to a quirk in  George W. Bush ’s tax cuts in
2001, the estate tax this year, and only this year, is zero.
That means if you die in 2010, your heirs pay the government
nothing on the money you pass along to them.  
 But as the saying goes, “no good thing lasts forever,”
and the estate tax is coming back with a vengeance. Unless
Congress extends the tax cut, starting on Jan. 1 all taxable
estates that exceed $1 million will be taxed at the pre-2001
rate of 55 percent.  
 You heard me right: A federal tax rising from zero to 55
percent as the ball drops in Times Square. Have you ever heard
of such a thing?  
 Up to Congress  
 I investigated whether Congress might act to prevent this
crazy, sudden increase, and the perverse incentive that
accompanies it, by keeping the death tax dead.  
 It doesn’t look good. Even if Congress acts, it seems
likely to tweak rather than abolish the tax. For instance,
Senators  Blanche Lincoln  of Arkansas and  Jon Kyl  of Arizona
would restore the estate tax at 44 percent, exempting the first
$3.5 million, eventually dropping to 35 percent with a $5
million exemption.  
 So it seems that, no matter what, the estate-tax rate next
year is going to be well above today’s goose egg. If you wait to
die until 2011, you’re likely to face a tax rate of about 50
percent. That means if your estate is $200 million, your heirs
save about $100 million if you, let’s say, conveniently have an
accident in the next five months.  
 I see some of you shaking your heads. I know, this may
sound far-fetched. But economic studies have shown that monetary
incentives influence death rates. Plugs get unplugged, do-not-
resuscitate orders are placed. Maybe worse.  
 Death and Taxes  
 I reviewed a 2003  paper  in the Review of Statistics and
Economics by  Joel Slemrod  of the University of Michigan and
Wojciech Kopczuk of the University of British Columbia. They
examined the number of estate-tax returns immediately following
changes in the law since 1916 and found that death rates change
with the estate tax.  
 Applying their results in a back-of the envelope
calculation, we would anticipate that people with significant
estates are roughly 25 percent more likely to die before the tax
skyrockets in January.  
 Pretty scary, huh? Here’s some brighter news.  
 A good deal of research has found a decrease in deaths in
the weeks before major events, such as holidays or major
elections, and an increase in deaths afterward. So it’s quite
possible that people reach a certain date through the force of
their own will to live. This suggests that your own
determination to see 2011 might matter more than, say, the
possibility that your grandchildren poison you.  
 Just in case, we have some recommendations to reduce the
chances of a spike in mortality among the wealthy this year.  
 Don’t Fear Spouse  
 First, if your only heir is your spouse, relax. Your
husband or wife can inherit everything without incurring any tax
liability this year or next. That part of the tax law is likely
to persist no matter what.  
 If you do have many heirs other than your spouse, then
there are a number of candidates who might, in a mystery novel
at least, have a motive to do you harm. The challenge is to
revise your estate plan to remove any incentives they might have
to do so.  
 One way out would be to remove from your will anyone you
don’t really, really trust. But that might create the risk of
retribution, and we’re trying to lengthen your life here, not
shorten it.  
 A far better solution is to arrange your affairs so that
your heirs stand to get the same amount of money if you die this
year or next. Here is a simple way to do it.  
 Philanthropic Shield  
 Change your will so that if you drop dead this year, the
first 50 percent goes to charity. Divide the rest among your
heirs. On Jan. 1, have the will revert to its previous
conditions. Announce this change to all your heirs, and the
problem is solved.  
 Once this change is made, the only entity with an incentive
to see you die this year rather than next year is the charity,
and it has no way of knowing what you’ve written in your will.  
 If your heirs love you, they will be glad to be rid of any
incentive to see you die this year. If they don’t love you, you
can sleep easier.  
 ( Kevin Hassett , director of economic-policy studies at the
American Enterprise Institute, is a Bloomberg News columnist. He
was an adviser to Republican Senator  John McCain  in the 2008
presidential election. The opinions expressed are his own.)  
 To contact the writer of this column:
 Kevin Hassett  at 
 khassett@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at 
 jgreiff@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        