-- Blagojevich's Brother Told Him to Ask Obama to End U.S. Corruption Probe
-- Andrew M. Harris
-- 2010-07-20T00:41:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-19/blagojevich-s-brother-told-him-to-ask-obama-to-end-u-s-corruption-probe.html

          
          
             While  Rod Blagojevich  was under
investigation as Illinois governor, his brother advised him to
ask President  Barack Obama  to have the Chicago U.S. Attorney end
the corruption probe, jurors were told at the brothers’ trial.  
 Robert Blagojevich made the suggestion in the same Nov. 5,
2008, conversation secretly recorded by the Federal Bureau of
Investigation in which he discussed with the then-governor
whether to name Obama adviser  Valerie Jarrett  to fill the newly-
elected president’s former U.S. Senate seat, prosecutor
 Christopher Niewoehner  said in court today.  
 The twice-elected Democrat, 53, is accused of tying
official actions, including the senate appointment, to campaign
contributions and personal favors. Robert Blagojevich allegedly
conspired in some of the schemes. Both men have said they’re
innocent of the charges brought by U.S. Attorney  Patrick Fitzgerald .  
 Robert Blagojevich, 54, and his wife, Julie, were the first
two defense witnesses called in the six-week-old trial. The
former governor has said he also will take the witness stand.
The brothers face as long as 20 years in prison if convicted on
the most serious charges.  
 “If you can get Obama to have Fitzgerald close the case on
you,” Robert told Rod, the governor would then be cleared,
according to a transcript of the discussion that Niewoehner read
aloud during his cross examination Robert.  
 “Is that what you wanted?” the assistant U.S. Attorney
asked.  
 ‘Damoclean Sword’  
 “As a brother, of course I did,” the elder Blagojevich
replied, saying he likened the investigation to a “Damoclean
sword” looming over Rod’s head.  
 “In exchange for Jarrett?” Niewoehner asked.  
 “Not in my mind,” Robert Blagojevich answered.  
 A spokesman for Fitzgerald,  Randall Samborn , declined to
comment on the dialogue between prosecutor and defendant.  
 A former U.S. Army Lieutenant Colonel who oversaw a
tactical nuclear missile battery in Europe, Robert Blagojevich
also has worked in investment banking and owns rental property.  
 Earlier today, he testified that in July 2008, Rod
Blagojevich asked him to become chairman of the governor’s
campaign finance committee. Robert, who said he’s a
Republication, took on the role.  
 While the brothers had been “tied at the hip” as
children, they grew apart as Rod pursued a career in law and
government, while Robert served in the Army, Robert said.  
 Requests for Donations  
 Under questioning by his attorney,  Michael Ettinger , Robert
Blagojevich denied linking requests for donations to official
actions by his brother.  
 “I was told never to tie the two and I never did,” he
said.  
 Ettinger didn’t reply to telephone and e-mail requests for
comment after regular business hours.  
 In her testimony, Julie Blagojevich said she believed her
husband’s campaign role would foster a closer relationship
between the brothers, who seldom saw each other.  
 “I felt like Rob did not know Rod,” she said.  
 U.S. District Judge  James B. Zagel  told jurors in June that
the trial could last three to four months. Federal prosecutors
completed their presentation of testimony and evidence on July
13, ahead of the expected schedule.  
 After the midday break today, Zagel denied a request to
throw out the case, saying the government had introduced enough
evidence to let the jury decide the factual issues.  
 Defense lawyers have issued subpoenas for the testimony of
U.S. Representative  Jesse Jackson Jr.  and  Rahm Emanuel , Obama’s
chief of staff.  
 While Jarrett is still under a defense subpoena to testify,
an attorney for the governor, Sam Adam Jr., said it’s unlikely
she will be called to the witness stand.  
 “It depends on how the trial unfolds,” Adam said outside
the courtroom at the day’s end.  
 The case is U.S. v. Blagojevich, 08-cr-00888, U.S. District
Court, Northern District of Illinois (Chicago).  
 For Related News and Information:
Top legal stories: TLAW <GO>
Bloomberg legal resources: BLAW <GO>
Top verdicts: TVER <GO>  
          
          


  


        