-- Blagojevich Brother Says Money, Office Not Linked
-- Andrew M. Harris
-- 2010-07-19T19:04:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-19/blagojevich-s-brother-denies-linking-fundraising-official-acts-at-trial.html

          
          
             Robert Blagojevich, brother of
indicted ex-Illinois Governor  Rod Blagojevich , testified that he
was instructed on becoming his brother’s campaign finance
chairman never to link contributions to official acts.  
 “I was told never to tie the two and I never did,” Robert
Blagojevich, 54, told a federal court jury today in Chicago,
where he and his brother are on trial for corruption.  
 Rod Blagojevich , 53, a twice-elected Democrat, is accused
of leveraging legislation and executive orders, including an
appointment to President  Barack Obama ’s senate seat, to raise
cash. Robert Blagojevich, who said he is a Republican, is
accused of conspiring with his brother.  
 Robert Blagojevich and his wife, Julie, were the first two
defense witnesses called in the six-week-old trial. The former
governor has said he also will take the witness stand. The
brothers face as long as 20 years in prison if convicted on the
most serious charges.  
 U.S. District Judge  James B. Zagel  told jurors in June
that the trial could last three to four months. Federal
prosecutors completed their presentation of testimony and
evidence on July 13, ahead of the expected schedule.  
 After the midday break today, Zagel denied a request to
throw out the case, saying the government had introduced enough
evidence to let the jury decide the factual issues.  
 Defense lawyers have issued subpoenas for the testimony of
U.S. Representative  Jesse Jackson Jr.  and  Rahm Emanuel , Obama’s
chief of staff.  
 ‘At the Hip’  
 Robert Blagojevich told the court how he and his brother
had been “tied at the hip” as children before pursuing
separate careers. Rod went into law and government, while Robert
commanded a tactical nuclear missile battery in the U.S. Army
before working in investment banking.  
 In 2008, Rod Blagojevich asked his big brother to lead his
campaign finance committee. Robert Blagojevich said he had
raised money for charity and not previously done political
fundraising.  
 Under questioning by his attorney,  Michael Ettinger , Robert
Blagojevich denied linking requests for donations to official
actions by his brother.  
 He specifically challenged testimony by prosecution witness
Patrick Magoon, chief executive officer of Chicago’s Children’s
Memorial Hospital.  
 Felt ‘Pressured’  
 Magoon told jurors July 13 that he felt “pressured” by a
call from the then-governor telling him of an increase in the
state’s Medicaid reimbursement rate for pediatric specialists,
followed days later by a call from Robert Blagojevich asking him
to quickly raise as much as $25,000.  
 “I feel stupid now,” Robert Blagojevich said he told his
brother after Magoon failed to return three subsequent phone
messages. “I didn’t want to pester him,” the older brother said.  
 In her testimony, Julie Blagojevich said she believed her
husband’s campaign role would foster a closer relationship
between the brothers, who seldom saw each other.  
 “I felt like Rob did not know Rod,” she said.  
 The case is U.S. v. Blagojevich, 08-cr-00888, U.S. District
Court, Northern District of Illinois (Chicago).  
 For Related News and Information:
Top legal stories: TLAW <GO>
Bloomberg legal resources: BLAW <GO>
Top verdicts: TVER <GO>  
          
          


  


        