-- Boeing Drones Play Pivotal Role in War on Taliban, Al-Qaeda, Command Says
-- Tony Capaccio
-- 2010-07-19T12:31:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-19/boeing-drones-play-pivotal-role-in-war-on-taliban-al-qaeda-command-says.html

          
          
             Video and photos from  Boeing Co. 
drones are helping U.S. commandos stage raids on Taliban and al-
Qaeda militants in Afghanistan and Iraq.  
 The unmanned planes have “supported missions to kill or
capture over 40 high-value individuals,” have spotted weapons
caches and thwarted efforts to ambush troop convoys or plant
roadside bombs, said U.S. Central Command spokesman Captain Jack
Hanzlik.  
 The Boeing  ScanEagle  weighs 40 pounds and has a wingspan of
10 feet (3 meters). The planes, under the direction of seven-
member Navy  Special Warfare  teams, have flown more than 5,600 
hours of reconnaissance since November 2008.  
 The ScanEagle can fly as high as 18,000 feet, where it
loiters for up to 10 hours within a range of 72 miles (120
kilometers), said Lieutenant Commander  Daniel Imbat , a naval
aviator based in Coronado Beach, California, who trains drone
operators and sets up teams in Iraq and Afghanistan.  
 “It’s been a heavy-duty player for us in support of all
joint special-operations guys,” including Navy SEAL commandos,
Rangers, Green Berets and Air Force units, Imbat said.  
 Defense Secretary  Robert Gates  told the services to make
greater use of drones, and the military plans to more than
triple its inventory by 2020. Much of the public notice has been
given to the increased use of  Northrop Grumman Corp. ’s Global
Hawk, which can fly as high as 60,000 feet, or the missile-
firing Reapers produced by  General Atomics Aeronautical Systems
Inc. , which fly as high as 50,000 feet.  
 Officials for Chicago-based  Boeing Co . have said the market
worldwide for drones could be worth as much as $55 billion
through 2018.  
 Monitoring Pirates  
 The ScanEagle gained international attention when the Navy
revealed in April 2009 that it was being used to monitor the
lifeboat off Somalia where pirates held hostage the captain of
an American-flagged container ship.  
 The plane is built by Bingen, Washington-based  Insitu
Inc ., a Boeing subsidiary.  
 Imbat said the ScanEagles are used for “the long, mundane,
things that take weeks or months” to develop, “where we can go
after a bad guy” or, as in Iraq, help the Iraqi police “build
a case for an arrest.”  
 The drone has enabled U.S. special forces to “follow a
person and see their whole day,” Harry Canter, a Navy
instructor, is quoted as saying in the December 2009  edition  of
“Ethos,” the official Naval Special Warfare magazine.  
 Specialist Second Class Matthew Zarcone, who has operated
the ScanEagle for commando missions, told the magazine “you’re
providing something that’s going to keep them safe and let them
see a target before they get to the door.”  
 Before drones, commando teams “might go to a target
knowing nothing about it other than the picture they saw hours
ago and now we are providing a live feed,” Zarcone said. “They
can make adjustments on the fly.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Anthony Capaccio  in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     The ScanEagle weighs 40 punds and has a wingspan of 10 feet. Source: Boeing via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     A ScanEagle Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV) is prepared for launch on a catapult in Al Asad, Iraq. Source: Boeing via Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
