-- Boeing Says 747-8 Delivery May Slip Again, Undecided on 737, 777 Revamps
-- Andrea Rothman
-- 2010-07-19T19:25:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-19/boeing-says-747-8-delivery-may-slip-again-undecided-on-737-777-revamps.html

          
          
             Boeing Co. ’s revamped 747 jumbo jet
may not be delivered to the first customer until next year after
a fourth production delay, while the company has yet to decide
whether to go ahead with updates of its 737 and 777 designs.  
 Handover of the 747-8 freighter could be postponed into
January 2011 from the end of this year, Boeing Commercial
Airplanes Chief Executive Officer  Jim Albaugh  said today at the
Farnborough Air Show.  
 “I’ve been in development programs my whole life and I
know things happen, and we don’t have a lot of contingency
left,” Albaugh said, without giving a reason for the delay. The
company had considered bringing a 747-8 test jet to Farnborough
along with the 787 Dreamliner on display and decided otherwise
to focus on more tests in Seattle.  
 Boeing has already delayed delivery of the 747-8 three
times and last October posted a third-quarter  loss  after taking
charges against the jumbo and the all-new Dreamliner. The
Chicago-based company will reach a conclusion on adding new
engines to the 737 single-aisle model by this fall, and is
considering upgrading the 777 wide-body plane, Albaugh said.  
 Engine Options  
 Boeing, which had previously suggested a decision on the
737 might take until the end of the year, will base its strategy
on demand and not the policies of other manufacturers, the
executive said. Both Boeing and Airbus SAS have told airlines
they may put more-efficient engines on current models as they
seek to blunt momentum for new narrow-bodies being developed by
Bombardier Inc., China’s state-owned Comac and Irkut of Russia.  
 “We’re going to be market driven and not driven by the
competition,” Albaugh said, adding that Boeing held discussions
with  Southwest Airlines Co.  CEO  Gary Kelly  last week and that
the U.S. discount carrier will be “very involved” whatever the
decision on the company’s plans for a new engine on the 737 or
an all-new single-aisle jet instead.  
 “I really don’t think Southwest is locked in on any
position,” Albaugh said. “Whatever we do, it’s going to be
something that Gary Kelly likes.”  
 Faster Production  
 Boeing is likely to accelerate production of the 737 to
avoid losing orders to challengers such as Bombardier’s new
CSeries model simply because of the waiting time for its best-
selling aircraft. Albaugh said yesterday he’s talking with
suppliers to see if they can support another production hike.  
 “If we can’t come up to rate and people need airplanes, we
could drive customers to buy the CSeries,” Albaugh said today.
“That’s one of the reasons we want to increase the rate.”  
 The company said at last year’s Paris Air Show that it may
build a new wing for the 777, improving fuel efficiency and
allowing the plane to compete better with the A350 that Airbus
will deliver in 2013.  
 “We’re looking at some different things we can do -- the
777-X as we call it -- and there are a lot of things we could do
for it,” Albaugh said.  
 The 787’s engines limit the new jet to 290 seats, while the
A350 will have up to 350. A 777 with a redesigned wing could
fill the spot left between the two planes.  
 Finmeccanica SpA  meanwhile said today that there is “no
major issue” concerning its role as a supplier to the 787,
which has been delayed by production glitches in part concerning
assemblies produced by the Italian company.  
 Taking Out Risk  
 There is no problem with the horizontal part of the
Dreamliner’s tail, known as the stabilizer,  Giuseppe Giordo , CEO
of the company’s Alenia aero-structures unit, said in a press
briefing at the air show.  
 “It’s the most advanced project in the world, so things
can happen,” Giordo said. “The stabilizer is fine.”  
 Boeing last week said the Dreamliner’s first delivery could
slip to 2011 as well, from the target of the end of this year,
which would already have been two and a half years late.  Scott Fancher , the 787 program manager, said the delay was due in part
to repairs and inspections needed because of poor quality of
Alenia’s horizontal stabilizers.  
 Boeing is trying to take risk out of the supply chain,
Albaugh said.  
 “We have found a few issues and we’ve put our people in
those facilities to make sure they’re ready,” he said. “We’re
getting parts from hundreds if not thousands of suppliers and
any one of them could be the pinch point.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Susanna Ray  in Farnborough via 
 sray7@bloomberg.net ;
 Andrea Rothman  in Farnborough via at 
 aerothman@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Jim Albaugh, head of Boeing Co.'s commercial division, speaks during a news conference on the first day of the Farnborough International Airshow. Photographer: Chris Ratcliffe/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
