-- BP, RWE Amend Two Gas Contracts with Egypt, to Start Paying Royalties
-- Alaa Shahine
-- 2010-07-19T12:18:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-19/bp-rwe-amend-two-gas-contracts-with-egypt-to-start-paying-royalties.html

          
          
             BP Plc  and RWE AG changed the terms
of two natural-gas production contracts in Egypt, ending a
requirement that the government invest in developing offshore
fields, the companies and Oil Ministry said today.  
 BP and RWE’s oil and gas unit  RWE Dea  said they will pay
royalties to Egypt’s government under revised terms for the
North Alexandria and West Mediterranean Deepwater concessions.
Egypt has the third-largest gas reserves in Africa after Algeria
and Nigeria, with 77.3 trillion cubic feet at the end of 2009,
according to London-based BP.  
 Production at the two fields is forecast to reach 1 billion
cubic feet per day, with first gas expected in 2014, BP said in
an e-mailed statement. RWE Dea, based in Hamburg, said in a
separate statement that it will invest $3.6 billion in
developing the fields in the West Nile Delta, 40 kilometers (25
miles) off Egypt.  
 “We used to have a production sharing agreement that said
the state should invest,” RWE Dea Chief Executive Officer
 Thomas Rappuhn  said in an interview in Cairo. “This has been
changed. We pay royalties for what we have invested and
produced,” he said, offering no details about the planned
payments.  
 The Egyptian Oil Ministry said in a statement that both
companies will make the investments necessary to develop the gas
fields.  
 “The most important thing about the agreement is that it
makes an obligation for the foreign partner to start output at a
specific date and produce a certain amount,” Abdel Alim Taha, a
senior Oil Ministry official, told reporters.  
 BP has a 60 percent stake in the North Alexandria
concession, with RWE Dea holding the remainder. The British
company holds 80 percent of the West Mediterranean Deepwater
concession and RWE Dea the rest. BP is the operator at both
projects.  
 RWE AG is Germany’s second-biggest utility by revenue and
market capitalization after E.ON AG. BP is Europe’s second-
largest oil company by market capitalization behind Royal Dutch
Shell Plc.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:  Ola Galal  in Cairo at
   ogalal@bloomberg.net ;
 Alaa Shahine  in Cairo at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        