-- BP, RBS, ESun, Galleon, Churchill, Total, Goldman, Dell in Court News
-- Elizabeth Amon
-- 2010-07-19T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-19/bp-rbs-esun-galleon-churchill-total-goldman-dell-in-court-news.html

          
          
             BP Plc  may saddle potential buyers
of its assets with lawsuits as Europe’s second-biggest oil
company tries to raise money to pay claims that may reach $100
billion from the Gulf of Mexico spill, Bloomberg News’s Linda
Sandler reports.  
 Apache Corp.  may agree to pay $10 billion to $11 billion in
cash next week for some of BP’s Alaskan assets, according to
people familiar with the deal.  Exxon Mobil Corp. ,  Royal Dutch
Shell Plc  and Tullow Oil Plc have also said they may be
interested in buying some of BP’s properties.  
 Laws prohibiting fraudulent transfers could allow victims
to sue a buyer to recover money deemed essential to pay claims,
and successor liability could leave a purchaser with BP’s
obligations, if BP files for bankruptcy. A proposed change to
federal bankruptcy laws could force a buyer to wait for BP to
get approval from victims for the sale, or persuade a judge it
will have enough assets to pay claims in full.  
 “Any purchaser will worry about fraudulent transfer and
successor liability issues, and perhaps request part of the
purchase price be kept in escrow for such a contingency,”,”
said New York bankruptcy lawyer Martin Bienenstock of Dewey &
LeBoeuf LLP in an e-mail.  
 BP said July 16 it found no sign of an oil leak after
stopping the flow from its broken Macondo well July 15 for the
first time since an April 20 explosion at the Deepwater Horizon
drilling rig killed 11 workers. The well had dumped as much as
60,000 barrels of oil a day into the Gulf, according to a U.S.
government-led panel of scientists.  
 For more, click here.  
 RBS Said to Weigh Legal Options After Goldman Fine  
 Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc  will reserve the right to
file future lawsuits against  Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  after the
Wall Street firm agreed to pay $100 million in compensation as
part of a settlement with U.S. regulators, a person with
knowledge of the matter said.  
 RBS hasn’t been asked to waive its right to file lawsuits
and has a strong legal case following New York-based Goldman’s
agreement with the Securities and Exchange Commission to pay a
$550 million fine, said the person, who declined to be
identified because the talks are private.  
 RBS, which was bailed out by the British taxpayer, lost
about $841 million on a collateralized debt obligation arranged
by Goldman Sachs. U.S. authorities sued Goldman in April,
alleging that the bank created and sold CDOs linked to subprime
mortgages without disclosing to buyers that hedge fund Paulson &
Co. helped pick the underlying securities and bet against them.  
 “RBS has been monitoring the complaint closely,” the
Edinburgh-based bank said in an e-mailed statement. “Following
the SEC’s announcement, RBS will now carefully consider all of
its options.”  
 Germany’s IKB Deutsche Industriebank AG will receive about
$150 million payment as part of the settlement after it lost
about the same amount on the Goldman Sachs CDO. KfW Group, the
German development bank that bailed out IKB during the credit
crisis, said it will also review the settlement.  
 “KfW is examining the decision from last night,”
spokesman Michael Helbig said July 16, declining to comment
further.  
 Under the terms of Goldman Sachs’s settlement with the SEC,
the firm is prohibited from denying, directly or indirectly, any
of the allegations in the SEC’s complaint. The complaint, which
was filed on April 16, accused Goldman Sachs of intentionally
misleading investors in the Abacus CDO.  
 The firm “is acknowledging that its marketing materials
were deficient and failed to disclose material information,”
Lorin Reisner, the SEC’s enforcement director, said July 15.
Goldman agreed July 15 to pay $550 million and change its
business practices to settle U.S. regulatory claims. The penalty
is the largest levied by the Securities and Exchange Commission
against a Wall Street firm.  
 A Goldman Sachs spokeswoman in London declined to comment.  
 For more, click here.  
 ESun’s $2.4 Billion Claim Against Investors Dismissed  
 A Hong Kong court dismissed an  eSun Holdings Ltd.  unit’s
$2.39 billion claim against investors in its Macau casino
project including  Oaktree Capital Management LP  and Silver Point
Capital LP.  
 High Court Judge A.T. Reyes ruled July 16 that East Asia
Satellite Television (Holdings) Ltd.’s attempt to sue them is
“untenable” under Macau and Hong Kong laws. He allowed a
separate claim for $88.6 million against Oaktree and Silver
Point for “inducing breach” of an agreement to proceed.  
 East Asia Satellite last October sued New Cotai LLC, owned
by Oaktree, Silver Point and former  Las Vegas Sands Corp. 
executive David Friedman, and its directors, accusing them of
systematically hindering the development of their Macao Studio
City project in order to force a renegotiation of the terms of
their joint venture.  
 Calls to  eSun  executives requesting comment weren’t
returned. Peter Lam, chairman of eSun parent Lai Sun Development
Co., wasn’t available for comment after office hours in Hong
Kong.  
 Friedman, New Cotai’s chief executive, said in a statement
he was pleased the High Court dismissed “so many” of East
Asia’s claims.  
 “We will vigorously defend the remaining claims and are
confident that when the Court has the opportunity to consider
the remaining claims, our position will be vindicated,” he
said.  
 The case is East Asia Satellite Television (Holdings) Ltd.
and New Cotai LLC, HCA 2189/2009 in the Hong Kong Court of First
Instance.  
 For more, click here.  
 For the latest lawsuits news, click here. For the latest new
suits news, click here. For copies of recent civil complaints,
click here.  
 Verdicts/Settlements  
 Plate Pleads Guilty in Galleon Insider-Trading Case  
 David Plate, who is charged in the Galleon Group LLC
insider-trading case, pleaded guilty to two criminal counts and
is cooperating with the government.  
 The plea came in a hearing July 16 before U.S. District
Judge Richard Sullivan in New York.  
 Plate, who pleaded guilty to securities fraud and
conspiracy to commit securities fraud, told Sullivan that he
bought 50,000 shares of Axcan Pharma Inc. in November 2007,
based on insider information that originated with two lawyers at
the law firm  Ropes & Gray .  
 Plate was charged with six others in one of two overlapping
insider trading cases involving Galleon Group founder Raj
Rajaratnam. Rajaratnam, who has pleaded not guilty, was arrested
in October. A total of 21 have been charged in the two cases.  
 The case is: U.S. v. Goffer, 10-cr-56, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  
 For more, click here.  
 Churchill Ends Trade Secrets Suit Against Ex-Analysts at Aviate  
 Churchill Capital Ltd. , a hedge fund adviser and brokerage,
ended a lawsuit filed against two of its former equity analysts
in Singapore accusing them of passing confidential client data
to rival Aviate Global LLP.  
 A notice to discontinue the lawsuit was filed with the
Singapore High Court July 15.  
 Churchill had accused Jonathan Foster and Charles Nave of
breaching their employment contract, which prohibited them from
poaching clients and employees for a year, according to the
April 29 suit. Bermuda-based Churchill said in the suit it found
evidence that the two, who quit at the end of 2009 to join
Aviate, conspired to download several files from the company’s
system.  
 “The matter has now been amicably resolved,” a founding
partner Patrick Churchill said in a telephone interview from
Monaco. He declined to disclose settlement terms. Foster and
Nave declined to comment. Aviate wasn’t a party to the suit.  
 The case is Churchill Singapore Pte. v Jonathan Foster and
Charles Nave S298/2010 in the Singapore High Court.  
 Total Must Pay $9.5 Million Over 2005 U.K. Explosion  
 Total SA , Europe’s third-largest oil company, must pay 6.2
million pounds ($9.5 million) in fines and legal costs for its
part in a 2005  explosion  at an oil storage depot outside of
London.  
 Five companies must pay a total of 9.43 million pounds in
fines and costs, Judge David Calvert-Smith said in the criminal
case at St. Albans Crown Court, near London, July 16.  
 The depot, 25 miles (40 kilometers) north of London, blew
up Dec. 11, 2005, in what the British government described as a
blast “of massive proportions.” More than 20 tanks of jet fuel
and gasoline exploded, injuring 40 people and causing widespread
damage to buildings in the surrounding area.  
 “The failures which led in particular to the explosion
were failures which could have combined to produce these
consequences at almost any hour of any day,” Calvert-Smith
said. The fact that the accident occurred at “one minute past 6
on a Sunday morning was little short of miraculous.”  
 Hertfordshire Oil Storage Ltd., a joint venture of Total
and  Chevron Corp.  that ran the facility, was also fined 1.45
million pounds and must pay an additional 1 million pounds in
legal costs.  
 Paris-based Total said in a statement that it fully accepts
responsibility “for the events that took place at Buncefield in
2005.”  
 For more, click here.  
 Goldman Sachs ‘Victory’ Ushers Change for Wall Street  
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. ’s $550 million settlement with
U.S. regulators July 15 will benefit the firm by ending three
months of uncertainty at an affordable price. Now the rest of
Wall Street begins calculating the cost.  
 Investors welcomed the deal with the Securities and
Exchange Commission, saying the company won key points: The cost
was below some analysts’ estimates of at least $1 billion; no
management changes were required; and Goldman Sachs said the SEC
indicated it doesn’t plan claims related to other mortgage-
linked securities it examined. The stock’s late surge on
anticipation of a settlement July 15 added more than $3 billion
to the company’s market value, and it climbed further after New
York trading closed.  
 “You’d have to look at it as a victory for Goldman,” said
Peter Sorrentino, senior portfolio manager at Huntington Asset
Advisors in Cincinnati, which manages $13.3 billion including
Goldman Sachs shares. “This takes a cloud off the stock.”  
 In the settlement, unveiled less than two hours after the
Senate passed legislation to reform the financial system and
avert future crises, Goldman Sachs acknowledged that marketing
materials for the 2007 deal at the center of the case contained
“incomplete information.” In its April 16 suit, the SEC
accused the firm of defrauding investors in a mortgage-backed
collateralized debt obligation by failing to tell them that
hedge fund Paulson & Co., which was planning to bet against the
deal, had helped to design it.  
 The settlement requires the New York-based company to
increase training for employees who structure or market mortgage
securities, and to bolster the vetting and approval process.
Those changes will probably lead to a new industry standard for
disclosures in private sales of securities, even to the most
sophisticated investors, analysts said.  
 Goldman Sachs said in a statement that the SEC doesn’t plan
to target the firm over any other products that the agency has
reviewed.  
 For more, click here.  
 Dell Proposes Settlement to SEC Staff Over Intel Case  
 Dell Inc. , the computer maker under investigation by the
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, proposed a settlement
related to allegations about its relationship with  Intel Corp.   
 The SEC’s staff will recommend the commission approve the
proposal, Round Rock, Texas-based Dell said July 16 in a
statement. The proposal’s terms are the same Dell disclosed in
June, when it said it was in discussions with the SEC. Under
those, Dell would be subject to a fine, and  Michael Dell  would
be allowed to continue as chief executive officer.  
 Dell, under investigation since 2005, is being probed for
accounting and financial reporting issues related to its
partnership with the chipmaker. The company has said it may face
penalties related to alleged violations of fraud laws and
failure to disclose the extent of the relationship. Dell has set
aside $100 million for the settlement.  
 SEC spokesman John Nester declined to comment. Any
settlement would be subject to approval by the SEC and a U.S.
District Court, Dell said.  
 For more, click here.  
 For the latest verdict and settlement news, click here. For the
latest trial and appeals news, click here.  
 Court News  
 Obama Appointees May Solidify ‘Worrisome’ Partisan Court Split  
 The  U.S. Supreme Court  has long had ideological divisions.
Senate confirmation of Elena Kagan may give it a partisan split
as well.  
 Kagan’s arrival could create an unprecedented party-based
alignment, with five Republican appointees often outvoting their
four Democratic colleagues. She would succeed the retired
Justice John Paul Stevens, a Republican appointee who defied
party labels by aligning with the court’s liberals on abortion,
the death penalty, terrorism, campaign finance and gun rights.  
 A partisan divide would punctuate a decades-long trend
fueled by the increasingly contentious appointment and
confirmation process. It would be a new dynamic for a court that
has traditionally sought to keep its distance from the
partisanship that pervades the other two branches of government.  
 “To an astonishing extent, a Republican appointment versus
a Democratic appointment is going to explain a lot about their
votes,” said Christopher L. Eisgruber, the provost of Princeton
University in New Jersey and the author of a  book  on the Supreme
Court appointment process. “And that’s worrisome when the court
becomes an extension of partisan politics.”  
 Confirmation of Kagan, President Barack Obama’s second high
court nominee, would put four Democrats on the court for the
first time since 1971. It would come a year after Obama nominee
Sonia Sotomayor succeeded David Souter, another Republican
appointee who often voted with his Democratic colleagues.  
 Kagan would join a court that divided almost along party
lines this year in 5-4 rulings that struck down limits on
corporate campaign spending -- prompting criticism from Obama in
his State of the Union address -- and required states and cities
to respect gun rights.  
 In each case, the majority consisted of five Republicans --
Chief Justice John Roberts and Justices Antonin Scalia, Clarence
Thomas, Samuel Alito and Anthony Kennedy -- with Stevens and
Democratic appointees Sotomayor, Stephen Breyer and Ruth Bader
Ginsburg in the minority. Barring illness, that five-vote
majority is likely to hold sway for some time given that no
Republican has voiced interest in retiring.  
 For more, click here.  
 Court Filings  
 Drilling Ban Lawsuit Most Popular Docket on Bloomberg  
 A lawsuit by  Hornbeck Offshore Services Inc.  and other oil
service companies challenging the six-month Gulf of Mexico deep
water drilling moratorium was the most-read litigation docket on
the Bloomberg Law system last week.  
 On July 13, two New Orleans courts were asked by Interior
Secretary Kenneth Salazar to dismiss the lawsuit challenging the
moratorium after the government issued a new temporary ban.  
 The revised ban that may allow new wells if the industry
shows it has raised safety standards. The new policy replaces
the earlier ban and renders the challenge to it moot, U.S.
Justice Department lawyers said in filings with both courts.  
 Hornbeck Offshore Services Inc.  and other oil service
companies had sued U.S. regulators, including Salazar, arguing
the drilling suspension would cause them irreparable economic
harm.  
 U.S. District Judge Martin Feldman ruled June 22 that the
measure was overly broad and two days later denied a U.S.
request to put his order on hold while regulators appealed. The
U.S. filed notice of appeal June 23. On June 25, the government
asked the U.S. Court of Appeals in New Orleans to stay the
order.  
 The case is Hornbeck Offshore Services LLC v. Salazar, 2:10-
cv-01663, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of Louisiana
(New Orleans). The appeal case is 10-30585, 5th U.S. Circuit
Court of Appeals (New Orleans).  
 To read more, click here.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Elizabeth Amon  in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        