-- BP Talks With Apache Said to Stall on Selling Prudhoe Bay Stake
-- Stanley Reed
-- 2010-07-19T16:54:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-19/bp-talks-with-apache-on-sale-of-prudhoe-bay-oil-field-stake-said-to-stall.html

          
          
             BP Plc’s  talks to sell half its
stake in Alaska’s Prudhoe Bay oil field to  Apache Corp.  stalled
twice over the weekend, raising doubts about whether the deal
will be completed, said a person with knowledge of the matter.  
 Talks between BP and Apache faltered late in the evening on
July 16 before resuming Saturday. They hit a snag again early
yesterday over issues ranging from the valuation of the deal to
how current and future legal liabilities will be addressed, the
person said.  
 BP, Apache and their advisers began speaking again today,
this person said. The companies last week were on track to
clinch an agreement for Apache to buy half of BP’s  Prudhoe stake 
for between $10 billion and $11 billion in an all-cash
transaction, according to two people familiar with the matter.
Deals often stop and start in the late stages of negotiations as
final points are worked out.  
 “I don’t think the issue of future liabilities would be
the main issue in these kind of negotiations,” said  Victor Shum , an oil and gas analyst at energy consultants Purvin &
Gertz Inc. in Singapore. “Valuations are likely to be far more
significant, in my view. If a company was to buy the whole of
BP, then the issue of future liabilities over the oil spill
might be more significant.”  
 Sheila Williams , a spokeswoman for BP, and  Bill Mintz , a
spokesman for Houston-based Apache, declined to comment.  
 BP fell as much as 7.4 percent in London and traded at
381.9 pence at 8:39 a.m. local time. The shares are down 42
percent since the April 20 accident on the Deepwater Horizon rig
that triggered the worst oil spill in U.S. history.  
 Macondo Well  
 A failure of the negotiations with Apache, the largest
independent U.S. oil company by market value, would be a setback
for BP’s efforts to restore investor confidence and raise
capital to pay for costs related to its Macondo well oil spill
in the Gulf of Mexico.  
 The well spewed 35,000 to 60,000 barrels of oil a day after
the explosion until it was capped July 15, according to a U.S.
government-led panel of scientists. U.S. government officials
yesterday ordered BP to submit plans for reopening the sealed
well and resuming efforts to capture oil after tests found a
 suspected leak  seeping from the seabed.  
 In June, BP said it would suspend paying dividends to
shareholders, trim capital spending and sell $10 billion of
assets over the next year. It also agreed under pressure from
President  Barack Obama  to establish a $20 billion escrow fund to
compensate victims of the spill.  
 Price ‘Important’  
 A sale of half of Prudhoe Bay may allow  BP  to raise all the
money it needs immediately for the spill in one transaction. It
may enable BP either to take other assets marked for sale off
the market or adopt a tougher line with potential buyers.  
 “Apache has a history of buying assets with a lot of
growth potential and there’s talk of it buying these mature oil
assets in Alaska, so questions of price would be very
important,” Shum of Purvin & Gertz said.  
 BP is seeking offers for several  other holdings , including
its 60 percent stake in Argentina’s Pan American Energy LLC and
fields in Venezuela, Colombia and Vietnam, said a person
familiar with the matter.  
 BP’s success in at least temporarily capping the leaking
well has helped revive investor confidence.  BP rose  as much as
11.6 percent last week, a third consecutive weekly gain.  
 Prudhoe Bay wouldn’t be the first big deal to collapse in
recent months. American International Group Inc.’s sale of its
Asian unit to Prudential Plc for $35.5 billion fell through in
June when the two sides couldn’t agree on a lower price.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jeffrey McCracken  in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;
 Stanley Reed  in London at 
 sreed13@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     BP Plc oil transit lines are seen at Prudhoe Bay oil fields in Alaska. Photographer: Kimberly White/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 19 (Bloomberg) -- BP Plc’s talks to sell half its stake in Alaska’s Prudhoe Bay oil field to Apache Corp. stalled twice over the weekend, raising doubts about whether the deal will be completed, said a person with knowledge of the matter. Bloomberg's Scarlet Fu reports. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
