-- BP Well Boss Could Shed Light on Cause of Gulf Oil Disaster
-- Alison Fitzgerald
-- 2010-07-19T04:04:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-19/bp-well-boss-vidrine-could-shed-light-on-cause-of-gulf-oil-spill-disaster.html

          
          
             BP Plc’s chief decision maker
on the Deepwater Horizon drilling rig is scheduled this
week to give his version of the events that killed 11
workers and triggered the worst U.S. oil spill.  
 Donald Vidrine, a BP well-site manager, has been asked
to attend hearings that start today in Kenner, Louisiana,
as investigators from the U.S. Coast Guard and Interior
Department try to determine what caused the April 20
disaster in the Gulf of Mexico. Vidrine is scheduled to
testify tomorrow.  
 If the  Justice Department  finds the actions taken by
Vidrine and another BP well manager, Robert Kaluza, led to
the explosion, deaths and spill, they could face criminal
charges, four former federal prosecutors said. So could
other BP employees and managers at rig owner  Transocean
Ltd.  who approved the decisions.  
 “Managers on the rig are at risk of criminal
prosecution and jail time,” said Jane Barrett, who spent
20 years prosecuting environmental crimes at both the
federal and state level. “That also opens the door to DOJ
walking up the corporate ladder to prosecute executives who
were part of the decision-making process or set the
corporate culture.”  
 Billions in Fines  
 If convicted, the managers and executives could go to
jail and the companies could pay billions of dollars in
fines, said Stan Alpert, the former chief environmental
crimes litigator for the U.S. attorney’s office in the
Eastern District of New York.  
 Under the  Clean Water Act , the officials could face
jail time for negligence that led to the oil spill. The
company and officials also could face fines for each bird
injured or killed under the Migratory Bird Treaty Act, said
Barrett, who now runs the Environmental Clinic at the
University of Maryland.  
 They could be prosecuted for the deaths of the 11
crewmen under the Seaman’s Manslaughter Law, where
prosecutors need only prove the deaths resulted from
“fraud, neglect, connivance, misconduct or a violation of
law,” Barrett said.  
 Justice Department spokeswoman Hannah August declined
to say whether prosecutors were focusing on Vidrine or
other BP or Transocean employees. “We’re looking at all
possible violations of the law,” she said.  
 Poor Health  
 Vidrine, who has been on administrative leave since
the disaster, didn’t attend a Coast Guard hearing in May,
citing poor health. Kaluza, who attended those proceedings,
invoked his Fifth Amendment right not to incriminate
himself and refused to answer questions. He has been asked
to testify again tomorrow.  
 In a June 23 interview outside his home, Vidrine, 62,
declined to say whether he will follow Kaluza’s example and
refuse to testify. He declined to comment for this story.
Vidrine’s lawyer, Robert Habans of Baton Rouge, Louisiana,
declined to comment on whether Vidrine would testify.  
 Stephen Bertone, a Transocean chief engineer, is
scheduled to begin today’s hearing, followed by employees
of oilfield-service providers Weatherford International
Ltd., M-I Swaco and Oceaneering International Inc.  
 BP spokesman  Mark Salt  declined to comment on
Vidrine’s role or on the company’s internal investigation.
London-based BP rose 1.3 percent to 407.15 pence on July
16.  Transocean  fell 4.8 percent to $52.08.  
 Another Location  
 On the night of the explosion, Vidrine and Kaluza were
seeking to cap the Macondo well so they could move the
Deepwater Horizon rig to another location in the Gulf of
Mexico, according to transcripts from congressional
hearings.  
 Rig workers began replacing heavy drilling fluid with
lighter seawater. While this is standard operating
procedure at this stage of a drilling operation, BP and
Transocean, the Swiss company that owns the Deepwater
Horizon, had struggled for weeks to control natural gas
pushing up the well.  
 Using seawater under such circumstances can allow a
gas “kick,” said Greg McCormack, a director of the
Petroleum Extension Service at the University of Texas in
Houston. “If the kick is not contained, a blowout
occurs.”  
 BP  managers in Houston approved the decision to
replace drilling fluid in the well with seawater,
Transocean Subsea Engineer Christopher Pleasant told Coast
Guard investigators.  
 Shoulder Blame  
 Vidrine’s friends and neighbors say they’re worried
he’ll shoulder all the blame for the disaster.  
 Bruce Poret, who lives near Vidrine on Pierret Drive
in Lafayette, Louisiana, and counts him as a “close
friend” of 15 years’ standing, said he believed senior
managers at  BP ’s Houston base who vetted and approved
Vidrine’s decisions would escape unscathed.  
 “They’ll look for someone down the line to blame it
on, even if that isn’t the right thing to do,” said Poret,
a 54-year-old production engineer for  Chevron Corp.  “Don’s
a great guy and a good neighbor. It hurts us all to see
what he’s going through.”  
 Poret and other neighbors said Vidrine has been
declining invitations to backyard cookouts since the
disaster. The usual evening sounds of people talking and
laughing has been absent from the neighborhood, said Paula
Byrd, who lives across the street from Vidrine’s red-brick
house.  
 ‘Very Upset’  
 Until a neighbor told her, “I hadn’t even realized
that was Don’s rig that blew up,” Byrd said as a pair of
pet raccoons gamboled out an open carport and into the
woods. “We’re all very upset for him, partly because we’re
all oil and gas people here in this neighborhood, so we
have that bond.”  
 Vidrine is a descendant of one of the first families
to settle the rural town of Ville Platte, 40 miles
northwest of Lafayette, where the swampy coastal plain
gives way to woods and rolling farmland. Oil was discovered
on the north edge of town in 1940 at a place called Tate
Cove.  
 As a  BP  well-site manager, or “company man,” Vidrine
was the most senior person on the Deepwater Horizon the
night it exploded. While people holding Vidrine’s position
consult constantly with the rig owner’s installation
manager, the company man is the highest authority at the
site because the oil company is paying the bills.  
 Unusual Argument  
 In the hours before the explosion, Vidrine argued with
 Transocean’s  installation manager, Jimmy Wayne Harrell,
according to testimony from rig mechanic, Douglas Brown.  
 That’s unusual, said Phil Tobey, an area manager for
 Diamond Offshore Drilling  Inc. in Houston who spent 35 of
his 54 years working on offshore rigs and worked his way up
to installation manager.  
 “It astounded me that they got into an argument,” he
said. “If any of my guys have any issues at all, it’s
actually settled pretty quickly. I say, ‘Please go call
your boss and we’re going to call ours, and we’ll settle
this in town.’”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Joe Carroll  in New Orleans at  jcarroll8@bloomberg.net ;
 Alison Fitzgerald  in Washington at 
 afitzgerald2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Oil sheen is seen with vessels assisting near the source of the BP Deepwater Horizon oil spill. Photographer: Mario Tama/Getty Images  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
