-- Bright Dairy Agrees to Pay $58 Million for a 51 Percent Stake in Synlait
-- Tracy Withers
-- 2010-07-19T02:04:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-19/bright-dairy-investment-in-new-zealand-s-synlait-enables-new-milk-plant.html

          
          
             Bright Dairy & Food Co., a unit of
Shanghai’s biggest food company, agreed to buy a controlling
stake in  Synlait Milk Ltd. , a New Zealand milk processer
planning to double capacity at its South Island plant.  
 Bright Dairy  will pay NZ$82 million ($58 million) for a 51
percent in Synlait Milk, Synlait Ltd., its Christchurch-based
parent company, said today in a statement. Synlait, 22.5 percent
owned by Japan’s Mitsui & Co., will retain a 49 percent stake
and separately keep 100 percent ownership of its dairy farms in
the biggest world’s biggest diary exporter.  
 Synlait, which last year shelved a share sale to fund
expansion because of a lack of investor demand, today said it
will increase the capacity at its South Island plant to about
100,000 metric tons of milk powder a year. Some of extra
production will be specialist infant formulas, which will be
sold in China in partnership with Bright Dairy.  
 “Our strategy is all about us becoming a leading supplier
of high value premium infant formula, particularly for the Asian
market,” Synlait Chief Executive Officer John Penno said on a
conference call from the Dunsandel plant site.  
 The approval is subject to regulatory approvals, including
foreign investment clearance. The company doesn’t anticipate any
objections because the proposal involves a processing asset and
not farm land, Synlait Chairman  Graeme Milne  said on the call.  
 Synlait built a plant about two years ago, and expects to
produce 55,000 tons of powder this year, Penno said. Bright
“are the leading domestic player in the value ad area. It
provides us immediate access to that very large market.”  
 Bright Dairy is 65 percent owned by Bright Food Group Co.
the biggest food company in Shanghai, which earlier this month
failed in a bid to buy the sugar unit of  CSR Ltd.   
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tracy Withers  in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        