-- British Open Offers Us a Red-Dot Special Winner: Scott Soshnick
-- Scott Soshnick
-- 2010-07-19T02:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-19/british-open-offers-a-red-dot-special-winner-commentary-by-scott-soshnick.html

          
          
             The sport of golf is loaded with
luxury brands. The just-completed British Open offered a
counterbalance result: a red-dot special.  
 None of those big-name brands, or mini corporations, which
is what top athletes are these days, is bigger than  Tiger Woods ,
who was the favorite to not only win The Open Championship but
to reignite his stalled chase of the career majors mark.  
 But a curious thing happened en route to the Claret Jug,
which was awarded yesterday to a fellow who had broadcast
journalists from here, there and everywhere -- except maybe
South Africa, which has had a pretty good month -- scrambling
for the  European Tour’s  pronunciation guide.  
 You see, at the outset no one at St. Andrews, no one
walking the Old Course, no one watching at home, saw  Louis Oosthuizen  coming. After all, the 27-year-old arrived with a
world ranking of 54. Certainly he wasn’t what you’d call someone
to watch. Not even among the sleepers. Even when he started well
few believed. Surely, he’d crack.  
 After all, the guy known to friends as  Shrek  because of the
gap between his front teeth had never won a major tournament.
Woods, meantime, had 14, four shy of  Jack Nicklaus . He’s still
four shy of Nicklaus, whose record, once sure to fall, has new
life.  
 Wasn’t this the tournament where Woods was supposed to
become Woods again? Didn’t Woods call  St. Andrews , with its wide
and forgiving fairways, his favorite course? Didn’t the world’s
best golfer win two British Opens here, in  2000 and 2005 ,
running away by a combined 13 strokes? Woods this year finished
13 strokes behind Oosthuizen, in a tie for 23rd place.  
 Putting Woes  
 “I did not putt well at all,” Woods said yesterday,
telling reporters what they already knew. “You just can’t play
and expect to win golf tournaments if you have nine or 10 three-
putts for a week. No one can win doing that.”  
 Funny, but much of the pre-tournament news centered on you
know who and his decision to change putters. Something about
slower greens, he said.  
 Woods changed putters, all right. Then he changed back for
the final round. Golf’s ultra-luxury brand looks a wee bit lost.
He’s winless in his past seven majors, which is an eternity for
this guy.  
 Perhaps golf’s main man, whose focus has gone from laser to
lackluster since his personal life exploded, can learn a thing
or two from Oosthuizen. So much of golf is about the brain, not
the body, especially at St. Andrews, where the elements offer an
intriguing element.  
 Woods just won’t admit there’s a correlation between his
personal problems and his suspect strokes.  
 The Red Dot  
 Oosthuizen, meantime, recognizes his weakness. He knew the
problems of the past were a byproduct of temperament, not
talent. Oosthuizen had a penchant for losing focus, then
strokes, then tournaments. He was done in by distraction. The
mind would wander and, to no one’s surprise, so would the swing.  
 So he did something about it, something subtle. But it
worked -- big time. It was just a reminder to stay in the
moment, to focus on one shot, and then the next one, and then
the next one. Forget the last one. It’s done.  
 Oosthuizen actually put a small red dot just above the
thumb on the glove that covers his left hand. For a golfer it’s
impossible to miss.  
 He’d stand over the ball, looking down. There it was, in
his line of sight, a colorful reminder to clear his mind of
clutter.  
 Focus on the shot.  
 No one was more accurate then Oosthuizen, who made the
fairways his home. That’s a big reason why he won.  
 Oosthuizen finished with a four-round total of 16-under-par
272, seven shots clear of  Lee Westwood .  
 Par-3 Winner  
 Truth be told, prior to the British Open all I knew about
Oosthuizen, the son of a dairy farmer, was that he won the  par-3
tournament  at this year’s Masters Tournament.  
 Oosthuizen, who missed the 36-hole cut for weekend play at
the Masters and U.S. Open, took the British Open lead in the
second round. You can bet few thought he’d keep it through
Sunday. He did.  
 “I’m proud of the way I held my nerves around the back
nine,” said Oosthuizen, who earned $1.3 million for his
trouble.  
 He should be proud. Oosthuizen played more like Woods than
Woods has recently. Still, the winner saw a bigger picture.  
 Not only did South Africa host a successful World Cup, but
now one of its own is a British Open champion -- and a gracious
one at that.  
 Addressing the crowd, Oosthuizen in the biggest and best
moment of his career wasn’t thinking of himself. He got around
to golf, sure, but only after wishing former South African
President  Nelson Mandela  a happy 92nd birthday.  
 Special, is the word Oosthuizen used.  
 It was more that that. It was a red-dot special.  
 (Scott Soshnick is a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  
 To contact the writer of this column:
 Scott Soshnick  in New York at 
 ssoshnick@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        