-- Bullish Brazil Real Wagers at Two-Month High Signal Sell to Citigroup, RBC
-- Ye Xie
-- 2010-07-19T14:10:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-19/bullish-brazil-real-wagers-at-two-month-high-signal-sell-to-citigroup-rbc.html

          
          
             International investors are boosting
bullish bets on the real to a two-month high, a signal to
Citigroup Inc. and RBC Capital Markets that the Brazilian
currency is set to slump as the global economic recovery flags.  
 Foreign institutions made 90,573 more  bets  on the currency
rising than falling as of July 14, the most since April 30, data
from the BMFBovespa SA exchange in Sao Paulo show. They cut the
bets to 78,656 by the end of last week.  
 The rise in wagers on a rally leaves the real vulnerable to
a decline as slackening  economic expansions  in the U.S. and
China sap demand for higher-yielding assets, said  Nick Chamie ,
global head of emerging-markets at RBC in Toronto. Option
traders are paying the biggest premium among 43 currencies
tracked by Bloomberg to insure against a tumble in the real,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 “Positioning is definitely crowded,” said  Ram Bala Chandran , a Latin America analyst at Citigroup in New York, in a
telephone interview. “The risk is biased towards the real
weakening.”  
 The real gained 0.4 percent to 1.7759 per dollar at 9:22
a.m. New York time. It declined 1.5 percent last week, the most
in a month, after touching a two-month high of 1.7496 on July
13. The currency will weaken to 1.8 by the end of September and
1.78 by yearend, according to the median forecast in a Bloomberg
survey of 20 analysts.  
 Foreigners had 119,394 more bearish bets on the currency as
of June 9, the most since March 2009, as the European debt
crisis prompted investors to shun emerging-market assets.
International investors reversed their bets as those concerns
abated only to give way to speculation the recoveries in the
U.S. and China were weakening.  
 ‘Underwhelming’  
 U.S.  retail sales  dropped for a second month in June, while
annual  industrial-production growth  in China, Brazil’s largest
trading partner, slowed to 13.7 percent. Concern of a
simultaneous slowdown in the U.S. and China helped trigger a 7.9
percent plunge in the real in January, the most since October
2008.  
 “Both the global and domestic economic data have been
underwhelming,” said RBC’s Chamie in a telephone interview.
“Positioning is not supportive either. It’s time to take some
money off the table.”  
 RBC forecasts the real will end the year at 1.85.  
 The U.S., the world’s largest economy and Brazil’s second-
biggest trading partner, will post growth of 3.1 percent this
year, according to a Bloomberg survey of 54 analysts. The growth
was cut from 3.2 percent on July 7, according to the survey.  
 Default Swaps  
 The extra yield investors demand to hold Brazilian dollar
bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries narrowed six basis points, or
0.06 percentage point, today to 222, according to JPMorgan Chase
& Co.  
 The cost of protecting Brazilian debt against non-payment
for five years with credit-default swaps held at 128 basis
points last week, according to data compiled by CMA DataVision.
Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for
the underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a
government or company fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  
 The yield on Brazil’s interest-rate futures contract due in
January fell one basis point to 11.05 percent, after dropping 26
basis points last week, the biggest decline since May 2009. The
futures market indicates central bankers will lift the benchmark
lending rate at least 50 basis points from 10.25 percent at a
two-day meeting starting July 20 and boost it to about 11.5
percent by year-end.  
 By contrast, the Federal Reserve’s benchmark rate is in a
range between zero and 0.25 percent.  
 Options Premium  
 Any selloff in the real will be limited as the country’s
economy, Latin America’s largest, grows at the fastest pace
since 1995 and interest rates climb, said  Sergio Trigo Paz , who
oversees $3 billion of emerging-market debt at Fortis Bank SA/NV
in London. The economy expanded 9 percent in the first quarter
from the year-earlier period and will post growth of 7.2 percent
for the full year, according to a central bank survey of about
100 financial institutions published last week.  
 “People like Brazil,” said Trigo Paz, who is “neutral”
on the real. “People are putting money to work.”  
 Foreign investors’ bullish bets are at odds with options
traders who are paying 5.7 percentage points more for the right
to sell the real than to buy it. The so-called one-month risk-
reversal rate topped the 3.5 percentage points for Hungary’s
forint, whose 15 percent drop in the past six months made it the
world’s second-worst performer, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  
 The last time option traders and foreigners had such
opposite views on the real was in April. The currency tumbled
4.5 percent the following month.  
 ‘Reverse Suddenly’  
 “Foreigners’ positions could reverse suddenly,” said
 Francisco Carvalho , who manages foreign-exchange at brokerage
BGC Liquidez in Sao Paulo. “But there would have to be a
deterioration in international markets for that to happen. The
driver would be external.”  
 The real is also unlikely to strengthen beyond 1.75 because
of the central bank’s dollar purchases, said  Marcelo Saddi Castro , who oversees 16 billion reais as chief investment
officer at SulAmerica Investimentos in Sao Paulo. Policy makers
bought $14.6 billion in the foreign-exchange market this year,
triple the amount purchased during the same period in 2009, to
stem the currency’s gain. The real surged 33 percent in 2009,
the biggest advance among 16 major currencies tracked by
Bloomberg.  
 “We won’t see much upside from these levels,” Saddi
Castro said. “The real is currently overvalued.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ye Xie  in New York at 
 yxie6@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        