-- Bundesbank Says Deficit Countries Are Source of Danger for Monetary Union
-- Jana Randow
-- 2010-07-19T10:00:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-19/bundesbank-says-deficit-countries-are-source-of-danger-for-monetary-union.html

          
          
             Germany’s  Bundesbank  said euro-area
countries with high current-account deficits are a “source of
danger” for the single-currency region.  
 Since 1999, Greece, Portugal, Ireland and Spain have run up
“persistently high” current-account deficits, the Bundesbank
said in its monthly bulletin published today. “These macro-
economically erroneous trends don’t only cause an increased
economic and financial vulnerability of the respective
countries,” but also are “a source of danger for other member
countries and the currency region as a whole.”  
 Greece’s near-default triggered a 750 billion-euro ($971
billion) aid package from European Union countries and the
International Monetary Fund in May. The European Central Bank
began buying government bonds to ease the sovereign-debt crisis
and governments were forced to step up budget-spending cuts to
reduce deficits, threatening to damp demand and hurt the
region’s economic recovery.  
 Deficit countries “burden the implementation of a
stability-oriented, single monetary policy significantly,” the
Bundesbank said. “Therefore, it is urgently necessary to
correct maldevelopments and avoid a repetition in the future.”  
 The Bundesbank said the current-account deficits are due to
increases in internal demand, “comparatively” strong inflation
and a “grave” erosion of competitiveness.  
 “The respective economies have no choice but to reduce
domestic demand to a sustainable level,” the Frankfurt-based
central bank said. “A decisive fiscal consolidation is of
central importance in light of dramatically deteriorating public
budgets.”  
 In addition, current-account deficits can only be reduced
by the countries in question. Even if Germany increased  imports 
by 10 percent, that would largely boost exports of countries
that already have current-account surpluses, the Bundesbank
said.  
 The current account balances in Spain, Portugal and Greece
would only improve by 0.25 percentage point and by 1 percentage
point in Ireland, it said.  
 To contact the reporter son this story:
 Jana Randow  in Frankfurt at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        