-- Bunning's Pitch on Jobless Aid Cost Lures Republicans
-- Brian Faler
-- 2010-07-19T16:11:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-19/bunning-s-pitch-to-curb-jobless-benefits-lures-converts-among-republicans.html

          
          
             It turns out U.S. Senator  Jim Bunning  was ahead of the curve.  
 Four months after the Kentucky Republican, a Hall of Fame
former major league baseball pitcher, made colleagues squirm by
blocking an extension of  unemployment  benefits for Americans out
of work long-term, the party has adopted his cause as its own.
Republicans are holding up aid for millions of jobless people
while insisting that Democrats cut spending elsewhere to keep it
from adding to the federal  deficit .  
 While Bunning was called insensitive and accused of
throwing a “beanball” at the unemployed, Republicans now find
that blocking jobless aid in an election year can be good
politics. Public opinion polls, the Tea Party movement and the
defeat of Utah Senator  Bob Bennett  underscore the unhappiness of
party voters with the $13.2 trillion  national debt . In addition,
few of the Republicans who voted against the benefits face a
competitive Democratic challenge.  
 “This is the issue across the country,” Senator  John Cornyn , a Texas Republican who leads his party’s Senate campaign
committee, said in an interview. “We’ve had a few primaries and
elections along the way and people understand the ferocity of
the public’s view on this.”  
 Vote This Week  
 Democrats have been one vote short of the 60 needed to
overcome Republican stalling tactics on a jobless-aid extension
bill. The measure likely will pass the Senate this week with the
seating of  Carte Goodwin , a Democrat, as successor to the late
 Robert Byrd  of West Virginia, a Democrat who died last month.
Senate Democratic leaders have scheduled a key procedural vote
advancing the legislation for tomorrow afternoon, immediately
following Goodwin’s swearing in.  
 President  Barack Obama  today criticized Republicans for
thwarting the bill.  “It’s time to stop holding workers laid
off in this recession hostage to Washington politics -- it’s
time to what’s right, not for the next election, but for the
middle class,” he said at the White House.  
 Senate Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell , a Kentucky
Republican, previously has said that “the only reason the
unemployment extension has not passed is because our friends on
the other side refuse to pass a bill that does not add to the
deficit.”  
 Aid Cutoff  
 Benefits for the  long-term  jobless expired 48 days ago as a
result of the impasse, cutting off aid to 2.5 million Americans
with the total growing by 200,000 a week. There are almost five
unemployed Americans for every job opening, according to the
 Bureau of Labor Statistics .  
 Democrats call Republican’ demands hypocritical after the
party’s deputy leader, Senator  Jon Kyl  of Arizona, said July 11
he backs extending former President  George W. Bush’s  tax cuts
for high-income Americans even if it swells the deficit by
almost $700 billion in 10 years.  
 “According to our Republican colleagues, adding massively
to the deficit to finance tax breaks for the wealthy is fine,
but adding to the deficit to extend benefits for the long-term
unemployed is unacceptable,” said Senator  Tom Harkin , an Iowa
Democrat. “I am lost in the logic of that.”  
 The jobless benefits were first allowed to lapse for two
days in March when Bunning singlehandedly blocked a vote on a
$10 billion short-term extension.  
 ‘Beanball’  
 Other Republicans scrambled to distance themselves from
him, with Cornyn telling reporters Bunning didn’t represent the
party. A Philadelphia Inquirer editorial said Bunning “threw a
 beanball  at the unemployed.” The aid was restored when 21 of 40
Senate Republicans voted with Democrats to borrow money to pay
for it.  
 Now, McConnell is leading the fight against the Democratic
plan for aid extension with the support of almost every
Republican. “Our party caught up with the people Bunning was
already with,” said New Hampshire Republican  Judd Gregg .  
 Republicans want to pay for the extension with unspent
federal stimulus money. Democrats say extending unemployment
insurance is traditionally an emergency priority that can be
financed by adding to the deficit.  
 Democrats won over Maine Republicans  Susan Collins  and
 Olympia Snowe  in a  June 30  bid to extend benefits, while
Nebraska Democratic Senator  Ben Nelson  voted with the
Republicans. Nebraska has a 4.9 percent unemployment rate, the
third-lowest in the nation.  
 November Extension  
 The plan to be voted on tomorrow would renew through
November a program offering the jobless up to 99 weeks of
benefits.  
 Bob Bixby , executive director of the  Concord Coalition , an
Arlington, Virginia, group that promotes balanced budgets,
called the fight “odd” because the proposed aid is a small
fraction of the $10 trillion in deficits the government is
projected to run up over the next decade.  
 “Attacking that is not attacking the real deficit issue,”
Bixby said. “Unemployment benefits seem to have been in the
wrong place at the wrong time.”  
 He was referring to a Republican primary season in which
Bennett and South Carolina Representative  Bob Inglis  were
defeated by more conservative candidates, Florida Governor
 Charlie Crist  was chased out of his party’s Senate campaign and
Tea Party favorites  Rand Paul  and  Sharron Angle  won Republican
nominations in Kentucky and Nevada.  
 “I don’t think it’s coincidental,” said Democratic
pollster  Peter Hart , chairman of Peter D. Hart Research
Associates. “If it makes them appear that they are not part of
the problem and not part of Washington, then that’s the best
news they could have.”  
 Bloomberg Poll  
 A Bloomberg News poll released last week found that 44
percent of Republicans consider spending and deficits a top
concern, compared with 7 percent of Democrats and 31 percent of
independents. Seventy-three percent of Republicans opposed
extending unemployment benefits compared with 27 percent of
Democrats and 53 percent of independents.  
 Bunning, who said he’s been vindicated, said it’s numbers
like those that brought colleagues around to his side.  
 “All of a sudden we start seeing in our conference that
debt is one of the top three issues in every poll that is
taken,” said Bunning. “So guess what? Politically, it was the
smart thing to do.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Brian Faler  in Washington at 
 bfaler@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Kentucky Republican Senator Jim Bunning. Photographer: Brendan Hoffman/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
