-- Buy Posco, Telekom Malaysia Bonds on Asia Growth Bet, Omega Global Says
-- Sarah McDonald
-- 2010-07-19T01:01:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-19/buy-posco-telekom-malaysia-bonds-on-asia-growth-bet-omega-global-says.html

          
          
             Telekom Malaysia Bhd.  and South
Korean steelmaker  Posco  are among Asian companies offering bond
investors a “great opportunity” as they’re paying yields much
higher than their default risk, according to Omega Global
Investors Pty Ltd.  
 Omega, which is based in Melbourne and manages about A$330
million ($285 million), is also buying investment-grade bonds
sold by South Korean lender  Woori Bank  and Hong Kong’s  Li & Fung
Ltd. , the biggest supplier to retailers including Wal-Mart
Stores Inc., Investment Director  Mat McCrum  said in a July 16
interview in Sydney.  
 “That’s a great opportunity, because it doesn’t stack up
with the fundamentals,” McCrum said. The firms have “really
healthy balance sheets, they’re great companies to invest in,
but they pay this huge spread.”  
 Relative yields on Asian investment-grade company bonds
imply a default rate of more than 26 percent, according to
McCrum, while Moody’s Investors Service expects a default rate
of 1 percent this year for non-financial firms in Asia-Pacific
excluding Japan. Asia, leading the recovery from the worst
recession since World War II, is forecast to expand 7.75 percent
this year compared with global growth of 4.6 percent, according
to the International Monetary Fund.  
 Posco, Nucor  
 Posco, Asia’s third-biggest steelmaker, has $300 million of
5.875 percent notes due 2016 that are yielding 190 basis points
more than Treasuries, Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc prices
show. The company holds the same A  rating  from Standard & Poor’s
as U.S. steelmaker Nucor Corp., whose $600 million of 5.75
percent notes due the following year pay a spread of 101 basis
points, according to Trace, the bond-price reporting system of
the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  
 Telekom Malaysia, the Kuala Lumpur-based phone company
that’s rated A- by S&P, pays a 195 basis-point spread on its
5.25 percent notes due in September 2014, according to BNP
Paribas prices. France Telecom SA’s $1.25 billion of notes due
July 2014 with the same debt grade offer an 87 basis-point
spread, the prices show.  
 Telekom Malaysia, which is developing a high-speed
broadband network, has had a higher  profit margin  than France
Telecom for at least the past four years, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  
 Asia offers investors the chance to profit from “thriving,
healthy, dynamic economies with good companies,” McCrum said.
Omega’s global credit fund has about 30 percent of its assets
invested in Asian debt and may increase it to as much as 34
percent, he said.  
 Omega, founded in 2008 and 19.9 percent owned by a unit of
Macquarie Group Ltd., manages money for institutional clients
including Telstra Corp.’s pension fund, according to its website.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sarah McDonald  in Sydney at 
 smcdonald23@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        