-- HTC Phone Has 35-Times Less Complaints Than iPhone4
-- Tim Culpan
-- 2010-07-19T12:23:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-19/htc-phone-named-by-jobs-has-35-times-less-complaints-than-apple-s-iphone.html

          
          
             HTC Corp.  said its phone model named
by Apple Inc. Chief Executive Officer  Steve Jobs  as having
antenna signal problems received 35 times fewer complaints than
for the iPhone 4.  
 “The phone that was called out in the Apple press
conference, the HTC Droid Eris, has experienced a customer
inquiry of less than two-one hundredths of one percent - 35
times less,” than the iPhone 4, Taoyuan, Taiwan-based HTC said
in an e-mailed response to Bloomberg News questions today. Jobs
said July 16 that 0.55 percent of customers of Apple’s newest
phone called with complaints about radio frequency performance.  
 Jobs last week offered a free case to buyers of Apple’s
iPhone 4 after customers complained about losing signal strength
when the device is held in certain ways. “Every smartphone”
has this problem, Jobs said, listing some devices made by HTC
and Research In Motion Ltd. as also having lower reception.  
 Motorola Inc.  Co-Chief Executive  Sanjay Jha  responded the
same day, saying his company’s own devices don’t have the same
antenna shortcomings as the iPhone 4. Jobs didn’t address
Motorola directly.  
 “It is disingenuous to suggest that all phones perform
equally,” Jha said in an e-mailed statement. “In our own
testing we have found that Droid X performs much better than
iPhone 4 when held by consumers.”  
 RIM, Samsung  
 Jobs also named RIM’s BlackBerry Bold and  Samsung
Electronics Co. ’s Omnia II as having reduced reception when
gripped in certain positions.  
 “Samsung mobile phones employ an internal antenna design
technology that optimizes reception quality for any type of
hand-grip use,” the Suwon, South Korea-based company said in an
e-mailed statement today.  
 HTC, the world’s largest maker of handsets using operating
systems from Google Inc. and  Microsoft Corp. , posted record
sales last quarter as demand for Android-based models climbed.
Apple in March accused HTC of infringing its patents for user
interface, hardware and underlying architecture, with the
Taiwanese company retaliating with a lawsuit in March aimed at
the iPhone, iPod and iPad.  
 “It is well understood by the industry that if enough of a
phone and its antenna is covered, the radio frequency signal
will be” reduced to some extent, HTC said in the e-mail. “At
HTC, we carefully engineer our phones to ensure that this effect
is minimized in real-world use.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tim Culpan  in Taipei at 
 tculpan1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        