-- Cameron Wants to Move Beyond `Kremlinology' in Ties With U.S.
-- Robert Hutton
-- 2010-07-19T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-19/cameron-meeting-obama-says-u-s-ties-should-move-beyond-kremlinology-.html

          
          
             British Prime Minister  David Cameron 
said he wants to move beyond the “Kremlinology” that dogged
some of his predecessors’ relations with U.S. leaders.  
 “I understand that we are the junior partner, just as we
were in the 1940s and, indeed, in the 1980s,” Cameron, who
meets President  Barack Obama  at the White House today in his
first U.S. trip since taking over in May, wrote in the Wall
Street Journal. “But we are a strong, self-confident country
clear in our views and values, and we should behave that way.”  
 Cameron said he was “hard-headed” about the bilateral
relationship. He criticized those who “forensically compute the
length of meetings; whether it’s a brush-by or a full bilateral;
the number of mentions in a president’s speech; dissecting the
location and grandeur of the final press conference.”  
 Gordon Brown , who was defeated by Cameron in May elections,
suffered from such analysis. In September,  British newspapers  
focused on his meeting with Obama in a New York kitchen. In
March 2009, their joint press conference was canceled.  
 “I care about the depth of our partnership, not the length
of our phone calls,” Cameron wrote. “I hope that in the coming
years we can focus on the substance, not endlessly fret about
the form.”  
 The prime minister’s piece touched on two areas of tension:
the release by the Scottish government last year of Libyan
Lockerbie bomber  Abdel Basset Al-Megrahi , and trade. Cameron
described the first as “a very bad decision.”  
 U.K. Foreign Secretary  William Hague  wrote to U.S.
Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  on July 17, saying there’s no
evidence  BP Plc ’s interests were involved in the decision to
free Megrahi.  
 Senate Hearing  
 The U.S. Senate Foreign Relations Committee said last week
it will hold a hearing on July 29 into the circumstances of
Megrahi’s release. London-based BP, Europe’s second-biggest
energy company by market value, has been criticized by Obama and
U.S. lawmakers for its handling of the Gulf of Mexico oil spill.  
 On trade, the prime minister said he and Obama have
“differences of emphasis.”  
 Cameron repeated the argument he made at the Group of Eight
summit in Canada in June. “Promoting trade will be a huge
priority for my government,” he wrote. “It’s the real stimulus
our economies need, and Britain is open for business --
especially to the U.S., where our close ties already deliver
jobs and prosperity for both our peoples.”  
 “When we import low-cost goods from China we’re not
failing, we’re benefiting -- from choice, competition and low
prices,” Cameron wrote. “Where there are potential issues
between us we must work at them and deal with them.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Robert Hutton  in Washington at  rhutton1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Prime Minister David Cameron will meet President Barack Obama in his first U.S. trip since taking over in May. Photographer: Jock Fistick/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 20 (Bloomberg) -- Jonathan Barratt, managing director at Commodity Broking Services Pty in Sydney, talks with Bloomberg's Linzie Janis about the outlook for BP Plc. 
     BP seeks cash to meet the costs of the worst oil spill in U.S. history. BP's talks to sell half its stake in Alaska’s Prudhoe Bay oil field to Apache Corp. stalled twice over the weekend, raising doubts about whether the deal will be completed, said a person with knowledge of the matter.(Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 20 (Bloomberg) -- Philip Weiss, an analyst at Argus Research, discusses the message about BP Plc that U.K. Prime Minister David Cameron may bring to President Barack Obama at their White House meeting today, and the outlook for the London-based energy company. 
     Weiss talks with Lizzie O'Leary on Bloomberg Television's "InsideTrack."  (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
