-- Cantor Says Former Carbon Broker Drummond Fired Over Talks With Competitor
-- Mathew Carr
-- 2010-07-19T17:02:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-19/cantor-says-carbon-executive-drummond-fired-over-talks-with-ecosecurities.html

          
          
             Former carbon credits brokerage
executive  Stephen Drummond  is suing for wrongful dismissal after
a unit of Cantor Fitzgerald LP fired him in March 2009 for
discussing a job with a competitor.  
 At a High Court trial that began today in London, Paul
Nicholls, a lawyer for Cantor’s environmental-markets specialist
 CantorCO2e , said the firm was within its rights to dismiss
Drummond when it learned he kept secret an approach from
EcoSecurities.  
 “He was CO2e’s most senior employee, the CEO of its parent
and plainly central to its business,” Nicholls said in court
papers. “CO2e has a legitimate interest in knowing if its staff
are considering a move to a competitor.”  
 In late 2008 and early 2009, Drummond met a headhunter to
talk about a job at EcoSecurities, and met the full board of the
company at a meeting in Dublin, Nicholls said in court papers.
He also told EcoSecurities how they could buy him out of his
contract with Cantor. At the time, Drummond had just signed a
five-year contract, Nicholls said.  
 CantorCO2e this year closed its London desk and shifted its
business to the U.S., where it is hiring additional workers, as
brokers lost share in the market for carbon permits and credits
to the European Climate Exchange in London, the biggest bourse
for emissions trading. Brokers’ share of EU carbon permits
transactions fell to 36 percent of the market in the three
months through June 30, compared with 45 percent in the same
quarter a year earlier, according to data compiled by Bloomberg
New Energy Finance and London brokers.  
 Kyoto Protocol  
 EcoSecurities and CantorCO2e both manage projects that
receive Certified Emission Reduction credits, or CERs, under the
1997 Kyoto Protocol.  JPMorgan Chase & Co.  bought the carbon
business EcoSecurities last year for about $200 million.
Drummond and  Carlton Bartels  formed CO2e.com in 2000 and merged
it with Cantor’s environmental brokerage in 2007, according to
 CantorCO2e’s website .  
 The CERs can be used for compliance by companies that
participate in the European Union carbon dioxide market, the
world’s largest greenhouse gas market, and by nations complying
with their Kyoto targets for the five years through 2012.  
 Cantor Chairman  Howard Lutnick  is scheduled to testify at
the trial on July 21.  
 In a separate claim, Cantor is suing Drummond for the
return of $2 million it says it lent him in 2008 to buy a home
in Oxford, England. Cantor said the loan would only be called if
Drummond broke a contract.  
 Loan Dispute  
 Drummond, according to court papers, said Cantor paid him
the money in return for his shares in Cantor CO2e LLC. Drummond
didn’t immediately return a call to his mobile phone. His
lawyer, Tom Leech, will argue his case later in the trial.  
 “Cantor Fitzgerald is seeking to recover money owed to it
after Mr. Drummond failed to repay a $2 million loan that the
firm provided,” Cantor spokesman  Robert Hubbell  said in an e-
mailed statement. “Instead of safeguarding the funds to assure
its use for their expected purpose, including providing Cantor
with security for the loan, Mr. Drummond deposited the money
into an account with high interest rates in an Icelandic bank
which later went into receivership.”  
 The money was in a branch of  Kaupthing Bank hf , according
to court papers.  
 The cases are: Cantor Fitzgerald LP v. Stephen Drummond and
Stephen Drummond v. CantorCO2e Limited.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Mathew Carr  in London at 
 m.carr@bloomberg.net ;
 James Lumley  in London at 
 Jlumley1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        