-- China May Let Foreign Funds Invest 10% in Index Futures, Securities Says
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-07-20T01:23:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-19/china-may-let-foreign-funds-invest-10-in-index-futures-securities-says.html

          
          
             China may allow qualified foreign
institutional investors to use as much as 10 percent of their
investment quotas to trade stock-index futures, the China
Securities Journal reported, citing an unidentified person.  
 The equity-market reforms represent efforts by the
government to make more investment options available to foreign
investors, who have limited access to the world’s third-biggest
 stock market  by value. Trading in the futures would give the
investors a hedging tool in China and allow them to more
effectively compete with local fund managers as the nation
prepares to open the market to foreign institutions.  
 “The significance lies in the fact the index-futures
market will see foreign capital inflows and the market will
become more international,” said Jiao Hongmei, an analyst at
Citic Newedge Futures Co. in Shanghai. “Still, the initial
participation will be limited given the 10 percent ceiling.”  
 China started futures trading in April, allowing domestic
investors to profit from declines in equities for the first
time. The  CSI 300 Index , which tracks the 300 most liquid stocks
on the Shanghai and Shenzhen stock exchanges, is the underlying
index for the futures.  
 The nation’s stocks have plunged this year on concern
measures by the government to control real-estate speculation
and rising consumer prices will damp economic growth. The
Shanghai Composite Index, which tracks the bigger of China’s
stock exchanges, and the CSI 300 Index have both slid 25 percent
in 2010, the worst performance among benchmark Asian gauges.  
 QFII Quotas  
 China’s securities regulator allows selected overseas
investors to invest in the nation’s stock markets under the
qualified foreign institutional investor, or QFII, program.  
 Currently, 89 qualified overseas institutional investors
received $17.72 billion in quotas as of the end of June, the
China Securities Journal reported.  
 The U.S. Treasury Department announced that qualified
foreign institutional investors, or QFIIs, would be allowed to
trade equity futures in a statement on May 25 at the end of the
U.S.-China Strategic & Economic Dialogue in Beijing.  
 Futures, or agreements to buy or sell the CSI 300 Index at
a preset value, began trading on the China Financial Futures
Exchange in Shanghai on April 16, while margin trading and short
selling was introduced March 31.  
 ‘Alternative Investment’  
 Manop Sangiambut , head of China A-share research at CLSA
Asia-Pacific Markets, said in May that the introduction
of index-futures trading has contributed to declines as
“some investors see it as an alternative investment rather than
a hedging tool.”  
 Each transaction by overseas investors needs to be approved
by the China Financial Futures Exchange, according to today’s
 report . Relevant rules will be released recently for public
comment, the Beijing-based newspaper said.  
 Xu Jun, a marketing manager at the China Financial Futures
Exchange, declined to comment. A call made to Xia Lihua, a
press officer at the China Securities Regulatory Commission,
went unanswered.  
 -- Zhang Shidong , Jian-Guo Jiang. Editors:  Allen Wan ,  Linus Chua   
 To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
 Zhang Shidong  in Shanghai at +86-21-6104-7014 or
 szhang5@bloomberg.net ;
 Jianguo Jiang  in Shanghai at +86-21-6104-7016 or
 jjiang@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        