-- China Should Reduce U.S. Dollar-Reserve Assets, Former Adviser Yu Writes
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-07-19T06:27:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-19/china-should-pare-dollar-reserve-assets-ex-pboc-adviser-yu-yongding-says.html

          
          
             China should reduce its holdings of
U.S. dollar assets to diversify risks of “sharp depreciation,”
 Yu Yongding , a former adviser to the central bank, wrote in a
commentary in the China Securities Journal.  
 The nation should convert some holdings currently in U.S.
dollars into assets denominated in other currencies, commodities
and direct investments overseas, he recommended. China’s dollar
assets are surplus to requirements and the proportion is too
high, Yu said.  
 “It’s completely possible and also necessary for China to
expand direct investments in Asia, Africa and Latin America,”
he wrote. “It’s also a rare opportunity for Chinese companies
to acquire businesses overseas.”  
 The dollar has declined 7.5 percent against the euro since
reaching a four-year high on June 7 as concern eased that a debt
crisis would spread from Greece across the continent. Europe
remains a key investment destination for China’s foreign-
exchange reserves, Premier  Wen Jiabao  told German Chancellor
 Angela Merkel  in Beijing on July 16, according to the state-run
Xinhua News Agency.  
 China, the biggest foreign investor in U.S. government
bonds, lowered its  holdings  by $32.5 billion in May to $867.7
billion, the Treasury Department reported in Washington on July
16. The nation bought a net 735.2 billion yen ($8.3 billion) of
Japanese bonds in May, doubling purchases for this year.  
 It is a good time to sell because demand for U.S.
Treasuries is high, Yu wrote. China should adjust its investment
holdings in U.S. debt by increasing exposure to short-term bills
and reducing long-term notes, Yu said, according to the article.  
 China has slashed holdings of short-term U.S. debt,
including bills, which dropped to $6.8 billion in May from a
peak of $210.4 billion a year earlier, Treasury data showed.  
 Euro Swings  
 Yu said in an interview in May that swings in the euro
shouldn’t have a “significant impact” on China’s strategy of
diversifying its foreign-currency reserves. He said an
“appropriate” policy for China would be to allocate its
reserves with reference to the weightings of Special Drawing
Rights, a unit of account of the International Monetary Fund.  
 The benefits of investing in U.S. government debt include
“relatively good” safety, liquidity and low trading costs, the
State Administration of Foreign Exchange said July 7 in a
statement on its website. China increasing or cutting the amount
of U.S. debt it owns “is normal” and decisions are made based
on market conditions, it said.  
 -- Jiang Jianguo ,  Belinda Cao . Editors:  Sandy Hendry   
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Belinda Cao  in Beijing at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net 
Jian Guo Jiang in Shanghai at 
 jjiang@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        