-- China's Stocks Still Need Catalysts to Drive Rebound, Credit Suisse Says
-- Shiyin Chen
-- 2010-07-19T03:25:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-19/china-s-attractive-stocks-need-catalysts-for-rebound-credit-suisse-says.html

          
          
             China’s government needs to take on
some loan costs for investment projects under its stimulus
program and come up with a “more coordinated” public housing
plan to drive a rebound in stocks, Credit Suisse Group AG said.  
 The market needs “catalysts” even though valuations look
“quite attractive,” Credit Suisse analysts led by  Vincent Chan 
said. The case of a “major policy relaxation” is still not
strong and a new stimulus plan may add to concerns about
financing and asset bubbles, the analysts said.  
 The fair value estimates for the  MSCI China Index  and the
 Hang Seng China Enterprises Index  are 64 and 14,000
respectively, representing gains of as much as 23 percent from
last week’s close. The gauges have slumped as much as 12 percent
this year amid concern policy makers’ efforts to curb real
estate speculation will derail the nation’s economic rebound.  
 “For the market to move, we believe two issues will need
to be addressed properly: local government debt and public
housing,” said Chan, who was a runner-up in Institutional
Investors’ inaugural All China research poll for portfolio
strategy. “Investors have pinned their hopes on the
government’s policy relaxation as a catalyst, which we believe
is a false hope.”  
 The MSCI China, tracking mostly Hong Kong-traded Chinese
stocks, is  valued  at 13 times estimated earnings, down from a
multiple of 17 times in January. The Hang Seng China Enterprises
is  trading  at 12 times, compared with its January high of 16
times.  
 Local Government Loans  
 The China Banking Regulatory Commission said in June that
concerns about lending to so-called local government financing
vehicles “weighs high” on its supervisory agenda and told
banks to report their exposure by the end of last month. China
also ordered local governments to ensure repayment of debts by
their financing units and concentrate on completing projects
already under way.  
 Lending to local governments account for about 20 percent
of total loans, Credit Suisse estimated.  
 “If banks are asked to take up all the credit costs due to
resulting non-performing loans, it would be detrimental for
their profitability,” the analysts said.  
 Property prices in 70 Chinese cities fell 0.1 percent in
June from the previous month, snapping 15 months of gains, the
statistics bureau said on July 12. Data released last week also
showed June bank lending eased and  economic growth  slowed to
10.3 percent in the second quarter from an 11.9 percent increase
in the January to March period.  
 A public housing program may allow the government to focus
on property buyers’ leverage instead of affordability for the
general public, according to Credit Suisse. Curbs on speculation
this year have so far included a ban on third-home mortgages and
higher downpayments for second homes.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Shiyin Chen in Singapore at 
 schen37@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 19 (Bloomberg) -- Ka Chung Law, chief economist and strategist at the Hong Kong branch of Bank of Communications Ltd., China's fifth-biggest lender, talks with Bloomberg's Susan Li about his outlook for the Hong Kong stock market and global economy.
     Hong Kong stocks dipped on Friday after the U.S. reported manufacturing declined, heightening concern an economic recovery may falter. (Source: Bloomberg)
  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
