-- Clinton Visits Pakistan for Security, Afghanistan Talks
-- Nicole Gaouette
-- 2010-07-19T08:38:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-19/clinton-to-unveil-pakistan-aid-in-talks-to-strengthen-key-afghan-war-ties.html

          
          
             Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton 
and Pakistani officials agreed on plans today for spending $1.5
billion a year in U.S. aid that is meant to build Pakistani
support for the Obama administration’s Afghan war strategy.  
 While most Pakistanis see the U.S. as anti-Islamic and an
enemy, they will be won over “when they see through this
strategic dialogue how their lives are changed,” Foreign
Minister  Shah Mahmood Qureshi  said following talks with Clinton.  
 “There is a legacy of suspicion” among Pakistanis that is
“not going to disappear overnight,” Clinton said. The U.S. is
“committed for the long haul” to working with Pakistanis “as
you pursue this very difficult struggle,” she said at a press
briefing after the talks.  
 The U.S. needs Pakistan’s help to suppress Taliban and al-
Qaeda militants there who attack U.S. forces in Afghanistan and
claimed responsibility for the May 1 failed car-bombing of New
York’s Times Square. After years in which Pakistan’s army has
tolerated or backed militant groups, Clinton’s visit is
important “to increase the speed” of Pakistan’s shift toward
confronting them, said  Zafar Nawaz Jaspal , professor of
international relations at  Quaid-e-Azam University  in Islamabad.  
 With the Obama administration vowing to begin withdrawing
troops from Afghanistan in a year, “there is not much time
left,” and the U.S. must “build conditions in Pakistan to keep
the policy carry-on,” Jaspal said in a phone interview.  
 Washington Review  
 Qureshi told reporters the talks produced a “basic
document” framing the two governments’ strategy and spending
contributions in 13 sectors, including electricity supply and
health care. He said the governments will review progress on the
plan in Washington in October.  
 Clinton has said she wants to reduce years of mistrust in
the U.S.-Pakistani relationship. On May 9, she praised a “sea
change in the commitment we’ve seen from the Pakistani
government” to fighting terrorism, while saying the U.S.
expects it to do more help to “bring to justice, capture or
kill those who attacked us on 9/11.”  
 While Pakistan’s army and government have attacked the main
Taliban movement, they tolerate other guerrilla groups based
near the Afghan border or in the most populous province, Punjab,
said analysts. “A mixed record on battling Islamist extremism
includes ongoing apparent tolerance of Taliban elements
operating from its territory,” wrote South Asia analyst Alan
Kronstadt of the Congressional Research Service in a June report.  
 Army Meet  
 Clinton took questions from Pakistanis in a “town hall”
gathering, and will participate in a TV interview. She also will
meet General  Ashfaq Parvez Kayani , who as army chief is the
country’s main national security policy-maker.  
 U.S. Special Envoy to Afghanistan and Pakistan  Richard Holbrooke  told reporters yesterday that dialogue and U.S. aid
“is causing a change first within the Pakistani government and
gradually more slowly in the Pakistani public opinion.”  
 Opinion survey data  from the non-partisan Pew Research
Center in Washington show that Pakistanis who view the U.S.
favorably have increased to 17 percent this year from 10 percent
in 2002. Sixty-four percent of respondents last year described
the U.S. as an enemy.  
 After years of supporting the Taliban and other Afghan and
Pakistani Islamic militant guerrillas, Pakistan’s army since
October has fought offensives against Taliban guerrillas in six
of seven tribal districts along the Afghan border. Taliban have
retaliated with a wave of bomb and gun attacks that have killed
hundreds of Pakistani civilians and security forces.  
 Resisted Pressure  
 Pakistan has resisted U.S. pressure to attack the Taliban’s
biggest remaining stronghold, North Waziristan. That district is
the main base for guerrillas of Afghan commander  Jalaluddin Haqqani  who attack U.S. forces in at least six Afghan provinces,
including the capital, Kabul. More than a third of 144 strikes
by U.S. drone aircraft since 2004 have targeted Haqqani, a
longtime Pakistani army ally,  according to a count  maintained by
the U.S.-based Long War Journal.  
 The administration of President  Barack Obama  has tripled
aid for civilian projects and made military aid conditional on
Islamabad’s progress in fighting extremists and fostering
democracy. Pakistan’s cooperation is seen as vital to U.S.
efforts to weaken the Taliban, as well as Afghan President  Hamid Karzai ’s plans to reconcile Taliban fighters with his government.  
 By the end of fiscal year 2010, Pakistan will have received
about $6 billion in U.S. development and humanitarian aid since
2001, according to the June report by the nonpartisan
Congressional Research Service, which serves the U.S. Congress.  
 The aid includes funds from a 2009 bill passed by the U.S.
Congress that allocates $1.5 billion a year for five years.  
 There are “long-held doubts” about whether Islamabad’s
goals align with American aims, wrote Kronstadt, a specialist in
South Asian affairs, in the CRS report. “There are disturbing
signs that Pakistan is serving as a site for recruiting and
training of American nationals intent on carrying out terrorist
attacks on the U.S. homeland,” he wrote.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nicole Gaouette  in Islamabad at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Shah Mahmood Qureshi, Pakistan's foreign minister, right, speaks at a news conference with Hillary Clinton, U.S. secretary of state, at the Foreign Ministry in Islamabad. Photographer: Asad Zaidi/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
