-- U.S. Announces $500 Million Pakistan Energy, Health Aid on Clinton Visit
-- Nicole Gaouette
-- 2010-07-19T04:54:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-19/clinton-announces-500-million-pakistan-aid-to-strengthen-afghan-war-ties.html

          
          
             U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  announced more than $500 million in new aid programs for
Pakistan today with the bulk of the funds going to improve the
management, access and storage of water.  
 Other packages will combat infectious diseases, seek to
boost food exports and provide credit to small- and medium-sized
businesses. The  Barack Obama  administration will also ask
Congress to let Pakistan’s military have excess U.S. defense
equipment. Clinton made the announcements at the second U.S.-
Pakistan Strategic Dialogue, a forum on multiple issues,
including energy and public diplomacy.  
 Clinton said today that many Pakistanis thought U.S.
involvement with their country is limited to security matters.
“That this misperception has persisted for so long tells us
that we have not done a good enough job of connecting our
partnership with concrete improvements in the lives of
Pakistanis,”  she said. “We are working to change that.”  
 The new aid projects, created from existing pledged funding
of an annual $1.5 billion for five years, reflect Pakistani
priorities and are multi-year investments that show “our
commitment is broad and deep,” said Raj Shah, administrator of
the U.S. Agency for International Development. “We are there
for the long term.”  
 Water is the main focus as a result of a direct request
from Foreign Minister  Shah Mahmood Qureshi , said the U.S.
Special Representative to Pakistan,  Richard Holbrooke .  
 Water Scarcity  
 The first phase of the multi-year water program will
encompass seven initiatives at a cost of $270 million and
include dam irrigation projects in rural areas to control
flooding, and improve water supply and quality.  
 In two cities, including Peshawar, the capital of the
militancy-hit  northwest , municipal projects will improve water
storage, supply and metering systems.  
 By 2025, nearly two-thirds of the world’s population will
be living in water-stressed conditions, with about 1.8 billion
people with such scarce access to water that it threatens health
and economic development, according to the State Department.  
 In Pakistan, 60 percent of fresh water is lost to seepage,
said  Maria Otero ,  under secretary of state  for democracy and
global affairs, who is overseeing the water related projects.  
 One of the new initiatives Clinton announced would upgrade
the storage and information systems of the government of
Pakistan, enabling for the first time a government-exclusive
email domain and the centralizing of sites.  
 Private Sector  
 The administration also plans to use the private sector to
promote economic growth in three programs administered by
different agencies.  
 The Overseas Private Investment Corp. will provide $50
million toward the JS Private Equity Fund II LLC, which has a
target capitalization of $150 million, to support a private
equity investment fund designed to invest in Pakistani companies
that could benefit from technological upgrades.  
 Clinton said that Pakistanis had work to do as well. “Now
you face some hard choices, such as the meaningful tax reforms
that are needed to put Pakistan on the path to long-term
economic progress,” she said today.  
 USAID will provide $100 million over five years to expand
credit for small- and medium-sized businesses. The State
Department will take a group of U.S. business leaders to
Pakistan with the goal of creating new business opportunities in
both countries.  
 Energy projects will get $60 million to be used to complete
two dams, help identify natural gas resources, conduct
feasibility studies on wind and solar systems as well as on a
new grid system in Karachi.  
 Defense Equipment  
 In an effort to support Pakistan’s anti-insurgency efforts,
the administration will also ask Congress to include Pakistan as
a “priority country,” which allows it to receive defense
equipment the U.S. military no longer needs.  
 Clinton also announced the first phase of a three-year, $28
million health program for Pakistan that would build an
obstetrics and gynecology hospital ward and training center at a
hospital that handles 17,000 births a year.  
 The health funds would also increase bed capacity at
Pakistan’s largest maternity hospital, Lahore’s Lady Willingdon.  
 USAID will oversee $21 million in agricultural projects
designed to promote Pakistani exports and improve the ability of
women to manage dairy-related businesses. Based in Punjab, the
program is expected to reach 16,000 women.  
 For Related News and Information:  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nicole Gaouette  in Washington at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        