-- Commodity Manipulation May Be Easier to Prove After Overhaul
-- Asjylyn Loder
-- 2010-07-19T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-19/commodity-manipulation-may-be-easier-to-prove-with-u-s-financial-overhaul.html

          
          
             Traders will face new rules aimed at
making it easier for regulators to prove manipulation in markets
for commodities such as oil, wheat and natural gas under the
financial overhaul awaiting President Barack Obama’s signature.  
 The regulations, written in part by Senator  Maria Cantwell ,
a Democrat from Washington state, attempt to relieve the
Commodity Futures Trading Commission of the burden of proving a
trader intended to manipulate prices. Instead, the CFTC will
have to show the trading was “reckless.”  
 “It will make it easier for the CFTC to bring cases and
get people to settle, because people will be reluctant to go to
court,” said  Geoffrey Aronow , former director of enforcement at
the commission and a partner at the Washington law firm  Bingham
McCutchen LLP .  
 Proving manipulation has challenged courts and lawmakers
since the early attempts to regulate U.S. commodity markets in
the 1920s. The financial overhaul of the $615 trillion
derivatives market, approved by the U.S. Senate last week and
the House on June 30, redraws rules that have been determined
for decades by a patchwork of case law.  
 The legislation will allow the CFTC to better police
manipulation, while also expanding its jurisdiction to the over-
the-counter derivatives market, said  Michael Greenberger , a
former director of trading and markets and now a professor at
the University of Maryland law school in Baltimore.  
 Lower Standard  
 “The standard of proof is lower,” Greenberger said. “If
you can’t police for manipulation, you’ve effectively got one
hand tied behind your back. The Cantwell amendment unties the
hand of the CFTC.”  
 Derivatives are contracts whose value is derived from
stocks, bonds, loans, currencies and commodities, or linked to
specific events such as changes in interest rates or weather.
Futures are traded on regulated exchanges, while over-the-
counter contracts are privately negotiated.  
 The  financial overhaul  will push most of the off-exchange
contracts to be processed, or cleared, through third-party
clearinghouses and traded on exchanges or similar systems. All
trades will have to be reported to trade repositories, which
will allow regulators a view of the overall risk in the market.  
 “The problem I’ve got with it is you have no guidance for
your traders,” said  Jerry Markham , a professor at Florida
International University law school in Miami and an expert
witness. “Traders have to be aggressive. This is trading, not
tiddlywinks.”  
 Under current law, manipulation cases hinge on a four-prong
test that begins with proving that prices were “artificial,”
or outside the bounds of normal supply and demand, Markham said.
Then the government must prove that the accused had the ability
to cause an artificial price, took actions to cause it and
intended it. Proving intent typically requires evidence such as
traders’ e-mails or taped telephone calls, he said.  
 ‘Artificial’ Prices  
 Proving manipulation in court is tough because the statute
provides little definition, including how to measure an
“artificial” price and establish intent, said  Craig Pirrong ,
director of the Global Energy Markets Institute at the
University of Houston, who has written essays on the subject and
served as an expert witness.  
 Confusion has existed since the early days of regulation,
Pirrong said. He quoted a 1928 hearing where cotton trader
William Clayton said manipulation seems to mean any market move
“that does not suit the gentleman who is speaking at the
moment.”  
 In 2008, the year after  BP Plc  paid a record $303 million
to settle a CFTC claim that it cornered the propane market, the
four BP traders who were individually charged in the case won a
dismissal, in part because U.S. District Judge  Gray Miller  in
Houston found that the law they were accused of violating was
too vague to be enforceable.  
 ‘Confusing’ Regime  
 “The court is sympathetic to the government’s desire to
discourage the types of behavior alleged here, but its ability
to do so is currently limited by a confusing and incomplete
statutory common-law regime,” Miller wrote in his decision,  
 The U.S. Justice Department has appealed the case.  
 In addition to the anti-manipulation rules introduced by
Cantwell, the law contains provisions that allow the CFTC to
police trading practices with oddball names such as “spoofing”
and “banging the close,” and contains a measure that
Commission Chairman  Gary Gensler  has dubbed “The  Eddie Murphy 
Rule.”  
 The rule is named for the 1983 movie Trading Places, which
starred Murphy and  Dan Akroyd . The plot centers on two brothers
who plot to get an orange crop forecast and corner the market
for orange juice. Murphy and Akroyd beat them to it, substitute
a forgery, and make a fortune while the scheming brothers go
bust. The provision bans trading using non-public information
misappropriated from a government source, such as crop forecasts
or fuel stockpile reports.  
 Canceling Trades  
 “Spoofing” is a practice where a trader enters a bid or
offer with the intent of canceling it before the trade is
carried out.  
 The legislation also targets any activity that shows a
“reckless disregard” for “orderly” trading in the closing
period, during which the day’s settlement prices are determined.
The provision targets a practice known as “smashing” or
“banging” the close, where traders attempt to bully the day’s
settlement price by buying or selling large volumes just before
the close.  
 “It’s going to be very much like the standard for
pornography,” said  Gary DeWaal , general counsel for Newedge USA
LLC, the world’s largest futures broker. “The CFTC is going to
say, we know orderly when we see it. And that’s going to be a
bone of contention.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Asjylyn Loder in New York at 
 aloder@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        