-- Companies in U.S. Plan to Hire More Workers, Boost Spending, Survey Shows
-- Courtney Schlisserman
-- 2010-07-19T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-19/companies-in-u-s-plan-to-hire-more-workers-boost-spending-survey-shows.html

          
          
             More U.S. companies plan to hire and
buy new equipment during the next six to 12 months even as the
recovery shows signs of cooling, according to a quarterly survey
of economists.  
 The percentage of businesses expecting to hire in the next
six months exceeded the share projecting leaner payrolls by 25
points, up from 21 points in April, according to a survey by the
National Association of Business Economics. The share expecting
capital spending to advance also outpaced those forecasting a
decline by 25 points.  
 While the economists forecast improvements in the labor
market and business investment, they lowered their estimates for
economic growth after sales gains slowed in the second quarter.
The share of respondents forecasting growth below 3.1 percent
increased to 79 percent from 75 percent in April.  
 “The U.S. recovery continued through the second quarter,
although at a slower pace than earlier in the year,”  William Strauss , a senior economist at the Federal Reserve Bank of
Chicago who analyzed the results, said in a statement.
“Industry demand increased for a fourth consecutive quarter,
although at a slower pace” and lower costs allowed profits to
“edge higher,” he said.  
 Fifty-two percent of respondents said  sales  increased in
the second quarter, down from 57 percent in NABE’s April survey.
Those reporting higher profit margins held at 25 percent and the
share of respondents who said prices were unchanged increased to
73 percent from 65 percent in April.  
 The NABE survey, taken from June 11 to June 29, included
responses from 84 members of the business economists group.  
 Employment Gains  
 Thirty-nine percent of respondents said they expect
employment to rise in the next six months, compared with 37
percent in the April survey. The share that said hiring
increased in the second quarter rose to 31 percent, from 22
percent in April.  
 While the share of firms that said they boosted capital
spending from April through June eased to 24 percent from 25
percent, those projecting they’ll boost investment over the next
year increased to 44 percent from 41 percent in the April
survey.  
 One measure that may restrain spending and growth is the
European debt crisis. Thirty-five percent of respondents said
they expect the crisis will have some negative impact on their
business, though almost all of them estimated the result will be
“moderate.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Courtney Schlisserman  in Washington at 
 cschlisserma@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        