-- Canadian Stocks Rise as Fuel, Copper, Gold Producers Advance With Futures
-- Matt Walcoff
-- 2010-07-20T20:50:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-19/compton-petroleum-ritchie-bros-auctioneers-canada-equity-market-preview.html

          
          
             Canadian stocks  rose for the first
time in three days, led by energy and raw material producers, as
commodities advanced and some traders speculated the U.S.
Federal Reserve would try to provide further economic stimulus.  
 Teck Resources Ltd., Canada’s biggest base-metals and coal
producer, gained 3.7 percent as copper rallied on prospects of
Chinese demand. Suncor Energy Inc., the country’s largest  oil
and gas  producer, increased 1.8 percent as oil reached a three-
week high. Air Canada, the country’s largest airline, surged 13
percent after saying second-quarter profit increased.  
 The  Standard & Poor’s/TSX Composite Index  increased 86.41
points, or 0.8 percent, to 11,629.88. Most of the gain occurred
late in the trading day on speculation that Fed Chairman Ben S.
Bernanke will announce a lowering of the interest rate the
central bank pays on banks’ excess reserves to stimulate
economic growth.  
 “What you’re going to see in the next few weeks is a lot
of trouble ahead, but we’re going to have things rallying
because of rumors that Bernanke or a European government will be
doing something about it,” said  Paul Ma , who manages C$500
million ($479 million) as a money manager at McLean & Partners
in Calgary.  
 The S&P/TSX is  outperforming  the S&P 500 for a seventh-
straight year as an 8.7 percent gain in gold futures has helped
counter the impact of the European debt crisis and concern that
lower-than-forecast revenue by such companies as Bank of America
Corp. and International Business Machines Corp. signal a slowing
economy.  
 Commodities Rally  
 Copper, oil and natural gas rallied on optimism China will
relax policies intended to prevent its economy from overheating.
China is the world’s largest user of copper and became the
biggest energy consumer last year, according to the
International Energy Agency.  
 Teck jumped  3.7 percent to C$34.31. Western Coal Corp.,
Canada’s second-largest publicly traded coal producer, rallied
4.6 percent to C$4.08. Copper producer Inmet Mining Corp. surged
4.1 percent to C$47.57.  
 Weather forecasts drove fuel prices, with crude oil rising
1 percent after a tropical wave formed in the Caribbean and
natural gas gaining 1.8 percent on forecasts for hot weather in
the U.S.  
 Suncor increased 1.8 percent to C$33.13. Canadian Oil Sands
Trust, the largest owner of the Syncude project, advanced 2.9
percent to C$28.47. EnCana Corp., the country’s biggest natural
gas producer, increased 2.2 percent to C$34.49.  
 Gold Rebounds  
 The  S&P/TSX Gold Index  climbed as the precious metal
rebounded from an eight-week low. Financial results from Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. that missed analysts’ estimates for profit and
revenue and a greater-than-forecast drop in U.S. housing starts
boosted demand for a safe haven.  
 Barrick Gold Corp., the world’s largest gold producer, rose
0.7 percent to C$43.72. Goldcorp Inc., Canada’s second-largest
producer of the metal, gained 0.6 percent to C$42.20.  
 Air Canada soared 13 percent to C$2.16 after saying second-
quarter  earnings  before interest, taxes, depreciation,
amortization and aircraft rent may have increased as much as 152
percent from last year. The company is scheduled to release
final results for the quarter on Aug. 5.  
 Air Canada partner Groupe Aeroplan Inc., which operates
loyalty-rewards programs, advanced 4.6 percent to C$9.20. ACE
Aviation Holdings Inc., which owns a 27 percent  stake  in the
airline, jumped 14 percent to C$9.26, the highest since
September 2008.  
 Sino-Forest Corp., the largest Canada-based forestry
company by market value, jumped 6 percent to C$16.56 for the
biggest gain in the S&P/TSX. Royal Bank analyst  Paul Quinn 
raised his second-quarter profit estimate to 25 cents a share
from 21 cents a share in a note dated yesterday.  
 To contact the reporter on this story;
 Matt Walcoff  in Toronto at 
 mwalcoff1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        