-- Contador Exploits Schleck's Mishap to Take Tour de France Lead
-- Alex Duff
-- 2010-07-19T23:27:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-19/contador-takes-yellow-jersey-from-schleck-at-tour-de-france-after-stage-15.html

          
          
             Alberto Contador  took over the Tour
de France lead after  Andy Schleck  lost time when his bike chain
got snarled up as he attacked on a Pyrenees climb.  
 Previous leader Schleck had to stop for about half a minute
on the Port de Bales ascent near the end of stage 15 yesterday
as he struggled to fix the problem. Some fans jeered as Contador
put on the yellow jersey in a podium ceremony. Cyclists
sometimes stop when a rival has a mechanical fault or crash.  
 “I perfectly understand there’s a certain controversy,”
Contador told reporters. “It’s a delicate situation.”  
 Contador said he didn’t become aware of Schleck’s problem
until after he had passed him on the mountain.  
 Defending champion Contador, who had trailed last year’s
runner-up Schleck by 31 seconds, will take an  8-second  lead into
today’s 199.5-kilometer (124-mile) 16th stage between Bagneres-
de-Luchon and Pau. The 20-stage race ends July 25 in Paris.  
 Schleck said he was upset that Contador took advantage of
his mishap.  Samuel Sanchez  and  Denis Menchov , who are third and
fourth respectively, also profited to cut their deficit to
Schleck in the overall standings.  
 “My stomach is full of anger and I want to take my
revenge” in the coming days, Schleck told reporters. “I’m not
the jury but for sure those guys wouldn’t get the fair-play
award from me today.”  
 In 2001,  Lance Armstrong  stopped when rival  Jan Ullrich 
crashed. The Texan then went on to win the third of his seven
Tour de France titles  
 ‘No Gifts’  
 Johan Bruyneel , who oversaw all Armstrong’s Tour wins and
was Contador’s team manager last year, said the Spaniard didn’t
do anything wrong.  
 “I don’t think there’s anybody to blame,” Bruyneel said.
“There are no gifts in this race.”  
 Contador said rivals didn’t stop when he was slowed by a
mechanical problem near the end of stage two to Spa, Belgium, a
ride partly over cobblestones.  
 Astana team rider Contador is seeking a third Tour de
France victory in four years. Saxo Bank’s Schleck is trying to
become Luxembourg’s first winner since Charly Gaul in 1958.  
 Thomas Voeckler  of the Bbox team won yesterday’s stage, a
187.5-kilometer ride between Pamiers and Bagneres-de-Luchon, to
become the fifth French stage winner of this edition.  
 Armstrong, riding his last Tour de France, is 31st overall,
more than 40 minutes behind the leader. He was 23rd yesterday,
about four minutes adrift of Voeckler.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alex Duff  in Bagneres de Luchon, France via the London sports
desk   aduff4@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Alberto Contador puts on the yellow jersey  
                       
                         
                           Spencer Platt/Getty Images 
                         
                         “I perfectly understand there’s a certain controversy,” Contador told reporters. “It’s a delicate situation.” 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     “I perfectly understand there’s a certain controversy,” Contador told reporters. “It’s a delicate situation.” Photographer: Spencer Platt/Getty Images  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
