-- Corn Futures in Chicago Drop 1.5% After Advancing Last Week; Wheat Gains
-- Luzi Ann Javier
-- 2010-07-19T07:04:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-19/corn-futures-in-chicago-drop-1-5-after-advancing-last-week-wheat-gains.html

          
          
             Corn futures slumped, snapping three
days of gains, as some speculators and farmers locked in profits
on speculation favorable weather in the U.S. and China may boost
output. Soybeans fell and wheat rose.  
 December-delivery futures declined as much as 3 percent to
$3.9525 a bushel, the biggest intraday drop for the most-active
contract since May 28. Corn was at $4.03 on the Chicago Board of
Trade at 2:15 p.m. Singapore time. Futures rose 5.2 percent in
the three sessions through July 16.  
 “We’re seeing some selling from speculators and possibly
some producers to lock in prices,”  Toby Hassall , an analyst at
CWA Global Markets Pty, said by phone from Sydney today.  
 Corn and soybean crop conditions in parts of the North
China Plain may improve as rains and lower temperatures were
forecast over the weekend and this week, while the eastern part
of the U.S. Midwest will have “light, sporadic showers over the
next few days,” Telvent DTN Inc. said in a July 16 report.  
 China is the second-largest corn consumer and the biggest
soybean buyer, while the Midwest is the largest U.S. corn and
soybean growing region.  
 Forecasts for rainfall in the U.S. Midwest and China “will
boost the crop outlook,” pushing some speculators to close long
positions or bets on price gains, Hassall said.  
 Hedge-fund managers and other large speculators increased
their  net-long position  in Chicago corn futures by 77,256
contracts or 105 percent in the week ended July 13, from a week
ago according to U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission data.  
 Speculative long positions outnumbered short positions by
150,573 contracts on the Chicago Board of Trade, the commission
said in its Commitments of Traders report.  
 ‘Speculative Traders’  
 “Some speculative traders may be looking to take those
positions off the table,” Hassall said, referring to bets
prices will rise. “We’re seeing the market reevaluating those
influences.”  
 Corn and soybean crops in the U.S., the biggest grower and
exporter, are in good or excellent condition and may produce
above-average yields this year, according to a survey of five
Midwest states by SGS SA released July 16.  
 Corn that was planted earlier in the U.S. is “reaching a
point where wet, dry or hot conditions have decreasing effect on
yield,” SGS Crop Services said in a report.  
 Wheat for September delivery gained as much as 1.8 percent
to $5.9775 a bushel, recouping the loss posted in the previous
session, on lingering concerns dry weather in Russia and growing
areas in Europe may pare global supply. The contract traded at
$5.95 a bushel, up 1.3 percent at 1:50 p.m. Singapore time.  
 Flash Floods  
 Turkey will harvest 15 percent less wheat than the 20
million ton forecast in 2010-2011 season because of rains and
flash floods this spring, Referans said, citing Ugur Kaleli,
head of the trade bourse in Turkey’s breadbasket of Konya.  
 Turkey is the largest wheat grower in the Middle East,
according to the USDA.  
 “There is a fundamental basis to the rally,” CWA’s
Hassall said. “The recent weather threats have certainly caused
many people in the market to revise their expectations of the
supply-demand balance going forward.”  
 Bangladesh is seeking to buy 50,000 metric tons of wheat
from any exporting country except Israel, and suppliers have
until July 29 to submit bids, according to a notice dated July
15 from the Directorate General of Food.  
 Still, the most-active contract may drop to $4.94 a bushel
by Dec. 31 as prospects for the second-biggest wheat stockpiles
in almost a decade overwhelm a damage caused by drought,
according to a Bloomberg survey of 14 analysts.  
 November-delivery soybeans fell for a second day, losing as
much as 1.3 percent to $9.7225 a bushel before trading little
changed at $9.845 in Chicago.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Luzi Ann Javier  in Singapore at 
 ljavier@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        