-- Crude Oil Advances as Earnings Surprises, Takeover News Push Stocks Higher
-- Mark Shenk
-- 2010-07-19T20:14:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-19/crude-oil-futures-rise-in-n-y-as-equities-advance-on-earnings-takeovers.html

          
          
             Crude oil climbed for the first time
in four days as U.S. equities gained on better-than-forecast
earnings and takeover offers.  
 Oil rose 0.7 percent as the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
rebounded from the biggest drop this month after Halliburton
Co.’s profit beat estimates and Nokia Siemens Networks, the
world’s second-largest maker of wireless phone systems, agreed
to pay $1.2 billion for Motorola Inc.’s wireless network assets.  
 “The main focus is the stock market,” said  Phil Flynn ,
vice president of research at PFGBest in Chicago. “Prices
wouldn’t be here if stocks weren’t moving higher, because
supplies are plentiful and demand is weak. Hopes for an economic
rebound and demand recovery support the market.”  
 Crude oil for August delivery rose 53 cents, or 0.7
percent, to settle at $76.54 a barrel on the New York Mercantile
Exchange. Prices are up 20 percent from a year ago.  
 The August contract expires tomorrow. More-active September
futures increased 52 cents, or 0.7 percent, to end the session
at $76.90 a barrel. September oil is 36 cents more expensive
than August, the smallest divergence between front-month
contracts since March 23.  
 All but three of the 24 companies in the S&P 500 that have
released second-quarter results have posted better-than-
estimated earnings, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 The S&P 500 gained 0.5 percent to 1,070.03 at 3:33 p.m. The
Dow Jones Industrial Average increased 0.4 percent to 10,140.28.  
 “A higher S&P is an indication that the investor outlook
is improved,” said  Chris Barber , a senior analyst at Energy
Security Analysis Inc. in Wakefield, Massachusetts. “Investors
are following broader signals to get a handle on the future
demand outlook.”  
 ‘Broader Signals’  
 “The economy continues to be the main focus of traders,”
said  Peter Beutel , president of trading adviser Cameron Hanover
Inc. in New Canaan, Connecticut. “Week economic data and
falling stocks sent prices lower last week.”  
 Crude oil declined the three prior sessions on New York
after reports bolstered concern that the U.S. economic recovery
is slowing, reducing fuel demand in the world’s biggest energy-
consuming country.  
 The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan preliminary
consumer sentiment index for July fell to 66.5 from 76 in June,
according to a release on July 16. The gauge was projected to
fall to 74, according to the median forecast of 61 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News.  
 Federal Reserve reports on July 15 showed manufacturing in
New York and Pennsylvania dropped, part of a nationwide decline
in factory production of 0.4 percent in June.  
 Speculator Bets  
 Hedge funds and other large speculators increased their
net-long position in New York crude-oil futures in the week
ended July 13, the most since February 2007, according to U.S.
Commodity Futures Trading Commission data.  
 Net-long positions among hedge funds and other large
speculators in crude oil futures and options combined on the
Nymex rose to 84,455 for the seven days ended July 13, according
to the CFTC data.  
 “The major driver is the fund money, which is coming back
in droves,” said  Carl Larry , president of Oil Outlooks and
Opinions LLC in Houston. “You can tell because all of the
activity is in different months.”  
 September futures had more than twice the volume as the
August contract as of 3:45 p.m. in New York.  
 Fuel Demand  
 “This will probably be a rather boring expiration,” said
 Addison Armstrong , director of market research at Tradition
Energy, a Stamford, Connecticut-based procurement adviser.
“Gasoline demand is pretty weak, so refiners won’t need to rush
out and get crude.”  
 U.S. gasoline consumption slipped 3.9 percent to 9.08
million barrels a day in the week ended July 9, according to an
Energy Department report last week. It was the lowest level
since the week ended April 2.  
 Brent crude oil for September settlement climbed 25 cents,
or 0.3 percent, to end the session at $75.62 a barrel on the
London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange. Brent is trading at a
92 cent a barrel discount to the New York contract, the widest
level since March 31.  
 Oil volume on the Nymex was 534,468 contracts as of 3:32
p.m. in electronic trading New York. Volume totaled 482,179
contracts on July 16, 34 percent below the average of the past
three months. Open interest was 1.25 million contracts, the
lowest level since Jan. 5.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mark Shenk  in New York at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        