-- Dalian Port Falls Most in Two Months on Oil Spill Caused by Pipeline Blast
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-07-19T05:47:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-19/dalian-port-falls-most-in-two-months-on-oil-spill-caused-by-pipeline-blast.html

          
          
             Dalian Port (PDA) Co. , operator of
China’s largest crude-oil terminal, fell the most in two months
after explosions at pipelines operated by a PetroChina Co. unit
caused what may be the biggest oil spill in the country’s seas.  
 The stock declined as much as 7.3 percent, the biggest drop
since May 17, to HK$2.93 and traded at HK$3.02 at 12:28 p.m. in
Hong Kong.  PetroChina , the world’s second-largest company by
market value, fell 1.9 percent to HK$8.42 while the benchmark
Hang Seng index was down 1 percent.  
 The blast that occurred during the offloading of a tanker
late on July 16 has “seriously” polluted 11 square kilometers
(7 square miles) of sea and “slightly” affected 50 square
kilometers, the official Xinhua News Agency reported today,
citing Wu Guogong, deputy chief of the municipal environmental
protection bureau.  
 “Details of the accident are sketchy, but it appears that
the oil spill has been contained,”  Grace Liu , analyst at Guotai
Junan Securities Co., said by phone from Shenzhen.  
 More than 20 vessels have been deployed to spray chemicals
to clear the oil and a 7-kilometer barrier has been set up to
contain the spill, which may take two weeks to clean up, China
National Radio said today, citing Huang Yong, deputy chief of
Dalian city’s Maritime Safety Administration. The Yellow Sea
port is capable of handling 57 million tons of crude annually,
according to the website of its parent, PDA Corp.  
 Spill Size  
 The blast occurred a day after BP Plc capped its Gulf of
Mexico leak and followed a Dec. 30 diesel fuel spill from a
pipeline operated by PetroChina’s parent that polluted the
Yellow River. The slick is as thick as 10 centimeters, the
state-run China Central Television reported today.  
 About 1,500 tons of oil has spilled into the sea, according
to China National Radio. BP’s well spewed as much as 60,000
barrels of oil a day, or 8,220 tons daily, since an April 20 rig
explosion until it was capped July 15, according to a U.S.
government-led panel of scientists.  
 “It doesn’t compare in terms of size or seriousness with
the BP oil spill,” Liu of Guotai Junan said.  
 The spill is the biggest in Chinese waters and could have a
long-term impact on the marine ecology of the area, Yang Ailun,
a Beijing-based spokeswoman at Greenpeace, said by phone today.
“This incident and the one at the Mexican Gulf have revealed
the risks of economies being over-reliant on dirty energy.”  
 Seafood Production  
 Two fishery companies,  Dalian Yi Qiao Marine Seeds Co.  and
 Dalian Zhangzidao Fishery Group Co. , said in filings to the
Shenzhen Stock Exchange yesterday the spill was far from their
farming areas and hadn’t affected products.  
 “Dalian is one of China’s most important seafood production
regions, so we need to assess if fishing products will be
suitable for consumption for quite a long time to come,” Yang of
Greenpeace said.  
 An oil pipeline exploded late on July 16 near Dalian’s
Xingang Harbor, causing a smaller pipeline nearby to also
explode, according to Xinhua. The fire was mostly extinguished
by July 17, 15 hours after the initial blast, Xinhua said.  
 An investigation team has been established to examine the
explosion, Xinhua reported, citing Sun Benqiang, deputy chief of
the municipal work safety bureau. The oil port was closed after
the incident, Reuters reported, citing an industry official.  
 PetroChina’s wholly-owned refinery in Dalian is operating
normally using crude stockpiles after deliveries were affected
by the explosion, a company official said today, declining to
be identified because of internal rules.  
 Zijin Mining Group Co. , China’s biggest gold producer,
tumbled 17 percent in Hong Kong trading last week after the
company said July 12 that 2.4 million gallons (9.1 million
liters) of acid-laced waste spilled from its largest mine,
polluting the Ting river.  
 Zijin reported another leak at the copper plant at
Shanghang in the eastern province of Fujian on July 16.  
 -- Wang Ying ,  Chua Baizhen  and  John Duce . Editors:  Amit Prakash ,
 John Viljoen .  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Wang Ying  in Beijing at 
 ywang30@bloomberg.net ;
Baizhen Chua in Beijing at 
 bchua14@bloomberg.net ;
 John Duce  in Hong Kong at 
 Jduce1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        