-- Rig Captain May Face Criminal Probe, Attorney Says
-- Joe Carroll
-- 2010-07-19T20:06:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-19/deepwater-horizon-rig-captain-may-face-criminal-investigation-lawyer-says.html

          
          
             The captain of the  Transocean Ltd.  rig
that exploded, killing 11 workers and triggering the biggest
U.S. oil spill, may face a criminal investigation, his attorney
said. Transocean shares tumbled 7.7 percent.  
 Curt Kuchta, master of the Deepwater Horizon when it burned
and sank to the bottom of the Gulf of Mexico in April, has been
designated a “party of interest” by a joint U.S. Coast Guard-
Interior Department panel probing the catastrophe, said Kyle
Schonekas, Kuchta’s lawyer.  
 Under federal rules, that means Kuchta could be charged if
the investigative panel concludes crimes were committed,
Schonekas said. Other parties of interest named by the panel
include James Harrell, Transocean’s offshore installation
manager on the rig, and Douglas Brown, the chief mechanic,
according to the panel’s website.  
 “When you’re designated as a party of interest, it means
you’re a target,” Schonekas said in an interview today in
Kenner, Louisiana, where the panel is conducting public
hearings. “The objectionable thing about this is that they
named my client a party of interest after he had already
testified.”  
 BP Plc , the owner of the Macondo well about 40 miles (64
kilometers) off the Louisiana coast, and Transocean were working
to plug the well when it erupted on April 20, destroying the
$365 million rig and creating leaks that have spewed millions of
gallons of crude into the sea.  
 Objection Declined  
 Schonekas, a partner with Schonekas Evans McGoey & McEachin
LLC in New Orleans, said in today’s interview that if Kuchta had
known he was to be a target, it would have allowed the captain
“to make decisions about whether to testify or not,
particularly if there could be criminal implications.”  
 At the start of today’s hearing, Schonekas asked the panel
to accept his objection in written form. Coast Guard Captain
Hung Nguyen, co-chairman of the investigative panel, declined to
accept the written communications, saying the lawyer’s objection
was out of order.  
 Kuchta was still aboard the rig after escape vessels and
life rafts had been deployed, Stephen Bertone, the chief
engineer aboard the vessel, told the panel today. Kuchta,
surrounded by a cloud of smoke, leapt into the sea from the
burning deck several stories above the water, landing about five
feet away from a life raft, Bertone said.  
 Evacuated on Stretcher  
 Kuchta swam to a rescue boat to get a pocketknife and then
swam back to the raft to cut the rope that was preventing it
from drifting away from the blazing rig, Bertone said. The
passengers on the raft included a Transocean toolpusher, Wyman
Wheeler, whose injuries required him to be evacuated from the
rig on a stretcher, Bertone said.  
 Transocean fell $4 to $48.08 at 4 p.m. in New York Stock
Exchange composite trading. In earlier trading, the stock
dropped as much as 9.7 percent, the lowest intraday percentage
drop since June 8. The company has lost almost half its market
value since the catastrophe.  
 Other parties of interest named so far by the panel are
corporate entities: BP and its partners in the well, Anadarko
Petroleum Corp. and Mitsui Oil Exploration Co., which is 70
percent owned by Japan’s Mitsui & Co.; Transocean; Halliburton
Co.; Cameron International Corp.; Weatherford International
Ltd.; M-I Swaco; and Dril-Quip Inc.  
 None of the BP managers overseeing the drilling project,
including well-site leaders Donald Vidrine and Robert Kaluza,
have been designated as parties of interest, according to the
panel’s website.  
 Today, Vidrine, 62, declined for the second time to appear
before the panel because of medical reasons. Kaluza, who refused
to testify in May, citing his Constitutional right against self-
incrimination, is scheduled to appear tomorrow. Brown testified
on May 26 and Kuchta and Harrell appeared on May 27.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Joe Carroll  in New Orleans at  jcarroll8@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        