-- Edward Jones Tops J.D. Power Financial Adviser Survey as RBC Ranks Second
-- Rick Levinson
-- 2010-07-19T17:50:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-19/edward-jones-tops-j-d-power-survey-of-full-service-firms-for-second-year.html

          
          
             Edward Jones, the St. Louis-based
company with more than 12,000 financial advisers, won the
highest ranking in a survey of full-service investment firms for
the second consecutive year, according to J.D. Power and
Associates.  
 Edward Jones earned a score of 794 on a 1,000-point scale,
up from 784 in 2009, with strong marks for its investment
advisers and performance, according to the survey. The average
score was 769.  
 While overall satisfaction with investment firms has
improved from last year, scores for being customer-focused
declined, said J.D. Power, a Westlake Village, California-based
marketing-services company.  
 “During the past year, most investors have enjoyed
positive short-term  gains  in their portfolio as a result of the
market recovery,” David Lo, director of investment services at
J.D. Power, said in a statement. “This has not translated into
an improvement in investor sentiment toward their firm” as an
increasing number of investors said they believe their company
is driven by profits, rather than customer satisfaction.  
 The 2010 U.S. Full Service Investor Satisfaction Study
measured companies using seven criteria including investment
performance, account information, website, offerings and fees.
The study is based on responses in May from almost 4,500
investors who have a brokerage account and use a financial
adviser for some or all of their investment decisions, according
to J.D. Power, a unit of New York-based  McGraw Hill Cos.   
 RBC Wealth  
 RBC Wealth Management, a unit of Toronto-based  Royal Bank
of Canada , was ranked second with a score of 793, edging out
last year’s second-place holder,  LPL Financial Corp.  in Boston,
which came in third. RBC scored well in the investment adviser
and account information categories, the survey said.  
 Charles Schwab Corp. , based in San Francisco, slipped to
fourth from third and  Raymond James Financial Inc. , based in St.
Petersburg, Florida, rounded out the top five.  
 The lowest-ranked firm was  Chase Investment Services Corp. ,
a unit of New York-based JPMorgan Chase & Co., with a score of
739.  Merrill Lynch & Co. /Banc of America Investment Services,
Inc., a unit of Charlotte, North Carolina-based  Bank of America
Corp. , was next to last after taking the bottom spot in the 2009
survey.  
 “We monitor client satisfaction vigorously and our current
surveys show very high satisfaction with their financial
advisers and the firm,”  Matt Card , a Bank of America spokesman,
said in an e-mail.  
 Thomas Kelly , a spokesman for JPMorgan, declined to
comment.  
 More Assets  
 Higher customer satisfaction translates to more assets for
brokers, according to J.D. Power. The survey estimated an
average increase in assets under management of $125,216 from
each investor who gives the firm a score of 900 or above,
compared with a loss of $5,929 from those who rank their firms
below 700.  
 In the financial overhaul legislation passed by Congress
last week, the Securities and Exchange Commission was charged
with looking at whether a fiduciary standard of legal
responsibility should apply to both investment advisers, who
usually charge a fee to give unbiased, personalized analysis to
clients based on assets under management, and broker-dealers,
who earn fees by executing trades and are paid commissions based
on the products they sell. A fiduciary standard means putting
clients’ interest first when acting as advisers.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rick Levinson  at   rlevinson2@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        