-- EIB Stops Funding Ethiopia Dam Studies Amid Environmental, Social Concerns
-- Sarah McGregor
-- 2010-07-19T15:16:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-19/eib-stops-funding-ethiopia-dam-studies-amid-environmental-social-concerns.html

          
          
             The  European Investment Bank  said it
has stopped funding environmental and social impact studies for
the Gibe III hydroelectric dam project in Ethiopia.  
 The Luxembourg-based bank made the decision after
alternative funding was found, the EIB said in an e-mailed
statement today. In the past, the bank has funded preliminary
studies designed to help a group of donors determine whether to
finance dam-building, the lender said.  
 The EIB stopped funding the studies due to the alternative
financing and not because of the “results of these preliminary
studies,” it said.  
 A Kenyan conservation organization, Friends of Lake
Turkana, on June 14 filed a court case against the government
and  Kenya Power & Lighting Ltd. , arguing that environmental and
social concerns had been disregarded when they decided to buy
power from Gibe III.  
 Residents and pastoral communities living along the  Omo
River , where the dam is situated, and at Kenya’s Lake Turkana,
which the Omo River flows into, will face water shortages,
harming fishing and farming, the organization said.  
 Other conservation groups, including London-based Survival
International and International Rivers, based in California,
have called on the African Development Bank, the European
Investment Bank,  JPMorgan Chase & Co.  and other financiers not
to fund the 1.5 billion-euro ($1.95 billion) Gibe III project.  
 Italy’s  Salini Costruttori SpA  is working on the dam with
financing from the Ethiopian government. Once completed, the
243-meter-high (797 feet-high) dam will generate 1,870 megawatts
of electricity, more than doubling Ethiopia’s current power
capacity, according to the Ethiopian Electric Power Corp.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sarah McGregor  in Nairobi at 
 smcgregor5@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        