-- Einhorn's Greenlight Buys Apple, Calling Its Growth Prospects Undervalued
-- Caroline Dye
-- 2010-07-20T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-19/einhorn-buys-apple-stock-saying-ipad-maker-s-growth-prospects-undervalued.html

          
          
             David Einhorn , the hedge-fund
manager known for shorting Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. before
it collapsed, said he bought shares of  Apple Inc.  in the second
quarter because the iPhone maker’s growth is  undervalued .  
 Einhorn’s firm, Greenlight Capital Inc., purchased the
stock at an average price of $248.09 each, or 15 times the money
manager’s  estimate  for 2010 earnings, according to a letter sent
to fund shareholders on July 16. Apple, which also produces
iPads, iPods and iMacs, traded for $245.58 as of 4 p.m. New York
time yesterday.  
 “While growth over the next few years will certainly be
slower than it has been over the last few years, AAPL does not
appear to have fully penetrated its market opportunities,”
wrote Einhorn, referring to Apple by its stock symbol.
“Accordingly, the opportunity to invest in this leading company
(with a better financial profile than market participants seem
to acknowledge) appears iTtractive.”  
 The 41-year-old investor beat the average hedge fund during
the second quarter. Greenlight Capital LP, Greenlight Capital
Qualified LP and Greenlight Capital Offshore returned 2.2
percent, 1.7 percent and 2.2 percent, respectively, net of fees
and expenses, according to Einhorn’s letter to shareholders. The
 HFRX Global Hedge Fund Index  fell 2.8 percent during the period.  
 The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  retreated 16 percent
between April 23 and July 2, the biggest loss during the bull
market that began in March 2009. The measure dropped 11 percent
during the second quarter, including reinvested dividends.  
 ‘Schizophrenic Market’  
 “We have maintained a conservative and defensive
portfolio, with a small net long position throughout and have
almost entirely avoided the volatility of the schizophrenic
market,” Einhorn wrote.  
 Apple, based in Cupertino, California, will earn a record
$12.9 billion in the fiscal year ending in September, according
to the average analyst estimate in a Bloomberg survey. That
compares with $69 million in 2003. The company has transformed
itself from a computer maker into a producer of music players
known as iPods, tablet PCs called iPads and the iPhone.  
 Greenlight also bought shares of  African Barrick Gold Ltd. 
during the second quarter. The London-based company, which mines
for the precious metal in Tanzania, was spun off from Barrick
Gold Corp. in March in a 581 million pound ($885 million)
initial public offering.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Caroline Dye  in New York at 
 cdye@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        