-- Mel Gibson Outbursts Mean Summit May Delay His Next Film
-- Michael White
-- 2010-07-19T04:46:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-19/mel-gibson-outbursts-mean-summit-may-delay-actor-s-next-film-analyst-says.html

          
          
             The audio rants purported to
depict actor  Mel Gibson  complicate the release of his next
film by Summit Entertainment LLC, the studio that holds
U.S. distribution rights, an analyst said.  
 “The Beaver,” directed by  Jodie Foster , stars Gibson
as a man who converses with a beaver puppet. No release
date was scheduled before recordings of obscenity-laced
tirades, purportedly by Gibson to girlfriend Oksana
Grigorieva, were made public. The two are in a battle for
custody in Los Angeles over their eight-month-old daughter.  
 The film isn’t likely to be shown in U.S. theaters
anytime soon, said  Paul Dergarabedian , president of
researcher Hollywood.com’s box-office tracking unit.  
 “You have to remain in a holding pattern,”
Dergarabedian said. “They have some time to think about
it. It’s not like they had posters all over town saying, it
opens whenever.”  
 Summit hasn’t made a decision on how it will proceed,
said a person with knowledge of the situation. “The
Beaver” has been filmed and is getting so-called post-
production touches, said the person, who asked not to be
named because the matter is private.  
 Summit executives weren’t available to comment,
according to a spokesman. Gibson’s publicist,  Alan Nierob ,
didn’t return messages seeking comment. Foster’s publicist,
Jennifer Allen, referred calls to Summit.  
 Hollywood and the moviegoing public have been
forgiving of others.  Robert Downey Jr . rebounded from drug-
related jail time and  Eddie Murphy  and  Hugh Grant  from
encounters with prostitutes. All resumed successful film
careers.  
 ‘Mean Spirited’  
 Gibson’s situation differs from other cases of
celebrity misbehavior because of the nature of the
comments, Dergarabedian said. The male voice on the
recordings, posted by RadarOnline.com, screams racial
epithets and threatens violence.  
 “It’s so mean spirited and there’s nothing remotely
cool about it,” Dergarabedian said. “It’s hard to turn
this into something positive.”  
 William Morris Endeavor, Gibson’s talent agency, said
this month he was no longer a client.  
 Detectives investigating Gibson for possible domestic
violence received audio recordings during a closed court
session of a custody case involving Gibson and Grigorieva,
40, the Associated Press reported on July 15.  
 “The Beaver” would be Gibson’s second since he was
accused of making anti-Semitic remarks to a Los Angeles
County Sheriff’s deputy in 2006. He served three years’
probation and attended court-ordered Alcoholics Anonymous
meetings after pleading no contest to a misdemeanor drunk-
driving charge. His record was expunged in 2009, the
Associated Press reported then.  
 The crime drama “Edge of Darkness,” released in
January by  Time Warner Inc. ’s Warner Bros. and made for
about $80 million, generated $43.3 million in U.S. ticket
sales, according to researcher  Box Office Mojo .  
 Movie Plans  
 “How I Spent My Summer Vacation,” listed as being
filmed as of April 9 on IMDB.com, is being produced by
Gibson’s Icon Productions. Gibson stars and is credited
with writing.  
 The U.S.-born Gibson, 54, began acting in Australia in
the 1970s and rose to stardom with 1980s film roles in
“Mad Max” and “Lethal Weapon.” He produced, directed
and starred in 1995’s Academy Award-winning “Braveheart,”
about Scottish warrior William Wallace.  
 Other films Summit plans to release this year include
the spy satire “Red,” set for October, and the fantasy
“Silver Cord,” scheduled for December.  
 The Los Angeles-based studio released “The Twilight
Saga: Eclipse,” the third film in the franchise based on
 Stephenie Meyer ’s books, on June 30. It generated $470.4
million in global ticket sales against a production budget
of $68 million, according to Box Office Mojo. This year
Summit won a best-picture Oscar for “The Hurt Locker.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Michael White  in Los Angeles at 
 mwhite8@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 19 (Bloomberg) -- The audio rants purported to depict actor Mel Gibson complicate the release of his next film, "The Beaver," by Summit Entertainment LLC, the studio that holds U.S. distribution rights, an analyst said. Bloomberg's Scarlet Fu reports. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
