-- Electrolux Declines in Stockholm on Weak Southern Europe in Second Quarter
-- Ola Kinnander
-- 2010-07-19T08:23:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-19/electrolux-second-quarter-net-income-tops-estimates-as-demand-improves.html

          
          
             Electrolux AB , the world’s second-
biggest appliance maker, fell the most in more than five months
after it said that southern European demand weakened
“substantially” at the end of the second quarter.  
 The shares fell as much as 9.6 percent in Stockholm, the
most since Feb. 3, and traded at 151.7 kronor, down 9.2 percent,
as of 10:20 a.m.  
 “Demand in southern Europe weakened considerably towards
the end of the quarter,” Stockholm-based Swedbank analyst  Peter Naeslund  said by phone. “That’s a source of worry for the
future.”  
 Net income in the quarter that ended June 30 was 1.03
billion kronor ($139 million), compared with 658 million kronor
a year earlier, the Stockholm-based company said today in a
statement. That beat the average estimate of 903 million kronor
in a  Bloomberg survey  of 16 analysts. Sales fell 0.6 percent to
27.31 billion kronor.  
 The drop in Electrolux’s share price follows the pattern of
Swedish peers SKF AB, the world’s biggest ball bearings maker,
and Atlas Copco AB, the largest maker of air compressors, whose
shares fell last week after earnings beat analysts’ estimates.  
 “We’re in a phase now when good companies report good
results, and the shares fall,” Naeslund said.  “It seems to
happen every three years that the market begins to look toward
the next business cycle peak and somewhere the market decides to
sell on a strong report.”  
 U.S. Rebates  
 Electrolux said European demand “stabilized in the
quarter,” with Germany, France and Sweden “showing positive
trends.”  Demand in Brazil slowed as tax credits for
domestically produced appliances ended. A U.S. government rebate
program for energy-efficient household appliances helped boost
demand, especially in April, the company said.  
 “All business areas show improved profitability,” Chief
Executive Officer Hans Straaberg said in the statement. “We
will see continued growth in North America in the coming years,
as many American consumers need to replace their old appliances,
which are beginning to reach the end of their life cycles.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ola Kinnander  in Stockholm at 
 okinnander@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        