-- Telefonica Said to Hire Law Firm for Break-Up of Brasilcel Joint Venture
-- Paul Tobin
-- 2010-07-19T16:01:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-19/telefonica-said-to-hire-law-firm-for-break-up-of-brasilcel-joint-venture.html

          
          
             Telefonica SA  hired a Dutch law firm
to help dissolve a venture with  Portugal Telecom SGPS SA , after
abandoning a 7.15 billion-euro ($9.3 billion) offer to buy out
its Portuguese partner, a person close to the situation said.  
 Telefonica hired De Brauw Blackstone Westbroek, the firm
that worked for the two partners when they set up the Brasilcel
NV, the person said, declining to be named as legal proceedings
haven’t started. The 50-50 venture, based in the Netherlands,
controls Brazil’s largest mobile-phone company. A spokesman for
Madrid-based Telefonica declined to comment.  
 Telefonica Chairman  Cesar Alierta  is preparing for a legal
battle after his efforts to buy control of Brazil’s  Vivo
Participacoes SA  stumbled with the opposition of the Portuguese
government. Telefonica wants full control of the venture to
generate cost savings from a merger with its fixed-line business
in Brazil. The Spanish company turned down a Portugal Telecom
request to extend the offer beyond a July 16 deadline.  
 “Telefonica said ‘enough is enough,’”  Francisco Salvador ,
a strategist at Iberian Equities in Madrid, said by phone.
“Depending on what Portugal Telecom or the Portuguese
government do, we don’t rule out Telefonica and Portugal Telecom
resuming talks in the medium term, though with improved
conditions for Telefonica.”  
 Portugal Telecom shares  fell  0.3 percent to 8.02 euros at
the 4:30 p.m. close of Lisbon trading. Telefonica dropped 0.2
percent to 16.125 euros.  
 Expired Offer  
 Portugal Telecom’s directors met on July 16 and demanded
more time to find a solution. The offer has “expired,” Spain’s
largest telephone company replied to its Lisbon-based partner,
according to a copy of a fax published in a regulatory filing.
Portugal Telecom had asked for an extension to July 28. The
company declined to comment today.  
 Portugal’s government, which used its “golden share” veto
powers to block the deal on June 30, said July 17 it backs the
stance of the former state phone monopoly’s board.  
 The European Court of Justice on July 8 deemed those veto
powers illegal. Portugal said it would alter its rights in the
company to comply with the ruling.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Paul Tobin  in Madrid at 
 ptobin@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        