-- Temasek to Raise 700 Million Pounds From Its First Bonds in U.K. Currency
-- Sonja Cheung
-- 2010-07-19T12:13:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-19/temasek-to-raise-700-million-pounds-from-its-first-bonds-in-u-k-currency.html

          
          
             Temasek Holdings Pte , Singapore’s
state investment company, plans to sell 700 million pounds ($1
billion) of bonds in its first benchmark issue in the U.K.
currency, according to a banker involved in the transaction.  
 The company is selling 200 million pounds of 12-year bonds
that will yield 95 basis points to 97 basis points more than
U.K. gilts, the banker said. Temasek also plans to sell 500
million pounds of 30-year debt at a spread of 90 basis points to
92 basis points, according to the banker, who declined to be
identified before the sale is completed.  
 “The sterling market will welcome this new sale as there
hasn’t been a huge amount of issuance in this sector, and it’s
always good to see a different type of issuer,” said  Benjamin Bennett , who helps manage the equivalent of $125 billion of
corporate bonds as credit strategist at Legal & General
Investment Management in London.  
 Companies issued 53 billion pounds of notes this year,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That’s a 50 percent
drop from the same period in 2009 when borrowers rushed to raise
money from bonds after banks cut lending amid the worst
financial crisis since the 1930s.  
 The transaction is being managed by Deutsche Bank AG, HSBC
Holdings Plc, Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc and UBS AG, the
banker said. The bonds will be issued by Temasek Financial Ltd.
 Jeffrey Fang , a Temasek spokesman in Singapore, declined to
comment.  
 The company has sold $5.8 billion of bonds under its
existing $10 billion medium-term note program, according to
Temasek’s most recent  annual report . It issued U.S. dollar-
denominated securities and five Singapore dollar-denominated
bonds.  
 Temasek is  rated AAA , the highest investment-grade ranking,
by Standard & Poor’s and an equivalent Aaa by Moody’s Investors
Service.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Caroline Hyde  in London 
 chyde3@bloomberg.net ;  
          
          


  


        