-- Emerging-Market Stocks Decline for a Third Day on Economic Growth Concerns
-- Shiyin Chen
-- 2010-07-19T16:16:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-19/emerging-market-stocks-decline-for-third-day-on-concerns-for-global-growth.html

          
          
             Emerging-market stocks fell for a
third day as Hungary failed to gain International Monetary Fund
approval for its budget plans and concern deepened global
economic growth is faltering.  
 The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index  slipped 0.6 percent to
943.45 at 12:15 p.m. in New York. Hungary’s BUX Index slid 2.9
percent and the forint depreciated 3.2 percent to 291.45 against
the euro. The zloty retreated 0.8 percent versus euro.  
 The  International Monetary Fund  ended its review of
Hungary’s 20 billion-euro ($25.8 billion) emergency loan at the
weekend without endorsing budget plans by Prime Minister  Viktor Orban , who wants to widen the deficit target for next year. Six
weeks ago, local politicians compared Hungary to Greece, roiling
world markets.  
 “It comes certainly as a huge blow, as a major surprise,
it will have an impact on where Hungarian and the other central
European markets will be trading,” said  Michal Dybula , economic
strategist at BNP Paribas in Warsaw, adding that it would
increase “general risk aversion.”  
 The cost to insure Hungarian debt against default jumped
the most in six weeks. Credit-default swaps climbed 47.5 basis
points to 370 basis points, the most since June 7, according to
CMA DataVision prices. OTP Bank Nyrt., Hungary’s largest lender,
fell 5.6 percent to 4,850 forint, and Mol Nyrt., the country’s
largest refiner slid 2.9 percent to 20,000 forint.  
 Samsung, Hon Hai  
 Samsung Electronics Co.  and Hon Hai Precision Industry Co.
declined after Bank of America Corp., Citigroup Inc. and General
Electric Co. posted worse-than-estimated sales. The won slumped
1 percent to 1,215.65 per dollar in Seoul, the biggest decline
this month, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The ringgit
weakened for a third day, sliding 0.5 percent to 3.2255.  
 Samsung, Asia’s largest maker of semiconductors, flat
screens and mobile phones, declined 0.9 percent.  Hon Hai , whose
customers include Apple Inc., dropped 1.2 percent.  
 “We might see a double dip in U.S. and Europe,”  Ka Chung Law , chief economist and strategist at the Hong Kong branch of
Bank of Communications Ltd., said in a Bloomberg Television
interview. Investors should buy gold, yen or U.S. Treasuries
instead of stocks as “bear sentiment sets in,” he said.  
 The Shanghai Composite jumped 2.1 percent, its largest gain
since July 9, on speculation the government may increase
investment in low-income housing and boost domestic consumption.
 Poly Real Estate Group Co.  and  China Merchants Property
Development Co.  rose at least 2.9 percent after Citic Securities
Co. said local governments will build more public housing to
boost investment.  
 Bovespa  
 Brazil’s  Bovespa  stock index gained, rebounding from the
biggest drop in more than two weeks, on speculation companies
will report second-quarter profit growth and as rising
commodities prices boosted producers.  
 MRV Engenharia & Participacoes SA  led gains among
homebuilders and Banco Bradesco SA led a rally in banks on
speculation earnings reports will show higher interest rates
haven’t hurt domestic demand. Vale SA, the world’s largest iron-
ore miner, and  MMX Mineracao & Metalicos SA , controlled by
billionaire Eike Batista, rose for the first time in four days
as metals prices increased.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Shiyin Chen in Singapore at 
 schen37@bloomberg.net ;
 Jason Webb  in London at 
 jwebb25@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 19 (Bloomberg) -- Ka Chung Law, chief economist and strategist at the Hong Kong branch of Bank of Communications Ltd., China's fifth-biggest lender, talks with Bloomberg's Susan Li about his outlook for the Hong Kong stock market and global economy.
     Hong Kong stocks dipped on Friday after the U.S. reported manufacturing declined, heightening concern an economic recovery may falter. (Source: Bloomberg)
  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
