-- Ten Attractive Stocks to Buy at 10 Times Profits: John Dorfman
-- John Dorfman
-- 2010-07-19T01:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-19/ten-alluring-stocks-to-buy-at-10-times-profits-commentary-by-john-dorfman.html

          
          
             For many years, I published an
annual list of 10 recommended stocks, each selling for 10 times
earnings.  
 I called it the Perfect 10 Portfolio. Today I would like to
revive that tradition.  
 Why do I put such stress on this particular measure? In
practice, I use at least a dozen criteria in picking stocks, yet
the price-earnings ratio -- which is a stock’s price divided by
the past four quarters’ per-share earnings -- remains my single
most important tool.  
 Used by professional investors for more than 70 years, the
P/E ratio came into common use by individual investors 38 years
ago. I remember because I was a business reporter for Associated
Press at the time. The AP pioneered the dissemination of P/E
ratios to the nation’s newspapers, which dutifully printed them
for about three decades.  
 A few years ago, newspapers, short of revenue and trying to
save on paper costs, began to phase out stock listings, which
now are widely available on the Internet.  
 By the time that happened, investors had become accustomed
to looking at the P/E. A ratio of about 15 is historically
average. After Friday’s market drop, the 500 stocks in the
 Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  sell for an average multiple of a
bit higher than 15.  
 A lower multiple means a stock is cheaper than average,
usually because of some widely-known problem.  
 Beating Expectations  
 It’s important to remember that stocks advance by exceeding
expectations. Low expectations are easier to exceed than high
ones, which is why unpopular stocks with low P/E ratios
generally do better than popular ones.  
 Here are 10 bargains trading at 10 times earnings.  
 Northrop Grumman Corp. , based in Los Angeles, is a U.S.
defense contractor that makes planes, ships, drone aircraft and
related military equipment. The company recently said it may
sell its shipbuilding unit. With or without ships, I think the
stock is attractive at a time when the U.S. faces hostility from
Iran, North Korea and international terrorists, and has shaky
friendships with Russia and China. Congress might cut the
defense budget in 2011 and 2012, but I don’t think the cuts will
be too deep.  
 Rapid Expansion  
 For a rich dividend play, consider  CenturyLink Inc.  of
Monroe, Louisiana. At the moment it yields more than 8 percent
in dividends. The telephone company, which changed its name from
CenturyTel Inc., is acquiring Qwest Communications International
Inc., doubling its subscriber base. Rapid expansion can be
dangerous, and the company’s debt is 81 percent of equity.
Still, on balance I like it.  
 Lubrizol Corp. , with headquarters in Wickliffe, Ohio, is
the world’s largest maker of additives for fuels, engine oil and
other lubricants. The company reported first-quarter earnings of
$2.32 a share, a record, on revenue of $1.3 billion. It earns
high profit margins for a chemical company.  
 Nasdaq OMX Group Inc.  is the parent company of stock and
commodity trading networks in the U.S. and Europe, including the
Nasdaq stock market, home for many U.S. technology companies.
For years I avoided this stock because it was too pricey, and I
even sold it short once or twice. But it has fallen more than 60
percent from its 2007 high of $50, and at about $18 today I see
value in it.  
 Consistent Profits  
 Batting seventh in my lineup is  Ingram Micro Inc. , a
wholesaler of information-technology products. Based in Santa
Ana, California, the company operates with razor-thin profit
margins. It sells for less than book value, even though it has
been profitable in nine of the past 11 years.  
 Kinetic Concepts Inc. , located in San Antonio, makes wound-
care products and specialty hospital beds. I’ve owned the stock
in the past, and might do so again now that it’s cheaper. It
trades at about $36, down from about $53 in March.  
 Buckle Inc. , located in Kearney, Nebraska, sells casual
clothing in about 400 stores in the U.S. In its latest fiscal
year it had revenue of $898 million and net income of $127
million, both record highs.  
 Lexington, Massachusetts-based  Cubist Pharmaceuticals Inc. 
is a turnaround story. After sustaining losses each year from
1994 through 2006, it broke into the black in 2007. Last year
its earned about $80 million on sales of $562 million. Its sole
drug so far is the antibiotic Cubicin, and another antibiotic,
CXA-201, is in the pipeline.  
 Spotlight on Solar  
 GT Solar International Inc. , based in Merrimack, New
Hampshire, produces a variety of equipment for the solar
industry. It is a leader in making furnaces that melt silicon
into a purer form to produce ingots from which solar wafers and
ultimately solar cells are made. I’m not sure whether solar
energy is a growth industry long-term, but it certainly is for
as long as governments in the U.S., Germany, France and China
are determined to promote it. The company is debt free.  
 I’ve long been interested in  FPIC Insurance Group Inc. ,
located in Jacksonville, Florida. The company provides medical
liability insurance, is the largest issuer of that product in
Florida, and is one of the larger issuers in Texas. This out-of-
favor stock is selling just below book value even though it has
been profitable in 10 of the past 11 years.  
 Disclosure note: I own shares of GT Solar and FPIC
Insurance, personally and for clients. I have no long or short
positions in the other stocks discussed in this week’s column.  
 ( John Dorfman , chairman of Thunderstorm Capital in Boston,
is a columnist for Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own. His firm or clients may own or trade securities
discussed in this column.)  
 To contact the writer of this column:
John Dorfman at 
 jdorfman@thunderstormcapital.com .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        