-- Ten-Year Bonds Gain on Speculation Monsoon Rains May Slow Indian Inflation
-- V. Ramakrishnan
-- 2010-07-19T13:53:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-19/ten-year-bonds-gain-on-speculation-monsoon-rains-may-slow-indian-inflation.html

          
          
             India’s benchmark bonds gained,
snapping a four-day decline, on optimism monsoon rains forecast
by the weather office will boost agricultural production and
slow  food inflation .  
 The yield on the nation’s  10-year bonds  fell from the
highest level in a week after the Indian Meteorological
Department said over the weekend rainfall may increase in the
country’s eastern, central and southern parts this month.
India’s wholesale price inflation in June approached a 19-month
high touched in April. A fall in food prices will help the
government reduce borrowing, said  Krishnamurthy Harihar , a
treasurer at FirstRand Ltd.  
 “The spread of the monsoon will diminish any need to
allocate more for food subsidies,” said Mumbai-based Harihar at
South Africa’s second-largest financial services company. “A
deceleration in inflation will be positive for bonds.”  
 The yield on the 7.80 percent note due in May 2020 fell two
basis points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 7.62 percent as of
the 5:30 p.m. close in Mumbai, according to the central bank’s
trading system. The price rose 0.11, or 11 paise per 100 rupee
face amount, to 101.20.  
 Rains in the June-September monsoon season, the main source
of irrigation in the South Asian nation, may be 102 percent of
the 50-year average, the  weather office  said on June 25.
Agricultural production contributes about a fifth of gross
domestic product.  
 Fuel Prices  
 The government plans to borrow 4.57 trillion rupees ($97
billion) in the fiscal year that began April, a record high.  
 Wholesale prices rose 10.55 percent in June, with gains
exceeding 10 percent for five straight months. A decision by the
government on June 25 to scrap subsidies on gasoline and
increase diesel prices may add 1 percentage point to inflation,
according to estimates by the central bank.  
 Inflation will accelerate in July, said T.C.A. Anant, the
government’s top statistician. “The inflation number in July
will be higher than in June, in large measure because of what
has happened to fuel prices,” he said.  
 Quickening inflation may increase pressure on the central
bank at its next scheduled meeting on July 27 to raise interest
rates for the fourth time in five months.  
 One-year interest-rate swaps in India, derivative contracts
used to guard against fluctuations in borrowing costs, were
little changed. The fixed payment made to receive a floating
rate was at 5.78 percent.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
V. Ramakrishnan in Mumbai at 
 rvenkatarama@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        