-- Menacing Jet Plane, Cowboy Elvis Get Star Turns in Fisher Show
-- Stephen West
-- 2010-07-19T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-19/menacing-jet-plane-cowboy-elvis-get-star-turns-in-fisher-collection-debut.html

          
          
             The lethal-looking jet fighter,
almost 15 feet long and welded together from thick sheets of
lead, is too big to be a toy. With its corroded surfaces marked
by drips and dings, it looks like an archaeological find from a
long-ago battlefield.  
 It’s “Melancholia,” a 1990s sculpture by the German
artist Anselm Kiefer, one of the remarkable works in the
sprawling Doris and Donald Fisher Collection now on view at the
 San Francisco Museum of Modern Art . The jet fighter incorporates
two themes of the collection: the graphic clarity of Pop Art and
the heavily worked textures of postwar expressionism.  
 The Fishers, who founded the  Gap Inc.  retail chain, 
built their collection of more than 1,100 works over four
decades. They agreed shortly before  Donald Fisher ’s death last
year to house the art at SFMOMA for the next century, after a
failed attempt to build a new museum in the city’s Presidio
national park. The exhibition is the Fisher Collection’s public
debut.  
 SFMOMA is building a new wing for the works, which will be
integrated into the permanent collection and instantly transform
it into one of the world’s premier holdings of contemporary art.  
 When the Fishers collected an artist’s works, they didn’t
just sample; they bought them in depth, by the dozen. They
acquired 45 pieces by  Alexander Calder , for example, and 21 by
 Andy Warhol .  
 The current show, organized by senior curator Gary Garrels,
features 161 works on the top two floors of the museum, the
fourth floor divided between Pop and realist paintings on one
side (Warhol,  Roy Lichtenstein ,  Chuck Close  and  Ed Ruscha , among
others) and abstract works on the other side ( Frank Stella ,
Philip Guston, Sam Francis).  
 Splashy Elvis  
 The two rooms of Warhols include splashy works like
“Triple Elvis” (1963), in which three images of the rock ‘n’
roller, dressed as a movie cowboy and pointing his six-shooter
at the viewer, are silkscreened in black on a 10-foot-wide
silver canvas. It’s the sort of piece that looks great on the
museum’s simple white walls (or in a Gap Inc. office).  
 Not all is flash. Along with Lichtenstein’s “Live Ammo
(Tzing),” a 1962 comic-book portrait of a soldier with a
machine gun, there’s his modest, obviously hand-painted picture
of a clunky portable radio, complete with leather carrying
strap.  
 The show makes interesting juxtapositions, bringing
together realist portraits and California landscapes by  David Hockney ,  Wayne Thiebaud  and Richard Artschwager in one room, for
example.  
 Five Artists  
 The fifth floor devotes a large gallery to each of five key
artists in the collection: Alexander Calder’s rather old-
fashioned-looking mobiles,  Ellsworth Kelly ’s geometrically
shaped canvases in flat bright colors,  Richard Serra ’s massive
yet minimalist steel-plate sculptures, and a sampling of two
contemporary German expressionists,  Gerhard Richter  and Kiefer.  
 The airy top-floor galleries in particular show off the
works to their best advantage. The Kellys are given enough
breathing room so they really shine. And the Richters, ranging
from geometric abstraction through painterly impressionism to
photorealism, create a bravura show within the show.  
 The exhibition concludes with minimalist pieces by Carl
Andre,  Donald Judd  and  Sol LeWitt  and spills out onto the
rooftop sculpture garden, with large-scale works by Mark di
Suvero,  Isamu Noguchi , Calder and others.  
 After the show closes, and before the museum’s new $480
million wing opens in 2016, one hopes to see plenty of the
Fisher trove installed with the permanent collection. Kiefer’s
jet fighter, for example, would look great in the rooftop
sculpture garden, as if it just came in for a landing.  
 “Calder to Warhol: Introducing the Fisher Collection”
runs through Sept. 19 at the San Francisco Museum of Modern Art,
151 Third St. Information:  http://www.sfmoma.org ; +1-415-357-
4000.  
 ( Stephen West  is an editor for Bloomberg News. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  
 To contact the writer of this story:
Stephen West in San Francisco at 
 smwest@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     ``Melancholia,'' 1990-91, by Anselm Kiefer. The sculpture, from the Doris and Donald Fisher Collection, is on view through Sept. 19 in ``Calder to Warhol: Introducing the Fisher Collection,''at the San Francisco Museum of Modern Art. Photographer: Ian Reeves/San Francisco Museum of Modern Art via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     ``Red Green,'' 1968, by Ellsworth Kelly. The paintings, from the Doris and Donald Fisher Collection, are on view through Sept. 19 in ``Calder to Warhol: Introducing the Fisher  Collection,'' at the San Francisco Museum of Modern Art. Source: San Francisco Museum of Modern Art via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       'Live Ammo (Tzing)'  
                       
                         
                           Ian Reeves/San Francisco Museum of Modern Art via Bloomberg 
                         
                         ``Live Ammo (Tzing)'', 1962, by Roy Lichtenstein. The painting, from the Doris and Donald Fisher Collection, is on view through Sept. 19 in ``Calder to Warhol: Introducing the Fisher Collection,'' at the San Francisco Museum of Modern Art. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     ``Live Ammo (Tzing)'', 1962, by Roy Lichtenstein. The painting, from the Doris and Donald Fisher Collection, is on view through Sept. 19 in ``Calder to Warhol: Introducing the Fisher Collection,'' at the San Francisco Museum of Modern Art. Photographer: Ian Reeves/San Francisco Museum of Modern Art via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     ``Seestucke (Seascape),'' 1998, by Gerhard Richter. The work, from the Doris and Donald Fisher Collection, is on view through Sept. 19 in ``Calder to Warhol: Introducing the Fisher Collection,'' at the San Francisco Museum of Modern Art. Source: Anthony d'Offay Gallery via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     ``Triple Elvis,'' 1963, by Andy Warhol. The painting, from the Doris and Donald Fisher Collection, is on view through Sept. 19 in ``Calder to Warhol: Introducing the Fisher Collection,''at the San Francisco Museum of Modern Art. Source: Gagosian Gallery via Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
