-- Enduring Resources Seeking Buyers for $1.4 Billion Texas Shale-Gas Field
-- Cristina Alesci
-- 2010-07-20T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-19/enduring-resources-seeks-buyers-for-1-4-billion-shale-oil-field-in-texas.html

          
          
             Enduring Resources LLC, the Denver-
based gas explorer backed by private equity firms including
 Trilantic Capital Partners , plans to seek buyers for assets in
Texas that may be worth more than $1.4 billion.  
 Enduring hired Bank of America Corp. and Simmons & Co. to
market the holdings, which include 123,000 acres in the Eagle
Ford shale field in South Texas, Chief Executive Officer  Barth Whitham  said in an interview yesterday.  
 The planned auction is the latest effort to capitalize on a
rush among some of the world’s biggest energy companies for oil
and gas trapped in shale. Buyers including international
companies such as  Statoil ASA , Total SA, and Reliance Industries
Ltd. have struck deals to invest $18 billion in U.S. shale this
year, buying companies and forming ventures with local partners.  
 Last month, Pioneer Natural Resources Co., based in Irving,
Texas, agreed to sell a stake in an Eagle Ford venture that is
adjacent to Enduring’s for $1.3 billion to Mumbai-based Reliance.
The transaction values the Pioneer assets at $11,100 an acre,
according to  Neil Beveridge , an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein
& Co. in Hong Kong.  
 Enduring is putting its entire South Texas holding on the
market, including Eagle Ford and other fields, Whitham said. The
company is open to selling less than 100 percent of the assets
and expects the buyer would want to operate the fields, he said.
Enduring also operates in East Texas and Utah.  
 In 2010’s biggest shale deal, Royal Dutch Shell Plc agreed
to buy East Resources Inc., which operates in the Marcellus
shale in Pennsylvania and surrounding states, for $4.7 billion.  
 Fourfold Return  
 The sale promises a more than fourfold return for  KKR & Co. ,
the buyout firm run by  Henry Kravis  and  George Roberts , on a
$350 million investment in East Resources last year, said two
people with knowledge of that transaction. East Resources is
based in Warrendale, Pennsylvania.  
 Shale-gas deposits weren’t considered worth tapping before
Houston billionaire  George P. Mitchell  pioneered new extraction
techniques in the 1990s.  
 Enduring was founded in 2004 by Whitham, the CEO, and other
former executives of Westport Resources Corp. Its initial equity
capitalization was $200 million, Oil & Gas Investor magazine
reported in November 2006.  
 Enduring got some of its start-up capital from Encap
Investments LP, which focuses on energy investments and is based
in Houston and Dallas, and Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.’s
buyout fund, which later spun off and took the Trilantic name.
Trilantic put another $130 million into the company last year,
the  website  Private Equity Online reported.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Zachary R. Mider  in New York at 
 zmider1@bloomberg.net ;
 Cristina Alesci  in New York at 
 calesci2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        