-- England Midfielder Joe Cole Signs for Liverpool on Four-Year Contract
-- Danielle Rossingh
-- 2010-07-19T14:44:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-19/england-midfielder-joe-cole-signs-for-liverpool-on-four-year-contract.html

          
          
             Liverpool signed England forward  Joe Cole  on a four-year deal, the Premier League soccer team said on
its website.  
 Cole, 28, “has agreed personal terms with the Reds and
will undergo a medical in the next 48 hours,” the club said on
its  website .  
 Cole was out of contract at his previous team, Chelsea, so
there won’t be a transfer fee. He’d played more than 120 league
games for West Ham, where he came through the youth setup,
before joining the Blues in 2003.  
 During his seven-year spell at Chelsea, where he made about
180 league appearances, Cole helped the club win three Premier
League titles. He’s represented England 56 times, scoring 10
goals, and came on as a substitute when the nation lost 4-1 to
Germany in the round of 16 at this year’s World Cup.  
 Cole joins the Reds as new manager Roy Hodgson tries to
rebuild a team that finished seventh in the league in the last
campaign and failed to qualify for the elite Champions League.
He’s the second signing during this off-season after forward
Milan Jovanovic from Standard Liege. Ex-Liverpool player and
coach Phil Thompson welcomed Cole’s arrival.  
 “I’m absolutely delighted,” Thompson told Sky Sports
News. “We need that player, the catalyst between midfield and
attack. It all adds up for me. Joe Cole has that bit of
character, he can do something out of nothing.”  
 Other Moves?  
 Earlier this month midfielder Yossi Benayoun made the
reverse trip to Cole, joining Chelsea from Liverpool in a 5.5
million-pound ($8.4 million) deal.  
 There’s been speculation other players may leave Liverpool.
Javier Mascherano has been linked with a possible move to Inter
Milan, led by former Anfield coach Rafael Benitez, and there’s
concern among Reds fans that Steven Gerrard and Fernando Torres
may want to go.  
 Cole didn’t agree on new terms at Chelsea at the end of
last season amid news reports that the club regarded his wage
demands as excessive. There’d been speculation linking him with
clubs including Tottenham and Arsenal.  
 No financial details were disclosed in Liverpool’s
announcement. U.K. newspaper the  Guardian  reported earlier today
the club had offered Cole a salary of 90,000 pounds a week.  
 Hodgson is now preparing his team for a Europa League
qualifier on July 29.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Danielle Rossingh  in London at 
 drossingh@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        