-- Merck AIDS Drug as Effective as Abbott, Gilead Pills
-- Shannon Pettypiece
-- 2010-07-19T20:14:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-19/merck-aids-drug-as-effective-as-abbott-gilead-pills-update1-.html

          
          
             Merck & Co. ’s Isentress tablets
suppressed HIV as successfully as older drugs by  Abbott
Laboratories  and  Gilead Sciences Inc. , according to research
that may spur sales.  
 Patients who started treatment with Isentress fared as well
as those given Gilead’s Truvada when the products were combined
with Abbott’s Kaletra, scientists said today at the
 International AIDS Conference  in Vienna. A separate study,
contradicting earlier research, found that switching to
Isentress from Kaletra or similar drugs was as effective for
patients, with less of the cholesterol-related side effect.  
 Doctors are searching for safer alternatives to the older
generation of AIDS treatments, which includes Kaletra and
Truvada, as patients live longer, said Esteban Martinez, the
lead researcher on the study comparing Isentress and Kaletra.
Doctors may become more inclined to prescribe Isentress as a
result of the research, he said.  
 “Patients are now living longer and while viral
suppression is still a concern, for many patients the major
concern is the long-term effects and premature aging related to
the drugs,” said Martinez, an associate professor of medicine
at the University of Barcelona in Spain.  
 Merck fell 11 cent to $35.80 at 4 p.m. in New York Stock
Exchange composite trading. Abbott rose 34 cents to $47.41.
Gilead rose 97 cents, or 3 percent, to $32.91 in Nasdaq Stock
Market composite trading.  
 33 Million People  
 HIV is the virus that causes AIDS. That condition afflicted
an estimated 33 million people worldwide as of July 2008,
according to  UNAIDS . Gilead, based in Foster City, California,
is the world’s largest maker of AIDS drugs.  
 Kaletra and other protease inhibitors have been linked to
an increase in cholesterol, which can lead to heart attacks, and
Viread, a component of Truvada, may cause kidney damage or bone
loss, according to the drugs’ prescribing information.  
 Merck, the second-largest U.S. drugmaker after Pfizer Inc.,
began selling Isentress in 2007. The product generated $752
million in  sales  last year. It is the first in a class of drugs
that attacks the virus in a unique way by blocking integrase, a
protein used by HIV to hijack healthy immune cells. The result
is to slow the spread of HIV in the body.  
 $1.4 Billion  
 Kaletra, which had  $1.4 billion  in revenue for Abbott,
prevents the virus from replicating by blocking proteases.
Truvada combines the drugs Viread and Emtriva to stop the HIV
virus from multiplying. Truvada,  with $2.49 billion in sales ,
was the top product last year for Gilead, accounting for 38
percent of total sales.  
 In the study comparing Isentress and Truvada used in
combination with Abbott’s Kalentra, researchers tracked 206
patients who hadn’t taken any other treatment for their virus.
Among patients taking Isentress, 83 percent had their virus at
undetectable levels at 48 weeks, compared with 85 percent of
those on Truvada.  
 Abbott, which funded the study, is waiting for longer-term
data before making a determination about which combination --
Isentress and Kaletra or Truvada with Kaletra -- poses fewer
side effects, said Scott Brun, a vice president for the
infectious disease development division at the Abbott Park,
Illinois-based company.  
 Combination Pill  
 Abbott will consider whether to develop a combination pill
of Isentress and Kaletra once it has results from 96 weeks of
treatment, Brun said.  
 The study that looked at switching patients to Isentress
from Kaletra was funded by the Hospital Clinic of Barcelona. The
study covered, over 48 weeks, almost 300 patients whose disease
was well controlled on Kaletra and a combination of other AIDS
drugs.  
 The researchers found that 89 percent of patients who moved
to Isentress had their virus controlled, a sign of successful
treatment, compared with 87 percent who continued taking
Kaletra.  
 Patients taking Isentress had lower cholesterol after 48
weeks than those who continued taking Kaletra, according to the
report. Safety data from the study comparing Isentress and
Truvada weren’t available.  
 A separate study, funded by Whitehouse Station, New Jersey-
based Merck and released last year, found that AIDS patients who
switched to Isentress from Kaletra were more likely to have a
relapse. That finding, which involved about 700 patients,
prompted Merck to stop studies that looked at switching between
the drugs.  
 To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
 Shannon Pettypiece  in New York at 
 spettypiece@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        