-- Merrill Lynch Adviser, Seduced by Burgundy, Concocts Grand Cru
-- A. Craig Copetas
-- 2010-07-19T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-19/merrill-lynch-adviser-is-seduced-by-burgundy-concocts-his-own-grand-cru.html

          
          
             Ray Walker  was happily employed as a
financial adviser at  Merrill Lynch & Co.  in San Francisco until
a gulp of wine coerced him into leaving for France to buy
$140,000 worth of grapes with a dream to rival powerhouse
Burgundy domaines such as Romanee-Conti and Corton-Andre.  
 “My wife thought I was drunk,” the 29-year-old Walker
says in the cool of his wine-making cavern beneath the
celebrated slopes of the Cote d’Or town Nuits-Saint-Georges.  
 “I’m a skinny black kid from Berkeley who’d never been to
France,” says Walker, siphoning his inaugural 2009  Maison Ilan 
Le Chambertin Grand Cru from an oak cask into a row of glasses.
“What did I know about wine? On a good day back home, my beer-
drinking mom and dad opened a bottle of Carlo Rossi.”  
 To make matters worse, Walker says, “I spoke only one word
of French: ‘oui.’”  
 No longer. Some 19 months after first setting foot on
Burgundy’s 177 square miles of tightly knit vineyards known for
making some of the most expensive wines in the world, Walker has
emerged as something of a local hero: The first black American
vintner to be embraced by the coterie of distributors and
growers who rule 600 separate “appellation controlee” wines.  
 And they reckon Walker’s wine is pretty good, too.  
 First Ferrari  
 “Maison Ilan’s 2009 vintage looks to be outstanding,”
says Peter Wasserman, president of  Le Serbet , a Beaune-based
consulting and distribution company that represents some 30
Burgundy domaines. “What Ray has accomplished is remarkable,
it’s like a kid learning how to drive with an F1 Ferrari and
then having a good chance of winning his first race.”  
 Adds Benoit Goujon, the 45-year-old managing director of
Corton-Andre, “Ray understands the Burgundy way,” he says.
“It’s ‘formidable’ to have him with us.”  
 After spending 18 months studying California vinification
techniques in Napa Valley, Walker landed in Nuits-Saint-Georges
with $25,000 in his pocket, a pregnant wife and two contentious
notions: American wine is a step above alcoholic fruit juice and
Grand Cru French Bordeaux are overrated.  
 “Merrill’s clients raved about Bordeaux and, as the young
guy in the firm, I thought it best to learn about the rich man’s
drink,” Walker says. “I hated the stuff, but pressed on. My
wife dragged me kicking and screaming to a Burgundy tasting. I
fell in love with a bottle of 1999 Gevrey-Chambertin Premier Cru
Cazetiers and quit my job.”  
 Quoting another local hero, Burgundians say Walker’s
decision to flee a secure position at Merrill with scant
knowledge of winemaking at the height of a global financial
crisis to gamble his future on a vision was rational.  
 ‘Silly Things’  
 “Burgundy wine,” the French politician and epicure Jean
Anthelme Brillat-Savarin some 300 years ago reasoned, “makes
you think of silly things.”  
 Walker says he walked out on Merrill to reach his goal of
making money by living in nature. “And that’s what I
experienced at the Burgundy tasting in San Francisco,” he says.
“There it was, a singular product created by man from nature
that remained natural. How the hell do they do that?”  
 Burgundy wines come in three AOC classifications: Village,
Premier Cru and Grand Cru, with local grape brokers called
“courtiers” selling barrels of excess fruit from the domaines
to independent vintners. Walker says he intended to begin his
new career experimenting with inexpensive Village red wine,
eventually working his way up to Grands Crus, which can cost
thousands of dollars a bottle.  
 “It made sense,” Walker says. “But it didn’t work out as
planned.”  
 Luxury Grapes  
 Walker in May 2009 received word that a courtier was
offering Grand Cru grapes from Charmes-Chambertin in Aux Charmes
and Le Chambertin grapes from a high-altitude plot near Clos de
Beze, along with a few barrels of Morey St. Denis Premier Cru
Les Chaffots. Referring to a stack of conversation cards he’d
assembled from a Google English-French translation program,
Walker told the fruit seller he’d take them all.  
 “I thought I’d get at most two barrels, but ended up with
nearly eight barrels of Grand Cru and four barrels of Premier
Cru grapes,” Walker says. “It was crazy being offered this
kind of fruit. I never believed Grand and Premier Cru vineyard
owners would part with such grapes.”  
 Over at Corton-Andre, Goujon grins and says his new
neighbor never really bought any grapes.  
 “A big percentage of grapes go unsold, but you’ll never
know what the figure is because nobody sells grapes and nobody
buys grapes,” Goujon says. “I buy grapes from many great
vineyards, though they never sell them. This is French logic and
it helps people like Ray.”  
 Invisible Surplus  
 Wasserman tries to bring clarity to the confusion. “The
top ‘negociants’ don’t want to be over-extended on Grand and
Premier Cru wines,” he says with a wink. “At the same time,
there’s no official surplus for sale.”  
 As Walker tells it, the not-for-sale grapes he didn’t buy
to make the vintage now maturing in his casks cost him $140,000.
He needed investors. “Some friends in the States chipped in at
the last minute,” Walker says of his angels. “They boosted
everything for me.”  
 About 300 euros ($388) of the investment purchased an 1855
first edition of “Histoire et Statistique de la Vigne des
Grands Vins de la Cote d’Or,” the first Burgundy-wine cook book
written by Michel-Jules Lavalle.  
 “I followed the original classical recipe,” Walker says.
“Nothing artificial because there wasn’t anything artificial in
1855. Everything was done by hand.”  
 Walker converted his one-car garage into a fermentation
room and shunned the metal vats many Burgundy makers employ to
make their wine. “I spent 3,000 euros on the same oak vats
Domaine Romanee-Conti uses,” Walker says. “They look like
California hot tubs.”  
 No Spitting  
 Wine enthusiast Bjorn von Below, senior vice president of
EFG Bank in Geneva, takes a skeptical barrel taste of Walker’s
efforts, which will soon fill 4,500 bottles and presell for
between $67 and $149 a bottle. Von Below doesn’t spit.  
 “This is astonishing, a great  investment , a perfect
candidate for private equity,” Von Below says. “Problem is the
banks won’t help someone with a vision and that’s a mistake.”  
 Walker smiles. “Thank you,” he says. “I’m not concerned
with return right now.”  
 “But what will you do if Maison Ilan doesn’t sell?” Von
Below asks.  
 “If nothing happens,” Walker says, “I can drink it.”  
 For more information on Ray Walker’s wines, see
 http://www.maison-ilan.com .  
 To contact the writer on the story:
 Craig Copetas  in Nuits-Saint-Georges at  ccopetas@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Ray Walker examines his wine in the cellars of Maison Ilan in Nuits-Saint-Georges, France. Walker quit his job as a financial analyst at Merrill Lynch to become a winemaker. Photographer: Alastair Miller/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Ray Walker takes a barrel sample of his wine in Nuits-Saint-Georges, France. Walker quit his job as a financial analyst at Merrill Lynch to become a winemaker. Photographer: Alastair Miller/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Benoit Goujon, the managing director of Corton Andre, conducts a tasting of fine burgundy. Photographer: Alastair Miller/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Benoit Goujon  
                       
                         
                           Alastair Miller/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Benoit Goujon pours a glass of wine in Beaune, France. Goujon is the managing director of Corton Andre, one of the most powerful domaines in Bourgogne. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Benoit Goujon pours a glass of wine in Beaune, France. Goujon is the managing director of Corton Andre, one of the most powerful domaines in Bourgogne. Photographer: Alastair Miller/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Barrels of wine. Former Merrill Lynch financial adviser Ray Walker produces the wine on his vineyard in Bourgogne. Source: Maison-Ilan via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     The vineyard, located in the Burgundy region of France, belongs to former Merrill Lynch financial adviser Ray Walker. Source: Maison-Ilan via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     A ninety-year-old grape press. Former Merrill Lynch financial adviser Ray Walker purchased the press for his vineyard Maison-Ilan. Source: Maison-Ilan via Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
