-- Tessenderlo, Ercros Said to Agree to European Chemical Cartel Settlement
-- Stephanie Bodoni
-- 2010-07-19T15:41:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-19/tessenderlo-ercros-said-to-agree-to-european-chemical-cartel-settlement.html

          
          
             Tessenderlo Chemie NV , the world’s
third-biggest maker of animal-feed phosphates, and Ercros SA
agreed to pay fines to resolve a European Union probe into a
price-fixing cartel for an animal-feed chemical, three people
with knowledge of the investigation said.  
 Yara International ASA , the largest publicly traded
nitrogen-fertilizer maker,  Kemira Oyj  and  FMC Corp.  are also
part of the deal which the EU antitrust regulator may announce
as soon as tomorrow, said the people who declined to be
identified because the negotiations are private. Groupe
Roullier’s Timab unit didn’t agree to the deal, the people said.  
 The settlement would be the second between companies and
the European Commission after  Infineon Technologies AG  and eight
other chipmakers in May agreed to a total of 331.2 million euros
($430 million) to end a price-fixing probe. The chemical case,
the first where one company didn’t agree to the deal, may help
lawyers weigh the benefits of settlements, said  David Wood , a
Brussels-based antitrust lawyer.  
 “More cases will make it easier to understand how the
settlement process is operating but won’t make some of the
concerns go away,” Wood, a partner at law firm Gibson Dunn &
Crutcher LLP, who isn’t involved, said by telephone. More cases
are needed to help “better work out the right balance on
whether and to what extent to cooperate with the commission.”  
 Animal-feed phosphates are a high-quality phosphorus source
for animal nutrition, according to Cefic, a European chemical
industry group. Most inorganic feed phosphates are derived from
natural rock phosphate -- the rock being chemically treated to
make the phosphorus available for animals in the form of quality
feed phosphates, Cefic said on its  Web site .  
 ‘Collaborating’  
 “We’ve been collaborating as far as possible with the
commission in this investigation,” Bernhard Stormyr, a
spokesman for Oslo, Norway-based Yara, said by telephone. The
cartel had ended by the time Yara bought Kemira GrowHow, he
said.  
 Geert Dusar , a spokeswoman for Tessenderlo in Brussels,
declined to comment, as did representatives of Ercros, FMC and
Kemira. Spokespeople for Timab couldn’t immediately be reached
by phone.  
 Yara bought Kemira GrowHow Oyj in September 2007. Kemira,
based in Helsinki, Finland, is the world’s second-biggest maker
of chemicals used in papermaking.  
 Under EU  rules , the Brussels-based commission sends
statements of objections as one of the final measures before
reaching a settlement. All companies that agree to settlement
terms receive a 10 percent reduction in the fine.  
 Philadelphia-based FMC, the world’s largest producer of
natural soda ash, in a Nov. 4 U.S. regulatory filing said it has
made a $21 million provision to reflect its “best estimation”
of the amount needed to resolve the case. Tessenderlo, the
world’s third-biggest maker of animal-feed phosphates, has made
a provision of 97 million euros to cover a fine.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Stephanie Bodoni  in Brussels via 
 sbodoni@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        