-- European Stocks Retreat for Fourth Straight Day; BP, Electrolux Lead Drop
-- Julie Cruz
-- 2010-07-19T16:26:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-19/european-stock-index-futures-fall-bp-philips-electrolux-may-be-active.html

          
          
             European stocks  dropped for a fourth
day as a decline in U.S. homebuilder confidence stoked concern
about the strength of the world’s largest economy.  
 BP Plc slid 4.7 percent after the oil company’s talks with
Apache Corp. were said to stall. Electrolux AB slid the most in
five months after the world’s second-biggest appliance maker
said that demand weakened “substantially” in southern Europe.
 Boliden AB  retreated after the Swedish copper and zinc producer
reported profit and sales that missed analyst estimates.  
 The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index  fell 0.8 percent to close at
246.18 as of 4:30 p.m. in London. The gauge is down 9.5 percent
from this year’s high on April a5 amid concern about Europe’s
government-debt crisis. The cost to insure debt payments for
Hungary jumped the most in six weeks today as the International
Monetary Fund and European Union ended talks with the government
without endorsing its budget-deficit control plan.  
 “The market is proving that underlying caution reigns,”
said  Daniel Weston , Munich-based portfolio manager at Schroeder
Equities GmbH, which oversees about $105 million. “Today’s
weaker-than-expected homebuilding data is only exacerbating this
caution as selling pressure continues.”  
 European stocks erased earlier gains after the U.S.
National Association of Home Builders/Wells Fargo  confidence
index  dropped to 14 this month, the lowest level since April
2009. Readings lower than 50 mean more respondents said
conditions were poor.  
 Ireland Downgrade  
 National benchmarks declined in 15 of the 18 western
European markets. The U.K.’s  FTSE 100  slid 0.2 percent, France’s
CAC 40 slipped 0.4 percent and Germany’s DAX fell 0.5 percent.
Ireland’s ISEQ Index dropped 1.2 percent as Moody’s Investors
Service downgraded the nation’s credit rating to Aa2 from Aa1.  
 “We really want to see signs of an improvement before we
go out and invest in equity broadly,”  Yogi Dewan , Chief
Executive officer at Hassium Asset Management LLP, said in a
Bloomberg Television interview. “U.S. banks are in a bit of a
mess as are European banks as well. I think we are likely to see
a subprime part two coming along.”  
 BP  fell  4.7 percent to 387.85 pence, dragging a gauge of
oil and gas stocks to the biggest drop among 19  industry groups 
in the Stoxx 600. The U.K. energy company’s talks to sell half
its stake in Alaska’s Prudhoe Bay oil field to Apache stalled
twice over the weekend, raising doubts about whether the deal
will be completed, said a person with knowledge of the matter.  
 Suspected Leak  
 Separately, U.S. government officials ordered BP to submit
plans for reopening its sealed Gulf of Mexico well and resuming
efforts to capture oil after tests found a suspected leak
seeping from the seabed.  
 Electrolux  slid 7.8 percent to 154 kronor, the most since
February, after saying demand weakened “substantially” in
southern Europe at the end of the second quarter. Net income in
the period was 1.03 billion kronor ($139 million), compared with
658 million kronor a year earlier, the company said.  
 Royal Philips Electronics NV, the world’s biggest lighting
company, dropped 3.6 percent to 24.01 euros after forecasting
sales growth will slow.  
 Comparable revenue growth will decline to a “mid-single-
digit level” in the second half, reflecting a “continued but
slow recovery in the U.S. and Europe,” the Amsterdam-based
company said. Philips reported 12 percent sales growth for the
second quarter.  
 Boliden Drops  
 Boliden  tumbled 2.9 percent to 84 kronor after saying
second-quarter net income rose to 754 million kronor from 431
million kronor a year earlier. That compared with the 1.03
billion-krona average estimate of 10 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg.  
 In the U.S., while second-quarter net income for companies
in the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  has topped analysts’
projections by 26 percent on average, revenue has been only 1.8
percent more than estimated, according to Bloomberg data.  
 International Power Plc jumped 10 percent to 350 pence, the
biggest gain since November 2008. GDF Suez SA started talks to
gain control of the London-based company as France’s second-
largest utility bids to expand power generation in the Middle
East and Asia. GDF Suez climbed 0.7 percent to 24.50 euros.  
 Tomkins Plc rallied 28 percent to 294.2 pence after Onex
Corp., Canada’s biggest publicly traded buyout firm, and the
Canada Pension Plan Investment Board signaled they may bid about
2.9 billion pounds ($4.4 billion) for the British maker of auto
parts and window frames.  
 Greek Banks Gain  
 National Bank of Greece SA  rose 2 percent to 11.20 euros,
an eighth day of gains and the longest winning streak since
August 2003. The country’s biggest lender may team up with a
domestic or international partner following rival Piraeus Bank
SA’s offer to buy government stakes in two lenders, To Vima
newspaper reported on July 18, without citing anyone.  
 Separately, Greek Finance Minister  George Papaconstantinou 
said he believed the country’s banks would pass EU stress tests
and that an EU-IMF Financial Stability Fund was in place to
assist any bank in need.  Alpha Bank SA , the country’s third-
largest bank, surged 4.2 percent to 5.18 euros.  
 Heidelberger Druckmaschinen AG gained 6 percent to 7.73
euros as the world’s largest maker of printing presses said
preliminary orders in the first quarter rose 43 percent from a
year earlier to 786 million euros ($1.02 billion), helped by
increasing demand in China.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Julie Cruz  in Frankfurt at 
 jcruz6@bloomberg.net ;  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 19 (Bloomberg) -- Rossa White, chief economist at Davy Research,  talks about Ireland's credit rating cut by Moody’s Investors Service.
     He speaks from Dublin with Andrea Catherwood on Bloomberg
Television's "The Pulse" (This is an excerpt. Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
