-- Euro Gains as Stress Test Optimism Reduces Sovereign Debt Crisis Concern
-- Catarina Saraiva
-- 2010-07-19T20:13:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-19/euro-gains-as-stress-test-optimism-reduces-sovereign-debt-crisis-concern.html

          
          
             The euro rose against most of its
major counterparts on speculation the release of European bank
stress-test results this week will show strength in the region’s
banking sector, easing concern that the debt crisis will worsen.  
 The Canadian dollar gained against all the major
currencies, expect for the Mexican peso, with the central bank
forecast to increase interest rates tomorrow for the second time
in less than two months. The Hungarian forint fell to the
weakest level in more than 14 months against the euro after the
 International Monetary Fund  and European Union ended talks with
the government without endorsing Prime Minister  Viktor Orban’s 
plans to control the budget deficit.  
 “This newfound confidence is driving a significant part of
the euro rally,” said  Steven Englander , head of Group of 10
currency strategy at Citigroup Inc. in New York. “The
motivation for the stress tests was policymaker fears that
investors are overestimating the weakness of European banks.”  
 The euro gained 0.1 percent to $1.2941 at 4:11 p.m. in New
York, after earlier dropping to $1.2871. It reached $1.3008 on
July 16, the strongest level since May 10. The single currency
climbed 0.4 percent versus the Japanese yen to 112.36. The euro
appreciated 0.6 percent to 84.98 U.K. pence.  
 The euro rose against 13 of its 16 most-traded
counterparts, excluding the Mexican peso, krone and loonie.  
 Investors have been adding to their euro positions,
according to Bank of New York Mellon Corp.’s iFlow data.
Cumulative inflows from the euro totaled about two times the
average amount compared with the previous year. BNY Mellon is
the world’s largest custodial bank with more than $20 trillion
in assets under administration.  
 Stress Test  
 European regulators are examining the strength of 91 banks
to determine whether they can survive potential losses on
sovereign-debt holdings. Stress-test results will be released
July 23.  
 “European officials are trying to mitigate fears by saying
that the banks will pass, but the market is still nervous of the
amount of capital that may need to be raised,” said  Jessica Hoversen , a Chicago-based analyst at the futures broker MF
Global Holdings Ltd. “There are many uncertainties, and until
those are answered, you’re going to have choppy trades.”  
 Spanish officials including Finance Minister  Elena Salgado 
last week said they are confident about the results of the
stress tests on Spanish banks.  
 Hypo Real Estate Holding AG , the German lender taken over
by the government following the financial crisis, failed the
stress test, two people familiar with the results said today.  
 ‘Expect Some Failures’  
 Hypo Real Estate didn’t pass a stress scenario on its
capital that assumes an economic slowdown and sovereign-debt
losses, said the people, who declined to be identified before an
announcement on July 23. An official at Munich-based Hypo Real
Estate declined to comment.  
 “We have to expect some failures in the stress tests,
otherwise the markets will simply view the tests as a sham,”
 Win Thin , a senior currency strategist at Brown Brothers
Harriman & Co. in New York, wrote in a note to clients.  
 The euro weakened earlier after Moody’s Investors Service
cut Ireland’s credit ranking on level to Aa2, citing a
“significant loss of financial strength” and the cost of bank
bailouts. Moody’s also lowered its rating on Ireland’s so-called
bad bank, the  National Asset Management Agency  to Aa2, with a
stable outlook.  
 The euro’s biggest rally in a year is threatening exporters
in Europe’s weakest economies as they grow more reliant on
international sales for growth.  
 Intervention Speculation  
 The 9.5 percent gain to $1.3008 from a four-year low on
June 7 reduced speculation the region’s debt crisis would break
up the single currency. At the same time, the head of Spain’s
Exporters Club says the stronger euro will make it harder to
counter a “paralyzed” domestic market.  
 The yen dropped versus the dollar and euro after Dow Jones
Newswires reported the Bank of Japan may take steps to ease
monetary policy should the currency stay around 85 per dollar.
Japanese markets were shut today for a holiday.  
 Hungary’s forint declined after the IMF said in a July 17
statement it ended its review of Hungary’s 20 billion-euro
emergency bailout because “a range of issues remain open.”  
 The currency fell as low as 225.21 per dollar, before
trading at 224.30. It depreciated as much as 3.1 percent to
290.85 against the euro, before trading at 290.81.  
 The Bank of Canada will raise its policy rate by a quarter-
percentage point tomorrow for the second time in two months,
according to all 20 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.
Governor  Mark Carney  became the first Group of Seven central
banker to lift borrowing costs on June 1, raising the benchmark
interest rate to 0.5 percent.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Catarina Saraiva  in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        