-- Euro Advances Against Dollar on U.S. Economic Growth Concern; Yen Weakens
-- Ron Harui
-- 2010-07-19T11:21:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-19/euro-gains-versus-dollar-u-s-economy-concern-outweighs-ireland-downgrade.html

          
          
             The euro rose against the dollar as
concern the economic recovery may be faltering in the world’s
biggest economy damped demand for the U.S. currency as a refuge.  
 The euro strengthened against all but one of its 16 most-
traded peers before data today that will show U.S. house
builders turned the most pessimistic in four months in July. The
yen weakened after Dow Jones Newswires reported the Bank of
Japan may take steps to ease monetary policy should the currency
stay around 85 per dollar. The Hungarian forint fell after the
 International Monetary Fund  and European Union ended talks with
the government without endorsing Prime Minister  Viktor Orban’s 
plans to control the budget deficit.  
 “Market focus has shifted away from the debt crisis to
concerns about the U.S. economic recovery,” said  Lutz Karpowitz , a senior currency strategist at Commerzbank AG in
Frankfurt.  
 The euro gained 0.3 percent to $1.2965 as of 6:23 a.m. in
New York, after earlier dropping to $1.2871. It reached $1.3008
on July 16, the strongest level since May 10. The single
currency climbed 0.7 percent versus the Japanese yen to 112.75.
The euro appreciated 0.4 percent to 84.82 U.K. pence.  
 Japan’s currency weakened versus 13 of 16 most actively
traded counterparts as the Dow report cited people familiar with
the deliberations of officials at the central bank.  
 Yen Weakness  
 “The yen’s weakness stemmed from the article,” said  Derek Halpenny , European head of currency research at Bank of Tokyo-
Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd. in London. “Comparisons are being made to
November last year, when dollar-yen hit its low below 85 and
around that time the BOJ announced its three-month lending
facility to financial institutions. There’s no talk of
intervention in the market, but rather of policy measures.”  
 The National Association of Home Builders/Wells Fargo
confidence index in the U.S. declined to 16 in July, the least
since March, according to a Bloomberg News survey before the
report today. U.K. home asking  prices  fell 0.6 percent in July
and will drop 7 percent in the second half,  Rightmove Plc , the
operator of the nation’s biggest property website, said in a
statement today in London.  
 The dollar fell against the euro in the past month as
negative data surprises out of the U.S. compared unfavorably
with positive data surprises from the euro region, according to
Deutsche Bank AG’s  Jim Reid .  
 “On this measure, U.S. data has fallen off a cliff
relative to expectations in recent weeks,” Reid said in an e-
mailed report today. “The euro-area data hasn’t been as
negative relative to expectations. This perhaps explains the
recent strength of the euro and the change in focus from EU
problems to U.S. data.”  
 Economic Surprises  
 U.S. economic data has delivered negatives surprises since
June 10, falling to minus 33.5 last week, according to an index
compiled by Citigroup Inc. Euro-region data has given positive
surprise reading since April 16, and was at positive 44.3, the
index shows.  
 The euro weakened earlier after Moody’s Investors Service
cut Ireland’s credit ranking on level to Aa2, citing a
“significant loss of financial strength” and the cost of bank
bailouts. Moody’s also lowered its rating on Ireland’s so-called
bad bank, the  National Asset Management Agency  to Aa2, with a
stable outlook.  
 Hungary’s forint declined for a second day versus the
dollar and dropped to its weakest level against the euro since
June 7, days after comments by local politicians comparing
Hungary to Greece roiled world markets.  
 Forint Drops  
 The IMF said in a July 17 statement it ended its review of
Hungary’s 20 billion-euro emergency bailout because “a range of
issues remain open.”  
 The currency fell as low as 225.21 per dollar, before
trading at 222.03. It depreciated as much as 2.9 percent to
290.20 against the euro, before trading at 287.75.  
 “The lack of agreement in talks with the IMF and EU is
likely to further unsettle the Hungarian forint,” said  Greg Gibbs , a currency strategist at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc
in Sydney. “It could be a factor that keeps risk appetite low
to start this week.”  
 The New Zealand dollar fell for a second day against the
greenback as traders cut bets on the amount of interest-rate
increases the central bank will make as the growth outlook
worsens. The so-called kiwi weakened after the Labor Department
said the jobless rate is likely to “remain elevated” over
coming quarters.  
 Kiwi Falls  
 Swaps traders lowered their expectations for rate increases
by the Reserve Bank of New Zealand to 1.16 percentage points
over the next 12 months, from 1.22 percentage points last week,
according to a Credit Suisse Group AG  index .  
 “The market is starting to question whether we’re going to
get more interest-rate rises out of New Zealand,” said  Jim Vrondas , a manager in Sydney at OzForex Ltd., an online foreign-
exchange dealer. “The slowing in the global economic
environment and risk appetite, although it has weighed the
Aussie down, it’s weighing on the kiwi more.”  
 New Zealand’s dollar weakened 0.5 percent to 70.70 U.S.
cents. It dropped earlier as much as one percent to 70.35 cents.  
 The euro’s biggest rally in a year is threatening exporters
in Europe’s weakest economies as they grow more reliant on
international sales for growth.  
 The 9.5 percent gain to $1.3008 from a four-year low on
June 7 reduced speculation the region’s debt crisis would break
up the single currency. At the same time, the head of Spain’s
Exporters Club says the stronger euro will make it harder to
counter a “paralyzed” domestic market.  
 European Aeronautic, Defence & Space Co., the maker of
Airbus planes, says at $1.20, the currency still wouldn’t be
weak. Salvatore Ferragamo SpA says it’s counting on exports to
boost sales as austerity measures crimp demand.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Keith Jenkins  in London at 
 kjenkins3@bloomberg.net ;
 Ron Harui  in Singapore at 
 rharui@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 19 (Bloomberg) -- Rossa White, chief economist at Davy Research,  talks about Ireland's credit rating cut by Moody’s Investors Service.
     He speaks from Dublin with Andrea Catherwood on Bloomberg
Television's "The Pulse" (This is an excerpt. Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
