-- Eurotunnel Is Picked to Bid for U.K. High-Speed Line to London by Aug. 17
-- Laurence Frost
-- 2010-07-19T16:37:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-19/eurotunnel-says-it-won-t-make-2010-profit-without-fire-insurance-payments.html

          
          
             Groupe Eurotunnel SA,  owner of the
undersea rail link between England and France, said it’s been
shortlisted to bid for a contract that would give the company
control of the high-speed line to London.  
 Eurotunnel plans to make an offer for the  High Speed 1  line
by the Aug. 17 deadline, Chief Executive Officer  Jacques Gounon 
said today. The Paris-based company plans to bid together with
infrastructure units of  shareholders  Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
and Prudential Plc, he said.  
 “We’re happy to have been selected and we’re working on
this bid with our two partners,” Gounon said on a conference
call with journalist.  
 A successful bid by its GB Speedrail consortium would give
Eurotunnel a 30-year franchise to operate the link between the
tunnel and the British capital’s St. Pancras station. Besides
Eurostar trains, the high-speed link is used by Hitachi Ltd.
Javelin commuter trains and freight operators, earning about 250
million pounds ($383 million) a year in access charges, with
about 35 percent of its capacity unused.  
 Britain’s new coalition government aims raise at least 1.5
billion pounds by selling the concession, as part of an asset-
disposal program to reduce its budget deficit. The successful
bidder will also run St. Pancras station and terminals at
Stratford, Ebbsfleet and Ashford, east of London.  
 Tunnel Fire  
 Paris-based Eurotunnel today posted a first-half net loss
of 45 million euros ($58 million) on financing costs and delayed
insurance payouts linked to a 2008 tunnel fire. Sales rose 22
percent to 331 million euros.  
 “It’s not traffic that’s pushing us into the red,” Gounon
said. “It’s the insurance companies.” Unless they resolve a
delay in compensation for fire-related losses, “we will post a
loss for the full year.”  
 Traffic has still not fully recovered from a 2008 fire that
closed a section of one of the link’s two tunnels for five
months, Gounon said.  
 Eurotunnel  fell  17 cents, or 2.9 percent, to 5.76 euros at
the 5:30 p.m. close on the Paris exchange. The stock has dropped
12 percent this year, cutting the company’s market value to 2.7
billion euros.  
 Revenue from the shuttle service, which accounts for about
two-thirds of Eurotunnel’s business, rose 17 percent to 171
million euros in the first half. Car traffic rose 17 percent,
coaches gained 8 percent and truck traffic jumped 41 percent.  
 Freight Traffic  
 Revenue  from rail operators including Eurostar gained 4.1
percent to 126 million euros, while freight traffic rose 2
percent in the first six months to 589,044 metric tons. By 2013,
the company is aiming for a return to 3 million metric tons,
just short of its 1998 peak, by slashing freight tariffs and
introducing its own locomotives.  
 Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and
amortization rose 3 percent to 143 million euros in the first
half even though expected insurance payouts failed to
materialize. Excluding last year’s payout, the gain was 39
percent, Eurotunnel said.  
 Debt  financing costs grew by one-third to 125 million euros
from 95 million euros, as U.K. inflation rose. Under the terms
of a reorganization three years ago, the interest on part of
Eurotunnel’s debt is index-linked to inflation.  
 Eurotunnel escaped collapse in a January 2007 rescue that
slashed its 6.2 billion pounds of debt by more than half. It
recorded its first annual  profit  the same year.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Laurence Frost  in Paris at 
 lfrost4@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Eurotunnel Chief Executive Officer Jacques Gounon. Photographer: Jean-Claude Coutausse/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
