-- Conrad Black Granted Bail by Court While Appealing U.S. Fraud Conviction
-- Joel Rosenblatt
-- 2010-07-20T08:48:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-19/ex-hollinger-chairman-black-granted-bail-while-appealing-fraud-conviction.html

          
          
             Former Hollinger International Inc.
Chairman  Conrad Black , in jail since March 2008, is another step
closer to being released from prison after an appeals court
granted him bail in light of a U.S. Supreme Court ruling.  
 The U.S. Court of Appeals in Chicago yesterday sent the
case back to U.S. District Judge  Amy St. Eve , who presided over
Black’s trial, delegating to her the responsibility of setting
conditions for Black’s release.  
 Black is “granted bail pending the disposition of his
appeal in this court,” the appeals court wrote in the order.
The case is sent back “for the limited purpose of permitting
the district court to determine the conditions of release.”  
 Black’s request for bail followed a U.S. Supreme Court
decision in June that narrowed the scope of a federal statute
used at his trial, returning the Hollinger executive’s case to
the appeals court. Black and three associates had been found
guilty in the theft of $6.1 million from Hollinger International
-- once the world’s third-largest publisher of English-language
newspapers -- as they engineered its sale of assets.  
 Black’s conviction prompted a bill from the U.S. Internal
Revenue Service, which claims the former Hollinger International
Inc. chief executive officer owes almost $71 million in unpaid
taxes and penalties, according to court records.  
 Roosevelt Papers  
 The IRS said Black failed to report and pay taxes on income
stemming from personal use of Hollinger’s corporate jets, the
use of corporate money to acquire papers written by former
President  Franklin D. Roosevelt  and Roosevelt’s private
secretary, and Hollinger’s 2000 purchase of a $5.9 million New
York apartment for his use.  
 Black, in a petition, has asked the U.S. Tax Court to throw
out the assessment, which seeks payment for the years 1998 to
2003. He said in his petition the IRS relied on “sloppy and
careless” findings, from an investigation that led to his
conviction, when authorities put together estimates of income
and unpaid taxes.  
 Black, 65, says he wasn’t required to file tax returns
because he wasn’t a U.S. resident, court records show.  
 Black and the other executives with whom he was tried, were
accused of siphoning the money from Hollinger International as
they engineered the sale of $3 billion of its assets between
1998 and 2001. The Chicago-based company is now known as the
Sun-Times Media Group Inc.  
 The fraud case was prosecuted by the office of Chicago U.S.
Attorney  Patrick Fitzgerald . His spokesman,  Randall Samborn ,
yesterday declined to comment on the appeals court ruling.  
 “We’re working very hard to get in front of the district
court as soon as we can so we can get him out,” said  Miguel Estrada , Black’s appellate lawyer. “It shows the government was
wrong to say the Supreme Court’s 9-0 ruling meant nothing.”  
 Black has been serving a 6 1/2-year sentence at a low-
security federal prison in Coleman, Florida.  
 The case is U.S. v. Black, 07-4080, 7th U.S. Circuit Court
of Appeals (Chicago). The tax case is  Conrad M. Black  v.
Commissioner of Internal Revenue, 8928-10, U.S. Tax Court
(Washington).  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Andrew M. Harris  in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net ;
 Joel Rosenblatt  in San Francisco at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Conrad Black Granted Bail While Appealing Conviction  
                       
                         
                           Tim Boyle/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Conrad Black, former chief executive officer of Hollinger International. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Conrad Black, former chief executive officer of Hollinger International. Photographer: Tim Boyle/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
