-- Father, Son Fined $274,000 by U.K. Regulator Over Tower Resources Trades
-- Nandini Sukumar
-- 2010-07-19T11:34:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-19/father-son-fined-274-000-by-u-k-regulator-over-tower-resources-trades.html

          
          
             The Financial Services Authority
said it fined a father and son a total of 179,200 pounds
($274,000) for market abuse related to shares of  Tower Resources
Plc , an oil and gas exploration company.  
 Jeremy Burley, who was a director at BMS Minerals, a
Ugandan company that provides services to Tower, passed on
confidential information about Tower’s first oil well in the
region to his father, Jeffery, the FSA said in a  statement 
today. His father opened an account and used it to trade on
behalf of his son, the FSA said.  
 “The actions of father and son were deliberate and
premeditated and they took steps to disguise their insider
dealing,”  Margaret Cole , director of enforcement and financial
crime at the London-based FSA, said in the statement.  
 The watchdog has increased fines and won three of the four
insider-trading cases it brought to trial, after complaints it
did little to stop the financial crisis. It’s not the first
father and son the regulator has fined. Former brokerage intern
Matthew Uberoi and his father Neel Uberoi were found guilty last
year for insider trading in stocks including  NeuTec Pharma Ltd.   
 Lawyers at Challinors, representing Jeremy Burley, and
Crowell & Moring, representing Jeffery Burley, didn’t
immediately return a message seeking comment.  
 “This is a further clear warning that executives and their
relatives who invest in their own listed companies must take the
downs with the ups,” said  Simon Morris , a lawyer at London-
based law firm CMS Cameron McKenna. “They cannot hope to
offload their shares before the bad news gets out.”  
 Jeremy Burley was fine 144,200 pounds, including
disgorgement of the 21,700 pounds he made from the trades.
Jeffery Burley was fined 35,000 pounds, the FSA said.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Nandini Sukumar  in London at 
 nsukumar@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        