-- FDIC Selling Corus Loans Means Betting on Failed Condo Projects
-- Jonathan Keehner
-- 2010-07-20T21:10:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-19/fdic-selling-corus-loans-to-starwood-means-betting-on-failed-condominiums.html

          
          
             Developer  Norman Radow  expected some
thanks in April when he offered to repay a $35 million defaulted
loan on a 32-story San Diego condominium project he had taken
over, originally financed by failed Corus Bank. Instead, his new
lender urged him to keep the money.  
 Even more striking to Radow was that the lender was a
company majority-owned by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp.,
an arm of the government swamped with bad debts, whose partners
were private investors led by Starwood Capital Group LLC.  
 “They said they wanted to keep the principal outstanding
longer because they had a zero-percent loan from the government,
and it was worth more for them to keep our loan out,” said
Radow, 52, chief executive officer of Radco Companies, an
Atlanta-based distressed-property firm that has sold 85 percent
of the 244 units in the  Mark , overlooking San Diego’s Petco Park
stadium. “The sooner you repay us, the worse it is for us.”  
 While Radow repaid the loan anyway, his experience shows
how a new FDIC strategy for managing assets seized from failed
banks has turned the agency into a long-term investor, making a
multibillion-dollar bet on the recovery of some of the most
distressed condominium markets in the country, from Miami to Las
Vegas. Instead of selling the assets to maximize cash in hand,
the agency is offering its private-sector partners zero-percent
financing, management fees and new loans to complete
construction of projects it can hold until markets recover.  
 Risk ‘Worth Taking’  
 While the strategy entails greater risk if real estate
prices fall or don’t rise as much as hoped, agency officials say
it offers a better chance to replenish their deposit insurance
fund -- which was overdrawn by almost $21 billion as of the end
of the first quarter -- than sales for cash. More than 260 banks
have failed since 2007.  
 “While using LLCs to sell loans is not risk-free by any
means, it is a calculated risk well worth taking,” said  David Barr , a spokesman for the FDIC. “Alternatives would be either
to hold the loans and work them out ourselves or sell them
outright for cash, both of which have their own risks associated
with them, as well.”  
 An LLC is a limited liability company. In the case of the
Corus loans -- $4.5 billion in financing for 102 real estate
developments across the U.S., including 79 condominium buildings
-- the FDIC transferred the assets to an LLC in which it
retained a 60 percent stake. It sold the remaining 40 percent to
the Starwood-led group of private investors, offering it an
interest-free loan for half of the purchase price.  
 ‘Potentially Big Loss’  
 The financing inflated the price by as much as 20 percent,
according to the agency’s own calculations. The FDIC then sold
$1.38 billion of notes backed by the assets and carrying a
government guarantee.  
 The FDIC is also offering as much as $1 billion in
additional financing to provide working capital and complete
projects.  
 “The private-equity investors definitely have an incentive
to take on more risk while managing the loans,” said  Steven Kaplan , a finance professor at the University of Chicago’s Booth
School of Business. “It’s a well-structured deal because the
FDIC averted a fire sale and retained some upside, but the
leverage means managers would rather take a chance on a big gain
-- and a potentially big loss.”  
 Housing starts fell 5 percent in June from the previous
month, the Commerce Department reported yesterday. Home seizures
jumped 38 percent in the second quarter from a year earlier,
RealtyTrac Inc. said last week.  
 Lennar, Colony  
 The Corus deal is one of 14 structured sales the agency has
completed, covering $15.9 billion in assets, according to the
FDIC. The agency said the value of its retained interests in the
companies managing the assets is $7.2 billion.  
 Winners of other auctions include  Lennar Corp. , the third-
largest U.S. homebuilder, and its distressed-investing unit
Rialto Capital Management LLC. Private-equity firm Colony
Capital LLC, headed by  Thomas Barrack , has bought stakes in two
structured sales, including an interest in a $1.85 billion
portfolio of loans from 22 failed banks announced on July 14.  
 During the last banking crisis, from 1980 through 1994, the
FDIC, thrift regulators and the Resolution Trust Corp. disposed
of $924 billion in assets, according to FDIC publications. Only
about $25 billion of that was through partnership arrangements.  
 This time the FDIC is holding on to billions of dollars of
assets through such partnerships and offering its partners
interest-free loans.  
 ‘Overhang of Inventory’  
 “What we’re trying to avoid is creating the kind of
financial incentives that cause the liquidation of the portfolio
at fire-sale prices, which could further depress already
distressed markets,” the FDIC’s Barr said. “The structured
transaction enables the FDIC’s managing partner to take a
longer-term approach to the loans, allowing for an orderly
workout period.”  
 The strategy has made the FDIC and its partners the owners
of thousands of condominiums in troubled markets.  
 “As a borrower, I had no complaints,” said Radow. “As a
taxpayer, I had questions. This should be examined.”  
 Michael Lea , a visiting professor of finance and director
of the Corky McMillin Center for Real Estate at San Diego State
University, said the risk was worth taking.  
 “If you think the market is coming back, that prices now
are unrealistically low, then this is the best wealth-maximizing
strategy,” he said. “But it doesn’t clear the market or clear
that overhang of inventory.”  
 Seizing Corus  
 That view was echoed by  Robert Litan , vice president for
research and policy at the Kansas City, Missouri-based Kauffman
Foundation and a member of a presidential-congressional panel
that assessed the RTC’s results. While the FDIC’s new approach
carries greater risks for the deposit insurance fund, it is
justified by economic circumstances, he said.  
 “What the RTC did is a good strategy after a shallow
recession,” Litan said. “Now, with a more depressed market,
the financial crisis and a fragile economy, there is a much
greater risk of a snowball effect if the FDIC just unloads
everything.”  
 The FDIC seized Corus, a unit of Chicago-based  Corus
Bankshares Inc. , last September. In October it auctioned a stake
in the bank’s real estate development loans to the Starwood-led
group, which also includes New York hedge fund Perry Capital
LLC, developer WLR LeFrak and private-equity firm TPG Capital.  
 Perry Capital is headed by former Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
partner  Richard Perry . WLR LeFrak is a joint venture of the real
estate firm LeFrak Organization of New York and WL Ross & Co.,
which is run by billionaire  Wilbur Ross .  
 ‘Asymmetric Risk Profile’  
 The Starwood-led group bid about 20 percent more than its
nearest competitor, people familiar with the matter said,
offering $554.4 million in cash for its stake. The bid valued
the assets at $2.77 billion, or about 60 percent of the loans’
face value.  
 Barry Sternlicht , chairman and CEO of Greenwich,
Connecticut-based Starwood, told potential investors on a
conference call in February that it’s “very hard to lose money
on a transaction like that.”  
 He said on the call that prices had to drop 40 percent from
their already depressed levels for the partnership to lose.
Starwood paid $123 a square foot for buildings that cost almost
$400 a square foot to build, Sternlicht said.  
 “That’s the kind of asymmetric risk profile you love in a
deal,” he said on the call, a transcript of which was obtained
by Bloomberg News.  
 50 Foreclosures  
 The FDIC also provided a management fee of 1 percent of
outstanding debt, about $45 million in the first year, plus as
much as $1 billion in additional loans to complete projects,
prepare them for market and cover other costs.  
 The structure of the deal “is very, very smart,” said
 Wade Hundley , 44, CEO of ST Residential LLC, which was created
by the private investors to manage the portfolio. “We’re not
making decisions based on the financing because it’s zero
percent. No one has a gun at our heads. This allows us to avoid
fire sales, which would drive down the market for everybody.”  
 Hundley said ST Residential has so far modified 14 loans,
easing the terms. Thirty-two borrowers handed over the
underlying properties after defaulting on loans, nine since the
beginning of the year. That number is expected to rise to 50,
Hundley said. In Atlanta, the seven buildings the company owns,
with more than 1,300 condo units, are being kept off the market
until prices stabilize, he said.  
 While Hundley declined to comment on Radow’s experience, he
acknowledged that there have been a “very few” instances in
which borrowers were asked to stretch out payments.  
 “It’s not always bad to stretch out the repayment when
you’re working with zero-percent financing,” he said.  
 South Beach Condos  
 Some projects are worth so little relative to their loan
balances that the developers have handed over the properties.
James Borders, CEO of Atlanta-based  Novare Group , which had
loans for condominium buildings in Atlanta and Tampa, has
consented to foreclosures and is now on contract to manage the
assets for ST Residential, he said.  
 Two developers fighting a foreclosure in Miami’s South
Beach, Alessandro Ferretti and Piero Salussolia, say ST
Residential could make more money by letting them finish their
almost completed project rather than seize the property.  
 “The real problem is that they’re not in this like a
lender,” said Thomas Lehman, a partner at Levine Kellogg Lehman
Schneider & Grossman LLP in Miami who is representing the
developers of the 202-unit  Artecity  project. “They’re in it to
hold and sell the properties.”  
 Hundley said the loans were worth far more than the
condominiums and that foreclosure was the only realistic option.  
 ‘Genius Deal’  
 “These developers are all big boys,” he said. “They knew
what they were doing when they invested in these properties.”  
 Steven Fifield , the developer of a 291-unit condominium
project in Waikiki, Hawaii, who lost his property to ST
Residential in a foreclosure, called the terms of the FDIC sale
“a genius deal.”  
 “They can wait the market another year if they have to,”
said Fifield, who is working for ST Residential to help market
his development. “They’re guaranteed to make a profit. It’s
just not sure how much.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 James Sterngold  in New York at 
 jsterngold2@bloomberg.net ;
 Jonathan Keehner  in New York at 
 jkeehner@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     “The private-equity investors definitely have an incentive to take on more risk while managing the loans,” said Steven Kaplan, a finance professor at the University of Chicago’s Booth School of Business. Photographer: Brendan Smialowski/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 20 (Bloomberg) -- Bloomberg's Jonathan Keehner talks about how a Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. strategy for managing assets seized from failed banks has turned the agency into a long-term investor making a bet on the recovery of some of the most distressed condominium markets in the U.S.
     He speaks with Betty Liu on Bloomberg Television's "In the Loop." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
