-- Fertility Treatment Success Predicted With Computer Analysis, Study Says
-- Nicole Ostrow
-- 2010-07-19T19:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-19/fertility-treatment-success-predicted-with-computer-analysis-study-says.html

          
          
             A computer-based analysis can
estimate a woman’s chance of success from  fertility  treatments
more accurately than age-based guidelines, Stanford University
scientists said.  
 An analytic model developed in research goes beyond age to
take into account women’s height, weight, hormonal factors and
the health of embryos, said  Mylene Yao , author of a study
released today in the  Proceedings of the National Academy of
Sciences . The researchers looked at 634 IVF treatments to test
their model. In 60 percent of patients, the scientists when
using the computer analysis found a significant difference in
the calculation of likelihood of having a baby.  
 Age alone would be a better predictor of the success of
fertility treatment in fewer than 1 in 1,000 cases, Yao said,
citing statistical methods used to test the model. Computer-
based analyses could help women decide whether to buy repeat IVF
treatments that can cost $10,000 a try, Yao said. Almost 75
percent of IVF procedures fail to result in live births,
according to the study.  
 “When people have the information about their own specific
chances, they are going to feel more confident about pursuing
the treatment,” said Yao, an assistant professor of obstetrics
and gynecology at Stanford, near Palo Alto, California, in a
telephone interview on July 16 “Each patient is truly unique,”
she said. “Even though no two patients are alike, we’re still
able to give very predictive information.”  
 In the research, computer analysis found, for instance,
that one 38-year-old woman’s likelihood of success from a second
round of in vitro fertilization was 44 percent, topping age-
related estimates of 22 percent to 28 percent, Yao said.  
 Fertility Spending  
 Yao said she plans to develop the test and offer it
commercially through closely held  Univfy Inc.  of Los Altos,
California.  
 About 7.3 million American women have infertility,
according to the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and
Prevention, based in Atlanta. The U.S. fertility industry
generates more than $3 billion in revenue a year, according to
the Center for Genetics & Society, a nonprofit public-affairs
organization based in Berkley, California.  
 In vitro fertilization, or  IVF , is a procedure in which a
woman receives ovulation-stimulating drugs, and egg cells are
removed from her and joined with sperm in a laboratory dish. The
fertilized egg is placed in the woman’s uterus to grow into a
pregnancy. On average, most women have one to three cycles of
IVF, Yao said.  
 Success Rates  
 Success rates for IVF vary, and age is the most important
factor when women use their own eggs, according to the Society
for Assisted Reproductive Technology, a professional group based
in Birmingham, Alabama. About 31 percent of IVF cycles result in
a live birth for women ages 35 to 37 who use their own fresh
embryos, according to 2008 data from the society. That number
drops to 22 percent for women ages 38 to 40.  
 Fertility treatment costs on average about $10,000 to
$15,000 for each cycle or attempt at pregnancy, and isn’t always
covered by insurance, Yao said.  
 To develop their computer model in the first place, the
researchers analyzed data from 1,676 IVF treatments performed at
Stanford Hospital & Clinics from 2003 to 2006. The scientists
identified 52 criteria, such as patient age, hormone levels and
quality of a woman’s eggs, that may help determine the chance of
pregnancy, and developed a model that predicts a woman’s
likelihood of having a baby.  
 Yao said the new model can predict the chance of IVF
success using information on 10 to 20 medical factors obtained
for each woman.  
 Second Round  
 The predictions can only be made after the first round of
IVF is done because the model needs data from that initial
cycle.  
 Yao founded Univfy with a Stanford colleague and co-author,
Wing Wong. The company would have to win approval for a test
service from the U.S. Food and Drug Administration. Yao said she
is licensing the test from the patent holder,  Stanford.   
 Eventually Univfy may develop computer models to determine
a woman’s chance of getting pregnant with her first IVF
treatment and the probability of having twins or multiple
births, Yao said.  
 Matthew Cohen, director of reproductive endocrinology at
North Shore-Long Island Jewish Health System, in Manhasset, New
York, said while the analytical tool is interesting, it needs to
be tested at clinics outside Stanford.  
 “It’s just not ready for prime time use yet,” he said in a
telephone interview today.  
 Future studies also need to show if the results of the tests
change a woman’s decision to use IVF or how a doctor counsels
patients, Cohen said.  
 “The fact that they went to the effort in showing that
there are many more variables than age is teaching us
something,” Cohen said. “They’re right. We need to look at
other factors in helping to guide our patients.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nicole Ostrow  in New York at 
 nostrow1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        