-- Food-Commodity Speculation by Banks Caused Hunger, Anti-Poverty Group Says
-- Rudy Ruitenberg
-- 2010-07-19T10:19:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-19/food-commodity-price-speculation-by-banks-caused-2008-hunger-group-says.html

          
          
             Speculation in agricultural
commodities by banks caused hunger during the 2008 food crisis
by amplifying price surges, World Development Movement said.  
 Higher food and crude-oil prices reduced real incomes
worldwide, with the greatest effect on the poorest people, the
London-based anti-poverty campaign group said in a  report .
Speculators accounted for 65 percent of bets on rising corn
prices between 2006 and 2008, according to United Nations
Conference on Trade and Development figures cited in the study.  
 “The main reason for speculation is to make large profits
for multinational banks,” the group said in the report, titled
“The Great Hunger Lottery.” “This is one of the most striking
examples of the injustice of profit being put ahead of people.”  
 Riots broke out from Haiti to Egypt in 2008 as the UN’s
 food-price index  rose to a record in June of that year. Wal-Mart
Stores Inc. restricted purchases of some types of rice at its
Sam’s Club warehouse unit in April 2008 as prices for the grain
climbed to an all-time high. The food-price gauge has since
dropped 24 percent from its peak.  
 Regulating commodity markets is “vital” to tackling
hunger, World Development Movement said. The group advocated
trading of derivatives on exchanges with regulated clearing to
prevent default on contracts and “toxic debt sweeping through
the financial system.”  
 “Opposition to regulating commodity derivatives comes from
those in the financial industry with a vested interest in the
profits they make from the unregulated markets, particularly the
large banks,” World Development Movement said.  
 Speculation has made futures markets less accurate in
predicting real prices for commodities, increasing the
difficulty for central banks of forecasting inflation, the
poverty-fighting group said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rudy Ruitenberg  in Paris at 
 rruitenberg@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        