-- Foreigners Make Record Purchases of Canada Securities in May, Led by Bonds
-- Greg Quinn
-- 2010-07-19T13:48:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-19/foreigners-make-record-purchases-of-canada-securities-in-may-led-by-bonds.html

          
          
             Foreigners bought a record net
C$23.2 billion ($22 billion) of Canadian securities in May, led
by federal government bonds.  
 Foreign investors purchased C$15.2 billion of bonds,
Ottawa-based Statistics Canada said today. The investment was
led by a record C$11.5 billion of federal government securities,
almost double the previous record of C$6.75 billion in January.  
 Economists predicted a C$6.5 billion net purchase of
Canadian securities, according to the median of three estimates
by Bloomberg News.  
 Demand for Canadian bonds has increased on signs that the
country is exiting a global recession faster than other Group of
Seven countries, and that the country’s debt burden will be
lower. European governments created a rescue package in May to
ease investor concerns that countries such as Greece will
struggle to finance their deficits.  
 “Part of it relates to recent turmoil and that appetite is
going to be steady,” said  Eric Lascelles , chief economics and
rates strategist at Toronto-Dominion Bank. “Canada is a safe
place to be.”  
 Non-residents also bought a net C$2.66 billion of Canadian
money-market paper in the month, purchasing C$3.68 billion of
federal government instruments and selling bank securities.
Purchases of stocks totaled C$5.27 billion, the most since
September, in a “widespread” increase that did not extend to
bank and energy company shares, Statistics Canada said.  
 Foreigners have purchased C$53.9 billion of Canadian
securities so far this year, compared with C$52.1 billion in the
first five months of last year. The May investment exceeded the
previous record of C$21.4 billion set in April, 2004, Statistics
Canada said.  
 Canadians  sold  a net C$2.9 billion of foreign securities in
May, including a C$5.29 billion divestiture of bonds and a
C$2.07 billion purchase of stocks.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Greg Quinn  in Ottawa at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        