-- Former Dictator, Cocaine Smuggler Bouterse Elected as Suriname's President
-- Jurjen van de Pol
-- 2010-07-19T17:23:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-19/former-dictator-cocaine-smuggler-bouterse-elected-as-suriname-s-president.html

          
          
             Suriname’s former military ruler
 Desi Bouterse , convicted in the Netherlands for cocaine
smuggling, was elected to succeed  Ronald Venetiaan  as the South
American country’s president.  
 Bouterse was elected head of state by the National Assembly
in the capital Paramaribo today after his four-party coalition
won 23 of 51 seats in May parliamentary elections. The
Netherlands, which granted  Suriname  independence in 1975, said
the former dictator wouldn’t be welcome in the country except to
serve out an 11-year prison sentence for his crime, Dutch
Foreign Minister  Maxime Verhagen  said in an e-mailed statement.  
 Bouterse, 64, led a group of army sergeants that overthrew
Suriname’s democratic government in 1980 and declared a
socialist course. The military ruled the country’s 490,000
inhabitants until 1987. The country borders Brazil and is known
for its bauxite mines.  
 Bouterse’s  National Democratic Party  is part of the
coalition known as the Mega Combination that in May defeated the
ruling New Front coalition. Chandrikapersad Santokhi, Minister
of Justice and Police and a member of the outgoing coalition,
came in second place in the presidential vote today.  
 The Appeals Court in The Hague in 2000  sentenced  Bouterse
in absentia to 11 years in prison for smuggling cocaine with
others into the Netherlands in 1997. Separately, Bouterse is on
trial in Suriname for the death of 15 alleged opponents of his
military regime in December 1982, according to Dutch news agency
ANP.  
 11-Year Sentence  
 “The Netherlands respects the outcome of the democratic
elections and the choice of the Suriname parliament,” Verhagen
said in an e-mailed statement today. The Netherlands will only
have contact with Bouterse on a “functional level” and meet
its obligations to the former colony unless developments make
this impossible, he said.  
 “We can’t brush aside that Bouterse has been sentenced to
11 years in the Netherlands for drug trafficking, he’s not
welcome in the Netherlands other than to serve his sentence,”
Verhagen said. Verhagen will not seek to arrest Bouterse as the
new president is immune from prosecution during his term.  
 Alcoa Inc. , the largest U.S. aluminum producer, last year
agreed to buy BHP Billiton Ltd. bauxite mining and alumina
refining interests in Suriname.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jurjen van de Pol  in Amsterdam at 
 jvandepol@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        