-- Fraction of $5.3 Billion Pledged to Help Rebuild Haiti Has Been Delivered
-- 
-- 2010-07-19T02:39:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-19/fraction-of-5-3-billion-pledged-to-help-rebuild-haiti-has-been-delivered.html

          
          
              
By Mary Beth Sheridan
     July 19 (Washington Post) -- Three months after donors at a
U.S.-sponsored conference pledged more than $5.3 billion to
rebuild Haiti, only a fraction of the money has been disbursed,
and a special reconstruction commission has barely started to
function, according to U.N. and aid officials.
     U.S. lawmakers and international aid officials have
expressed mounting concern about the slow recovery of the
hemisphere's poorest country, where about 230,000 people died and
about 2 million were displaced in January's earthquake. Despite
ambitious plans to "build back better," as U.N. and U.S.
officials promised, the reconstruction has been hobbled by a lack
of coordination and cash and by a virtually incapacitated Haitian
government, officials and experts say.
     The United States has not disbursed the roughly $900 million
it pledged for reconstruction this year, according to the U.N.
Web site http://haitispecialenvoy.org. Although the U.S.
government has spent hundreds of millions on short-term emergency
aid, the rest of the funds are in a supplemental budget bill that
has been held up in Congress by an unrelated dispute over state
aid.
     "There are worrisome signs that the rebuilding process in
Haiti has stalled," said a recent report issued by Sen. John F.
Kerry (D-Mass.), chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations
Committee.
     Indeed, about 180 million square feet of rubble is still
piled where it sat after the Jan. 12 quake, according to U.N.
estimates; only 5,000 of the 125,000 temporary shelters promised
by the international community have been built.
     To be sure, there have been some successes: the provision of
thousands of tents, as well as clean water, food and medical care
for more than 1 million people. There have been no widespread
outbreaks of disease.
     U.S. officials point out that a successful reconstruction
after a disaster can take years. They said that it took about
eight months to set up an international reconstruction commission
in the Indonesian region of Aceh after the 2004 tsunami. But
Indonesia's government had far more money and expertise, and its
capital wasn't destroyed, experts say.
     "The Haitian government is not really capable of providing
the kind of leadership that is required here, unlike the
Indonesian government," said Robert Perito, a Haiti specialist at
the U.S. Institute of Peace.
     The Haitian government, already week before the quake, lost
30 percent of its public employees in the disaster, as well as
many of its buildings and sources of tax revenue, officials say.
     The March 31 donors' conference at the United Nations was
supposed to launch Haiti on the path to recovery. Its president,
René Préval, unveiled a plan to rebuild infrastructure,
decentralize jobs and establish homes away from the overcrowded
capital.
     A centerpiece of the plan was to be the Interim Haiti
Recovery Commission, known as the IHRC, which would coordinate
donor aid with the Haitian government's plans and monitor for
fraud. U.S. officials saw the commission, which was to be
co-chaired by former president Bill Clinton and Haitian Prime
Minister Jean-Max Bellerive and staffed with technical experts,
as a sort of stand-in for the shattered government.
     But Préval was slow to warm to the commission, U.S.
officials say, and it took weeks to get Haitian government
approval and assemble a staff. The commission's board has held
only one meeting, on June 17, at which it approved $31 million in
projects.
     It still hasn't named a full-time executive director to run
it on a day-to-day basis. Angel Urena, a spokesman for Clinton,
said it took time to sort through hundreds of candidates. The
director should be named at the board's next session on Aug. 17,
he said.
     Leslie Voltaire, the Haitian special envoy to the United
Nations, said the commission's slow start was contributing to the
delay in receiving aid money.
     "It's like Catch-22. I think the donors are waiting for the
IHRC to show its capacity. To have capacity, it has to have
resources," he said.
     Clinton and Bellerive said in an op-ed in the New York Times
last week that only 10 percent of the $5.3 billion pledged at the
U.N. conference had been disbursed in Haiti. That figure,
however, is expected to increase in the coming days as donor
countries update their data. It also doesn't account for about
$900 million in debt relief.
     Development officials said it was difficult to plan projects
without knowing when funding would arrive.
     "I don't sense a reluctance" by donor nations, said one
official, who spoke on the condition of anonymity to be frank.
"It's really a lack of urgency, which to me is a little bit
shocking. . . . The situation in Haiti is quite dire."
     Some nations say they are still waiting for the Haitian
government to develop a more detailed reconstruction plan to
ensure their money is well spent.
     "We have millions of plans, like many other agencies," said
Jurg Bohnenblust of the Swiss Agency for Development and
Cooperation. But it took time getting them approved by Haiti's
government, he said -- especially with presidential elections
looming there. He said Switzerland had committed about half its
$11 million pledge to reconstruction projects.
 
          
          


  


        