-- Gasoline Shipping Rates May Fall From Highest in 21 Months: Energy Markets
-- Noah Buhayar
-- 2010-07-20T19:34:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-19/gasoline-shipping-rates-may-fall-from-highest-in-21-months-energy-markets.html

          
          
             The cost of shipping gasoline to the
U.S. from Europe may fall from the highest level in 21 months as
growing inventories indicate a diminishing need for imports.  
 The rates charged to transport the fuel will slide 15
percent from July to December, only the second decline for the
period in the past seven years, freight-rate derivatives showed.
Fuel stockpiles rose to 221 million barrels in the seven days
ended July 9,  the most  for mid-July since 1992, according to the
Energy Department.  
 Imports  tumbled 27 percent  in the week, the first decrease
in five weeks and the biggest drop since Feb. 12, department
data showed.  
 A decline in rates would signal the end of a recovery that
has boosted Europe-to-U.S. shipping costs  by 19 percent  this
year. Rates for gasoline rose to the highest level since October
2008 on July 15, according to the  London-based Baltic Exchange ,
as demand increased in the summer driving season.  
 “With gasoline stockpiles having been built to a very high
level, and demand in the U.S. not being able to fully absorb
that, you will see a decrease of imports and utilization of
ships, which will result in lower rates,” said  George Los , an
analyst at Greenwich, Connecticut-based shipbroker Charles R.
Weber Co.  
 Gasoline shipping rates to the Atlantic Coast from Europe,
the benchmark route for U.S. imports, rose to  Worldscale 225  on
July 15, or about  $19,236 a day  after fuel costs, according to
the Baltic Exchange. The rate fell 2.3 percent to 214.8 today.
It may decline to the equivalent of $8,000 a day in early
August, according to Los.  
 ‘Taper Off’  
 East Coast inventories  were 61.1 million barrels in the
week ended July 9, the highest level for mid-July since 2001,
Energy Department data showed.  
 “Demand hasn’t increased as people have expected and
that’s why U.S. gasoline prices have slipped back from highs in
the last month,” said  Gene McGillian , an analyst and broker at
Tradition Energy in Stamford, Connecticut. “We’ve passed the
prime driving season and you will see imports taper off.”  
 The Europe-U.S. rate will average  Worldscale 174.9  in
December, down from  July’s 205.1 , forward freight agreements
provided by the Baltic Exchange showed. Since 2004, the rate has
dropped from July to December only once, in 2008, according to
the exchange.  
 The forward freight agreements “suggested the rate will
come down,” said  Mike Reardon , a Houston-based vice president
at freight derivatives broker Imarex. “The recent increase has
been pretty impressive and people don’t expect the surge to
last.”  
 Shipping Cost  
 Forward rate agreements allow companies to bet on or hedge
the future cost of shipping. Worldscale points are a percentage
of a nominal rate, or flat rate, for more than 320,000 routes.
Flat rates for every voyage, quoted in U.S. dollars a ton, are
revised annually by the  Worldscale Association  in London to
reflect changing fuel costs, port tariffs and exchange rates.  
 “Driving demand will be reduced and you will start to pull
back on imports,” said  Scott Burk , a New York-based analyst at
Oppenheimer & Co. who predicts rates may fall to around $10,500
a day this quarter. “Rates will decline in August, September.”  
 Shipments may also decline as the price advantage of U.S.
gasoline over Europe’s narrows, discouraging companies from
transporting the fuel to the Atlantic Coast. U.S. gasoline was
15 cents a gallon more expensive today, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. That’s down from 21.6 cents on June 25,
the biggest spread this year.  
 U.S. Inventories  
 The spot price of European gasoline  traded at $698 per
metric ton, or about $1.93 a gallon today, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Gasoline futures for August delivery on
the New York Mercantile Exchange traded at $2.08 a gallon. The
futures have declined from June’s high of $2.17.  
 The U.S. imported  921,000 barrels  of gasoline a day in the
week ended July 9, according to the Energy Department, down from
1.25 million barrels in the previous week, the highest level
since the seven days ended March 6, 2009.  Imports to the
Atlantic Coast , which account for 82 percent of the U.S. total,
declined 28 percent to 755,000 barrels a day, the data showed.  
 U.S.  gasoline  demand fell 4.4 percent to a five-week low in
the seven days through July 9, as consumption waned once drivers
had filled their tanks for the July 4 holiday weekend,
 MasterCard Inc.  reported in its SpendingPulse report.  
 Consumption was at the  lowest in mid-July since 2003 ,
according to the Energy Department.  
 Traders and oil companies have booked enough ships in the
first half of this month to deliver at least 563,000 metric tons
of gasoline to the U.S. Atlantic Coast, down 39 percent from the
927,000 tons in the same period last month, according to
Clarkson Research Services Ltd., a unit of the world’s biggest
shipbroker.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Moming Zhou  in New York at 
 Mzhou29@bloomberg.net ;
 Noah Buhayar  in New York at 
 buhayar@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Gasoline demand fell 4.4 percent to a five-week low in the week ended July 9. Photographer: Gary Gardiner/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
