-- Hypo Real Estate Said to Fail Europe-Wide Stress Test
-- Jann Bettinga
-- 2010-07-20T09:33:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-19/germany-s-hypo-real-estate-is-said-to-fail-eu-stress-test-on-bank-capital.html

          
          
               Hypo Real Estate  Holding AG, the
commercial-property lender rescued by the German government
following the financial crisis, failed a Europe-wide banking
stress test, two people familiar with the results said.  
 The state-owned bank didn’t pass a stress scenario on its
capital that assumes an economic slowdown and sovereign-debt
losses, said the people, who declined to be identified before an
announcement on July 23. Hypo Real Estate, based in Munich, is
probably the only German bank to fail the test, one person said.  
 European Union regulators are examining the strength of
banks as they seek to reassure investors about the firms’
resilience to potential losses amid the region’s sovereign-debt
crisis. The tests are being applied to 91 of Europe’s biggest
banks, including 14 German institutions.  
 “We have to see that Hypo Real Estate is one of the
biggest German lenders for public financing,”  Konrad Becker , a
financial analyst at Merck Finck & Co. in Munich, said in a
Bloomberg Television interview today. “Other banks will not
have the same difficulties.”  
 Banks may be required to have a Tier 1 capital ratio, a key
measure of financial strength, of at least 6 percent under the
EU stress tests, the same threshold U.S. lenders faced last
year, said two people briefed on the talks.  
 Capital Ratio  
 Hypo Real Estate’s Tier 1 capital ratio was 7.7 percent at
the end of March, according to a  presentation  on its website
dated June 2010. The lender said in May that it holds 72.1
billion euros ($93.4 billion) of debt in  Greece ,  Italy  and  Spain , among the highest held by a bank in  Europe , according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  
   Germany ’s Soffin bank-rescue fund had provided Hypo Real
Estate with 7.87 billion euros in funds by the end of March. The
bank has said it may require a total of 10 billion euros from
the fund.  
 The lender said on July 8 that it received approval to
establish a so-called bad bank to transfer as much as 210
billion euros of investments consisting of “non-strategic
assets and risk positions.” The amount represents more than
half of Hypo Real Estate’s total assets at the end of 2009.  
 The assets will be transferred in the second half of this
year, according to the German Financial Markets Stabilization
Agency, which manages the bank-rescue fund.  
 Government Rescue  
 Hypo Real Estate has said it doesn’t expect to return to
profit before 2012. The lender needed a total of 103.5 billion
euros in credit lines and debt guarantees from the state and
financial institutions to save the company from collapse in 2008
after its Dublin-based Depfa Bank Plc unit couldn’t raise
financing when the bankruptcy of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.
froze credit markets.  
 Hypo Real Estate is fully owned by the government’s Soffin
bank-rescue fund, which took over the lender in 2009 following a
squeeze-out that forced remaining minority investors including
U.S. investor J. Christopher Flowers to sell their shares.  
 A summary of results of the stress tests will be released
on July 23 at 6 p.m. CET, the Committee of European Banking
Supervisors said in a statement on its website yesterday.  
 “The association doesn’t expect any other banks, private
and public, to have failed the test beyond Hypo,” said Stephan Rabe, Berlin-based spokesman for the Association of German
Public Sector Banks, which represents 62 institutions including
the state-owned Landesbanken. “We’re relaxed about Friday.”  
 ‘Weaker Landesbanken’  
 German Finance Ministry spokesman Michael Offer yesterday
said he doesn’t have any knowledge of the stress-test results.  
 According to CEBS, the other German lenders tested are  Deutsche Bank AG ,  Commerzbank AG ,  Deutsche Postbank AG ,
Landesbank Baden-Wuerttemberg,  Bayerische Landesbank ,
Norddeutsche Landesbank Girozentrale, WestLB AG, HSH Nordbank
AG, Landesbank Hessen-Thueringen Girozentrale, Landesbank Berlin
AG, DZ Bank AG, WGZ Bank AG and DekaBank Deutsche Girozentrale.  
 “I don’t think any of the listed banks will fail the
stress test,” said Merck Finck’s Becker. “I can’t exclude that
one of the weaker Landesbanken may not achieve passing the test,
but I think it’s unlikely.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Aaron Kirchfeld in  Frankfurt  at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net ;
Oliver Suess in Munich at 
 osuess@bloomberg.net ;
Jann Bettinga in Frankfurt at 
 jbettinga@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;  Edward Evans  at   eevans3@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     The Hypo Real Estate Holding AG company headquarters sits in Munich. Photographer: Guenter Schiffmann/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
