-- German Wheat Crop Likely to Shrink Due to Heat, Farmers' Association Says
-- Rudy Ruitenberg
-- 2010-07-19T13:00:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-19/german-wheat-crop-likely-to-shrink-due-to-heat-farmers-association-says.html

          
          
             The wheat crop in  Germany , the
European Union’s second-largest producer, is suffering from dry
conditions that have caused irreversible damage in some regions,
the national farming association said.  
 The wheat harvest in northern Germany probably will begin
at the end of this month or the start of August, Deutschen
Bauernverbandes said in a  statement  on its website today. Wheat
and rye risk ripening prematurely on light soils, it said.  
 Germany’s wheat crop probably will shrink 5.5 percent to
23.8 million metric tons this year because of dry weather, the
Deutscher Raiffeisenverband e.V. agriculture association said
July 14. France is the only EU country that grows more wheat
than Germany, according to data from the 27-nation bloc.  
 “In all regions, it’s notable that the wheat crop is
suffering from the current dryness,” the DBV said. “In some
regions, irrecoverable damage to wheat can already be seen.”  
 It’s too soon to assess the quality of the wheat crop,
making growers “very reticent” to sell grain from the new
harvest, according to the farmers’ organization.  
 Germany’s overall grain production may drop below a DBV
forecast of 46 million metric tons if the negative effects of
the dry conditions are confirmed, the group said.  
 Barley harvesting will be completed in initial regions this
week and will start on light soils in northern Germany next
week, according to the DBV. Yields probably will decline as much
as 10 percent because of the dry conditions, particularly on
light soils, the group said.  
 Corn in Germany is also suffering from the drought, with a
lack of rain in the filling phase, according to the DBV. Wet,
cold spring weather has left local corn three to four weeks
later than usual in developing, it said.  
 “With sufficient water supply, the development can still
be expected to catch up,” the DBV said. “In the case of
further hot and dry weather conditions, yield losses are also to
be expected for corn.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rudy Ruitenberg  in Paris at 
 rruitenberg@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        