-- Goldman Sachs's Fabrice Tourre Disputes Fraud Charges by SEC in Filing
-- Christine Harper
-- 2010-07-19T22:42:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-19/goldman-s-tourre-disputes-sec-s-fraud-allegations-knew-of-paulson-s-role.html

          
          
             Fabrice Tourre , the  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc.  executive director sued by the Securities and
Exchange Commission for fraud, disputed regulators’ allegations
in a filing today.  
 Tourre in his filing today in federal court in Manhattan
denied wrongdoing and said he was aware that hedge fund Paulson
& Co. “was considering taking some or all of the short side”
of a transaction involving the 2007 sale of a collateralized
debt obligation called Abacus 2007-AC1 that was linked to
subprime mortgages.  
 Tourre responded four days after Goldman Sachs, the most
profitable  securities firm  in Wall Street history, agreed to
settle its role in the case for $550 million. The firm also will
cooperate in the SEC’s investigation of Tourre, 31, who remains
an employee. Tourre is on leave and his legal expenses are being
paid by New York-based Goldman Sachs.  
 “The purported claims against Mr. Tourre and the
allegations upon which they are based are improperly vague,
ambiguous and confusing, and omit critical facts,” the filing
said. “Mr. Tourre, a French citizen and engineer by training,
reasonably relied on Goldman Sachs’ institutional process to
ensure adequate legal review and disclosure of material
information, and cannot be held liable for any alleged failings
of that process.”  
 April Testimony  
 In April, Tourre testified alongside two Goldman Sachs
colleagues and one former employee at a  Senate  subcommittee
hearing about the company’s business practices. Tourre, 31, told
the panel he planned to fight the suit.  
 Lloyd C. Blankfein , Goldman Sachs’s chairman and chief
executive officer, also testified about the firm’s mortgage-
securities business in the years leading up to the biggest
financial crisis since the Great Depression.  
 The dispute revolves around the 2007 sale of a
collateralized debt obligation called Abacus 2007-AC1. Goldman
Sachs created and sold the CDO, which was linked to subprime
mortgages, without disclosing to investors  ACA Management LLC 
and  IKB Deutsche Industriebank AG  that Paulson & Co. helped pick
the underlying securities and bet against the vehicle, the SEC
said.  
 Mistake  
 Goldman Sachs didn’t admit or deny wrongdoing in the SEC
accord, disclosed on July 15. The firm acknowledged it made a
“mistake” and that marketing materials tied to the offering
had “incomplete information,” according to the agency.  
 In its complaint, the SEC alleged that Tourre misled ACA
into thinking that Paulson planned to invest in the equity, or
riskiest piece, of the deal instead of betting against it by
buying credit protection.  
 In a March 7, 2007, e-mail released by the firm, Tourre
described the U.S. subprime mortgage market as “not too
brilliant” and that one of the firm’s managers told him the
“poor little subprime borrowers will not last too long!!!”  
 In another e-mail released by the firm, Tourre said an
index tied to derivatives trading in the market was “like
Frankenstein.”  
 Senator  Tom Coburn , a Republican from Oklahoma who serves
on the Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations, repeatedly
questioned Tourre and other Goldman Sachs executives on why the
firm decided to release Tourre’s e-mails, including some that
seemed unrelated to the hearing.  
 “If I worked for Goldman Sachs, I’d be real worried that
somebody has made a decision, ‘he’s going to be a whipping boy,
he’s the guy that’s getting hung out to dry,’” Coburn told
Blankfein during the hearing.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Christine Harper  in New York at 
 charper@bloomberg.net ;  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Fabrice Tourre waits to testify at a Senate Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs subcommittee hearing in Washington, in April. Photographer: Andrew Harrer/Bloomberg  
                   
    

 
     
         Audio Download:  Hintz Calls Goldman's SEC Settlement a `Win for Both' 
     
         

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
