-- Government `Disappointed' by Montreal Port Work Stoppage, Urges New Talks
-- Doug Alexander
-- 2010-07-19T21:28:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-19/government-disappointed-by-montreal-port-work-stoppage-urges-new-talks.html

          
          
             The Canadian government is
“disappointed” by a work stoppage that began today at the port
of Montreal and is monitoring the situation “closely,”
according to a statement by Labour Minister  Lisa Raitt .  
 Raitt urged the port and the union to resume talks,
according to the statement. The Maritime Employers Association,
which represents shipping companies and negotiates with port
workers in Montreal, Toronto and other Canadian cities,
yesterday imposed a lockout on 850 longshoremen starting today,
saying it can’t accept the gap between the amount of hours
employees get paid for and the hours they work.  
 “MEA’s management hopes that this situation will prompt
union representatives to look more realistically at the
challenges ahead for the maritime sector,” the statement said.  
 The port handles as much as 80 percent of consumer goods
destined for Quebec and eastern Ontario, including alcohol for
the Liquor Control Board of Ontario, said Gilles Corriveau, an
MEA spokesman.  
 The conflict centers on the number of workers who are
guaranteed full-time pay even if they aren’t called into work,
Corriveau said, adding that the cost of the program has doubled
in the past five years. The employer wants to reduce the number
by about 13 percent, he said.  
 About 24.5 million metric tonnes of cargo passed through
the port of Montreal last year, according to the MEA’s  website .
The port directly or indirectly supports more than 17,600 jobs,
according to the Port of Montreal  website .  
 Monitoring ‘Closely’  
 “We have suspended our train service for the time being,”
 Canadian National Railway Co.  spokeswoman Julie Senecal said in
a telephone interview from Montreal. “We’re monitoring the
situation closely.”  
 The port  handles  containers, liquid bulk such as gasoline
and jet fuel, and dry bulk such as iron ore and raw sugar. The
port operates its own grain terminal and has its own rail
network.  
 “I was surprised last night when I heard that,” said
Daniel Tremblay, president of the longshoremen’s union, which is
part of the Canadian Union of Public Employees. He said the
union is ready to negotiate and that the lockout will hurt the
maritime industry.  
 “We’ve advised our customers that as of tomorrow morning
we’re no longer in a position to accept any export container
traffic at other inland terminals that would be destined to the
port of Montreal,” said Breanne Feigel, spokeswoman for
Calgary-based  Canadian Pacific Railway Ltd.   
 She said grain shipments wouldn’t be affected and the rest
of CP’s network is operating normally.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alexandre Deslongchamps  in Ottawa at 
 adeslongcham@bloomberg.net ;
 Doug Alexander  in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        