-- Griffon to Buy Toolmaker Ames True Temper for $542 Million, Including Debt
-- Chris Burritt
-- 2010-07-19T20:28:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-19/griffon-to-buy-toolmaker-ames-true-temper-for-542-million-including-debt.html

          
          
             Griffon Corp. , the New York-based
maker of radar systems and garage doors, agreed to buy Ames True
Temper Inc. for about $542 million, including debt, to expand
into garden tools in its biggest acquisition to date.  
 The transaction will be funded with $75 million in cash and
$500 million in debt financing, Chief Executive Officer  Ron Kramer  said in an interview. The deal probably will add to cash
flow and earnings per share in fiscal 2011, according to the
company.  
 The acquisition boosts Griffon’s annual  revenue  by about a
third through sales of wheelbarrows, shovels and other tools for
maintaining gardens and lawns. Griffon, which has posted four
straight quarters of profit, plans to use its ties to retailers
like  Home Depot Inc.  to help spur sales, he said.  
 “We’re starting to use our financial power to go and buy
quality businesses,” said Kramer, 51.  
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  served as an adviser to Griffon.
The New York-based investment firm owned 10 million shares, or
almost 17 percent of Griffon, as of March 31, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Griffon’s market value amounted to almost
$700 million as of July 16.  
 Griffon outbid private-equity firms in an auction managed
by Credit Suisse Group AG and UBS AG, said Kramer, declining to
identify the rival bidders. Castle Harlan Inc., a New York
buyout firm, and the toolmaker’s management have owned Ames True
Temper for about six years.  
 Kramer said he’s reviewed “dozens” of possible
 transactions  during the past year. He pursued Ames True Temper
because the tools the company sells to Home Depot complement its
garage doors, which are also available at the U.S. home-
improvement retailer.  
 Other Opportunities  
 Home Depot accounted for 30 percent of Ames True Temper’s
sales last year, followed by Lowe’s Cos. at 20 percent,
according to regulatory filings. Ames True Temper also sells to
Wal-Mart Stores Inc., the world’s biggest retailer.  
 The purchase of Camp Hill, Pennsylvania-based Ames True
Temper probably will close by Sept. 30, according to Griffon.
 Duane Greenly  will remain CEO of Ames True Temper, and no cuts
to the toolmaker’s 1,600-person workforce are planned, Kramer
said.  
 Buying Ames True Temper will leave Griffon with more than
$100 million in free cash, which is “plenty of firepower within
the company to go and do another deal at least this size,”
Kramer said.  
 Castle Harlan acquired Ames True Temper in 2004 along with
management, which owns about 13 percent, according to the
toolmaker’s annual securities filing.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Chris Burritt  in Greensboro, North Carolina, at   cburritt@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        