-- Miami-Dade $523 Million Bond Is Week's Biggest Issue as Muni Yields Dive
-- Simone Baribeau
-- 2010-07-19T04:00:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-19/miami-dade-523-million-bond-is-week-s-biggest-issue-as-muni-yields-dive.html

          
          
             Florida’s largest county and second-
largest city will compete for investors this week with $627.1
million of bond sales as municipal yields fell to a record low.  
 Miami-Dade County will offer $523.5 million of revenue
bonds to finance its expansion of Miami International Airport,
the largest U.S. gateway to Latin America. The City of Miami
will sell $103.6 million of revenue bonds for a parking garage
at a baseball stadium being built for the Florida Marlins.  
 Municipal borrowers plan about $6.3 billion of sales this
week, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg, down from $6.9
billion last week, when cash from maturing debt helped push
yields on top-rated tax-exempt securities to a  six-week low 
relative to benchmark Treasury rates.  
 “The trend is our friend, and I could see them going
lower,” said  Alan Schankel , director of fixed-income research
at Janney Montgomery Scott LLC in Philadelphia. “There’s a lot
of pent-up investor demand --  visible supply  is under $8 billion
at the moment, which is lower than average -- so I think it will
be a good week.”  
 Yields on top-rated, tax-exempt general obligations fell 1
basis point July 16 to an average of  2.88 percent , the lowest in
at least nine-and-a-half years, from about 3.2 percent in mid-
June, according to Municipal Market Advisors data dating to
January 2001. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  
 The Miami-Dade bonds, the largest sale of the week, will
finance an expansion of Miami International Airport of about $6
billion that includes two new terminals, a transportation hub
and additional cargo areas. Revenue backing the interest
payments will come mostly from fees generated by the airport,
American Airlines’ largest international hub.  
 40-Year Maturity  
 “Interest rates have come down over the last 10 days, so
it’s our anticipation that they’ll continue to be good for us,”
said Frank Hinton, a bond analyst with the county who said
maturities on the bonds will be for as long as 40 years.  
 The bonds, marketed by a group led by JPMorgan Chase & Co.,
are rated fourth-lowest, at A-, by Standard & Poor’s, and fifth-
lowest at Moody’s Investors Service, at A2, and Fitch Ratings,
at A.  
 Miami-Dade County sold $600 million of aviation revenue
bonds in January. A segment of that issue maturing in 2035 sold
on July 12 at an average yield of 5.07 percent, or 40 basis
points lower than when they were first offered, according to
Bloomberg data.  
 Twenty-five-year transportation revenue bonds with a
similar rating yield about 5.14 percent on average, down from
5.21 percent on the day of the Miami-Dade January sale,
according to  Bloomberg Fair Value  data.  
 Delayed Sale  
 The sale by Miami, the state’s second-biggest city by
population after Jacksonville with about 400,000 residents, was
originally authorized in October. It was delayed in December
after the Securities and Exchange Commission began investigating
Miami bond sales in 2007 and 2009 over whether the city properly
disclosed budget gaps to investors.  
 The parking issue consists of $86.7 million of tax-exempt
and $16.9 million of taxable bonds. Revenue for interest
payments will come from fees on as many as 6,000 parking spaces
in a garage the city will build as its contribution to the $642
million stadium project underway in the Little Havana section of
downtown Miami. The stadium is scheduled to open in time for the
2012 baseball season.  
 Miami added insurance to the issue after S&P and Moody’s
cut their credit ratings on the city, citing operating deficits
and rising pension and health-care costs.  
 Biggest Portion  
 The sale’s biggest portion is $39.4 million of bonds due in
25 years, according to a deal summary forwarded by the city’s
communications office. Insured revenue bonds with a comparable
maturity and rating yield about  4.87 percent , the lowest since
January, according to Bloomberg Fair Value Indexes. The fair
value yield is about 59 basis points  above  top-rated, tax-exempt
25-year municipals, about double the level from a year earlier,
according to MMA data.  
 The underlying bonds are rated third-lowest investment
grade by S&P, at BBB+, and fifth-lowest, at A2, by Moody’s. The
insured bonds took on the ratings of their insurer, Assured
Guaranty Municipal Corp., rated highest by S&P, at AAA, and
fourth-highest, at Aa3, by Moody’s.  
 Following are descriptions of pending sales of municipal
debt in the U.S.:  
 NEW YORK CITY, the third-largest U.S. municipal borrower,
plans to sell $800 million in general-obligation bonds the week
of July 26 to refinance debt. The bonds, rated Aa2 by Moody’s
and AA by S&P and Fitch, all third-highest, will be marketed by
a group led by Barclay’s Plc. (Added July 15)  
 PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK AND NEW JERSEY, which operates
transportation services in 17 counties between the two states,
plans to sell $400 million in tax-exempt bonds as early as this
week. The securities, rated third-highest, at Aa2, by Moody’s,
will be used for capital-improvement projects. (Added July 19)  
 THE PUBLIC UTILITIES COMMISSION OF THE CITY AND COUNTY OF
SAN FRANCISCO , the third-largest municipal utility in California
and which provides water to more than 2.4 million customers,
plans to issue about $454 million in bonds as early as this
week. The majority of the offering, about $387 million, are
scheduled as Build America Bonds. Securities from the utility
company are rated third-highest, at Aa2, by Moody’s, and fourth-
highest, at AA-, by S&P. (Added July 19)  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Simone Baribeau  in New York at 
 sbaribeau@bloomberg.net ;
 Esmé E. Deprez  in New York at 
 edeprez@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        