-- IBM Sales Miss Estimates on Currency Rates, Services Contracts
-- Katie Hoffmann
-- 2010-07-19T23:37:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-19/ibm-s-second-quarter-sales-miss-estimates-on-currency-rates-shares-fall.html

          
          
             International Business Machines
Corp. , the world’s biggest computer-services company, fell in
late trading after the company reported revenue that missed
analysts’ estimates and a decline in services-contract signings.  
 Revenue  last quarter rose 2 percent to $23.7 billion, the
Armonk, New York-based company said today. Analysts on average
estimated $24.2 billion, according to a Bloomberg survey.
Currency fluctuations reduced sales by $500 million, IBM said.  
 Services signings declined 12 percent to $12.3 billion,
suggesting corporate customers are delaying projects even as the
economy recovers. It’s the second straight quarterly decline in
contracts for services, which makes up more than half of IBM’s
total revenue. Shares fell as much 4.3 percent in late trading.  
 “Investors simply want to see a bit more in terms of
revenue and bookings,” said  Andy Miedler , a St. Louis-based
analyst at Edward Jones who rates the shares “buy.” “The
market is in ‘show-me’ mode. You can’t just tell us you’re going
to do this.”  
 IBM also boosted its full-year profit forecast to at least
$11.25 a share, missing analysts’ average estimate of $11.28.
The company had previously projected profit of at least $11.20.  
 Signings declined last quarter as many customers didn’t
renew contract extensions while some clients put off closing
contracts until the current quarter, Chief Financial Officer
 Mark Loughridge  said on a conference call.  
 Loughridge cautioned against viewing the results as a sign
of “a pullback in spending.” The rollover of deals into the
current quarter “should accelerate performance in the
outsourcing signings,” he said.  
 Shares Fall  
 IBM fell as much as $5.59 to $124.20 in extended trading
after reporting the results. The stock closed at $129.79 in New
York Stock Exchange composite trading and has lost less than 1
percent this year.  
 IBM gets almost a third of its revenue from Europe, whose
currency fell 9.4 percent against the dollar last quarter.
Although the impact from foreign-exchange rates was anticipated,
not all analysts took it into account with their estimates, said
Deutsche Bank AG analyst  Chris Whitmore .  
 “It’s going to be a headwind,” said San Francisco-based
Whitmore, who  rates  the shares “buy” and doesn’t own them.  
 Net income  climbed to $3.39 billion, or $2.61 a share,
compared with $3.1 billion, or $2.32, a year earlier. Analysts
 estimated  earnings of $2.58 a share.  
 Currency fluctuations hurt profit by about 10 cents to 11
cents, Loughridge said on the call. IBM also said it would
introduce its new mainframe computer, part of its System z
series, this week.  
 Acquisition Outlook  
 Chief Executive Officer  Sam Palmisano  expects IBM to almost
double operating earnings to $20 per share by 2015, as he
continues to focus on more profitable software and services
businesses. The software segment, the company’s most profitable,
will make up about half of total profit in five years, Palmisano
has said.  
 Palmisano plans to make about $20 billion in  acquisitions 
in the timeframe. IBM is investing in markets such as analytics
software, which helps companies predict trends, and cloud
computing, which lets them store and access information on
shared servers. The company is also developing services to
monitor highways, electrical grids and other infrastructures to
help them run more efficiently.  
 Increased sales of those technologies, along with growth
markets such as Brazil and China, will add $20 billion to
revenue by 2015, IBM has said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Katie Hoffmann  in New York at 
 khoffmann4@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Chief Executive Officer Sam Palmisano expects IBM to almost double operating earnings to $20 per share by 2015, as he continues to focus on more profitable software and services
businesses. Photographer: Paul Morse/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 20 (Bloomberg) -- Rob Enderle, president and principal analyst at consultant Enderle Group in San Jose, California, talks with Bloomberg's Susan Li about the outlook for U.S. technology stocks.
     International Business Machines Corp., the world's biggest computer-services company, reported sales that missed analysts' estimates as demand for services slowed and the falling euro weighed on revenue. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 19 (Bloomberg) -- Paul Meeks, equity analyst at Capstone Investments Inc., talks about  International Business Machines Corp.'s second-quarter earnings.
     IBM, the world’s biggest computer-services company, reported sales that missed analysts’ estimates as demand for services slowed and the falling euro weighed on revenue. Meeks talks with Carol Massar, Matt Miller, Dominic Chu and Adam Johnson on Bloomberg Television's "Street Smart." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 19 (Bloomberg) -- Brian Jacobsen, chief portfolio strategist at Wells Fargo Funds Management LLC, talks with Bloomberg's Mark Crumpton about the outlook for technology earnings.
     Santa Clara, California-based Intel Corp., whose processors run more than 80 percent of the world’s personal computers, last week reported record second-quarter sales and topped analysts’ estimates with its forecast for the current period. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
