-- Iceland Loan Ruling May Hurt Bank Revival, Fitch Says
-- Omar R. Valdimarsson
-- 2010-07-19T15:28:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-19/iceland-foreign-loan-ruling-likely-to-derail-bank-recovery-fitch-warns.html

          
          
             Iceland’s efforts to restore
financial stability and scale back  capital controls  are at risk
after a ruling last month made banks liable for foreign currency
losses on some retail and corporate loans,  Fitch Ratings  said.  
 The June 16 decision by Iceland’s Supreme Court, which
banned loans indexed to foreign exchange rates, may cost lenders
as much as $4.3 billion, equivalent to one third of Iceland’s
2009 economic production, Finance Minister Steingrimur Sigfusson
said earlier this month.  
 “It is likely to have negative implications for the
stability of the financial system, the public finances and the
timing of any economic recovery,” Fitch Senior Director Paul Rawkins said in a July 16 e-mailed reply to questions.  
 The ruling threatens to derail Iceland’s efforts to rebuild
relations with international investors almost two years after
the island’s financial system collapsed.  Iceland , the fifth-
richest nation per capita as recently as 2007, faces litigation
from creditors in the island’s banks, who sought to limit their
losses last year by becoming shareholders, according to Arni
Tomasson, the head of Glitnir Bank hf’s winding up committee.  
 Fitch rates Iceland’s government debt one level below
investment grade at BB+ with a negative outlook.  
 “Doubts are likely to persist over the restoration of
Iceland’s access to international capital markets and the
liberalization of capital controls,” Rawkins said.  
 Moody’s Monitoring ‘Closely’  
 Iceland’s long-term foreign-currency debt is rated Baa3
with a stable outlook at Moody’s Investors Service and BBB- with
a negative outlook at Standard & Poor’s. Both rating companies
give Iceland their lowest investment grades.  
 Moody’s said today it may lower Iceland’s credit grade if
the June 16 ruling “results in renewed stress in the financial
system,” in a credit opinion. “Moody’s will closely monitor
the implementation of the ruling and any potential impact on the
government balance sheet and the viability of the new banking
system.”  
 Iceland targets the removal of capital restrictions in
August 2011, when the  International Monetary Fund  is due to
complete its program with the island, Economy Minister Gylfi Magnusson said on April 22.  
 “It’s obvious that removing the capital controls is a long
way off for Iceland,” said Gisli Hauksson, an economist at GAM
Management in Reykjavik, in a phone interview. “Such attempts
today, taking into account the instability of Iceland’s
finances, would be foolhardy.”  
 IMF Review Delayed  
 The IMF on June 28 delayed its third review of Iceland’s
program until the beginning of September, following the court’s
decision. The review had been planned to take place in July or
August.  
 The June 16 ruling may curb the pace of interest rate cuts
needed to galvanize a recovery, central bank Governor Mar Gudmundsson said on June 23. The bank cut its benchmark interest
rate by half a point to 8 percent last month, having reduced it
from a record 18 percent since adopting the IMF’s program at the
end of 2008.  
 Iceland’s financial crisis was exacerbated by banks that
borrowed in currencies such as Japanese yen and Swiss francs to
take advantage of lower  interest rates , then repackaged them as
kronur loans for clients. The krona has lost 39 percent against
the yen and 30 percent against the franc since Sept. 15, 2008.  
 ‘Protracted’ Crisis  
 The ruling may force some banks to close as losses push
capital adequacy ratios below the regulator’s 16 percent minimum
requirement, said  Financial Supervisory Authority  Director
Gunnar Andersen, in a July 9 interview.  
 The government, which is relying on a $4.6 billion IMF-led
loan, says a second bank bailout would be a “severe blow” to
its finances. Creditors, including  Royal Bank of Scotland Group
Plc  and Credit Agricole Vita SpA, became shareholders in the
banks after a state takeover in 2008.  
 The government is struggling to pay down a gross debt
burden that will swell to 150 percent of economic output next
year, including a loan to cover depositor claims in the U.K. and  Netherlands , Moody’s estimates.  
 Arion Bank, the successor to failed Kaupthing Bank hf,
Islandsbanki, which was created out of Glitnir, and NBI, the
successor to Landsbanki Islands hf, say the impact last month’s
court decision will have on their assets is as yet unclear.  
 “Banking crises are invariably protracted affairs that
have the potential to inflict extensive damage on the
sovereign’s balance sheet,” Rawkins said. “Iceland is proving
no different from previous sovereign crises in this respect.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Tasneem Brogger in  London  at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net 
Omar R. Valdimarsson in Reykjavik 
 valdimarsson@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at 
 wmorris@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     A pedestrian enters the Landsbanki Islands hf headquarters in Reykjavik, Iceland on Tuesday, Oct. 7, 2008. Photographer: Arnaldur Halldorsson/Bloomberg News  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Local properties are reflected in windows at the Kaupthing Bank in Reykjavik, Iceland, on Tuesday, Oct. 7, 2008. Photographer: Arnaldur Halldorsson/Bloomberg News  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
