-- India Inflation May Exceed Forecasts on Increasing Fuel Costs, Survey Says
-- Pratik Parija
-- 2010-07-19T01:17:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-19/india-s-inflation-rate-may-exceed-forecasts-on-fuel-costs-survey-predicts.html

          
          
             India’s inflation rate may exceed
government forecasts by yearend as higher fuel costs fan prices,
while “premature and aggressive monetary policy action” may
restrain economic growth, according to a survey of economists.  
 “The full impact of fuel price revision on inflation
numbers is yet to be seen,” according to most of the 14
economists surveyed by the Federation of Indian Chambers of
Commerce & Industry. “While normalization of the monetary
policy is expected and the  Reserve Bank of India  would continue
to tighten rates in the months ahead, premature and aggressive
rollback of easy money policy can jeopardize growth.”  
 India’s central bank may this month raise interest rates
for a fourth time since mid-March, seeking to quell inflation as
growth accelerates in Asia’s fastest growing major economy after
China. The government last month raised gasoline and diesel
prices as part of measures to reduce the nation’s deficit.  
 Wholesale prices  may increase by between 6 percent and 8
percent by December, according to most of the economists in the
quarterly survey, which didn’t provide a breakdown of estimates.
That compares with the 5 percent to 6 percent pace forecast by
 Montek Singh Ahluwalia , deputy chairman of India’s planning
commission on July 14.  
 Most of the economists expect borrowing costs to be raised
by a quarter of a percentage point at the next scheduled
monetary policy meeting on July 27, the survey found. The
reverse repurchase  rate  is 4 percent and the repurchase rate is
5.5 percent.  
 The benchmark wholesale-price  index  rose 10.55 percent in
June from a year earlier, a government report showed July 14.
Prices jumped 11.23 percent in April, the most in 19 months.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Pratik Parija  in New Delhi at 
 pparija@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        