-- Inflation Will Quicken in July on Fuel, Government's Top Statistician Says
-- Tushar Dhara
-- 2010-07-19T12:18:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-19/india-inflation-to-accelerate-in-july-government-s-top-statistician-says.html

          
          
             India’s inflation will accelerate in
July, the government’s top statistician said, increasing
pressure on the central bank to raise interest rates next week
for a fourth time in five months.  
 “The  inflation  number in July will be higher than in June,
in large measure because of what has happened to fuel prices,”
T.C.A. Anant, 52, said in a July 16 interview in New Delhi,
without providing details. The benchmark wholesale-price index
jumped 10.55 percent in June after climbing 11.23 percent in
April, the most in 19 months, a report showed last week.  
 Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s government on June 25
allowed state-run refiners including Indian Oil Corp. to raise
prices of gasoline and diesel in a bid to cut its oil subsidy
and narrow the budget deficit. Governor  Duvvuri Subbarao  is due
to announce the next monetary policy decision on July 27.  
 “The full impact of the fuel price revision on inflation
numbers is yet to be seen,” the New Delhi-based Federation of
Indian Chambers of Commerce & Industry said in a report on July
17. “While normalization of the monetary policy is expected and
the Reserve Bank of India would continue to tighten rates in the
months ahead, premature and aggressive rollback of easy money
policy can jeopardize growth.”  
 Subbarao has increased the  reverse repurchase  and
repurchase rates by three-quarters of a percentage point since
mid-March. The reverse repurchase rate is 4 percent and the
repurchase rate is 5.5 percent.  
 Monetary Tightening  
 Most of the 14 economists surveyed by the Federation of
Indian Chambers expect borrowing costs to be raised by a
quarter-point on July 27, according to the report.  
 Most Indian stocks fell after Anant’s comments. Nineteen of
the 30 stocks fell on the benchmark  Sensitive Index , which lost
0.2 percent at the 3:30 p.m. close in Mumbai. The yield on
India’s 10-year bond fell two basis points, or 0.02 percentage
point, to 7.62 percent.  
 Anant, who taught econometrics at the Delhi School of
Economics before taking over as the top bureaucrat in the
statistics ministry on July 1, said he expects inflation to slow
to between 6 percent and 7 percent by November.  
 “I am banking primarily on the fact that I expect better
arrivals on the agricultural front,” said Anant, who holds a
doctorate from Cornell University.  
 Food costs accounted for only 28 percent of the June
inflation reading, less than half the level in January. The
weather office forecasts the June-September monsoon rains, the
main source of irrigation in India, will be sufficient for
farming.  
 Indian farmers planted more rice, oilseeds and sugar cane
as rains swept across the country nine days before they usually
do, the agriculture ministry said this month. Last year’s rains
were the weakest since 1972.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tushar Dhara  in New Delhi at 
 tdhara1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        