-- Apollo Investment's Innkeepers USA Trust Files for Bankruptcy in New York
-- Tiffany Kary
-- 2010-07-19T21:21:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-19/innkeepers-usa-apollo-investment-unit-files-for-bankruptcy-in-new-york.html

          
          
             Innkeepers USA Trust , a hotel
investment company owned by a vehicle managed by an affiliate of
 Leon Black ’s Apollo Investment Corp., filed for bankruptcy
protection after room revenue fell and debt payments rose.  
 The Palm Beach, Florida-based company with a stake in 72
U.S. hotels owes more than $1 billion, according to Chapter 11
documents filed today in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in Manhattan. A
prearranged plan supported by franchisor Marriott International
Inc. will let Innkeeper’s retain its properties as it
reorganizes, Innkeeper’s Chief Financial Officer  Dennis Craven 
said.  
 “Although the Debtors’ business model is sound, their
operating losses from decreased room revenue, significant
liquidity constraints, and considerable funded debt burden,”
drove the company to bankruptcy, Craven said in court documents.  
 Craven attributed the financial squeeze on the company to
cutbacks in business and consumer travel amid the economic
slowdown, exacerbated by higher fuel prices and an oversupply of
new hotels.  
 Marriott, the franchisor of 44 Inkeepers hotels, has agreed
to forbear on any claims to the properties. In exchange for
Innkeepers improving 23 of the Marriott-branded hotels, Marriott
will maintain the branding.  
 New Loans  
 The deal with Marriot was needed to negotiate new loans to
fund operations and also helps the company avoid costs that
would follow from any rebranding, Craven said.  
 Innkeepers has a $50.7 million loan from Five Mile Capital
Partners LLC to fund operations in bankruptcy. A $17 million
loan from Lehman will be used to improve those properties.  
 It intends to file a reorganization plan within 45 days,
and is seeking approval of its so-called debtor-in-possession
loans.  
 Innkeepers, which has stakes in hotels under the Residence
Inn, Hampton Inn and Hyatt Summerfield names, was led from its
inception in 1994 by  Jeffrey Fisher .  Apollo Investment Corp. ,
based in New York, bought the company for $1.5 billion in June
2007.  
 The company must take measures to “maintain sufficient
financial resources,” Innkeepers said in an April 13 statement
after it failed to make some monthly interest payments on debt.
The company hired advisers to evaluate options, including a
balance-sheet restructuring, according to the statement.  
 Apollo Investment, which is managed by an affiliate of New
York private-equity firm Apollo Global Management LLC, is a
fund, or so-called business development corporation, that
invests mainly in debt securities rather than buyouts.  
 Fair Value  
 Business development corporations are required to carry
their assets at fair value. Apollo Investment was holding its
$101 million in preferred equity in Innkeepers, the fund’s
biggest investment by cost, at $5.3 million as of Dec. 31,
according to a filing with the Securities and Exchange
Commission.  
 Innkeepers joins Extended Stay Hotels Inc., in bankruptcy
after its June 2009 filing. The midpriced chain, with more than
680 properties in 44 states, blamed its bankruptcy on decreased
revenue and high debt costs.  
 Extended Stay, the largest bankruptcy by a U.S. hotel
owner, won approval last month to sell its assets to
Centerbridge Partners LP, Paulson & Co. and the Blackstone Group
LP in a $3.9 billion deal.  
 Debt Reduction Deal  
 Hilton Worldwide, the hotel chain owned by Blackstone,
completed a deal in April to reduce debt by almost $4 billion.
Blackstone, the world’s largest private-equity firm, bought
Hilton in 2007 for $20 billion near the top of the real estate
market.  
 Linens ‘n Things Inc., formerly the second-largest home-
goods chain, filed for bankruptcy in 2008 following a $1.3
billion buyout in 2006 by Apollo Global Management, the private
equity firm that manages Apollo Investment Corp. through an
affiliate.  
 Innkeepers’ filing listed 92 affiliates.  
 An organizational chart for the company noted that 100
percent owner Apollo Investment and four units, including KPA
Raleigh LLC, are “non-debtor affiliates” of the units in
bankruptcy.  
 Secured Loan  
 The companies have incurred about $1.29 billion of secured
debt. The largest secured loan is a securitized mortgage loan
with Lehman ALI Inc. as the original lender with a face amount
of $825 million, court papers show.  
 Innkeepers seeks approval of a “plan support agreement”
that will give Lehman ALI all the stock in its reorganized
company to satisfy Lehman’s $238 million secured claim,
according to court documents.  
 The Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. unit lent the Apollo
vehicle $1.2 billion to finance the buyout of Innkeepers in 2007
as part of a quest for growth as a lender, according to a report
by bankruptcy examiner Anton Valukas. Another leveraged deal
that has since foundered, Blackstone’s purchase of Hilton, got
$1.5 billion from Lehman in 2007, Valukas said.  
 Merrill Lynch & Co. was a secured lender to three of
Innkeepers’ affiliates, including properties in Washington and
San Antonio, according to the filing. Bankrupt Capmark Financial
Group Inc. was also a secured lender.  
 “Our company is entering into this last phase of its
ongoing restructuring process in order to return to a position
of financial and operational strength,”  Marc Beilinson , the
company’s chief restructuring officer, said in a statement.  
 Innkeepers’ advisers on the bankruptcy include law firm
Kirkland & Ellis LLP, investment bank Moelis & Co. and
restructuring firm AP Services LLC, the company said in the
filing.  
 The case is In re Innkeepers USA Limited Partnership, 10-
13794, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tiffany Kary  in New York
at   tkary@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        