-- Insurer Losses Trigger Most Regulator Intervention in a Decade
-- Andrew Frye
-- 2010-07-19T04:00:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-19/insurer-losses-in-u-s-trigger-most-regulator-intervention-in-a-decade.html

          
          
             U.S. life and health insurers  were
subjected to regulatory intervention last year at the fastest
pace in a decade as they lost money on investments and promised
more to clients than they could deliver.  
 The industry “has yet to fully shake off some of the
lingering effects of the financial crisis,” Carole Ann King and
Joe Niedzielski, analysts with insurance company ratings firm
 A.M. Best , said in a report released today. Twelve insurers were
targeted for regulatory action last year, the most since 1999
when 24 carriers were deemed impaired. The number will probably
rise this year, A.M. Best said.  
 The biggest life insurers, led by  MetLife Inc.  and No. 2
 Prudential Financial Inc. , reported quarterly losses exceeding
$1 billion during the credit crisis. Investments soured during
the recession and guarantees made to policyholders weighed on
results when stock markets declined. Even after  profits returned 
to many carriers last year, Fitch Ratings warned of losses to
come on commercial mortgages.  
 “A.M. Best remains concerned with the industry’s exposure
to certain asset classes such as residential and commercial real
estate,” King and Niedzielski said.  
 State insurance regulators are responsible for monitoring
carriers’ finances and ensuring companies have enough money to
satisfy policyholder claims. The watchdogs are backed up by
state guaranty funds, which are supported by solvent insurers
and pay claims when regulated carriers can’t meet obligations.  
 Monitoring Insurers  
 “We are monitoring life and health insurers more closely
than in the past,” said Jerry Hagins, a spokesman for the Texas
Department of Insurance. “Life and health in particular,
because of the type of assets they hold, tend to be more
impacted by decline in investment markets.”  
 The Texas watchdog got an  order of liquidation  in June 2009
for Texas Memorial Life Insurance Co., a funeral benefit
carrier.  
 Penn Treaty Network America Insurance Co., the provider of
long-term care coverage for 120,000 customers, faced declining
capital last year because it didn’t charge enough for policies
sold in the 1990s, A.M. Best said. On Oct. 2, Pennsylvania
Insurance Commissioner  Joel Ario  sought the firm’s liquidation.
Penn Treaty may need more than $1 billion in additional funds to
pay claims, Ario’s office said in the Oct. 2 request.  
 Sellers of long-term care coverage, including Penn Treaty,
suffered after underestimating expenses, while the broader  life
insurance  industry reported losses after their forecasts for
stock-market appreciation proved too optimistic.  Hartford
Financial Services Group Inc.  and  Lincoln National Corp.  needed
U.S. bailouts last year after losses tied to promises of minimum
return on equity-based variable annuity retirement accounts.  
 Shenandoah  
 Shenandoah Life Insurance Co. was brought under the control
of the Virginia watchdog, which announced plans to sell the
company’s group business to  Assurant Inc.  Shenandoah was seized
after losing about $50 million on investments in mortgage-
finance firms Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. Shenandoah had assets
of $1.6 billion at the end of 2008, A.M. Best said.  
 “State law requires that we protect policyholders by
taking over an insurer when its finances weaken to a point where
further deterioration may lead to claims not being paid,”
California Insurance Commissioner  Steve Poizner  said in a
February  statement  on Golden State Mutual Life Insurance Co. The
regulator was appointed conservator of Golden State in 2009
after the company failed to post an operating profit for six
straight years, A.M. Best said.  
 Life and health insurers reported net income of $21.3
billion last year, compared with a loss of almost $53 billion in
2008 as investment writedowns narrowed, A.M. Best said.  
 Largest Insurers  
 MetLife, led by Chief Executive Officer  Robert Henrikson ,
shunned federal aid and instead pressed state regulators to
lower capital requirements. Neither New York-based MetLife nor
Prudential of Newark, New Jersey, was cited in the A.M. Best
report. Hartford, based in the Connecticut city of the same
name, and Philadelphia-based Lincoln were also excluded from the
report. Both firms repaid their U.S. aid this year.  
 U.S. insurers got about $7 billion of capital relief last
year from regulators on investments in residential mortgage-
backed securities, according to the National Association of
Insurance Commissioners. At a September hearing,  Eric Steigerwalt , head of finance at MetLife’s U.S. business, told
regulators that capital requirements protecting against RMBS
losses were “material, and in some cases excessive.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew Frye  in New York at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Robert Henrikson, chief executive officer of Metlife Inc., speaks at a forum in New York. Photographer: Ramin Talaie/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
