-- International Power, GDF Discuss Combining Assets
-- Tara Patel
-- 2010-07-19T16:11:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-19/international-power-gdf-may-combine-some-assets-in-gdf-controlled-company.html

          
          
             GDF Suez SA  started talks to gain
control of London-based International Power Plc as France’s
second-largest utility bids to expand power generation in the
Middle East and Asia.  
 The deal under discussion would join International Power
with Paris-based GDF’s units outside Europe and assets in the
U.K. and Turkey, the companies said today. The proposed
agreement would be a reverse takeover under London takeover
rules and make GDF the majority shareholder in the enlarged
company, the statement said.  
 International Power has interests in more than 45 power
stations, ranging from wind farms in Canada to gas-fired plants
in the United Arab Emirates and Thailand. Operating profit in
Asia and Australia grew 23 percent and 40 percent respectively
in 2009, compared with an 8 percent increase in profits from
European operation. GDF Suez is seeking to grow abroad and
expand in electricity generation.  
 “GDF Suez is mainly hot for the non-European assets and
the rest will probably end up being sold to other utilities,”
said  Sebastian Zank , an analyst with WestLB AG in Dusseldorf.
The utility will want to sell International Power’s more carbon
intensive assets to limit carbon emissions, he said.  
 International Power rose 10 percent in London to 350 pence
in London. The stock has risen 13 percent this year, valuing the
company at 5.3 billion pounds ($8.1 billion). GDF rose 25 cents
to 24.57 euros in Paris.  
 ‘Warrants Consideration’  
 The partnership “warrants consideration given the
strategic rational and potential synergies,” International
Power said. The utility is being advised by JP Morgan Cazenove
Plc, Morgan Stanley and Nomura Holdings Inc.  
 The reopening of discussions comes six months after talks
between the two companies broke down in January. For a deal to
be completed, International Power may have to pay existing
shareholders a special cash dividend, Bank of America Merrill
Lynch analyst  Fraser McLaren  said in a note to investors today.
Other options include offering existing shareholders a larger
stake in the new company or boosting dividend payments.  
 The deal could be worth as much as 400 pence a share,
McLaren said, rating the stock as a “buy.” Asset overlaps in
North America and the Middle East could lead to about 1 billion
pounds in cost savings, he said.  
 GDF Suez Energy International has about 32 gigawatts in
operation including in Brazil, Thailand and U.S. The utility’s
U.K. units include Europe’s largest combined-cycle gas turbine
electricity plant. The company is one of Turkey’s largest
natural gas distributors.  
 GDF Suez wants to “consolidate” positions in Thailand and
Singapore and grow in countries such as Vietnam, Indonesia,
South Africa, Turkey and Australia, executives said at a press
conference earlier this month.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kari Lundgren  in London at 
 klundgren2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Electricity power lines stand in the countryside. Photographer: Jason Alden/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     International Power has interests in more than 45 power stations and related businesses, ranging from wind farms in Canada to gas-fired plants in the United Arab Emirates and Thailand. Photographer: Norm Betts/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
