-- Intel, U.S. Federal Trade Commission Said to Be Near Antitrust Agreement
-- Jeff Bliss
-- 2010-07-19T21:01:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-19/intel-u-s-federal-trade-commission-said-to-be-near-antitrust-agreement.html

          
          
             Intel Corp.  and the  U.S. Federal
Trade Commission  are nearing an agreement as soon as this week
on the agency’s antitrust case against the world’s biggest
computer chipmaker, according to two people familiar with the
discussions.  
 The people, who requested anonymity because they weren’t
authorized to speak about the negotiations, said they didn’t
know the details of the emerging agreement.  
 The two sides have been negotiating since last month to
meet a self-imposed July 22 deadline to reach a settlement. If
successful, the talks would end a suit the FTC filed in December
against Santa Clara, California-based Intel.  
 “The discussions are ongoing,” said  Chuck Mulloy , a
spokesman for the company. “We have nothing to say at this
point.”  
 Reuters reported earlier today that Intel and the FTC had
reached a preliminary agreement that wouldn’t include a fine
against the company. The preliminary deal would limit Intel’s
use of volume discounts for its central processing units, the
main chips in personal computers, as well as chips that run
graphics, Reuters said.  
 The FTC doesn’t have the power on its own to levy civil
fines in antitrust cases. Peter Kaplan, an FTC spokesman,
declined to comment.  
 Intel accounts for more than 80 percent of global computer-
processor sales. The FTC accused Intel of illegally using its
dominant market share to stifle competition for a decade.  
 The suit was filed after Intel was fined by the European
Union in May 2009 and settled a civil case last November with
 Advanced Micro Devices Inc. , its closest competitor.  
 The settlement with Advanced Micro, based in Sunnyvale,
California, cost Intel $1.25 billion. That followed a record EU
fine of 1.06 billion euros ($1.45 billion at the time).  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jeff Bliss  in Washington   jbliss@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        