-- Intel, Yum Show Dual-Speed Economy as Tech Outperforms
-- Anthony Feld
-- 2010-07-19T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-19/intel-yum-show-two-track-u-s-recovery-as-investment-overtakes-consumers.html

          
          
             Intel Corp. Chief Executive Officer
 Paul Otellini  told investors July 13 he is seeing “renewed
economic momentum.” A day later, Yum! Brands Inc. Chief
Financial Officer  Richard Carucci  predicted “sustained
unemployment and a concerned U.S. consumer.”  
 The contrasting views of companies reporting second-quarter
earnings illustrate the two-speed economic recovery: Production
of business equipment has jumped 5 percent this year through
June, while consumer goods have risen 0.2 percent, Federal
Reserve data show.  
 Intel and  Illinois Tool Works  Inc. are benefiting as
companies replace outmoded equipment and software, while Yum,
the owner of Taco Bell and Pizza Hut, and toy maker Mattel Inc.
are lagging behind with a 9.5 percent  unemployment rate  taking a
toll on consumers. The durability of the investment boom and the
broader recovery will depend on the household demand that makes
up 70 percent of the U.S. economy, said economist  Joseph Carson .  
 “Companies with large international exposure and
particularly tied to capital spending and technology are leading
the pack” among businesses reporting earnings, said Carson,
director of economic research at AllianceBernstein LP in New
York. “To get a sustainable recovery, you need better job
growth, and the consumption will follow.”  
 The trend can be seen in the relative performance of
PowerShares QQQ, an exchange-traded fund that mimics the Nasdaq
100 Index, and the SPDR S&P Retail ETF, which reflects retail
stocks including Amazon.com Inc. and Best Buy Co.  
 Microsoft, Oracle  
 Since April, PowerShares QQQ, which includes  Microsoft
Corp.  and Oracle Corp., has outperformed the SPDR, reversing its
underperformance from November 2008 through March, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 “Corporations are starting to spend again, whereas the
balance sheet for consumers is still strapped and the
unemployment situation is not good,” said  John Massey , who
helps oversee $37 billion in investments as senior portfolio
manager at SunAmerica Asset Management Corp. in Jersey City, New
Jersey.  
 Massey predicts the superior performance of technology
shares such as Hewlett-Packard Co. and Microsoft will “last for
a couple of years.” SunAmerica owned 1.8 million shares of
 Hewlett-Packard  as of March 31, and also owned shares of Intel,
Cisco Systems Inc. and Oracle.  
 Of 49 companies in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
reporting second-quarter earnings as of July 16, 39 have
exceeded analysts’ estimates, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg News.  
 Policy Makers  
 The earnings reports reinforce the views of Fed policy
makers, who last month trimmed their forecasts for U.S. economic
growth this year to 3 percent to 3.5 percent and pledged to keep
 interest rates  near zero for an “extended period” to sustain
the recovery.  
 “Policy makers noted that firms’ investment in equipment
and software had advanced rapidly of late, and they anticipated
that such spending would continue to rise,” according to
minutes of their June 22-23 meeting released last week. “The
rise in consumer spending slowed in recent months after a brisk
increase in the first quarter.”  
 Investment  in equipment and software rose at an 11.4
percent annual pace in the first quarter, according to data from
the Commerce Department. The percentage of businesses expecting
capital spending to advance outpaced those forecasting a decline
by 25 points, according to a quarterly survey by the National
Association of Business Economics released today.  
 Topping Estimates  
 Santa Clara, California-based Intel, whose processors run
more than 80 percent of the world’s personal computers, last
week reported record second-quarter sales and topped analysts’
estimates with its forecast for the current period.  
 “Now that corporations have some breathing room in the
economy and their budgets, you’re starting to see those machines
that are four and five years old get refreshed,” Otellini said
on a conference call with investors.  
 Sales at St. Petersburg, Florida-based Jabil Circuit Inc.,
which manufactures electronics for companies including Cisco
Systems and LG Electronics Inc., reached a record $3.46 billion
in the three months ended May 31, surpassing its pre-recession
peak.  
 “Many companies delayed their procurement of IT-related
capital expenditures throughout the recession and there’s
certainly a significant catch-up,” Chief Executive Officer
 Timothy L. Main  said on a conference call.  
 Glenview, Illinois-based Illinois Tool Works said revenue
rose 21 percent for the three months ended May 31, with sales
increasing across all its markets.  
 The outlook for machinery makers and technology companies
remains strong, recent data indicate.  
 Industrial Production  
 The Fed’s July 15 report on industrial production showed
output of business equipment rose 0.9 percent in June, the
fourth straight gain. Production of consumer goods fell 0.6
percent last month, the third decline this year.  
 Retailers aren’t likely to do as well, with spending
restrained by unemployment that’s forecast by the Fed this year
to stay above 9 percent.  
 Confidence among U.S. consumers tumbled in July to the
lowest level in a year, according to the Thomson
Reuters/University of Michigan index of consumer sentiment
released on July 16. The figures showed a record-low share of
Americans expected their incomes will rise in the next 12
months.  
 Retail sales declined for a second month in June, falling a
greater-than-forecast 0.5 percent, according to a report last
week from the Commerce Department.  
 Taco Bell  
 Consumers are watching their spending, said  David Novak ,
Chief Executive Officer of Louisville, Kentucky-based Yum. The
company’s net income fell 6 percent to $286 million in the
second quarter. Revenue rose 4 percent to $2.57 billion.  
 The company’s $10 pizzas have been a “huge consumer hit,”
Novak said on a conference call on July 14. “Being premium-
priced in this kind of environment that we’re in right now is
certainly not the strategy anyone can pursue.”  
 Sales at Bethesda, Maryland-based Marriott International
Inc., the largest U.S. hotel chain, illustrate the two-speed
recovery.  
 “Clearly business travelers are on the road again” and
“demand is rising,” Chief Financial Officer  Carl Berquist  said
on a conference call July 15. On the other hand, leisure travel
is “a little bit of a challenge,” said President  Arne Sorenson .  
 Credit Cards  
 Shoppers are curtailing use of credit cards too, Citigroup
Inc. reported, with purchases using Citigroup-branded cards down
7 percent in the second quarter.  
 Landstar System Inc., a Jacksonville, Florida-based
trucking company, experienced moderating sales over the quarter,
with load volume increases of 24 percent in April from a year
earlier, 20 percent in May and 19 percent in June.  
 Slowing growth in stockpiles suggests companies are bracing
for weaker sales in coming months. Inventories in the U.S. rose
0.1 percent in May, the smallest gain this year.  
 “I don’t think anybody is building inventories in
anticipation of renewed consumer spending,”  Robert Eckert ,
chief executive of El Segundo, California-based Mattel, said in
a conference call on July 16.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Steve Matthews  in Atlanta at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net ;
 Anthony Feld  in New York at 
 afeld2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Paul Otellini, chief executive officer of Intel Corp.  
                       
                         
                           Jay Mallin/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Paul Otellini, chief executive officer of Intel Corp., speaks during an interview. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Paul Otellini, chief executive officer of Intel Corp., speaks during an interview. Photographer: Jay Mallin/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 19 (Bloomberg) -- Barry Knapp, head of U.S. equity strategy at Barclays Capital, talks with Bloomberg's Susan Li about corporate earnings.
     Speaking from New York, Knapp also discusses the outlook for the U.S. economy. (Source: Bloomberg)
  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
