-- Investors Bet Carney Will Pause Rate Rise Later This Year: Canada Credit
-- Greg Quinn
-- 2010-07-19T13:18:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-19/investors-bet-carney-will-pause-in-raising-interest-rates-later-this-year.html

          
          
             Bank of Canada Governor  Mark Carney 
won’t stray too far from his Group of Seven peers with interest
rate increases this year following tomorrow’s expected move, as
investors bet a fourth-quarter pause will limit a rise in short-
term bond yields.  
 The December bankers acceptances futures contract yield was
1.30 percent at 9:15 a.m. New York time, down from 1.61 percent
on June 10. The so-called BAX contracts have settled an average
of about 20 basis points above the central bank’s overnight
target since 1992, Bloomberg data show.  
 “The bank will have a bit of a pause after we get a couple
more rate hikes under the belt,” said  Michael Gregory , senior
economist at Bank of Montreal in Toronto. “The first part of
the curve to see that benefit will be the shorter securities.”  
 The bank has four rate decisions remaining this year,
including tomorrow’s at 9 a.m. New York time. The 20 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg unanimously  predict  Carney will raise the
bank’s policy rate for a second straight month by a quarter
point to 0.75 percent.  
 At its June 1 decision, the bank said future increases
would weigh progress in the domestic recovery against an uneven
global expansion. In the last month, reports have shown economic
growth  stalled  in April and  job creation  was faster-than-
expected in June, while the bank said June 21 that global
financial strains have increased since the end of last year.  
 The benchmark two-year government bond’s yield may remain
at about 1.6 percent at the start of the fourth quarter, near
the 1.56 percent it traded for at 9:15 a.m. Concern that slower
U.S. growth may hurt Canada’s economic recovery will hold
Canadian bond yields down as the central bank raises rates,
Gregory said.  
 “Standing on the Sidelines”  
 Bank of Nova Scotia cut its forecast for the two year bond
in the fourth quarter this month, to 1.9 percent from 2.15
percent in June. Carney will be “standing on the sidelines”
waiting for the U.S. Federal Reserve to move after increases
tomorrow and at the Sept. 8 decision, said  Derek Holt , economist
at Bank of Nova Scotia in Toronto.  
 Elsewhere in credit markets, the extra yield investors
demand to own Canadian corporate rather than federal government
debt narrowed on July 16 to 143 basis points, according to a
Bank of America Merrill Lynch index. A basis point is 0.01
percentage point.  
 The central bank on July 22 will also release a quarterly
economic forecast, followed by a press conference with Carney.
The Bank of Canada’s April Monetary Policy Report predicted
 economic growth  will slow to an annualized pace of 3.5 percent
in the third quarter, from the 6.1 percent rate seen between
January and March.  
 Consumer Inflation  
 Statistics Canada will probably report July 23 that
 consumer prices  advanced 0.9 percent in June from a year ago,
slower than May’s pace of 1.4 percent. Excluding eight volatile
items such as gasoline, inflation accelerated to 1.9 percent in
June from May’s 1.8 percent, according to a Bloomberg economist
survey.  
 Canada’s rate increase was the G-7’s first since a global
recession last year. With economists not expecting the Federal
Reserve to raise rates this year, further Canadian increases
could slow Canada’s recovery by boosting the country’s dollar
and curbing exports, said  Peter Dungan , an associate economics
professor at the University of Toronto.  
 “They might do a quarter for the next meeting or two to
get it up into the 1 percent range but at that point if there
are signs of weakness in the U.S. and the Canadian dollar was
flirting at par I think they would put it on hold for a while,”
Dungan said.  
 Inflation won’t “back up” bond yields, said  Mark Carpani ,
senior vice president at Ridgewood Capital Asset Management in
Toronto. “I don’t think there’s a lot of risk of them
ratcheting up much higher” because of inflation or the central
bank, he said.  
 Two-year bonds still won’t offer the best protection
against rising interest rates, Carpani said. “The mid-to-long
end of the curve represents the best value,” he said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Greg Quinn  in Ottawa at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        