-- InVentiv Health Plans Debt as Sales of Junk Bonds Surge: New Issue Alert
-- Katie Evans
-- 2010-07-19T10:52:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-19/inventiv-health-plans-debt-as-sales-of-junk-bonds-surge-new-issue-alert.html

          
          
             InVentiv Health Inc., the provider
of sales and marketing services that’s being acquired by Thomas
H. Lee Partners LP, is marketing debt after junk issuance
reached the highest weekly volume since April.  
 InVentiv Health  may offer $275 million of eight-year notes
as soon as July 28 to back the buyout, according to a person
familiar with the transaction who declined to be identified
because terms aren’t set. Sales of high-yield, high-risk, or
junk debt reached $3.3 billion last week, the most since the
period ended April 30 when issuance totaled $9.1 billion,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 New debt volume surged last week as companies reported
earnings that exceeded analyst forecasts.  Stephen Mahoney , a
money manager at Glenmede Trust Co. in Philadelphia, said he’s
“pretty pleased” with corporate earnings. U.S. Treasuries
rallied and spreads tightened on the week as absolute yields on
company debt declined.  
 “Corporate treasurers are doing the job they are getting
paid to do, which is they can issue debt at very cheap levels,”
said Mahoney, who oversees $4 billion in fixed-income assets.  
 Absolute yields on speculative grade debt fell 23 basis
points last week to 8.79 percent on July 16, according to the
Bank of America Merrill Lynch U.S. High Yield Master II. The
extra yield investors demand to own junk debt instead of
Treasuries narrowed 11 basis points to 677 basis points, the
index data show.  
 Profit Increase  
 Standard & Poor’s 500 companies are projected to increase
profits by 34 percent in 2010 and 18 percent in 2011, the
fastest two-year gain since 1995, according to analyst estimates
compiled by Bloomberg. Of the 23 companies in the S&P 500 that
reported since July 12, all but three have topped forecasts for
earnings-per-share, Bloomberg data show.  
 High-yield bonds have returned 1.92 percent this month
including reinvested interest, outperforming investment-grade
debt which returned 0.97 percent. Junk bonds are rated below
Baa3 by Moody’s Investors Service and BBB by S&P. A basis point
is 0.01 percentage point.  
 Mark Durbiano , head of high-yield at Federated Investors
Inc., attributes the surge in volume to rising prices driving
demand.  
 “When demand kicks up, supply will soon follow,” said
Durbiano, who oversees $4.5 billion of high-yield bonds, in a
telephone interview July 15. “That’s what you’re starting to
see and that will continue.”  
 Sales Surge  
 Total corporate bond sales reached $26.5 billion last week,
up 53 percent over the previous week, as the drop in 10-year
Treasury yields below 3 percent brought down absolute yields on
company debt.  
 Investment-grade yields sunk 18 basis points to 4.17
percent last week, the lowest since March 2004, according to
Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s U.S. Corporate Master index.
Investment grade spreads narrowed 6 basis points to 198 basis
points, the index data show.  
 S&P assigned InVentiv Health’s proposed senior unsecured
notes a B- rating. S&P lowered the issuer rating to B+ from BB-
on its “aggressive financial risk profile” and the “uncertain
environment for outsourced pharmaceutical services,” according
to credit analyst  Arthur Wong ’s comment in the report. Wong,
based in New York, and Michael G. Berrian, an S&P analyst based
in Boston who also wrote the report, couldn’t be reached for
further comment.  
 The Somerset, New Jersey-based InVentiv Health had
previously announced the sale in a May 6 regulatory filing that
didn’t disclose the maturity of the notes. InVentiv Health is
also seeking a $525 million term loan and $75 million revolving
line of credit to back its approximately $1.1 billion leveraged
buyout by Thomas H. Lee Partners.  
 Following is a description of at least $3.34 billion of
pending sales of dollar-denominated bonds in the U.S.  
 Investment Grade  
 NOMURA HOLDINGS INC.  Japan’s largest brokerage, plans to
sell dollar-denominated sukuk, or Islamic bonds, in Malaysia,
according to a July 6 company statement. Nomura may sell $100
million of Ijarah sukuk that will mature in 2012. The securities
will yield 160 basis points more than the London interbank
offered rate, said  Jamelah Jamaluddin , chief executive officer
of Kuwait Finance House (Malaysia) Bhd., a unit of Kuwait’s
biggest Islamic bank, the sale arranger. Standard & Poor’s
assigned a preliminary rating of BBB+ to the sukuk.  
 NASPERS LTD. hired Citigroup Inc., Barclays Capital and
JPMorgan Chase & Co. for a sale of bonds in dollars, according
to two people with knowledge of the transaction. The company
plans to meet with European, U.S. and Asian investors, the
people said. Moody’s Investors Service assigned a Baa3 rating to
the proposed notes, which will be issued through the Myriad
International Holdings B.V. unit. Proceeds will be used to repay
debt and for general corporate purposes, according to Moody’s.  
 CHILE plans to sell $1 billion of 10-year bonds, along with
warrants and peso debt, according to a filing with the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission. Chile will use the proceeds
for general purposes, the filing said. The country is seeking
financing for repairs after a Feb. 27 earthquake and subsequent
tsunami killed more than 400 people and caused as much as $30
billion of damage. Moody’s upgraded Chile’s rating to Aa3 from
A1 on June 16, citing “economic and financial resilience even
in the face of major adverse shocks, including February’s
historic earthquake.”  
 DOHA BANK QSC, Qatar’s third-largest bank, may raise as
much as $1 billion from bond sales, its chief executive officer
said. The money is likely to be raised for five years and is
meant to “fix the maturity mismatch” on the bank’s balance
sheet,  Raghavan Seetharaman  said in a June 16 telephone
interview from Doha. The bank hasn’t decided which currency to
sell the bonds in, he said. The lender said in April that it
planned to sell senior notes in dollars in a statement on the
Qatari bourse, without disclosing the size of the offering.  
 FORETHOUGHT FINANCIAL GROUP INC. plans to sell $150 million
of 10-year bonds, according to a person familiar with the
transaction, who declined to be identified because terms aren’t
set. S&P assigned the notes a grade of BBB- in a March 24
report.  
 Not Rated  
 The PROVINCE OF CORDOBA, Argentina, plans to sell as much
as $350 million of bonds in international markets once the
federal government completes a restructuring of defaulted debt,
Banco de Cordoba said.  
 SENSIENT TECHNOLOGIES CORP. said it entered into an
agreement with a group of four financial institutions for the
issuance of $110 million in fixed-rate, senior notes, according
to a Nov. 19 statement distributed by Business Wire. The company
plans to issue seven-year debt to repay existing indebtedness,
Sensient said in a March 1 regulatory filing.  
 High Yield  
 E-LAND FASHION CHINA HOLDINGS LTD, the Hong Kong-based
apparel products provider, hired Morgan Stanley to help it sell
$200 million of three-year bonds, according to a person familiar
with the matter. The company plans to begin meeting with
investors in Asia, Europe and the U.S. on July 19, said the
person who declined to be identified because terms aren’t set.
Moody’s Investors Service assigned the proposed notes a Ba2,
citing growing personal consumption in China, E-Land Fashion’s
moderate scale and significant business volatility. Proceeds
will be used for mainly for capital expenditures and general
corporate purposes, Moody’s said in the report.  
 ENERGYSOLUTIONS INC. , the Salt Lake City-based nuclear
services company, has amended its credit facility and plans to
refinance that debt with borrowings under new loans and an
offering of senior notes, the company said July 13 in a
statement distributed by Marketwire. Standard & Poor’s assigned
the proposed $300 million senior unsecured notes due 2018 a BB-
on July 15.  
 INTERACTIVE DATA CORP., the Pearson Plc unit that provides
financial market data and services, plans to sell $700 million
of notes due 2018 that will help fund the company’s buyout by
Silver Lake Technology Management LLC and Warburg Pincus LLC,
according to a person familiar with the offering who declined to
be identified because terms aren’t set. The Bedford,
Massachusetts-based company will also use a five-year, $160
million revolving line of credit and a 6.5-year, $1.33 billion
term loan to back the buyout. Moody’s Investors Services
assigned a Caa1 rating to the proposed securities on July 1.  
 CALUMET SPECIALTY PRODUCTS PARTNERS LP, the Indianapolis-
based refiner of specialty hydrocarbon products, plans to sell
$450 million of senior notes. Proceeds will be used to repay
bank debt, the company said in a July 12 statement distributed
by Business Wire. Calumet Specialty plans to market the 10-year
notes beginning through July 16, according to a person familiar
with the transaction. Standard & Poor’s assigned the notes a B
rating.  
 GENTIVA HEALTH SERVICES INC. , the U.S. home-nursing
company that is buying Odyssey HealthCare Inc., plans to sell
$305 million of eight-year notes, the Atlanta-based company said
in a May 24 regulatory filing, without specifying the timing of
the transaction. Proceeds will be used to help fund the
takeover, according to the filing. Standard & Poor’s assigned
the unsecured notes a B- credit rating on June 29. Moody’s
Investors Service rated the notes a grade of B2 and ranked $925
million of loans three steps higher at Ba2, it said in a report.  
 UNIVERSAL HEALTH SERVICES INC., the operator of more than
100 U.S. medical facilities that’s buying Psychiatric Solutions
Inc., plans to sell $400 million of senior unsecured debt to
help finance the acquisition, it said in a filing with the
Securities and Exchange Commission.  
 PROMSVYAZBANK OJSC , Russia’s third-largest private bank,
plans to sell $200 million of six-year loan participation notes
at a yield of 11.25 percent, according to two people with
knowledge of the sale.  
 TITAN INTERNATIONAL INC., the maker of tire and wheel
systems for off-highway equipment, said it plans to sell at
least $150 million of senior unsecured notes. Proceeds will be
used to repurchase the 8 percent senior unsecured notes due in
2012 and for general corporate purposes, the Quincy, Illinois-
based company said in a May 13 statement distributed by Business
Wire.  
 INVENTIV HEALTH INC., the provider of sales and marketing
services to science companies that is being acquired by Thomas
H. Lee Partners, may sell $275 million of senior notes to back
the purchase, it said in a regulatory filing. Standard & Poor’s
assigned a B- rating to the proposed notes due 2018. Moody’s
Investors Service assigned them a Caa1.  
 CZECH REPUBLIC plans to sell as much as $2 billion of
dollar bonds to diversify from koruna and euro debt,  Eduard Janota , whose term as finance minister ended this week, said in
an interview for Mlada Fronta Dnes  newspaper .  
 POTASH CORPORATION OF SASKATCHEWAN INC. , the world’s
largest fertilizer company by capacity, filed a registration
statement with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission for
$2 billion of debt securities.  
 INDONESIA plans to name three banks to help it sell
approximately $650 million of Islamic bonds in October, Dahlan
Siamat, director for Islamic financing at the finance ministry,
said in a telephone interview in Jakarta. The government sold
its first international Islamic dollar bonds in April 2009.  
 OAO GAZPROMBANK , the lending unit of Russia’s gas export
monopoly, hired Barclays Capital, Royal Bank of Scotland Group
Plc, and UBS AG to organize meetings with investors in Europe
and Asia starting July 5, according to two people with knowledge
of the transaction.  
 CORPORACION FINANCIERA DE DESAROLLO SA Peru’s state
development bank known as Cofide, plans to sell as much as $250
million of dollar-denominated bonds, according to Chief
Financial Officer Carlos Linares. Linares said in an interview
in Lima, that the lender is selling long-term debt as it boosts
lending to local infrastructure projects. “Peru’s need for
infrastructure is huge,” Linares said. “The government is
trying to promote foreign investment in a long list of
projects.”  
 SRI LANKA plans to sell dollar-denominated bonds, according
to its central bank. The South Asian country’s third-ever
overseas offering is likely after August, Central Bank of Sri
Lanka Assistant Governor C.J.P. Siriwardena said in a telephone
interview on June 30.  
 GEORGIAN RAILWAY LTD. plans to sell five-year bonds in
dollars that may be priced to yield about 10 percent, according
to two people with knowledge of the sale. The company hired Bank
of America Corp.’s Merrill Lynch unit and JPMorgan Chase & Co.
to manage the transaction.  
 JORDAN plans to sell about $500 million of bonds, Finance
Minister Mohammad Abu Hammour said in an interview on June 23.
The sale will be denominated in U.S. dollars “as it’s a stable
currency and the Jordanian dinar is pegged to it,” Abu Hammour
said.  
 URUGUAY may sell as much as $1 billion of bonds in 2011,
including $500 million of dollar-denominated debt,  Carlos Steneri , director of public credit at Uruguay’s Ministry of
Economy and Finance, said June 3 at a LatinFinance conference in
London. The dollar-denominated bonds may have a maturity of 20
years or more, Steneri said.  
 MALAYSIA plans to raise about $1 billion from its first
sale of conventional dollar bonds in eight years after drawing
bids for five times the Islamic debt it offered, a finance
ministry official said. The government may hire the same banks,
including CIMB Group Holdings Bhd. and HSBC Holdings Plc, to
arrange the sale by Sept. 30, said the official, who declined to
be named as the discussions are private. Malaysia raised $1.25
billion from a Shariah-compliant dollar bond on May 27. Malaysia
is rated A3 by Moody’s and A- by S&P.  
 INDOSAT PALAPA CO., a unit of Indonesia’s second-largest
phone operator, delayed a planned dollar bond sale until market
conditions improve, a person familiar with the matter said May
26. Indosat began meetings with investors in Asia, the U.S. and
Europe on May 12 to gauge demand for a global bond sale,
according to a company statement sent to the Indonesian stock
exchange that day. Moody’s assigned a provisional Ba1 rating to
the notes and S&P rated them BB, one step lower.  
 SABIC CAPITAL , a unit of Saudi Basic Industries Corp., will
sell bonds when market conditions and rates are favorable, its
vice president for corporate finance  Mutlaq al-Morished  told al-
Arabiya television in Dubai on June 16. Sabic delayed a bond
sale because of unfavorable spreads, al-Morished said in a May
26 telephone interview. Sabic Capital had hired HSBC Holdings
Plc, JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc
to manage a benchmark-sized offering.  
 GHANA is considering selling its second dollar bond in 2011
to tap investor demand as the start-up of oil production boosts
economic growth and narrows the budget deficit, Deputy Finance
Minister  Fifi Kwetey  said. The government is considering a “no-
deal roadshow” as early as the fourth quarter to gauge
international investors’ appetite, Kwetey said in a May 26
interview in Abidjan. Ghana sold its first global bond in 2007,
raising $750 million to help fund the construction of roads and
power plants.  
 ANGOLA received credit ratings from Moody’s, S&P, and Fitch
Ratings that put it on par with Nigeria, Lebanon and Belarus,
and paved the way for a planned sale of international bonds. The
southern African nation’s creditworthiness was rated at B+ by
S&P and Fitch, four levels below investment grade. Moody’s
assigned an equivalent ranking of B1.  
 EURASIAN NATURAL RESOURCES CORP. , a London-based iron ore
and alumina producer with operations in China and Russia, said
it delayed its first dollar bond sale. The company is
“postponing meetings with investors regarding a potential bond
issuance under its Euro Medium Term Note program until further
notice,” Charlotte Kirkham, a spokeswoman for ENRC, said in an
e-mail. The company had hired Deutsche Bank AG and Morgan
Stanley to manage the sale, according to a person familiar with
the transaction.  
 KAZAKHSTAN plans to sell between $500 million and $750
million in bonds to investors abroad in the autumn, Kazakh
Finance Minister  Bolat Zhamishev  said in a May 14 interview. The
bonds will probably be denominated in dollars and will be used
to set a benchmark for corporate borrowing, Zhamishev said.  
 CHINA ORIENTAL GROUP CO.  plans to sell senior notes to
provide working capital and possibly to finance the purchase of
steel mills and iron ore assets in China. Deutsche Bank AG will
manage the sale with ING Groep NV, according to a statement to
the Hong Kong stock exchange.  
 BANK FOR INVESTMENT & DEVELOPMENT OF VIETNAM received
approval from the central bank to issue 7 trillion dong ($369
million) of notes and another 3 trillion dong of dollar-
denominated notes in 2010, according to a statement on State
Bank of Vietnam’s Web site.  
 BOLIVIA plans its first international bond sale in more
than 70 years as early as the end of 2011, Finance Minister  Luis Arce  said. He didn’t disclose the size of the offering.  
 POWER SECTOR ASSETS AND LIABILITIES MANAGEMENT CORP. of the
Philippines may sell between $750 million and $1.5 billion of
dollar-denominated bonds “anytime” to help refinance maturing
debt through next year, Vice Chairman  Jose Ibazeta  said. The
company manages the finances of state utility National Power
Corp.  
 BRISBANE AIRPORT CORP., owner of Australia’s third-busiest
airport, may sell bonds in the U.S. later this year as it
pursues new markets to help refinance debt and pay for a new
runway. The company is considering a 10- or 15-year U.S. private
placement and a five- to seven-year Australian dollar bond sale
in late 2010 or early 2011, Chief Financial Officer  Tim Rothwell 
said in a phone interview from Brisbane.  
 VIETNAM NATIONAL COAL-MINERAL INDUSTRIES GROUP, the state-
owned coal producer known as Vinacomin, plans to sell as much as
$500 million of bonds overseas this year to fund mining and
energy projects, according to Deputy Chief Executive Officer
 Nguyen Van Hai .  
 FINLAND may sell five-year bonds denominated in dollars
this year, the Finnish Treasury said in a document posted on its
Web site.  
 MONGOLIA plans to raise $500 million selling bonds this
year and the remainder of a planned $1.2 billion program will be
sold according to market conditions,  Batbayar Balgan , director
general of the financial and economic policy department of
Mongolia, said at a forum in Ulan Bator on June 16. The
government scaled back its plans for global bond sales this year
after Europe’s debt crisis drove up borrowing costs. Investment
banks are advising Mongolia to issue debt with maturities of 5
to 10 years, Bayartsogt said in a Feb. 9 interview. The
securities may yield 8 percent to 11 percent, he said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Katie Evans  in New York at 
 kevans28@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        