-- Ireland Credit Rating Cut by Moody's on Debt Outlook
-- Louisa Fahy
-- 2010-07-19T09:09:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-19/ireland-credit-rating-cut-by-moody-s-on-debt-outlook.html

          
          
             Ireland had its credit rating cut
one level at Moody’s Investors Service, which cited a
“significant loss of financial strength” and the cost of bank
bailouts.  
 The company lowered Ireland to Aa2 from Aa1 and moved the
country to a “stable” from a “negative” outlook, it said
today in a statement. Ireland lost its top rating at Moody’s in
April 2009. Irish bonds fell after the downgrade.  
 The euro has fallen 10 percent versus the dollar this year
on concern that widening budget deficits in countries including
Ireland, Spain and Greece could lead to a default. While Irish
Finance Minister  Brian Lenihan  said last week that the country’s
fiscal position is “stabilizing”, the cost of aiding the
banking industry is adding to pressure on the public finances
even as the economy emerges from recession.  
 “It’s a gradual, significant deterioration, but not a
sudden, dramatic shift,” Dietmar Hornung , Moody’s lead analyst
for Ireland, said in a telephone interview. Overall, “we have a
constructive view. We agree Ireland has turned the corner.”  
 Bond Premium  
 The  premium  investors charge to hold Irish 10-year debt
over the German bund, Europe’s benchmark, widened 8 basis points
to 291 basis points today. The yield reached 306 points in May,
the widest since the introduction of the euro in 1999.  
 Bank of Ireland Plc , the country’s biggest bank, fell 2.6
percent to 67 cents at 9:31 a.m. in Dublin, while  Allied Irish
Banks Plc  dropped 2.8 percent to 85.5 cents.  
 “Ireland is one of the countries which are currently under
stress, but that are likely going to benefit from a recovery,”
said  Silvio Peruzzo , an economist at Royal Bank of Scotland Plc
in London. “The rating is probably just a catch-up process
towards ratings that are more aligned with the underlying fiscal
policy fundamentals.”  
 Ireland’s  recession  and real-estate slump eroded tax
revenue and left it with a budget deficit of 14.3 percent of
gross domestic product last year, the widest in the euro area.
The country’s debt ratio may rise to 87 percent of GDP this year
from 66 percent of GDP in 2009, the government has forecast.  
 The Dublin-based Economic & Social Research Institute on
July 14 forecast that the deficit may widen to 19.8 percent of
GDP this year, in part because of government pledges to inject
13 billion euros ($16.9 billion) into two banks. The government
aims to reduce the gap to the European Union limit of 3 percent
of GDP by 2014.  
 Bank Liabilities  
 Moody’s said the downgrade reflected Ireland’s
“significant loss of financial strength,” weakened growth
prospects and “contingent liabilities from the banking
system.” In addition to pumping money into banks to build up
their capital buffers, Ireland set up a so-called bad bank to
cleanse banks of toxic loans.  
 The possibility of Ireland tapping the European aid
mechanism set up in May or defaulting on its debts is “not a
issue” for Moody’s, Hornung said. “The risks are balanced”
and a stronger-than-expected economic recovery could trigger
“upward pressure” on the rating, he said. Ireland’s government
sees the economy expanding 1 percent this year.  
 Oliver Whelan , the head of Ireland’s debt agency, said the
move “wasn’t surprising” as Moody’s had the country on a
“negative” outlook. He doesn’t expect the downgrade to affect
this month’s bond auction, he said in an interview on RTE Radio
in Dublin. Ireland plans to sell as much as 1.5 billion euros of
six- and ten-year debt at an auction tomorrow.  
 It “obviously doesn’t help” the bond auction, said  Alan McQuaid , chief economist at Bloxham Stockbrokers in Dublin.
Still, “I don’t buy the argument that bond investors are going
to punish Ireland.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Louisa Fahy  at 
 lnesbitt@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Irish Finance Minister Brian Lenihan. Photographer: Crispin Rodwell/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
