-- Israel Successfully Completes Test Stage of Iron Dome Anti-Missile System
-- Gwen Ackerman
-- 2010-07-19T17:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-19/israel-successfully-completes-test-stage-of-iron-dome-anti-missile-system.html

          
          
             Israel successfully completed
testing of its Iron Dome missile defense system and plans to
have it in operation by November, the Defense Ministry said.  
 “This is an important milestone for the security
establishment and the defense industry,” Defense Minister  Ehud Barak  said in a statement today.  
 Israel declared the test stage complete after the short- to
medium-range system shot down a large number of incoming
projectiles simultaneously, according to the Defense Ministry
statement. The country developed the system over two years.  
 President  Barack Obama , as part of the U.S. promise to
guarantee Israel’s security, this year pledged $205 million for
the deployment of Iron Dome, which is intended to defend Israel
against rocket fire from the Hamas-controlled Gaza Strip and
Lebanon. The pledge went beyond the annual $3 billion the U.S.
provides Israel in military assistance.  
 Hezbollah, a Lebanese Shiite Muslim militia, fired rockets
from southern Lebanon during a 33-day war with Israel in 2006.
About 1,200 Lebanese and 159 Israelis were killed in the
fighting, which also displaced almost 1 million people.  
 Israel began a three-week military offensive in Gaza in
December 2008 that it said was meant to stop the firing of
rockets by Hamas and other Palestinian militants into its
territory. More than 1,000 Palestinians and 13 Israelis were
killed in the conflict.  
 More than 400 rockets and mortars have been fired from Gaza
into Israel since the end of the war, killing a foreign worker,
the Israeli army said. Israeli bombing and ground operations
during the offensive destroyed more than 3,000 homes, and
Israel’s restrictions on construction materials have prevented
Palestinians from being able to rebuild, the United Nations
said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Gwen Ackerman  in Jerusalem at 
 gackerman@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        