-- Italy Not Likely to Face Rating Cut After Ireland Downgrade, Analysts Say
-- Lorenzo Totaro
-- 2010-07-19T12:29:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-19/italy-not-likely-to-face-rating-cut-after-ireland-downgrade-analysts-say.html

          
          
             Italy is unlikely to face a credit
rating cut after Moody’s Investor Service downgraded Ireland by
one level, analysts said.  
 “An Italian downgrade is not an imminent threat, not even
in the medium term,”  Ioannis Sokos , an interest-rate strategist
at BNP Paribas SA in London said. “Italy is under stable
outlooks by all agencies, and there has been not even a slight
warning with respect to any sort of downgrade risk.”  
 Ireland had its credit rating cut to Aa2 from Aa1 by
Moody’s, which cited a “significant loss of financial
strength” and the cost of bank bailouts. Moody’s has kept its
rating of Italy unchanged at Aa2 since May 2002. Standard &
Poor’s has been more willing to cut, slashing its rating twice
in that period -- in July 2004 to AA- and again in October 2006
to A+.  
 On April 8 Standard & Poor’s reiterated its “stable”
outlook, saying Italy’s plan to cut spending and its deficit
next year may be a “supporting factor” for the ratings. On May 7
Moody’s said that Italy is not among the countries most at risk
from Europe’s spreading debt crisis and its credit outlook for
2010 remained stable.  
 Some analysts say that given the difference between S&P and
Moody’s ratings on Italy, Moody’s “stable” outlook may not
last.  
 “Considering that there is a two-notch differential
between Moody’s and S&P, it would not be a major surprise if
Moody’s didn’t take a look at Italy next,”  Gary Jenkins , head
of credit strategy at investment bank Evolution Securities Ltd.
in London, said today in a note to investors.  
 Risk Premium  
 The yield premium, or  spread , that investors charge to hold
 Italian 10-year bonds  over comparable  German bunds , the European
benchmark, narrowed by 6 basis points to 141 basis points today.
The  spread  between Irish and German bonds widened 8 basis points
to 291 basis points.  
 “The market would be very surprised if any rating agency
was to adversely change their outlook or rating of Italy’s
debt,” said  Peter Chatwell , a fixed-income strategist at Credit
Agricole Corporate and Investment Bank in London.  
 On May 26, Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi ’s government
passed 24.9 billion euros ($32.3 billion) of budget cuts over
the next two years as part of a European effort to convince
investors the region can control budget deficits after Greece’s
near default. The package aims to reduce Italy’s  budget gap  an
additional 1.6 percent of  gross domestic product  to bring the
shortfall within the EU limit of 3 percent of GDP in 2012 from
5.3 percent last year. Ireland had the biggest deficit in the
euro region last year at 14.3 percent of economic output.  
 “Relatively Favorable”  
 “Compared to other peripherals, Italy is running a
relatively moderate deficit,” said  Marcel Bross , an interest-
rate strategist at Commerzbank AG in Frankfurt. “Within the
peripheral space the sentiment is still relatively favorable for
Italy from a credit point of view.”  
 Moody’s last week cut Portugal’s rating by two levels,
citing prospects for weak economic growth and rising debt.  
 “We do not expect any negative rating actions on Italy
unless the economic situation deteriorates further on a more
general level,” said  Gustav Bundgaaerd Smidth , a fixed-income
analyst at Danske Bank A/s in Copenhagen.  
 On July 15 the Bank of Italy raised its 2010 growth
forecast for Europe’s fourth-biggest economy to 1 percent from a
previous estimate of 0.7 percent, saying  export gains  will drive
the recovery as rising unemployment weighs on domestic demand.
The $2.1 trillion economy has the euro region’s largest public
debt at 115.8 percent of gross domestic product and must finance
more than 150 billion euros in maturing bonds this year.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Lorenzo Totaro  in Rome at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        