-- ITT, GSK, HP, McGraw-Hill: Intellectual Property
-- Victoria Slind-Flor
-- 2010-07-19T11:01:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-19/itt-abbott-teva-gsk-general-mills-mcgraw-hill-intellectual-property.html

          
          
             ITT Corp ., a military electronics
supplier, said it reached a settlement of patent-infringement
claims it filed against  Motorola Inc.  over assisted-global
position system technology.  
 Financial details weren’t disclosed, White Plains, New
York-based ITT said July 16 in a statement.  
 Motorola, the communications-equipment maker that is
splitting in two, was among a group of mobile-phone companies
sued last year by ITT. The patent is for a GPS system that can
transmit position information to mobile receivers from Earth-
orbiting satellites in urban areas with line-of-sight
obstructions.  
 ITT announced a settlement with Nokia Oyj, the world’s
biggest maker of mobile phones, in March. Cases against other
companies are pending, ITT said.  
 The case is ITT Manufacturing Enterprises Inc. v. Cellco
Partnership (d/b/a/ Verizon Wireless) 09CV190, U.S. District
Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  
 Abbott Settles Patent Suit With Teva Over Antibiotic Omnicef  
 Abbott Laboratories  said it settled a patent-infringement
lawsuit filed against  Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd.  over
generic versions of the antibiotic Omnicef.  
 Terms are confidential, said  Scott Stoffel , a spokesman for
Abbott. The companies filed documents July 15 in federal court
in Chicago to dismiss the case.  Denise Bradley , a spokeswoman
for Teva, said the Petah Tikva, Israel-based company has no
comment.  
 Omnicef sales in the U.S. plunged to $3 million in 2009
from $235 million in 2007 because of competition from generic
copies, according to Abbott’s annual report. The Abbott Park,
Illinois-based company already settled a fight with Novartis
AG’s Sandoz unit over sales of generic Omnicef.  
 The drug is used to treat respiratory and skin infections.  
 Teva is the world’s biggest generic-drug maker, and Sandoz
is the second-biggest.  
 The case is Abbott Laboratories v. Teva Pharmaceuticals USA
Inc., 07cv1721, U.S. District Court for the Northern District of
Illinois (Chicago).  
 Glaxo, Pfizer HIV Venture Offers Licenses to Generic-Drug Firms  
 GlaxoSmithKline Plc  will give licenses to generic-drug
makers in poor countries to produce the HIV medicines it makes
in a joint venture with  Pfizer Inc.   
 The policy will offer royalty-free licenses for all
products in the Viiv venture, including all potential future
products, London-based Glaxo said today in an e-mailed
statement. The policy extends to 69 of the world’s least
developed countries, where 80 percent of all people with HIV
live, Glaxo said.  
  Viiv , 85 percent controlled by Glaxo and 15 percent owned
by Pfizer, has five products in the second of three stages of
human testing generally needed before regulatory approval,
including an experimental treatment jointly developed with
Japan’s Shionogi & Co. Not included in the venture is Glaxo’s
HIV vaccine in development. Viiv has 19 percent of the worldwide
HIV market, according to a  statement  on the company’s website.  
 Glaxo will release data on its drugs to treat HIV, the
virus that causes AIDS, at the annual International AIDS
Conference in Vienna, which runs July 18-23.  
 HP Patent Application Rejected After High Court Bilski Ruling  
 In its first ruling since the U.S. Supreme Court narrowly
restricted patents on business methods, an appeals board
rejected a patent application from a researcher in  Hewlett-
Packard Co. ’s systems security lab.  
 The U.S. Patent and Trademark Office’s Board of Patent
Appeals and Interferences rejected  Graeme John Proudler ’s
Application 10/643.306 for a patent on a method of controlling
the processing of data.  
 The appeals board said the invention Proudler was trying to
patent didn’t fall under the definition of patentable subject
matter. The board made reference to the June 28 high court
ruling that found a method of hedging energy trades wasn’t
patentable.  
 “The unpatentability of abstract ideals was confirmed” by
the Supreme Court in that case, the board said in its ruling.
The board said Proudler’s invention was directed to “software
per se, abstract ideas, abstract concepts and the like” and
therefore couldn’t be patented.  
 Proudler was represented in his appeal by  Richard P. Berg 
of  Ladas & Perry LLP  of Los Angeles.  
 The appeal is Ex Parte Graeme John Proudler, 2009-006500,
U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, Before the Board of Patent
Appeals and Interferences.  
 The recent Supreme Court business-method case is Bilski v.
Kappos, 08-964, Supreme Court of the United States.  
 For more patent news, click here.  
 Trademark  
 General Mills Gets Attorney Fees, Blocks Trix Infringement  
 General Mills Inc. , maker of Cheerios cereal and Betty
Crocker cake mixes, persuaded a federal judge in Minneapolis to
find a Turkish food company in contempt of court.  
 The Minneapolis-based cereal maker sued  Soyyigit Gida
Sanayi Ve Ticaret Anonim Sirketi  of Istanbul for trademark
infringement in May 2009. General Mills complained that its
trademarks for its fruit-flavored  Trix cereal  were infringed by
Soyyigit’s “Trix” powdered drink mix.  
 The company also objected to Soyyigit’s use of the domain
name www.trixdrinks.com to promote the powered drink mix.  
 General Foods argued that its Trix brand is a famous
product. The cereal maker said it sells about $175 million worth
of the sugary cereal every year, and licensed the mark for a
wide range of goods, including lip balm, bobbleheads, flip
flops, clothing and greeting cards.  
 In June 2009 U.S. District Judge  Donovan W. Frank  ordered
Soyyigit and its codefendant International Golden Foods of
Bensenville, Illinois, to quit importing, selling or promoting
any product named “Trix.” He also ordered all offending
products recalled.  
 Lawyers for General Foods retuned to court after the cereal
maker learned Soyyigit was promoting and distributing samples of
its Trix powdered drink and gelatin mixes at the  Fancy Foods 
show in New York at the end of June. They argued this violated
the court’s order and asked for sanctions against Soyyigit.  
 In his July 16 order, the judge demanded Soyyigit file a
report about its participation in any trade shows after August
2009. Frank’s order included a demand for the name, company and
any contact information -- including business cards received --
from anyone with whom Soyyigit interacted at the show.  
 He also awarded General Foods attorney fees for the costs
of bringing the motion, and said he was considering ordering
Soyyigit to pay General Foods all proceeds from the sale of any
infringing products after August 2009.  
 General Mills is represented by  Charles Ashley Callahan ,
 Laura J. Borst ,  Richard J. Groos  and  Timothy M. Kenny  of
Houston’s  Fulbright & Jaworski LLP .  
 The case is General Mills IP Holdings II LLC v. Soyyigit
Gida Sanayi Ve Ticaret Anonim Sirketi, 0:09-cv-01010-DWF-JSM,
U.S. District Court, District of Minnesota.  
 McGraw-Hill Magazine Cover Art Accused of Trademark Infringement  
 The McGraw-Hill Cos.  were sued for trademark infringement
by a Florida resident who claimed the cover art for a magazine
the company published infringed his trademark.  
 James Giles of Ft. Myers, Florida, originally sued McGraw-
Hill in Florida state court June 1. The case was removed to
federal court July 15 on the request of counsel for the
publisher.  
 The cover art to which Giles objected was the July 1991
issue of BusinessWeek Magazine. Bloomberg LP, parent company of
Bloomberg News, acquired BusinessWeek from McGraw-Hill Cos. for
$5 million in October 2009.  
 Giles claims the magazine cover illustration, which shows a
hand holding a gold bar surrounded by orbiting atomic particles,
infringes his trademark, which he calls “the strong hand.” He
said in his pleadings that this mark originates from his
“ancestral homeland, Safed Israel” and he’s continuously used
the mark since 1935.  
 The cover was used to illustrate “The New Alchemy,” a
story about engineered materials. In his pleadings, Giles said
that in addition to infringing his trademark, the story defames
his alchemy work.  
 He asked the court for damages of $1 million and, claiming
the infringement is deliberate, asked they be tripled.
Additionally, he requested awards of attorney fees and
litigation costs.  
 He is unrepresented by counsel. McGraw Hill is represented
by  Norman Davis  from Cleveland-based  Squires Sanders & Dempsey
LLP .  
 The case is Giles v. The McGraw-Hill Companies Inc., 2:10-
cv-00445-JES-SPC, U.S. District Court, Middle District of
Florida (Ft. Myers).  
 Pro and Anti-Dam Groups Battle Over ‘Save the Poudre’ Trademark  
 An environmental group opposed to damming the Poudre River
in northern Colorado has threatened trademark infringement
action against pro-dam activists, Colorado’s 9News.com website
 reported .  
 The fight is over the use of the phrase “Save the
Poudre,” according to 9News.com.  
 The pro-dam contingent is using “Save the Poudre, Store it
in Glade,” with reference to the Glade reservoir, the news site
reported.  
 Gary Wockner, who heads dam opponents  Save the Poudre:
Poudre Waterkeeper , told 9News.com that the bumper sticker users
misappropriated the environmental group’s trade name and “are
using it against us.”  
 For more trademark news, click here.  
 Trade Secrets/Industrial Espionage  
 Churchill Ends Trade Secrets Suit Against Ex-Analysts at Aviate  
 Churchill Capital Ltd. , a hedge fund adviser and brokerage,
ended a lawsuit filed against two of its former equity analysts
in Singapore accusing them of passing confidential client data
to rival Aviate Global LLP.  
 A notice to discontinue the lawsuit was filed with the
Singapore High Court July 15.  
 Churchill had accused  Jonathan Foster  and  Charles Nave  of
breaching their employment contract, which prohibited them from
poaching clients and employees for a year, according to the
April 29 suit. Bermuda-based Churchill said in the suit it found
evidence that the two, who quit at the end of 2009 to join
Aviate, conspired to download several files from the company’s
system.  
 “The matter has now been amicably resolved,” a founding
partner  Patrick Churchill  said in a telephone interview from
Monaco. He declined to disclose settlement terms. Foster and
Nave declined to comment. Aviate wasn’t a party to the suit.  
 Churchill faced a “real and imminent danger” that the duo
may disclose trade secrets to competitors including Aviate,
Churchill said in court papers, adding that it would be
“catastrophic” if that happened. Its rivals would then be able
to unfairly compete and have an immediate marketable product or
service that would have otherwise taken months to develop, the
financial adviser said.  
 Foster had failed or forgotten to close his Skype online
international calling account on his office computer while he
was on so-called gardening leave, exposing the duo’s
communication over the data retrieval, according to court
papers. The two men were also in touch with another ex-Churchill
employee who had joined  Aviate .  
 Churchill has offices in U.S., U.K., Australia, Monaco,
Bermuda and Singapore. Religare Enterprises Ltd., an Indian
financial-services company, on June 30 agreed to acquire Aviate
Global (Asia) to bolster its equities business in the region.  
 Churchill was represented by  ATMD Bird & Bird LLP  while  Tan
Peng Chin LLP  acted for Foster and Nave.  
 The case is Churchill Singapore Pte. v Jonathan Foster and
Charles Nave S298/2010 in the Singapore High Court.  
 Language Line Gets Court Order Protecting Trade Secrets  
 Language Line Service Holdings Inc.  persuaded a federal
court in San Jose to order a competitor to quit using
proprietary information it claims was stolen by a former
employee.  
 The Monterey, California-based provider of translation
services sued two former employees and Language Services
Associates Inc. of Willow Grove, Pennsylvania, in federal court
June 14. It claimed the ex-employees brought customer lists,
pricing data, and other confidential information to Language
Services when they joined the Pennsylvania company.  
 In the complaint, filed in federal court in San Jose,
California, Language Line said the misappropriation of its trade
secrets caused it “irreparable harm” and asked the court to
order the company and the two ex-employees to quit using its
proprietary information.  
 In a July 13 ruling, U.S. District Judge  James Ware  ordered
Language Services not to use any of Language Line’s trade
secrets. Additionally, he ordered the Pennsylvania company not
to destroy or conceal any record of Language Line’s trade
secrets, and appointed  Thomas H.R. Denver  of  Mediation Masters 
of San Jose to make sure his orders are followed.  
 The case is Language Line Services Inc. v. Language
Services Associates LLC, 5:10-cv-02605-JW, U.S. District Court,
Northern District of California (San Jose).  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Victoria Slind-Flor  in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        