-- Craig Bellamy May Join Tottenham From Manchester City: Soccer Roundup
-- Danielle Rossingh
-- 2010-07-19T10:55:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-19/liverpool-tries-to-tempt-joe-cole-away-from-london-soccer-roundup.html

          
          
             The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable links to the Web.  
 Reds Chasing Cole  
 Liverpool officials have had talks with England forward Joe
Cole about signing him for a salary of 90,000 pounds ($137,000)
a week, the  Guardian  reported.  
 Cole, who was out of contract at Chelsea, has also spoken
with Tottenham. Liverpool hopes Cole will be prepared to leave
London if he gets regular first-team play, the Guardian said.  
 Liverpool’s new manager  Roy Hodgson  would like an answer
from Cole this week as he prepares for a Europa League qualifier
on July 29, the paper added.  
 Bellamy’s Spurs Move?  
 Manchester City striker  Craig Bellamy  may move to Tottenham
for a fee of as little as 3 million pounds after manager  Roberto Mancini  bought Spain’s David Silva to replace him, the  Daily
Mirror  reported.  
 Spurs Target Spartak Keeper  
 Tottenham is close to signing a deal with Croatia and
Spartak Moscow goalkeeper  Stipe Pletikosa , the  Guardian 
reported.  
 Pletikosa, who has also played for Hajduk Split and
Shakhtar Donetsk, represented Croatia in the 2006 World Cup and
the 2008 European Championship.  
 Inter Eyes Everton’s Pienaar  
 Inter Milan manager  Rafael Benitez  is targeting Everton
winger  Steven Pienaar , the  Daily Mail  reported. Everton values
Pienaar at 15 million pounds. Benitez showed interest in the
South African while he managed Liverpool.  
 Messi’s Fashion Range  
 Barcelona’s  Lionel Messi  is planning to start his own
clothing range, the  Sun  reported.  
 “I’ve been working on it for a few months,” the Sun
quoted the Argentina forward as saying. Messi added he has
approached Manchester United’s  Wayne Rooney , Chelsea’s Frank
Lampard, rapper Jay-Z, L.A. Galaxy’s David Beckham and Irish
actor  Colin Farrell  to help promote his range.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Danielle Rossingh  in London at 
 drossingh@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        