-- Jefferies Hires Taylor, Fagin to Lead Equity Research in London, New York
-- Craig Trudell
-- 2010-07-19T13:44:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-19/jefferies-hires-taylor-fagin-to-lead-equity-research-in-london-new-york.html

          
          
             Jefferies Group Inc. , the New York-
based investment bank that has increased its staff by more than
25 percent in the last two years, hired  Richard Taylor  and
 Robert Fagin  to lead equity research.  
 Taylor will be head of international equity-research and
based in London and Fagin will be co-director of U.S.
equity-research in New York along with  Susan Gilbertson , the
firm said today in a statement.  
 Taylor most recently was head of European equity-research
at  Citigroup Inc ., where he worked for 13 years, according to
the statement distributed by Business Wire. Fagin was at  Bank of
America Corp.  for five years, most recently as associate
director of equity research.  
 Jefferies has increased its head count to 2,821 from 2,241
in 2008, taking advantage of the collapse of larger investment
banks. The firm reported a record $256 million in investment-
banking revenue for the second quarter, more than double the
$120.8 million from a year earlier.  
 Jefferies said separately it hired  Paul D. Sandoli  as head
of its debt-ratings group in New York, and named five hires to
equity sales and research sales in New York, Boston and San
Francisco. Sandoli will lead the team that provides credit
rating and capital structure advice to corporate clients raising
capital and acquisition financing. He was formerly head of
leveraged finance ratings at Bear Stearns Cos.  
 Scott Ackerman  will be an equity trader in New York, and
 Richard Harb  and  Paul LoGiudice  will be in European equity-
research sales in Boston.  Martyn Bergh  and  Jerry Bellman  will be
in European equity-research sales in San Francisco.  
 Ackerman and Bergh were in similar positions at  Deutsche
Bank AG . Bellman joins from Bellman Walter Capital, and Harb and
LoGiudice were previously at  UBS AG.   
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Craig Trudell  in New York at 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        