-- JFK Plotters Hoped to Profit From Scheme, New York Detective Testifies
-- Thom Weidlich
-- 2010-07-19T22:24:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-19/jfk-plotters-hoped-to-profit-from-scheme-new-york-detective-testifies.html

          
          
             An ex-airline employee told
authorities when he was arrested for plotting to blow up New
York’s  John F. Kennedy International Airport  that he hoped to
profit financially from the scheme, a police official said.  
 “He said the group wanted to make money off the plan,”
Robert Addonizio, a New York City detective assigned to the
Joint Terrorism Task Force, testified today at a terrorism trial
in federal court in Brooklyn, New York.  
 Russell Defreitas , a former Evergreen Airlines cargo
worker, made the comment after he was arrested June 1, 2007, in
Brooklyn, Addonizio said. Defreitas and co-defendant Abdul
Kadir, who once served as a member of the Guyanese Parliament,
are charged with hatching the plot in January 2006. They
circulated their plan to an international network of Muslim
extremists, prosecutors said in court papers.  
 On June 8, the jury heard a recording of the accused
plotters discussing how much money they would need from backers
of the plan. One said they should start the negotiations at $1
million.  
 The government rested its case today and Defreitas
presented his one witness.  
 Defreitas said during his first interview at the Federal
Bureau of Investigation’s New York headquarters that it was his
idea to blow up fuel lines and tanks at the airport, Addonizio
testified.  
 ‘Whole of Kennedy’  
 Investigators on the case, during an October 2006 meeting,
concluded that the alleged plotters lacked the funds and
“logistical support” to carry out the plot, Addonizio
testified on cross-examination by Len H. Kamdang, a lawyer for
Defreitas.  
 The attacks were designed to destroy “the whole of
Kennedy,” the largest airport in the New York City area,
Defreitas said in a taped conversation, according to the Justice
Department. The plot was foiled in the planning stages with the
aid of an informant, Steven Francis, who had infiltrated the
group accused of being behind the scheme, prosecutors said.  
 Addonizio testified that Francis was never instructed by
investigators to push the plan along.  
 On cross-examination by Kafahni Nkrumah, a lawyer for
Kadir, Addonizio said nothing found on Kadir, including a
computer flash drive, when he was arrested, or in his home
afterward related to the plot.  
 Airport Surveillance  
 The plotters conducted surveillance of the airport,
videotaped its buildings and sought expert advice, financing and
explosives, prosecutors said.  
 Abdel Nur, a citizen of Guyana, pleaded guilty June 29 to
one count of providing support to terrorists.  Kareem Ibrahim , a
citizen of Trinidad, was granted a separate trial at a later
date due to a medical condition.  
 Defreitas, a U.S. citizen and native of Guyana, pleaded not
guilty in 2007. His co-defendants pleaded not guilty in 2008.
They’ve been in custody without bail.  
 Defreitas and Kadir face life in prison if convicted.  
 The case is U.S. v. Defreitas, 07-cr-00543, U.S. District
Court, Eastern District of New York (Brooklyn).  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Thom Weidlich  in Brooklyn, New York, federal court at 
   tweidlich@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        