-- JPMorgan Sues Texas Rangers for Changing Stadium Lease Before Bankruptcy
-- Steven Church
-- 2010-07-19T20:12:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-19/jpmorgan-sues-texas-rangers-for-changing-stadium-lease-before-bankruptcy.html

          
          
             JPMorgan Chase & Co.  sued the Texas
Rangers, claiming the bankrupt baseball team breached the terms
of a loan by taking over the lease for its stadium, Rangers
Ballpark.  
 Transferring the lease to Texas Rangers Baseball Partners
made it harder for lenders to collect at least $411 million owed
by the team’s owner,  Tom Hicks ’s HSG Sports Group LLC, JPMorgan
said in a lawsuit filed July 16 in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in Fort
Worth, Texas.  
 When HSG borrowed the money, it agreed that certain units
and affiliates would help pay back the loan if necessary,
according to court papers. The HSG unit that controlled the
lease was obligated to repay the full amount while Texas Rangers
Baseball Partners was liable only for $75 million, New York-
based JPMorgan said in court documents.  
 After filing for bankruptcy in May, the Rangers, based in
Arlington, Texas, sought court permission to sell the club to a
group led by Hall of Fame pitcher and team President  Nolan Ryan 
and attorney  Chuck Greenberg  in a transaction valued at more
than $500 million.  
 U.S. Bankruptcy Judge  D. Michael Lynn  ordered the team put
up for auction on Aug. 4, with the Ryan-Greenberg group acting
as the lead bidders. Afterward, he will consider approving the
company’s bankruptcy exit plan, which details how the money
generated from a sale would pay creditors.  
 July 28 Deadline  
 Creditors have until July 28 to vote on the plan, which
means they won’t know the outcome of auction when they cast
their ballots. Lynn must take those votes into consideration
when deciding whether to approve the bankruptcy exit plan.  
 Lenders, led by JPMorgan, oppose the sale, arguing that it
doesn’t give competitors time to prepare.  
 JPMorgan, the agent for investors who loaned the money to
HSG, asked the judge to declare the transfer null and void
because it violated the mortgage on the property. The lease on
the stadium in Arlington, Texas, is collateral for the loan,
according to court documents.  
 Mark Semer , a spokesman for the Rangers, declined to
comment.  
 The case is In re Texas Rangers Baseball Partners, 10-
43400, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Northern District of Texas (Fort
Worth).  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Steven Church  in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 schurch@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        