-- Drill-Ban U.S. Judge Won't Withdraw From Case Due to Energy Investments
-- Margaret Cronin Fisk
-- 2010-07-19T16:13:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-19/judge-in-u-s-drilling-ban-case-won-t-step-aside-over-energy-investments.html

          
          
             The judge who threw out the
government’s deep-water drilling ban refused to step aside over
alleged conflicts of interest because of his energy investments.  
 “The motion for disqualification is without merit,” U.S.
District Judge Martin Feldman said in an order posted today on
the New Orleans federal court’s website.  
 The Obama administration imposed a six-month ban on
drilling in waters deeper than 500 feet in May in response to
the worst oil spill in U.S. history, caused by the sinking of
the Deepwater Horizon drilling rig off the coast of Louisiana.
The  Transocean Ltd.  rig is leased to  BP Plc .  
 Hornbeck Offshore Services , more than a dozen offshore
service providers and Louisiana Governor Bobby Jindal sued to
overturn the ban, claiming the drilling suspension is turning an
“environmental disaster into an economic catastrophe.”  
 Feldman threw out the ban on June 22, declaring it was
overly broad and punitive to a regional economy dependent on the
oil and gas industry. Feldman’s order is being appealed by the
government. As the trial judge, he will preside over any future
proceedings in the district court.  
 Environmental groups asked the judge to withdraw from the
moratorium case on July 2. The organizations said they
investigated Feldman’s investments after joining the case in
support of the government’s attempt to restore the drilling ban.  
 Feldman’s Holdings  
 The environmentalists contend that under rules of the
courts, the judge’s holdings in Ocean Energy Notes, Allis
Chalmers Corp., El Paso Corp. and other offshore and energy-
related companies should bar his ruling in the moratorium case.  
 Feldman also drew criticism for selling shares of Exxon
Mobil Corp., which had an offshore well idled by the drilling
moratorium, the morning after hearing arguments in the case. He
issued his ruling scrapping the ban several hours later.  
 Feldman said in a statement released by his staff that he
ordered his broker to sell the Exxon Mobil shares immediately,
after he belatedly realized they were in his portfolio.  
 “Disqualification becomes automatic from the moment a
judge discovers” a financial interest, Catherine Wannamaker, an
environmental lawyer, said July 2 in a court filing, quoting a
higher-court ruling.  
 The conflict can’t be resolved by immediately selling
shares, Wannamaker wrote, citing precedents by the New Orleans
appeals court for Feldman’s district.  
 ‘Unforgiving Bite’  
 “The Fifth Circuit has described the statute as having an
‘unforgiving bite,’ because it requires disqualification ‘for
even paltry financial interests,’” Wannamaker, a lawyer with
the Southern Environmental Law Center, said in the motion to
disqualify Feldman.  
 Wannamaker declined to comment on Feldman’s decision, which
was signed July 16 and made public today.  
 The case is Hornbeck Offshore Services LLC v. Salazar,
2:10-cv-01663, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of
Louisiana (New Orleans). The appeal case is 10-30585, U.S. Court
of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit (New Orleans).  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Laurel Brubaker Calkins in Houston
at   laurel@calkins.us.com ;
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Southfield, Michigan,
at   mcfisk@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 19 (Bloomberg) -- Jim Noe, senior vice president and general counsel of Hercules Offshore Inc., says the Obama administration could "dismantle" the shallow-water drilling industry if the U.S. fails to issue new permits.
     Drilling company executives have said Interior Department rules issued in response to the BP Plc oil spill have brought exploration in shallow waters to a halt. Noe spoke July 16 in Washington. Bloomberg's Lizzie O'Leary reports. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
