-- Kagan to Weigh Recusal From Health-Law Challenges on `Case-by-Case' Basis
-- Laura Litvan
-- 2010-07-19T20:57:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-19/kagan-to-weigh-recusal-from-health-law-challenges-on-case-by-case-basis.html

          
          
             Elena Kagan  told Republicans on the
 Senate Judiciary Committee  that, if confirmed to the U.S.
Supreme Court, she would decide on a case-by-case basis whether
to recuse herself from considering challenges to the new health-
care overhaul.  
 Kagan, who as U.S. solicitor general represents the Obama
administration in high court arguments, said she has had almost
no role in the government’s response to a suit challenging the
health-care law filed by states. Judiciary Committee Republicans
pressed her to say whether as a justice she would disqualify
herself.  
 “I neither served as counsel of record nor played any
substantial role” in the case, Kagan wrote to Senator  Jeff Sessions  of Alabama and other Republicans on the panel. “I
would consider recusal on a case-by-case basis, carefully
considering any arguments made for recusal and consulting with
my colleagues and, if appropriate, with experts on judicial
ethics.”  
 More than 20 states, led by Florida, oppose the health-
care law signed by President  Barack Obama  in March. They say the
federal government lacks the authority to require almost all
Americans to purchase a health insurance policy or pay a fine if
they don’t.  
 Kagan said that while she attended “at least one meeting”
of administration officials where the litigation was “briefly
mentioned,” she was never asked her views on the case or
reviewed any government court papers in the dispute.  
 The Judiciary committee will vote tomorrow on  Kagan ’s
nomination to the Supreme Court, in time for her to be confirmed
by early August. That would allow two months before the
beginning of the next court term on Oct. 4.  
 Kagan, 50, was nominated by Obama on May 10 to replace
Justice  John Paul Stevens , who retired from the nine-member
court. Kagan formerly was dean of  Harvard Law School  and worked
for four years in President  Bill Clinton ’s White House as a
lawyer and policy adviser.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Laura Litvan  in Washington at 
 llitvan@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        