-- Karzai Sees Afghan Troops Providing Security by 2014
-- Nicole Gaouette
-- 2010-07-20T14:40:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-19/karzai-seeks-more-funds-control-at-donors-summit-as-u-s-signals-support.html

          
          
             Afghan President  Hamid Karzai  and
his U.S.-led backers agreed to start transferring security
duties to Afghan government forces next year, in the hope of
handing them the lead role in the anti-Taliban war by 2014.  
 Governments and international institutions supporting
Karzai also decided to increase funding of his government, which
the Obama administration and other nations have criticized for
corruption. Donors will channel at least 50 percent of their aid
for Afghanistan through state agencies within two years, up from
the current 20 percent, Karzai and UN Secretary General  Ban Ki- moon  told representatives at a summit in Kabul today.  
 Karzai said he was “determined our Afghan forces will be
responsible for all military and law enforcement operations
throughout our country by 2014.” The U.S. may hand the lead
security role to Afghan forces in some areas next year if
conditions permit, Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  said.  
 While Clinton said the U.S. is ready to help Karzai in a
new anti-corruption campaign to allow the expanded funding,
former Afghan planning minister  Ramazan Bashardost  said in a
phone interview that assistance is unlikely to make a difference.
“Karzai cannot clean up corruption” unless the U.S. and other
top donors such as the U.K. and Japan, “will finance and
tightly monitor a dedicated anti-corruption ministry” with
power to force prosecutions of some of Afghanistan’s most
powerful politicians, he said.  
 ‘Warlord Influence’  
 “Afghanistan’s judicial system is not independent,” said
Bashardost, an  anti-corruption campaigner  who finished third in
last year’s fraud-tainted election that returned Karzai to
office. “It is under the influence of the same warlords and
powerful politicians whom Karzai must compromise with, and who
are involved in corruption.”  
 Karzai told today’s meeting that he is backing “steady
progress” that has been made “in strengthening the rule of law
and in professionalizing the judiciary.”  
 A U.S. Defense Department auditor and the Brussels-based
 International Crisis Group  in recent months have questioned the
progress being made in building the Afghan forces that are meant
to start replacing U.S. troops in a year, when President  Barack Obama  has vowed to start bringing soldiers home.  
 The Pentagon’s special inspector general for Afghanistan
reconstruction, Arnold Fields, said  in a June 28 report  that the
Pentagon has overstated progress in building Afghan forces.
“Corruption, drug abuse and illiteracy” are among “systemic”
deficiencies that have “undermined progress toward developing
independent Afghan security forces,” the report said.  
 Troop Deaths  
 The focus at today’s conference on shifting governance and
security into Afghan hands comes as the  international coalition 
backing Karzai’s government, now near its planned peak of
150,000 troops, struggles to contain the Taliban insurgency.  
 The coalition registered its highest number of troop deaths
last year at 521, according to iCasualties.org, a nonprofit
group that tracks fatalities. This year’s current death toll of
 380  comes at a rate 33 percent higher than in 2009.  
 Obama will today discuss the war with U.K. Prime Minister
 David Cameron  during their first White House meeting since
Cameron took office. British pollster YouGov Plc last month
found that 25 percent of U.K. citizens questioned want the
government to immediately withdraw all 9,500 British troops, the
second-largest element of the coalition, with 42 percent saying
most soldiers should be pulled out soon and the rest within
about a year.  
 Progress ‘Mixed’  
 The rising casualties and stalled U.S.-led offensives in
southern Afghanistan have combined with reports of corruption
and ineffectiveness in Karzai’s government to raise doubts
within both parties of Congress about the overall effort to
stabilize the country.  
 “Our progress is decidedly mixed,”  John Kerry , the
Massachusetts Democrat who heads the Senate Foreign Relations
Committee, said July 14. It is “time to assess how our strategy
fits the realities on the ground.”  
 Karzai’s government declared a holiday today in Kabul, the
capital, and Afghan troops and police closed off major streets
to prevent any attack on the conference, held at the  Foreign
Ministry , next to the presidential palace.  
 The Karzai regime is entirely dependent on foreign support
and will not “achieve his goals to remove corruption as long as
foreign nations are in Afghanistan,” Zabihullah Mujahid, a
Taliban spokesman, said by phone after the president’s opening
speech.  
 Aid Blocked  
 Karzai and international donors have blamed each other for
graft that has weakened nation-building efforts. A survey
released this month by Integrity Watch Afghanistan, a non-profit
monitoring group, said corruption faced by Afghan citizens has
doubled since 2006.  
 Clinton said while traveling to Kabul that it was “very
clear our presence, all the aid agencies” have fed the problem
of corruption. Most international funds have been delivered to
Afghanistan through aid agencies, contractors and subcontractors.
Early last year about 8 percent of aid was going directly to
Afghanistan’s government, said the U.S. special envoy for
Afghanistan and Pakistan,  Richard Holbrooke , who was traveling
with Clinton.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Eltaf Najafizada  in Kabul, Afghanistan at 
 enajafizada1@bloomberg.net 
 Nicole Gaouette  via the Washington newsroom at   ngaouette@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Karzai Seeks More Funds  
                       
                         
                           Kimimasa Mayama/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Hamid Karzai, Afghanistan's president, delivers a speech during a forum in Tokyo. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Hamid Karzai, Afghanistan's president, delivers a speech during a forum in Tokyo. Photographer: Kimimasa Mayama/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
