-- Korean Won Falls as Sputtering U.S. Recovery May Hurt Exports; Bonds Rise
-- Frances Yoon
-- 2010-07-19T01:12:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-19/korean-won-falls-as-sputtering-u-s-recovery-may-hurt-exports-bonds-rise.html

          
          
             South Korea’s won fell the most this
month on concern a faltering recovery in the U.S., the world’s
biggest economy, will hurt exports and curb demand for emerging-
market assets.  
 Currencies and benchmark stock indexes retreated across
Asia’s developing nations after a U.S. report showed consumer
 confidence  dropped to an 11-month low in July. Overseas
investors  sold  more Korean shares than they bought for the first
time in eight days, dragging the  Kospi  index to a one-week low.  
 “It’s going to be a negative day for Asian currencies,”
said  Dariusz Kowalczyk , Hong Kong-based senior economist at
Credit Agricole CIB. “We’ve seen a pretty substantial increase
in global risk aversion, particularly from the U.S., which led
investors to pare long positions in risk assets.”  
 The won fell 0.9 percent to 1,214.35 per dollar as of 9:56
a.m. in Seoul, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
currency has dropped 7.6 percent in the past three months,
Asia’s worst performance.  
 The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan preliminary
index of consumer sentiment decreased to 66.5 this month, less
than the most pessimistic forecast of economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News, according to data released July 16. U.S. housing
data out this week will show construction and purchases dropped
in June, separate surveys showed. The U.S. is South Korea’s
second-biggest export market, after China.  
 South Korea’s government bonds rose for a third day as
investors favored the safest assets. The yield on the 3.75
percent note due June 2013 fell two basis points to 3.90 percent,
after reaching a four-month high of 3.99 last week. A basis
point is 0.01 percentage point.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Frances Yoon  in Seoul at 
 fyoon2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        