-- NYC Heads to Hottest July Ever, Taxing Power Grid (Correct)
-- Brian K. Sullivan
-- 2010-07-19T21:23:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-19/new-york-city-is-on-track-to-post-hottest-july-on-record-as-heat-continues.html

          
          
             (Corrects consumption to conservation in 15th paragraph.)  
 If it feels hotter than it’s ever
been in New York, that’s because it is.  
 New York’s Central Park is heading toward its warmest July
on record after two heat waves this month, the National Weather
Service reported. Extreme heat pushes aging power systems to
their limits, increasing the odds of breakdown, according to
grid monitors.  
 “The grid system was built a long time ago, and the
population has increased dramatically across this part of the
country, and energy demand has gone up accordingly,” said Jim
Rouiller, a senior energy meteorologist at Planalytics Inc. in
Berwyn, Pennsylvania. “July may not be the top, but it is going
to be in the top five, and this is over 130 years worth of
observation, so it is outstanding heat.”  
 In August 2003, bad equipment and operator error at an Ohio
power plant triggered an outage that left about 50 million
people in eight U.S. states and Ontario without electricity for
as long as four days, according to a U.S.-Canada Power System
Outage Task Force report issued in 2004.  
 “Weather was not the root cause, but it was a contributing
factor,” said Jay Apt, executive director of Carnegie Mellon
University’s Electricity Industry Center in Pittsburg. “On days
of high demand, the system is closer to the edge than it is on
days of low demand.”  
 Monthly Average  
 The average monthly temperature in Central Park has been
81.6 degrees Fahrenheit (27.6 Celsius) so far, warmer than the
record set in July 1999 of 81.4, said Matt Scalora, a weather
service meteorologist in Upton, New York.  
 The higher-than-normal temperatures have driven up electric
power use around the U.S., including in New York, which recorded
its third-highest hourly peak load of 33,542 megawatts on July 6
when temperatures reached a record 103 degrees in Central Park.  
 The highest hourly peak load was 33,939 recorded on Aug. 2,
2006, according to a statement by New York Independent System
Operator in Rensselaer, New York, a not-for-profit corporation
responsible for operating the state’s bulk electricity grid.  
 Just before the 2003 outage, peak demand in New York was
28,634 megawatts, said Kenneth Klapp, a spokesman for the ISO.
The failure knocked 22,934 megawatts offline and left 5,700
still going to customers. Load levels for New York’s ISO had
actually gone down in 2003 from a year before, according to the
company’s annual report.  
 In 2003, New York had about 35,800 megawatts of installed
capacity, Klapp said. For 2010, it has 38,970, according to an
ISO statement. More than 7,823 megawatts of capacity has been
added since 1999, Klapp said.  
 Pushing Limits  
 The system generally works, said Apt, who is also professor
of technology at Mellon’s Tepper School of Business and its
school of Engineering and Public Policy.  
 “The chances of it not working are very small, and even on
a hot day they are very, very small,” he said. “But they are
slightly higher on a hot day with lots of demand than they would
be on an April day where it is nice and cool with the windows
open.”  
 A heat advisory was issued for New York City today, where
the temperature in Central Park was 90 at 3 p.m. after three
straight days above 90, according to the weather service. The
definition of a heat wave is three consecutive days with
temperatures of 90 degrees or higher.  
 “We have been well above normal for the month,” said
David Wally, also a meteorologist in the Upton office. “We will
have above-normal temperatures through the week.”  
 Conservation Urged  
 High temperatures prompted Consolidated Edison Inc., New
York’s power utility, to ask customers to curb electricity use,
and the Suffolk County Water Authority, the largest on Long
Island with 1.2 million users, to ask for water conservation.  
 The water authority set a record for usage of 500,000
gallons per minute when temperatures reached into the 100s two
weeks ago, said Chairman James Gaughran.  
 “Which is huge,” Gaughran said. “There seems to be a
psychology to water your lawn more when it gets hot outside.”  
 The above-normal temperatures have been driving coal and
natural gas consumption as electric demand jumps when people
turn on fans and air conditioners.  
 Nationally, about 46 percent of electricity is generated
using coal and 23 percent using natural gas, Energy Department
figures show.  
 Earlier this month, a heat wave gripped New York and the
rest of the U.S. Northeast, driving temperatures into the 100s
for several days and setting daily records across the region.
The Central Park readings came within 3 degrees of the city’s
highest temperature on record, 106 on July 9, 1936, according to
the weather service.  
 Global Highs  
 Around the world, above-average temperatures have been
recorded in Europe and Asia as the Jet Stream, which divides and
mixes warm and cool air, modulating temperatures, has stayed at
far northern latitudes, Rouiller said.  
 This has allowed warm air to push farther north and has
prevented much in the way of relief for the Northern Hemisphere,
he said.  
 The world last month posted its warmest June on record and
its warmest average temperatures for April to June and January
to June, according to the National Oceanic and Atmospheric
Administration. Global temperatures in June were 61.1 degrees,
or 1.22 degrees higher than the 20th century average of 59.9,
according to a NOAA statement.  
 Since June 1, the cooling degree days value in Central Park
has been 602, or 178 above normal, according to the weather
service.  
 Degree-Days  
 Cooling degree days, calculated by subtracting a base of 65
degrees from the average daily temperature, is a value designed
to show energy demand, according to the weather service. The
higher the value, the warmer the weather, and thus the more
energy is probably consumed to cool homes and businesses.  
 In Philadelphia, the value since June 1 has been 708 or 253
above normal. In Atlanta cooling degree-days totaled 787 or 165
above normal and in Houston they were 948 or 137 above normal.  
 A high temperature of 92 degrees is forecast for
Washington, Baltimore and Philadelphia today and 91 in Boston,
according to the weather service.  
 Elsewhere in the U.S., an excessive heat warning continues
to be in effect in Oklahoma, Arkansas, Kansas and Missouri,
where temperatures will reach into the high 90s and feel as
though they are actually closer to 110 degrees or more,
according to the weather service.  
 In some locations, temperatures, when combined with
humidity, will feel as hot as 115 degrees, according to the
weather service. An excessive heat warning is issued when
forecasters expect several days of high temperatures and
humidity.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        