-- New Jersey Towns May Be Strained by Christie's 2% Tax Cap, Moody's Says
-- Terrence Dopp
-- 2010-07-19T18:56:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-19/new-jersey-cities-may-be-strained-by-christie-s-2-tax-cap-moody-s-says.html

          
          
             New Jersey  Governor  Chris Christie ’s
new 2 percent cap on property-tax increases is “credit
negative” for the local governments that rely on the levy,
Moody’s Investors Service said in a report.  
 Municipal finances already have been weakened by less
revenue amid the recession, high fixed costs and the 4 percent
tax-growth limit that took effect in 2008, Moody’s analyst
 Josellyn Yousef  wrote today. The lower cap will challenge
communities such as Trenton and Paterson to “maintain adequate
levels of financial flexibility in the absence of significant
expenditure reductions.”  
 Christie, a Republican who took office in January, signed
the cap on the nation’s highest property taxes into law on July
13. His $29.4 billion budget for the fiscal year that began July
1 cut aid to schools by $820 million and to municipalities by
$445 million. Towns and districts have said the aid reductions
and tax cap may force them to cut services and jobs.  
 “This is a warning shot,” Democratic Senator  Bob Smith ,
one of only three members of his house to vote against the tax
cap, said today. “You have an independent agency saying that
this is going to cause massive dislocation. We went too fast to
thoroughly understand all of the implications.”  
 ‘Not Unexpected’  
 North Haledon, a northern New Jersey suburb, had its debt
rating cut by Moody’s on July 16 amid concerns that the levy
limit will strain borough finances. Christie told reporters the
downgrade showed the need for lawmakers to pass his proposed
“toolkit” that would help local officials cut spending to stay
under the cap.  
 The governor’s proposals include limiting pay for school
superintendents and eliminating civil-service protection for
government workers. Democrats control the Legislature.  
 “This is not unexpected,” Christie, 47, said on July 16
of the Moody’s action on North Haledon. “We expected that folks
were going to look at this and say the toolkit is absolutely
necessary.”  
 Kevin Roberts, a spokesman for Christie, said the
governor’s comments on North Haledon could be applied to the
broader Moody’s report.  
 Cap Exemptions  
 North Haledon is the latest New Jersey municipality to get
a Moody’s downgrade in the face of tax limits and declining aid.
Since Dec. 1, the firm has reduced its ratings on at least 18
communities in the state, according to Bloomberg data. Yousef
declined to say whether she expects Moody’s to downgrade more of
the municipalities.  
 “We just have a heightened interest in monitoring New
Jersey’s local governments under this new cap,” she said in a
telephone interview. “It limits their options and it’s going to
limit flexibility.”  
 Yousef, in her report, said she expects most local
governments, especially cities, to exceed the cap to fund
exempted expenses. The limit, which takes effect in 2011,
excludes rising health-insurance or pension costs, bond
payments, natural disasters and school enrollment growth.
Schools and municipalities also would be able to exceed the
limit with voter approval.  
 Pension contributions and health benefits increased by
about 20 percent in each of the last two years, Yousef said.  
 “The various exemptions allowed by the new law mitigate,
to some degree, the financial constraints of the limitation,
given that some of the most rapidly rising local government
expenditures are excluded,” she wrote.  
 Labor Contracts  
 Mayors and municipal councils may cut salaries and
operating expenses in order to remain within the new guidelines,
the report said. Multiyear employee contracts may prove
“challenging” to such cuts, Yousef wrote.  
 The cap may benefit New Jersey’s financial health if it
succeeds in slowing the state’s property-tax growth in
comparison to the nation, Yousef wrote.  
 “Over the long-term this is probably a really good thing,
however in the short-term it’s probably going to be painful,”
 Laura LaRosa , who helps manage $4.5 billion in municipal debt at
Glenmede Investment and Wealth Management in Philadelphia, said
in an interview. “It’s an important step for them to take to
try and get the state into better financial shape.”  
 New Jersey’s property taxes  averaged  $7,281 in 2009,
according to state data. The levies, which increased 72 percent
since 1999, are the prime funding source for the state’s 566
municipalities, 21 counties and about 600 school districts, and
raised $24 billion statewide in 2009.  
 Christie, the first Republican elected governor of New
Jersey since 1997, has pledged to contain the bills. He and
Democratic Senate President  Stephen Sweeney  on July 3 announced
a deal on the threshold after deadlocking over his initial calls
for a constitutional amendment capping tax growth at 2.5 percent
with exemptions only for debt costs and through a referendum.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Terrence Dopp  in Trenton, New Jersey, at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        