-- Nomura Securities Hires Steven Seltzer as Co-Head of Leveraged Finance
-- Kristen Haunss
-- 2010-07-19T17:54:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-19/nomura-securities-hires-steven-seltzer-as-co-head-of-leveraged-finance.html

          
          
             Nomura Holdings Inc.  hired  Steven Seltzer  to be its co-head of leveraged finance as Japan’s
biggest brokerage seeks to build its U.S. investment bank amid a
revival of leveraged buyouts and takeovers.  
 Seltzer, 45, joins  Julie Persily , 44, as co-head in New
York, jointly responsible for originating and marketing
leveraged finance transactions in the Americas, according to an
e-mailed statement from Nomura Securities North America LLC.
Seltzer moved from North Sea Partners LLC, an advisory firm he
joined in March 2009. Previously he ran the global high-yield
syndicate desk at Morgan Stanley.  
 Nomura has said it plans to invest 250 billion yen ($2.9
billion) to expand in the U.S. after it bought Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc.’s Asian and European units in 2008. The company is
recruiting bankers and debt traders as private-equity firms
deploy what London-based researcher Preqin Ltd. estimated to be
$507 billion in capital committed by investors before the buyout
market collapsed in mid-2007.  
 Persily and Seltzer report to  Glenn Schiffman , 41, head of
investment banking for the Americas, who told Bloomberg News in
June Nomura is “in the early stages of creating a full-scale
investment bank in the U.S.”  
 Nomura “has started a significant hiring program due for
completion by year-end,” the release said.  
 Leveraged Buyouts  
 High-yield, high-risk debt issuance has risen as leveraged
buyouts return globally. The Carlyle Group and TPG Capital
agreed today to acquire  Healthscope Ltd. , an owner and operator
of private hospitals in Australia, for approximately $2.35
billion including assumed debt. Carlyle also said on July 15 it
plans to  acquire  NBTY Inc., a manufacturer and marketer of
nutritional supplements, for $3.8 billion.  
 More than $180 billion of leveraged loans have been
underwritten this year, up from $72.1 billion during the
corresponding period last year, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Banks have also arranged $124.4 billion of high-yield
bonds in 2010, compared with $67.7 billion for the similar
period last year, Bloomberg data show.  
 Bloomberg reported July 12 that Persily, a former co-head
of U.S. leveraged finance at Citigroup Inc. joined Nomura. The
bank also hired  Stephen Rielly , as head U.S. loan trader, to
start a sales and trading desk in New York, according to a
person familiar with the situation who declined to be identified
because it had not been publicly announced.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kristen Haunss  in New York at 
 khaunss@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        