-- Northrop CEO Bush Says Private-Equity Firms May Be Interested in Ship Unit
-- Gopal Ratnam
-- 2010-07-19T20:04:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-19/northrop-ceo-bush-says-private-equity-firms-may-be-interested-in-ship-unit.html

          
          
             Northrop Grumman Corp.  Chief
Executive Officer  Wes Bush  said private-equity firms may be
interested in the company’s shipbuilding unit as the third-
largest U.S. defense contractor studies a sale or spinoff.  
 “There might be financial buyers who see it as a value-
creation opportunity,” Bush said today in an interview at the
Farnborough Air Show, near London. As a standalone company
focused on ships, the division also might attract other military
contractors, Bush said.  
 Northrop, the largest maker of U.S. Navy vessels, said July
13 it would shut a Louisiana shipyard and shift operations to a
Mississippi facility as a first step in selling or spinning off
the ship unit. Northrop branched into shipbuilding nine years
ago to add to its aviation and missile businesses.  
 That approach no longer fits Northrop’s strategy, said
Bush, 49, who became  CEO  in January. The U.S. buys ships from
Los Angeles-based Northrop and orders electronics and weapons
from other providers, so “we have no opportunity to sell the
Navy fully integrated solutions,” he said.  
 Bush’s actions signal a “pretty decisive break with the
past and moving aggressively to change things,” said  Philip Finnegan , an analyst at consultant Teal Group in Fairfax,
Virginia. “He’s focusing more on profitability rather than on
size, and that’s a big change in the mindset at Northrop.”  
 Several Quarters  
 Reaching a decision on the ship unit’s future may take
several quarters, Bush said last week. The Defense Department
has said a sale to General Dynamics Corp., the Navy’s second-
biggest shipbuilder, would trigger competition concerns.  
 Rob Doolittle , a spokesman for Falls Church, Virginia-based
General Dynamics, said last week that it would “be
inappropriate for us to speculate about any potential effect of
Northrop Grumman’s announcement.”  
 Northrop  rose 75 cents, or 1.4 percent, to $55.49 at 4 p.m.
in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares
declined 2 percent this year through July 16.  
 Shipbuilding accounted for 17 percent of Northrop’s 2009
sales, according to  data compiled by Bloomberg . Exiting the
business would leave Northrop with units focused on aerospace,
electronics, information systems and technical services. “Those
four elements will work well together,” Bush said today.  
 Drones, Radar  
 Northrop’s products include the Global Hawk unmanned
surveillance plane; radar systems for F-16, F-22 and F-35 jet
fighters; cybersecurity services to defense and intelligence
agencies; and aircraft logistics and maintenance support.
Northrop also built the B-2 Spirit stealth bomber.  
 The company bought the shipbuilding business of Litton
Industries Inc. in 2001, and bought Newport News Shipbuilding
Inc. a year later after the Justice Department blocked General
Dynamics’s bid.  
 Bush has focused on improving operations in the
shipbuilding unit, which has been cited by the Navy for poor
quality and delays in deliveries.  
 The yard in Avondale, Louisiana, will wind down in 2013 and
work will be sent to Pascagoula, Mississippi, Northrop said last
week. Northrop also owns a yard in Newport News, Virginia.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Gopal Ratnam  in Washington at 
 gratnam1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 19 (Bloomberg) -- Wes Bush, chief executive officer of Northrop Grumman Corp., talks with Bloomberg's Rishaad Salamat at the Farnborough Air Show in England about the effect of lower U.S. defense spending on the aerospace industry.
     Andrea Catherwood also speaks. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
