-- Obama's Bull Market Intact as Midterm Gridlock Signals Gains
-- Lynn Thomasson
-- 2010-07-19T13:42:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-19/obama-bull-market-intact-as-history-shows-midterm-gridlock-spurring-rally.html

          
          
             Growing dissatisfaction with U.S.
President  Barack Obama  before this year’s elections is good news
for stock investors, if history is any guide.  
 The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  has surged 48 percent on
average starting in the second year of each U.S. presidential
term, measured from its lowest level through the high the next
year, according to data going back to 1928 compiled by
Bloomberg. That compares with trough-to-peak gains of 38 percent
in other years.  
 An advance this year would come after Obama already
presided over the  biggest rally  during the start of a presidency
since  Franklin D. Roosevelt  in the 1930s. Bets on Intrade show a
54 percent chance Republicans will take control of the House,
enabling them to block Obama’s policies. That may help prevent a
bear market after  equities  tumbled as much as 16 percent in the
past two months, says billionaire  Kenneth Fisher .  
 “I envision a rally from before the midterm elections,”
said Fisher, who oversees $35 billion in Woodside, California,
as chief executive officer of Fisher Investments. “Markets love
gridlock. What the market wants to see is no change: less
legislation that engages in changes in taxes, spending,
regulation or property rights.”  
 The S&P 500 slipped  1.2 percent  to 1,064.88 last week,
extending its 2010 loss to 4.5 percent, after revenue at
Charlotte, North Carolina-based  Bank of America Corp.  and
General Electric Co. in Fairfield, Connecticut, trailed
analysts’ estimates. The stock index climbed 0.6 percent to
1,070.84 at 9:37 a.m. in New York.  
 Republican Majority  
 The benchmark measure for U.S. equities has advanced 15
percent on average in years when there was a Democratic
president and Republican majority in Congress, the most of any
combination, according to Strategas Research Partners.  
 Republicans will gain 40 to 50 House seats in November,
based on historical trends including times when presidential
support falls to Obama’s current level, New York-based Strategas
said. Obama has a job approval rating of 52 percent, according
to a Bloomberg National Poll of 1,004 U.S. adults.  
 Odds that Democrats will lose their Senate majority are 18
percent, according to  Intrade , a prediction market based in
Dublin. Republicans must win at least 40 seats in the House and
10 in the Senate during the Nov. 2 elections to take control.  
 Erosion of Power  
 “The current thinking is that the administration is
punitive towards business and any erosion of power in Congress
would create an environment that’s less punitive,” said  Walter “Bucky” Hellwig , a Birmingham, Alabama-based senior vice
president at BB&T Wealth Management, which oversees $17 billion.
“From the standpoint of a lot of investors, that would
certainly help equities.”  
 The  S&P 500  gained 6.7 percent in the 12 months after the
2006 midterm election, when Republicans and President  George W. Bush  lost control of both houses of Congress. In the 1994
congressional elections under President  Bill Clinton , Democrats
gave up their majority in the House and Senate. That preceded
the S&P 500’s 34 percent  surge  in 1995, the biggest in 37 years,
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  
 Losing seats may make it harder for Obama to scale back
Bush’s tax cuts to boost revenue and pay down the  budget
deficit . Democrats are seeking to raise taxes on dividends and
capital gains and end breaks for Americans earning $250,000 or
more. Obama signed the largest change in U.S. health-care policy
in 45 years into law in March, enacting a $940 billion plan to
extend coverage to tens of millions of uninsured Americans.  
 ‘Uncomfortable’  
 “The market has been uncomfortable with the pace of the
legislative agenda this year,” said  John Canally , a Boston-
based investment strategist and economist at LPL Financial,
which oversees $285 billion. “Republican control of the House
could usher in some gridlock and slow the pace. The view of the
market is that Washington is pushing a little too far.”  
 The S&P 500 sank  8.1 percent  in the three weeks after Jan.
19 as Obama proposed legislation to limit risk-taking at banks
and prevent a collapse of the financial system. Better-than-
estimated  profit  reports then spurred a 15 percent rise through
April 23. That extended the rally for the first 15 months of
Obama’s presidency to 43 percent, as the government spent, lent
or guaranteed as much as $12.8 trillion to pull the country out
of its longest recession since the Great Depression.  
 Spending cuts to trim record budget deficits may now curb
further gains in stocks, according to  Jason Pride , director of
investment strategy at Glenmede.  
 Presidential Cycle  
 “The U.S. is going to have to deal with its debt issues,
so we see that as a constant wall that the market and economy is
going to have to slowly find its way through,” said Pride,
whose Philadelphia-based firm manages $18 billion. “I don’t
think you should make an entire investment decision on the
presidential cycle.”  
 The White House is scheduled to release an updated 2010
U.S. deficit forecast on July 23. It predicted a record budget
shortfall of $1.6 trillion in February, compared with a $1.4
trillion gap last year. More than half of Americans say the
 deficit  is “dangerously out of control,” according to results
from the Bloomberg National Poll conducted July 9-12. Obama has
pledged to cut the 2009 deficit in half in five years.  
 Concern that the economic recovery is faltering pushed the
 S&P 500  down to the lowest level in 10 months on July 2. New
U.S. home sales fell to a record low in May and reports on
manufacturing and consumer confidence trailed the median
forecasts from economists in Bloomberg surveys, has trimmed the
S&P 500’s gain since March 2009 to 57 percent.  
 Most Since 1995  
 Worse-than-estimated revenue from  Bank of America , the
largest U.S. lender, and  GE , the world’s biggest maker of jet
engines and medical-imaging equipment, sent the S&P 500 down  2.9
percent  on July 16, wiping out the week’s advance.  
 Companies in the benchmark index for U.S. equities are
projected to increase profit by 34 percent in 2010 and 17
percent in 2011, the fastest two-year gain since 1995, according
to analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  
 The Bloomberg National Poll showed Americans still
disapprove of Obama’s handling of almost every major issue and
are pessimistic about the nation’s direction, presenting an
opportunity to Republicans in November.  
 “Midterm years have an historic tendency,” said  Sean Clark , chief investment officer of Clark Capital, which oversees
$2.1 billion in Philadelphia. “The market doesn’t like when one
party or the other has control of both the executive and
legislative branches. Business leaders are very much paralyzed
waiting on a definitive set of rules.”  
 ‘Huge Election’  
 The U.S. Senate passed an overhaul of financial-industry
regulation on July 15 that creates a consumer bureau at the
Federal Reserve, a council of regulators to monitor firms for
systemic risk to the economy and a mechanism for liquidating
financial firms whose collapse would threaten the economy.  
 Most Senate Republicans voted against the measure, saying
it doesn’t go far enough to prevent future taxpayer-funded
bailouts of Wall Street firms. White House spokesman  Robert Gibbs  said the Obama administration will promote the biggest
change in banking regulation since the Great Depression during
the midterm elections.  
 “I see a rally into year-end,” said  Louis Navellier , who
oversees $2.5 billion at Navellier & Associates Inc. in Reno,
Nevada. “It’s going to be a huge election. The people who are
going to vote are the people who are mad. Independents and
Republicans are mad. There’s going to be a big shift.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Kelly Bit  in New York at 
 kbit@bloomberg.net ;
 Lynn Thomasson  in New York at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       U.S. President Barack Obama  
                       
                         
                           Kevin Dietsch/Pool 
                         
                         
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Photographer: Kevin Dietsch/Pool  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 19 (Bloomberg) -- Walter "Bucky" Hellwig, a senior vice president at BB&T Wealth Management, talks with Bloomberg's Mark Crumpton about the possibility that the U.S. economy may fall back into recession. 
     Hellwig also discusses the outlook for the U.S. labor market and stocks. Bloomberg's Joe Brusuelas and Dominic Chu also speak. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 19 (Bloomberg) -- Stephen Roach, chairman of Morgan Stanley Asia, talks about the U.S.'s budget deficit and exit strategy.
     Roach, speaking with Tom Keene and Ken Prewitt on Blomberg Radio's "Surveillance," also discusses China's economy and his investment focus. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 15 (Bloomberg) -- Americans disapprove of U.S. President Barack Obama’s handling of almost every major issue and are deeply pessimistic about the nation’s direction, according to a Bloomberg National Poll conducted July 9-12. Bloomberg's Mike Tackett talks with Deirdre Bolton from Washington. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                      
      

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
