-- Obama Omits Jobs Killed or Thwarted from Tally: Caroline Baum
-- Caroline Baum
-- 2010-07-19T01:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-19/obama-omits-jobs-killed-or-thwarted-from-tally-caroline-baum.html

          
          
             Can you believe they’re still
touting that silly metric?  
 When I heard last week that the White House would be
announcing the number of “jobs created or saved” as a result
of the 2009 American Reinvestment and Recovery Act, my first
reaction was embarrassment.  
 Imagine how  Christina Romer  must feel. The chairman of the
President’s Council of Economic Advisors was dressed in a
cheery, salmon-colored jacket, a complement to the upbeat news
she had to deliver on July 14. The $787 billion stimulus enacted
in February 2009, which subsequently grew to $862 billion,
increased gross domestic product by 2.7 percent to 3.4 percent
relative to where it would have been, and added anywhere from
2.5 million to 3.6 million jobs compared with an ex-stimulus
baseline.  
 “By this estimate, the Recovery Act has met the
president’s goal of saving or creating 3.5 million jobs -- two
quarters earlier than anticipated,” Romer said with a straight
face. (More than 2.5 million non-farm jobs have been lost since
ARRA was enacted in February 2009, all of them in the private
sector, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics.)  
 How does the CEA arrive at these numbers? It uses two
methods, Romer said. The first is a standard macroeconomic
forecasting model that estimates the multiplier effect of fiscal
policy. (The government’s spending is someone else’s  income .)
The second method is statistical, using previous relationships
between GDP and employment to project future behavior.  
 Model Imperfection  
 These numbers might just as well have been pulled out of a
hat. Recall that it was the same model and method the
administration used in January 2009 to  predict  an unemployment
rate of 7 percent in the fourth quarter of 2010 with the
enactment of the fiscal stimulus and 8.8 percent without. The
 unemployment rate  now stands at 9.5 percent.  
 This same model convinced policy makers that the subprime
crisis was contained, encouraged the rating companies to slap
AAA ratings on collateralized garbage, and led banks to believe
they had adequately managed their risks and reserved for
potential losses.  
 Econometric models rely on the assumption that $1 of
government spending generates more than $1 of GDP, the so-called
multiplier effect. There is no allowance for the negative
multiplier on the other side.  
 Sure the government can spend money and generate GDP growth
in the short run: Government spending is a  component  of GDP!  
 What it giveth it taketh away from the private sector via
taxation or borrowing. Every dollar the government spends is a
dollar the private sector doesn’t spend, an investment it
doesn’t make, a job it doesn’t create. This is what is unseen,
as Frederic Bastiat explained in an 1850  essay .  
 Hiring Disincentives  
 “If the administration wants to take credit for ‘jobs
created or saved,’ it should also accept responsibility for
’jobs destroyed or prevented,’” said  Bill Dunkelberg , chief
economist at the National Federation of Independent Business.  
 Ignoring the flaws in the stimulus for the moment, Congress
raised the hurdle for hiring entry-level workers when it refused
to delay the third step in a three-stage minimum wage increase
last year. And the Department of Labor cracked down on unpaid
internships, outlining  six criteria  that businesses had to
satisfy in order to hire someone willing and able to work for
nothing to get the experience.  
 For example, the employer must derive “no immediate
advantage from the activities of the trainees, and on occasion
the employer’s operations may actually be impeded.”  
 You can’t make this stuff up.  
 Recession’s Advantage  
 At the White House briefing last week, Romer touted the
leveraging of public investment with private funds, with $1 of
Recovery Act funds partnering with $3 of outside spending. Romer
said this public spending “saved or created 800,000 jobs” in
the second quarter alone.  
 Once again, what would have happened in the absence of the
government’s targeted intervention?  
 According to a June 2009  study  by the Kauffman Foundation
in Kansas City, Missouri, well over half of the companies on the
Fortune 500 list, and almost half of the fastest growing
companies in America, were started during a  recession  or bear
market. Dunkelberg calls this phenomenon “negative push
starts.” People might not be willing to quit their jobs, but if
they get laid off during a recession and were thinking about
starting a business, they might seize the day, he said.  
 “When people ask me when the best time to start a company
is, I tell them the day before the recession ends,” Dunkelberg
said. “They can do it on the cheap, and the next day you get
cash flow.”  
 Model That!  
 What’s more, firms less than five years old are responsible
for all of the net new jobs created in the U.S., the Kauffman
study found. Job creation by start-ups is more stable, less
sensitive to the business cycle.  
 So, if the goal is to create more jobs, and start-ups are
the ones that create them, why is the Obama administration
partnering up with existing firms?  
 “Job-creation policies aimed at luring larger, established
employers will inevitably fail,” said  Tim Kane , Kauffman
Foundation senior fellow in research and policy and author of a
follow-up  study  released this month.  
 Not to worry. The White House has a model that turns
failure into success.  
 ( Caroline Baum , author of “Just What I Said,” is a
Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions expressed are her own.)  
 To contact the writer of this column:
Caroline Baum in New York at 
 cabaum@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        