-- Ocado Said to Have Insufficient IPO Orders Ahead of Tomorrow's Deadline
-- Sarah Shannon
-- 2010-07-19T12:38:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-19/ocado-fails-to-fill-orders-in-ipo-planned-to-create-1-98-billion-retailer.html

          
          
             Ocado Ltd., the unprofitable U.K.
online grocer, hasn’t received enough orders for all the stock
on sale in its initial public offering, a day before the
deadline for taking orders expires, according to two people with
knowledge of the matter.  
 The IPO will probably be priced below the mid-point of the
range set by the company, said one of the people, who declined
to be named as the information isn’t public. The shares are
being offered at 200 pence to 275 pence each.  
 A spokesman for Ocado said the IPO was proceeding according
to plan. He declined to comment on the valuation.  
 Ocado plans to sell shares to generate a market value of as
much as 1.3 billion pounds ($1.98 billion). The proposed
valuation has been questioned by analysts including  Clive Black 
at Shore Capital and  David McCarthy  at Evolution Securities, who
said the company requires “substantially” more investment.  
 “Risks are too great and that without a track record,
Ocado does not justify any kind of multiple,” McCarthy wrote.  
 Ocado plans to sell 200 million pounds ($306 million) of
new stock in the IPO, the same amount that existing shareholders
plan to raise. The Hatfield, England-based company has secured
orders for more than 200 million pounds, one of the people said.  
 The book for institutional investors is scheduled to close
tomorrow, while the deadline for retail investors to participate
in the share sale expires today, according to a term sheet for
the sale obtained by Bloomberg News.  
 New Warehouse  
 The grocer, founded by three former Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. bankers, plans to use the IPO proceeds to cut debt and
acquire a new automated warehouse. Ocado hasn’t reported an
operating profit in its 10-year history and is pressing ahead
with the share sale after the postponement or cancellation of at
least 55 global IPOs since April. Fairfield Energy Plc, a North
Sea oil and gas company, postponed its 330 million pounds London
IPO last week, citing “market conditions.”  
 Ocado is Britain’s fourth-largest online food and grocery
retailer after Tesco Plc, J Sainsbury Plc and Wal-Mart Stores
Inc.’s Asda, according to research company Verdict. The retailer
has said it controls about 14 percent of a market worth about 3
billion pounds a year. It reported a first-half operating loss
of 2.7 million pounds.  
 The grocer sells around 20,000 products to shoppers mainly
in the south east of the U.K., including ranges from Waitrose
Ltd., the employee-owned supermarket chain whose parent John
Lewis Partnership Plc holds an Ocado stake in its pension fund.  
 JPMorgan Cazenove Ltd., UBS AG and Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
are managing Ocado’s share sale, along with Barclays Capital,
HSBC Holdings Plc, as well as Jefferies Group Inc., Lloyds
Banking Group Plc and Numis Securities Ltd.  
 -- Editors:  Paul Jarvis ,  Heather Harris .  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Zijing Wu in London at   zwu17@bloomberg.net ;
 Sarah Shannon  in London at 
 sshannon4@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     An Ocado Ltd. delivery driver transports a customer's order. Photographer: Jason Alden/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
