-- Gulf Oil Spill May Cost 17,000 Jobs, Moody's Says
-- Simone Baribeau
-- 2010-07-19T17:45:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-19/oil-spill-may-cost-u-s-gulf-coast-17-000-jobs-by-year-end-moody-s-says.html

          
          
             BP Plc’s  oil spill may cost the U.S.
Gulf Coast region 17,000 jobs and about $1.2 billion in lost
economic growth by year-end even if the flow is stanched
permanently next month,  Moody’s Analytics  said.  
 Under a more pessimistic scenario in which the oil spill
continues through December and President  Barack Obama ’s six-
month moratorium on deepwater drilling is extended, economic
losses may reach $7.4 billion, and more than 100,000 jobs would
be lost, Moody’s said today in a report written by  Marisa Di Natale , a director based in West Chester, Pennsylvania.  
 Louisiana , with its heavy dependence on fishing,
aquaculture and oil extraction, and Florida, which relies on
tourism, are likely to be hardest hit by the spill, the report
said. Outside the five-state Gulf region, which also includes
Texas, Alabama and Mississippi, the spill’s impact is likely to
be negligible, according to the report.  
 “We’re talking about a very localized impact,” Di Natale
said in a conference call after the release of the report. “We
don’t think there’s going to be a major impact when we look at
the national economy.”  
 The Moody’s forecast assumes the well will continue to leak
until early August, when two relief wells stop the flow
permanently, and that none of Florida’s Panhandle beaches will
be closed as a result of the spill.  
 Obama’s Moratorium  
 The report warns that the six-month moratorium on new
deepwater oil-drilling alone may cause more job losses than the
spill’s direct impact on Florida tourism.  
 The oil leak may potentially be stopped sooner than Moody’s
baseline scenario. BP Plc halted the flow of oil from the well
for the first time July 16 and was given permission earlier
today to keep the well closed for another 24 hours.  
 A separate, industry-funded report released today also
warned of the impact of the moratorium on new deepwater
drilling, saying it is “crippling the local economy” and may
cost the region 8,169 jobs and about $2.1 billion in economic
losses in its first six months.  
 The study, commissioned by the  American Energy Alliance ,
the advocacy arm of the Institute for Energy Research, a
Washington-based research group, predicted that nationwide job
losses will reach 12,000 in six months, costing the U.S. economy
about $2.8 billion in lost growth and $219 million in tax
revenue.  
 “The moratorium could be more costly than the oil spill
itself,”  Joseph R. Mason , author of the study and professor at
Louisiana State University in Baton Rouge, said in a release
accompanying the report. “By stifling one of the area’s primary
economic engines, the administration is crippling the local
economy and risking long-term consequences.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Simone Baribeau  in New York at 
 sbaribeau@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Richard Blink displays part of his catch after a morning of shrimping in Buras, Louisiana. Photographer: John Moore/Getty Images  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 19 (Bloomberg) -- Joseph Mason, a professor of finance at Louisiana State University, discusses the possible economic impact of the moratorium on new deepwater drilling following the BP Plc oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico.
     Mason is author of a study, commissioned by the American Energy Alliance, that finds the moratorium may cost the Gulf region 8,169 jobs and about $2.1 billion in economic losses in its first six months. The study also predicts that nationwide job losses will reach 12,000 in six months, costing the U.S. economy about $2.8 billion in lost growth and $219 million in tax revenue. Mason talks with Carol Massar and Matt Miller on Bloomberg Television's "Street Smart." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
