-- Toll Brothers Forms Distressed Real Estate Business
-- Brian Louis
-- 2010-07-19T21:16:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-19/toll-brothers-forms-distressed-property-unit-to-expand-beyond-homebuilding.html

          
          
             Toll Brothers Inc. , the largest U.S.
luxury-home builder, formed a unit to invest in distressed real
estate as demand for new houses slumps.  
 Toll created Gibraltar Capital & Asset Management LLC to
“pursue a broad range of real estate acquisition and investment
opportunities,” the Horsham, Pennsylvania-based company said in
a statement today. Those may include buying loan and property
portfolios, developing sites for other builders and assisting in
the workout of troubled real estate, the company said.  
 Toll, led by new Chief Executive Officer  Douglas Yearley Jr. , joins  Lennar Corp.  in seeking to make money from distressed
real estate and move beyond its traditional homebuilding
business. Sales of new U.S.  homes  slid 33 percent in May to a
record low annual rate after the end of a federal tax credit,
according to a Commerce Department report last month.  
 “This announcement is consistent with our thesis that Toll
needs to gain exposure to other revenue streams within the
sector as the housing industry remains weak for potentially
another two to three years,”  Jack Micenko , an analyst with
Susquehanna Financial Group in New York, said in a note to
investors today. “We view the move as incrementally positive.”  
 Micenko has a “neutral”  rating  on Toll shares.  
 Falling Confidence  
 Builders in the U.S. turned more pessimistic in July. An
 index  of homebuilder confidence fell more than economists
forecast to the lowest level since April 2009, the National
Association of Home Builders said today from Washington.  
 Toll  fell 1.2 percent to $16.23 at 4 p.m. in New York Stock
Exchange composite trading.  
 Gibraltar marks a return to Toll’s ventures in distressed
real estate and debt investing in the late 1980s, said Steven M.
Friedman, national director for homebuilding services for Ernst
& Young LLP.  
 “They’ve been there, done that,” he said in a telephone
interview from Washington.  
 Yearley, who took over as  CEO  last month, worked in a Toll
division that traded distressed debt and properties in the late
1980s and early 1990s, said  Frederick Cooper , Toll’s senior vice
president for investor relations. Roger Brush, who was named as
co-leader of Gibraltar with Michael LaPat, also worked in the
company’s distressed debt business, Cooper said.  
 Private-Equity Firms  
 Toll faces competition from buyout firms in distressed
investing. Private-equity real estate funds have a record $104
billion of equity available for U.S. deals, London-based
research firm Preqin Ltd. reported in June.  
 The company isn’t at a disadvantage because there is a lot
of unsold distressed real estate and loans available, Cooper
said in a telephone interview.  
 Toll plans to disclose financial information about
Gibraltar in its next earnings report, set for Aug. 25, he said.  
 “We believe that by publicizing the formation of
Gibraltar, we’ll let the public know the resources that we have
available and hopefully will increase the number of
opportunities that we’ll be able to see and take advantage of,”
Cooper said.  
 The Financial Times reported last week that Toll partnered
with  Oaktree Capital Management  to buy a portfolio of distressed
loans with a face value of $1.7 billion from the Federal Deposit
Insurance Corp. Cooper declined to comment on the report, as did
John Frank, a spokesman for Los Angeles-based Oaktree.  
 In February, Miami-based Lennar bought part of a $3.05
billion loan portfolio acquired by the FDIC from failed banks.  
 Toll last year began increasing its land position for the
first time since 2006, including purchases of distressed lots.
The company spent $143 million in the fiscal second quarter on
buying or optioning land.  
 “I’d say half of our deals are distressed,” Yearley said
at a June 24 conference sponsored by Deutsche Bank AG.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 John Gittelsohn  in New York at 
 johngitt@bloomberg.net ;
 Brian Louis  in Chicago at 
 blouis1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        