-- Homebuilder Confidence in U.S. Falls to One-Year Low
-- Bob Willis
-- 2010-07-19T14:15:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-19/homebuilder-confidence-in-u-s-falls-to-lowest-level-since-april-of-2009.html

          
          
             Builders in the U.S. turned more
pessimistic in July than forecast, a sign the expiration of a
government tax credit will depress home construction.  
 The National Association of Home Builders/Wells Fargo
 confidence index  dropped to 14 this month, the lowest level
since April 2009, from 16 in June, data from the Washington-
based group showed today. Readings lower than 50 mean more
respondents said conditions were poor.  
 The retreat in sales following the April 30 expiration of a
deadline to sign purchase agreements and qualify for a tax
credit worth as much as $8,000 is lasting longer than projected,
the report said. With mounting foreclosures adding to housing
inventory and  unemployment  forecast to end the year at 9.5
percent according to economists surveyed by Bloomberg News, a
housing recovery will take time to develop.  
 “The housing sector is going to be in a hangover for a few
months and it looks like it will be quite a nasty one,” said
 David Sloan , a senior economist at 4Cast Ltd. in New York, who
correctly forecast the decline. “This will weigh on growth in
the third quarter and well into the fourth quarter as well.”  
 Stocks trimmed earlier gains after the report. The Standard
& Poor’s  500 Index  rose 0.3 percent to 1,067.92 at 10:11 a.m. in
New York. The S&P Supercomposite  Homebuilder Index  fell 0.1
percent to 223.27.  
 Worse Than Forecast  
 The index was forecast to fall to 16 from a previously
reported 17 in June, according to the  median  of 48 projections
in the survey. Economists’ estimates ranged from 14 to 18. The
gauge, which was first published in January 1985, averaged 15
last year.  
 The builders group’s index of current single-family home
sales fell to 15 from 17. The gauge of buyer traffic dropped to
10 from 13 the prior month. A measure of sales expectations for
the next six months decreased to 21, the lowest level since
March 2009, from 22.  
 “We continue to see a lull in home buying activity
following the expiration of the federal home buyers tax credit
program as many of the sales that would have occurred this
summer were likely pulled forward to meet the program’s
deadline,” NAHB Chairman Bob Jones, a home builder from
Bloomfield Hills, Michigan, said in a statement. “In addition,
builders are reporting continuing hesitancy regarding home
purchases due to uncertainty in the overall economy and job
markets.”  
 Housing Slump  
 Housing starts fell 10 percent in May after the expiration
of the contract-signing deadline the prior month.  
 Starts  probably dropped another 2.9 percent to a 576,000
pace in June, according to economists surveyed before a Commerce
Department report tomorrow.  
 Purchases of  existing homes  declined 9.9 percent in June to
a 5.1 million annual level, economists forecast a report from
the National Association of Realtors will show on July 22.  
 Builders compete with  inventories  of existing homes being
swelled by mounting foreclosures. Home seizures climbed 38
percent in the second quarter from a year earlier, RealtyTrac
Inc. said last week, putting lenders on pace to claim more than
1 million properties this year.  
 Under the government’s tax incentive program, buyers had to
sign contracts by the end of April and close on homes by June 30
to qualify for the credit. The deadline for closings was
extended this month until the end of September.  
 Fewer Applications  
 In another sign of flagging demand, the number of  mortgage 
applications to purchase properties dropped in the second week
of July to the lowest level since 1996, according to figures
from the Mortgage Bankers Association.  
 The confidence survey asks builders to characterize current
sales as “good,” “fair” or “poor” and to gauge prospective
buyers’ traffic. It also asks participants to gauge the outlook
for the next six months.  
 The drop in confidence was led by builders in the West,
where the gauge fell to 9 from 14, and the South, where it
decreased to 14 from 19. The builder index in the Midwest rose
to 15 from 14, and jumped to 23 from 16 in the Northeast, the
smallest region.  
 Lennar Corp .’s home sales were running 20 percent to 25
percent lower last month than a year earlier as the expiration
of the tax credit sapped demand, Chief Executive Officer  Stuart Miller  said June 24.  
 “The entire market knew there’d be a slowdown as we came
off the tax credit,” Miller said on a conference call with
investors. “It’s just that the reality of it doesn’t feel good.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bob Willis  in Washington at 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     The retreat in home sales following the April 30 tax credit deadline is lasting longer than projected. Photographer: Mike Mergen/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
