-- Onex, Canada Pension Mull $4.4 Billion Tomkins Offer
-- Hannah Roberts
-- 2010-07-19T12:09:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-19/tomkins-opens-books-to-onex-after-receiving-takeover-proposal-shares-jump.html

          
          
             The Canada Pension Plan Investment
Board and  Onex Corp. , the nation’s biggest buyout firm, are
considering a 2.9 billion-pound ($4.4 billion) bid for  Tomkins
Plc  to add businesses spanning car parts and bath tubs.  
 The two investors outlined a 325 pence-a-share cash
proposal for Tomkins while reserving the right to lower the
offer, the London-based manufacturer said today in a statement.
That’s 41 percent higher that Tomkins’s July 16 closing price.
The stock jumped as much as 36 percent to 314 pence in London.  
 Due diligence “is now at an advanced stage,” Tomkins
said. Onex Chief Executive Officer  Gerald Schwartz  said in May
that attractively priced businesses and a rebound in credit
markets would stimulate large acquisitions. Buying Tomkins,
which has reported losses the last two years, would add building
products, valves and auto parts to Onex’s investments.  
 “The company was dirt cheap,” said  Mark Wilson , an
analyst at Collins Stewart Plc, who started covering Tomkins a
year ago. “A competitor could step in. An industrial buyer
might not be quick enough, but private equity is definitely
possible.”  
 Both Onex and Canada Pension Plan are based in Toronto.
Following a career as a commercial lawyer, Tomkins Chief
Executive Officer  James Nicol , a 56-year-old Ontario native,
spent his early years in management at Canadian automotive parts
company  Magna International Inc.   
 “The CEO is very popular in Canada, with a great
reputation and a strong following there,” said Wilson. “I’m
not surprised that the bid has come from Canada.”  
 U.K. Targets  
 Tomkins is the latest European manufacturer to be targeted
as buyout firms and cash-wielding global engineering companies
seek to invest in new markets and products. Emerson Electric Co.
agreed to pay $1.5 billion for Chloride Group Plc, a British
maker of backup power systems that had attracted a rival bid
from ABB Ltd. of Switzerland. Safran SA is seeking to buy Zodiac
Aerospace SA.  
 “The U.K. manufacturers have been showing good savings
from restructuring,” Wilson said. “The recovery is sharper
than expected across the board.”  
 Following the move on Tomkins, there’s “obvious read
across” to  GKN Plc , a British maker of components for aircraft
and cars, as well as to French auto-parts maker Valeo SA of
France and ball-bearing maker SKF AB, Wilson said. Other
possible targets include Invensys Plc and Charter International
Plc, which is “well run” and “cheap,” the analyst said.  
 Rival suitors for Tomkins will be hard pressed to pursue
the company as “the biggest factor likely to get in the way”
is time, given the advanced stage of due diligence, he said.  
 Onex had about $1 billion in  cash  and $3.9 billion in
third-party acquisition funds as of May 5, it said in a prior
statement.  
 Tomkins  climbed  32 percent to 304.2 pence as of 1:05 p.m.,
valuing the business at 2.68 billion pounds.  
 Canadian Connection  
 The British company predicted a dip in  sales  and
profitability in the second half of 2010 following signs of
weakness in global economies. The global market for automotive
original equipment in the second half is now expected to be
little changed from a year earlier and down by a mid-single-
digit percentage from the first half of 2010, Tomkins said.  
 Sales  volumes  through June gained about 23 percent from a
year earlier as carmakers restocked inventories depleted during
the financial crisis. That helped offset continued declines in
the U.S. construction industry.  
 First-half operating profit is expected to total $290
million, equal to a margin of about 12 percent, Tomkins said
today.  
 JPMorgan Cazenove is advising Tomkins.  
 “Some of the shareholder who will be happy with this are
the hedge funds,” said Wilson. “The long-term U.K. ones would
be wanting to hold out for more value.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew Noel  in London at   anoel@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Onex Chief Executive Officer Gerald Schwartz.  Photographer: Norm Betts/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
