-- Onex, Canada Pension Approach Tomkins for Possible $4.4 Billion Takeover
-- Hannah Roberts
-- 2010-07-19T16:06:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-19/onex-canada-pension-approach-tomkins-for-possible-4-4-billion-takeover.html

          
          
             Onex Corp. , Canada’s biggest buyout
firm, may add to its investments in the auto industry with a 2.9
billion pound ($4.4 billion) bid with the Canada Pension Plan
Investment Board for  Tomkins Plc .  
 The Canadian investors outlined a 325 pence-a-share cash
proposal for Tomkins while reserving the right to lower the
offer, the London-based manufacturer said today in a statement.
That’s 41 percent higher that Tomkins’s July 16 closing price.  
 Onex has  invested  in manufacturing for industries including
plastics, steel-making and auto-parts. The Toronto-based firm
spent $5.58 billion with the Carlyle Group to buy Indianapolis-
based Allison Transmission from General Motors Corp. in 2007.
That same year it bought Husky Injection Molding Systems Ltd. of
Bolton, Ontario.  
 Canada Pension, the country’s second-biggest retirement
fund, has increased its private equity investments and last week
bid $3.1 billion for Intoll Group in its second attempt to buy
an Australian toll-road operator in eight months.  
 Due diligence for Tomkins “is now at an advanced stage,”
Tomkins said. Onex Chief Executive Officer  Gerald Schwartz  said
in May that attractively priced businesses and a rebound in
credit markets would stimulate large acquisitions.  
 Tomkins  climbed  28 percent to 294.2 pence in London
trading, valuing the business at 2.59 billion pounds. Onex rose
3 cents to C$25.10 at 11:25 a.m. in Toronto Stock Exchange
trading.  
 Onex Vice President of Investor Relations Emma Thompson
declined to comment, as did Canada Pension spokeswoman  Linda Sims .  
 U.K. Investments  
 Canada Pension  owns stakes  in about 35 companies worldwide
in its principal investing portfolio, including U.K.-based
Alliance Boots, U.S. retailer Dollar General Corp., Skype
Technologies SA, and U.S. phone-equipment maker Avaya Inc. The
pension fund manager has pursued stakes in companies in the past
year, including a $5.06 billion investment with TPG for IMS
Health Inc. of Norwalk, Connecticut.  
 Buying Tomkins, which has reported losses the last two
years, would add building products, valves and auto parts to
investments of Onex and Canada Pension.  
 “The company was dirt cheap,” said  Mark Wilson , an
analyst at Collins Stewart Plc, who started covering Tomkins a
year ago. “A competitor could step in. An industrial buyer
might not be quick enough, but private equity is definitely
possible.”  
 Following a career as a commercial lawyer, Tomkins CEO
 James Nicol , a 56-year-old Ontario native, spent his early years
in management at Canadian automotive parts company  Magna
International Inc.   
 Canada Connection  
 “The CEO is very popular in Canada, with a great
reputation and a strong following there,” said Wilson. “I’m
not surprised that the bid has come from Canada.”  
 Tomkins is the latest European manufacturer to be targeted
as buyout firms and cash-wielding global engineering companies
seek to invest in new markets and products. Emerson Electric Co.
agreed to pay $1.5 billion for Chloride Group Plc, a British
maker of backup power systems that had attracted a rival bid
from ABB Ltd. of Switzerland. Safran SA is seeking to buy Zodiac
Aerospace SA.  
 “The U.K. manufacturers have been showing good savings
from restructuring,” Wilson said. “The recovery is sharper
than expected across the board.”  
 Following the move on Tomkins, there’s “obvious read
across” to  GKN Plc , a British maker of components for aircraft
and cars, as well as to French auto-parts maker Valeo SA of
France and ball-bearing maker SKF AB, Wilson said. Other
possible targets include Invensys Plc and Charter International
Plc, which is “well run” and “cheap,” the analyst said.  
 Rival Bidders  
 Rival suitors for Tomkins will be hard pressed to pursue
the company as “the biggest factor likely to get in the way”
is time, given the advanced stage of due diligence, he said.  
 Onex had about $1 billion in  cash  and $3.9 billion in
third-party acquisition funds as of May 5, it said in a prior
statement.  
 The British company predicted a dip in  sales  and
profitability in the second half of 2010 following signs of
weakness in global economies. The global market for automotive
original equipment in the second half is now expected to be
little changed from a year earlier and down by a mid-single-
digit percentage from the first half of 2010, Tomkins said.  
 Sales  volumes  through June gained about 23 percent from a
year earlier as carmakers restocked inventories depleted during
the financial crisis. That helped offset continued declines in
the U.S. construction industry.  
 First-half operating profit is expected to total $290
million, equal to a margin of about 12 percent, Tomkins said
today.  
 JPMorgan Cazenove is advising Tomkins.  
 “Some of the shareholder who will be happy with this are
the hedge funds,” said Wilson. “The long-term U.K. ones would
be wanting to hold out for more value.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew Noel  in London at   anoel@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        