-- Hong Kong, China Central Banks Sign Pact to Spur Yuan Investment Products
-- Saiyu Zhou
-- 2010-07-19T15:30:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-19/hong-kong-china-central-banks-sign-pact-to-spur-yuan-investment-products.html

          
          
             The central banks of Hong Kong and
China signed agreements to ease restrictions on yuan transfers
between banks and companies in the city, seeking to encourage
use of the currency in the Asian finance hub.  
 The People’s Bank of China and the Hong Kong Monetary
Authority also agreed that the city will have no restrictions on
yuan deposit holders transferring cash to buy wealth-management
products, HKMA Chief Executive  Norman Chan  said at the signing
ceremony.  
 “The real breakthrough lies in the creation of an offshore
renminbi interbank market in Hong Kong,” economists led by
 Joanne Yim  at Hang Seng Bank Ltd. said in an e-mailed report
today. “The renminbi spot foreign exchange and interest rates
could deviate from those of the onshore market, reflecting the
demand and supply conditions of renminbi funds in Hong Kong,
providing important benchmarks for mainland policymakers.”  
 Yim expects total yuan trade settlement between Hong Kong
and China will rise to 113 billion yuan ($14.5 billion) at the
end of this year.  
 HKMA said June 18 the latest agreement would encourage
financial institutions to develop investment products
denominated in yuan, helping to offer higher returns on yuan
savings accounts in the city that currently pay interest rates
of less than 0.5 percent. Deposits in China’s currency in Hong
Kong rose 4.7 percent in May to 84.7 billion yuan ($12.5
billion), HKMA figures show.  
 No Restrictions  
 “I expect more renminbi denominated products will become
available after today’s agreement,” Chan told reporters today,
referring to the official name of China’s currency. “This will
further solidify Hong Kong’s role as a renminbi market platform
and global financial center.”  
 Under the agreement signed today, there will be no
restrictions on companies buying or selling yuan in Hong Kong
subject to banks holding enough yuan to provide liquidity, Chan
told a press briefing after the ceremony.  
 “China’s currency has a mounting role in international
trade and investment,”  Mark McCombe , chief executive officer
for Hong Kong at HSBC Holdings Plc, said in a statement. “We
want to be quick off the mark to roll out new renminbi-
denominated offerings.”  
 McCombe said his bank, Europe’s largest, will start to
offer time deposit rates of 1.41 percent per year for customers
starting July 20. HSBC will also start to provide yuan exchange
rate-linked deposits tomorrow as a new investment product.  
 Attractive Investments  
 China approved the use of the yuan to settle cross-border 
trade with Hong Kong in June 2009, part of a drive to broaden
use of the currency and reduce reliance on the U.S. dollar. The
popularity of this program has been limited by the availability
of attractive investments using China’s currency.  
 Yuan settlement of trade between the city and China more
than doubled to 7.2 billion yuan in May, compared with as much
as 3 billion yuan in both March and April, the Hong Kong
Monetary Authority said last month. Hong Kong accounted for 75
percent of the total 70.6 billion yuan in local-currency
settlement in the first half of this year, Hu said today.  
 Cross-border flows of yuan funds remain regulated by rules
in China, Chan said. The maximum amount individuals can convert
from their Hong Kong dollar deposit accounts per day is 20,000
yuan.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sophie Leung  in Hong Kong at 
 sleung59@bloomberg.net 
 Saiyu Zhou  in Hong Kong at 
 Szhou40@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Hong Kong, China sign agreements to spur yuan usage  
                       
                         
                           Jerome Favre/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Deputy governor of the People's Bank of China Hu Xiaolian, left, and  chief executive of the Hong Kong Monetary Authority Norman Chan, sign the joint agreement between The People's Bank of China and the HKMA in Hong Kong. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Deputy governor of the People's Bank of China Hu Xiaolian, left, and  chief executive of the Hong Kong Monetary Authority Norman Chan, sign the joint agreement between The People's Bank of China and the HKMA in Hong Kong. Photographer: Jerome Favre/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
