-- Proposal to Buy All Shares May Raise Costs of Acquiring Indian Companies
-- Ruth David
-- 2010-07-19T12:37:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-19/open-offer-threshold-should-be-increased-indian-takeover-panel-recommends.html

          
          
             India’s proposal to make it
mandatory for acquirers to offer to buy all shares of a company
once the threshold shareholding level of 25 percent is breached
may increase acquisition costs for companies.  
 A panel formed by the Securities and Exchange Board of
India, the market regulator, recommended raising the minimum
level that would trigger mandatory open offers to 25 percent
from 15 percent and ask acquirers to make an open offer for all
shares instead of purchasing an additional 20 percent,  C. Achuthan , who heads the panel told reporters in Mumbai today.  
 India’s market regulator proposed the changes to ensure
equal treatment for all shareholders and align takeover rules to
those overseas. The rules would be a “dampener” for acquirers
in India where companies including Abbott Laboratories spent
$16.8 billion rupees to buy rivals in the first half of the year,
according to Girish Vanvari, executive director in the mergers
and acquisitions tax practice at accounting firm KPMG.  
 “It’s great for small investors but from an acquirer’s
perspective this would be a negative,” Vanvari said in an
interview in Mumbai today. “For both Indian and overseas
acquirers, especially those paying huge premiums, the new rules
will make acquisitions a difficult proposition.”  
 The panel, set up in September 2009, aims to provide
guidelines that will shape acquisitions in India for the next
five to 10 years, the regulator’s Chairman C.B. Bhave said. The
panel included Tata Steel Ltd. Chief Financial Officer  Koushik Chatterjee  and  Y.M. Deosthalee , chief financial officer of
Larsen & Toubro Ltd. Companies and other stakeholders are
supposed to respond to the guidelines by August 31.  
 ‘Higher Footing’  
 Overseas purchasers may be better placed to acquire
companies in the fastest growing major economy in Asia after
China,  Cyril Shroff , managing partner at law firm Amarchand
Mangaldas & Suresh A. Shroff & Co., told Bloomberg UTV.  
 The guidelines may mean foreign acquirers with more access
to funding will “stand on higher footing than Indian
acquirers,” Shroff said in Mumbai.  
 If implemented the new rules would attract private equity
investors who will be able to buy up to 25 percent without
having to make an open offer, said  Sourav Mallik , head of
mergers and acquisitions at  Kotak Mahindra Capital Co.  and a
member of the takeover panel.  
 Shareholders who own more than 25 percent can make a
voluntary open offer of a minimum size of 10 percent, half the
earlier minimum size of 20 percent.  
 Acquirers making an offer can set the purchase price on 12
weeks, volume weighted average price. That’s a change from the
higher of weekly averages of market prices for 26 weeks or two
weeks.  
 “Manipulation will go away because of the new pricing
rules, especially for thinly traded companies that could jack up
the market price over two weeks,” says KPMG’s Vanvari.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Anoop Agrawal  in Mumbai at 
 aagrawal8@bloomberg.net ;
To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ruth David  in Mumbai at 
 rdavid9@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        