-- Orange-Juice Futures Rise on Outlook for Florida Hurricanes; Cotton Drops
-- Jennifer A. Johnson
-- 2010-07-19T20:30:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-19/orange-juice-futures-rise-on-outlook-for-florida-hurricanes-cotton-drops.html

          
          
             Orange-juice futures rose to a one-
week high on signs that the hurricane season will be more active
in the Atlantic and the Gulf of Mexico, boosting the risk of
damage to Florida citrus groves. Cotton fell.  
 Ocean waters in the Atlantic and the Gulf have been several
degrees warmer than average this month, which may spur more
tropical storms, said  Chris Hyde , a meteorologist at MDA
EarthSat Weather Inc. in Rockville, Maryland. Florida is the
world’s second-largest orange grower. The hurricane season runs
from June through November.  
 “The further into hurricane season we get, it’s a bull for
tropical activity,” said  James Cordier , a portfolio manager at
OptionSellers.com in Tampa, Florida. “Speculators are buying as
they watch tropical activity.”  
 Orange juice for September delivery rose 1.1 cents, or 0.8
percent, to $1.4125 a pound on ICE Futures U.S. in New York.
Earlier, the price reached $1.435, the highest level for a most-
active contract since July 8.  
 Brazil is the biggest orange producer.  
 Cotton fell on speculation that U.S. production will climb
in the U.S., the top exporter.  
 Cotton in West Texas got ample rain in June, which may
boost yields to a record, FCStone Group Inc. data indicates.
West Texas is the biggest growing area in the leading producing
state.  
 The U.S. crop may be 50 percent bigger than last year
because farmers planted more and conditions improved, according
to the most recent U.S. Department of Agriculture report.  
 “There still a lot of concern about the growing size of
the U.S. crop,” said  Sharon Johnson , a senior analyst at First
Capitol Group LLC in Atlanta.  
 Cotton futures for December delivery fell 0.34 cent, or 0.5
percent, to 73.62 cents a pound. The price declined 1.4 percent
last week.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jennifer A. Johnson  in Chicago at 
 Jjohnson133@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        