-- Morgan Stanley's Roach Says U.S. Is at Start of `Protracted Sluggishness'
-- Jurjen van de Pol
-- 2010-07-19T14:50:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-19/morgan-stanley-s-roach-says-u-s-is-at-start-of-protracted-sluggishness-.html

          
          
             The U.S. economy faces a period of
“protracted sluggishness” as consumers are wary to spend, said
 Stephen Roach , Morgan Stanley’s chairman for Asia.  
 “The U.S. is, I think, in the early stages of what is a
very protracted sluggishness of domestic internal demand,”
Roach, who is also a professor at Yale University, said in a
radio interview with  Tom Keene  and  Ken Prewitt  on “Bloomberg
Surveillance.”  
 The U.S. economy grew at a 2.7 percent annual rate in the
first quarter, less than previously calculated, reflecting a
smaller gain in consumer spending and a bigger trade gap, data
showed last month. Consumer confidence slumped in July to the
lowest level in a year, signaling that the biggest part of the
economy is losing momentum, according to the Thomson
Reuters/University of Michigan preliminary index of consumer
sentiment published on July 16.  
 “The dynamism that we’ve gotten hooked and accustomed to,
is just not going to be” there, Roach said.  
 The U.S. housing market took another step back in June as
construction and purchases dropped, and a gauge of the outlook
for growth signaled the expansion will lose steam, economists
said before data due to be published later this week. Housing’s
inability to maintain a rebound is one reason the economic
recovery is not gaining speed.  
 Stimulus Debate  
 President  Barack Obama  said on July 15 that his economic-
stimulus program is gradually pulling the U.S. out of its
deepest recession in decades. Republicans have said the stimulus
is wasteful, hasn’t reduced unemployment and has added to the
record budget deficit.  
 “The president is walking a fine line” between stimulus
and budget cuts, Roach said. “What the markets are ultimately
going to want is far more specificity and credibility on deficit
reduction and normalization of Fed policy.” Federal Reserve
policy makers last month restated a pledge to keep the benchmark
lending rate at around zero for “an extended period.”  
 Roach also said that the savings rate in China, one of the
biggest buyers of U.S. debt, is still high and rising. “It is a
savings rate driven more by fear than by life-cycle rational
motives, if you deal with that fear, you can reduce that excess
saving,” he said.  
 Reducing savings may boost Chinese domestic demand, helping
the country to cope with weak exports to Europe and the U.S.,
where demand fell following the recession. China has depended on
exports to the U.S. and Europe to fuel its economic growth over
the past decades.  
 China’s Model  
 “China has to shift the model if it wants to continue to
maintain rapid growth and avoid social instability, and focus on
deriving support from internal private consumption,” Roach
said.  
 Morgan Stanley cut its full-year economic growth forecast
for China by about 1 percentage point to around 10 percent.
Roach expects economic growth will hold at around 10 percent
over the next couple of years.  
 “Per capita gross domestic product in China is still a
real laggard,” he said. It will take China at least 50 years
before China’s gross domestic product per capita catches up to
“anything close” to that of the developed world, he said.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jurjen van de Pol  in Amsterdam at 
 jvandepol@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Morgan Stanley's non-executive chairman for Asia Stephen Roach. Photographer: Daniel Acker/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 19 (Bloomberg) -- Stephen Roach, chairman of Morgan Stanley Asia, talks about the U.S.'s budget deficit and exit strategy.
     Roach, speaking with Tom Keene and Ken Prewitt on Blomberg Radio's "Surveillance," also discusses China's economy and his investment focus. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
