-- Moscow Mayor Luzhkov Insists Decision on Future Is for Him Alone to Make
-- Ilya Arkhipov
-- 2010-07-19T16:12:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-19/moscow-mayor-luzhkov-insists-decision-on-future-is-for-him-alone-to-make.html

          
          
             Yury Luzhkov  said the decision on
when to step down as Moscow’s mayor will be his alone, even
after the Kremlin abolished direct elections for regional
leaders and reasserted its power to appoint them.  
 “This is my issue; it’s up to me to decide,” Luzhkov, 73,
said in an interview in Moscow today, declining to elaborate.
Luzhkov has run Moscow since 1992, making him the longest-
serving chief executive since Vladimir Dolgorukov, who served as
the city’s governor-general from 1865 to 1891.  
 Russian media have reported that Luzhkov, who was first
appointed mayor by then-President  Boris Yeltsin , may be forced
to resign before his current term ends next year as part of the
Kremlin’s strategy of replacing veteran regional chiefs.  
 Moscow is one of Russia’s 83 administrative units whose
leaders are nominated by the president and confirmed by local
legislatures. Then-President  Vladimir Putin , now prime minister,
abolished direct gubernatorial elections and streamlined the
chain of command to concentrate power in the Kremlin.  
 Dmitry Medvedev , president since 2008, has been gradually
replacing the longest-serving regional governors. Last week he
accepted the early resignation of  Murtaza Rakhimov , president of
the oil-rich Bashkortostan region.  
 Last year, the Kremlin retired  Eduard Rossel , governor of
the Sverdlovsk region since 1991. In January,  Mintimer Shaimiyev , president of oil-rich Tatarstan, agreed to step down
after two decades in power.  
 ‘Early Exit’  
 While Luzhkov is a seasoned politician who controls
Russia’s wealthiest region, he doesn’t have the final say about
his future in the mayor’s office,  Dmitry Orlov , director of the
 Agency for Political and Economic Communications , a Moscow-based
public-relations company, said by telephone today.  
 Orlov’s agency in May issued a report that suggested
Luzhkov may step down before his term ends.  
 “I think there is a 60 percent chance that Luzhkov will
make an early exit, and if it happens it should be done by the
end of the summer, which is the slow season for politics,”
Orlov said.  
 The Kremlin and the Moscow city government will look for a
compromise decision on Luzhkov’s departure, said  Olga Kryshtanovskaya , a member of Putin’s United Russia party and a
sociologist who studies the country’s elites.  
 “I think 50 percent of what he says is true,”
Kryshtanovskaya said. “If Medvedev and Putin could simply fire
him, it would have been done a long time ago. He is one of the
remaining mastodons. His ouster is approaching, it’s simply
unavoidable, and some preparation is under way for it.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Lyubov Pronina  in Moscow at 
 lpronina@bloomberg.net ;
 Ilya Arkhipov  in Moscow at 
 iarkhipov@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        