-- Nokia Siemens to Buy Motorola Wireless Unit for $1.2 Billion
-- Hugo Miller
-- 2010-07-19T20:52:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-19/motorola-near-1-3-billion-sale-of-unit-to-nokia-siemens.html

          
          
             Nokia Siemens Networks, the world’s
second-largest maker of wireless phone systems, said it will pay
$1.2 billion to buy wireless network assets from  Motorola Inc. 
to expand in North America and Japan.  
 The joint venture of Nokia Oyj and Siemens AG will gain or
expand access to more than 50 customers, it said in a statement
today. Nokia Siemens said it will pay for the assets, which
don’t include any debt, with cash and a credit facility it
secured last year. The deal excludes $150 million in accounts
receivable, cash and some other assets Motorola will keep.  
 Nokia Siemens Networks, based in Espoo, Finland, wants to
boost its presence in North America to compete with larger rival
 Ericsson AB  and faster-growing competitors such as China’s
Huawei Technologies Co. Nokia Siemens unsuccessfully bid twice
for assets belonging to Toronto-based  Nortel Networks Corp. 
during the past year after the telecommunications-equipment
maker filed for bankruptcy protection and sold off units.  
 “It’s a positive for Nokia Siemens,”  Pierre Ferragu , a
London-based analyst with Sanford C Bernstein, said in an
interview. “It’s good for them to get a foothold in North
America, especially as this is going to be the strongest
telecoms market” over the medium term, he said. Ferragu has a
“market perform” rating on Nokia and an ‘outperform” rating
on Motorola.  
 Nokia dropped 0.1 percent to 6.77 euros at the close of
Helsinki trading. Siemens slipped 1.4 percent to 73.23 euros in
Frankfurt. Motorola  climbed  5.6 percent, the most in five
months, to $7.92 as of 4 p.m. in New York.  
 Trimming Expenses  
 Nokia Siemens adds about 7,500 employees through the deal,
which is predicted to close by year end. It hasn’t planned to
cut any of the jobs in groups it’s acquiring and intends to
maintain a “strong presence” in central Illinois, Chief
Executive Officer  Rajeev Suri  said on a teleconference.  
 Nokia Siemens has spent the last three years cutting jobs
and shutting offices to adjust to falling demand and price
competition from Ericsson and Huawei. Suri said in November the
company planned to expand through acquisitions and partnerships
while continuing to trim its existing operations.  
 “More scale for NSN makes sense,”  Jason Willey , an equity
analyst at Standard & Poor’s, said in an interview July 16.
“They have a hole where they really need stronger ties to
customers in the U.S. and anything they could do to improve
their scale and presence there would be a positive.”  
 Nokia Siemens said the acquisition will strengthen its
ties to operators Verizon Wireless, Sprint Nextel Corp. in the
U.S., KDDI Corp. in Japan, China Mobile Ltd., and Vodafone Group
Plc.  
 ‘Deal Is Sealed’  
 “The deal gives strength and growth in the U.S. and
Japan” and “complements our portfolio with all wireless
technologies,’  Bosco Novak , Nokia Siemens’ chief markets
operations officer, said in an interview. He said that there is
no chance of another bidder coming in to trump Nokia Siemens’
offer.  
 “The deal is sealed,” Novak said. He added that he
expects it to close at the end of this year and that it is
subject to regulatory approval.  
 The wireless business at Nokia Siemens is rooted in the GSM
standards used by most carriers outside the U.S. and east Asia.
Motorola sells GSM systems as well as gear based on CDMA, which
is used by some North American and east Asian carriers and so-
called fourth-generation technologies LTE and WiMAX. Nokia
Siemens also has LTE contracts.  
 Wireless Patents  
 Motorola, based in Schaumburg, Illinois, is hanging on to a
technology it developed called iDEN, it said in the statement.
It’s also planning to keep its wireless patents, except for some
that Nokia Siemens will need to build CDMA networks. Cross-
licensing is included in the deal.  
 Motorola’s sale of the wireless-network unit prepares it
for a broader restructuring. The company is planning to spin off
its mobile-phone and set-top box operations into a company that
will be led by co-Chief Executive Officer  Sanjay Jha . The
spinoff is on schedule for the first quarter, Jha said last
month.  
 Selling the networks business to make Motorola more focused
on public safety devices makes it a “more compelling investment
story,” Motorola co-chief Executive Officer  Greg Brown  said in
a telephone interview.  
 The remaining unit that Brown will oversee is the “crown
jewel” of Motorola’s assets, he said. The company isn’t working
on any other divestitures right now, he added.  
 The wireless network unit minus the iDEN assets Motorola is
keeping had sales of about $3.7 billion last year.  
 ‘Very Good Price’  
 “They’re getting rid of this asset for a very good price
and it’s a good step towards the break-up plan” which will help
them to be well capitalized next year, Ferragu said.  
 Nokia Siemens is paying 0.3 to 0.5 times annual revenue for
the unit, a “fair” price for the telecoms joint-venture to be
paying, Ferragu said.  
 Analysts have given a range rather than a specific
calculation for the ratio of the network unit’s sales to the
price paid because Motorola is retaining one part of the
business.  
 Nokia Siemens will get “significant synergies” from the
acquisition, said Siemens spokesman  Marc Langendorf . Nokia
Siemens was able to finance the deal itself, without help from
Siemens, he said.  
 Nokia Siemens secured a credit facility of about 2 billion
euros with a syndicate of more than 20 international banks
around the time it bid for the Ericsson assets last June.  
 Lower Spending  
 Over the past decade, telecommunications-equipment
companies have combined to cope with declines in spending by
some customers. France’s Alcatel SA acquired Lucent Technologies
Inc. in 2006 to create  Alcatel-Lucent , a Paris-based rival to
Nokia Siemens.  
 Nokia Siemens is the world’s second-largest maker of
wireless phone systems behind Ericsson and roughly even with
Huawei, according to Redwood City, California-based researcher
Dell’Oro Group. Motorola is the fourth-largest company in CDMA
wireless systems, according to the researcher.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Diana ben-Aaron  in Helsinki at 
 dbenaaron1@bloomberg.net ;  Hugo Miller  in Toronto at 
5724 or  hugomiller@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Nokia Siemens Chief Executive Officer Rajeev Suri said the company will expand through acquisitions and partnerships while trimming its existing operations. Source: Nokia Siemens Networks via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 19 (Bloomberg) -- Bloomberg's Iyan Adewuya discusses Nokia Siemens Networks' agreement to pay $1.2 billion for wireless network assets from Motorola Inc. to expand in North America and Japan.
     Adewuya also discusses Carlyle Group and TPG Capital's agreement to buy Australia's Healthscope Ltd. for A$2 billion ($1.7 billion) and Kinder Morgan Inc.'s possible initial public offering. He talks with Scarlet Fu on Bloomberg Television's "InsideTrack." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
