-- How Sonoma Wineries Thrive While Many Cut Prices, Sell Property
-- Elin McCoy
-- 2010-07-19T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-19/how-sonoma-wineries-thrive-as-many-cut-prices-sell-property-elin-mccoy.html

          
          
             Ziggy, a golden Labrador trained to
sniff out bad wine corks, is showing off his tricks at  Sojourn
Cellars ’ tasting salon in Sonoma.  
 I’m visiting this charming white clapboard house to find
out why owner Craig Haserot is thriving when big-name Napa
wineries are discounting their cabernets 30 to 50 percent to
clear inventory.  
 “The main thing is that from the beginning we’ve sold 70
percent of our pinots and cabs direct to consumers online,’’
says Haserot. Ziggy wags his tail.  
 I recently visited several premium wineries in Sonoma that
are growing, in contrast with their recession-battered peers.
Like Haserot, their managers know how to run a business, have
kept prices reasonable and capital investment low by buying
grapes rather than buying vineyards, are good marketers, and
sell most of their wine outside the traditional distribution
chain.  
 Haserot left a job in software sales management to follow
his wine dream in 2001 after meeting his Sojourn partner,
winemaker Erich Hadley, on the tennis court. Haserot says his
business background inspired his decision to forgo capital
investment in an expensive winery building or his own vines.  
 Sojourn’s single-vineyard wines are made with grapes
purchased from various vineyards and then vinified at a custom
crush facility (my faves are the Rodgers Creek and Sangiacomo
pinots). In 2008, Sojourn produced 3,500 cases; in 2009, 5,000.
In 2010, with six pinots and three cabs, it may be more.  
 ‘Vintner Lifestyle’  
 The recession has been brutal for most small to medium
northern California wineries. Those who bought into the
“vintner lifestyle’’ at the peak of the market a few years ago
may not make it.  
 Many top names, especially in Napa, have thousands of
unsold bottles in their cellars and barrels full of wine from
the bountiful 2009 harvest. Last fall, Napa’s  Caymus  coped by
slashing the price of its famous special selection cabernet by a
third.  
 Even big players are hunting for cash flow. On June 24,
U.K.-based giant  Diageo Plc  announced the sale of 2,000 acres of
vineyards and Sterling and BV wineries in Napa Valley for $269
million in a leaseback deal to Southern California real-estate
investment trust Realty Income Corp.  
 As proprietors drop grape contracts and cut back
production, a larger-than-ever percentage of growers’ grapes
will be up for grabs this fall.  
 Tons of Savings  
 “I just got a phone call offering me pinot noir from the
West Side Road area in the Russian River appellation for $2,500
a ton,’’ Haserot says, smiling. “I would happily have bought
the grapes in 2008 when the price was $4,500, but they were all
contracted to other wineries.’’
 Freeman Winery  in the Russian River Valley town of
Sebastapol, a maker of well-balanced, subtle pinots, is another
success story, with revenue up 8 percent in 2009 over 2008. Ken
Freeman, who founded the winery with his Japanese wife and now
winemaker Akiko in 2002, is a businessman, too, with a day job
as managing director of  Knight Capital Partners , which provides
capital placement services. The Freemans, too, buy grapes --
pinot and chardonnay -- though they’ve also invested in a winery
with a dramatic stone wine cave.  
 Part of Freeman’s brand-building strategy has always been
exports -- it sells 20 percent in Asia, especially to Japan --
while 40 percent is direct-to-consumer sales, which generate far
more revenue than selling through a distributor to retailers.  
 CARE Act  
 The dark cloud hovering over direct selling, though, is
H.R. 5034, the  Comprehensive Alcohol Regulatory Effectiveness
(CARE) Act  of 2010, a wholesaler-backed bill introduced in
Congress in April that now has 126 cosponsors. Last week’s
planned hearing was postponed indefinitely. If the bill passes,
it could put an end to consumers buying wine directly from
wineries, now legal in 37 states thanks to a 2005 Supreme Court
ruling.  
 “If it passes, it would be an unmitigated disaster,’’
Haserot says. “It would crush small wineries instantaneously.’’  
 Sonoma may be suffering less than Napa because wines there
haven’t seen the same massive price increases over the past 10
years. Sojourn Cellars charges $48 for its pinots, while
Freeman’s go for $42 to $54, prices that still sell.  
 While Haserot and I are chatting and Ziggy, tired of
performing, curls up on a couch, vineyard and winery real estate
appraiser Tony Correia of  Correia-Zavier Inc.  drops by.  
 Distress Sales  
 “There’s a lot for sale but the best properties are still
holding their value. There are more buyers for hard assets than
you would think,’’ he says.  
 Distress sales are mostly wineries started recently by
people who thought producing 2,000 cases of a $150 cab would
impress their friends and bring in the cash. Yet those who know
what they’re doing, -- like  William P. Foley II , chairman of
 Fidelity National Financial Inc. , who recently snapped up
Sonoma’s Chalk Hill winery -- want the best and are willing to
pay for it.  
 As Haserot puts out some salads for lunch, he says,
“Selling $10 to $20 million worth of software is a walk in the
park in comparison to the wine business. This is the hardest
work I’ve ever done.’’  
 ( Elin McCoy  writes on wine and spirits for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed
are her own.)  
 To contact the writer of the story:
Elin McCoy at  elinmccoy@gmail.com .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Craig, Ellen and Ziggy Haserot  
                       
                         
                           Elin McCoy/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Craig Haserot and his wife Ellen, proprietors of Sojourn Cellars, with their dog Ziggy in Sonoma, California. The winery sells its several pinot noirs and cabernets directly to consumers. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Craig Haserot and his wife Ellen, proprietors of Sojourn Cellars, with their dog Ziggy in Sonoma, California. The winery sells its several pinot noirs and cabernets directly to consumers. Photographer: Elin McCoy/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Ken and Akiko Freeman outside their stone-front cave winery in Sebastopol, California. Freeman Winery, which specializes in pinot noir and chardonnay, is growing during the recession by selling directly to consumers and exporting twenty percent of its produce to Asia. Source: Freeman Winery via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Directional Signs  
                       
                         
                           Elin McCoy/Bloomberg 
                         
                         A direction sign listing nearby wineries in Sonoma, California. The recession has battered many of northern California's boutique wineries. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     A direction sign listing nearby wineries in Sonoma, California. The recession has battered many of northern California's boutique wineries. Photographer: Elin McCoy/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
