-- Palm Oil Gains for Eighth Day as Crude Cuts Loss, Restoring Biofuel Appeal
-- Claire Leow
-- 2010-07-19T11:08:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-19/palm-oil-futures-in-kuala-lumpur-decline-for-the-first-time-in-eight-days.html

          
          
             Palm oil advanced for an eighth day,
erasing an earlier drop, as crude oil pared losses and restored
the appeal of the tropical oil as a biodiesel feedstock.  
 October-delivery futures reversed a decline in the last few
minutes of trade, gaining 0.2 percent to 2,454 ringgit ($760) a
metric ton on the Malaysia Derivatives Exchange. The most-active
contract lost as much as 0.8 percent earlier.  
 August-delivery crude was little changed at $75.95 a barrel
at 6:05 p.m. after falling as much as 0.7 percent earlier on the
New York Mercantile Exchange. Oil dropped for a fourth day after
the Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan preliminary consumer
sentiment index for July fell to 66.5 from 76 in June, the
lowest level since August.  
 “The markets are still positive,” Nirgunan Tiruchelvam,
an analyst at Royal Bank of Scotland Asia Securities (Singapore)
Pte., said today. Palm oil is supported when crude trades above
$70 a barrel, he said.  
 The intraday decline in crude oil raised “concerns about
palm oil’s biodiesel appeal,” said Badruddin Khan, assistant
vice president for research at Angel Commodities Ltd. in Mumbai.
“There’s also a bit of profit-taking after the rally, which may
not be fully backed by fundamentals.”  
 The commodity had its first weekly gain in four last week
and reached a six-week high on speculation that demand for the
most-consumed vegetable oil will climb as Asian nations approach
the festival season. China, India, Pakistan and Indonesia mark
their important festivals in the quarter ending September, with
communal meals stoking edible oils consumption.  
 ‘Inventory Overhang’  
 Still, the gain in palm oil production in Indonesia, the
largest producer, may exceed the growth in demand, pressuring
prices in the coming months, Khan said. Output in Malaysia, the
second-largest, climbed 2.5 percent to 1.42 million tons in June,
the nation’s Palm Oil Board said last week.  
 “Production is going to be better everywhere and there’s
an overhang of inventory,” Khan said.  
 Palm oil could decline as low as 2,200 ringgit, unless it
exceeds 2,500 ringgit with a “strong breakout momentum,” a RHB
Research Institute Sdn. said in a note, citing technical charts.  
 December-delivery soybean oil in Chicago was little changed
at 39.03 cents a pound at 5:59 p.m. while soybeans for November
delivery, which had slumped as much as 1.3 percent to $9.7225 a
bushel on the Chicago Board of Trade, was at $9.8275 at 6:03 p.m.  
 CME Group Inc.’s September-delivery palm oil contract,
which is pegged to the Malaysian benchmark price, rose 8 percent
to $763.75 a ton on July 15, the most since the contract started
trading in May.  
 On the Dalian Commodity Exchange, January-delivery palm oil
closed little changed at 6,536 yuan ($964) a ton while soybean
oil fell 0.2 percent to 7,562 yuan a ton.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Thomas Kutty Abraham  in Mumbai at 
Or  tabraham4@bloomberg.net ;
 Claire Leow  in Singapore at 
 cleow@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        