-- Second India Train Disaster in Two Months Kills 60
-- Bibhudatta Pradhan
-- 2010-07-19T11:05:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-19/passenger-train-crash-kills-49-people-in-india-s-west-bengal-injures-80.html

          
          
             Two passenger trains collided at a
station in the eastern Indian state of  West Bengal , killing at
least 60 people and injuring as many as 85 others, the region’s
second rail disaster in less than two months.  
 The Uttarbanga Express rammed into the rear carriages of
the stationary Vananchal Express at about 2 a.m. local time
today at Sainthia, 200 kilometers (124 miles) north of Kolkata,
Samir Goswami, chief public relations officer at  Eastern
Railways , said by phone.  
 The final two coaches of the Vananchal have been badly
damaged, Goswami said, with the impact raising the roof and
sides of one into the air and on to an overhead road bridge.  
 Television network CNN-IBN  broadcast  footage of the mangled
wreckage, and passengers and rescue workers carrying the injured
on makeshift stretchers along crowded platforms.  
 India’s 63,000-kilometer railway network, Asia’s oldest, is
frequently hit by fatal accidents. At least 146 people died in a
train crash on May 28 in the same state, when a goods train
rammed into derailed coaches of a passenger train. Sabotage by
Maoist rebels may have caused the Gyaneshwari Express to jump
off the tracks, Railway Minister  Mamata Banerjee , whose party is
based in West Bengal, had said.  
 There was no evidence to suggest a similar cause for
today’s crash.  
 “Maintenance of equipment and safety measures are being
neglected in the railways,” the Communist Party of India
(Marxist) said in a statement in New Delhi. The party, which
runs the state government, is Banerjee’s chief rival. About
100,000 “jobs in safety related jobs remain vacant.”  
 Indian Railways carries about 15 million people each day on
11,000 passenger trains, and 1.4 million tons of freight.  
 Local residents searched today’s crash site for survivors
in the hours after the accident and were later joined by 140
personnel from the National Disaster Relief Force, state police
and rescue workers.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Saikat Chatterjee  in New Delhi at 
 schatterjee4@bloomberg.net ;
 Bibhudatta Pradhan  in New Delhi at 
 bpradhan@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        