-- Peru Raises Lenders' Reserve Mandate to Tame Growth, Currency Volatility
-- John Quigley
-- 2010-07-19T04:41:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-19/peru-raises-lenders-reserve-mandate-to-tame-growth-currency-volatility.html

          
          
             Peru’s central bank will increase
reserve requirements for lenders next month as it seeks to curb
volatility in the sol and cool an economy that  expanded 9.2
percent  in May.  
 The reserve mandate for banks will rise to 8 percent of
their lending portfolios in August from 7 percent, Banco Central
de Reserva del Peru said in an e-mailed statement today. The
share of this that lenders must put in accounts at the central
bank will rise to 2.5 percent from 2 percent.  
 Banco Central also introduced a new 12 percent marginal
reserve mandate for local-currency deposits. The marginal
requirement on foreign-currency deposits will rise to 45 percent
from 35 percent, and banks will be required to hold funds
equivalent to 50 percent of borrowings abroad maturing in less
than two years, up from 40 percent.  
 The changes are aimed at ensuring the “orderly”
development of liquidity and credit, Banco Central said today.
Rising demand for the local currency prompted the bank to allow
the country’s private pension funds to invest more of their
assets overseas last week.  
 Today’s adjustments follow increased reserve mandates
announced June 21 which, coupled with three quarter-point
 interest rate  increases since early May, will help to “tighten
financial conditions and also to discourage short-term capital
inflows which have been pressuring the sol to appreciate,”
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. economist  Alberto Ramos  said in an e-
mailed statement today.  
 The central bank bought $645 million in the foreign-
exchange market last week, including a record $494 million on
July 14 after the sol rose to a 23-month high.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 John Quigley  in Lima at 
 jquigley8@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        