-- China Yellow Sea Oil Spill May Be Cleaned in 5 Days
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-07-19T14:11:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-19/petrochina-says-dalian-oil-spill-contained-port-shut-after-blasts-leak.html

          
          
             An oil spill caused by pipeline
blasts at a terminal of China’s Dalian port may be cleaned up
this week, allowing the country’s largest crude-oil terminal to
resume receiving supplies for two  PetroChina Co.  refineries.  
 “We may be able to clean up the sea within roughly 5 days
by allocating all possible resources,” Xu Guochen, secretary of
the Dalian municipal government, told a press conference
televised on Phoenix TV. The spill in northeastern China has
been contained with floating barriers, PetroChina spokesman  Mao Zefeng  said by telephone from Hong Kong today.  
 The oil terminal was closed and one refinery was forced to
draw on crude stockpiles, said a PetroChina official in Dalian,
who can’t be named because he isn’t authorized to speak to the
media. The Ministry of Transport ordered harbors across the
country that offload oil to check their operations and halt
operations at any deemed to be unsafe, according to a  statement 
on its website today.  
 “The government is trying all means to clean up the spill
and this will allow the port to reopen and restore crude oil
supplies to the refineries soon,” He Wei, an oil analyst at
brokerage BOCOM International Holdings Co. said by phone from
Beijing. “The incident will have more impact on PetroChina’s
reputation than direct economic losses.”  
 Coal Priority  
 Authorities restricted marine traffic on some routes to
help the cleanup, the official Xinhua News Agency said, citing
Wang Ning, a senior engineer from the marine affairs department
of Liaoning province where the port is located. Most shipping
activities, including the transport of coal for electricity
generation, have not been halted, Wang was quoted as saying.  
 Authorities have given priority to ensuring coal supplies
to the Dalian unit of Huaneng Power International Inc. during
the marine traffic restrictions, Xinhua’s report said.  
 Dalian Port (PDA) Co. , the operator of the terminal, fell
the most in two months in Hong Kong after the July 16 explosion
caused what Greenpeace says is the biggest spill in the
country’s seas.  
 West Pacific Petrochemical Corp. has cut processing by 20
percent, commodity researcher C1 Energy said, citing people it
didn’t identify. The 200,000 barrels-a-day refinery is jointly
owned by PetroChina, Sinochem Corp. and Total SA.  
 PetroChina’s other refinery in Dalian has an annual
capacity of 20.5 million tons, or 410,000 barrels-a-day.  
 Two Pipelines  
 An oil pipeline exploded late on July 16 near Dalian’s
Xingang harbor, causing a smaller pipeline nearby to blow up,
according to the official Xinhua News Agency. The fire was
extinguished the next day, 15 hours after the initial blast,
Xinhua said.  
 The blasts occurred a day after BP Plc capped its Gulf of
Mexico leak and followed a Dec. 30 diesel fuel spill from a
pipeline operated by PetroChina’s parent that polluted the
Yellow River.  
 About 1,500 tons of oil spilled into the Yellow Sea,
according to China National Radio. BP’s well spewed as much as
60,000 barrels of oil a day, or 8,220 tons daily, since an April
20 rig explosion until it was capped July 15, according to a U.S.
government-led panel of scientists.  
 “It doesn’t compare in terms of size or seriousness with
the BP oil spill,”  Grace Liu , analyst at Guotai Junan
Securities Co., said by phone from Shenzhen.  
 Incorrect Procedure  
 An incorrect procedure during the offloading of a tanker
may have led to the explosion, Mao of PetroChina said. The cause
is yet to be confirmed and an investigation is underway, he said.  
 The blast has “seriously” polluted 11 square kilometers
(7 square miles) of sea and “slightly” affected 50 square
kilometers, the Xinhua reported today, citing Wu Guogong, deputy
chief of the municipal environmental protection bureau.  
 The spill is the biggest in Chinese waters and could have a
long-term impact on the marine ecology of the area, Yang Ailun,
a Beijing-based spokeswoman at Greenpeace, said by phone today.
“This incident and the one at the Mexican Gulf have revealed
the risks of economies being over-reliant on dirty energy.”  
 The government of Liaoning province has set up a taskforce
to deal with the spill, the Ministry of Agriculture said on its
website. Liaoning Governor  Chen Zhenggao  called for 1,000
fishing boats to be dispatched to help with the clean up, the
Dalian Daily reported today, citing a speech he gave yesterday.  
 Hundreds of Staff  
 Hundreds of staff from PetroChina’s state-owned parent,
China National Petroleum Corp., are working with local and
central government agencies to remove the oil, Mao said.  
 More than 20 vessels have been deployed to spray chemicals
and a 7-kilometer barrier has been set up to contain the spill,
China National Radio said today, citing Huang Yong, deputy chief
of Dalian city’s Maritime Safety Administration. The port is
capable of handling 57 million tons of crude annually, according
to the website of its parent, PDA Corp.  
 Dalian Port declined 5.1 percent, the biggest drop since
May 19, to close at HK$3 in Hong Kong.  PetroChina , a unit of the
country’s largest oil company, fell 1.4 percent to HK$8.46 while
the benchmark Hang Seng index lost 0.8 percent.  
 -- Wang Ying ,  Chua Baizhen ,  Winnie Zhu  and  John Duce .  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 John Duce  in Hong Kongt .
 Jduce1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        