-- Doha Bank Second-Quarter Net Beats Estimates as Fund Relinquishes Dividend
-- Arif Sharif
-- 2010-07-19T14:08:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-19/qatar-s-doha-bank-first-half-profit-declines-4-9-to-614-7-million-riyals.html

          
          
             Doha Bank QSC , Qatar’s third-biggest
bank by revenue, posted a less than expected drop in second-
quarter profit after the country’s sovereign wealth fund
declined to take dividends.  
 Net income  fell 5.4 percent to 299.7 million riyals ($82.4
million), from 316.7 million riyals a year earlier, the bank
said in a  financial statement  posted on the Qatar Exchange
website today. That beat the  mean estimate  of 235.7 million
riyals by three analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  
 The Qatar Investment Authority, holder of 5 percent of the
bank’s share capital, relinquished its right to dividends,
amounting to 43.1 million riyals, Doha Bank said.  
 “That 43 million has given a boost,” said  Janany Vamadeva , an analyst at HC Brokerage in Dubai who forecast
second-quarter profit of 239 million riyals. “The Qatari banks
are benefiting from liquidity because liquidity has improved.”  
 Doha Bank, the second-worst performing lender after Qatar
Islamic Bank on the  QE Index of Qatari companies  this year, has
benefited from Qatari government support following the global
economic crisis.  
 The bank said it received a 368.6 million-riyal capital
injection from the QIA late last year. The government also
agreed to purchase the equity and real estate portfolio of Doha
Bank and other Qatari lenders.  
 Doha Bank may raise as much as $1 billion by selling bonds
in the fourth quarter, Chief Executive Officer  Raghavan Seetharaman  said last month.  
 Doha Bank fell 0.7 percent to 44.1 riyals on the Qatar
Exchange today, extending this year’s decline to down 6.4
percent. Earnings were reported after the market closed.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Robert Tuttle  in Doha at 
 rtuttle@bloomberg.net ;
 Arif Sharif  in Dubai at 
 asharif2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        