-- Trade Stock-Neutral Currencies to Avoid Swings in Risk, RBC Recommends
-- Alex Kowalski
-- 2010-07-19T14:20:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-19/trade-stock-neutral-currencies-to-avoid-swings-in-risk-rbc-recommends.html

          
          
             Foreign-exchange investors looking
to avoid sharp swings in risk should focus on currency trades
whose values don’t hinge on stock-market performance, according
to Royal Bank of Canada.  
 Currency pairs that include the Norwegian krone-Swedish
krona and the New Zealand dollar-Norwegian krone have
“statistically insignificant” correlations with the daily
returns of the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index,  Adam Cole , the
bank’s head of global currency strategy in London, wrote in a
note to clients issued July 16.  
 “The past month alone has seen the  S&P  trade in a massive
11 percent high-to-low range -- double the long-term average --
yet the net change over the same period is almost exactly
zero,” Cole wrote. “We stand aside from predicting whether the
trading environment is risk-on or risk-off on a daily basis.”  
 Norway’s krone fell 0.2 percent versus the Swedish currency
today to 1.1676 krona. New Zealand’s dollar weakened 0.4 percent
against the Norwegian currency.  
 Trades that involve commodity-linked currencies, such as
the Canadian and New Zealand dollars, and Scandinavian
currencies, including the krona and krone, have been the most
stock-neutral, Cole said. These currencies also encompass
countries where central banks first raised interest rates, Cole
said.  
 “Because they have quite similar characteristics in
riskiness, they tend to cancel each other out in terms of
risk,” Cole said today in a phone interview.  
 Trading currencies with high liquidity, including the U.S.
dollar and Japanese yen, is “impossible without taking a view
on risk appetite,” he said.  
 ‘Stock-Neutral Window’  
 RBC’s “stock-neutral window,” which now includes nine
currency pairs, should widen as the economic recovery
stabilizes, according to Cole.  
 “When we were in the early stages of the recovery, the
window started to get a lot wider,” Cole said. “It’s only
started to narrow as people have called into question the
durability of the recovery.”  
 Other pairs in the window are the New Zealand dollar-
Canadian dollar, the euro-pound, the New Zealand dollar-krona,
the Canadian dollar-krona, the pound-franc, the Canadian dollar-
krone and the euro-franc.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alex Kowalski  in New York at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        