-- Treasury Two-Year Yield at Record Low Before Housing Starts, Leading Index
-- Wes Goodman
-- 2010-07-19T08:22:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-19/treasury-futures-rise-a-fourth-day-as-slowing-growth-boosts-safety-demand.html

          
          
             Treasury  two-year yields were near a
record low after Moody’s Investors Service cut Ireland’s
government bond rating by one level to Aa2 from Aa1, adding to
concern global economic growth is slowing.  
 Ten-year rates were close to the least in more than a week
as losses in stocks around the world boosted demand for the
relative safety of U.S. government debt. Reports this week will
show U.S. housing starts fell and a measure of the outlook for
economic growth declined, economists said.  
 “U.S. Treasuries are still attractive,” said  Sungjin Park , who helps oversee the equivalent of $51 billion in debt as
head of fixed income in Seoul at Samsung Investment Trust
Management, South Korea’s largest private investor. “A double-
dip recession is inevitable” in the U.S., he said.  
 The two-year Treasury  note  yielded 0.59 percent as of 8:58
a.m. in London. It earlier dropped to 0.5765 percent, matching
the record low set July 16, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The 0.625 percent security due in June 2012 traded at
a price of 100 2/32.  
 Ten-year notes yielded 2.93 percent. The yield dropped to
2.91 percent on July 16, the least since July 7.  
 Moody’s cited Ireland’s weakened growth prospects in making
its decision to lower the nation’s rating.  
 Housing Slows  
 U.S. builders  began work  on 580,000 houses last month at an
annual rate, the slowest pace this year, according to the  median 
estimate of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News before the
Commerce Department report tomorrow. The index of leading
economic indicators fell 0.3 percent in June after rising 0.4
percent in May, according to a separate survey before the
Conference Board’s July 22 release.  
 Forecasts for a U.S. recession will prove to be wrong,
according to  Adam Carr , an economist in Sydney at ICAP Australia
Ltd., a unit of the world’s largest inter-dealer broker.  
 Stock declines that sent the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
down 2.9 percent on July 16, the most in two weeks, were “truly
bizarre,” he wrote in a note to clients. “Friday’s session was
pure overkill.” A Federal Reserve report the day before showed
U.S. industrial production “continues to power ahead,” he
said.  
 The MSCI World Index of shares fell 0.2 percent, dropping
for a second day.  
 Growth Forecast  
 U.S. central bankers last month lowered their forecast for
2010 growth to 3 percent to 3.5 percent, from 3.2 percent to 3.7
percent, according to minutes of the meeting issued last week.
Gross domestic product contracted 2.4 percent last year.  
 Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  is scheduled to give his
semiannual report on the economy to Congress on July 21.  
 Ten-year yields will climb to 3.34 percent by year-end
according to a Bloomberg survey of banks and securities
companies with the most recent forecasts given the heaviest
weightings.  
 Investors in a weekly survey by Ried Thunberg ICAP Inc.,
another ICAP unit, became more bearish on U.S. debt.  
 The company’s index on the outlook for Treasuries through
December fell to 41 as of July 16 from 43 the week before. A
figure less than 50 shows investors expect prices to fall. The
company, based in Jersey City, New Jersey, said it surveyed 20
fund managers overseeing $1.37 trillion.  
 China Should Reduce  
 China should reduce its U.S. dollar assets,  Yu Yongding , a
former adviser to the Chinese central bank, wrote in a
commentary published in today’s China Securities Journal.  
 The proportion of dollar assets in China’s reserves is too
high, Yu wrote. When demand for Treasuries is high, it will
offer China a “rare opportunity” to cut holdings, Yu wrote.
China is America’s largest creditor, owning $867.7 billion of
the $8.1 trillion in publicly traded debt.  
 The combination of the slowest U.S. inflation rate in four
decades and concern that the global recovery will falter is
bolstering the case for lower yields. Consumer prices excluding
energy and food remained at a 44-year low of 0.9 percent in
June, the Labor Department reported July 16.  
 Samsung Investment’s Park said he is among investors
favoring 10-year notes, which benefit from low inflation because
of their long maturities. Demand for the 2020 securities
narrowed their yield over two-year rates to 2.34 percentage
points from a record of 2.94 percentage points on Feb. 18.  
 For the first time since the government started collecting
the data, central banks, mutual funds and U.S. banks are buying
more government  securities  at Treasury auctions than Wall
Street’s bond dealers.  
 Foreign and domestic investors bidding directly at note and
bond auctions bought 57 percent of the $1.26 trillion in
Treasuries sold by the government this year, up from 45 percent
during the same period in 2009 and as little as 32 percent for
all of 2008, according to government data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Wes Goodman  in Singapore at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 19 (Bloomberg) -- Rossa White, chief economist at Davy Research,  talks about Ireland's credit rating cut by Moody’s Investors Service.
     He speaks from Dublin with Andrea Catherwood on Bloomberg
Television's "The Pulse" (This is an excerpt. Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
