-- Treasuries Decline as Gains by U.S. Stocks Trim Demand for Safest Assets
-- Susanne Walker
-- 2010-07-19T20:38:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-19/treasuries-decline-as-advance-by-stocks-damps-demand-for-relative-safety.html

          
          
             Treasuries  fell, pushing two-year
yields up from a record low level, as gains by stocks damped
demand for the relative safety of government debt.  
 Ten-year notes slid for the first time in four days. Bonds
earlier pared losses as stocks fluctuated after data showed an
index of home-builder confidence fell to the lowest level in 15
months, adding to signs the housing market’s recovery will be
slow. Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  is scheduled to
give his semiannual report on the economy to Congress this week.  
 “Stocks being positive has helped to push Treasuries down,”
said  Jason Rogan , director of U.S. government trading at
Guggenheim Partners LLC, a New York-based brokerage for
institutional investors. The home-builder data “gave you reasons
to want to own the market, but it was met by sellers who were
taking profits.”  
 The 10-year note  yield  rose 4 basis points, or 0.04
percentage point, to 2.96 percent at 4:35 p.m. in New York,
according to BGCantor Market Data. It earlier touched 2.91
percent, the lowest level since July 7. The 3.5 percent security
maturing in May 2020 fell 3/8, or $3.75 per $1,000 face amount,
to 104 17/32.  
 The two-year  note  yield increased 1 basis point to 0.59
percent. It fell earlier to 0.5765 percent, tying the record low
set on July 16.  
 The  Standard & Poor’s 500  Index rose 0.6 percent after
falling as much as 0.4 percent earlier. It tumbled 2.9 percent
on July 16.  
 Volume Falls  
 About $132 billion of Treasuries were  traded  today as of
4:03 p.m. in New York, according to Icap Plc, the world’s
largest interdealer broker. Average full-day volume for 2010 is
$228 billion.  
 “People will be meandering around until we get Bernanke’s
testimony,” said  Brian Edmonds , head of interest rates at
Cantor Fitzgerald LP in New York, one of the 18 primary dealers
that trade with the U.S. central bank. “Housing will still be a
drag on the economy.”  
 The Fed chairman is scheduled to report on the economy to
the Senate Banking Committee on July 21 and the House Financial
Services Committee the next day.  
 “Look for questions on deflation and double-dips -- words
that have seemingly overnight become part of popular
vernacular,”  Tom Porcelli , senior economist in New York at
primary dealer Royal Bank of Canada, wrote in a note to clients.
“While the chairman is likely to strike a dovish tone, we don’t
expect he’ll make significant waves, either.”  
 U.S. central bankers at a policy meeting last month lowered
their forecast for 2010 growth to 3 percent to 3.5 percent, from
3.2 percent to 3.7 percent, according to minutes issued last
week. Gross domestic product contracted 2.4 percent last year.  
 Confidence Drops  
 The National Association of Home Builders/Wells Fargo
confidence index dropped to 14 this month, the lowest level
since April 2009, data from the Washington-based group showed
today. The median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey was for a
decline to 16. Readings lower than 50 mean more respondents said
conditions were poor.  
 Other reports this week are expected to show U.S. housing
starts fell and the outlook for economic growth declined.  
 U.S. builders  began work  on 577,000 houses last month at an
annualized rate, the slowest pace this year, according to the
 median  estimate of 74 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News
before a Commerce Department report tomorrow. The index of
leading economic indicators fell 0.3 percent in June after
rising 0.4 percent in May, according to a separate survey before
the Conference Board’s July 22 release.  
 ‘Next Litmus Test’  
 The housing data could prove to be “the next litmus test
for economic sentiment,” depending on other developments,  Jim Vogel , head of agency-debt research at FTN Financial in Memphis,
Tennessee, wrote in a note to clients.  
 A measure of traders’ expectations for the rate of
inflation, the difference between yields on 10-year Treasury
Inflation Protected Securities and nominal Treasuries of the
same maturity, touched 1.69 percent today, the narrowest since
July 7.  
 Minutes of the Fed’s June meeting released July 14 showed
policy makers lowered their outlook for inflation this year to a
range of 1 percent to 1.1 percent, from 1.2 percent to 1.5
percent in April. A few officials expressed concern about “some
risk of deflation,” according to the minutes.  
 For the first time since the government started collecting
the data, central banks, mutual funds and U.S. banks are buying
more government securities at Treasury auctions than Wall
Street’s bond dealers.  
 Foreign and domestic investors bidding directly at note and
bond auctions bought 57 percent of the $1.26 trillion in
Treasuries sold by the government this year, up from 45 percent
during the same period in 2009 and as little as 32 percent for
all of 2008, according to government data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 ----Editors:  Greg Storey ,  Dave Liedtka   
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Susanne Walker  in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net ;  
          
          


  


        