-- Redbox Plots Web Strategy in Challenge to Netflix
-- Michael White
-- 2010-07-19T20:03:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-19/redbox-plots-internet-movie-strategy-in-challenge-to-netflix-on-home-turf.html

          
          
             Redbox , which became the fastest-
growing U.S. video retailer with DVD kiosks and a $1-a-day
rental price stores couldn’t match, is developing an online
strategy to stay competitive with larger rival  Netflix Inc.   
 The company, the biggest division of  Coinstar Inc. , may use
a Web service to expand its library beyond the 200 or so titles
crammed into each of its 24,000 or so DVD dispensers, President
 Mitch Lowe  said in an interview from Redbox’s headquarters in
Oakbrook Terrace, Illinois.  
 “The way we look at it is, How can it help us deliver to
our customers things we can’t do in our kiosks?” Lowe said.
“What role might it play in expanding our selection?”  
 The approach Redbox outlines in October will be designed to
narrow the gap with Netflix, which offers more than 100,000
titles by mail and 20,000 older films online. It may also help
the company take more business from  Blockbuster Inc. , which is
closing stores and recently skipped a debt payment.  
 “It’s absolutely imperative for them to have a digital
story,” said  Ralph Schackart , a New York-based analyst with
Wiliam Blair & Co. “The question is, what will it look like?”  
 The transition won’t be easy. Redbox may look to a
technology company such as  Sonic Solutions Inc.  to obtain know-
how, said Schackart, who expects shares of Bellevue, Washington-
based Coinstar to perform in line with the broader market over
the next 12 months.  
 Online Imperative  
 Convenience and a low price have created a winning formula
for Redbox, which lets shoppers rent discs by swiping a credit
or debit card.  Sales  from dispensers located in and outside of
grocery and convenience stores surged 70 percent in the first
quarter. Technicians in Redbox’s offices monitor the machines,
which hold multiple copies of films and up to 630 DVDs, for jams
and other troubles, making sure people don’t leave angry.  
 At the same time, rivals led by Netflix are attracting
millions of Web customers with larger selections and cutting out
the need for stores.  
 Redbox is losing some business as renters use kiosks to get
new releases and go to Netflix for older, harder-to-find titles,
said Lowe, who left Netflix in 2002. His former employer, based
in Los Gatos, California, increased first-quarter  sales  by 25
percent with its $8.99-a-month subscription for mail-order
rentals and unlimited Web viewing.  
 Steve Swasey , a Netflix spokesman, declined to comment on
Redbox’s plans. More than half of the company’s 14 million
customers used the Web to watch films on TVs or other devices.  
 “Long before we had streaming we had a loved brand and we
turned it into an even more loved brand with streaming with no
additional cost,” Swasey said.  
 Save Time, Money  
 Redbox also faces competition from Apple Inc. and Best Buy
Co., which sell movie downloads.  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. , the
world’s largest retailer, bought the Vudu Inc. online
entertainment service in February and Sears Holdings Corp., the
largest department store owner, said on June 22 it plans to sell
and rent movies online through an agreement with Sonic.  
 An accord with Novato, California-based Sonic would spare
Redbox the time and cost of negotiating Web rights with studios,
Schackart said. Sonic technology is already in DVD players and
TVs, and the company has rights to thousands of movies.  
 “Sonic gives Redbox a digital olive branch with the
studios,” Schackart said.  
 Sonic provides technology and a library of about 20,000
movie titles to clients including Best Buy and Sears, Chris
Taylor, a company spokesman, said in an interview. He declined
to say whether Sonic is in talks with Coinstar, which also won’t
comment on the matter.  
 Legal Battles Ended  
 Redbox ended legal battles this year with three studios,
 News Corp. ’s Fox, General Electric Co.’s NBC Universal and Time
Warner Inc.’s Warner Bros., over access to DVDs. The studios
agreed to sell discs to Redbox for rental after the movies had
been in stores for 28 days.  
 Walt Disney Co., Viacom Inc.’s Paramount Pictures, Sony
Pictures Entertainment and Lions Gate Entertainment Corp. let
Redbox offer DVDs when they become available for sale in stores.  
 While North American DVD purchases tumbled the past three
years, rentals are expanding and are projected to rise at an
average rate of 2.7 percent to $9.97 billion by 2014, helped by
higher-priced Blu-ray discs, Matthew Lieberman, an analyst with
PricewaterhouseCoopers, said in an interview.  
 The growth means Redbox will continue to attract consumers,
Lowe said.  
 Redbox, and its $1-a-night price, began in 2002 as a test
by  McDonald’s Corp.  to lure diners into restaurants, according
to the Redbox website. Coinstar invested three years later and
bought out McDonald’s in 2009.  
 Profit Outlook  
 Before the affiliation with Coinstar, which also operates
coin-counting machines and a money-transfer service, Redbox had
trouble convincing retailers to accept the machines, Lowe said.
The parent leveraged relationships from the placement of its
coin-counting machines to win acceptance of the DVD kiosks.  
 Coinstar is scheduled to report second-quarter  earnings  on
July 29. Analysts project profit of 36 cents a share excluding
some items, the average of six estimates compiled by Bloomberg,
an increase from 23 cents a year earlier. Sales probably
expanded 21 percent to $381.3 million, they estimate.  
 Coinstar fell $2.44, or 5.2 percent, to $44.56 at 4 p.m.
New York time in Nasdaq Stock Market  trading . The stock has
gained 60 percent this year. Netflix, which today announced
plans to start a streaming service in Canada this year, advanced
51 cents to $118.90.  
 With first-quarter sales of $263 million, Redbox is
Coinstar’s largest division. On average, renters keep DVDs for
two nights and spend $2 per movie, Lowe said. The company is
testing video games and prices of as much as $1.75 a day for
Blu-ray in some markets, Lowe said.  
 Redbox expects demand for physical rentals to remain high.  
 “The disc business has a great future,” Lowe said.
“Especially with Blu-ray coming out. It extends the life.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael White  in Los Angeles at 
 mwhite8@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     A Redbox Automated Retail kiosk at a McDonald's restaurant. Source: RedBox via Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
