-- Reliance Communications Gains in Mumbai on Report Etisalat May Buy Stake
-- Ketaki Gokhale
-- 2010-07-19T11:31:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-19/reliance-communications-gains-in-mumbai-on-report-etisalat-may-buy-stake.html

          
          
             Reliance Communications Ltd.  rose
the most in 10 days in Mumbai trading after the Financial Times
reported Emirates Telecommunications Corp. is nearing an accord
to buy 26 percent of India’s second-largest wireless company.  
 Reliance climbed 2.1 percent to 191.25 rupees at the 3:30
p.m. close in Mumbai, the biggest gain since July 9. The carrier
known as  Etisalat  may reach an agreement by as early as next
month and is considering merging its Indian unit with Reliance
to comply with domestic rules barring ownership of more than 10
percent of two telecommunications companies, the newspaper
reported, citing unidentified people familiar with the talks.  
 A stake sale would help billionaire  Anil Ambani  reduce debt
at his flagship unit and the airwaves held by Etisalat DB
Telecom India Pvt. would double Reliance’s capacity to offer
mobile-phone services. For Abu Dhabi-based Etisalat, a deal
would expand its presence in India, home to the world’s largest
number of mobile-phone users after China, as competition drives
down earnings at home.  
 “The spectrum is really the main draw for Reliance
Communications to merge, and if they can’t get it there isn’t
much in it for them,” said  Naveen Kulkarni , a Mumbai-based
analyst with MF Global Ltd. “There are a lot of ifs and buts on
this deal.”  
 Gaurav Wahi , a spokesman for Mumbai-based Reliance, wasn’t
immediately available for comment on his cell phone. Calls and
e-mails to officials at Etisalat weren’t immediately returned.  
 Excess Spectrum  
 Reliance was the second-best performer today on the Bombay
Stock Exchange’s benchmark Sensitive Index, which fell 0.2
percent. Etisalat declined 0.5 percent to 10.35 dirhams as of
the 2 p.m. close in Abu Dhabi.  
 Etisalat Chairman  Mohammed Omran  said last month investing
in Reliance is among the options the United Arab Emirates
company is considering to expand in India. The phone operator
has said this year it plans to raise its stake in Etisalat DB,
formerly called Swan Telecom Pvt., to one share above 50 percent
from 45 percent.  
 If Reliance and Etisalat’s Indian unit merge, the combined
entity may be subject to excess spectrum charges. India’s
telecommunications regulator in May recommended charging a one-
time fee from operators that own more than 6.2 megahertz of
spectrum for standard second-generation wireless services.  
 Reliance owns 4.4 megahertz and Etisalat DB, the venture
between Etisalat and India’s DB Group, owns another 4.4
megahertz of spectrum.  
 Shahid Balwa , managing director of DB Realty Ltd., declined
to comment by e-mail, terming the reports “mere speculation.”  
 In addition to forbidding companies from holding 10 percent
stakes in multiple phone-service operators, Indian  rules  prevent
companies from pursuing mergers for three years after they buy a
license. Etisalat DB got its phone license in 2008 and started
mobile services this year under the Cheers Mobile brand.  
 “There’s a lot of murkiness when it comes to regulation,”
Kulkarni said. “They may have to pay an excess charge, or
forfeit the excess spectrum.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Ketaki Gokhale at 
 kgokhale@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        