-- Reprogrammed Stem Cells May Have Limited Use in Treatment, Researchers Say
-- David Olmos
-- 2010-07-19T17:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-19/reprogrammed-adult-stem-cells-may-have-limited-use-harvard-scientists-say.html

          
          
             Potent stem cells derived from
reprogramming skin or other adult body tissues may have limits
on their usefulness as an alternative to cells from human
embryos, researchers said.  
 The study found that  induced pluripotent stem cells , or IPS
cells, retain a “memory” of their original adult tissue,
making it more difficult to turn them into other cell types for
medical treatment, according to authors from Harvard University
and Johns Hopkins University. The study was published online
today in the journal  Nature . Similar results from other Harvard
researchers were published in the journal  Nature Biotechnology .  
 The findings may pose a challenge to previous research that
suggested reprogrammed adult body cells may be substituted for
embryonic stem cells, which have the ability to grow into all
tissue types in the body. Researchers are already developing
ways to get around the limits identified in today’s study, so
the IPS cells may still be used to treat illnesses such as
Parkinson’s disease or diabetes.  
 “It’s a challenge to be understood and overcome,”  George Daley , a researcher at the  Harvard Stem Cell Institute  and
Children’s Hospital in Boston and lead author of the Nature
study, said today in a telephone interview. “We already have
strategies for overcoming this.”  
 Still, the study results are a setback for the field of
regenerative medicine, in which stem cells are used to grow new
body tissues aimed at repairing or replacing body parts damaged
from injury or illness.  
 All Applications  
 “These findings cut across all clinical applications
people are pursuing and whatever diseases they are modeling,”
Daley said.  
 Embryonic stem cells are derived from days-old human
embryos, which are destroyed in the process. The technique has
generated ethical debate. IPS cells, derived from reprogramming
adult stem cells, have been viewed as an alternative to the
embryonic stem cells.  
 While the reprogrammed stem cells may not be as versatile
as embryonic stem cells at growing into all body cell types, the
research released today found they are still useful.  
 “This study in no way challenges the usefulness of IPS
cells” for research and drug discovery, Daley said in a
telephone interview today.  “They remain enormously valuable.”  
 A second study also published today showed similar results,
with IPS cells retaining biological memory of its origins from
adult cells. That restricted the capacity of the reprogrammed
cells to differentiate into other kinds of cells, according to
the research from Harvard-affiliated Massachusetts General
Hospital.  
 Technique Breakthrough  
 Four years ago, a Japanese research team headed by  Shinya Yamanaka  pioneered the technique to reprogram adult skin cells
into the working equivalent of embryonic stem cells.  
 Daley and colleagues earlier this month reported they were
able to make human IPS cells from adult blood cells in a process
they said was faster than the method of using adult skin cells.
IPS cells made from blood were easier to turn back into blood
than IPS cells made from skin or brain cells, he said in the
interview.  
 While thousands of patients around the world have been
treated with adult stem cells in research studies and have shown
mixed results, no humans have been given cells derived from
embryos in an approved trial.  
 Geron Corp. , a Menlo Park, California-based company, said
Oct. 30 it had reached an agreement with the U.S. Food and Drug
Administration that may allow the company to proceed later this
year with the first embryonic stem-cell study in humans. The
study will test Geron’s therapy for injured spinal cords.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Olmos  in San Francisco at 
 dolmos@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Stem Cell Foundation Lab  
                       
                         
                           Daniel Acker/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Research worker adds a nutrient solution to a cell culture during work at the Stem Cell Foundation in New York. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Research worker adds a nutrient solution to a cell culture during work at the Stem Cell Foundation in New York. Photographer: Daniel Acker/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
