-- Russia Offers Yields Higher Than Market Rates for First Time in 10 Months
-- Anna Ulaeva
-- 2010-07-20T11:50:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-19/russia-offers-yields-higher-than-market-rates-for-first-time-in-10-months.html

          
          
             Russia is paying higher yields than
rates on existing bonds for the first time since September to
lure investors to buy the country’s biggest offering of ruble
debt of any month this year.  
 The government offered as much as 11 basis points, or 0.11
percentage point, in extra yield at last week’s auction of 45
billion rubles ($1.5 billion) of notes, the first time in 10
months it paid more than secondary market rates, data compiled
by the Bank of Moscow show. Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin ’s
administration “may offer a premium” at this week’s sale,
Deputy Finance Minister  Dmitry Pankin  said in an interview.
“We’ll have to look at the situation to gauge demand.”  
 Russia plans to sell  110 billion rubles  of bonds in July,
almost triple June’s total and the most for any month this year,
after issuing 20 percent of its 2010 target of 1.2 trillion
rubles so far this year. Russia’s aim to plug the budget gap by
doubling ruble debt sales risks driving up borrowing costs and
draining funds available from banks, according to UniCredit SpA.  
 The  three-month MosPrime rate , the average interest banks
charge each other, rose 1 basis point to 3.88 percent last week
for its first weekly advance since May.  
 ‘Drastic Increase’  
 “Such a drastic increase in public borrowing will likely
increase the cost of liquidity on local money markets,” said
 Vladimir Osakovsky , UniCredit’s chief economist in Moscow. The
market probably has 1.8 trillion rubles in funds available to
absorb new ruble bonds, Osakovsky said.  
 The government plans to sell 30 billion rubles of new 2015
federal notes, known as OFZ bonds, at its auction tomorrow as
well as issuing existing 2013 securities to raise 15 billion
rubles, according to the  central bank’s  website. The yield on
Russian government ruble notes due in January 2013 climbed 1
basis point this month, to 6.26 percent yesterday, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 The government sold 11 billion rubles of OFZ bonds due
August 2012 last week at a yield of 5.92 percent, or 11 basis
points more than the same notes yielded at the close of trading
the previous day, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The 6.85
percent bonds have climbed since the issue, cutting the yield to
5.88 percent yesterday.  
 ‘Clear Departure’  
 The premium “may not seem like a lot, but this is a clear
departure from policies last year, this is a change of
strategy,” said  Alexander Ovchinnikov , vice-president at
Moscow-based Troika Dialog, Russia’s oldest investment bank.
“We expect this tendency to remain until the end of the year.”  
 Russia faces its second budget  shortfall  since 1999 this
year after the government stepped up welfare spending and
deployed stimulus measures to revive the economy from 2009’s
record contraction. The deficit was 5.9 percent of gross
domestic product last year as the economy shrank 7.9 percent,
the most since the Soviet Union collapsed in 1991.  
 The ministry of finance does not need the financing “to
the extent that it is ready to push the local interest rate
curve higher,” said Mikhail Galkin, a fixed-income analyst at
VTB Capital in Moscow. “The government may revise the 2010
borrowing plan at the end of this year once it is clear that the
actual budget deficit is lower than planned.”  
 While Putin, 57,  said  last week the budget gap may narrow
to 5 percent of  GDP  this year, the reduction won’t prompt the
government to cut its debt sale target, Pankin said in an
interview on July 9.  
 The government “gave a premium on one issue of notes”
last week because there was low demand from investors, Pankin
said yesterday in the interview in Moscow.  
 Weekly Sales  
 The Finance Ministry plans weekly bond auctions through the
end of this quarter, seeking to raise a total of 375 billion
rubles in August and September. The government sold 39.6 billion
rubles in the first half of July, less than half the 85 billion
rubles offered.  
 “I strongly doubt the Finance Ministry will be able to
fulfill their borrowing program,” said Troika’s Ovchinnikov,
who estimates the total will be no more than 70 billion rubles a
month. “The demand for government ruble bonds is not as high as
it was a year ago. There are higher risks due to market
volatility and interest rates are near historic lows, making the
bonds even less attractive for investors.”  
 The yield on Russia’s dollar bonds due in 2020 sold in
April fell 5 basis points today to 5.240 percent, near its
lowest level since April. The extra yield investors demand to
hold Russian debt rather than U.S. Treasuries dropped 3 basis
points to 256, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI+
Indexes. That compares with 174 for debt of similarly rated
Mexico and 223 for Brazil, which is rated two steps lower at
Baa3 by Moody’s.  
 The  yield  spread on Russian bonds is 50 basis points below
the average for emerging markets, down from a 15-month high of
105 in February, according to JPMorgan Indexes.  
 Gazprom Bonds  
 The yield on ruble bonds sold by OAO Gazprom, Russia’s
biggest company, is 199 basis points above the same-maturity
Gazprom debt in dollars, down from a yield difference of 600 a
year ago, Bloomberg data show. The spread narrowed to as little
as 115 on June 14.  
 Credit-default swaps linked to Russian debt rose 4 basis
points to 177.84 yesterday, climbing from a near two-month low
of 169.44 on July 13. The contracts, which investors use to
hedge against losses on debt or speculate on creditworthiness,
pay the buyer face value if a borrower reneges on its
obligations.  
 Credit default swaps on Russia, rated Baa1 at Moody’s
Investors Service, cost 1 basis point more than contracts for
Turkey, which Moody’s rates four levels lower at Ba2. Turkish
swaps were priced 40 basis points  higher  three months ago.  
 Ruble Falls  
 The ruble gained 0.2 percent to 30.5001 per dollar in
Moscow yesterday, heading for its sixth increase in seven
trading days. Non-deliverable forwards, or NDFs, which provide a
guide to expectations of currency movements as they allow
foreign investors and companies to fix the exchange rate at a
specific level in the future, show the ruble at 30.7095 per
dollar in three months.  
 The government’s planned bond sales may restrain the
recovery by crowding out private investments after the central
bank cut its benchmark rate to a record low of 7.75 percent in a
bid to rekindle credit flows, said UniCredit’s Osakovsky.  
 The economy expanded an annual 2.4 percent last month, the
fastest pace since November 2008, according to VTB Capital. The
government may raise its 4 percent forecast for economic growth
this year as the outlook improves, Economy Minister  Elvira Nabiullina  said on July 15.  
 The three-month MosPrime rate, which had been declining
every month since January 2009, is at 3.87 percent today. The
overnight MosPrime rate climbed 11 basis points today to 2.83
percent, the highest level this month. The three-month rate may
rise to about 4.8 percent by the end of the year, according to
UniCredit.  
 The Finance Ministry’s “noticeable flexibility in June and
July shows serious interest in issuing a large volume of state
securities in the second half of the year,” said  Ekaterina Gorbunova , head of credit analysis at Bank of Moscow’s debt
market division.  
 “Raising such an amount of money on the domestic capital
market will likely crowd out private investments, which may
further restrain the recovery,” UniCredit’s Osakovsky said.  
 -- With assistance from  Anna Ulaeva ,  Artyom Danielyan  and Maria
Levitov in Moscow. Editors:  Tasneem Brogger ,  Gavin Serkin .  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Paul Abelsky  in Moscow at 
 pabelsky@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Dmitry Pankin, Deputy Finance Minister of the Russian Federation. Photographer: Carl De Souza/AFP/Getty Images  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 19 (Bloomberg) -- Stephen Roach, chairman of Morgan Stanley Asia, talks about the U.S.'s budget deficit and exit strategy.
     Roach, speaking with Tom Keene and Ken Prewitt on Blomberg Radio's "Surveillance," also discusses China's economy and his investment focus. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
