-- Russian Retail Sales, Employment Rose in June as Domestic Demand Picked Up
-- Paul Abelsky
-- 2010-07-19T12:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-19/russian-retail-sales-employment-rose-in-june-as-domestic-demand-picked-up.html

          
          
             Russian  retail sales  surged the most
since November 2008 last month as the number of unemployed slid
for a third consecutive month, signaling domestic demand may
help drive the recovery.  
 The jobless  rate  in June fell to 6.8 percent, the lowest
level in 20 months, from 7.3 percent in May, the  Federal
Statistics Service  in Moscow said in an e-mailed report today.
Retail sales rose for a sixth month, jumping an annual 5.8
percent after growing 5.1 percent in May. Real wages gained 5.5
percent and disposable incomes advanced 1.4 percent, the report
said.  
 The rise in employment and consumer spending may give
companies the confidence to boost investment as the world’s
biggest energy supplier recovers from its worst recession since
the Soviet Union’s collapse in 1991. The economy expanded an
annual 2.4 percent last month, the fastest pace since November
2008, according to VTB Capital.  
 “The huge state spending spree continues to show up in
both real wage and retail sales data,” Credit Agricole
Cheuvreux said in a report before the release. “The spending
outlook is good, particularly as the unemployment rate continues
to show a downside trend.”  
 The government may raise its 4 percent forecast for
economic growth this year as the outlook continues to improve,
Economy Minister  Elvira Nabiullina  said on July 15.  Fixed
capital investment  rose an annual 7.4 percent last month, its
fourth monthly gain and the biggest jump since September 2008.  
 Industrial production climbed for an eighth month in June,
rising an annual 9.7 percent after a 12.6 percent increase in
May.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Paul Abelsky  in Moscow at 
 pabelsky@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        