-- Russian Benchmark Stocks Advance for First Day in Four on Polymetal Sales
-- Jason Corcoran
-- 2010-07-19T15:27:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-19/russian-benchmark-stocks-climb-first-day-in-four-on-magnitogorsk-output.html

          
          
             Russia’s Micex Index gained for the
first day in four after  OAO Polymetal  reported higher metals
sales and  OAO Magnitogorsk Iron & Steel  said production
increased.  
 Polymetal climbed 2.5 percent, the most in more than two
weeks, as the country’s largest silver producer said sales more
than doubled as gold output increased 61 percent. Magnitogorsk
added 0.4 percent after Russian billionaire  Viktor Rashnikov ’s
steelmaker said output increased 9 percent in the second
quarter. The  Micex  added 0.7 percent to 1,336.55 rubles at the
close in Moscow.  
 “There have been some good financial results today which
led to moderate gains,”  Yaroslav Lissovolik , head of research
at Deutsche Bank AG in Moscow, said by phone.  
 Stocks in Russia retreated on July 16 to the lowest level
in a week after oil slid and a drop in U.S. consumer confidence
curbed appetite for riskier assets. The Micex has fallen 13
percent from its April 15 peak.  
 Crude oil, Russia’s key export earner, recovered from
earlier losses to trade 2 percent higher at $77.53 a barrel in
New York. Oil producer  OAO Gazprom Neft  gained 0.7 percent to
117.17 rubles.  
 “So long as oil stays above $70 per barrel then, while
Russia will not bounce in isolation of global trends, it will
avoid a selloff,” said  Chris Weafer , chief strategist at
UralSib Financial Corp., in an e-mailed note today.  
 Copper rose 0.7 percent on the London Metals Exchange from
a two-week low as a sliding dollar stoked demand for commodities
as an alternative investment.  OAO GMK Norilsk Nickel , Russia’s
largest miner, added 0.6 percent.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jason Corcoran  at 
 Jcorcoran13@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        