-- SAIC Motor Says First-Half Profit May More Than Quadruple on Higher Demand
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-07-20T07:48:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-19/saic-motor-says-first-half-profit-may-more-than-quadruple-on-higher-demand.html

          
          
             SAIC Motor Corp. , China’s largest
automaker, said its first-half profit may have more than
quadrupled from a year earlier because of rising demand for
vehicles in the world’s most populous nation.  
 The Shanghai-based automaker didn’t provide earnings
figures in a statement today to the city’s stock exchange. Net
income was 1.4 billion yuan ($207 million) in the first half of
2009, according to the statement.  
 China’s passenger-car sales have risen every month since
February 2009 after the government halved consumption taxes on
small vehicles. SAIC, a partner of General Motors Corp. and
Volkswagen AG, increased sales of Buick Excelle compacts, VW
Passat sedans and other vehicles by 44 percent to more than 1.77
million units in the first half, today’s statement said.  
 “SAIC has done a good job in the first half,” said  Zhang Xin , an analyst at Guotai Junan Securities Co. in Beijing. “A
low base in the first half of 2009 also has helped this year’s
rate of profit growth.”  
 Listed companies in China are required to make an
announcement if they expect earnings to rise or fall more than
50 percent in a reporting period. The company will provide
detailed earnings on Aug. 26, it said.  
 SAIC rose 0.9 percent to close at 14.36 yuan in Shanghai
trading today, the highest in almost 11 weeks. The stock has
declined 29 percent this year.  
 GM, Volkswagen  
 Partners GM and  Volkswagen  are the two largest foreign
automakers in the nation, according to the  China Association of
Automobile Manufacturers . China is the world’s biggest auto
market.  
 GM and its local ventures, which include separate car and
minivehicle-making partnerships with SAIC, are “on track” to
sell more than 2 million vehicles in China this year, four years
ahead of schedule, the U.S. automaker said on April 12.  
 SAIC bought an additional 1 percent stake in Shanghai
General Motors Corp., the two companies’ car-manufacturing
venture, in March, raising its stake in the venture to 51
percent.  
 The company said on June 24 it aims to raise as much as 10
billion yuan in a share sale to expand development of its own-
brand vehicles.  
 SAIC forecasts sales of 3 million units this year,
President  Chen Hong  said on May 25.  
 SAIC-GM-Wuling Automotive Co., SAIC and GM’s minivan
venture, aim to boost sales by 41 percent to 1.5 million
vehicles annually by 2015 from last year, Shen Yang, president
of the venture said on July 18.  
 China’s passenger-car sales to dealerships rose at the
slowest pace in 15 months in June as inflation reduced
consumers’ purchasing power.  
 -- Jiang Jianguo  and  Tian Ying . Editors:  Aaron Sheldrick ,  Ian Rowley .  
 To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Tian Ying in Beijing at +86-10-6649-7571 or
 ytian@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        