-- Santos Rises on Arranging $1.7 Billion Credit Line to Help Fund LNG Plan
-- James Paton
-- 2010-07-19T07:04:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-19/santos-rises-on-arranging-1-7-billion-credit-line-to-help-fund-lng-plan.html

          
          
             Santos Ltd.  rose in Sydney trading
after arranging a A$2 billion ($1.7 billion) bank-loan facility
that will help Australia’s third-largest oil and gas producer
fund a project in Queensland state.  
 Santos will use the credit line to refinance A$700 million
of existing undrawn debt, the Adelaide-based company said in a
statement today to the Australian stock exchange. Santos
advanced 0.4 percent to A$13.71 at the 4:10 p.m. close in Sydney,
compared with a loss of 1.5 percent for the benchmark S&P/ASX
200 Index.  
 “The market is taking it as a positive because it
potentially lowers the risk of a very large equity raising,”
 John Hirjee , a Melbourne-based analyst at Deutsche Bank, said by
phone. The need for a share sale depends on how much Santos
potentially receives for selling a stake in the proposed
Gladstone liquefied natural gas venture, he said.  
 The Gladstone project, with two processing units, is
expected to cost A$16.4 billion, Hirjee estimated. Santos and  BG
Group Plc  are due this year to make final decisions on whether
to proceed with Queensland ventures that will convert gas
extracted from coal seams into LNG for export to Asia.  
 Santos remains in “detailed ongoing discussions with a
number of parties in relation to potential LNG sales, equity in
the project and collaboration” between Queensland LNG
developments, the company said in a July 9 statement. Santos
owns 60 percent of the project, and Malaysia’s Petroliam
Nasional Bhd., or Petronas, the rest.  
 Royal Dutch Shell Plc is a potential buyer of a stake in
the Santos venture,  Di Brookman , an analyst at CLSA Asia-Pacific
Markets in Sydney, said in a July 9 report.  
 Environmental Delays  
 With the loan facility offered by nine banks, Santos will
have A$6 billion of available funding, including cash and debt,
the company said in the statement today.  
 The refinancing of existing debt “provides significant
flexibility to fund Santos’ growth, including GLNG,” Chief
Financial Officer  Peter Wasow  said in the statement.  
 Australia Environment Minister  Peter Garrett  has deferred
by three months a decision on whether to approve the Santos and
BG projects as his department studies their potential impact on
the environment. The review is extended now until October.  
 While the Queensland government cleared the ventures,
state Coordinator-General Colin Jensen raised concerns in May
and June about the risks posed by the “significant amount” of
water extracted from the coal seams.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 James Paton  in Sydney   jpaton4@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        