-- Saudi Basic Sees `Stable' Petrochemical Prices in Third Quarter, CFO Says
-- Anthony DiPaola
-- 2010-07-19T12:50:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-19/saudi-basic-sees-stable-petrochemical-prices-in-third-quarter-cfo-says.html

          
          
             Petrochemical product prices will be
stable in the third quarter and the outlook for the period
depends on the global economy,  Saudi Basic Industries Corp. 
Chief Financial Officer  Mutlaq al-Morished  said today.  
 “We see prices being stabilized,” al-Morished said at a
press conference in Riyadh. “It’s difficult to predict because
it’s related to what’s happening with growth.”  
 Sabic, as the world’s biggest petrochemicals maker is
known, said yesterday that second-quarter profit almost tripled
on higher prices and as demand for fertilizers and plastics
recovered in a strengthening global economy.  Net income  surged
to 5 billion riyals ($1.34 billion) from 1.81 billion riyals in
the year-earlier period, the Riyadh-based company said.  
 Second-quarter sales rose 4 percent from the first three
months, al-Morished said today, without giving a figure. The
company reported  revenue  of 34 billion riyals in the first
quarter, according to company data, indicating sales in the last
three months exceeded 35.4 billion riyals. Production rose 6
percent from the first quarter, al-Morished said.  
 “Sabic remains a pure play on the global economy,”
 Mohamad Hawa , a research analyst at  Credit Suisse Group AG ,
wrote in a company report today. “While our house view remains
positive on recovery, one cannot ignore the signs of lower pace
of recovery which increase the uncertainty of demand outlook.”
Credit Suisse maintained its “outperform” rating and share
price target of 120 riyals.  
 Sabic shares closed unchanged at 87.75 riyals in Riyadh
trading. The stock has gained 6.4 percent this year, valuing the
company at 263 billion riyals.  
 Growth Areas  
 The company , which in May delayed a bond sale, citing
unfavorable terms, is always looking for financing, and closing
any transaction depends on pricing, al-Morished said. With 50
billion riyals in cash on the balance sheet, “the company is
very well capitalized,” he said. “We have the luxury to
wait.”  
 Sabic has used financing from local banks to fund expansion
as the company seeks to triple petrochemicals production to 130
million tons by 2020.  Sabic  signed an agreement on June 29 for a
4.5 billion-riyal credit facility to finance growth in
production capacity.  
 Growth for the petrochemicals industry will come from Asia
and the U.S., al-Morished said. Sabic is not seeing a decline in
demand from Europe, he said, as some economies there struggle to
reduce public debt.  
 “Quantities are fine,” al-Morished said when asked about
the impact of the European debt crisis on demand for the
company’s products there.  
 Sabic Innovative  
 Sabic Innovative Plastics, the U.S. unit purchased from
 General Electric Co.  for $11.6 billion in 2007, contributed to
the company’s first-quarter loss last year as the global
recession cut demand for products such as cars. The loss was the
first since the fourth quarter of 2001, according to Bloomberg
data.  
 “With the improvement in the world economy and the U.S.
economy, we are doing quite well,” al-Morished said. “We have
seen sales picking up, not only from Sabic Innovative, but in
all the commodities. We have seen an increase in the U.S.”  
 The  International Monetary Fund  on July 8 raised its
forecast for global economic growth this year to 4.6 percent,
which would be the fastest since 2007, from the 4.2 percent it
predicted in April.  
 Sabic started commercial operations this year at its units
Eastern Petrochemical Co., known as Sharq, and  Yanbu National
Petrochemical Co. , known as Yansab. In addition, Sabic and China
Petroleum & Chemical Corp., or Sinopec, started producing this
year at a joint-venture complex in Tianjin, China.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Glen Carey  in Riyadh at 
 gcarey8@bloomberg.net ;
 Anthony DiPaola  at 
 adipaola@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        