-- Soros Says U.S. Shouldn't Cut Stimulus as Inflation Contained
-- Katherine Burton
-- 2010-07-19T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-19/soros-says-too-early-to-withdraw-economic-stimulus-as-inflation-stays-tame.html

          
          
             Billionaire investor  George Soros 
said U.S. lawmakers should refrain from withdrawing stimulus
measures because the economy hasn’t strengthened enough.  
 “I think the timing is wrong with withdrawing the
stimulus,” Soros said at the Hamptons Institute in East
Hampton, New York on July 16. “Cutting employment benefits,
cutting aid to states that are losing tax revenue, these are
counterproductive because you can only grow your way out” of
the financial crisis, said Soros, who turns 80 next month.  
 Soros said that there are no signs of inflation in the
U.S., where 10-year Treasury notes are now trading below 3
percent, the lowest level so far this year. Soros, who is the
chairman of New York-based Soros Fund Management LLC, has made
similar comments about Europe and the need for Germany to
refrain from cutting back its own deficit spending. The result
will send Europe into a deflationary cycle, he said.  
 President Barack Obama over the weekend called on
Republicans to stop blocking legislation in the U.S. Senate
extending unemployment benefits and to support measures making
it easier for small businesses to expand. In his weekly address
on radio and the Internet, Obama criticized Senate Republicans
for preventing action on another extension of long-term
unemployment benefits that millions of Americans rely on to pay
their bills.  
 “Think about what these stalling tactics mean for the
millions of Americans who’ve lost their jobs since the recession
began,” he said. “For many, it was the only way to make ends
meet while searching for work.”  
 ‘When Demand Comes’  
 Soros, who spoke on a panel with  Elizabeth Warren ,
chairwoman of the Congressional Oversight Panel for the Troubled
Asset Relief Program, and  Michael Greenberger , professor at the
Maryland School of Law, said the bond markets would tell the
U.S. government when it is safe to cut spending.  
 “When the demand comes back, you will see it in interest
rates beginning to move out,” he said. “That’s the time to cut
back, not now.”  
 In speaking about the European debt crisis, Soros said that
Greek debt would eventually have to be restructured “in an
orderly manner.”  
 Banks in Europe are undercapitalized and the stress tests,
the results of which will be published later this month, won’t
reflect how serious the situation is because the tests are based
on old and inadequate capitalization rules, Soros said.  
 Budget Targets  
 In a recent  article  Soros wrote for the New York Review of
Books, he criticized Germany for insisting on strict fiscal
discipline for weaker countries as well as reducing its own
fiscal deficit.  
 “Even if budgetary targets were met, it is difficult to see
how the weaker countries could regain their competitiveness and
start growing again because, in the absence of exchange rate
depreciation, the adjustment process would require reductions in
wages and prices, producing deflation,” Soros wrote.  
 Soros gained fame in the 1990s when he reportedly made $1
billion correctly betting against the British pound. He also
wagered that Germany’s mark would appreciate after the collapse
of the Berlin Wall in 1989 and that Japanese stocks would start
to fall in the same year.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Laura Marcinek  in New York at 
 lmarcinek3@bloomberg.net ;
 Katherine Burton  in New York at 
 kburton@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Billionaire investor George Soros. Photographer: Jin Lee/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
