-- South Africa Should Do More to Weaken the Rand, Boost Reserves, OECD Says
-- Mike Cohen
-- 2010-07-19T14:59:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-19/south-africa-should-do-more-to-weaken-the-rand-boost-reserves-oecd-says.html

          
          
             South Africa should do more to build
up its foreign currency reserves and weaken the rand in order to
foster economic growth and help create more jobs, the
 Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development  said.  
 In its first survey of Africa’s biggest economy, the Paris-
based organization said South Africa’s efforts to improve living
standards were lagging behind those of other emerging nations
and it needed to do more to encourage exports.  
 “The 2008-09 downturn highlighted the limitations of the
domestic-demand-led growth path which has characterized South
Africa in recent years,” the OECD said in the study released on
its website today. “There is now a need both to ensure a rapid
recovery from the downturn and to boost trend growth and thereby
create the millions of jobs” the country needs.  
 South Africa’s  unemployment rate  of 25.2 percent is the
highest of 62 countries tracked by Bloomberg, while about 22
percent of the population live on less than 283 rand ($37) a
month, government data shows. The rand’s 24 percent gain against
the dollar since the beginning of last year has eroded the
competitiveness of the country’s exports and caused mines and
factories to fire thousands of workers.  
 “Macroeconomic policy could be more activist in resisting
the tendency for the rand to become overvalued,” the OECD said.
“South Africa’s current level of  reserves  is relatively low by
emerging market standards, leaving some room for growth on
prudential grounds.” The authorities should also signal to the
markets where they “see the exchange rate in relation to its
equilibrium level.”  
 Growth Forecast  
 South Africa’s central bank can build up its foreign
exchange reserves “to the extent that it’s possible and
affordable,” Finance Minister  Pravin Gordhan  told reporters in
Pretoria today.  
 “We want a very competitive and stable exchange rate,”
Gordhan said. “The Reserve Bank now has a more flexible mandate
and is required to take into account employment, asset bubbles
and economic growth when it sets interest rates.”  
 The OECD expects Africa’s largest  economy  to expand 3.3
percent this year and 5 percent in 2011, after contracting 1.8
percent last year. The forecasts are unchanged from those in a
report the OECD released on May 26.  
 In the Feb. 17 budget, the National Treasury said it
expected growth of 2.3 percent this year and 3.2 percent in
2011.  
 Inflation  
 South Africa’s  inflation  rate will probably slow to 5.3
percent this year and to 5.2 percent in 2011, from 7.1 percent
last year, the OECD said. It expects the current account gap to
widen to about 4.9 percent of gross domestic product this year
and 5.5 percent in 2011, from 4 percent last year.  
 While inflation-targeting has been a “notable success” in
South Africa and a change to the 3 to 6 percent band is
unwarranted, the policy’s credibility could be enhanced through
better communication, the OECD said.  
 The South African Reserve Bank should consider announcing
its expectations for interest rates over the next few years, the
so-called policy rate path, it said.  
 The Reserve Bank has cut its benchmark interest  rate  seven
times to 6.5 percent since December 2008, as inflationary
pressures eased. The bank, which will make its next rate
decision on July 22, may have scope for further cuts, the OECD
said.  
 The organization also recommended that South Africa change
its labor laws to encourage hiring and contain wage costs. It
proposed a range of measures to tackle unemployment among young
people, including training-based wage subsidies, age-
differentiated minimum wages and extended probationary periods.  
 “Despite a strong macroeconomic policy framework, job
creation and productivity growth remain too low to underpin
sustained rapid GDP-per-capita growth,” the OECD said. “On top
of an overvalued exchange rate, cost competitiveness has been
jeopardized by insider-dominated wage bargaining.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mike Cohen  in Cape Town at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        