-- South Africa Says It Resolves Mine Safety `Misunderstanding' After Meeting
-- Carli Lourens
-- 2010-07-19T18:57:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-19/south-africa-s-new-mine-safety-directive-threatening-platinum-output-jobs.html

          
          
             South Africa, the world’s biggest
platinum producer, said it cleared “misunderstandings” about a
safety directive affecting mines in the platinum-rich North West
province in a meeting with  Anglo Platinum Ltd. , Impala Platinum
Holdings Ltd.,  Xstrata Plc  and Aquarius Platinum Ltd. today.  
 “The mine health and safety inspectorate clarified that
the instruction wasn’t for companies to stop mining,”
Department of Mineral Resources spokesman  Jeremy Michaels  said
by mobile phone today. It was “for those mines that do not have
bord widths of six meters (20 feet) to present their safety
measures to the principal inspector,” he said. Safety measures
will be assessed on a case-by-case basis, Michaels said.  
 The North West province’s principal safety officer issued a
directive to mines to reduce the width of rock between
supporting pillars they mine underground by 40 percent to six
meters to help prevent collapses, Aquarius said in a July 16
statement. The measure would reduce platinum output in South
Africa, raise costs and cut jobs, investors and analysts said.
Aquarius lost almost a quarter of its market value.  
 The safety directive, which would also affect chrome mines,
was issued after five workers were crushed to death this month
at the Marikana platinum mine owned by  Aquarius  and  Anglo
Platinum . Last year, nine workers died in an accident at Impala
Platinum’s Shaft 14 at the Impala Lease Area mine. Both
operations used the so-called bord-and-pillar method of mining.  
 Output Reduction  
 Aquarius  fell  8 rand, or 24 percent, to close at 26 rand as
of 5 p.m. in Johannesburg, the biggest decline since Dec. 9,
2004. It dropped 3.5 percent on July 16 after announcing the
government order 30 minutes before the close of trading.  
 The directive could reduce Aquarius’s annual output by 8
percent and lower 2011 fiscal year earnings by as much as 28
percent, London’s Liberum Capital Ltd. said in a note prior to
the clarification. It would have “major long-term implications
for South Africa’s platinum and chrome industries,” Liberum
said. It implies “higher long-term structural mining costs,”
which could cut production and jobs.  
 Platinum group metals are South Africa’s biggest export and
the industry employed about 200,000 people, almost 40 percent of
all mining jobs, according to 2008 figures from the
Johannesburg-based Chamber of Mines, the latest available. South
Africa supplies almost four-fifths of the world demand and one
in four people in the country are unemployed.  
 ‘Repercussions’  
 Deutsche Bank AG estimated before the clarification that
more than “100,000 ounces of platinum production could be lost
from two mines alone due to this regulation.” The directive may
have “significant repercussions,” it said in a note.  
 South Africa’s platinum and gold mines are amongst the
deepest metal operations in the world and labor-intensive
methods make them the some of the most dangerous in which to
work. Last year, 167 people died in accidents in South African
mines, according to the Department of Mineral Resources.  
 Nine of the 14 South African mines producing platinum group
metals are in North West province, according to the  Council for
Geoscience . About half the nation’s chrome ore output comes from
the region, it said. Platinum is employed in devices to cut car
exhaust fumes and in jewelry, while chromite is used to make
ferrochrome, an ingredient in stainless steel.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Carli Lourens  in Johannesburg at 
 clourens@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        