-- South Korean Bidders to Offer Low Fares to Win Brazil Bullet Train Deal
-- Katia Cortes
-- 2010-07-19T23:00:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-19/south-korean-bidders-to-offer-low-fares-to-win-brazil-bullet-train-deal.html

          
          
             A group of 25 South Korean
companies, including  Samsung SDS Co. ,  Hyundai Rotem Co.  and  LG
CNS Co Ltd. , will offer low ticket prices in a bid to build and
operate a 511-kilometer (318-mile) high-speed train project in
Brazil, a South Korean government official said.  
 The group plans to offer economy-class tickets for less
than the maximum price of 199 reais ($112) set by the government
for the $18.4 billion bullet train that will link the cities of
Rio de Janeiro and Campinas via Sao Paulo, South Korean
Ambassador to Brazil Kyonglin Choi said in an interview at his
office in Brasilia on July 15.  
 The government scheduled the auction for Dec. 16 and will
award the contract to the firm that offers the lowest ceiling
for economy-class tickets.  
 “We’re confident we’ve made a lot of preparation and we’re
ready to win,” Choi said. “Our companies will come to a
proposal below 199 reais.” Choi declined to say how much lower
a price the group will offer.  
 South Korean companies are interested in investing in
Brazil as they bet on rising economic growth in Latin America’s
 biggest economy , Choi said. Korean executives have had talks
with Brazilian government officials for four years and opened an
office in Sao Paulo seeking to attract Brazilian construction
companies to raise their chances of winning, Choi said.  
 “There are many more companies joining our group and we
now need Brazilian construction companies to join too,” he
said.  
 The group has already committed to Grupo Bertin in Brazil
and state-run companies  Korea Railroad Corp. , Korea Railroad
Research Institute and Korea Rail Network Authority, he said.  
 Other Countries  
 South Korea, Japan, China, Germany, Spain, France and Italy
are also interested in participating in the auction,
Transportation Minister  Paulo Sergio Passos  said at a July 13
news conference.  
 Grupo Bertin’s press office confirmed in a July 16 e-mail
that its Sao Paulo-based  Contern  construction unit is working
with a group of Korean companies to present a proposal.  
 Spokesmen for Samsung SDS Co. and Hyndai Rotem Co.
confirmed in telephone interviews from Seoul, South Korea, that
the companies are participating in the consortium. They declined
to be identified in accordance with their companies’ policies.  
 Korea Railroad Corp. spokesman Lim Seok Gyu and LG CNS Co
Ltd.’s public relations officer in Brazil, Hyo Tin Lee, also
confirmed in telephone interviews those companies are
participating.  
 Korean Bullet Train  
 Under the government parameters announced by President  Luiz Inacio Lula  da Silva on July 13, the train will cost 33.1
billion reais and will carry around 17.8 million passengers a
year. The government will allocate up to a ceiling of 19.9
billion reais from public funds for the project. Construction
will start in 2011 and should be completed in 2016.  
 “The project is in excellent shape and our companies are
sure to make a profit with these rules,” Choi said.  
 In South Korea, a bullet train linking Seoul and Busan, a
distance of 412 kilometers -- about 80 percent of the total
route planned for Brazil -- charges 75 reais for economy-class,
less than half of the project’s cap price.  
 If the group wins, it may be able to build the train before
the 2016 deadline as long as they don’t face problems with
environmental licenses, labor rules or a lack of skilled
workers, Choi said.  
 The group will count on financing from the  Eximbank of
Korea  and Brazil’s national development bank for the project.
They will also propose building malls and commercial buildings
in the main train stations, as it was done in Korea, he said.
The group will present the malls proposal after the auction
concludes, he added.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Carla Simoes  in Brasilia Newsroom at 
 csimoes1@bloomberg.net 
 Katia Cortes  in Brasilia at  at
 kcortes@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        