-- U.S. Stocks Gain as Earnings Optimism Offsets Drop in Banks
-- Whitney Kisling
-- 2010-07-19T17:19:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-19/stocks-in-u-s-advance-as-earnings-optimism-offsets-decline-in-bank-shares.html

          
          
             U.S. stocks rose, rebounding from
the market’s biggest drop this month, as optimism about earnings
from technology and energy companies overshadowed a drop in
financial shares.  
 Microsoft Corp. climbed 0.8 percent after UBS AG raised its
earnings estimate, citing “early signs of enterprise demand
returning.” Halliburton Co. rallied 4.9 percent after topping
analysts’ earnings and revenue estimates. Bank of America Corp.
slumped 3.7 percent, dragging financial companies down, as
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. removed the shares from its
“conviction buy” list, saying low rates may hurt interest
income for banks.  
 The  Standard & Poor’s 500  Index climbed 0.2 percent to
1,067.19 at 1:16 p.m. in New York after losing 2.9 percent on
July 16. The benchmark index for U.S. equities dropped 2.9
percent that day, its biggest loss this month. The  Dow Jones
Industrial Average  rallied 27.47 points, or 0.3 percent, to
10,125.37.  
 “You’re seeing an enormous amount of volatility lately,”
said  Hugh Johnson , who oversees $1.85 billion as chairman of
Albany, New York-based Johnson Illington. “There’s still a very
heated debate as to whether the economy is going to continue to
recover or we’re going to have the infamous double dip. The
earnings news we’ve seen suggests that things are going well.”  
 U.S. stocks declined last week following worse-than-
estimated revenue at Bank of America,  Citigroup Inc.  and General
Electric Co. and a drop in consumer confidence to the lowest
level in a year.  
 Earnings Optimism  
 Even so, the S&P 500 gained 4.1 percent from July 2 through
July 16 on optimism that corporate earnings would signal the
economic recovery is sustainable. Of the 24 companies in the S&P
500 that reported  since July 12 , all but three have topped
forecasts for earnings-per-share, according to Bloomberg data.  
 Microsoft Corp. , which is scheduled to report fourth-
quarter results on July 22, gained 0.8 percent to $25.10 as UBS
AG raised its earnings estimate for the software maker to 47
cents a share from 45 cents. Analysts cited “early signs of
enterprise demand returning.”  
 Halliburton rallied 4.9 percent to $28.87 after the company
reported an 83 percent increase in second-quarter profit to $480
million, or 53 cents a share, as gains in onshore drilling made
up for a halt to new wells in the Gulf of Mexico. Earnings from
continuing operations were 52 cents a share, topping the average
analyst estimate of 37 cents. Revenue was $4.39 billion, beating
the average projection of $4.09 billion in a Bloomberg survey.  
 IBM, Texas Instruments  
 International Business Machines Corp. , the world’s largest
computer-services provider reports, Texas Instruments Inc., the
second-biggest U.S. chipmaker, and Zions Bancorp are due to post
results today after the close of trading.  
 Education Management Corp.  led gains among shares of for-
profit colleges amid speculation U.S.  President Barack Obama’s 
proposed industry regulations won’t reduce profit as much as had
been projected. Education Management jumped 11 percent to
$17.56.  Corinthian Colleges Inc.  rose 7.7 percent to $10.26.
Bridgepoint Education Inc. advanced 10 percent to $17.33. Apollo
Group Inc. rose 5.2 percent to $47.94 for the biggest gain in
the  Standard & Poor’s 500  Index.  
 Financial shares slid the most in the S&P 500, losing 0.4
percent as a group.  Bank of America Corp.  fell the most in the
Dow average today, dropping 3.7 percent to $13.46. The largest
U.S. bank by assets was removed from Goldman Sachs Group Inc.’s
“conviction buy” list and downgraded to “hold” from “buy”
at ISI Group. The bank showed the “least amount of credit
improvement” compared with JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Citigroup
Inc., after all three reporting earnings last week, according to
Goldman Sachs.  
 Market Volatility  
 “The current concern is banks are now fighting shrinkage
in both trading and net interest income,” Goldman Sachs analyst
 Richard Ramsden , based in New York, wrote in a note today.
“Given market volatility, the first can be attributed to a weak
quarter, but net interest income is a function of low rates and
weak loan demand.”  
 Stocks turned lower earlier today as the National
Association of Home Builders/Wells Fargo confidence index
dropped to 14 this month, the lowest level since April 2009,
from 16 in June. Readings lower than 50 mean more respondents
said conditions were poor. The index was forecast to fall to 16
from a previously reported 17 in June, according to the median
estimate in the survey.  
 Homebuilder Hesitation  
 “While we can easily blame the expiration of the tax
credit for the dropoff” in builder confidence,  Peter Boockvar ,
equity strategist at Miller Tabak & Co. in New York, said in an
e-mailed note, “according to the NAHB, ‘builders are reporting
continuing consumer hesitancy regarding home purchases due to
uncertainty in the overall economy and job markets.’”  
 Toll Brothers Inc. , the largest U.S. luxury-home builder,
dropped 1 percent to $16.27. An index of homebuilders across S&P
indexes fell 1.2 percent.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Whitney Kisling  in New York at 
 wkisling@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        