-- Sun Hung Kai Puts More Luxury Hong Kong Homes on Sale Amid Strong Response
-- Mark Lee
-- 2010-07-19T09:18:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-19/sun-hung-kai-to-sell-50-more-luxury-flats-after-surge-in-weekend-purchases.html

          
          
             Sun Hung Kai Properties Ltd. , the
world’s biggest developer by market value, will put another 50
luxury apartments up for sale in Hong Kong after buyers snapped
up all 92 flats in a first batch of flats over the weekend.  
 The company sold the apartments at its Larvotto project at
an average of about HK$40 million ($5.14 million) per unit,
bringing in about HK$4 billion in revenue, Sun Hung Kai said in
an e-mailed press release late yesterday. The new batch may go
on sale in the middle of this week, it said, adding that their
average sale prices may be 2 percent higher.  
 “The price is reasonable for properties of this
quality,” Eva Yeung, an agent at Centaline Property Agency Ltd.
who bought a HK$47 million-unit on behalf of a Hong Kong-based
client, said outside the project’s showroom at the International
Financial Center building in the Central business district on
July 17.  
 Yeung said the luxury property market in Hong Kong will be
supported by the lack of supply and increased demand from
Chinese buyers. That may counter Hong Kong government efforts to
curb a 38 percent  surge  in home prices since the beginning of
2009 amid concerns housing is becoming unaffordable.  
 About 20 percent of the buyers over the weekend were from
mainland China, Sun Hung Kai said.  
 “Demand has exceeded supply,”  Victor Lui , an executive
director at Sun Hung Kai’s agency arm, said in the press release.
“All of the units were sold within the first few hours after
sales began.”  
 Robust Prices  
 Sun Hung Kai fell 0.3 percent to HK$111.50 at the 4 p.m.
close of trading in Hong Kong. The Hang Seng Property Index that
tracks the performance of seven Hong Kong developers dropped 0.4
percent.  
 Sun Hung Kai and partners  Kerry Properties Ltd.  and
Paliburg Holdings Ltd. last week announced they were putting the
apartments in the Ap Lei Chau district project up for sale for
between HK$15,811 and HK$$22,500, a record for the district.  
 The second-hand market for Bel-Air, a luxury project in the
nearby Pokfulam district, is selling for “similar prices” to
Larvotto, according to Buggle Lau, chief analyst at property
agency Midland Holdings Ltd. New developments in the area will
probably sell at a minimum of HK$15,000 a square feet, he said.  
 Luxury residential prices in the Island South district,
which includes Repulse Bay and Stanley areas, grew 2.5 percent
in the second quarter, after rising by nearly 35 percent in the
previous nine months, according to property consultant Knight
Frank LLP. Luxury homes are those at least 1,000 square feet (93
square meters) or costing at least HK$10 million.  
 Henderson  
 Apartments at Larvotto will be around 1,500 to 2,500 square
feet. Larvotto is the name of the main public beach in Monaco.  
 Larvotto has 715 units. Hong Kong developers sell units in
developments in batches instead of offering them all at once, to
gauge demand and take advantage of rising prices.  
 Hong Kong authorities have introduced rules on new home
sales and are investigating canceled sales at a  Henderson Land
Development Co.  luxury apartment project.  
 Henderson last month canceled 20 transactions at its 39
Conduit Road project in the city’s Mid-Levels district,
including the one the company claimed would fetch a record
HK$88,000 a square foot, prompting lawmakers to call for an
investigation.  
 The city’s Legislative Council on July 12 held its first
special meeting to discuss the collapsed sales, which were worth
HK$2.67 billion according to Henderson.  
 Since last year Hong Kong has raised the requirement for
down payments on luxury homes and cracked down on misleading
marketing by developers, including the use of show flats, after
officials expressed concern that prices were rising too fast.  
 Hong Kong builders often sell apartments before they are
completed, enticing customers by showing walk-through models of
the homes.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Kelvin Wong  in Hong Kong at 
 kwong40@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        