-- Swine Flu Fizzles Out; WHO May Declare End to Pandemic Alert
-- Jason Gale
-- 2010-07-20T08:44:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-19/swine-flu-fizzles-out-who-may-declare-end-to-pandemic-alert.html

          
          
             Public health experts are likely to
tell the world this month it can breathe easier: The swine flu
pandemic is ending.  
 The World Health Organization’s emergency committee may
convene next week to review infection data from Argentina to New
Zealand and recommend that the agency declare the century’s
first flu pandemic to be over, said two people familiar with the
matter. They declined to be identified because the deliberations
are confidential.  
 WHO Director-General  Margaret Chan  has to decide whether
the virus warrants extra vigilance as it circles the globe a
second time with no sign it’s becoming deadlier or developing
resistance to  Roche Holding AG ’s Tamiflu drug. More than $14
billion was spent on vaccines and medicines to fight the germ,
which shared features of the Spanish flu of 1918 while causing
little more than a fever and a cough in a majority of patients.  
 “We have to count our lucky stars,” said  Malik Peiris ,
professor of microbiology at Hong Kong University, in a
telephone interview. “We were really fortunate that on this
occasion it was a very mild infection.”  
 A decision by Chan to scale down the pandemic response will
be guided by how the virus evolves and a date for an
announcement hasn’t been set, said  Gregory Hartl , a WHO
spokesman.  
 ‘Very Watchful’  
 The emergency panel was to convene as early as today, the
two people said. The WHO late yesterday decided it may take a
little longer to review the latest flu data and allow Argentina
to wrap up its vaccination campaign, one of the people said.  
 The WHO moved to the top level of its six-step  pandemic
alert  in June 2009 after the discovery of the  new H1N1 virus  in
Mexico and the U.S. two months earlier, sparking what the agency
described as a  health emergency  of international concern. The
virus is now circulating at  low levels  worldwide after killing
at least 18,337 people, WHO said on July 16.  
 “We are still not at the end of the Southern Hemisphere
flu season, so we have to be very watchful,” Hartl said
yesterday by telephone from WHO’s headquarters in Geneva.  
 U.S. health authorities determined last month that special
 medical measures  to fight the first flu pandemic in 41 years are
no longer required and said other countries are likely to make
similar assessments in coming weeks.  
 Americans probably increased spending on cold, cough and
throat remedies to $3.6 billion last year as the pandemic
spurred demand for influenza relief,  Mintel International Group
Ltd.  said in October. The London-based research company
estimated U.K. consumers spent 428 million pounds ($653 million)
in 2009 alleviating flu symptoms with products that don’t
require a doctor’s prescription.  
 $10 Billion in Sales  
 Pharmaceutical companies reaped at least $10 billion in
sales of vaccines and antivirals because of the outbreak,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Roche of Basel,
Switzerland, sold about $3.58 billion of Tamiflu last year and
in the first three months of 2010. London-based  GlaxoSmithKline
Plc ’s revenue from the pandemic reached $3.78 billion.  
 Novartis AG of Basel, Paris-based  Sanofi-Aventis SA , CSL
Ltd. of Melbourne and Baxter International Inc. of Deerfield,
Illinois, also sold vaccines.  
 WHO came under fire over its handling of the pandemic, and
the BMJ, formerly known as British Medical Journal, published a
report in June saying the agency was swayed by experts who
received money from Roche and Glaxo. Chan denied the claim,
saying her decision to declare a pandemic was based on defined
criteria.  
 ‘Raked Over the Coals’  
 “It is a lot easier to look at things with 20:20 hindsight
than having to take decisions in real time with limited or
partial information,” WHO’s Hartl said. “We would have been
raked over the coals had we not taken any precautions and it
turned out to be a much more severe virus.”  
 Seasonal flu kills as many as 500,000 people a year,
according to WHO statistics. The full death toll from swine flu
won’t be known until a year or two after the pandemic, the
agency said.  
 Unlike seasonal flu, which kills predominantly the  frail
elderly , at least a fifth of those who died from swine flu were
healthy adults with  no underlying conditions , according to
 Sylvie Briand , head of WHO’s global influenza program.  
 Children younger than two years, pregnant women, people
with lung diseases, metabolic disorders, weakened immune systems
and certain neurological conditions are among groups at higher
risk of developing a severe disease, WHO said in November. H1N1
also poses greater risk of complications in obese individuals
and disadvantaged and indigenous populations, it said.  
 Seasonal Flu Behavior  
 The pandemic virus is now behaving more like seasonal
influenza in New Zealand, where it’s causing sporadic cases and
clusters of infections in communities that may have avoided the
disease last year, said  Lance Jennings , a clinical virologist
with Canterbury Health Laboratories in Christchurch. At least
one in four New Zealanders had some immunity to H1N1 as early as
March, the country’s health ministry said on June 4.  
 “The threat of an outbreak similar to the size of last
year’s in the Southern Hemisphere is certainly diminishing,”
said Jennings, who has studied flu for more than 30 years.  
 Australia’s flu season doesn’t seem to have started yet and
no significant changes have been noted in the pandemic flu
viruses collected so far, said  Anne Kelso , director of the WHO
Collaborating Centre for Reference & Research on Influenza in
Melbourne. Two out of five viruses tested at the center so far
have been seasonal strains known as type B and H3N2, she said.  
 Lessons Learned  
 Swine flu is even less common in South Africa, where six
cases have been identified, compared with 90 infections from
type B and 69 from H3N2 this winter, said Barry Schoub,
executive director of the National Institute for Communicable
Diseases, in Johannesburg. That’s in contrast to the 2009
winter, when the new H1N1 virus supplanted seasonal strains, a
typical feature of a pandemic.  
 “We would fully support the post-pandemic phase
announcement,” Schoub said in an e-mail yesterday. The decision
would shift the focus to addressing the long-term health and
social impact of the pandemic, as well as to restoring normal
functions, according to  WHO guidelines . The agency would also
review lessons learned and tweak recommendations on
surveillance.  
 The pandemic highlighted the unpredictable nature of
influenza and showed that planning for responses to global
outbreaks requires greater flexibility, Canterbury Health’s
Jennings said.  
 Closing schools and screening travelers at entry ports
didn’t stop the virus, and the pandemic response wasn’t
justified by its severity, said  Heath Kelly , head of
epidemiology at Victoria state’s infectious diseases reference
laboratory in Melbourne. Apart from increased admissions to
intensive-care wards, the pandemic may have been no more severe
than a bad winter flu season, with reported cases inflated by
increased testing and doctor visits, Kelly said yesterday.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jason Gale  in Singapore at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Margaret Chan, director general of the World Health Organization (WHO), speaks during WHO's Regional Committee for the Western Pacific in Hong Kong. Photographer: Jerome Favre/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
