-- Swiss Stocks Fall as Transocean, Clariant Decline; Georg Fischer Advances
-- Adam Ewing
-- 2010-07-19T16:25:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-19/swiss-stocks-fluctuate-transocean-sgs-fall-ubs-credit-suisse-rise.html

          
          
             Stocks in Switzerland declined,
reversing earlier gains, as a slide in  Transocean Ltd . and
lower-than-estimated confidence among builders in the U.S. led
all but five stocks in the benchmark Swiss Market Index to fall.  
 Transocean, the offshore drilling company that owned the
sunken Deepwater Horizon oil rig in the Gulf of Mexico, fell 7.5
percent. Clariant AG retreated 3.4 percent.  
 The benchmark  Swiss Market Index  fell 27.73, or 0.5
percent, to 6,156.64 at the 5:30 p.m. close of trading in
Zurich, after swinging between gains and losses at least six
times. The SMI has retreated 12 percent from this year’s high on
April 15 amid speculation that Europe’s debt crisis may derail
the economic recovery and concern that the Chinese authorities
are cooling their nation’s rate of growth. The broader  Swiss
Performance Index  fell 0.5 percent today.  
 “There’s no willingness to take on risk when it comes to
2011 earnings profiles and recent macro data does nothing but
make you cautious,” said Lars Moeller Pedersen, a macroeconomic
strategist at ABG Sundal Collier in Stockholm. “The most
important micro development I note is how investors treat good
reporting by cyclical exposure with a shrug and take profit.” [bn:WBTKR=USHBMIDX:IND]   
 Builders in the U.S. [] turned more pessimistic in July than
forecast, a sign the expiration of a government tax credit will
depress home construction. The National Association of Home
Builders/Wells Fargo confidence index dropped to 14 this month,
its lowest level since April 2009, from 16 in June, data from
the Washington-based group showed today. Readings lower than 50
mean more respondents said conditions were poor.  
 Debt Picture  
 Moody’s Investors Service downgraded its rating on
Ireland’s government bonds to Aa2 from Aa1, citing the
government’s “gradual but significant loss of financial
strength.”  
 “The general sovereign debt picture in Spain, Italy,
Ireland, Portugal, and Greece matters a lot,” said  Ben Hauzenberger , a Zurich-based fund manager at Swisscanto, which
manages $53 billion. “More company results, outlooks, and
macroeconomic data will help provide a clearer picture. At least
European governments seem eager to face and solve the problems.
That wasn’t really the case last summer.”  
 Suspected Leak  
 Transocean, the owner of the Deepwater Horizon offshore rig
which sank in April, slid 7.5 percent to 51.60 Swiss francs.
U.S. government officials demanded to see BP Plc’s plans for
reopening the sealed Macondo well after tests found a suspected
leak seeping from the seabed.  
 Clariant , the world’s biggest maker of printing-ink
chemicals, retreated 3.4 percent to 13.53 francs, its third
straight loss. It will eliminate about 300 additional jobs
worldwide as Chief Executive Officer Hariolf Kottmann deepens a
cost-cutting program, two people familiar with the plan said.  
 Myriad Group AG  jumped 2.4 percent to 4.30 francs. The
maker of software for hand-held and mobile devices will get $19
million for some patent rights.  
 Georg Fischer AG , the autoparts maker, gained 1.4 percent
to 395.50 francs, up 94 percent in the past year. It reported a
first-half net income of 41 million Swiss francs ($38.9 million)
as demand recovered in Asia. Chief Executive Officer  Yves Serra 
forecasts full-year net income of about 80 million francs.  
 To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
 Adam Ewing  in Stockholm at 
 aewing5@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 19 (Bloomberg) -- Rossa White, chief economist at Davy Research,  talks about Ireland's credit rating cut by Moody’s Investors Service.
     He speaks from Dublin with Andrea Catherwood on Bloomberg
Television's "The Pulse" (This is an excerpt. Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
