-- U.A.E.'s Du to Profit After It Intensified Competition With Rival Etisalat
-- Zahra Hankir
-- 2010-07-19T09:11:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-19/u-a-e-s-du-to-profit-after-it-intensified-competition-with-rival-etisalat.html

          
          
             Du, or  Emirates Integrated
Telecommunications Co ., probably increased profit in the second
quarter as it intensified competition with the United Arab
Emirates’ other state-controlled phone company.  
 Du’s net income may have almost doubled to 114 million
dirhams ($31 million), according to an  average  estimate of five
analysts on Bloomberg. By contrast, competitor  Emirates
Telecommunications Corp.  yesterday reported a 21 percent drop in
profit from a year earlier to 1.9 billion dirhams ($545
million). Du typically releases quarterly results within a month
of the end of a quarter.  
 “With mobile penetration at above 200 percent, the
companies are competing more aggressively in the U.A.E.,” said
 Nishit Lakhotia , a Bahrain-based analyst at Securities &
Investment Co. BSC. Du “has invested heavily in infrastructure,
enhancing network coverage.”  
 The  company  plans to spend at least 2.2 billion dirhams
this year and about the same amount in 2011, Chief Executive
Officer  Osman Sultan  said May 11. Most of the investment will go
to the mobile network to provide faster service such as music
downloads and better Internet connection.  
 “A potential catalyst for the telecoms sector is the
opening up of the fixed and broadband segment throughout the
U.A.E.,” Dubai-based analyst  Irfan Ellam  at Al Mal Capital PSC
said in a report on July 14. “We expect Du to gain market share
over the medium-term once infrastructure sharing is launched. "  
 Du said on June 22 it sold 1 billion dirhams of new stock
to existing investors, raising cash to expand. Fixed-line
investment will be in partnership with Etisalat, Sultan said.  
 Competition  
 Du was licensed in 2006 as part of a government plan to
build competition in the telecommunications market.  Etisalat 
said yesterday it had increased the number of mobile subscribers
by about 90,000 to 7.8 million.  
 “We estimate Du added 176,000 active mobile subscribers to
reach a total subscriber base of 3.9 million,” said  Marise Ananian , a telecommunications analyst at Cairo-based EFG-Hermes
Holding SAE.  
 While Du operates only in the U.A.E., Etisalat has expanded
to 18 countries servicing more than 100 million customers,
according to its  website . Ananian expects 80 percent of
Etisalat’s total revenue during the quarter to be generated from
the U.A.E. with the rest from international operations.  
 “International operations should pick up now and
contribute to growth,” said Ananian. This is especially as the
U.A.E. market “becomes more and more mature, and is not seeing
growth numbers similar to what we’d seen in the past.”  
 Investing in Egypt, Zanzibar  
 Etisalat plans to invest 8 billion Egyptian pounds ($1.4
billion) in the next three years to expand the network of its
Egyptian unit, the company said June 13. Etisalat in April
raised its stake in Zanzibar Telecom to 65 percent. It’s also
considering several opportunities in India, including buying a
stake in  Reliance Communications Ltd ., Chairman  Mohammed Omran 
said in Amman, Jordan, last month.  
 Du has no plans to expand beyond its home market in the
U.A.E., Sultan said in February. The company’s  shares  gained 0.5
percent to 2.07 dirhams in Dubai today, trimming its loss for
the year to 25.7 percent.  
 “The stock has been one of the worst performing telecom
stocks in the MENA region, unjustifiably so in our view,” Ellam
said.  
 Etisalat  retreated  1 percent to 10.3 dirhams today. The
shares have gained 3 percent this year.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Zahra Hankir  in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        