-- U.A.E. Bank Earnings May Be Hurt by Dubai World's Debt Plan, Analysts Say
-- Arif Sharif
-- 2010-07-19T07:53:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-19/u-a-e-bank-earnings-may-be-hurt-by-dubai-world-s-debt-plan-analysts-say.html

          
          
             Dubai World’s $23.5 billion debt
restructuring will hurt second-quarter earnings at three of the
six biggest banks in the United Arab Emirates, analysts said.  
 Earnings at  Emirates NBD PJSC , the U.A.E.’s biggest lender
by assets, will likely decline 45 percent to 468 million dirhams
($127 million), according to the median estimate of three
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News. Profit at third-ranked  Abu
Dhabi Commercial Bank PJSC  will drop 40 percent to 182 million
dirhams and by 63 percent to 166 million dirhams at top Islamic
lender  Dubai Islamic Bank PJSC , the survey showed.  
 Provisions for bad loans will remain high and banks will
set aside money to cover part of the loan losses from Dubai
World in the second quarter, said  Murad Ansari , a Riyadh-based
analyst at  EFG-Hermes Holding SAE . Revenue growth also slowed as
lending “has yet to show any sign of recovery,” he said.  
 U.A.E. banks are being hurt as the global credit crisis
weakened lending and investment banking activity, while
provisions for bad loans are rising amid the economic slowdown.
Dubai World, one of the emirate’s three main state-owned holding
companies, is seeking to alter the terms on $23.5 billion of
liabilities, including $14.4 billion of bank debt.  Emirates NBD 
and Abu Dhabi Commercial are its biggest lenders.  
 U.A.E. economic growth may accelerate to 3.2 percent in
2010 with oil prices at $85 a barrel from 1.3 percent in 2009,
Economy Minister  Sultan Bin Saeed al-Mansouri  said in May.  
 Bad Loans  
 “Banks that have taken a conservative stance on loan
growth and asset quality, such as NBAD and UNB, are likely to
stay away from significant drops in earnings,” said  Janany Vamadeva , an analyst at HC Brokerage in Dubai. “Ruling out
events such as Dubai World in the region and unfavorable global
events, we can expect some pick up in lending in the fourth
quarter.”  
 Profit at  National Bank of Abu Dhabi PJSC , the U.A.E.’s
second-biggest lender, advanced 3.4 percent to 937 million
dirhams, the survey showed. Earnings at  First Gulf Bank PJSC ,
owned by Abu Dhabi’s ruling family, likely climbed 7 percent to
829 million dirhams and 32 percent to 359 million dirhams
at  Union National Bank PJSC , another state-owned lender.  
 The average ratio of bad or non-performing loans to gross
loans for the nine largest U.A.E. banks rose to 4.3 percent at
the end of 2009 from 1.7 percent in the previous year, according
to a Fitch Ratings report in June. Even then, these ratios
aren’t a true reflection of the extent of bad debt as several
loans have been rescheduled, Fitch said. The ratio reported by
the Middle East unit of  HSBC Holdings Plc  of 7.3 percent is a
better indication given its more stringent rules, Fitch said.  
 Bank Lending  
 Lending in the U.A.E. has risen a mere 0.3 percent in the
first five months of this year on top of a 2.4 percent increase
in 2009 after growing by more than 30 percent annually from 2005
to 2008. A shortage of money at banks has led to a 25 percent
increase in inter-bank borrowing costs this year to 2.35
percent, central bank data show.  
 Two U.A.E. banks have already reported earnings.  Abu Dhabi
Islamic Bank PJSC , the U.A.E.’s second-biggest bank complying
with Islamic banking rules, reported yesterday a 56 percent rise
in second-quarter profit to 301.6 million dirhams.  Commercial
Bank of Dubai PSC  on July 14 reported a 4.6 percent fall in
second-quarter profit to 255.3 million dirhams as provisions for
bad loans rose.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Arif Sharif  in Dubai at 
 asharif2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        