-- U.S. Demands More Test Data From BP as Seep Found in Seabed
-- Katarzyna Klimasinska
-- 2010-07-19T08:33:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-19/u-s-tells-bp-to-prepare-for-reopening-oil-well-after-seep-found.html

          
          
             U.S. government officials demanded
to see  BP Plc ’s plans for opening its sealed Gulf of Mexico
well after tests found a suspected leak seeping from the seabed.  
 In a  letter  addressed to  Bob Dudley ,  BP  managing director,
National Incident Commander  Thad Allen  said tests had detected a
“seep a distance from the well and undetermined anomalies at
the well head.” The letter was posted yesterday on the website
of the joint information center for the spill.  
 No decision was announced on whether BP will be ordered
to open the valves sealing the well, which would allow oil to
resume flowing. BP would resume efforts to capture the oil and
funnel it to vessels at the surface after the well is opened.  
 “I direct you to provide me a written procedure for
opening the choke valve as quickly as possible without damaging
the well should hydrocarbon seepage near the well head be
confirmed,” Allen wrote in the letter.  
 Hours before,  BP  officials said the company planned to keep
the well sealed until it could be permanently plugged by a
relief well. Three days of tests on the capped well showed no
signs of a hidden leak or other problems that would prompt BP to
reopen the well,  Doug Suttles , chief operating officer for
exploration and production for BP, said yesterday in a
conference call from Houston.  
 Data Watching  
 The cost of the response to the spill has risen to $3.95
billion, BP said in a statement today. The shares fell as much
as 7.4 percent in London and traded at 387.9 pence as of 9:07
a.m. local time. That’s more than 40 percent lower than when the
spill began three months ago.  
 Pressure inside the well rose slowly to 6,792 pounds per
square inch from 6,700 pounds per square inch at the start of
the day July 17, an encouraging sign that the inside of the well
may have escaped damage following an April 20 explosion aboard
the Deepwater Horizon drilling rig, BP said.  
 The pressure reading is still lower than the 7,500 pounds
per square inch BP initially said would give it confidence to
declare the well sound.  Kent Wells , BP’s senior vice president
for exploration and production, said the lower pressure was
consistent with a depleted reservoir after oil had been gushing
three months.  
 It’s not unusual for bubbles of gas to seep from the
seabed, Darryl Bourgoyne, director of the petroleum engineering
laboratory at Louisiana State University, said.  
 “It could be a leak, it could be biogenic gas, gas created
by bacteria,” he said. “It could lead to opening the well if
they’re very, very cautious.”  
 Records  
 Allen’s letter demanded BP provide records and
documentation of all the tests it is running on the well while
it remains sealed.  
 “Monitoring of the seabed is of paramount importance
during the test period,” Allen wrote. “As the National
Incident Commander, I must remain abreast of the status of your
source control efforts.”  
 Bill Salvin, a BP spokesman, said BP complied with all
government requests and will continue to do so.  
 The relief well, the only option for permanently plugging
the well by filling it with mud and cement, should remain the
priority over other attempts to stop the oil flow, Allen said.
He asked BP to provide him with a plan and schedule for all well
control efforts and how they might conflict or delay the relief
well.  
 Valves  
 BP  bolted a 40-foot (12-meter) stack of valves on top of
the well that it used to stop the flow of oil July 15, when it
began testing for damage. The company temporarily halted
drilling its relief wells while it conducted tests on the capped
Macondo.  
 Work has begun again, and the wells should intercept the
leak by the end of the month and have it plugged by mid-August,
Suttles said.  
 The Macondo well has produced the biggest oil spill in U.S.
history, spewing 35,000 to 60,000 barrels of oil a day from a
mile-deep in the water, according to a U.S. government-led panel
of scientists.  
 BP was prepared to reopen the well and let the oil flow if
tests indicated there were hidden leaks that could be made worse
by leaving the well sealed, Wells said. Resuming the containment
process might take three days, during which oil would again be
spilled into the Gulf, Suttles said.  
 The main purpose of the new cap sitting on the top of the
well, built with assistance from  Transocean Ltd.  and  Cameron
International  Corp., was to help channel more oil to the surface
if the well could not be sealed, Allen has said.  
 The previous, loose cap allowed BP to capture about 25,000
barrels a day of oil from the well, while still letting some
escape. If it’s necessary to reopen the well, the new
installation would enable vessels to eventually contain about
80,000 barrels, Suttles said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Katarzyna Klimasinska  in Houston at 
 kklimasinska@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     National Incident Commander Thad Allen. Photographer: Sean Gardner/Getty Images  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 19 (Bloomberg) -- Carl Larry, president of Oil Outlooks & Opinions LLC, talks about BP Plc's efforts to stop the flow of oil from its damaged well in the Gulf of Mexico.
     U.S. government officials demanded to see BP’s plans for reopening its sealed well after tests found a suspected leak seeping from the seabed. He speaks with Erik Schatzker on Bloomberg Television's "InsideTrack." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 19 (Bloomberg) -- Victor Shum, a senior principal at Purvin & Gertz Inc. in Singapore, talks with Bloomberg's Linzie Janis about the outlook for crude oil prices and Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries' production.
     Crude oil declined for a fourth day in New York after confidence among U.S. consumers slumped, adding to concern a recovery in fuel demand may falter in the biggest energy-consuming nation. (Source: Bloomberg)
  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
