-- U.S. Stocks Advance on Optimism About Earnings; Microsoft Rises
-- Whitney Kisling
-- 2010-07-19T21:02:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-19/u-s-stock-futures-rise-shares-of-ibm-microsoft-google-gain-in-germany.html

          
          
             U.S. stocks rose, rebounding from
the market’s biggest drop this month, as optimism about earnings
from technology and energy companies overshadowed a drop in
financial shares.  
 Microsoft Corp.  climbed 1.4 percent after UBS AG raised its
earnings estimate, citing signs of stronger demand. Halliburton
Co. jumped 6 percent after topping analysts’ earnings and
revenue estimates. Bank of America Corp. slumped 2.7 percent as
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. took the shares off its “conviction
buy” list, saying low rates may hurt interest income.  
 The  S&P 500  rose 0.6 percent to 1,071.25 as of 4 p.m. in
New York. The  Dow Jones Industrial Average  advanced 56.53
points, or 0.6 percent, to 10,154.43 today.  
 “The market is focusing on revenue growth this earnings
season and, outside of financials, companies seem to be
delivering that,” said  Mark Freeman , a money manager at
Westwood Management Corp. in Dallas, which oversees $10.5
billion. “It’s really a question of whether the earnings
reports can come in strong enough now to support investor
confidence.”  
 The S&P 500 gained 4.8 percent since July 2 on optimism
that corporate earnings would signal the economic recovery is
sustainable. Of the 24 companies in the S&P 500 that reported
 from July 12  through the beginning of regular trading this
morning, all but three topped earnings-per-share forecasts,
according to Bloomberg data.  
 Stocks Declined  
 U.S. stocks declined last week following lower-than-
estimated revenue at Bank of America,  Citigroup Inc.  and General
Electric Co. and a drop in consumer confidence to the lowest
level in a year.  
 Microsoft Corp. , which is scheduled to report fourth-
quarter results on July 22, gained 1.4 percent to $25.23 as UBS
AG raised its earnings estimate for the software maker to 47
cents a share from 45 cents for the fiscal fourth quarter.
Analysts cited “early signs of enterprise demand returning.”  
 Halliburton rose the most in the S&P 500, rallying 6
percent to $29.17 after the company reported an 83 percent
increase in second-quarter profit to $480 million, or 53 cents a
share, as gains in onshore drilling made up for a halt to new
wells in the Gulf of Mexico. Earnings from continuing operations
were 52 cents a share, topping the average analyst estimate of
37 cents. Revenue was $4.39 billion, beating the average
projection of $4.09 billion in a Bloomberg survey.  
 Education Stocks Surge  
 For-profit education stocks surged amid speculation
 President Barack Obama’s  proposed industry regulations won’t
reduce profit as much as had been projected.  Education
Management Corp.  jumped 17 percent to $18.49.  Corinthian
Colleges Inc.  rose 9.1 percent to $10.40. Bridgepoint Education
Inc. advanced 10 percent to $17.31. Apollo Group Inc., owner of
the biggest for-profit university in the U.S. by enrollment,
climbed 5.4 percent to $48.03.  
 International Business Machines Corp.  rose 1.4 percent to
$129.79 in the regular session. Shares fell 3.7 percent to
$124.96 in trading after the official close of markets after the
world’s largest computer-services provider reported second-
quarter sales that missed analysts’ estimates as the falling
euro weighed on revenue.  
 Texas Instruments Inc., the second-biggest U.S. chipmaker,
and Zions Bancorp also fell in after-market trading after
reporting earnings results that missed estimates.  
 Apple Falls  
 Apple Inc., the maker of iPods and Macintosh computers,
declined 1.7 percent to 245.58. The Cupertino, California-based
company may report worse-than-expected results when it posts
quarterly earnings tomorrow, said Stifel Nicolaus & Co., which
cited “evidence of ongoing component shortages.”  
 Stocks turned lower earlier as the National Association of
Home Builders/Wells Fargo confidence index dropped to 14 this
month, the lowest level since April 2009, from 16 in June.
Readings lower than 50 mean more respondents said conditions
were poor. The index was forecast to fall to 16 from a
previously reported 17 in June, according to the median estimate
in the survey.  
 “While we can easily blame the expiration of the tax
credit for the dropoff” in builder confidence,  Peter Boockvar ,
equity strategist at Miller Tabak & Co. in New York, said in an
e-mailed note, “according to the NAHB, ‘builders are reporting
continuing consumer hesitancy regarding home purchases due to
uncertainty in the overall economy and job markets.’”  
 Toll Brothers  
 Toll Brothers Inc.  dropped 1.2 percent to $16.23. An index
of homebuilders across S&P indexes fell 1.3 percent.  
 Airlines declined after Delta Air Lines Inc., the world’s
largest carrier, forecast a third-quarter operating margin of no
more than 12 percent, missing analyst estimates. Delta sank 2.9
percent to $11.38. UAL Corp. lost 0.8 percent to $21.18.
Continental Airlines Inc. dropped 0.4 percent to $22.78. AMR
Corp. lost 1.9 percent to $6.74.  
 Bank of America  dropped 2.7 percent to $13.61. The largest
U.S. bank by assets was removed from Goldman Sachs’s
“conviction buy” list and downgraded to “hold” from “buy”
at ISI Group.  
 Anadarko Petroleum Corp.  fell the most in the S&P 500,
losing 4.1 percent to $45.52 as  Kenneth Feinberg , who is
overseeing a $20 billion fund to pay damage claims from the Gulf
of Mexico oil spill, said the BP Plc partner could still be sued
by victims even if they had been paid from BP’s fund. The
London-based oil company’s U.S. traded shares fell 3.6 percent
to $35.75.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Nikolaj Gammeltoft  in New York at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net ;
 Whitney Kisling  in New York at 
 wkisling@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     The Dow Jones Industrial Average advanced 56.53 points, or 0.6 percent, to 10,154.43 today. Photographer: Jin Lee/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 19 (Bloomberg) -- Bloomberg's Courtney Donohoe reports on the performance of the U.S. equity market today.
     Stocks rose, rebounding from the market’s biggest drop this month, as optimism about earnings from technology and energy companies overshadowed a drop in financial shares. Bloomberg's Pimm Fox also speaks. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 19 (Bloomberg) -- Leo Grohowski, chief investment officer at BNY Mellon Wealth Management, talks about his investment strategy for equities.
     Grohowski also discusses the outlook for U.S. stocks, corporate earnings and the economy. Grohowski talks with Carol Massar, Matt Miller and Dominic Chu on Bloomberg Television's "Street Smart." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 19 (Bloomberg) -- Barry Knapp, head of U.S. equity strategy at Barclays Capital, talks about the outlook for the U.S. stock market for the second half of 2010.
     Knapp speaks with Matt Miller and Carol Massar on Bloomberg Television's "Street Smart." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 19 (Bloomberg) -- Rod Smyth, chief investment strategist at Riverfront Investment Group, talks about investment strategy and economic outlook.
     Smyth speaks with Margaret Brennan on Bloomberg Television's "InBusiness." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 20 (Bloomberg) -- Robert Doll, vice chairman and chief equity strategist at BlackRock Inc., the world’s largest asset manager, talks with Bloomberg's Susan Li about the outlook for the U.S. economy and stocks.
     Doll, speaking from Princeton, New Jersey, also discusses his investment strategy for emerging market stocks, and China's economy. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
