-- UBS Account-Data Accord With U.S. Is Binding, Court Says as Appeal Tossed
-- Elena Logutenkova
-- 2010-07-19T15:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-19/ubs-account-data-accord-with-u-s-is-binding-court-says-as-appeal-tossed.html

          
          
             Switzerland’s administrative court
ruled an agreement with the U.S. to transfer data on as many as
4,450  UBS AG  accounts is “binding” and rejected one client’s
appeal to block the sending of her account information.  
 The ruling comes a month after the Swiss parliament
approved the 2009 agreement with the U.S., elevating it to the
status of an official state treaty. That was necessary after the
administrative court in January said the accord wasn’t fully
enforceable.  
 The July 15 verdict on the pilot case, which was made
public today, cannot be appealed to the Federal Supreme Court,
the administrative court said in an e-mailed statement.  
 The agreement approved by the parliament takes “precedence
over all other international legal regulations,” the court
said. “The economic interests of Switzerland as well as the
interests in fulfilling obligations that have been entered into
in international law are of major significance and outweigh the
individual interests of the complainant in this case.”  
 UBS and the Swiss government agreed in August 2009 to
settle a civil lawsuit against the bank by providing data on as
many as 4,450 accounts of American clients suspected of tax
evasion to the  Internal Revenue Service . Under the terms of the
accord, UBS transferred the data to the Swiss tax authorities,
which have until Aug. 24 to issue decisions on all the accounts.
The decisions can be appealed to the administrative court.  
 The court currently has about 100 appeals from UBS clients
pending, of which about 80 fall in the same category as the
pilot case, spokesman  Andrea Arcidiacono  said by phone. The
court will rule on the remaining appeals individually if they
aren’t retracted, he added.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Elena Logutenkova  in Zurich at 
 elogutenkova@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        