-- UN Carbon Permit Regulators Juggle Conflicts as They Debate Future Supply
-- Mathew Carr
-- 2010-07-19T08:49:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-19/un-co2-regulators-juggle-conflicts-of-interest-in-debate-on-future-supply.html

          
          
             Some United Nations-overseen
regulators of the world’s second-biggest carbon market need to
resolve conflicts of interest as they debate on the supply of
emission credits from industrial-gas projects next week.  
 The Clean Development Mechanism executive board, which
oversees the market, is deciding how to regulate projects that
destroy hydrofluorocarbon-23, the potent greenhouse gas that is
a byproduct of chemical-refrigerant making. Greenhouse gas
credits from HFC-23 projects make up about half the supply of
offsets in the UN program, which can be used for compliance in
the European Union market, the world’s biggest.  
 Three of the 10-member board and three of the 10 alternates
who stand in for them when absent should abstain from votes on
HFC-23 because of the conflicts, CDM Watch, the Bonn-based
 environmental lobby group , said July 16. They include
representatives of China, India, Netherlands, U.K., Japan and
Norway, the lobby group said in an e-mailed statement. That’s
because some of those nations buy the credits and some sell.  
 Lex de Jonge , chairman of the UN panel that approves
methodologies to cut greenhouse gases and an alternate member,
said he won’t defend projects that apply for credits by
destroying the HFC-23 gases. “I’m very much aware of the
conflict of interest,” de Jonge said July 16 by phone,
referring to the fact that his country, the Netherlands, buys
the credits to help comply with its targets under the 1997 Kyoto
Protocol.  
 “I will not in any way enter into discussions defending
these projects,” he said. De Jonge said he and other regulators
have abstained from past decisions when conflicted. “That’s the
only way to survive in this system.” The executive board is
meeting  July 26 through 30  in Bonn, Germany.  
 ‘Can Speak’  
 Conflicted board members that won’t defend credits may
still participate in discussions, de Jonge said. “It doesn’t
mean they can’t speak.”  
 Last year, the board adopted a code of conduct that
addressed conflict of interest, David Abbass, a spokesman for
the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change, said July 16.
“Each board member, when they join, signs an oath that
addresses conflict of interest,” he said by e-mail.  
 China has 11 HFC-23 CDM projects producing about 65 million
metric tons of Certified Emission Reduction credits a year, CDM
 Watch  said. That’s the most of any nation and adds up to about
650 million euros ($842 million) annually, it said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mathew Carr  in London at 
 m.carr@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        