-- Hungary Refuses Further Austerity Steps Even After IMF Row, Matolcsy Says
-- Edith Balazs
-- 2010-07-19T12:07:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-19/hungary-will-refuse-to-implement-further-austerity-measures-matolcsy-says.html

          
          
             Hungary’s government won’t impose
further austerity measures even after falling out with its
international creditors, Economy Minister  Gyorgy Matolcsy  said,
expressing confidence a new loan agreement will “eventually”
be reached.  
 The government, which faces local elections on Oct. 3, is
committed to a tax on financial institutions for three years and
seeks to raise 200 billion forint ($893 million) from the levy
in 2010, Matolcsy said on M1 television today. “The alternative
to the bank tax would be austerity measures which would restrain
growth even more,” he said.  
 The  International Monetary Fund  and European Union ended
talks with Hungary at the weekend without endorsing the budget
plans. The EU demanded “tough decisions, notably on spending,”
to meet deficit requirements. The IMF said the planned tax will
have a negative impact on lending and  growth .  
 The suspension of talks is rattling investor trust in
Hungary barely a month after politicians from the ruling Fidesz
party compared the nation to Greece, roiling international
markets. The government, which swept to power in a landslide
victory in April, may delay spending cuts until after autumn
municipal elections, analysts said.  
 New ‘Gaffe’  
 “The new government has not learned its lessons from the
previous gaffe, while the market is in no mood to overlook any
fiscal laxity,”  Timothy Ash , head of emerging market research
at Royal Bank of Scotland Plc in London, wrote in a note today.
Hungary’s credit rating could come under threat as the country
seems “to be going off-piste. Without IMF financing over the
longer term, we doubt that Hungary can finance itself.”  
 The forint slumped as much as 2.7 percent per euro and was
trading 2.2 percent lower at 288.72 at 10:27 a.m. in Budapest
from 282.10 on July 16. The currency is at its weakest since
June 7. The benchmark BUX stock index fell 2.3 percent, the most
since June 29, and credit default swaps, the price of insuring
against a default rose 47.5 basis points to 370, according to
UBS AG.  
 Hungary, the recipient of a 20 billion-euro ($25.8 billion)
emergency bailout, is enduring its fifth consecutive year of
austerity. The economy last year suffered its biggest decline in
almost two decades, shrinking 6.3 percent. The government agreed
to keep this year’s budget  deficit  target at an IMF-approved 3.8
percent of gross domestic product while indicating it wanted
more fiscal room in 2011.  
 ‘Force the Government’  
 “We believe market reality will finally force the
government to take the necessary measures but this might not
come before October,”  Gyula Toth , an emerging-market strategist
at UniCredit SpA in Vienna, wrote in a note today. The Cabinet
may be forced to announce some measures ahead of the elections,
he said.  
 The IMF will return to Hungary in September to continue
negotiations and an agreement with the Washington-based lender
will eventually be reached, Matolcsy said at a press conference
in Vienna today. The suspension of IMF payments doesn’t endanger
Hungary’s economic stability, he said.  
 Concluding the review is a condition for disbursing funds
from the bailout loan. Hungary has 5.7 billion euros of the
package available. The government refrained from tapping it this
year because it was able to finance spending through debt sales.  
 ‘Funding May Freeze’  
 Hungary is seeking a new “precautionary” loan agreement
with the IMF from next year as its current bailout expires in
October. Even without the need to use the available funds, the
backing of international creditors helps reassure markets and
allows the government to borrow on the market, said analysts
including  Eszter Gargyan  at Citigroup Inc. in Budapest.  
 “The government has been planning to extend the current
program until year-end and set up a new precautionary” loan "
“from 2011, which in our view is an important assurance for the
market,” Gargyan said in a note to clients today. “The lack of
agreement means Hungary’s access to market funding may freeze,
especially if European financing conditions deteriorate.”  
 The central bank may be forced to raise interest rates if
the government fails to act quickly and currency weakness
persists,  Gyorgy Kovacs , an economist at UBS AG in London, wrote
in a note today.  
 “Financial markets might not grant the government
breathing space until the municipal elections in October, and in
this case the Hungarian government will have to present measures
earlier to soothe investor sentiment,” Kovacs said.  
 The central bank left the benchmark rate unchanged at 5.25
percent today.  
 To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
 Edith Balazs  in Budapest at 
 ebalazs1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        