-- Hungary May Increase Interest Rates to Support Forint, Danske Bank Says
-- Krystof Chamonikolas
-- 2010-07-19T11:19:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-19/hungary-may-increase-interest-rates-to-support-forint-danske-bank-says.html

          
          
             Hungary’s central bank may opt for
an “aggressive” interest-rate increase to shield foreign-
currency loans if the dispute between the government and its
lenders further weakens the forint,  Danske Bank A/S  said.  
 A rate increase by as much as 4 percentage points may come
within a week if the forint extends losses, Danske analyst  Lars Christensen  said by phone from Copenhagen. Policy makers will
signal readiness to raise the rate to support the currency, and
will probably keep the benchmark rate at 5.25 today, he said.  
 The forint tumbled the most in six weeks and the cost to
insure debt payments from Hungary jumped after the International
Monetary Fund and European Union ended talks without endorsing
the government’s plans to control the budget gap. All 17
economists surveyed by Bloomberg expect the central bank to
leave the two-week deposit rate unchanged at a meeting today.  
 “A continuation of the sharp sell-off in the forint will
hit Hungarian consumers and corporates with foreign-currency
loans hard, which could do a lot of damage to the already beaten
up Hungarian financial sector,” Christensen wrote in a report
today. “We would not rule out an aggressive rate hike of 300-
400 basis points to curb the selloff in the forint if the
situation gets worse.”  
 The forint weakened as much as 2.9 percent against the euro
today and traded down 2.1 percent at 287.99 per euro as of 1:06
p.m. in Budapest, its biggest intraday drop since June 4. It has
lost 9.3 percent since a peak on March 17, the worst performance
among more than 170 global currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Krystof Chamonikolas  in Prague at 
 kchamonikola@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        