-- Hungary's `Foot-in-Mouth Disease' Threatens Investor Confidence, Financing
-- Edith Balazs
-- 2010-07-20T12:42:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-19/hungary-s-foot-in-mouth-disease-threatens-investor-confidence-financing.html

          
          
             Hungarian Economy Minister  Gyorgy Matolcsy  says the International Monetary Fund’s decision to
suspend talks with the government doesn’t threaten fiscal
stability. Investors say he’s wrong.  
 Six weeks after Hungary’s new ruling party roiled global
markets by comparing the country with Greece, investors received
another shock on July 17, when the IMF and EU walked away from
negotiations without an agreement on plans to control the
country’s  budget deficit .  
 IMF backing increased confidence and helped Hungary finance
its debt on capital markets. Without that support, investors
will demand higher yields, boosting the cost of bond sales, said
 Daniel Bebesy , who helps manage $1.5 billion in Hungarian public
debt at Budapest Investment Management. Hungary sold 35 billion
forint ($156 million) of three-month Treasury bills today, 22
percent less than planned, as yields rose from a week earlier.  
 “Hungary needs the safety net that an IMF program
provides,” Bebesy said yesterday in a phone interview.
“Without this net, we could get a much bigger slap in the face
if global developments turn negative.”  
 The forint, the world’s worst-performing currency against
the euro in the past three months, fell 2.9 percent yesterday,
dipping to the lowest since April 29, 2009. The yield on the
benchmark three-year bond surged to 7.28 percent from 6.9
percent, and the cost of protecting the country’s debt against
nonpayment for five years climbed 46 basis points to 362.5 basis
points, the most since the Greece comments.  
 The forint rose 0.1 percent to 289.40 per euro as of 2:41
p.m. in Budapest. The three-year bond was little changed at 7.28
percent.  
 ‘Tough Decisions’  
 The IMF suspended its review of Hungary’s 20 billion-euro
($25.8 billion) emergency bailout because “a range of issues
remain open,” the Washington-based lender said in a July 17
 statement . The government must make “tough decisions, notably
on spending,” to comply with deficit requirements, the EU said.  
 “This is just another incident of foot in mouth disease
from the new government,” said  Kieran Curtis , who helps manage
about $2 billion in bonds, including Hungarian government debt,
at Aviva Investors in London. Without the IMF, “there may or
may not be enough appetite to buy Hungarian assets to make up
for the lack of funding.”  
 The government will eventually agree to the IMF’s terms,
because it can’t afford the backlash from voters affected by
rising payments on foreign-currency loans, Curtis said.  
 The IMF delegation is expected to return to Budapest in
September, and Hungary will eventually reach an agreement with
the IMF, Economy Minister Gyorgy Matolcsy said yesterday at a
news conference in Vienna.  
 ‘Their Own Masters’  
 The government, which has pledged to stick to the IMF-
approved budget- deficit  goal of 3.8 percent of GDP this year,
refused to implement further austerity measures and pushed
creditors to widen next year’s target, Matolcsy said. Hungary
also seeks a new “precautionary” loan from the IMF after the
current credit line runs out in October.  
 “Markets have their own masters,” Prime Minister  Viktor Orban  said today at a news conference in Budapest. “Hungary
will fulfill its international commitments and that will make it
the fifth or sixth best-performing country among the 27 EU-
member states. This is what I can say for the benefit of the
markets. They should use it as they may.”  
 Hungary Debt Sales  
 Hungary turned to international lenders in 2008 to avert a
default after demand for its debt dried up. At the time, the
government suspended bond auctions, relying solely on its IMF
credit line to repay debt and finance the budget.  
 Regular debt sales resumed in April 2009, and Hungary has
since sold foreign-currency bonds twice. The debt management
agency has missed its sales target at four forint-denominated
auctions since June 3, when an official of the ruling Fidesz
party said Hungary had a “slim chance to avoid a Greek
situation.”  
 The average yield on the Treasury bills sold today rose to
5.47 percent from 5.28 percent at the previous auction on July
13, according to results posted by the Debt Management Agency.  
 Hungary’s debt management agency sees “no financing
problems whatsoever” after today’s auction, Deputy Director
Andras Borbely said in a phone interview. Hungary is 100 billion
forint ($443 million) over its year-to-date debt sale plan as a
115 billion-forint excess in bond sales outweighs a 15 billion-
forint shortfall in Treasury bills, he said.  
 ‘It’s Questionable’  
 Without an IMF program to reassure investors that there is
a backstop in case of financing difficulties, buyers will demand
higher yields to hold the country’s debt, said  Jacob Kirkegaard ,
a research fellow at the Peterson Institute for International
Economics in Washington, in an interview.  
 “Could they do it at anything else than a Greek interest
rate?’ It’s questionable,” Kirkegaard said. “It’s not
something they could afford to try because if that fails, they
would be forced to go back to the EU and the IMF, and they would
be met with austerity demands and structural reform demands that
would be even harsher than now.”  
 Hungary’s central bank yesterday kept  interest rates 
unchanged at a record-low 5.25 percent for the third month.
Policy makers may need to raise borrowing costs in case of a
“sustained increase in risk premiums,” the bank said.  
 The collapse of negotiations “doesn’t help Hungary’s risk
assessment” and may lead to heightened currency volatility,
central bank President  Andras Simor  told reporters after the
rate decision.  
 “At best, Hungarian financial markets look set for an
extremely bumpy ride over the coming weeks and months,”  David Oxley , a London-based emerging-market economist at Capital
Economics, said in an e-mailed note. “At worst, Hungary could
be muddling into a future fiscal crisis.”  
 To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
 Edith Balazs  in Budapest at 
 ebalazs1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        