-- Valeant Pharmaceuticals Sued by Shareholder Over Planned Biovail Merger
-- Jef Feeley
-- 2010-07-19T21:33:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-19/valeant-pharmaceuticals-sued-by-shareholder-over-planned-biovail-merger.html

          
          
             Valeant Pharmaceuticals
International ’s $3.2 million merger with  Biovail Corp. , Canada’s
largest publicly traded drugmaker, shortchanges Valeant
investors while enriching the company’s executives, a
shareholder said in a lawsuit.  
 The combination of the drug companies, which includes a
total cash payment of $18.55 for each share of Valeant stock, is
being carried out “at an unfair price via an unfair process,”
Valeant shareholder Donald Porto said in a Delaware Chancery
Court complaint made public today.  
 Valeant shareholders are left without “fair value for
their interests” while the company’s chief executive officer
and directors “are reaping windfall benefits and profits” from
the deal, Porto contends.  
 Officials of Aliso Viejo, California-based Valeant said
June 21 that they were combining the drugmaker with Mississauga,
Ontario-based Biovail to create a company with $1.75 billion in
annual sales. Valeant is best known as the maker of the
antiviral drug ribavirin.  Biovail  sells the antidepressant
Wellbutrin XL in the U.S.  
 Laurie Little , a Valeant spokeswoman, declined to comment
on the suit.  Nelson Isabel , a Biovail spokesman, didn’t return
calls for comment.  
 Along with the $18.55 in cash, to be paid in two dividends,
 Valeant shareholders  are to receive 1.78  Biovail shares  for each
Valeant share, according to the complaint.  
 ‘Grossly Inadequate’ Terms  
 The merger’s terms are “grossly inadequate” because the
value of Valeant investors’ holdings in the drug company is
“materially in excess” of Biovail’ offer, Porto’s lawyers
wrote.  
 Valeant’s executives and board members have structured the
deal to “chill any potential auction process for the company,”
Porto’s attorneys added.  
 Valeant, which changed its name from ICN Pharmaceuticals
Inc. in 2003, has done 15 acquisitions since 2008 to add new
medicines, mostly in dermatology, according to its website. The
company developed ribavirin, used to treat respiratory infection
and hepatitis C.  
 Milan Panic , Valeant’s founder and chairman, retired as
chairman and CEO in 2002 after losing a proxy fight with
dissident shareholders. He served as prime minister of his
native Yugoslavia from 1992 to 1993.  
 Valeant rose 91 cents, or 1.7 percent, at 4:15 p.m. in New
York Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares have risen 71
percent this year. Biovail rose 67 cents or 3.3 percent, to
$21.16 on the NYSE. The drugmaker’s shares have risen 51 percent
this year.  
 The case is Porto v. Valeant Pharmaceuticals International,
CA 5644, Delaware Chancery Court (Wilmington).  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Phil Milford  in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 pmilford@bloomberg.net ;
 Jef Feeley  in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        