-- Wheat Gains as Damaging Drought in Russia Continues; Price of Corn Falls
-- Luzi Ann Javier
-- 2010-07-19T12:32:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-19/wheat-gains-as-damaging-drought-in-russia-continues-price-of-corn-falls.html

          
          
             Wheat futures rose in Chicago as
heat that damaged grain plantings in Russia was forecast to
continue this week, raising concerns about global supply.  
 Wheat for September delivery gained 0.7 percent to $5.9125
on the Chicago Board of Trade at 2:14 p.m. Paris time.  
 “Abnormal” heat will persist in central Russia and along
the Volga River through July 23, with temperatures in parts
rising to 37 degrees Celsius (98.6 degrees Fahrenheit), the
country’s Federal Hydrometeorological Service said.  
 “In Russia and Kazakhstan, a new heat wave is foreseen for
the coming 10 days,” Paris-based farm adviser Agritel said in a
comment on its website today. Hot weather in Europe and the
Black Sea region “should support a certain firmness of U.S.
prices.”  
 Paris-traded wheat was unchanged at 172.50 euros ($223) a
metric ton after rising the past three weeks.  
 “There is a fundamental basis to the rally,” said  Toby Hassall , an analyst at CWA Global Markets Pty, by phone from
Sydney today. “The recent weather threats have certainly caused
many people in the market to revise their expectations of the
supply-demand balance going forward.”  
 Turkey’s wheat harvest, the largest in the Middle East,
will be 15 percent below the 20 million tons forecast in the
2010-2011 season because of rains and flash floods this spring,
Referans reported, citing Ugur Kaleli, head of the regional
trade bourse in the grain-growing region of Konya.  
 Wheat Survey  
 The most-active wheat contract in Chicago may still drop
to $4.94 a bushel by Dec. 31 as prospects for the second-biggest
wheat stockpiles in almost a decade overwhelm damage caused by
drought, a Bloomberg survey of 14 analysts showed.  
 December-delivery corn slumped 1.7 percent to $400.25 a
bushel as some speculators and farmers locked in profits on
speculation favorable weather in the U.S. and China may boost
output.  
 The contract rose 5.2 percent in the three sessions through
July 16.  
 “We’re seeing some selling from speculators and possibly
some producers to lock in prices,” Hassall said.  
 China is the second-largest corn consumer and the biggest
soybean buyer, while the Midwest is the largest U.S. corn and
soybean growing region.  
 Forecasts for rainfall in the U.S. Midwest and China “will
boost the crop outlook,” pushing some speculators to close long
positions or bets on price gains, Hassall said.  
 Speculator Positions  
 Hedge-fund managers and other large speculators increased
their  net-long position  in Chicago corn futures by 77,256
contractsin the week ended July 13, from a week earlier,
according to U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission
data.  
 Speculative long positions outnumbered short positions by
150,573 contracts on the Chicago Board of Trade, the commission
said in its Commitments of Traders report.  
 “Some speculative traders may be looking to take those
positions off the table,” Hassall said, referring to bets
prices will rise. “We’re seeing the market reevaluating those
influences.”  
 Corn and soybean crops in the U.S., the biggest grower and
exporter, are in good or excellent condition and may produce
above-average yields this year, according to a survey of five
Midwest states by SGS SA released July 16.  
 Corn that was planted earlier in the U.S. is “reaching a
point where wet, dry or hot conditions have decreasing effect on
yield,” SGS Crop Services said in a report.  
 November-delivery soybeans fell for a second day, losing
0.7 percent to $9.7775 a bushel.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rudy Ruitenberg  in Paris at 
 rruitenberg@bloomberg.net .
 Luzi Ann Javier  in Singapore at 
 ljavier@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        