-- Lehman, Rangers, White Energy, Brown, Strauss Auto, Crunch: Bankruptcy
-- Bill Rochelle
-- 2010-07-19T13:26:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-19/white-energy-brown-publishing-strauss-auto-zayat-crunch-bankruptcy.html

          
          
             Creditors of  Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc.  are forming lines of battle for and against the
idea of substantively consolidating all of the Lehman companies
under a Chapter 11 plan.  
 In late June, creditors with $15.5 billion in claims
against the Lehman holding company filed papers favoring
substantive consolidation of the 23 Lehman affiliates. In
substantive consolidation, the assets from all Lehman companies
would be thrown into one pot and all unsecured creditors would
receive the same distribution regardless of the particular
company that owed the debt.  
 Bank of New York Mellon Trust Co. filed papers on July 15
saying that the argument for substantive consolidation is
“meritless.” BNY is trustee for holders of $700 million in
bond debt that is an obligation of Lehman Brothers Commodity
Services Inc. The debt is guaranteed by the Lehman holding
company.  
 Under Lehman’s plan, Lehman Brothers Commodity Services
would seem to be making “substantial gifts” to holding company
creditors, BNY said. The New York-based bank contends the plan
gives “too much value” to holding company creditors “to
reward them for substantive consolidation claims” that holding
company creditors “cannot possibly win.”  
 The creditors of the holding company who filed papers
favoring substantive consolidation included California Public
Employees’ Retirement System, Canyon Capital Advisors LLC,
Fortress Credit Opportunities Advisors LLC, Owl Creek Asset
Management LP and Paulson & Co.  
 BNY also disagreed with the motion by the Calpers group to
allow creditors to take full-scale discovery about facts related
to the plan. Instead, BNY urged the bankruptcy judge to have
Lehman “provide meaningful data” by setting up a “data
room.” BNY said it wants information so it can make a
recommendation to its customers about whether the plan
“constitutes a fair compromise,” and pledged not to use the
data “for trading or any other purposes.”  
 Lehman filed a revised Chapter 11 plan in April where
creditors of each Lehman company are treated according to the
claims against the particular affiliate and its assets. The plan
would allow creditors to enforce guarantees where one Lehman
company, typically the holding company, guaranteed debt owing by
a subsidiary. A creditor with a guarantee therefore could
collect twice on the debt, although no more than the amount
owed.  
 In substantive consolidation, as the Calpers group would
prefer, guarantee claims aren’t recognized. All assets of all
companies are thrown into one pot, and unsecured creditors of
all companies are treated the same.  
 For details on the Lehman plan and disclosure statement,
click here and here for the April 15 and April 16 Bloomberg
bankruptcy reports.  
 The Lehman holding company filed under Chapter 11 in New
York on Sept. 15, 2008, and sold office buildings and the North
American investment-banking business to London-based  Barclays
Plc  one week later. The Lehman brokerage operations went into
liquidation on Sept. 19, 2008, in the same court. The brokerage
is in the control of a trustee appointed under the Securities
Investor Protection Act.  
 The Lehman holding company Chapter 11 case is In re Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc., 08-13555, while the liquidation
proceeding under the Securities Investor Protection Act for the
brokerage operation is Securities Investors Protection Corp. v.
Lehman Brothers Inc., 08-01420, both in U.S. Bankruptcy Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  
 Updates  
 Rangers Lenders Attack Deals Just Before Bankruptcy  
 There will be a hearing tomorrow in the reorganization of
the  Texas Rangers  professional baseball club where the secured
lenders and the chief restructuring officer for the team’s
owners will ask the judge to reconsider holding an auction on
Aug. 4.  
 The lenders at the end of last week also launched attacks
on three transactions the team carried out on the eve of the May
24 bankruptcy filing. The lenders, owed $525 million, contend
that the transactions were either in violation of the loan
agreements or were fraudulent transfers.  
 The chief restructuring officer for the team’s owners filed
papers on July 15 contending that procedures authorized by the
judge last week won’t make for a “fair and commercially
reasonable auction” on Aug. 4. The CRO, appointed at the behest
of the bankruptcy judge, said the auction rules won’t produce
any competing bids.  
 The CRO said in his papers that the team carried out “what
appears to be sizeable and blatantly fraudulent transfers” on
the eve of bankruptcy. The CRO was appointed to oversee the
team’s partnership owners after they were put into their own
Chapter 11 cases involuntarily by the lenders.  
 The group with the existing contract to buy the team filed
papers saying that the motion for rehearing was merely a
“rehash” of arguments made unsuccessfully when the judge set
up the auction.  
 The lenders filed three additional sets of paper on July
16. One was a complaint starting a lawsuit in bankruptcy court,
alleging that the lease for the ballpark was transferred to the
team just before bankruptcy in violation of the loan agreement.
The lenders said the effect of the transfer was to put the lease
with the team, where the lenders will have a lower recovery than
if were there no transfer.  
 In a second set of papers, the lenders objected to a $5.6
million claim based on a loan that  Thomas Hicks , the team’s
ultimate owner, made to the team or affiliates before
bankruptcy. The lenders said the Hicks loan was in violation of
provisions in the loan agreement prohibiting the team from
incurring other debt. The lenders protested that the team’s
Chapter 11 plan would repay Hicks’ unsecured loan in full when
it shouldn’t have been made in the first place.  
 Finally, the lenders are objecting to $7.5 million in
claims by the team’s financial advisers, Merrill Lynch Pierce
Fenner & Smith Inc. and Raine Advisors LLC.  
 The lenders say the obligations to the advisers never were
debts of the team until just before bankruptcy. They contend
that transferring the liabilities to the team, in connection
with a plan that would pay them in full, amounted to fraudulent
transfers that bankruptcy can void.  
 Unless the schedule changes, the first bid at auction on
Aug. 4 will be a $306.7 million cash offer from the group that
signed a contract just before bankruptcy. The group includes
current team President  Nolan Ryan  and sports lawyer  Chuck Greenberg .  
 The lenders have security interests in the partnerships
that own the team. Under the contract signed in May, the lenders
would recover $256 million, according to the team’s disclosure
statement.  
 The Rangers moved to Texas from Washington in 1972. The
team defaulted on payments owing to the lenders in March 2009.
Michael Rochelle, a brother of Bloomberg reporter Bill Rochelle,
is a lawyer for an agent for the lenders.  
 The partnership that owns the team is Texas Rangers
Baseball Partners.  
 The case is In re Texas Rangers Baseball Partners, 10-
43400, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Northern District of Texas (Fort
Worth).  
 AbitibiBowater Shareholders Want Official Committee  
 AbitibiBowater Inc. , the largest newsprint maker in North
America, should have an official committee to represent
shareholders, according to papers filed July 16 by a group
saying it owns 27 percent of the stock.  
 The shareholders contend AbitibiBowater isn’t hopelessly
insolvent. Their financial adviser says the company’s fair
market value is $4.9 billion while the liquidation value is $9.9
billion, according to the court filing.  
 AbitibiBowater’s value has risen after prices improved for
the company’s products, the shareholders argue. A hearing on the
motion for an official equity committee will be held on Aug. 4.  
 The hearing is coming late in the case. The hearing on the
disclosure statement explaining the Chapter 11 plan was to have
been held July 15. It was adjourned to a date to be determined
later.  
 AbitibiBowater’s existing stock last traded at 9 cents on
July 16 in over-the-counter trading.  
 Aurelius Capital Management LP and Contrarian Capital
Management LLC say they have a blocking position to preclude
approval of the reorganization plan because they own notes
representing more than one-third of unsecured claims against
Bowater.  
 The disclosure statement tells creditors of each of the
more than 30 affiliated companies how much they could recover.
For details about the plan, click here for the May 25 Bloomberg
bankruptcy report.  
 AbitibiBowater was formed in October 2007 through a merger
between Montreal-based Abitibi-Consolidated Inc. and Greenville,
South Carolina-based Bowater Inc. Abitibi is a producer of
newsprint, uncoated mechanical paper and lumber. Bowater also
makes newsprint, along with papers, bleached kraft pulp and
lumber.  
 The Montreal-based company began reorganizing with 24 pulp
and paper mills plus 30 wood-product plants. Revenue in 2008 was
$6.8 billion. In Chapter 11 petitions filed in April 2009, the
combined AbitibiBowater companies listed assets of $9.9 billion
and debt totaling $8.8 billion as of September 2008.  
 The case is AbitibiBowater Inc., 09-11296, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  
 National Envelope Wins Approval for $139 Million Financing  
 National Envelope Corp., the largest closely held envelope
manufacturer in the U.S., filed under Chapter 11 on June 10 and
received final approval on July 16 for $139 million in
financing. The loan includes the refinancing of pre-bankruptcy
debt.  
 The next major hearing is July 22, when the bankruptcy
judge in Delaware is to consider approval of rules for an
auction where Gores Group LLC will make the first bid at $134.5
million.  
 If the judge goes along, other bids will be due initially
on Aug. 16, followed by an auction on Aug. 20 and an Aug. 23
hearing for approval of the sale. For other Bloomberg coverage
of the financing, click here.  
 The loan agreement, with  General Electric Capital Corp . as
agent, required having a sale agreement by July 2 and approval
of sale procedures by July 16.  
 National Envelope, based in Uniondale, New York, has 14
manufacturing plants in 11 states, plus three warehouses. Sales
in 2009 were $676 million, resulting in a $44.2 million net
loss.  
 The petition said assets and debt are both less than $500
million. Liabilities include $74.3 million on a secured term
loan, $70.6 million on a secured revolving credit, and $89
million owing on unsecured debts to trade suppliers.  
 The case is In re NEC Holdings Corp., 10-11890, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  
 White Energy Plan Confirmed; Lenders to Get Stock  
 White Energy Inc. , the owner of three ethanol plants,
confirmed the reorganization when the bankruptcy judge in
Delaware signed an order on July 15 allowing secured creditors
to take almost all the new stock.  
 The plan was mostly negotiated before the Chapter 11 filing
in May 2009. In addition to the stock, secured creditors receive
a new $150 million secured term loan.  
 Unsecured creditors, owed more than $19 million according
to the disclosure statement, will split up $350,000. Even though
secured creditors have deficiency claims of some $50 million,
they won’t receive distributions as unsecured creditors.  
 White Energy filed the plan in December shortly after the
bankruptcy judge ended the company’s exclusive right to propose
a reorganization. White Energy’s owner, Columbus Nova Ethanol
Holdings LLC, filed a competing plan that it later withdrew.  
 White Energy is one of the 10-largest ethanol producers in
the U.S., with plants having a combined capacity of 240 million
gallons a year. It is the second-largest gluten maker. Two
plants are in Texas with the third in Kansas.  
 Dallas-based White spent $323 million building the plants
in Texas. The principal debt is $294 million owing to secured
lenders, the company said when entering Chapter 11.  
 The case is In re White Energy Holding Co., 09-11601, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  
 Lenders May Credit Bid for Brown Publishing Today  
 Secured creditors of  Brown Publishing Co.  can bid their
secured debt rather than cash at the auction today, the
bankruptcy judge ruled at the end of a July 15 hearing. Brown is
the publisher of the largest-circulation local newspaper on
eastern Long Island.  
 The creditors’ committee filed a motion on July 12
petitioning the judge to prevent the lenders from making a so-
called credit bid. The motion failed. The judge in substance
reaffirmed her previously approved auction rules where credit
bidding was permitted.  
 The motion on credit bidding was part of a two-pronged
attack by creditors on the lenders. The committee filed suit on
July 14 contending that $72 million in liens given in September
2007 were fraudulent transfers that can be voided in bankruptcy.  
 The lenders are Prudential Insurance Co. of America, Allied
Irish Bank PLC, Brown Brothers Harriman & Co. and Wells Fargo
Bank NA.  
 The hearing for approval of the sale is set for July 22.
The banks previously said they intend to credit bid if
necessary. A group including Roy Brown, the president and chief
executive, is scheduled to make the opening bid of $15.9.  Dolan
Media Co. , publisher of the  Long Island Business News , filed
papers earlier in the case saying it’s a potential bidder.  
 Brown publishes  Dan’s Papers , the weekly newspaper with the
largest circulation on eastern Long Island, New York. It also
publishes the  Montauk Pioneer .  
 Based in Cincinnati, closely held Brown listed assets of
$94 million against debt totaling $104.6 million. First-lien
lenders are owed $70.2 million on a revolving credit and term
loan. Second-lien lenders are owed $24.3 million.  
 Brown has 15 daily, 32 weekly, 11 business and 41 free
publications. There are also 51 websites. Seventy-eight of the
publications are in Ohio. The business publications are in seven
states.  
 The case is In re Brown Publishing Co., 10-73295, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Eastern District New York (Central Islip).  
 Strauss Auto Reorganization Plan Going to Creditors for Vote  
 Auto parts retailer  Strauss Discount Auto  scheduled a
confirmation hearing for Sept. 1 when it hopes the bankruptcy
judge will approve the Chapter 11 plan. The judge signed off on
the explanatory disclosure statement last week, allowing
creditors to vote.  
 In its present form, the plan gives creditors all the new
stock plus a second-lien note for $8.5 million. Strauss Auto
didn’t try to confirm a prior version of the plan even though
the bankruptcy judge had approved a disclosure statement.  
 The plan on which the creditors are now voting is simpler
than the predecessor. Unsecured creditors in two classes with
approximately $18.7 million in claims are predicted to have a 45
percent recovery by receiving all the new stock plus the $8.5
million note, assuming complete victory in a lawsuit against the
company’s former Japanese owner,  Autobacs Seven Co.   
 The suit aims to knock out the former owner’s entire $44
million claim. If the suit fails, the disclosure statement says
the recovery by unsecured creditors will be less than 14 percent
plus the new stock. Creditors believe the former owner’s claim
should be disallowed or subordinated.  
 The plan needs $10 million in financing. The disclosure
statement says there isn’t a loan commitment yet.  
 The current bankruptcy reorganization is Strauss Auto’s
third. The stores are in New York, New Jersey, and Pennsylvania.
The new petition in February 2009 listed assets of $75 million
against debt totaling $72 million. Debt initially was listed as
including $44 million owing to the parent under loan agreements,
$9.6 million owing to suppliers, and $12 million in debt owing
to landlords and other unsecured creditors.  
 There were 86 stores and no secured debt when the new
Chapter 11 case began. Twenty stores were closed.  
 The new case is In re Autobacs Strauss Inc., 09-10358, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington). The prior
case was In re 1945 Route 23 Associates, 06-17474, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, District of New Jersey (Newark).  
 Zayat Stables Confirms Plan With Everyone Paid in Full  
 Zayat Stables LLC  won the signature of the bankruptcy judge
on a July 15 order confirming the reorganization plan
effectuating a settlement with the secured lender  Fifth Third
Bank .  
 Confirmation was a near foregone conclusion after the
bankruptcy judge approved the settlement with the bank in late
June. There were no objections to confirmation.  
 The settlement ended lawsuits where Zayat claimed Fifth
Third engaged in “predatory lending” practices. The bank, in
turn, was seeking authorization to foreclose the business.  
 The settlement and revised plan provide for paying the
bank’s loan in full by the end of 2014. The current principal
balance of $28.2 million will be paid down by a minimum of
between $3.23 million and $4 million a year. There will be a
balloon payment at the end of 2014. Interest in the future will
be three percentage points higher than the London interbank
borrowed rate.  
 The bank will also share in part of the proceeds from the
sale of horses, with payments applied against the annual
minimums.  
 Unsecured creditors are to be paid in full over two years
without interest. Ahmed Zayat retains ownership. The bank had
been suing Zayat on a personal guarantee.  
 The stables, based in Hackensack, New Jersey, filed under
Chapter 11 in February in Newark. The stables have more than 200
horses representing collateral for bank. Revenue in 2009 was $21
million.  
 The case is In re Zayat Stables LLC, 10-13130, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, District of New Jersey (Newark).  
 Former Crunch Fitness Confirms Liquidating Chapter 11 Plan  
 Crunch Fitness , at one time a chain of 19 high-end fitness
clubs, will be paying unsecured creditors $150,000 under the
liquidating Chapter 11 plan that the bankruptcy judge in New
York approved in a July 15 confirmation order. There were no
objections to confirmation.  
 Crunch, now formally named AGT Acquisition Wind-Down LLC,
filed for reorganization in May 2009 and was authorized in
September to sell the business to an affiliate of Angelo Gordon
& Co. in exchange for secured debt.  
 Angelo Gordon, a New York-based hedge fund manager, bought
Crunch in 2006 from  Bally Total Fitness Holding Corp.  and
purchased the first-lien debt in late 2008. It retained the
chain by swapping $40 million in secured debt for ownership,
leaving a deficiency claim of more than $21.6 million.  
 The official creditors’ committee supported the plan, which
was made possible by a $150,000 carve-out allowed by the lender.
The lender is also paying costs of the Chapter 11 case,
including professional fees. In return, the lender has a release
from possible lawsuits.  
 Although the disclosure statement didn’t tell unsecured
creditors how much they could expect to receive from the plan,
it did estimate the deficiency claim of the secured lender would
have a 1 percent recovery.  
 The Crunch petition listed assets of $104 million and $102
million in total liabilities. Debt included $56.7 million on a
first-lien loan mostly owned by Angelo Gordon affiliates. There
was a second-lien credit for another $22.7 million. The clubs,
with 70,000 members, were located at filing in New York,
Chicago, Los Angeles, and Rock Creek, Maryland.  
 The case is In re AGT Acquisition Wind-Down LLC, 09-12889,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  
 New Filings  
 Retailer Jennifer Convertibles Files for Reorganization  
 Jennifer Convertibles Inc.  and affiliates filed Chapter 11
petitions this morning in Manhattan. The  furniture retailer 
listed assets of $26 million and debt totaling $46.4 million.  
 The Woodbury, New York-based company reported an operating
loss of $13.2 million for the six months ended Feb. 27 on
revenue of $48.3 million. The net loss in the period was $13.3
million.  
 In addition to 154 Jennifer stores in operation at the end
of February, the company ran five Ashley HomeStores Ltd.
furniture stores under license. Jennifer closed seven stores in
fiscal 2009 and said earlier this year it expected to shut seven
to 10 stores in fiscal 2010.  
 Haining Mengnu Group Co. was listed as the unsecured
creditor with the largest claim of $16.7 million.  
 The case is In re Jennifer Convertibles Inc., 10-13779,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  
 Kyoto Grand Hotel in Los Angeles Files to Stop Foreclosure  
 The owner of the  Kyoto Grand Hotel  in downtown Los Angeles
filed for Chapter 11 relief on July 15, facing mortgage
foreclosure the next day.  
 The 21-story hotel, built in 1977, has 434 rooms. It
adjoins the three-story Weller Court outdoor mall which is also
in Chapter 11.  
 The property has two mortgages totaling $44 million. There
was a default since January.  
 Financial problems were caused by a “precipitous drop in
revenue starting in the last quarter of 2008,” a court filing
says.  
 The case is In re Little Tokyo Partners LP, 10-39113, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Central District California (Los Angeles).  
 Controladora Commercial Files Chapter 15 in Manhattan  
 Controladora Comercial Mexicana SAB , the largest food
retailer in Mexico, filed a Chapter 15 petition on July 16 in
New York to help carry out a reorganization that has support
from holders of 85 percent of the debt.  
 Financial problems stemmed from derivatives transactions
that resulted a lawsuit in New York by counterparties seeking
$1.5 billion damages, a company lawyer said. For Bloomberg
coverage on the filing, click here.  
 The company operated 231 retail stores and 73 restaurants
at the end of 2009. The petition said assets and debt both
exceed $1 billion.  
 A Chapter 15 case isn’t a full-blown bankruptcy. If the
U.S. court decides that Mexico has the principal bankruptcy, the
U.S. court will largely limit its role to stopping suits in the
U.S. and helping the company to collect assets. The court in
Mexico would rule on the validity of claims and decide how
distributions should be made among creditors.  
 The case is In re Controladora Comercial Mexicana SAB, 10-
13750, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  
 Briefly Noted  
 Trump Entertainment Consummates Confirmed Chapter 11 Plan  
 Trump Entertainment Resorts Inc.  implemented the Chapter 11
plan on July 16 that the bankruptcy judge in New Jersey approved
in a May 7 confirmation order. The plan was proposed by the
casino owner and holders of 8.5 percent senior notes. For
details on the judge’s ruling turning down a competing plan by
 Carl Icahn , click here for the April 13 Bloomberg bankruptcy
report. The confirmed plan reduces debt by $1.3 billion and is
financed in part with $225 million in new equity. For a
comparison of the Icahn plan and the Trump plan, click here to
see the Jan. 7 Bloomberg bankruptcy report.  
 Trump Entertainment owns three casinos in Atlantic City. It
filed for Chapter 11 reorganization a second time in February
2009. The new petition listed consolidated assets of $2.06
billion against debt totaling $1.74 billion. Listed liabilities
included $1.25 billion in second-lien notes, $489 million in
first-lien bank debt, $33.2 million in trade debt and $6 million
in liabilities on leases, according to a court filing. The
companies own the Trump Taj Mahal Casino Resort, the Trump Plaza
Hotel & Casino, and the Trump Marina Hotel Casino. The new
filing came less than four years after the company emerged from
a prior bankruptcy reorganization.  
 The case is In re TCI 2 Holdings LLC, 09-13654, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, District of New Jersey (Camden).  
 EnPro’s Garlock Has Final Financing Approval  
 Garlock Sealing Technologies LLC, a subsidiary of  EnPro
Industries Inc. , nailed down final approval from the bankruptcy
judge on July 15 for $10 million in financing. Garlock, a
Palmyra, New York-based gasket maker, filed under Chapter 11 in
early June to deal with the last 100,000 asbestos claims. Non-
bankrupt affiliates are defendants on 30,000 claims. The company
intends to pay all creditors in full, including asbestos
claimants, so EnPro and all subsidiaries will have releases.
There is $194 million of insurance remaining.  
 EnPro had assets of $1.33 billion and total liabilities of
$923.5 million on the March 31 balance sheet. EnPro’s $99
million in net income included $5.6 million of income from
continuing operations for the first quarter. EnPro makes
engineered products, including diesel and natural-gas engines.
It has 44 plants in the U.S. plus operations in 10 other
countries.  
 The case is In re Garlock Sealing Technologies LLC, 10-
31607, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Western District North Carolina
(Charlotte).  
 Old Chrysler Settles Environment Claim in Ohio  
 Old Chrysler, formally named Old Carco LLC, agreed with
regulators to pay $500,000 to settle more than $40 million in
environmental claims related to a former plant in Dayton, Ohio.
To read Bloomberg coverage, click here. Chrysler confirmed a
liquidating Chapter 11 plan in April. To read about the plan,
click here to see the April 21 Bloomberg bankruptcy report.  
 After filing under Chapter 11 on April 30, 2009, old
Chrysler sold the business in June 2009 to the a company 20
percent-owned by Italy’s  Fiat SpA . The confirmed plan gave
nothing to unsecured creditors aside from proceeds, if any, from
a lawsuit against former owner  Daimler AG , and then only if the
recovery exceeds $25 million.  
 The petition listed assets of $39.3 billion and debt
totaling $55.2 billion. A trust to provide health benefits for
Chrysler workers owns 55 percent of new Chrysler. The U.S.
government owns 8 percent of the stock while Canadian
governmental units have 2 percent.  
 The case is In re Old Carco LLC, 09-50002, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  
 Daily Podcast  
 Texas Rangers, Skilled Healthcare, Lehman: Audio  
 People who made money speculating on  Skilled Healthcare
Group Inc. , developments in the sale of the  Texas Rangers 
baseball team, and an important appeal on the treatment of swaps
in bankruptcy are topics discussed in the bankruptcy podcast on
the Bloomberg terminal and Bloomberglaw.com. To listen, click
here.  
 Exchange Offer News  
 Star, Inquirer Parent Announces Exchange Offer  
 American Media Inc.  announced a tender offer where holders
of the $355.8 million in 14 percent senior subordinated notes
can swap for $103 million in cash and 95 percent of the equity,
Moody’s Investors Service said.  
 The publisher of Star and the National Enquirer is also
offering to repurchase all of the $23.7 million in pay-in-kind
notes due 2013 for 102 percent.  
 The swaps are conditioned on the company receiving a
commitment of $600 million in new funds, Moody’s said. The new
cash will be used in part to pay off $432 million in term loans.  
 American Media missed the interest payment due May 1 on the
subordinated notes. Before the exchange was announced, Standard
& Poor’s estimated that holders of the subordinated debt could
expect a recovery from nothing to no more than 10 percent.  
 Twice in 2009, the Boca Raton, Florida-based company
obtained relief from the subordinated noteholders, who allowed
the payment of interest with more notes.  
 Downgrade  
 KB Home Downgraded on Slower Housing Market Recovery  
 KB Home , one of the country’s largest homebuilders,
received a one-notch downgrade from Standard & Poor’s on July 16
because the recovery in housing has been “weaker” than
Standard & Poor’s anticipated.  
 The new S&P corporate rating of B+ matches the action taken
by Moody’s Investors Service in June 2009.  
 S&P also lowered the rating on almost $1.7 billion in
unsecured notes to B+. S&P predicts the recovery on the notes in
the event of payment default would be 30 percent to 50 percent.  
 KB , based in Los Angeles, has significant  debt maturities 
in 2014 and 2015. Next year, maturities are $100 million.  
 Revenue in fiscal 2009 was $1.8 billion. In fiscal 2007 it
was $6.4 billion.  
 Bank Failures  
 Six Takeovers Bring Year’s Bank Failures to 96  
 Six U.S. banks were taken over by regulators on July 16,
bringing total bank failures for the year to 96.  
 The failures will cost the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp.
a combined $334.8 million.  
 To read Bloomberg coverage, click here.  
 There were 140 bank failures in 2009, five times more than
2008. The failures in 2009 were the most since 1992, when 179
institutions were taken over by regulators.  
 Advance Sheets  
 Circuits Now Split on Negative Equity on Auto Loans  
 There is now a split of circuit courts on the question of
whether so-called negative equity on a previously owned auto
must be paid in full as a condition to keeping the newer car
after bankruptcy. The U.S. Court of Appeals in San Francisco,
departing from the other eight circuits to consider the issue,
ruled on July 16 that negative equity isn’t part of a purchase
money security interest and need not be paid to retain the newer
auto.  
 The 9th Circuit in San Francisco said it didn’t split with
sister circuits lightly. The Circuit Court said it was
“persuaded by the well-reasoned decision of Bankruptcy Judge
 Bruce Markell .” The appeals court also noted that some of the
circuit court decisions going the other way had “strong
dissents.”  
 The question involves 2005 amendments to bankruptcy law
creating an ambiguous provision about car loans known as the
“hanging paragraph.” The provision acquired its nickname
because Congress inserted it into the 2005 reform law without a
section number saying exactly where it should go.  
 The provision, likely intended to be somewhere in Section
1325, means in a broad sense that an individual in a Chapter 13
case cannot cut down the amount of a “purchase money security
interest” in an auto loan to the value of the car. Instead, the
bankrupt must pay the full amount of the debt, even if it’s more
than the value of the car.  
 Problems in statutory interpretation arise when the so-
called negative equity on a previously owned car is rolled into
the debt on a newly purchased auto.  
 The courts on both sides of the issue say that the question
is answered by the state law definition of what is or isn’t a
purchase money security interest. Only the U.S. Court of Appeals
in New York certified the question to the highest court in the
New York State system, the New York Court of Appeals. The high
court in New York ruled in a 4-3 decision last year that
negative equity is covered by a purchase money security
interest. The other U.S. appeals courts all interpreted the
applicable states’ laws on their own.  
 In the July 16 decision from the 9th Circuit, the appeals
court understood California law not to include negative equity
in a so-called PMSI.  
 To answer the question, the 9th Circuit looked at the
official comment to Section 9-103 of the Uniform Commercial Code
where the “price” of the collateral includes “expenses”
incurred in acquiring the property. The appeals court said that
paying an “antecedent debt” isn’t “an expense incurred in
buying the new vehicle.”  
 For more on the issue, click here for the Oct. 12, 2009,
Bloomberg coverage on the New York decision.  
 The existence of a split of circuits is often reason for
the U.S. Supreme Court to accept an appeal. The Supreme Court
may not allow an appeal in this case because the fundamental
issue turns on state law, not federal law. However, the Supreme
Court might take the case if the court believes that federal
bankruptcy law has its own definition of purchase money security
interest. The appeals courts uniformly say the question is one
of state law.  
 The 9th Circuit opinion was written by U.S. District Judge
 Richard Mills  from the Central District of Illinois, who was
sitting by designation. The 7th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals in
Chicago, the appeals court for the circuit where Mills sits as a
district judge, ruled the other way on the issue on March 1.  
 The new case is AmeriCredit Financial Services Inc. v.
Penrod (In re Penrod), 08-60037, 9th U.S. Circuit Court of
Appeals (San Francisco).  
 Financing Approval Reversed on No Adequate Protection  
 U.S. District Judge  Cecilia Altonaga  wrote an important
decision last week overturning parts of bankruptcy court orders
approving financing and use of cash collateral, even though
there was no stay pending appeal. The opinion means
professionals and some lenders are required to disgorge payment
received during the case.  
 The opinion on July 14 involved the sale of the unfinished
63-story hotel and casino on the north end of the Las Vegas
Strip owned by  Fontainebleau Las Vegas LLC . The project
ultimately was sold to a company affiliated with  Carl Icahn  for
about $150 million, including the assumption of financing Icahn
provided for the Chapter 11 case. After the sale was completed,
the Chapter 11 case was converted to a Chapter 7 liquidation in
April.  
 The controversy revolves around a dispute between bank
lenders and mechanics’ lien holders about whose security
interests come first. The mechanics’ lien holders, with $615
million in claims, contended they come first. The lenders, owed
$1 billion, disagreed and said their mortgages have first
priority.  
 In her decision, Altonaga didn’t resolve the lien-priority
dispute which is the subject of separate lawsuits in the
bankruptcy case.  
 The bone of contention for the mechanics’ lien holders was
a series of orders where the bankruptcy judge allowed
Fontainebleau to use cash collateral and in the process gave the
banks new liens, called priming liens, to come ahead of all
existing security interest, even those of the mechanics’ lien
holders.  
 Later in the case, Icahn provided $51 million in secured
financing, again with a priming lien ahead of everyone else. The
new financing from Icahn was used in part to repay the banks for
cash collateral used during the Chapter 11 case. In appointing
an examiner, U.S. Bankruptcy Judge  A. Jay Cristol  signed an
order saying that the examiner’s fees would also have priming
status, again coming ahead of the mechanics’ lien holders.  
 Altonaga reversed the bankruptcy court and said it was an
error to grant priming liens without giving so-called adequate
protection to the mechanics’ lien holders. She said it was not
sufficient that the lending and use of cash collateral would
benefit all creditors. The mechanics’ lien holders were entitled
to some form of new collateral to protect what they were losing
when they were primed.  
 Altonaga made several rulings of importance for
reorganization cases. She said bankruptcy law doesn’t allow
priming one secured creditor to provide adequate protection for
the use of another secured creditor’s cash collateral.
Similarly, professional fees cannot be given priming status
unless something new is given to the displaced secured creditor
to serve as adequate protection. She also held that the secured
creditor who was primed was entitled to something new in the
form of adequate protection.  
 Reduced to essentials, every secured creditor must be given
adequate protection when there is a dispute over who has the
first lien. Preserving the property doesn’t justify demoting an
existing lien.  
 Altonaga also ruled that the appeal wasn’t moot on the
three theories of mootness: constitutional mootness, equitable
mootness and mootness under the bankruptcy law section dealing
with secured lending. She said the case wasn’t constitutionally
moot because some relief could be granted. It didn’t matter if
it was impossible to restore the parties to their prior
positions completely.  
 On the issue of equitable mootness, she said it was
possible to grant some form of relief. She also noted that
equitable mootness is most often used to dismiss appeals from a
Chapter 11 plan that has been implemented. The instant case
didn’t involve a plan.  
 Under Section 364(e) of the Bankruptcy Code, she said that
the appeal could go ahead against everyone except the lender.
Consequently, Icahn was the only party to escape unscathed.
Altonaga said that as a third-party lender in good faith, the
reversal of financing approval couldn’t upset any of his rights.  
 The reversal by Altonaga means that the lenders for the
time being must repay some $18 million they received from the
financing. The examiner and professionals also must repay fees
they received.  
 After the lawsuit is concluded regarding the lien-priority
dispute, it’s possible the lenders may recover their $18 million
if their lien is held to have first priority.  
 The opinion, while long and very complicated, is must
reading for bankruptcy lawyers and secured lenders in Chapter
11. Don’t be surprised to see an appeal to the U.S. Court of
Appeals in Atlanta.  
 The case is Desert Fire Protection v. Fontainebleau Las
Vegas Holdings LLC (In re Fontainebleau Las Vegas Holdings LLC),
09-23683, U.S. District Court, Southern District of Florida
(Miami).  
 11th Circuit Interprets Ambiguity Against Bankrupt  
 The U.S. Court of Appeals in Atlanta answered a question
created by an ambiguity created when Congress changed bankruptcy
law for individuals in 2005.  
 The 11th Circuit ruled on July 16 that an individual in
Chapter 13 whose income is above the median must have a five-
year plan even though the bankrupt’s disposable income is
negative. Lower courts said that the plan need only last three
years because the bankrupt’s disposable income was negative.  
 The Circuit Court reversed the rulings in the lower courts.
No other circuit courts have addressed the issue.  
 The 11th Circuit said its opinion was derived from the
plain meaning of the statute, Section 1325 of the Bankruptcy
Code. The appeals court also saw the result as being in accord
with congressional intent that bankrupts pay the most they can
to creditors.  
 The rule announced by the circuit court means that
creditors can file papers to increase payments under the plan
for the fourth and fifth years if the bankrupt’s income has
increased.  
 The case is Whaley v. Tennyson (In re Tennyson), 11th U.S.
Circuit Court of Appeals (Atlanta).  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bill Rochelle  in New York at 
 wrochelle@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        