-- Zijin Copper Waste Spill Spreads to Second Province, Threatens Fisheries
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-07-20T09:13:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-19/zijin-mining-expresses-deep-regret-over-leak-at-company-s-biggest-mine.html

          
          
             Acidic waste leaking from  Zijin
Mining Group Co. ’s biggest copper plant may have spread to
another Chinese province from Fujian, threatening more fisheries
in the Ting river.  
 The Fujian environmental agency is posting daily reports
to Guangdong regarding the water quality after the province
informed it of elevated copper content in the river, an official
at the agency who only wanted to be identified as Zheng said by
phone today.  
 Zijin Mining  tumbled  17 percent in Hong Kong trading last
week after saying July 12 that 2.4 million gallons of acidic
copper waste spilled from its Zijinshan mine, poisoning enough
fish to feed 72,000 residents for a year. Police detained three
Zijin managers, and the securities regulator is probing the
company over its disclosure of the incident.  
 “The Ting river runs into Guangdong, and it isn’t a
surprise that the toxic spill would spread there,” said  Heng Kun , an analyst at Essence Securities Co. “The concern is how
much the government fine will be and when the contamination
scandal for Zijin will come to an end.”  
 China has faced a series of health and environmental
standard failures, with melamine-tainted milk and emissions from
smelters killing children. An explosion on July 16 in the
northeastern city of Dalian led to an oil spill covering more
than 60 square kilometers (23 square miles). It may take five
days to clear the spill, the municipal government said.  
 Shares Rebound  
 Zijin  rose 10 percent, the daily limit, in Shanghai trading
to 5.73 yuan at the 3 p.m. close. In Hong Kong, the shares rose
7.4 percent, the first gain in four days, to HK$4.80 at the 4
p.m. close.  
 The shares are rebounding after some investors bet last
week’s decline was overdone, having depressed the company’s
price-to-earnings ratio below rivals, said  Wu Kan , a Shanghai-
based fund manager at Dazhong Insurance Co.  
 The Fujian government has three teams which will
investigate the Zijin incident, monitor the water quality 24
hours a day, and be ready to handle emergencies, Zheng said. The
government will also conduct a province-wide investigation of
all companies on their pollution levels, he said.  
 Zijin will contact the environmental agencies in Fujian and
Guangdong regarding the widening spill, company spokesman
 Zhao Jugang  said by phone.  
 Excess Discharge  
 The July 3 spill came after the same mine was cited for
excess waste discharge last September, a problem Zijin didn’t
fix, the Shanghang county government said July 15. Zijin
initially blamed heavy rains for the leak near Shanghang, where
about half a million people live.  
 There was another leak on the 16th, with 500 cubic meters
of waste water discharged, the company said on its website.  
 Zijin’s board of directors expresses “its deep regret
regarding the incident and the improper handling of information
disclosure by the company, for causing substantial losses to the
fish farmers located at the reservoir downstream of the mine and
having a harmful impact on society,” the company said yesterday.  
 Zijin, China’s sixth-largest copper producer, has shut its
smelter during the investigation and doesn’t know when it will
reopen. Output at Zijinshan accounts for about 15 percent of
Zijin’s total production, according to Guotai Junan Securities
Co. The mine also generates about 60 percent of its gold output.  
 Two local officials were detained and placed under
investigation for the leakage, the government-affiliated
Procuratorial Daily reported on its website today, citing the
local prosecutor’s office. As many as 38 Chinese officials will
be penalized for dereliction of duty, the 21st Century Business
Herald said today, citing an unidentified person.  
 Zijin’s  sales  soared 68-fold in the past decade as China’s
gold industry became the world’s largest producer of the
commodity, overtaking South Africa in 2007. The company, the
largest publicly traded Chinese bullion producer, operates in
Peru, Mongolia, Canada and Myanmar, according to its  website .  
 -- Helen Yuan  and  Ying Diao . Editors:  Tan Hwee Ann ,  Indranil Ghosh .  
 To contact the Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Helen Yuan  in Shanghai at 
 hyuan@bloomberg.net ;  
          
          


  


        