-- Zijin Expansion Stymied by China Gold Industry's Worst Spill in Two Years
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-07-19T13:24:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-19/zijin-expansion-stymied-by-china-gold-industry-s-worst-spill-in-two-years.html

          
          
             Zijin Mining Group Co. , China’s
biggest gold producer, planned for two big foreign acquisitions
this year. Chairman  Chen Jinghe  instead is saddled with
regulatory probes and a plunging share price after the
industry’s worst environmental accident in years.  
 “The company will have to focus on cleaning up, and their
expansion plans in and out of China may be put on a backburner”
for the next year or two, said  Helen Lau , a Hong Kong-based
analyst at UOB-Kay Hian Ltd.  
 Zijin  tumbled  17 percent in Hong Kong trading last week
after the company said July 12 that 2.4 million gallons (9.1
million liters) of acid-laced waste spilled from its largest
mine, polluting the Ting River and poisoning enough fish to feed
72,000 residents for a year. It was the worst accident in the
Chinese gold mining since July 2008, when runoff from a Zhongjin
Gold Corp. site in Dandong poisoned the water supply of 210,000.
No people were hurt in the latest incident.  
 The stock-market drop wiped out $1.7 billion in value from
Zijin, which since its founding 17 years ago Chen transformed
into a company with projects in seven countries and gold output
accounting for 9 percent of the nation’s total. Chen planned to
make two foreign acquisitions this year, after spending $200
million to buy convertible notes in Glencore International AG,
the Swiss-based commodity trader that’s the biggest in the world.  
 Zijin will “actively cooperate” with the Fujian branch of
the China Securities Regulatory Commission, which is
investigating a possible breach of information disclosure rules
related to the spill, the company said in a statement to the
Hong Kong stock exchange today.  
 Work Safety  
 The leak on July 3 has caused “enormous economic losses”
to society and the company, Zijin said in a separate release to
the exchange. The company will step up inspections of its waste
disposal systems and improve work safety, according to the
statement.  
 The regulatory investigation came after the company delayed
disclosing the leak at its Zijinshan mine for nine days. The
Fujian-based company, which was cited for seven environmental
violations last year, said it withheld the information on
concern its release might create a panic. Police detained three
managers.  
 “Zijin’s expansion over the past years has been too
fast,”  Yi Yangfang , investment director at GF Fund Management
Co., said by phone from Guangzhou. “It focused too much on
expansion, and neglected efforts on internal management, risks
control and the environment.”  
 Largest Producer  
 Zijin’s  sales  soared 68-fold in the past decade as it led
the Chinese gold industry to become the world’s largest producer
of the commodity, overtaking South Africa in 2007. The company,
the largest publicly traded Chinese bullion producer, operates
in Peru, Mongolia, Canada, and Myanmar, according to its  website .  
 The stock, the second-worst performer on the  Hang Seng
China Enterprise Index , set a 15-month low in Hong Kong the day
after announcing the leak. The stock fell 3.7 percent today in
Hong Kong, taking its annual decline to 40 percent. It fell 46
percent in  Shanghai  this year.  
 “We need to rethink our corporate values and improve
management,” spokesman  Zhao Jugang  said in an interview. “We
should make continued investments on environment and safety
measures. This is a big lesson for Zijin.” He declined to
comment on the company’s plans for foreign takeovers.  
 Improve Performance  
 Zijin will invest 200 million yuan ($30 million) within a
year to improve its environmental performance, he said. The sum
is equal to 6 percent of last year’s net income.  
 China has been struck by a series of health and
environmental standard failures at plants, with excess lead
found in toys, and melamine-tainted milk and waste from smelters
killing children in the past two years. An oil spill caused by
an explosion on July 16 in the northeastern city of Dalian has
polluted the sea, according to Xinhua News Agency.  
 Zijin’s leaks came after the same mine was cited for excess
waste discharge last September, a problem the company didn’t fix,
the local government said last week. China has issued new
environmental standards for commodity producers, threatening
closures if they weren’t met.  
 Zijin initially blamed heavy rains for the leakage near
Shanghang county, where about half a million people live. There
was another leak on the 16th at the plant, with 500 cubic meters
of waste water discharged, the company said on its website.  
 Investor Concerns  
 “The pollution issue may just be an accident, but the
stock has tumbled so much that to some extent it reflects
investors’ concerns,” said  Tony Zheng , president of Shanghai
Good Hope Equity Investment Management Co. which sold its
Zijin’s shares before the leak. “They are uncertain about the
corporate governance of this company.”  
 The accident risks worsening its relationship with the
Fujian government, which has to approve takeover plans. The
government delayed approval of Zijin’s planned A$545 million
($471 million) purchase of Australia’s Indophil Resources NL for
three months. Zijin last month canceled the deal, which would
have given it a stake in Philippines’ Tampakan project,
Southeast’s Asia largest untapped copper and gold deposit.  
 The delay “indicates an awkward relationship with the
local government,”  Leo Gao , who helps oversee $600 million at
APS Asset Management Ltd. in Shanghai, said by phone. “The
company’s low-cost, old mining methods poise huge environmental
risks. It’s like a sword handing over their head.”  
 Cyanide Waste  
 Zijin’s Chen discovered the Zijinshan mine and decided to
use a leaching technique that generates cyanide waste to extract
metal, because only 0.3 grams of gold can be obtained from each
ton of ore pulled from the earth. The company spends only 60
yuan to produce a gram of gold at the mine, compared with 110
yuan at rivals, according to Zijin.  
 In response to the leak, Zijin shut its copper smelter for
an indefinite investigation and doesn’t know when it will reopen,
spokesman Zhao said. Zijin is China’s sixth-largest copper
producer.  
 The copper production at Zijinshan accounts for about 15
percent of Zijin’s annual output, according to Guotai Junan
Securities Co. The mine generates about 60 percent of Zijin’s
gold production.  
 At least two of Zijin’s expansions abroad have stalled. A
plan to develop the Rio Blanco copper project in Peru was
suspended after prices tumbled and the local community protested.
The Congo government in May said it objected to Zijin’s plan to
jointly acquire Platmin Congo, gaining copper and cobalt assets,
with China-Africa Development Fund for $284 million.  
 Pollution Crackdown  
 The Chinese government may make an example of Zijin as it
seeks to highlight a crackdown on industrial polluters, Bank of
America Corp.’s Merrill Lynch said July 12.  
 “Investors now want a model of sustainable growth, a model
that not only shows profit growth, but also a commitment to
social responsibility,” UOB’s Lau said. “It’s not like five to
10 years ago when companies could get away with what you want.
Now, neglects must be repaid.”  
 -- Xiao Yu , with assistance from  Sophie Leung . Editors:  Tan Hwee Ann ,  Andrew Hobbs ,  Nerys Avery   
 To contact the Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Xiao Yu in Beijing at  yxiao@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        