-- Deloitte to Pay $167.5 Million to Adelphia Creditors
-- Christopher Scinta
-- 2007-08-03T22:24:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2007-08-03/deloitte-to-pay-167-5-million-to-adelphia-creditors-update1-.html

          
          
             Deloitte & Touche LLP, once the
auditor of Adelphia Communications Corp., agreed to pay $167.5
million to creditors of the defunct company to settle a
malpractice lawsuit.  
 New York-based Deloitte was sued in Pennsylvania state court
in November 2002 and linked to the financial fraud that pushed
the cable-television company into bankruptcy that year. The suit
was transferred to Adelphia's creditors as part of the company's
plan to complete its bankruptcy earlier this year.  
 ``The settlement payment is believed to be one of the
largest recoveries by a company against its former auditor,''
attorneys for Adelphia's creditors said in court papers.  
 Deloitte didn't admit any wrongdoing under the settlement.
Under the terms of the accord, Deloitte will pay $167.5 million
and the creditors, Adelphia and Deloitte will release each other
from claims related to the suit. Deloitte will also withdraw its
own claims filed in Adelphia's bankruptcy case.  
 Adelphia sold its operations to Time Warner Inc. and Comcast
Corp. last year.  
 A judge must approve the agreement. A hearing on the
settlement is scheduled for Aug. 23 in New York where a court
continues to oversee litigation related to the bankruptcy of what
was once the nation's fifth-largest cable-television provider.  
 Deloitte spokeswoman Deborah Harrington didn't immediately
respond to a phone message seeking comment.  
 Deloitte ceased an audit of Adelphia it was performing on
May 14, 2002 and the cable company filed for bankruptcy
protection on June 25, 2002. Deloitte was fired July 9, 2002. The
suit settled today was filed November 6, 2002. A trial on the
dispute was set to begin September 10.  
 Adelphia's creditors also settled litigation involving
Adelphia and the former chief executive officer of Century
Communications Corp. Leonard Tow, Claire Tow, and David Z.
Rosensweig. The accord will bring the creditors another $15.6
million in cash and an interest-bearing note worth $4.88 million
to be issued by Adelphia.  
 The trust collecting money on behalf of Adelphia's creditors
hasn't decided when or how much it will distribute to creditors,
it said in a statement.  
 The bankruptcy case is In re Adelphia Communications Corp.,
02-41729, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Scinta in New York at 
 cscinta@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Patrick Oster at   poster@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        