-- EU urges U.S. to seize chance for global trade deal
-- By  David Brunnstrom  and  William Schomberg
-- Sat Jan 6, 2007 1:18pm EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2007/01/06/businesspro-eu-usa-dc-idUSL0673833920070106

 

 BRUSSELS  (Reuters) - EU trade chief Peter Mandelson, 
preparing for talks in Washington on how to save world trade 
negotiations, urged Europe and the United States on Saturday to 
show political leadership to get a deal by April. 

  European Commission President Jose Manuel Barroso, leading 
a delegation to the U.S. capital, is to press the trade issue 
with President George W. Bush on Monday.  He will also urge Bush to do more on climate change, work 
more closely on securing energy supplies and the two will 
discuss Middle East peace efforts.  Mandelson is to meet U.S. Trade Representative Susan 
Schwab, with whom he has swapped blame for July's suspension of 
the World Trade Organization's Doha round of talks to boost 
global trade. He said it was an opportunity to revive the 
process.  Mandelson said "quiet, constructive bilateral contacts" 
recently showed a possible outline of a final deal which must 
be reached in the coming months after which the round, already 
into its sixth year of talks, risks long delays.  "We have now entered a narrow window of opportunity lasting 
until Easter during which success for the world trade talks is 
possible," Mandelson said in a statement. "We now need the 
added momentum of political leadership from the highest level. 
Europe and the U.S. have a shared responsibility to make this 
happen."  U.S. officials say a breakthrough is unlikely on Monday.  But Brussels hopes it could allow for some progress when 
trade ministers from leading WTO states meet at the World 
Economic Forum from January 24 in the Swiss ski resort of 
Davos.  Bush's "fast-track" powers to approve trade deals without 
Congress being able to pick them apart expire on June 30.
  EU PINS HOPES ON DEMOCRATS  EU officials hope the now Democrat-controlled Congress 
might put aside party rivalries and extend those powers for a 
few months to help get a deal agreed and for all the subsequent 
small print to be completed, if there are signs one is 
possible.  Beyond 2007, the U.S presidential election in 2008 and a 
debate within the EU about further farm reform starting around 
then could mean the round is in the deep freeze for years.  The Doha round was launched in the wake of the September 11 
attacks on the United States to help poor countries export more 
to richer ones and to boost the global economy. But stubborn 
differences have put the process years behind schedule.  Washington has balked at demands it must go further with 
cuts in farm subsidies, saying offers by Brussels, India and 
others to cut import tariffs on farm goods are far too modest.  An EU official said the bloc was still offering to cut farm 
import tariffs by an average of about 50 percent, its position 
last July, and wanted the United States to cut its ceiling for 
farm subsidies from $23 billion a year to $15 billion.  Both Washington and the EU say Brazil, India and other big 
developing economies must do more to open their markets.  In Washington, trade experts said Monday's meeting was part 
of a puzzle for getting the Doha round back on track.  "All will become clearer around March and I don't think it 
will become much clearer before then," said Bill Reinsch, head 
of the National Foreign Trade Council, a U.S. business group.  On the Middle East, the two sides will discuss how the 
Quartet of peace brokers -- the United States, the EU, Russia 
and the United Nations -- can help the process, and ways to 
maintain the Gaza ceasefire and extend it to the West Bank.  (Additional reporting by  Doug Palmer  in Washington)