-- Zimbabwe probed on "blood diamond" rules
-- By  Eric Onstad
-- Sat Jan 6, 2007 6:57am EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2007/01/06/businesspro-zimbabwe-blood-diamonds-dc-idUSL0673096620070106

 

 JOHANNESBURG  (Reuters) - Industry body The World Diamond 
Council is worried that gems from Zimbabwe may be finding their 
way onto the black market, a violation of rules established to 
curb so-called conflict diamonds that fuel civil wars. 

  The diamond sector is making extra efforts to police itself 
amid fears jewelry sales will be hit by the release of the 
Hollywood film "Blood Diamond," which shows atrocities in 
African civil wars financed by illicit gems during the 1990s.  The New York-based council received reports that diamonds 
in Zimbabwe were being smuggled into neighboring South Africa, 
where they were being certified as legitimate and exported, WDC 
Chairman Eli Izhakoff told Reuters late on Friday via e-mail.  Izhakoff, who was replying to written questions, said he 
sent a letter last month to the incoming chairman of the 
Kimberley Process, a watchdog body set up to stamp out trade in 
conflict diamonds.  "Such illegal exportation presents a clear threat to the 
integrity of the legitimate export process as a whole," 
Izhakoff said in the letter dated December 15.  The Council said it had reports that rough diamonds from 
Zimbabwe's River Ranch mine and from the Marange district were 
being smuggled out of the country.
  MINE DENIES SMUGGLING  A legal consultant for River Ranch, which restarted mining 
in June 2006 under new ownership after going into voluntary 
liquidation in 1999, told Reuters on Saturday the firm denied 
its diamonds were being smuggled.  "I am a bit distressed at the World Diamond Council," 
retired judge George Smith said. "We have not sold any diamonds 
yet and Ministry of Mines officials are in the process of 
checking our security systems."  Illegal mining is rising in Zimbabwe as people grapple with 
an economic crisis that has seen inflation rise to over 1,000 
percent, the highest in the world, and poverty levels soar.  Zimbabwe is a small diamond producer with official figures 
only available from Murowa, 78 percent owned by mining group 
Rio Tinto Plc ( RIO.L ) and 22 percent by RioZim Ltd ( RTNR.ZI ), 
listed on the Zimbabwe stock exchange.  Rio Tinto said that its share of output at Murowa was 
148,000 carats during the first nine months of 2006.  The diamond industry worries that consumers will shun its 
luxury products after seeing "Blood Diamond," starring Leonardo 
DiCaprio and set during Sierra Leone's civil war, notorious for 
drug-crazed rebels who hacked limbs off women and children.  The Kimberley Process, under which governments issue 
certificates to legitimate diamond exports, has helped reduce 
illicit diamonds to less than one percent of the total, the 
diamond industry and activists say.  European Commission official Karel Kovanda, which took over 
the chair of the Kimberley Process on January 1, said in a 
letter dated December 22 in reply to Izhakoff that the matter 
would be investigated. Izhakoff provided his letter and the 
reply to Reuters.  (Additional reporting by MacDonald Dzirutwe in Harare)