-- Abu Dhabi's Al Jaber Group Said To Ask for Year Delay on $1.6 Billion Debt
-- B y   Z a i n a b   F a t t a h ,   S t e f a n i a   B i a n c h i   a n d   C a m i l l a   H a l l
-- 2010-12-20T15:04:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-20/abu-dhabi-s-al-jaber-group-said-to-ask-for-year-delay-on-1-6-billion-debt.html
Al Jaber Group, an Abu Dhabi-based
holding company with interests in construction, asked about 30
lenders if it could delay payments on around 6 billion dirhams
($1.6 billion) of debt by a year, two bankers familiar with the
situation said.  The group, which has 16 billion dirhams-worth of projects
in hand, hired KPMG LLP as a financial adviser to help change
the terms of its debt, said the two bankers, who declined to be
identified because the discussions are private.  Property prices dropped by more than half in Dubai and by
30 percent in larger neighbor Abu Dhabi as banks tightened
mortgage lending and speculators fled the market during the
global financial crisis. State-owned developer Nakheel PJSC,
which spearheaded Dubai’s building boom, is seeking to change
terms on more than $10 billion of debt and contractor claims.  “People are not getting paid and companies are trying to
manage their working payments,” said  Fadi Al Said , head of
equities at ING Investment Management (Dubai) Ltd., said. “All
contractors are dealing with liquidity issues.”  Al Jaber, which has assets of more than $5 billion, said
yesterday that it’s talking to banks to alter terms on its debt
and that it expects to reach an agreement next year.  BNP
Paribas ,  First Gulf Bank ,  National Bank of Abu Dhabi  and
 Mashreqbank PSC  are among those that have lent to the company,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘Appropriate Finance’  Al Jaber “found it difficult to raise the appropriate
finance to secure additional work and maintain its expansion in
the region” because of the credit crisis, the company said in
an e-mailed statement.  An Al Jaber official, who declined to be identified because
of company policy, wouldn’t comment on the specific terms
contacted by Bloomberg News.  The borrower, whose Al Jaber LEGT Engineering & Contracting
(ALEC) LLC unit worked on Dubai’s Mina A’Salam hotel and the
Kempinski hotel in the city state’s Mall of the Emirates, has at
least $1.1 billion of loans that come due by 2014, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  