-- Amazon.com, ConAgra, Darden, EMC, Pfizer: U.S. Equity Preview
-- B y   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 2010-12-21T13:30:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-20/adobe-systems-biogen-idec-jabil-circuit-paychex-u-s-equity-preview.html
Shares of the following companies
may have unusual moves in U.S. trading. Stock symbols are in
parentheses, and prices are as of 7:45 a.m. in New York.  Adobe Systems Inc.  (ADBE US) rallied 6.9 percent to $31.20.
The top maker of graphic-design programs forecast fiscal first-
quarter profit that exceeded analysts’ estimates, bolstered by
sales of the company’s desktop-publishing software.  Alliant Energy Corp.  (LNT US): The Madison, Wisconsin-based
utility company raised its 2011 expected dividend target to
$1.70 a share from $1.58, according to a statement distributed
by PR Newswire.  Amazon.com Inc.  (AMZN US) rose 0.6 percent to $184.40. The
largest online retailer was rated “outperform” in new coverage
at Macquarie Group Ltd. The share-price estimate is $205.  AOL Inc.  (AOL US) dropped 0.3 percent to $23.89. The
Internet company spun off from Time Warner Inc. said it agreed
to buy about.me Inc., a social identity site. Financial terms of
the deal weren’t disclosed.  Biogen Idec Inc.  (BIIB US): The world’s largest maker of
multiple sclerosis medicines said it has acquired a unit of
Neurimmune Holding AG, which includes the worldwide rights to
three preclinical immunotherapy programs.  ConAgra Foods Inc.  (CAG US): The maker of Banquet and
Healthy Choice dinners reported second-quarter earnings
excluding some items of 45 cents a share, trailing the average
analyst estimate in a Bloomberg survey by 1 cent.  Darden Restaurants Inc.  (DRI US) slumped 3.1 percent to
$48.88. The owner of Olive Garden, Red Lobster and Longhorn
Steakhouse cut its 2011 sales forecast and reiterated a previous
earnings estimate. Second-quarter profit from continuing
operations matched the average analyst projection.  EMC Corp.  (EMC US) rose 0.6 percent to $22.94. Morgan
Stanley resumed coverage of the world’s biggest maker of storage
computers with an “overweight” rating. The share-price
estimate is $26.  Estee Lauder Cos.  (EL US): The New York-based maker of Mac
cosmetics and Clinique skin care was rated “buy” in new
coverage at Jefferies & Co., which cited the prospects for
operating margin expansion.  Finisar Corp.  (FNSR US) declined 3.7 percent to $28.76. The
maker of fiber-optic transmission gear said it plans to sell 3.6
million shares and may use some of the money to repay debt.  HCP Inc.  (HCP US): The largest U.S. health-care real estate
investment trust said it has completed its $1.472 billion public
offering of 46 million shares and plans to use the proceeds for
debt, cash on hand and to finance a previously announced $6.1
billion acquisition.  Incyte Corp.  (INCY US) rallied 8.7 percent to $16.50. The
drugmaker said its drug for the bone-marrow disorder
myelofibrosis met goals in the third and final stage of studies
generally required for approval.  Jabil Circuit Inc.  (JBL US) jumped 7 percent to $18.89. The
St. Petersburg, Florida-based electronics manufacturer forecast
second-quarter earnings of at least 49 cents a share, exceeding
the average of analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.       LaserCard Corp.  (LCRD US) surged 39 percent to $6.20. The
maker of secure identification cards agreed to be bought by Assa
Abloy AB for $6.25 a share, or $80 million.  Martek Biosciences Corp.  (MATK US) soared 34 percent to
$31.31. The maker of nutritional oils for foods and baby formula
agreed to be bought by Royal DSM NV (RDSMY US), for $1.09
billion. Martek shareholders will receive $31.50 a share in
cash, DSM said in a statement today.  Netflix Inc.  (NFLX US) added 1 percent to $179.88. The
movie-rental service was recommended by CNBC’s Jim Cramer on the
growth of movies “streamed” into homes and the company’s
planned international expansion.  Paychex Inc.  (PAYX US) rose 0.7 percent to $30.90. The
company that manages payrolls accounting for companies that
employ fewer than 100 workers said second-quarter earnings per
share excluding some items beat the average analyst estimate by
5.7 percent.  Pepco Holdings Inc.  (POM US): The Washington-based company
named for its Potomac Electric Power Co. unit said 2011 capital
expenditures will be $1.09 billion, and they will rise to $1.18
billion in 2012.  Pfizer Inc.  (PFE US): The world’s largest drugmaker will
recall about 19,000 bottles of Lipitor tablets distributed in
the U.S. after a customer reported a musty odor from bottles in
which the drug was packaged, the company said.  Safeway Inc.  (SWY US) gained 1.3 percent to $22.01. The
supermarket chain was raised to “buy” from “neutral” at
Northcoast Research. The 12-month share-price estimate is $29.  Toronto-Dominion Bank  (TD US): Canada’s second-biggest bank
agreed to buy Chrysler Financial Corp. from Cerberus Capital
Management LP for $6.3 billion to add an auto-finance company.
The transaction will be in cash, the bank said today in a
statement. Toronto-Dominion doesn’t intend to issue stock for
the purchase.  Verigy Ltd.  (VRGY US) rose 4.3 percent to $13.50. The U.S.
maker of testing equipment for semiconductor makers is in merger
talks with Advantest Corp. (ATE US), the New York Post reported,
citing two unidentified people close to the matter.  To contact the reporter for this story:
Rita Nazareth in Sao Paulo at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 