-- Akamai Loses Patent Ruling Against Limelight Networks
-- B y   S u s a n   D e c k e r   a n d   W i l l i a m   M c Q u i l l e n
-- 2010-12-20T21:15:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-20/akamai-falls-as-limelight-networks-wins-ruling-in-four-year-patent-battle.html
Akamai Technologies Inc . lost a
court ruling in its four-year patent battle with  Limelight
Networks Inc . over software that speeds delivery of Web videos.  Akamai fell 3.3 percent in Nasdaq Stock Market trading
after the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit in
Washington said Limelight didn’t infringe a patent related to
content delivery networks, or CDNs. U.S. District Judge  Rya Zobel  in Boston was correct to throw out a $45.5 million jury
verdict that Akamai won in 2008, the appeals court said today.  “We are disappointed with the decision and are evaluating
our options,”  Jeff Young , a spokesman for Cambridge,
Massachusetts-based Akamai, said by telephone. “We believe
Akamai has tremendously valuable intellectual property and we
remain resolved to vigorously defend it when appropriate.”  Akamai is facing more competition from companies including
Limelight,  Level 3 Communications Inc . and Cotendo Inc. for
CDNs, which distribute movies, music and software to computers
on behalf of services such as Hulu LLC and  Netflix Inc . Online
video sales will expand 20 percent to $600 million this year
from 2009, research company Frost & Sullivan Inc. estimates.  Akamai’s lawsuit in in 2006 accused Tempe, Arizona-based
Limelight of building its business on technology developed by
Akamai’s founders at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.  Akamai Shares  Limelight said in a statement that today’s court decision
“affirms that Limelight Networks respects the intellectual
property of others, and that our growth and success have been
achieved through the innovation of our founders and engineers.”  “Akamai put itself in a position of having to show that
the allegedly infringing activities of Limelight’s customers
were attributable to Limelight,” the three-judge panel said in
an opinion on its website. “Akamai did not meet this burden.”  Akamai  fell  $1.70 to $49.17 at 4 p.m. New York time.
Limelight fell 1 cent to $6.24.  Akamai and MIT filed a patent-infringement lawsuit against
closely held Cotendo on Nov. 9. Limelight won a 2009 trial in a
patent case brought by Level 3, and an appeals court on May 5
upheld the jury verdict of non-infringement.  The case today is Akamai Technologies v. Limelight
Networks, 2009-1372, U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal
Circuit (Washington). The lower court case is Akamai
Technologies v. Limelight Networks Inc., 06cv11109, U.S.
District Court, District of Massachusetts (Boston).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susan Decker in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net ;
William McQuillen in Washington at 
 bmcquillen@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Allan Holmes at 
 aholmes25@bloomberg.net  