-- Iraqi Parliament Approves Unity Government After Nine Months of Wrangling
-- B y   N a y l a   R a z z o u k   a n d   K a d h i m   A j r a s h
-- 2010-12-21T17:41:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-20/maliki-may-announce-partial-iraqi-cabinet-excluding-security-portfolios.html
Iraq’s parliament approved the
government of Prime Minister  Nuri al-Maliki , who vowed to pursue
national reconciliation, after nine months of post-election
wrangling.  Al-Maliki told parliament he kept the defense, interior
and national security posts and distributed seven portfolios to
other ministers until an agreement with political groups is
reached on candidates for the jobs. Lawmakers approved a lineup
of 35 nominees including a new oil minister and three deputy
prime ministers representing the country’s main communities --
the majority Shiite Muslims, the Sunni Muslims and the Kurds.  “This government of national unity represents all entities
making up the Iraqi people,” the Shiite prime minister said. “We
have to work hand in hand in this government of national unity
to serve the people who suffered from years of dictatorship,
deprivation and destruction.”  Political paralysis and disputes followed the March 7
parliamentary elections, which produced no clear winner. The
Iraqi government will have to deal with violence, a struggling
economy and long-standing disputes over internal boundaries and
rights to the country’s oil and gas reserves.  Lack of Trust  “The fact that it is a large government may slow things on
a day-to-day basis, but there was no other way as the
communities don’t trust each other,” Ali al-Saffar, an analyst
at the Economist Intelligence Unit in London, said in a
telephone interview. “A large government including all parties
would also be a good thing to oversee the departure of the U.S.
troops.”  Al-Maliki vowed to spur economic and social rebuilding
projects to help stabilize the country. He said his government
will fight terrorism, and build strong army and security forces
that will help Iraq regain full sovereignty once American forces
are withdrawn by the end of 2011.  During today’s session, the government received the backing
of all political groups in the parliament, including the
predominantly Sunni bloc of al-Maliki’s rival, former Prime
Minister  Ayad Allawi , who called for a “true partnership.”  Parliament approved the nomination of Deputy Oil Minister
 Abdul Kareem al-Luaibi  to head the Oil Ministry, backed Foreign
Minister  Hoshyar Zebari  to retain his post, and approved Deputy
Prime Minister Rafih al-Issawi to lead the Finance Ministry.  ‘Ambitious’ Energy Plans  Al- Luaibi vowed today to pursue “ambitious” oil and gas
exploration to increase output, helping to fund the state budget
and improve living standards. He replaces  Hussain al- Shahristani , who is now a deputy prime minister and interim
electricity minister.  The new oil minister, in an interview with state-run al-
Iraqiyah television after the new government was sworn in, said
output at the country’s Rumailah field increased 10 percent in a
year, instead of the planned three years.  Al-Luaibi, a political independent, oversaw two rounds of
oil licenses last year, an Oil Ministry official, Sabah Abdel
Kadhim al-Saadi, said in a telephone interview from Baghdad late
yesterday. As deputy oil minister, al-Luaibi had been in charge
of exploration and production. He graduated in petroleum studies
from Baghdad University and worked at the Dora refinery, south
of Baghdad, before becoming deputy oil minister, al-Saadi said.  “Given that Al-Luaibi is a long-time employee of the Oil
Ministry he is unlikely to change policies, and so this will
reassure oil companies,” Al-Saffar said.  Seeks Investment  Iraq, holder of the world’s fifth-largest oil reserves,
wants foreign investors to help it boost production of crude and
gas. Output of both has suffered from insurgent attacks and a
lack of investment since  Saddam Hussein ’s ouster in the 2003
U.S.-led invasion of the country. Seeking to end the stagnation,
the government has awarded 12 oil contracts and three gas
licenses.  Under the constitution, al-Maliki had 30 days in which to
name a Cabinet after being asked to form a government for his
second term in office by President  Jalal Talabani  on Nov. 25.  Al-Maliki had pledged to form his government by Dec. 15.
The prime minister’s delay in announcing the Cabinet reflects
difficulties in creating a government that includes all of
Iraq’s ethnic and religious groups.  Allawi had threatened several times not to participate in a
al-Maliki-led government, claiming the premier had stolen the
elections. His Iraqiyah bloc was backed mostly by Sunni and
secular voters. As part of the coalition deal, Allawi was named
to head the new National Council for Strategic Policies.  Al-Maliki’s State of Law alliance won 89 seats in the March
elections, while Iraqiyah secured 91 seats and Kurdish parties
took 43. State of Law merged with former Shiite rivals afterward
to form the Iraqi National Alliance, gaining a combined total of
159 seats, and was later able to draw in lawmakers from other
groups to get the 163 seats needed for a governing coalition in
the 325-seat parliament.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nayla Razzouk  in Amman at 
 nrazzouk2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maher Chmaytelli at 
 mchmaytelli@bloomberg.net  