-- Allen Stanford Receiver Sues Four Ex-Officers to Pay Back $12.4 Million
-- B y   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s   a n d   T o m   K o r o s e c
-- 2010-12-20T23:08:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-20/allen-stanford-receiver-sues-three-former-officers-to-pay-back-7-million.html
Four of  R. Allen Stanford ’s highest-
ranking former employees were sued by a court-appointed receiver
for about $12.4 million in allegedly fraudulent proceeds they
received from certificates of deposit sold by the accused Ponzi
schemer’s Antiguan bank.  None of the four -- Stanford’s former general counsel, his
one-time global compliance officer, the ex-head of his brokerage
and a former chief of staff -- has been named in either the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission’s civil suit or the criminal
case against Stanford.  Ralph Janvey , the receiver, said the
payments the four received represent fraudulent transfers and
should be disgorged to Stanford’s victims.  Stanford, 60, and three different officials are accused by
the U.S. of bilking investors of more than $7 billion through
the sale of allegedly bogus certificates of deposit at Stanford
International Bank Ltd.  “The receiver’s investigation is continuing,”  Kevin Sadler ,
Janvey’s lawyer, said in the lawsuits, filed in federal court in
Dallas after regular business hours on Dec. 17. Should more CD
proceeds be discovered, “the receiver will amend this complaint
to assert claims regarding such additional payments,” the
filings said.  Certificates of Deposit  Lena Stinson, of Montgomery, Texas, was the global
controller of the Stanford Group Co. broker-dealer unit and the
Stanford Financial Group of Cos. umbrella organization, both
based in Houston. She received $1.67 million in proceeds from
the Antiguan certificates of deposit, according to Janvey’s
complaint.  Pablo Mauricio Alvarado of Miami was general counsel of the
Stanford Financial Group of Cos. He got $2.55 million in CD
profits, according to Janvey.  David Gerger , Alvarado’s lawyer,
didn’t immediately return a call to his office seeking comment
on Janvey’s suit.  Daniel T. Bogar  of Hollywood, Florida, was CEO and
president of the Houston-based Stanford Group Co. brokerage
unit. He and his wife, Brandilyn Bogar, received $3.08 million
in CD proceeds, according to Janvey’s suit. Brandilyn Bogar is
the niece of Jim Davis, Stanford’s former chief financial
officer, who has pleaded guilty to the fraud scheme and is
cooperating with the government.  “The lawsuit was a surprise as the receiver made no contact
with us prior to filing,” Tom Taylor, the Bogars’ attorney,
said in a phone interview. “We will vigorously contest this, as
there is no basis on which to accuse Mr. Bogar.”  Bogar has been notified that he may be sued by the SEC,
Taylor said.  Chief of Staff  Yolanda Suarez  of Miami was Stanford’s former chief of
staff as well as a director and board secretary for the Stanford
Group Holdings Inc. unit. She received $5.17 million in CD
profits, according to Janvey’s lawsuit.  Stanford has been detained in a federal prison in Houston
as a flight risk since he was indicted on charges of leading the
fraud in June 2009. He and the other executives also named in
the criminal and SEC cases deny all wrongdoing and are fighting
the charges.  Stanford’s lawyers asked the Houston judge overseeing his
criminal case to schedule a competency hearing after the
financier’s doctor declared him mentally unfit for trial.
Stanford’s defense team claims he is too heavily medicated in
prison to be able to prepare for or testify at his trial, which
is set to begin Jan. 24.  Prosecutors today asked U.S. District Judge  David Hittner 
to let a government psychiatrist examine Stanford at the Houston
federal prison.  ‘Second Examination’  “A second examination is especially warranted in this case
because Stanford’s conduct to date indicates a thorough
understanding of the legal proceedings and thus casts
significant doubt on the opinion of the defense-selected
doctor,” Gregg Costa, an assistant U.S. attorney in Houston,
said in court papers.  Stanford’s lawyers aren’t opposed to letting a government
doctor examine him, according to Costa’s filing.  The receiver’s cases are Janvey v. Stinson, 3:10-cv-2586,
Janvey v. Alvarado, 3:10-cv-2584, Janvey v. Bogar, 3:10-cv-2583,
and Janvey v. Suarez, 3:10-cv-2581, U.S. District Court,
Northern District of Texas (Dallas).  The criminal case against Allen Stanford is U.S. v.
Stanford, 09-cr-342, U.S. District Court, Southern District of
Texas (Houston). The SEC case is Securities and Exchange
Commission v. Stanford International Bank, 09-cv-298, U.S.
District Court, Northern District of Texas (Dallas).  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Laurel Brubaker Calkins  in Houston at 
 laurel@calkins.us.com ;
 Tom Korosec  in Dallas at 
 tkorosec@sbcglobal.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 