-- National Enquirer Publisher American Media's Bankruptcy Plan Wins Approval
-- B y   D o n a l d   J e f f r e y
-- 2010-12-20T16:50:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-20/american-media-chapter-11-exit-plan-approved-in-n-y-bankruptcy-court.html
American Media Inc., the publisher
of the National Enquirer, won approval of a restructuring plan
to exit bankruptcy.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge  Martin Glenn  said at a hearing today
in New York that he will confirm the plan, noting that there had
been no objections to it.  “We’re very pleased to have this behind us,”  Christopher Polimeni , American Media’s chief financial officer, said after
the plan was confirmed. “It’s something we’ve been working on
for some time -- to get the right capital structure.”  American Media has financing in place to exit bankruptcy as
soon as Dec. 22, Polimeni said. The company, based in Boca
Raton, Florida, filed for Chapter 11 protection from creditors
in November with a prepackaged bankruptcy plan, after attempts
to  restructure its debt  failed.  The company was hurt by a “decline in consumer spending on
publications sold at retailers’ checkout counters,” as well as
by rising prices for fuel, paper and postage, according to court
papers. It listed assets of $668 million and liabilities of
$1.23 billion in its Chapter 11 petition.  Last month, Glenn authorized American Media to enter into
agreements for new financing. He also approved a restructuring
support agreement that bound the company’s lenders to the
prepackaged plan. That agreement allowed the company to speed up
the confirmation process by avoiding a separate hearing to
approve the plan outline, known as the disclosure statement.  Glenn’s main concern today was that the plan wasn’t
specific enough about fees to be paid to lawyers representing
the committee of creditors with unsecured claims.  No Blank Checks  “I don’t write blank checks,” Glenn said. “I will not
confirm the plan unless it’s agreed on the record by you and the
committee’s counsel that payment for fees and expenses is
subject to review by the court.”  Ira Dizengoff , a lawyer for American Media, conferred with
the committee’s attorney and told the judge the language of the
plan would be amended to allay his concern.  Under the plan, the secured lenders will receive cash and
new notes, recovering 100 percent of their loans. Holders of
subordinated notes will get 98 percent of shares in the newly
reorganized company, for an estimated recovery of 53.5 percent.  The plan calls for the issuance of $385 million in new
first-lien secured notes and as much as $140 million in second-
lien secured notes.  Current noteholders include Angelo, Gordon & Co., Avenue
Capital Group, Capital Research & Management Co. and Credit
Suisse Securities.  Wilmington Trust Corp ., the trustee for
$380.6 million in notes, is the largest unsecured creditor.
 JPMorgan Chase & Co.  is the agent for $490.6 million of secured
loans.  American Media publications include Star, Globe, Shape,
Muscle & Fitness and Fit Pregnancy. The company also provides
publishing services to  Playboy Enterprises Inc.   The case is In re American Media Inc., 10-16140, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Don Jeffrey  in New York at 
 djeffrey1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at 
 drovella@bloomberg.net  