-- AmEx Falls as Credit-Card Fees May Be ‘Next Target’
-- B y   P e t e r   E i c h e n b a u m
-- 2010-12-20T22:11:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-20/amex-leads-dow-index-lower-as-stifel-says-credit-fees-may-be-next-target-.html
American Express Co.  declined the
most in the  Dow Jones Industrial Average  after Stifel Nicolaus &
Co. said proposed federal caps on debit-card fees may be
followed by similar cuts for credit cards.  The shares dropped $1.51, or 3.4 percent, the most in more
than two months, to $42.50 at 4:15 p.m. in New York Stock
Exchange composite trading. AmEx has gained 4.9 percent this
year.  The Federal Reserve last week proposed cutting “swipe”
fees, or interchange, that merchants pay to accept debit cards
by up to 84 percent. That will give merchants more incentive to
steer consumers away from New York-based AmEx’s higher-cost
credit and charge cards, said  Chris Brendler , a Stifel analyst,
in a note to clients today. He changed his recommendation for
the stock to “hold” from “buy.”  “We are increasingly convinced that credit interchange
will inevitably be the next target,” he wrote. “The now-
significant disparity in payments’ costs greatly increase the
risk.”  The Fed proposals were prompted by the Dodd-Frank
regulatory-overhaul legislation, which President  Barack Obama 
signed in July. The measure calls for the Fed to set interchange
fees that are “reasonable and proportional” to the cost of
processing debit transactions.  Susan Stawick , a spokeswoman for the Fed in Washington,
declined to comment.  Proposals for Credit Cards  The payments industry has so far escaped attempts in the
U.S. to regulate interchange on credit cards, which average
about 2 percent per transaction, saying the fees are needed to
compensate banks for the risk of lending money. That argument
isn’t relevant to debit cards, which deduct funds held in
consumer checking accounts.  Visa Inc. , the world’s biggest payments network, plunged 17
percent last week, and No. 2  MasterCard Inc.  fell 13 percent, as
the Fed proposed capping debit interchange at 12 cents per
transaction. AmEx, which doesn’t issue debit cards, charges
retailers who accept its credit cards an average of 2.56 percent
of the purchase price, the lender said in its third-quarter
financial  supplement .  American Express, the biggest credit-card issuer by
purchases, is fighting a federal antitrust lawsuit that claims
the company’s contracts unfairly prohibit retailers from
steering customers to cheaper card brands. Visa, based in San
Francisco, and Purchase, New York-based MasterCard said in
October they agreed to settle the Justice Department complaint.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Peter Eichenbaum  in New York at 
 peichenbaum@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  