-- Hank Paulson Roars, Hedge-Fund Manager Despairs in Top 2010 Business Books
-- B y   J a m e s   P r e s s l e y
-- 2010-12-20T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-20/hank-paulson-plays-chicken-rich-get-richer-in-year-s-best-business-books.html
“Mr. President, we’re going to move
quickly and take them by surprise,” the U.S. Treasury secretary
told  George W. Bush . “The first sound they’ll hear is their
heads hitting the floor.”  Those lines come from  Hank Paulson’s  memoir, “On the
Brink,” one of the best books on finance and economics that I
read this year. The place was the Oval Office. The date, Sept.
4, 2008. Paulson, a tough-talking Christian Scientist and former
head of  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. , was proposing to seize control
of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, ousting their bosses.  Of all the meltdown books released in 2010, Paulson’s
mesmerized me most. Equally imposing was a clutch of business-
related biographies and histories. Here are my favorites.  Best Inside-the-Crisis Book: “On the Brink” by  Henry M. Paulson Jr . (Business Plus).  Taking us behind the scenes, Paulson shows, day by day, how
the U.S. government and Federal Reserve got sucked into a
vertiginous game of chicken with Wall Street bankers, hedge fund
managers and lawmakers. He captures the sleep-deprived haze of
the rescue squad as the system seized up.  Runners-up: “The Big Short” by  Michael Lewis  (Norton/
Allen Lane); “The Quants” by Scott Patterson (Crown
Business/Random House Business); and “Crash of the Titans” by
Greg Farrell (Crown Business).  Best Crisis Book by an Economist: “Fault Lines” by
 Raghuram G. Rajan  (Princeton).  The University of Chicago economist predicted the crisis
two years before it hit. Like Cassandra, he was mocked. We can
only hope policy makers will heed him now.  Rajan says bankers, the government and the Fed were all to
blame for the disaster. Yet the more disturbing reality is that
they were just responding, he says, to three “fault lines”:
domestic political pressures, trade imbalances and incompatible
financial systems. Those treacherous fissures remain.  Runners-up: “Crisis Economics” by  Nouriel Roubini  and
 Stephen Mihm  (Penguin Press/Allen Lane); “Freefall” by  Joseph E. Stiglitz  (Norton/Allen Lane); and “13 Bankers” by  Simon Johnson  and James Kwak (Pantheon).  Quirkiest Crisis Book: “Diary of a Very Bad Year” by
Anonymous Hedge Fund Manager, n+1 and  Keith Gessen  (Harper
Perennial).  One Sunday in September 2007, Gessen says, he sat down
outside a Brooklyn coffee shop with a Hedge Fund Manager who
will remain anonymous. Gessen, a novelist, says their talks
continued throughout the crisis, leaving this surreal record of
acumen, despair and a description of how  JPMorgan Chase & Co .
“harvested the organs” of Bear Stearns Cos.  Runner-up: “I.O.U.” by John Lanchester (Simon & Schuster;
published as “Whoops!” by Allen Lane).  Best in Narrative History and Biography: “American
Colossus” by  H.W. Brands  (Doubleday) and “The Hellhound of
Wall Street” by  Michael Perino  (Penguin Press).  Brands shows how capitalism triumphed over U.S. democracy
in the decades after the 1865 Confederate surrender at
Appomattox. He fills his vast canvas with Gilded Age magnates,
gold prospectors and transcontinental railroad builders.  Perino takes us into the 1933 Senate hearings where
 Ferdinand Pecora , a cigar-smoking former New York prosecutor,
changed the relationship between Washington and Wall Street by
shredding the reputation of banking legend Charles E. Mitchell.  Runners-up: “Adam Smith” by Nicholas Phillipson (Yale/
Allen Lane); “High Financier” by  Niall Ferguson  (Penguin
Press/Allen Lane); “More Money Than God” by  Sebastian Mallaby 
(Penguin Press/Bloomsbury).  Best in Business Journalism, Non Crisis: “Broke, USA” by
 Gary Rivlin  (HarperBusiness).  Rivlin takes a creepy journey through “Poverty Inc.,”
where the rich get richer by lending to the working poor.  Runners-up: “The Facebook Effect” by  David Kirkpatrick 
(Simon & Schuster); “Priceless” by  William Poundstone  (Hill &
Wang); “Crash Course” by Paul Ingrassia (Random House).  Best for Historical Context: “The Great Crash, 1929,” one
of four books in “ John Kenneth Galbraith : The Affluent Society
and Other Writings, 1952-1967” (Library of America).  Regardless of how you feel about Galbraith’s political and
economic leanings, “The Great Crash, 1929” remains a classic.
Much of what you’ll find in this beautifully bound  new edition 
will sound familiar, from the talk of a new era of prosperity
and a property bubble in Florida to a market engorged with
leverage and, after the crash, a U.S. president who summoned
business leaders for solemn meetings. The book is worth
(re)reading if only for Galbraith’s elegantly understated prose.  “The depression,” he writes, “was an exceptionally
disagreeable experience.”  ( James Pressley  writes for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
 James Pressley  in Brussels at 
 jpressley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 