-- Insider-Trading Suit Shows Piercing of Apple’s Veil of Secrecy
-- B y   A d a m   S a t a r i a n o
-- 2010-12-20T05:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-20/apple-s-veil-of-secrecy-pierced-as-insider-trading-suit-exposes-weaknesses.html
Walter Shimoon  was one of a select
few who get a peek behind the veil  Apple Inc.  cinches tightly
around its  products .  His alleged attempt to profit illegally from that privilege
caught up with Shimoon last week, when the former manager at
Apple supplier  Flextronics International Ltd.  was among three
people arrested for supplying inside information to investors.  Shimoon, 39, was paid more than $22,000 to share non-public
sales forecasts and other information about future products,
including the iPad, according to the criminal complaint. His
arrest underscores the difficulty faced by Apple Chief Executive
Officer  Steve Jobs , who runs the world’s most valuable
technology company, in keeping multibillion-dollar products
under wraps, said  Charlie Wolf , an  analyst  at Needham & Co.  “That’s very hard to do when you have people in the supply
chain who are going to get paid to supply information,” said
Wolf, who is based in New York and recommends buying the stock.  As a supplier of parts for Apple’s devices, Shimoon, then a
senior director at Flextronics, was privy to details about the
computer maker’s product road map and  sales numbers , according
to the 39-page complaint unsealed last week in New York.  Shimoon, who made his first post-arrest court appearance in
San Diego on Dec. 17, lost a bid for bail. Bald and dressed in a
white prison jumpsuit, he neither spoke nor entered a plea. His
attorney told the judge that Shimoon’s wife is eight months
pregnant and is a university professor in San Diego.  Inside Information  Prosecutors say Shimoon provided inside information to
clients of a Mountain View, California-based Primary Global
Research LLC, which put him in touch with investors. His arrest
was part of a nationwide investigation of illegal trading at
hedge funds by Manhattan U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara, the
Federal Bureau of Investigation and the Securities and Exchange
Commission.  Apple, based in Cupertino, California, has jumped 52
percent this year, helped by the iPad tablet, released in April,
and the iPhone 4, introduced in June. It has more than tripled
since Jobs introduced the iPhone in January 2007. Apple fell 64
cents to $320.61 in Nasdaq Stock Market trading on Dec. 17.  Steve Dowling , an Apple spokesman, declined to comment.  The complaint offers insights into the information,
including internal sales projections, exchanged between Apple
and the suppliers of product parts, sometimes long before a
device is unveiled or hits store shelves. The data can help
predict Apple’s financial  performance  and direction of its
stock, Wolf said. Flextronics makes camera and charger
components for the iPhone and iPad.  Stock ‘Convulsions’  “That information is very valuable -- when Apple reports
the stock usually goes into convulsions one way or another,”
said Wolf, the Needham analyst.  In 2009, Apple told  Flextronics  about a project known as
“K48,” the codename for what would eventually become the iPad.
In October that year, Shimoon shared some of the details with a
person who is cooperating with authorities, calling it a “very
secretive program.”  “It’s a totally new category altogether,” Shimoon said,
according to the complaint. “At Apple you can get fired for
saying K48 ... outside a, you know, outside of a meeting that
doesn’t have K48 people in it. That’s how crazy they are about
it.”  The iPad had sold 7.5 million units as of the end of
September, making it the best-selling tablet, and the device has
generated almost $5 billion in revenue.  Code Name: N90  During the same call, Shimoon shared information about the
next-generation iPhone, code-named N90, with two cameras.  “It’ll be a neat phone,” he said, according to the
complaint. The iPhone 4 sold 1.7 million units in the first
three days after its release.  Apple tries to keep a lid on its future products, even amid
constant speculation among consumers, media and investors. For
example, companies testing the iPad ahead of its release this
year had to promise to keep it in a room with blacked-out
windows and key-card locks, four people familiar with the matter
said in March. Apple also required that the device be tethered
to a fixed object.  According to the criminal complaint, U.S. investigators
made consensual and wiretap recordings of an unidentified
expert-networking firm’s phones, the land lines of an
unidentified hedge fund and the mobile phones of two of the
defendants, including Shimoon.  ‘Corrupt Network’  “A corrupt network of insiders at some of the world’s
leading technology companies served as so-called consultants who
sold out their employers by stealing and then peddling their
valuable inside information,” Manhattan U.S. Attorney Bharara
said in a Dec. 16 statement.  If convicted of the wire fraud charge, the defendants face
as long as 20 years in prison, said Edeli Rivera, a spokeswoman
for Bharara’s office.  Shimoon has been fired by Flextronics,  Renee Brotherton , a
spokeswoman for the Singapore-based company, said last week in a
statement.  During the court appearance last week, Shimoon’s lawyer,
Jeremy Warren, argued in court that he should be allowed to post
a bond using the equity in his home and retirement accounts as
collateral. Warren also told the judge that Shimoon has strong
ties in San Diego. Prosecutors said he may flee if released.  According to the complaint, in October 2009, Shimoon shared
inside information with an employee of an unidentified hedge
fund. He provided sales forecasts for the next-generation
iPhone.  IPhone 4 Insights  In another conversation in March, Shimoon discussed what
Apple had told suppliers to be prepared for with the release of
the iPhone 4, according to the complaint.  “They are telling their core suppliers to plan for 6
million a month,” Shimoon said.  In other calls, Shimoon discussed the iPod Nano, how many
units of the music player Apple is manufacturing and its
forecast for the remainder of the year.  “I wanna pull up the forecast I just got,” he said,
according to the complaint. “We’re gonna do about 10 million...
we’re gonna do about 12 million module or iPods between August
and December, and Christmas.”  Meanwhile, Shimoon would also warn his colleagues and  Apple 
employees about the sensitive nature of the information.  “I am sending this e-mail as a gentle reminder to all of
us that [the Flextronics business unit] and Apple are covered
under both NDA [non-disclosure agreement] and MDSA [Master
Development and Supply Agreement],” he wrote, according to the
complaint. “This ... will protect the work we have done with
them up until now as well as the joint work we are doing with
Apple ... on process improvements for the N90 [next-generation
iPhone] program.”  The case is U.S. v. Shimoon, 10-mj-2823, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Adam Satariano  in San Francisco at 
 asatariano1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net . 