-- Maryland Fires Football Coach Ralph Friedgen, Begins Search for Successor
-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 2010-12-20T21:24:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-20/maryland-fires-football-coach-ralph-friedgen-begins-search-for-successor.html
The University of Maryland fired
football coach  Ralph Friedgen  after an 8-4 campaign and a bowl
invitation in his 10th season leading his alma mater.  Friedgen will be paid about $2 million in guaranteed
compensation and benefits remaining on his contract, Athletic
Director Kevin Anderson said. Friedgen will coach the Terrapins
Dec. 29 in the Military Bowl at RFK Stadium in Washington.  The College Park, Maryland, school will begin a national
search for Friedgen’s successor, Anderson said today at a news
conference broadcast on the Terrapins’  website .  “I no longer believe allowing a head coach to enter the
final year of his contract was the best financial decision for
our department or for moving our football program from good to
great,” Anderson said.  Friedgen, 63, is 74-50 since becoming the Terrapins’ coach
in 2001.  His only Atlantic Coast Conference championship came during
his first season, when Maryland went 10-2 before falling 56-23
to Florida in the Orange Bowl. He was named the consensus
national coach of the year that season, and earned ACC coaching
honors both that season and for the current one.  Military Bowl Invite  After a 2-10 finish a year ago, Maryland rebounded this
season to earn an invitation to the Military Bowl, where the
Terrapins will take on East Carolina. Friedgen has taken the
team to a bowl game seven times, going 4-2 heading into this
year’s contest.  James Franklin , who in February 2009 was named the eventual
successor to Friedgen, on Dec. 18 accepted a job as the head
coach at Vanderbilt, eliminating a $1 million payment that would
have been owed to Franklin if Maryland did not promote him by
January 2012.  “We wish James well in that new challenge, but that
decision changed our coaching and recruiting infrastructure,”
Anderson said today. “With no offensive coordinator and chief
recruiter, and the likelihood that several more assistant
coaches would be leaving our staff, and with coach Friedgen’s
contract coming to an end, it became clear that we needed to
make a well-thought-out business decision.”  Former Texas Tech coach  Mike Leach  is considered a top
candidate for the job, several news organizations, including the
Baltimore Sun, reported.  “No candidate has been contacted by either me or my
staff,” Anderson said.  Leach was fired by Texas Tech in December 2009 following
allegations that he mistreated a player who was diagnosed with a
concussion.  Leach’s Suspension  The school initially suspended Leach after a complaint by
the family of wide receiver Adam James, who twice was allegedly
kept in small, dark spaces because Leach thought he was faking a
concussion. James is the son of  Craig James , a former National
Football League player who is a college football analyst for
Walt Disney Co.’s ESPN.  Texas Tech said the event led to “irreconcilable
differences” with Leach that prompted his firing. He left the
school with an 84-43 record, 10 straight winning seasons and
five bowl victories.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mason Levinson  in New York at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  