-- AT&T to Pay $1.93 Billion for Qualcomm Mobile Spectrum
-- B y   G r e g   B e n s i n g e r   a n d   B r e t t   P u l l e y
-- 2010-12-20T21:06:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-20/at-t-agrees-to-acquire-wireless-licenses-from-qualcomm-for-1-93-billion.html
AT&T Inc. , the second-largest U.S.
mobile-phone carrier, agreed to buy wireless spectrum from
 Qualcomm Inc.  for $1.93 billion as customers increasingly use
bandwidth-hogging services such as video downloads.  The spectrum, in the lower 700 megahertz frequency band,
covers 300 million people in the U.S., the companies said today
in a statement. Chipmaker Qualcomm had acquired the spectrum for
its mobile-TV service, which it plans to shut down in March.  AT&T is upgrading its third-generation network to allow for
higher speeds while it works on building out its fourth-
generation network to debut next year. Larger rival Verizon
Wireless turned on 4G service earlier this month.  The Qualcomm spectrum will help AT&T alleviate network-
congestion problems such as those experienced by its customers
who use Apple Inc.’ iPhone, said  Craig Moffett , an analyst at
Sanford C. Bernstein & Co.  “This is very high-quality spectrum,” said New York-based
Moffett, who  rates  AT&T shares “market perform.” “It’s
especially concentrated in the urban areas. It provides a very
strong signal inside buildings and it’s extremely good at
penetrating walls and windows.”  Mark McKechnie , an analyst at Gleacher & Co. analyst in San
Francisco, predicted on Oct. 6 that the spectrum could fetch as
much as $1 billion. The price is similar or lower than in
comparable spectrum sales,  McCall Butler , a spokeswoman for
AT&T, said in an e-mail.  AT&T is paying 87 cents per potential customer covered by
the spectrum, a standard industry valuation, said Credit Suisse
Group AG analyst  Jonathan Chaplin . He said in a note today he
had previously valued Qualcomm’s spectrum at $1 to $1.50.  Flo TV’s Struggles  AT&T, based in Dallas, fell 8 cents to $29.13 at 4 p.m. in
New York Stock Exchange composite  trading  and has increased 3.9
percent this year. Qualcomm dropped 2 cents to $49.44 in Nasdaq
Stock Market trading and has risen 6.9 percent this year.  The Qualcomm deal is AT&T’s sixth largest purchase in the
past five years, including the $86 billion acquisition of
BellSouth Corp. in 2006 and the $4.5 billion it paid for Dobson
Communications Corp. in 2007, according to Bloomberg data.  Qualcomm  paid $683 million for rights to use the 700
megahertz spectrum in federal auctions between 2003 and 2008,
and started the mobile-TV business, called Flo TV, in 2004 to
allow users to watch broadcast TV on their handsets. The San
Diego-based company suspended sales of Flo TV after it struggled
to attract subscribers.  Completion Timing  Qualcomm Chief Executive Officer  Paul Jacobs  said in an
interview Nov. 16 he was considering a range of options for the
Flo TV business, including putting it in a joint venture or
shutting it down and selling the spectrum.  The company had spoken with several carriers, a person
familiar with the matter said last month, without providing
specifics. Many carriers are seeking additional spectrum to help
relieve capacity constraints.  Qualcomm said it now expects to incur costs in addition to
those it had previously predicted for the closure of  Flo TV . The
company said last month it expected expenses between $125
million and $175 million in fiscal 2011 to exit the business.  AT&T and Qualcomm said they expect to complete the deal in
the second half of 2011. The agreement follows AT&T’s
announcement last week that it would repurchase as many as 300
million shares -- $8.78 billion, based on the Dec. 17 closing
price -- and raise its dividend 1 cent to 43 cents per quarter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Greg Bensinger  in New York at 
 gbensinger1@bloomberg.net ;
 Brett Pulley  in New York at 
 bpulley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at   pelstrom@bloomberg.net  