-- Aussie Leads `Extreme' Currencies Deutsche Says Avoid
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B r o w n
-- 2010-12-20T02:16:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-20/aussie-leads-extreme-commodity-currencies-that-deutsche-bank-says-avoid.html
In the last two years there has been
no better place for foreign-exchange investors than in nations
whose economies are tied to commodities. Now the rally has left
those currencies at least 9.5 percent overvalued based on the
relative costs of goods and services as measured by the
Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development.  Exchange-rates for Australia, Canada and New Zealand have
appreciated at least 20 percent since the start of 2009 as their
central banks boosted interest rates to curb inflation from
rising prices of their raw-materials exports, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Surveys of strategists and economists by Bloomberg News
show none of the so-called commodity currencies are likely to
strengthen next year. Not even demand for commodities may be
enough to sustain support for their valuations, said  Ken Dickson ,
a money manager at Standard Life Investments.  “The commodity currencies are at extremes,” said Dickson,
who helps oversee $240 billion in Edinburgh. “The Aussie dollar
is fully valued. The upside is limited and we would not be
advocating long positions.”  The Australian dollar, or Aussie, will end 2011 at 98 U.S.
cents, compared with 98.85 cents as of 11:11 a.m. in Tokyo today,
according to the median estimate of 29 forecasts compiled by
Bloomberg. The Canadian dollar and the New Zealand dollar are
likely to be little changed at C$1.01 per greenback and 76 U.S.
cents, respectively, according to surveys.  Purchasing Power Parity  Purchasing power parity estimates are based on the idea
that long-term  exchange rates  are determined by the ratio of
prices for tradable goods and services between countries. A
higher or lower level of inflation in one country relative to
another will lead to a weaker or stronger currency.  As the world’s biggest shipper of iron ore, coal and wool,
Australia has received an influx of U.S. dollars as prices rose.
That helped send the Aussie soaring 41 percent since the end of
2008, leaving it 31 percent overvalued, according to the
relative price measure of the Paris-based OECD, which advises
its 33 member governments on policy.  Canada’s dollar is 15 percent overvalued, with the New
Zealand currency at 9.5 percent, the data show.  Such a comparison suggests that Brazil’s real is also too
strong, according to  Jim O’Neill , chairman of Goldman Sachs
Asset Management. “I get people from Rio and Sao Paulo visiting
me in London and describing London as cheap,” he said in a
radio interview on “Bloomberg Surveillance” with  Tom Keene  on
Dec. 14. “The currency is overvalued.”  Fair Value  Brazil’s real strengthened 33 percent in 2009, the most
since at least 1993, and 1.8 percent this year as the world’s
largest exporter of coffee and second-biggest grower of soybeans
profited from surging agricultural prices. Coffee reached a 13-
year high of $2.267 per pound on Dec. 17. Soy hit a two-year
high of $13.485 per bushel on Nov. 12.  While currencies tend to revert to fair value over time,
that’s not an accurate indicator for shorter periods, according
to  Dale Thomas , head of currency management at Insight
Investment Management Ltd. in London.  “We don’t see any currencies at extreme valuations at the
moment, so it’s not something we’re focused on,” said Thomas,
who helps oversee about $121 billion. “We look at various
different measures and only focus on them if they are all
pointing in the same direction and all showing a currency is
over- or under-valued.”  Raw Material Demand  The last time that was the case, the pound was approaching
parity with the euro in December 2008, he said. Before that, it
was when the euro was at $1.60 in July 2008, and when the dollar
was at 124.13 yen in June 2007. Sterling declined 0.1 percent to
84.79 pence per euro today. The euro depreciated 0.2 percent to
$1.3158 and the dollar was little changed at 83.94 yen.  Commodity currencies gained in the past two years as demand
for raw materials increased. Gold rose 25 percent this year,
reaching a record $1,431.25 an ounce on Dec. 7, driving up
currencies in Australia and South Africa, the world’s second-and
third-largest producers. The Aussie hit an all-time high of
$1.0183 on Nov. 5 and South Africa’s rand rose to 6.7603, the
strongest against the dollar since January 2008, the same day.  The currencies of commodity producers tend to appreciate
during periods of heightened demand, because raw materials are
sold in U.S. dollars, which must then be converted into local
tender if the money is to be spent domestically.  ‘Not Recommending’  “While the Australian dollar has good fundamentals in
terms of interest rates, its valuation means we’re not
recommending buying it at the moment,” said  Bilal Hafeez , head
of currency strategy at Deutsche Bank AG in London. “The same
goes for the New Zealand dollar.”  The Reserve Bank of Australia held its cash rate at 4.75
percent at its meeting this month, while New Zealand’s central
bank rate is at 3 percent and Brazil’s 10.75 percent. That
compares with the Federal Reserve’s target  rate  for overnight
loans between banks of zero to 0.25 percent and the European
Central Bank’s 1 percent main refinancing rate.  “An increase in commodity prices is quite broadly expected,
so it’s priced in for the commodity currencies,” said  Paul Robinson , the head of European currency strategy at Barclays Plc
in London, who predicts the Aussie will weaken to 92 cents by
the end of 2011. “The Australian and New Zealand dollars are
very expensive.”  Rand Estimates  The rand will weaken to 7.30 per dollar by the end of 2011
from 6.85 today, according to the median estimate of 15
economists and strategists surveyed by Bloomberg.  Standard Life’s Dickson uses a combination of 13 valuation
measures, including purchasing power parity, interest-rate and
inflation differences and a monetary model that compares money
supply and money demand.  “We find that purchasing power parity works best for
developed world currencies,” said Hafeez. “Typically PPP mean
reverts in three-to-five year cycles. When you’re at more
extreme thresholds, 20 or 30 percent overvalued, then mean
reversion is a lot quicker.”  While the dollar has been weaker than it should be against
the euro for all but one month since August 2003, according to
PPP, at 5.9 percent, it’s not undervalued enough for it to have
a bearing on its direction, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Matthew Brown  in London at 
 mbrown42@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  