-- Senators Drop Tax Item Affecting Foreign Companies
-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n   a n d   S o p h i a   Y a n
-- 2010-12-20T22:21:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-20/tax-affecting-cross-border-companies-dropped-in-senate-in-win-for-business.html
Foreign-based multinational
corporations won a victory in the U.S. Congress as senators
agreed to drop a provision targeting some cross-border
transactions from legislation that could pass before year’s end.  Senator  Kirsten Gillibrand , a New York Democrat, and others
removed the tax provision from legislation to provide health
benefits for workers who responded to the Sept. 11, 2001
terrorist attacks. The senators omitted the language in an
effort to win Republican support to advance the measure,
Gillibrand spokesman Matt Canter said today.  The bill will move forward with another revenue-raising
provision, which focuses on U.S. government payments to foreign-
based contractors. The Senate plans to consider the bill after
it completes work this week on an arms-reduction treaty with
Russia, said  Regan Lachapelle , a spokeswoman for Senate Majority
Leader  Harry Reid , a Nevada Democrat.  The House twice passed the tax treaty provision to pay for
unrelated programs. The provision would have required companies
based in countries that lack tax treaties with the U.S. to pay a
30 percent withholding tax on certain payments made to
subsidiaries in countries that have tax treaties with the U.S.  Under the proposal, a company based in Brazil -- which
doesn’t have a tax treaty with the U.S. -- would be unable to
take advantage of the treaty between the U.S. and the U.K. to
avoid the tax on payments made to its London-based finance
subsidiary. Other jurisdictions that lack tax treaties include
Bermuda, Singapore and Saudi Arabia.  Treaty Network  The provision, first sponsored by Democratic Representative
 Lloyd Doggett  of Texas, would have damaged the tax treaty
network, said  Nancy McLernon , president of the Organization for
International Investment, a Washington-based group that
represents foreign-owned companies operating in the U.S. She
said she was concerned that Congress could revive the idea.  “Unfortunately, this is a provision that gets trotted out
there because it seems that it is noncontroversial, because it’s
marketed as targeting countries without tax treaties,” McLernon
said.  One company that has lobbied Congress on the bill is SABIC
Innovative Plastics LLC, according to congressional disclosure
records. The petrochemical firm, which makes resins used in
medical devices, automobiles and toys, is owned by  Saudi Basic
Industries Corp.  A company spokeswoman didn’t return a call
seeking comment Monday afternoon.  Network Gaps  Michael Miller, a partner at the law firm Roberts & Holland
who specializes in international taxation, said some companies
were taking advantage of gaps in the treaty network. He
cautioned, though, that the provision was overly broad.  “It’s hard to find a sufficiently coherent explanation of
what the provision is designed to address and tie it together to
how this provision operates,” he said.  Miller said the U.S. Treasury Department, which negotiates
tax treaties, has been adding provisions to existing and new tax
treaties designed to prevent companies from engaging in such
treaty-shopping transactions.  Doggett, who authored the provision, said on the House
floor earlier this year that it would affect only a small
fraction of foreign investment in the U.S.  “The only people that it affects are those who have chosen
to go to non-tax-treaty countries, mainly tax havens -- people
that have avoided paying their fair share and are foreign-owned
corporations,” he said.  Excise Fee  The new provision added to the 9/11 bill would impose a 2
percent excise fee on goods or services sold to the U.S.
government by a foreign-based corporation or an individual based
in a country that isn’t a member of the World Trade
Organization’s Agreement on Government Procurement, according to
a bill summary from Gillibrand’s office.  “The primary target would be China, India, Thailand,
Malaysia and Brazil,” said David T. Ralston Jr., a Washington-
based partner with Foley & Lardner LLP who works in procurement
law. “Those are the leading countries that provide worldwide
goods and services and are not signatories to an international
trade agreement to the U.S.”  Prime contractors overseas may try to find a way around the
fee by signing on as a subcontractor, said Scott Amey, general
counsel for the Project on Government Oversight in Washington.  Federal contracts with vendors that have addresses
registered outside the U.S. totaled $22 billion in fiscal 2009,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg News.  With assistance from  Alex Kowalski  in Washington.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Richard Rubin  in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net 
 Sophia Yan  in Washington at 
 sophiayan@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  