-- BAE Faces Unlimited Fine From U.K. Judge in Tanzania Radar Accounting Case
-- B y   L i n d s a y   F o r t a d o
-- 2010-12-21T01:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-20/bae-systems-faces-unlimited-fine-for-u-k-accounting-charge.html
BAE Systems Plc  may face “an
unlimited fine” that surpasses the 30 million pounds ($47
million) it agreed to pay when it is sentenced today for paying
an independent contractor to help win the company a deal for a
$40 million radar system in Tanzania.  Judge  David Bean  in London said at a hearing yesterday he
will decide the amount to fine BAE and that there is no cap on
what he can impose. BAE pleaded guilty last month to not keeping
proper payment records in a deal with the U.K.  Serious Fraud
Office  to end a six-year probe. It had agreed in February to pay
30 million pounds to end the case.  Bean questioned the deal yesterday and said he didn’t want
to sentence the defense company for accounting irregularities
before hearing how the contractor used the payments. The plea
agreement between the SFO and BAE indicates that money paid to
the agent in Tanzania was being used “to bribe decision-
makers” to win the radar system contract, Bean said.  The defense company has been under investigation in the
U.K. since November 2004 for allegedly paying bribes to win
deals in six countries, including Tanzania and the Czech
Republic. The company denies any bribery.  Victor Temple, a lawyer for the SFO, said at the hearing
that BAE admitted in the plea bargain that “there was a high
probability that part of the $12.4 million would be used in the
negotiation process to favor BAE” and for the agent “to
persuade relevant persons to favor BAE in respect of the radar
project.”  Tanzanian Businessman  Temple said the payments, made to entities controlled by
Dar es Salaam-based businessman Shailesh Vithlani, weren’t used
corruptly.  David Perry , a lawyer for BAE, said the company “will not
be sentenced for any offense which it denies.” BAE doesn’t know
what the money was used for, he said.  Bean said the company “turned a blind eye” to what
Vithlani was using the payments for, and that the offense in the
case isn’t one of accounting irregularities or conspiracy to
corrupt, but of concealment.  “Vithlani was to have free rein to make such payments to
such persons as he saw fit to favor British Aerospace, but that
British Aerospace didn’t want to know, they didn’t want to know
the details,” Bean said.  The SFO had postponed asking for court approval of the deal
with BAE until yesterday, as it sought to draft papers that
avoided running afoul of the U.K. courts, which don’t allow the
SFO to agree to a set penalty through a plea arrangement.  $400 Million  BAE agreed in February to pay $400 million to the U.S. and
pleaded guilty to making false statements in connection with
regulatory filings over its dealings in the Czech Republic,
Hungary and Saudi Arabia.  The U.K. settlement concentrates on Tanzania, where BAE
failed to accurately account for the payments to Vithlani from
the start of 2000 until the end of 2005. Payments equal to 29
percent of the value of the radar contract were funneled through
Red Diamond Trading Ltd., a company controlled by BAE and based
in the British Virgin Islands, to an entity there owned by
Vithlani. A fee of 1 percent of the contract’s value was paid by
BAE to a company Vithlani controlled in Tanzania.  The SFO was forced to scrap an investigation into BAE in
2006 over bribes allegedly paid to win deals in Saudi Arabia
after then-prime minister  Tony Blair  said charges might harm
relations between the two countries.  To contact the reporter for this story:
 Lindsay Fortado  in London at 
 lfortado@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net . 