-- Banks Face Basel Capital Rules for Clearinghouse Risks
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2010-12-20T16:37:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-20/banks-face-basel-capital-requirements-for-clearinghouse-risks.html
Banks should be forced to hold
capital to protect themselves from the risk that a clearinghouse
may default, global regulators said in draft proposals.  Rules that allow banks to avoid holding capital against
trades lodged with clearinghouses should be overhauled, the
Basel Committee on Banking Supervision said in a  report  on its
website.  “It is important that banks maintain sufficient capital
for their exposures,” the group said. “Generally speaking” an
amount equal to 2 percent of a bank’s trades through
clearinghouses should be added to the amount of risk-weighted
assets used to determine the lender’s total capital
requirements, it said.  The Group of 20 nations is encouraging greater use of
clearinghouses in a bid to cut some of the risks attached to
derivatives trading. The Financial Stability Board said in
October that it was considering including clearinghouses in a
list of institutions whose collapse would cause “significant
dislocation” to markets and “adverse economic consequences
across a range of countries.”  The Basel committee’s proposals “make a lot of sense,”
 Nicolas Veron , a senior fellow at Bruegel, a Brussels-based
economics research group, said in a phone interview.  “The G-20 approach doesn’t eliminate systemic risk; it
concentrates it in institutions where it is safer and easier to
deal with than investment banks,” said Veron.  Reducing Risk  Clearinghouses operate as central counterparties for every
buy and sell order executed by their members, who post
collateral, reducing the risk that a trader defaults on a deal.  The Basel committee is seeking views on its plans until
Feb. 4. The new rules are scheduled to come into effect in
January 2013, it said.  Regulators recognize that banks “will be increasingly
reliant,” on clearinghouses, the Basel group said. “The small
but positive capital charge is intended to ensure that banks
track and monitor their exposures” to clearinghouses “as part
of good risk management.” It also reflects the fact that
operations with clearinghouses “are not risk free,” the group
said.  Today’s proposal includes rules on capital that banks must
hold in case they are required by a clearinghouse to support
another lender in difficulty.  The Basel committee said it plans to complete work on the
proposals by September 2011.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jim Brunsden  in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net . 