-- BofA, Lenders Face Possible N.J. Foreclosure Freeze
-- B y   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s   a n d   J o d y   S h e n n
-- 2010-12-20T23:33:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-20/bank-of-america-lenders-subject-to-new-jersey-court-order.html
Bank of America Corp. ,  JPMorgan
Chase & Co.  and four other mortgage lenders and loan servicers
face a possible suspension of home foreclosures in New Jersey by
Jan. 19 under a judge’s order.  The action, announced today by New Jersey Supreme Court
Chief Justice  Stuart Rabner , also covers  Citigroup Inc. ’s
mortgage unit,  Ally Financial Inc. ’s GMAC mortgage unit, OneWest
Bank and  Wells Fargo & Co.  The lenders were implicated in
“robo-signing,” the submission of hundreds or thousands of
foreclosure claims that falsely swore to personal knowledge of
their contents, Rabner said.  The six companies must “show cause why the processing of
uncontested residential foreclosure matters they have filed
should not be suspended,” under an order by Judge Mary C.
Jacobson in state court in Trenton.  “It’s important that the judiciary ensures that judges are
not rubber-stamping documents of questionable reliability,”
Rabner said today in a conference call with reporters.  Another 24 lenders and loan servicers with more than 200
residential foreclosure actions each in 2010 must “demonstrate
affirmatively that there are no irregularities in their handling
of foreclosure proceedings,” according to an order by Judge
Glenn A. Grant, administrative director of the courts.  First U.S. State  Rabner said New Jersey is the first U.S. state to take such
an action. The state’s courts received 21,752 new foreclosures
in 2006 and have gotten 65,222 this year, according to Grant’s
order. Only 6 percent of cases were contested this year, meaning
94 percent lacked “any meaningful adversarial proceeding,”
according to the order.  Lawyers in foreclosure cases must also certify that they
have communicated to employees at the mortgage companies that
they have personally reviewed all documents and that they are
accurate, Rabner said.  Bank of America, Wells Fargo and JPMorgan are the three
biggest U.S. home-loan servicers, handling payment collections,
debt modifications and foreclosures on almost 50 percent of the
$10.7 trillion of outstanding mortgages, according to newsletter
Inside Mortgage Finance.  Attorneys general from all 50 states in October started
probing mortgage servicers after revelations that they may have
acted illegally in having employees sign affidavits that they
didn’t review. GMAC Mortgage, JPMorgan Chase and Bank of America
were among companies that temporarily halted foreclosures amid
claims that the legal documents were mishandled.  Suspended Forclosures  Thomas Kelly , a JPMorgan spokesman, declined to comment on
the New Jersey order. Since September, the New York-based bank
has suspended foreclosures in 40 states, including New Jersey,
he said. It resumed foreclosures in some of those states, he
said.  Jumana Bauwens , a spokeswoman for Charlotte, North
Carolina-based Bank of America, said the bank is reviewing the
judge’s order and can’t comment at this time.  Gina Proia , a spokeswoman for Detroit-based Ally Financial,
declined to comment.  New York-based Citigroup “will review the Justice’s order
and will ensure that we meet the new requirements,” spokesman
 Mark Rodgers  said in an e-mail.  Foreclosure Review  “Citi has been continuously reviewing its foreclosure
processes with respect to its U.S. mortgage portfolios,”
Rodgers said. “Last year, we took a series of steps to
strengthen our processes and added additional resources to
ensure foreclosures were being processed correctly.”  Diane Henry , a spokeswoman for Pasadena, California-based
OneWest, declined to comment. OneWest was formed in the
aftermath of IndyMac Bancorp’s failure.  Jason Menke , a spokeswoman for San Francisco-based
Wells Fargo, said in an e-mail: “We recognize and respect the
need to ensure we always comply with respective state laws.
With our outside counsel, we intend to comply with the New
Jersey court’s order and demonstrate why the foreclosures
scheduled in New Jersey should move forward.”  U.S. bank regulators investigating foreclosure problems
could impose fines or seek criminal penalties as soon as
January, said  Julie L. Williams , chief counsel of the Office of
Comptroller of the Currency, said at a congressional hearing
Dec. 2.  The order is In the Matter of Residential Mortgage
Foreclosure Pleading and Document Irregularities, Administrative
Order 01-2010.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 David Voreacos  in Newark, New Jersey,
at   dvoreacos@bloomberg.net ;
 Jody Shenn  in New York at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 