-- Battle Looms on Plan to Raze Polish Villa for Trams
-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   H i c k l e y
-- 2010-12-20T15:09:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-20/battle-looms-on-plan-to-raze-historic-villa-for-polish-tramline.html
Gray, dilapidated and part-
concealed by trees, the Grueneberg villa is unremarkable from
the street in the western Polish city of Szczecin. Up close,
the Jugendstil spider-web pane above the door, decorated
shutters and curved windows with wood-carved frames betray
past glory.  Once home to a dynasty of German organ-builders who were
forced to leave  Poland  at the end of World War II, it is
slated for demolition to make way for a tramline. Music
enthusiasts, heritage campaigners and the Polish family that
has lived there since the war are fighting to save it.  “The villa has survived two wars and communism, and now
the authorities want to destroy it,” Mariusz Lojko, a
Szczecin engineer who is organizing the  protest , said during a
tour of the house. “This is vandalism.”  The Grueneberg family built organs for six generations
and supplied churches across northern  Europe , including the
largest mechanical traction organ in the world for  Latvia . The
family left with most of Szczecin’s predominantly German
population when the city fell to the Red Army. The war
flattened two-thirds of the city, which became Polish in 1945.  A one-time shipbuilding powerhouse, Szczecin closed its
yards last year. Unemployment in West Pomerania province, of
which Szczecin is the capital, stood at 17.7 percent in
October. The city’s bid to be a  European Capital of Culture  in
2016 was rejected this year.  The factory neighboring the villa, where the organs were
built and tested, was partially demolished after the war.  Organ Center  “We want to create an organ and cultural center on the
site to reinvigorate the economy,” said Heddo Heide, an organ
scholar who has joined Lojko’s campaign.  “Barnim Grueneberg built fantastic instruments in the
19th century,” Heide said. “He adopted the German romantic
style of organ building, a change from the baroque
predecessors. The sound is darker, rounder, with softness in
the flute tones.”  Heritage authorities are this week debating whether to
declare the villa a protected site. Ewa Stanecka, the chief
heritage official, didn’t respond to an e-mail and a telephone
message seeking comment.  Even if the site is listed, the battle might not be over
because the city can appeal to the Polish Culture Ministry.
The next move will depend on the historic preservation
authorities’ decision, Piotr Landowski, a spokesman for the
Szczecin local government, said in an e-mail.  EU Financing  The villa isn’t in the tram’s planned path, yet the city
authorities want to build a water drainage installation on the
site. While campaigners say it could easily be built
elsewhere, the authorities are afraid of losing European Union
financing worth 25 million euros ($33 million) if they change
the plan.  Europa Nostra , a Europe-wide heritage-protection group
based in The Hague, wrote to the European Commission urging
that funds for the tramway be made dependent on the villa’s
survival.  An organ center or museum would “increase the city’s
attractiveness for tourists and students,” wrote Denis de
Kergorlay, Europa Nostra’s executive president.  The house stands largely as it was built, though in need
of repair. Inside, the open staircase has wood-carved
banisters, decorated with painted garlands. Art nouveau swirls
adorn the ceiling. The house is divided into four apartments
for the Kepinski family.  “It would be a terrible shame if the family who lives
there is thrown out,” said Burghard Grueneberg, whose
grandfather was the last of the family to live in the villa.  Homeless Appeal  Elzbieta Kepinska-Luzny, whose grandfather was awarded
the empty villa in 1947 by communist authorities, has lived
there since she was born in 1958. She received a confiscation
order from the town offering compensation of about 1,500 euros
-- an amount she says would leave her homeless because it is
not nearly enough to buy an apartment. She is appealing the
order.  “My grandfather thought the villa was very beautiful and
we grew up aware no big changes should be made,” Kepinska-
Luzny explains, sitting at her hearth with tea and a raisin
pudding brought upstairs by her cousin.  Lojko also solicited support from the German government.
The Culture Ministry replied that, while Germany cannot
interfere in a local decision, the government sympathizes with
his campaign and would weigh funding for the restoration if
the villa is saved.  “It’s more than just a villa at stake,” Lojko said.
“This is also about the history of the organ and German-
Polish cultural relations.”  To contact the writer on the story:
Catherine Hickley in Berlin at 
 chickley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 