-- Bayer Pitches Ethylene Plant Atop Shale-Gas Deposits
-- B y   J a c k   K a s k e y
-- 2010-12-20T20:44:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-20/bayer-in-talks-on-west-virginia-ethylene-plant-using-shale-gas.html
Bayer AG , the world’s largest maker
of polyurethane, is trying to persuade potential investors to
build a chemical plant on company sites in West Virginia using
ethane from adjacent shale-gas deposits.  The Leverkusen, Germany-based company is in talks to lease
or sell unused parts of two sites covering 1,460 acres (590
hectares) for construction of a plant known as a cracker, Bryan
Iams, a spokesman for Bayer in Pittsburgh, said today in a
telephone interview. The cracker would convert ethane into
ethylene, a key ingredient in plastics such as polyethylene.  The Bayer properties sit atop the Marcellus Shale
formation, which according to Energy Department estimates is the
largest known U.S. gas field. New drilling techniques are
boosting production from shale formations, keeping U.S. prices
of natural-gas low relative to oil. That’s prompted U.S.
chemical makers  Dow Chemical Co. , Eastman Chemical Co. and
Chevron Phillips Chemical Co. to use more gas as a raw material.  Chevron Phillips received preliminary approval last month
from Texas regulators to reopen a cracker shut in 2008 at its
Sweeny complex, according to a  filing  on the Texas Commission on
Environmental Quality’s website. Eastman is opening a mothballed
cracker in Longview, Texas, because it says low-cost gas has
made the U.S. more competitive. Dow plans to use 30 percent more
ethane, a component of natural gas, at its Gulf crackers.  “The burning question is what to do with all the ethane
coming out of the Marcellus Shale,” John Schirra, a senior
account manager at U.S. chemical maker Ashland Inc., said in a
telephone interview.  No Crackers  The Marcellus formation in western Pennsylvania and
northern West Virginia is unusually rich in natural-gas liquids
including ethane, said  Dennis Yablonsky , chief executive officer
of the Allegheny Conference, a Pittsburgh-based economic
development group. The region has no crackers, he said.  “We are unabashedly trying to attract” the chemical
industry, Yablonsky said in a telephone interview. “We have had
positive feedback that the general premise does make sense.”  Proposals for getting Marcellus gas to the chemical
industry now involve piping it to crackers on the U.S. Gulf
Coast, where the country’s chemical industry in concentrated.  Pittsburgh Chemical Day, an annual  conference  that brings
together companies such as Bayer, Eastman and PPG Industries
Inc., will focus its May 10 event on using Marcellus Shale gas
to bolster investment in the regional chemical industry, said
Schirra, an organizer of the meeting.  Bayer’s sites in New Martinsville and Institute, West
Virginia, have access to rail, water and road transportation,
Iams said. An ethylene plant adjacent to Bayer’s West Virginia
plastics or pesticide plants would cut its raw-materials costs
and draw more manufacturers to the area, he said.  It would cost at least $500 million and require about
4 years to build an ethane cracker capable of producing
1 million metric tons of ethylene a year,  Hassan Ahmed , a New
York-based analyst at Alembic Global Advisors, said in a
telephone interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jack Kaskey  in New York at 
 jkaskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at   scasey4@bloomberg.net  