-- Bears Turn Bulls as U.S. Gains From Roiling Markets
-- B y   R i c h   M i l l e r   a n d   S i m o n   K e n n e d y
-- 2010-12-20T01:55:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-20/bears-turn-bullish-on-u-s-as-obama-benefits-from-roiling-emerging-markets.html
The U.S. may come out ahead in 2011
as policy makers from Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke 
to Chinese Premier  Wen Jiabao  jockey for advantage in the world
economy.  U.S. growth is accelerating as the year ends, with
economists, consumers and companies such as  General Electric Co. 
becoming more confident about next year’s outlook after
President  Barack Obama  struck a tax-cut deal with Republicans
this month. Europe, meantime, is stuck in a sovereign-debt
morass, while China and other emerging countries are struggling
to cap an economically costly run-up in inflation.  “The new, new, new normal is for the U.S. to be looking in
pretty good shape,” said  Jim O’Neill , the London-based chairman
of  Goldman Sachs  Asset Management.  That’s prompting investors to take another look at the
country, O’Neill, who helps manage $823 billion, said last week
in a radio interview on “Bloomberg Surveillance” with  Tom Keene . It’s “raising issues about the whole allocation of
capital between so-called emerging markets and the U.S.,” said
O’Neill, who popularized investing in developing nations by
coining the BRIC moniker for Brazil, Russia, India and China.  Robert Doll , chief equity strategist at  BlackRock Inc.  in
New York, agrees. He said the improving economy and tax-cut
compromise Congress passed last week strengthen the case for
investors being overweight U.S. shares in their portfolios.  Stocks Outperform  “The U.S. will continue to outperform the rest of the
developed world” and will “probably do pretty well versus most
emerging markets as well,” said Doll, who helps manage about
$3.4 trillion. He sees the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  climbing
to the “neighborhood of 1,350” by the end of 2011, compared
with 1,243.91 at 4 p.m. in New York on Dec. 17.  The  Standard and Poor’s 500 Index  of U.S. stocks has risen
12 percent this year, compared with declines in emerging markets
such as China and Brazil and exceeding gains in the MSCI World
Index, which tracks developed-nation equities.  “The U.S. economy unquestionably has some momentum,”
former Fed Chairman  Alan Greenspan  said. “The unemployment rate
should start coming down next year.” Joblessness stood at  9.8
percent  in November, a seven-month high.  U.S. chief executives polled in the fourth quarter by the
Washington-based Business Roundtable were the most optimistic
they’ve been in almost five years.  Jeffrey Immelt , chief
executive officer of Fairfield, Connecticut-based GE, called
Obama’s tax cut and his Dec. 15 meeting with corporate leaders
“real positives.”  ‘Massive’ Stimulus  Even long-time bears on the U.S. economy are becoming more
upbeat.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  chief U.S. economist  Jan Hatzius  lifted his 2011 forecast to 3.4 percent from 2 percent
last month to take account of the tax-cut package and a recent
spate of stronger-than-expected economic statistics.  Mohamed El-Erian , chief executive officer of Pacific
Investment Management Co. in Newport Beach, California, said the
“massive’ stimulus that U.S. policy makers are pumping into the
economy will help it expand by 3 percent to 3.5 percent in the
fourth quarter of next year from the same period this year. He
previously saw growth of 2 percent to 2.5 percent.  El-Erian, a leading proponent of the “new normal” economy
paradigm of sluggish growth for a post-crisis U.S., remains
skeptical that the elevated rate can be sustained beyond 2011
unless the country also acts to enhance its long-term
competitiveness and reduce its medium-term budget deficit.  ‘Bond-Market Crisis’  There are limits to how much fiscal and monetary stimulus
can achieve, he cautioned, pointing in particular to the rise in
long-term interest rates since Obama unveiled his $858 billion
tax-cut compromise with Republicans. The yield on the Treasury’s
10-year note was  3.33 percent  at 5:29 p.m. Dec. 17 in New York,
according to BGCantor Market Data, compared with 2.92 percent on
Dec. 6.  “A bond-market crisis is likely unless we do something
about the budget deficit,” Greenspan said.  Pimco sees the euro area expanding by just 0.5 percent to
0.75 percent next year, while the emerging world will slow as
its leaders fight inflation, El-Erian said. The firm, which
manages the world’s largest bond fund, forecasts combined growth
for China, India, Brazil and Mexico will decelerate to between
6.5 percent and 7.5 percent in 2011, from 8 percent to 9 percent
this year.  Flood of Money  The outlook for 2011 is taking shape as governments and
central banks increasingly shift away from the united approach
they used to tackle the recent recession and begin to work in
their own self-interest, with one country’s gains potentially
causing another’s losses.  Obama’s latest round of fiscal stimulus came after a mid-
year slowdown, partly caused by surging imports, spooked the Fed
into embarking upon its second round of so-called quantitative
easing with a plan to buy $600 billion of long-term Treasury
securities through June 2011.  The resulting flood of money is threatening to overheat
already buoyant emerging markets, even as export-driven
economies such as China resist letting their currencies rise in
response. Their reluctance is stoking demand for commodities and
boosting the cost of energy worldwide, including in the U.S.  “All this liquidity that they’re creating is not going
back to grow the American economy and is going to Asia and other
emerging markets where it’s not wanted,” Nobel laureate  Joseph Stiglitz , an economics professor at Columbia University in New
York, said in Santiago on Dec. 10. “Unintentionally, QE2 is
leading to a fragmentation of global financial markets, because
each country takes actions to protect itself.”  Fanning Inflation  Oil has risen 11 percent in price this year, gold reached a
record $1,432.50 an ounce on Dec. 7 and copper traded at an
unprecedented $9,267.50 last week.  Such increases are fanning inflation in the developing
world. November’s 5.1 percent annual gain in China’s consumer
prices was the largest since July 2008, and people there are
more concerned about rising costs than at any time in the past
decade, according to the country’s central bank. Prices in
Brazil rose by  0.83 percent  in November from the prior month,
the most since April 2005.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index  fell 0.4 percent to
1,110.89 as of 9:25 a.m. Singapore time today. The gauge ended
the day at its lowest level in two weeks on Dec. 16 on concern
that inflation in China and Brazil will accelerate and bank
lending will slow in emerging countries.  Higher Rates  “All of this suggests further monetary tightening and the
use of other policy tools,” said  Gerard Lyons , chief economist
at Standard Chartered Bank in London. Failure to tame inflation
in the East could mean it boomerangs backs on the West as rising
commodity prices combine with stagnant wages to inflict more
economic pain, he said.  David Carbon , head of economic and currency research at DBS
Bank in Singapore, predicts the 10 main Asian central banks
outside Japan will raise rates 24 times by June after 21
increases in 2010, when “they could have and should have done
more.” China boosted its key rate 25 basis points this year to
 5.56 percent ; South Korea raised by 50 basis points to  2.5
percent . Governments have also resorted to controls to slow the
capital influx, with Thailand removing a 15 percent tax
exemption for foreigners on income from domestic bonds.  Many emerging countries, led by China, are reluctant to
contain inflation by allowing their currencies to rise, for fear
of derailing their export-led economies. The yuan ends 2010 less
than 3 percent higher against the dollar than at the beginning
of the year, even after officials pledged in June to embrace
more flexibility. That is drawing fire from U.S. lawmakers, who
want China to do more to encourage domestic demand.  Euro-Area Spat  The risk is 2011 will “see a continuation and possible
deepening of the so-called currency wars and, in particular, an
exacerbation of existing tensions between Beijing and Washington,
thereby risking a broad surge in protectionist actions,” said
 Alastair Newton , senior political analyst at Nomura
International Plc in London.  Meanwhile, euro-area members are squabbling over how to
share the burden of safeguarding their single currency amid a
sovereign-debt crisis that’s forcing them to adopt demand-
depressing fiscal austerity. The spat has left German Chancellor
 Angela Merkel  seeking to impose her country’s economic model of
budgetary prudence on its neighbors before coming to their
rescue, while resisting continental demands to pivot her own
economy away from exports.  ‘Main Risk’  Merkel held out for two months before consenting to help
Greece and spooked investors by suggesting they cover a share of
bailouts. Last week she sparred with European Central Bank
President  Jean-Claude Trichet  over whether to expand aid
packages and with Luxembourg Prime Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker 
about issuing a joint bond.  Andrew Popper , chief investment officer at SG Hambros Bank
Ltd., identifies the region as the “main risk” to global
recovery and market performance in 2011. Greece and Ireland
already were rescued by their neighbors and the International
Monetary Fund this year, and investors now are concentrating
their sights on Portugal as economies throughout the continent
slash budgets to appease investors concerned by fiscal excess.  “Policy makers are going to keep on running into each
other,” said  Stephen King , chief economist at  HSBC Holdings Plc 
in London and a former U.K. Treasury official. The result is a
“very uneasy, very uncertain” world.  Much of the tension will stem from U.S. efforts to pump up
growth and the reactions to those steps elsewhere throughout the
world economy, according to El-Erian.  “The basic premise is that you will see more of the same
in the U.S. unless the rest of the system pushes back hard,” he
said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Rich Miller  in Washington 
 rmiller28@bloomberg.net 
 Simon Kennedy  at 
 skennedy4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net 
John Fraher at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net  