-- BofA Joins Aegon in CMBS Venture as Market Rebounds
-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 2010-12-20T20:44:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-20/bofa-joins-aegon-in-cmbs-venture-as-securitization-rebounds.html
Bank of America Corp. , the largest
U.S. bank, agreed to bundle property loans from  Aegon NV  into
bonds, as the market rebounds for securities backed by
commercial real estate.  Bank of America’s Merrill Lynch business may make
securities from loans to owners of industrial, office, retail
and multifamily residential buildings through Aegon USA Realty
Advisors LLC, a unit of the Dutch insurer, according to a
statement today from the Charlotte, North Carolina-based firm.  Sales of bonds linked to U.S. commercial real estate rose
to more than $11 billion this year from $3.4 billion in 2009 as
investors bet on the ability of retailers and office-building
tenants to stay up to date on payments amid a recovering
economy. Commercial real estate  prices  rose about 4.3 percent in
September, according to Moody’s Investors Service.  The Aegon deal “is just further evidence that the CMBS
market is recovering,” said  Douglas Meyer , an analyst at Fitch
Ratings in an interview today. “The market dried up last year.
It was dead.”  Between 20 and 25 institutions are seeking to originate
loans they plan to package into securities, up from about five
competitors a year ago, Standard & Poor’s said this month.
Berkadia Commercial Mortgage LLC, the servicer backed by  Warren Buffett ’s  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. , said last month that it plans
to use its own capital to fund at least $200 million in loans to
be securitized and sold to investors.  ‘At Least Bottomed’  “It’s a good time to be a mortgage lender,” said Scott
Cote, senior vice president at Aegon USA Realty Advisors, in an
interview today. “Underwriting is not as aggressive as it was
two or three years ago. Clearly, the real estate markets are not
as healthy as we’d like them to be, but we do believe most
markets have at least bottomed, and some are improving.”  Loans will be made with a preference for “primary
markets,” said Cote, without specifying them.  Life insurers including MetLife Inc. and  Prudential
Financial Inc. , the two largest in the U.S., originate loans to
generate profit on funds held to back policies. Newark, New
Jersey-based Prudential said in 2008 that it quit securitizing
commercial mortgages as the real estate slump forced down the
value of fixed-income assets.  Relative Yields  Prudential Executive Vice President  Bernard Winograd  said
in May that the prospect of increased property values makes
mortgage originations an attractive business after the decline
in values in 2008. Relative yields on senior top-rated
securities backed by commercial mortgages fell 1.89 percentage
points in the past year to 2.32 percentage points more than
Treasuries as the economy stabilized, according to a Barclays
Plc  index .  “As the CMBS market continues to recover, this
relationship will allow us to increase our securitization
capacity and strengthen our CMBS origination capabilities,”
said  Mike Mazzei , global head of CMBS at Merrill, in the
statement.  Aegon, which is weighing a sale of its Transamerica
Reinsurance unit, said Dec. 7 that a slide in interest rates in
the U.S. may reduce earnings next year. The company is seeking
to reduce reliance on the U.S. by expanding in faster-growing
markets such as China and India.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Noah Buhayar  in New York at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut in New York at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  