-- Brawn Wows Top Chefs, Brings X Factor Food to East London: Richard Vines
-- B y   R i c h a r d   V i n e s
-- 2010-12-20T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-20/brawn-wows-chefs-brings-x-factor-to-london-food-richard-vines.html
As I watched “ The X Factor ” each
week, there was a moment when the judges walked on stage and the
color on my television went a shade of orange.  I’d grab the remote control and alter the balance, only to
find  Cher Lloyd  and other contestants looking washed out.  It’s like that at Brawn, a new wine bar and restaurant in
London’s East End, where the stark white walls contrast with the
standout aperitif: 2009 Pet Nat de Raisins, Domaine de la
Tournelle, Jura. It’s as fizzy and colorful as a pop star fresh
from the tanning salon, though thankfully less sweet.  One section of the wine list is devoted to “Chenin and
Orange Friends,” another to “Oxidative and/or Yellow.”  Brawn is housed in a corner site that was once a mill for
wood turning. If the tower block down the road and the bars on
Brawn’s windows don’t alert you to the fact this area hasn’t
lost its edge, the locals peering in at the middle-class folk
inside might. It’s on Columbia Road, which hosts a crowded
flower market on Sundays and is quiet the rest of the time.  The interior of Brawn is stripped down and bright, as is
the menu, giving the game away that this is the offshoot of
Terroirs, the simple brasserie and organic wine bar that is a
favorite of chefs and has been drawing crowds of fans since
opening near Trafalgar Square a couple of years ago.  Chef Ed Wilson’s menu is short. There’s a list of four
snacks (including juicy Maldon oysters and 24-month-old
Parmesan), then a selection of charcuterie, featuring a
Gloucestershire middle white terrine (7 pounds/$11) with just
the kind of rough texture and rich flavor you want in an
unpretentious local restaurant.  Skate Wing  There’s a choice of five dishes from the plancha, including
a moist and meaty skate wing (12 pounds) and Shetland mussels
with leeks & bacon. Some of the other hot dishes are brandade
with green beans and warm duck-egg yolk; venison ragu; and baked
field mushrooms, bone marrow, garlic and parsley. The bread --
Hackney Wild Sourdough, from E5 Bakehouse -- is excellent.  My favorite desserts over three visits are crepes with
salted-butter caramel -- light, yet strongly flavored -- and
floating islands of meringues on creme anglaise that are
delicate and not overly sweet. (The other options are lemon tart
or chocolate mousse, and cheese.  The wines are a great pleasure if you’re open-minded and
untroubled by drinking something with the characteristics of a
misty farmyard. I went for one meal with the chef  Francesco Mazzei  of L’Anima and he even bought two bottles to take away:
the fizzy Pet Nat de Raisins (33.50 pounds) and the 2009 Vino di
Anna Jeudi 15, Anna Martens, Etna (30.70 pounds), where you can
almost imagine the mountainside villages where it is grown and
taste the volcanic ash of the soil.  Atherton, Hartnett  Another visit was with  Jason Atherton , whose restaurant
Pollen Street Social is scheduled to open on March 27. Chef
 Angela Hartnett  says one of her two best meals of the year was
at Brawn. St. John’s co-owner Trevor Gulliver has also visited.
Don’t be surprised if you find yourself seated next to a chef.  Each December, I normally ask chefs about trends they
predict for the coming year. This time, I haven’t bothered
because the answer is so predictable: small, unpretentious
eateries serving simple food and offering value for money.  In other words, the future is Brawn -- and orange.  Brawn, 49 Columbia Road, E2 7RG. Tel. +44-20-7729-5692.  The Bloomberg Questions  Cost? Only three dishes on the menu cost more than 10
pounds, yet it’s easy to spend 30 pounds a head on food.  Sound level? Not too noisy: 70-80 decibels.  Inside tip? Try for a corner table at the front.  Special feature? The wine list.  Will I be back? Yes.  Date place? Yes.  Rating? ***  ( Richard Vines  is the chief food critic for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
 Richard Vines  in London at 
 rvines@bloomberg.net  or Richardvines on
 http://twitter.com/home .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 