-- Brazil Frets as Panamericano Exposes Deteriorating Credit Hitting Stocks
-- B y   A l e x a n d e r   R a g i r   a n d   D a w n   K o p e c k i
-- 2010-12-20T20:23:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-20/brazil-frets-as-panamericano-exposes-deteriorating-credit-hobbling-stocks.html
The first investigation into
Brazil’s asset-backed securities industry, rising consumer
delinquencies and the biggest  rout  of a bank stock in more than
a decade are opening cracks in the country’s financial system.  Funding costs for smaller banks have climbed since a Nov. 9
bailout of  Banco Panamericano SA  triggered the probe, pushing
average yields on certificates of deposit to 12.9 percent from
11.8 percent. The market for selling loan portfolios has dried
up, and funds of asset-backed commercial paper have had 2.3
billion reais ($1.3 billion) in redemptions since the rescue,
according to Brazil’s  capital markets association .  The stress in Brazil’s credit markets is damping euphoria
among investors that helped the  Bovespa index  gain 81 percent
since December 2008. The index is the only benchmark stock index
in the Americas to decline this year.  “Panamericano was the wake-up call,” said  Denise Debiasi ,
vice president for Latin America at FTI Consulting Inc., a
Baltimore-based firm started in 1982 to advise on compliance,
risk and finance. “There’s risks people may be overlooking,
like credit quality as the market booms.”  Late payments on credit-card and other consumer loans
jumped 23 percent in November from a year earlier, the biggest
increase since 2001, according to Experian Plc, a credit-risk
consulting firm in Dublin. Brazil, the fourth fastest-growing of
the Group of 20 nations, is also attracting a flood of foreign
capital and facing its highest rate of inflation in five years.  ‘Not Sustainable’  “They’re growing at these levels because of huge domestic
credit growth and loans from the government development bank,”
said  Simon Nocera , co-founder of San Francisco-based hedge fund
Lumen Advisors LLC and a former economist for the International
Monetary Fund. “But this is in a country where there’s no real
credit history. It’s not sustainable.”  Brazil’s central bank tightened capital rules on Dec. 3 to
head off what happened in the U.S. two years ago after investors
poured money into the subprime-mortgage market. The move further
limited funding options for smaller lenders, like Panamericano,
which helped fuel a fivefold expansion of consumer credit in
Brazil to 743.5 billion reais in October from 137.9 billion
reais in December 2002, according to the  central bank .  Dilma Rousseff , 63, who becomes Brazil’s president Jan. 1,
is trying to convince investors she will cut spending and
government-subsidized lending to curb inflation. She succeeds
 Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva , whose policies promoted a 500 percent
surge in the Bovespa index since 2002.  64 Percent Drop  Panamericano, the country’s 21st-largest  bank  by assets,
was bailed out with a 2.5 billion-real loan from its controlling
shareholder,  Silvio Santos , the 80-year-old host of a Sunday
variety show. The rescue prompted investigations into the bank’s
accounting practices, loan-portfolio purchases and the asset-
backed securities industry.  Shares of  Panamericano , based in Sao Paulo, sank 64 percent
from this year’s high on Oct. 13, the biggest drop for a
Brazilian financial stock during a bull rally in the Bovespa
index since at least 2000, according to monthly data compiled by
Bloomberg and Westport, Connecticut-based research firm Birinyi
Associates Inc.  Panamericano led a decline for banks on the  BM&FBovespa
Small Cap index , dropping 4 percent to 4.13 reais. Banco
Industrial e Comercial SA fell 1.1 percent. The Bovespa
benchmark measure slipped 1.1 percent to a 67,263.60.  ‘Isolated Events’  The accounting inconsistencies at Panamericano were
“isolated events,” the central bank said in an e-mailed
response to questions on Dec. 17.  “The problem was found only in that institution,” the
central bank said.  Panamericano doesn’t comment on ongoing investigations,
according to a spokesman at the bank’s external press agency in
Sao Paulo. Officials at Grupo Silvio Santos didn’t return an e-
mail or phone calls after business hours.  Lula, a former union leader who won the presidency in 2002
amid concern that he’d default on the nation’s debt, has lauded
Brazilian banks for withstanding the global credit crisis, which
he described in a May 2009 speech in Istanbul as “the dirty
scheme of a system that was totally out of control in the rich
countries.” He said Brazil’s system has “much more rules.”  Brazil’s economy, growing at its  fastest pace  in more than
two decades, emerged more quickly from the financial crisis than
those of other countries. The currency gained 32 percent against
the dollar since December 2008, as foreign investors last year
poured 20.6 billion reais into the stock market.  BNDES Financing  Much of Brazil’s recovery was financed by the government
development bank, known as BNDES, which more than doubled
lending to companies last year to 137.4 billion reais, exceeding
the $72.2 billion lent globally by the World Bank in the fiscal
year ended in June.  “It was good during the crisis, but now it’s causing all
sorts of credit inefficiencies,” said Nocera, a former fund
manager for Soros Fund Management LLC. “They lend at such low
rates that private banks can’t compete.”  Credit growth has also been bolstered by the emergence of
an asset-backed securities industry after regulators permitted
the issuance and trading of credit-linked notes in 2001. So-
called receivable funds, known as FIDCs and backed by future
cash flow from credit-card, auto and payroll loans, grew to 59.6
billion reais from 1 billion reais in 2003, making Brazil Latin
America’s largest domestic issuer of asset-backed securities,
according to regulatory data compiled by Economatica.  Pension Funds  FIDCs are typically sold to Brazilian pension funds and
asset-management firms. They offer  yields  of 12.2 percent a year
for AAA rated funds to as much as 18.8 percent for lower-rated
securities, said  Jean-Pierre Cote Gil , a director of Latin
American structured finance for Standard & Poor’s in Sao Paulo.
Ten-year U.S. Treasury notes yield 3.32 percent, according to
BGCantor Market Data, and Brazil’s real-denominated government
bonds due in 2021 yield 12.36 percent, Bloomberg data show.  About one-third of Brazil’s FIDCs are backed by loans in
which credit payments are deducted from payrolls of public
employees or income from pensioners, said S&P’s Cote Gil. The
rest are mostly repackaged trade receivables, vehicle loans or
credit-card payments, he said.  Payroll loans in Brazil are similar to payday loans in the
U.S., except the Brazilian government allows banks to deduct the
payments directly from payroll and pension payments before
consumers ever see their checks, making them more secure.  A surge in  credit-card  issuance -- tripling since 2003 to
153.4 million in circulation, according to the industry’s
national association -- has helped bring the debt load of
Brazilian consumers to 18 percent of total disposable income,
compared with 13 percent in the U.S., according to data compiled
by Morgan Stanley.  Late Payments  Deteriorating consumer-credit quality is becoming a
concern, even though FIDCs are structured to mitigate the risk
of default for investors, said Cote Gil.  “As the economy brings to the credit market a type of
consumer that’s not used to credit, it adds to the level of
risk,” he said in a telephone interview. “As much as you can
have credit policies and structured models to eliminate losses,
you are still adding risk either way.”  Late payments rose for a seventh straight month in
November, according to Experian, based on data from credit-card
payments, bills for services and bank loans. Total consumer loan
defaults -- credit payments overdue for 90 days or more -- fell
to 6 percent in October, from 8.1 percent a year earlier,
according to the central bank.  Credit Cards  Credit cards and vehicle financing are lucrative for banks
looking to buy loan portfolios, said  Andrew Frank Storfer ,
president of Anefac, a Sao Paulo-based association of finance
and accounting executives. The average credit-card holder is
charged 238 percent of the principal owed each year, according
to Anefac. Payroll loans, perceived as the least risky, yield as
much 30 percent a year, Storfer said.  Smaller banks, which offer credit to companies and
consumers that typically don’t get loans from Brazil’s largest
banks, including BNDES, are “enormously” important for the
Brazilian financial system, said  Sergio Tabone , a partner and
head of institutional relations at Rio de Janeiro-based Banco
Maxima SA, which offers loans to small businesses and created
one of the first FIDC funds in August 2002.  “The big banks don’t have access to the consumer or
smaller, private companies,” said Tabone. “That’s why smaller
banks are important for credit growth.”  Smaller Banks  Brazil’s smaller banks get most of their financing from the
sale of loan portfolios to larger banks, according to  Peter Shaw , managing director of Latin America for Fitch Ratings in
New York, which said it already had lower grades on the
country’s small and mid-size banks than Moody’s Investors
Service because they’re more vulnerable to liquidity runs.  “There’s a much broader set of banks that have a business
model that’s pretty dependent on wholesale funding,” Shaw said.
“That’s not just Brazil, but seems to be the Achilles’ heel of
the world,” Shaw said.  The loans are generally sold with recourse, meaning the
originator has to make good on those that go bad. An accounting
rule allows banks to book the proceeds from the loan sale as
well as all projected future interest income as revenue when the
loan is sold, even though that money hasn’t been collected from
borrowers and the seller may not see any of that income.  “You are accounting revenue that wasn’t paid for yet and
didn’t take into account the delinquencies, so you are advancing
something that wasn’t paid, that isn’t cash yet,” said  Edgard Dias , the lead bank analyst for Fitch Ratings Brasil Ltda. in
Sao Paulo. “And that goes into your results, which goes into
your net worth, which increases your leverage capacity so you
can lend more and sell more.”  New Rules  Not all banks take advantage of the rule, Dias said. Only
small and mid-market banks that rely on portfolio sales for
financing use it, and not all to the same degree, he said.  The central bank postponed until January 2012 a rule that
would ban the practice of booking future revenue streams, which
Dias said “generates considerable distortions” in revenue,
income and capital levels for some banks. The changes, which
were supposed to take effect in 2009, have been postponed three
times to give the banking system a longer period to recover.  Fraud Probe  In the fraud probe of Panamericano, Brazil’s biggest lender
for used cars, investigators found 2.1 billion reais of losses
stemming from the improper accounting of sales of credit
portfolios, Central Bank President  Henrique Meirelles  said in a
Nov. 17 interview. The central bank also discovered that the
group’s credit-card company owed the lender 400 million reais.  Regulators identified the problem seven weeks earlier when
they noticed Panamericano was recording as assets loans it had
sold to other institutions, and there was evidence that loan
portfolios were sold more than once,  Alvir Hoffmann , director of
supervision at the central bank, told reporters Nov. 10.  Brazilian federal police seized documents and computers
from the homes of former Panamericano executives on Dec. 16.
Deloitte & Touche LLP, the bank’s auditors, may also be
questioned because of accounting inconsistencies that go back
four years, a person close to the probe said Nov. 13, asking not
to be identified because the investigation, the biggest in the
industry since the 2004 bankruptcy of Banco Santos SA, is
confidential. Deloitte declined to comment, according to an e-
mailed statement.  Since the investigation was announced, demand for loan
portfolios has halted, according to Banco Maxima’s Tabone.  “The big banks stopped buying these portfolios after
Panamericano,” Tabone said in an interview. “The reason:
Nobody knows exactly what happened. It looks like a fraud, but
what institution failed to see it?”  ‘Internal Problem’  Gustavo Andre Jorge Rodrigues, who structures FIDCs based
on cash flow from legal claims and mortgages for Vision Brazil
Investments in Sao Paulo, said the issue is one of accounting,
not the structure of the securities.  “In the U.S., they had several levels of derivatives for
one mortgage asset, and in Brazil we don’t use derivatives,”
Rodrigues said. “Every time a problem in a financial
institution comes up they’d like to investigate more into these
kinds of assets. But in this case, I think it was an internal
problem where the auditing wasn’t done correctly.”  Earnings growth  and consumer lending will slow as smaller
banks struggle to raise capital and meet the central bank’s
tighter requirements,  Ceres Lisboa , an analyst at Moody’s
America Latina Ltda., said on Dec. 9 after cutting the outlook
to negative for ratings of four banks that specialize in payroll
and vehicle loans.  ‘Used Cars’  “The issue is liquidity capital and the sustainability of
these franchises,” Lisboa said in a telephone interview.
“Credit sales have slowed because of Panamericano, and that was
an important alternative for funding.”  Vehicle loans make up about half of Panamericano’s lending,
Lisboa said.  “You’re talking about selling used cars to low-income
individuals,” she said. “That’s an asset class that carries
risk.”  Increasing risk perception for smaller banks is highlighted
by rising yields for certificates of deposit, one of the most
important ways of funding for the industry, Tabone said.  Bond prices for lenders with assets less than 2 billion
reais haven’t recovered since they plunged on Nov. 10. The yield
on  Banco Industrial e Comercial SA ’s 8.5 percent debt due in
2020 has climbed 81 basis points, or 0.81 percentage point,
since Nov. 9, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Banco
Daycoval SA ’s 6.5 percent bond due in 2015 rose 85 basis points
in that period.  Credit Bubble  Brazil’s central bank is acting to prevent a credit bubble
by raising reserve and capital requirements to slow consumer
lending. Reserve requirements on time deposits will rise to 20
percent from 15 percent, and an additional requirement for non-
interest-bearing accounts will climb to 12 percent from 8
percent. Banks will also have to use more capital to back
consumer loans whose payment terms exceed 24 months.  Finance Minister  Guido Mantega , who will keep his post when
Rousseff takes office next month, said in a Nov. 30 interview
that Brazil will cut funding for its development bank by 50
percent next year as part of a plan to slow public spending.  The government is also looking to rein in Brazil’s
unregulated credit-card industry, Meirelles said in the
interview last month. The central bank president said there
should be more oversight and that a task force will study the
need for government supervision.  “Some supervision could be proper,” Meirelles said.
“The case of Panamericano showed how this is important.”  ‘Chasing Yield’  Brazil’s  securities regulator , which oversees FIDC funds,
is working with the central bank to ensure that enough
information is provided to investors, according to Francisco
Jose Bastos Santos, head of institutional investor relations at
the Rio de Janeiro-based agency, known as CVM.  “Securitizations like FIDCs and real-estate securities are
at the moment the big challenge in perfecting our regulation,”
Santos said in a Dec. 2 interview.  Adding to the credit anxiety are foreign investors lured by
an inflation-adjusted interest rate of 5.12 percent, second only
to Croatia among 46 countries tracked by Bloomberg. Investors
“chasing yield” are taking the liquidity the Federal Reserve
is pumping into the U.S. economy and investing it in emerging
markets such as Brazil and China, where the payoffs are bigger,
said  Russ Certo , a managing director and co-head of rates
trading at New York-based Gleacher & Co.  The Fed is “sowing the seeds of the next volatile moves in
markets because these policies are destabilizing,” Certo said.
“These economies are afraid of what happens when all this hot
money leaves, because when it leaves, it’s going to be
tumbleweeds.”  ‘Boom-Bust Cycles’  The flood of capital to emerging markets “could be
overwhelming,” Mantega said in an Oct. 9 statement to the IMF,
as some countries “struggle with rapid growth in credit.”  That view echoed an October IMF report that said large
capital inflows to countries such as Brazil, combined with
monetary policies in developed nations, increases the chances
that the financial system will become overleveraged and “raises
the risk of asset-price, boom-bust cycles.”  Jim O’Neill , chairman of Goldman Sachs Asset Management,
who coined the term BRIC -- for Brazil, Russia, India and China
-- said in a radio interview with Bloomberg News on Dec. 14 that
Brazil’s currency is “overvalued.”  “It’s time to be a little bit careful about the B in
BRIC,” he said. “There’s better value elsewhere, I think.”  ‘Increasingly Difficult’  Brazil’s new capital and reserve requirements, while
manageable, will reduce profit margins by as much as 2 percent
and make it “increasingly difficult for banks to grow at
historical levels,” analysts at Morgan Stanley led by  Jorge Kuri  wrote in a Dec. 3 research report.  They said the new reserve rules will most affect  Banco
Santander Brasil SA , the Brazilian unit of Spain’s largest bank,
followed by  Banco do Brasil SA , Latin America’s biggest bank by
assets;  Banco Bradesco SA  in Osasco, Brazil, the country’s
second-biggest bank by market value; and Sao Paulo-based  Itau
Unibanco Holding SA , the largest lender.  Brazilian banks had a median profit margin of 15.31 percent
in 2009, making them almost three times as profitable as U.S.
lenders, which had an earnings margin of 5.7 percent over the
same period, according to Bloomberg data. Financial stocks
almost tripled since their October 2008 low, compared with a 14
percent gain for banks globally, according to MSCI indexes.  ‘Swimming Naked’  Now the world’s biggest banks are fighting for a share of
these profits.  Citigroup Inc. , the third-largest U.S. bank by
assets, already controls 8 percent of the Brazilian credit-card
market,  Manuel Medina-Mora , chief executive officer of
Citigroup’s Global Consumer Bank, said at an investor conference
last month.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. , the second-biggest U.S. bank,
acquired a majority stake in Gavea Investimentos Ltda., a Rio de
Janeiro firm that oversees $6 billion in private-equity, stock
and hedge funds and is managed by former Brazilian central
banker  Arminio Fraga .  “When you have fast loan growth and credit expansion,
everything is fine,” said  Eric Conrads , who helps manage $12
billion in emerging-market funds at ING Investment Management in
New York. “But if sentiment turns, or you get tighter reserve
requirements, what matters is the quality of the assets. When
the water in the pool starts going down, you see who’s been
swimming naked.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Alexander Ragir  in Rio de Janeiro at 
 aragir@bloomberg.net ;
 Dawn Kopecki  in New York at 
 dkopecki@bloomberg.com .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 