-- Australian National Broadband Project Will Cost $35.4 Billion, NBN Says
-- B y   G e m m a   D a l e y
-- 2010-12-20T01:52:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-20/broadband-project-to-cost-35-4-billion-will-cover-13-million-households.html
Australia’s national broadband
network will cost A$35.9 billion ($35.4 billion) and will have
13 million customers by 2021, the project’s operator said today
in a report.  NBN Co. said it will seek debt funding from 2015, expected
to peak at A$13.4 billion, and will generate a 7.04 percent rate
of return, the state-owned company said in the statement.  “Rollout of the NBN is a key element to transform the
Australian telecommunications market,” Chief Executive Officer
Mike Quigley said in a statement.  Prime Minister  Julia Gillard ’s plan to bring high-speed
Internet to some of Australia’s remotest corners drew fire ahead
of the Aug. 21 general election for its cost. She clung to power
by forming a minority government with independent lawmakers from
rural regions who welcomed improved services.  The high-speed Internet service includes a non-binding
agreement with Melbourne-based  Telstra Corp. , the nation’s
biggest phone company, to shut down its copper wire network and
transfer customers to NBN in exchange for A$11 billion in
compensation.  Telstra will hand over assets to NBN, which will build the
nationwide network by 2018. The operator will then join rivals
including Singapore Telecommunications Ltd.’s Optus in leasing
infrastructure from the government.  NBN will lay fiber optics to reach 93 percent of the
population, with the rest of the nation served by wireless and
satellite coverage. It is Australia’s biggest infrastructure
project, a comparable size to the A$42 billion stimulus the
government announced in February 2009 as it sought to protect
the nation from recession.  The government announced A$10 billion package for regional
development that helped woo the independent lawmakers after the
election resulted in a hung parliament.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gemma Daley in Canberra at 
 gdaley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Austin at   billaustin@bloomberg.net  