-- Burkina Faso’s Compaore Plans Mining, Cotton Boost in New Term
-- B y   S i m o n   G o n g o
-- 2010-12-20T16:38:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-20/burkina-faso-s-president-compaore-plans-mining-cotton-boost-in-new-term.html
Burkina Faso President  Blaise Compaore  wants to lure investment in gold mining and boost
cotton production during his new five-year term as leader of one
of the world’s poorest counties.  “We are going to guarantee a healthy climate for business,”
Compaore, 59, said in his inauguration speech in Ouagadougou,
the capital, today. He won a Nov. 21 election with 80 percent of
ballots, extending his 23-year rule of the West African nation.  Burkina Faso , Africa’s largest producer of cotton, is
“heavily dependent” on exports of the fiber and of gold,
according to the African Development Bank. Burkina Faso plans to
boost cotton production 55 percent to 500,000 metric tons next
year, said Celestin Tiendrebeogo, chief executive officer of the
state-controlled cotton company, Societes Burkinabe des Fibres
Textiles, or Sofitex.  In June, Mines Minister  Abdoulaye Abdoulkader Cisse  said
the country wanted to lure companies including Colorado-based
 Newmont Mining Corp.  and Brazil’s Vale SA.  Avocet Mining Plc ,
based in London, operates the Inata gold mine in the country and
Canada’s  Endeavour Mining Corp.  controls the Youga mine.  Opposition leaders have protested the results, organizing a
rally in the capital yesterday to call for the outcome to be
canceled, said Benewende Sankara, who was among the candidates
that ran against Compaore. Two days after the election, a group
of opposition candidates alleged irregularities in the vote,
though observers from the African Union said the ballot was
transparent. In August, Compaore’s ruling Congress for Democracy
and Progress Party proposed scrapping presidential term limits.  Economic Growth  Landlocked Burkina Faso has an annual gross domestic
product per capita of $517, less than the sub-Saharan African
average of $624, according to the World Bank. It ranks 161 out
of 169 countries on the United Nations Development Programme’s
Human Development Index, which measures life expectancy,
literary and standards of living. The country’s economy is
expected to grow 5.5 percent in 2011, from 5.2 percent this
year, the International Monetary Fund said Oct. 1.  Prices for cotton have more than doubled this year on
concern that global supplies will not meet demand. Cotton for
March delivery gained the daily limit today, adding 4 cents, or
2.7 percent, to $1.5412 a pound by 10:19 a.m. on ICE Futures
U.S. in New York.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Simon Gongo  in Ouagadougou via Accra at
   ebowers1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 