-- Buyout Loans to Double Next Year as Funds Seek to Use Up Cash
-- B y   K a r e n   E e u w e n s
-- 2010-12-20T15:38:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-20/buyout-loans-to-double-next-year-as-funds-seek-to-use-up-cash.html
Loans for leveraged buyouts in
Europe could double next year as private-equity firms led by
Carlyle Group and  Blackstone Group LP  seek to invest as much as
$50 billion over the next 12 months.  Credit strategists at Barclays Capital and Deutsche Bank AG
expect 35 billion euros ($46 billion) to 50 billion euros of new
leveraged loans in Europe in 2011. That compares with $16.1
billion of loans to fund buyouts this year, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Private-equity companies have yet to spend about $436
billion of investor money, of which about $50 billion must be
used before the end of next year to avoid expiry, according to
 Tim Friedman , a spokesman for London-based research firm Preqin
Ltd. At current debt-to-equity ratios, that would require about
$150 billion of debt to be raised in the loan and bond markets
to fund about $200 billion of buyouts worldwide.  “There is scope for a doubling of LBO volumes in Europe
next year,” said  Tanneguy de Carne , co-head of Societe Generale
SA’s European loan syndicate in London. “Financing of these
deals is now much easier to arrange. Sponsors need to be seen as
winners of this new environment, which puts pressure on them to
do transactions.”  Private-equity firms have stockpiled cash after two years
of low deal volumes, caused by a shortage of financing from
banks and funds and a reluctance of vendors to sell businesses
amid economic uncertainty. Banks are moving back into lending
for LBOs as their balance sheets recover from more than $1.3
trillion of losses during the credit crisis.  $61 Billion Spree  This year, leveraged loans for buyouts more than doubled
from $7 billion in 2009, according to Bloomberg data, as
private-equity buyers forked out a total of $60.9 billion for
European businesses including Swiss phone company Sunrise
Communications AG and U.K. credit-card processor WorldPay Ltd.  “Some banks that have been on the sidelines of leveraged
finance for the past 12 to 18 months are now re-entering the
space,” said  Tom Muoio , a managing director in Credit Suisse
AG’s loan capital markets team in London.  Private-equity firms have this year been able to raise debt
for larger deals in the loan market or from a mixture of loans
and bonds.  CVC Capital Partners Ltd. got 2.2 billion Swiss francs
($2.3 billion) of loans and bonds in October to finance its
acquisition of Sunrise Communications, the largest LBO financing
this year, Bloomberg data show. That compares with last year’s
largest buyout loan of 690 million euros for CVC’s purchase of
Serbian brewer Apatinska pivara a.d. from Anheuser-Busch InBev
NV in November, the data show.  ‘Art of the Possible’  Next year, the size of individual deals is likely to
increase further, according to Ray Doody, head of acquisition
and leveraged finance at JPMorgan Chase & Co in London.  “We’re confident in Europe right now being able to raise
between 3 billion euros and 4 billion euros for a deal,” said
Doody. “The sponsors, who are sitting on a lot of cash, have
had a pretty significant change in their outlook in terms of the
art of the possible.”  Most private-equity funds have a five-year investment
period in which capital that investors have committed can be
called up to make acquisitions. During this period, the firms
charge management fees based on an investor’s total commitment.
Capital that has not been used when the investment period
expires can no longer be called. In the post-investment period,
the management fee is usually charged only on invested capital.  Apax Buyout Financing  Apax Partners LLP, a London-based private-equity firm,
plans to raise 3 billion euros to 3.5 billion euros from loans
and bonds to fund a bid of about 6.4 billion euros for Danish
cleaning services provider  ISS Holding A/S , three people
familiar with the deal said Dec. 10. That would be Europe’s
largest buyout financing since July 2007, when Kohlberg Kravis
Roberts & Co. got 9 billion pounds ($14 billion) of loans to buy
Alliance Boots Plc, Bloomberg data show.  Apax’s acquisition debt would represent at least 5.5 times
ISS’s earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and
amortization, according to the people. That compares with
average debt of 4.9 times cash flow for leveraged buyouts in the
third quarter, up from 3.9 times in the first quarter of this
year, according to Fitch Ratings.  “We’ll probably continue to see a little creep up of
leverage next year, but I don’t think we’ll see a flood of deals
that are six times levered,” said de Carne from Societe
Generale.  ‘Private-To-Private’  A large portion of LBO volumes next year is still expected
to come from secondary, or so-called ‘pass-the-parcel’, deals
where a business is sold by one private-equity firm to another
and the company’s debt is essentially refinanced, according to
 Eugene Regis , a London-based credit strategist at Barclays. That
would include a private-equity buyout of ISS, which is currently
owned by Goldman Sachs Capital Partners and EQT Partners AB.
Secondary sales accounted for a record 46 percent of all
leveraged buyouts in Europe by value this year, according to
Preqin.  “We expect a fair share of LBO volumes to be private-to-
private, as we saw in 2010,” Regis wrote in a research report
on Dec. 3. “These deals will not necessarily result in a big
supply increase” of new deals for investors, he said.  Regis expects 35 billion euros to 50 billion euros of new
European leveraged loans in 2011, according to the report.
Deutsche Bank sees leveraged-loan volumes increasing to 45
billion euros to 50 billion euros next year,  Mahesh Bhimalingam ,
head of credit strategy, said in an e-mail.  Smaller Market  Even a doubling of LBO volumes next year would be a
fraction of the $170 billion of European buyouts in 2007, when
the LBO market was at its peak, according to Preqin. That year,
leveraged loans to private-equity firms exceeded $200 billion,
according to Bloomberg data.  “We’re headed towards a much smaller leveraged transaction
market, compared with the peak of the market, because the cost
of debt funding has gone up materially,” said  Edward Eyerman ,
head of leveraged finance at Fitch Ratings in London.  The average interest rate for leveraged loans to fund
buyouts in Europe this year was 450 basis points more than
benchmark rates, compared with an average margin of 293 basis
points in 2007, according to Bloomberg data.  “A doubling of LBO volumes in 2011 is something you could
easily see yourself believing in, but we’re not yet back to the
heady days of 2007,” said CVC’s Briggs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Eeuwens in London 
 keeuwens@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net . 