-- California Issues Flood Warnings as Rain, Snowfall Plague U.S. Southwest
-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n   a n d   S a m a n t h a   Z e e
-- 2010-12-20T21:36:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-20/california-issues-flood-warnings-as-rain-snowfall-plague-u-s-southwest.html
Flood warnings and watches stretch
across California and the U.S. Southwest as a powerful storm
dumping rain by the inch and snow by the foot has forced
thousands to flee their homes across the region.  Rain has been falling in Los Angeles since last week, said
Jamie Meier, a National Weather Service meteorologist  in Oxnard,
California.  There have been no mudslides so far, she said.  “The rain has fallen steadily with no real intense,
intense bursts so that has kept any debris flow activity and
mudslides at bay,” Meier said by telephone. “Tuesday night
into Wednesday we’re expecting a more intense burst of rainfall,
so that could be the straw that broke the camel’s back.”  More than 9 inches (23 centimeters) of rain have fallen in
the mountains north and east of Los Angeles since the storm
began last week, according to the weather service. Mammoth
Mountain in California, about 30 miles south of Mono Lake, has
received about 12 feet of snow, said John Feerick, senior
meteorologist with  AccuWeather Inc.  in State College,
Pennsylvania.  Flood warnings and winter storm warnings have also been
posted for southern Nevada including Las Vegas and western New
Mexico and southern Utah, according to the weather service. An
avalanche warning has been posted for the mountains of Utah and
Colorado, meaning dense and heavy snow can come crashing down.  “Backcountry travelers should use extreme caution and
avoid traveling on or under steep, snow-covered slopes,”
according to the weather service.  Evacuations  The heavy rains in the lower elevations have also prompted
evacuations in many of the small towns across the region. In
McFarland, California, 135 miles north of Los Angeles, 2,000
residents were evacuated because of flooding, according to a
statement from the Kern County Fire Department.  In Bakersfield, 10,000 empty sandbags are being distributed
to residents to help fight the flooding, according to a  Kern
County Fire Department  statement. A countywide emergency has
been declared.  “The bad news is it doesn’t look like it is going to shut
off until Thursday,” Feerick said. “This is a very impressive
storm.”  In the long run, Feerick said, the storm may actually be
beneficial to California and Nevada. The Pacific Ocean is
currently in its La Nina phase, cooler than normal, and that
often brings droughts to the U.S. Southwest.  “I guess you can chalk this up to natural variability in
the weather,” Feerick said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Brian K. Sullivan  in Boston at 
 Bsullivan10@bloomberg.net ;
Samantha Zee in San Francisco at 
 szee@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at   dstets@bloomberg.net . 