-- Canadian Currency Falls for a Third Day on Speculation Recovery Flagging
-- B y   C h r i s   F o u r n i e r   a n d   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a
-- 2010-12-20T22:02:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-20/canada-s-currency-strengthens-first-time-in-three-days-as-crude-oil-gains.html
Canada’s currency fell for a third
day versus the U.S. dollar after Canadian wholesale prices
unexpectedly stalled and a Chicago Federal Reserve business
gauge slid, fueling concern North America’s recovery is ebbing.  The loonie, as the nation’s currency is known, weakened
against most of its 16 major counterparts before reports
tomorrow that are forecast to show growth in Canadian consumer
prices and retail sales slowed. Crude oil, the nation’s largest
export, fluctuated.  “The Canadian dollar is underperforming on concern about
tomorrow’s economic reports,”  Kathy Lien , director of foreign-
exchange research at online currency trader GFT Forex, said by
phone from New York. “Wholesale sales is something that we look
closely at as a leading indicator for the retail sales report
and appetite in general.”  The Canadian currency depreciated 0.3 percent to C$1.0168
per U.S. dollar at 5 p.m. in Toronto after earlier advancing as
much as 0.4 percent, from C$1.0140 on Dec. 17. It touched
C$1.0209, the weakest level since Dec. 1. One Canadian dollar
buys 98.35 U.S. cents.  The loonie reached C$1.0001 on Dec. 15, the strongest level
since it last traded at a one-for-one level with the U.S. dollar
on Nov. 11. It came within one cent of parity every day from
Dec. 2 through Dec. 17.  Canadian  wholesale sales  unexpectedly stalled in October at
C$44.9 billion ($44.4 billion), Statistics Canada said today in
Ottawa. The median forecast in a Bloomberg survey was for a gain
of 0.8 percent. The Chicago Fed’s index of national activity
fell to minus 0.46 last month, from minus 0.25 in October,
compared with a Bloomberg survey’s median forecast for zero.  Impact on Exports  “If the U.S. industrial sector isn’t going gangbusters, it
can have an impact on Canadian exports to the U.S.,” said  David Watt , senior currency strategist at Royal Bank of Canada’s RBC
Capital unit in Toronto.  Crude oil gyrated after the euro weakened against the
dollar on concern Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis will spread
from Greece and Ireland to other nations in the region, curbing
the appeal of commodities as an investment. Crude for January
delivery tumbled as much as 0.9 percent and increased as much as
1.1 percent.  Canadian government bonds rose, pushing the benchmark  10-
year note ’s yield down as much as six basis points to 3.13
percent, the lowest level since Dec. 6, before trading at 3.17
percent. It climbed to 3.37 percent on Dec. 14, the highest
since June 21. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point. The price
of the 3.5 percent security due in June 2020 increased 15 cents
to C$102.70.  Debt Crisis  The single European currency dropped versus 15 of its 16
most-traded counterparts today, including the loonie, after
Moody’s Investors Service downgraded the creditworthiness of
Ireland Dec. 17 and an accord by European Union leaders at a
summit failed to allay speculation the crisis will deepen.  Moody’s cut Ireland’s credit rating to Baa1 from Aa2 after
Irish lawmakers voted to accept an 85 billion-euro ($113
billion) aid package. The new rating, three levels above non-
investment grade, is the same one carried by countries that
include Russia and Lithuania.  Consumer prices in Canada rose last month at an annual pace
of 2.2 percent, compared with a 2.4 percent rate in October,
according to the median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey of
22 economists before Statistics Canada releases the data
tomorrow.  Retail Sales  Retail sales increased 0.5 percent in October, after rising
0.6 percent in the previous month, according to a separate
Bloomberg survey. The statistics agency will report the data
tomorrow.  “Markets will be watching tomorrow’s CPI and retail sales
before moving wholeheartedly into holiday mode,”  Camilla Sutton , chief currency strategist in Toronto at Bank of Nova
Scotia’s Scotia Capital unit, wrote in an e-mail.  In the past two years there has been no better place for
foreign-exchange investors than in nations such as Canada whose
economies are tied to commodities. Now the rally has left those
currencies at least 9.5 percent overvalued based on the relative
costs of goods and services as measured by the Organization for
Economic Cooperation and Development.  Exchange rates for Australia, Canada and New Zealand have
appreciated at least 20 percent since the start of 2009 as their
central banks boosted interest rates to curb inflation from
rising prices of their raw-materials exports, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Strengthening Unlikely  Surveys of strategists and economists by Bloomberg News
show none of the so-called commodity currencies are likely to
strengthen next year. Not even demand for commodities may be
enough to sustain support for their valuations, said  Ken Dickson , a money manager at Standard Life Investments.  “The commodity currencies are at extremes,” said Dickson,
who helps oversee $240 billion in Edinburgh.  The Canadian dollar is likely to be little changed at the
end of 2011, trading at C$1.01, according to the median estimate
of 32 forecasts compiled by Bloomberg. Australia’s dollar will
end next year at 98 U.S. cents, compared with 99.37 cents today.  The loonie gained 3.8 percent over the past year in a
measure of 10 developed-nation currencies, Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes showed. The Australian
dollar strengthened 11 percent, while the U.S. dollar
depreciated 1.6 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Chris Fournier  in Montreal at 
 cfournier3@bloomberg.net ;
 Catarina Saraiva  in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  