-- Canada Wholesales Unexpectedly Stall In October as Machinery Sales Decline
-- B y   A l e x a n d r e   D e s l o n g c h a m p s
-- 2010-12-20T16:00:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-20/canada-wholesales-unexpectedly-stall-in-october-as-machinery-sales-decline.html
Canadian  wholesale sales 
unexpectedly stalled in October as a drop in machinery and
equipment offset gains in sales of vehicles and personal and
household goods.  Wholesale sales were little changed at C$44.9 billion
($44.4 billion), Statistics Canada said today in Ottawa. The
result was lower than all 12 estimates in a Bloomberg  survey ,
which had a median forecast of a 0.8 percent gain.  The wholesale data and tomorrow’s report on retail sales
are the last components of October’s  gross domestic product 
report due Dec. 23. Canada’s output growth slowed to a 1 percent
annualized pace between July and September, the statistics
agency said Nov. 30.  “The details are better than the large headline miss
suggests,”  Derek Holt , vice president of economics at Bank of
Nova Scotia’s Scotia Capital unit in Toronto, wrote in a note to
clients.  Holt said the lack of growth can be explained in part by a
drop in prices. The volume of wholesale sales, which removes the
effect of price changes, rose 0.3 percent, Statistics Canada
said. As well, the agency revised its estimate of September’s
wholesale sales increase to 0.7 percent from an initial estimate
of 0.4 percent, creating a higher starting point, he said.  The Canadian currency depreciated 0.5 percent to C$1.0193
per U.S. dollar at 10:34 a.m. in Toronto, compared with C$1.0140
on Dec. 17. One Canadian dollar buys 98.09 U.S. cents.  GDP Growth  Krishen Rangasamy , an economist with Canadian Imperial Bank
of Commerce, said in a note to clients that today’s wholesale
sales report won’t cause CIBC to revise its prediction of a 0.4
percent gain for October GDP.  The Bank of Canada may keep its benchmark interest rate
unchanged at 1 percent until the second quarter of next year,
according to a separate Bloomberg survey. Governor  Mark Carney 
said Dec. 7 that foreign trade has been a drag on economic
growth and Europe’s debt crisis threatens the global recovery.  Wholesale sales of motor vehicles and parts rose 2.8
percent to C$7.9 billion in October, Statistics Canada said.
Sales of personal and household goods rose 1.7 percent to C$6.97
billion, the agency said. Four of seven major categories posted
gains.  Machinery, equipment and supplies fell 3.5 percent to
C$9.14 billion.  Inventories fell 0.7 percent to C$52.5 billion. The
inventory-to-sales ratio, a measure of how many months it would
take to deplete stocks at the current sales pace, declined to
1.17 in October from 1.18 in the previous month.  Wholesale sales were 8 percent higher in October than the
same month a year earlier, while inventories were 0.8 percent
higher.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alexandre Deslongchamps  in Ottawa at 
 adeslongcham@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  