-- Canada Data Probe Should Look For Trading Linked to Leaks, NDP Leader Says
-- B y   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s   a n d   A l e x a n d r e   D e s l o n g c h a m p s
-- 2010-12-20T15:55:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-20/canada-data-probe-should-look-for-trading-linked-to-leaks-ndp-leader-says.html
Opposition lawmakers are asking that
an external probe commissioned by the Canadian government into
early data releases by Statistics Canada examine whether anyone
profited from the practice.  Canada announced Dec. 17 it hired  KPMG LLP , the global
accounting and professional services firm, to conduct an
investigation of the early release of economic data, in a bid to
protect the statistics agency’s credibility. KPMG will complete
its investigation by March 31, according to a  statement 
published on the agency’s website.  The probe should uncover why “a select few were given
privileged access in the past,” said  Thomas Mulcair , who is
deputy leader and spokesman for economic and financial issues
for the New Democratic Party, in an e-mail. That should help
KPMG answer the “most sensitive” question, Mulcair said, “did
that prior access allow those with such knowledge to make
successful speculative trades?”  Industry Minister  Tony Clement , who is responsible for
Statistics Canada, ordered the investigation after the federal
agency, Canada’s primary source of economic information, said it
had allowed distributors to get information as much as “59
seconds” ahead of the official release. The agency stopped the
practice on Nov. 25 after being alerted to it by Bloomberg News.  The main opposition Liberal party supports the review,  Marc Garneau , the Liberal spokesman for industry, said in an e-mail.
The review should see “whether the advance notice of up to 59
seconds gave anyone an unfair advantage,” Garneau said.  Protect Credibility  Chisholm Pothier , a spokesman for Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty , referred all questions on the issue to the industry
ministry. Flaherty is in Kananaskis, Alberta, for a meeting
today with his provincial and territorial counterparts.  There is no evidence so far that anyone profited from
Statistics Canada’s early releases, Clement told reporters Dec.
16 in Ottawa. The agency must resolve questions about the
disclosures to protect its credibility, he said.  In its statement, Statistics Canada said it is “committed
to ensuring that the information the agency delivers is timely,
relevant and made available to the public with consistency and
transparency.”  The agency has a policy of providing equal access to all
users. It conducted investigations last year into reports that
some data may have been leaked, without finding anything wrong.  Statistics Canada has agreements with 10 distributors,
including Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg News, which are
licensed to disseminate its data.  Three Distributors  In a Dec. 3 statement to Bloomberg, the agency said that
following a “preliminary examination” of access logs from
November it had found three distributors, including Bloomberg,
had access to the data before the release time. The agency
didn’t say for how long the practice had been going on and has
declined to provide the names of the other two distributors,
citing agency policy.  The revelations prompted opposition lawmakers, including
Liberal Party Leader  Michael Ignatieff , to call for a review.  In addition to a probe of the early releases, KPMG will
also do a “general review” of the federal agency’s data
release procedures, according to the Dec. 17 statement.  “It’s classic for a government to seek to concentrate on
recommendations for the future, thus avoiding too close a look
at its own choices in the past,” Mulcair said.  Investors use Statistics Canada data to trade bonds, stocks
and the currency, as well as to place bets on the path of
monetary policy. The Canadian dollar is the world’s seventh-
most-traded currency, according to an April 2010 survey by the
Bank for International Settlements, with daily turnover on
trades against the U.S. dollar averaging $182 billion.  The agency’s 10 paying distributors are Bloomberg, the
Conference Board of Canada, EcoWin AB, Emerging Markets Economic
Data Ltd., FactSet Research Systems Inc., Global Insight
(Canada) Inc., Haver Analytics, Moody’s Economy.com, Nomura
Research Institute Ltd. and Thomson Financial Investment
Management Group, according to Statistics Canada’s website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Theophilos Argitis  in Ottawa at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net ;
 Alexandre Deslongchamps  in Ottawa at 
 adeslongcham@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net . 