-- CBS, Couric Discuss Pay Cut, Wider Role as CNN Waits
-- B y   R o n a l d   G r o v e r   a n d   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 2010-12-20T21:12:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-20/cbs-couric-said-to-discuss-lower-pay-wider-role-for-anchor-as-cnn-waits.html
CBS Corp.  began preliminary talks on
a new contract for  Katie Couric , looking to cut the evening news
anchor’s $15 million salary and possibly expand her role amid
falling viewership, people with knowledge of the situation said.  The network and  Alan Berger , Couric’s agent at Creative
Artists Agency in Los Angeles, began talks in early December,
said the people, who insisted on anonymity because the
discussions are private.  Time Warner Inc. ’s CNN also has
expressed interest in Couric, 53, two people said.  Both sides recognize Couric’s salary must be reduced for
her to remain at CBS, one of the people said. This season, the
“CBS Evening News With Katie Couric” is averaging 5.73 million
viewers a night, according to Nielsen Co. data, behind NBC and
ABC, and down 24 percent from when she took over in 2006.  “Katie is enjoying herself at CBS and is proud of her
award-winning show,” said  Matthew Hiltzik , her spokesman.  Gil Schwartz , a CBS spokesman, declined to comment.  CBS and Couric haven’t addressed specific terms yet, one of
the people said. The anchor’s contract provides a window when
she can entertain offers from companies other than CBS, one of
the people said.  One option for Couric would be to produce and host a show
that New York-based CBS could syndicate, the person said. The
anchor intends to continue her 40-minute online chats with
guests that have included former Vice President  Al Gore  and pop-
star Justin Bieber, said one of the people.  2006 Contract  Couric also expects to continue taking assignments for
CBS’s “60 Minutes,” the person said.  In 2006, CBS signed Couric, a former host of NBC’s “Today
Show,” to a five year-contract at $15 million a year that
expires May 31. Given the pace of change in media, both sides
said another five-year contract is unlikely, one person said.  During Couric’s four-plus years in the anchor chair, the
audience for CBS’s nightly newscast has declined faster than at
rival telecasts, according to Nielsen data. NBC’s newscast is
averaging 8.59 million viewers a night in the current TV season,
down 5 percent from four years ago, while second-place ABC is
averaging 7.47 million, down 12 percent.  CBS, which leads the four major broadcast networks in
prime-time ratings this season, gained 15 cents to $18.92 at
4:01 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite  trading . The
shares have gained 35 percent this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ronald Grover  in Los Angeles at 
 rgrover5@bloomberg.net ;
 Andy Fixmer  in Los Angeles at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rob Golum at   rgolum@bloomberg.net  