-- Census Data to Add Clout to Republican-Leaning States
-- B y   J o h n   M c C o r m i c k   a n d   T i m   J o n e s
-- 2010-12-20T18:28:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-20/census-reapportionment-to-add-heft-to-republican-leaning-states.html
Republican strongholds in the U.S.
South and West are poised to gain political power in time for
the 2012 presidential election, taking electoral votes away from
states  Barack Obama  carried in 2008, new population data is
likely to show.  The  U.S. Census Bureau  releases 2010 state population
totals tomorrow, and the information will be used to reallocate
many of the 435 U.S. House seats and provide a fresh look at
America for demographers, planners and business.  Gains in the South and West will come at the expense of the
Northeast and Midwest, which stand to lose as many as 10 seats
in the U.S. House. Texas could be the biggest winner, with
 projections  suggesting a gain of four seats, while Ohio could be
the biggest loser with a possible loss of two.  “This will help Republicans in the House,” said  Andrew Smith , a political science professor at the University of New
Hampshire in Durham. “The states that are gaining are primarily
Republican states, and Republicans are much more likely to win
those new seats.”  Nine states are projected to lose representatives and eight
are likely to gain, according to a Bloomberg forecast that used
2008 and 2009 population estimates to predict 2010 populations
for each state. That’s similar to a projection from  Election
Data Services Inc. , a consulting firm based in Manassas,
Virginia, that expects 18 states will see their number of
representatives change.  Winners and Losers  Besides Texas, other potential winners are Arizona,
Florida, Georgia, Nevada, South Carolina, Utah and Washington,
the Bloomberg analysis shows. Probable losers are Illinois,
Iowa, Louisiana, Massachusetts, Michigan, New Jersey, New York
and Pennsylvania, as well as Ohio.  The scope of the reapportionment would be the smallest
since 1970 if just 17 states see a gain or loss. That’s a
reflection of slower migration in recent years triggered by the
worst recession since the Great Depression.  Nevada , which is projected to gain one seat, was the
nation’s fastest-growing state for much of the past decade,
before its growth was stunted by the recession. The state had
the highest foreclosure filing rate for the 47th straight month
in November, at one in every 99 households, five times the
national average, according to  RealtyTrac Inc .  New Look  The latest state population counts will mark the start of a
 new look at America . The census data will be used by the
government to distribute more than $400 billion in annual
 federal funding , by businesses to identify markets, and by
social scientists to examine the changing demographics.  Tomorrow’s  release  will include only population counts.
More detailed data on race, ethnicity, housing and other
variables will gradually be provided, beginning in February, for
all levels of geography, from neighborhoods to states.  Congressional seats are  reapportioned  every decade after
completion of the census, with each district to have roughly the
same number of people. After the 2000 Census, each member was
supposed to represent about 647,000 people, which will now
increase to reflect the nation’s growth.  Electoral Votes  The reapportionment will also alter electoral vote
calculations. A state’s Electoral College vote is the sum of its
House seats, plus its two Senate seats. That could provide
assistance to Republicans as they prepare to oppose an Obama re-
election bid.  Robert Gibbs , the White House press secretary, discounted
the importance of the potential shift, telling reporters today
that the movements wouldn’t represent a dramatic change in
presidential politics.  “I don’t think shifting some seats from one area of the
country to another necessarily marks a concern that you can’t
make a politically potent argument in those new places,” he
said.  Of the eight states that may gain at least one seat, five
were won by Arizona Senator  John McCain  when he was the 2008
Republican presidential nominee. Obama carried eight of the nine
states most likely to lose seats, including New York and Ohio.
The only McCain-voting state in this group is Louisiana, which
is projected to lose one of its seven seats, after residents
fled from 2005’s Hurricane Katrina.  The state counts will include residents, plus military and
federal civilian employees and their dependents from that state
who are living outside the U.S. The populations of the District
of Columbia and Puerto Rico are excluded from the apportionment
totals because they don’t have voting seats in the U.S. House.  Possible Surprises  Kimball Brace , president of Election Data Services, said
there will probably be at least a few surprises when the data is
released. He also said it’s “very likely” the states closest
to the cutoff for losing a seat will file lawsuits.  “In the past, they have been generally unsuccessful,” he
said.  The biggest loser for total seats could be Ohio, which has
played a pivotal economic and political role for two centuries.
It is the birthplace of  seven presidents  and a core member of
the nation’s manufacturing heartland, producing automobiles,
rubber, steel and glass.  Since January 2000, Ohio has lost 409,000 manufacturing
jobs -- a 40 percent drop --  Bureau of Labor Statistics  data
shows.  Shifting Employers  Ohio’s industrial heritage has taken a back seat to  Wal-
Mart Stores Inc. ,  Kroger Co.  and the  Cleveland Clinic , the
state’s three  largest employers , according to the Ohio
Department of Development.  General Motors Co. , once a major
employer in the state, ranks 23rd.  As jobs moved out, the state’s political influence began to
slide. Ohio had 24 members in its congressional delegation in
1972. Today, it has 18, and that number is projected to drop
again this time.  “It’s all about votes and power,” said  Ned Hill , an
economist and dean of the college of urban affairs at  Cleveland
State University . “Ohio and the Midwest are going to be at a
huge competitive disadvantage.”  Traditional voting behavior has worked against most
northern states, Hill said.  “The North has never had the same levels of seniority as
the South,” Hill said, referring to members of Congress. “We
tend to vote ours out more frequently. That meant the political
power in the Midwest and Northeast was based more on the sheer
numbers of representatives.”  Boehner Advantage  For at least the 2011-12 congressional term, Ohio will have
the advantage of Representative  John Boehner , a native son and
the presumed  Speaker of the House  in the new session.  New York, which lost two seats in 2000, is projected to
lose ground in the House for the seventh consecutive
reapportionment, dropping from 29 seats to 27 or 28, the
Bloomberg analysis shows.  As recently as the 1940 reapportionment, New York had 45
seats. If the state drops to 27, it will have as small a House
delegation as it had in 1810.  The loss of a seat in Pennsylvania would mark the ninth
consecutive reapportionment where it has lost.  The potential gain of four seats for Texas would be the
biggest jump in the state’s representation since it went from
six to 11 seats in the 1880 reapportionment.  Florida will probably gain one or more seats for the 11th
consecutive reapportionment, while Arizona is likely to gain at
least one seat for the sixth time in a row.  If California doesn’t win an additional House seat, it
would mark the first time in state history that it wouldn’t gain
representation. The nation’s largest state now has 53 seats.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 John McCormick  in Chicago at 
 jmccormick16@bloomberg.net ;
 Tim Jones  in Chicago at 
 tjones58@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net . 