-- Chesapeake Energy Rises After Icahn Increases Stake
-- B y   J i m   P o l s o n
-- 2010-12-20T21:05:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-20/chesapeake-energy-shares-advance-after-icahn-raises-stake-discloses-talks.html
Chesapeake Energy Corp. , the second-
biggest U.S. natural-gas producer, rose the most in seven months
after billionaire investor  Carl Icahn  boosted his stake and said
he was talking to management about increasing its value.  Chesapeake, based in Oklahoma City,  rose  $2.06, or 8.8
percent, to $25.36 at 4:01 p.m. in composite trading on the New
York Stock Exchange, the biggest increase since May 4. Before
today, it had fallen 10 percent this year.  Icahn increased his ownership to about 5 percent from 2.5
percent and is holding talks about raising the share price,
according to a filing after the close of regular trading Dec.
17. That would make Icahn the second-largest shareholder behind
Southeastern Asset Management Inc., which had a 12.4 percent
stake as of Sept. 30, according to  data compiled by Bloomberg .  “We have met with Carl on several occasions, including as
recently as Friday afternoon,”  Jeffrey Mobley , Chesapeake
senior vice president for investor relations, said in an e-mail
today. “His investment is evidence of his appreciation for our
asset quality and the strategic direction of the company.”  Chesapeake Chief Executive Officer  Aubrey McClendon  has
announced $3.8 billion of asset sales this year to fund the
company’s switch to more oil production. Crude prices are 16
percent above the previous five-year average while oversupply of
gas drove prices down 36 percent below the average.  Chesapeake announced Dec. 14 it has hedged 90 percent of
its expected 2011 gas production at an average price of $5.84
per million British thermal units on the New York Mercantile
Exchange. That’s 33 percent above this year’s average price.  Icahn’s  Dynegy  Bid  Icahn, 74, agreed on Dec. 15 to buy  Dynegy Inc ., the third-
largest U.S. power producer for $665 million, or $4.7 billion
including assumption of debt, 10 percent more per share than an
offer by  Blackstone Group LP  that shareholders rejected on Nov.
23. If successful, the purchase will be Icahn’s largest in 10
years including debt, according to Bloomberg data.  The transaction is opposed by Seneca Capital, the second-
largest holder of Dynegy shares.  Exxon Mobil Corp . is the largest U.S. gas producer,
according to the Natural Gas Supply Association.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jim Polson  in New York at 
 jpolson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tina Davis at   tinadavis@bloomberg.net . 