-- China Eastern, Singapore Air Combine Shanghai Cargo Carriers to Boost Hub
-- B y   C h a n   S u e   L i n g
-- 2010-12-20T04:30:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-20/china-eastern-plans-to-invest-150-million-for-51-stake-in-cargo-venture.html
China Eastern Airlines Corp.,
Singapore Airlines Ltd. and partners agreed to combine three
air-cargo carriers to bolster their presence in Shanghai,
China’s busiest air freight center.  China Eastern, Singapore Air’s cargo unit, a unit of
Taiwan-based  EVA Airways Corp.  and China Ocean Shipping (Group)
Co. will invest a total of 2.05 billion yuan ($307 million) in
China Cargo Airlines to support the takeover of two other
freight carriers, according to a Hong Kong stock exchange
statement today.  China Eastern is consolidating freight operations following
the takeover of Shanghai Airlines Co. to strengthen its presence
in Shanghai, where the company is based. The move will help the
carrier compete with a Cathay Pacific Airways Ltd. and Air China
Ltd. cargo venture that’s due to start services by Dec. 31.  “Managing one company rather than three will help save
costs,” said  Kelvin Lau , a Hong Kong-based analyst at Daiwa
Institute of Research. “Exports are still in the growing phase
for China and imports are also doing quite well.”  China may become the world’s largest exporter and second-
biggest importer by the end of the year, with total foreign
trade of $2.9 trillion in 2010, Xinhua News Agency said Dec. 16,
citing Chinese Commerce Minister  Chen Deming .  Share Performance  China Eastern, the nation’s second-biggest carrier, will
invest 1.05 billion yuan in China Cargo and hold a 51 percent
stake, while China Ocean Shipping (Group) Co. will put up 348.5
million yuan for a 17 percent stake. Singapore Air’s cargo unit
and Concord Pacific Ltd., a unit of EVA Airways, will each
invest 328 million yuan in exchange for a 16 percent stake
apiece.  China Cargo, which will acquire the assets of Shanghai
Cargo Airlines and Great Wall Airlines, will have registered
capital of 3 billion yuan following the restructuring. Prior to
the new arrangement, the company was owned by China Eastern and
Cosco Group.  Shanghai Cargo was formed as a venture between Shanghai Air
and EVA Air. Great Wall is owned by China Eastern’s parent,
Singapore Air and Singapore investment company Temasek Holdings
Pte. China Eastern already manages operations.  China Eastern  fell 3.2 percent to HK$3.60 as of 12:21 p.m.
in Hong Kong trading, while  Singapore Air  gained 0.5 percent to
S$15.16. Cathay fell 1.6 percent to HK$21.85.  Cargo Rebound  Growth in China has encouraged FedEx Corp., the second-
largest U.S. package-shipping company, to add two new services
linking China and the U.S., and Hong Kong’s Cathay to boost
freight capacity from next year. Cathay’s cargo venture with Air
China will give the carrier access to freight hubs in Shanghai
and Beijing.  Airlines in the Asia-Pacific region are forecast to post a
combined profit of $7.7 billion this year, the highest of any
region, led by growth in China, the  International Air Transport
Association  said Dec. 14. Global freight traffic at Asia-Pacific
airports increased almost 23 percent in the first 10 months of
the year, according to the Airport Council International.  The surging traffic may help Cathay surpass Korean Air
Lines Co. as the world’s biggest international air-cargo carrier
this year. Hong Kong, which neighbors the Pearl River Delta,
China’s main manufacturing hub, is on course to surpass Memphis,
Tennessee, as the world’s busiest air-cargo airport this year.
Memphis is the home to FedEx’s main hub.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Chan Sue Ling  in Singapore 
 slchan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  