-- Kangmei, China Drugmakers' Shares Tumble on Report of Further Price Cuts
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-12-20T06:04:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-20/china-may-reduce-drug-prices-by-an-average-of-40-economic-observer-says.html
Kangmei Pharmaceutical Co.  paced
declines by Chinese drugmakers after the Economic Observer
reported the government may cut medicine prices by 40 percent.  A  gauge  of health-care stocks tumbled 3.4 percent, the most
among the 10 industry groups on the CSI 300 Index, at 1:27 p.m.
in Shanghai. Kangmei Pharmaceutical lost 4.9 percent to 21.10
yuan.  Beijing Tiantan Biological Products Corp.  retreated 3.3
percent to 23.09 yuan while North China Pharmaceutical Co.
dropped 3.7 percent to 16.27 yuan.  The National Development and Reform Commission may lower
prices by an average 40 percent for 658 approved medications,
the  Economic Observer  reported today, citing officials from
unidentified pharmaceuticals companies. The NDRC didn’t
immediately respond to a fax seeking comment.  “Lowering the drug prices has been and will continue to be
a trend,” said  Li Ying , a health-care analyst at Capital
Securities Corp. in Shanghai. “As the government wants to make
medical care affordable to everyone, more price cuts are
underway.”  The latest reduction in prices will be the fourth for
nationally approved drugs since 2009, the newspaper said. Some
prices of Chinese traditional medicine and vitamins will be
subject to cuts of as much as 70 percent, it said, citing a
government plan that hasn’t been made public. Injections of
vitamin B6 will fall to 0.17 yuan ($0.03) from 0.39 yuan, the
newspaper said.  The proposal comes after  Anhui Province  initiated cuts
averaging 50 percent on 852 separate drug items in September,
the report said. NDRC officials praised the move and used it to
shape a national plan, it said.  Company Appeals  Drug companies are appealing to the State Council and the
NDRC because the cost of some medications would be higher than
their price, it said. The production cost of Agastachis Herbal
Liquid is 3.7 yuan at  Zhejiang Conba Pharmaceutical Co. , while
 Shu Zhong Pharmaceutical Group  won a government contract in
Anhui with a price of 1 yuan, the report said.  China last month cut prices of drugs made by foreign
companies including Roche Holdings AG and Bristol-Myers Squibb
Co. as part of government efforts to rein in health-care costs.  -- Yidi Zhao ,  Irene Shen . Editors:  Richard Frost , Margo Towie   To contact the Bloomberg News staff on this story
Yidi Zhao in Beijing at 
 yzhao7@bloomberg.net ;
Irene Shen in Shanghai at 
 ishen4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Austin at 
 billaustin@bloomberg.net ;
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  