-- Christie Cuts to Local Aid Make New Jersey Towns Lead U.S. Bond Downgrades
-- B y   T e r r e n c e   D o p p
-- 2010-12-20T17:07:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-20/christie-cuts-to-local-aid-make-new-jersey-towns-lead-u-s-bond-downgrades.html
Towns and cities in  New Jersey , the
second-wealthiest U.S. state, lead the nation in bond-rating
downgrades this year.  From  Newark  to  Seaside Heights,  home of MTV’s reality
television show “Jersey Shore,” Moody’s Investors Service cut
ratings on $1.7 billion in general-obligation debt issued by at
least 24 municipalities in New Jersey this year, almost twice as
much as the next-highest state,  New York , according to a tally
by Bloomberg News. The moves follow local-aid cuts by Democratic
Governor  Jon Corzine  and his Republican successor,  Chris Christie , who has also enacted a 2 percent annual cap on
property-tax increases.  “It’s a great referendum on my fiscal policies,”
Christie, 48, said of the downgrades on Dec. 16. “It says that
we’re getting our fiscal house in order. When other states get
their houses in order, they will see the downgrades too.”  Municipal bond-rating cuts by Moody’s this year also
include Los Angeles, San Francisco, Philadelphia and Chicago,
after the slumping housing market ate into real-estate values
and assessments of property declined.  Across the U.S., local governments collected 1.8 percent
less in taxes this year than in 2009, the Washington-based
 National League of Cities  said in an October report. Revenue may
continue declining into 2012 as governments lag at least 18
months behind the private sector in feeling the effects of any
economic turnaround, the group said.  ‘Downstreaming the Deficit’  In New Jersey, Christie has “cut back a lot to balance the
budget, and one of the biggest items in those cutbacks is aid to
municipalities,”  Alan Schankel , director of fixed-income
research at Janney Montgomery Scott LLC, a Philadelphia-based
broker, said in an interview.  “They’re downstreaming the deficit,” Schankel said. “The
state starts out with a deficit; they close it and cut back in a
lot of areas, but the biggest impact is on municipalities.”  Christie’s state has 566 towns and cities, 604 school
districts and 21 counties, more local governments per square
mile than any other, according to the New Jersey League of
Municipalities. This abundance of entities with the power to tax
and borrow in part contributes to the overall volume of
downgrades, said  Howard Cure , director of municipal research at
Evercore Wealth Management LLC in New York.  The governor reduced state aid to municipalities by $446
million, or 23 percent, in his first budget this year. That
followed aid cuts in 2009 by Corzine. Christie also signed a law
in July that cuts in half the 4 percent limit on property-tax
increases enacted by Corzine. The new cap takes effect in 2011.  Moody’s Action  The tax cap has strained municipalities’ ability to make up
reduced revenue,  Josellyn Yousef , a Moody’s analyst, said Dec.
16 in an e-mailed statement. She attributed a “confluence of
factors” to the downgrades, including high personnel costs.  “We’ve also witnessed cuts in state aid playing a
significant role, as municipalities that were previously quite
dependent on this revenue stream attempt to adjust budgets
quickly in order to compensate for the revenue loss,” Yousef
said. “These pressures have reduced current fund balance levels
and liquidity, which in turn has translated to reduced financial
flexibility.”  New Jersey towns and cities downgraded this year include
 Trenton , the state capital, and  New Brunswick , home to Rutgers
University. Green Brook, 40 miles from New York in Somerset
County, had its rating cut today by Moody’s.  Borrowing Costs  Newark, New Jersey’s largest city, had the rating on $500
million in bonds cut this month to the fourth-lowest investment
grade after “narrow liquidity necessitated cash-flow borrowing
for the first time in recent years,” Moody’s said. Lower
ratings can raise the cost of borrowing as investors demand
higher yields in exchange for what they see as more risk.  Moody’s last month cut its rating on Wood-Ridge, a Bergen
County community of 8,000 residents which relies on property
taxes for nearly two-thirds of its revenue. Mayor Paul Sarlo, a
Democrat, is also chairman of the state Senate Budget and
Appropriations Committee.  “The way he’s balancing the state budget is just putting a
greater burden on municipalities,” Sarlo said in an interview
in the Statehouse. “Our municipalities are relying on less and
less support from the state of New Jersey. The instability it
has created only leads to these downgrades.”  Falling Home Prices  Moody’s assigned a negative outlook to all U.S. local
governments in 2009, citing “unprecedented fiscal challenges”
faced by American counties, cities and school districts.  New Jersey’s median income, the second-highest in the
nation, dropped to $50,313 last year from $51,473 in 2008,
 according  to the U.S. Commerce Department’s Bureau of Economic
Statistics. The median sale price of an existing home in the
state fell to $316,700 in the third quarter, from $349,800 in
2008, according to a  report  from the New Jersey Association of
Realtors.  As home prices declined, the number of homeowners
challenging property-tax assessments in state Tax Court jumped
to 18,147 during the fiscal year ended June 30, from 10,067 in
fiscal 2007, according to a report by the state judiciary.  Municipalities that avoided a downgrade this year include
 Summit , a Wall Street commuter town and Corzine’s former home,
whose top Aaa rating was affirmed this month. Moody’s also
affirmed the ratings of  Fair Lawn , 12 miles (19 kilometers) west
of New York City, and the shore town of Point Pleasant.  Property Taxes  Christie, the first Republican elected governor of New
Jersey since 1997, ousted  Corzine  as residents grew frustrated
over property taxes that jumped 70 percent over a decade to an
 average  of $7,281 in 2009, the highest in the nation.  Speaking to reporters in Trenton on Dec. 16, Christie said
the downgrades are because the state is righting its finances
after a decade of consecutive deficits. Balancing the state
budget will be even tougher next year, he said, declining to say
whether he would cut municipal aid further.  In Audubon, a borough of 8,716 people in southern New
Jersey outside Philadelphia, a Dec. 14 ratings cut is
“absolutely going to have a long-term impact,” said
Administrator  David Taraschi .  With even the smallest town-controlled streets often
costing more than $1 million to resurface, Audubon and other
communities may have a harder time borrowing to repair roads and
sewers, he said.  “We have no real vision right now of how to fix our
infrastructure,” Taraschi said in a Dec. 14 interview. “No one
has the money right now.”  Following is a list of New Jersey towns and cities downgraded by
Moody’s this year:  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Terrence Dopp  in Trenton, New Jersey, at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at   mtannen@bloomberg.net . 