-- Christie Nominates Cerf to Be New Jersey's Next Education Commissioner
-- B y   T e r r e n c e   D o p p
-- 2010-12-20T20:00:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-20/christie-nominates-christopher-cerf-for-new-jersey-education-commissioner.html
New Jersey Governor Chris Christie
nominated  Christopher Cerf , a former deputy chancellor of the
New York City school system, to be the state’s next education
commissioner.  Cerf, 56, would replace Bret Schundler, whom Christie fired
in August after the state lost $400 million in federal school
funding because of an error on an application. Christie, a
first-term Republican, announced the nomination at a press
conference in the Statehouse today.  Christie, 48, has said New Jersey’s public-education system
is too costly and failing many children. He proposed changes in
September that include linking teachers’ pay and tenure to their
students’ performance, and making it easier for districts to
fire their worst educators.  “Mr. Cerf’s innovative leadership will be invaluable as we
address the civil-rights issue of our time,” Christie said in a
statement today. “For far too long, the education establishment
and political leadership in our state and across the country
have accepted low expectations and failure -- particularly in
our urban school districts.”  Cerf said he is a registered Democrat and a resident of
Montclair, in northern New Jersey. His selection must be
approved by the Democratic-controlled state Senate.  Per Student  Assembly Education Committee Chairman Patrick Diegnan, a
Democrat, said in a statement that Cerf “combines an impressive
background with extensive experience.”  Before working for the New York City Department of
Education, Cerf was president and chief operating officer of New
York-based Edison Schools Inc., a private operator of schools,
after working as its general counsel and executive vice
president.  Cerf left the New York City post in 2009 to work on Mayor
 Michael Bloomberg ’s re-election campaign. Bloomberg said Cerf
“played a crucial role in our work to turn around a once-broken
school system that had failed generations of students.”  “His creativity and leadership, and his willingness to
tackle the toughest issues head-on by putting the interests of
children ahead of the special interests, helped our
administration achieve record gains in achievement levels and
graduation rates,” Bloomberg said in a statement.  The mayor is founder and majority owner of Bloomberg News
parent Bloomberg LP.  Students, Teachers  Cerf said he supports allowing students and parents to
choose which public schools they attend, increasing
accountability and linking teacher pay to performance.
He also said he’ll seek to narrow the performance gap between
students in poor and wealthy districts.  “We can all talk about reform, but it’s really the
interface between the student and the teacher where the
difference is made,” Cerf said during a news conference with
Christie today.  New Jersey spends $25 billion on education a year, and its
per-pupil spending was the highest in the nation at $17,620 for
the 2007-2008 school year, according to information from
Christie’s office.  Christie has said the New Jersey Supreme Court’s Abbott v.
Burke series of decisions, which began in 1990 and required the
state to equalize spending between rich and poor districts,
resulted in an unaffordable education system.  Teachers Union  The governor has battled with the state’s teachers union
after reducing school aid and pushing to cut pensions and
benefits. In April, voters rejected a record 59 percent of
school budgets after Christie urged them to do so in districts
where teachers refused to accept wage freezes.  “You have one group of people that have been standing in
the schoolhouse door blocking reform,” Christie said today in
his office in the state capital of Trenton. “I will not be a
punching bag for defenders of the status quo.”  Schundler, a former Jersey City mayor and two-time
Republican candidate for governor, has acknowledged making an
editing mistake that cost the state 4.8 points on its
application for the U.S. Education Department’s Race to the Top
competition. New Jersey lost by 3 points, which let Ohio qualify
as the last of 10 states to win a share of the grants.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Terrence Dopp in Trenton at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  