-- Christmas Gets Costly as U.S. Retailers Avoid Panic
-- B y   C o t t e n   T i m b e r l a k e
-- 2010-12-20T21:19:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-20/christmas-becomes-pricier-as-u-s-retailers-avoid-panic-holiday-discounts.html
Wal-Mart Stores Inc. ,  Saks Inc.  and
other U.S. retailers are avoiding profit-eating discounts late
in the holiday season, potentially helping them wring more out
of sales in the days before Christmas.  Stores have kept supplies tight, forcing shoppers to pay up
for popular gifts like toys, outerwear and sweaters. The refusal
by many retailers to panic and chop prices may pay off in fatter
 profit margins  during the biggest shopping period of the year,
according to  Ken Perkins , president of Retail Metrics Inc.  “I’m not seeing many deals,” said Jubie Deane, a 37-year-
old mother of one who paid full price for a baby toy from a Toys
“R” Us Inc. pop-up store in Manhattan on Dec. 18. “I would
have expected bigger discounts at this point.”  Wal-Mart, the world’s biggest retailer, has raised prices
on hundreds of toys, and Saks has cut back the duration of some
promotions and applied them to fewer brands than in 2009. While
discounts of as much as 65 percent could still be found at some
U.S. retailers on the last shopping weekend before Christmas,
others were holding the line at 40 percent.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Retailing Index rose 3.84 points,
or 0.8 percent, to 510.73 at 4:05 p.m. New York time. The index
has gained 24 percent this year, compared with a 12 percent
increase in the S&P 500.  This year retailers discounted early and often to woo deal-
hungry consumers, said Perkins, whose research firm is based in
Swampscott, Massachusetts. The difference is that more of the
promotions appear planned, and therefore profitable, and not
designed to unload bloated inventories, he said.  “Strategic Discounting”  “Discounting seems to be more strategic than emergency,”
said  Michael McNamara , a vice president at MasterCard Advisors’
SpendingPulse, a Purchase, New York-based research firm.  Retailers reported strong traffic on Dec. 18, or so-called
Super Saturday, which vies with Black Friday as the busiest
shopping day of the year.  “We had traffic levels in general that were higher than
Black Friday,” said William Taubman, chief operating officer of
Taubman Centers Inc., which owns malls around the U.S.  Industry groups including the National Retail Federation
and the International Council of Shopping Centers have raised
forecasts for holiday spending this month as shoppers, buoyed by
an improving economy, returned to the stores.  Consumer confidence rose in November to the highest level
in five months as more Americans, whose purchases account for
about 70 percent of the U.S. economy, put faith in improving job
and income prospects.  That cheer has bumped up holiday gift budgets. Sixty-two
percent of adults expected to spend the same or more this season
than last year, according to an NRF survey released Dec. 15.  Full Price  Retailers are taking advantage of shoppers’ willingness to
spend more and pay full price on certain items. Toy and other
prices at Wal-Mart increased this month after temporary price
rollbacks ended Nov. 30,  Ravi Jariwala , a spokesman for the
Bentonville, Arkansas-based chain, said in an interview. In past
seasons, Wal-Mart took on rivals with such signature rollbacks.  Victoria Sigmon, 53, was shopping for her 10 grandkids at a
Wal-Mart a few miles from her home in Dayton, Ohio.  “You go down the toy aisles and everything seems to be
$20, it’s kind of a set price,” she said. “Wal-Mart has a
better selection, but K-Mart I think has better prices.”  Shoppers who thronged the Stony Point Fashion Park mall in
Richmond, Virginia, on Dec. 18 were willing to pay full price
for items they wanted, according to  Karen MacDonald , a
spokeswoman for Taubman, which owns the mall.  Thinning Inventories  At Taubman shopping centers across the U.S., stores have
been reporting thinning inventories of popular items, she said.
For example, stock of women’s shoes and apparel at the Westfarms
mall in Farmington, Connecticut, has been running low for the
past week.  “Shoppers are having to trade up, which is great for the
stores,” COO Taubman said in an interview today.  Coach Inc., Urban Outfitters Inc.,  Zumiez Inc.  and Los
Angeles-based Guess? Inc. are retailers with “pricing power,”
which will help them through the holidays, said  Christine Chen ,
an analyst with Needham & Co. in San Francisco.  “Because their brand is hot and they have really clean
inventories, if you want it, you are going to have to pay full
price for it,” Chen said. “It’s not like you are going to see
nothing on sale there, but you are not going to see blanket 40
percent off the entire store.”  Widening Margins  New York-based  Coach  has sold out of $498 gathered leather
Sophia satchels in cream and in gray on both coasts and online,
she said, while Urban Outfitters’s Anthropologie chain has run
out of a $398 “Chocolate & Coffee” coat in small sizes. At
Everett, Washington-based Zumiez, some graphic skateboards are
gone, as are some twill pants at Guess?, she said.  Some retailers are already pointing to widening gross
profit margins -- the percentage of sales left after the cost of
goods sold. Last month, Saks projected that its  gross margin  for
the second half of the year would be as much as 39.7 percent,
surpassing its August projection of 39 percent at most.  U.S.  retailers  will post an average gain of 11 percent in
fourth-quarter earnings per share, excluding some items,
according to analyst estimates compiled by Retail Metrics.
That’s higher than the average 9.6 percent gain estimated on
Nov. 12, Perkins said. Analysts began moving up projections
after sales accelerated in the first two weeks of November and
in the days after Thanksgiving, he said.  Less Prosperous  Not all retailers are prospering this season.  Best Buy Co. ,
the world’s largest consumer-electronics retailer, said last
week that profit growth will shrink this year after television
sales fell short of expectations.  Talbots Inc. , the
Massachusetts-based women’s clothing retailer, probably will
post a quarterly loss after its fashions failed to draw
customers, analysts predict.  “So far the consumer has blinked first, and everyone is
kind of giddy,” said Robin Lewis, Chief Executive Officer of
the Robin Report, a retail industry newsletter. “But we are
rounding the turn into the final stretch, and retailers that
didn’t do so well over the weekend are going to panic, and they
are going to be dumping merchandise.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Cotten Timberlake  in Washington at 
 ctimberlake@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Robin Ajello  at 
 Rajello@bloomberg.net  