-- Collahuasi Declares Force Majeure as Copper Port Shut
-- B y   M a t t   C r a z e
-- 2010-12-20T18:49:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-20/collahuasi-copper-mine-declares-force-majeure-after-port-accident-in-chile.html
Anglo American Plc  and  Xstrata Plc’s 
Collahuasi venture, the world’s third-largest copper mine,
declared force majeure after an accident closed down its port.  Collahuasi won’t ship copper from the Patache port in
northern Chile until further notice, Bernardita Fernandez, a
company spokeswoman, said today in an e-mailed statement.  Three workers died after a ship-loader at the port
collapsed on Dec. 18. Collahuasi is evaluating the extent of the
damage and time for repairs, Fernandez said. Force majeure is a
legal clause invoked by companies when they can’t meet
obligations because of circumstances beyond their control.  A disruption at Collahuasi is set to further tighten
supplies of copper in a market where prices have risen to a
record because of increasing demand and a decline in warehouse
 stockpiles . Copper for delivery in three months rose 1.4 percent
to $9,201 a metric ton in London.  Part of the “firmer tone” in copper prices today is
attributable to the Patache accident,  Edward Meir , a senior
commodity analyst at MF Global Holdings Ltd. in Darien,
Connecticut, said in a report today.  A month-long strike by unionized workers at the same mine
may affect annual production targets,  Miguel Angel Duran , head
of Anglo’s Chilean operations said on Dec. 14. The strike ended
Dec. 7.  Anglo and Xstrata each own 44 percent of the mine. A group
led by Mitsui & Co. holds the remainder.  Collahuasi produced 535,000 metric tons last year, or 3.5
percent of global output, according to Standard Bank Plc. Its
production is only surpassed by Escondida and Freeport-McMoRan
Copper & Gold Inc.’s Grasberg mine in Indonesia.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Matt Craze  in Santiago at 
 mcraze@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  