-- Community Health to Push Tenet Board Nominees to Advance Hostile Takeover
-- B y   D r e w   A r m s t r o n g
-- 2010-12-20T21:09:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-20/community-health-to-nominate-tenet-board-directors-to-advance-takeover-bid.html
Community Health Systems Inc. , the
largest publicly traded hospital company, plans to nominate
directors for Tenet Healthcare Corp. to advance an unsolicited
$3.3 billion takeover bid.  Community Health’s plan to sponsor board candidates is
“solely to help advance its inadequate and opportunistic
proposal,”  Tenet  said today in a statement. The bid of $6 a
share, consisting of $5 in cash and $1 in stock, was announced
Dec. 9, and rejected by Dallas-based Tenet as “not remotely
fair value.”  Community Health made 8  acquisitions  in the past 2 years,
and 15 since 2005. There have been 315 acquisitions in the U.S.
hospital industry in the past five years, with an average
purchase price of $589 million and an average premium of 8
percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Mergers in the
industry increased as hospital patient admissions slowed because
of economic conditions,  Sheryl Skolnick , an analyst at CRT
Capital Group in Stamford, Connecticut, said on Dec. 10.  “It is unfortunate that Tenet’s  board of directors  has
rejected our proposal and refused to sit down with us to discuss
our premium offer,”  Wayne Smith , Community Health’s chief
executive officer, said in a statement today. “We intend to
propose directors who will look out for the interests of Tenet
shareholders.”  Shares Fall  Tenet gained 2 cents to $6.76 at 4 p.m. in New York Stock
Exchange composite trading. The shares are trading above
Franklin, Tennessee-based Community Health’s bid, indicating
that investors expect a higher offer. Community Health declined
23 cents, or less than 1 percent, to $36.46.  “A deal is going to happen,”  Jason Gurda , an analyst with
Leerink Swann & Co. in New York, said in a  note  to clients. He
said Tenet shares are likely to rise as Community Health
proceeds with the bid.  Community Health’s bid represented about a 40 percent
premium over Tenet’s $4.29  closing price  on Dec. 9, before the
offer was announced. Community Health said at the time it also
would take on about $4 billion of debt in the transaction.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Drew Armstrong  in Washington at 
 darmstrong17@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net . 