-- Commodities Rally Falters in Currency Futures as History Shows Dollar Wins
-- B y   Y i   T i a n   a n d   D e b a r a t i   R o y
-- 2010-12-20T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-20/commodities-rally-falters-in-currency-futures-as-history-shows-dollar-wins.html
Speculators betting the commodities
rally will continue into a third year are being confronted by
currency investors wagering the dollar will strengthen in 2011.
If history is any guide, the foreign-exchange market will win.  Traders have almost  tripled  their net-long positions in 20
raw-material futures the past five months to the highest level
in at least four years, driving a 26 percent gain in the  Thomson
Reuters/Jefferies CRB Index , government data show. Contracts on
the dollar strengthening against the euro have climbed to a
three-month high. The U.S. currency moved in the opposite
direction of commodity prices 18 of the past 22 quarters,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The U.S. Dollar Index has risen 5.9 percent since Nov. 4 on
signs the Federal Reserve’s quantitative easing policy was
boosting the U.S. economy. The inverse relationship between the
currency market and commodities has strengthened since 2005 and
last month reached the highest level in a year. Open-interest
data shows investors are stepping back from raw materials after
gold and cotton climbed to records and oil and copper reached
the highest levels since 2008.  “A lot of the big rise in commodities has not been about
fundamentals, but was driven by hot money pouring in as people
backed away from other assets,” said  Peter Sorrentino , who
helps oversee $13.8 billion at Huntington Asset Advisors in
Cincinnati and predicted the 2008 slump that sent the CRB index
to a 36 percent loss. “Going against the signals from the
currency market would be like spitting in the wind.”  Correlations  During the 11 quarters in which the  Dollar Index  has gained
since the first quarter of 2005, the CRB fell eight times, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. The 120-day correlation coefficient
between the two gauges touched -0.95 last month, the strongest
inverse relationship in more than a year, the data show.  A reading of 1 indicates two assets move in lockstep, while
-1 shows the reverse. In December 2000, the reading was 0.5 to
0.6, signaling limited correlation, data compiled by Bloomberg
show.  The CRB climbed 1.8 percent to 320.62 last week to the
highest level since October 2008. This year, cotton almost
doubled, silver touched a 30-year high, and coffee reached the
highest level since 1997.  IntercontinentalExchange Inc.’s Dollar Index, which
measures the currency’s performance against six counterparts
including the euro and yen, gained 0.4 percent to 80.373 last
week, extending its 2010 rise to 3.2 percent.  Different This Time  Commodity bulls are betting this time is different, as
China’s 10 percent economic growth spurs record demand for  sugar 
and soybeans and rising imports of  copper  that helped send
inventories on the London Metal Exchange to the lowest since
October 2009.  An  index  of net-long positions by hedge funds and other
large speculators in commodity futures from silver to natural
gas climbed to 1.535 million contracts on Dec. 7, the highest
level since at least February 2006, as far back as data is
available from the Commodity Futures Trading Commission. Net
holdings were 520,530 contracts on July 6.  “We will see commodities decoupling from the dollar,”
said  Christoph Eibl , who manages more than $2 billion as the co-
founder of Zug, Switzerland-based Tiberius Asset Management AG.
“Demand for metals is strong, and that will help buoy higher
prices.”  Trimming Bets  Contracts outstanding on the 19 commodities in the CRB
Index show investors are  trimming  positions. The so-called open
interest slipped 6.1 percent to 7.36 million contracts from a
32-month peak of 7.84 million on Nov. 12, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  Investor demand for commodities increased amid the worst
financial crisis since the Great Depression and widening budget
deficits in Europe and the U.S. because raw materials tend to
maintain their value as confidence in financial assets ebbs.  Commodity assets under management totaled a record $354
billion in November, up 31 percent from the end of 2009 and
almost four times as much as in 2005, according to data compiled
by Barclays Capital.  The cash inflow may total $60 billion this year after
reaching $76 billion in 2009, the most ever, said  Suki Cooper ,
an analyst at Barclays in New York. Exchange-traded products
linked to metals, agricultural products and energy surged 22-
fold since 2005 to $147 billion last month, she said.  ‘Rather Dubious’  “I’m becoming concerned over the degree of speculation in
the commodity” markets, said  David Rosenberg , the chief
economist at Gluskin Sheff & Associates, a wealth management
firm in Toronto. “The outlook for a continuation of the bull
market over the next six months appears to be rather dubious.”  Rosenberg predicted in December 2007 that the U.S. would
enter a recession, a year before it was declared by the
Cambridge, Massachusetts-based National Bureau of Economic
Research. He said in late July that the rebound in the Standard
& Poor’s 500 Index “has run out of steam.” The benchmark gauge
for American equities has gained 13 percent since July 30.  He’s now projecting the dollar will gain as much as 10
percent over the next six months as Europe’s debt crisis spreads
from Greece and Ireland to Portugal and Spain. Bets by hedge
funds and other large investors that the dollar will strengthen
have climbed this month to the highest level since Sept. 10.  Speculators held a  net-short position  on the euro of 15,290
futures contracts as of Dec. 7, CFTC data show. As recently as
Oct. 5, the net-long holding had reached a one-year high of
48,243 contracts. As of Dec. 14, net-shorts totaled 10,304, the
latest data show.  Biggest Trade  The euro-dollar trade is the biggest in the currency
market, according to the Basel, Switzerland-based Bank for
International Settlements. The euro accounts for 57.6 percent of
the weighting in the Dollar Index, which retreated 14 percent
from June 7 through Nov. 4 amid concern the U.S. would fall back
into a recession and the Fed would debase the greenback by
purchasing $600 billion in Treasuries. The dollar then rebounded
as reports on industrial production, consumer confidence and
retail sales signaled the American economic recovery was gaining
momentum.  About $4 trillion in currencies trade daily on the world’s
exchanges, compared with $391 billion of futures and options on
raw materials, estimates from the BIS and Barclays show.  “The currency market is massive compared to commodities,”
Huntington’s Sorrentino said. “When money comes surging into
commodities like it has, it makes it more vulnerable to the
swings of sentiment. The currency market has a tendency to swing
quickly and catch people off guard.”  Dollar Output  Europe’s fiscal woes will send the Dollar Index to its
highest level since July 1 as soon as next quarter, according to
 Michael Pento , a strategist who forecast the 2008 slump in
commodities, last year’s rebound and 2010’s rally in gold.  Rising debt levels will drag on global growth and commodity
prices, said Pento, the senior economist at Euro Pacific Capital
Inc. in New York. Copper may drop 11 percent to $3.75 a pound in
New York in the first half from a 31-month peak on Dec. 14, he
said.  “Is the economy muddling along? Yes,” Pento said in a
telephone interview. “Is all the news bad? No. But you cannot
have all these debt issues and then expect to have all the
problems solved so quickly and go back to prosperous growth.”  China’s growth will slow to 9 percent in 2011, according to
the median estimate of 18 economists surveyed by Bloomberg. The
central bank raised lending and deposit rates in October for the
first time since 2007 to combat the fastest inflation in two
years.  Slower Expansion  The U.S. expansion will slow to 2.6 percent from 2.8
percent this year, the median forecast of 69 economists in a
Bloomberg survey showed.  None of the currencies of countries whose economies are
most tied to commodities are likely to strengthen next year,
according to surveys of strategists and economists by Bloomberg
News. Exchange-rates for Australia, South Africa, Brazil,
Canada, New Zealand and Chile are all at least 10 percent
overvalued based on the relative costs of goods and services,
after rallying at least 17 percent, according to the
Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development in Paris.  “The dollar will be fine,” said  Michael Aronstein , the
New York-based strategist at Oscar Gruss & Son Inc. who
predicted the 2008 commodity plunge. “I’m not a big advocate of
commodities at the moment. There are better alternatives.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yi Tian in New York at 
 ytian8@bloomberg.net ;
Debarati Roy in New York at 
 droy5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net . 