-- Crane Board Recommends Shareholders Reject Offer From Fletcher Building
-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s   a n d   R o b e r t   F e n n e r
-- 2010-12-20T04:45:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-20/crane-board-recommends-shareholders-reject-offer-from-fletcher-building.html
Crane Group Ltd. , an Australian
seller of pipes and plumbing products, recommended shareholders
reject a takeover offer from Fletcher Building Ltd., saying the
bid was “inadequate.”  The offer doesn’t recognize Crane’s value as an independent
business or the benefits it may provide in a combined entity,
the Sydney-based company said in a stock exchange filing today.
Auckland-based  Fletcher ’s cash and stock bid values Crane at
A$728.6 million ($720 million) based on Dec. 17 closing prices.  Fletcher, New Zealand’s biggest maker of  building materials ,
wants Crane to gain extra Australian distribution for its
products in a market seven times the size of its home.
Opposition from Crane’s board may make it harder for the bid to
succeed as retail investors may rely on the views of directors,
according to analysts at Citigroup Inc.  “With one bid condition being a 90 percent acceptance rate,
this could prove challenging for Fletcher,” analysts led by
 Ross Barrows  said in a note to clients. “Non-institutional
shareholders may follow the recommendation of the Crane board.”  Fletcher acquired about 15 percent of Crane before making
its takeover offer on Dec. 15.  Crane  fell  1.3 percent to A$9.37 at 3:38 p.m. in Sydney
trading.  Fletcher  closed unchanged at NZ$7.73 in Wellington.  Fletcher is offering one of its own shares and A$3.43 in
cash for each Crane share, valuing the target’s stock at A$9.21
based on Dec. 17 closing prices. The takeover was worth A$740
million, or A$9.35 a share, when it was first made.  At A$728.6 million, the offer values Crane at 6.7 times
earnings before estimated interest, tax, amortization and
depreciation in the 12 months ending June, 2011, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Revenue Boost  Combining the two companies would increase Fletcher’s
revenue from Australia to 45 percent from 34 percent, according
to the company’s filings. Crane’s 18 percent decline in the 12
months to Dec. 14 amid a slowdown in the building industry is
attractive to Fletcher,  Jonathan Ling , chief executive officer
of the New Zealand company, told reporters last week.  “Fletcher Building has acknowledged the offer is coming at
a low point in the industry cycle,” Crane said in today’s
statement. “The offer does not take into account the
substantial synergies expected to be available as a result of
the acquisition.”  Global mergers and acquisitions this year have reached $2.2
trillion compared with $1.9 trillion last year, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Fletcher last week highlighted the importance of Crane to
expansion of its business in Australia, and the opportunities to
reduce costs by amalgamating distribution arrangements and
leveraging the combined size of the companies to source cheaper
products and services, Crane said.  “We continue to see this bid as a very good deal for Crane
shareholders given our negative view on the medium term outlook
for the company,” Citigroup’s Barrows wrote, affirming
Citigroup’s “hold”  rating  on the stock. “The primary issue
facing the bid will likely be price.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tracy Withers  in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net ;
 Robert Fenner  in Melbourne at 
 rfenner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Iain Wilson 
 iwilson2@bloomberg.net  