-- Czech Republic's Cabinet Lacks Pledge of Support Before No-Confidence Vote
-- B y   P e t e r   L a c a
-- 2010-12-21T11:19:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-20/czech-republic-s-cabinet-lacks-pledge-of-support-before-no-confidence-vote.html
The Czech Republic’s five-month old
government faces a no-confidence vote today, with the smallest
ruling party refusing to pledge support for the Cabinet.  The largest opposition party, the Social Democrats,
initiated the no-confidence motion last week, saying Prime
Minister  Petr Necas  reacted “inadequately” to allegations of
wrongdoings at the Environment Ministry. The opposition, which
has 82 votes in the 200-member chamber in Prague, needs the
backing of 101 deputies to oust the government in the vote that
is expected to take place after noon today.  The smallest ruling-coalition party, Public Affairs, which
gained 24 parliamentary seats in its first general elections in
May, yesterday said it was still undecided on how to vote today.
Party officials left a meeting of coalition leaders late
yesterday before the ruling parties reached an agreement on the
motion, Necas told journalists.  “Survival is our main call as the coalition has 118 seats
in the 200-seat lower house,” Societe Generale SA said in a
note to clients. Should the government fall “we would expect a
strong currency and fixed-income reaction in that scenario
because it would threaten necessary reforms.”  Coalition Cabinet  Necas relies on the three-party coalition, which has the
widest parliamentary majority since the Czech Republic came into
existence in 1993, to push through  budget-deficit  cuts including
a pension overhaul to drive the  shortfall  below the European
Union’s limit of 3 percent of  gross domestic product .  President  Vaclav Klaus , who holds non-executive powers,
invited leaders of all three government parties to a meeting in
his office at the Prague castle. The meeting will start at 1
p.m. today.  Public Affairs spokeswoman Petra Hrusova said in a phone
interview that she has no additional information on what further
steps the party may take. The party’s deputies made no comments
after holding a meeting in parliament before noon today.  The Czech koruna was little changed at 25.239 to the euro
as of 12:10 p.m. in Prague.  The Czech Republic had two minority governments and two
interim Cabinets in the past 12 years, stalling budget measures.
The latest government breakup was the fall of Prime Minister
 Mirek Topolanek ’s administration, which lost a no-confidence
vote last year, halfway into the country’s term holding the EU’s
rotating presidency.  No Confidence  The 2009 no-confidence motion was also initiated by the
Social Democrats and put an interim government in charge until
the May 28-29 elections, which ushered in the Necas Cabinet.  An adviser to Environment Minister Pavel Drobil interfered
with a public-procurement tender to secure financing for his
Civic Democratic Party, which is led by Necas, newspaper Mlada
Fronta Dnes reported on Dec. 15, citing recordings it obtained.  Drobil, who denied any unlawful activity, resigned the same
day after the government pushed through the 2011 budget that
cuts spending. Necas initially refused to dismiss Drobil and
said he trusted his fellow Cabinet member.  Public Affairs, whose Chairman Radek John holds the post of
Interior Minister, wants backing for an investigation of what he
said were leaks from the police about the procedures in the
Environment Ministry case.  Public Affairs, which received 11 percent in the May
elections, lost popularity along with the government. The
party’s support stood at 5.7 percent in a survey of 1,255 people
by the pollster Stem between Nov. 1 and Nov. 8. The margin of
error was as much as 2.5 percentage points.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Peter Laca  in Prague at 
 placa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at 
 wmorris@bloomberg.net  