-- Czech Unrated Companies Start Reaching Out to Yield-Hungry Bond Investors
-- B y   L e n k a   P o n i k e l s k a   a n d   K r y s t o f   C h a m o n i k o l a s
-- 2010-12-20T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-20/czech-unrated-companies-start-reaching-out-to-yield-hungry-bond-investors.html
Czech companies lacking credit
ratings may increase bond sales next year to avoid stricter
borrowing requirements by lenders and meet investor demand for
higher-yielding assets, J&T Banka AS said.  “For a startup company, it’s easier to sell debt,” said
 Daniel Drahotsky , the head of financial markets at  J&T Banka ,
part of the J&T Group, a Czech-Slovak private equity company.
“They also start expanding” their investor base for regular
debt sales or potential initial public offerings, he said.  Prague-based J&T Banka expects to arrange placements of
bonds and commercial paper for as many as 10 Czech and Slovak
companies in 2011. The transactions follow three issues this
year, including 1 billion koruna ($52.6 million) of corporate
debt for energy company  Energeticky Prumyslovy Holding .  European companies almost doubled sales of junk-rated bonds
this year as near-zero interest rates in developed nations and
the region’s sovereign-debt crisis boosts investor appetite for
higher-yielding assets, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Banks
in the Czech Republic, including units of Erste Group Bank AG,
Societe Generale SA and KBC Groep NV, provide among the European
Union’s smallest amount of loans relative to their deposits.  The deposit-to-loan ratio for Czech banks is about 140
percent, according to statistics from the central bank. Total
volume of corporate loans by Czech banks was at 762 billion
koruna in April, after shrinking from a record 858.6 billion
koruna in November 2008, before the global crisis stemmed
credit, central bank data show.  Interest Rates  Czech policy makers said in November they may refrain from
raising the benchmark interest rate from a record-low 0.75
percent until the second half, reducing yields and demand for
government bonds.  Non-rated companies, which previously sold short-term debt,
may sell longer maturities to meet rising investor interest in
non-government debt, Drahotsky said.  “Our clients, who repeatedly invest in commercial paper
with three-month maturities, are starting to think two-year
bonds may be a good investment,” he said.  J&T Banka provides private banking, asset management and
investment banking services in the Czech Republic, Slovakia,
Russia and Switzerland. The company purchased Atlantik Financni
Trhy AS last year to expand its brokerage services.  The  J&T Opportunity CZK  fund, which invests in high-
yielding riskier assets, rose 18.5 percent in the 12 months
ended Oct. 15, ranking second behind the Ceska Sporitelna AS’
ISCS Top Stocks fund, according to data from the Czech Capital
Market Association.  ‘Relative Latecomer’  “As a relative latecomer, J&T Banka is quite aggressively
looking for niche markets that can be riskier than what
established international lenders are doing,” said  Marek Hatlapatka , an analyst at Brno-based Cyrrus AS.  Zabka Polska SA, a Polish grocery chain which is also
present in the Czech Republic, sold 25 million euros ($33
million) of unrated two-year notes last month to refinance
maturing notes. Zabka is owned by Prague-based Penta Investments
Ltd.  The Zabka offering was managed by Privatbanka AS, Penta’s
private banking unit, which arranged 149 million euros of debt
sales since 2007 for the group’s unrated subsidiaries, including
pharmacy chain Dr. Max.  “These are private placements,” Privatbanka Czech Chief
Executive Officer Radovan Jakubcik said in an interview. “But
we’re still able to find a new buyer within days if investors
need to sell.”  J&T expects to manage bond and commercial paper placements
for companies with annual revenue of 100 million koruna to 3
billion koruna in industries such as real estate and retailing,
according to Drahotsky.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Lenka Ponikelska  in Prague at 
 lponikelska1@bloomberg.net 
 Krystof Chamonikolas  in Prague at 
 kchamonikola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at   jagomez@bloomberg.net 
Gavin Serkin at   gserkin@bloomberg.net  