-- Daewoo Shipbuilding Shares Rise to 2-Year High After LNG Project Approved
-- B y   K y u n g h e e   P a r k
-- 2010-12-20T07:30:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-20/daewoo-shipbuilding-shares-rise-to-2-year-high-after-lng-project-approved.html
Daewoo Shipbuilding & Marine
Engineering Co.  rose to a two-year high in Seoul trading after a
unit and partners got approval from Papua New Guinea to operate
a floating liquefied natural gas production unit off the
country.  Daewoo Shipbuilding , the world’s third-largest shipyard,
advanced 1.7 percent to close at 35,350 won, the highest since
Aug. 28, 2008. The stock has doubled this year, compared with a
20 percent gain in South Korea’s Kospi index.  The company will build the floating LNG vessel for a
venture formed by unit  DSME E&R Ltd. ,  Hoegh LNG Ltd.  and
 Petromin PNG Holdings Ltd.  for the $2.5 billion gas development
project, the South Korean shipyard said today in an e-mailed
statement. An agreement on price and other details of the order
is expected to be reached early next year, it said.  The venture may beat  Royal Dutch Shell Plc  to become the
first operator of a floating LNG production vessel as it plans
to start using the unit mid-2014 to process gas it will get from
a field on land. Using floating technology will cut production
costs for the venture by about 50 percent and avert the need to
buy land from hundreds of owners for a 340-kilometer (211-mile)
pipeline to an onshore facility, Daewoo Shipbuilding said.  The floating unit will be capable of producing 3 million
tons of gas annually in the Gulf of Papua, the company said.  Shell, Europe’s biggest oil company, is due to receive the
first of as many as 10 floating LNG plants, to be built by
Samsung Heavy Industries Co., in 2016 for use off Australia.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kyunghee Park  in Singapore at 
 kpark3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  