-- Daimler, Deripaska's GAZ to Invest $132 Million in Russian Van Partnership
-- B y   E k a t e r i n a   S h a t a l o v a   a n d   A n a s t a s i a   U s t i n o v a
-- 2010-12-20T13:08:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-20/daimler-deripaska-s-gaz-to-invest-132-million-in-russian-van-venture.html
GAZ Group , billionaire Oleg
Deripaska’s automaker, agreed with  Daimler AG  to assemble
Mercedes Sprinter vans in Russia, as GAZ seeks to expand its
production of light commercial vehicles.  The companies will invest 100 million euros ($132 million)
in the project at GAZ’s plant in Nizhny Novgorod, which will
start production at the end of 2011, Dmitry Levchenkov, a
department head in Russia’s Economy Ministry, told reporters in
Moscow today. Output may reach 60,000 vehicles a year, he said.  GAZ  dominates the Russian market for light trucks and
buses, while it has less than a 1 percent share of the country’s
passenger-car market. It will sell about 5,000 cars this year
and will seek to boost revenue by producing cars for other
manufacturers, Chief Executive Officer Bo Andersson said in an
interview on Oct. 27.  The company is also in talks with  Volkswagen AG  on a
contract to assemble cars for VW in Russia, Deripaska said in an
interview Nov. 15.  Emerging markets such as Russia are set to lead an increase
in demand for trucks, Stuttgart, Germany-based  Daimler , the
world’s biggest producer, said Sept. 21, adding that its eight-
month truck sales in Brazil, Russia, India and China rose 64
percent. Daimler said last week its truck division and Russian
truck producer KamAZ signed a preliminary agreement to jointly
produce axles.  Natalia Anisimova, a GAZ spokeswoman, declined to comment
when contacted by phone. Uta Leitner, a Daimler spokeswoman,
wasn’t immediately available to comment.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ekaterina Shatalova in Moscow at 
 eshatalova@bloomberg.net ;
Anastasia Ustinova in St. Petersburg at 
 austinova@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Brad Cook at 
 bcook7@bloomberg.net  