-- Danaher, Thermo Fisher May Bid for Beckman Coulter
-- B y   S a s h a   D a m o u n i ,   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n   a n d   C r i s t i n a   A l e s c i
-- 2010-12-20T21:16:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-20/danaher-thermo-fisher-scientific-said-to-consider-beckman-coulter-offers.html
Danaher Corp., Thermo Fisher
Scientific Inc. and several private-equity firms are among those
considering offers for laboratory-equipment maker  Beckman
Coulter Inc. , three people with direct knowledge of the matter
said.  First-round bids are due this week, said the people, who
asked not to be identified because the talks are private.
Beckman, based in Brea, California, has a  market value  of about
$5.2 billion. Mary Luthy, a Beckman spokeswoman, and Scott
Bauman, a Thermo Fisher spokesman, declined to comment in
telephone interviews. Matthew McGrew, Danaher’s vice-president
for investor relations, didn’t return a call.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc., which is running the auction, is
seeking to keep the private-equity firms from pairing up at this
early stage, though they are likely to do so anyway, said one of
these people. KKR & Co., Bain Capital LLC,  Apollo Global
Management LLC  and  Blackstone Group LP  may bid, the people said.  Beckman has jumped 32 percent since Dec. 9, when people
familiar with the matter said the company was exploring a sale.
Beckman would probably seek at least $90 a share in a buyout,
and might command as much as $160 a share,  Dan Leonard , an
analyst with Leerink Swann & Co. in New York, said this month.  Laboratory Equipment  The company’s biggest business is making laboratory
equipment used in scientific research and in hospitals. In
September, Beckman said that Chief Executive Officer  Scott Garrett  had resigned and appointed J.  Robert Hurley  as interim
president and CEO while it searches for a successor.  There have been 102 acquisitions announced for U.S.
diagnostic equipment makers in the past five years, with an
average size of $473 million and an average premium of 52
percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Beckman Coulter climbed $3.29, or 4.6 percent, to $75.36 in
New York Stock Exchange trading at 4:06 p.m., its  highest close 
since Aug. 22, 2008.  Danaher , based in Washington, D.C., fell 2
cents to $46.78.  Thermo Fisher , based in Waltham, Massachusetts,
slid 24 cents to $55.54.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jeffrey McCracken  in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;
 Sasha Damouni  in New York at 
 sdamouni2@bloomberg.net ;
 Cristina Alesci  in New York at 
 calesci2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net 
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  