-- Debt Pyramid Scheme Now the Norm in America: Roger Lowenstein
-- B y   R o g e r   L o w e n s t e i n
-- 2010-12-20T02:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-20/debt-pyramid-scheme-now-the-norm-in-u-s-commentary-by-roger-lowenstein.html
The tax compromise that the
president, after protracted bargaining with Congress, signed
into law Friday represents the worst of each party’s principles.
Democrats agreed to forgo their insistence on raising taxes to
narrow the widening budget deficit. Republicans forgot (again)
that they are supposedly the party of smaller government.  In effect, each party stuck to the portion of its
principles that will be popular with the electorate right now --
and dismissed the part that would be unpopular. The Washington
compromise is symptomatic of the disease infecting government at
many levels. It is known as short-termism.  The better course would have been the simplest one: Let the
Bush tax cuts -- on  every income group  -- expire. Democrats (I
am one) have generally supported raising tax rates only on the
rich. I never liked that approach because it’s an attempt to
curry favor with the majority of the public by saying, “The
deficit is not your problem; it’s only the problem of wealthy
people.” It sends a misleading, as well as divisive, message
that, for the majority of Americans, incremental government
services, such as stimulus spending or rising health-care
expenditures, are free.  No Free Lunch  To make serious inroads on the deficit, we should restore
 Clinton-era tax rates  on every income group. The wealthy would
suffer by far the largest incremental burden -- which is proper
-- but the middle class wouldn’t get a free lunch. The
Republican Party has opposed restoring the old rates because, as
it has repeatedly demonstrated, it is allergic to all taxes.
Since it isn’t opposed to government spending, only to revenue,
it is hypocritical and exceptionally short-term focused.  Republicans claim that higher taxes translate to lower
growth. Recent evidence is to the contrary. In the 1990s, the
top tax rate was 39.6 percent. The U.S. enjoyed a booming
economy, warmed by the balmy breezes of a balanced budget. In
the 2000s,  George W. Bush  cut the top rate to 35 percent.
Deficits ballooned, and the economy was mostly lousy.  Going back further, the connection is murky at best. In the
1960s, marginal tax rates were extremely high -- 70 percent and
in some years even more. The economy roared. In the 1970s, taxes
remained high and the economy slumped. In the 1980s, President
 Ronald Reagan  slashed taxes: By 1988, the marginal rate was only
28 percent and the tax code was greatly simplified. Clearly,
those giant tax cuts, plus the elimination of many loopholes,
stimulated a boom.  Runaway Deficits  Though that decade-by-decade synopsis inevitably
simplifies, the evidence suggests tax rates should be as low as
possible subject to the constraint that the budget IS roughly in
balance in good times, and even in bad times avoids the risk of
runaway deficits. But with the government borrowing equal to 9
percent of gross domestic product, and with large entitlement-
spending increases looming, we are well into runaway territory
already.  The evidence also shows that small changes in tax rates
don’t depress the economy, especially when the outlook for tax
rates is consistent and when tax policy is straightforward.  Current policy fails on inconsistency grounds -- given the
deficit, tax rates are unsustainable. The most serious quarrel
with raising rates now is that we are still emerging from a
recession. But this isn’t Herbert Hooverism -- the U.S. economy
has grown in every quarter since mid-2009.  Presidential Courage  It is true that, given the weakness of the recovery, the
timing isn’t ideal. However, Congress has been passing off the
bad coin of the Bush tax cuts for almost a decade. Why should we
think that Congress or President  Barack Obama  will show more
courage in 2012 -- a presidential election year?  For obvious humanitarian reasons, I support the extension
of unemployment benefits. Obama could have proposed an
additional extension in return for the lower estate-tax levels
so hotly pursued by Republicans. Unlike cutting taxes on people
with jobs, extending benefits to those without jobs is truly
part of the safety net -- one that, if properly explained, the
electorate would get.  Finally, lowering the payroll tax, which will drain funds
from Social Security, is incredibly shortsighted. It is only
weeks since Obama’s panel on the deficit highlighted the need to
strengthen entitlement budgets.  Punishment for Savers  I suspect the Federal Reserve has contracted the same
disease -- pushing ultra-low short-term interest rates. This
encourages consumer spending and the credit-card mentality of
the pre-crash years, and it punishes people who save.  The Fed is responding to today’s sluggish economy, though
the signs for tomorrow are bullish. Rising long-term interest
rates suggest that if the Fed had a little patience, the
recovery would continue without further easing.  Another example of short-term thinking is the maintenance
of the government’s role in propping up mortgages -- chiefly
through the failed Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. Wouldn’t it be
more prudent to let home prices fall to whatever level the
market would support? Then, private mortgage financing would
return, leading to a sustainable housing recovery based on real-
market prices.  Short-termism is also alarming at the level of state
governments, which are facing massive budget shortfalls even as
they refuse to adequately fund their pension plans. It isn’t
inconceivable that the federal government will be faced with
another too-big-to-fail entitlement -- that of a bankrupt local
government.  With the private sector recovering, albeit slowly, and
public finances worsening, the time to restore our public
finances to health is now. And if doing so delays the economy’s
return to full and robust growth, then let the recovery come
more slowly -- and let it be built on sound financing and not on
a new pyramid of debt.  ( Roger Lowenstein , author of “The End of Wall Street,” is
a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Roger Lowenstein at  elrogl@hotmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  