-- Default Swaps Show State Bank Beating China, Russia Rivals: India Credit
-- B y   K a t r i n a   N i c h o l a s
-- 2010-12-20T01:09:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-20/default-swaps-show-state-bank-beating-china-russia-rivals-india-credit.html
The cost of protecting State Bank of
India’s debt from default fell for 11 straight days, the longest
stretch of declines since at least 2004, as lenders’ willingness
to extend loans underscores an improving economy.  Credit-default swaps on Mumbai-based State Bank dropped 55
basis points, or 0.55 percentage point, in the past six months
to 155 on Dec. 16, CMA data show. Bank of China Ltd. contracts
fell 24 basis points to 118 while those for  OAO Sberbank ,
Russia’s largest lender, declined 11 to 188.  The perceived creditworthiness of India’s biggest bank
improved faster than for lenders in the other largest emerging
markets as companies step up borrowing for construction projects.
Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  is targeting 9 percent growth for
at least the next three decades and plans to spend about $1
trillion on roads, ports and public infrastructure.  “India’s Reserve Bank has been prompt in raising rates to
head off inflation, the economy is strong, non-performing loan
ratios are under control and bank credit-default swaps are
reflecting that,”  Vijay Chander , Hong Kong-based head of credit
strategy at Standard Chartered Plc, said in an interview.  International bond sales in India climbed to $11.2 billion
this year from $2.4 billion in 2009, with bank debt accounting
for 60 percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. New
bond sales from Indian banks could reach as much as $7 billion
next year, according to Nomura Holdings Inc. As India seeks
funds for key infrastructure projects “foreign capital may
prove even more useful,” International Monetary Fund Managing
Director  Dominique Strauss-Kahn  said in a Dec. 2  speech .  Infrastructure Demand  “There’s greater demand for infrastructure lending,”
Nondas Nicolaides, senior banking analyst with Moody’s Investors
Service, said in a phone interview from Limassol, Cyprus.
“India is an economy with such great growth potential that I
don’t see a problem for even the smaller banks selling dollar
bonds.”  The outlook for India’s banking system is conducive to high
credit growth as economic expansion returns to pre-crisis levels
and deposits increase, Moody’s said in a report Dec. 16.  The yield on Bank of India’s $500 million of 4.75 percent
notes due in September 2015 fell 41 basis points to 235 more
than Treasuries since Dec. 1, BNP Paribas SA prices show. The
decline compares with a 55 basis point drop for Bank of Moscow
OJSC’s $750 million of 6.699 percent notes due in March 2015.
The yield on Banco Santander Brasil SA’s $500 million of 4.5
percent bonds, due April 2015, fell 46 basis points to 266 over
the same period.  ‘Not Much Downside’  Indian banks that “underperformed” in the recent Asian
corporate bond rally now look good value, according to Royal
Bank of Scotland Group Plc research.  “For credit investors I don’t see much downside,”
 Kristine Li , Asia-Pacific credit strategist at Royal Bank of
Scotland said in an interview from Singapore. “Indian banks
have better fundamentals in terms of asset quality and earnings
stability, and the tighter spreads versus Russia and Brazil are
well justified.”  Indian dollar bonds returned 9.4 percent this year.
The  extra yield  investors demand to hold the notes rather than
U.S. Treasuries fell six basis points last week and dropped 80
basis points to 334 this half, according to HSBC Holdings Plc’s
Asia Dollar Bond Index for India, in which banks have a 71
percent weighting. That compares with a 99 basis-point decrease
for dollar bonds of Asian banks, JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s
Financials Blended Spread  index  show.  A rise in dollar funding costs meant some Indian banks
postponed sales. Union Bank of India may delay a planned sale of
notes on rising London interbank rates, Chairman M.V. Nair said
in New Delhi last week.  ‘Aggressive on Pricing’  “Indian banks tend to be market opportunistic and
relatively aggressive on new issue pricing,” Li said, citing
domestic liquidity as another risk. With “more money flowing
into emerging markets, spreads compressing across Asian banks
and Indian banks showing strong earnings results, their credit
ought to catch up with the rest of Asian banks,” Li said.  BES Investimento do Brasil SA’s $500 million of 5.625
percent notes due March 2015, rated the second-lowest Baa2
investment-grade by Moody’s, are trading at a yield of 506 basis
points more than Treasuries, according to Trace. Similar-rated
4.75 percent bonds due October 2015 from Vadodara, Gujarat-based
Bank of Baroda trade at a spread of 272 basis points, BNP
Paribas prices show.  Regulators seeking to rein in the sort of risks that caused
the financial crisis reached a compromise in Switzerland in
September that more than doubles capital requirements for the
world’s banks while giving them as long as eight years to comply.  Rupee Falls  The Basel Committee on Banking Supervision wants banks to
hold enough assets that can be converted into cash to meet their
needs in a “ severe liquidity stress scenario ,” according to a
document. While India’s central bank hasn’t said whether it will
adopt the so-called Basel III accord, banks are “well
positioned to make the transition to a stricter capital
regime,” Moody’s said in its report.  Contracts protecting debt of ICICI Bank Ltd., India’s
second-largest lender, fell 21 basis points this month to 193
basis points, after reaching a two-month low of 191.5 last week,
CMA prices show. The bank’s default swaps have dropped 62 basis
points since July 1.  The rupee fell last week after two weeks of gains. The
rupee lost 0.7 percent during the week to 45.3550 per dollar.
Indian markets were closed Dec. 17 for a holiday.  Government  bonds  rose in the week, driving yields to the
lowest level in a month and a half, after the central bank said
it would repurchase 480 billion rupees ($10.6 billion) of debt
over four weeks to boost cash at banks.  The yield on the 7.80 percent note due May 2020 fell 12
basis points to 7.95 percent, according to the central bank’s
trading system. The yield decreased 13 basis points.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Katrina Nicholas  in Singapore at 
 knicholas2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will McSheehy at 
 wmcsheehy@bloomberg.net  