-- Dollar Bonds Lag Behind Latin American Peers on Spending: Brazil Credit
-- B y   B o r i s   K o r b y   a n d   C a m i l a   R u s s o
-- 2010-12-20T17:30:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-20/dollar-bonds-lag-behind-latin-american-peers-on-spending-brazil-credit.html
Brazil is trailing all major Latin
American countries in the  dollar bond  market this year for the
first time since 1997 amid concern President-elect  Dilma Rousseff  will fail to slow spending growth.  The 8.4 percent return on Brazilian bonds this year is the
lowest among the eight countries in the region tracked by
JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI+ index.  Argentine bonds  gained 31
percent, the biggest advance in the region.  Rousseff’s plan to increase cash payments to the poor are
helping fuel speculation she will continue the spending policies
of President  Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva , who boosted government
expenditures by 27 percent in the first nine months of the year.
The  average yield  on Brazilian dollar bonds jumped 88 basis
points, or 0.88 percentage point, since Oct. 13 to a five-month
high of 5.61 percent last week, according to JPMorgan.  “Dilma is untested,” said  Michael Roche , an emerging-
market strategist at MF Global Holdings Ltd., a New York-based
broker. “You have to build a risk premium into the sovereign
spread of the country until proven otherwise.”  The central bank raised interest rates this year by 200
basis points to slow inflation as government spending helped
spark the fastest economic expansion in more than two decades.
Consumer prices increased 5.63 percent in the 12 months through
November, the fastest pace since February 2009.  Alexandre Tombini , Rousseff’s pick to head the central
bank, will increase borrowing costs to 12.75 percent from 10.75
percent by the end of next year to curb inflation, trading in
rates futures shows. Tombini, who has served on the central
bank’s board since 2005, was confirmed by the senate last week.  Minimum Wage  Latin America’s biggest economy will grow 7.6 percent this
year, according to a Dec. 10 central bank survey of about 100
economists.  Rousseff, who takes office Jan. 1, said last month she’s
considering raising the monthly minimum wage to more than 700
reais ($409) by the end of her four-year term from 510 reais.
The government’s budget proposal for 2011 increases the minimum
wage to 540 reais a month, Worker’s Party Senator Serys
Slhessarenko told reporters on Dec. 17 in Brasilia.  “A normal reaction, considering a new government is taking
place, is to be concerned about how the new president will
conduct the fiscal accounts,”  Marcelo Saddi Castro , who
oversees 18 billion reais as chief investment officer at
SulAmerica Investimentos in Sao Paulo, said in a telephone
interview. “The lower the minimum wage, the better the impact
on the fiscal accounts.”  Budget Deficit  The  budget deficit  widened to the equivalent of 3.4 percent
of gross domestic product in August, the biggest in five months,
before narrowing to 2.4 percent of GDP in September, when the
government reaped a revenue windfall from its sale of oil
reserves to state-run  Petroleo Brasileiro SA .  The Finance Ministry’s press office declined to comment.  Rousseff, who has said social programs and the investment
Brazil needs would not be reduced, pledged on TV Record on Nov.
1 to control public spending because “the most important
characteristic of a government in today’s world is not to spend
what it can’t spend.”  “We’re getting conflicting statements, and her
administration hasn’t done much to alleviate concerns over the
policies going forward,”  Vitali Meschoulam , a strategist at
Morgan Stanley in New York, said in a telephone interview. “We
still don’t know if they’re going to come out fiscally tighter
or looser than the previous administration.”  U.S. Treasuries  Rising U.S. Treasury yields have deepened the slump in
Brazilian dollar bonds in the past month, Meschoulam said.  The yield on the 10-year U.S. note touched 3.56 percent
last week, the highest level since May 13, on speculation
President  Barack Obama ’s decision to extend tax cuts enacted
under his predecessor may bolster U.S. growth while worsening
the nation’s budget deficit.  The  extra yield  investors demand to own Brazilian dollar
bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries narrowed 19 basis points at
12:28 p.m. New York time to 180, according to JPMorgan.  The cost of protecting Brazilian bonds against default for
five years fell 2 basis points to 113 on Dec. 17, according to
CMA prices. Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in
exchange for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent
should a government or company fail to adhere to its debt
agreements.  The real rose 0.4 percent today to 1.7079 per U.S. dollar.  Yields on Brazil’s interbank rate futures contract due in
January 2012 rose 3 basis point to 11.88 percent.  BNDES  Finance Minister  Guido Mantega , who will retain his post
under Rousseff, said in November that Brazil plans to cut
funding for its state development bank by 50 percent next year
in an effort to bring down the world’s second-highest inflation-
adjusted interest rates.  Brazil’s dollar bonds  returned  11 percent last year,
beating debt from  Mexico , as Moody’s Investors Service raised
the South American country to an investment-grade rating of
Baa3. Brazil won its first investment-grade rating in April
2008, when Standard & Poor’s increased it to BBB-. Fitch Ratings
matched the move a month later.  The  yield  on Brazil’s bonds touched 4.72 percent on Oct.
13, the lowest since JPMorgan began tracking the data in
December 1997.  “You have a credit that was very tight and had
outperformed in previous years as the good news on fundamentals
already got priced in,” Meschoulam said. “So now Brazil has
less of a chance of being upgraded than smaller credits in the
region, and on a relative basis it looks less attractive.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Boris Korby  in New York at 
 bkorby1@bloomberg.net ;
 Camila Russo  in New York at 
 crusso15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  