-- Drink Pink With Rose Champagne For Celebratory Fizz, Sparkle: John Mariani
-- B y   J o h n   M a r i a n i
-- 2010-12-20T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-20/drink-pink-with-rose-champagne-for-holiday-sparkle-and-panache.html
Far be it for me to perpetuate the
idea that Champagne is only for holidays, business deals,
weddings and World Series wins, but year-end festivities are
upon us and drinking a good Champagne seems almost requisite.  To my mind there is none more celebratory than rose, which
was once disparagingly regarded as “the pink stuff.”  Rose Champagnes are something of an anomaly in a region
where the winemaker’s goal is traditionally to make as white a
wine as possible, even when using black pinot noir grapes. In
most regions, still or sparkling rose is made by macerating the
red grapes at pressing to achieve color. Champagne is that rare
appellation that allows roses to be made by blending in red
wine, and today 90 percent of rose Champagnes are made this way.  Despite rose’s perky image, the top Champagne producers
have for some time now put the same diligent efforts into their
roses as into their blanc des blancs and prestige cuvees, and
the astronomical prices can be about the same.  Still, there are currently so many superb roses in the
market selling for well under $100 a bottle that the idea of
spending $200 and more for a vintage rose seems a bit excessive.  Also, I find that so many of the top-of-the-line roses are
deliberately made to be bone dry, which I think robs them of the
component of fruit that is essential to any wine, sparkling or
not. I found a 2002  Nicolas Feuillatte  Palmes d’Or Rose Brut
($170) more than austere, even a little soapy, and 2004
 Taittinger  Comtes de Champagne Brut Rose ($225) drier than I
recall in other years, without the blossoming fruit I’ve always
loved about this marque.  Balanced Style  I will admit to being in thrall to Perrier-Jouet’s 2002
Fleur de Champagne Brut Rose, whose signature style has always
been to balance fruit and citrus flavors with enormous finesse.
Unfortunately, it sells for $250-$300 a bottle.  At a media tasting at New York’s Felidia restaurant, with
a first course of smoked salmon and radicchio and a second of
risotto with seafood, I found a wide array of delectable
bubblies, with the best of them priced well under $100. Here are
some of my favorites.  Nicholas Feuillatte  Brut Rose non-vintage ($47-$55)  Unlike the 2002 vintage cited above, this is a sleek,
gorgeously constructed wine with perfume and ripeness. If this
is a workhorse Champagne, it’s from very fine stock indeed.  G.H. Mumm  Cordon Rouge Brut Rose non-vintage ($56-$63)  Good old Mumm-sy, the Champagne you always see in movies
being splashed about. Its former predictability has evolved into
admirable consistency in a style that has depth and celebratory
sparkle.  Bruno Paillard  Rose Brut Premiere Cuvee non-vintage ($60-$75)  The charm of this pretty rose is in its adaptability to so
many foods, from lobster to chicken, from smoked salmon to light
desserts, and its high color is a joy in itself.  Henriot  Brut Rose non-vintage ($56-$60)  If you expect fruit in a rose, Henriot delivers gushes of
it, which makes it a fine aperitif to kick off the evening and
ideal with holiday sweets and cookies, even dark chocolate.  Charles Heidsieck  Brut Rose Reserve non-vintage ($70)  Deep salmon-pink color married to floral, almost rose-like
notes, with a good ballast of citrus in tandem with the fruit.  Louis Roederer 2004 Brut Rose ($65-$76)  Absolutely luscious and downright creamy. For me, this is
the very essence of a rose Champagne.  Ayala  Brut Rose Majeur non-vintage ($47-$55)  Since Bollinger bought this small estate in 2005, it has
improved greatly with a light-bodied style in direct contrast to
Bollinger’s staid, classic austerity. Though perhaps it doesn’t
have enough body for afterwards, everyone should enjoy a glass
or two of before dinner.  ( John Mariani  writes on wine for Bloomberg News. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
John Mariani at  john@johnmariani.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 