-- Duke Realty Announces $967 Million of Office, Industrial Property Deals
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   M .   H o w l e y
-- 2010-12-20T21:32:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-20/duke-realty-announces-967-million-of-office-industrial-property-deals.html
Duke Realty Corp. , a U.S. real
estate investment trust, agreed to $967 million in transactions
including the sale of offices and the purchase of industrial
properties. The shares climbed the most in almost seven months.  The Indianapolis-based company will transfer 20 suburban
office buildings valued at $517 million and totaling almost 3.1
million square feet to an existing joint venture with CB Richard
Ellis Realty Trust, Duke said today in a statement. In addition,
it will acquire 51 industrial properties and five office
buildings in south Florida, comprising more than 4.9 million
square feet, for $450 million in cash and debt from Premier
Commercial Realty.  Duke  gained 66 cents, or 6 percent, to $11.71 at 4 p.m. in
New York Stock Exchange composite trading, the biggest increase
since May 27.  The deals are part of Duke’s strategy to focus on
industrial real estate, the company said in the statement.
Following the transactions, the  REIT’s  portfolio will be made up
of 42 percent industrial, 49 percent office, and 9 percent
medical and other types of assets, the company said.  The transactions will advance “our goal to increase our
investment in industrial assets in higher growth and higher-
barrier-to-entry markets,” Chief Executive Officer  Dennis Oklak 
said in the statement.  While the “deals make strategic sense,” there will be
“no major impact on earnings,”  Anthony Paolone  and  Michael W. Mueller , analysts at  JPMorgan Chase & Co . in New York, said
today in a note to investors.  Estimate Boosted  Based on the announcement, the analysts boosted their
estimate for 2012 funds from operations by 1 cent to $1.19 a
share. They maintained their estimates of $1.15 for both 2010
and 2011.  Funds from operations exclude depreciation and other items.
The cash-flow measure, used by REITs, doesn’t conform to
generally accepted accounting principles.  Cash proceeds from the sale of office buildings to the
joint venture with CB Richard Ellis will total $414 million,
Duke said. The REIT has a 20 percent stake in the joint venture,
and receives fees for managing and leasing the assets, according
to the statement.  Duke Realty  owns and operates more than 135 million
rentable square feet of industrial, office and medical space in
18 U.S. cities, according to the company’s statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kathleen M. Howley in Boston at 
 kmhowley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  