-- European Travel Disrupted as Snow Delays Flights
-- B y   C h r i s   S p i l l a n e
-- 2010-12-20T12:26:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-20/heathrow-europe-travelers-face-third-day-of-disruption-on-snow-forecast.html
Air travel across Europe was
disrupted for a third day as travel operators urged passengers
to stay home with more snowfall and ice forecast for England,
France and Germany.  Flights from London’s  Heathrow , City and Gatwick airports,
Paris’s  Roissy-Charles de Gaulle  and Orly, and Frankfurt and
Geneva were canceled or delayed. Eurostar Group Ltd. said that
trains between London, Paris and Brussels were operating with
speed restrictions and there are queues at its stations due to a
backlog from the weekend. There were also delays at Oslo
Airport, according to its website.  “We will be running a severely limited schedule today,”
 British Airways Plc  spokesman  Euan Fordyce  said by phone today.
“We are still urging people not to come to the airport unless
they have a confirmed booking.”  Snow and freezing fog have disrupted air travel across
Europe for the past three days with as much as 20 centimeters (8
inches) of snow falling in parts of the U.K. Airlines including
Cathay Pacific Airways Ltd.,  Qantas Airways Ltd.  and Virgin
Atlantic Airways Ltd. have been forced to cancel flights in the
past 24 hours, leaving thousands of travelers stranded.  British Airways  Chief Executive Officer  Willie Walsh  told
Sky News he was “hopeful” of getting flights in and out of
Heathrow today, even if snowfalls may cause disruptions.  Heathrow  British Airways canceled 83 flights from its Heathrow base,
to destinations including Geneva, Prague and Berlin, according
to its website. Heathrow airport is operating at 40 percent of
full capacity and has only one runway in use, spokesman Nigel
Milton said in a telephone interview today.  “Passengers need to check with airlines because we are
running such a reduced service,” Milton said. “There will be a
number of cancelations and the knock on effect of yesterday’s
closure will be felt for a few more days yet.”  Gatwick canceled 30 flights so far today and was expecting
freezing fog to mid-morning with snow flurries in the afternoon,
spokesman Sean McKay said by phone today.  Deutsche Lufthansa AG  said it expected a reduction in
flights within Germany and Europe, with much disruption at its
Frankfurt hub, according to a statement on its website.
Lufthansa extended a plan that pares the number of flights
within Germany and Europe to today,  Bettina Rittberger , a
spokeswoman, said by phone.  Charles de Gaulle  Flights at Paris’s Roissy-Charles de Gaulle airport are
reduced by 30 percent until 6:00 p.m. while flights at the
Paris-Orly airport are also expected be cut by about 30 percent
over the day because of snowfall in the region, the nation’s
civil aviation authority said in an e-mailed statement.  Cardiff Airport is closed until at least 4:00 p.m. because
of the “adverse weather conditions”, it said on its website.  Some flights from Zurich to Heathrow, Paris and Frankfurt
were delayed or canceled this morning and others are set to be
scrapped over the course of the day, according to Zurich
Airport’s  website .  More cancellations are likely at Geneva airport, where 20
flights were scrapped earlier today, Bertrand Staempfli, a
spokesman for Geneva airport, said by telephone today. A total
of about 50 were canceled yesterday.  “We don’t have any problem with the weather, but we’ve had
to cancel flights to the U.K. and also to Paris and to Frankfurt
because some of their platforms are closed,” Staempfli said.
“We hope to have a new connection to Paris in the beginning of
the afternoon, but it’s still difficult with London and
Frankfurt.”  “Sleeping on the Floor”  Geneva airport offers sleeping accommodations to people who
can’t find or afford a hotel. On Saturday night, 67 people slept
at the airport, which has about 100 beds, Staempfli said.  Sean O’Brien, an American student, has been waiting at
Heathrow since yesterday evening for his flight home to
Portland, Oregon, to see his family for the Christmas holiday.  “There’s loads of people sleeping on the floor,” O’Brien,
26, said in a telephone interview from terminal four.
“Everything is so ridiculous that people are just laughing at
it now.”  Cathay Pacific Airways canceled two Hong Kong-London
flights today, the airline said in an e-mail. The company
expects to operate two other services on the route and all four
of its flights from London.  Air New Zealand Ltd.  said London
flights today may terminate at the midpoints of Hong Kong and
Los Angeles if weather conditions didn’t improve.  Qantas Airways  Qantas Airways has 3,000 passengers affected by the
shutdown, after it canceled flights from London and turned back
other flights headed to the U.K.,  Simon Rushton , a spokesman for
the Sydney-based carrier, said by phone today.  About 1,000 passengers are stranded in London and the rest
across Asian hubs, he said.  Amsterdam’s  Schiphol  Airport said today on its website that
it was open and some flights had been canceled. Air France-KLM
Group’s Dutch KLM unit canceled more than 60 departing and
arriving flights at the airport yesterday.  Eurostar, which links London to Paris and Brussels, halted
sales of new train tickets up to and including Dec. 24 and is
operating a limited timetable, the company said on its  website .  Eurostar trains and crew are “out of position” because of
the weather and services will probably run with speed
restrictions and delays, according to a statement on the
Eurostar’s  website . The train operator expects to run reduced
services for “a number of days,” the company added.  “We recommend that if you do not need to travel you cancel
or postpone your journey,” the company said in the statement.  Deutsche Bahn   Deutsche Bahn AG  said in an e-mail it expects weather
disruptions and an increase in passengers after bottlenecks in
the German railway system yesterday.  First Capital Connect trains have delays of up to 40
minutes on some trains into central London, according to
National Rail Enquiries’ website. London Midland services on all
routes are subject to delay and cancellation, while Southern
trains is operating a normal service today, according to the
company website.  Transport for London said on its website that there were
severe delays on the Metropolitan subway line because of the
adverse weather.  Snow also delayed Chancellor of the Exchequer George
Osborne’s flight to London from New York, prompting him to
postpone a meeting with the heads of the U.K.’s four largest
banks, the Treasury said. Osborne and Business Secretary Vince
Cable had been due to urge restraint in bonus payouts at the
meeting later today with executives from Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc,  Lloyds Banking Group Plc , Barclays Plc and  HSBC
Holdings Plc .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Spillane in London at 
 cspillane3@bloomberg.net ;
Blanche Gatt in London at 
 bgatt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge at 
 ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  