-- ECB Bond Purchases Fall to 603 Million Euros, Least in Almost Two Months
-- B y   C h r i s t i a n   V i t s
-- 2010-12-20T16:24:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-20/ecb-settled-794-million-of-bond-purchases-last-week-to-stem-fiscal-crisis.html
The European Central Bank bought the
least amount of bonds in almost two months last week after it
called on governments to do more to ease the region’s debt
crisis.  The Frankfurt-based ECB said it completed 603 million euros
($794 million) of purchases after settling 2.667 billion euros
the previous week. It will take seven-day term deposits tomorrow
to neutralize 72.5 billion euros of liquidity created by bond
purchases since the  program  started on May 10, it said today.  The ECB said on Dec. 2 that it will extend emergency
liquidity measures for banks after Ireland’s aid package failed
to convince investors about governments’ ability to push down
budget deficits and prevent a breakup of the 16-member euro
region. With the ECB describing the bond program as
“temporary,” President  Jean-Claude Trichet  has said
governments must step up efforts to stem contagion and restore
confidence.  This week’s slowdown in bond buys might “reflect a growing
discomfort among ECB policy makers with the ECB’s role as the
peripheral bond buyer of last resort,” said  Martin Van Vliet ,
an economist at ING Group in Amsterdam. “Even so, with the
Eurozone debt crisis far from over, the ECB will probably be
forced to ramp up its bond purchases again early next year after
the market has returned to normal trading conditions.”  The ECB only publishes the amount of purchases settled each
week, without disclosing details. The so-called Securities
Markets Program aims to smooth the functioning of some bond
markets to improve monetary-policy transmission.  ECB council member  Ewald Nowotny  from Austria said on Dec.
10 that the bank’s unconventional measures “can’t become
normality.” His Luxembourg colleague  Yves Mersch  said the same
day that monetary policy “can’t be overburdened,” and “we
can’t blur the line between monetary and fiscal policy.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Christian Vits  in Frankfurt at 
 cvits@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net  