-- ECB Expresses `Serious Concerns' About Irish Proposals to Stabilize Banks
-- B y   J o h n   F r a h e r   a n d   C h r i s t i a n   V i t s
-- 2010-12-20T10:08:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-20/ecb-expresses-serious-concerns-about-irish-bank-proposals.html
The European Central Bank said it
has “serious concerns” that Ireland’s new banking legislation
may threaten the central bank’s independence and its ability to
run liquidity operations.  “The ECB has serious concerns that the draft law is
insufficiently legally certain,” the central bank said in a
 position paper  dated Dec. 17, published on its website. The
Irish law should not hurt the ability of euro-region monetary
authorities “to enforce their rights including, without
limitation, the enforcement of security over any eligible
collateral posted by any relevant institution.”  The Irish government on Dec. 14 introduced new legislation
as part of a plan to fix the country’s banking system after
seeking a European Union-led bailout last month. The law gives
the government power to alter bondholders’ rights on repayment
of interest and debt and to appoint managers to banks if needed.  The ECB “suggests further clarification that the rights of
the central bank and the ECB, as creditors of any relevant
institution, will not be affected,” the central bank said. It
“would expect that nothing in this Act would affect operations,
rights or entitlements” of the Irish central bank and the ECB.  ‘Additional Measures’  Ireland’s Finance Ministry said in an e-mailed statement
today that there is “no question” of the ECB or the central
bank “being exposed financially.” It’s “inconceivable that
the minister would make specific directions or implement
specific asset transfers” without the central bank’s approval.  The ECB said in the paper, signed by President  Jean-Claude Trichet , that it would have “appreciated being consulted” at
“an earlier stage” and that it expects the Irish government to
“take any additional measures necessary to reflect the ECB’s
opinion to the extent appropriate.”  Ireland agreed on the bailout with the EU and the
International Monetary Fund on Nov. 28 as authorities struggled
to stem contagion to euro nations including Spain. Ireland’s
budget shortfall may average 10.3 percent in 2011, the highest
among the 16 euro member states, the European Commission
forecast last month.  ‘Credible’ Currency  The euro has depreciated 7.7 percent against the dollar
this year as authorities struggled to fight the fiscal crisis.  Trichet told France’s Europe1 radio station in an interview
broadcast today while the single currency remains “credible,”
the “problem is the creditworthiness” and financial
instability of some member states.  “This is not a crisis of the euro but a crisis of
financial stability,” Trichet said. “We have to have
individual responsibilities that are fully assumed, meaning the
good management of every country and for those countries that
have a recovery program, to rigorously apply” it.  EU leaders agreed last week to amend the bloc’s treaties to
create a permanent debt-crisis mechanism from 2013. While costs
for bondholders weren’t mentioned, officials endorsed a Nov. 28
decision that writedowns may take place on a “case by case”
basis if needed.  As the debt crisis flared up, the ECB was forced to step up
bond purchases to help restore investor confidence in the 16-
member euro region. It completed 2.67 billion euros ($3.5
billion) of purchases in the week ended Dec. 10, up from 1.97
billion euros over the previous five-day period.  The ECB announces details of its bond purchases settled
last week at around 3.30 p.m. in Frankfurt today. The program
aims to smooth the functioning of some euro-region bond markets.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 John Fraher in London at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net ;
 Christian Vits  in Frankfurt at 
 cvits@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net  