-- Echinacea Shows Little Benefit as Remedy for Treating Colds, Study Finds
-- B y   N i c o l e   O s t r o w
-- 2010-12-20T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-20/echinacea-shows-little-benefit-as-remedy-for-treating-colds-study-finds.html
The herb  echinacea  showed little
benefit in treating the common cold, according to a study.  Echinacea sales rose 7 percent to $132 million in the U.S.
last year, according to the Boulder, Colorado-based  Nutrition
Business Journal . The herb was used by American Indians for
centuries to treat coughs, infections and snakebites. Now it is
widely taken by patients to fight colds, researchers said.  Scientists have disagreed for years over whether echinacea
can prevent infection or speed recovery. The Wisconsin research
found a benefit so small that is may have been due to chance,
said  Bruce Barrett , the lead author.  The treatment “doesn’t decrease the severity of colds by a
large amount,” said Barrett, an associate professor of family
medicine at the University of Wisconsin School of Medicine &
Public Health, in Madison, in a telephone interview on Dec. 15.
The gains “were too small to be statistically significant.”  Research patients in Wisconsin took tablets with the
equivalent of 10.2 grams of dried echinacea root in the first 24
hours of treatment, and half that much in each of the next four
days. Those participants had a 10 percent drop in the severity
of colds compared with people on a placebo, authors led by a
University of Wisconsin doctor said today.  Colds lasted about half a day less when people took
echinacea, the researchers said today in the Annals of Internal
Medicine. The herb is a perennial purple coneflower resembling a
black-eyed Susan.  719 Patients  The study covered 719 patients ages 12 to 80 who had new
colds. The participants were assigned to groups that received
echinacea, or else a placebo or no pills at all. People given
the placebo, and half of those taking echinacea, weren’t told
what they were taking.  Patients who didn’t know they were on echinacea had colds
that lasted about 6.34 days on average compared with 6.87 for
people on placebo, the researchers said.  While the researchers said echinacea was associated with an
estimated 10 percent lessening in the severity of colds, they
said no more than a quarter of people “would judge this level
of benefit worthwhile, given the cost, inconvenience and
possible side effects,” such as stomach upset, nausea and
diarrhea.  ‘Not Large’  “Any underlying benefit of echinacea is not large and was
not demonstrated by our results,” the authors wrote.  The study was funded primarily by the  National Center for
Complementary and Alternative Medicine , part of the U.S.
National Institutes of Health, based in Bethesda, Maryland.  The agency also backed a study that appeared in the New
England Journal of Medicine in July 2005. In that report,
authors led by Ronald B. Turner, a professor of pediatrics at
the University of Virginia in Charlottesville, said three
different extracts from echinacea roots had failed to prevent
infection or reduce its severity.  Not all studies have flunked the herb as a cold remedy.  In the July 2007 report in Lancet Infectious Diseases,
researchers reviewed 14 studies and concluded that echinacea
cuts the odds of developing a cold by 58 percent and the
duration of the illness by 1.4 days.  ‘Not All Alike’  “Echinacea products are not all alike,” said  Mark
Blumenthal , founder and executive director of the American
Botanical Council, a nonprofit organization based in Austin,
Texas, in a telephone interview on Dec. 15. “The challenge is
determining which ones have the most benefit or any benefit.”  The studies showing the most efficacy for echinacea in
fighting colds looked at formulations made from the root and
leaves of Echinacea purpurea, one of three different species, he
said. The tablets used in the new study contained roots of the
purpurea species and another, according to the report.  Each year, the economic cost of the  common cold  is about
$40 billion in the U.S., reflecting 20 million doctor visits and
40 million work and school days lost, the researchers said,
citing a 2003 estimate by scientists at the University of
Michigan in Ann Arbor.  The Michigan researchers conducted a telephone survey of
more than 4,000 households to learn the prevalence of colds and
treatment patterns, and extrapolated the results to the U.S. as
a whole. Their report appeared in the Archives of Internal
Medicine in February 2003.  For Related News and Information:  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nicole Ostrow  in New York at 
 nostrow1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  