-- Hedge Fund Bullish Gas Bets Collide With Dropping Prices: Energy Markets
-- B y   A s j y l y n   L o d e r
-- 2010-12-20T21:17:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-20/hedge-fund-bullish-gas-bets-collide-with-dropping-prices-energy-markets.html
Hedge funds raised bullish bets on
natural gas to a four-month high in the U.S. just as weather
warmed, pushing heating fuel to its biggest weekly decline since
August.  The funds and other large speculators  increased  net-long
positions, or wagers on rising prices, by 7 percent in the seven
days ended Dec. 14 to the highest level since August, according
to the Commodity Futures Trading Commission’s weekly Commitments
of Traders report.  While forecasts for cold weather in the eastern and central
U.S. and dropping stockpiles drove futures up 4.9 percent to
$4.606 per million British thermal units on Dec. 8, the outlook
changed, causing prices to fall 8 percent for the week. Natural
gas may fall again this week as warmer weather limits demand, a
Bloomberg News survey showed Dec. 17.  “It was risky to bet that the cold front would hold, and
unfortunately for them, it didn’t,” said  Hamza Khan , an analyst
at the Schork Group Inc., a consulting company in Villanova,
Pennsylvania.  Natural gas for January delivery rose 17.1 cents, or 4.2
percent, to settle at $4.237 on the New York Mercantile
Exchange. Last week’s drop was the largest weekly decline since
Aug. 27. The fuel is down 24 percent this year as reserves
climbed to a record high.  The U.S. Energy Department reported Dec. 16 that in the
week ended Dec. 10, stockpiles were at a surplus of 9.9 percent
to the five-year average from 9.8 percent above a week earlier.
About 52 percent of U.S. households use the fuel for heating,
according to the department.  Below Normal  On Dec. 8, Commodity Weather Group in Bethesda, Maryland,
forecast temperatures might be below normal across most of the
Northeast, Midwest and Southeast through Dec. 17 and in the
Southeast and parts of the Midwest Dec. 18 to Dec. 22. Futures
fell to a two-week low Dec. 15 after the company predicted
normal or warmer-than-normal weather for most of the Northeast
and Midwest from Dec. 25 to Dec. 29.  Hedge funds bet that the cold would keep prices above
$4.55, and perhaps spur a run to $5, said  Brad Florer , a trader
at Kottke Associates Inc., an energy trading firm in Louisville,
Kentucky.  “The temperatures moderated, and that has put pressure
back on the market,” Florer said. “Ultimately this market is
still in a downtrend long term. We haven’t been able to break
out of it. Every time we try to force a move upward, it
stalls.”  Falling Prices  Eight of 18 analysts, or 44 percent, forecast that gas
futures will decline on the New York Mercantile Exchange through
Dec. 23, the Bloomberg survey showed. Seven, or 39 percent, said
futures will rise, and three predicted that prices will stay the
same. Last week, 55 percent of participants said gas prices
would increase.  Net-long  positions held by managed money, including hedge
funds, commodity pools and commodity-trading advisers, in
futures and options combined in four natural-gas contracts
increased by 7,051 futures equivalents to 107,618 in the week
ended Dec. 14. It was the highest level since the seven days
ended Aug. 6, the CFTC report showed.  The measure of net longs includes an index of four
contracts adjusted to futures equivalents: Nymex natural gas
futures, Nymex Henry Hub Swaps, Nymex Henry Hub Penultimate
Swaps and ICE Henry Hub Swaps. Henry Hub, in Erath, Louisiana,
is the delivery point for Nymex futures, a benchmark price for
the fuel.  “The real question now is whether the winter peak for
pricing is behind us, and I wouldn’t be surprised to find that
it is,” Khan said. If higher-than-normal temperatures persist,
prices may not rise above $5, he said.  Chicago Weather  Low temperatures in Chicago are forecast to reach 27
degrees Fahrenheit (-3 degrees Celsius) today, 6 degrees above
normal, according to a forecast from  AccuWeather Inc.  in State
College, Pennsylvania. Minneapolis will fall to 18 degrees, 9
above normal.  “We’ve had this stretch for a couple of weeks of pretty
extreme cold,” Florer said. “It doesn’t seem to matter as far
as our gas storage situation, and that has definitely got to
concern bulls in this market.”  Natural gas stockpiles  reached a record of 3.843 trillion
cubic feet in November. Stores fell 164 billion cubic feet in
the week ended Dec. 10 to 3.561 trillion, the Energy Department
said last week. It was more than the five-year average of 153
billion, though less than the 165 billion analysts forecast and
not enough to keep the surplus from rising from the five-year
average.  Fuel Surplus  Inventories will total 1.833 trillion cubic feet at the end
of the winter heating season in March, about 171 billion cubic
feet higher than at the end of March 2010, the Energy Department
said Dec. 7 in its monthly Short-Term Energy Outlook report.  U.S. natural gas production may reach a record high of
62.09 billion cubic feet a day this year, the department said.  In other markets, bullish, or long, bets on  gasoline  prices
fell 2.2 percent to 66,941 futures and options combined, the
CFTC data showed. It was the first decline in six weeks. Net-
long bets on  heating oil  shrank by 14 percent to 36,589.  Net-long  positions in oil declined by 917 futures and
options combined, or 0.4 percent, to 205,890, according to the
CFTC report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Asjylyn Loder  in New York at 
 aloder@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net . 