-- Medtronic CEO Hawkins Ends Three-Year Tenure After Struggle to Grow Sales
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   L o p a t t o
-- 2010-12-20T21:11:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-20/medtronic-chief-executive-officer-william-a-hawkins-to-retire-next-year.html
Medtronic Inc.  Chief Executive
Officer  William A. Hawkins , 56, will retire next April, ending a
three-year tenure that analysts said was marked by disappointing
sales from the medical-device maker and a declining share price.  Hawkins will stay at Minneapolis-based Medtronic, the
world’s largest maker of heart devices, until his successor is
named. His retirement is planned for the end of this fiscal year
in April 2011, according to a company statement. The company
said it has begun an external search for his successor.  Medtronic shares have  dropped  30 percent since Hawkins was
named CEO. He took the post in August 2007 when the company was
in the midst of recalls on its heart defibrillators that started
in 2005 and reduced sales of the devices at the time. About 62
percent of Medtronic’s sales now are in businesses that are
unlikely to grow over the next three to five years, said  Michael Weinstein , an analyst for J.P. Morgan, in an investment note.  “Medtronic has struggled to create shareholder value over
the last 10 years, and given the challenges facing the company
and industry, it’s not getting any easier,” Weinstein wrote.
“The good news is that a new CEO can be a catalyst for change,
and in the cold winter of the Twin Cities, that starts today.”  Shares rose 22 cents, or less than 1 percent, to $37.62 at
4:01 p.m. in New York Stock Market composite trading. The stock
 fell  14 percent this year while the Standard & Poor’s 500 rose
12 percent, and the Standard & Poor’s 500 Health Care Index rose
1.3 percent.  ‘Mature’ Industry  The devices industry is changing to a mature business from
being a high-growth area, said  Derrick Sung , a Sanford Bernstein
& Co. analyst, in a note to investors today. Medtronic may
benefit from a new perspective on how to navigate that
environment, Sung wrote.  In November, Medtronic  projected  reduced annual earnings of
$3.38 a share to $3.44 a share from $3.40 to $3.48. It was the
second time the company had cut its earnings forecast for the
fiscal year. The revenue growth targets for the company have
been lowered from the 15 percent expected in 2005 to the 2
percent to 4 percent expected in fiscal 2011, wrote  David Roman ,
an analyst for Goldman Sachs, in a note today.  A new CEO would be expected to re-evaluate the company’s
strategy, making an external candidate more likely, said  Aaron Vaughn , an analyst at Edward Jones.  “They’re looking for someone to come in and look at the
strategy, so maybe we see some divestitures, maybe they go in a
different research and development direction,” Vaughn said
today in a telephone interview. “An external candidate can give
more of a shakeup and more of a clear view of where the
company’s been and where it can go.”  CEO Candidates  Likely internal candidates include executive vice
presidents  Christopher O’Connell  and  Michael Coyle , said  Rick Wise , a Leerink Swann analyst, in a note to investors today.  Part of Medtronic’s woes stem from the acquisition of
spine-device company Kyphon Inc. for $3.9 billion, announced in
July 2007, wrote Weinstein. The market growth for devices to
repair spine damage slowed starting in the fourth quarter of
2009, due to high unemployment, the expiration of health-care
benefits among the jobless and skepticism about the benefits of
spine surgery, Weinstein wrote.  “The structural issues here are going to be difficult for
anyone to deal with,” said  Raj Denhoy , an analyst for Jeffries
& Co. in New York. “The market is slowing, and without
innovation they’ve lost share, so they’ve been doubly hit.”  A new CEO may retool the current businesses to cut research
and development costs and return more money to shareholders,
Denhoy said.  Medtronic has underperformed the market and its industry,
said analyst  Les Funtleyder , a portfolio manager at Miller Tabak
& Co.  “The overall market for devices has pricing pressure and
market pressure, but your job as a CEO is to deal with that,”
Funtleyder said. “This is what you’ve got and you need to
manage around it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Elizabeth Lopatto  in New York at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  