-- Emerging Stocks Drop on Concern Over Korea Peninsula, Europe's Debt Crisis
-- B y   I a n   C .   S a y s o n
-- 2010-12-20T22:49:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-20/emerging-stocks-drop-on-concern-over-korea-peninsula-europe-s-debt-crisis.html
Emerging-market stocks fell as South
Korea conducted a live-firing drill that had sparked North
Korean warnings of retaliation and concern lingered that
Europe’s debt crisis will spread.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index  lost 0.4 percent to
1,111.01 at 5:22 p.m. New York time. South Korea’s Kospi Index
sank as much as 1.5 percent before ending 0.3 percent lower
after Agence France-Presse reported the North will allow nuclear
inspectors to return. Brazil’s Bovespa stock index fell 1.1
percent on concern that inflation may accelerate. China’s
Shanghai Composite Index lost 1.4 percent as drugmakers tumbled
amid speculation the government will lower medicine prices.  “Fears of escalating tension in South Korea and news flow
on Europe’s debt problems are driving investors to the
sidelines,” said  Jonathan Ravelas , a strategist at Manila-based
Banco de Oro Unibank Inc.  South Korea said a live-firing drill that drew threats of
retaliation from North Korea was completed without incident.
Artillery positions on Yeonpyeong Island shelled after a
similar exercise last month ceased firing around 4 p.m. local
time, said a Defense Ministry official in Seoul who declined to
be identified, citing government policy.  An emergency meeting of the United Nations Security Council
ended last night without agreement as China blocked moves to
condemn the North and Russia urged that the drills be scrapped.  Posco , a steelmaker and the second-biggest company by
market capitalization on the Kospi, fell 1 percent while  LG
Display Co. , the world’s No. 2 flat-screen panel maker, sank 2.6
percent to the lowest level since Nov. 19.  Defense Stocks  The Kospi pared declines after Agence France-Presse
reported a CNN broadcast as saying that North Korea will allow
UN nuclear inspectors to return to the country. New Mexico
Governor  Bill Richardson , who is in Pyongyang with CNN
correspondent  Wolf Blitzer , also secured an agreement from North
Korea to create a military hotline with the U.S., AFP said.  South Korea’s defense-related shares climbed. Victek Co.,
which makes electronic warfare equipment, rose 1.9 percent.
Speco Co., a military installation parts developer, gained 8
percent.  In Shanghai,  Kangmei Pharmaceutical Co.  dropped 4.6
percent. The National Development and Reform Commission may
lower prices by an average 40 percent for 658 approved
medications, the Economic Observer reported today, citing
officials from unidentified pharmaceuticals companies. The NDRC
didn’t respond to a fax seeking comment.  Li Ning Co.  plunged the most on record in Hong Kong after
the Chinese sportswear maker said orders declined, closing the
day down 16 percent.  Brazilian Inflation  The  Bovespa  dropped after economists increased their
forecasts for increases in consumer prices in Brazil.
Homebuilders declined on concern the new administration of
president-elect Dilma Rousseff, who takes office on Jan. 1, may
implement economic policies that will quicken inflation.  Consumer prices will rise 5.4 percent over the next 12
months, according to the median forecast in a Dec. 17 central
bank survey published today. This was the sixth straight week
the economists raised their forecast for consumer-price
increases. The week-earlier estimate was 5.38 percent.  MRV Engenharia e Participacoes SA , Brazil’s fifth-biggest
real-estate company by revenue, fell for a fourth day in five,
dropping 4 percent.  PDG Realty SA Empreendimentos &
Participacoes , Brazil’s third-biggest homebuilder by revenue,
fell 2.1 percent.  Cyrela Brazil Realty SA Empreendimentos e
Participacoes , Brazil’s biggest homebuilder by revenue, fell 3.9
percent.  PT Bank Mandiri , Indonesia’s largest bank by assets, fell
2.3 percent, pacing a decline by the nation’s lenders. Banks
retreated amid concern the debt crisis in Europe will prompt
investors to sell assets in high-yielding markets, according to
 Andrew Siahaan , an analyst at PT Reliance Securities.  Hai-O Enterprise Bhd. , a Malaysian seller of traditional
health-care products, dropped 3.8 percent after posting a 70
percent profit decline in the three months ended Oct. 31.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ian C. Sayson  in Manila at 
 isayson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net . 