-- Lend Lease to Buy Valemus for $1.05 Billion After Bilfinger Drops Unit IPO
-- B y   N i c h o l a   S a m i n a t h e r
-- 2010-12-21T06:58:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-20/lend-lease-agrees-to-buy-bilfinger-berger-australia-unit-for-1-05-billion.html
Lend Lease Group  agreed to buy
 Bilfinger Berger SE ’s Australian division  Valemus Ltd.  for
A$1.06 billion ($1.05 billion), five months after the German
construction company scrapped plans to list the unit.  Lend Lease, Australia’s largest developer, shares jumped
the most in a year after it paid 24 percent less than the price
Bilfinger had sought for the unit in a planned July public
listing. The sale, subject to approval from Australian anti-
trust authorities, should be completed in the first quarter of
2011, according to a regulatory filing by Bilfinger.  The purchase will help Lend Lease, which is building the
A$6 billion  Barangaroo  South financial precinct in Sydney,
expand its road, rail and other construction businesses, the
Sydney-based company said in a separate filing. Bilfinger, based
in Mannheim, Germany, pulled a planned initial public offering
for Valemus to raise as much as A$1.39 billion after investors
balked at the price.  “It’s a good strategic move for Lend Lease to increase
exposure to Australian engineering construction before the
expected large upswing in activities, and the price also looks
very good from their perspective,”  Will Seddon , who helps
manage about $350 million at White Funds Management Pty in
Sydney, said in an e-mail. “From Bilfinger Berger’s perspective,
whether this was a better option isn’t all that clear. An IPO
may have done a lot better in the current market.”  Australia’s  S&P/ASX 200 Index  has climbed 12 percent since
July 6, when Bilfinger said it wouldn’t proceed with the IPO of
its Australian unit. Lend Lease shares jumped 5.9 percent to
A$8.75 at the 4:10 p.m. close in Sydney, the biggest gain since
Dec. 1, 2009.  Cash Reserves  Lend Lease is paying a A$960 million purchase price, plus
A$80 million and four A$5 million payments to Bilfinger in lieu
of 2010 profits that won’t be distributed, Iwona Polski, a
spokeswoman for the Australian company, said by telephone.  The developer said in the filing it will fund the purchase
from existing cash reserves and a new five-year A$225 million
debt facility. In return, it will gain control of Valemus
subsidiaries Abigroup, Baulderstone and Conneq and more than 150
contracts held by the company, Lend Lease said.  Bilfinger will use the net cash inflow, more than 500
million euros ($656 million) after it repays a 125 million-euro
loan to Valemus, to fund expansion of its services business, it
said. The company, whose projects have included the Sydney Opera
House and the city’s Anzac Bridge, has said it wanted to sell
the unit to reduce its dependence on construction and build up
its services business.  Room to Grow  Lend Lease  reported  A$1.6 billion in cash and A$700 million
in undrawn debt facilities as of June 30, which gave the company
“significant capacity to fund growth opportunities,” Chief
Financial Officer  Brad Soller  said in an earnings statement to
the stock exchange on Aug. 16.  Standard & Poor’s and Moody’s Investors Service affirmed
Lend Lease’s BBB-and Baa3 long-term ratings after today’s
announcement. S&P said the acquisition is consistent with the
company’s growth strategy, and Moody’s said it will enhance its
earnings diversity.  “Although we believe that the debt-funded acquisition will
absorb most of the group’s debt capacity at the ‘BBB-’ rating,
Lend Lease retains significant flexibility over its capital-
expenditure program and has a long track record of capital
recycling to minimize the impact of growth expenditure on the
group’s balance sheet,” S&P credit analyst  Paul Draffin  wrote
in a report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nichola Saminather  in Sydney at 
 nsaminather1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  