-- Lending Club Builds a Marketplace for Peer-to-Peer Loans
-- B y   A n t o n e   G o n s a l v e s
-- 2010-12-20T14:40:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-20/lending-club-builds-a-marketplace-for-peer-to-peer-loans.html
David Louthan is a banker’s dream
customer. The 32-year-old manufacturing engineer in Cedar City,
Utah, contributes to a 401(k) and is already saving for the
education of his first child, due this May. Instead of opening a
savings account at a bank, Louthan joined  Lending Club , an
online marketplace that matches individual lenders with
borrowers, where he earns interest making loans to folks whom he
himself vets. “It comes down to control,” Louthan says. “I
prefer to manage my own money.”  Lending Club, the 48-employee, peer-to-peer lender based in
Redwood City, Calif., is banking on individuals such as Louthan,
who don’t trust Wall Street and want alternatives to manage
their personal finances.  Renaud Laplanche  co-founded Lending
Club in 2006, about a year after he sold his business software
company, TripleHop Technologies, to Oracle. Since then, Lending
Club has raised $52 million from Norwest Venture Partners -- its
biggest investor -- and other venture capital firms. Laplanche
says Lending Club expects to handle $120 million in loans in
2010, up from $52 million last year, and he projects loan volume
to more than double again in 2011, to $250 million. The
company’s revenue from loan fees rose to $7 million this year,
from $3 million in 2009. Next year, Laplanche expects to take in
$20 million and says Lending Club is on track to become
profitable by early 2012.  The money flowing through Lending Club and its handful of
competitors is miniscule compared to the trillions of dollars
lent by U.S. banks each year. Nevertheless, the concept could
one day evolve into a whole new type of financial institution
that upends banks’ traditional lending practices, says  David Schehr , an analyst for the banking practice of tech consultant
Gartner. “It’s a disruptive model, but how large it will become
remains to be seen.” For now, banks are tracking peer-to-peer
lending companies like Lending Club, stopping short of calling
them a threat. “We really don’t have a position,” says Nessa
Feddis, vice-president and senior counsel for Washington trade
group American Bankers Association.  A Timely Relaunch in 2008  Peer-to-peer lending started in early 2005 with the launch of
Zopa in the U.K. Prosper.com launched in the U.S. a year later,
followed by Lending Club. The budding U.S. market was thrown
into turmoil in 2008, when the Securities and Exchange
Commission determined that loan notes the companies offered were
securities and had to be registered. Lending Club stopped
accepting new lenders for six months while waiting for approval
of its registration. It resumed normal operations in November
2008, two months after Wall Street collapsed in the subprime
mortgage crisis. The credit shortage that followed was a bonanza
for Lending Club, helping drive its rise in loan volume -- the
value of which more than doubled during each of the next two
years.  Sustaining that growth means Lending Club must being able to
beat traditional lenders and investment vehicles, Laplanche
says. Because it doesn’t have the overhead of a full-service
financial institution with physical locations for its users, it
can give borrowers more favorable interest rates than banks, he
explains. For example, someone with excellent credit can get
rates 500 basis points -- or 5 percentage points -- below a
bank’s offer, Laplanche says. “We’re really a lower-cost version
of the banking system.” To expand its loan portfolio, Laplanche
says Lending Club is now targeting institutional investors such
as mutual funds and family trust funds, which would buy loan
notes and manage investments the way individual users currently
do on the site.  While Lending Club’s interest rates to borrowers and lenders are
attractive, the latter take a significant risk: The loans are
unsecured. If the borrower doesn’t make a payment in four
months, the loan is charged off and the investment is lost.
Those who take the risk are hoping to achieve Lending Club’s
average annual return of 9.68 percent. Reaching that goal
requires a savvy lender who is able to select those borrowers
most likely to make good on their debt.  Mark Schwanhausser ,
senior analyst for Javelin Strategy and Research in Pleasanton,
Calif., compares the investment to banks issuing credit cards,
which are also unsecured loans. “Perhaps you can be smarter than
an issuing bank and run a tighter portfolio, but it’s not
something that’s going to come by happenstance.” Laplanche says
Lending Club’s default rate is about 3 percent. U.S. credit-card
issuers wrote off about 8.8 percent of their loans in October,
the lowest rate since January 2009, as measured by Moody’s
Investor Service,  Vetting Process Culls Most Applicants  Lending Club keeps its default rate down by vetting would-be
borrowers with a set of criteria, including FICO score, debt-to-
income ratio, and public information on social networks,
eliminating 90 percent of the people who apply for loans,
according to Laplanche. Borrowers who make the cut are assigned
an interest rate and Lending Club posts the loan note. Lenders
use the company’s online tools to build a portfolio of notes
based on desired interest rate and risk tolerance. They also
have the option of searching for notes based on criteria such as
credit score, loan purpose, loan term, debt-to-income ratio, or
specific keywords in the loan description. Lending Club does not
identify the borrowers or lenders.  Kim Berghall, president of software maker Sisu Group in Tulsa,
Okla., invested $50,000 in Lending Club back in the summer of
2009. The 50-year-old was looking to add something different to
his investment portfolio and he found the concept of peer-to-
peer lending intriguing. So far, Berghall has collected $5,923
in interest and lost $3,246 through defaults. An additional
$1,600 in loans is past due. Berghall hasn’t lost money, but
he’s disappointed in his return. “It’s not as good as people
make it sound,” he says. “There’s no free lunch.”  Roughly two-thirds of Lending Club’s borrowers are looking for
lower-cost loans to pay off credit cards, Laplanche says. Others
are borrowing to start businesses, make home improvements, or
pay for weddings. Depending on the credit rating that Lending
Club assigns to borrowers, they face interest rates that can run
from less than 5.5 percent to more than 21 percent. The company
offers three-year and five-year loans and charges an origination
fee ranging from 2 percent to 5 percent of the loan, depending
on the borrower’s credit rating.  Entrepreneur Kirstin Lindquist borrowed $16,400 in March to
expand Energy Matters Acupuncture and Qigong in Oakland, Calif.
The loan was funded within two weeks after she submitted her
application at a fixed rate of 7.88 percent, which amounts to
payments of about $500 a month for three years. The monthly
payments also cover an origination fee of 2 percent of the loan
amount. Lindquist chose Lending Club because she was daunted by
the paperwork involved in applying for a Small Business
Administration guaranteed loan. Lindquist also liked the idea of
borrowing from individuals instead of a bank. “It’s as close to
a handshake over the fence as you can get,” she says.  To contact the reporter on this story:  antoneg@pacbell.net   To contact the editor responsible for the this story: Nick
Leiber at  nleiber@bloomberg.net  