-- Italian Stocks: DMT, Exor, Fiat, Fondiaria, Impregilo, Popolare
-- B y   F r a n c e s c a   C i n e l l i
-- 2010-12-21T16:55:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-20/eni-exor-popolare-milano-italian-equity-preview.html
Italy’s benchmark  FTSE MIB Index 
rose for a second day, gaining 362.94, or 1.8 percent, to
20,736.6 at the 5:30 p.m. close in Milan.  The following stocks were among the most active in the
Italian market today.  Banca Popolare di Milano Scrl  (PMI IM) rose 1.4 percent to
2.76 euros, extending yesterday’s gain. The Milan-based
cooperative bank reached a settlement with Italy’s tax agency
that will cut its net income in 2010 by 170 million euros
($223.2 million).  “This is positive news as finally the uncertainty on the
amount of the fiscal claim has come to an end and the impact is
below our estimate,” Gruppo Banca Leonardo said in a note.  Banco Popolare SC  (BP IM) surged 3.6 percent to 3.63 euros,
jumping for a second day. Intermonte Sim SpA reiterated an
“outperform” rating on the lender, after Fondazione Cariverona
yesterday confirmed its interest in buying stock in Banco
Popolare’s capital increase.  Credito Emiliano SpA  (CE IM) rose for a second day, gaining
2.9 percent to 4.77 euros. Equita Sim SpA added the stock to its
“small-cap focus list,” saying that Credem is a “defensive
investment in the domestic banking sector thanks to a superior
asset quality, but it nevertheless offers an above-average
exposure to rising short-term rates in case of improving macro
outlook.”  Digital Multimedia Technologies SpA  (DMT IM) surged 6.6
percent to 15.72 euros, the highest price in eight months. The
company said it’s considering splitting its assets into three
businesses and making a “possible remuneration of shareholders
via either special dividends and/or share repurchases.”  Fiat SpA  (F IM) increased for a third day, rising 3.6
percent to 15.11 euros. Daimler AG offered 14.5 billion euros
for Fiat’s industrial unit, which the Italian carmaker plans to
spin off next month, la Repubblica reported, without saying
where it got the information.  “The rumored offer would be fair,” Equita Sim SpA said in
a note. “We think that Exor SpA sees Fiat Industrial as a core
asset and therefore has no plans to sell the control of the
company, at least in the short term.”  Exor SpA  (EXO IM), Fiat’s main shareholder, advanced 2.9
percent to 24 euros.  Fondiaria-Sai SpA  (FSA IM) surged 3.6 percent to 6.27
euros, gaining for a second day. UniCredit SpA’s board agreed to
give new credit lines to the Ligresti family’s  Premafin
Finanziaria SpA  (PF IM), the biggest shareholder of insurer
Fondiaria-Sai, Il Messaggero said.  Premafin advanced 5 percent to 78 euro cents, the highest
price in more than a week.  Milano Assicurazioni SpA  (MI IM), a
unit of Fondiaria, increased 3.4 percent to 1.19 euros.  Trevi Finanziaria SpA  (TFI IM) increased 3.1 percent to
10.94 euros, the highest price in four months. UniCredit
Research reiterated its “buy” rating, saying that “the new
order inflow is accelerating both in the foundation and oil-
related business, thus confirming our positive stance on the
stock.”  UniCredit SpA  (UCG IM) gained 3.5 percent to 1.66 euros,
gaining for a second day. The shares of Italy’s biggest bank
rose above their 20-day moving average today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Francesca Cinelli  in Milan at 
 fcinelli@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Merritt at   dmerritt1@bloomberg.net  