-- Ernst & Young Said to Face Fraud Lawsuit From Cuomo Over Lehman Audits
-- B y   K a r e n   F r e i f e l d   a n d   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 2010-12-20T22:06:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-20/ernst-young-said-to-face-fraud-lawsuit-from-cuomo-over-lehman-audits.html
Ernst & Young LLP will be sued for
fraud by New York Attorney General  Andrew Cuomo  for allegedly
helping  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.  mislead investors,
according to a person familiar with the matter.  The suit will focus on audits and quarterly reviews of
Lehman financial statements by Ernst & Young, which helped
downplay the firm’s liabilities, said to the person, who wasn’t
authorized to speak publicly about the case. The suit will
charge violations of New York’s securities fraud statute, the
Martin Act, said the person.  Lehman, once the fourth-largest investment bank, failed in
September 2008 because of risky real estate bets and too much
debt, which it tried to hide from investors, partly by using so-
called Repo 105 trades, according to bankruptcy examiner  Anton Valukas ’s report. Valukas, in his report, said Ernst & Young
could be accused of “professional malpractice” for its role as
auditor.  “They should have reviewed enough of the firm’s
transactions to see that it was engaging in window dressing,”
said Barry Epstein, an accountant who has done work for the U.S.
Justice Department and Securities and Exchange Commission.  Charles Perkins , a spokesman for Ernst & Young, declined to
comment, as did  Richard Bamberger , a spokesman for Cuomo’s
office.  ‘The Spark’  The Valukas report was surely “the spark that ignited”
Cuomo’s interest, said  Harvey Miller , Lehman’s lead bankruptcy
lawyer, in an interview. “I don’t know what the new attorney
general will do when he takes over,” he said.  Cuomo will be sworn in as governor on Jan. 1. His successor
will be New York Democratic state Senator  Eric T. Schneiderman .  Repo 105 transactions are a form of short-term financing
that Valukas said Lehman used to move as much as $50 billion off
its balance sheet temporarily to show investors it wasn’t
carrying too much debt.  The Repo 105 transactions were sale and repurchase
agreements, so that Lehman was obligated to buy them back,
swelling its leverage again.  “The balance sheet manipulation was intentional, for
deceptive appearances, had a material impact on Lehman’s net
leverage ratio” and caused financial reports to be misleading,
Valukas wrote of the defunct New York-based company. Higher
leverage undermines a firm’s capacity to absorb financial shock.  ‘Responsibility of Management’  Responding to the Valukas report in March, Ernst & Young
said leverage ratios reported in Lehman’s management discussion
and analysis “were the responsibility of management, not the
auditor. They are not part of the audited financial
statements.”  Epstein said auditors are required to read such statements
by management in case something conflicts with details in the
financial statements they’ve audited.  A spokesman for the Securities and Exchange Commission,
John Heine, declined to comment on whether the SEC is
investigating or negotiating with Ernst & Young.  The accounting firm has been named in at least one class-
action lawsuit accusing former Lehman Chairman  Richard Fuld  and
other executives of misleading investors by using devices such
as Repo 105. One suit, based on Valukas’s 2,200-page report, was
filed April 23 on behalf of retirement funds including the
Alameda County Employees’ Retirement Association in Oakland,
California, and the Government of Guam Retirement Fund.  Dismissal Sought  The Lehman executives asked a judge in June to dismiss the
suit, denying in court papers that the investors had lost money
on Lehman securities because of misstatements and omissions in
offering documents.  Lehman’s accounting for Repo 105 transactions conformed to
generally accepted accounting principles and was approved by
Ernst & Young, they said in a filing in federal court in
Manhattan.  Ernst and Young also asked the judge in June to dismiss the
class-action suit, saying in court papers that even Valukas
“did not find that Lehman’s accounting for the Repo 105
transactions was wrong.”  In his report, Valukas said Ernst & Young tried to make
sure Lehman’s accounting for Repo 105 complied with generally
accepted accounting practices in the U.S. at the time. The firm
may have been negligent even if Repo 105 trades “technically”
complied with U.S. rules, he said.  He faulted the firm because it didn’t audit individual Repo
105 trades, “did not evaluate the possibility that Repo 105
transactions were accounting-motivated transactions that lacked
a business purpose,” and didn’t take a stand on whether
Lehman’s extensive use of the device was “material” and should
be reported.  ‘Materially Misleading’  “Financial statements may be materially misleading even
when they do not violate GAAP,” he wrote in his report.  Ernst & Young was told by a whistleblower at Lehman that
Lehman was using the device extensively, and didn’t tell the
investment bank’s audit committee about it, Valukas said.  The investment bank, which had been using the repos since
2001, stepped up their use in mid-2007, breaching internal
limits, the Valukas report shows. Lehman’s former president,
 Herbert “Bart” McDade , commented on them in an April 2008 e-
mail exchange, after he was asked whether he knew about their
effect on the balance sheet, Valukas said. “I am very aware,”
McDade wrote back. “It is another drug we’re on.”  The U.K. accounting regulator, the Financial Reporting
Council, said earlier this year it was investigating Ernst &
Young’s auditing of Repo 105 transactions. The deals helped
Lehman downplay its leverage in late 2007 and 2008 by
temporarily moving assets off the firm’s balance sheet, Valukas
said.  The Wall Street Journal said earlier today a lawsuit might
be filed this week.  The bankruptcy case is In re Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.,
08-13555, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan). The class action lawsuit is In re Lehman Brothers
Equity/Debt Securities Litigation, 08-cv-05523, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Karen Freifeld  in New York at 
 kfreifeld@bloomberg.net ;
 Linda Sandler  in New York at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net  