-- Hero Honda Gains in Mumbai After Hero Group Agrees to Buy Honda's Stake
-- B y   S i d d h a r t h   P h i l i p
-- 2010-12-20T11:42:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-20/hero-honda-surges-in-india-as-honda-exit-cuts-motorcycle-technology-costs.html
Hero Honda Motors Ltd. , maker of
half the motorcycles sold in India, surged the most in more than
1 1/2 years after saying Honda Motor Co.’s exit from the venture
will lead to lower royalty payments and help boost exports.  Hero Honda  climbed 18 percent, the most since May 2009, to
1,980.50 rupees at the 3:30 p.m. close in Mumbai trading. The
stock fell 8.3 percent in a month through Dec. 16 on concern it
would need to pay more to use Honda’s technology following the
Tokyo-based company’s exit from the venture.  The New Delhi-based motorcycle maker’s royalty payments
will decline from as early as January as it will develop more
models in-house, Hero Group said last week after agreeing to buy
Honda’s 26 percent  stake  in the venture. The company will also
be freed from restraints now, allowing it to begin sales in
markets such as Africa and Indonesia, said  Ashish Nigam , an
analyst at Antique Stock Broking Ltd.  “The management has addressed a very serious concern by
categorically stating that the underlying royalty rates will not
increase,” Mumbai-based analyst Nigam wrote in a note to
clients today. The company previously “missed out” on export
opportunities that have helped boost sales for Bajaj Auto Ltd.
because of the ties with Honda, he said.  Nigam raised his  recommendation  on Hero Honda to “buy”
from “hold.” He also increased his forecast for Hero Honda’s
unit exports next fiscal year by 1 percent.  Phased Manner  Hero Group, controlled by the Munjal family, will buy
Honda’s 26 percent stake in a “phased manner,” the companies
said in a statement on Dec. 16, without saying how much it will
pay. The group already owns 26 percent of the motorcycle-maker,
which had a  market value  of $7.4 billion based on the Dec. 16
closing price, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. India’s
markets were closed on Dec. 17 for a holiday.  Honda, the world’s largest motorcycle maker, plans to exit
the venture to focus on its fully owned unit in India. The
 company , which formed Hero Honda with Hero Group in 1984, rose
1.4 percent to 3,280 yen at the close of trading in Tokyo.  “The current demand for two-wheelers in the domestic
market is quite robust,”   Vineet Hetamasaria  and  Nikhil Deshpande , analysts at Infinity.com Financial Securities Ltd.,
wrote in a report to clients today. That gives room to Hero
Honda and Honda “to coexist and grow.”  Hero Honda plans to export motorcycles to markets in Latin
America and Asia after Honda exits,  Anil Dua , head of sales and
marketing at the company, said in a conference call today.  Hero Honda will create a new brand and search for “new
markets” overseas as Honda quits the venture, Chief Executive
Officer  Pawan Kant Munjal  said on Dec. 16. The motorcycle-maker
paid 2.6 percent of sales to Honda as royalties in the fiscal
year ended in March, according to its annual report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Siddharth Philip  in Mumbai at 
 sphilip3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at   ndenslow@bloomberg.net . 