-- Ethiopian Donors May Further Probe Allegations That Government Misused Aid
-- B y   W i l l i a m   D a v i s o n
-- 2010-12-20T10:45:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-20/ethiopian-donors-may-further-probe-allegations-that-government-misused-aid.html
Major donors to Ethiopia may renew a
probe into claims the government has used aid to silence the
opposition after  Human Rights Watch  called on them to
investigate its allegations further.  In an October report, New York-based Human Rights Watch
said the government used “donor-supported programs” to control
political opponents by denying them access to land, credit,
fertilizers, food aid and other resources. In an e-mailed
statement on Dec. 17, the group called on donors to investigate
the claims themselves.  The Development Assistance Group Ethiopia, which is based
in Addis Ababa and made up of 26 donors, met recently to discuss
the allegations, Sandra Baldwin, deputy director of the U.K.
Department for International Development Ethiopia, said by phone
on Dec. 18. Baldwin didn’t rule out field research to
investigate specific claims of abuse.  The donor group “has been actively discussing the
additional work to follow up on the earlier” report into the
abuse allegations,  Ken Ohashi , the World Bank’s country director
for Ethiopia, said in an e-mailed response to questions. A
government spokesman was not immediately available to comment.  The group said in an October statement it didn’t “concur
with the conclusions” of Human Rights Watch’s report that
alleged widespread, systematic abuse of development aid.  “Our study did not generate any evidence of systematic or
widespread distortion,” said the donor group, which includes
the World Bank, International Monetary Fund and the U.S.  Human Rights Watch says the Horn of Africa nation, which
has been ruled by former rebels since 1991, is one of the
world’s largest recipients of foreign aid, getting about $3.3
billion annually from 2004 through 2008.  In May elections, Prime Minister  Meles Zenawi ’s ruling
Ethiopian People’s Revolutionary Democratic Front and its allies
won 545 out of 547 parliamentary seats. A European Union
observation mission said the poll “did not meet certain
international commitments.” The government has rejected
criticism and said the process was free and fair.  To contact the reporter on this story:  William Davison  in Addis
Ababa via Johannesburg at  pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  