-- EU Considers Sanctions on 19 Ivory Coast Officials Including Gbagbo, Wife
-- B y   F r a n z   W i l d   a n d   P a u l i n e   B a x
-- 2010-12-20T14:49:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-20/eu-says-will-sanction-19-ivory-coast-officials-including-gbagbao-wife.html
The European Union will decide this
week whether to impose an asset freeze and a visa ban on Ivory
Coast President  Laurent Gbagbo , his wife, and 17 other
officials, an EU spokeswoman said.  “There is an agreement on the expert level on the list for
the visa ban,” Maja Kocijancic, a spokeswoman for EU foreign
policy chief  Catherine Ashton , said today by phone from
Brussels.  The international community has sought to isolate Gbagbo
after he refused to accept defeat in the Nov. 28 run-off
election in the world’s largest cocoa grower. While the
Independent Electoral Commission said challenger  Alassane Ouattara  won the vote, the Constitutional Council declared
Gbagbo the victor, after rejecting vote tallies from some
northern regions.  More than 50 people were killed and at least 200 injured in
three days of protests, mainly in Abidjan, the biggest city, and
Yamoussoukro, the capital, United Nations High Commissioner for
Human Rights Navi Pillay said in a  statement  yesterday. A group
of pro-Ouattara parties said in a statement today that at least
45 people have been killed and about 650 are being held by
police.  The UN is investigating reports of a mass grave outside of
Abidjan, Young-jin Choi, head of the UN mission in Ivory Coast,
told reporters today.  Police Custody  The UN “has received reports from hundreds of victims and
members of their families about the abduction of individuals
from their homes, especially at night, by unidentified armed
individuals in military uniform accompanied by elements of the
defence and security forces or militia groups,” Pillay said in a
statement yesterday.  The price of cocoa reached a four-month high on Dec. 7 as
traders thought exports of the beans would be hindered by the
conflict. Cocoa for March delivery today jumped as much $74, or
2.5 percent, to $3,025 per metric ton and was trading at $3,006
a ton as of 1:58 p.m. in London.  The UN has rejected a call from Gbagbo for it to withdraw
its roughly 8,000 peacekeepers from the West African country.
France should also pull out its 900 troops because the former
colonial power and the UN are biased toward Ouattara, Gbagbo
spokeswoman Jacqueline Oble said on Dec. 18.  Six members of Ivory Coast’s security forces on Dec. 17
attacked the UN base in Abidjan, according to the UN. “Armed
young men” have approached the homes of UN staff members and
told them to leave, Choi said today.  “Any attack on UN forces will be an attack on the
international community and those responsible for these actions
will be held accountable,” Secretary-General  Ban Ki-moon  said
yesterday.  With the African Union, the U.S., and the Economic
Community of West African States urging Gbabgo to step down, the
UN Security Council is scheduled today to discuss the situation
in Ivory Coast.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Franz Wild  in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net ;
 Pauline Bax  in Abidjan via Accra at 
 ebowers1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg in Jerusalem at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net . 