-- European Stocks Climb, Erasing Losses From Lehman Bankruptcy
-- B y   J u l i e   C r u z
-- 2010-12-20T17:04:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-20/european-stock-index-futures-fluctuate-abertis-gartmore-might-be-active.html
European stocks  rose, erasing losses
that followed Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.’s 2008 bankruptcy,
amid speculation that the economic recovery is strong enough to
withstand the region’s sovereign-debt crisis.  Volkswagen AG, Europe’s biggest automaker, soared 3.7
percent after saying it expects sales in China to grow as much
as 15 percent next year.  Abertis Infraestructuras SA  added 1.3
percent as the Sunday Times said CVC Capital Partners Ltd. may
bid for the Spanish highway operator. Retailers retreated as
snow disrupted holiday shopping.  The benchmark  Stoxx Europe 600 Index  climbed 0.7 percent to
278.38 at the 4:30 p.m. close in London, the highest level since
Sept. 12, 2008, the last trading day before Lehman’s collapse.
The gauge has advanced 6.3 percent this month as U.S. reports
showed claims for unemployment benefits unexpectedly fell,
builders began work on more homes and manufacturing in the New
York region rebounded more than forecast.  “The start of 2011 might be quite good as we still have a
lot of liquidity driving the market,” said  Michael Koehler ,
head of strategy at Landesbank Baden-Wuerttemberg in Mainz.
“The latest economic data that we got, especially from the
U.S., was overall really good and we will definitely not see a
double dip. Though, the sovereign debt crisis issue is still not
solved.”  Financial Crisis  The Stoxx 600 plunged 44 percent through March 2009 as the
collapse of Lehman Brothers fueled the worst financial crisis
since the Great Depression, causing banks worldwide to book
writedowns and losses of more than $1.8 trillion.  France risks losing its top AAA grade as Europe’s debt
crisis prompts a wave of downgrades that threatens to engulf the
region’s highest-rated borrowers, with Belgium also facing a
possible cut, analysts and investors said.  “Every sovereign may get penalized in the year ahead,”
said  Toby Nangle , who helps oversee $46 billion as director of
asset allocation at Baring Asset Management in London. “It
would a big deal if France was to have its AAA rating stripped.
I don’t think the likelihood of a downgrade is reflected in the
market.”  National benchmark indexes rose in 14 of the 18 western
European markets today. France’s CAC 40 and Germany’s DAX gained
0.5 percent. The U.K.’s FTSE 100 advanced 0.3 percent.  VW Gains  Volkswagen preferred shares climbed 3.7 percent to 126.25
euros as the carmaker said it expects group sales in China to
grow 10 to 15 percent next year.  “The total market next year looks pretty healthy for us,”
said  Soh Weiming , the automaker’s executive president for China,
in an interview at the Guangzhou Auto Show.  Separately, Audi AG, Volkswagen’s luxury-car brand, will
probably beat its target for A1 deliveries next year and may
further increase production to meet demand for the subcompact,
the unit’s sales chief said.  Abertis Infraestructuras gained 1.3 percent to 13.63 euros
as the Sunday Times reported that CVC Capital Partners, which
bought a minority stake in Abertis earlier this year, is
preparing a 12 billion-euro ($15.8 billion) bid for the company.  Banco Popolare SC jumped 5.6 percent to 3.50 euros on
speculation that Fondazione Cariverona may buy a stake through
the lender’s 2 billion-euro rights offer and after Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. upgraded the stock.  888, Mobistar  888 Holdings Plc rallied 18 percent to 57.75 pence, the
biggest gain since its initial share sale in 2005. The online
gambling company said it’s in the early stages of discussions
with Ladbrokes Plc about a possible takeover offer.  Mobistar SA  advanced 3.8 percent to 47.42 euros after
Belgium’s second-biggest mobile-phone company was upgraded to
“buy” at Deutsche Bank AG.  Rhodia SA climbed 7.2 percent to 24.39 euros, the highest
price in almost three years. The specialty chemical company is
confident it will be able to defend its profit margins in 2011
as raw-material prices, while at a high level, remain about
stable, Investir reported, citing an interview with Chief
Executive Officer  Jean-Pierre Clamadieu .  Morgan Stanley upgraded the stock to “overweight” from
“equal weight.”  Retail stocks had the only drop out of 19  industry groups 
in the Stoxx 600 as the snow disrupted holiday shopping. Inditex
SA, the world’s largest clothing retailer, declined 2.7 percent
to 56.60 euros. Dixons Retail Plc, the U.K.’s biggest consumer-
electronics retailer, retreated 6.2 percent to 22.84 pence.  Metro Slides  Metro AG, Germany’s largest retailer, lost 2.6 percent to
54.37 euros. Haniel & Cie. GmbH is considering reducing its
stake in the company, Wirtschaftswoche reported, citing
unidentified people close to the company.  Haniel aims to establish a “more balanced portfolio” by
investing in small companies, spokesman Dietmar Bochert said
today. He declined to comment on whether the company plans to
reduce its Metro stake.  Ruediger Stahlschmidt , a spokesman for
Metro, declined to comment.  Gartmore Group Plc  plunged 8.6 percent to 95.75 pence after
the U.K. fund manager that put itself up for sale in November
said it’s discussing a takeover proposal with Henderson Group
Plc on the basis of a “slight discount” to its Dec. 16 closing
share price of 98.75 pence.  Henderson Group , which aims to
expand its consumer business and emerging-market operations,
rose 0.1 percent to 130.6 pence.  Ingenico SA  sank 5.6 percent to 26.05 euros as the world’s
largest maker of card payment terminals said that a bidder for
the company has not been in a position to submit a binding offer
that is acceptable to its board.  Allied Irish Banks Plc slumped 8.9 percent to 41 euro cents
as the Sunday Business Post said Ireland’s government may use
new powers to take full control of the lender as early as this
week. A spokesman for Ireland’s Finance Ministry declined to
comment on the report.  Ronan Sheridan , a spokesman for the bank,
also declined to comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Julie Cruz  in Frankfurt at 
 jcruz6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Merritt at   dmerritt1@bloomberg.net . 