-- Euro to Drop More Versus Franc After Touching Record, Morgan Stanley Says
-- B y   L u c y   M e a k i n
-- 2010-12-20T18:01:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-20/euro-to-drop-more-against-franc-after-touching-record-morgan-stanley-says.html
The euro will extend its drop to
1.20 against the Swiss franc in 2011 after the common currency
fell to a record low as investors sought a haven from the
European sovereign-debt crisis, according to Morgan Stanley.  “We continue to look for sovereign issues plaguing the
euro into the middle of next year, and that’s going to cause
people to look for alternatives,” said  Ronald Leven , executive
director and currency strategist at Morgan Stanley in New York,
in a telephone interview. “On the Swiss side, there isn’t
really much evidence yet that the Swiss franc’s strength is
hurting the economy.”  Europe’s currency declined 0.9 percent to 1.2671 francs at
12:55 p.m. in New York, after falling to a euro-era record of
1.2636. The euro dropped to Morgan Stanley’s previous target of
1.28 last week. Investors should exit a bet against the euro if
it rises to 1.3020, according to Morgan Stanley.  The euro has depreciated 15 percent against the franc this
year, reaching an all-time low after Moody’s Investors Service
lowered Ireland’s credit rating to Baa1 from Aa2 last week.  The Swiss National Bank held the three-month Libor target
 rate  at 0.25 percent on Dec. 16 in a bid to keep a lid on the
franc. The SNB stopped intervening in currency markets in June,
ending a 15-month policy of countering what it called
“excessive” gains of the currency.  “The SNB now appears to be less concerned regarding
deflationary risks and stated in their monetary policy meeting
last week that they see ‘no threat to price stability in the
short term,’” Morgan Stanley analysts wrote in an e-mailed
research note today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Lucy Meakin  in London at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at   dtilles@bloomberg.net  