-- Snow Extends European Air Travel Delays as Holiday Nears
-- B y   C h r i s   S p i l l a n e   a n d   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n
-- 2010-12-21T09:03:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-20/europe-s-cold-blast-disrupts-travel-for-third-day-as-more-snow-is-forecast.html
Air travel disruptions rippled
across Europe for a fourth day in the countdown to Christmas as
Frankfurt airport was closed this morning after heavy snowfall.  Fraport AG ’s Frankfurt airport, Europe’s third busiest,
reopened two runways after shutting all three earlier this
morning for snow clearance, spokesman  Juergen Harrer  said in a
telephone interview.  Deutsche Lufthansa  AG said it re-routed
Frankfurt-bound long-haul jets to Munich and deployed additional
wide-bodies to Dusseldorf and Zurich.  Northern parts of Germany will receive as much as 10
centimeters (3.9 inches) of  fresh snow  during the day, according
to the German Weather Service. In London, tens of thousands of
travelers who have been trying to head home for Christmas since
the weekend remain stranded as Heathrow airport operates at a
third of capacity and as snow, ice and frigid temperatures
turned rail and road travel into chaos.  “It’s unbelievable,”  Thomas Jachnow , a spokesman for
Cologne, Germany-based Deutsche Lufthansa, said in a telephone
interview. “We all thought it would get better and then this
new wave of ice and snow hit us. Any optimism that our flight
plan would normalize in coming days has dissipated.”  British Airways  BAA Ltd. ’s Heathrow airport said it second runway will
remain closed until later today.  British Airways Plc  has
canceled 165 flights scheduled to depart from Europe’s biggest
hub, according to the London-based carrier’s website.  “There is still ongoing disruption across Europe because of
the adverse weather conditions,” said BAA spokeswoman Cathy
Mussert. “There could be further delays and cancelations. We’re
advising passengers to check with their airline to confirm their
flight is operating.”  Gatwick, which serves London, reopened as planned at 6 a.m.
with 600 flights scheduled for the day, according to the
airport’s website. Paris’s  Roissy-Charles de Gaulle  and Orly
airports were set to begin the day with at least 28 canceled
flights before 7 a.m., data tracker FlightStats.com said.  Snow and freezing fog have hindered air travel across
Europe since last week with up to 20 centimeters of snow falling
in parts of the U.K. yesterday. Airlines including Cathay
Pacific Airways Ltd.,  Qantas Airways Ltd.  and Virgin Atlantic
Airways Ltd. have also been forced to cancel flights, leaving
thousands of travelers stranded.  Speed Limits  Eurostar Group Ltd. has placed speed restrictions on its
high speed lines, adding up to two hours to journey times,
according to a statement on its website.  The two Paris airports stayed open late yesterday to clear
a backlog of flights delayed by the snow, and operating hours
were extended for four days at London’s Heathrow airport.  “It is necessary to allow as many airplanes as possible to
fly as long as weather conditions remain favorable,” French
Transport Minister  Thierry Mariani  said in a statement.  Airlines and rail operators urged travelers to stay home if
possible, and U.S. carriers waived fees as more snow was
forecast for England, France and Germany.  BAA, the U.K. airport operator owned by Ferrovial SA, asked
passengers without a confirmed flight not to travel to Heathrow
airport.      London’s City airport is open with some delays and
cancelations, spokeswoman Geraldine Nolan said by phone today.  Aeroports de Paris, which runs the two Paris airports, said
the average flight delay at Charles de Gaulle was two to three
hours.  Shovels, Diggers  Dublin’s airport restarted flights at 11:30 p.m. last night
after suspending services earlier while crews cleared the runway
of snow and ice, according to a website statement.  “It can’t be beyond the wit of man, surely, to find the
shovels, the diggers, the snow ploughs or whatever it takes to
clear the snow out from under the planes,”  Boris Johnson , the
mayor of London, told the BBC yesterday.  Fraport is aiming to open the third runway at Frankfurt
airport before noon, spokesman Harrer said. After heavy snowfall
in a short time starting around 3 a.m., the airport operator
decided that snow-clearance crews could not safely clear it if
aircraft were using the runways, he said.  Eurostar, which links London to Paris and Brussels by
train, asked passengers not already at stations to stay home and
urged all customers to cancel non-essential travel. The service
isn’t accepting new bookings through Dec. 24.  United Continental, American  Most other trains throughout France were slower than
normal, though 90 percent were arriving less than 1 hour late,
according to train operator SNCF.  U.S. carriers such as  United Continental Holdings Inc.  and
 AMR Corp.’s  American Airlines waived ticket-change fees for
passengers traveling to or from parts of Europe.  Qantas canceled flights from London and turned back other
flights headed to the U.K., affecting 3,000 passengers,  Simon Rushton , a spokesman for the Sydney-based carrier, said
yesterday.  Cathay Pacific said it expects to operate three scheduled
flights to London from Hong Kong through early tomorrow morning.
The carrier’s four flights from Heathrow today are also expected
to go ahead, pending capacity constraints and weather
conditions, the airline said in an e-mailed statement.  Deutsche Bahn AG  spokeswoman Kathrin Fellenberg said the
winter weather continued to disrupt Germany’s national railroad
network, causing numerous train delays and cancelations.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Chris Spillane  in London at 
 cspillane3@bloomberg.net ;
 Cornelius Rahn  in Frankfurt at 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge at 
 ckeatinge@bloomberg.net ;
Kenneth Wong   kwong11@bloomberg.net . 