-- Euro Trades Near Two-Week Low Versus Dollar, Yen on Fund-Raising Concerns
-- B y   C a n d i c e   Z a c h a r i a h s   a n d   R o n   H a r u i
-- 2010-12-21T01:18:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-20/euro-trades-near-two-week-low-versus-dollar-yen-on-fund-raising-concerns.html
The euro traded near a two-week low
against the dollar on speculation European nations and banks
will struggle to raise funds amid the region’s debt crisis.  The single currency was also close to the lowest in two
weeks against the yen on concern banks will request more funds
from the European Central Bank today at a three-month tender.
Moody’s Investors Service yesterday downgraded two Irish banks
after last week cutting Ireland’s debt rating. The dollar was
near a three-month high against the pound before data that may
show U.S. gross domestic product expanded more than previously
estimated, increasing the allure of U.S. assets.  “European sovereign bond spreads continue to press higher,
indicative of rising fears about the fiscal health of the
region,” said  John Kyriakopoulos , head of currency strategy in
Sydney at National Australia Bank Ltd. “The ECB’s three-month
fixed rate tender will be in the spotlight to gauge euro-zone
bank funding pressures. Bad news here could provide the catalyst
for the euro to fall.”  The euro traded at $1.3124 as of 9:44 a.m. in Tokyo from
$1.3131 in New York yesterday, when it fell to $1.3095, the
lowest since Dec. 2. The common currency was at 109.93 yen from
110 yen yesterday when it fell to 109.58, the weakest since Dec.
7. The dollar bought 83.76 yen from 83.77 yen. The greenback was
little changed at $1.5514 per pound after rising to $1.5454 on
Dec. 17, the most since Sept. 15.  Anglo Irish Bank Corp. and Irish Nationwide Building
Society, both controlled by the Irish state, had their senior
debt ratings cut to junk yesterday by Moody’s. The ratings
company also lowered the outlook on Spain’s banks and their
government-guaranteed debt.  U.S. Growth  U.S. gross domestic product expanded at a 2.8 percent
annual pace in the third quarter, quicker than the 2.5 percent
estimate published last month, the Commerce Department will say
tomorrow, according to a Bloomberg News survey of economists.
Consumer spending rose 0.5 percent in November after a 0.4
percent increase in October, a separate survey showed before
another Commerce Department report due on Dec. 23.  “America’s economy is looking stronger,” said  Yuji Saito ,
director of the foreign-exchange department at Credit Agricole
Corporate and Investment Bank in Tokyo. “This is positive for
the dollar.” Foreign-exchange moves may be exaggerated as
liquidity thins going into the holiday season, he said.  The Australian dollar weakened after the central bank said
it judged policy to be “mildly restrictive” given signs of
consumer caution and few inflation pressures.  Household “restraint, if it continued, would provide some
scope for investment to rise without causing aggregate demand to
grow too quickly and inflationary pressures to build,” Reserve
Bank of Australia policy makers said according to minutes of
their Dec. 7 meeting released today in Sydney.  The so-called Aussie fell to 99.22 U.S. cents from 99.35
yesterday and declined to 83.11 yen from 83.23 in New York.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Candice Zachariahs  in Mumbai at 
 czachariahs2@bloomberg.net ;
 Ron Harui  in Singapore at 
 rharui@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net . 