-- Everton Spoils Tevez Return With 2-1 Win, Denies Manchester City Top Spot
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2010-12-21T00:39:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-20/everton-beats-manchester-city-2-1-to-deny-opponent-premier-league-top-spot.html
Everton won 2-1 at Manchester City
to deny the home team the chance to top English soccer’s Premier
League hours after captain  Carlos Tevez  withdrew his transfer
request.  First-half goals by  Tim Cahill  and  Leighton Baines  put
Everton ahead at the City of Manchester Stadium last night
before  Phil Jagielka ’s 72nd-minute own goal made it 2-1.  Everton’s first victory in eight games lifted it above
Aston Villa into 14th place in the standings and kept City in
third, preventing it from topping England’s elite division at
Christmas for the first time since 1929.  “It wasn’t just a victory, we beat a team who are
expecting to be Premier League champs,” Everton manager  David Moyes  told his club’s website. “The boys went out and got a
great result.”  City fell to its first loss in eight league games, less
than five hours after the club said top scorer Tevez formally
withdrew his transfer request following “ clear the air ” talks.
The Argentine, who joined the team in July 2009, said earlier
this month that he wanted to leave after falling out with club
officials.  “It was the only good news from this evening,” City
manager  Roberto Mancini  said. “We had a big chance to go top
after 81 years. It was a fantastic thing. But now we must
restart.”  Tevez was recalled to the starting lineup and handed the
captain’s armband after missing last week’s 1-1 Europa League
draw with Juventus.  Own Goal  While City had 60 percent of the possession and five times
as many shots on target, the Blues’ only goal came when Jagielka
deflected  Yaya Toure ’s cross into his own net. Everton led 2-0
at halftime after Cahill headed a fourth-minute opener and
Baines curled in the second 15 minutes later.  Both teams ended the game with 10 men. Everton played the
last half an hour a man down after Victor Anichebe was red-
carded for a second bookable offense, while City’s Kolo Toure
was sent off for two injury-time fouls.  The match was one of three Premier League fixtures to take
place over the past three days after snow forced the
postponement of seven games including Manchester United’s visit
to defending champion Chelsea.  United, which leads Arsenal and City by two points, hosts
Sunderland on Dec. 26, one of nine games scheduled on the U.K.’s
Boxing Day holiday. Chelsea visits Arsenal the following day.  United has played two fewer games than crosstown rival City
because its Dec. 4 visit to Blackpool was also postponed because
of a frozen pitch.  “The season is very long,” Mancini added. “We have time
to recover.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Dan Baynes  in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  