-- Ex-Flextronics Manager Wins Bail in Insider-Trading Case Over Apple Tips
-- B y   B i l l   C a l l a h a n
-- 2010-12-21T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-20/ex-flextronics-manager-appears-in-court-in-insider-trading-case.html
The former  Flextronics International
Ltd.  manager accused of leaking details about  Apple Inc. ’s iPad
and iPhone 4 won release on $150,000 bail in the insider-trading
case.  Walter Shimoon  was granted bail yesterday by U.S.
Magistrate Judge Bernard G. Skomal in San Diego on conditions
that included securing his bail with $120,000 of the equity in
his home. Shimoon, a naturalized U.S. citizen from Canada
according to his lawyer, has owned the home since 2003 with his
wife, Linda Awdishu, a professor at the University of California
at San Diego.  Shimoon agreed to appear Jan. 4 in federal court in New
York, where the criminal complaint was filed. He hasn’t entered
a plea to the charges against him.  “I’m going to take you at your word, Mr. Shimoon,” Skomal
said. “You’ll be on the hook for $150,000 after the first of
the year if you don’t show up in New York.”  Shimoon, 39, and two other technology firm employees were
arrested the same day. U.S. prosecutors accuse the men of
providing inside information about their companies to clients of
 Primary Global Research LLC , a consulting company that provides
experts to investors.  James Fleishman , an account representative
at Mountain View, California-based Primary Global, was also
arrested.  Trading Damage  Assistant U.S. Attorney Marietta Geckos said during
yesterday’s hearing that the government wasn’t opposed to bail.
She asked that it be set at $1 million, with $300,000 secured by
real property. She described the alleged crimes as insider
trading “that crosses the whole country and all over the
world.”  Flextronics officials said the alleged conduct has
“jeopardized their relationship with Apple, a relationship that
can be valued in the tens of millions of dollars,” Geckos said.  According to the criminal complaint unsealed Dec. 17, U.S.
investigators made consensual and wiretap recordings of an
unidentified expert-networking firm’s phones, the land lines of
an unidentified hedge fund and the mobile phones of two of the
defendants, Shimoon and a former employee of  Advanced Micro
Devices Inc. ,  Mark Anthony Longoria .  Shimoon, Longoria and Manosha Karunatilaka, who was
employed at chipmaker  Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Co. ,
were charged with wire fraud and conspiracy to commit securities
fraud and conspiracy to commit wire fraud, according to
prosecutors in the probe led by U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara in
Manhattan.  ‘Corrupt Network’  “A corrupt network of insiders at some of the world’s
leading technology companies served as so-called consultants who
sold out their employers by stealing and then peddling their
valuable inside information,” Bharara said in a statement after
the arrests.  If convicted of the wire fraud charge, the defendants face
as long as 20 years in prison, said Edeli Rivera, a spokeswoman
for Bharara’s office.  Skomal said he set Shimoon’s bail in line with other
defendants in the case. Shimoon doesn’t have a criminal record
and “has incredible support from the community and family, with
two kids and a wife who is pregnant,” the judge said. One of
the couple’s neighbors posted a $15,000 cashier’s check toward
his bail.  Shimoon could be released today if all of his documentation
is completed, Skomal said.  ‘Tidbits’ of Data  Jeremy Warren, Shimoon’s lawyer, told the judge that
prosecutors’ damages estimates were exaggerated, as was whatever
role Shimoon played in the scheme. The information Shimoon
provided was “only tidbits of technological data” that would
have been of minimal value to anyone providing investment
advice, Warren said.  Shimoon agreed to surrender his U.S. and Canadian passports
and remain in San Diego County except for travel to his court
appearances in New York.  Fleishman appeared in federal court in San Jose,
California, Dec. 16 and was released on $700,000 bail. Longoria
was granted $50,000 bail and freed by a federal magistrate in
Austin, Texas. Karunatilaka got bail of $300,000 in federal
court in Boston, said his lawyer, Brad Bailey.  The Dec. 16 arrests were the latest development in a
nationwide investigation of illegal trading at hedge funds by
Bharara, the Federal Bureau of Investigation and the Securities
and Exchange Commission.  iPhone, iPod  Flextronics  is a supplier of cameras and battery chargers
for Apple’s iPhone and iPod, according to the complaint.
Prosecutors allege Shimoon provided inside information about
Apple’s sales figures and product road map, including details
about the iPad and iPhone 4 before the devices were released.  Steve Dowling , a spokesman for Apple, previously declined
to comment.  Flextronics said it fired Shimoon.  “Flextronics has a practice of fully cooperating with
regulatory inquiries and has clear policies prohibiting the
release of confidential information about the company and its
business partners,”  Renee Brotherton , a spokeswoman the
Singapore-based company, said Dec. 17 in a statement.  The case is U.S. v. Shimoon, 10-02823, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bill Callahan  in San Diego at  callahan@san.rr.com  or
.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 