-- Ex-Latin Node Executives Charged With Paying More Than $500,000 in Bribes
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2010-12-20T23:09:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-20/ex-latin-node-executives-charged-with-paying-more-than-500-000-in-bribes.html
Two former executives at Latin Node
Inc., the Miami-based telecommunications company, were charged
with paying more than $500,000 in bribes to government officials
in Honduras, according to an indictment unsealed today in Miami.  Jorge Granados and Manuel Caceres were charged in a 19-
count indictment in federal court with violating the Foreign
Corrupt Practices Act and with international money laundering.  The men were arrested today in Miami and face more than 20
years in prison if convicted, the U.S. Justice Department said
in a press release.  Granados, 54, formerly Latin Node’s chief executive
officer, and Caceres, 64, formerly the company’s vice president
of business development, are accused of paying more than
$500,000 from September 2006 to June 2007 to a manager and a
lawyer for Hondutel, the state-owned telecommunications company
in Honduras. Granados and Caceres were also accused of paying
money to a Honduran official who became a Hondutel board member.  The money, the Justice Department said, was part of a
“secret deal” to ensure that Latin Node retained its agreement
with Hondutel to provide long distance telecommunication
services between the U.S. and Honduras.  “This new indictment represents the FBI’s commitment to
investigating not just corrupt acts of a corporate entity, but
the individuals who are behind it,” John Gillies, special agent
in charge of the Federal Bureau of Investigation’s Miami
division, said in a statement.  Granados and Caceres couldn’t immediately be reached for
comment.  Improper Payments  The Justice Department said the bribery allegations were
disclosed to the government by  eLandia International Inc. , a
telecommunications holding company based in Coral Gables,
Florida, which acquired Latin Node in 2007. Latin Node pleaded
guilty in federal court in April 2009 to charges that it made
improper payments to officials in Honduras and Yemen and paid a
$2 million fine.  The case is United States v. Jorge Granados, 10-cr-20881,
U.S. District Court, Southern District of Florida (Miami).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tom Schoenberg  in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 