-- Ex-Comptroller Currency Head Dugan Joins Covington Burling Financial Group
-- B y   S i l l a   B r u s h
-- 2010-12-20T18:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-20/ex-occ-head-dugan-to-join-covington-burling-financial-law-group.html
John C. Dugan , former Comptroller of
the Currency, is joining  Covington & Burling LLP  to lead the
firm’s financial institutions law group as the government
implements the most sweeping overhaul of financial regulation
since the 1930s.  Dugan, 55, served under both presidents  George W. Bush  and
 Barack Obama . He oversaw national banks in the run-up to the
financial crisis, throughout the taxpayer-funded bailouts and
during debate on the Dodd-Frank regulatory law, enacted in July.  “There is a tremendous appetite and demand for individuals
with regulatory expertise because of the crisis, Dodd-Frank,
changes in capital requirements,” Dugan said in an interview.
“The world had kind of moved away from regulation and
Washington in a lot of ways, and now regulation is a part of so
many different things, for better or worse.”  Dugan, who will be based in Washington, will join Covington
as the firm expands its work on implementation of Dodd-Frank.  Ed Yingling , president and CEO of the American Bankers Association,
will join Covington in January, the law firm announced Dec. 7.  Before being appointed to a five-year term as comptroller
by Bush in 2005, Dugan was a partner at Covington. According to
congressional records, Dugan lobbied in 2004 for the American
Bankers Association and Freddie Mac, among other clients.  Dugan said he has “no plans to register immediately” to
lobby the federal government. Dugan said he is subject to a one-
year ban on lobbying the Treasury Department and OCC that began
on Aug. 14, his last day in office. He plans to advise clients
on capital requirements, mortgage regulations and the new
Consumer Financial Protection Bureau created by Dodd-Frank.  Dugan was an assistant Treasury secretary under President
George H.W. Bush and also served as an aide on the Senate
Banking Committee.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Silla Brush in Washington at 
 sbrush@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at  lroberts13@bloomberg.net  