-- Ex-UBS Banker Gadola to Plead Guilty in U.S. Tax Case
-- B y   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s
-- 2010-12-20T19:12:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-20/ex-ubs-banker-to-plead-guilty-in-u-s-tax-conspiracy-case.html
Former  UBS AG  banker Renzo Gadola
will plead guilty this week in federal court in Miami, where
U.S. prosecutors charged him with helping American clients hide
assets from the Internal Revenue Service, court records show.  Gadola, 44, was accused of conspiring with a Swiss banker
to encourage U.S. clients who hadn’t told the IRS about their
UBS accounts to open undeclared accounts at  Basler Kantonalbank .
Gadola was first charged by U.S. authorities on Nov. 7, and his
case was made public Dec. 15. He will appear before U.S.
Magistrate Judge  Barry Garber , court records filed today show.  The unidentified Swiss banker, along with Gadola, told
clients not to join a partial amnesty program that led 18,000
Americans to disclose offshore accounts to the IRS, prosecutors
said.  Gadola and the banker told U.S. clients “not to disclose
their undeclared accounts at Basler Kantonalbank and other banks
to the United States government, including the IRS,” according
to court filings.  UBS, the largest Swiss bank, admitted last year that it
helped thousands of Americans evade taxes. The bank, which
avoided prosecution by paying $780 million, also gave secret
account data on thousands of Americans to the IRS. U.S.
prosecutors have charged at least 24 UBS clients, as well as
three ex-UBS bankers and two other advisers.  Gadola, who worked at UBS from 1995 to 2008, is the first
person charged with trying to discourage taxpayers from entering
the IRS voluntary disclosure program.  Basler Kantonalbank , based
in Basel, hasn’t previously been linked to the U.S. crackdown.
The bank has signed an agreement requiring it to withhold taxes
for the IRS on accounts beneficially owned by U.S. taxpayers.  Peter Raben, Gadola’s attorney, didn’t immediately return a
call seeking comment today.  The case is U.S. v. Gadola, 10-cr-20878, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of Florida (Miami).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Voreacos  in Newark, New Jersey, at 
 dvoreacos@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 