-- Mexican Ruling Party's Fernandez Freed After Kidnapping From Ranch in May
-- B y   J e n s   E r i k   G o u l d
-- 2010-12-20T19:34:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-20/mexican-ruling-party-s-fernandez-freed-after-kidnapping-from-ranch-in-may.html
Diego Fernandez de Cevallos , the
Mexican ruling party politician who was kidnapped seven months
ago, was freed, said a senator from Fernandez’s party.  Senator Felipe Gonzalez, a member of President  Felipe Calderon ’s National Action Party, said in a telephone interview
that “people close to Diego” confirmed his release.  “We’re very happy that he’s been freed, that he’s alive,”
Gonzalez said. “There was a lot of concern. We didn’t know if
he had been assassinated.”  Fernandez de Cevallos is a former senator and a former
presidential candidate. He went missing on May 14 from his ranch
in the central state of Queretaro. His family said May 22 that
they had asked authorities to step back from efforts to resolve
the case as they would negotiate his return.  Televisa journalist Joaquin Lopez-Doriga broke the news of
Fernandez’s release today, saying he spoke with Fernandez by
telephone.  “Diego is at home, he’s healthy, he’s safe and most
important, he’s free,” Lopez-Doriga said in a report broadcast
by the TV station. “He confirmed his freedom to me.”  Calderon’s and the attorney general’s press offices
declined to comment on the matter. The press office at
Fernandez’s party, known as PAN, said it couldn’t confirm the
release.  Antonio Lozano, a lawyer representing Fernandez’s family,
wasn’t immediately reachable when Bloomberg News called for
comment today.  ‘Plays Tough’  While several senior law enforcement officials, mayors and
a gubernatorial candidate have been killed since Calderon took
power in 2006, no politician with the status of Fernandez has
been a victim of violence at the hands of organized crime in
recent years.  Fernandez ran for the presidency in 1994 as a member of the
National Action Party and lost to  Ernesto Zedillo  of the
Revolutionary Institutional Party.  The bearded, cigar-smoking Fernandez was criticized by
members of the opposition and his own party during his term as a
senator from 2000 to 2006 for simultaneously working as a
private lawyer and helping clients win large sums of money in
lawsuits against the government.  In 2004, Fernandez successfully represented Sergio Estrada
Cajigal, who was then governor of Morelos state, when opposition
politicians tried to remove him from office after state security
officials were arrested for allegedly trafficking drugs.  “Diego is rich and he plays tough,” political analyst
 Denise Dresser  wrote in a column in the newspaper Reforma in
2003. “Whatever the law does not prohibit, Diego does with
enthusiasm and for profit.”  Rising Violence  Fernandez, who has three sons and one daughter, grew up in
the state of Queretaro, attended high school in Guadalajara and
obtained a law degree from the National Autonomous University of
Mexico in 1964.  He worked as a litigant in penal, civil and agrarian law
and as a professor of law before losing the 1994 presidential
election. He was also a lawmaker in the lower house between 1991
and 1994.  Fernandez’s kidnapping came amid this year’s increase in
drug-related violence in Mexico.  Attorney General  Arturo Chavez  said last week that 30,196
people have been killed in drug-related violence nationwide
since  Calderon  took office four years ago and began deploying
troops in a battle against cartels.  This year’s toll of 12,456 drug-related deaths is the
highest since Calderon took office, showing that violence is
increasing instead of waning.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jens Erik Gould  at 
 jgould9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  