-- Exxon Mobil Resumes Production at Oso Field in Nigeria Following Attacks
-- B y   E l i s h a   B a l a - G b o g b o
-- 2010-12-20T17:01:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-20/exxon-mobil-resumes-output-at-oso-in-nigeria-a-month-after-militant-attack.html
Exxon Mobil Corp.  said it resumed
output from the Oso field in Nigeria more than a month after its
gas and condensate platform there was attacked by militants.  “We have restarted 15,000 barrels per day of condensate
from the Oso field,” spokesman Ozemoya Okordion said in an e-
mailed response to questions today. “No firm time for restart
of natural gas liquids production is available at this time.”  Production of about 45,000 barrels of oil equivalent a day
was shut at the platform as a “precaution” after eight workers
were kidnapped in the attack, Exxon Mobil said on Nov. 16. The
Movement for the Emancipation of the Niger Delta, the main armed
group in the region, claimed responsibility for the attack.  Troops raided militant camps on Nov. 17 and freed hostages
taken in attacks on the Exxon facility, including those of Royal
Dutch Shell Plc’s local unit and Afren Plc, the army said.  Attacks by armed groups in the delta cut Nigeria’s oil
production by more than 28 percent from 2006 to 2009, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. Royal Dutch Shell Plc, Exxon
Mobil Corp., Chevron Corp., Total SA and Eni SpA run joint
ventures with the state-owned Nigerian National Petroleum Corp.
that pump more than 90 percent of the West African nation’s oil.  Chevron’s Nigerian unit suspended oil output through its
Dibi-Abiteye pipeline in the delta after an attack by a militant
group on Dec. 17 caused a “breach,” a company spokesman said.  “The breach is being investigated and we are reviewing our
operations,” Scott Walker said today in an e-mailed statement.
He didn’t give details.  The Niger Delta Liberation Force claimed responsibility for
attacks on three oil flow stations in Nigeria’s Delta State
belonging to Chevron Corp. and Eni SpA’s local unit, a spokesman
for the group said in an e-mailed statement on Dec. 18. Eni
officials didn’t immediately respond to an e-mail seeking
comment.  Nigeria is Africa’s largest oil producer and fifth-biggest
source of U.S. oil imports.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Elisha Bala-Gbogbo  in Abuja at 
 ebalagbogbo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin in Johannesburg at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  