-- Facebook’s Zuckerberg Has Nothing on Money Trio: William Pesek
-- B y   W i l l i a m   P e s e k
-- 2010-12-20T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-20/facebook-founder-has-nothing-on-china-s-trio-commentary-by-william-pesek.html
Julian Assange  must feel like he was
robbed.  Time magazine looked past the suddenly ubiquitous founder
of WikiLeaks.org to name  Mark Zuckerberg  “Person of the Year.”
The founder of Facebook Inc. was the safe choice -- honor the
Internet celebrity connecting people, not riling them. Assange
was relegated to runner-up, as was Afghan President  Hamid Karzai 
and former Alaska Governor  Sarah Palin .  Yet Asia produced more than its fair share of contenders in
2010. Time hasn’t chosen an Asian since Taiwan-born scientist
David Ho in 1996 and that was after a 10-year drought following
 Corazon Aquino ’s nod in 1986. Here are four Asian options that
could easily have supplanted Zuckerberg this year.  Kim Jong Un : Little is known about the twenty-something
tipped to lead North Korea when his dad,  Kim Jong Il , dies. Yet
the succession drama has gone global in a big way. The timing of
the North’s deadly attacks on the South this year isn’t a
coincidence; the Kim Dynasty is in self-preservation mode.  Kim the younger would inherit an impoverished Orwellian
state with nuclear weapons and geriatric, reactionary generals
who might harbor doubts about a Swiss-educated  Michael Jordan 
fan. At last month’s Group of 20 summit in Seoul, I heard more
than a few South Korean businessmen refer to Kim as the
“nuclear kid.”  How that process goes will say much about the future of
Asian markets, credit ratings and regional cooperation --
including China’s relationship with neighbors. Kim Jong Un may
just turn out to be person of the coming decade.  Nobel Controversy  Liu Xiaobo : It’s hard to think of an individual that China
would rather the world talk less about. Officials in Beijing are
beyond enraged that the jailed activist won the Nobel Peace
Prize. It was a well-deserved honor and China’s over-the-top
reaction was as surreal as it was telling.  China is racing ahead. Its economy grew at a 9.6 percent
annualized rate in the third quarter while Europe tries to stave
off disaster, American unemployment rises and Japan’s living
standards slide. China also has done a far more impressive job
than rivals like India in reducing poverty. Its political
development is lagging far behind, though, and Liu’s Nobel put
the issue in the spotlight as rarely before.  On the one hand, it demonstrated China’s leverage. It was
shameful that almost 20 countries including Egypt and Vietnam
avoided this month’s Nobel ceremony in Oslo. On the other hand,
China’s reaction to the whole business suggests the Communist
Party has few plans to loosen up on its 1.3 billion people. We
can credit Liu with providing that disappointing insight.  ‘Stupid’ Generals  Aung San Suu Kyi : Never one to mince words, Singapore
statesman  Lee Kuan Yew  seems to have been extra candid in
conversations with U.S. diplomats about Myanmar, according to
classified documents released by WikiLeaks. He was quoted as
calling Myanmar’s junta leaders “stupid” and observing that
dealing with them was like “talking to dead people.”  Well, Suu Kyi’s recent release from seven years of house
arrest pumped new life into the chances of political reform in
one of Asia’s most isolated nations. In her first post-
imprisonment speech last month, she said she’s willing to work
with Myanmar’s leadership and fellow democracy advocates.  No one believes Myanmar is about to roll out the welcome
mat for free markets. Myanmar has been a consistent thorn in
Asia’s side for decades. Its inclusion in the Association of
Southeast Asian Nations makes a mockery of the 10-member group’s
efforts to eliminate borders, European Union-style. With Suu Kyi
back in action, progress suddenly has a shot.  Money Trio  Xie Xuren ,  Zhou Xiaochuan  and  Zhu Changhong : Xie is China’s
finance minister, Zhou runs the central bank and Zhu is chief
investment officer overseeing the nation’s $2.7  trillion  of
currency holdings. At a time when the world economy is reeling,
this trio will increasingly hold our attention.  Last week, Portuguese officials could barely contain their
glee over Chinese statements of financial support. Jornal de
Negocios reported that China is willing to invest 4 billion
euros ($5.2 billion) to 5 billion euros in Portuguese government
debt in the first quarter of next year. The mere possibility of
Chinese support was a tonic for European markets.  Get used to such news items involving cash-rich China. The
 International Monetary Fund  used to be the bailout king. China
seems sure to grab that role for developing and developed
nations alike. Remember that when the U.S. cuts taxes or adds
stimulus it’s effectively borrowing the money from China.  That gives Xie, Zhou and Zhu remarkable leverage over
global markets. The next time a Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. is
about to collapse, you can bet the troubled firm’s executives
will ask Beijing for a lifeline. The same goes for the next
European domino to fall.  An argument can be made that Chinese Premier  Wen Jiabao  was
Person-of-the-Year material, along with Zuckerberg and Assange.
Wen outmaneuvered the West again and again -- on clean energy,
rare-earth metals, currencies, blame for global imbalances, you
name it. Yet China’s money trio is quickly rising in prominence.  Get ready for the mantra of 2011: Brother, can you spare
some yuan?  ( William Pesek  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
 William Pesek  in Tokyo at 
 wpesek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  