-- FCC Commissioner Copps Says He Won't Block Net-Neutrality Rules Tomorrow
-- B y   T o d d   S h i e l d s
-- 2010-12-20T21:25:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-20/fcc-commissioner-copps-says-he-won-t-block-net-neutrality-rules-tomorrow.html
Michael Copps, a member of the
Federal Communications Commission, said he won’t vote against
rules for Internet-service providers to be considered by the
agency tomorrow.  “While I cannot vote wholeheartedly to approve the item, I
will not block it by voting against it,” Copps, a Democrat,
said in an e-mailed statement today. Copps, who had argued for
more stringent rules, said he would vote to “concur so that we
may move forward.”  Copps, 70, is part of the three-Democrat majority at the
FCC, and has been considered a swing vote since the agency’s two
Republicans have said they oppose the rules.  The net-neutrality rules proposed by FCC Chairman  Julius Genachowski , a Democrat, would forbid Internet service providers
from interfering with subscribers’ Web traffic.  Advocates of the rules say they fear carriers may slow or
block rivals’ content or services. Opponents say the measures
aren’t necessary and may prevent carriers from managing their
networks as they see fit.  “The item we will vote on tomorrow is not the one I would
have crafted,” Copps said. ‘I believe we have been able to make
the current iteration better.”  The rules “could represent an important milestone in the
ongoing struggle to safeguard the awesome opportunity-creating
power of the open Internet,” Copps said.  Web Traffic  Copps argued in a Dec. 2 speech for strong rules for mobile
Web suppliers.  Genachowski proposed on Dec. 1 rules that would give mobile
Web suppliers such as  AT&T Inc.  and  Verizon Wireless  leeway to
block or hinder some Web traffic, said two officials familiar
with the plan who spoke on condition of anonymity because the
text remains confidential until the agency votes.  Cable companies and other providers of Internet service
over wires would face broader prohibitions against blocking
content and applications, the officials said.  Copps in his statement didn’t say how the rules had changed
since Dec. 1. He said negotiations over recent weeks had focused
on “ensuring the continued openness of the Internet and putting
consumers, not Big Phone and Big Cable, in maximum control of
their online experiences.”  Mobile carriers facing data-hungry devices including  Apple
Inc. ’s iPhone say they need flexibility to keep networks running
smoothly as traffic surges. Because mobile Web service is at
“an earlier stage of development” than service over fixed
wires, the FCC was proposing “a basic no-blocking rule,”
Genachowski said in a Dec. 1 speech announcing the proposed
rules.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Todd Shields  in Washington at 
 tshields3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Allan Holmes at 
 aholmes25@bloomberg.net  