-- Fed's Bullard Says Quantitative Easing Can Be Adjusted Depending on Growth
-- B y   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l   a n d   F e r g a l   O ’ B r i e n
-- 2010-12-20T13:35:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-20/fed-s-bullard-says-stimulus-can-be-adjusted-depending-on-growth.html
Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis
President  James Bullard  said provision of stimulus is
“reviewable and changeable” depending on economic growth,
which may be stronger next year than some economists forecast.  “I would like to adjust the program meeting by meeting,”
Bullard said on CNBC television today. “We did get this
sentence about ‘regular review’ -- I take that very seriously.”  Fed Reserve policy makers led by  Ben S. Bernanke  disagreed
over the decision last month to buy $600 billion of Treasuries,
minutes of their Nov. 2-3 meeting show. A majority saw a boost
to growth and employment, while others were concerned about
risks to inflation and the dollar. Bullard said the quantitative
easing policy has been “modestly successful so far.”  “I think we can look at this going forward,” Bullard
said. “We can see how things are going. It’s the same as how
we’d operate in an interest-rate environment” where policy
makers can examine the data and “make changes if in the”
Federal Open Market Committee’s “judgment that’s warranted.”  Bullard said he’s “very concerned about feedbacks to
commodity prices” from the Fed’s policy that has been dubbed
QE2 for a second round of quantitative easing.  “The question to me would be is there some independent
effect coming from monetary policy other than the supply and
demand conditions globally,” he said. “I haven’t seen very
much evidence of that but I am concerned about that and would
like to keep an eye on it.”  Bullard said that while Europe’s fiscal crisis is “very
serious” and may continue for “quite a while,” recent U.S.
economic data “bodes well” for 2011.  “If we can get that going, I think the economy can build
some momentum and we’ll be able to bring unemployment down,” he
said. “But it is going to be a slow process. We have to walk
before we can run.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Svenja O’Donnell in London at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net ;
Fergal O’Brien at 
 fobrien@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net  