-- Financials Trail U.S. Peers on Expansion, Rising Home Debt: Canada Credit
-- B y   C h r i s   F o u r n i e r
-- 2010-12-20T05:00:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-20/financials-trail-u-s-peers-this-year-on-debt-concern-m-a-canada-credit.html
The bonds of Canada’s financial
firms underperformed their American counterparts this year,
giving up ground made in 2008 and 2009, amid a U.S. expansion
drive and concern that household debt in Canada is rising.  The Bank of America Merrill Lynch Canadian Financial Index,
which tracks 246 bonds with a par value of C$151 billion ($151
billion), is up 5.3 percent this year. That’s less than the 8.2
percent gain by U.S. banks and insurers.  The nation’s banks, voted the world’s soundest for three
straight years by the World Economic Forum, are adding risk as
they expand in the U.S. Bank of Montreal made its biggest
acquisition ever last week to add a Wisconsin lender. In
addition, rising Canadian household debt, which tops U.S.
levels, may jeopardize earnings, Moody’s Investors Service.  “A good question bond holders need to ask themselves is,
what happens if the Canadian consumer is overstretched and you
had a real downturn in the Canadian economy how would that play
out?”  Peter Nerby , senior vice president in the financial
institutions group at Moody’s, said by phone from New York.
“That could affect the earnings streams from those core
Canadian businesses.”  Moody’s put Bank of Montreal on review for possible
downgrade after it agreed on Dec. 17 to buy Milwaukee-based
Marshall & Ilsley Corp. for about $4.1 billion.  ‘Transformative Acquisition’  Bank of Montreal , the country’s fourth-largest lender,
agreed to pay 0.1257 of its own stock for each share of Marshall
& Ilsley to expand its Chicago-based Harris Bank. BMO’s U.S.
operations have “underperformed and not been consistently
profitable in recent years,” Moody’s said in a research note.  “This is arguably a transformative acquisition, certainly
transformative within their U.S. operations,” Nerby said.
“Transformative acquisitions can be very attractive to
shareholders. They’re also the kind of transactions that can
expose bondholders to risk.”  Elsewhere in credit markets, Canadian Imperial Bank of
Commerce suggested the Bank of Canada may want to intervene to
weaken the Canadian dollar; economists in separate surveys
predicted that inflation slowed in November, and retail sales
rose in October for a fifth month; and Canada’s budget deficit
widened as corporate and sales taxes dwindled.  The extra yield investors demand to own the debt of
Canadian investment-grade corporations rather than the federal
government held steady on Dec. 17 at 142 basis points, or 1.42
percentage points, from 142 the week before, according to a Bank
of America Merrill Lynch index. Yields dropped to 3.94 percent,
from 4.07 percent.  Provincial Bond Market  The securities fell 0.2 percent this month, paring the gain
this year to 6.7 percent, compared with advances of 7.9 percent
for U.S. corporates and 6.2 percent for global company debt.  In the provincial bond market, relative yields narrowed to
53 basis points on Dec. 17, from 54 on Dec. 10. Yields sank to
3.21 percent, from 3.35 percent the week before. The securities
are down 5.7 percent this month.  Consumer prices rose at an annual pace of 2.2 percent last
month, Statistics Canada is likely to say tomorrow in Ottawa,
according to the median of 17 economists’ forecasts in a
Bloomberg survey. The pace was 2.4 percent in October.  Retail sales rose 0.5 percent in October, after rising 0.6
percent the month before, according to the median of 16
economists forecasts compiled by Bloomberg. Sales haven’t
declined since May. The nation’s statistics agency will report
the data tomorrow.  Intervention Suggestion  Bank of Canada Governor  Mark Carney  may want to consider
selling Canadian dollars as an option to temper gains in the
currency driven by purchases by other central banks,  Avery Shenfeld , chief economist at CIBC, wrote in a report Dec. 17.  The loonie’s strength  undermines Carney’s ability to raise
interest rates to slow increasing household debt levels,
Shenfeld said in the report. Further gains in the currency may
slow growth, he said.  “There is one weapon yet to be touched: fighting fire with
fire,” Shenfeld wrote . “Canada could match foreign central-
bank intervention in favor of our currency with an offsetting
intervention, selling an equivalent volume of loonies.”  Canada’s currency fell 0.8 percent to C$1.0140 versus the
U.S. dollar on Dec. 17. It rose to parity with its U.S.
counterpart in September 2007 for the first time in three
decades, riding a boom in commodity prices.  Household Debt  Canada’s ratio of household  debt to disposable income was
1.48 in the third quarter, according to Statistics Canada,
exceeding the U.S. level for the first time in 12 years. Bank of
Canada Governor Mark Carney, Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty  and
Prime Minister  Stephen Harper  said in separate appearances last
week they’re concerned about rising debt and the risks that
poses to the nation’s economic recovery.  “The U.S. has gone through some painful deleveraging, at
great pain to the banks,” Moody’s Nerby said. “It’s a
reasonable question to ask how the Canadian banks will perform
if that happens.”  Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s U.S. Financial Corporates
Index, comprising 1180 bonds with $1.15 trillion outstanding,
lost 10 percent in 2008, as relative yields, or spreads,
exploded to 768 basis points a month after the bankruptcy of
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. in September 2008. The index
rebounded in 2009, returning 19 percent. After peaking at 881
basis points in March 2009, spreads shrank to 186 in April.  Canadian financial bonds returned 0.3 percent in 2008 and
15.5 percent the following year. Spreads tightened to 123 basis
points by the end of 2009, within 0.1 percentage point of
longer-term averages.  ‘Very Comfortable’  “People are still very comfortable with the credit profile
of the Canadian banks, but they made up a lot of ground last
year,”  Altaf Nanji , senior credit strategist at Royal Bank of
Canada’s RBC Capital Markets unit, said by phone from Toronto.
“There wasn’t as much to make up this year, whereas for the
U.S. banks, coming out of the downturn in the credit cycle,
we’ve only now started to see the banks gain any traction.”  U.S. financial bond yields traded within 72 basis points of
their Canadian counterparts on Dec. 15, the tightest since April
23, according to the Bank of America Merrill Lynch data.  “The Canadian banks trade at much higher price-to-book
multiples, their credit spreads are much tighter,” Nerby said.
“If you were tight, or rich relative to other banks, you can
get cheaper. If banks that had difficulty got very, very
oversold, maybe they’re getting richer.”  Among the six largest Canadian lenders, the bonds of Bank
of Montreal,  Toronto-Dominion Bank  have performed worst this
month, with declines of 0.6 percent each, Bank of America
Merrill Lynch data through Dec. 16 showed.  TD Expansion  Toronto-Dominion, the country’s second-biggest lender, may
reach an agreement to buy Chrysler Financial Corp., the auto-
loan company owned by Cerberus Capital Management LP, three
people with knowledge of the matter said this month.  Royal Bank , Bank of Nova Scotia and Canadian Imperial Bank
of Commerce have performed better, losing 0.3 percent each. CIBC
and National Bank of Canada are down 0.5 percent.  Moody’s downgraded Royal Bank’s  credit rating  last week for
the first time in at least 15 years to Aa1 because of the
lender’s increased focus on investment banking and trading.  Canadian financial bonds are lagging behind Canada’s
broader corporate market, which is up 6.7 percent this year,
Merrill data show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Chris Fournier  in Montreal at 
 cfournier3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  