-- Peso Faces Third Year as Worst Latin Currency on Deficit: Argentina Credit
-- B y   D r e w   B e n s o n   a n d   B e n   B a i n
-- 2010-12-20T20:30:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-20/first-current-account-deficit-in-decade-may-hurt-peso-argentina-credit.html
Argentina may post a current account
deficit for the first time in a decade next year, raising
concern that the peso will weaken further and become Latin
America’s worst-performing currency for a third-straight year.  The deficit will probably equal 0.4 percent of gross
domestic product in 2011, according to the median forecast in a
survey of four economists by Bloomberg. The peso may slide 8
percent to 4.29 per dollar by the end of next year, according to
the median estimate of 13 economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  Argentina may report its first current account deficit
since 2001 as imports outstrip exports. The measure of trade in
goods, services and investment will likely decline 73 percent in
the third quarter from a year earlier to $1 billion, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. A weaker peso may erode the
dollar-based returns on local currency bonds after they gained
16 percent in 2010, compared with 15.3 percent for Brazilian
debt and 8.7 percent for Russian notes.  “For an investor holding peso-denominated paper any
weakening that is significant would take away from your
returns,”  Alejandro Urbina , an emerging-market debt manager at
Silva Capital Management in Chicago, said in a telephone
interview. “Beyond 4.25 per dollar, I start to look at the
local investment differently. But that’s my high estimate for
where things would go.”  Urbina, whose holdings include Argentine peso bonds, said
he doesn’t think the government will allow the peso to weaken 8
percent. Silva has about $800 million under advisory and
management.  Fernandez’s Strategy  The government reported today that the trade balance
narrowed in November to $900 million from $3.7 billion a year
earlier.  President  Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner  will seek a weaker
peso next year to curb rising imports, bolster exports and avert
a current account deficit, said  Juan Pablo Fuentes , a Latin
America economist with Moody’s Analytics Inc. in West Chester,
Pennsylvania.  “That will be the best way to prevent the current account
balance from sliding into deficit,” he said. “That slows down
imports, it promotes exports and it helps domestic
manufacturing.”  The peso may tumble as much as 12 percent to 4.50 per
dollar in 2011 as the government lets it slide, Fuentes said in
a telephone interview.  Credit Default Swaps  The currency was little changed at 3.9746 per dollar at
3:16 p.m. New York time. It’s down 4.4 percent for 2010.  The extra yield investors demand to hold the government’s
dollar bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries fell 21 basis points to
512, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  The cost of insuring Argentine bonds against default for
five years fell 11 basis points on Dec. 17 to 637, according to
CMA DataVision. Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in
exchange for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent
should a government or company fail to comply with debt
agreements.  Standard & Poor’s Ratings raised the foreign currency
ratings of eight Argentine companies on Dec. 17 after a review
of the business environment in Argentina.  Alto Palermo SA ,
Compania Latinoamericana de Infraestructura & Servicios SA, IRSA
Inversiones y Representaciones SA, Telefonica de Argentina SA,
Transportadora de Gas del Sur SA and Telecom Personal SA were
raised to B. Loma Negra Ciasa was increased to B+ and  Petrobras
Argentina  SA to BB-, the firm said in a statement.  Consumer Prices  Argentina may curb the peso’s decline next year to slow a
rise in consumer prices that Goldman Sachs Group Inc. estimates
is above 25 percent, said  Jorge Todesca , a former deputy economy
minister who now runs Buenos Aires research firm Finsoport.  “The exchange rate is the only anchor the government has
against inflation,” Todesca said in a telephone interview in
Buenos Aires. He expects the peso to slide in line with the 4.10
per dollar target in Fernandez’s 2011 budget.  “Lax” fiscal and monetary policy is fueling domestic
consumption that, along with inflation, is boosting demand for
imports, said  Bertrand Delgado , an economist at Roubini Global
Economics LLC in New York.  The government reported last month spending surged 52.7
percent in annual terms in October. The central bank lifted its
money supply growth target in August after surpassing its
original goal.  Argentine policy makers seek to build  reserves  while
weakening the peso to shore up exporters’ profit margins, a
strategy Fernandez defended in a Dec. 7 speech in Buenos Aires.  “Without government intervention,” the peso would be
worth about 1.86 per dollar, she said.  Demand for imports will climb further next year as the
government steps up spending and the central bank maintains an
expansive monetary policy ahead of the October presidential
elections, Delgado said.  “There will be some shrinkage, or an ongoing shrinkage, of
the current account surplus,” Delgado said. “It will have an
impact on the peso.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Drew Benson  in Buenos Aires at 
 abenson9@bloomberg.net ;
 Ben Bain  in New York at 
 bbain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  