-- Ford Says U.S. Auto Sales Running at a 12 Million Pace
-- B y   K e i t h   N a u g h t o n
-- 2010-12-20T21:19:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-20/ford-says-u-s-automobile-sales-running-at-a-12-million-pace-in-december.html
Ford Motor Co.  said U.S. auto sales
in December are running at a 12 million unit annual rate, and it
forecast sales to rise to almost 13 million next year.  December would be the third straight month of industrywide
deliveries at a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 12 million or
more, a level exceeded once in the previous two years. Sales for
all of 2010 may rise to 11.5 million cars and light trucks, from
10.4 million last year, according to researcher IHS Automotive.
U.S. deliveries averaged 16.8 million from 2000 to 2007.  “We have a high degree of confidence that 2011 is going to
be a stronger sales year,”  George Pipas , Ford’s sales analyst,
said today in a briefing with reporters in Dearborn, Michigan,
where the company is based. “We’re a whole lot better off than
we were a year ago.”  Ford’s U.S. sales rose 21 percent in the year’s first 11
months, nearly twice the industrywide gain of 11 percent. New
models such as the Fiesta subcompact and the redesigned Taurus
sedan have enabled  Ford  to increase its U.S. market share to
16.7 percent this year, from 15.3 percent in the same period
last year, according to researcher Autodata Corp. of Woodcliff
Lake, New Jersey.  This year’s sales growth was led by deliveries to fleet
customers, such as governments and rental-car companies, Pipas
said. Ford expects retail consumers to drive next year’s volume
gains, Pipas said.  ‘Best Since Lehman’  “It will be slow but steady positive growth in 2011,”
Pipas said, adding that sales in the fourth quarter of 2010
“will be the best since Lehman Brothers went out of business”
in the second half of 2008.  High unemployment and the sluggish housing market remain
“two worry beads” that will slow auto sales growth, Pipas
said.  “The  unemployment rate  will weigh on economic growth in
2011,” Pipas said. “There are no strong indicators that the
housing sector will get better.”  Still, Ford expects to increase sales, especially in small
cars as it follows its 2010 introduction of the Fiesta
subcompact with the debut of a redesigned Focus compact model
early next year, Pipas said.  Ford’s share of small-car retail sales in the U.S. rose to
10 percent this year, its largest in more than six years, Pipas
said. While small-car sales accelerated in November and
December, the segment’s portion of U.S. deliveries fell 2
percentage points because of unemployment among young adults, he
said.  Growing Segment  Ford expects the small-car segment to grow in 2011 because
several automakers are introducing new models, Pipas said.
Small-car sales also could get a lift from rising fuel costs.
U.S.  gasoline prices  now average $2.98 a gallon, up 39 cents a
gallon from a year ago, according to the AAA Fuel Gauge Report.  “There’s more pent-up demand in the small vehicle market
than in any other segment,” Pipas said. “The demographic
shifts are very powerful. Baby boomers are not only downsizing
their autos, they’re downsizing their homes.”  Ford, the world’s  most profitable  automaker, earned $6.37
billion in the first nine months of the year, the most since
1998. Ford has gained consumer consideration because it managed
to avoid the bankruptcies that befell its U.S. rivals last year.
The automaker borrowed $23 billion in late 2006 before credit
markets froze, which gave it the cash it needed to weather the
recession and invest in new models.  Ford rose 5 cents to $16.85 at 4:01 p.m. in composite
trading on the New York Stock Exchange. The shares have risen 69
percent so far this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Keith Naughton  in Dearborn, Michigan, at 
 Knaughton3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at   jbutters@bloomberg.net  