-- Former Congolese Rebels Mobilizing New Recruits, Child Soldiers, HRW Says
-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   K a v a n a g h
-- 2010-12-20T13:44:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-20/former-congolese-rebels-mobilizing-new-recruits-child-soldiers-hrw-says.html
Former rebels who joined Democratic
Republic of Congo’s army last year as part of a peace deal are
mobilizing new recruits, including children, and are threatening
to re-start a rebellion, Human Rights Watch said.  Since September, more than 1,000 men and boys have been
forcibly recruited into the National Congress for the Defense of
the People, or CNDP, the New York-based rights group said in an
e-mailed statement today. Escapees said the former rebels are
considering a return to war, the group reported.  “Armed groups in eastern Congo are pulling youth from
schools, homes, and fields and forcing them to fight,” said
Human Rights Watch senior Africa researcher,  Anneke Van Woudenberg . “These children desperately need the protection of
their government and United Nations peacekeepers.”  The CNDP joined the Congolese army in March of last year
after their leader, the ethnic-Tutsi rebel General  Laurent Nkunda , was arrested by neighboring Rwanda. The former rebels
have refused to re-deploy outside of Congo’s eastern provinces
and are involved in the smuggling of gold, tin ore, and other
natural resources, according to a UN report released last month.  Congo is Africa’s largest producer of tin ore and its
eastern provinces also have large deposits of gold and coltan,
an ore used in electronics.  Investigating  The Congolese military is looking into the recruitment
accusations, Captain Olivier Hamuli, a regional spokesman for
the army, said by phone today from Goma, in eastern Congo.  “No family has told us that their children have been
recruited,” he said.  Bosco Ntaganda , the current leader of the former CNDP
rebels and a general in Congo’s army, is wanted by the
International Criminal Court for war crimes, including the use
of child soldiers.  The CNDP, which almost took over North Kivu province in
2008, claims to protect the interests of minority ethnic groups
in eastern Congo, particularly the Tutsis.  In a letter sent to President  Joseph Kabila  in September,
the former rebels said they would not redeploy until the army
had neutralized Rwandan Hutu rebels based in eastern Congo with
links to the 1994 Rwandan genocide of Tutsis and moderate Hutus.
The group also asked for better pay, promotions, and the safe
return of Tutsi refugees living in camps in Rwanda.  The army and government are considering the demands, Hamuli
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Kavanagh  in Kinshasa 
 mkavanagh9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin in Johannesburg at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 