-- Four Men With $20 Million Cash Held at Moscow Airport After Turkish Flight
-- B y   L y u b o v   P r o n i n a
-- 2010-12-20T18:12:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-20/four-men-carrying-20-million-of-cash-in-eight-bags-held-at-moscow-airport.html
Russian authorities detained four
men who arrived at Moscow’s Vnukovo Airport on a flight from
Istanbul with $20 million in cash.  Three Azeri citizens and one Iranian attempted to enter the
country without declaring the $14.5 million and 4.1 million
euros ($5.4 million) they carried in four suitcases and four
backpacks, the Federal Customs Service said on its  website .  The bills, in $100 and 500 euro denominations, weighed 400
kilograms (880 pounds), Larisa Ledovskikh, a spokeswoman for the
customs service, said by phone in Moscow.  “This is a particularly large sum,” Ledovskikh said. “I
haven’t seen anything like it.”  The men are being held for failing to declare the currency
before they entered the country, Ledovskikh said, declining to
identify the men before they are charged.  Before today, Vnukovo, one of three international airports
in the Russian capital, registered 382 violations of customs and
currency laws totaling 75 million rubles ($2.4 million) since
the start of the year. Nobody could immediately be reached for
comment at the Iranian or Azeri embassies in Moscow.  The Federal Customs Service statement did not detail
whether the flight from Istanbul was commercial or private.  Falcons, Firearms  Vnukovo , which also has a terminal for private flights,
served about 7.3 million passengers in the first nine months of
this year. Cross-town rivals  Domodedovo  and  Sheremetyevo  served
16.9 million and 14.7 million passengers respectively over the
same period, according to information on their websites.  Customs at the Sheremetyevo airport in July detained more
than 12,000 cartridges for various firearms transiting from Los
Angeles to Yerevan, Armenia, in baggage belonging to a U.S.
citizen, according to a  statement  on its website.  Last month, Sheremetyevo officials prevented an illegal
export of eight falcons on a scheduled flight from Moscow to
Damascus. The falcons, on Russia’s endangered species list, were
found wrapped in fabric inside wooden crates. The crates had air
holes in them and also contained plastic bottles of ice, the
customs said in a  statement .  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Lyubov Pronina  in Moscow at 
 lpronina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Brad Cook at 
 bcook7@bloomberg.net  