-- Franklin's Hasenstab Says Buy Dollar Versus Yen on Widening Yield Spread
-- B y   S a r a h   M c D o n a l d   a n d   C a n d i c e   Z a c h a r i a h s
-- 2010-12-20T07:12:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-20/franklin-s-hasenstab-says-buy-dollar-versus-yen-on-widening-yield-spread.html
Investors may profit in 2011 by
buying the U.S. currency against Japan’s as the yield difference
between the two nations’ bonds widens in favor of the dollar,
according to Franklin Templeton Investments.  U.S. yields will climb amid an economic recovery and
concern over the size of the government’s borrowing program,
wrote  Michael Hasenstab , who runs the $43.7 billion Templeton
Global Bond Fund in San Mateo, California. They will also rise
as the Federal Reserve’s  Treasury-buying  program nears an end
and markets speculate about the central bank’s ability to reduce
its balance sheet before inflation builds, he wrote in a report
detailing Franklin Templeton’s 2011 outlook.  “There can be opportunities to potentially capitalize on
rising yields in the U.S. by positioning long the dollar against
the Japanese yen,” Hasenstab wrote. “There has been a strong
correlation between the bilateral exchange rate and the
difference between yields in the U.S. and Japan, and we expect
this relationship to continue given the very large investment
flows involved.”  The dollar traded at 83.85 yen as of 6:55 a.m. in London
after rising to 84.51 yen on Dec. 15, the strongest level since
Sept. 24. The greenback has weakened 9.8 percent against the yen
this year.  The Templeton Global Bond  Fund  has outperformed 97 percent
of competitors over the past five years, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Wider Spreads  Two-year Treasuries offered investors as much as 44 basis
points in extra yield on Dec. 15 over similar-maturity Japanese
government securities, the most since July 28, according to
Bloomberg data. Benchmark 10-year Treasury  yields  climbed to
3.56 percent on Dec. 16, the highest since May 13.  Franklin Templeton expects yields to climb in most
countries as the global economy recovers, Hasenstab wrote. To
protect against losses on global bond portfolios, he said his
investment team “significantly reduced” average durations this
year, and had no holdings of Treasuries and Japanese bonds and
minimal investment in eurozone debt at the end of September.  Hasenstab said he favors short-maturity bonds in countries
such as Australia, Israel and South Korea. These positions will
likely benefit due to currency gains, he wrote.  “We expect that the currencies of economies with
relatively strong growth, where policy is likely to be tightened
over the short term, should appreciate against the currencies of
the G-3, where monetary policy is likely to remain loose over an
extended period,” according to Hasenstab.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sarah McDonald  in Sydney at 
 smcdonald23@bloomberg.net ;
 Candice Zachariahs  in Mumbai at 
 czachariahs2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net . 