-- France's AAA Grade at Risk as Rating Cuts Spread: Euro Credit
-- B y   P a u l   D o b s o n   a n d   K e i t h   J e n k i n s
-- 2010-12-20T16:43:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-20/france-s-aaa-grade-at-risk-as-rating-downgrades-sweep-europe-euro-credit.html
France risks losing its top AAA
grade as Europe’s debt crisis prompts a wave of downgrades that
threatens to engulf the region’s highest-rated borrowers, with
Belgium also facing a possible cut.  Moody’s Investors Service said Dec. 15 it may lower Spain’s
rating, citing “substantial funding requirements,” and slashed
Ireland’s rating by five levels on Dec. 17. Standard & Poor’s is
reviewing its assessments of Ireland, Portugal and Greece. Costs
to insure French government debt rose to a record today with the
country’s credit default swaps more expensive than lower-rated
securities from the Czech Republic and Chile.  “Every sovereign may get penalized in the year ahead,”
said  Toby Nangle , who helps oversee $46 billion as director of
asset allocation at Baring Asset Management in London. “It
would be a big deal if France was to have its AAA rating
stripped. I don’t think the likelihood of a downgrade is
reflected in the market.”  European Union leaders agreed last week to amend the bloc’s
treaties to create a permanent debt-crisis mechanism in 2013 in
an effort to stem contagion that started more than a year ago in
Greece. Government bond yields climbed across the region even
after Greece and Ireland were rescued and a backstop facility
worth about $1 trillion was created.  “If problems in the euro zone aren’t solved quickly, then
the conditions of refinancing will be expensive for these
countries and the ratings agencies will do more downgrades,”
said  Ralf Ahrens , who helps manage about $20 billion as head of
fixed income at Frankfurt Trust. “We already see these dynamics
in the market. I see France as a risk.”  Bondholder Banks  Moody’s said as recently as August that France, the U.S.
and the U.K. probably will retain their top credit ratings as
the nations work to cut their deficit. S&P said in an article
published Dec. 1 in the French newspaper Les Echos that the
country deserves its AAA status.  France’s credit rating is susceptible unless the country
makes “meaningful reductions” to its deficit, said  Padhraic Garvey , head of developed-market debt strategy at ING Bank NV in
Amsterdam. The nation’s banks are the biggest holders of debt
issued by the region’s so-called peripheral countries, posing
possible “systemic risks,” added  Markus Ernst , a credit
strategist at UniCredit SpA in Munich.  Costs to insure French government debt trebled this year,
rising to an all-time high of 105.5 basis points today,
according to data provider CMA. Credit default swaps tied to
Czech securities gained 1 basis point to 91 and Chilean swaps
were little changed at 89 basis points.  CDS Implications  The credit default swaps tied to the French bonds imply a
rating of Baa1, seven steps below its actual top ranking of Aaa
at Moody’s, according to the New York-based firm’s capital
markets research group.  Contracts on Portugal imply a B2 rating, 10 levels below
its A1 grade, while swaps tied to Spanish bonds trade at Ba3, 11
steps below its Aa1 ranking, data from the Moody’s research
group show. Derivatives protecting Belgian debt imply a rating
of Ba1, nine steps below its current rating of Aa1.  In Belgium, seven political parties involved in coalition
talks are sparring over whether to grant more fiscal autonomy
for the country’s regions after inconclusive elections in June
left it without a government. The public debt of Belgium is
close to 100 percent of gross domestic product, and 65 billion
euros ($87 billion) of the nation’s bonds and bills are due to
mature next year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Belgium’s prolonged domestic political uncertainty poses
risks to its government’s credit standing,” S&P said in its Dec.
14 report that lowered the country’s outlook to “negative”
from “stable.”  EU Agreement  The European Union agreed in October to establish a
European Stability Mechanism to deal with nations struggling to
meet debt payments. The finance ministers of the 16 nations
sharing the euro said Nov. 28 that “an ESM loan will enjoy
preferred-creditor status, junior only” to International
Monetary Fund loans.  The statement, which means bondholders rank behind those
emergency loans, prompted S&P to warn it may lower the BB+
rating on Greece and A- long-term rating on Portugal. The
decision also deepened the crisis, Morgan Stanley analysts said.  “The current stage of the global sovereign debt crisis is
the consequence of a demotion of government bonds in the
liability structure of governments,”  Arnaud Mares , an executive
director at Morgan Stanley and former senior vice president at
Moody’s, said in a Dec. 6 investor note.  Spanish funding needs for “regional governments and the
banks make the country susceptible to further episodes of
funding stress,” Moody’s analyst  Kathrin Muehlbronner  said in a
Dec. 15 report.  Moody’s on Greece  Moody’s placed Greece’s Ba1 bond ratings on review last
week for a possible downgrade, citing heightened concerns about
the country’s ability to cut its debt to “sustainable levels.”  Ireland’s credit rating was cut by Moody’s to Baa1 from Aa2
on Dec. 17 and the company said further downgrades are possible
as the government struggles to contain losses in the country’s
banking system.  Irish lawmakers voted last week to accept an 85 billion-
euro aid package from European governments and the International
Monetary Fund to help stabilize the country’s financial system.
Greece earlier this year became the first euro nation to seek
external support.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Paul Dobson  in London at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net ;
 Keith Jenkins  in London at 
 kjenkins3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  