-- MMC Jumps to Five-Week High, Gamuda Gains on Kuala Lumpur Railway Contract
-- B y   C h a n   T i e n   H i n
-- 2010-12-20T03:24:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-20/gamuda-mmc-shares-rise-after-awarded-malaysia-mass-rail-network-project.html
MMC Corp.  rose to its highest level
in more than five weeks in Kuala Lumpur trading and  Gamuda Bhd. 
gained after Malaysia’s government awarded the builders a mass
rail network project in the capital.  Shares of MMC, based in Kuala Lumpur, advanced 2.1 percent
to 2.94 ringgit at 11:20 a.m. local time, set for its highest
close since Nov. 11. Gamuda added 1 percent to 3.87 ringgit,
headed for its highest close since Dec. 2. The two stocks are
the best performers on the  FTSE Bursa Malaysia KLCI Index , which
lost 0.1 percent today.  “The wheels are in motion, the news is hugely positive,”
Sharizan Rosely, an analyst at CIMB Investment Bank Bhd., wrote
in a report today. “We’re encouraged by the speed of the
implementation of the rail project, which speaks volumes of the
government’s aim to improve the execution” of such projects,
the analyst wrote.  The award of Malaysia’s biggest infrastructure project was
announced by Prime Minister Najib Razak on Dec. 18. The rail
development is among the $444 billion of private sector-led
projects identified by the government to spur investments and
accelerate growth in Southeast Asia’s third-largest economy.  The Gamuda-MMC venture was named project manager to oversee
the rail development and work will start in July, Najib told
reporters in Subang Jaya, near Kuala Lumpur, on Dec. 18.  Tunneling Expertise  Estimated in 2009 to cost about 36 billion ringgit ($11.4
billion), “it is subject to change when we launch the
project,” Najib said. “We have to take into consideration the
cost of raw material prices at that time.”  The two companies will also have the responsibility of
having to deliver the project within an agreed time and cost,
the government said in an e-mailed statement on Dec. 18. They
will only be allowed to tender for tunneling works, it said.  Gamuda and MMC “have the edge in the bid for the tunneling
portion,” which is worth as much as 14 billion ringgit, CIMB’s
Sharizan wrote. They’re the only contractors with experience in
major tunneling works, he said.  The rail project will create 130,000 jobs during its
construction and the first line will run across central Kuala
Lumpur from Sungai Buloh to Kajang, with 35 stations, the
government said in its Dec. 18 statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Chan Tien Hin  at   thchan@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net . 