-- Gilead to Buy Arresto Biosciences for $225 Million to Obtain Lung Medicine
-- B y   M e g   T i r r e l l
-- 2010-12-20T21:09:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-20/gilead-to-buy-arresto-biosciences-for-225-million-to-obtain-lung-medicine.html
Gilead Sciences Inc. , the world’s
biggest maker of AIDS drugs, agreed to buy closely held  Arresto
Biosciences Inc.  for $225 million, gaining experimental
medicines for cancer and a fatal lung disease.  The cash deal is expected to close in the first three
months of next year, Foster City, California-based Gilead said
today in a statement. The transaction includes potential
payments based on sales targets, the companies said.  The lead product of Palo Alto, California-based Arresto is
a monoclonal antibody being tested in cancer and  idiopathic
pulmonary fibrosis , a condition that robs lungs of their ability
to transfer oxygen into the bloodstream. Gilead has a medicine
called  ambrisentan  for the same lung disease in the final stage
of human testing generally required for regulatory approval.  “The deal is unusual, because it is the first antibody
for” Gilead,  Jason Kantor , an analyst with RBC Capital Markets
in San Francisco, wrote in a note.  Gilead shares were unchanged at $37.19 at the end of Nasdaq
Stock Market composite trading. Before today, the shares
declined 14 percent in 2010.  “Arresto’s research and development expertise is well
aligned with Gilead’s areas of focus,” Gilead Chief Scientific
Officer  Norbert W. Bischofberger  said in the statement.  Gilead has made 9 acquisitions in the last five years, with
an average disclosed size of $624.3 million and an average
premium of 40 percent, according to Bloomberg data. The biggest
was the acquisition of Myogen Inc. in 2006 for $2.15 billion,
which brought Gilead U.S. marketing rights for ambrisentan.  InterMune Inc. , a Brisbane, California-based drugmaker,
more than doubled in Nasdaq composite trading on Dec. 17 after a
European regulatory committee recommended approval of its
medicine for the lung disease.  Adam Cutler , an analyst with Canaccord Genuity in New York,
said the InterMune therapy may have peak European sales of $1.2
billion. The drug isn’t approved for sale in the U.S., where
regulators rejected the company’s application in May and asked
for a new clinical trial.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Meg Tirrell  in New York at 
 mtirrell@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 