-- Goldman Sachs's Blankfein Is `Reasonably Bullish,' Nomura's Schorr Says
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   H a r p e r
-- 2010-12-20T14:48:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-20/goldman-sachs-s-blankfein-is-reasonably-bullish-nomura-s-schorr-says.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. ’s top
executives view investment banking as having the best prospects
next year and expect fixed-income to pick up as well, according
to  Nomura Holdings Inc.   Glenn Schorr , an analyst at Nomura in New York, described
Goldman Sachs’s view of the market in a note to investors
following a meeting with Chief Executive Officer  Lloyd C. Blankfein , 56, and Chief Financial Officer  David A. Viniar , 55.  Goldman Sachs, the most profitable securities firm in Wall
Street history, makes most of its money trading fixed-income,
currencies and commodities, known as FICC. Yet it’s the
investment-banking business, which includes mergers and
acquisitions and underwriting stocks and bonds, that may show
the fastest growth next year, Goldman executives told Schorr.  “Goldman remains reasonably bullish on the outlook for
investment-banking activity in 2011,” Schorr said. “In fact,
Lloyd listed investment banking as the business that he’s most
confident in as we close out 2010.”  The firm ranks second to  Morgan Stanley  among global
mergers and acquisitions announced in 2010 and is third after
Morgan Stanley and  JPMorgan Chase & Co.  among managers of equity
and equity-linked offerings worldwide this year, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. In a year of record high-yield debt
underwriting, Goldman ranks sixth, the data show.  Revenue Sources  Investment banking accounted for about 11 percent of
Goldman Sachs’s revenue in the first nine months of 2010,
whereas FICC comprised 51 percent of revenue in the period.
Blankfein and Viniar said FICC trading may pick up next year
because the market’s view on interest rates and inflation are
likely to change at some point, Schorr wrote.  “When changes in perception occur on these fronts, it
typically leads to a flurry of activity,” Schorr wrote. In
addition, wide day-to-day swings in prices “usually happen
before a big turn in the market, which will then lead to a
pickup in activity.”  Regulatory changes, such as the Volcker rule’s ban on
proprietary trading and new capital requirements, may reduce
Goldman Sachs’s return on equity to a number below the firm’s
previous peak, Schorr estimated. He said that Blankfein and
Viniar didn’t agree that regulations will definitely reduce
returns.  “Management feels like there are still a lot of moving
parts, so they are not ready to concede that future returns will
necessarily be a lot lower than the past,” Schorr wrote.  Irish Debt  Goldman Sachs, which had $231 million of Irish government
obligations at the end of September, doesn’t face much direct
exposure to European sovereign debt problems, Schorr said.  Still, “we do think management has concerns regarding the
impact that stresses in Europe could have on the macro economy
and funding costs around the globe,” Schorr wrote. “If there
was a sovereign restructuring (which we think seems hard to
avoid at some point), funding costs would rise around the globe
and be a drag on the global financial system,” Schorr said.  Schorr recommends buying Goldman Sachs  stock , which he
predicts will reach a price target of $180 from its $164.04
 close  on Dec. 17.  He expects the firm to earn $7.65 billion, or $13.10 a
share, for the full year, down from $12.2 billion, or $22.13,  a
year  earlier. Schorr’s earnings estimate is below the $8.39
billion, or $13.74 a share,  average  estimate of 19 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Christine Harper  in New York at 
 charper@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net . 