-- Goldwind of China Gets Power Supply Agreement for U.S. Wind Project
-- B y   E h r e n   G o o s s e n s   a n d   B a l d a v e   S i n g h
-- 2010-12-21T02:38:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-20/goldwind-wins-wins-contract-to-supply-electricity-from-u-s-wind-project.html
Xinjiang Goldwind Science &
Technology Co.  of China will sell power to Commonwealth Edison
Co. from its Illinois project, the first large U.S. wind farm
using Chinese-made turbines.  The Urumqi, China-based also bought out its development
partner, Dublin-based Mainstream Renewable Power, and has full
ownership of TianRun Shady Oaks LLC, which administers the Shady
Oaks project, it said in a stock exchange filing today.  “We intend to begin construction of the project in 2011,”
Tim Rosenzweig, chief executive of Goldwind USA Inc., said today
in an interview. “We have a number of pending customers and
expect to have significant orders in 2011.”  Goldwind expects the 106.5-megawatt project to cost between
$150 million and $200 million. Given different weather
conditions in the U.S., Goldwind’s operational data from China
needs to be confirmed in the world’s biggest economy,  Amy Grace ,
North American analyst at Bloomberg New Energy Finance said.  “This will likely be the first significant deployment of
Chinese turbines on US soil,” Grace said. Goldwind wants to
“show US developers and financiers that their turbines can
operate under US conditions with similar performance data to
their turbines operating in other part of the world.”  Shady Oaks will sell power to Commonwealth Edison under a
20-year power purchase agreement. The plant is expected to be
completed in 2012 and will include 71 of Goldwind’s 1.5-megawatt
turbines.  Certification Requirements  Shady Oaks will be the second U.S. wind farm built using
Goldwind’s turbines. The 4.5-megawatt Uilk Wind project in
Minnesota went into operations in January, Goldwind said.  A general benchmark for certification is “around 100
turbine operating years of solid performance data,” Grace said.
Citing London-based wind power consultancy Garrad Hassan,
“Certification is typically a minimum benchmark for bank
financing.”  The benchmark requires 100 turbines to rotate for one year,
maintaining a minimum operation rate of 98 percent.  Mainstream will continue to help Goldwind build the
project, it said in a  statement . Shady Oaks will source more
than 60 percent of its materials locally, Goldwind said.  “Our intent is to recreate the sourcing processes for the
project similar to Minnesota and discussions are ongoing,”
Colin Mahoney, a spokesman for Goldwind USA said.  The Uilk project used about 63 percent of U.S.-made content
on a cost basis, he said.  “They should work to reach the same domestic content level
here that they would if they were building in China,” United
Steelworkers Union spokesman  Wayne Ranick  said in an email,
referring to China’s supportive policies for clean energy. “We
need to watch closely for that development.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ehren Goossens in New York at 
 egoossens1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net . 