-- Good Companies Don’t Always Make Good Stock Picks: John Dorfman
-- B y   J o h n   D o r f m a n
-- 2010-12-20T02:00:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-20/good-companies-don-t-always-make-good-stocks-commentary-by-john-dorfman.html
As 2010 draws to a close, all of the
biggest gainers in the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  and most of
the biggest losers look like bad bets for next year.  As of Dec. 14, the index’s best performer for 2010 was
 Cummins Inc. , a Columbus, Indiana, manufacturer of engines and
power generators. The stock is up about 136 percent so far this
year.  I have owned Cummins for clients on and off over the years.
I think the  management  team under Chief Executive Officer
 Theodore Solso  is sensible and takes the long view. Analysts
estimate the company will post diluted earnings per share of $5
this year, a record.  I do not own Cummins currently, however. There is a vast
difference between a good company and a good stock. At about
$108, I think Cummins is fully priced. It now trades at five
times book value (corporate net worth) and 23 times earnings.  Here is a rundown on some other leaders and laggards in the
S&P 500 this year:  Akamai Technologies Inc. , located in Cambridge,
Massachusetts, helps to deliver content and monitor traffic on
the Internet. This is a stock in which fortunes have been made,
and lost.  From a high of more than $327 a share in 1999, Akamai fell
to less than $1 a share in 2002. Since then it has regained
traction and risen to about $50. The good-company, bad-stock
syndrome applies here. I consider the shares overpriced at 51
times earnings and almost nine times revenue.  In the Clouds  Then there’s  Salesforce.com Inc. , which is as popular with
investors as Akamai was 11 years ago. A leader in cloud
computing for businesses, Salesforce saw its revenue grow to
$1.1 billion last year from $51 million in fiscal 2003.  Shares in the San Francisco-based company have advanced
about 86 percent so far this year.  Computing that involves storing files and programs on a
host’s servers is here to stay. It allows salespeople in
different cities to share notes and observations easily. Yet I
can give you three good reasons not to invest in Salesforce.  First, at 245 times the past four quarters’ earnings, it
has huge expectations built into the stock price. Second,
analysts expect its fully diluted earnings per share to fall
more than 20 percent this fiscal year, ending January 2011,
before growth resumes in the next two years. Third, Microsoft is
taking explicit aim at its market.  Betting on China  Wynn Resorts Ltd.  likewise seems overvalued. The operator of
luxury casinos in Las Vegas, its headquarters city, and Macao,
China, is priced as a hot growth stock at 83 times earnings. Yet
its best earnings result, $5.63 a share, came in 2006. This year
analysts expect it to earn about $1.14.  Priceline.com Inc. , based in Norwalk, Connecticut, is up
about 85 percent. I think it offers a useful online shopping
service, and its ads starring actor  William Shatner  are funny.
But pay 12 times book value and 42 times earnings? No way.  One might expect to find better bargains among the S&P
500’s laggards. This year’s crop of underachievers doesn’t
excite me much, but I do think there is rebound potential in H&R
Block Inc. and Apollo Group Inc.  The biggest loser in the index is  Dean Foods Co. , down
about 55 percent so far this year. The Dallas-based food and
beverage company is cheap at eight times earnings, but its debt-
to-equity ratio of 271 percent is too high.  Yes, I know dairy products, Dean’s specialty, are supposed
to be a steady business that can easily support a heavy debt
load. But experience suggests that debt never matters -- until
it does.  Rebound Potential  H&R Block , the largest U.S. tax preparer, is down about 43
percent this year. The Kansas City, Missouri, company has
problems -- mopping up after a messy foray into mortgage
lending, and more competition from sellers of tax-preparation
software -- but I think it has comeback potential. At eight
times earnings, I believe H&R Block is a good candidate both for
a quick January bounce and a good year in 2011.  Apollo Group is down about 36 percent. I wrote about this
company and its competitors last month. In my judgment Apollo is
more capable than most for-profit education companies of meeting
proposed federal standards. Shares in the Phoenix-based company
go for seven times earnings.  Debt Heavy  SuperValu Inc. , a grocery and pharmaceutical-distribution
company based in Eden Prairie, Minnesota, is trading for only
five times earnings. That’s tempting, but I worry about the
company’s debt, which is almost five times equity. The stock is
down about 31 percent.  Finally,  PulteGroup Inc. , a home builder in Bloomfield
Hills, Michigan, is down about 30 percent. I think it will take
a while for homebuilders to make money again because of
overbuilding from 2000 to 2006 and because of the large number
of foreclosed homes now coming onto the market. With debt at 187
percent of equity, and with the company’s earnings still
negative, I would wait.  This column has mostly focused on stocks I would avoid.
Next week I’ll look at the other side of the coin -- my 10
favorite stocks for 2011.  Disclosure note: I have no long or short positions,
personally or for clients, in the stocks discussed in this
week’s column.  ( John Dorfman , chairman of Thunderstorm Capital in Boston,
is a columnist for Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own. His firm or clients may own or trade securities
discussed in this column.)  To contact the writer of this column:
John Dorfman at 
 jdorfman@thunderstormcapital.com   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  