-- Googling Yourself Shouldn’t Cause So Much Pain: Scott Soshnick
-- B y   S c o t t   S o s h n i c k
-- 2010-12-20T02:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-20/googling-yourself-shouldn-t-cause-such-pain-commentary-by-scott-soshnick.html
Dee Dee Jernigan missed a layup,
which is supposedly the simplest shot in basketball. And then,
seconds later, she flubbed another one. It cost her team, Xavier
University, two points, a win over Stanford and a spot in the
Final Four.  The price tag, though, was much higher for Jernigan, who
hasn’t talked about the misses since uttering a few shell-
shocked words that night. For reasons even she can’t pinpoint,
Jernigan is on the telephone and talking about it now.  Every athlete and sports fan should think about her
message, the one about the correlation among layups, losing,
love and life. In sports there’s an often unseen flip side to
one shining moment. A miscue, or two, that an athlete just can’t
escape -- ever.  “It wasn’t real at the time,” said Jernigan, who became a
YouTube sensation for her gaffes during last season’s National
Collegiate Athletic Association tournament. “It was like a
movie.”  From feel-good story to comedy to horror flick. All because
the ball didn’t go in the basket, wouldn’t go in.  Jernigan, even now, can’t keep from dwelling on the
disappointment.  Ever since Stanford won that game on, yes, a layup at the
buzzer, I wondered how a young woman moves on and gets past
those misses, the ones that kept Xavier from its first Final
Four.  Past Is Present  Jernigan, it turns out, isn’t moving on and hasn’t gotten
past. Not yet. Maybe never. She’s stuck. Jernigan numerous times
during our chat said she isn’t beating herself up. Then she
admits to thinking about those layups every day.  “Game-changing. Career-changing. University-changing.
Life-changing, too,” she labels those layups. “It changed my
life. Not for the better, either.”  Dee Dee Jernigan used to love  Googling  the name Dee Dee
Jernigan. It wasn’t ego run amok. It was inspiration running
through the family. Her little sister would sit there, too,
marveling at the list of accomplishments and accolades on the
computer screen. High-school All-American. Top 25 recruit.  Jernigan doesn’t dare search now.  And you can forget about  Facebook  and Twitter. When it
comes to heartbroken sports fans, antisocial networking is more
like it. Jernigan heard from plenty of them.  Good-bye Google. Bye-bye basketball, too.  Jernigan’s affection for the game hasn’t waned, but her
ability to act on it has disappeared. She always figured on
playing somewhere after college. Coaching, maybe. Anything to
stay close to the game. “I can probably help some young kids,”
Jernigan said.  Identity Crisis  Only Jernigan won’t even pick up a basketball. She shies
away from any hoops-related events, even coaching clinics. Kids,
she says, use Google, too. No longer is she Dee Dee Jernigan,
the accomplished basketball player. She’s the girl who missed
those layups.  “It’s like nothing else that I did in my basketball life
matters,” Jernigan says.  If only people could talk with Xavier coach  Kevin McGuff , a
father of four who frames those layups in the context of the
bigger picture, of what Jernigan meant to the team, then, and
the school’s program, forever. It was Jernigan, McGuff says, who
in a preseason meeting made her teammates believe the Final Four
was possible. Demanded that they believe.  Jernigan knows that her former coach and teammates harbor
no ill-will. Still, she can’t get past it. “It kills me
sometimes,” Jernigan says. “I’m just going to have to deal
with it, get over it. Running away from it is not helping me.”  You Can’t Go Home  Going home isn’t an option. Jernigan grew up in East
Chicago, Illinois, hearing countless recollections about the
uncle who once missed a potential game-winning dunk in high
school. “People remember,” she said.  Jernigan can’t forget. Or forgive, which is why she’s
employed as an aide to mentally challenged adults instead of
bouncing a ball or holding a clipboard. It’s a job, yes, but not
a passion.  “I’m not doing what I love to do,” Jernigan said. “It’s
a terrible shame.”  All because a basketball didn’t go through a hoop.  The next time Sports Illustrated or some publication like
it picks a Sportsman of the Year I hope they consider ex-
Washington Mystics General Manager Angela Taylor, a former
Stanford basketball player who was elated when her alma mater
beat Xavier for a spot in the Final Four. Only amid the
jubilation, Taylor couldn’t stop thinking about Jernigan. So the
sympathetic stranger penned a letter. It helped, Jernigan said,
an appreciative sentiment that I relayed to Taylor.  Starting Now  “You can’t have played the sport and not felt heartbroken
for Dee Dee,” Taylor said over the telephone. “I just felt
that I had to do something.”  We all should. Starting now.  The sports world is still marveling at the accomplishment
of the women’s basketball team at the University of Connecticut,
which yesterday won its 88th consecutive game, tying the record
established by  John Wooden ’s UCLA men’s team.  That’s a lot of made shots, smiles, hugs and victory
celebrations.  While acknowledging the accomplishment, let’s all take a
moment to remember that sometimes the ball doesn’t go in.  Twice.  ( Scott Soshnick  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Scott Soshnick in New York at 
 ssoshnick@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  