-- Groupon Hires Amazon Finance Executive Child as CFO
-- B y   J o s e p h   G a l a n t e   a n d   A l e x   S h e r m a n
-- 2010-12-20T19:05:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-20/groupon-names-former-amazon-executive-jason-child-as-cfo-of-coupon-website.html
Groupon Inc., owner of a daily
coupon website with 40 million subscribers, named Jason Child
chief financial officer as it considers raising more money to
fund growth.  Child, 42, previously served as  Amazon.com Inc.’s  vice
president of finance, overseeing its $14 billion international
business, Groupon said today in a statement. He will relocate to
Chicago, where Groupon is based.  Groupon, which offers deals in more than 300 cities,
spurned a $6 billion offer from  Google Inc. , people familiar
with the negotiations said this month. The closely held company
will top $500 million in sales this year, the people said, a
milestone reached faster than Web pioneers Amazon,  EBay Inc.  and
 Yahoo! Inc.   “It’s a pretty clear signal that Groupon’s going to go
public, and it’s probably in 2011,”  Greg Sterling , an analyst
at Internet2Go, an advisory service with Opus Research in San
Francisco, said today in an interview. “I wouldn’t expect them,
like Facebook, to hang out for a while.”  Child held various positions during his almost 12-year
tenure at Amazon, including vice president of finance in Asia,
finance director for Amazon.de in Germany and director of
investor relations. Before joining Amazon, he worked for Arthur
Andersen LLP as a consulting manager.  Groupon was introduced in November 2008 by founder  Andrew Mason . The website offers daily group discounts on restaurants,
theme parks, clothes and other consumer items.  Groupon aims to raise several hundred-million dollars, a
person familiar with the matter said this month. The increased
financing would value Groupon at less than $6 billion, said two
people, who asked not to be identified because the talks are
private. An investment group led by Digital Sky Technologies in
April valued Groupon at about $1.3 billion.  LivingSocial, Groupon’s biggest rival, announced a $175
million investment from Seattle-based Amazon this month.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Joseph Galante  in San Francisco at 
 Alex Sherman  in New York at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  