-- U.K.'s Gun Control Laws Are `Complex and Confused,' Lawmaker Panel Says
-- B y   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n
-- 2010-12-20T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-20/gun-control-laws-in-u-k-are-complex-and-confused-lawmaker-panel-says.html
The U.K.’s 34 laws governing the
control of guns are “complex and confused,” placing an
“onerous burden” on police and firearms owners, a panel of
lawmakers said.  In a report published today, Parliament’s Home Affairs
Committee said well-designed legislation that regulates and
restricts the legal supply of firearms would help to reduce gun
crime. The cross-party panel recommended introducing one
licensing system to cover all firearms that require a license.  While the majority of gun-related crimes aren’t committed
with licensed firearms, the committee expressed concern about
the use of legally owned weapons in domestic shootings. It
recommended tighter police restrictions on the granting of
licences to individuals who have engaged in crime.  “The terrible murders perpetrated by Derrick Bird in June
highlighted gaps in the current licensing regime, notably around
the ease with which convicted criminals can gain access to
firearms,” Committee Chairman  Keith Vaz , an opposition Labour
Party lawmaker, said in an e-mailed statement. “We have heard
evidence of further cases in which individuals applying to
obtain a license for firearms have lied about their mental
health problems and have subsequently gone on to misuse their
weapons.”  Bird, a taxi driver, carried out the worst mass shooting in
Britain in 14 years when he went on the rampage in Cumbria,
northwest England, slaying 12 people before killing himself.  There was a case for requiring the police to consult the
domestic partners of applicants in making the decision whether
to grant a license, while raising the fees charged so that it
covers the costs of licensing, the panel said.  “Public protection is the first duty of any government and
our firearms laws are among the toughest in the world,” Crime
Prevention Minister  James Brokenshire  said in response to the
report. “It is right that we keep them under review and we are
prepared to tighten them further if necessary. Those controls
must also be proportionate and fair.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kitty Donaldson  in London at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net . 