-- Michael Vick's Pride, Legs Lead Eagles Past Giants in 38-31 Comeback
-- B y   A a r o n   K u r i l o f f
-- 2010-12-20T05:00:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-20/michael-vick-s-pride-legs-lead-eagles-past-giants-in-38-31-comeback.html
Embarrassed that his
Philadelphia Eagles trailed the rival New York Giants by
three touchdowns in the fourth quarter,  Michael Vick  said
he wasn’t going to go home humiliated.  “We just said to ourselves, ‘Listen, we’re just going
to go out there and play for pride above anything else,’”
the Eagles’ quarterback told reporters yesterday. “They
may beat us 49-25, but we’re going to play with pride, and
we can’t complain. And that’s all I want.”  He got it. Vick led the Eagles to four touchdowns in
the National Football League game’s final eight minutes,
erasing a 21-point deficit in a 38-31 win in East
Rutherford, New Jersey. The victory left Philadelphia alone
in first place in the National Football Conference’s East
Division.  “I’ll tell you what, my heart’s a little weaker after
this one,” Eagles coach  Andy Reid  said. “He hung in there
and he kept battling, got hit a few times and he came back
with those long runs. Special.”  Vick completed 21 of 35 passes for 242 yards, three
touchdowns and an interception. Vick also ran for a
touchdown and 130 yards -- 94 of them in the fourth quarter
-- prompting Giants defensive end  Justin Tuck  to say he’d
vote for Vick as the NFL’s Most Valuable Player if he
could.  “Give him a lot of credit, he put his team on his
back and really carried them to victory,” Tuck said.  Vick threw an interception on his second play of the
game and finished the first half with six completions for
33 yards and 23 yards rushing.  Eli Manning  threw three of
his four touchdown passes in the first half for the Giants,
who attacked Vick with extra defenders and hit him multiple
times.  ‘Stay Aggressive’  “I got a little frustrated and felt like I was trying
to do too much,” Vick said. “The coaches kept telling me,
‘Stay aggressive. Stay aggressive.’”  By the time receiver  DeSean Jackson  fumbled the ball
away at midfield, leading to a Giants score that put New
York ahead 31-10, Vick was trying to use that aggression to
get the Eagles back into contention.  “I just knew we needed three touchdowns to be back in
the game,” he said. “Every down counts. Every possession
counts and you have to go out there and block everything
else out.”  The Eagles’ first points in the fourth quarter came on
a deep pass over the middle to tight end  Brent Celek , who
broke away for a 65-yard touchdown to bring the Eagles
within two touchdowns. Vick said that’s when the game
changed.  “Once we made a couple of plays downfield, I saw the
momentum shift,” he said.  Philadelphia recovered an onside kick and Vick
scrambled for 35 yards to put the Eagles in scoring
position. Then he ran again for a 4-yard touchdown.  Vick’s Tying Toss  The Eagles’ offense returned to the field with about
three minutes left. Vick broke away for runs of 33 and 22
yards before finding receiver  Jeremy Maclin  for a 13-yard
touchdown pass. The extra point tied the game.  Now it was the Giants who were upset.  “That’s as frustrating as it gets for anybody, a
defensive team or anyone, to be in position and to be doing
what your responsibilities are and the quarterback just
slithers his way out of there,” Giants coach  Tom Coughlin 
said. “He made huge plays against us.”  The winning play came down to Jackson.  When the Giants were forced to punt with 14 seconds
left, rookie  Matt Dodge ’s kick went straight to Jackson --
something Coughlin said he’d hoped to avoid because of the
receiver’s ability to break big plays. As the ball sailed
overhead, Vick couldn’t believe the luck.  “I was saying to myself, ‘Why would he kick it to
DeSean?’” Vick said.  Winning Score  Jackson fumbled the ball, recovered it, dodged a
tackle and broke free for a 65-yard game-winning touchdown.
He ran slowly cross-field along the length of the end zone
to use up the remaining time before crossing the goal line.  It was the first time in NFL history a player had a
game-winning punt return for a touchdown as time expired.  Afterward, Jackson praised Vick for leading the
comeback.  “It’s such a blessing to have  Mike Vick  on our
team,” he said. “Those big runs he was having were
unbelievable, especially with the defense doing things
purposely to stop him from running.”  Manning, running back  Brandon Jacobs  and offensive
lineman  David Diehl  were among the Giants who said the loss
was the worst they’d ever experienced. The Giants fell to
9-5 with the defeat and descriptions in the team’s locker
room ranged from “frustrating” to “disastrous.”  ‘Everything Went Downhill’  “You are up 21 in the fourth quarter feeling pretty
good about your situation and then all of a sudden just
everything went downhill,” Manning said. “Everything that
could probably go wrong went wrong and you can’t have that.
It wasn’t like they went out and just dominated us, we gave
them the victory.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Aaron Kuriloff  in New York at 
 akuriloff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  