-- India Can't Find Enough Laborers for Singh's $1 Trillion Plan
-- B y   M a d e l e n e   P e a r s o n   a n d   M a l a v i k a   S h a r m a
-- 2010-12-20T18:30:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-20/india-can-t-find-enough-laborers-to-build-roads-in-1-trillion-singh-plan.html
Vimla, 26, wipes the dust from her
forehead with a faded blue sari and fills a round metal dish
with broken stones that she carries, barefoot, across a building
site as part of the construction of New Delhi’s Metro.  “My job doesn’t need any training,” said Vimla, who only
uses one name. She would have to make about 800 trips to carry
the load of India’s most common small dump truck. Pointing to
her supervisor, a man in a hard hat, she says: “I do what he
says. If I was educated, maybe I could do his job.”  Builders including  Larsen & Toubro Ltd ., India’s biggest
engineering company, say that while India has millions of
unskilled workers like Vimla, it doesn’t have enough trained
masons, carpenters and machine operators to construct the
roads, railways and ports it needs.  Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  said last month that
infrastructure is the biggest bottleneck to faster economic
growth. His government plans to spend $1 trillion to boost the
expansion rate to 10 percent, from 7.4 percent last fiscal year.  “Lack of skilled workers impacts on all three fronts:
quality, delivery and costs,” said  K.V. Rangaswami , president
of construction at Mumbai-based Larsen. “Skills cannot be
imparted overnight.” He said the lack of a trained workforce
will be a major setback to the economy if the shortage isn’t
solved.  Bottom Half  The world’s fastest-growing major economy after China will
expand 9.7 percent in 2010 and 8.4 percent the following year,
the International Monetary Fund said Oct. 6. India is ranked at
91 of 139 nations for its quality of infrastructure, behind
Ethiopia and Indonesia, according to the World Economic Forum’s
 Global Competitiveness Index.   “Shortage of a skilled labor force is one of the
challenges that construction companies will have to deal with as
India steps up infrastructure plans,” said  Mahesh Patil , who
oversees about $3 billion as head of domestic equities at  Birla
Sun Life Asset Management Co.  in Mumbai. “Our outlook is
positive for construction companies as we expect execution of
projects to improve.”  Birla Sun’s holdings include Larsen & Toubro and  Lanco
Infratech Ltd ., according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  India’s construction industry is the nation’s biggest
employer after agriculture. It had about 31.5 million workers,
83 percent of them unskilled, in 2005, according to a  report 
last year by the New Delhi-based National Skill Development
Corp. More than three out of four of those laborers are in
transport network and port projects, with the rest in real
estate, it said. Construction is expected to employ 83 million
people by 2022, the report said.  ‘Virtuous Cycle’  The nation’s investment in roads, rail and ports and other
projects may reach about $500 billion in the five years ending
March 2012, the Planning Commission said in March this year.
Singh said the same month that that figure needs to expand to $1
trillion in the following five years.  Singh plans to raise half the $1 trillion spending from
private financing. The government lifted the cap on foreign
investment in bonds for the first time in 18 months on Sept. 24,
allowing overseas investors to buy $5 billion more in debt
maturing in more than five years sold by infrastructure
companies. India auctioned permits on Dec. 2 to allow foreign
funds to make limited purchases of the bonds within 90 days.  No Overstating  “You can’t ever overstate the importance of infrastructure
to the growth India will take on in the next five, 10, 15
years,”  Inderjeet Bhatia , associate director at Macquarie
Capital Securities India Pvt., said in Mumbai. “It’s a massive
virtuous cycle that can play out.”  Larsen and Toubro  shares have advanced 18 percent this
year, compared with a 14 percent gain in the  Bombay Stock
Exchange Sensitive Index . Mumbai-based  Hindustan Construction
Co.  has lost 38 percent, partly because a unit was named in a
government bribery investigation last month. Hyderabad-based
 Lanco Infratech  is up 7.7 percent.  “The quantum of projects far exceeds the capacity of the
market of the contractors to deliver them,” Russell Waugh,
managing director of the Indian unit of  Leighton Holdings Ltd. ,
said in Mumbai. “India has developed a very good repertoire of
skilled engineers and technically orientated people, but there
has been a shortfall over the years of developing a skilled
labor force to actually build things.”  Training Schools  Sydney-based Leighton, Australia’s biggest construction
company, is building India’s longest road tunnel.  To help tackle the shortage, construction companies set up
their own training schools. Larsen runs one in Panvel, about 56
miles from Mumbai’s financial center. On a recent day, Manoj
Pehre was learning to bend steel rods into rectangles so they
can reinforce concrete beams and columns.  With so few skilled workers, Pehre, 23, said his family
hopes the training will be a first step toward running his own
contracting business.  “They have good hopes and ambitions for me,” said the 23-
year-old, standing in the midday sun in dark blue overalls and a
yellow hard hat. “That I’ll make something big out of this
training.”  Around him, other men learned carpentry, bricklaying and
welding. The three-month apprenticeship costs Larsen 21,000
rupees ($467) per trainee. Virendra Mohod, 26, who’s studying
masonry, said the education will give them better pay, job
security and the chance to travel.  Trays of Rocks  He and Pehre are among the lucky ones. Most workers are
like Vimla, who moved to Delhi from Jhansi, Uttar Pradesh, four
years ago with her husband and her son Rinka. He clings to her
waist as she carries trays of rocks on her head, near the $275-
a-night  Taj Palace hotel .  Even with company training schools, India doesn’t have
enough formal institutions to train the number of people needed,
said Leighton’s Waugh.  The Construction Industry Development Council , set up by
the central government with industry backing in 1996 to improve
quality in the building industry, said it has trained and
certified more than 250,000 construction workers in the past 13
years. Among India’s 1.23 billion population, the unemployment
rate among the labor force was 9.4 percent in the financial year
ended March.  The skills shortage mirrors a similar deficit China faced
during rapid development, said  Liu Kaiming , executive director
of the  Institute of Contemporary Observation , a Shenzhen-based
non-government organization dedicated to labor studies.  “The Chinese government has no systematic training system
currently in place,” he said. As in India, companies have had
to educate their own workers over the past two decades.  Suffering Nation  A report last month by the 115-year-old  Confederation of
Indian Industry  in Delhi said “youth unemployability is a
bigger crisis than unemployment -- 53 percent of employed youth
suffer from some degree of skill deprivation.”  “As a nation, we are suffering,” said  Vinayak Chatterjee ,
chairman of New Delhi-based Feedback Ventures, which provides
professional and technical construction services and counts
Larsen and the  Infrastructure Development Finance Co.  as
shareholders. “We have not developed the training institutes to
provide the manpower to cater for the boom.”  Plugging the skills gap will also require a cultural
change, said A. Janakumar, a mechanical engineer and regional
training manager at the Larsen institute in Panvel.  Trades traditionally are passed down through families, with
masons and carpenters learning from their fathers. Laborers
don’t get enough respect for their work, he said, and previously
these jobs were done by underprivileged sections of the
community. Workers also want to stay in their area and not move
locations with construction jobs, he said.  “Fathers want sons to be engineers now, not carpenters,”
said Janakumar. “They want sons to earn more and get more
respect.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Madelene Pearson  in Mumbai on 
 mpearson1@bloomberg.net ;
 Malavika Sharma  in New Delhi at 
 msharma52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Poole at   jpoole4@Bloomberg.net ;
Stephen Foxwell at 
 sfoxwell@bloomberg.net  