-- Ingenico Drops Most Since May 2009 on Stalled Talks
-- B y   M a t t h e w   C a m p b e l l
-- 2010-12-20T16:47:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-20/ingenico-stock-drops-most-in-two-years-as-company-says-bidder-talks-stall.html
Ingenico SA  fell the most since May
2009 in Paris trading after the payment-terminal maker’s board
said a bidder is “not in a position to submit a binding offer
that could be accepted.”  Ingenico  dropped  5.6 percent to 26.05 euros after earlier
declining as much as 10 percent. The shares had been suspended
on Dec. 17 at the manufacturer’s request and resumed trading at
10:30 a.m. today.  Danaher Corp. , a U.S. maker of products including dental
tools and bar-code equipment, offered to buy Ingenico for 1.44
billion euros ($1.9 billion), a person familiar with the
situation said on Dec. 17. Ingenico announced that day the
receipt of a non-binding, 28-euro-per-share takeover bid,
without identifying the potential buyer. The company said late
yesterday that no acceptable binding offer had been received.  France’s government considers  Ingenico , which is based in
the Paris suburb of Neuilly-Sur-Seine, to be a “strategic”
company essential to the economy, Industry Minister  Eric Besson 
said on La Chaine Info television today. The state didn’t
support the proposed deal after determining that “the
conditions were not satisfying,” a government official who
declined to be named in line with policy said today.  Ingenico’s biggest  shareholder  is Paris-based plane-engine
and electronics manufacturer  Safran SA , which is 30 percent
owned by France.  The 28-euro-a-share offer, received Dec. 14, was 7.7
percent more than Ingenico’s closing price of 26 euros that day,
and was 1.5 percent higher than the price before the suspension
of trading on Dec. 17.  Payment Systems  Payment software and equipment are attracting interest from
technology, industrial and telecommunications companies as more
transactions shift to electronic methods from cash.  Ingenico ’s
products include wireless credit-card terminals and software,
which Washington-based Danaher would add to an existing line of
devices that includes point-of-sale systems for gas stations.  France Telecom SA , the country’s largest telecommunications
company, announced a research effort earlier this month aimed at
improving technologies for payments using mobile phones. The
global value of goods purchased via mobile devices will be about
$200 billion annually in 2012, according to Juniper Research.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Matthew Campbell  in Paris at 
 mcampbell39@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at   vroot@bloomberg.net . 