-- Maliki May Announce Partial Iraqi Cabinet, Excluding Security Portfolios
-- B y   N a y l a   R a z z o u k   a n d   K a d h i m   A j r a s h
-- 2010-12-20T11:31:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-20/iraqi-premier-maliki-to-unveil-national-unity-cabinet-today-hassani-says.html
Prime Minister  Nuri al-Maliki  is
expected to announce a partial lineup of posts in Iraq’s
national-unity cabinet, keeping the security jobs for himself
until a deal is reached with groups that opposed him in
elections, according to some members of his bloc in parliament.  Al-Maliki "will go to parliament this afternoon to present
his government, without the security portfolios, which include
defense, interior and national security,’’ the government
spokesman, Ali al-Dabbagh, said in a telephone interview from
Baghdad. Oil Minister  Hussain al-Shahristani  and Foreign
Minister  Hoshyar Zebari  will remain in the posts, he said.  Lawmakers won’t vote on al-Maliki’s choices today, Speaker
 Usama al-Nujafi  said in an interview without elaborating.
Disagreements about the distribution of posts are holding up
completion of the nominations, which may be delayed beyond
today, said Hussein al-Assadi, a lawmaker in al-Maliki’s group.  Months of political paralysis and disputes followed the
March 7 parliamentary vote, which produced no clear winner. A
new government would begin to take office as the U.S. prepares
to pull out its remaining troops by the end of 2011. The Iraqi
leadership will have to deal with violence, a struggling economy
and long-standing disputes over internal boundaries and rights
to the country’s oil and gas reserves.  The positions that have been decided on comprise more than
half the cabinet, said Sherwan al-Waili, national security
minister and a member of al-Maliki’s parliamentary bloc.  Deadline Approaches  Discussions are continuing on whether al-Shahristani should
be given the job of deputy prime minister for energy affairs
instead of keeping the Oil Ministry role, said Abdul Hadi al-
Hassani, a member of al-Maliki’s bloc. Zebari was chosen to
retain the Foreign Ministry because he "has proven to be very
successful and he is the sole candidate to the position as
presented by the Kurdish coalition,’’ he said.  Under the constitution, al-Maliki had 30 days to form a
cabinet for his second term in office once President Jalal
Talabani asked him to form a government on Nov. 25. The period
expires on Dec. 25.  The Shiite Muslim prime minister’s delay in announcing the
cabinet reflects difficulties in creating a government that
includes all of Iraq’s ethnic and religious groups.  ‘Ideological Loggerheads’  “The diverse nature of the new government almost
guarantees that it will fail,” the London-based  Control Risks 
Group said in a report before the positions were announced.
“The various component parties remain at ideological
loggerheads with one another and are unlikely to be able to
unite sufficiently to work together.”  Maliki’s State of Law alliance won 89 seats in
parliamentary elections on March 7. It merged with former Shiite
rivals to form the Iraqi National Alliance afterward, securing a
combined total of 159 seats, and was later able to draw in
lawmakers from other groups to secure the 163 seats needed for a
governing coalition in the 325-seat parliament.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nayla Razzouk in Amman at 
 nrazzouk2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Louis Meixler at 
 lmeixler@bloomberg.net . 