-- Japan Said to Consider Using NTT Share Sale Revenue to Fund Overseas Loans
-- B y   K y o k o   S h i m o d o i ,   Y o s h i n o r i   E k i   a n d   T o r u   F u j i o k a
-- 2010-12-20T02:32:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-20/japan-said-to-consider-using-ntt-share-sale-revenue-to-fund-overseas-loans.html
Japan’s government is considering
using proceeds from a sale of  Nippon Telegraph & Telephone Corp. 
shares to help domestic companies invest overseas, two
government officials familiar with the matter said.  The government, owner of a $24 billion stake in the former
phone monopoly, estimates that selling the NTT stock in the year
starting April could generate up to 300 billion yen ($3.6
billion), said the officials, who declined to be named because
the plan hasn’t been made public. The funds will be used by the
state-run Japan Bank for International Cooperation to provide
lending to companies, they said.  Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  is trying to help Japanese
companies get more orders for overseas infrastructure projects
in power, water supply and rail to offset weak demand at home.
Using funds from NTT share sales would help the government avoid
issuing more bonds to pay for corporate loans as it tries to
reduce a public debt that’s almost twice the size of the economy.  Japanese law requires that the government own at least a
one-third stake in the nation’s largest fixed-line phone carrier.
The government could sell almost 90 million shares, currently
valued at about 338 billion yen, while retaining the 33 percent
stake.  The Japanese government said on Dec. 10 that the state-run
lender known as JBIC will fund overseas infrastructure projects
with an initial 1.5 trillion yen from the foreign-exchange
special account and will increase the amount as demand grows.  A JBIC spokeswoman declined to comment on the NTT share
sale plan.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Kyoko Shimodoi  in Tokyo at 
 kshimodoi@bloomberg.net ;
 Yoshinori Eki  in Tokyo at 
 yeki@bloomberg.net ;
 Toru Fujioka  in Tokyo at 
 tfujioka1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  