-- Stocks Decline the Most This Month as Euro Weakens Vs. Yen; Uny Leads Drop
-- B y   N o r i e   K u b o y a m a   a n d   T o s h i r o   H a s e g a w a
-- 2010-12-20T08:25:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-20/japanese-stocks-fluctuate-as-banks-advance-while-trading-companies-decline.html
Japanese  stocks  fell, with benchmark
indexes slumping by the most this month, as the euro weakened to
near a two-week low against the yen on concern Europe’s debt
crisis will spread, damping the outlook for export earnings.  Nippon Sheet Glass Co. , a glassmaker that counts Europe as
its biggest market, and Fanuc Ltd., Japan’s largest maker of
industrial robots, both lost 1.8 percent. Komatsu Ltd., which
has China as its fastest-growing market, slumped 1.9 percent on
concern that Chinese policy makers will act further to tame
inflation.  Sony Corp. , the maker of Bravia televisions, sank 1.2
percent after saying it may fall short of a target for TV sales.  “Investors should always think of Europe’s debt problems
that are coming out one after another as a risk factor,” said
 Yutaka Yoshii , a strategist at Tokyo-based Mito Securities Co.
“Investors still want to go bargain hunting on exporters and
companies with good earnings.”  The  Nikkei 225 Stock Average  fell 0.9 percent to 10,216.41
at the close in Tokyo. The broader Topix index dropped 0.5
percent to 898.55, with more than twice as many shares declining
as advancing. All but three industries decreased among the
Topix’s 33 groups. Both indexes sank the most since Nov. 30.  The Topix has retreated 10 percent from its high this year
on April 15 as Europe’s debt crisis, China’s steps to curb
property prices and concern about U.S. economic growth damped
confidence in a global recovery. Shares in the index were valued
at 15.7 times  estimated earnings  on average on Dec. 17, near a
four-month high.  Euro Weakens  Nippon Sheet Glass  lost 1.8 percent to 214 yen. Ricoh Co.,
a maker of office equipment that gets a fifth of its revenue
from Europe, declined 1.9 percent to 1,168 yen. Fanuc, a maker
of industrial robots that earns almost 20 percent of its revenue
in Europe, slipped 1.8 percent to 12,150 yen, the heaviest drag
on the Nikkei 225.  European stocks fell on Dec. 17 on concern that some euro-
area nations will be unable to repay their debts, after Moody’s
Investors Service cut Ireland’s credit rating by five levels.  The euro depreciated to as low as 110.18 against the yen
today, its weakest level since Dec. 7. A weaker euro reduces the
value of European income at Japanese companies when converted
into their home currency.  “Worries about whether Europe has a system to handle debt
crises may affect Japanese stocks through the currency,” said
 Tomochika Kitaoka , a senior strategist in Tokyo at Mizuho
Securities Co.  Chinese Policy  Komatsu , Asia’s largest maker of construction equipment,
retreated 1.9 percent to 2,453 yen. Hitachi Construction
Machinery Co., an excavator maker that generates about a quarter
of its revenue from China, sank 2.1 percent to 1,937 yen and
Kubota Corp., Asia’s largest tractor maker, slid 1.4 percent to
787 yen, both falling the most this month.  Chinese stocks  fell the most in a month today as tensions
in the Korean Peninsula fueled a selloff in risk assets, adding
to investor concern that the government may raise interest rates
to tame inflation. South Korea said it would proceed with a
live-firing drill that has prompted North Korean threats of
retaliation. The drill ended after Japanese stock trading closed.  “China’s tightening to curb inflation may cool stocks more
than the real economy,” said  Tsutomu Yamada , a market analyst
in Tokyo at Kabu.com Securities Co.  TDK Corp. , which is the world’s largest maker of magnetic
heads for disk drives and gets more than 30 percent of revenue
from China, retreated 2.3 percent to 5,640 yen. Fanuc, the robot
maker, gets about half of its sales in Asia outside Japan.  Sony , the world’s third-largest television maker, sank 1.2
percent to 2,930 yen after Vice President Hiroshi Yoshioka said
the company may miss a target to sell 25 million TVs this fiscal
year.  Uny Co., a retailer, slumped 4.2 percent to 778 yen, the
 biggest decline  in the Nikkei 225, after Macquarie Group Ltd.
cut its investment recommendation on the company to
“underperform” from “neutral.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Norie Kuboyama  in Tokyo at 
 nkuboyama@bloomberg.net ;
 Toshiro Hasegawa  in Tokyo at 
 thasegawa6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at   ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 