-- Jelas Ulung Offers $8.3 Billion for PLUS Expressways, Topping Bid From UEM
-- B y   C h a n   T i e n   H i n
-- 2010-12-20T11:26:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-20/jelas-ulung-offers-8-3-billion-for-plus-expressways-topping-bid-from-uem.html
PLUS Expressways Bhd. , Malaysia’s
biggest toll-road operator, received a 26 billion-ringgit ($8.3
billion) takeover offer from Jelas Ulung Sdn., topping an
earlier bid by UEM Group Bhd. and the Employees Provident Fund.  Jelas Ulung offered the equivalent of 5.20 ringgit a share
for the assets and liabilities of PLUS, 19.3 percent more than
today’s closing price of 4.36 ringgit, PLUS said in a statement
in Kuala Lumpur today. That’s higher than a joint bid of 4.60
ringgit a share by state-controlled UEM Group and the EPF, the
nation’s biggest pension fund.  The board of PLUS will “deliberate on the offer and decide
on the next course of action,” taking into consideration the
earlier offer, PLUS said. The board accepted the joint bid on
Nov. 9 and planned to table it to shareholders this month.  A takeover of  PLUS  would give the buyer control of a
company that owns and operates 973 kilometers of inter-urban
toll expressways in Malaysia, stretching from the border of
Thailand in the north to the border of Singapore. PLUS  shares 
have surged 34 percent this year, outpacing the benchmark FTSE
Bursa Malaysia KLCI Index’s 17.5 percent gain.  Jelas Ulung, a special-purpose vehicle set up for the
takeover bid and based in Kuala Lumpur, won’t impose any further
toll increases if it succeeds, according to details of the offer,
PLUS said in the statement.  The company’s directors are  Ibrahim Mohd Zain  and  Ghazali Mat Ariff , according to the PLUS statement. BOCI Asia Ltd., a
unit of Bank of China Ltd., has agreed to support the financing
of Jelas Ulung’s bid, it said.  Khazanah, Malaysia’s sovereign wealth fund, is the biggest
shareholder of PLUS with a 55.2 percent stake, partly held
through UEM Group. The EPF controls 12.3 percent of PLUS.  Malaysia will maintain toll rates on four highways operated
by PLUS for the next five years, Prime Minister  Najib Razak  said
in his annual budget speech in Kuala Lumpur on Oct. 15.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Chan Tien Hin  in Kuala Lumpur at 
 thchan@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey in Hong Kong at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  