-- JPMorgan Buys Lehman’s London Office for $769 Million
-- B y   P e t e r   W o o d i f i e l d
-- 2010-12-20T17:12:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-20/jpmorgan-to-acquire-lehman-s-former-london-office-as-european-headquarters.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co ., the second-
largest U.S. bank, bought the former offices of  Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc . in London’s Canary Wharf district for 495 million
pounds ($769 million) to use as its investment bank’s European
headquarters.  JPMorgan purchased the 1 million square-foot (93,000
square-meter) building at 25 Bank Street and extended an
agreement to develop a nearby site, seller Canary Wharf Group
Plc said today in a statement. The bank will also buy 60
Victoria Embankment, a City of London property that it has
leased since 1991, New York-based JPMorgan said in a separate
statement.  “A large bank such as JPMorgan needs to have the majority
of its European operations based in London,” said  Richard Staite , an analyst at Atlantic Equities in London. “It’s just
not practical for them to move the business elsewhere.”  JPMorgan, which employs more than 11,000 people in the U.K.
capital, is moving to Canary Wharf in 2012 from the City of
London financial district, where its investment bank staff is
scattered across four properties. The switch will increase the
number of people working on the entire 97-acre (39-hectare)
Canary Wharf estate to more than 100,000.  The bank is paying 41 percent more than the value given to
the tower by Canary Wharf as of June 30. The difference equals
about three years of rent.  “The opportunity for our investment bank to be located in
one state-of-the-art building allows us to upgrade our
operational capabilities and maintain our strong position in the
region,”  Jes Staley , chief executive officer of JPMorgan’s
investment bank, said in the statement.  Songbird Rises  Songbird Estates Plc , the majority owner of Canary Wharf,
advanced the most in more than five weeks in London trading. The
shares gained 3.5 pence, or 2.6 percent, to 139 pence. That was
the most since Nov. 12 when the shares rose 2.7 percent.  U.K.-based banks have threatened to move abroad because of
rising taxes and tighter regulation.  Barclays Plc  and HSBC
Holdings Plc said in September they may move headquarters if the
government decides to break up the banks. Standard Chartered Plc
said in August it may quit London if new taxes are imposed on
lenders.  “This is a tremendous coup for London,” London Mayor
 Boris Johnson  said in an e-mailed statement. “Banking is one of
the few global industries in which we truly excel. JPMorgan’s
commitment to London will help ensure the capital retains its
position as a banking powerhouse.”  Riverside South  JPMorgan is continuing to work with Canary Wharf Group to
develop the Riverside South site that it previously planned to
use as headquarters for all its London employees. It bought the
site in November 2008 and by next year will have invested more
than 300 million pounds.  Canary Wharf will now have the right to make the first
offer to buy the site. Previously it had the exclusive option to
buy it at a fixed price. The development agreement has been
extended to 2016 from 2013.  Canary Wharf will also receive 144.5 million pounds from
 AIG International Group Inc. , the U.S. insurer that had to be
rescued by the U.S. government, to cancel a commitment to insure
Lehman’s rental payments for up to four years in the event of
default, the developer said in the statement.  AIG posted 224 million pounds of collateral in March last
year, after its credit rating was lowered, in case Lehman
defaulted. Nomura International Plc, which bought Lehman’s
European operations, exercised an option to vacate the building
effective Sept. 30.  Canary Wharf  Canary Wharf’s combined receipts from JPMorgan and AIG of
639.5 million pounds compares with a book value of 550 million
pounds as of June 30, according to Songbird’s semi-annual
report.  “It looks a very good deal for Canary Wharf on the face of
it,” Robbie Duncan, an analyst at Nomura, said in a telephone
interview. “It shows they are both quite bullish about the
London office market.”  The building was built in 2003 for Lehman on a 30-year
lease. The securities firm filed the biggest bankruptcy in U.S.
history when it failed in September 2008.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Peter Woodifield  in Edinburgh at 
 pwoodifield@bloomberg.net .
To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at   ablackman@bloomberg.net . 