-- Kazan Inspired Brando, Aided Red Witch Hunt; Novak's Glamour:: Rainer File
-- B y   P e t e r   R a i n e r
-- 2010-12-20T03:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-20/kazan-inspired-brando-aided-red-witch-hunt-novak-s-glamour-rainer-file.html
I can’t think of a better holiday
gift for cinephiles than “ The Elia Kazan Collection ,” a boxed
set of 15 Kazan films from 20th Century Fox Home Entertainment,
four of which have never before appeared on DVD.  Also included are a 100-page book of production notes, rare
photos and the documentary “A Letter to Elia,” which  Martin Scorsese  and Kent Jones wrote and directed for the PBS
“American Masters” series. It’s a pig-out of cinematic riches.  The Kazan films range from his first Hollywood feature, “A
Tree Grows in Brooklyn” (1945), to the epic “America,
America” (1963).  In between are not only famous films such as “A Streetcar
Named Desire,” “On the Waterfront” and “East of Eden” but
several underrated entries, especially “Wild River.” The 1960
Cinemascope production stars  Montgomery Clift  as a Depression-
era federal official who faces local opposition to a dam project
in Tennessee. (Kazan made a short 1937 documentary on Tennessee
miners, not included in this Fox collection, that may help
explain his simpatico for this region.)  Kazan started out as an actor and stage manager in the
Group Theatre before moving to Hollywood. His reliance on
dramatic staging and performance is evident throughout his movie
career, but it wasn’t until “Viva Zapata!” (1952) -- his
second collaboration with  Marlon Brando  -- that he felt
unencumbered by his theatrical background.  Brando, Dean  As a co-founder of the Actors Studio in 1947, Kazan helped
inspire many of America’s finest screen stars. Brando,  James Dean  and dozens of others cited his uncanny ability to bring out
their best. Performers who were mostly indifferent in other
directors’ movies shine in his.  Think of the tarty, teasing Carroll Baker in the Tennessee
Williams scripted “Baby Doll” (1956), Andy Griffith’s radio
demagogue in the frighteningly prescient “A Face in the Crowd”
(1957) or Natalie Wood in “Splendor in the Grass” (1961). Nine
actors won Oscars in his movies and 12 others were nominated.  Kazan himself won two directing Oscars -- for “Gentleman’s
Agreement” (1947), an indictment of anti-Semitism starring
 Gregory Peck  that today looks formulaic, and “On the
Waterfront” (1954), with Brando’s legendary performance as a
longshoreman who rats on his mob boss.  Kazan later said “On the Waterfront” was partly a defense
of his (and screenwriter Budd Schulberg’s) decision to testify
before the House Un-American Activities Committee. From the
rancor that greeted his 1999 honorary Oscar for lifetime
achievement, a large swath of Hollywood never forgave him for
participating in the Communist witch hunt.  Yet it’s difficult, watching many of the films in this
collection, to feel anything but gratitude to Kazan the artist.  Kim Novak  The Kim Novak Collection, from Sony Pictures Home
Entertainment, features five movies starring the last full-
fledged glamour girl of the studio system.  Born Marilyn Pauline Novak, she grew up in a working-class
Czech neighborhood in Chicago. Columbia Pictures wanted a less
ethnic name and suggested Kit Marlowe. They compromised on Kim
Novak, though much later she played a character named Kit
Marlowe on the TV soap opera “Falcon Crest.”  Groomed as a competitor to  Marilyn Monroe , Novak was a
slightly gaga combo of sullen and sultry. She always seemed like
she was about to enter into, or wake up from, a languorous
slumber.  This three-disc collection features Novak at the height of
her late 1950s star power. It includes “Picnic,” by far the
best film in the package; the new-to-DVD biopic “Jeanne
Eagels”; a bowdlerized adaptation of Rodgers and Hart’s “Pal
Joey” with  Frank Sinatra  and  Rita Hayworth ; the charming
“Bell, Book and Candle,” where she played a homebody sorceress
opposite  Jimmy Stewart ; and Paddy Chayefsky’s “Middle of the
Night.”  Novak was once quoted as saying: “I had a lot of
resentment for a while toward Kim Novak. But I don’t mind her
anymore. She’s OK. We’ve become friends.”  See why in this collection.  ( Peter Rainer  is a critic for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed are his own).  To contact the writer responsible for this story:
Peter Rainer at  Fi1L2E@aol.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 