-- Korean Stocks Drop on Bank Levy, Risk of Conflict With North
-- B y   A n d r e a   W o n g   a n d   S a e r o m i   S h i n
-- 2010-12-20T06:47:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-20/korean-won-stocks-bonds-slump-on-proposed-bank-levy-risk-of-conflict.html
South Korea  stocks  dropped after the
government proposed tighter curbs on capital flows and military
tensions with the North damped demand for the nation’s assets.  A levy is planned for foreign-currency borrowing by banks,
the government said yesterday. South Korea commenced with a
live-firing drill on Yeonpyeong Island today, a month after
North Korea shelled the island close to the disputed sea border
off the peninsula’s west coast, killing four people.  “The government finally announced details of the levy and
it could tighten dollar liquidity in the market,” said  Frances Cheung , a senior strategist at Credit Agricole CIB. “The
military drill may trigger strong retaliation from the North.”  The benchmark  Kospi  stock index fell as much as 1.5 percent
before closing 0.3 percent lower at 2,020.28. Stocks pared
losses after Agence France-Presse reported North Korea has
agreed to allow United Nations nuclear inspectors to return to
the country, citing a CNN report.  The government said yesterday it aims to apply a levy on
banks’ foreign-exchange borrowings, will strengthen punishment
for inappropriate reporting of currency trades and may tighten
rules on derivatives. It is considering a 20 basis-point levy on
overseas debt maturing in less than one year, Vice Finance
Minister Yim Jong Yong said.  Nations from China to South Africa are striving to limit
currency volatility as near-zero borrowing costs in advanced
economies spur demand for higher-yielding assets in emerging
markets.  Artillery Exercise  Posco, a steelmaker and the second-biggest company by
 market capitalization  on the Kospi, fell 1 percent to 469,000
won.  Hyundai Mobis Co. , an auto-parts maker and the nation’s
fifth largest company, slipped 0.2 percent to 297,500 won, a
three-week low.  Artillery positions on Yeonpyeong Island began the exercise
at 2.30 p.m. local time after fog cleared, said a defense
ministry official who declined to be named, citing government
policy. An emergency meeting of the United Nations Security
Council failed to agree on steps to ease tension on the
peninsula. Russia requested the meeting, saying the Security
Council “must send a restraining signal” to both countries.  “Geopolitical risks boost uncertainties after South Korea
said it will proceed with a live-firing drill and the UN failed
to agree on steps to ease tension on the peninsula,” said  Song Seong Yeob , a fund manager at KB Asset Management Co. in Seoul,
which oversees the equivalent of $17 billion in assets.  Northern Factories  Stock-market declines were paced by companies that have
factories in an industrial complex in the North’s Gaeseong city.
 Shinwon Corp. , a South Korean apparel maker, dropped 2.8 percent
to 1,395 won. Romanson Co., a watch maker, fell 2 percent to
1,950 won.  South Korea’s bulk carriers retreated after  the Baltic Dry
Index , a measure of raw materials-shipping costs, slid below
2,000 points for the first time since August.  STX Pan Ocean Co. ,
South Korea’s biggest bulk carrier, fell 2.6 percent to 11,400
won. Korea Line Corp., the second largest, lost 2.8 percent to
25,700 won.  Declines were capped by gains in defense-related shares.
 Victek Co. , which makes electronic-warfare equipment, jumped as
much as 12 percent before closing up 1.9 percent at 3,010 won.
Speco Co., a military installation parts developer, gained 12
percent, while Huneed Technologies, a military communication
equipment manufacturer, climbed 8 percent to 3,940 won.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Andrea Wong  in Taipei at 
 awong268@bloomberg.net 
 Saeromi Shin  in Seoul at 
 sshin15@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net 
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  