-- Kosmos Won't Face Charges Over Jubilee in Ghana After Reaching Settlement
-- B y   J a s o n   M c L u r e
-- 2010-12-20T13:42:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-20/kosmos-won-t-face-charges-over-jubilee-in-ghana-after-reaching-settlement.html
Kosmos Energy LLC said it settled a
dispute with the government of Ghana over the country’s offshore
Jubilee oil field and will not face criminal charges from the
West African nation’s Justice Ministry.  Kosmos, which is backed by private-equity firms  Blackstone
Group LP  and Warburg Pincus LLP, also said it reached an
agreement with Ghana’s environmental authorities over discharges
of drilling mud offshore.  Dallas-based Kosmos, the state-owned Ghana National
Petroleum Corp. and Ghana’s Energy Ministry have all agreed to
“amicably resolve several issues that have existed among
them,” according to a company statement.  Kosmos had clashed repeatedly with the government of
President  John Atta Mills , which accused Kosmos of illegally
sharing data about the field with foreign companies including
Exxon Mobil Corp. Production from Jubilee, which is estimated to
hold about 800 million barrels of crude, began last week.  The company did not specify terms of the agreement or say
whether it included a financial payout. The statement said
Kosmos had agreed to help Ghana’s environmental authorities
“build capacity in the environmental sector” as part of the
resolution over the drilling mud spill.  George Sarpong, a spokesman for  Kosmos , said he was in a
meeting and could not immediately comment on the agreement when
reached on his mobile telephone today. Edward Bawa, a spokesman
for Ghana’s Energy Ministry, declined to comment when reached by
phone today at his office. Nana Boakye Asafu-Ajaye, managing
director of GNPC, did not answer three calls placed to his
mobile phone.  Blocked Attempt  Ghana blocked Kosmos’s attempt to sell its 23.5 percent
interest in Jubilee to Exxon last year for $4 billion. Kosmos
rejected a $5 billion bid for its stake from GNPC and China’s
Cnooc Ltd., the Wall Street Journal reported Nov. 2, citing
Gabriel Osatey, a geophysicist with the company.  Along with the  U.S. Justice Department , Ghana’s attorney
general launched a probe into Kosmos’s relationship with EO
Group.  The U.S. closed its  Foreign Corrupt Practices Act 
investigation of Kosmos in May without pressing charges. Ghana’s
attorney general has also agreed not to press charges against
Kosmos as part of today’s settlement, the statement said.  A Ghanaian government report earlier this year recommended
fining Kosmos 40 million cedis ($27.3 million) for spilling 706
barrels of oil-based mud containing heavy metals and drilling
fluid into the Gulf of Guinea on three occasions over the past
year.  Today’s agreement also resolved issues surrounding Kosmos’s
debt facility and corporate structure, the Kosmos statement
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:  Jason McLure  in Accra on
   jmclure@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: Antony
Sguazzin in Johannesburg at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 