-- MTN Says Dabengwa to Become Mobile Company’s Next Head
-- B y   R e n e e   B o n o r c h i s
-- 2010-12-20T15:30:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-20/mtn-appoints-sifiso-dabengwa-to-succeed-nhleko-as-chief-executive-officer.html
MTN Group Ltd. , Africa’s largest
mobile-phone operator, appointed  Sifiso Dabengwa  to become chief
executive officer, promoting a manager with 11 years at the
company.  Dabengwa, who will take over when  Phuthuma Nhleko  steps
down as CEO on March 31, has been chief operating officer since
2004, the Johannesburg-based company said today in a statement.
Dabengwa, 53, has a degree in electrical engineering and an MBA.  “An executive with experience operating in more mature
markets would have been preferable,”  Jan Louw , an analyst with
Afrifocus Securities Ltd., said today in a telephone interview
from Johannesburg. “Dabengwa had experience with MTN as it was,
but the market  structure  is changing. MTN is facing a more
mature and competitive market and he doesn’t really have that
experience.”  Dabengwa’s appointment follows four failed attempts by MTN
to buy competitors in the last two years. The company ended
talks in June with Weather Investments SpA to buy as much as $10
billion in assets of Egyptian operator Orascom Telecom Holding
SAE. MTN and India’s Bharti Airtel Ltd. failed in 2009 to reach
agreement on a deal for a second time, while talks with Mumbai-
based  Reliance Communications Ltd . collapsed in 2008.  Acquisitions shouldn’t be the top priority for MTN now,
Louw said. “Growth comes at a cost, and doesn’t always generate
shareholder value,” he said. “You pay such a premium to grow,
it’s quite likely goodwill will be impaired if an acquisition
doesn’t deliver as expected.”  New International CEO  Nhleko, who has run the company for the past eight years
and has overseen its expansion into 21  countries , said in May he
would not renew his contract, which expired in June. Nhleko, 50,
will join the MTN board as non-executive vice chairman. The
 company , which is eliminating the chief operating officer
position, said it’s looking for a CEO for international
operations.  “It’s positive that they’ve brought someone with the
skills of Sifiso, who is well-versed in the business and
provides a continuity of strategy,”  Andrew Kingston , a fund
manager who holds MTN stock and helps oversee the equivalent of
$41 billion at Cape Town-based Sanlam Investment Management,
said via phone.  Kingston said he would “read more into whoever is the new
international head,” which he said will be important for the
company’s expansion plans and may involve an external
appointment.  Few Takeover Opportunities  MTN said in August that it will increase  dividend  payouts
because there are few takeover opportunities that will add to
earnings. While the company’s subscriber numbers have continued
to rise, increasing 4 percent in the quarter through September
to a total of 134.5 million, MTN’s first-half revenue to June
slipped 2 percent and profit growth slowed.  “I expect full-year profit to be up,” Louw said. “In
2011 and 2012 there will be more pressure on profit.”  MTN  rose 36 cents, or 0.3 percent, to 127.36 rand as of the
5 p.m. close of trading in Johannesburg. The stock has gained 8
percent this year, lifting the company’s market value to 239.8
billion rand ($35 billion).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Renee Bonorchis  in Johannesburg at 
 rbonorchis@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  