-- Nasdaq Working Quietly to Curb Bank Control of Clearinghouses
-- B y   C l e a   B e n s o n ,   R o b e r t   S c h m i d t   a n d   S i l l a   B r u s h
-- 2010-12-20T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-20/nasdaq-working-quietly-to-curb-bank-control-of-clearinghouses.html
The revelation that regulators
received forged letters denouncing banks’ “cartel-like
control” of derivatives trading has exposed the latest front in
a yearlong battle over which companies gain entrée into the $583
trillion swaps market.  The letter campaign, orchestrated by a public relations
firm, contained the same message that  Nasdaq OMX Group Inc.  has
been pushing in Washington as it tries to muscle its way into
the derivatives business. The company’s plan: get Congress or
the Commodity Futures Trading Commission to limit bank ownership
of swaps clearinghouses, helping Nasdaq get a bigger piece of
the pie.  Nasdaq’s efforts have included hiring the ex-chairman of
the House Financial Services Committee to lobby former
colleagues, sending the company’s chief executive officer to
private meetings with lawmakers and even circulating an
anonymous flier on Capitol Hill. The flier, which Nasdaq
eventually acknowledged drafting, also denounced Wall Street
firms as an “abusive cartel.”  Nasdaq has done much of its lobbying in secret, letting
organizations such as the AFL-CIO labor federation step out in
public. The New York-based company declined to say whether it
hired the firm responsible for the faked comment letters.  The secrecy may be necessary; In the inter-connected ways
of Wall Street, if Nasdaq’s clearinghouse wants to be
successful, it needs to keep the banks as customers.  ‘Dangerous’  “It is dangerous to state openly what they feel, because
those banks can decide to take their business elsewhere,” said
 Michael Greenberger , a former CFTC official who is now a
University of Maryland law professor.  The skirmish is a vivid illustration of how companies turn
to Washington to gain an advantage via the law that they can’t
get in the marketplace.  Nasdaq and large derivatives dealers -- including  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. , Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Deutsche Bank AG --
are still making their case at the CFTC, which will consider the
ownership caps in mid-January.  The regulatory melee was set off by the Obama
administration’s decision to overhaul financial regulation in
the wake of the 2008 financial crisis. The Dodd-Frank law,
enacted in July, aims to have most derivatives processed through
clearinghouses and traded on exchanges for the first time.  Nasdaq and  its competitors  are positioning themselves to
take advantage of that move. The banks say clearinghouses need
owners with enough capital and expertise to weather market
disruptions. Allowing companies with fewer resources to have
large ownership stakes in clearinghouses could increase the risk
to the system, they say.  Higher Prices  Unions and investor advocates say that banks’ near-monopoly
has driven the prices of derivatives higher for everybody. More
transparency in those markets will lower the costs for all
companies buying derivatives, which in turn will bring down the
costs not only of financial products but consumer goods based on
agricultural or energy commodities -- everything from loaves of
bread to gallons of heating oil or gasoline.  “What the progressives are concerned about here is the
ongoing control of clearinghouses by institutions that are
making money by keeping things opaque,” said Heather Slavkin, a
lobbyist for the AFL-CIO.  Nasdaq lost the first round of the regulatory battle this
year when Congress decided not to set caps on clearinghouse
ownership, passing the decision on to regulators -- the CFTC as
well as the Securities and Exchange Commission.  Arkansas Letters  Nasdaq didn’t submit a public written response last month
when the CFTC proposed the ownership rule. At the same time, the
agency did receive letters supporting Nasdaq’s position that
were purportedly from Arkansas residents, including a rural
county sheriff and a Burger King franchise owner.  Bloomberg News reported last month that those letters were
forgeries generated as part of a campaign by the Dewey Square
Group, a Boston-based political consulting firm. The U.S.
Justice Department is investigating.  Nasdaq’s chief spokesman,  Frank De Maria , issued a “no
comment” when asked whether the company hired the consultants
to create the impression that citizens throughout the country
were concerned about bank ownership of clearinghouses. De Maria
also declined repeated requests to comment for this story.  Interest-rate swaps are the largest share of the swaps
market, totaling around $348 trillion a year. It’s that part of
the derivatives market that Nasdaq is angling toward. Analysts
at Keefe, Bruyette & Woods Inc. estimated last week that Dodd-
Frank requirements would double revenue from interest-rate swaps
clearing to $610 million in 2012.  Main Competitors  Nasdaq’s main competitors are London-based LCH.Clearnet
Group Ltd., which is majority-owned by banks, and Chicago-based
CME Group Inc., the world’s largest futures exchange.  Five commercial banks hold 97 percent of all over-the-
counter derivatives, according to the Office of the Comptroller
of the Currency. To date, the share of the business controlled
by Nasdaq’s two-year-old clearinghouse for interest-rate swaps,
the International Derivatives Clearing Group LLC, has been
small: about $400 million in open-interest trades as of Dec. 13.
CME Group, which started clearing interest-rate swaps on Oct.
18, had a total of $926 million in open-interest trades in its
interest rate swaps clearinghouse as of Dec. 16.  Nasdaq hasn’t been able to keep its interest in derivatives
clearinghouses entirely under wraps. Company CEO  Robert Greifeld 
came to Washington and met in person with members of the House
and Senate, according to two congressional aides who were
present.  Michael Oxley , a former Ohio representative who is an
adviser to Nasdaq’s board, stood near the House floor during a
vote on the ownership amendment where reporters saw him
buttonholing fellow Republicans. Though banks lobbied against
the amendment, 18 Republicans broke ranks to vote for it.  Lynch Amendment  Passage was touch-and-go. At first the ownership
restrictions were excluded from the text of the bill that
reached the House floor in December 2009. Then Representative
 Stephen Lynch , a Massachusetts Democrat, offered an amendment
restricting banks from owning more than 20 percent of a
clearinghouse; that’s when the anonymous flier -- titled “Myths
That the TARP Banks Are Spreading About the Lynch Amendment” --
began to circulate.  After a Nasdaq lawyer was revealed through computer coding
to have drafted the flier’s text, the company admitted
responsibility to Dow Jones Newswires. The company’s general
counsel,  Ed Knight  described Lynch’s proposal as “a modest
amendment” that “we find ourselves in agreement with,”
according to the trade publication Clearing Quarterly Directory.  In an interview, Lynch said Nasdaq didn’t originate the
idea for the amendment. After he introduced it, Nasdaq officials
did visit him, however, and debated the details with him.  Left to Regulators  Though the language eventually passed the House, the final
version of the Dodd-Frank law left it up to regulators to decide
whether to set ownership limits. In October, the CFTC proposed
that clearinghouses should be required to choose between two
types of ownership restrictions.  Under the first, there would be a 20 percent cap on a
clearinghouse member’s equity stake or voting control and a 40
percent cap on the collective stake that members and restricted
non-member companies -- including banks -- could hold in one
clearinghouse.  The second option would impose a 5 percent cap on the
ownership stake and control any clearinghouse member or non-
member could have. The second option wouldn’t include an
aggregate cap. The 5 percent limit would likely enable
LCH.Clearnet to maintain its current ownership structure.  In recent months, representatives of Nasdaq have visited
the CFTC and the SEC to discuss clearinghouse ownership,
according to disclosures posted on the agencies’ web sites.  Banks’ Comments  In comments posted on the CFTC site, Goldman Sachs,
JPMorgan and other banks oppose setting strict limits on
ownership. A letter from the Securities Industry and Financial
Markets Association suggests that banks view the lobbying as an
attempt by the losing side to reopen the battle.  “We do not believe there is a sufficient basis for the
Commissions to conclude it is necessary to adopt rules that
would impose aggregate ownership limits that are substantially
similar to those that were proposed by Rep. Lynch -- and which
he now urges upon the Commissions -- but rejected by Congress,”
wrote  Kenneth Bentsen Jr ., Sifma’s executive vice president for
public policy.  Bloomberg LP, parent of Bloomberg News, intends to register
as a swap-execution facility,  Ben Macdonald , the company’s
global head of fixed income, said in a Nov. 17 comment letter to
the CFTC. The letter doesn’t comment specifically about the
proposed ownership limits.  The Swaps and Derivatives Markets Association, a group of
smaller players that wants access to clearinghouses, supports
Nasdaq’s position that clearinghouse ownership shouldn’t be
dominated by swaps dealers.  “It’s not about the big guys and the little guys,” said
 Jamie Cawley , a founder of the organization. “It’s about making
sure that we strike the right balance so that governance
structures are truly representative of the marketplace they’re
going to be serving.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Clea Benson  in Washington at 
 Cbenson20@bloomberg.net ;
 Robert Schmidt  in Washington at 
 rschmidt5@bloomberg.net ;
Silla Brush in Washington at 
 sbrush@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at   lroberts13@bloomberg.net  