-- Nestle Passes on Mega Deals With Do-It-Yourself Nutrition Unit
-- B y   T o m   M u l i e r
-- 2010-12-20T23:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-20/nestle-passes-on-food-industry-s-big-deals-to-invest-in-own-nutrition-unit.html
Nestle SA  sat on $28.3 billion in
cash this year while competitors shelled out billions for
acquisitions, investing instead on building a personalized
nutrition business and making smaller purchases.  Nestle aims to become the leader in health science
nutrition in 10 years, extending its dominance beyond coffee,
powdered milk and baby food. The Swiss maker of KitKat chocolate
bars says Nestle Health Science’s products will help treat or
prevent conditions such as high blood pressure and obesity.  The world’s largest food company, Nestle shunned the three
biggest food deals of the year, even after amassing a  cash pile 
from the sale of its stake in Alcon Inc. Kraft Foods Inc. became
the No. 1 confectioner with its $21 billion purchase of Cadbury
Plc; PepsiCo Inc. agreed to pay more than $3.8 billion for Wimm-
Bill-Dann Dairy & Juice Co. in Russia; and KKR & Co. led a $4
billion buyout of Del Monte Foods Co.  “They choose not to play,” said  Thomas Russo , who manages
$3.5 billion at Gardner Russo & Gardner in Lancaster,
Pennsylvania. “We have long been rewarded by Nestle’s
willingness to step away from the moves made popular by the
crowd.” Russo has 11 percent of the assets he oversees in
 Nestle , a stock he has owned for more than two decades.  Vevey, Switzerland-based Nestle won’t say how much it’s
investing in the health unit, which opens on Jan. 1 to develop
gels, shakes and soluble powders.  Luis Cantarell , head of the
business, said he’ll spend five years developing a product range
and pipeline to prevent or treat Alzheimer’s, obesity, diabetes
and high blood pressure.  Race With Drugmakers  “There is a race to the middle between pharma and food,”
Cantarell said in an interview on Oct. 22. “The opportunity is
big. The risk is big. The reward is big.”  Nestle’s market capitalization has swelled by more than 70
billion francs ($73 billion) since 2004, making it Europe’s
second-most valuable company. It has returned 60 billion francs
of cash to shareholders. The  total return  on Nestle shares since
the end of 2004 is 120 percent, compared to 9.4 percent for
Kraft and 46 percent for PepsiCo.  In the past year, Nestle shares have risen 11 percent,
about the same as PepsiCo, while Kraft gained 18 percent.  “We would like to see Nestle staying away from a large
acquisition and rather focusing on health and nutritional
categories,” said  James Moffett , who oversees about $7 billion
at Scout Investment Advisors in Kansas City, Missouri.  Kraft Pizza  The Swiss company hasn’t shunned all  acquisitions , buying
Kraft’s North American pizza business for $3.7 billion. The
purchase was smaller than some analysts expected, as  David Hayes 
of Nomura said Nestle might bid for General Mills Inc., which
has a market value of about $23 billion.  Nestle has made about 10 “bolt-on” acquisitions this
year, disclosing the price only on the Kraft unit and a 9.6
million-euro bottled water acquisition. Nestle got a discount on
the pizza business because Kraft needed to raise money for
Cadbury, Russo said.  “Nestle could obviously afford any of the companies that
have come up,” said  Jon Cox , an analyst at Kepler Capital
Markets, adding that strategic and financial considerations may
have kept it away from Cadbury and Wimm-Bill-Dann.  PepsiCo is paying about 19 times earnings before interest,
taxes, depreciation and amortization for the Russian company,
according to Bloomberg data, while Nestle got the Kraft unit for
12.5 times earnings.  “Nestle is clearly going to focus on smaller bolt-ons in
nutrition as well as in emerging markets -- but it will act
opportunistically to fill in key categories in the developed
world,” he said.  Sad Bankers  Investment bankers “are probably very sad, but the
institutional investors who are just buying and holding the
shares should be very happy because that money will find its way
back to shareholders through buybacks or dividends as there is
nothing else big to buy,” said  James Amoroso , a food industry
consultant based in Walchwil, Switzerland.  Nestle has  bought back  more than 25 billion francs worth of
stock since 2007 as it progressively reduced its stake in Alcon.
The food company multiplied its original eyecare investment by
more than 140 times.  The scope for acquisitions has decreased since Nestle spent
more than $30 billion on deals in the past decade, including
some of the industry’s largest takeovers such as the Purina pet
care and Gerber baby foods brands.  Too Big to Buy?  Nestle can’t buy large competitors because it’s already a
leader in many categories, said  Pierre Tegner , an analyst at
Oddo & Cie. It sold more than a fifth of the world’s coffee,
almost a quarter of the baby food and a third of the world’s
powdered milk in 2009, according to Euromonitor. It also sold
more than 10 percent of carbonated and still bottled water
globally, according to the market researcher.  “Will Nestle find something tomorrow or in 10 years? We
don’t know,” said  Jean-Marie L’Home , an analyst at Aurel in
Paris who has covered the industry since 1987. “It’s not only
an issue of money or skill, it’s also a question if you’re lucky
or not.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tom Mulier  in Geneva at 
 tmulier@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net . 