-- Netflix Chief Hastings Tells T2's Tilson to Drop Bearish Bet: Chart of Day
-- B y   D a v i d   W i l s o n
-- 2010-12-20T15:43:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-20/netflix-ceo-tells-t2-s-tilson-to-drop-bearish-bet-chart-of-the-day.html
Netflix Inc.’s chief executive
officer publicly asked a hedge-fund manager today to stop
betting against the company, a lesson that many investors
already have learned.  “It is possible that one could make money shorting Netflix
today,” CEO  Reed Hastings , whose movie-rental  company  has moved
to online delivery from DVDs, wrote in a posting on the Seeking
Alpha website. “But shorting a market-leading firm as it is
driving a huge new market is a very gutsy call.”  As the CHART OF THE DAY shows, Netflix’s short interest --
the number of shares borrowed and sold in anticipation of lower
prices -- peaked in April 2008 and has dropped by more than half
since then.  Short interest  was 11.1 million shares at the end of
last month, less than half its high of 23.2 million.  Hastings  responded  to a report by  Whitney Tilson , a co-
founder of T2 Partners LLC, that Seeking Alpha published four
days ago. Tilson  wrote  that Netflix was his largest bearish bet
and he would stick with the holding, consisting of short sales
and options, even though it has been a money loser. Netflix’s
stock, depicted in the chart, has more than doubled this year
after surging 84 percent last year.  The shift toward streaming movies online marked “the
beginning of the end of its incredible run,” Tilson wrote, as
the company’s growth rate and profitability are poised to fall.
He described the stock’s  valuation  as “extreme” at 67.4 times
earnings and 4.6 times sales.  Hastings called Tilson “a great investor” and noted that
they both provide financial support to the Knowledge Is Power
Program, or  KIPP , a nationwide network of charter schools.  “I am writing this open letter for him to try to get him
to cover his short now,” the CEO wrote. “My desire is to
increase his odds of making money next year so he can donate
even more.”  (To save a copy of the chart, click here.)  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Wilson  in New York at 
 dwilson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  