-- Christie Says `Day of Reckoning' Has Arrived for States Facing Budget Gaps
-- B y   T e r r e n c e   D o p p
-- 2010-12-20T18:21:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-20/new-jersey-s-christie-says-day-of-reckoning-has-come-for-state-budgets.html
New Jersey  Governor  Chris Christie 
said U.S. states face a “day of reckoning” as they contend
with looming budget deficits in the wake of the longest
recession since the 1930s.  Christie, who cut $1.3 billion in aid to schools and
municipalities this year to close a $10.7 billion deficit, said
states’ pension and debt costs have grown to be
“unsustainable.” Benefits, education and health care will be
reduced in many states, he said in an  interview  aired last night
on  CBS  Corp.’s “60 Minutes.”  “The day of reckoning has arrived,” said Christie, 48, a
first-term Republican. Areas such as education and pensions
“were third rails of politics. We are now left with no
alternatives.”  The recession caused the biggest nationwide decline in
state tax receipts on record, according to the nonpartisan
Center on Budget and Policy Priorities in Washington. States
have filled more than $425 billion in funding gaps since fiscal
2009; the combined imbalance is likely to reach $140 billion in
the next budget year, the center said.  Christie faces a deficit of as much as $10.5 billion in the
next fiscal year, the nonpartisan Office of Legislative Services
estimated in July. Everything from worker pensions to prisons
may face cuts as U.S. governors contend with a fourth year of
budget deficits, incoming state executives said last month at a
meeting of the National Governors Association in Colorado.  ‘More Sacrifice’  Christie anticipates some pickup in New Jersey’s economy
and plans to seek “more sacrifice” from residents in the
coming year, he told reporters today in Trenton without
elaborating. The governor said he hopes to position his state to
recover sooner than peers, with lower tax rates and economic
stability attracting new businesses.  “The Number 1 job of this administration is to get the
state’s fiscal house in order,” he said. “Fiscal health must
be placed first and foremost.”  States’ fiscal stress may trigger a “spate” of defaults
among local municipalities,  Meredith Whitney , the banking
analyst who correctly predicted Citigroup Inc.’s dividend cut in
2008, said in the same segment on “60 Minutes.”  “You could see 50 sizeable defaults,” she said. “Fifty
to 100 sizeable defaults” amounting to “hundreds of billions
of dollars.”  Her comments echoed remarks she made in September in an
interview on Bloomberg Television, in which she said the U.S.
government will face pressure to bail out struggling states in
the next 12 months.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Terrence Dopp  in Trenton, New Jersey, at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net . 