-- New York May Have a Chance for Snow on Christmas Day, Weather Service Says
-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 2010-12-20T18:51:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-20/new-york-may-get-white-christmas-as-temperature-declines-forecasters-say.html
This week will start chilly and
windy in Manhattan and may end with snow, according to the
 National Weather Service .  “We do have a chance of snow in the forecast for
Christmas,” said  Brian Ciemnecki , a weather service
meteorologist in  Upton, New York . “It’s a little early to tell
right now. We’re still looking at it.”  Accumulation of snow depends on temperature and moisture
when the system arrives, Ciemnecki said.  For a Christmas to be considered white, there has to be an
inch of snow on the ground at 7 a.m., Ciemnecki said. The
snowiest Christmas on record in Central Park was in 1909, when 7
inches (18 centimeters) fell, according to the weather service.  “If it were to snow on Christmas but it didn’t start until
2, then technically it wouldn’t be a white Christmas,” he said.  The last significant  snowfall  on Christmas was in 2002 when
5 inches fell, the third-most on record going back to 1870,
according to the weather service. In 2003, a trace of snow fell
on Christmas Day.  Gas futures gained as weather may be colder than normal on
the East Coast and U.S. South from Dec. 27 through Jan. 2,
according to the  Climate Prediction Center’s  latest eight- to
14-day outlook issued yesterday. Earlier forecasts had showed
above-normal temperatures in New England during that period.  The forecast calls for normal temperatures in the Midwest
and warmer weather in the Pacific Northwest and parts of Texas.  Winter Forecast  Most of the U.S. will see below-normal temperatures in
January, according to the  Commodity Weather Group LLC  in
Bethesda, Maryland. The northern Plains are expected to have
below-normal temperatures through March and the U.S. Northeast
may warm slightly in February before cooling again, according to
the forecast released today.  Natural gas for January delivery rose 9.3 cents, or 2.3
percent, to $4.159 per million British thermal units at 1:33
p.m. on the New York Mercantile Exchange.  The heating degree days value for Central Park this month
has been 596, or 110 above normal, according to the weather
service.  The value, calculated by subtracting the daily average
temperature from a base of 65 degrees, is designed to show
energy demand, according to the weather service. The higher the
value, the cooler the weather, and thus the more energy probably
being used to heat homes and business.  The value in Boston is 598, or 58 above normal; 601 in
Philadelphia, or 105 above normal; and 854 in Chicago, or 185
above normal, according to the weather service.  Storm Advisories  Across the country, a low-pressure system is threatening
the upper Midwest with heavy snow today, according to the
weather service. Winter storm advisories and warnings stretch
from Chicago’s suburbs to Montana.  Snow has forced delays of more than 90 minutes for flights
arriving at Chicago’s O’Hare International Airport and 30
minutes in Minneapolis, according to the Federal Aviation
Administration website. Delays of almost an hour have been
reported at Newark, New Jersey, because of wind and more than 2
hours in San Francisco because of low cloud cover.  A lingering storm that brought clouds to New York over the
weekend has prompted hurricane storm-force wind warnings off the
Atlantic coast from New Jersey to Massachusetts.  Winds in the Gulf Stream off the coast are forecast to peak
at 75 miles per hour (120 kilometers) today and waves may reach
27 feet, according to the weather service.  “As a consequence we will get some high seas off shore and
some potential for some beach erosion,” said  Charlie Foley , a
weather service meteorologist in Taunton, Massachusetts.  The storm will also bring snow periods to eastern
Massachusetts, particularly along Cape Cod, where 2 to 4 inches
may fall through the course of the week, Foley said.  “It is just going to throw periodic snow into the area as
it meanders around out there,” Foley said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Brian K. Sullivan  in Boston at 
 Bsullivan10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at   dstets@bloomberg.net . 