-- NYC Transit Agency Leads Final 2010 Build America Bond Sales: Muni Credit
-- B y   B r e n d a n   A .   M c G r a i l
-- 2010-12-20T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-20/new-york-transit-agency-leads-final-2010-build-america-sales-muni-credit.html
New York’s Metropolitan
Transportation Authority, the U.S.’s biggest mass-transit
operator, is selling $350 million in Build America Bonds,
leading the final 2010 issues of the taxable debt.  States and municipalities are slated to sell about $400
million in the federally subsidized securities this week, the
fewest since the final week of 2009, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. The drop follows the two busiest weeks of Build
America sales in the 21-month history of the program, Bloomberg
data shows. About $1.1 billion in bond issuance is anticipated,
 the lowest total  since the week ended Dec. 31, 2009.  Even if the transit agency is forced to pay a higher yield
to get the deal done, it will probably still cost less than
issuing tax-exempts after the program expires Dec. 31, said
 Peter Coffin , president of Boston-based Breckinridge Capital
Advisors Inc., which manages about $13 billion in municipal
debt, including $600 million in taxables.  The MTA, which faces a deficit of at least $207 million in
2012, has seen its  $12 billion budget  suffer because a payroll
tax in New York City and seven suburban counties adopted as part
of a 2009 bailout hasn’t met projections. In January and
February the state lowered its forecast for subsidies by $336
million. The estimate was cut another $50 million by the MTA in
July.  In October the agency increased fares and commuter rail
ticket prices as part of a plan to generate $400 million next
year amid the state funding cuts. The agency is also raising
tolls at bridges and two tunnels starting Dec. 30.  Extra Yield  The extra yield above Treasuries investors demand for 30-
year MTA Build Americas narrowed to 266 basis points Dec. 17
from 275 basis points when the authority sold the securities in
July, according to Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board data.  “It’s a slow week, but not crowded so the deal will get
some attention,” Coffin said. “It makes all the sense in the
world for them to try and capture the subsidy now.”  The agency estimates an so-called all-in borrowing cost of
4.65 percent versus 5.5 percent for tax-exempts.  “We think there’s liquidity to sell the bonds,” Finance
Director  Patrick McCoy  said at a meeting last week.  Build Americas were created under President  Barack Obama ’s
stimulus legislation as a means of driving down borrowing costs
for localities and funneling money to job-creating construction
projects. While Obama and Democrats supported prolonging the
program, they have run into opposition from Republicans critical
of the stimulus. Extensions twice passed the Democratic-
controlled House only to stall in the Senate.  Savings With Certainty  “We were hopeful the Build America program would be
extended,” Aaron Donovan, a spokesman for the authority, said
in a telephone interview. “In the event it wasn’t, we wanted to
issue the bonds now to ensure we could achieve the subsidy
savings with certainty.”  The subsidy was left out of the $858 billion bill that
extends for two years the Bush-era tax cuts. Republican
Representative  John Mica  of Florida, who’s set to become
chairman of the House Transportation and Infrastructure
Committee in January, said Dec. 17 he plans to introduce a
“reincarnation” of the Build America Bond program next year.  Yields on top-rated tax-exempt municipal bonds due in 30
years fell about 10 basis points following Mica’s proposal,  the
most since  Aug. 18, reaching 4.72 percent, according to a
Bloomberg Valuation index. Thirty-year Treasury prices also
firmed, sending rates  plummeting 10 basis points , the most since
Nov. 16, to 4.44 percent, Bloomberg data show.  The  iShares S&P National AMT-Free Bond Fund , an exchange-
traded fund that tracks the Standard & Poor’s municipal-bond
index, rose 1.32 percent the same day, the most since January
2009, to $99.96 in New York Stock Exchange composite trading.  Continued Program  If Mica’s proposal is successful, the resulting Build
America continuation may drive a tax-exempt rally in 2011, said
 Regina Shafer , who helps oversee $5.3 billion in tax-exempt
municipal bonds as assistant vice president of fixed-income for
USAA Investment Management Co. in San Antonio.  “A lot of our underperformance to Treasuries had been
because of the uncertainty about BABs,” Shafer said. “If it
does get extended, we would see an even stronger market going
into next month.”  More than $185 billion in Build Americas have been sold
since April 2009, Bloomberg data show. That exceeds issuance
estimates from analysts at  JPMorgan Chase & Co . and Barclays
Plc, who forecast totals of $100 billion and $150 billion,
respectively, during the advent of the program.  Following is a description of a pending sale of U.S.
municipal debt:  BOARD OF REGENTS OF THE STATE OF UTAH, which oversees the
higher education system, plans to sell $365 million in tax-
exempt bonds and $24.5 million in debt subject to alternative
minimum tax today to refinance existing debt. The securities
will be backed by student-loan revenue, and carry top ratings
from Moody’s Investors Service and the third-highest ratings,
AA, from Standard & Poor’s. RBC Capital Markets and Bank of
America Merrill Lynch will underwrite the offering. (Added Dec.
20)  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Brendan A. McGrail  in New York at 
 bmcgrail@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Tannenbaum  at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  