-- NMDC Planning to Buy Australian Iron Ore Mine as Rio Tinto Alliance Stalls
-- B y   R a j e s h   K u m a r   S i n g h
-- 2010-12-20T22:21:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-20/nmdc-to-acquire-australian-iron-ore-mine-as-alliance-with-rio-tinto-stalls.html
NMDC Ltd. , India’s biggest iron-ore
producer, plans to buy a mine in Australia after an alliance
with  Rio Tinto Group  to jointly purchase and develop reserves in
India and overseas stalled.  The acquisition, NMDC’s first outside India, will be
completed in about two months, Chairman  Rana Som  said in a phone
interview, without disclosing the price or target. Rio Tinto
spokesman  Gervase Greene  declined to comment.  The purchase comes after the initial agreement with Rio
Tinto, agreed two years ago, failed to make “headway because of
a lack of synergy,” Som said. Limited expansion opportunities
in India because of violence by Maoist rebels and delays in
granting permits for new mines prompted NMDC to look offshore.  “In India, iron ore is a case of water, water everywhere,
and not a drop to drink,” said  Prasad Baji , an analyst at
Edelweiss Securities Pvt. in Mumbai. “Approvals aren’t coming
for new mines and the Maoists are making operations difficult at
existing ones. State governments are more likely to grant new
leases to steel companies rather than mining companies. So, what
does a company like NMDC do? Look overseas.”  NMDC  gained 0.6 percent to 256.95 rupees at the close of
trading yesterday in Mumbai. The shares have  declined 39 percent 
this year, compared with a 14 percent gain in the benchmark
 Sensitive Index  of the Bombay Stock Exchange.  India mined 226 million tons of iron ore in the year ended
March 31 out of recoverable reserves of about 7.06 billion tons,
according to the Indian Bureau of Mines and  Federation of Indian
Mineral Industries Ltd.   Cash Reserve  The company, which has about 150 billion rupees ($3.3
billion) of cash reserves, also needs supplies for its proposed
steel mills in the southern state of Karnataka and the central
state of Chhattisgarh, Som said yesterday in the interview. NMDC,
which produced about 30 million tons of iron ore in year ended
March 31, aims to lift production to 50 million tons in the next
five years, he said.  “We may have surplus iron ore today, but we will need it
tomorrow,” Som said. “It’s a precious natural resource and the
Australian asset will do us good in the long term.”  India has increased freight charges and taxes on iron ore
to ensure supplies for planned new domestic steel plants. The
increased cost, combined with a ban on exports from Karnataka,
India’s second-biggest iron ore producer, may lead to a 38
percent drop in overseas sales this fiscal year, according to
 federation estimates.   Exports may decline to 66 million tons in the year ending
March 31 from 106 million tons the previous year, the federation
said on Aug. 23.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rajesh Kumar Singh  in New Delhi at 
 rsingh133@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at   ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  