-- Norilsk Nickel Sells $3.5 Billion Stake to Trafigura After Pursuing Rusal
-- B y   I l y a   K h r e n n i k o v
-- 2010-12-21T11:41:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-20/norilsk-nickel-sells-8-stake-to-metals-trader-trafigura-for-3-5-billion.html
OAO GMK Norilsk Nickel , the mining
company whose largest holders are locked in a dispute, agreed to
sell $3.5 billion of stock to commodities trader Trafigura
Beheer BV as analysts signaled a possible end to the feud.  Norilsk will sell an 8 percent stake in the form of
 American depositary receipts  to gain funds for “general
purposes,” the Moscow-based company said in a  statement 
yesterday. Trafigura has no plans to increase its holding to
more than 10 percent, Norilsk said.  Billionaire shareholders  Oleg Deripaska  and  Vladimir Potanin 
have bickered over influence on Norilsk’s board and use of cash
in a feud dating back to 2008. Norilsk last week offered $12
billion to buy back the 25 percent stake held by Deripaska’s
 United Co. Rusal , and yesterday’s accord would provide cash for
such a deal, according to Nomura Holdings Plc.  “The sale of treasury stock may indicate that Norilsk is
going ahead with its plan to buy out” Rusal, said  Vladimir Zhukov , an analyst at Nomura in Moscow. Selling 8 percent would
also keep Norilsk below the 30 percent threshold that triggers a
mandatory offer to minority holders, he said.  While Rusal rejected Norilsk’s bid, analysts including
Zhukov said the aluminum company may stand to benefit from such
a deal. “It’s a very attractive price,” Zhukov said Dec. 16.  No Discussion  As part of the transaction, Trafigura may have asked the
company “to direct a certain portion of nickel sales via the
trading house,” said  Dmitriy Kolomytsyn , an analyst at Morgan
Stanley in Moscow. Trafigura couldn’t be reached for comment
while Norilsk spokeswoman  Maria Uvarova  declined to comment when
contacted in Moscow.  Norilsk Nickel, the world’s biggest nickel producer, said
in August it declined an offer from Glencore International AG to
take over the mining company’s nickel sales. Glencore owns 8.75
percent of Rusal.  Trafigura , based in Amsterdam, is the world’s second-
largest trader of non-ferrous metals. It had revenue of $47.3
billion last year compared with $106.4 billion at Switzerland-
based Glencore, according to the company’s websites.  “We are concerned that an asset worth over $3.5 billion
was monetized without discussion and voting at the board,”
Rusal said yesterday in a statement. “Moreover, the stake was
sold to Trafigura, a company which is a direct competitor of
Norilsk Nickel for marketing and sales of its metals.”  ‘Ultimate Acquisition’  The sale to Trafigura could presage an “ultimate
acquisition of Rusal’s stake in Norilsk,” whereby Trafigura
provides funding for Norilsk’s bid, said  Erik Danemar , an
analyst at Deutsche Bank AG in Moscow. Norilsk’s Uvarova and a
spokesman for Trafigura both declined to comment.  “We consider Trafigura to be an important industry
investor in Norilsk Nickel,” the company’s press service said
by e-mail yesterday. “Selling a stake to Trafigura further
strengthens our partnership.”  Norilsk was up  0.2 percent  at 6,694.98 rubles at 1:41 p.m.
in Moscow, while Rusal advanced  2.6 percent  to HK$11.26 in Hong
Kong.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ilya Khrennikov  in Moscow at 
 ikhrennikov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amanda Jordan at   ajordan11@bloomberg.net  