-- Novartis Pill With $5.4 Billion Promise Targets Untreatable MS
-- B y   E v a   v o n   S c h a p e r
-- 2010-12-20T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-20/novartis-pill-for-untreatable-multiple-sclerosis-may-reap-5-4-billion.html
Five years ago,  Jason DaSilva , a
film maker with multiple sclerosis, was able to roam his New
York neighborhood, bar hopping or visiting coffee shops. Today,
he needs a walker to manage 10 feet because the degenerative
nerve disorder has worsened and there’s nothing to treat his
severe form of the disease.  Novartis AG  is working on a pill to change that. The
drugmaker won approval in September to sell the first oral
medicine in the U.S. to treat a mild form of MS, and the
European Union’s  drug regulator  may follow suit as soon as next
month. The company is beginning to test the pill, Gilenya,
against the steadily worsening form of the disease that afflicts
DaSilva.  “There is still a big need, an urgent need,” said  Alan
Thompson , a neurologist at  University College London . “An oral
agent would be a big deal.”  Gilenya already may be on its way to becoming Basel,
Switzerland-based Novartis’s biggest product, with analysts on
average  predicting  $1.8 billion of annual revenue by 2014. Sales
may surge to $5.4 billion a year by 2016 as the drug’s use is
expanded to advanced MS, UBS AG says. Gilenya is the most
expensive MS drug, costing about $48,000 annually.  Success would help Chief Executive Officer  Joseph Jimenez 
overcome the loss of Novartis’s current  top seller , Diovan,
which had sales of $6 billion last year. The hypertension drug
starts to lose U.S. patent protection in 2012.  Immune System  Novartis’s stock has risen 3.5 percent  this year  including
reinvested dividends, underperforming the 11 percent return of
the  Bloomberg Europe Pharmaceutical Index . The stock fell 30
centimes, or 0.5 percent, to 56.45 francs at the 5:30 p.m. close
of trading in Zurich yesterday.  Multiple sclerosis  causes the immune system to attack the
insulating tissue around nerve fibers, called myelin, leading to
scars and inflammation. This stops nerve cells from sending
signals, leading to symptoms such as blurred vision and muscle
weakness. Injected drugs including Teva Pharmaceutical
Industries Ltd.’s Copaxone and Biogen Idec Inc.’s Avonex treat a
common form of MS in which symptoms come and go. The more
debilitating form that can rob sufferers of the ability to walk
has defied therapy.  Experiments with rats and brain scans of humans taking
Gilenya led Novartis to believe the drug that may be effective
against the more severe form of the disease, known as primary-
progressive multiple sclerosis, said  Trevor Mundel , Novartis’s
head of development. The company is looking for volunteers to
test the drug in 86 centers in North America and Europe,
according to the Web site clinicaltrials.gov.  ‘Holy Grail’  “If they can show that it works, then this is a home
run,”  Karl-Heinz Koch , an analyst at Helvea SA in Zurich, said
in an interview. “This is the holy grail.” He  recommends 
buying the shares and predicts they may gain 28 percent in the
next year.  Gilenya blocks white blood cells called lymphocytes from
circulating in the body, preventing them from reaching and doing
damage to the brain, spinal cord and optical nerves. Not only
did the drug protect a certain type of nerve cell in rat and
test tube experiments, scans of patients taking the drug showed
a slowing of brain shrinkage, a sign that the treatment may
lessen the destruction of nerves.  This may mean that in addition to calming the immune
system, Gilenya may also curb inflammation, offering two
possible ways to take on the disease, Mundel said.  Inflammation  Primary-progressive MS seems to be marked by a lower level
of inflammation that is more damaging to nerve cells, said
Thompson, who also is editor in chief of the journal Multiple
Sclerosis. Patients may not benefit from available therapies,
so-called immunomodulators, because they primarily target
inflammation, Thompson, the UCL researcher, said.  The trial of the drug in primary-progressive multiple
sclerosis also may encourage doctors to prescribe Gilenya for
patients with the milder form as well, because it would show
that the drug both repairs nerves and calms the immune system,
Thompson said. “If you had a treatment that combined the two,
using it early could have profound effect on the long-term
outcome,” Thompson said.  Multiple sclerosis affects about 2.5 million people
worldwide, many of whom have trouble sticking with current
therapies because they’re difficult to use or have side effects,
according to the  National Multiple Sclerosis Society , a New
York-based patient group. About 10 percent have primary-
progressive multiple sclerosis.  ‘Challenging Form’  “The medicines on the market have been evaluated in
clinical trials based on their ability to slow relapses, while
people with PPMS don’t have relapses,” Nicholas LaRocca, the
society’s vice president of health-care delivery and policy
research. “This is a very challenging form of MS.”  Roche Holding AG’s Rituxan, approved for rheumatoid
arthritis, non-Hodgkin’s lymphoma and leukemia, failed to slow
PPMS in a two-year study, according to results published in
2008. Analysts at Deutsche Bank AG had expected it to earn more
than 500 million Swiss francs ($518 million) annually for Roche.
Biogen Idec’s Avonex also didn’t make it beyond clinical testing
for the advanced form of the disease.  The lack of alternatives has led DaSilva to try Rituxan
anyway. “There’s nothing else out there, so I chose something
better than nothing,” DaSilva, 32, who lives in New York’s East
Village, said in an interview.  History of Disappointment  Merck KGaA also has developed an oral treatment for the
more mild form of MS. European regulators in September rejected
the drug, cladribine, as being too risky, and the FDA delayed a
decision until February. The drug, which is approved for use in
Russia, isn’t being tested in the more severe form of the
disease, said  Gangolf Schrimpf , a spokesman for the Darmstadt,
Germany-based company.  “The history of PPMS has been one of disappointment,”
Novartis’s Mundel said. “Everything has been thrown at this
disease and nothing has worked.”  Still, using Gilenya as a treatment may be a long way off.
Because of the slow-moving nature of the disease, the last
patients may not finish the trial until 2013, according to
clinicaltrials.gov. Even then, there’s no guarantee the drug
will prove successful, said Thompson, of University College.  “It’s impossible to say, but I am an optimist,” said
 Aaron Miller , a neurologist at the Mount Sinai School of
Medicine in New York. “The trial is designed in a way to have
optimal chances of success.” Miller is an investigator in the
PPMS study.  Even for people with the milder form, Novartis expects
Gilenya sales to build slowly, as it takes some time for doctors
to shepherd patients through the safety tests the U.S. Food and
Drug Administration required for the drug.  DaSilva, who is making a film called  “When I Walk”  about
living with the disease and searching for treatment, says he
would be willing to try any new drug.  “It would be wonderful to have something we can try,” he
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Eva von Schaper  in Munich at 
 evonschaper@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at   pserafino@bloomberg.net  