-- Obama Fights to Keep Minimum Republican Support on Russia Nuclear Treaty
-- B y   V i o l a   G i e n g e r   a n d   J a m e s   R o w l e y
-- 2010-12-21T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-20/obama-lobbies-for-russia-arms-treaty-ratification-as-republicans-hold-out.html
President  Barack Obama  fought to
keep the minimum Republican support needed to approve
ratification of a nuclear arms treaty with Russia, and perhaps
round up more, as the Senate prepared for a test vote on the
agreement.  At least nine Republicans -- the minimum number needed to
achieve the needed two-thirds Senate majority -- have said they
will vote to support ratification or are leaning in favor.
Arizona Senator  John McCain , the top Republican on the Armed
Services Committee, said passage of an amendment he has co-
sponsored “would be helpful” in also getting his support.  Democrats have won enough backing to defeat five other
Republican-sponsored amendments, most of which would have
required reopening negotiations between the U.S. and Russia -- a
prospect Russian Foreign Minister  Sergei Lavrov  has ruled out.  Senator  John Kerry , the Massachusetts Democrat who is
chairman of the Foreign Relations Committee, said he has
included in the ratification resolution 13 amendments aimed at
satisfying Republicans’ concerns without reopening treaty talks.  “We will reach further,” Kerry told reporters at the
Capitol yesterday. “There may be some additional things we can
incorporate.”  The Senate is preparing for a test vote today or tomorrow
that would limit the remaining debate to 30 hours on the New
 Strategic Arms Reduction Treaty , known as New START, one of the
last major pieces of business before the chamber adjourns.  Top Priority  Obama has made ratification of the treaty his top foreign-
policy priority during the post-election lame-duck session.
Democrats, who now control 58 votes in the 100-member Senate,
will have a narrower majority in the next Congress starting in
January.  “The White House believes that before Congress leaves
town, that the Senate will ratify the New START treaty,” press
secretary  Robert Gibbs  told reporters yesterday in Washington.  Even after some top Republicans, including Senate Minority
Leader  Mitch McConnell  of Kentucky, expressed opposition over
the weekend, others who had voiced concerns indicated that they
are supportive or leaning in favor of ratification.  Massachusetts Senator  Scott Brown  said he had done his
“due diligence” and would be “supporting the START treaty.”  “It is something that is important for our country,”
Brown told reporters.  Leaning in Favor  Utah Republican  Robert Bennett , who is leaving the Senate,
said in an interview, “I am leaning strongly in favor of it.”
Mississippi Senator  Thad Cochran  said he thought he would
probably vote to ratify the agreement.  Senator  Bob Corker  of Tennessee said his position hasn’t
changed since he voted in favor of the treaty in the Foreign
Relations Committee.  “I’m in the same place I was the day I passed it out of
committee,” Corker told reporters at the Capitol after a
classified briefing related to the treaty. “Something could
change, but I don’t know what that would be.”  Republican senators who have expressed support or are
leaning in favor of ratification include  Susan Collins  and
 Olympia Snowe  of Maine,  George Voinovich  of Ohio and  Judd Gregg 
of New Hampshire.  Indiana Senator  Richard Lugar , the top Republican on the
Foreign Relations Committee, has been a vocal advocate for the
treaty. Mark Helmke, his spokesman, said Dec. 11 that the
agreement has sufficient support to approve ratification.  Even Idaho Republican  James Risch , who said he was among
the presenters in the classified session yesterday and has
concerns over how well the U.S. could verify Russia’s nuclear
arsenal under the treaty, declined to say that he would oppose
ratification.  ‘Serious Reservations’  “I continue to have serious reservations,” said Risch,
who failed to win support for an amendment he proposed that
would have required renegotiating the treaty.  Lavrov, Russia’s foreign minister, said yesterday that the
treaty “fully” addresses the interests of both countries and
was negotiated on a basis of “parity.”  “It cannot be opened up and become the subject of new
negotiations,” he said, according to the Interfax news agency.  Kerry said the closed session for senators on Capitol Hill
was “very instructive” for lawmakers trying to make up their
minds.  Making Calls  Obama, Vice President  Joe Biden , Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  and Defense Secretary  Robert Gates  have been making
calls to senators since the weekend to press for ratification,
Gibbs said.  He said opposition from McConnell wasn’t a surprise and
didn’t alter the administration’s calculations of support.  Gibbs said the concerns of Republicans -- including U.S.
missile defense development and modernization of the U.S.
nuclear arsenal -- had been addressed during 18 committee
hearings. The treaty text has been available since it was signed
by Obama and Russian President  Dmitry Medvedev  in April.  State Department spokesman  Philip J. Crowley  said “any
objections at this point are more about politics than
substance.”  Among the issues raised by treaty opponents, including
McConnell, is whether the accord would limit U.S. development of
a missile defense. Obama sent a letter to McConnell on Dec. 18
saying that the treaty wouldn’t hinder the U.S. from deploying
such a system in Europe.  “We are proceeding apace with a missile defense system in
Europe designed to provide full coverage for NATO members on the
continent, as well as deployed U.S. forces, against the growing
threat posed by the proliferation of ballistic missiles,” Obama
wrote.  Military commanders and defense and nuclear officials have
testified that the accord doesn’t limit missile-defense options
and that it improves the ability to verify Russia’s adherence to
agreed-upon weapons thresholds.  Endorsements  The accord has also been endorsed by former Republican
President  George H.W. Bush  as well as current and former U.S.
military commanders and Cabinet secretaries, including  Henry Kissinger  and  Colin Powell .  New START would limit each side’s strategic warheads to no
more than 1,550, from 2,200 allowed previously, and sets a
maximum of 800 land-, air- and sea-based launchers. The previous
treaty expired in December 2009.  The Senate voted 66-32 on Dec. 15 to begin consideration of
the agreement, highlighting how narrow a majority Obama and his
Democratic Party may have for an accord that requires two-thirds
of the senators present and voting -- 67, if all 100 are in the
chamber -- for approval.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Viola Gienger in Washington at 
 vgienger@bloomberg.net .
James Rowley in Washington at 
 jarowley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  