-- Oil Trades Close to 2-Year High as Cold Weather Boosts Heating Fuel Demand
-- B y   R a c h e l   G r a h a m
-- 2010-12-20T13:16:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-20/oil-trades-close-to-2-year-high-as-cold-weather-boosts-heating-fuel-demand.html
Oil traded close to a two-year high
as cold weather boosts demand for heating fuels in Europe and
North America and amid speculation the U.S. economic recovery
will accelerate next year, increasing oil consumption.  Temperatures in Europe and parts of the U.S. are colder
than usual, boosting same-day U.K. natural gas prices by as much
as 14 percent today. Crude futures gained as much as 0.8 percent
as European equities advanced to the highest level since
September 2008.  “Renewed cold weather forecasts for Europe as well as
colder than normal forecasts for the U.S. east coast is
supportive for the oil market,” said  Bjarne Schieldrop , chief
commodities analyst at SEB AB, the Stockholm-based lender.  Crude for January delivery gained 63 cents to $88.65 a
barrel in electronic trading on the New York Mercantile Exchange
at 1 p.m. London time. The contract expires today. The more
actively traded February contract advanced 51 cents to $89.11 a
barrel. Brent crude for February was at $92.07 a barrel, up 40
cents, on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange.  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index climbed 1 percent, while futures
on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index were up 0.1 percent.  “Everyone is expecting a move up in the oil market,”
Roland Stenzel, a crude-oil trader at E&T Energie
Handelsgesellschaft mbH, said from Vienna. “Technically it’s
looking strong, fundamentally it’s looking strong.”  Oil, which surged 78 percent in New York in 2009, is up 11
percent this year amid speculation the global economic recovery
will boost consumption. Prices rallied to $90.76 a barrel on
Dec. 7, the highest since October 2008.  ‘Break Out’  Crude is likely to “break out” toward $94 a barrel if
prices hold above the $87 support level, according to Chart
Partners Group Ltd., a Bangkok-based technical research company.  Commodities including oil, gold and copper are showing
bullish short-term trends going into January, even as they
“flirt” with an “opposing, corrective cycle” in the longer
term, said  Thomas Schroeder , managing director at Chart
Partners. The $87-a-barrel level is a pivot point and was the
high for the year a few months ago, Schroeder said. Crude
futures settled above $87 a barrel three times in November
before rallying above $88 a barrel in December.  “It’s popped above $87, it came back down and had a hard
fall, went back above $87,” said Schroeder. “As long as the
$87 support holds, I think we’ll have some more significant
highs in January to deal with.”  Falling Stockpiles  U.S. crude stockpiles  dropped the most since 2002 in the
week to Dec. 10, the U.S. Energy Department said last week. The
inventory fell 9.85 million barrels to 346 million.  “Consumer demand becomes increasingly hard to measure
through the holiday season and end-of-year tax considerations
create noise in the DOE inventory reports,”  Stephen Schork ,
president of The Schork Group Inc., a consultant in Villanova,
Pennsylvania, said in a report. “We expect low volume and high
volatility due to the holidays.”  Hedge-fund managers and other large speculators reduced
 net-long positions  in New York crude futures and options for the
first time in three weeks, according to the Commodity Futures
Trading Commission. Bets that prices will rise outnumbered short
positions by 205,890 contracts in the week to Dec. 14, the
Washington-based regulator said Dec. 17.  U.K. natural gas rose as much as 14 percent to 73.5 pence a
therm after National Grid Plc forecast record demand today. Gas
for same-day delivery was at 68 pence as of 12:33 a.m. in
London, according to broker data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rachel Graham in London at 
 rgraham13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  