-- Oil May `Break Out' Toward $94 If Support at $87 Holds: Technical Analysis
-- B y   A n n   K o h
-- 2010-12-20T01:45:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-20/oil-may-break-out-toward-94-if-support-at-87-holds-technical-analysis.html
Crude oil, trading near the highest
levels in two years, is likely to “break out” toward $94 a
barrel if prices hold above $87 support, according to Chart
Partners Group Ltd.  Commodities like oil, gold and copper are showing bullish
short-term trends going into January, even as they “flirt”
with an “opposing, corrective cycle” in the longer term, said
 Thomas Schroeder , managing director at Chart Partners, a
Bangkok-based technical research company. The $87-a-barrel level
is a pivot point and was the high for the year a few months ago,
Schroeder said. Crude futures settled above $87 a barrel three
times in November before rallying above $88 a barrel in December.  “It’s popped above $87, it came back down and had a hard
fall, went back above $87. It’s having a hard time deciding
whether it wants to hold that level,” said Schroeder. “As long
as the $87 support holds, I think we’ll have some more
significant highs in January to deal with.”  Crude for January delivery gained as much as 48 cents, or
0.6 percent to $88.50 a barrel in electronic trading on the New
York Mercantile Exchange and was at $88.36 a barrel at 8:46 a.m.
Singapore time. Prior to November, futures last settled above
$87 a barrel in October 2008.  A rally for oil next month will be its “last run of
strength before a pending down-cycle unfolds,” according to
Schroeder. Crude’s chart is also showing bear divergence, where
peaks in the Relative Strength Index and Moving Average
Convergence/Divergence indicators aren’t getting progressively
higher, unlike oil’s upward price trend, he said.  “Indicators haven’t been confirming new highs, so that
means crude’s on unsure footing, the rally is on limited time,”
Schroeder said. “That usually means everybody’s sort of long,
everybody’s waiting for somebody else to buy and nobody else
does. That’s an underlying weak signal that I think will start
to come through in January.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ann Koh  in Singapore at 
 akoh15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Clyde Russell at 
 crussell7@bloomberg.net  