-- Honda Uses Toshiba Lithium-Ion Batteries in Test Version of Electric Car
-- B y   M a k i k o   K i t a m u r a   a n d   Y u k i   H a g i w a r a
-- 2010-12-20T05:40:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-20/honda-uses-toshiba-s-batteries-in-test-version-of-its-electric-vehicle.html
Honda Motor Co.  is using lithium-ion
batteries made by Toshiba Corp. in a test version of its
electric car, expanding upon a supply agreement for electric
scooters.  Honda’s joint venture with Kyoto-based  GS Yuasa Corp.  will
supply lithium-ion batteries for its hybrid cars, including a
plug-in vehicle, while Toshiba’s packs may be more suitable for
all-electric cars, which require more power,  Tomohiko Kawanabe ,
head of Honda’s research and development division, told
reporters today in Saitama prefecture, north of Tokyo.  Japan’s second-largest carmaker unveiled the test versions
of its electric car and plug-in hybrid today, joining Toyota
Motor Corp. and  Nissan Motor Co.  in efforts to meet tighter
government emissions rules. Honda has supply agreements with
four battery makers, including Panasonic Corp. and its
subsidiary Sanyo Electric Co., which make nickel-metal hydride
packs for Honda’s current hybrid cars.  Honda’s electric car can go more than 160 kilometers (100
miles) on a single charge, farther than Nissan’s Leaf electric
car, Tokyo-based Honda said today. The plug-in hybrid can run 25
kilometers on battery power before the gasoline engine kicks in,
about the same as Toyota’s plug-in. The figures are based on
Japanese highway testing methods.  Honda  rose  1.6 percent to 3,285 yen as of 2:29 p.m. in
Tokyo trading, extending its gain this year to 5.6 percent.  Nissan’s Leaf  The carmaker hasn’t decided whether it will use Toshiba’s
batteries for mass production, Kawanabe said. Toshiba already
makes lithium-ion batteries for Honda’s  EV-neo  electric scooter,
which it started leasing to corporate customers this month.  The company is also seeking to sell batteries made by Blue
Energy Co., the venture with GS Yuasa, to other carmakers to
help lower costs, he said.  Nissan, Japan’s third-largest automaker, starts selling its
lithium-ion battery-powered Leaf hatchback this month in Japan
and the U.S. and will begin selling it in Europe next year.
Chief Executive Officer  Carlos Ghosn  has estimated that electric
cars may account for 10 percent of global auto sales by 2020.  Toyota plans to sell a short-distance pure electric car and
a plug-in hybrid by 2012.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Makiko Kitamura  in Tokyo at 
 mkitamura1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kae Inoue at 
 kinoue@bloomberg.net  