-- Deutsche Bahn, Other Railroads Sue Carbon Makers Including Germany's SGL
-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 2010-12-20T16:49:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-20/morgan-crucible-sgl-carbon-are-sued-by-deutsche-bahn-over-graphite-cartel.html
Morgan Crucible Co.,  SGL Carbon SE 
and three other companies fined seven years ago by the European
Union over a graphite cartel were sued in the U.K. on behalf of
rail companies in Britain, Germany and Italy.  The London lawsuit filed on behalf of companies including
 Deutsche Bahn AG  seeks to recover overpayments for carbon and
graphite products, used for transferring electricity in train
motors, from 1988 to 1999, the law firms Hausfeld & Co. LLP and
 Cuatrecasas, Goncalves Pereira , said in a statement today.  EU antitrust regulators in 2003 issued a fine of 101
million euros ($132.7 million) against SGL, France’s Carbone
Lorraine SA, Austria’s Hoffmann & Co. and Schunk GmbH and its
units. While Morgan Crucible received immunity from the EU fines
because it was the first to cooperate, its former Chief
Executive Officer  Ian Norris  was sentenced to 18 months in
prison in a U.S. case over his role in the cartel.  The case “is probably the most significant claim of its
kind brought in Europe to date,”  Anthony Maton , a lawyer at
Hausfeld, said in the statement. “The rail companies seek
restitution in respect of damage suffered over many years from a
long running and hard core cartel.”  Competition Appeal Tribunal  The lawsuit was filed last week in the  Competition Appeal
Tribunal , where U.K. antitrust cases are heard. All the
companies in the EU case are named in the civil lawsuit.  Tino Fritsch , spokesman for Wiesbaden, Germany-based SGL
Carbon, said the company sold the involved subsidiaries around
2003.  “In Germany, they wouldn’t have a chance with this lawsuit
because the statute of limitations would have expired,” Fritsch
said in a phone interview.  David Eagleton, a U.K. spokesman for Heuchelheim, Germany-
based Schunk, didn’t immediately return a call for comment.
Calls to Windsor, England-based Morgan Crucible and Mersen, the
Paris-based company which earlier this year changed its name
from Carbone Lorraine, weren’t immediately returned.  A similar lawsuit against Morgan Crucible and the other
cartel members was filed in 2007 by Emerson Electric Co. and
four other companies that claim they were overcharged for
graphite electrical parts used in motors, tramways, electric car
windows and air conditioners. That case is pending.  Other plaintiffs in today’s case include the London-based
train leasing company  Angel Trains Ltd. , Italian train operator
Trenitalia SpA, the Dutch railway company  Nederlandse Spoorwegen 
and the Portuguese state railway CP-Comboios de Portugal EPE.  140 Meetings  During the cartel period, the rail companies spent a total
of “hundreds of millions of euros” on affected products, the
law firms said.  The Brussels-based commission said the cartel operated
between October 1988 and December 1999, holding more than 140
meetings to decide price increases for a broad range of
products. The companies controlled 93 percent of the market.  National courts consider EU decisions to be binding proof
that the anti-competitive behavior took place, the law firms
said.  The case is Deutsche Bahn AG & Others v. Morgan Crucible
Co. & Others, 1173/5/7/10, Competition Appeal Tribunal (London).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Erik Larson  in London at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 