-- Toronto-Dominion Is Said to Near Deal to Buy Chrysler Financial Car Lender
-- B y   C r i s t i n a   A l e s c i ,   Z a c h a r y   R .   M i d e r   a n d   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n
-- 2010-12-20T22:10:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-20/toronto-dominion-is-said-to-near-deal-to-buy-chrysler-financial-car-lender.html
Toronto-Dominion Bank  is near an
agreement to buy Chrysler Financial, the lender once owned by
the third-largest U.S. automaker, from Cerberus Capital
Management LP, said three people with knowledge of the matter.  Toronto-Dominion may announce a deal as soon as tomorrow
morning, said the people, who spoke on the condition of
anonymity because the talks are private. Toronto-Dominion and
Cerberus had been discussing a price of about $6 billion to $7
billion, other people with knowledge of the situation said
earlier this month.  Canada’s second-largest bank has spent more than C$20
billion ($19.9 billion) expanding in the U.S., including $7.1
billion for Cherry Hill, New Jersey-based Commerce Bancorp Inc.
in 2008, the bank’s biggest acquisition.  Canadian banks, ranked the soundest by the World Economic
Forum for three straight years, are expanding abroad to add
lower-priced assets after the worst financial crisis since the
Great Depression. Bank of Montreal, the country’s fourth-largest
bank, last week announced its biggest acquisition, agreeing to
pay $4.1 billion in stock for Marshall & Ilsley Corp., the No. 1
bank in Wisconsin.  Mohammed Nakhooda , a Toronto-Dominion spokesman declined to
comment today. Cerberus spokesman  Peter Duda  declined to
comment.  Toronto-Dominion dropped C$1.68, or 2.3 percent, to C$70.52
in 4 p.m.  trading  on the Toronto Stock Exchange, its biggest
decline since Dec. 2.  Bank Network  Toronto-Dominion has expanded in the U.S. over the past six
years, building a consumer bank network that spans from Maine to
Florida. Acquisitions included Portland, Maine-based Banknorth
Group and Commerce Bancorp. This year, the bank increased its
network in the U.S. Southeast, taking part in Federal Deposit
Insurance Corp.-assisted transactions and buying Greenville,
South Carolina-based South Financial Group Inc. Toronto-Dominion
now has more branches in the U.S. than in Canada.  Cerberus, led by founder  Stephen Feinberg , wagered on the
U.S. auto industry with takeovers of  General Motors Corp. ’s auto
lender in 2006, followed by the Chrysler automaker and lender
the following year. The deals preceded a decline in U.S. auto
sales that sent both carmakers into bankruptcy.  Feinberg, 50, subsequently lost control of both GMAC and
Chrysler and held on to Chrysler Financial. The lender repaid
its $1.5 billion in U.S. Treasury Department bailout funds last
year and in July sought to return to large-scale lending.  The automaker, known as Chrysler Group LLC, is now
controlled by managers from Italy’s Fiat SpA.  Ally Financial, originally called GMAC, has financed about
50 percent of Chrysler Group’s retail sales this year, according
to a statement in September. At the time, the automaker was
announcing an agreement with U.S. Bancorp to provide additional
financing on some of Chrysler’s vehicles.  Toronto-Dominion, based in Toronto, was formed in 1955 as a
combination of two Canadian banks that trace back to the mid-
1800s.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jeffrey McCracken  in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;
 Cristina Alesci  in New York at 
 Calesci2@bloomberg.net ;
 Zachary R. Mider  in New York at 
 zmider1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net . 