-- Tottenham May Offer $31 Million, Peter Crouch for Carroll: Soccer Roundup
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2010-12-20T11:59:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-20/tottenham-may-offer-31-million-peter-crouch-for-carroll-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable links to the Web.  Crouch for Carroll?  Tottenham Hotspur manager  Harry Redknapp  may offer
Newcastle 20 million pounds ($31 million) and striker  Peter Crouch  in return for  Andy Carroll , the  Daily Express  reported.
Chelsea is also interested in Carroll, the paper said.  West Ham Chase Adebayor  Manchester City and Togo player  Emmanuel Adebayor  may be
loaned to West Ham from January, the  Sun  reported.  “It’s no secret Adebayor is unhappy at City so we want to
try and capitalize on that,” the paper quoted an unnamed source
at Upton Park as saying.  West Ham, managed by  Avram Grant , has won just 13 points
from 18 games so far this season.  Keane to Birmingham?  Birmingham may offer as much as 6 million pounds for
Tottenham striker  Robbie Keane , the  Sun  reported.  Keane, who is also wanted by Aston Villa, is available in
January. Birmingham is willing to match the 30-year-old’s 65,000
pound-a-week wages, the paper said.  Chelsea Put Jones on Hold  Chelsea has put its 15 million-pound transfer for Blackburn
and England Under-21 player Phil Jones on hold after he
sustained a season-ending injury, the  Daily Mirror  reported.  Liverpool to Offload Jovanovic?  Liverpool manager  Roy Hodgson  may let Milan Jovanovic go
during the January transfer window, the  Daily Mail  reported.  The Serbian, who hasn’t performed at his best during his
stay at Anfield, is wanted by German clubs Cologne and Hamburg
and Italian side Genoa. Jovanovic earns 50,000 pounds a week at
Liverpool.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Danielle Rossingh  in London at 
 drossingh@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at   celser@bloomberg.net . 