-- Paranapanema Aims to Stay Independent After Vale Bid
-- B y   J u a n   P a b l o   S p i n e t t o
-- 2010-12-20T15:53:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-20/paranapanema-aims-to-stay-independent-after-vale-bid-ceo-says.html
Paranapanema SA , a Brazilian
manufacturer of copper products, plans to remain independent
after a takeover bid by  Vale SA  failed this year as it seeks
acquisitions of mines and metals processors.  Paranapanema, based in Dias D’Avila, Brazil, is also in
talks to sell part of its fertilizer unit to focus on its metals
business, Chief Executive Officer Luiz Antonio Ferraz Jr. said,
declining to name possible buyers of the assets.  The company “should remain independent,” Ferraz, 62, said
in an interview in Rio de Janeiro today. “It has a life of its
own.”  Investors representing a majority of Paranapanema’s common
stock rejected Vale’s Sept. 1 bid of 6.75 reais a share after
the world’s largest iron-ore producer increased its offer four
times during an auction. Paranapanema  jumped  16 percent in Sao
Paulo trading last week, the biggest weekly advance since
February, boosted by speculation it may receive a new offer.  The shares lost 6.3 percent to 5.24 reais at 10:22 a.m. New
York time, after declining as much as 8.2 percent earlier today,
the most since May 20.  Vale Chief Executive Officer  Roger Agnelli  said Oct. 18 in
a press conference in New York that the company doesn’t plan a
new bid.  Pension Funds  Paranapanema, which is controlled by Brazilian pension
funds Previ and Petros and the government’s development bank,
plans to invest 510 million reais ($298 million) until 2013 to
expand its capacity to produce refined copper and semi-
manufactured products, according to a Nov. 26  presentation .  Previ, Latin America’s biggest pension fund, runs
retirement plans for employees of state-run  Banco do Brasil SA 
and Petros manages plans for workers at government-controlled
 Petroleo Brasileiro SA . Together with the BNDES, they hold a
combined 53 percent of Paranapanema.  Ferraz, who earned a degree in business administration from
Brazil’s  Getulio Vargas  Foundation, was appointed CEO of
Paranapanema in August 2008 after serving as chief financial
officer of the company for more than three years.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Juan Pablo Spinetto in Rio de Janeiro at 
 jspinetto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jessica Brice at   jbrice1@bloomberg.net  