-- Paterson Fined $61,000 by New York Panel Over 2009 Yankees Series Tickets
-- B y   M i c h a e l   Q u i n t
-- 2010-12-20T19:19:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-20/paterson-fined-61-000-by-new-york-panel-over-2009-yankees-series-tickets.html
New York  Governor  David Paterson  was
fined $61,125 for soliciting and accepting five complimentary
tickets to a World Series baseball game in 2009, the state
Commission on Public Integrity commission  announced .  The commission, which oversees ethical violations in state
government, excluding the Legislature,  found  that Paterson’s
staff contradicted his testimony in an inquiry over the matter.
Paterson, 56, said he intended to personally pay $850 for two
tickets used by his son and son’s friend.  The false testimony is “evidence that he knew his conduct
was unlawful,” according to a statement issued by the
commission. The civil penalty includes the $2,125 cost of the
tickets and fines for violating the Public Officers Law.  Paterson, a Democrat, was  accused  of violating the  law 
because he accepted five tickets to a World Series baseball game
between the New York Yankees and the Philadelphia Phillies in
2009. The Yankees have business with state government in real
estate, stadium development and taxes, the  commission  said.  “Even if the governor had performed a ceremonial function
at the game, it would not have entitled him to free tickets for
his son and his son’s friend,” the commission statement said.  Paterson’s actions were also the subject of an
investigation by Judge  Judith Kaye , formerly chief judge of the
state’s highest court, who referred the matter to Albany County
District Attorney  David Soares , a Democrat. A telephone call and
an e-mail to Soares’ spokeswoman Heather Orth, weren’t
immediately returned.  Paterson became governor after  Eliot Spitzer  resigned amid
a prostitution scandal in March 2008, and his term in office
expires December 31.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Quint  in Albany, New York, at 
 mquint@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  