-- Mexico Pipeline Blast Kills 28, Blamed on `Criminal Gang' Stealing Fuel
-- B y   J e n s   E r i k   G o u l d   a n d   C a r l o s   M a n u e l   R o d r i g u e z
-- 2010-12-20T22:55:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-20/pemex-pipeline-blast-blamed-on-gang-kills-27-in-rivers-of-fire-.html
Mexican authorities blamed an oil
pipeline explosion that killed 28 on criminals who lost control
of the fuel as they attempted to siphon it off.  Yesterday’s blast at the 30-inch Nuevo Teapa pipeline
operated by state-owned company Petroleos Mexicanos in San
Martin Texmelucan, Puebla state, also injured 52 people, the
company, known as Pemex, said in a statement on its website. The
explosion damaged 115 houses, Pemex said.  Frequent thefts of Pemex fuel reflect the growing impact on
the energy industry of the broader wave of criminal activity
afflicting Mexico, said  David Shields , a Mexico City-based
independent energy analyst and publisher of Energia magazine.
The company said last year it had 5 million barrels worth 9.3
billion pesos ($750 million) stolen in 2008.  “It’s not an isolated incident,” Shields said in a
telephone interview. “It’s part of the constant problem we’re
living every day.”  The company has detected this year over 550 cases of
illegal tapping from its oil pipelines, Pemex Chief Executive
Officer  Juan Jose Suarez Coppel  said yesterday in an interview
with the Televisa network.  “Organized criminal groups have increasingly sought to
steal fuel as part of attempts to diversify their revenue
stream,” London-based consulting firm Control Risks Group said
today in a research note.  Drug Cartels  The office of Mexico’s attorney general said in March 2009
that people arrested in connection with fuel theft against Pemex
may have been working with drug cartels.  The attorney general’s office began an investigation of the
blast on  orders  of Mexico President  Felipe Calderon , Interior
Minister  Jose Francisco Blake Mora  said in comments broadcast on
Milenio TV.  Calderon gave his condolences to victims of the explosion
yesterday, traveling to the scene and visiting a hospital where
the injured are being treated.  The pipeline runs from the port of Dos Bocas in Tabasco
state to the Tula refinery in Hidalgo state. The refinery has as
many as four days of supply to maintain production of as much as
280,000 barrels a day, said Fabricio Guerra, a Pemex official in
Tula.  Output from the Tula refinery, Mexico’s largest, was
269,397 barrels a day in October, according to data from
Mexico’s Energy Ministry website.  Alternative Pipeline  The refinery can use another pipeline if Nuevo Teapa is
down for more than four days, said Guerra, who didn’t have an
estimate of how long repairs would take. The Tula refinery is
“still operating normally,” he said.  The alternate 24-inch pipeline has the capacity to
transport 160,000 barrels a day to the plant in Tula, Pemex said
today in a separate statement.  The incident is unlikely to affect Pemex’s national
production or its debt, Shields said.  Crude oil for January delivery rose 79 cents to settle at
$88.81 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange. January
futures expire today. The more active February contract rose 77
cents, or 0.9 percent, to $89.37 a barrel.  Pemex dollar-denominated 10-year bonds rose today for the
first time in six days to 101.375 cents on the dollar. The yield
on the bond due 2021 fell 14 basis points, or 0.17 percentage
points, to 5.32 percent.  Pemex, the second-largest supplier of oil to the U.S. after
Canada, exported 1.225 million barrels of crude a day in 2009.
About 85 percent, or 1.086 million barrels, was sold to the
U.S., according to Pemex statistics.  Net Importer  Mexico is a net importer of refined petroleum products. In
2009, the country imported 519,000 barrels a day of refined
products while exporting 244,000 barrels daily. Gasoline
represented about 60 percent of its petroleum imports.  Pemex is building its first refinery in three decades in
the state of Hidalgo, next to the current Tula refinery, to keep
up with rising gasoline use as more Mexicans buy cars.  Demand for the fuel in Mexico, which imports about 40
percent of domestic consumption, may gain 5 percent a year
through 2012, according to the Energy Ministry.  Giant Cloud  The explosion, which occurred at 5:50 a.m. local time
yesterday, caused crude to flow into a nearby river and a giant
cloud of smoke to erupt into the sky, the Milenio television
network reported.  Valentin Meneses, Puebla state’s interior secretary, said
in an interview on the Milenio TV network that 32 of the 115
damaged houses were completely destroyed.  “All of this is the consequence of a criminal gang,”
Meneses said. “They lost control because of the great force of
the fuel that came out. Many streets started to flood with fuel.
There was a spark and there were rivers of fire.”  Pemex said in an e-mailed statement that the fire was
controlled by the company’s emergency workers and local
authorities. The military has also been deployed, Pemex said.  Mexican Attorney General  Arturo Chavez  said last week that
30,196 people have been killed in drug-related violence
nationwide since  Calderon  took office four years ago and began
deploying troops in a battle against cartels.  This year’s toll of 12,456 drug-related deaths is the
highest since Calderon took office.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jens Erik Gould  at 
 jgould9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  