-- Persian Gulf Debt Sales in Malaysia Hit Record on Demand: Islamic Finance
-- B y   H a r i s   A n w a r   a n d   S u r y a n i   O m a r
-- 2010-12-21T11:13:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-20/persian-gulf-debt-sales-in-malaysia-hit-record-on-demand-islamic-finance.html
Persian Gulf borrowers are selling
ringgit-denominated Islamic bonds at a record pace in Malaysia
to raise funds for expansion and take advantage of demand in the
world’s biggest market for Shariah-compliant bonds.  Issuance surged to 1 billion ringgit ($318 million) this
year, the most since 2008 when Gulf companies started tapping
the Malaysian market, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Last
year, 100 million-ringgit of debt was sold. Dubai’s government
is “likely” to sell bonds next year and a Malaysian offering
is a possibility,  Abdulrahman Al Saleh , the director general of
the emirate’s Department of Finance, said Dec. 14.2  “More ringgit sukuk from Gulf issuers will mean having
more liquidity in the market,” Zamri Shariff, the head of asset
management at Asian Finance Bank Bhd., the Kuala Lumpur-based
unit of  Qatar Islamic Bank SAQ , said in an e-mail response to
questions yesterday. “That absolutely widens our scope for
investment.”  Malaysia, which accounts for more than 50 percent of the
$144 billion Islamic bonds outstanding worldwide, is attracting
investors and issuers to its domestic bond market with tax
incentives. The country’s 10-year economic strategy will help
spur sales of sukuk and new debt offerings “may be cheaper, or
else met by a high take-up rate,” Prime Minister  Najib Razak 
said Oct. 25. The government plans to cut taxes on shariah-
compliant transactions in 2011 to promote “innovation in
Islamic securities,” he said in an Oct. 15 budget speech.  The ringgit rallied 8.8 percent against the dollar this
year, the second-best performance after the Thai baht, among 10
Asian emerging-market currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  IDB Taps Market  Shariah-compliant debt in the six-nation Gulf Cooperation
Council returned 13 percent this year, the  HSBC/NASDAQ Dubai GCC
US Dollar Sukuk Index  shows. Global sukuk returned 12.3 percent,
according to the  HSBC/NASDAQ Dubai US Dollar Sukuk Index . Bonds
in developing markets rose 11.6 percent, JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s
 EMBI Global Diversified Index  shows.  The Islamic Development Bank, a Jeddah, Saudi Arabia-based
multilateral lender, plans to sell more ringgit sukuk next year
under its 10-year, 1 billion-ringgit debt program, Vice
President  Abdul Aziz Al Hinai  said in an interview in Dubai Dec.
6. The bank has raised 400 million ringgit through the notes.  “Asia for us is an important region to mobilize resources
from,” Al Hinai said. “When we issue in a currency like the
ringgit, we look at the tradability of our sukuk, and the
ringgit is very tradable.”  National Bank of Abu Dhabi PJSC, the United Arab Emirates’
second-largest lender by assets, sold 500 million-ringgit of 10-
year sukuk this month, drawing demand for more than 1 billion
ringgit. The debt was issued under a 3 billion-ringgit senior
unsecured medium-term note program, the company said in an e-
mailed statement Dec. 16.  Ringgit Curve  The sale “reflects the commitment of NBAD to create a
yield curve in the ringgit to meet the strong investor demand,”
the bank said.  Total sales of Islamic bonds dropped 24 percent to $15.3
billion so far this year, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Offerings from the GCC declined 32 percent to $4.5
billion.  Sovereign and sovereign-linked sukuk from the Gulf will be
favored over Islamic bonds offered by companies after debt
restructurings, defaults and tumbling property prices hurt
investors’ confidence, according to Aberdeen Asset Management
Plc.  Government-Backed Favored  “If it’s government-backed they have a government
guarantee, there’s some sort of element of comfort,”  Abdul Jalil Abdul Rasheed , who helps to manage $150 million of Islamic
assets at Aberdeen Asset’s Malaysian unit, said in an e-mail
yesterday.  The extra yield investors demand to hold Dubai’s government
sukuk rather than Malaysia’s narrowed 24 basis points, or 0.24
percentage point, this quarter to 347, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. The yield on Dubai’s 6.396 percent sukuk
maturing in November 2014 gained 2 basis point to 6.65 percent
today, according to Bloomberg data.  The yield on Malaysia’s five-year 3.473 percent local
currency Islamic notes due July 2015 was unchanged at 3.49
percent, according to Bursa Malaysia. National Bank of Abu Dhabi
PJSC’s 4.75 percent ringgit sukuk maturing June 2015 yielded 4
percent when the debt last traded Nov. 19, the data show.  ‘Supply Side’  The  difference  between the average yield for emerging
market sukuk and the London interbank offered rate narrowed 54
basis points this month to 306 yesterday, according to the
 HSBC/NASDAQ Dubai US Dollar Sukuk Index . In the GCC, which
includes Qatar, the United Arab Emirates and Kuwait, the gap
shrank 59 basis points to 380.  “There are numerous buyers in Malaysia and Indonesia for
GCC credits,” Usman Ahmed, a senior fund manager at Emirates
NBD Asset Management, which oversees $300 million of bonds at
the unit of the U.A.E.’s biggest lender, said in an interview
yesterday. “On the supply side, the Malaysian market is
attractive for those issuers who are looking to place medium to
long tenors.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Haris Anwar  in Dubai on 
 Hanwar2@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  