-- TPG, Northstar to Boost Investments in Indonesia With New Resources Fund
-- B y   N e t t y   I s m a i l
-- 2010-12-20T01:13:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-20/tpg-northstar-to-boost-investments-in-indonesia-with-new-resources-fund.html
TPG Capital and its Indonesian
partner, Northstar Pacific Partners, plan to boost investments
in resources firms and companies set to benefit from growing
consumption in Southeast Asia’s largest economy.  Jakarta-based Northstar plans to raise $500 million for its
third fund, which will be launched in the first quarter of next
year,  Patrick Walujo , co-founder of the firm, said in an
interview on Dec. 18. TPG, run by billionaire  David Bonderman ,
will put money into the fund, to be called Northstar Equity
Partners III,  Ashish Shastry , TPG’s head for Southeast Asia,
said in the same interview in Singapore.  The world’s fourth-most populous nation is attracting more
interest from buyout firms including the U.K.’s CVC Capital
Partners Ltd. and Washington-based Carlyle Group as China’s and
India’s demand for Indonesia’s resources boosts raw-material
prices. Consumer confidence has been buoyed by political
stability under President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono not seen
since the ouster of former dictator Suharto in 1998.  “There will be more competition going forward,” Walujo
said. “We have to be aware of what’s going on and move faster
and stay more alert all the time.”  Indonesia will have a “very large share” of TPG’s
investments in Southeast Asia in the future because of the size
of the economy, Shastry said. Singapore had in the past
accounted for the largest portion of its investments in the
region, he said. The firm agreed in March to sell its 24 percent
stake in Singapore-based  Parkway Holdings Ltd. , Asia’s biggest
hospital operator.  ‘Strong Pipeline’  “Internally at TPG, we see Indonesia as a major investment
destination for us,” Shastry said. “We are very optimistic
about Indonesia.”  TPG and Northstar are still discussing the amount of money
that the Fort Worth, Texas-based firm will invest in the third
fund, Shastry said.  “We have a very strong pipeline, some of which we’re doing
together with TPG and some on our own,” Walujo said.  Northstar has generated almost $1.6 billion of equity
investments for itself and its partners, including TPG and
Government of Singapore Investment Corp., which manages
Singapore’s reserves, he said.  Northstar’s and TPG’s biggest holdings in Indonesia include
PT Bank Tabungan Pensiunan Nasional, originally a lender to
retired civil servants, which opened about 500 micro-banking
branches last year. The stock rose to a record earlier this
month as the bank’s loan growth outpaced the Indonesian
industry’s following its expansion into micro-lending.  Delta Dunia  Northstar sold its stake in  PT Sumber Alfaria Trijaya , the
company that runs Alfamart minimarkets in Indonesia, in November
for about $200 million, Walujo said. It made more than five
times the money it invested in the firm in four years, he said.  TPG and GIC invested last week in Indonesia’s PT Delta
Dunia, which owns the country’s second-biggest coal mining
contractor. TPG and GIC bought non-voting shares in Northstar
Tambang Persada Ltd., an investment vehicle which  owns  40
percent of Delta Dunia, according to a letter filed to the
Indonesian stock exchange on Dec. 18.  TPG and GIC bought the shares in Northstar Tambang Persada
from Indonesia’s Widjaya family, which owns  Sinar Mas Group , and
the previous owners of Delta Dunia, Shastry said. TPG, GIC and
Northstar are now the only shareholders in the vehicle, he said.  This is one of the biggest private equity investments in
Indonesia, Shastry said, declining to disclose the value of the
transaction. Northstar Tambang Persada’s stake in Delta Dunia is
worth about $400 million, based on the current market value of
the company.  Jakarta-based Delta Dunia wholly owns PT Bukit Makmur
Mandiri Utama, or Buma, Indonesia’s second-largest coal mining
contractor.  Indonesia overtook Australia to become the world’s biggest
exporter of power-station coal in 2005, and prices for the fuel,
set annually, rose 40 percent this year, according to Morgan
Stanley.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Netty Ismail  in Singapore 
 nismail3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  