-- Pike River Coal Mine Body Recovery Delayed by Risk of Fires, Police Say
-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 2010-12-20T21:08:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-20/pike-river-coal-mine-body-recovery-delayed-by-risk-of-fires-police-say.html
The recovery of bodies from New
Zealand’s  Pike River  coal mine is being delayed by problems
neutralizing the atmosphere with the possibility that the mine
could be sealed, police say.  Two machines being used to inject water vapor and nitrogen
into the mine to lower oxygen levels and reduce the risk of
further fires “are working but we do have some difficulties,”
Superintendent Gary Knowles, the police commander in charge of
the operation, told  Radio New Zealand  today. “It’s an extremely
serious situation. It’s going to take a long time.”  Asked if the mine may have to be eventually sealed, Knowles
said “that’s a real possibility.”  Police want to make the mine safe so they can recover the
bodies of 29 men who were trapped and killed by a series of
underground explosions last month. The recovery efforts have
been hampered by a coal fire that has now been brought under
control, although there is still a source of heat, Knowles said.  “You’ve got a very unstable environment, very volatile and
lots of heat,” he said. “We’re dealing with a mine that’s
pretty unique in the way it is structured. We can’t send anyone
underground until we can neutralize this environment.”  Yesterday, the Gorniczy Agregat Gasniczy jet inertisation
unit which injects water vapor into the mine, was shut down for
maintenance. As a result oxygen levels in the mine surged,
increasing the risk of fire and forcing the evacuation of
rescuers from the mine portal, police said in a statement. The
GAG unit is working again, Knowles said today.  The second nitrogen injection machine is also unable to
neutralize the environment because of the need to pump the gas
uphill and the presence of natural fissures and cracks in the
local geology, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tracy Withers in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Iain Wilson 
 iwilson2@bloomberg.net  