-- Pimco Seeks Profit From Australia Mortgage Debt as European Investors Sell
-- B y   S a r a h   M c D o n a l d
-- 2010-12-21T05:24:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-20/pimco-seeks-profit-from-australia-mortgage-debt-as-european-investors-sell.html
Pacific Investment Management Co.,
which manages the world’s biggest bond fund, is buying
Australian notes backed by home loans in the secondary market to
profit from higher yields as European investors dump the bonds.  Pimco’s Australian unit, which manages about A$32 billion
($31.9 billion), bought AAA rated residential mortgage-backed
securities this month yielding as much as 165 basis points more
than the bank bill swap rate,  Robert Mead , Sydney-based head of
portfolio management, said in an interview. New bond sales pay
about 110 basis points, or 1.1 percentage points, he said.  “We think the cheapest asset across Australian fixed-
income is secondary market RMBS,” Mead said. “Distressed areas
of Europe are now net sellers of Australian RMBS, which we are
benefiting from.”  As much as a quarter of the RMBS sold annually by
Australian lenders between 2002 and 2007 was denominated in
euros to attract European investors, according to data from
Standard & Poor’s. The region is now battling a sovereign debt
crisis that’s seen Greece and Ireland accept financial bailouts
and forced the European Union to create a 750 billion-euro ($988
billion) emergency fund.  Moody’s Investors Service lowered Ireland’s credit rating
five levels to Baa1 from Aa2 on Dec. 17, with further downgrades
possible, as the government struggles to contain losses in the
country’s banking system. Moody’s said last week it may lower
Spain from Aa1 and also placed Greece’s Ba1 rating on review for
a possible downgrade.  ‘Selling Priorities’  When institutions are undercapitalized and don’t have
access to new sources of funding, they “need to sell assets to
reduce their balance sheet size,” Mead said. “They often focus
on high dollar price, liquid assets as selling priorities.”  Many offshore structured investment vehicles, which made up
a “sizeable share of the international investor base” for
Australian RMBS before the 2007 credit freeze, were forced to
liquidate their portfolios during the crisis and sell the notes
on the secondary market, Reserve Bank of Australia Assistant
Governor  Guy Debelle  said in a Nov. 30  speech .  Secondary market RMBS spreads widened to as much as 450
basis points amid the financial crisis, from 20 basis points
before the U.S. subprime collapse roiled markets, according to
the speech.  Wide Bay Australia Ltd. , a non-bank lender, paid 105 basis
points more than the bank bill swap rate on A$138 million of AAA
rated RMBS, with a weighted average life of 1.5 years, according
to an e-mailed statement last week from Australia & New Zealand
Banking Group Ltd., which helped manage the sale.  House Prices  ANZ Bank, Australia’s third-largest bank by market value,
paid a 70 basis-point spread to sell A$100 million of three-year
bonds last month, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Pimco bought Australian mortgage bonds denominated in U.S.
and local dollars and the euro, Mead said. The bond investor
prefers to buy RMBS in the secondary market because home owners
who borrowed the underlying mortgages which back the notes have
proven they can meet repayments, he said.  “The nice thing about those securities is that house
prices have gone up since, so already conservatively structured
loan to valuation ratios have become even more conservative,”
he said. “Our strong preference is the seasoned secondary
market opportunities.”  House prices  in Australia have risen 20 percent since the
start of 2009, according to the statistics bureau.  Bubble Concerns  Even as  Gerard Minack , a Sydney-based developed markets
strategist at Morgan Stanley, warned in August that homes are
about 40 percent overvalued, the Reserve Bank of Australia  said 
in a June report no rated portions of the nation’s mortgage
bonds have suffered a default.  Prices in the established housing market have “cooled”
and tracked “broadly sideways” since June, the RBA said in
minutes of its Dec. 7 meeting, released today.  Pimco also sees Australian financial bonds as attractive,
and maintains an overweight position to the nation’s dollar,
Mead said.  The currency has gained 11 percent against the greenback
this year, the second-best performer of 16 major currencies
tracked by Bloomberg. Financial debt has returned 7.2 percent
this year, according to a Bank of America Merrill Lynch index.
The benchmark  S&P/ASX 200 Index  of stocks has returned 2 percent
including reinvested dividends, according to  data  compiled by
Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sarah McDonald  in Sydney at 
 smcdonald23@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will McSheehy at 
 wmcsheehy@bloomberg.net . 