-- Pound Strengthens Against Euro Amid Debt Woes, CBI's Rate-Rise Predictions
-- B y   K e i t h   J e n k i n s   a n d   E m m a   C h a r l t o n
-- 2010-12-20T16:39:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-20/pound-rises-against-the-euro-amid-debt-woes-predictions-of-rate-increases.html
The pound rose against the euro amid
concern European nations will struggle to raise funds and as the
Confederation of British Industry said the Bank of England will
start raising interest rates within six months.  The pound strengthened against the 16-nation single
currency as the CBI published its report and separate data
showed U.K. mortgage lending rose for the first time in six
months. Government bonds advanced, leaving the 10-year yield at
a one-week low, as military exercises by South Korea and threats
of retaliation from the North increased demand for the safety of
fixed-income assets.  “Sterling is benefiting from the diversification play on
the back of euro concerns and we’ve also had the CBI come out
and say the BOE could be hiking within six months,” said  Jane Foley , a senior foreign-exchange strategist at Rabobank
International in London. There was talk last week of rate rises
being brought forward, “so this is just cementing a new
debate,” Foley said.  The pound strengthened 0.3 percent against the euro to
84.64 pence per euro as of 4:27 p.m. in London. It erased
earlier gains against the dollar, dropping 0.1 percent to
$1.5512.  Sterling has lost 1.5 percent in the past week, according
to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes, which track
a basket of 10 developed-country currencies.  Since the end of 2009, Britain’s currency has lost
5.5 percent, compared with a 10 percent decline by the euro and
a 1 percent loss by the dollar.  The Bank of England will increase its benchmark interest
rate by a quarter-point every three months from the second
quarter of 2011 until mid-2012, the London-based CBI predicted
in a report today. It will then step up the pace of increases to
end that year with a rate of 2.75 percent, the CBI forecast.  MPC Decision  Minutes of the Bank of England’s December Monetary Policy
Committee meeting, due Dec. 22, will likely show members
remained split in their decision to keep the key interest rate
at a record low 0.5 percent and to hold the asset-purchase
program at 200 billion pounds.  MPC member  Adam Posen , who has called for the bank to
increase stimulus, said last week policy makers shouldn’t
“overreact” to inflation. His colleague  Andrew Sentance  has
voted to increase rates since June.  The CBI’s rate-path forecast is out of line with a
Bloomberg survey of 43 analysts’ predictions which sees the BOE
leaving the benchmark rate on hold at 0.5 percent until the
fourth quarter, with the rate ending the year at 0.75 percent.  The pound may resume its drop next year as a slowing
economy prompts investors to remove bets on higher interest
rates, Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd. said.  ‘Expectations to Reverse’  “We very much doubt that the Bank of England will be in a
position to begin raising its official bank rate within the next
six months,”  Derek Halpenny , head of European currency strategy
in London, wrote in a note to investors today. “Rate-hike
expectations are likely to reverse over the course of the first
quarter taking the pound lower, also.”  Gross mortgage lending fell 5 percent to 11.1 billion
pounds in November from the previous month, the Council of
Mortgage Lenders said today. A separate report based on data
from six lenders published by the Bank of England showed that
banks granted 45,000 loans to buy homes last month, compared
with 44,000 in October, the first rise in six months.  The 10-year gilt yield dropped eight basis points to 3.48
percent. It reached 3.65 percent on Dec. 16, the highest since
May 20, according to Bloomberg generic data. The 4.75 percent
security maturing in March 2020 rose 0.64, or 6.4 pounds per
1,000-pound face amount, to 109.94. The two-year note yield fell
three basis points to 1.17 percent.  Gilts have returned 5.9 percent this year, compared with a
5.5 percent gain for German bunds, the euro-region’s benchmark
securities, according to indexes complied by Bloomberg and the
European Federation of Financial Analysts Societies. Treasuries
have returned 5.7 percent, the indexes show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Keith Jenkins  in London at 
 Kjenkins3@bloomberg.net ;
 Emma Charlton  in London at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  