-- Irvine Co. Said to Pay $625 Million for Pritzkers' Hyatt Center in Chicago
-- B y   B r i a n   L o u i s
-- 2010-12-20T23:05:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-20/pritzkers-are-said-to-sell-chicago-hyatt-tower-to-irvine-for-625-million.html
Irvine Co. said it purchased Hyatt
Center, a 48-story office tower in downtown Chicago, from the
Pritzker family. The price was $625 million, according to a
person with knowledge of the transaction.  The 1.5 million-square-foot (139,000-square-meter) tower on
Wacker Drive was developed by Pritzker Realty Group, founded by
Penny Pritzker in 1991 to oversee her family’s non-hotel
properties, Newport Beach, California-based Irvine Co. said in a
statement today. The person with knowledge of the deal isn’t
authorized to disclose the price and asked not to be identified.  Closely held Irvine Co. “has been and will continue to be
geographically focused on its core California real estate
markets,” Doug Holte, president of Irvine Co. Office
Properties, said in the statement. “Hyatt Center, however,
represents a unique opportunity to invest in one of the finest
projects of its kind in the United States.”  The tower, completed in 2005, includes a restaurant, two
tenant cafeterias, and fitness and conference centers, according
to the statement.  The Pritzkers sold shares of  Hyatt Hotels Corp.  in an
initial share sale last year. The lodging company has its
headquarters at Hyatt Center, located at 71 S. Wacker Dr.  The sale is the second large office sale in Chicago in the
past week. Tishman Speyer Properties LP announced the purchase
of a 46-story property at 353 N. Clark St. on Dec. 15. The price
was $385 million, according to a person with knowledge of that
transaction.  The Wall Street Journal and Crain’s Chicago Business
reported on Dec. 14 that Irvine Co. was planning to buy Hyatt
Center for $625 million, citing people familiar with the
agreement who they didn’t identify.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Louis in Chicago at 
 blouis1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  