-- Ramsay Health Gains Most in 3 Months After Raising Profit Growth Forecast
-- B y   S i m e o n   B e n n e t t
-- 2010-12-20T07:18:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-20/ramsay-health-gains-most-in-three-months-after-forecast-for-profit-growth.html
Ramsay Health Care Ltd. , Australia’s
biggest private-hospital operator, rose the most in five months
after saying profit will grow almost twice as fast as projected.  Ramsay  jumped 4.6 percent, the most since July 19, to
A$17.40 at the 4:10 p.m. close of trading in Sydney, the stock’s
highest since the hospital operator listed shares more than 13
years ago.  Profit  may accelerate 22 percent to 24 percent in the
year ending June 2011, compared with a  forecast  last month for
13-15 percent growth, Ramsay said in a statement today.  Lower-than-expected interest costs and expansions at five
Australian hospitals completed or scheduled for completion since
September are helping bolster profit, Ramsay said. The Sydney-
based company bought nine hospitals in Paris in January and
plans to make more  acquisitions  in France, Managing Director
 Christopher Rex  said.  “Our intention is to acquire more and more facilities in
France and turn our relatively small group into a major player
in that country over the next few years,” Rex said by phone.  The stock has advanced 60 percent this year, making it the
 best-performer  among Australia’s eight-largest publicly traded
health-care companies.  “The company always under promises and always manages to
over deliver,” said  Stuart Roberts , a health-care analyst at
Southern Cross Equities Ltd. in Sydney, who rates the stock
“buy.”  Profit in the first-half will be 26 percent to 28 percent
higher than a year earlier, based on accounts for the five
months ended Nov. 30, Ramsay said.  Converted Guest house  Ramsay started in 1964 when founder and Chairman  Paul Ramsay  bought a Sydney guest house and turned it into a 16-bed
psychiatric hospital. Now the company has 116 hospitals and day-
surgery clinics in Australia, the U.K., France and Indonesia,
with more than 9,000 beds. Ramsay paid 193 million pounds ($300
million) for Capio AB’s U.K. operations in 2007, its first
 overseas  foray.  Profit growth  is a result of better-than-expected
performance in the Australian business, planned expansions and
“slightly better-than-expected results from our U.K. business -
- which has performed well despite a weak U.K. economy,” Ramsay
said. The company said  interest costs  were smaller than it
expected “as a result of lower-than-anticipated interest rate
rises coupled with more effective capital management.”  Ramsay is considering alternatives to bank debt, including
selling bonds, as it looks at refinancing loans in 2012, Rex
said.  Per-share earnings are expected to increase 18 percent to
20 percent in the current year, the company said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Simeon Bennett  in Singapore at 
 sbennett9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Gale at   j.gale@bloomberg.net . 