-- RBS Is Said to Seek First Cash Bonus for Investment Bankers Since Bailout
-- B y   J o n   M e n o n
-- 2010-12-20T11:13:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-20/rbs-is-said-to-seek-first-cash-bonus-for-investment-bankers-since-bailout.html
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc ,
Britain’s biggest government-owned bank, may offer cash bonuses
to investment bankers for the first time since its 2008 bailout,
according to a person with knowledge of the plans.  The bank may limit cash payments to a maximum of 50,000
pounds ($78,000), said the person, who declined to be identified
because the discussions are private. RBS is talking to  U.K.
Financial Investments , which manages the government’s 83 percent
stake, on the bonus plan, which aims to make the bank a more
competitive employer, the person said. Officials at RBS and UKFI
declined to comment.  RBS, which employs about 17,000 people at Global Banking &
Markets, is likely to hand out less than the 1.3 billion pounds
it paid out last year as revenue at the investment banking unit
has declined. The division generated 39 percent of the bank’s
net revenue in 2009.  RBS  employees on salaries lower than 37,000 pounds received
maximum cash bonuses of 2,000 pounds last year, while in 2008
there were no cash payouts. A final decision on 2010 bonuses has
not yet been made, the person said.  Executives from Britain’s four largest banks -- RBS, Lloyds
Banking Group Plc,  Barclays Plc  and  HSBC Holdings Plc  -- will
meet Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  and Business
Secretary  Vince Cable  to hear appeals for restraint on bonus
payments. The meeting was today postponed after Osborne’s
planned return from New York was delayed by snow at U.K.
airports, the Treasury said.  The government should take a tough approach at the meeting,
Britain’s biggest union said today.  “The actions of these bankers over the last three years
have laid bare their inability the grasp the public disgust at
their behavior as they continue to line their pockets with
inappropriate and excessive bonuses,” said  Len McCluskey , Unite
general secretary-elect, in an e-mailed statement.  Sky News reported the RBS cash bonus plans earlier.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jon Menon  in London at 
 jmenon1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  