-- Reporters Can Post on Twitter, E-Mail From U.K. Courts, Senior Judge Says
-- B y   J a m e s   L u m l e y
-- 2010-12-20T18:34:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-20/reporters-can-post-on-twitter-e-mail-from-u-k-courts-senior-judge-says.html
Journalists can now post live
updates on Twitter Inc. social-networking service from within
U.K. courtrooms, allowing news organizations to provide
immediate information about ongoing court proceedings such as
last week’s bail request by WikiLeaks founder  Julian Assange .  Igor Judge , the Lord Chief Justice of England and Wales,
said today in a  guidance document  that “live text-based
communications” such as mobile e-mail and social media can be
used by reporters during hearings.  “Use of an unobtrusive, hand-held, virtually silent piece
of modern equipment for the purposes of simultaneous reporting
of court proceedings to the outside world is generally unlikely
to interfere with the proper administration of justice,” the
U.K.’s most senior judge said in the note.  Two judges hearing Assange’s bail application disagreed
about the use of such devices in court last week. Justice Howard
Riddle on Dec. 14 allowed reporters sitting in court to send out
messages while he heard the case. Two days later Justice  Duncan Ouseley , the judge hearing the appeal of Riddle’s decision to
grant bail, ordered journalists to switch off Blackberries,
mobile-phones and laptops.  “This guidance reflects the reality of what has quietly
been going on for some time during court proceedings and
highlights the role and prominence live text communications will
gain in relation to the reporting of court proceedings,”
Georgie Collins, head of intellectual property and media at
London law firm Lawrence Graham, said in an e-mailed statement.  Judges can stop reporters from e-mailing, texting and using
Twitter if they rule it is a danger to the administration of
justice, or if it is disrupting court, Judge’s note today said.
The ban on making sound recordings in court and taking
photographs remains in place.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 James Lumley  in London at 
 jlumley1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net . 