-- Riversdale Shares Halted After Telegraph Says Rio Raised $3.48 Billion Bid
-- B y   R e b e c c a   K e e n a n
-- 2010-12-21T06:15:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-20/riversdale-mining-stock-halted-ahead-of-statement-on-possible-control-deal.html
Riversdale Mining Ltd. , developing
coal mines in Africa, was halted from trading in Sydney after
the Telegraph newspaper reported  Rio Tinto Group  had raised an
earlier A$3.5 billion ($3.49 billion) takeover offer.  Riversdale shares will be halted pending a statement about
a “possible control transaction,” the Sydney-based company
said today in a statement. London-based Rio submitted a new
proposal, the Telegraph newspaper said, without saying what the
offer was. Rio may offer about A$16 a share, the Australian
newspaper reported, without saying where it got the information.  Buying Riversdale would increase Rio’s production of
steelmaking coal as demand for the commodity gains. Coal deals
this year have more than doubled to $35 billion. Rio spokesman
 Bruce Tobin  and Bill Kemmery, a Riversdale spokesman, declined
to comment.  “Rio are very forward looking,”  Mark Pervan , head of
commodity research at Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd.
said in an interview in Bloomberg’s Melbourne bureau. “Demand
is picking up quite strongly, but it is going to get a lot
stronger.”  Global Deals  Riversdale shares  closed at A$16.30 yesterday, up 16
percent from Dec. 5, the day before it disclosed talks with Rio.
Kemmery of Fortbridge Consulting Pty, which handles Riversdale
media communications, wasn’t able to provide any further
information. Rio gained 1.5 percent to A$86.70 at the 4:10 p.m.
Sydney time close on the Australian stock exchange.  Global mining deals have more than doubled this year to
$137 billion, the highest level since 2007, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Metal prices , as measured by the London
Metals Index which tracks six commodities, have gained 34
percent in the past six months.  Sojitz Corp., a Japanese trading company, today paid 17
billion yen ($203 million) to raise its stake in Australia’s
Minerva coal mine to 96 percent from 45 percent, spokesman
 Yoshikazu Ichikawa  said by phone.  Rio held talks with Riversdale for a possible deal at A$15
a share, Riversdale said Dec. 6. Rio noted the statement, though
declined further comment. Rio may need to boost its offer by 25
percent to A$4.9 billion to win control of Riversdale, Royal
Bank of Scotland Plc said in a Dec. 6 report.  Initial Premium  The initial proposal was a 16 percent premium to
Riversdale’s average share price over the 20 days through Dec. 3.
The average premium for coal-industry deals announced this year
is 26 percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Rio is studying small-to-medium-sized acquisitions that are
likely to be in the low “single-digit billion dollar range,”
Chief Financial Officer  Guy Elliott  said Nov. 26. A bid for
Riversdale fits with the company’s mergers and acquisitions
strategy, Liberum Capital Ltd. said this month.  Riversdale’s coal resources in Mozambique total 13 billion
metric tons, split between the $2 billion Zambeze project and
the Benga license, according to the company’s website.  Rio would need to win the support of Riversdale’s major
 holders,  including Tata Steel Ltd., which holds a 24.16 percent
stake and a 35 percent interest in the Benga project.  Benga may produce about 1.7 million tons a year of coking
coal and 300,000 tons of thermal coal, with first exports
expected in the second half of next year, according to the
company’s website. Coking coal is used by steelmakers and
thermal coal fuels power plants.  Potential Suitors  India asked International Coal Ventures Ltd., comprising
state-run metal and energy companies, to consider bidding for
Riversdale,  Arup Roy Choudhury , chairman at India’s biggest
power producer NTPC Ltd., said Dec. 14.  Steel Authority of India Ltd. and Coal India Ltd. own about
28 percent each in International Coal Ventures, while NTPC, NMDC
Ltd. and Rashtriya Ispat Nigam Ltd. hold about 14 percent each.  Other potential suitors include  Vale SA , the world’s
biggest iron ore exporter, which has operations in Mozambique,
UBS AG said Dec.6 in a report.  Riversdale is already in talks with  Wuhan Iron & Steel Corp. 
on a potential $800 million investment by the Chinese steelmaker
for a 40 percent stake in the Zambeze project and 8 percent of
Riversdale. Discussions are continuing after a deadline for an
agreement expired, Riversdale said Oct. 27.  Coal Resources  Riversdale is valued at 13 Australian cents for every
metric ton of coal resources, the company said in September.
That compares with an average of A$3.03 for selected
transactions from December 2007 to August 2010, it said.  Rio produced 7.5 million tons of hard coking coal from its
operations in Australia’s Queensland state in 2009, according to
a Jan. 14 statement. The company’s production growth in coking
coal is estimated by Liberum at 12 percent over the next three
years, meaning “this approach would hold strategic merit,” the
brokerage said.  Rio already has nine thermal coal mines in Australia and
the U.S., one coking coal operation in Australia and two other
mines that produce both types. Two thermal mines are under
development, according to its  website .  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rebecca Keenan  in Melbourne at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  