-- Romania Plans to Sell Euro Debt in First Quarter
-- B y   A n d r a   T i m u   a n d   I r i n a   S a v u
-- 2010-12-20T13:41:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-20/romania-plans-to-sell-euro-debt-in-first-quarter-in-international-push.html
Romania plans to sell euro-
denominated bonds in the first quarter, as part of three-year
notes program worth 7 billion euros ($9.2 billion), Deputy
Finance Minister  Bogdan Dragoi  said.  The Finance Ministry will pick organizers for the
program early next year, after the administration selected a
group of legal firms last week to advise it on the sale, Dragoi
said in an interview in Bucharest today.  Romania delayed the first sale of the euro-denominated
bonds initially scheduled for the fourth quarter until 2011
after resuming the search for a legal adviser following a
challenge to the selection process. The country plans to turn to
international markets twice next year to help fund a budget
deficit of 4.4 percent of gross domestic product agreed with its
international lenders, Dragoi said on Nov. 29.  The government is looking for funds on external markets
after demand fell for leu-denominated debt in the second half of
this year because of a self-imposed yield cap of 7 percent. The
ministry dropped the cap last month and has paid a yield of as
much as 7.3 percent as an increase in value-added tax has raised
expectations that inflation will accelerate.  Bond Program  The government, which turned to the International Monetary
Fund and the European Union for a 20 billion-euro bailout last
year, wanted to raise at least 1 billion euros in euro-
denominated bonds from the first sale in the EMTN program,
former Finance Minister  Sebastian Vladescu  said on Aug. 26.  The sales were held up after law firms challenged the
results of an original tender to select the legal adviser. The
ministry selected Vienna-based Erste Group Bank AG and Paris-
based Societe Generale SA to arrange the sale.  Romania last tapped international markets in March when it
sold 1 billion euros of five-year bonds paying a 5 percent
coupon in the country’s biggest debt offering. The bonds have
dropped since the sale, lifting the yield to 5.308 percentage
points today, from 4.91 percentage points when they were sold,
Bloomberg data show.  The ministry has sold about 3 billion lei ($920 million) in
leu-denominated treasuries of the 4.6 billion lei planned for
this month after dropping the 7 percent yield cap. Average
yields have ranged from 6.88 percent to 7.17 percent as Dragoi
signalled the administration wants to shape a previously flat
yield curve.  “It seems like a yield curve is forming for the leu-
denominated Treasuries given the good results we’ve seen at the
past auctions,” Dragoi said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Andra Timu  in Bucharest at 
 atimu@bloomberg.net ;
 Irina Savu  in Bucharest at 
 isavu@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez in Prague at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  