-- Brewers Get '09 Cy Young Award Winner Zack Greinke in Trade With Royals
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2010-12-20T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-20/royals-pitcher-zack-greinke-traded-to-brewers-for-four-players-espn-says.html
The Milwaukee Brewers landed 2009
American League Cy Young Award winner  Zack Greinke  in a six-
player trade with the Kansas City Royals, the second offseason
deal aimed at upgrading their starting pitching staff.  The Brewers acquired Greinke and shortstop  Yuniesky Betancourt  from the Royals for shortstop  Alcides Escobar ,
outfielder  Lorenzo Cain  and top pitching prospects Jeremy
Jeffress and Jake Odorizzi.  “This is sort of a ‘now’ deal,” Brewers General Manager
Bob Melvin said on the team’s  website , comparing it to the trade
that brought CC Sabathia to Milwaukee in 2008. “But we got
(Greinke) for two years, and maybe even longer. That’s the
difference. He’s excited about coming here.”  Greinke, 27, has two years and $27 million left on his
current contract.  He won the Cy Young as the AL’s best pitcher in 2009 by
going 16-8 with a 2.16 earned run average. Greinke was 10-14
with a 4.17 ERA last season as the Royals finished in last place
in the AL Central Division with a 67-95 record.  The Brewers, coming off a third-place finish in the NL
Central at 77-85, two weeks ago acquired pitcher  Shaun Marcum 
from the Toronto Blue Jays for their top infield prospect, 20-
year-old second baseman Brett Lawrie. Greinke and Marcum, who
was Toronto’s opening day pitcher last season, join a Brewers
staff that also includes  Yovani Gallardo  and Randy Wolf.  Milwaukee’s 4.65 ERA was next-to-last in the NL in 2010.  “Sometimes our (minor league) system gets criticized, but
you’re not able to make a deal like this if you don’t have
talent there,” Melvin said. “So I give our guys credit, and I
have faith in them to restock the system for the future.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net . 