-- Rubber Gains to Record as Rain Curbs Thai Supply, U.S. Economy Accelerates
-- B y   A y a   T a k a d a   a n d   S u p u n n a b u l   S u w a n n a k i j
-- 2010-12-20T11:16:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-20/rubber-gains-to-record-as-rain-curbs-thai-supply-u-s-economy-accelerates.html
Rubber extended its rally to a
record as rain curbed output in Thailand, the top exporter, and
on speculation China may delay raising interest rates, helping
demand. The cash Thai price surged to an all-time high.  May-delivery rubber climbed to as high as 412.8 yen a
kilogram ($4,889 a metric ton) on the Tokyo Commodity Exchange
before ending so-called night trading at 412.4 yen, according to
intraday data on Bloomberg. Trading is settled on Tuesday. The
most-active contract climbed 49 percent this year.  Persistent rains across Thailand, Indonesia and Malaysia,
the top three producers, have disrupted tapping and lowered
output as rising car sales in China and India boost demand. The
supply shortage is expected to worsen as the low-production
season starts in Thailand early next year, said  Takaki Shigemoto ,
an analyst at research company JSC Corp. in Tokyo.  “The market looks bullish on declining supply,” Shigemoto
said by phone today. “Futures also gained on speculation that
China won’t raise interest rates this year.”  May-delivery rubber in Shanghai gained as much as 4.7
percent to 37,855 yuan ($5,677) a ton, the highest level since
Nov. 11, when the price climbed to a record 38,920 yuan. The
contract closed at 37,320 yuan.  The contract had dropped to a seven-week low of 29,500 yuan
on Nov. 30 amid concern that China may increase interest rates
to curb inflation, weakening demand from the largest consumer.  Inflation Easing  China’s stocks may rise until the Lunar New Year holiday in
February, as inflation is likely to ease “significantly” in
December because of declining vegetable prices, according to
China International Capital Corp.  The  cash rubber price  in Thailand extended a rally to a
record 144.05 baht ($4.77) per kilogram today, gaining 1.8
percent from Dec. 17, the  Rubber Research Institute of Thailand 
said on its website today. Local and overseas buyers, in
particular China, continue buying to build up inventories ahead
of New Year holidays and the low-production season, it said.  “Unfavorable weather conditions prompted buyers from China,
India and Japan to accelerate purchases to secure supplies,”
Sureerat Kunthongjun, an analyst at Bangkok-based commodity
broker Agrow Enterprise Ltd., said by phone.  The dollar advanced against the yen today before reports
this week that economists say will show the U.S. gross domestic
product expanded more than previously estimated and personal
spending climbed. A weaker Japanese currency also raised the
appeal of yen-denominated rubber contracts.  The U.S. economy expanded 2.8 percent in the third quarter
from a year earlier, quicker than the 2.5 percent estimate
published last month, the Commerce Department may say on Dec. 22,
according to a Bloomberg News survey of economists. Spending by
U.S. consumers rose 0.5 percent in November after a 0.4 percent
increase in October, a separate Bloomberg survey showed before a
Dec. 23 report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Aya Takada  in Tokyo at 
 atakada2@bloomberg.net 
 Supunnabul Suwannakij  in Bangkok at 
 ssuwannakij@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  