-- Rupee Futures Beat Stock Trading Growth in `Thriller' Market: India Credit
-- B y   A n i l   V a r m a
-- 2010-12-21T07:10:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-20/rupee-futures-beat-stock-trading-growth-in-thriller-market-india-credit.html
India’s two-year-old market for
currency futures is growing faster than that for stocks after
attracting individual investors with transaction costs that are
almost 50 percent lower.  The average volume of bets on the rupee’s value at a future
date jumped more than threefold this year to $3.2 billion a day
on the  National Stock Exchange  of India Ltd., which introduced
the contracts in September 2008. Average daily turnover in the
decade-old  equity derivatives  market rose 56 percent to $22
billion, according to the bourse’s website.  “Currency trading can be a thriller,” said Aarukettil
Krishnankutty Sugunan, a 61-year-old glass and plywood merchant
based in the southern Indian city of Kochi. “Broker fee and
margin amounts are very low in rupee, and that allows me to make
bigger bets.”  Investors are moving into futures as the median forecast of
16 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg shows the rupee will climb 2.2
percent by the end of March, outperforming Asia’s most-traded
currencies except South Korean won, the Philippine peso and
Malaysia’s ringgit. One-month volatility, a measure of exchange-
rate swings used to price options, is the second highest in the
region at 9.7 percent, increasing scope for traders to make a
profit.  The rupee’s 2.9 percent gain this year was driven by
inflows from overseas investors seeking to benefit from the
nation’s higher yields. India’s three-year government bond yield
of 7.37 percent is the highest among the major emerging
economies except Brazil, where similar-maturity notes pay 12.65
percent. Comparable securities offer 3.26 percent in China and
7.10 percent in Russia.  Geojit BNP Paribas Financial  Services Ltd., a brokerage
partly owned by France’s largest bank, charges 200 rupees
($4.40) as commission on a foreign-exchange investment of 1
million rupees, compared with 385 rupees for stock futures.  Lower Margin Requirements  The brokerage requires individuals to put down 3 percent of
planned rupee-futures investments, known as a margin payment,
compared with at least 10 percent for equity derivatives. Rupee
derivatives are also exempt from a securities transaction tax
that is levied on all other exchange-traded securities, Renjith
R.G., the Mumbai-based head of sales at Geojit BNP Paribas, said
in an interview on Dec. 16.  “It’s much easier for short-term traders to enter and exit
currency futures because of the lower margin requirements,”
Renjith said. “The absence of a transaction tax helps reduce
the broker fee.”  Derivatives are contracts whose values are tied to assets
including stocks, bonds, commodities and currencies, or events
such as changes in interest rates or the weather.  India’s currency was the world’s most-traded in the futures
markets in the first half of 2010, followed by the dollar and
the euro, according to data from the Washington-based  Futures
Industry Association .  Investment Inflows  The rupee appreciated 1.7 percent against the dollar this
month, the biggest advance after Taiwan’s dollar among Asia’s
10-most traded currencies, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The currency rose 0.5 percent to 45.23 per dollar
today.  Ten-year bonds rallied today. The yield on the 7.80 percent
bonds due May 2020 slipped five basis points, or 0.05 percentage
point, to 7.92 percent as of 12:34 p.m. in Mumbai, according to
the central bank’s trading system.  Government Bonds  India’s government bonds returned 5 percent this year,
compared with 1.5 percent earned on Chinese debt, according to
indexes compiled by London-based HSBC Holdings Plc. Global
investors have poured an unprecedented $38 billion this year
into stocks and bonds of Asia’s third-biggest economy, data from
the  Securities & Exchange Board of India  show.  Credit-default swaps on State Bank of India, the nation’s
biggest lender, have slid 21 basis points this month to 158,
according to data provider CMA. The swaps pay the buyer face
value in exchange for the underlying securities or the cash
equivalent should a government or company fail to adhere to its
debt agreements.  Countering Risk  The inflows have pushed up the implied volatility on one-
month dollar-rupee options to an average 11 percent since the
start of 2008, compared with 5.2 percent over the previous three
years, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The jump in the rupee’s volatility increased the need for a
wider range of tools to guard against adverse exchange-rate
fluctuations,  Divya Malik Lahiri , a spokeswoman for the National
Stock Exchange, said in an interview on Dec. 16.  “Rupee futures have been very helpful in countering
currency risk in commodity trade,” Salu Cholayil Kuriakose, a
38-year-old coffee trader based in Sultan Bathery in the
southern state of Kerala with exports to Belgium and the U.K.,
said in a Dec. 3 interview. “We simply didn’t have access to
practical and cost-effective means for hedging foreign-exchange
risk earlier.”  Options contracts signal investors have turned more
optimistic on the rupee. The premium paid for options offering
protection against possible declines in the currency in a month
declined to 180 basis points today from 220 on Nov. 30, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  ‘Exceeded Expectations’  The so-called risk-reversal rate was 150 for Russia’s ruble
and 315 basis points for Brazil’s real. The measure for China
was at negative five basis points, meaning investors are more
bearish on the dollar than on the yuan.  Exchange-rate futures have grown in popularity after
companies in India suffered losses on customized derivative
contracts as the credit crisis of 2008 fueled a surge in
foreign-exchange swings. Hong Kong-based brokerage CLSA Ltd.
estimated the same year that the nation’s firms would lose $4
billion on derivatives.  Apart from the National Stock Exchange, rupee futures are
traded on the Multi Commodity Exchange of India Ltd., the Bombay
Stock Exchange and the three-month-old United Stock Exchange.
The Mumbai-based bourses offer contracts for trading India’s
currency against the dollar, the euro, the pound and the yen.  “The growth in currency futures so far has exceeded all
expectations,” National Stock Exchange’s Lahiri said. “Retail
participation will increase with more awareness.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Anil Varma  in Mumbai at 
 avarma3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  