-- Sanofi Target Genzyme’s CEO Touts Campath MS Promise
-- B y   M e g   T i r r e l l
-- 2010-12-20T21:32:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-20/sanofi-target-genzyme-s-ceo-touts-campath-ms-promise-update1-.html
Genzyme Corp. , the target of a
hostile takeover by Paris-based  Sanofi-Aventis SA , is spending
more than $2 million a week to develop alemtuzumab for multiple
sclerosis, Chief Executive Officer  Henri Termeer  said today.  Currently approved as a therapy for blood cancer and sold
under the name Campath, alemtuzumab produced revenue of less
than $150 million last year, according to Cambridge,
Massachusetts-based Genzyme. The company predicts sales of $3
billion to $3.5 billion by 2017 with an added use in multiple
sclerosis, and expects to see the first results in six months
from the final stage of clinical trials.  Mark Schoenebaum , an
analyst with ISI Group Inc. in New York, estimates peak sales of
$2.3 billion.  Sanofi on Dec. 13 extended the deadline for Genzyme’s
investors to tender stock at $69 a share, or about $18.5
billion, to Jan. 21, 2011, from Dec. 10. The French drugmaker
took its offer to shareholders on Oct. 4, after Termeer spurned
the bid as too low, in part because it failed to consider
alemtuzumab’s future value. Sanofi cites analysts’  estimates  for
peak sales of the drug from multiple sclerosis of $700 million.  “Alemtuzumab for MS is probably the largest single program
we’ve ever undertaken,” Termeer said today at a meeting with
shareholders in New York. “We’ve been investing more than $2
million a week to get to where we are today.”  Genzyme declined 14 cents to $69.65 at 4 p.m. New York time
in Nasdaq Stock Market composite  trading .  New Name  The company said today the medicine will be marketed for MS
as Lemtrada, a combination of alemtuzumab and the Spanish word
for “entrance.”  Genzyme and Sanofi have discussed a clause known as a
contingent value right, or CVR, structured around Lemtrada,
under which Genzyme stockholders would receive more money from
the French drugmaker if sales goals are reached.  “CVRs are useful because people take different views,”
Termeer told reporters today after the presentation.
“Shareholders have been very supportive of the CVR idea.”  Jean-Marc Podvin , a spokesman for Sanofi, declined to
comment.  Termeer estimated about a quarter of Genzyme’s current
 shareholders  are short-term investors who bought the stock after
Sanofi made its offer.  “Most bought at $71 or $72 a share,” Termeer said. “They
don’t want to sell at $69.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Meg Tirrell  in New York at 
 mtirrell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale in New York at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  