-- Sara Lee Talks With JBS on Sale of Company Are Said to Hit Snag on Price
-- B y   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n   a n d   M a t t h e w   B o y l e
-- 2010-12-20T21:30:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-20/sara-lee-talks-with-jbs-on-sale-are-said-to-hit-snag-on-price.html
Sara Lee Corp. ’s talks to sell
itself to Brazilian meat processor JBS SA have hit a snag over
price, according to two people with direct knowledge of the
situation.  Sara Lee, the maker of Jimmy Dean foods and Ball Park
hotdogs, recently rejected a takeover offer from  JBS , deeming
the price too low, said the people, who declined to be
identified because the talks are private. The bid was less than
Sara Lee’s intraday  high  of $17.62 on Dec. 17, when the Wall
Street Journal reported the companies were in talks, the people
said. The stock closed at $17.26 that day, valuing Sara Lee at
$11 billion.  The  board  of Sara Lee, which is considering other options
for the Downers Grove, Illinois-based company, hasn’t given JBS
a specific price at which it would sell, the people said. JBS,
the world’s largest meat-processing company, has been in talks
with Sara Lee about a deal for several months and many key
details have been worked out, the people said.  Spokesmen for Sara Lee and JBS declined to comment.  Sara Lee rose 43 cents, or 2.5 percent, to $17.69 at 4:15
p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares
have advanced 45 percent this year. JBS dropped 9 centavos to
6.91 reais in Sao Paulo and has slid 26 percent this year.  Sara Lee, whose  sales  surpassed $10 billion last year, has
decided to sell other divisions, such as the North American
bakery unit, to concentrate on its faster-growing coffee and
meats businesses. The company has been led by interim Chief
Executive Officer  Marcel Smits  since  Brenda Barnes  resigned four
months ago to focus on her health.  Possible Breakup  “At this point, we see Sara Lee at a crossroads,”  Alexia Howard , an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein, said in a Dec. 14
note to clients. The sale of the bakery unit and other
businesses “could pave the way for a broader breakup scenario
or takeover over the coming year.”  No deal is imminent and it is unclear if a sale will be
completed, said the people. JBS is being advised by JPMorgan
Chase & Co. in the transaction. Bank of America Corp. is
advising Sara Lee.  Sara Lee’s board is also analyzing whether it should spin
off either its remaining meats or coffee divisions, a decision
that would be driven by the tax implications of these
transactions, said the people familiar with the matter. The
board has moved slowly on naming a new CEO as it assesses its
options, the people said. Sara Lee also attracted interest from
buyout firms including Apollo Global Management LLC and KKR &
Co. earlier this year, people with knowledge of the matter said
in October. Those approaches were rejected, the people said.  Historical Multiples  Over the past five years, there have been 367 global deals
in the meat industry, with a median multiple of 8.4 times
earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization,
or EBITDA, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Eric Serotta , analyst at Wells Fargo Securities, said in a note to
clients today that Sara Lee could sell for as much as 10.5 times
EBITDA, or about $12.8 billion. The New York-based analyst  rates 
the shares “market perform.”  A sale to JBS would likely result in a higher price than a
purchase by private-equity firms, so Sara Lee is giving JBS time
to see if it can raise the financing and is willing to risk its
credit rating, according to the people. JBS’s  market value  is
just below Sara Lee’s at about $10.5 billion.  JBS is trying to avoid taking on so much debt that it will
slide further below investment grade, the people said. JBS has
made about more than a dozen  acquisitions  since 2007, expanding
into the U.S., Australia and Europe.  Debt Assessment  “The obstacles to a potential sale to JBS are not
insurmountable,” Serotta said in a note to clients today.
“While JBS has roughly the same market capitalization as SLE,
JBS could potentially receive support in financing a transaction
from the Brazilian government.”  Under Barnes, who took charge in 2005, Sara Lee divested
divisions such as apparel that accounted for roughly half of its
overall sales. With the sale of the bakery unit to Mexico’s
Grupo Bimbo for $959 million, Sara Lee now generates more than
half of its sales and profits outside the U.S., according to
Howard, the Bernstein analyst.  “We increasingly view Sara Lee as a company whose current
portfolio and geographic focus is inefficient from a tax
perspective, so something has to give,” Howard said.  If Smits, 49, is chosen as CEO, a breakup or privatization
is more likely, Howard said in her note. The other internal
candidate for the job is C.J. Fraleigh, who runs North American
retail and foodservice operations. Executive recruitment agency
Egon Zehnder is working the Sara Lee’s board on the search.  JBS Expansion  JBS, led by CEO  Joesley Mendonca Batista , has been
expanding through takeovers after acquiring meat processor Swift
& Co. in 2007 and two Smithfield Foods Inc. units in 2008. It
also bought a majority stake in poultry producer Pilgrim’s Pride
Corp. in 2009 to diversify from beef.  “You could make the case that JBS is not interested in
Sara Lee’s beverage business but that could be a good
diversification strategy for JBS,” analyst  John Baumgartner  of
Telsey Advisory Group said in an interview today. “There could
also be a joint bid where JBS gets the meat unit and a private
equity player gets the beverages. There are a few ways to come
at this.”  Batista has said the company will continue to grow as it
seeks more acquisitions in the U.S. and Brazil, the world’s
biggest beef producers, as well as other countries. “We’ve only
just started,” Batista told reporters in Sao Paulo last year.
The company generated $20 billion in revenue in 2009.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jeffrey McCracken  in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;
 Matthew Boyle  in New York at 
 Mboyle20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net ;
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net . 