-- Sasol to Pay $1.03 Billion for Stake in Talisman's Canadian Shale Assets
-- B y   C a r l i   L o u r e n s   a n d   G a r t h   T h e u n i s s e n
-- 2010-12-20T16:55:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-20/sasol-to-pay-1-04-billion-for-stake-in-talisman-energy-s-shale-gas-assets.html
Sasol Ltd. , the world’s largest
maker of motor fuels from coal, will pay C$1.05 billion ($1.03
billion) for a stake in  Talisman Energy Inc. ’s Canadian shale-
gas assets and may build a motor-fuels plant in the country.  The two agreed to study “the economic viability of a
facility in western Canada to  convert  natural gas-to-liquid
fuels,” Johannesburg-based Sasol said in a statement today.
“This could provide a strategic alternative to traditional
North American pipeline or liquefied natural gas marketing.”  Sasol uses its Fischer-Tropsch technology to transform gas
from below the ocean floor and coal into liquid fuels such as
gasoline and diesel in South Africa and Qatar. Rising prices and
advances in extracting shale gas have spurred the company’s
interest in developing plants to convert the gas.  Sasol rose  22 cents to 333.71 rand at 5 p.m. in
Johannesburg. Talisman, based in Calgary,  rose  84 cents, or 4
percent, to C$21.73 at 11:47 a.m. on the Toronto Stock Exchange.  The transaction appears to be “well thought through,”
Abri du Plessis, chief investment officer at Cape Town-based
Gryphon Asset Management Ltd., said by phone today. “The market
has been waiting for a catalyst to move the price” of Sasol.  The deal will give the South African company 50 percent of
 Talisman ’s Farrell Creek operations in the Montney Shale basin
in northeastern British Columbia. The 51.6 acre site holds an
estimated 9.6 trillion cubic feet of shale gas, Sasol said.  Shale Gas  Sasol, which built the world’s first commercial gas-to-
liquids plant in Qatar, is studying shale gas in South Africa’s
Karoo region with  Chesapeake Energy Corp.  and Statoil ASA. Exxon
Mobil Corp., Mitsubishi Corp., Reliance Industries Ltd. and
Sumitomo Corp. are also expanding into shale gas as conventional
energy reserves shrink. Fuel from natural gas is cleaner than
that made from oil, allowing producers to charge higher prices.  New technology has made shale gas economically viable and
allowed countries to cut their dependence on imported liquefied
natural gas. U.S. shale-gas output has risen to about a 10th of
its total gas supplies, from 2 percent in 1990.  Sasol will  pay  C$262.5 million in cash for the transaction
and fund 75 percent of Talisman’s portion of costs to develop
Farrell Creek until the total purchase price is paid, it said.  Sasol and Talisman will cooperate on other, unspecified,
gas opportunities in the region, according to the statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Carli Lourens  in Johannesburg at 
 clourens@bloomberg.net ;
 Garth Theunissen  in Johannesburg 
 gtheunissen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Amanda Jordan at 
 ajordan11@bloomberg.net .
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  