-- Saudi Companies May Beat Malaysia on Debt Sales in 2011: Islamic Finance
-- B y   D a n a   E l   B a l t a j i
-- 2010-12-20T09:44:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-20/saudi-companies-may-beat-malaysia-on-debt-sales-in-2011-islamic-finance.html
Saudi Arabia may overtake Malaysia
as the largest issuer of Islamic bonds for the first time in
2011 as the kingdom’s 1.44 trillion-riyal ($384 billion)
stimulus plan boosts spending.  Saudi Electricity Co. , the Arab world’s largest utility by
market value, will finance more than 30 billion riyals ($8
billion) of projects, Chief Executive Officer  Ali Al-Barrak  said
in a Dec. 14 interview.  Saudi International Petrochemical Co. 
said Dec. 14 it may sell as much as 2 billion riyals of Shariah-
compliant debt in the first quarter. Sukuk from borrowers in the
largest Arab economy totaled $2.3 billion this year, compared
with $7.3 billion of local-currency debt sales in Malaysia, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  “The Saudi market could easily become the largest sukuk
issuer simply because Saudi sukuk are much larger,”  Tariq Al- Rifai , director of Islamic Market Indexes in Dubai for  Dow Jones
Indexes , part of a joint venture 90 percent owned by CME Group
Inc. and 10 percent by News Corp.’s Dow Jones & Co., said in an
e-mailed response to questions Dec. 17.  The world’s largest oil exporter announced in August a
five-year development plan to spur economic growth, create jobs
and diversify its economy away from hydrocarbons. Borrowers from
the kingdom are tapping the Islamic debt market to fund
expansion,  John Sfakianakis , chief economist at Banque Saudi
Fransi in Riyadh, said Dec. 16.  ‘Unique Position’  State-controlled Saudi Electricity and  Dar Al Arkan Real
Estate Development Co ., the biggest Saudi developer, led sales
of sukuk from the Gulf this year, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Saudi Electricity  sold 7 billion riyals of 20-year Islamic
bonds in May at 95 basis points more than the three-month  Saudi
riyal interbank offered rate . Investors placed 27 billion riyals
of bids, the company said May 12.  Dar Al Arkan  sold $450 million of sukuk in February.
National Commercial Bank, Saudi Arabia’s largest lender, will
sell its first sukuk in the second quarter, Executive Vice
President  Abdulrazzak Elkhraijy  said Nov. 22.  Companies in the kingdom are in a “unique position in
raising much more cost competitive capital than anyone else in
the region due to the low risk profile of Saudi Arabia,”
Sfakianakis said in a telephone interview. “There is no doubt
that 2011 will be a solid year for private-sector growth.”  Sukuk Sales  Economic growth in Saudi Arabia will accelerate to 4.5
percent in 2011 from 3.4 percent this year, the International
Monetary Fund said in its  World Economic Outlook  report in
October. The country, which holds 20 percent of the world’s
proven oil reserves, is rated Aa3 by Moody’s Investors Service
and AA- by Standard & Poor’s, the fourth-highest ratings.  Sales of Islamic bonds from six issuers in the six-nation
Gulf Cooperation Council dropped 32 percent to $4.5 billion in
2010, the least since 2005, after debt restructurings, defaults
and tumbling property prices hurt investors’ confidence.  The Malaysian government’s 10-year initiative for private-
led projects ranging from a nuclear power plant to an
underground rail network will spur sales of Shariah-compliant
debt, Kuala Lumpur-based RHB Investment Management Sdn.’s Chief
Executive Officer  Sharifatul Hanizah Said Ali  said Dec. 15.  “There is more demand from local investors for Malaysian
ringgit sukuk than there is local demand for sukuk in the Middle
East,”  Naji Nabaa , a Dubai-based associate director of fixed-
income sales for the Middle East and North Africa at Exotix
Ltd., an investment bank specializing in infrequently traded
assets, said in a telephone interview yesterday. “Malaysia will
continue to dominate the sukuk market in 2011 in terms of the
number of Islamic bonds issued.”  Narrowing Gap  The extra yield investors demand to hold Dubai’s government
sukuk rather than Malaysia’s narrowed 46 basis points this month
to 344, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The yield on Dubai’s
6.396 percent sukuk maturing in November 2014 dropped 3.6 basis
points to 6.54 percent today, according to Bloomberg data.  Shariah-compliant debt in the GCC returned 12.9 percent
this year,  HSBC/NASDAQ Dubai GCC US Dollar Sukuk Index  shows.
Global sukuk returned 12.2 percent this year, according to the
 HSBC/NASDAQ Dubai US Dollar Sukuk Index . Bonds in developing
markets gained 11.4 percent, JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s  EMBI Global
Diversified Index  shows.  Riyal Sukuk  The  difference  between the average yield for emerging
market sukuk and the London interbank offered rate narrowed 61
basis points this month to 300 on Dec. 17, according to the
 HSBC/NASDAQ Dubai US Dollar Sukuk Index . In the GCC, which
includes Qatar, the United Arab Emirates and Kuwait, the gap
shrank 67 basis points to 372 on Dec. 17.  Petrochemical makers in the Persian Gulf will invest $50
billion by 2015 and boost output by 46 percent to 154 million
tons annually over the period, Abdulwahab al-Sadoun, secretary
general of the head of the Gulf Petrochemicals & Chemicals
Association, said in Dubai on Dec. 6. Most of the investments
are expected to be made in Saudi Arabia, he said.  “Saudi utilities and smaller corporates will most likely
look at riyal sukuk, just because the domestic demand is
there,” said Al-Rifai.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Dana El Baltaji  in Dubai at 
 delbaltaji@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  