-- Schlumberger Warns of Looming Shortage of Petroleum Engineers
-- B y   W a e l   M a h d i
-- 2010-12-20T13:44:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-20/schlumberger-warns-of-looming-shortage-of-petroleum-engineers.html
Oil companies face a dwindling pool
of engineers and other technical staff needed for exploration
and production, the head of the world’s largest oilfield
services company said.  The number of young recruits hired to replace aging
petroleum engineers has declined over the last 10 years, as many
college graduates choose managerial positions over engineering
jobs and other field assignments, said  Andrew Gould , chairman
and chief executive officer of  Schlumberger Ltd.   “The talent gap is still a factor that limits the
expansion of the oil and gas exploration industry,” he told a
conference in Dhahran, Saudi Arabia, on Dec. 18.  Many young people believe exploration for oil and natural
gas is a dying business, Gould said. In fact, engineers with
advanced technological skills are in great demand at companies
that need to drill deeper and in increasingly challenging
conditions now that the era of “easy oil” is over, he said.  Since 2004, Schlumberger has paid its newly hired engineers
more than new employees holding management degrees, Gould said.  A shortage of university professors in the necessary
subjects exacerbates the problem, said Nigel Middleton, senior
vice president for strategic enterprise at  Colorado School of
Mines  in Golden, Colorado.  “It was difficult to recruit faculty for Colorado School
of Mines in the last few years, as their pay in the industry is
higher than that in academia,” Middleton told the conference.  Schlumberger and other large energy companies are trying to
improve their collaboration with academia to ensure an adequate
crop of field engineers in coming years.  Larger numbers of petroleum engineers are graduating from
schools in China, India, and Indonesia. “They are as good as
the ones graduating from the West,” Gould said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Wael Mahdi  in Khobar at 
 wmahdi@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net . 