-- SEC Seeks Wiretaps From Rajaratnam For Civil Case After Judge Admits Them
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2010-12-20T20:02:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-20/sec-seeks-wiretaps-from-rajaratnam-for-civil-case-after-judge-admits-them.html
The U.S.  Securities and Exchange
Commission  wants Galleon Group co-founder  Raj Rajaratnam  to turn
over his copies of wiretaps made by the Justice Department for a
related civil suit after a judge ruled they’re admissible in the
government’s criminal prosecution of insider trading.  U.S. District Judge  Richard J. Holwell  in New York, who is
presiding over the criminal case, ruled on Nov. 24 that U.S.
prosecutors had properly complied with federal laws in using
wiretaps to investigate Rajaratnam and former hedge fund
consultant  Danielle Chiesi . Holwell said the U.S. could use the
wiretapped conversations in their prosecution of the two
defendants.  Rajaratnam, 53, and Chiesi, 44, are accused of illegally
using tips from company executives, hedge fund employees and
other insiders. They were charged in October 2009 as part of the
biggest insider-trading prosecution in history. The scheme
reaped $52 million in illegal profits, according to the SEC.  “Given that the legality of the wiretaps has now been
established, and given that the SEC is only seeking relevant
intercepts, the SEC’s ‘significant’ right to obtain the relevant
intercepts outweighs whatever arguable remaining privacy
interests defendants and others may have,” the SEC said in
court papers.  Rakoff Ruling  In February, U.S. District Judge  Jed Rakoff , who is
presiding over the SEC’s civil enforcement case, directed
Rajaratnam and Chiesi to turn over the wiretaps. They had
received the recordings from federal prosecutors as part of
preparing their defense in the criminal case.  In September, a panel of judges from the U.S. Court of
Appeals for the Second Circuit in New York reversed that ruling,
saying Rakoff abused his discretion in issuing his order before
Holwell, who is presiding over the criminal case, had a chance
to rule on the legality of the recorded conversations.  A federal appeals court ruled in September the SEC couldn’t
have access to the tapes until after Holwell ruled on the
legality of the tapes. The ruling didn’t bar the agency from
obtaining the wiretaps later in the case after Holwell issued
his decision on the legality of the tapes.  Relevant Conversations  The SEC said Rajaratnam has had the wiretapped
communications since Dec. 23, 2009, and said in court papers
filed on Dec. 17, that these conversations are relevant to
proving the agency’s claims that the defendants provided,
received and sought material nonpublic information for the
purpose of insider trading.  “Most of the relevant communications will likely consist
of conversations by market professionals and public company
insiders about stock trading and publicly traded companies,”
the SEC said.  Material that isn’t relevant can be redacted, in light of
Holwell’s ruling, the SEC said. Failure to obtain the wiretaps
from the defendants will mean substantial prejudice to the
agency’s case.  “The SEC’s significant right of access to relevant,
legally intercepted communications relating to the defendants’
insider trading scheme, and the substantial prejudice it will
suffer if
deprived of these intercepts, clearly outweighs any remaining,
diminished privacy interests implicated in disclosing the
relevant intercepts,” the SEC said. “Without the recordings,
the SEC likely will be deprived of important admissions and in
many instances the best, most direct evidence of wrongdoing.”  According to Rajaratnam and Chiesi, the government
wiretapped conversations involving 18,150 communications
involving 550 people on 10 phones over the course of 16 months.  A Rajaratnam spokesman, Jim McCarthy, declined to comment,
as did  Alan R. Kaufman , a lawyer for Chiesi.  The case is Securities and Exchange Commission v.
Rajaratnam, 10-CV-462, U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second
Circuit (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Patricia Hurtado  in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net  