-- Senators Warner, Chambliss to Put U.S.'s Debt Atop Agenda in Next Congress
-- B y   H e i d i   P r z y b y l a
-- 2010-12-20T20:25:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-20/senators-warner-chambliss-to-put-u-s-s-debt-atop-agenda-in-next-congress.html
Senators  Mark Warner  and  Saxby Chambliss  will seek to put the U.S. debt atop the agenda in
next year’s Congress by offering measures to cut government
spending, reduce popular tax breaks and trim entitlement
programs.  Warner, a Virginia Democrat, and Chambliss, a Georgia
Republican, have been working over the past six months to court
a group of 25 senators from both sides of the political aisle
in a bid to gather support for their bill, Warner said today in
an interview.  The legislation is based on a plan by the co-chairs of
President  Barack Obama ’s debt-reduction panel that earlier this
month failed to get enough support for its recommendations to
be sent to Congress.  “Why not take their work and amend off that?” said
Warner, who casts the bill as an effort “to get the ball
rolling” on the congressional debate over how to tame the
nation’s $1.3 trillion federal  budget deficit .  “You just have to start with some building blocks,” he
said. “You’ve got to take on entitlements, you’ve also got to
take on revenues.”  In comments to reporters, Chambliss said he is expecting
to offer “a comprehensive bill that’s going to be a pretty
major package.”  Long Odds  The bill may face long odds since Obama’s 18-member
commission, a mix of elected and unelected leaders, couldn’t
get the 14 votes necessary to forward the  plan  to Congress.
Members from both parties opposed its mix of tax increases and
spending cuts in programs such as Social Security and Medicare.  Warner’s supporters say the push by him and Chambliss
will, at a minimum, focus attention on the  deficit  and the
national debt early in a congressional session that will
include many newly elected House and Senate members who made
pledges to voters to address the issues.  “This is a group that is going to get momentum and insist
on continuing to bring up the deficit at every single moment,”
said  Maya MacGuineas , president of the Committee for a
Responsible Federal Budget, a watchdog group. Even if Congress
can’t agree on a plan, the bipartisan effort will reassure
credit markets “in a way that buys you more time,” she said.  MacGuineas has been working with Warner’s group, which has
met regularly with lawmakers and economists, as well as Federal
Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  and former Comptroller General
 David Walker .  Senators’ Speeches  During congressional debate on Dec. 15 over extending
President  George W. Bush ’s tax cuts, 18 of the group’s members
joined together to give speeches on the Senate floor urging
action on the deficit by the end of 2011. The lawmakers include
Democrats  Amy Klobuchar  of Minnesota and  Mark Udall  of Colorado
and Republicans  Mike Crapo  of Idaho and  Bob Corker  of
Tennessee.  Congress faces a vote early next year on raising the
national debt ceiling, which some lawmakers may support only
under the condition of a debt reduction bill, said Chambliss.  “If we can use that as leverage, that’s an ideal
scenario,” he said. The 2012 presidential election, which
could undermine bipartisanship in Congress, also gives impetus
to trying to enact legislation in 2011, he said.  Panel Plan  The rejected proposal by debt commission co-chairmen
 Erskine Bowles , a White House chief of staff under former
President  Bill Clinton , and  Alan Simpson , a former Republican
senator from Wyoming, would have reduced the annual deficit to
about $400 billion in 2015 and begun reducing the debt.  The plan would have increased taxes by $1 trillion by 2020
by scaling back or eliminating hundreds of deductions,
exclusions or credits such as those allowing homeowners to
write off interest on their mortgage payments. It would also
have cut individual and corporate income tax rates.  Social Security benefits would have been cut, the gas tax
would have gone up by 15 cents, discretionary spending would
have been reduced by $1.6 trillion and Medicare would have been
pared by $400 billion.  Incoming House Budget Committee Chairman  Paul Ryan , a
Wisconsin Republican, has said he would also include major
portions of the Bowles-Simpson plan in legislation next year.  “That’s a very positive sign coming from the House and
the new majority in the House,” said Chambliss.  Ryan was among the commission members voting against
sending the co-chairmen’s plan to Congress. He said he did so
largely because it failed to call for repeal of health-care
overhaul passed into law earlier this year, which he said would
worsen the government’s fiscal woes.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Heidi Przybyla  in Washington at 
 hprzybyla@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net . 