-- Seneca Urges Dynegy's Shareholders to Reject Icahn's $665 Million Bid
-- B y   J e s s i c a   R e s n i c k - A u l t
-- 2010-12-20T21:06:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-20/seneca-urges-dynegy-s-shareholders-to-reject-icahn-s-665-million-bid.html
Seneca Capital , the second-largest
shareholder in  Dynegy Inc ., opposes billionaire investor  Carl Icahn ’s $665 million bid to buy the U.S. power producer, saying
the company may be worth more than three times that amount.  Shareholders should reject  Icahn Enterprise LP’s  $5.50-a-
share bid, announced on Dec. 15, the hedge fund said in a
statement today. Dynegy, the third-largest independent power
producer, is worth as much as $7 a share today and may rise to
$18 a share once economic recovery revives demand for power from
its plants, New York-based Seneca said.  Seneca, which has tried to secure two seats on  Dynegy’s
board  for its own candidates, said the current board’s approval
of the sale shows a “reckless disregard” for its duties.  “Dynegy’s continued mission to impose a transaction upon
shareholders at any price -- and at any cost -- is a brazen
attempt to disenfranchise shareholders and seize management’s
$38 million change-of-control severance,” Seneca said.  Seneca joined with Icahn in opposing a $5-a-share bid for
Dynegy by  Blackstone Group LP  in November. That deal was
abandoned because it lacked the support of a majority of
shareholders. Seneca says Icahn’s bid is insufficient and
indicates the board hasn’t carefully reviewed its options to run
Dynegy as a standalone company.  Dynegy will continue looking for better offers until Jan.
24 and Icahn has agreed to support a better all-cash bid if he
can’t top it,  David Byford , a spokesman for the power producer,
said in an e-mailed statement.  ‘Very Positive’  “The Icahn offer, coupled with the company’s ability to
continue soliciting superior offers, is a very positive outcome
for all Dynegy shareholders,” Byford said.  Independent power producers sell power into wholesale
markets, subjecting the companies to price fluctuations.  NRG 
Energy Inc. and  Calpine Corp . are the two largest U.S.
independent power producers.  Dynegy  rose  4 cents to $5.67 at 4:05 p.m. in New York Stock
Exchange composite trading. The shares have fallen 38 percent
this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jessica Resnick-Ault  in New York at 
 jresnickault@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tina Davis at   tinadavis@bloomberg.net . 