-- Shanghai's Jin Jiang to Build World's Highest Hotel, Displacing Hong Kong
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-12-20T09:07:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-20/shanghai-firm-plans-world-s-highest-hotel-to-bump-hong-kong-s-ritz-carlton.html
Shanghai Jin Jiang International
Hotels Group Co.  plans to build the world’s highest hotel in the
Chinese city that will displace the neighboring Park Hyatt and
the Ritz-Carlton that will open in Hong Kong in March.  The venture with Shanghai Tower Development Co. will
develop the 258-room Shanghai Tower J-Hotel, which will occupy
the 84th to the 110th floors of the 121-story building, said a
Jin Jiang filing to the Hong Kong exchange yesterday. The 632-
meter Shanghai Tower in the Pudong business hub is set to be the
world’s second-tallest building when it’s completed in 2014.  Jin Jiang, which runs the 81-year-old  Peace Hotel  in
Shanghai, is joining developers that have accelerated the
building of landmark skyscrapers in the country. The Shanghai
World Financial Center that was completed two years ago is now
China’s tallest building, while the Shanghai Greenland Group Co.
began constructing the world’s third-highest tower in the
central Chinese city of Wuhan.  “Being the tallest sticks in people’s minds,” said
 Nicholas Mak , executive director and head of research and
consultancy at SLP International Property Consultants Pte in
Singapore. “There are many people who can claim they’re the
most luxurious, but that’s a bit subjective. It’s technically
challenging to build the tallest and this gives bragging rights
to the owners.”  Park Hyatt  The  Park Hyatt  at the Shanghai World Financial Center is
the world’s highest hotel, occupying the 79th to 93rd floors of
the 492-meter building by Mori Building Co. The 828-meter Burj
Khalifa in Dubai, which will remain the world’s tallest
skyscraper even after Shanghai Tower’s completion, includes
fashion icon Giorgio Armani’s first  hotel  on lower floors.  The Ritz-Carlton Hong Kong will occupy the 102th to 118th
floors of the 490-meter International Commerce Centre in Kowloon,
a height that will allow it to take the top spot from the Park
Hyatt in Shanghai.  Jin Jiang’s hotel will overtake the Ritz-Carlton because the
Shanghai hotel’s 110th floor will be at about 574.5 meters,
higher than the Hong Kong building where the Ritz-Carlton is
located.  The hotel is being built to exceed Forbes (Mobil)’s Five-
Star and AAA’s Five-Diamond standards, according to the Jin
Jiang statement. The property will help the Shanghai-based hotel
operator build its J-hotel brand, it said. It plans to develop
10 to 12 landmark properties in key cities “to capture first-
mover advantage in China high-end hotel market,” it said.  ‘Short-Lived Coverage’  “Having the highest hotel in the world obviously will draw
significant, if somewhat short-lived, PR coverage,” said James
Macdonald, head of China research at London-based property
broker Savills Plc in Shanghai. In China, “we are going through
a period when developers are developing the tallest buildings in
the world and given that developers will typically place hotels
at the top of any large-scale, mixed-use, high-rise building,
this means that we are getting the tallest hotels in the
world,” he said.  Jin Jiang, which owns or runs more than 460 hotels, opened
the Peace Hotel in July after three years of restoration. The
property that once accommodated Charlie Chaplin and other
celebrities was renamed Fairmont Peace Hotel, managed by Jin
Jiang and  Fairmont Hotels & Resorts Inc. , which runs the Savoy
hotel in London.  Shares Fall  Jin Jiang’s shares have fallen 13 percent this year,
compared with the 48 percent gain in the  Bloomberg Asia Pacific
Lodging Index . The stock was unchanged at HK$1.96 at the 4 p.m.
close in Hong Kong, paring a loss of as much as 2 percent.  Shanghai  has spruced up its infrastructure to host the $44
billion  World Expo  this year, which drew a record number of
visitors during the six-month event. The city built two airport
terminals and undertook a three-year renovation of The Bund, the
city’s colonial-era waterfront boulevard, lined with historic
buildings including the Peace Hotel.  China’s richest city also accelerated its expansion of the
 subway system  to more than 400 kilometers (248 miles) to cater
to the influx of visitors, making it the biggest city transport
underground network in the country.  -- Bonnie Cao . Editors:  Linus Chua ,  Andreea Papuc   To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
 Bonnie Cao  in Shanghai at +86-21-6104-3035 or
 bcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  