-- Singh Vows to Punish Guilty in Phone Probe as Political Standoff Continues
-- B y   A b h i j i t   R o y   C h o w d h u r y   a n d   B i b h u d a t t a   P r a d h a n
-- 2010-12-20T12:23:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-20/singh-vows-to-punish-guilty-in-phone-probe-as-political-standoff-continues.html
India’s Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  vowed to punish those found guilty in a phone-license
probe and rejected demands for a cross-party investigation,
prolonging a political confrontation that’s stalled legislation.  “No guilty person will be spared, whether he is a
political leader or government official,” Singh told members of
the ruling Indian National Congress party near New Delhi today.
“No purpose will be served by a joint parliamentary committee,
except to delay the inquiry and politicize the matter.”  Singh said he is ready to face queries from the Public
Accounts Committee, a panel of lawmakers examining a report on
spectrum sale. “I have nothing to hide,” he said.  About 15,000 workers of the party, including its chief
 Sonia Gandhi , are gathered in the outskirts of the capital to
chart the Congress’s future after the nation’s top auditor
reported last month that the 2008 sale of airwaves at below-
market prices may have cost the exchequer $31 billion. Last week,
parliament ended its least productive session in at least 25
years amid protests led by the main opposition  Bharatiya Janata
Party  over the sale.  Polarizing Further  The impasse threatens to hamper Singh’s agenda for India’s
$1.3 trillion economy. Bills to change rules on how land is
purchased for industry and make mining companies share profits
with local communities are stalled. Singh may face his biggest
crisis yet in February when his government must get its budget
passed through both houses of the legislature, said  N. Bhaskara Rao , chairman of the Centre for Media Studies in New Delhi.  As there’s “no symbolic conciliatory message from
government and opposition, and both are making an effort to
polarize further,” the stalemate may spill over, Rao said.
“There’s no specific action plan in the prime minister’s speech
to deal with corruption, except assuring party cadres that they
are seized of the matter.”  Congress President  Sonia Gandhi  yesterday unveiled a five-
point action plan to tackle corruption, advocating a new system
to expedite cases against government officials and politicians,
and legislation to ensure transparency in the procurement of
land and other resources.  “We need an open, competitive system of exploiting natural
resources,” Gandhi  said  at the conclave, held for the first
time in four years.  The so-called plenary session precedes a planned opposition
rally on Dec. 22 to pressure the government for a parliamentary
probe. Five of India’s states will hold elections in the next 12
months.  Asia’s Riskiest  Corruption and bureaucratic inefficiency make India the
riskiest country in Asia for investors, according to this year’s
survey by  Hong Kong-based Political & Economic Risk Consultancy
Ltd.   Former telecommunications minister Andimuthu Raja resigned
from Singh’s cabinet on Nov. 14, two days before the  Comptroller
and Auditor General of India  said in a report that the
government sold wireless airwaves in 2008 for 123.9 billion
rupees ($2.7 billion), though they were worth as much as 1.5
trillion rupees. Raja, a member of Singh’s regional ally Dravida
Munnetra Kazhagam, has denied any wrongdoing.  The Supreme Court has said it will monitor a federal
investigation into the alleged irregularities in the sale of
mobile-phone licenses to verify the probe is being conducted
appropriately. Singh’s office Nov. 20 filed an affidavit with
the court rejecting allegations he had put off bringing charges
against Raja.  “Like Caesar’s wife, the prime minister should be above
suspicion,” said Singh, adding he will address “any
shortcomings” in the functioning of the government to deal with
corruption cases “effectively.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Abhijit Roy Chowdhury  in New Delhi at 
 achowdhury11@bloomberg.net ;
 Bibhudatta Pradhan  in New Delhi at 
 bpradhan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Sam Nagarajan at   samnagarajan@bloomberg.net ;
Hari Govind at   hgovind@bloomberg.net  