-- Sony May Surpass Samsung in India LCD-Television Sales, DisplaySearch Says
-- B y   J a s o n   C l e n f i e l d   a n d   M a k i   S h i r a k i
-- 2010-12-21T07:00:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-20/sony-may-beat-samsung-in-india-lcd-tv-sales-displaysearch-says.html
Sony Corp. , struggling to return its
television business to profit, may pass  Samsung Electronics Co. 
this year as the top seller of flat-screen TVs in India, the
fastest-growing major market, researcher DisplaySearch said.  In a shift from an earlier strategy that focused on India’s
wealthiest shoppers, Sony has gained market share by offering
cheaper models and expanding its distribution network,  Hisakazu Torii , a Tokyo-based analyst at  DisplaySearch , said in an
interview yesterday. The maker of Bravia TVs last year ranked
third in India behind Samsung and  LG Electronics Inc. , he said.  “We’re finally starting to see the fruits of Sony’s
efforts to strengthen its brand image and its sales network,”
Torii said. “There’s a real possibility they could take the top
share for the year.”  Sony’s push in India is part of a larger move by Japanese
companies including  Toshiba Corp. , who are following South
Korean rivals in expanding into emerging markets. Still, a weak
consumer recovery in the U.S. and Europe, Sony’s traditional
strongholds, may prevent Chief Executive Officer  Howard Stringer 
from ending a six-year  losing streak  at the TV business.  ‘Late to the Party’  Japan’s largest exporter of consumer electronics accounted
for 23 percent of all flat-panel TVs sold in India during the
first nine months of this year while Samsung and LG lagged
behind at about 22 percent, DisplaySearch’s Torii said. Last
year, Samsung led with 29.3 percent, followed by LG’s 23.1
percent and Sony’s 22.9 percent.  “The bottom line is: they might be late to the party, but
Sony finally understands where they want to compete,” said  Atul Goyal , a senior analyst at CLSA Asia-Pacific Markets in
Singapore. “It was all Samsung and LG for the last 10 years, so
for Sony to come up the way they have is impressive.”  Samsung won’t implement “low-price strategies” in
emerging markets,  James Chung , a company spokesman, said in an
interview. “Previously, we focused on the U.S. and European
markets, but emerging markets such as India and South America
are becoming more and more important.”  Sony ’s shares have risen 13 percent this year, while the
benchmark  Nikkei 225 Stock Average  has slipped 1.7 percent. The
Tokyo-based manufacturer of TVs, video game consoles and
notebook computers rose 2.7 percent to 3,010 yen as of the 3
p.m. close on the Tokyo Stock Exchange.  ‘Harsh Competition’  India and other emerging markets are the reason Sony has
been able to keep its target of selling 25 million TVs this
year, or 60 percent more than last fiscal year, Vice President
 Hiroshi Yoshioka  said yesterday. The final tally may fall short
by “a little bit,” he said.  Selling more sets by itself isn’t enough to make the
business profitable. Falling prices amid “harsh competition”
this holiday season may mean that Sony’s TV operations lose
money for a seventh consecutive year, Chief Financial Officer
 Masaru Kato  said in October.  While flat-panel models only made up 22 percent of the
estimated 15.3 million TVs sold in India this year, the number
of such sets is likely to double next year as Indian consumers
replace their bulkier glass-tube models, according to Austin,
Texas-based DisplaySearch. India is likely to become the world’s
third-largest TV market next year, according to the researcher.  Emerging Markets  Earlier this month, India’s finance ministry raised its
economic growth forecast for the current year to 9.1 percent,
citing higher consumer demand in rural areas. At $1.3 trillion,
India is the world’s second-fastest growing major economy.  Other Japanese manufacturers are also trying to make
inroads in developing markets. Toshiba this month is introducing
its own line of lower-priced models to double TV sales in
Southeast Asia. The Tokyo-based company said last month it’s
counting on growth in Asia next year to help offset an
anticipated plunge in the domestic market after the expiration
of government subsidies designed to boost consumer spending.  When Sony started selling flat-panel TVs in India in 2005,
it targeted wealthier consumers who could afford a 40-inch
Bravia that cost more than 200,000 yen ($2,400), said Yuki
Shima, a Tokyo-based spokeswoman at Sony. The company focused on
customers with annual salaries greater than $10,000 and is now
reaching out to consumers who make as little as $4,000 a year
while expanding into more cities, Shima said.  This year, Sony expanded its lineup to include smaller
models such as 22-inch sets priced at about 34,000 yen.
Replacing LED backlights with fluorescent bulbs in some sets
helped Sony lower prices and also costs, Shima said. The company
aims to double TV sales in India, she said, declining to comment
on market share.  “If this is just a defensive move and they’re just going
into these markets because the home market has collapsed, it
won’t work,” said Chang Sea Jin, author of “Sony Vs.
Samsung,” a 2008 book that chronicled how the South Korean
company built an empire by focusing on developing economies.
“It takes sustained investment.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jason Clenfield  in Tokyo at 
 jclenfield@bloomberg.net ;
 Maki Shiraki  in Tokyo at 
 Mshiraki1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  