-- Sony May Miss Full-Year Sales Target for Televisions by `a Little Bit'
-- B y   M i k a k o   N a k a j i m a   a n d   P a v e l   A l p e y e v
-- 2010-12-20T06:29:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-20/sony-may-miss-full-year-sales-target-for-televisions-by-a-little-bit-.html
Sony Corp. , the world’s third-
largest television maker, may miss a target to sell 25 million
TVs this fiscal year, Vice President  Hiroshi Yoshioka  said.  The company may fall short of its goal for the year ending
in March 31 by a “little bit,” he said in Tokyo today without
elaborating.  Sony’s overall electronics sales are in-line with the
previous year in developed countries and are increasing in
emerging markets, said Yoshioka, who is in charge of the
business. The maker of Bravia televisions said in October the
television industry is heading toward “harsh competition,”
making it difficult to bring the TV operations profitable this
fiscal year.  “Judging from the difficult macro environment in the U.S.
and the company’s previous pronouncements about profitability in
the business, the sales shortfall is not a surprise,” said
 Nobuo Kurahashi , an analyst at Mizuho Financial Group Inc. in
Tokyo. “The company understands the importance of linking
contents and hardware to capture profits, but the execution is
slow in coming.”  The company plans to increase capital spending next fiscal
year ending March 2012 from the 230 billion yen ($2.7 billion)
planned for the current 12-month period, Yoshioka said, without
giving a specific figure. The additional spending will be used
to bolster production of image sensors, semiconductors that
convert light into a digital signal in cameras, he said.  Sony  fell 1.2 percent to 2,930 yen at the 3 p.m. close of
trading on the Tokyo Stock Exchange. The company has gained 9.7
percent this year, compared with a 3.1 percent  drop  for Japan’s
 Nikkei 225 Stock Average .  Global LCD TV shipments in 2010 may rise less than
previously expected, increasing 24 percent to 180 million units,
short of the 29 percent growth forecast earlier, Bank of America
Corp.’s Merrill Lynch said in an Oct. 19 report.  To revive demand, Sony in October started offering
Internet-enabled TVs in the U.S. that use  Google Inc.  software
to let viewers access websites and Web videos. The Tokyo-based
company is considering offering a 3-D version of the web-
connected set.  “There is still restructuring to be done, but we expect
the business to become profitable from the next fiscal year,”
Yoshioka said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Mikako Nakajima  in Tokyo at 
 mikako@bloomberg.net ;
 Pavel Alpeyev  in Tokyo at 
 palpeyev@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  