-- Soros Gold Bubble at $1,384 as Miners Push Buttons
-- B y   C a m   S i m p s o n
-- 2010-12-20T02:36:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-20/soros-gold-bubble-at-1-375-has-miners-push-every-button-in-tale-of-tears.html
James Burton  didn’t have a penny
invested in gold of the $142.8 billion he managed as chief
executive officer of the California Public Employees’ Retirement
System in 2002. Why would he? The metal had been in a bear
market for two decades.  Yet shortly after announcing his retirement from the
largest public pension fund in the U.S., Burton agreed to fly to
London to entertain a job offer from a mining companies trade
group he had never heard of. Squishing across a rain-soaked
British golf course in rented shoes in early June 2002, he
listened to what sounded like a far-fetched idea: Selling gold
as an investment to the masses.  It was time to get investors to buy a precious metal they’d
shunned for a generation,  Christopher Thompson , the  World Gold
Council ’s new chairman, told him that day. The key was dividing
bars of gold into securities tradable on the New York Stock
Exchange. He wanted Burton to lead the effort, in no small part
because of his connections with institutional investors. Gold
was then trading at about $328 an ounce in London.  “I was convinced that there was a market for the man on
the street who would buy a lot of gold if he could find an easy
way,” says Thompson, 62, who at the time was also chairman of
Johannesburg-based Gold Fields Ltd.  $1,431.25 an Ounce  Thompson bested Burton in match play on the 17th hole,
convincing him to take the job as the World Gold Council’s CEO.
What the two did next shows the role mining companies played in
gold’s longest bull run in at least 90 years, reaching a record
$1,431.25 an ounce on Dec. 7. Gold traded at $1,383.97 an ounce
as of 10:30 a.m. Hong Kong time today.  Under the men’s leadership, a trust set up by the World
Gold Council, which includes producers such as Barrick Gold Corp.
and  Newmont Mining Corp. , won approval from the U.S. Securities
and Exchange Commission for an exchange-traded product backed by
bullion. It gave investors access to gold without the cost and
hassle of taking physical delivery.  The fund, SPDR Gold Trust (pronounced Spider), now holds
1,299 metric tons of gold valued at about $57 billion, more than
the Swiss central bank. Investors include the University of
Notre Dame, the Texas teachers’ pension fund and a who’s who of
hedge fund titans and money managers such as  John Paulson ’s
Paulson & Co.,  Laurence Fink ’s BlackRock Inc. and  George Soros ’s
Soros Fund Management LLC.  Biggest Funds  Globally, the 10 biggest such funds now hold a combined
2,113 metric tons of gold, more than the official reserves
accumulated by every country in the world save four: the U.S.,
Germany, Italy and France.  Their popularity has helped drive unprecedented gains for
the precious metal, and some people, including analysts at
Goldman Sachs Group Inc., say gold can go higher.  Soros, who made $1 billion betting against the British
pound in 1992, called gold the “ultimate asset bubble” at the
 World Economic Forum ’s January meeting in Davos, Switzerland,
when the price of gold was at $1,087.10 an ounce. His fund held
$664.8 million in gold-backed exchange-traded funds as of Sept.
30.  Gold’s rise resembles moves reached before the three big
crashes of the last decade: the Nasdaq tech-stock bubble of 2000,
the U.S. housing market bubble of 2005-2006, and the crude oil-
price spike of 2008, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  In a Dec. 14 interview,  Jason Toussaint , the World Gold
Council’s managing director for the U.S. and investment, pointed
to a September report by the group arguing that the pace and
increase of gold’s price isn’t comparable to the characteristics
of recent bubbles. The metal’s rise is consistent with its long-
run average when compared with other assets, including equity
indexes and oil, the report said.  Parabolic Rise  History shows that when the price of an asset takes a
parabolic climb like gold’s has, it’s eventually bound to crash,
according to  Mark Williams , an executive-in-residence and master
lecturer at Boston University’s finance and economics department.
And when it does it’s almost always the smaller, individual
investors that get out too late, he said.  As much as half of the gold in exchange-traded funds may be
held by individual investors, according to BlackRock, the
world’s largest money manager.  “Your little guy is going to get hit by the doorknob on
the way out,” Williams said.  Driving Social Change  Already gold’s record prices are driving wide-ranging
social change around the world. In the remotest parts of Africa,
villagers scrambling for ever more valuable flecks of gold risk
death at the hands of mine security and parents squeezing gold
wealth from ore have inadvertently poisoned their own children
in the process. In India, where gold has cultural significance,
parents are crushed they can’t buy their daughters as much gold
jewelry as they wanted for their weddings.  The council declined to comment on the painful dividends.  When it worked to create the fund, one concern was that the
exchange-traded product might contribute to a bubble. Burton and
his investment team worried that too much success would shoot
gold prices up too fast, resulting in a crash like the one that
occurred in January 1980, he said. Back then the bubble burst in
one day and took two decades to recover.  Pushing Every Button  Ultimately those engineering what would become SPDR Gold
decided it wasn’t their job to worry about it.  “Our primary mission was to find every button we could
push to stimulate demand,” Burton, 59, said in an interview in
London. “We also knew that we had launched something that we
could not control.”  Their timing was impeccable. They opened investment in a
reputed safe asset to potentially millions of new investors just
before the financial crisis of 2007 and 2008 and the ensuing
global economic slowdown. Until then, bullion was viewed by many
as a fringe holding for the rich with Swiss bank vaults or gold
bugs who hoarded the metal beside canned food to hedge against
Apocalypse.  “They were very patient and they tapped a real deep need
in the ordinary investor to be able to buy and sell gold like a
stock,” says  Jeremy Siegel , a finance professor at the
University of Pennsylvania’s Wharton School in Philadelphia.  ‘Pivotal Moment’  The creation of the fund was a “pivotal moment,” said
 Scott Malpass , chief investment officer for Notre Dame in South
Bend, Indiana. It provided a vehicle for investors that made
gold readily available and cheap and easy to trade, he said.  He managed about $5.5 billion, as of the end of fiscal year
2009, in endowments and other funds for the school.  A gold skeptic, he began buying into SPDR Gold after Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc.’s collapse in 2008, acquiring about $111
million by July 1, 2009. The school held about $65.8 million in
the fund as of Sept. 30, according to SEC records.  While the World Gold Council was not first in the world to
develop an exchange-traded product backed by gold, bringing it
to the U.S. market was crucial, Burton and Thompson say.  The fund, now called SPDR Gold, started trading in 2004 and
led the way for exchange-traded products backed by commodities
in the U.S. Of the $1.4 trillion in exchange-traded products
worldwide at the end of November, $171.7 billion were backed by
or linked to commodities, according to BlackRock.  Atomic number 79 on the periodic table, gold has captivated
humans for at least 6,000 years, since goldsmiths fashioned it
into decorative objects and jewelry on the coast of the Black
Sea in what is today Bulgaria.  Malleable Metal  A malleable metal, gold isn’t really consumed. Virtually
every ounce of gold that’s ever been mined is still around: an
estimated 165,000 metric tons.  Peter Bernstein , the late
economic historian, cited a calculation that all of the world’s
gold could be melted to fit into a single oil tanker in his 2000
best-selling history of the precious metal, “The Power of
Gold.”  King Croesus first minted gold coins as money in the 6th
century B.C. in what is now Turkey. By the 20th century, the U.S.
and most nations had formally adopted a gold standard.  The price was effectively set at $35 an ounce until U.S.
President  Richard Nixon  dropped the gold standard in August 1971,
paving the way for a price explosion. Investors flocked to gold
in the ensuing decade of financial and political turmoil. By
January 21, 1980, they drove the price to a then-record $850 per
ounce, equal to an  inflation -adjusted $2,266 today. Gold crashed
the next day.  By 2000, the mining industry faced the prospect of
entering a third straight decade of a bear market for gold. SPDR
Gold was born of that crisis.  Turkish Game Show  From its inception in 1987, the World Gold Council had
concentrated on promoting gold jewelry, the industry’s
traditional anchor. Very little was done to push gold as an
investment, according to  Kelvin Williams , executive director of
marketing for AngloGold Ashanti Ltd. until 2006.  One of the council’s highest-profile investment campaigns
involved a Turkish television game show aired in 2000.
Contestants competed to win their weight in gold as two women
paraded in skirts and bikini tops covered in coins.  Other promotions encouraged Muslims to use gold as a way to
save for their once-in-a-lifetime pilgrimage to Mecca. The
council also lobbied India and Italy to sell gold over the
counter at post offices and banks.  The World Gold Council hired consulting firm Bain & Co. to
review its operations. The mission grew by early 2002 to include
a plan that would be dubbed “Project Sun” to study how to
create an ETF, according to Thompson.  Wildest Dreams  The council would achieve its wildest dreams if a tradable
security created demand for 900 tons of gold or $20 billion,
Burton and Thompson say Bain told them. Bain declined to comment
for this article.  Separately,  Jeffrey M. Christian , the managing director of
New York-based researcher CPM Group and adviser to several gold
producers, wrote an open  letter  in January 2001 to the
industry’s executives urging them to realize that “increases in
investment demand for physical gold can have immediate and
dramatic effects on gold prices.”  His research showed gold prices rose significantly only
when investors purchased more than 529 metric tons in a year. He
says mining executives were frustrated that their companies were
wasting time and money on promoting jewelry sales.  “Mining companies were starving,” Christian says now. The
major gold mining indexes,  FTSE Gold Mines Index  in London and
the Philadelphia Gold & Silver Index, reached all-time lows in
late 2000 and early 2001.  Fortune Cookie  Christopher Thompson  was already a believer in the need to
open up gold to investors when he joined the World Gold Council.  Unlike most of his mining counterparts, Thompson, who was
born in Johannesburg, had a background in finance: in the U.S.
he managed three closely-held funds that invested in gold-mining
ventures.  In 1998 during dinner with his wife and children at a
Chinese restaurant in Denver he cracked open a fortune cookie.
The small slip of paper inside read: “You’ll go to Africa and
take over the greatest gold mine there.”  A few months later he accepted a job as chairman and CEO of
the newly created  Gold Fields  mining company, gaining a seat on
the World Gold Council’s executive committee. Thompson framed
the fortune and propped it on his desk in Johannesburg. He
arrived with firm ideas about how to jump-start gold prices.  Bars and Coins  For starters, he says he understood that markets are made
in the margin and the marginal players in the gold market were
always investors. Getting them to buy gold was the challenge.  Two ways U.S. investors bought gold were inconvenient,
Thompson says. Buying bullion bars meant paying commissions,
storage costs and insurance, as well as exit fees to sell.
Although less expensive, gold coins had higher fees for buying
and selling, Thompson says.  Thompson says he resolved to get the World Gold Council to
find a way to make buying gold easy.  Yet the council still clasped to gold jewelry after more
than a decade of marketing campaigns inspired by the ubiquitous
“A Diamond is Forever” advertisements from  De Beers , the
world’s biggest producer of the gems. In May 2001, the World
Gold Council embarked on a new, $55 million effort called “Glow
with Gold.” The council aimed to boost jewelry sales and
rebrand the precious metal through advertisements, arguing
gold’s brand had been muddied by the likes of golden credit
cards and breakfast cereals.  It didn’t break the slump. The expense pushed the council
into a deficit, according to Thompson and Burton. It also fueled
debate about the group’s very existence.  ‘Jeopardy’  “The future of the council was very much in jeopardy,”
said Katherine  Pulvermacher , who joined the council’s investment
team in 2001.  The following April, the World Gold Council had a turbulent
annual meeting in Melbourne, Australia, according to Thompson
and Kelvin Williams.  Neither man will detail what happened, but it ended with
 Bobby Godsell , then chairman and CEO of what was then called
AngloGold Ltd., stepping down as chairman of the World Gold
Council and Thompson taking his place. Godsell, 58, did not
return calls seeking comment.  Thompson wasted little time moving forward. He didn’t renew
the contract of the then World Gold Council CEO with whom
Godsell had led the “Glow with Gold” campaign.  401ks  During his rainy day golf match with Burton, he laid out
his idea: Create a trust that would offer gold through shares
sold on the New York Stock Exchange. The trust would divide
ownership of a single, 400-ounce bar of gold into about 4,000
shares, which would rise or fall with gold’s spot price.  At the time, when millions of Americans had become
comfortable investing through their 401ks, gold could be
elevated to the same status as other assets, Thompson argued.  Nothing like it had been approved by the SEC.  “If you can’t get that done, you’ll be fired,’” Burton
recalls Thompson saying. He accepted the challenge.  With the World Gold Council staff, Burton tracked and
tested similar products in other markets first. The group
offered its backing and some marketing support to  Graham Tuckwell , an Australian natural resources consultant who on his
own created the world’s first bullion-backed, exchange-traded
fund and got it listed on the Australian Stock Exchange in 2003.  Tuckwell  Tuckwell, founder of London-based ETF Securities Ltd.,
struck on the idea after an acquaintance mentioned an oddball
product in 2002: wine securities. They were “funny little
things” that allowed shares of a particular vintage to be
traded on a stock exchange, he says.  The World Gold Council and Tuckwell then got a similar
product listed on the London Stock Exchange. And the World Gold
Council supported a parallel South African project with  Vladimir Nedeljkovic  at Absa Capital.  Each success brought momentum and confidence, says Burton.
The NYSE was the Holy Grail. It was the only market big enough
to have a real impact, Thompson and Burton say.  It took two years and as much as $15 million on
preparations and lawyers for Burton and his team to win approval,
according to Burton, who is now a partner at  California
Strategies LLC , a public affairs consulting firm.  As they worked in 2003 and 2004 to shape an NYSE product
that could pass muster with the SEC, Burton and the investment
staff started gaming out what he called “threat scenarios.”  ‘Perfect Storm Scenario’  What if the funds were so successful that gold went into a
bubble?  “There was a potential perfect storm scenario where
suddenly gold would fall into the clutches of hedge funds and
momentum traders in very, very aggressive, leveraged plays,
which could spike the price and then drop the floor out from
underneath it,” Burton recalls of the talks.  “Our biggest concern was it would burn another generation
of investors and you’d start the whole goddamned tale of tears
over again,” he says.  At the SEC in Washington, the core concern was trying to
understand an unregulated asset they knew very little about,
says  Robert Colby , then the agency’s deputy director of the
Division of Trading and Markets.  They were conscious that approving the first commodities-
based exchange-traded fund would open the floodgates to a wide
range of similar investment vehicles, Colby says.  Chocolate Bars  The SEC would not approve new forms of securities until it
was convinced they were not readily subject to manipulation,
Colby says. Even though no one regulated trading in gold, the
fact that many nations still held a significant portion of their
reserves in gold helped the council win this point, he says.  On Nov. 18, 2004, Burton strode across the NYSE floor and
tossed brokers chocolate bars wrapped in gold foil to resemble
bullion. He and Thompson rang the opening bell together as the
World Gold Council launched its exchange-traded fund under the
name StreetTracks Gold Trust and the ticker symbol GLD.  Bank of
New York Co.  acted as the trustee, while a unit of  State Street
Corp.  marketed the fund.  When the trading stopped, the champagne flowed. The frenzy
for gold among investors was instant.  In the eight days it traded that November, the new ETF
attracted more investment for the month than all but two other
funds offered on the NYSE, including mutual funds, according to
data compiled at the time by the Financial Research Corp.  Fastest-Growing ETF  By the 30-day mark, the fund’s $1.29 billion made it the
fastest growing exchange-traded fund in history, according to
data published at the time by TrimTabs Investment Research of
Santa Rosa, California, an independent research firm.  That was more than double the $610 million raised by the
previous record holder, iShares Lehman bond fund, TrimTabs said.  “We were jubilant,” Pulvermacher says.  Thompson retired the next year. His successor,  Pierre Lassonde , then president of Greenwood Village, Colorado-based
 Newmont , declared ETFs “our biggest success in 25 years, the
biggest since the South African Krugerrand in the 1970s.”  The coins containing one troy ounce of gold gave millions
of individual investors access to the gold market during its
last significant run. The world anti-apartheid movement and the
global gold slump combined to quash their sales in the 1980s.  Speaking at a private investment conference Sept. 27, 2005,
at the Westin Hotel in Denver, Lassonde linked the rising
investment demand from the fund to the rising price of gold and
looked to a future in which his group used such funds to spur
demand all over the world.  ‘Enormous’ Impact  SPDR Gold is now listed in Japan, Hong Kong, Singapore and
Mexico City. Gold prices took off, especially as more funds
joined in the fray. Gold rose more than 58 percent in the 18
months after SPDR Gold started trading to more than $700 in May
2006, reaching a 25-year high, without adjusting for inflation.  “Big, enormous, large and ongoing” is how  Dennis Gartman ,
an economist and editor of the Gartman Letter in Suffolk,
Virginia, characterized the exchange-traded products’ impact on
gold prices. Widespread concerns about the dollar, other
currencies and monetary policy will continue channeling investor
demand to gold for the foreseeable future, Gartman said.  Gold’s popularity shows how investors are snapping up hard
assets as governments and central banks led by the Federal
Reserve pump more than $2 trillion into the world financial
system.  Goldman Forecast  Goldman Sachs analysts including  Allison Nathan  and  Jeffrey Currie  forecast in a Dec. 13 report that gold will rise to
$1,690 in 12 months. Last year, investment overtook jewelry as
the biggest source of demand for the first time in three decades
and will retain the top spot this year, according to  GFMS Ltd. ,
a London-based research firm.  To meet the demand, mining companies pushed global gold
production to a seven-year high in the first half of the year,
according to GFMS. The industry’s total average cash cost to
produce an ounce of gold rose 17 percent in that period as
companies pushed to extract ore that would otherwise not make
economic sense, GFMS said in a September report.  New York-based  BlackRock  runs one of the fastest growing
bullion funds today. It carves roughly 100 shares from every
ounce of gold, versus the 10 shares per ounce created by the
World Gold Council ETF.  In so doing,  iShares Gold Trust  makes it possible for day
traders or college students to play the gold market for about
$13.44. That’s less than the cost of a 16-inch pepperoni pizza
delivered to a dormitory in Chicago.  Day Trader  One such day trader is James “Pat” King, a 25-year-old
 Boston University  finance graduate who started working out of
the basement in his parents’ home in Lincroft, New Jersey, after
he lost his job on Wall Street in August 2009.  King had invested in the SPDR Gold fund in April of that
year on the advice of his father who was “very leery of the
federal government and their ability to make money appear out of
thin air,” he says. He’s holding that investment while he
trades shares in BlackRock’s iShares Gold Trust more often,
hoping to capitalize on the metal’s news-driven price swings.  He’s unsure how he’ll know when to sell his main gold
holdings.  “There’s so much uncertainty in the underlying state of the
macro economy,” he said. That translates into “a massive
pouring into gold of money from the sidelines, even moms-and-
pops and high net-worth individuals want a piece of it.”  ‘Yellow Elephant’  World Bank President  Robert Zoellick  has suggested that
Group of 20 nations should consider using gold as an
international reference point of market expectations about
inflation, deflation and future currency values as they reform
the global monetary system.  “Gold is the yellow elephant in the room,” Zoellick said
on Nov. 10. “Markets are already using gold as an alternative
monetary asset because confidence is low.”  Byron Wien , vice chairman of Blackstone Advisory Partners
LP, says he’s recommending institutional portfolios put 5
percent of assets in gold. That’s come as a shock to some
clients. He says he’s been run out of conference rooms.  “People think it’s just another bubble or it isn’t real,”
he said.  Wien says he sees gold reaching $1,500 within two years,
although any potential price gain is less important than having
a safety net. “I’m recommending gold as a kind of insurance
policy against calamity in financial assets,” Wien, 77, said.  While Soros has called gold a bubble, he hasn’t gotten out
of the market.  SPDR Gold was the Soros Fund’s largest single holding as of
Sept. 30, according to a filing with the SEC. The fund acquired
5 million shares in the  iShares Gold Trust , the filing shows.  ‘Where Are You’  “It’s all a question of where are you in that bubble,”
Soros, 80, said in a speech at a meeting organized by the
Canadian International Council in Toronto on Nov. 15. “The
current conditions of actual deflationary pressures and fear of
inflation is pretty ideal for gold to rise.”  “The big negative is that too many people know this and a
lot of hedge funds are very heavily exposed,” Soros continued.
He declined an interview request for this article.  Siegel, the  Wharton  finance professor, says he’s skeptical
about the metal over the long term, especially for retail
investors. He believes they will have a harder time judging when
to buy and sell.  His research shows gold has underperformed stocks, bonds,
bills and even real estate over the long run. It has total real
returns of just 0.6 percent per year since 1802, compared with
6.6 percent for stocks, 3.6 percent for bonds and 2.8 percent
for bills. One of the only things gold has beaten is the dollar,
said Siegel.  Unlike assets such as oil or wheat that are consumed based
on economic factors, gold’s true value is difficult for ordinary
investors to judge, Siegel said. Its worth is often determined
by fears of inflation or financial collapse, he said.  “If you can judge how these investors will evaluate those
fears, you will do well,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Cam Simpson  in London at 
 csimpson13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Melissa Pozsgay at 
 mpozsgay@bloomberg.net ;
Robert Blau at   rblau1@bloomberg.net . 