-- Most U.S. Stocks, Oil Advance; Euro Tumbles on Debt Concerns
-- B y   M i c h a e l   P .   R e g a n   a n d   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 2010-12-20T21:10:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-20/south-korean-stocks-won-fall-on-live-fire-military-drills-euro-weakens.html
Most U.S. stocks rose, with the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index holding a two-year high, as a gain
in oil lifted energy shares and analysts recommended companies
from Huntington Bancshares Inc. to MetroPCS Communications Inc.
The euro slid as ratings were cut on some Irish lenders.  The S&P 500 climbed 0.3 percent to 1,247.08 at 4 p.m. in
New York and rose as high as 1,250.2, less than two points below
its close before Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.’s bankruptcy in
September 2008. The euro slid against 15 of 16 major peers,
falling as much as 1.2 percent to a record low of 1.2636 francs.
The 10-year Treasury yield was little changed at 3.33 percent,
erasing earlier declines. Costs to protect U.S. corporate bonds
from default slid to an eight-month low on a closing basis.  Energy shares led gains in the S&P 500 as oil approached
$89 a barrel amid optimism that economic growth will accelerate
next year. Data later this week may show the U.S. economy grew
2.8 percent last quarter, up from a previous estimate of 2.5
percent, according to a survey of economists. U.S. stocks
recovered from an earlier drop triggered when Moody’s Investors
Service cut two Dublin-based lenders to junk.  “In the U.S., things are gradually getting better from
both a corporate and economic standpoints,” said  Alan Gayle ,
senior investment strategist at RidgeWorth Capital Management in
Richmond, Virginia, which oversees $52.5 billion. “However, the
global jitters will be around for a while and that increases the
markets vulnerability to any piece of news.”  Two-Year High  The S&P 500 is up about 12 percent in 2010 amid improving
corporate earnings and the Federal Reserve’s efforts to pump
more cash into the economy.  Huntington Bancshares . rose 4.7
percent today after Bank of America Corp. recommended the
Columbus, Ohio-based regional lender. MetroPCS Communications
jumped 5.5 percent as RBC Capital Markets raised the pay-as-you-
go mobile phone company to “outperform.”  Chesapeake Energy 
Corp. rallied 8.8 percent after investor  Carl Icahn  boosted his
stake in the natural-gas producer.  American Express Co. fell 3.4 percent, leading the Dow
Jones Industrial Average lower, as Stifel Nicolaus & Co. cut the
stock’s rating. Boeing Co. slipped 2.7 percent on concern its
787 Dreamliner will be delayed again. The 30-stock Dow average
slipped 13.78 points, or 0.1 percent, to 11,478.13.  The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, which
investors use to hedge against losses on corporate debt or to
speculate on creditworthiness, dropped 0.9 basis point to a mid-
price of 85.56 basis points as of 4 p.m. in New York, according
to index administrator Markit Group Ltd.  European Markets  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index rose 0.7 percent, paring an
earlier gain of 1.1 percent. Volkswagen AG, Europe’s biggest
carmaker, rallied 3.7 percent after saying it expects sales in
China to grow 10 to 15 percent next year. Abertis
Infraestructuras SA gained 1.3 percent following a Sunday Times
report that CVC Capital Partners Ltd. may bid for the Spanish
highway operator.  Banco Popolare SC climbed 5.6 percent, the first gain in
eight days, after Goldman Sachs Group Inc. lifted its
recommendation on the lender to “neutral” from “sell.”  The euro extended losses as Moody’s downgraded the state-
controlled Anglo Irish Bank Corp. and Irish Nationwide Building
Society to junk and reduced ratings on a variety of Irish
covered bonds, or securities backed by cash flows from other
debt.  The euro slid 0.8 percent against the yen, weakening to the
lowest level in almost two weeks, and dropped 0.5 percent versus
the dollar to $1.3125. The New Zealand dollar strengthened
against all 16 of its most-actively traded counterparts,
advancing 0.8 percent versus the U.S. currency.  French Rating  The yield on the French 10-year bond declined seven basis
points to 3.32 percent. France risks losing its top AAA credit
grade as Europe’s debt crisis prompts a wave of downgrades that
threatens to engulf the region’s highest-rated borrowers, with
Belgium also facing a possible cut.  Moody’s said Dec. 15 it may lower Spain’s rating, citing
“substantial funding requirements,” and slashed Ireland’s
rating by five levels on Dec. 17. S&P is reviewing its
assessments of Ireland, Portugal and Greece. Costs to insure
French government debt rose to a record earlier today with the
country’s credit default swaps more expensive than lower-rated
securities from the Czech Republic and Chile.  Emerging Markets, China  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index  retreated 0.4 percent.
China’s Shanghai Composite Index sank 1.4 percent, the biggest
decline in almost three weeks, on speculation the government
will raise interest rates to curb inflation.  Investors are too optimistic given the prospects for
tighter monetary policy,  Hao Hong , a Beijing-based equity
strategist at China International Capital Corp., wrote in a
report today.  The Hungarian forint weakened 1.5 percent against the euro,
extending losses after the nation’s central bank raised its
benchmark rate to 5.75 percent from 5.5 percent because of
concern inflation will accelerate.  South Korea’s Kospi Index lost 0.3 percent, paring an
earlier 1.5 percent decline, after the country conducted a live-
firing drill without drawing retaliation from its northern
neighbor.  To contact the reporters for this story:
 Michael P. Regan  in New York at 
 mregan12@bloomberg.net ;
 Rita Nazareth  in Sao Paulo at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Nagi at   chrisnagi@bloomberg.net . 