-- OECD Says Spain to Meet Budget-Deficit Goal Even if Growth Falters
-- B y   E m m a   R o s s - T h o m a s   a n d   M a r t a   M a r i n o
-- 2010-12-20T14:11:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-20/spain-needs-urgent-pension-overhaul-tax-changes-oecd-says.html
Spain will meet its budget-deficit
 goal  next year even if growth undershoots the government’s
target, and the country’s banks don’t pose a risk to the
sovereign’s solvency, the Organization for Economic Cooperation
and Development said.  Even if growth doesn’t reach the 1.3 percent forecast by
the government, “we still think that the 6 percent deficit can
be reached,” OECD economist  Andres Fuentes  said in an interview
with Bloomberg Television today. “There’s no risk that
government support for banks would have to take proportions that
would endanger in any way the solvency of government finances.”  Still, the government should outline the measures it plans
to take after 2011 to “provide further confidence to financial
markets,” Fuentes said. Tax increases may be needed and a
pension overhaul is “urgent,” the Paris-based group said in a
report today.  Facing a surge in  borrowing  costs, Spain is trying to
convince investors it can cut its budget deficit from 11 percent
of gross domestic product last year while shepherding the
economy back to growth after an almost two-year recession.
Support for the Socialist government is slumping as it
implements the deepest austerity measures in three decades and
plans to pass a pension overhaul on Jan. 28.  Regional Deficits  Spain’s finance ministry published for the first time today
harmonized budget data for the 17 regional governments, which
control health and education spending and employ half of all
public workers. The regions, whose finances Moody’s Investors
Service cited as a concern on Dec. 15 when it threatened to cut
the nation’s Aa1 rating, had a combined budget deficit of 1.24
percent of GDP in the first nine months of the year.  Finance Minister  Elena Salgado  said spending cuts including
public-wage reductions announced in May would have the greatest
impact in the fourth quarter and the regions are on track to
meet their deficit target of 2.4 percent for the full year.  The government is trying to fight the increase in borrowing
costs by providing investors with more information about the
public finances and the country’s lenders. The data on the
regions will be published each quarter, Salgado said.  ‘Funding Conditions’  The  gap  between Spanish and German 10-year bond yields
widened 4 basis points today to 253 basis points. That compares
with a euro-era high of 298 basis points on Nov. 30 and an
average of 15 basis points in the first decade of the monetary
union.  “Spreads remain high by historical standards, emphasizing
the need for Spain to strengthen financial-market confidence in
the sustainability of government finances,” the OECD said. “If
the high sovereign spreads persist, funding conditions in the
private sector could be affected.”  Spain’s 2009  budget deficit  was more than twice the
previous year’s and more than three times the European Union
limit of 3 percent of GDP. The shortfall compared with surpluses
in the three years through 2007 as revenue from a real-estate
boom swelled public coffers.  “More than half of the deterioration of the government
balance is likely to be structural,” the OECD said.  The group also said Spain’s tax burden is lower than in
other European nations, leaving room for increases, which may
“have a relatively more benign impact on activity than some
expenditure cuts.” It recommended increasing taxes on
consumption and property while reducing levies on labor to
stimulate growth.  Labor Laws  The government should continue to modify labor legislation
including changes to collective wage-bargaining rules after a
new law earlier this year made it easier for companies to opt
out of wage deals and reduced firing costs, the OECD said.  “The approved labor-market reform legislation is a positive
step to reduce excessive protection of workers in permanent
contracts, although some uncertainty remains on how the courts
will interpret part of the new legislation,” it said.  Spain’s  unemployment  rate is the highest in Europe, at 20.7
percent in October, according to the EU’s statistics office in
Luxembourg. That is eroding support for the ruling Socialists,
who would win 24.3 percent of the vote if elections were held
now, compared with 43.1 percent for the People’s Party,
according to a poll published by El Pais on Dec. 5.  The OECD maintained its November forecasts for Spain,
predicting the economy will contract 0.2 percent this year and
expand 0.9 percent in 2011 and 1.8 percent in 2012.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Emma Ross-Thomas  in Madrid at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at   jfraher@bloomberg.net  