-- Starr's E-Mailed Comments From Jail Should Bar Release on Bail, U.S. Says
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2010-12-20T19:26:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-20/starr-s-e-mailed-comments-from-jail-should-bar-release-on-bail-u-s-says.html
Kenneth I. Starr , the money manager
who pleaded guilty to fraud in September, should stay in jail
until he’s sentenced because of a series of e-mails in which he
expressed “extraordinary contempt” for his brothers, who would
guarantee his bail, U.S. prosecutors argued.  Starr, 66, is in jail awaiting sentencing in U.S. District
Court in New York on Feb. 2. Prosecutors say the request should
be denied, in part because of possibly strained relationships
between Starr and his brothers, his wife and a friend, all of
whom agreed to post assets to ensure he won’t try to run.  “The defendant has expressed contempt for, and an intent
to cut off communications with, the two brothers who are posting
the lion’s share of the security for the defendant’s bond, which
raises serious concerns as to whether the security the brothers
are posting will in fact dissuade the defendant from fleeing,”
prosecutors said Dec. 17 in court papers.  The government also argued that Starr, who faces 10 or more
years in prison under federal sentencing guidelines, has a
greater incentive to run now, after pleading guilty to one count
each of wire fraud, investment adviser fraud and money
laundering.  As part of a plea deal with prosecutors, Starr’s attorney,
 Flora Edwards , agreed that sentencing guidelines call for him to
serve from 121 to 151 months in prison. U.S. District Judge
 Shira Scheindlin  may disregard the guidelines.  Edwards didn’t immediately return a voice-mail message
today seeking comment.  Celebrity Clients  Starr’s celebrity clients included  Sylvester Stallone  and
 Wesley Snipes . He was originally accused of defrauding at least
11 of them, including heiress Rachel “Bunny” Mellon, out of
$59 million. Edwards and the government agreed, for sentencing
purposes, that the amount lost in the fraud was from $20 million
to $50 million.  The court in July set bail at $10 million, to be guaranteed
by the homes of Starr’s brothers, Warren Starr and Stuart Starr;
Warren Starr’s $1.7 million rare book collection; and Kenneth
Starr’s interest in a Florida condominium, according to
prosecutors. In addition, the bond was to be signed by four
sureties: Starr’s brothers; his wife, Diane Passage; and a
friend, Michael Giordano. Starr was to post $250,000 in cash and
submit to home detention and electronic monitoring.  In one of the e-mails, which prosecutors said were sent in
November, Starr wrote about his brothers: “once i am sentenced
i want no contact with them or anyone in their families” and
“they will need me one day and i will not lift a finger - they
are mean spirited awful human beings.”  ‘Unfeeling’ Brothers  In another e-mail, Starr called his brothers “unfeeling
and duplicitous,” according to prosecutors.  In addition, Starr’s friend Giordano refused to sign the
bond after telling the court he would, prosecutors said.
Prosecutors described another friend, put forward as a possible
replacement, as a woman who “has recently been communicating
with the defendant and has clearly been seeking to undermine the
defendant’s confidence in and relationship with his wife.”  The case is U.S. v. Starr, 1:10-cr-520, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bob Van Voris  in U.S. District Court in New York
at   rvanvoris@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 