-- Australia to Release Mining Tax Report Tomorrow
-- B y   G e m m a   D a l e y
-- 2010-12-20T06:21:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-20/swan-will-release-australia-mining-tax-group-report-this-week.html
Australia will release a report on
the planned 30 percent tax on iron ore and coal profits tomorrow
as a mining group threatened to restart an anti-government
advertising campaign over state royalties.  The report from a committee chaired by former  BHP Billiton
Ltd.  Chairman  Don Argus  will be released and the government will
consider its recommendations, Treasurer  Wayne Swan  said today.
The committee was set up to consult with the industry over the
design and implementation of the tax following an accord in July.  “Recommendations won’t be accepted or rejected tomorrow,
ahead of cabinet consultation,” Swan said in an e-mailed
statement. “I will be publicly releasing the final report
immediately and flagging an ongoing process of consultation and
discussion with industry, state governments and my cabinet
colleagues before we provide draft legislation next year.”  Mining companies are in dispute with the government about
how the royalties will be dealt with under the tax, forecast to
raise A$7.4 billion ($7.3 billion) in its first two years from
2012. The Australian Mining and Exploration  Companies  will
restart an advertising campaign if there is no credit for future
state royalties, Chief Executive Officer Simon Bennison said.  “We are considering our position and we might restart
advertising, depending on how future royalties are treated,”
Bennison said by phone from Perth today.  Rio, Xstrata, BHP  Following pressure from mining companies, Prime Minister
 Julia Gillard  in July watered down the tax to a 30 percent levy
on iron ore and coal profits from predecessor  Kevin Rudd ’s 40
percent tax on all resource profits. Gillard, Swan and Resources
Minister  Martin Ferguson  signed a tax agreement on July 2 with
BHP,  Rio Tinto Group  and Xstrata Plc.  The proceeds from the tax will reduce the corporate tax
rate for all Australian businesses to 29 percent from 30 percent,
provide A$6 billion in spending for roads, rail and ports, and
increase the amount paid to people’s retirement savings to 12
percent of their salary by 2020 from the current 9 percent.  The tax creates “a stream of revenue to boost savings,
invest in infrastructure and lower tax for business, also to
build our national savings,” Swan told reporters in Canberra
earlier today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Gemma Daley  in Canberra at 
 gdaley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Austin at   billaustin@bloomberg.net  