-- FSA Fines More Than Double to $137 Million in 2010
-- B y   B e n   M o s h i n s k y
-- 2010-12-20T14:46:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-20/u-k-s-fsa-fined-companies-137-million-this-year-doubling-2009-s-record.html
The U.K.  Financial Services
Authority  fined firms at least 88.4 million pounds ($137.3
million) this year, more than doubling its previous record set
in 2009.  The financial regulator handed out 88 fines in 2010,
compared with 40 fines worth 34.8 million pounds last year, in
an attempt to become a more intrusive supervisor, according to
London-based law firm  Reynolds Porter Chamberlain LLP .  JPMorgan Chase & Co. ’s London unit was fined a record 33.3
million pounds in June for not properly separating client money
from the firm’s accounts. The FSA, which will be disbanded in
2012 and replaced by at least two new agencies, was criticized
for lax supervision that contributed to the worst financial
crisis since the Great Depression.  “The amount of fines handed down by the FSA this year is
just the tip of the iceberg,”  Jonathan Davies , a lawyer at the
firm that carried out the research, said in an e-mailed
statement. “The vast majority of firms never get fined by the
FSA but there is a huge cost for many of them in defending
investigations.”  The size of the average fine increased 16 percent to 1
million pounds in 2010, the law firm said, while the number of
fines exceeding 1 million pounds rose from eight to 13.  The regulator’s  own figures  are higher than those compiled
by Reynolds Porter. The FSA said on its website that it levied
fines worth 89.1 million pounds in 2010.  The supervisor will “continue with its agenda of credible
deterrence,”  Joseph Eyre , an FSA spokesman, said in a telephone
interview.  ‘More Aggressive’  “The FSA has been much more aggressive,” Davies said. The
regulator “has had new political masters to impress this year,
but we may have reached the point where this level of regulation
could be having a negative effect on the financial services
sector.”  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. ’s London unit received a fine of
17.5 million pounds in September, the year’s second biggest, for
failing to notify the U.K.’s financial regulator about a U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission investigation.  Goldman Sachs agreed to pay $550 million in July to settle
the SEC’s fraud lawsuit over how it marketed a collateralized
debt obligation. The FSA fined the New York-based bank for
failing to report to U.K. regulators the U.S. investigation that
led to the suit. The firm qualified for the FSA’s 30 percent
discount for cooperating.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ben Moshinsky  in Brussels at 
 bmoshinsky@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 