-- U.S. Northeast to Be Warmer Than Normal Through February Before Cold Snap
-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 2010-12-20T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-20/u-s-northeast-to-have-warm-february-march-cold-snap-wsi-says.html
The U.S. Northeast is expected to be
warmer than normal through February before encountering another
cold snap in March, according to  Weather Services International .  The return to colder-than-normal weather in March may mean
the Northern Hemisphere winter ends with greater demand for
heating, said  Chris Kostas , senior power and gas analyst at
Wakefield, Massachusetts-based Energy Security Analysis Inc.
Kostas works with WSI on seasonal weather forecasts.  “With widespread cold expected over most of the country,
heating demand in March will likely be well above normal, and
gas prices could be firm to finish the heating season,” Kostas
said in a statement released by WSI, which is owned by the
Weather Channel.  Overall, WSI is forecasting the U.S. Southwest, Pacific
Northwest and upper Great Plains to be colder than normal
through March, according to the statement. The Northeast,
Southeast and south-central states will be warmer than normal
through February.  In March, the Northeast and south-central states are
expected to cool, while the Southeast remains warm, the
statement said. The only exception is Florida, which is expected
to be cooler than normal during January and February.  The higher-than-normal temperatures in the East during
February may mean decreased electrical demand, which may also
lead to lower gas usage, Kostas said.  “It will be an entirely different story on the West Coast,
however, where above-normal heating demand in February is
expected,” Kostas said.  While the return of cold weather in March may boost heating
demands, Kostas said he doesn’t expect price spikes because the
season has started with high inventories and more production is
coming from shale gas wells.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Brian K. Sullivan  at 
 Bsullivan10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  