-- U.S. Warns Venezuela of Consequences in Envoy Dispute
-- B y   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n   a n d   I n d i r a   A . R .   L a k s h m a n a n
-- 2010-12-20T23:45:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-20/u-s-warns-of-consequences-to-venezuela-s-rejection-of-diplomat-palmer.html
The Obama administration today said
“there will be consequences” to Venezuela’s decision to
formally protest President  Barack Obama ’s nomination of diplomat
 Larry Palmer  as the U.S. ambassador in Caracas.  Without elaborating on steps the administration may take,
State Department spokesman  Philip J. Crowley  told reporters that
an official letter of protest delivered today by Venezuela’s
Foreign Minister  Nicolas Maduro  to the acting chief of the U.S.
diplomatic mission in Caracas would adversely affect already-
strained relations with the top oil exporter in South America.  “We have cautioned them that if they were to withdraw”
their consent for Palmer to serve as envoy to Venezuela, “it
would have an impact on our ongoing relations,” Crowley said in
Washington. “They have made this decision and obviously we will
evaluate what to do in light of it.”  The dispute over  Palmer , the former U.S. ambassador to
Honduras, began in July when he told the Senate Foreign
Relations Committee that the Venezuelan army had low morale and
that President Hugo Chavez’s government had “clear ties” to
terrorist organizations.  Jose Luis Saboin , an energy analyst at Caracas-based
consulting firm Ecoanalitica, said the dispute over Palmer isn’t
likely to affect Venezuela’s commercial ties with the U.S.
Venezuela was the fifth-largest supplier of crude oil to the
U.S. in September, behind Canada, Nigeria, Mexico and Saudi
Arabia, according to the U.S. Energy Information Administration.  ‘Diplomatic Issue’  “This is a diplomatic issue and shouldn’t have any effect
on the commercial relations, which remain strong,” Saboin said.  In 2008, Chavez threatened to cut off oil sales to the
U.S., only to back down after a week. Venezuela sells more than
half of its oil output to the U.S., which got about 10 percent
of its crude oil imports from Venezuela in September.  In 2005, the U.S. stopped selling Chavez parts to maintain
F-16 fighter jets, prompting the socialist leader to turn to
Russia’s  Vladimir Putin  to buy billions of dollars in planes,
tanks and rifles since 2006.  In 2006, the U.S. ended all commercial arms sales to
Venezuela, accusing Chavez of not doing enough to support its
war on terrorism.  Palmer’s nomination is pending confirmation by the U.S.
Senate, and the White House doesn’t intend to withdraw his name,
Crowley said. Still, he acknowledged that Venezuela’s move makes
it unlikely that Palmer would be able to take up the post if
confirmed.  ‘Interventionism and Aggression’  The Venezuelan government’s protest letter complained about
“historic interventionism and aggression against the Venezuelan
people, institutions and its democracy,” and declared that
Chavez “won’t accept Palmer in the country.”  Chavez had expelled the previous U.S. ambassador,  Patrick Duddy , in 2008, in solidarity with Bolivia, which sent home the
American ambassador there and accused the U.S. of backing
opposition movements in both countries.  Speaking on Dec. 18, Chavez said Palmer “discredited
himself” with his comments to the Senate. “If he comes, meet
him at the airport, invite him to a coffee on my behalf, and
send him back to his country: Bye-bye.”  Possible Reaction  Larry Birns , director of the Council on Hemispheric
Affairs, a Washington-based research group, said a likely form
of retaliation by the U.S. may be to expel Venezuela’s
ambassador to Washington,  Bernardo Alvarez , who was sent home
once before in 2008 after the previous U.S. ambassador was
expelled from Caracas.  Still, Birns said, Chavez may be jeopardizing his own
interests by blocking the Obama administration’s effort to
restore an ambassador to that post and mend frayed ties.  “Chavez is threatening his strategic goals by succumbing
to mean-spirited acts of a tactical nature,” Birns said. “By
engaging in immature acts of indulgence, more and more people
who are natural supporters will find these acts to be tiresome
and ill-advised.”  The shift in power in the U.S. Congress, meanwhile, gives a
greater voice to Republican advocates of a hardened stance on
Chavez.  Ileana Ros-Lehtinen , a Florida Republican who will take
over leadership of the House Foreign Affairs committee in
January, is an outspoken critic of Chavez. When Chavez on Dec.
17 was granted decree powers to pass laws without congressional
authorization for the next 18 months, she released a statement
on the say day attacking his “failed, dictatorial policies.”  Twelve Republican senators, led by  George LeMieux  of
Florida and  John Ensign  of Nevada, wrote a  letter in May  to
Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  asking her to evaluate
whether to add Venezuela to the State Department’s list of state
sponsors of terrorism.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Indira Lakshmanan  in Washington at 
 ilakshmanan@bloomberg.net ;
Flavia Krause-Jackson in Washington at 
 fjackson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 Msilva34@bloomberg.net . 