-- U.S. Commercial Property Rises For Second Consecutive Month, Moody's Says
-- B y   B r i a n   L o u i s
-- 2010-12-20T19:58:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-20/u-s-commercial-property-rises-for-second-consecutive-month-moody-s-says.html
U.S. commercial property prices rose
1.3 percent in October from the previous month, the second
consecutive monthly gain, Moody’s Investors Service said.  The Moody’s/REAL Commercial Property Price  Index  climbed
3.2 percent from a year earlier, Moody’s said in a report today.  Demand is rising for the best office buildings in major
markets including New York, San Francisco and Washington as
buyers seek returns higher than fixed income. Investors may
begin buying lower-quality buildings in major markets and top-
tier buildings in secondary markets next year, said  Robert Bach ,
chief economist for  Grubb & Ellis Co ., a Santa Ana, California-
based commercial broker.  “This investor enthusiasm has been confined to core
properties in primary, supply-constrained markets,” he said in
a telephone interview before the data was issued. “There’s
still a lot of distress out there.”  The Moody’s/REAL index is 42 percent below its October 2007
peak. The gauge measures overall commercial property values on a
monthly basis and breaks the numbers down by property type once
each quarter. The changes are based on repeat sales
transactions.  U.S. commercial property sales more than doubled to $16
billion in the third quarter compared with a year earlier,
according to  Real Capital Analytics Inc. , a New York-based real
estate research firm.  Prices for eastern U.S. office buildings gained 22 percent
from a year earlier, according to Moody’s. Washington properties
rose 17 percent and New York buildings climbed 9.1 percent.  Green Street, CoStar  Values for commercial property rose 2 percent in November,
 Green Street Advisors , a real estate research company in Newport
Beach, California, reported Dec. 2. The company’s index is up
more than 30 percent from the 2009 low. Its property index is 20
percent below its 2007 peak.  CoStar Group Inc., a real estate data service based in
Washington, found that prices for investment-grade properties in
the U.S. fell 1.1 percent in October from September. Values were
unchanged from a year earlier and down 29 percent from two years
ago, according to the company.  CoStar, unlike Moody’s, tracks transactions of less than
$2.5 million. CoStar also limits its index to Class A and B
offices, the highest-quality buildings; retail and industrial
properties built since 1990; and multifamily buildings of 30
units or more.  Green Street’s index includes deals that are in negotiation
or under contract, while Moody’s tracks only closed sales.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Louis in Chicago at 
 blouis1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  