-- Most U.S. Stocks Gain as Shares of Huntington Bancshares, Chesapeake Rise
-- B y   R i t a   N a z a r e t h   a n d   N i k o l a j   G a m m e l t o f t
-- 2010-12-20T21:55:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-20/u-s-stock-index-futures-fluctuate-huntington-gains-in-european-trading.html
Most U.S. stocks rose, sending the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index to a two-year high, as analysts
raised price estimates or ratings on companies from Amazon.com
Inc. to Huntington Bancshares Inc. and energy shares rallied.  Amazon.com  added 3.2 percent after Barclays Plc boosted its
share-price estimate for the largest online retailer. Huntington
advanced 4.7 percent after Bank of America Corp. recommended
buying the regional lender’s shares.  ConocoPhillips  and
Schlumberger Ltd. gained at least 1 percent as oil prices
rebounded, leading energy shares to the biggest gain in the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  About 11 stocks rose for every 10 that fell on U.S.
exchanges. The  S&P 500  climbed 0.3 percent to 1,247.08 at 4 p.m.
in New York. The index is near its closing level of 1,251.70 on
Sept. 12, 2008, the last trading day before Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc.’s collapse triggered a six-month plunge. The Dow
Jones Industrial Average slipped 13.78 points, or 0.1 percent,
to 11,478.13 as American Express Co. tumbled.  “Things may not be wildly bullish, but at least they’re
modestly better,” said  Madelynn Matlock , who helps oversee
$13.8 billion at Huntington Asset Advisors in Cincinnati.
“Earnings estimates look good and we see stock upgrades. The
next two quarters are going to be solid and that makes investors
happy.”  Two-Year High  U.S. equities rose for the past three weeks, sending the
S&P 500 to a two-year high, as stronger-than-estimated data on
retail sales, manufacturing and housing boosted confidence in
the economic recovery. The S&P 500 has rallied 12 percent this
year as the Federal Reserve expanded a program to buy bonds to
stimulate the economy and earnings beat estimates.  Today marked the first time since the middle of September
2008 that the  S&P 500  rose above 1,250, and the fourth time it
surpassed 1,245, each occurring this month. Technical analysts
who base forecasts on chart patterns said on Dec. 15 that
crossing the level from before the  bankruptcy  of Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc. may take time.  “That’s obviously a critical level, that’s the level where
we realized things were broken,” said Ryan Detrick, senior
technical analyst at Schaeffer’s Investment Research, in a
telephone interview from Cincinnati. “Now that we’re back up
there, it makes sense the market takes a pause.”  European Stocks  Stocks gained in Europe, with the  Stoxx Europe 600 Index 
closing up 0.7 percent at 278.38, its highest level since Sept.
12, 2008.  Fed Bank of St. Louis President  James Bullard  said that
U.S. gross domestic product will be stronger in 2011 than people
thought. Bullard, who spoke in an interview with CNBC, also said
the decline in U.S. unemployment will be a slow process. “We
have to walk before we can run here,” he said. Data later this
week may show the U.S. economy grew 2.8 percent last quarter, up
from a previous estimate of 2.5 percent, according to a survey
of economists.  “The market has positive momentum,” said  James Paulsen ,
chief investment strategist at Minneapolis-based Wells Capital
Management, which oversees $342 billion. “If you wake up in the
morning and there’s no negative news coming out of Europe, the
market will have a positive bid to it. Earnings in the U.S. are
strong and the economy will probably surprise positively.”  About 6.37 billion shares changed hands on U.S. exchanges
today, below the year-to-date average of 8.65 billion.  Amazon, Huntington  Amazon.com rose 3.2 percent to $183.29. The largest online
retailer had its share-price estimate raised to $195 from $180
at Barclays Plc, which said the Internet-shopping holiday season
has been strong and Amazon.com continues to gain share from both
online and offline competitors.  Huntington Bancshares added 4.7 percent to $6.53. The
Columbus, Ohio-based bank was raised to “buy” from “neutral”
at Bank of America. MetroPCS Communications Inc. rallied 5.5
percent to $12.74 after RBC Capital Markets raised the stock to
“outperform” from “sector perform.”  Energy shares rose 0.7 percent collectively for the biggest
gain among 10 S&P 500 groups. Oil rose on speculation U.S.
economic growth will accelerate next year, bolstering demand in
the biggest oil-consuming country. ConocoPhillips added 1.4
percent to $65.99. Schlumberger gained 1 percent to $82.18.  Chesapeake Energy Corp.  surged 8.8 percent to $25.36 for
the biggest gain the S&P 500. Investor  Carl Icahn  increased his
stake in the natural gas producer to an equivalent of 5.8
percent, according to a regulatory filing. Icahn has had and
intends to seek further discussions with Chesapeake.  Losses Reversed  Stocks fell earlier today, with the S&P 500 declining as
much as 0.2 percent.  American Express Co.  fell the most in the Dow, dropping 3.4
percent to $42.50. The biggest U.S. credit-card issuer by
purchases was downgraded to “hold” from “buy” at Stifel
Nicolaus & Co.  Intel Corp. declined 1.1 percent to $21.23. The world’s
largest chipmaker’s proposed purchase of McAfee Inc. faces
scrutiny from the European Union’s antitrust regulator, which
may initiate a lengthier “phase two” investigation, the Wall
Street Journal reported, citing unidentified people.  Boeing Co.  had the second-biggest retreat in the Dow,
sinking 2.7 percent to $63.27. The largest aerospace company
said it will boost the production rate of its 777s for the
second time this year as it struggles with delays on the 787
Dreamliner. The Seattle Times reported that the company may
delay the 787 by another six months or more.  ‘Bumpy’  Benchmark U.S. indexes slumped to their lows of the day in
morning trading after Moody’s Investors Service cut two state-
controlled Irish lenders, Anglo Irish Bank Corp. and Irish
Nationwide Building Society, to junk and downgraded a variety of
Irish debt securities.  “It’s going to be bumpy,” said  Jason Pride , director of
investment strategy at Glenmede in Philadelphia, which manages
$19 billion. “We don’t expect the European issues to go away in
the near-term. The market is particularly vulnerable to any news
even as we see improvement in the U.S. economy and corporate
fundamentals. It should be a very light week in terms of volume
and that increases the potential for more volatility.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rita Nazareth  in Sao Paulo at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net ;
 Nikolaj Gammeltoft  in New York at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 