-- U.S. Airlines Draw on $23.8 Billion Cash to Cut Debt
-- B y   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n
-- 2010-12-20T20:26:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-20/u-s-airlines-draw-on-23-8-billion-cash-hoard-to-reduce-debt.html
The six largest  U.S. airlines  have
built a $23.8 billion cash hoard to cut debt and build a cushion
against future shocks, bucking a pattern in other industries of
returning money to investors.  As the carriers dig out from two years of collective
losses, stockholders must be content with the knowledge that the
group led by  United Continental Holdings Inc.  may be better
protected against fuel-price surges and recessions, according to
analysts at Fitch Ratings and Standard & Poor’s.  “The cash-deployment priority for all U.S. airlines over
the next year will be debt reduction,” said Fitch’s  Bill Warlick  in Chicago. “Shareholder-friendly initiatives, both
share repurchases and dividends, will take a back seat to
balance-sheet repair.”  Dividends are climbing this year in all 10 of the Standard
& Poor’s 500 Index’s main industry groups, according to RBC
Capital Markets, with cash as a percentage of assets at the
highest since 1959.  Southwest Airlines Co.  is the only major
carrier with a quarterly dividend, at 0.45 cent a share.  United Continental,  Delta Air Lines Inc.  and their peers
are now chipping away at $50.2 billion in combined balance-sheet
debt after being bruised by bankruptcies last decade, a 61
percent jump in jet fuel to a record in 2008 and a travel slump
that forced the deepest cut in seats since World War II.  ‘Somewhat Higher’  “The volatility of this business on the revenue side and
the fuel side -- you’re always going to want to carry somewhat
higher cash balances than perhaps in other industry,” United
Continental Treasurer  Gerry Laderman  said at a Dec. 8 airline
conference in New York.  The $23.8 billion amassed at United Continental, Delta,
American Airlines parent  AMR Corp. , Southwest, US Airways Group
Inc. and  JetBlue Airways Corp.  consists of cash and short-term
investments through Sept. 30, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The nine-month total was more than any full-year
tally since at least 1999.  “Airlines have been building up and holding more cash and
short-term investments than they did historically,” said  Philip Baggaley , an S&P managing director in New York. “That’s been as
a result of sad experience for many of them.”  Credit-Default Swaps  Credit-default swaps protecting  JetBlue  debt for five years
fell 16.1 basis points to 589.4, the lowest since Nov. 15, at 12
p.m. in New York, according to data provider CMA. Contracts on
Delta slid 12.7 basis points to 580.2, CMA data show.  Credit-default swaps, which tend to decline as investor
confidence improves and rise as it deteriorates, pay the buyer
face value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations, less the
value of the defaulted debt.  Debt at the largest airlines almost tripled to $57.2
billion in 2008 from 1999. As credit markets thawed last year,
carriers began generating cash with secured debt and equity
offerings, and rising travel demand revived profits in 2010.  That rebound helped send the  Bloomberg U.S. Airlines Index 
up almost threefold through Dec. 17 since the S&P 500’s bear-
market low on March 9, 2009. The preceding years weren’t as kind
to the carriers’ stockholders.  Bankruptcy filings wiped out the shares in four big
airlines from 2002 through 2005, including Delta and United
predecessor UAL Corp. In late 2005, three of the five largest
U.S. carriers were in court protection.  “Reducing the risk of financial distress in a downturn
probably maximizes returns over the long term,” Fitch’s Warlick
said in an interview.  No Dividends  Buybacks and dividends haven’t been part of airlines’ cash
consumption. Dallas-based Southwest probably will keep its
dividend  unchanged through at least 2013 , and no other large
carrier is projected to start such payments, based on data
compiled by Bloomberg.  No airline in the group bought back shares in the past
year, Bloomberg data show. By contrast, AT&T Inc.’s Dec. 17
dividend boost marked a 27th straight annual increase, and the
largest U.S. phone company said it would repurchase as many as
300 million shares.  Airlines want enough reserves to keep operating amid
disruptions such as the industrywide grounding that followed the
terrorist attacks of Sept. 11, 2001, said  Scott Topping , the
treasurer of Dallas-based Southwest.  “There is probably some additional conservatism from not
completely trusting the credit markets to always be open,”
Topping said in an interview. “That has to be in the back of
everyone’s mind sitting in the finance department and trying to
manage cash. You just have to get the money when you can.”  Southwest’s Purchase  Southwest will draw on its $3.4 billion in cash and short-
term investments when it closes the $1.4 billion cash and stock
purchase of AirTran Holdings Inc. in 2011.  Delta Chief Executive Officer  Richard Anderson  signaled
that he also wants to prepare the Atlanta-based carrier for
“future opportunities” as it works to cut debt by 33 percent
to $10 billion by 2012 using free cash flow. Such moves reduce
interest costs and free up airplanes so they can be pledged
again as collateral to refinance other debt.  “We don’t know yet what those opportunities would be,”
Anderson told investors on a Dec. 15 call, a day after Sky News
reported that Delta was considering an approach to  Virgin
Atlantic Airways Ltd.  He wouldn’t comment on Virgin.  Delta has $2.1 billion in debt maturing next year, part of
$8 billion coming due among the big six carriers in 2011 and
$6.8 billion in 2012, according to a report by Fitch’s Warlick.  AMR had $4.56 billion in cash and short-term investments on
Sept. 30 and said Dec. 16 it would end the year with $4.8
billion. Delta had $3.86 billion;  US Airways , $1.94 billion; and
 JetBlue , $945 million. Chicago-based United Continental said
Dec. 8 it expects to end 2010 with as much as $8.7 billion, down
from $9.1 billion at Sept. 30.  ‘Like Goldilocks’  “The question is, is that the right amount of money?”
United Continental’s Laderman said at the Dec. 8 conference.
“Sort of like Goldilocks -- it could be too much, too little,
just right. Probably not too little.”  United Continental has said it will spend about $1.2
billion to combine the operations of Continental Airlines and
United Airlines, which closed their all-stock merger Oct. 1 and
formed the world’s largest carrier.  “The industry is always just on the verge of the next
crisis,”  Vicki Bryan , a senior high-yield analyst at New York-
based Gimme Credit LLC, said in an interview. “They are better
prepared, and you usually don’t say ‘better prepared’ and
‘airlines’ in the same sentence.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mary Schlangenstein  in Dallas at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net  