-- U.S. Carmakers, Engine Makers Challenge Rule Allowing 15% Ethanol in Gas
-- B y   T h o m   W e i d l i c h
-- 2010-12-20T17:58:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-20/u-s-carmakers-engine-makers-challenge-rule-allowing-15-ethanol-in-gas.html
U.S. carmakers and engine
manufacturers asked an appeals court to force the U.S.
Environmental Protection Agency to reconsider its October
decision allowing the sale of gasoline with 15 percent ethanol.  Organizations including the Alliance of Automobile
Manufacturers today asked the federal appeals court in
Washington to review whether the EPA’s “partial waiver”
allowing so-called E-15 fuels violates the Clean Air Act.  “Our organizations collectively represent some 400 million
engine products used by tens of millions of people every day in
the U.S.,”  Kris Kiser , a spokesman for the Engine Products
Group, composed of four trade organizations, said in a
statement.  The EPA on Oct. 13 granted a request from ethanol
producers, including Decatur, Illinois-based  Archer Daniels
Midland Co. , to increase concentrations of the corn-based fuel
additive in gasoline for vehicles made for 2007 and later. The
previous limit was 10 percent.  The EPA’s media department didn’t immediately return calls
for comment on the filing of the petition.  The manufacturers said the testing EPA used for its
decision was put in the administrative record too late for
meaningful comment, that the regulator’s own statute says fuels
can’t be approved that could cause failures, and that E-15 has
been shown to adversely affect engines.  Engine Products Group  The Engine Products Group comprises the Alliance of
Automobile Manufacturers, the Association of International
Automobile Manufacturers Inc., the National Marine Manufacturers
Association and the Outdoor Power Equipment Institute, according
to the statement.  “We want to be sure that any new fuel will not increase
air pollution, harm engines or endanger consumer safety,”
 Michael J. Stanton , president of the Association of
International Automobile Manufacturers, said in the statement.  The Renewable Fuels Association, an ethanol trade group in
Washington, said the EPA could have avoided “market confusion”
by allowing the use of E15 for all cars and light-duty pickup
trucks.  “The only way to meet the nation’s energy, economic and
environmental goals as put forth in the Renewable Fuels Standard
is to increase ethanol consumption,” the group said in a
 statement .  The case is Alliance of Automobile Manufacturers v. U.S.
Environmental Protection Agency, 10-1414, U.S. Court of Appeals,
District of Columbia Circuit (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Thom Weidlich  in Brooklyn, New York, federal court
at   tweidlich@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 