-- Lula Doesn't Rule Out Running for President of Brazil Once More in 2014
-- B y   A n d r e   S o l i a n i   a n d   M a r i a   L u i z a   R a b e l l o
-- 2010-12-20T21:20:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-20/lula-doesn-t-rule-out-running-for-president-of-brazil-once-more-in-2014.html
Brazil’s President  Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva , who ends two terms in office this month with record
popularity, left the door open for a comeback as soon as 2014.  Under Lula’s watch, 21 million Brazilians were lifted out
of poverty, unemployment fell to a record low and the country’s
 inflation  rate was reduced by more than half.  Lula’s approval rating has jumped to a new high as he
prepares to hand power to his former Cabinet chief,  Dilma Rousseff . Brazil’s constitution bars presidents from serving
three straight terms.  “I can’t say I won’t because I’m alive,” Lula said in an
interview with RedeTV! Network posted on its website today, when
asked if he would consider running for president again. “We
will work for Dilma and for good government, and when the right
time comes we will see what will happen.”  Lula’s departure as Brazil’s most popular president on
record increases the pressure on Rousseff, said analyst  Andre Pereira Cesar , founder of Brasilia-based political risk company
CAC Consultoria. Rousseff lacks Lula’s personal charisma, Cesar
said in a phone interview today.  “Even if Dilma installs a good government, you can’t rule
out Lula running in 2014. Mathematically, it is almost
impossible for Dilma to surpass his popularity,” Cesar said.  Support for Lula rose to an unprecedented 87 percent this
month, from 85 percent in September, according to an Ibope poll
published Dec. 16. The poll had a margin of error of two
percentage points.  Rousseff won 56 percent of the votes in an Oct. 31 runoff
against  Jose Serra , the former governor of Sao Paulo state.  Of the 2,002 people surveyed by Ibope, 18 percent said
Rousseff’s government will be better than Lula’s and 58 percent
said it would be as good.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Andre  Soliani in Brasilia at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net 
 Maria Luiza Rabello  in Brasilia at 
 mrabello@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  