-- UN Extends Ivory Coast Peacekeeping Mission, Defying Gbagbo Call for Exit
-- B y   B i l l   V a r n e r
-- 2010-12-20T20:12:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-20/un-extends-ivory-coast-peacekeeping-mission-defying-gbagbo-call-for-exit.html
The United Nations Security Council
voted 15-0 today to extend the mandate of the world body’s
peacekeeping mission in Ivory Coast for six months in defiance
of President  Laurent Gbagbo ’s called for the withdrawal of the
9,000 troops.  “We are not going to leave,”  Alain LeRoy , head of UN
peacekeeping, told reporters after a Security Council meeting on
Ivory Coast. “It is a very delicate and dangerous period, but
we have a mandate to fulfill, and we will use all means
necessary to fulfill that mandate.”  The UN doesn’t accept Gbagbo as the legitimate leader of
the world’s top cocoa grower and has provided security for
 Alassane Ouattara  since the Independent Electoral Commission
declared him the winner of the Nov. 28 run-off election. Ivory
Coast’s Constitutional Council declared Gbagbo the victor.  LeRoy said the UN has confirmed that “mercenaries,”
probably from Liberia, have entered Ivory Coast to fight
alongside forces loyal to Gbagbo. LeRoy said he didn’t know how
many foreign fighters were involved.  UN troops have been keeping peace in the nation, which has
been divided into a government-held south and a rebel-held
north, since a 2003 cease-fire agreement.  ‘Grave Concern’  The Security Council condemned violence directed at
civilians and UN peacekeepers, U.S. Ambassador  Susan Rice  told
reporters in her capacity as president of the council this
month. She said the Security Council warned all parties to the
conflict that they would be held accountable for attacks.  Rice said the presence of mercenaries, while not confirmed
to her, would be a source of “grave concern.”  The resolution adopted by the Security Council stated that
it would consider authorizing deployment of more UN troops to
Ivory Coast, possibly moving them from Liberia. The text also
said the Security Council was prepared to impose “targeted
sanctions” on anyone “seeking to undermine the outcome of the
electoral process” or obstruct the work of the peacekeeping
mission.  The Obama administration is ready to impose sanctions
against Gbagbo to pressure him to accept his defeat, White House
press secretary  Robert Gibbs  said.  Gbagbo continues to cling to power “illegitimately,”
Gibbs said. “We stand ready to impose targeted sanctions,
individually and in concert with our partners around the world,
on President Gbagbo, on his immediate family, on those that are
associated with him.”  Travel Ban  William Fitzgerald, U.S. deputy assistant secretary of
state for West Africa, said the administration was “very
close” to imposing a travel ban on as many as 40 members of
Gbagbo’s cabinet, senior civil servants and military officers,
plus their families.  “It is likely that within 24 to 48 hours we will implement
the ban,” Fitzgerald said in an interview. “We will start with
sanctions and continue with other means I cannot go into now.”  Asked about the possibility of U.S. or allied military
intervention, Fitzgerald said “no option is off the table.”  The European Union also is considering sanctions targeting
Gbagbo and officials of his government.  Young-jin Choi , head of the UN mission in Ivory Coast, said
Gbagbo and his supporters “harassed” UN workers and have
“distorted” the impartial role peacekeepers are playing in the
crisis. Access to the Gulf Hotel in Abidjan, where Ouattara has
his headquarters, has been blocked, denying delivery of food and
water to UN troops and civilians.  ‘Rules of Engagement’  “Our patrols are intended to monitor, observe and dissuade
acts of violence and human rights violations,” Choi said today,
according to a transcript of his remarks given to reporters in
New York. “Our rules of engagement allow us to fire only when
we are fired at.”  Gbagbo’s camp has begun “sending armed young men to the
domiciles of some UN staff, knocking at the door and asking them
their departure date or entering their residence under the
pretext of looking for weapons,” Choi said. “Their preferred
time for such visits so far has been during the night. Such
serious acts are a clear sign of lack of moderation that is
essential in the exercise of power.”  Cocoa for March delivery today jumped as much $74, or 2.5
percent, to $3,025 per metric ton and was trading at $2,964 a
ton as of 1:53 p.m. in New York.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bill Varner  at the United Nations at 
 wvarner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  