-- Hungary Central Bank Raises Interest Rates, Adds to Tension With Cabinet
-- B y   Z o l t a n   S i m o n   a n d   E d i t h   B a l a z s
-- 2010-12-20T15:58:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-20/hungary-central-bank-raises-interest-rates-adds-to-tension-with-cabinet.html
Hungary’s central bank increased the
main interest rate for a second month on concern that  inflation 
will accelerate as policy makers defied Prime Minister  Viktor Orban ’s calls for lower borrowing costs to protect growth.  The  Magyar Nemzeti Bank  raised the  benchmark two-week
interest rate  to 5.75 percent from 5.5 percent after a surprise
increase last month, the first since 2008. The decision was
“near-unanimous,” central bank President  Andras Simor  said.
Eleven of 23 analysts predicted the move in a Bloomberg survey.  Policy makers are at odds with Orban, who wants lower
interest borrowing costs to support pro-growth government
measures that the central bank has called “unsustainable.”
Policy makers will assess the need for interest-rate increases
based on inflation risks, the Monetary Council said.  “If the risks are such that they justify the increase of
the interest rate, the Council won’t be shy in raising the rate
but if we think risks don’t justify it then we’re not going to
increase it,” Simor said in Budapest.  Forint Falls  The currency weakened to 276.39 per euro at 4:36 p.m. from
272.65 on Dec. 17. Credit-default swaps, or the price demanded
to ensure government debt against default, declined after rising
to the highest since June following a two-step credit rating cut
by Moody’s Investors Service on Dec. 6. The forint last week
posted its biggest five-day gain against the euro in five
months.  “Monetary policy thinking is for 1 ½ to 2 years and it
wouldn’t be useful if we were thinking in the forint’s exchange
rate in the next hour or two,” Simor said.  Policy makers’ inflation concerns outweighed a rising
currency and falling risk premium, said analysts, including
 Annika Lindblad  at Nordea AB in Helsinki.  Inflation  stayed at a four-month high of 4.2 percent in
November as food prices advanced 5.9 percent while household
energy prices rose 7.9 percent. Core inflation, which strips out
volatile food and energy prices, was 1.9 percent. The bank last
month increased its 2011 inflation forecast to 4 percent from an
estimated 3.5 percent estimate in August.  ‘Time Has Come’  Wage growth  may pressure inflation after the government
agreed with employers and employees to raise the minimum wage by
six percent next year, Simor has said. Rising wages and prices
may trigger a “significant” increase in interest rates if
businesses “see the time has come to put in place the price and
wage increases that they have delayed” during the economic
crisis, Simor said on Dec. 17. Gross annual wage growth slowed
to 1.2 percent in October from 2.3 percent in September.  “The hike is likely to be motivated by the relatively high
inflation,” Nordea’s Lindblad wrote in an e-mail. “The central
bank is expected to try to have all the interest rate hikes done
by” the time new ruling party-appointed policy makers join the
panel in March.  Six-month forward rate agreements were at 6.17 percent
today, indicating analysts expect at least another quarter-point
rate increase in the next six months. Policy makers today also
considered keeping rates unchanged, Simor said.  Economists were split on the outcome of today’s rate
decision after the forint strengthened, weakening the central
bank’s case for higher rates analysts, according to economists
including  Christian Keller  at Barclays Capital.  “We did not anticipate the hike at today’s meeting,
expecting the central bank to make a pause as the forint’s
exchange rate and risk premium on Hungarian assets in general
remained strong,” London-based Keller wrote in an e-mail.  Government Fight  The Orban administration criticized November’s rate
increase as “unjustified.” The government is working to boost
 growth  to 5 percent by 2014 to “outgrow” the highest debt
level among the European Union’s eastern members, estimated at
79 percent of gross domestic product for this year.  The cabinet has urged Simor to quit, saying he was slow to
reduce interest rates after an emergency increase in 2008 and
for having held investments abroad. Simor has rebuffed calls to
resign. The Economy Ministry’s press office couldn’t immediately
comment on the rate decision when reached by Bloomberg. The last
time Orban met with Simor was in January 2009, the central
banker said.  The government is now moving to strip Simor of his right to
name two of four outside members of the rate-setting Monetary
Council when their mandates expire in March. The moves “raise
concerns” that Orban is curbing Simor’s independence, European
Central Bank  Jean-Claude Trichet  said in a Dec. 14 letter.  “We view the current hawkish monetary policy stance as
ignited by both professional and political arguments,”  Zoltan Torok  and  Wolfgang Ernst  of Raiffeisen Bank International AG
wrote in an e-mail. “This policy stance will probably change
from March 2011,” with “good chances” of further rate
increases until then, they said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Zoltan Simon  in Budapest at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at 
 wmorris@bloomberg.net  