-- Hungary’s Central Bank May Frontload Rate Increases
-- B y   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y   a n d   Z o l t a n   S i m o n
-- 2010-12-21T10:43:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-20/hungary-central-ban-may-frontload-rate-increases-before-orban-takes-over-.html
Hungary’s central bank may frontload
 interest-rate  increases to fight inflation before Prime Minister
 Viktor Orban  will "take over" monetary policy, making tightening
more difficult, said analysts at  Credit Agricole SA ,  Commerzbank
AG , Nomura International Plc. and Erste Group Bank AG.  The  Magyar Nemzeti Bank  yesterday raised the benchmark two-
week deposit rate to 5.75 percent from 5.5 percent, the second
consecutive increase. A majority of economists predicted rates
would remain unchanged both in November and yesterday. The
forint gained today after yesterday posting its biggest slide
against the euro in five months.  Policy makers defied Orban’s call for lower borrowing costs
to support pro-growth government measures, which they said were
“unsustainable.” The Cabinet called the rate increases
“unjustified,” cut the salaries of rate setters and stripped
central bank President  Andras Simor  of his right to nominate
panel members when the terms of four of the seven Monetary
Council members expire in March.  “The government is trying to take over the central bank,”
 Guillaume Tresca , an emerging-market strategist at Credit
Agricole CIB in Paris, said in a phone interview. “You can
guess that the central bank will lose its independence next year
and” policy makers “want to frontload the rate hike. We expect
another quarter-point rate hike, maybe in January or February.”  Forint Gains  The forint gained 0.3 percent to 276.06 against the euro by
10:49 a.m. in Budapest. It weakened 1.6 percent yesterday, the
most in five months, after the rate decision. Six-month forward
rate agreements rose to 6.25 percent today from 6.12 percent on
Dec. 17, indicating traders increased bets for higher rates in
the next six months.  “The central bank’s decision, though not unexpected on the
markets, was unjustified and ineffective,” the Economy Ministry
said in an e-mail. “It had practically none of the positive
effects on the forint market that the central bank expected.”  The rate increase was “hasty” and may interrupt Hungary’s
“economic consolidation,” the ministry said. The Cabinet
expects inflation to slow to 3.5 percent next year, while the
budget gap will be less than 3 percent of gross domestic
product, it said.  ‘Won’t Be Shy’  Monetary policy makers say their focus is curbing  inflation 
expectations after the bank last month increased its 2011
inflation forecast to 4 percent from 3.5 percent. They aim to
keep annual consumer-price increases at less than 3 percent.  “If the risks are such that they justify the increase of
the interest rate, the Council won’t be shy in raising the rate,
but if we think risks don’t justify it then we’re not going to
increase it,” Simor told reporters in Budapest yesterday.  The tension between the government and the central bank may
weigh more on monetary policy than inflation expectations,
according to  Peter Attard Montalto , a London-based economist at
Nomura. The government may seek to raise the central bank’s
inflation target to justify lower borrowing costs, he said.  “The unspoken reason for today’s rate hike was another
shot across the government’s bow,” he said in an e-mail. “It
looks increasingly likely that the government will deploy four
of its own party members onto the Monetary Council. With four
members there versus three existing hawkish members,” the panel
“could cut rates.”  The government’s measures involving the central bank
“raise concerns” that Orban is curbing Simor’s independence,
European Central Bank  Jean-Claude Trichet  said in a Dec. 14
letter to the Hungarian government, posted on the ECB’s website.  ‘Defiant Behavior’  “The composition of the central bank will change in the
spring and there is a certain opposition between the bank and
the government, a sort of defiant behavior,”  Imre Kerekgyarto ,
a trader at Commerzbank in Budapest, said in a phone interview.
“Whatever may be said about inflation risks, there is a
political tint to it.”  The government needs to change the way rate-setters are
nominated because it is concerned that it would be unable to
fill the positions under the current regulations, Janos
Hargitai, the deputy head of parliament’s budget committee, told
state-run MTI news service on Nov. 24.  Council Nominations  The government has drafted legislation which would allow
Parliament’s Economy Committee, dominated by Orban’s Fidesz
party, to nominate all four outside policy makers of the seven-
member Monetary Council. The mandates of the four outside
members expire on March 1. The central bank’s chief previously
nominated two of the four members, with the premier holding a
"right of agreement."  Orban isn’t the first Hungarian premier to clash with the
central bank over appointments. In 2005, Prime Minister  Ferenc Gyurcsany  enlarged the Monetary Council and ended the Magyar
Nemzeti Bank President’s monopoly on the nomination of new
policy makers. The bank’s president at the time was  Zsigmond Jarai , who had served as Orban’s finance minister and was last
month named the head of the central bank’s supervisory board.  Gyorgy Suranyi  lost his job after a year in 1991, when the
country’s first freely elected government changed the central
bank law to give the prime minister the power to replace him. He
later served a full term from 1995 to 2001. Orban, who became
premier in 1998, clashed with Suranyi over the relaxation of
currency controls and losses at the central bank’s Austrian
unit.  Peter Akos Bod , central bank head between 1991 and 1994,
resigned midway through his term, citing “political conflicts”
over the bank’s independence with the Socialist government that
had ousted the administration which installed him.  The new Monetary Council may decide to reverse the current
rate increases if it yields to government demands for a looser
monetary policy to support economic growth, according to  Zoltan Arokszallasi , a Budapest-based economist at Erste Bank AG.  “The government will have a significant influence over the
new members,” of the rate-setting body, Arokszallasi said in a
phone interview. “The new council may consider cutting rates.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Zoltan Simon  in Budapest at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at 
 wmorris@bloomberg.net  