-- UniCredit, ING Keep Lead in Polish Bond Sales as Deals Increase
-- B y   M a r t a   W a l d o c h
-- 2010-12-20T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-20/unicredit-ing-extend-lead-in-polish-bond-market-as-sales-poised-to-triple.html
UniCredit SpA ,  Commerzbank AG  and
 ING Groep NV  bolstered their lead this year as advisers on
Polish corporate bond sales, with Fitch Ratings predicting the
market will almost triple in the next three years.  Corporate bond issuance may exceed 50 billion zloty ($16.5
billion) by 2013 and rise to 100 billion zloty in the next
decade, compared with 17.8 billion zloty this year as of Nov.
30, said Miroslaw Dudzinski, the director responsible for
Fitch’s corporate and municipal business in central and eastern
Europe.  UniCredit’s  Bank Pekao SA  was the biggest corporate bond
arranger in 2010 for the third straight year, followed by
Commerzbank’s  BRE Bank SA  and  ING Bank Slaski SA . The value of
outstanding corporate bonds has climbed 47 percent since the end
of 2009, Fitch says.  “Next year should bring further expansion,” said  Andrzej Kopyrski , deputy chief executive officer in charge of corporate
banking at Pekao, who says the market may increase by as much as
20 percent next year. “One of our goals for 2011 is to hang on
to first place.”  PKO Bank Polski SA , the country’s largest lender, is in
fourth place.  Citigroup Inc. ’s  Bank Handlowy SA , which ranked
fifth from 2007 through 2009, slipped to seventh place this year
behind Nordea Bank Polska SA and Copernicus Securities
brokerage, according to Fitch data.  Competitive Market  “The debt capital markets business is quite competitive,
given that there is still a scarcity of Polish issuers,” said
Maciej Wolanski, head of global finance in  Societe Generale SA ’s
Polish investment banking unit. Societe expects “further
dynamic growth of the Polish non-government debt market.”  Competition this year was stiffened because the companies
starting sales “were from sectors with stable financial
situations, such as the power industry,” according to  Jakub Papierski , head of investment banking at PKO.  Energy companies will remain among the main bond sellers,
Kopyrski and Papierski said.  Tauron Polska Energia SA , Poland’s
second-largest utility, on Dec. 16 signed a five-year agreement
with banks including Pekao, Slaski, BRE, PKO and Handlowy to
sell 1.3 billion zloty of bonds. PGE SA, the largest power
company, will start a domestic program of less than 5 billion
zloty within months, the company said in November.  For state-controlled companies such as Tauron, bond sales
are “faster and more certain” because the public-procurement
rules for choosing an adviser are simpler than for loans, Chief
Financial Officer  Krzysztof Zawadzki  said. The company considers
a bank’s experience and the potential for a longer-term
relationship in addition to the price, he said.  Less Collateral  Corporate loans in zloty fell 4.5 percent in the 12 months
ended Sept. 30, according to a  report  published by the Polish
financial market regulator on its website. Bonds are more
“flexible,” give access to longer financing and requires less
collateral than a loan, Pekao’s Kopyrski said.  Citigroup Inc. may participate in new issues worth 1
billion to 5 billion zloty next year,” said  Misbah Shah , head
of treasury operations for central and eastern Europe.  “We’re expecting new issuance to increase significantly
and peak in the next five to seven years, as the infrastructure,
power and municipal sectors are likely to grow and will have to
tap the capital markets,” he said in an interview in Warsaw.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Marta Waldoch  in Warsaw on 
 mwaldoch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  