-- Uralkali Record Merger Means Higher Debt Costs: Russia Credit
-- B y   M a r i a   L e v i t o v   a n d   D e n i s   M a t e r n o v s k y
-- 2010-12-21T15:46:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-20/uralkali-record-merger-means-higher-debt-costs-than-peers-russia-credit.html
OAO Uralkali , Russia’s largest
potash producer by market value, faces higher borrowing costs
than competitors as it seeks buyers for as much as 50 billion
rubles ($1.6 billion) of bonds without a credit rating.  Uralkali said yesterday it plans to offer three-year ruble-
denominated debt to pay for its acquisition of OAO Silvinit and
may sell Eurobonds after the takeover is completed. The yield
may be about 100 basis points higher than bonds of EuroChem,
according to  Dmitry Dudkin , a fixed-income analyst at UralSib
Financial Corp. in Moscow.  “Uralkali is not present on the market so the new name may
attract a lot of demand, but the premium may be necessary due to
the issue size,” Dudkin said yesterday by e-mail. “If they
don’t have ratings when they issue, that’s a disadvantage.”  The Russian deal comes less than a month after Kassel,
Germany-based K+S AG, Europe’s largest potash producer, agreed
to buy Canada’s Potash One Inc. for C$434 million ($427
million). BHP Billiton Ltd., the world’s largest mining company,
abandoned its $40 billion cash offer for Potash Corp. of
Saskatchewan Inc. after Canada rejected the proposal. Uralkali
offered to buy 20 percent of  Silvinit , for $1.4 billion to
create a $24 billion potash producer in Russia’s biggest merger
outside of the oil and gas industry.  The company, based in Berezniki, Russia, plans to buy the
remaining stock with new shares and estimates the total
acquisition price to be about $7.8 billion, Chief Executive
Officer  Pavel Grachev  said in a presentation posted on
Uralkali’s website yesterday.  Uralkali plans to raise the financing for the deal by the
end of February and sees ruble-denominated bonds as the
“preferred way of funding,” Grachev said during a conference
call with investors yesterday.  Debt Multiple  Uralkali may be rated BB-, three levels below investment
grade and one step less than Russian billionaire  Andrey Melnichenko ’s fertilizer-maker EuroChem at BB from Fitch Ratings
and Standard & Poor’s, said  Dmitry Turmyshev , an analyst at
Moscow-based Trust Investment Bank. Uralkali will have higher
indebtedness at about 2 times earnings after the acquisition,
compared with a multiple of 1.7 for EuroChem, Turmyshev said.  EuroChem’s 5 billion rubles of bonds puttable in 2015
yielded 8.48 percent today, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Uralkali’s three-year bonds would probably have a
similar yield to EuroChem’s five-year debt at 8.2 percent to 8.7
percent, Turmyshev said. The rate compares with a yield of 7.15
percent on Russian government bonds due in 2014, up from a
record low of 6.44 percent in April, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  Ruble Bears  The debt of the combined company will total $2.8 billion,
including the initial purchase price, according to estimates by
Troika Dialog, Russia’s oldest investment bank. That would be
equivalent about 1.2 times earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization, which is “quite low” for a
metals and mining company,  Alexey Bulgakov , an analyst at Troika
Dialog in Moscow, said by e-mail yesterday.  “Any large placement of ruble bonds in order to be
successful needs to offer a material premium to the secondary
levels of its peers,” Troika’s Bulgakov said. “Market
participants are rather bearish on the exchange rate of the
ruble and the local rates. Also, a lot of new supply is expected
in 2011.”  The ruble gained 0.2 percent to 30.7420 per dollar at the
end of official trading in Moscow. Non-deliverable forwards, or
NDFs, which provide a guide to expectations of currency
movements and interest rate differentials and allow companies to
hedge against fluctuations, show the ruble depreciating to
31.0348 per dollar in three months.  Extra Yield  Deputy Finance Minister  Dmitry Pankin  said on Dec. 10 that
the government plans to increase bond sales at home to 200
billion rubles this month, the biggest monthly target since
September and up from the 60 billion rubles planned. The
government is raising money to plug its second consecutive
budget deficit.  Russia’s ruble notes due in August 2016 were little
changed, yielding 7.6 percent today. The government’s dollar
bonds due in 2020 rallied, pushing the yield down 10 basis
points to 5.036 percent.  The extra yield investors demand to hold Russian debt
rather than U.S. Treasuries rose 2 basis points to 206,
according to JPMorgan Chase & Co. EMBI+ indexes. The difference
compares with 141 for debt of similarly rated Mexico and 181 for
Brazil, which is ranked two steps lower at Baa3 by Moody’s
Investors Service.  The  yield  spread on Russian bonds is 47 basis points below
the average for emerging markets, down from a 15-month high of
105 in February, according to JPMorgan indexes.  M&A Surge  The cost of protecting Russian debt against non-payment for
five years using credit-default swaps rose to 147.68 from 147.15
yesterday, down from this year’s peak of 217, according to data
provider CMA. The contracts pay the buyer face value in exchange
for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a
borrower fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  Credit-default swaps for Russia, rated Baa1 by Moody’s, its
third-lowest investment grade rating, cost 9 basis points more
than contracts for Turkey, which is rated four levels lower at
Ba2. Russia swaps  cost  as much as 40 basis points less on April
20.  World potash demand will exceed 50 million tons this year
and rise to 55 million to 60 million tons in 2011, Belarusian
Potash Co., a trader part-owned by Uralkali, said in August. BPC
raised prices for the fertilizer by about 7 percent for buyers
in Southeast Asia and Brazil, it said in a statement last month.  Funding Alternatives  Russian mergers and acquisitions hit a three-year high this
quarter, as deals involving Russian companies reached $33.8
billion since Sept. 30, the most since the last three months of
2007 and three times the level in the same period last year,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To finance the takeover of Silvinit, Uralkali is
considering alternatives to bonds, including “bank financing
and available cash funds,” the company said in a statement
yesterday. Uralkali aims to complete the acquisition in early
May, it said in the presentation.  Uralkali “needs to have a rating assigned to compete”
with EuroChem in the bond market,  Nikolay Podguzov , the head of
bond strategy in Moscow at VTB Capital, said by e-mail
yesterday. “It will be difficult to get good rates without a
credit rating.”  Eldar Aghayev , Fitch’s London-based analyst covering the
industry, declined to comment, citing “compliance issues.” S&P
didn’t respond to an e-mailed request for comment. Elena
Nadtochi, an analyst at Moody’s in London, didn’t respond to an
e-mail seeking comment.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Maria Levitov  in Moscow at 
 mlevitov@bloomberg.net 
 Denis Maternovsky  in Moscow at 
 dmaternovsky@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at   gserkin@bloomberg.net . 