-- Uralkali Agrees on $7.8 Billion Takeover of Silvinit
-- B y   M a r i a   K o l e s n i k o v a   a n d   I l y a   K h r e n n i k o v
-- 2010-12-20T16:51:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-20/uralkali-offers-to-buy-silvinit-to-become-second-largest-potash-producer.html
OAO Uralkali , Russia’s largest
potash producer by market value, agreed to buy  OAO Silvinit  for
$7.8 billion in cash and shares to benefit from rising demand.  Uralkali will purchase 20 percent of Silvinit from Otkritie
Financial Corp. for $1.4 billion, or $894.50 a share, the
Berezniki-based company said today in a statement. It will buy
the rest for new shares worth $6.4 billion as of Dec. 13.  The takeover is the third-largest announced this year in
basic materials after Newcrest Mining Ltd.’s purchase of Lihir
Gold Ltd. and Vedanta Resources Plc’s proposed Cairn India Ltd.
acquisition, Bloomberg data show. The combined entity would be
worth $23.9 billion, based on Dec. 17 prices, said Uralkali,
which  expects  to complete the deal in early May 2011.  Potash producers are consolidating as an increase in grain
prices, driven up this year by drought in Russia, flooding in
Canada and parched fields in Kazakhstan and Europe, boosts
fertilizer purchases by farmers. Uralkali and Silvinit combined
would account for 17 percent of global potash output, creating
the second-largest producer after  Potash Corp. of Saskatchewan
Inc. , according to U.K.-based industry consultant Fertecon Ltd.  The acquisition is “attractive” for Uralkali minority
stockholders,  Anna Kupriyanova , a Moscow-based analyst at
UralSib Capital, wrote today in a note. For Silvinit, it
“translates into a share price below the current market -- a
negative for Silvinit minorities,” she said.  Shares Slide  Silvinit  slid as much as 15 percent to 26,615.01 rubles in
Moscow trading, the biggest decline in 19 months, before closing
at 27,296.99 rubles.  Uralkali  fell 1.1 percent to 212.64 rubles.  Investors will receive 133.4 shares in Uralkali for each
ordinary stock in Silvinit they own, and 51.8 shares for each
preferred security, according to the statement. VTB Capital Plc
and Goldman Sachs International are advising Uralkali, while
Merrill Lynch International is advising Silvinit.  The cash offered is 10.15 times Silvinit’s trailing 12-
month earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and
amortization and the stocks 11.6 times, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. That compares with the 20.87 times Ebitda
cash bid by  BHP Billiton Ltd.  for  Potash Corp. of Saskatchewan
Inc.  in August that was quashed by the Canadian government.  Uralkali may sell as much as 50 billion rubles ($1.6
billion) of bonds to fund the deal and issue 1.2 billion new
shares, adding to the 2.1 billion outstanding, Chief Executive
Officer  Pavel Grachev  said today on a conference call. Uralkali
will seek antitrust approval for the deal this week and both
companies’ shareholders will vote on the tie-up on Feb. 4.  Kerimov Control  Russian billionaire  Suleiman Kerimov  and his partners took
controlling stakes in Uralkali and Silvinit between June and
August with a view to a merger. Solikamsk-based Silvinit, whose
production exceeds that of Uralkali, was valued at 246 billion
rubles on Dec. 17, compared with Uralkali’s 457 billion rubles.  A merger will have a “positive effect” on the market,
Potash Corp. Chief Executive Officer  Bill Doyle  told analysts on
Dec. 15. Potash Corp., based in Saskatoon, Canada, last month
fought off  BHP Billiton’s  $40 billion takeover proposal.  The eight-largest potash miners, whose market control
already exceeds that of oil cartel OPEC, have sought to tighten
their grip on prices of potash, a form of potassium used to
boost crop yields. Uralkali exports through  Belarusian Potash
Co. , which controls about 30 percent of global trade.  Silvinit has traded through International Potash Co. and is
discussing a “transition period” before switching, Silvinit
CEO  Vladislav Baumgertner  said on the conference call.  Double Output  Uralkali and Silvinit both mine fields at the Vernekamskoye
deposit in Perm, near the Ural mountains, which has the world’s
second-largest reserves, according to Uralkali’s  website . Both
companies doubled output in the first half as fertilizer use
recovered from a global economic slump, with Uralkali  producing 
2.42 million metric tons and Silvinit 2.57 million tons.  The two combined have the capacity to produce 10.6 million
tons in 2010, behind Potash Corp. and Plymouth, Minnesota-based
Mosaic Co., according to Uralkali. The Russian companies will
boost annual output by 2.4 million tons by 2012, Grachev said.  Uralkali posted net income of $274 million in the first
half under international standards, while Silvinit reported a
profit of $261 million using Russian methods.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Maria Kolesnikova  in Moscow at 
 mkolesnikova@bloomberg.net ;
 Ilya Khrennikov  in Moscow at 
 ikhrennikov@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amanda Jordan at 
 ajordan11@bloomberg.net . 