-- HMV Leads U.K. Retail Stocks Lower as Snow Keeps Britons Away From Stores
-- B y   S a r a h   S h a n n o n
-- 2010-12-20T13:37:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-20/hmv-leads-u-k-retail-stocks-lower-as-snow-keeps-britons-away-from-stores.html
HMV Group Plc , the DVD and music
chain that also owns Waterstone’s bookstores, led declines among
U.K. retail stocks after snow kept shoppers away from stores on
the last weekend before Christmas.  HMV dropped as much as 10 percent, while Home Retail Group
Plc, the owner of the Argos chain, slid as much as 3.2 percent.
The  FTSE 350 General Retail Index  was down 0.7 percent as of
1:35 p.m., while the benchmark FTSE 100 Index rose 0.5 percent.  The number of shoppers in the U.K. declined 24.3 percent on
Dec. 18 and 13.3 percent on Dec. 19 compared with a year
earlier, market research company Synovate said today. As much as
20 centimeters (8 inches) of snow fell in parts of the U.K. this
weekend, disrupting travel plans and causing the Brent Cross
Shopping Centre in north London to shut early on Dec. 18.  “The prospect of further adverse weather patterns in the
final week before Christmas argues for downside earnings risk,”
 Richard Edwards , an analyst at Citigroup Inc. in London, said in
a research note today. He estimates that same-store sales in the
U.K. will decline 2 percent in the fourth quarter.  HMV was down 3 pence, or 9.5 percent, at 28.5 pence as of
1:35 p.m. local time, heading for the lowest close since a May
2002 initial public offering. The retailer said Dec. 9 that
holiday sales were being hampered by severe winter weather and
cut its dividend by 50 percent.  Marks & Spencer Group Plc  fell
as much as 2 percent, while Next Plc dropped as much as 2.3
percent and  Debenhams Plc  slid as much as 2.8 percent.  West End Discounts  About 36 percent of retailers expect holiday sales to be
weaker than last year, the  British Retail Consortium  said today,
citing a survey of 17 retailers that represent about half of
U.K. sales. The survey, which was conducted from Nov. 22 to Dec.
1, also showed that 41 percent of retailers are offering
customers bigger promotions than last year.  In London’s West End, discounts of as much as 70 percent
are being offered at billionaire  Philip Green ’s Topman chain,
while the Kurt Geiger footwear stores and clothing retailers Gap
Inc. and  French Connection Group Plc  are reducing prices by
half, according to representative body the  New West End Company .  About 3 million shoppers are expected to spend more than
600 million pounds ($932 million) in the district in the final
days before Christmas, the organization said.  John Lewis Partnership Plc, the employee-owned retailer
that extended its ‘never knowingly undersold’ price-matching
guarantee to its online department in September, said today that
sales at its department-store chain rose 7 percent in the week
ended Dec. 18. Home furnishings, toys, jewelry and outerwear
such as scarves, gloves and earmuffs sold best.  Online Sales  The U.K.’s worst affected regions on Dec. 18 were the West
Midlands, South East England and London, where shopper numbers
were down between 29 percent and 33 percent, Synovate said.  The bad weather may also be affecting retailers’ online
sales as consumers worry that deliveries won’t reach them in
time for the holiday, Caroline Gulliver, an analyst at Execution
Noble, said in a research report today.  “The forecast for more snow, ice and freezing temperatures
for the week ahead has understandably made retailers nervous
ahead of the key final week of trading,” she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sarah Shannon  in London at 
 sshannon4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net . 