-- Vietnam Default Swaps Soar as Lenders Await $60 Million Vinashin Repayment
-- B y   K a t r i n a   N i c h o l a s
-- 2010-12-20T07:22:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-20/vietnam-default-swaps-soar-as-lenders-await-60-million-vinashin-repayment.html
The cost to insure Vietnam’s debt
against default soared to its highest level in 17 months as
international lenders wait for the state-run shipping company to
make a $60 million loan repayment due today.  Credit-default swaps on Vietnam government debt were quoted
at 295 basis points as of 1:18 p.m. in Singapore, according to
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc. That’s the highest since July
17, 2009, prices from data provider CMA show.  Moody’s Investors Service cut the Southeast Asian nation’s
credit rating to B1 from Ba3 on Dec. 15 citing the risk of a
balance of payments crisis, and highlighted “debt distress” at
Vietnam Shipbuilding Industry Group, known as Vinashin. The
company, which the government says had debt of about 86 trillion
dong ($4.4 billion) as of June, won’t be able to make the loan
repayment because of a lack of funds, Chairman  Nguyen Ngoc Su 
told the Vietnam Economic Forum website last week.  If Vinashin doesn’t pay, it will “make it more expensive
for any Vietnamese entity, government-owned or otherwise, to get
overseas financing,”  Jonathan Pincus , an economist at the
Harvard Kennedy School in Ho Chi Minh City, said in a phone
interview. “People in the government don’t seem to be thinking
long-term about the implications of this for Vietnam’s financial
credibility.”  Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower
fails to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted
debt. A basis point equals $1,000 annually on a swap protecting
$10 million of debt. The contracts closed at 287 basis points on
Dec. 17, capping their biggest weekly rise since Aug. 27, CMA
prices show.  Dollar Bonds  Vietnam’s dollar bonds are down 5.7 percent this month,
HSBC Holdings Plc indexes show. The debt lost 2.4 percent in
November, the worst monthly performance since a 4.9 percent drop
in November 2009, the indexes show.  The nation’s $1 billion of 6.75 percent bonds due January
2020 were unchanged at 102.5 cents on the dollar to yield 6.382
percent today, the lowest price since June 28, according to BNP
Paribas SA prices on Bloomberg.  The International Monetary Fund this month said Vietnam
needs a “coherent package” of measures including higher
interest rates to re-establish monetary policy credibility and
slow inflation.  Vinashin’s near collapse indicates a “systemic failure”
in regulators’ supervision of state-owned companies, according
to the Asian Development Bank.  Vinashin Loan  Vinashin hired Credit Suisse Group AG to help it organize a
$600 million, seven-year loan in December 2008. A lender
steering committee, comprising representatives from the Swiss
bank, Standard Chartered Plc and hedge fund Elliott Advisors
Ltd., has been established to negotiate with the company.  KPMG LLP was appointed to provide advice and support to
Vinashin while law firm Allen & Overy LLP was hired by the
lender group as legal advisers.  Edward Middleton , the Hong Kong-based KPMG partner in
charge of restructuring services, declined to comment in an e-
mailed response to questions.  David Kidd , a partner at Allen &
Overy, also declined to comment.  Vinashin representatives weren’t immediately available by
phone today. Credit Suisse Hong Kong-based spokesman  Adam Harper 
and a public relations firm representing Elliott Advisors both
declined to comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Katrina Nicholas  in Singapore at 
 knicholas2@bloomberg.net 
Nicholas Heath in Hanoi at 
 nheath2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will McSheehy at 
 wmcsheehy@bloomberg.net  