-- VimpelCom to Seek Revised Sawiris Deal as Telenor Opposes $6.5 Billion Bid
-- B y   R a g n h i l d   K j e t l a n d   a n d   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g
-- 2010-12-21T11:09:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-20/vimpelcom-s-sawiris-deal-may-collapse-on-opposition-from-shareholders.html
VimpelCom Ltd. , the Russian mobile-
phone operator seeking to combine assets with  Naguib Sawiris ’s
Weather Investments SpA, will pursue a new agreement after its
biggest shareholder rejected an $6.5 billion proposal.  Telenor ASA , which owns almost 40 percent of VimpelCom,
said yesterday that the transaction won’t help the business or
shareholders. VimpelCom said in a later statement that its board
asked Chief Executive Officer  Alexander Izosimov  to negotiate a
revision after the three Telenor-appointed directors voted
against the proposal in its current form.  The opposition of Telenor, the Nordic region’s biggest
phone company, threatens the possible creation of the world’s
fifth-largest mobile-phone company. VimpelCom, Russia’s No. 2
wireless operator, and Egyptian billionaire Sawiris agreed in
October to merge their assets, including a 51.7 percent stake in
Egypt’s Orascom Telecom Holding SAE and all of Italian mobile
operator Wind Telecomunicazioni SpA.  Telenor is “paying for assets where the price isn’t
spectacularly cheap and at the same time they are giving up part
of their influence,” said  Dalibor Vavruska , an analyst for ING
Bank NV in London, in a phone interview.  The proposed transaction would have made it necessary to
adjust a shareholder agreement between Telenor and VimpelCom’s
other major shareholder Altimo as both companies were asked to
relinquish the right to veto the issuance of new shares.  Shareholder Agreement  “We were opposed to that,” said  Marianne Moe , head of
Telenor’s investor relations, in a phone interview today.
Telenor also voted against the CEO’s mandate to renegotiate a
deal with Weather Investments, she said, adding that the
remaining six board members told Izosimov to find an agreement
that doesn’t involve changes to the current shareholder
agreement and bylaws.  VimpelCom, listed on the New York Stock Exchange, was
formed from the consolidation of Russian billionaire  Mikhail Fridman ’s Alfa Group and  Telenor  holdings in Russian and
Ukrainian mobile-phone operators.  Telenor  dropped 0.7 percent to 91.95 kroner in Oslo trading
as of 10:57 a.m. Orascom Telecom rose 1.2 percent to 4.29
Egyptian pounds in Cairo. VimpelCom rose 2.6 percent to $15.23
in New York yesterday, valuing the company at $19.7 billion.  In light of Telenor’s opposition, VimpelCom’s board
authorized Izosimov to negotiate “the terms and conditions
under which Weather would be willing to enter into a revised
transaction,” the company said. The board didn’t approve an
amended shareholder agreement for the proposed transaction, and
it didn’t vote on certain other agreements, VimpelCom said in
the statement.  ‘Recent Developments’  Telenor has three representatives on the nine-person board,
Moscow-based  Altimo  owns 39 percent and minority shareholders
hold the remaining 21 percent.  Telenor withdrew its support for the deal because of the
“information available and recent developments,” it has said.  “We have made a complete evaluation of the financial and
strategic terms of the deal and concluded that it doesn’t make
sense,” Fornebu, Norway-based Telenor said yesterday. “When
the deal was initially presented to the board, we said yes, with
reservations.”  VimpelCom and Weather earlier this year delayed the signing
of a shareholder agreement as Orascom tries to resolve a dispute
with the Algerian government over its local unit, Djezzy.  Tax Dispute  The Algerian government, which wants to buy Djezzy, has
ordered Orascom to pay more than $800 million in back taxes and
banned it from transferring money abroad, penalties that Orascom
has contested. The Egyptian company has said it could be in
international arbitration by the second quarter of next year
unless it can resolve the dispute.  ING Bank’s Vavruska, who has a $21.30 price target for
VimpelCom shares, said it would be difficult to find banks that
are willing to refinance the debt if the shareholders can’t
agree on the deal. VimpelCom plans to borrow money to refinance
existing debt as well as cover the cash component of the Weather
combination.  VimpelCom hired six banks to provide a $4 billion loan to
finance the deal, a person with knowledge of the situation said
Dec. 13.  Barclays Capital ,  BNP Paribas SA ,  Citigroup Inc. ,  HSBC
Holdings Plc ,  ING Groep NV  and  Royal Bank of Scotland Plc  will
provide the short-term financing, which will be refinanced with
bonds next year, said the person, who declined to be identified
because the transaction is private.  Failed Deals  Vavruska said a fairer price for the assets would be about
$2 billion less than VimpelCom is currently planning to pay.  Had the companies combined in 2009, they would have had
total revenue of $21.5 billion and earnings before interest,
taxes, depreciation and amortization of $9.5 billion. The new
company would have operations in 20 countries and net debt after
the combination of as much as $24 billion, VimpelCom has said.  The deal is Sawiris’s second attempt this year to sell
assets of Orascom, the largest publicly traded mobile-phone
company in the Middle East. Talks with South Africa’s  MTN Group
Ltd.  failed in June.  Sawiris is waiting for a new offer from VimpelCom, Arabiya
television reported today, citing an interview with the Egyptian
billionaire. In an e-mailed statement, he said he would call a
board meeting at Orascom Telecom to review an offer once it is
revised.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ragnhild Kjetland  in Frankfurt at 
 rkjetland@bloomberg.net ;
 Jonathan Browning  in London 
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at   sthiel1@bloomberg.net . 