-- China Car Market to Extend Gains Over U.S., Automakers Say
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-12-20T15:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-20/volkswagen-expects-china-growth-to-slow-on-capacity-update2-.html
Auto sales in China may outstrip the
U.S. for a third consecutive year in 2011 as the world’s largest
carmakers Toyota Motor Corp.,  General Motors Co.  and  Volkswagen
AG  estimate sales will grow by as much as 15 percent.  GM , the biggest foreign automaker in China, expects sales
to grow as much as 15 percent in line the with the wider market,
China President  Kevin Wale  said yesterday, while Volkswagen,
Europe’s largest carmaker, projects China’s markets will rise 10
to 15 percent, according to  Soh Weiming , the company’s local
executive president.  “I would anticipate nothing less than that and we will
grow together with the market,” Soh said in an interview at an
auto conference in Guangzhou, China yesterday. VW’s growth would
be limited by a shortage of capacity, he said.  Sales growth in China may outstrip the U.S. again in 2011
even as the Asian nation’s government is set to end incentives
this month that helped boost its auto sales by 34 percent to
16.4 million through November. Next year, auto sales in China
may reach 20 million in China, according to Booz & Co. and
Nomura Holdings Inc. analysts, while light-vehicle sales in the
U.S. may be as much as 12.8 million units, said  Ashvin Chotai ,
managing director of Intelligence Asia Automotive, a consultant.  Chinese passenger-car vehicle sales, which exclude trucks
and buses, reached 12.45 million through November this year.  Toyota  Toyota , the world’s largest automaker, said yesterday it
expects its China sales to rise 13 percent to 900,000 vehicles
in 2011.  Nissan Motor Co.  projects its sales will rise 17
percent to 772,000 units.  Even as China extends its lead over the U.S. and other
markets, the end of subsidies and insufficient capacity are
slowing the pace of growth.  GM and its joint ventures sold 2.2 million vehicles in
China in the first 11 months of this year, an increase of 33
percent from a year earlier, the company said this month. VW-
owned brands sold 1.8 million vehicles in China through November,
an increase of 38 percent from a year earlier.  VW’s Soh said yesterday that a lack of capacity would cap
the Wolfsburg, Germany-based automaker’s growth in China over
the next two years. To meet demand in the nation, VW has said it
will spend 10.6 billion euros ($14 billion) through 2015 as part
of a plan to add two factories to its current nine and raise
production to 3 million cars annually.  ‘Biggest Challenge’  “The next 24 months will be tough for us as we have
production constraints,” Soh said. “VW’s biggest challenge to
growing sales is limited capacity in China.”  Hyundai Motor Co. , which expects growth slower than rivals
in China of 2.9 percent in 2011 to 720,000, is also affected by
a capacity shortage, said  Noh Jae-man , president of the
automaker’s Chinese venture.  The phasing out of incentives including tax breaks for
smaller vehicles and subsidies to rural car-buyers may
disproportionately affect local carmakers in China.  The subsidy on smaller cars, which cuts the tax from 10
percent of the purchase price to 7.5 percent, applies only to
cars with engines of 1.6 liters or smaller, a segment dominated
by Chinese models.  Local brands accounted for more than 63 percent of the new
models with that size engine last year, according to the China
Association of Automobile Manufacturers.  Sales in China may also be boosted by new brands.  Honda Motor Co., Japan’s second-largest automaker, added
its Li Nian brand’s S1 compact sedan yesterday in Guangzhou. Li
Nian, created by Guangqi Honda Automobile Co., a Chinese joint
venture owned by Honda and Guangzhou Automobile Group Co., is
the first original marque developed between a foreign automaker
and local joint-venture company in China, according to Honda.  GM will sell its first car in China under a new Baojun
brand next year, it said last month. GM’s SAIC-GM-Wuling
Automotive Co. joint venture produces the Baojun 630 car.  PSA Peugeot Citroen is also considering introducing a local
brand with a Chinese name, it said in July.  -- Liza Lin ,  Tian Ying  and  Rosalind Chin . With assistance from
 Makiko Kitamura  in Tokyo. Editors:  Ian Rowley ,  Kae Inoue .  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Liza Lin  at 
 llin15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kae Inoue at 
 kinoue@bloomberg.net  