-- Some Wal-Mart Vendors Question Strategy, Survey Says
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B o y l e
-- 2010-12-20T21:08:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-20/wal-mart-suppliers-say-u-s-retailer-s-business-plan-isn-t-clear-in-survey.html
The majority of  Wal-Mart Stores Inc .
suppliers say Chief Executive Officer  Mike Duke  and his managers
aren’t explaining their business plans clearly enough, according
to a survey.  More than half the 139 suppliers surveyed in a study by
recruitment firm Cameron Smith & Associates didn’t agree that
“senior leadership is aligned behind a strategic vision that is
consistently communicated and well understood by the supplier
community.” The Rogers, Arkansas-based group surveyed a small
sample of Wal-Mart’s more than 60,000 suppliers.  To win back shoppers, Duke and new U.S. stores chief  Bill Simon  changed tactics this year and began restoring thousands of
products removed during the tenure of former merchandising chief
John Fleming. The company has weathered six consecutive  quarters 
of declining sales at U.S. stores open at least a year, and
Duke, 61, has projected “positive” sales for this period.  “They are rather frantically returning to past practices
by bringing back products and going after their core low-income
shopper,” said Leon Nicholas, Cambridge, Massachusetts-based
director at consulting firm Kantar Retail, which works with Wal-
Mart suppliers. “The big question for a lot of our clients
seems to be, ‘Is this going to work?’ So far, it doesn’t seem to
be working.”  ‘Clear Vision’  “The 139 people polled in this survey cannot accurately
represent the more than 60,000 suppliers that we work with,”
said David Tovar, a company spokesman. “That said, almost all
suppliers will tell you that Wal-Mart has a clear strategic
vision and our goal is to make sure it is well understood by
absolutely every one of them.”  The survey -- the first of its kind -- was conducted in
October and November. Half the suppliers surveyed said they have
worked for Wal-Mart for 12 years or more. About two-thirds of
respondents come from companies with 10 employees or less based
near Wal-Mart’s headquarters. More than 40 percent of suppliers
polled sell food and other consumables to Wal-Mart.  Duke has overhauled his management team since taking the
helm in February 2009. In June, Simon replaced  Eduardo Castro- Wright , who is now running global sourcing and e-commerce, and
 Charles Holley  succeeded  Tom Schoewe  as chief financial officer
Nov. 30. Fleming’s role was split between four senior
merchandising executives, and apparel chief  Dottie Mattison 
resigned in July.  ‘Lesson’  “I hope Mike Duke takes a lesson from this survey,” said
Cameron Smith, founder of the recruiter, which works with Wal-
Mart suppliers in and around its Bentonville, Arkansas,
headquarters. “There have been closed-door meetings inside Wal-
Mart about this.” Smith conducted the survey along with
Connecting Northwest Arkansas, a trade publication.  More than half the suppliers deemed “adjusting to shifting
personnel” an area of “great concern,” according to the
survey. The survey can be accessed at Connecting Northwest
Arkansas’  website .  The vendors also said dollar stores like  Dollar General
Corp.  and  Family Dollar Stores Inc . posed the single biggest
threat to Wal-Mart over the next five years, followed by  Target
Corp ,  Kroger Co . and Amazon.com Inc. Drug chains  CVS  Caremark
Corp. and  Walgreen Co.  were next, followed by  Costco Wholesale
Corp .  “That really surprised me,” Smith said. “I expected
suppliers to say that Target was the No. 1 threat.”  Wal-Mart dropped 64 cents, or 1.2 percent, to $53.77 at 4
p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite  trading . The shares
have risen less than 1 percent this year, compared with a 38
increase for Dollar General. Target had risen 21 percent over
the same period, while Amazon has gained 36 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Boyle in New York at 
 Mboyle20@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net . 