-- Wells Fargo Hires John Fowler for Health-Care Deals
-- B y   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l
-- 2010-12-21T19:16:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-20/wells-fargo-hires-deutsche-bank-s-fowler-amid-investment-banking-expansion.html
(Corrects acquisition-advisory ranking in the fifth
paragraph of a story published Dec. 20.)  Wells Fargo & Co., the fourth-
largest U.S. lender by assets, hired  John Fowler , who has led
European health care at Deutsche Bank AG, and five managing
directors to expand its investment-banking division.  Fowler will be vice chairman of health-care investment
banking and report to  John Hudson , according to a company
statement. Wells Fargo also named  Gerry Walters  as head of
technology banking for the west coast, the San Francisco-based
company said.  “The addition of these experienced senior-level bankers
demonstrates our ongoing commitment to growing our investment
banking platform,”  Jonathan Weiss , 53, co-head of the
investment banking and capital markets group with  Rob Engel , 47,
said in the statement. “These bankers bring strong client
relationships and specialized industry expertise that will
support the continued growth of our business.”  Wells Fargo is expanding the securities unit it acquired
from Wachovia Corp. in 2008 as Chief Executive Officer  John Stumpf , 57, looks to capitalize on a changing landscape after
Bear Stearns Cos., Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. and Merrill
Lynch & Co. collapsed or were sold. Former Chairman  Richard Kovacevich , 67, said in a November 2009 speech at the Stanford
Graduate School of Business that Wells Fargo’s investment bank
will be “in the top five within the next few years.”  Underwriting Rank  Wells Fargo rose to 12th in U.S. debt underwriting through
Dec. 20 this year from 13th in 2009, and to eighth in U.S.
equity underwriting from 10th last year, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Wells Fargo is 26th among financial
advisers on U.S. mergers and acquisitions.  Fowler has more than 20 years of investment banking
experience, most recently as vice chairman at Deutsche Bank,
according to the company’s statement. Fowler graduated from the
University of Virginia, where he also earned law and business
degrees, Wells Fargo said. He also ran healthcare banking at
Salomon Brothers, now part of Citigroup Inc.  Joining Fowler in healthcare is  Shawn Cross , who will lead
Wells Fargo’s so-called BioPharma business, the company said.
Cross was most recently CEO of the merchant banking group at
Burrill & Co., a San Francisco-based firm focused on life
sciences. He will report to Hudson, head of consumer, healthcare
and gaming banking, Wells Fargo said.  Technology Background  Walters, 41, joins from Oppenheimer & Co., where he was
head of internet and digital media, according to the statement.
He will report to  Jim Broner , head of the technology, media and
telecom investment-banking group, the company said.  Wells Fargo hired Adam DeGarmo, 42, former head of JPMorgan
Chase & Co.’s chemical banking practice, to lead a similar unit
at Wells Fargo, according to the statement.  Tim Schar , in equity capital markets, and Shane Goodwin in
the middle-market banking group were also hired, Wells Fargo
said. Schar, 41, was most recently interim finance chief at
ServiceSource Inc. and prior to that was in the global markets
solutions and equity-linked products group at Credit Suisse
Group AG. He worked at Wachovia earlier this decade, according
to the statement.  Goodwin, 42, who will head the southwest region, worked at
Goldman Sachs Group Inc., Salomon Brothers and Donaldson, Lufkin
& Jenrette, according to the statement. He’s advised on M&A
deals valued at more than $30 billion, according to Wells Fargo.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Dakin Campbell  in San Francisco at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net  