-- Western Australia Has Highest Home Loan Delinquency in Nation, Fitch Says
-- B y   N i c h o l a   S a m i n a t h e r
-- 2010-12-20T13:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-20/western-australia-has-highest-home-loan-delinquency-in-nation-fitch-says.html
Western Australia has the highest
mortgage delinquency levels in the south-pacific nation as
higher interest rates and declines in housing  prices  in the
resources-rich state weigh on homeowners, Fitch Ratings said.  In the state’s capital city of Perth, 2.1 percent of home
loans were in arrears for more than 30 days as at Sept. 30, and
2.8 percent of payments late in the state’s south-west, Fitch
said in an emailed report. Overall, 2 percent of Western
Australia’s loans were late by 30 days or more, Fitch said,
compared with a national average of 1.54 percent.  It is the first time Western Australia has had the highest
delinquency rate in the country, Fitch said. The situation is
expected to worsen if interest rates continue to rise or if the
state’s mining industry slows down, the ratings company said.  “In parts of Western Australia, people were expecting
house price appreciation, and may have speculated,” James
Zanesi, lead author of the report, said in a telephone interview.
“It’s not so much about the economy itself, but that people in
these areas are more sensitive to interest rate movements and
stagnation in house prices.”  Property prices in Perth fell 3.8 percent in the three
months to Oct. 31, compared with a 0.2 percent increase in
Sydney and a 1.2 percent gain in Melbourne, according to
Brisbane-based real estate researcher RP-Data. The Reserve Bank
of Australia’s seven interest rate increases since October 2009
have slowed price growth in the nation’s property market and
increased mortgage payments.  New South Wales, the nation’s most-populous state, and its
capital of Sydney had 1.8 percent of mortgages in arrears for
more than 30 days, the report said. Victoria state had 1.1
percent of loans non-performing, while Queensland had arrears of
1.5 percent, Fitch said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nichola Saminather  in Sydney on 
 nsaminather1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  