-- Will Smith, Adrian Grenier Make Water Charity a Twitter Leader
-- B y   P a t r i c k   C o l e
-- 2010-12-20T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-20/will-smith-adrian-grenier-make-water-charity-a-twitter-leader.html
Six years ago, in an oft-told
conversion tale,  Scott Harrison  stopped promoting hot New York
nightclubs selling $350 bottles of vodka and soon found himself
helping to fund water projects in the developing world.  Where he used to rely on e-mail blasts to corral A-listers,
these days his New York-based  charity: water , taps  Twitter.com ,
sending “tweet” pleas for money to more than 1.3 million
supporters around the world.  The organization got a boost in Twitter followers through a
global  Twitter festival , or “Twestival,” organized by Twitter
event producer Amanda Rose. The one-day action raised $250,000
for charity: water, and the nonprofit’s Twitter audience went
from the thousands to more than 1 million.  As U.S. nonprofits have seen individual donations drop,
savvy organizations are turning to Twitter and Facebook to
cultivate and retain donors.  “Twitter is just another way of telling our story,” said
Philadelphia native Harrison, 35, in an interview at his office
on Varick Street in Manhattan. “I think of this organization as
a connector.”  With the help of famous friends and supporters such as
actors  Will Smith  and his wife,  Jada Pinkett Smith , Adrian
Grenier of “Entourage” and  Matt Modine , Harrison has built the
largest Twitter following among U.S. nonprofits, according to a
recent survey by the  Chronicle of Philanthropy .  Room to Read  ranks second with 457,158 Twitter followers in
late October, and the Washington-based AIDS advocate, the  One
Campaign , has just over 452,000. The  Bill & Melinda Gates
Foundation , the biggest U.S. foundation, comes in fourth with
430,549.  ‘Simple Message’  “They have been very effective in digesting their mission
into a very simple message,” said Peter Panepento, the
Chronicle’s Washington-based assistant managing editor, in a
phone interview. “Another thing they’ve done is encourage their
supporters to really take up the mantle for them and become
advocates for them in social networks.”  That means Will Smith and other twitterati -- the medium’s
elite with many followers -- use their network to spread the
word on charity: water.  Last year, charity: water raised $9 million, up 30 percent
from 2008. This year, it will have revenue of $12 million to $13
million, Harrison said.  All donations go to its water projects in 17 countries,
including Cambodia, Ethiopia, India and Honduras. Donors can see
completed projects they have funded using a  GPS coordinate on
the nonprofit’s website .  “We created a strange model in that we always will use 100
percent of public donations for water projects,” Harrison said.
“People said, ‘You’re crazy, this will never work.’ But we’ve
continued that model and believe in it very much.”  Birthday Gifts  One of Harrison’s innovations is encouraging supporters to
 use their birthdays  to raise money. Last year, actor  Alyssa
Milano ’s birthday party raised about $92,000 for the charity.  With the help of Twitter, charity: water raised more than
$1 million from some 1,200 guests at its annual ball at
Manhattan’s Metropolitan Pavilion last week. Harrison and
Grenier took center stage during the evening, pitching first-
time attendees to join its crusade to build wells in needy
countries.  Guests included illusionist  David Blaine , actors  John
Slattery  and  Talia Balsam  from the Showtime series “Mad Men,”
and Twitter’s co-founder and chairman  Jack Dorsey . While most
ate sushi and noodles, others volunteered to carry yellow fuel
jugs filled with water to emulate the experience of transporting
clean water from trucks to villages.  “We hate sit-down dinners, and we hate rubber-chicken
dinners,” Harrison said. “We want to immerse people in the
experience of charity: water.”  To contact the writer on this story:
 Patrick Cole  in New York at 
 pcole3@Bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 