-- Xinmao to Proceed With $1.3 Billion Draka Takeover Bid, Battling Prysmian
-- B y   M a r t i j n   v a n   d e r   S t a r r e   a n d   J e r o e n   M o l e n a a r
-- 2010-12-20T14:08:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-20/xinmao-to-proceed-with-1-3-billion-draka-takeover-bid-battling-prysmian.html
Tianjin Xinmao S&T Investment Corp.
said it will proceed with a 1 billion-euro ($1.3 billion) bid
for  Draka Holding NV  that threatens to unravel an agreed
takeover of Europe’s third-biggest cable maker by  Prysmian SpA .  After completing due diligence on Amsterdam-based Draka,
Xinmao will now pursue further talks with the management and
supervisory boards, the Chinese maker of optical wiring and
cables said today. Talks so far have been “constructive,”
though there may be restrictions on pursuing a takeover because
of the length of Prysmian’s tender offer.  “We believe the offer to be a fair price,” Xinmao
Chairman  Du Kerong  told reporters in the Dutch capital today.  Xinmao, based in Tianjin, trumped an 840 million-euro offer
from Prysmian on Nov. 22, just as the Italian company was
revealing details of the proposed combination on a conference
call for analysts and investors. Du expects the planned takeover
of Draka to succeed, and there is no intention to make a hostile
bid, Xinmao’s financial adviser,  Joop Krant  of Catalyst Advisors,
said at the press conference.  Draka added as much as 1.4 percent in  Amsterdam trading  and
gained 0.8 percent to 19.40 euros as of 1:34 p.m. That values
the company, which makes cables for the energy, elevators and
car industries, as well as optical fiber, at 1.04 billion euros.  Prysmian plans to start its offer in early January,
spokesman Lorenzo Caruso said.  Financing Commitment  Xinmao has a 1.1 billion-euro financing commitment from
China Minsheng Banking Corp., according to a press presentation
today, while Rabobank International guaranteed sufficient
financing for Draka, following a possible takeover by Xinmao.  Krant declined to comment on possible talks between Xinmao
and Flint Beheer BV, the Dutch investment firm owned by the
 Fentener van Vlissingen  billionaire family. Controlling 48.5
percent of Draka, Flint Beheer has committed to tendering its
shares to Prysmian.  “The transaction would be a strategic investment with the
aim of building a global market leading position,” said  Du .
“After Draka, the Netherlands will be a center from which to
develop a European market.”  Xinmao, founded in 1992 by Du Kerong, who formerly served
in the Chinese Armed Forces, also invests in real estate, mining,
hotels, plastic products and drug ingredients. He pledged to
increase spending on Draka’s research and development, while
boosting Xinmao’s listed Tianjin Xinmao Science & Technology Co.,
Ltd. division by adding Draka’s Yangtze Optical Fibre and Cable
Company Ltd. joint venture.  In addition, Xinmao has appointed Rabobank International,
the wholesale banking division of Cooperatieve Centrale
Raiffeisen-Boerenleenbank BA, as debt coordinator, guaranteeing
sufficient financing for Draka after completion. Rabobank
International is also an adviser to Xinmao,together with
Catalyst Advisors.  To contact the reporters responsible for this story:
 Martijn van der Starre  in Amsterdam at 
 vanderstarre@bloomberg.net ;
 Jeroen Molenaar  in Amsterdam at 
 jmolenaar1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  