-- Hypermarcas to Acquire Skin-Care Manufacturer Mantecorp for $1.5 Billion
-- B y   L a u r a   P r i c e   a n d   F a b i o l a   M o u r a
-- 2010-12-20T21:34:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-20/hypermarcas-to-acquire-skin-care-manufacturer-mantecorp-for-1-5-billion.html
Hypermarcas SA , the Brazilian
consumer-goods company that made more than  10 acquisitions  this
year, fell the most in seven months after saying it will pay
about 2.5 billion reais ($1.5 billion) for drugmaker Mantecorp
Industria Quimica & Farmaceutica SA.  Hypermarcas  slid 6.3 percent to 23.10 reais in Sao Paulo
trading, the biggest decline since May 20. The stock is up 16
percent this year,  beating  the 1.9 percent drop in Brazil’s
benchmark Bovespa index.  The company, based in Sao Paulo, will pay 600 million reais
in cash for 24 percent of closely held Mantecorp and issue 78
million shares to its owners, the Mantegazza family, for the
remaining 76 percent, according to a regulatory filing
yesterday. The new stock would be valued at 1.92 billion reais,
based on the Dec. 17 Hypermarcas closing price of 24.65 reais.  The acquisition is “negative because it causes dilution
for shareholders,” Caue Pinheiro, an analyst at SLW Corretora
in Sao Paulo, said in a telephone interview today. “However, in
general, it’s positive in the long term.”  This year Hypermarcas has acquired companies including
generic-drug manufacturer Laboratorio Neo Quimica, diaper-maker
Sapeka and  Colgate-Palmolive Co .’s soap brand. Hypermarcas wants
to boost sales by an average of 65 percent in the next five
years, Chief Executive Officer  Claudio Bergamo  said in an Aug.
11 interview.  The company will focus on integration and organic growth in
2011, and expects operational savings of more than 148 million
reais after the full integration with Mantecorp, Bergamo said in
a conference call with investors and analysts today.  ‘Like a Boa’  “It is like a boa after eating a cow,” Bergamo said. “It
needs some time to digest. We will go through this digestion
phase in 2011.”  Mantecorp, the Rio de Janeiro-based owner of the Episol
sun-protection brand and Epidrat moisturizers, will report  net
sales  this year of 572 million reais and gross profit of 375
million reais, according to a presentation by Hypermarcas. About
46 percent of Mantecorp’s sales come from prescription drugs, 30
percent from over-the-counter medicines, 16 percent from skin-
care products and 8 percent from generic drugs, it said.  The acquisition could create savings of at least 750
million reais as well as tax savings, compensating for the share
dilution, according to  Daniela Bretthauer , an analyst at Raymond
James & Associates Inc. in Sao Paulo.  The deal is positive even with the dilution and the
“somewhat rich price paid for Mantecorp,” Bretthauer wrote in
a report sent to clients today.  Hypermarcas expects its margin on earnings before interest,
taxes, depreciation and amortization -- a measure of
profitability -- to reach 47 percent in the first half of 2013,
from 21 percent now, Bergamo said today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Laura Price  in London at 
 lprice3@bloomberg.net 
 Fabiola Moura  in New York at 
 fdemoura@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulous@bloomberg.net  