-- Yuan Forwards Signal Further Weakness Before Hu Meets Obama: China Credit
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-12-21T08:19:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-20/yuan-forwards-signal-further-weakness-before-hu-meets-obama-china-credit.html
The yuan will weaken ahead of
Chinese President  Hu Jintao ’s visit to Washington next month,
trading in currency forwards shows, antagonizing U.S. senators
who say they may back trade sanctions unless there’s gains.  The currency fell 0.2 percent to 6.6599 per dollar since
Dec. 6, when 30 senators sent a letter to Chinese Vice Premier
 Wang Qishan  calling for the yuan to “appreciate meaningfully”
before Hu’s trip. Forwards traders are betting on a further 0.07
percent decline in the coming month. U.S. President  Barack Obama 
has met for talks with Chinese leaders twice since a two-year
currency peg was relaxed in June. Yuan advances of 0.6 percent
or more were recorded in the prior month each time.  “It’s impossible for China to yield to the calls,” said
 Lu Zhengwei , an economist at Industrial Bank Co. in Shanghai.
“Officials seem to consider the pace of appreciation since June
the maximum that the economy can withstand. Faster gains would
create too many difficulties for exporters.”  The yuan is the best performer among the so-called BRIC
nations’ currencies in the past decade and commerce ministry
spokesman  Yao Jian  said this month that U.S. export controls are
a key cause of the trade imbalance between the two countries.
U.S. data show the trade gap with China totaled $227 billion in
the first 10 months of this year, more than the deficits with
the next seven-largest trading partners combined.  U.S. lawmakers including Senator  Charles Schumer , a New
York Democrat, say a weak yuan is one reason for the trade gap
and have pressed China to let its currency rise. The House of
Representatives passed legislation in September letting U.S.
companies petition for duties on Chinese imports to compensate
for the effect of a weak yuan.  Best of BRICs  Chinese Commerce Minister  Chen Deming  said the nation is
committed to “balancing” foreign trade by stabilizing exports
and boosting imports over the next five years, the China Daily
newspaper reported Dec. 17.  Exports  rose 33 percent from a year
earlier in the last 11 months, while  imports  climbed 40 percent,
customs bureau statistics show.  The yuan has strengthened 24 percent against the dollar in
the past decade, outperforming gains of 15 percent in the
Brazilian real, 3.3 percent in India’s rupee and a 9 percent
slide in the Russian ruble, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The yuan, real and rupee all appreciated less than 3
percent this year, while the ruble weakened 2.6 percent.  Yuan Climbs  China’s currency was 0.2 percent stronger today as of 4:09
p.m. in Shanghai, recovering from its biggest loss in six weeks,
as easing tensions on the Korean peninsula boosted investor
confidence. The  U.S. Dollar Index , a gauge of the currency’s
strength, dropped 0.4 percent, after yesterday hitting its
highest level in more than two weeks.  The yield on the 3.67 percent government note due in
October 2020 fell 2 basis points, or 0.02 percentage point, to
3.77 percent, according to prices from the National Interbank
Funding Center.  Credit-default swaps tied to China’s sovereign debt for
five years yesterday rose 4 basis points to 72, according to CMA
prices. The contracts pay the buyer face value in exchange for
the underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a
government or company fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  International Monetary Fund Managing Director  Dominique Strauss-Kahn  said on Dec. 17 that calls for an immediate
revaluation of the yuan are “probably wrong.” A sudden move
would be “disturbing” to the Chinese and world economy, he
said.  China Stocks  The benchmark  Shanghai Composite Index  of shares has
dropped 3.3 percent since the central bank raised its benchmark
interest rates on Oct. 19 for the first time since 2007, seeking
to tame the fastest inflation in two years.  Policy makers boosted banks’ reserve-requirement ratios for
the sixth time in 2010 this month, sparking a cash squeeze that
drove the benchmark money-market  rate  to a 30-month high of 4.08
percent today. The seven-day repurchase  rate  surged 54 basis
points, or 0.54 percentage point.  The  People’s Bank of China  scrapped a two-year dollar peg
on June 19 and allowed the yuan to rise 2.3 percent, a pace of
gains that U.S. Ambassador to China  Jon Huntsman  said on Dec. 18
is “painfully slow.” Obama said Nov. 12 in Seoul, a day after
his last talks with Hu, that the yuan was “undervalued” and he
expects “progress on this issue.”  The yuan appreciated 0.6 percent in the month before that
meeting, which was at the Group of 20 summit in South Korea’s
capital. There was a 1.4 percent advance in the month before
Obama discussed currency policy with Premier  Wen Jiabao  in New
York on Sept. 23.  ‘Important Events’  “Judging from what has happened to the yuan ahead of
certain important events, I think there may be some obvious
appreciation before the state visit next month,” said Zhang
Ming, Beijing-based deputy chief of the International Finance
Research Office of the state-backed Chinese Academy of Social
Sciences. “But that wouldn’t be a wise strategy because
speculators would take advantage of a regular pattern.”  The yuan may rise 5 percent to 6 percent next year against
the dollar because the government needs to protect exporters’
interests while seeking to contain imported inflation, said
CASS’s Zhang. Industrial Bank’s Lu forecast similar gains and
the median forecast of 19 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg is for
a 6.3 percent advance to 6.28.  Forwards  Non-deliverable forwards reflect bets for 2 percent
appreciation to 6.5455 per dollar next year, less than the 2.9
percent gain projected when Obama and Hu met in Seoul. Forwards
are agreements to buy and sell assets at current prices for
delivery at a specified date. Non-deliverable contracts are
settled in dollars because the yuan isn’t fully convertible.  Exchange rates are likely to be overshadowed by the risk of
conflict between North and South Korea during next month’s talks
between Hu and Obama, said  Sergey Dergachev , who helps manage
the equivalent of $8.5 billion in emerging-market debt at Union
Investment in Frankfurt.  South Korea’s defense ministry said a live-firing drill
yesterday on Yeonpyeong Island that drew threats of retaliation
from the North was completed without incident. Artillery
positions on the island, close to a disputed sea border, were
shelled following a similar exercise last month.  “Hu’s visit to the U.S. will be diplomatically important,
but issues surrounding the Korean peninsula are more acute”
than currency matters, said Dergachev. “I expect in the next
one month no real changes in the yuan’s exchange rate.”  -- Judy Chen . Editors:  James Regan ,  Sandy Hendry   To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
 Judy Chen  in Shanghai at +86-21-6104-3043 or
 xchen45@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 