-- Hyundai Group's Hyun May See Brother-in-Law Challenge as Builder Bid Fails
-- B y   K y u n g h e e   P a r k   a n d   S o o k y u n g   S e o
-- 2010-12-21T06:54:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-20/hyundai-group-s-hyun-may-see-brother-in-law-challenge-as-builder-bid-fails.html
Hyundai Group  Chairwoman  Hyun Jeong Eun  failed in an attempt to buy a stake in South Korea’s largest
builder, opening up a possible challenge for control of her
biggest company from her billionaire brother-in-law.  Shareholders selling 35 percent of  Hyundai Engineering &
Construction Co.  said yesterday they would end talks with
Hyundai Group because of concerns about its funding plans. They
may now open negotiations with Hyundai Motor Group, which lost
out in the initial auction last month. The automaker is headed
by Hyun’s late husband’s brother  Chung Mong Koo .  The collapse of Hyun’s bid endangers her grip on Seoul-
based  Hyundai Merchant Marine Co. , her group’s biggest unit and
the holder of controlling stakes in seven affiliates, as Hyundai
Engineering owns 8.3 percent of the shipping line. Getting hold
of that stake and combining it with shares already controlled by
relatives could enable Chung to build a block in Hyundai
Merchant almost as big as Hyun’s.  “Hyundai Group put everything and more into buying Hyundai
Engineering because the fate of the group is on the line,” said
 Byun Sung Jin , an analyst at Mirae Asset Securities Co. in
Seoul. “This deal from the beginning was a family fight.”  Hyundai Engineering  climbed as much as 6 percent in Seoul
trading on speculation Hyundai Motor would be able to invest
more in the company than Hyundai Group. It rose 2.1 percent to
close at 71,600 won, the highest close in more than a month.
 Hyundai Merchant , South Korea’s second-largest shipping line,
gained 0.9 percent to 40,100 won.  Family Feud  Hyundai Group and Hyundai Motor Group’s rival bids for the
Hyundai Engineering stake extended a decade-long feud in one of
South Korea’s most powerful families. Hyundai Group offered
about 5.5 trillion won ($4.8 billion) for the shares, beating
the automaker’s bid by about 400 billion won, two people
familiar with the matter said last month. The offer was more
than double the  market value .  The Hyundai Engineering shareholders will decide whether to
start talks with Hyundai Motor Group at a later date,  Korea
Exchange Bank , one of the investors, said yesterday. They also
offered to act as intermediaries between Hyundai Group and
Hyundai Motor Group over the fate of the construction company’s
stake in  Hyundai Merchant  if talks with the automaker begin.  “The decision to end talks goes against the sale terms,”
Hyundai Group said in an e-mailed statement. “We will seek a
fair decision through legal channels.”  Hyundai Motor Group hopes the shareholders will proceed in
a manner that follows the bidding regulations, said Lee Hwa Won,
a spokesman. He declined to comment further.  Hyundai Motor Co. 
dropped 1.7 percent to 177,500 won.  Hyundai Merchant Stakes  Chung could marry Hyundai Engineering’s stake in Hyundai
Merchant with the 25.5 percent held by shipbuilder  Hyundai Heavy
Industries Co. , controlled by his younger brother, and the 5
percent owned by  KCC Corp. , founded by an uncle who tried to
block Hyun’s succession. The three stakes together would almost
match the 40 percent owned by Hyun and Hyundai Group. Another 5
percent is held by the shipping line and its employees.  “The immediate issue for Hyundai Group could be defending
its control of Hyundai Merchant,” said  Ahn Soo Woong , head of
research at LIG Investment & Securities Co. in Seoul. “Losing
out on Hyundai Engineering will also stunt Hyundai Group’s
effort to grow its businesses.”  Husband’s Suicide  In April, Hyun set a target of increasing Hyundai Group’s
sales to 70 trillion won in 2020 from 10.5 trillion won last
year, by strengthening its three main businesses -- logistics,
finance and infrastructure. Hyun assumed control of Hyundai
Group after her husband committed suicide in 2003.  Hyundai Motor split off from the main Hyundai Group in
2000, after Chung was snubbed as heir by his father in favor
Hyun’s husband. A year later, creditors seized control of
Hyundai Engineering, the Hyundai Group’s flagship, as the Seoul-
based builder struggled with  debts . These creditors are now
selling their stakes.  “It’s not going to be easy for the shareholders to find a
compromise over the Hyundai Merchant stake,” said Mirae Asset’s
Byun. “Hyundai Group and Hyundai Motor Group wouldn’t have
offered such high prices for the Hyundai Engineering shares if
they didn’t have far bigger motives.”  Hyundai Group also said yesterday that it plans to raise
about 2 trillion won selling shares in a French unit of Hyundai
Merchant. Seven potential investors have expressed interest, it
said.  Hyundai Merchant  also said yesterday it would sell 10.2
million new shares in itself for 32,000 won apiece, 19 percent
less than yesterday’s closing price. Yesterday’s announcement
about the Hyundai Engineering talks won’t affect these sales,
Hyundai Group said.  French Loan  The Hyundai Engineering shareholders broke off talks after
asking Hyundai Group three times for more details about a 1.2
trillion won loan from Paris-based  Natixis SA . Hyundai Group
provided documents without handing over a copy of the agreement,
it said on Dec. 17. The documents were “insufficient,” Korea
Exchange Bank said the same day.  Hyundai Motor Group said on Oct. 19 that it planned to
invest 10 trillion won in Hyundai Engineering if it gained
control the builder to help boost sales fivefold in a decade.
The automaker intended to grow the construction company’s
existing businesses and to push it into new markets such as wind
power and resources development.  “Hyundai Motor Group can provide more synergies for
Hyundai Engineering than Hyundai Group, not to mention more help
in raising funds and a sounder financial base,”  Lee Chang Keun ,
a Hana Daetoo Securities Co. analyst, said in a report today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Kyunghee Park  in Singapore at 
 kpark3@bloomberg.net ;
Sookyung Seo in Seoul at 
 sseo10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  