-- Hyundai Merchant Drops on Group's Plan to Sell New Shares in French Unit
-- B y   K y u n g h e e   P a r k
-- 2010-12-20T08:49:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-20/hyundai-merchant-drops-on-group-s-plan-to-sell-new-shares-in-french-unit.html
Hyundai Merchant Marine Co.  fell by
the most in three weeks in Seoul trading after the announcement
of a plan to sell new shares to fund its parent’s purchase of a
controlling stake in  Hyundai Engineering & Construction Co.   Hyundai Group plans to sell “a few trillion won” of
shares in a French unit of Hyundai Merchant, South Korea’s
second-largest shipping company, in a private placement, the
group said in an e-mailed statement today, without giving
further details. Hyundai Merchant separately said it would sell
10.2 million of its own shares as planned for 19 percent less
than today’s closing price.  Hyundai Group is trying to allay concerns that it cannot
afford the 35 percent stake being offered by shareholders
including  Korea Finance Corp.  and  Korea Exchange Bank . The group
bid about 5.5 trillion won ($4.7 billion) for the holding, two
people familiar with the matter said on Nov. 16, the day the
group was name preferred bidder. That’s more than double the
market price.  Hyundai Merchant , the group’s biggest unit, today dropped
4.6 percent to close at 39,750 won, the biggest decline since
Nov. 29. The stock has climbed 50 percent this year, compared
with a 20 percent rise in South Korea’s benchmark  Kospi index .  Hyundai Merchant is also selling 10.2 million of its own
shares on Dec. 23 and 24 to investors at 32,000 won apiece, the
company said in a regulatory filing today. The share sale was
first announced in October.  Hyundai Group may lose its preferred bidder status after
failing to provide documents that Hyundai Engineering
shareholders had asked for to address concern that the group’s
funding plan was inadequate. The stakeholders plan to make a
decision on Hyundai Group’s bidding status by Dec. 22.  The shareholders were seeking more details on the 1.2
trillion won loan that Hyundai Group received from Paris-based
 Natixis SA . Hyundai Group gave the shareholders a confirmation
letter about the loan, while declining to hand over a copy of
the agreement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kyunghee Park  in Singapore at 
 kpark3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  