-- Hyundai Group Bid to Buy Control of Builder Collapses
-- B y   K y u n g h e e   P a r k   a n d   S e o n j i n   C h a
-- 2010-12-20T12:40:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-20/hyundai-engineering-shareholders-end-stake-sale-talks-with-hyundai-group.html
Hyundai Group ’s bid to buy control
of South Korea’s largest builder collapsed because of concerns
about funding plans for the acquisition.  Shareholders selling 35 percent of  Hyundai Engineering &
Construction Co.  voted to end talks with Hyundai Group,
previously named as preferred bidder, they said in an e-mailed
statement today in Seoul. Hyundai Group offered about 5.5
trillion won ($4.8 billion) for the stake, more than double the
market value, two people familiar with the matter said Nov. 16.  “This deal got off on the wrong foot from the start,”
said  Byun Sung Jin , an analyst at Mirae Asset Securities Co. in
Seoul. “Hyundai Group just wasn’t able to persuade people that
it was paying an amount it could afford.”  The shareholders may now begin talks with billionaire  Chung Mong Koo , whose Hyundai Motor Group lost out in the initial
auction to Hyundai Group, headed by his brother’s widow. The
battle, which extended a decade-long family feud, may allow
Chung to take over what was his father’s flagship company and
also let him snatch control of Hyundai Group’s biggest unit.  Hyundai Motor Talks?  The builder’s shareholders will inform Hyundai Group of
their decision today, they said. They will decide whether to
start talks with Hyundai Motor Group at a later date, said Korea
Exchange Bank, one of the shareholders.  “The decision to end talks goes against the sale terms,”
Hyundai Group said in an e-mailed statement. “We will seek a
fair decision through legal channels.”  Hyundai Motor Group hopes the shareholders will proceed in
a manner that follows the bidding regulations, said Lee Hwa Won,
a spokesman. He declined to comment further.  Hyundai Group Chairwoman  Hyun Jeong Eun ’s grip on the
group’s biggest unit  Hyundai Merchant Marine Co. , which also
owns controlling stakes in seven of Hyundai Group’s 11 other
units, could be endangered if Chung gains control of Hyundai
Engineering.  The builder owns 8.3 percent of the shipping line and
combined with the 25.5 percent stake held by shipbuilder  Hyundai
Heavy Industries Co. , controlled by Chung Mong Koo’s brother
Chung Mong Joon, and the 5 percent owned by  KCC Corp. , founded
by an uncle of Chung Mong Koo who tried to block Hyun’s
succession, the total would almost match the 40 percent owned by
Hyun and Hyundai Group. Another 5 percent is held by the Seoul-
based shipping line and its employees.  The Hyundai Engineering shareholders offered to act as
intermediaries between Hyundai Group and Hyundai Motor Group
over the fate of the construction company’s stake in Hyundai
Merchant if they begin talks with the automaker, Korea Exchange
Bank said.  Shares Fall  Hyundai Merchant, South Korea’s second-largest shipping line,
dropped 4.6 percent to 39,750 won at the close of trading in
Seoul.  Hyundai Engineering  climbed 0.4 percent to 70,100 won.
 Hyundai Motor Co. , South Korea’s biggest automaker, gained 1.4
percent to 180,500 won. The announcement on the end of the talks
came after the market close.  Hyundai Group plans to raise about 2 trillion won selling
shares in a French unit of Hyundai Merchant, it said today
separately. The company has had interest from seven potential
investors, it said.  Hyundai Merchant  also said today it would
sell 10.2 million new shares in itself for 32,000 won apiece, 19
percent less than today’s closing price. There’s no change to
these sale plans, Hyundai Group said.  French Loan  The Hyundai Engineering shareholders broke off talks with
Hyundai Group after asking three times for more details about a
1.2 trillion won loan from Paris-based  Natixis SA . Hyundai Group
provided documents without handing over a copy of the agreement,
it said on Dec. 17. The documents were “insufficient,” Korea
Exchange Bank said the same day.  Hyundai Motor Group, parent of Hyundai Motor Co. and  Kia
Motor Corp. , offered about 400 billion won less than Hyundai
Group for the Hyundai Engineering stake, the people familiar
said on Nov. 16.  The automaking group split off from the main Hyundai Group
in 2000, after Chung Mong Koo was snubbed as heir by his father
in favor of Hyun’s husband. A year later, creditors seized
control of Hyundai Engineering as the builder struggled with
debts. These creditors are now selling their stakes.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Kyunghee Park  in Singapore at 
 kpark3@bloomberg.net ;
 Seonjin Cha  in Seoul at 
 scha2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  