-- Elan and Wyeth Alzheimer drug results mixed, shares fall
-- By  Julie Steenhuysen
-- Tue Jul 29, 2008 6:55pm EDT
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2008/07/29/businesspro-alzheimers-drug-dc-idUSN2938034920080729

 

  CHICAGO (Reuters)- Keenly awaited details on Elan ( ELN.I ) 
( ELN.N ) and Wyeth's WYE.N new Alzheimer's drug bapineuzumab 
show it raised the risk of a potentially serious side effect, 
but may help people who do not have a common genetic risk of 
the disease, the companies said on Tuesday. 

  Shares of both companies plunged in after hours trade with 
Elan's New York shares falling more 18 percent and Wyeth's 
dropping more than 10 percent.  "I think the (drug's) side effects are going to be perhaps 
significant, but if they are temporary and tolerable and if the 
drug shows a benefit, the risk-benefit ratio will be worth the 
side effects," said Dr. Scott Turner, incoming director of the 
Memory Disorders Program at Georgetown University Medical 
Center in Washington.  "This is potentially the first disease-modifying therapy."  The update on the antibody medicine, also known as AAB-001, 
has been closely watched by investors. If proven to work, the 
drug could be the first to modify the course of Alzheimer's 
disease, rather than just offering symptom relief.  Some analysts have forecast eventual annual sales of $13 
billion.  Twelve people with mild-to-moderate Alzheimer's who were 
treated with the drug, developed a build-up of fluid in the 
brain called vasogenic edema, researchers told the Alzheimer's 
Association International Conference on Alzheimer's Disease in 
Chicago.  Ten of those cases were in people who have the ApoE4 gene, 
which significantly raises their risk of developing Alzheimer's 
disease.  Preliminary findings released last month showed the drug 
failed to boost memory and functionality in most of 234 
patients over 18 months.
  GENETIC DIFFERENCES  Carriers of ApoE4, 60 percent of those who got the drug and 
70 percent who got the placebo, did not show any improvement in 
their ability to think or function.  But among people who had different versions of the ApoE 
gene, the companies did find a statistically significant 
improvement in these measures.  When they looked at people do not carry the gene and who 
completed the study, "we have absolutely dynamite data," said 
Dr. Sid Gilman of the University of Michigan, who helped work 
on the study.  "There is a very strong signal among non-carriers, 
suggesting a beneficial effect," Gilman told the meeting.  Other experts were cautious. "You can't conclude anything 
about the efficacy of the drug from this trial," said Dr Ronald 
Petersen of the Mayo Clinic in Rochester, Minnesota.  "It's a secondary analysis. You have to go with what they 
pre-specified and what their endpoints were, and they didn't 
make those," said Petersen, incoming chairman of the 
Alzheimer's Association's scientific board and chairman of a 
safety monitoring board for a therapeutic vaccine Wyeth and 
Elan are working on for Alzheimer's.  The results "give me pause that the statistical 
significance that we saw will bear out in the Phase 3 trials," 
said David Moskowitz, an analyst at Caris & Co.  "This is still a very risky endeavor," he said.  The companies decided to conduct larger studies aimed at 
proving bapineuzumab worked in ApoE4 non-carriers, who make up 
about half of all Alzheimer's patients, Dr. Ronald Black, 
assistant vice president in neuroscience research at Wyeth, 
said in an interview.  Black said the big difference in vasogenic edema between 
ApoE4 carriers and non-carriers prompted the companies to 
analyze the groups separately.  Shares of Wyeth fell 10.1 percent to $40.40 in extended 
trade on Tuesday, while shares of Elan dropped 18.5 percent to 
$27.50 in New York.  (Additional reporting by Deena Beasley in Los Angeles; 
Editing by Maggie Fox, Leslie Gevirtz)