-- Company Debt Risk Rises as Manufacturing Unexpectedly Contracts
-- Shannon D. Harrington
-- 2008-01-02T22:59:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2008-01-02/company-debt-risk-rises-as-manufacturing-unexpectedly-contracts.html

          
          
             The perceived risk of companies
defaulting on their debt rose after a U.S. manufacturing index
shrank the most in almost five years, stoking concerns that the
economy is headed toward recession.  
 The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, a
benchmark for the cost of protecting debt from default, rose 2.5
basis points to 81 basis points, the highest in a month,
according to Deutsche Bank AG in New York.  
 The factory index, at its lowest since April 2003, reignited
speculation that plunging  home prices  and rising mortgage
defaults will push the economy into a recession. The CDX credit-
default swap index has climbed more than 36 basis points in the
past 12 weeks as credit investor confidence erodes.  
 The decline in manufacturing ``increases the chance'' of a
recession,  David Wyss , chief global economist at  Standard &
Poor's  in New York, said in a Bloomberg TV interview. ``You've
got to say this is getting around to a 50-50 shot now.''  
 The  Institute for Supply Management 's factory index fell to
47.7 in December from 50.8 in November, the Tempe, Arizona-based
group said today. Economists had forecast a drop to 50.5, the
median estimate from a Bloomberg News survey. Fifty is the line
between contraction and expansion.  
 A gauge of confidence in the U.S. high-yield, high-risk loan
market, the Markit  LCDX  Series 9 index, fell 0.25 point to 96.95,
according to Goldman Sachs Group Inc. The index, which falls as
investor sentiment worsens, has dropped 3.4 percent since Oct.
15.  
 Mortgage Market  
 Credit-default swaps tied to  Citigroup Inc. (C) , the biggest
U.S. bank by assets, rose to the highest in a month in a sign of
deteriorating investor confidence. Five-year contracts climbed to
77 basis points today, prices from broker Phoenix Partners Group
show. They closed Dec. 31 at about 73 basis points, according to
London-based CMA Datavision.  
 The New York-based bank may have to write down the value of
investments by $12 billion for the fourth quarter because of
financial-market swings, Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. analysts
including Howard K. Mason wrote in a note to investors this week.  
 U.S.  subprime-mortgage defaults  have forced the world's
biggest financial institutions to write down about $100 billion
in fixed-income securities. Bond insurers including those owned
by Armonk, New York-based  MBIA Inc. (MBI)  and New York-based  Ambac
Financial Group Inc. (ABKFQ)  could lose their triple-A credit ratings if
they don't raise more capital to cover potential losses on
mortgage-linked securities they insure.  
 Credit-default swaps on MBIA and Ambac widened for the third
straight trading day. MBIA contracts climbed 43 basis points to a
record 657 basis points, CMA data show. Ambac rose 26 basis
points to 667 basis points.  
 Credit-default swaps, contracts conceived to protect
bondholders against default, pay the buyer face value in exchange
for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a
company fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  
 European Bond Risk  
 In Europe, contracts on the Markit iTraxx Crossover Series 8
Index of 50 companies with mainly high-risk, high-yield credit
ratings increased 14 basis points to 353 basis points today,
according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  
 The Markit iTraxx Europe Index of 125 companies with
investment-grade debt rose 2.75 basis points to 52.5 basis
points, JPMorgan prices show.  
 The Markit iTraxx LevX Senior Index, a gauge of confidence
in the European high-yield, high-risk loan market that falls when
sentiment worsens, fell 0.03 to 96.88, according to index
administrator Markit Group Ltd. The index touched a record low of
92.5 on July 30.  
 The U.S. manufacturing data precedes another signal of
economic health due later this week when the Labor Department
reports on U.S. payrolls.  
 Payrolls last month rose by 70,000 after increasing 94,000
in November, according to the median forecast of economists
surveyed before the Jan. 4 report. The jobless rate probably rose
to 4.8 percent the highest in more than a year, the survey
showed.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Shannon D. Harrington in  New York  at 
 sharrington6@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma Moody at 
 emoody@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        