-- Carlsberg Names Eastern Europe Head as New Chief
-- Meera Bhatia
-- 2007-09-03T15:47:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2007-09-03/carlsberg-names-eastern-europe-head-as-new-chief-update5-.html

          
          
             Carlsberg A/S (CARLA) , the largest Nordic
brewer, named Joergen Buhl Rasmussen as chief executive officer
to succeed Nils Smedegaard Andersen, selecting the head of the
company's fastest-growing business for the top job.  
 Buhl Rasmussen will start as CEO on Oct. 1, the Valby,
Denmark-based company said today. Andersen, whose departure was
announced in June, is becoming CEO of Danish shipping company
 A.P. Moeller-Maersk A/S (MAERSKB)  after two decades at Carlsberg.  
 Buhl Rasmussen, 52, said he sees ``no need'' to change
strategy, and will focus on building Baltic Beverages Holdings
AB, the owner of Russia's largest brewer. He joined Carlsberg
last year to head its eastern European unit after leading
operations in the region for Gillette Co. Surging beer demand in
 Russia  has stoked speculation Carlsberg may bid for Scottish &
Newcastle Plc, the company's local joint venture partner.  
 ``He has special insight into Russia and Baltic Beverages,
the company's most strategic asset,'' said Kitty Gron, a
Copenhagen-based analyst at Handelsbanken Capital Markets. ``He
was part of the top three management group. It was a choice to
be expected.''  
 Carlsberg stock  rose  10 kroner, or 1.4 percent, to 746
kroner. The shares have gained 33 percent so far this year,
heading for their fourth straight annual increase. Scottish &
Newcastle  shares  rose 6 pence, or 1 percent, to 625 pence.  
 Geographic Possibilities  
 ``I see possibilities in all our geographic regions and
product areas,'' Buhl Rasmussen said at a press conference in
 Denmark  today.  
 Besides Baltic Beverages, Buhl Rasmussen said Carlsberg
would focus on improving profitability in western  Europe ,
expanding in  Asia  and developing land held in its Danish home
town, where the company is shutting its brewery.  
 Merrill Lynch analyst  David Tovar  has said it's
``inevitable'' Carlsberg will buy Scottish & Newcastle to take
full control of Baltic Beverages. Recurring bid speculation has
lifted shares of Britain's largest brewer this year.  
 Chairman Povl Krogsgaard-Larsen declined to comment on the
speculation at today's press conference, while Chief Financial
Officer Joern Jensen, appointed deputy CEO today, said any
acquisitions would have a ``small budget'' and focus on Asia.  
 `Cooperation'  
 ``There will be advantages and disadvantages'' to any
Scottish & Newcastle deal, outgoing CEO Andersen in a phone
interview today. ``There is no need to add to the speculation.
We have an excellent cooperation with Scottish & Newcastle.''  
 The most important thing for Carlsberg is to increase
profitability, said Nikolaas Faes, an analyst at Exane BNP
Paribas in  London , when asked whether the appointment will stoke
merger speculation. ``There's more value creation to be done.
Why would investors want to give away that kind of potential
right now?''  
 Jensen, the CFO, said more plant closures in western Europe
depend on whether the company meets its profitability targets,
without elaborating further.  
 Born in 1955, Buhl Rasmussen has a Bachelor of Arts in
economics and business administration and an MBA from the
Copenhagen School of Economics & Business Administration. He has
been a member of the executive board since April 2006.  
 ``I am convinced that he will know how to create innovation
in existing markets and see opportunities in  emerging markets ,''
Povl Krogsgaard-Larsen, chairman of Carlsberg's board of
directors, said in the statement.  
 Russian Beer Market  
 Second-quarter profit gained 26 percent at Baltic
Beverages, known as BBH, as Russia's beer market expanded 20
percent, the company's two owners said Aug. 1.  
 BBH's main asset is OAO Baltika Breweries, which said Aug.
8 that first-half profit gained 33 percent after higher-than-
average temperatures and rising incomes fueled sales.  
 Jensen, 43, was CEO of the holding company between 2001 and
2004, while Andersen was chief of the operating brewing
business, Carlsberg Breweries. Buhl Rasmussen and Jensen will
constitute the company's future executive board.  
 It's ``very good'' that Carlsberg promoted two executives
instead of recruiting from outside the company, said Exane BNP's
Faes, who has an ``outperform'' rating on Carlsberg. ``This
shows some consistency and less fear of a total new direction.''  
 The brewer said today that it had considered candidates
from outside the company.  
 Andersen became head of Carlsberg's brewery business in
2001 and was named chief of the parent company in 2004. He'll
join A.P. Moeller-Maersk, the world's largest shipping company,
four weeks ahead of schedule. Jess Soederberg, Maersk's current
CEO, will retire Nov. 5 and Andersen will take the position.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Meera Bhatia in Oslo at 
 mbhatia2@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Keith Campbell  at 
 k.campbell@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        