-- Iron Ore Price to Rise for Sixth Year on China Demand
-- Debarati Roy
-- 2007-09-03T12:01:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2007-09-03/iron-ore-price-to-rise-for-sixth-year-on-china-demand-update1-.html

          
          
             The benchmark price of iron ore, a
steelmaking ingredient, may rise next year because of surging
demand in China, making it the sixth straight annual increase,
according to  NMDC Ltd. (NMDC) ,  India 's biggest miner of the ore.  
 Prices will rise at least 9.5 percent, matching last year's
gain, Chairman B. Ramesh Kumar said yesterday in an interview in
Hyderabad. The state-run company accounts for 16 percent of the
country's iron ore output of 176 million tons.  
 Iron ore prices have surged for five years to a record as
miners struggled to meet demand from Chinese steelmakers. China
overtook  Japan  as the largest buyer of iron ore in 2003 because
of increased production of cars, buildings and appliances.  
 ``The world at large has not been able to meet China's
demand,'' Kumar said. ``I won't be surprised if the extent of
gain is much more than what I think it should be.''  
 The iron ore  price  from London-based Rio Tinto Group rose
9.5 percent to $51.47 a ton this year, according to Bloomberg's
calculation. Prices are determined by the content of iron in the
ore. Reference prices are usually taken from fines ore as it
represents 60 percent of the traded market.  
 China, the world's largest producer of steel, may raise
output of the alloy 14 percent this year, the China Iron and
Steel Association said on July 30. Imports of iron ore rose 19
percent in the first seven months of this year as steelmakers
added capacity to meet demand, according to Beijing-based
Customs General Administration.  
 Revising Forecasts  
 Most analysts had been predicting iron ore prices would
either fall or stay unchanged in 2008, expecting miners to catch
up with demand. That's changed in the past three months amid
signs  China 's demand may be greater than expected.  
 RBC Capital Markets said Aug. 27 that prices would rise 35
percent, revising its earlier forecast of a 10 percent gain.  
 The increased estimate follows similar revisions by rival
brokerages in the past three months. UBS AG in July raised its
iron ore price forecasts to a 25 percent gain in 2008, up from
10 percent. Goldman Sachs JBWere Pty on Aug. 24 raised its
forecasts to a 30 percent gain, from 9 percent.  
 Credit Suisse Group in June raised its forecast to a 25
percent gain, which it reiterated on Aug. 21. Executives from 16
Chinese steelmakers met with Vale recently to discuss supply,
Credit Suisse's analysts Roger Downey and Ivan Fadel said in the
August report.  
 ``I don't really know if it's going to be that high but the
trend is extremely bullish,'' Kumar said.  
 NMDC's shares gained 0.5 percent to 4,973.5 rupees at the
3:30 p.m. close on the Bombay Stock Exchange, valuing the miner
at $16 billion. The government owns 98 percent of the company.  
 Raising Output  
 Meantime, NMDC aims to increase production to 50 million
tons by 2015 from 31 million tons to benefit from rising demand.
It plans to spend 5 percent of its annual profit on exploration,
and scout for mines overseas, Kumar said. The company said in
April it will spend $3.2 billion to add capacity, build steel
and iron plants, and invest in coal mines.  
 Rio Tinto is spending $5 billion to expand its Australian
mines, rail and ports.  
 ``All mining companies including us want to raise output
since the demand will remain buoyant,'' Kumar said.  
 The company posted a  net income  of 23 billion rupees ($567
million) in the year ended March 31, up 27 percent from a year
earlier. Sales rose 13 percent to 41.86 billion rupees.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Debarati Roy in Mumbai at 
 droy5@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        