-- Norilsk Nickel Raises $6 Billion Loan for LionOre
-- Yuriy Humber
-- 2007-09-03T11:15:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2007-09-03/norilsk-nickel-raises-6-billion-loan-for-lionore-update1-.html

          
          
             OAO GMK  Norilsk Nickel , the world's
largest producer of the metal, has raised $6 billion in loans to
acquire Canada's LionOre Mining International Ltd.  
 BNP Paribas and  Societe Generale SA (GLE) , who arranged the
transaction, syndicated the loan to 24 other banks, according to
an e-mailed statement from Norilsk today. Demand from investors
exceeded the size of the loans by 22 percent, the statement
said.  
 The Moscow-based miner is the latest Russian company to
borrow amid turmoil in global credit markets that forced more
than 50 companies to delay or cancel bond and loan sales last
month. United Co. Rusal, the world's largest aluminum producer,
is refinancing $2 billion of loans and OOO Lenta,  Russia 's
third-largest food retailer, is syndicating a 200 million-euro
($273 million) loan to buy new stores.  
 Norilsk, which also produces more than half the world's
palladium and almost a sixth of its platinum, raised a $2.5
billion one-year loan, $1.5 billion in three-year loans and a $2
billion five-year facility linked to exports, the statement said
today.  
 The interest costs of the loans may rise or fall depending
on the metal company's credit ratings. Based on Norilsk's
current grades, the five-year facility will pay an initial
interest margin of 52.5 basis points above the London interbank
offered rate, or Libor, in the first three years and then 62.5
basis points for the remainder of the loan.  
 Revolving Credit  
 The three-year unsecured portion has a margin of 60 basis
points over Libor, the statement said. Norilsk, controlled by
billionaires  Vladimir Potanin  and  Mikhail Prokhorov , in February
signed a $450 million five-year revolving credit facility,
increased from an initial target of $300 million because of
higher demand from banks.  
 Standard & Poor's rates Norilsk at BBB-, its lowest
investment-grade ranking. Moody's Investors Service last October
raised the Russian company's credit rating by two levels to
Baa2, the second-lowest investment grade.  
 Norilsk in May agreed to buy Toronto-based LionOre for
C$6.8 billion ($6.41 billion), giving it access to mines in
 Australia ,  South Africa  and Botswana. The price of nickel has
increased eightfold in the past five years and traded at a
record $51,800 a metric ton in May. The metal traded at $29,800
a ton today.  
 Three-month dollar Libor, an average of rates set daily by
banks and used as a benchmark for borrowing, is 5.62 percent. A
basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Kabir Chibber in London at 
 kchibber@bloomberg.net ;  
 Yuriy Humber in Moscow at 
 yhumber@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        