-- Druckenmiller Bets on Revival of Failed Exxon Well
-- Joe Carroll
-- 2008-04-03T20:42:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2008-04-03/druckenmiller-bets-on-revival-of-failed-exxon-well-update4-.html

          
          
             McMoRan Exploration Co. (MMR)  and an
energy firm backed by hedge fund managers Stanley Druckenmiller
and Lief Rosenblatt resumed drilling a Gulf of Mexico well
abandoned last year by  Exxon Mobil (XOM)  Corp. after a failed bid to
bore the world's deepest well.  
 New Orleans-based McMoRan plans to extend the Blackbeard
West well to 31,267 feet (9,530 meters), 1,200 feet beyond the
depth reached by  Exxon Mobil , the company said today in a
statement. Exxon Mobil, the world's biggest energy company,
halted the project in August 2006 and handed control to McMoRan
a year later.  
 McMoRan, under pressure to drill at Blackbeard before
federal leases that cover the prospect expire in about five
months, received $5.5 million from Energy XXI (Bermuda) Ltd.
for rights to participate in the re-entry of the well, the
statement said. Unless the company took steps to resume work,
it may not have been allowed to extend the leases.  
 Hamilton, Bermuda-based Enegry XXI's biggest investors are
Satellite Asset Management LP, a hedge fund founded by former
Soros Fund Management managing directors Rosenblatt, Gabriel Nechamkin and Mark Sonnino, and Druckenmiller's Pittsburgh-
based Duquesne Capital Management LLC.  
 Houston-based Plains Exploration & Production Co. paid
$9.7 million for similar participation rights, the statement
said.  
 Chevron Record  
 If McMoRan reaches its target depth at Blackbeard, it will
break the Gulf of Mexico depth record set by  Chevron Corp. (CVX) 
three years ago at the 30,589-foot Knotty Head well. The
deepest well ever drilled anywhere in the world was the Bertha
Rogers in Oklahoma which got to 31,441 feet in 1974.  
 McMoRan rose 18 cents, or 1 percent, to $19.16 in New York
Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares increased almost
46 percent this year. Plains climbed 3.5 percent to $56.50.  
 Rowan Cos.' Gorilla IV rig began drilling on March 18
through cement used to plug the well at 26,650 feet when Exxon
Mobil quit the project, the statement said.  
 Energy companies are expanding the search for natural gas
to more remote regions and subterranean depths unreachable with
the technology that existed a decade ago as demand rises faster
than new production.  
 U.S. consumption of the fuel is expected to increase by
2.1 percent during the next 10 years, outpacing an estimated
1.8 percent rise in domestic output, according to the Energy
Department in  Washington .  
 Rising Demand  
 Gas futures traded in New York used as benchmarks for U.S.
wholesale prices rose 30 percent this year after a 19 percent
increase in 2007. Gas has risen fivefold since the 1990s amid
soaring demand from electricity generators for an alternative
to coal, which creates more greenhouse gases.  
 Gas is the most widely used U.S. furnace fuel and the
third-biggest source of electricity behind coal and nuclear,
Energy Department figures showed.  
 Irving, Texas-based Exxon Mobil and its partners on
Blackbeard spent as much as $200 million on the unsuccessful
well, according to JP Morgan Securities Inc. estimates.  
 Exxon Mobil failed to reach its target of 32,000 feet
before it halted drilling at Blackbeard. The well terminated at
30,067 feet below the sea floor after pipes and drill bits
encountered more pressure and heat than they could bear.  
 Testing Limits  
 The well was intended to test the limits of drilling
technology by delving into natural-gas deposits locked within
rock formations where temperatures can reach 600 degrees
Fahrenheit (316 Celsius).  
 The company's engineers spent 12 months evaluating
Blackbeard data before the project was abandoned. McMoRan
acquired control of Blackbeard in August as part of its $1.08
billion purchase of 124 oil and gas properties from  Newfield
Exploration Co. (NFX) , one of Exxon Mobil's partners in the field.  
 McMoRan has a market value of about $1 billion, compared
with Exxon Mobil's world-leading $474 billion valuation.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Joe Carroll in Chicago at 
 jcarroll8@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tony Cox at   acox3@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        