-- Airbus lowers national flags in new structure
-- By  Tim Hepher
-- Thu Jun 7, 2007 3:19am EDT
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2007/06/07/businesspro-airbus-dc-idUSL0712708820070607

 

 PARIS  (Reuters) - Airbus, buoyed by new plane orders as it 
tries to close the gap on resurgent Boeing ( BA.N ), unveiled a 
leaner management on Wednesday aimed at uprooting nationalist 
rivalries inside the European planemaker. 

  Sweeping aside national power structures dating back to its 
birth as a consortium, Airbus ( EAD.PA ) said it would run most 
operations and multibillion-dollar programs centrally and halt 
a chronic overlap between decision-making in different 
countries.  "This is a completely new in Airbus," Airbus President 
Louis Gallois said in a joint interview with a group of 
reporters.  "I don't want to see flags in the company. We don't want to 
talk about Germany but Bremen or Hamburg; not France but 
Saint-Nazaire or Nantes. We have to create an Airbus spirit 
overcoming a national spirit," he said.  The move curtails the power of country chiefs, whose jobs 
will be reduced to mainly representative ones -- although they 
will keep responsibility for sensitive labor union talks.  Production will be organized under four cross-border 
themes.  The streamlining initiative came as French and German 
leaders firmed up plans for a joint visit to Airbus 
headquarters in Toulouse, France, where engineers from both 
countries are working to repair problems on the flagship A380 
superjumbo.  A two-year production delay on the world's largest airliner 
brought relations on industrial policy between France and 
Germany to one of their lowest ebbs last year and sparked plans 
for 10,000 job cuts, which will also affect Britain and Spain.  The setback was blamed partly on the refusal of French and 
German factories to use the same type of design software.  French President Nicolas Sarkozy said he and German 
Chancellor Angela Merkel would visit Airbus headquarters in 
mid-July as part of a bid to solve the problems.  "I am very happy to see we are on the same wave length on 
almost all subjects, notably bilateral issues," Sarkozy told 
reporters after a meeting with the German chancellor at the 
margins of a G8 summit meeting in Germany.  "She confirmed that she would come with me to the Airbus 
factories in Toulouse. That's very important, I think, to all 
Airbus workers," he said.  One of Sarkozy's first acts on taking office last month was 
to visit Airbus to meet workers and unions, who are fighting to 
water down the company's restructuring plan.  German Airbus workers staged wildcat strikes on Wednesday.  Airbus is also selling all or part of six plants and has 
received interest from a total of 14 potential buyers, a source 
familiar with the matter said.
  NEW ORDERS  France and Germany wrestled over the location of job losses 
and the placement of future ones when the Airbus restructuring 
plan, dubbed Power8, was announced in February, and the row 
spilled over to rules for running Airbus parent EADS ( EAD.PA ).  Sarkozy has refused to intervene in the job cuts but called 
for renegotiation of a Franco-German pact among shareholders in 
EADS, which limits the day-to-day influence of the French 
state.  EADS was forced last month to set aside plans for a 
deferred capital increase to raise money in convertible bonds, 
because it would have meant addressing deeper differences over 
the pact.  France has suggested EADS may need new industrial backers 
to replace core shareholders Lagardere, the French media firm, 
and German carmaker DaimlerChrysler DCXGn.DE, which have both 
reduced their stakes. But neither wants to be diluted just yet.  The French treasury owns 15 percent of EADS.  With attention focusing on the order battle with Boeing at 
the Paris air show on June 18-22, Ireland's Aer Lingus ( AERL.I ) 
meanwhile gave the European company a boost with an order for 
12 aircraft valued at $2.4 billion.  The former state carrier said it will take six A330-300s 
and six A350 XWB Airbus airplanes, with deliveries to start in 
2009.  The lightweight A350, due to be built from 2013, is 
Airbus's next model after the A380 but is lagging far behind 
pre-sales of Boeing's similar 787 Dreamliner, which starts 
flying next year.  The two models are battling head-to-head for a significant 
order from Dubai's Emirates Airlines, while Australia Qantas's 
( QAN.AX ) low-cost subsidiary Jetstar said on Wednesday it was 
considering a big Airbus plane order.  (Additional reporting by Emmanuel Jarry,  James Mackenzie )