-- Sirri to Leave SEC Trading and Markets Unit in April
-- Jesse Westbrook
-- 2009-03-31T17:16:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2009-03-31/sirri-to-leave-sec-trading-and-markets-unit-in-april-update1-.html

          
          
             Erik Sirri , who heads the U.S.
 Securities and Exchange Commission  unit that oversees stock
exchanges and brokerage firms, plans to step down at the end of
April to return to academia.  
 Sirri, who joined the SEC in September 2006, worked on
rules that temporarily banned short-selling of financial stocks
and helped write regulations aimed at eliminating conflicts of
interest at credit-rating companies. The SEC, in a statement
today, didn’t say who would replace Sirri as director of the
division of trading and markets.  
 “During recent financial troubles, Erik was a calm voice
who provided thoughtful advice to the commission,” SEC Chairman
Mary Schapiro said in the statement. “While I respect Erik’s
decision to re-enter private life and rejoin his family in
 Massachusetts , I am grateful for his gift of public service.”  
 Trading and markets has drawn fire from lawmakers and SEC
Inspector General H. David Kotz, who in a Sept. 26  report  said
the division failed to respond to “red flags” at Bear Stearns
Cos. before the investment bank neared collapse last year.  
 Sirri’s departure will leave a vacancy atop the SEC unit
that may have the biggest role in overseeing credit derivatives
as Congress moves to regulate products blamed for contributing
to the financial crisis.  
 One of Sirri’s deputies, Robert Colby, left the SEC in
February to become a private attorney at Davis Polk & Wardwell.
The other deputy, Daniel Gallagher, remains at the agency.  
 Sirri re-joined the SEC in 2006 as director of trading and
markets from Babson College in Wellesley, Massachusetts. He had
previously served as the SEC’s chief economist from 1996 to
1999.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Westbrook in  Washington  at 
 jwestbrook1@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alec D.B. McCabe at 
 amccabe@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        