-- Countrywide to cut up to 12,000 jobs
-- By Jonathan Stempel
-- Fri Sep 7, 2007 6:58pm EDT
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2007/09/08/businesspro-countrywide-jobs-dc-idUSN0723369820070908

 

 NEW YORK  (Reuters) - Countrywide Financial Corp, the 
largest U.S. mortgage lender, said on Friday it plans to cut 
10,000 to 12,000 jobs to cope with weak housing demand, rising 
foreclosures and tightening credit markets. 

  The cuts, which amount to as much as 20 percent of the 
lender's work force, will be completed over the next three 
months and include reductions already made, Countrywide said.  They constitute the largest work force reduction announced 
this year in the U.S. mortgage industry, which has lost more 
than 50,000 jobs after loan delinquencies rose, home price 
appreciation stalled, and investors stopped buying many kinds 
of home loans.  "This current cycle is certainly the most severe in the 
contemporary history of our industry," Countrywide Chief 
Executive Angelo Mozilo said in a letter to employees.  Countrywide, based in Calabasas, California, announced the 
cuts hours after the Labor Department said U.S. non-farm 
payrolls fell by 4,000 in August, the first decline in four 
years. That prompted calls for the Federal Reserve to cut 
interest rates before credit market turmoil drives the economy 
into recession.  The company said its job cuts would be mainly in mortgage 
production and general and administrative support. Banking, 
insurance and loan servicing operations would likely not be 
materially affected, it said.  "You need to right-size the ship," said Peter Kovalski, who 
helps invest more than $12 billion at Purchase, New York-based 
Alpine Woods Capital Investors, which owns Countrywide shares. 
"They're doing the right thing to quickly downsize. Things are 
going to get worse before they get better."  Shares of Countrywide rose 19 cents to $18.40 in 
after-hours trading. They had fallen 27 cents during regular 
Friday trading, leaving the stock down 57 percent this year.
  REVERSAL OF FORTUNE  Countrywide made $245.1 billion of home loans from January 
to June, according to the Inside Mortgage Finance newsletter.  But as markets tightened, it focused on making smaller and 
safer, but less profitable, loans. It expects total market loan 
volume next year to fall 25 percent from 2007 levels.  "During the past two years the growth in home price 
appreciation has stopped dead in its tracks and in many areas 
of the country it has turned in the wrong direction," Mozilo 
said in his letter to employees.  "There have also been significant increases in 
delinquencies and foreclosures among far too many borrowers. 
More recently the secondary market for jumbo and non-agency 
conforming loans has become nearly illiquid," he said.  The cuts mark an abrupt reversal from January to July, when 
Countrywide added more than 6,900 jobs as smaller rivals cut 
back or quit the industry.  Mozilo, who co-founded Countrywide in 1969, had long 
portrayed himself as a survivor of any market downturn, saying 
Countrywide would add market share as weaker rivals fell away.  But its strains became acute last month when the company 
unexpectedly tapped an entire $11.5 billion bank credit line 
because it could not sell debt to fund operations.  A week later, Bank of America Corp threw the company a 
lifeline, buying $2 billion of preferred stock that can be 
converted into ownership of roughly one-sixth of the company.  Bank of America spokesman Scott Silvestri declined to 
discuss Countrywide's job cuts. "We have a passive investment 
in the company," he said.  Countrywide spokeswoman Jumana Bauwens did not have 
information on how much of a charge Countrywide might take for 
the job cuts, or when it would occur.  Executives at Countrywide were unavailable for interviews.  Despite the cuts, Kovalski said he still sees Countrywide 
as a survivor of the industry turmoil.  "They are the largest player, and now they have the backing 
of Bank of America," he said.  (Additional reporting by  Christian Plumb  and  Dan Wilchins )