-- Chrysler's inventory casts long shadow on Detroit
-- By  Jui Chakravorty
-- Sun Nov 5, 2006 11:53am EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2006/11/05/businesspro-autos-inventory-dc-idUSN0541826120061105

 

 DETROIT  (Reuters) - Dusted with an early snow, hundreds of 
brand-new Jeeps sit parked in neat rows in barbed-wire-fenced 
lots at Detroit's airport. 

  All dressed up with plastic on the seats and barcodes on 
the windshields, the convoy-in-waiting has nowhere to go since 
Chrysler dealers are balking at taking on even more inventory.  Welcome to Detroit, a nearby sign reads. Welcome, also, to 
yet another indication of the crisis facing the American auto 
industry.  Since the mid-1980s, when Japanese automakers began making 
vehicles in large volumes in the United States, Detroit's 
automakers have talked of the need to better align production 
with demand and move to a model of just-in-time manufacturing.  But with the U.S. economy slowing and pressure to return to 
profitability mounting, DaimlerChrysler's DCXGn.DE Chrysler 
Group now has thousands of vehicles without any clear 
destination.  Larger rivals General Motors Corp. ( GM.N ) and Ford Motor 
Co. ( F.N ) are grappling with inventory problems of their own 
even as they shut plants and shed tens of thousands of jobs.  "Things are starting to slow down and particularly for 
Chrysler trucks," said IRN Inc. analyst Erich Merkle. "And 
Chrysler has been slow to react to that."  Chrysler executives this week declined to say how many 
vehicles remain in its "sales bank": previously undisclosed 
parking lots are full of vehicles unassigned to any dealers.  The number of unsold vehicles swelled to 100,000 this year 
before dropping to about 50,000 last month, Chrysler has said. 
It has set a goal of eliminating the surplus by year-end.  But some dealers have pushed back, accusing Chrysler of 
trying to force too many vehicles into its sales channel when 
it should have been cutting production.
  LAWSUIT CHALLENGES INVENTORY PRACTICE  A lawsuit pending in federal court in New York by Chrysler 
dealer Boss Motors is seeking $3 million from the automaker, 
claiming it tried to force the dealership to take cars it never 
ordered and then gave competing dealers unfair price breaks.  "We've also been hearing that this was a widespread 
practice," said lawyer Len Weber, who represents the 
dealership. "A lot of people are watching our case."  Chrysler spokesman Mike Palese said the suit lacked merit. 
"We normally look to resolve these issues in the normal course 
of business," he said. "I don't think it's a test case or a 
poster child. I think it's just one dealer with concerns that 
couldn't be resolved."  But larger dealership groups are also wary of being burned 
by financing costs on slow-moving models.  Medford, Oregon-based dealership chain Lithia Motors 
( LAD.N ), which relies on Chrysler for more than 40 percent of 
its new car sales, said last week that Chrysler had asked it to 
accept 3,100 vehicles in a promotion earlier this year. The 
chain, which has 102 outlets, took only 50 vehicles.  "That's the kind of thing that's happening. We're only 
going to take what we can turn," Sid DeBoer, chief executive of 
Lithia, told analysts on a conference call.
  DETROIT'S PROBLEMS UNDERSTATED  Meanwhile, Mike Jackson, chief executive of the No. 1 
dealership group AutoNation Inc. ( AN.N ), has called for the 
Detroit-based car makers to revise their inventory reporting.  Jackson said Detroit's established practice of including 
fleet sales in inventory numbers "dramatically understates" the 
problem facing the old Big Three carmakers.  Excluding fleet sales, GM's inventory would have been at a 
94-day supply instead of a 76-day supply at the end of the 
third quarter. He said Ford's inventory would be at 105 days 
instead of 75 days and Chrysler's at 126 days instead of 82.  By comparison, Toyota Motor Corp. ( 7203.T ) runs lean, with 
about a 30-day supply of unsold vehicles, while still taking 
market share from all comers.  Chrysler is not the only U.S. automaker to face scrutiny on 
its inventory. Some analysts say GM overproduced GMT-900 SUVs 
in the third quarter at a time of heightened pressure to show 
improved results.  GM is relying on the GMT-900s such as the Chevy Tahoe and 
GMC Sierra to recover from a $10.6 billion loss in 2005 and 
slow its slide in sales and market share.  On a call with analysts last week, GM in-house sales 
analyst Paul Ballew said the No. 1 automaker now needed to 
reduce its large SUV inventory.  "The problem is that the Detroit automakers have excess 
capacity," AMR Research analyst Kevin Reale said. "And they 
have to keep plants running to maintain the cost structure of 
their vehicles."  IRN's Merkle said the longer-term worry was that a 
prolonged slowdown could show that the latest round of plant 
closures have not gone far enough.  "The thing that concerns me is ... if volumes continue to 
drop, which they likely will, given the economic slowdown, they 
will still be left with excess capacity," he said.  (Additional reporting by  Kevin Krolicki )