-- House vote nears on exec pay bill
-- By  Kevin Drawbaugh
-- Thu Apr 19, 2007 4:47pm EDT
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2007/04/19/businesspro-executivepay-congress-dc-idUSN1942419320070419

 

 WASHINGTON  (Reuters) - A vote is expected on Friday in the 
U.S. House of Representatives on a bill that would let 
shareholders cast non-binding ballots on corporate executive 
pay levels, a measure opposed by the Bush administration and 
most Republicans. 

  With CEO compensation soaring and concern spreading about 
income inequality in America, the "say on pay" bill would give 
investors in a company the right to cast annual, advisory votes 
on the pay of senior corporate managers.  Corporations would have to ensure the votes occur, but 
could ignore their outcomes if they wanted to, under the bill 
introduced by Massachusetts Democrat Barney Frank.  While only symbolic, "say on pay" votes as envisioned by 
Frank would make boards think twice about massive pay packages 
for chief executives, such as the $210 million given to ex-Home 
Depot Inc. ( HD.N ) CEO Robert Nardelli as he left the company.  House floor debate on the "say on pay" bill started on 
Thursday and is set to run into Friday, with a vote following.  A key procedural measure passed narrowly, with only one 
Republican breaking ranks. North Carolina Rep. Walter Jones 
joined 226 Democrats in passing the procedural measure.  In debate on the House floor, Jones said: "The right to 
have an advisory vote would strengthen the shareholder and 
strengthen the capitalistic system."  But most Republicans took a different view, criticizing the 
measure as an unwarranted government intrusion into the 
business world and a potential source of frivolous lawsuits.  Democrats can push the bill through if their ranks hold. 
Even if some conservative Democrats vote no, Democratic aides 
said there may be more moderate Republicans for it like Jones.  President George W. Bush has criticized excessive CEO pay 
and called for pay to be more closely linked to performance.  But the White House Office of Management and Budget said in 
a statement: "The administration opposes (the bill) ... The 
administration does not believe that Congress should mandate 
the process by which executive compensation is approved."  Frank's bill would let shareholders vote annually on 
executive pay as outlined in the proxy statement, a document 
distributed to investors by corporate management.  It would also give shareholders a vote on any "golden 
parachute" packages for executives if a company is sold.  No similar measure is moving through the Senate, making it 
unlikely that "say on pay" will become law soon, although some 
senators are keenly interested in the issue.  At present, executive pay is set by directors nominated by 
management and approved by shareholders. Critics have said this 
gives CEOs too much say on their own pay.  CEOs have responded that giving shareholders a vote on pay 
-- even just a symbolic one -- would be costly and distracting 
and would inject outside politics into business decisions.  In 2003, the average U.S. CEO got about 500 times as much 
pay as the average worker, up from a multiple of 140 as 
recently as 1991, one academic study has shown.  Insurer AFLAC Inc. ( AFL.N ) in February voluntarily became 
the first major U.S. company to adopt "say on pay," but 
shareholder resolutions calling for it have failed at four 
recent corporate annual meetings.  On Tuesday, one failed at Citigroup ( C.N ), with 43 percent 
of the vote. Coca-Cola Co. ( KO.N ) investors defeated on 
Wednesday a "say on pay" measure that won 30 percent of voting 
shares. A week ago, Morgan Stanley ( MS.N ) and Bank of New York 
Co. Inc. ( BK.N ) investors rejected "say on pay" proposals. 
Dozens of U.S. companies have been targeted with proposals this 
year.