-- Half of Europe's LBOs Exceeding Debt Target, S&P Says
-- John Glover
-- 2008-02-13T15:58:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2008-02-13/half-of-europe-s-lbos-exceeding-debt-target-s-p-says-update3-.html

          
          
             Half of Europe's leveraged buyouts
are missing their own targets for earnings and debt, putting
them at greater risk of breaching investor safeguards or
defaulting,  Standard & Poor's  said in a report.  
 ``There is a heightened potential for defaults,'' S&P
analysts led by Taron Wade in London wrote.  
 Fifty percent of the companies owned by buyout firms in
S&P's study exceeded their debt forecasts and 53 percent missed
earnings targets.  
 European buyouts slumped almost 60 percent to $88 billion
in the second half of last year as the U.S. subprime  mortgage 
crisis caused investors to shun all but the safest government
debt. Buyout firms are unable to raise more than 1 billion euros
($1.45 billion) of debt for each deal as funds including
collateralized loan obligations cut investments, Carlyle Group
Managing Director Robert Easton said today at a conference in
London.  
 In LBOs, firms borrow about two-thirds of the acquisition
price, piling the debt onto the takeover target. The debt is
typically ranked as high-risk high-yield with ratings below Baa3
from Moody's Investors Service and BBB- from  Standard & Poor's .  
 Companies breached loan covenants or renegotiated terms on
8.3 percent of the debt included in New York-based S&P's study
of 36 companies. Some firms aren't alerting investors to
increased indebtedness because disclosure requirements were
dropped from loans sold in the past two years, according to S&P.  
 LevX Index  
 Loan covenants typically set limits on the borrower's debt
relative to its  cash flow , or the amount it must maintain to
meet interest payments. A company that breaks a covenant usually
meets with its lenders, which may lead to changes in the loan
terms.  
 Most leveraged loans in Europe aren't publicly rated,
making it difficult to get information on the deals, the report
said. S&P studied privately rated transactions, which make up 85
percent of leveraged loans in  Europe , the ratings company said.  
 The study covered chemical, industrial equipment,
publishing and retail companies. S&P didn't identify the
borrowers.  
 The risk of defaults on European LBO loans is the highest
recorded by the benchmark Markit iTraxx LevX Senior Index of
loan credit-default swaps. The index fell to 90.625 on Feb. 11,
the lowest since it began in October 2006, and traded at 91
today, according to Bear Stearns Cos. A level below 100
indicates loans are valued below par.  
 Monitoring the performance of LBOs is ``paramount'' for
investors, the S&P analysts wrote. ``The exuberance of the
leveraged financial markets in Europe over the past few years
has meant that most transactions attracted an abundance of
investors. But that does not mean all deals will perform well.''  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
John Glover in  London  at 
 johnglover@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at   gserkin@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        