-- Radian Credit Rating Cut by S&P on Mortgage Risk
-- Erik Holm
-- 2008-02-13T22:50:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2008-02-13/radian-credit-rating-cut-by-s-p-on-mortgage-risk-update2-.html

          
          
             Radian Group Inc., (RDN)  the third-largest
U.S. mortgage insurer, had its  credit rating  cut by  Standard &
Poor's  today because of expected losses from reimbursing lenders
that made bad loans.  
 PMI Group Inc.,  Triad Guaranty Inc. (TGIC)  and mortgage insurance
units at  American International Group Inc. (AIG)  and  Genworth
Financial Inc. (GNW)  may also be downgraded, the ratings company said
in a statement.  
 ``Deterioration in the housing markets and performance of
all types of mortgages has caused Standard & Poor's to revise
its expectations for all U.S. mortgage insurers' loss costs from
mortgages originated in 2005, 2006, and 2007,'' credit analyst
James Brender said in the statement. ``We also have concerns
that the 2008 vintage could be unprofitable.''  
 Higher defaults by subprime borrowers propelled a jump in
claims last year, leading Philadelphia-based Radian and larger
rivals PMI and  MGIC Investment Corp. (MTG)  to their first money-losing
quarters as publicly traded companies in the period ended Sept.
30. MGIC, which reported a $1.47 billion fourth-quarter  loss 
today, was placed on CreditWatch on Jan. 24.  
 U.S. foreclosure rates have risen to their highest since at
least World War II, and defaults on privately insured U.S.
mortgages rose 37 percent in December from the same month a year
earlier, according to the Mortgage Insurance Companies of
America trade group.  
 Radian's credit rating was cut to A- from A. The new rating
is four levels among non-investment grade  
 AIG's United Guaranty Corp. and Genworth's mortgage
insurance subsidiaries are rated AA, and Triad is rated AA-. PMI
is rated A and MGIC is A-.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Holm in New York at 
 eholm2@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Rick Green  in New York at 
 rgreen18@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        