-- Watson Says FDA Inspects Drug Plant After Long Wait
-- Catherine Larkin
-- 2008-02-13T22:48:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2008-02-13/watson-says-fda-inspects-drug-plant-after-long-wait-update1-.html

          
          
             Watson Pharmaceuticals Inc. (WPI)  said U.S.
regulators have begun re-inspecting a  Florida  manufacturing plant
that they barred from producing new generic drugs after
deficiencies were found in a 2005 review.  
 Watson, the second-largest U.S. maker of generic drugs, has
been waiting for the Food and Drug Administration to revisit the
Davie, Florida, facility so it can be cleared to approve new
products, according to a statement distributed today by PR
Newswire. The Corona, California-based company doesn't know how
long the inspection will last or whether it will be favorable.  
 New drugs made at the plant haven't been able to win FDA
approval since September 2005, though the facility has continued
to work at a third of its capacity to make existing products.
Watson acquired the plant in its $1.9 billion purchase of Andrx
Corp. in 2006. Investors have been waiting since then for a
resolution with the FDA and for new products to ignite growth.  
 ``One of the key things that we have to get done in `08 is
get this facility off OAI status,'' Watson Chief Executive
Officer  Paul Bisaro  said in an interview earlier this week
referring to the FDA's ``official action indicated'' status that
bans new approvals.  
 ``We haven't unlocked the value yet'' of the Andrx
acquisition, he said.  
 Bisaro said in the interview that the inspection may last
one to four weeks. If the review is favorable, it could be as
long as a month after that until new products from the plant win
FDA approval. Watson has continued to submit applications for new
drugs from the plant since the acquisition.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Catherine Larkin in Boca Raton, Florida at 
 clarkin4@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        