-- 
Order Blocking Gay Marriage Should Be Lifted, Harris Says

-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t
-- 
2011-03-01T21:30:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-18/california-gay-marriage-opponents-seek-to-overturn-ruling-throwing-out-ban.html
  California  Attorney General Kamala Harris asked a federal appeals court to dismiss its order
prohibiting same-sex marriages in the state until an appeal of a
lower court ruling is resolved.  Proponents of ballot measure Proposition 8, approved by
California voters in 2008, are appealing U.S. District Judge
Vaughn Walker’s ruling in August overturning the ban in the
first federal trial over whether it is legal to outlaw marriage
by people of the same sex.  Harris, a Democrat elected in November, said in a statement
today that she asked the San Francisco-based federal appeals
court to lift its order because it is “unlikely that an appeal
will succeed in overturning Judge Walker’s ruling that
Proposition 8 is unconstitutional.”  California Governor  Jerry Brown  opposed the appeals court
order last year when he was attorney general, according to the
statement.  Supporters of Proposition 8 won’t suffer any injury if
same-sex couples are permitted to marry, according to Harris. As
long as the ban on such unions is in place, same-sex couples
suffer constitutional violations of their due process and equal
protection rights, Harris said.  In January, the San Francisco appeals court asked the
California Supreme Court to decide whether Proposition 8’s
supporters have legal standing to argue the case when state
officials have refused to do so.  The state’s high court judges said they want to have oral
arguments as early as September.  The case is Perry v. Schwarzenegger, 10-16696,  U.S. Court
of Appeals  for the Ninth Circuit (San Francisco). The district
court case is Perry v. Schwarzenegger, 09-02292, U.S. District
Court, Northern District of California   San Francisco ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joel Rosenblatt in San Francisco at   jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net  