-- Six Banks Fail, Community & Southern Acquires Three (Correct)
-- Dakin Campbell
-- 2010-09-20T16:52:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-18/six-u-s-banks-fail-as-georgia-lender-community-southern-acquires-three.html

          
          
             (Corrects ninth paragraph of story published Sept. 18, to
say North Shore Bank added deposits.)  
 Georgia’s Community & Southern Bank
picked up $800 million in deposits as it acquired three of the
six U.S. banks that collapsed this week, bringing the year’s
failure count to 125.  
 Banks in Georgia, New Jersey, Ohio and Wisconsin were
closed by regulators, according to statements posted yesterday
on the website of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp., which was
named receiver. This week’s failures cost the agency’s deposit-
insurance fund $347.6 million.  
 “Deposits will continue to be insured by the FDIC, so
there is no need for customers to change their banking
relationship in order to retain their deposit insurance
coverage,” the FDIC said in each of the statements.  
 Banks are failing at a faster pace than last year, which
saw the most failures since 1992, as real estate values remain
depressed and economic recovery stays sluggish. Regulators
closed 140 banks last year. The FDIC’s list of “problem” banks
climbed to 829 lenders with $403 billion in assets at the end of
the second quarter, a 7 percent increase from the 775 on the
list in the first quarter, the FDIC said last month.  
 Community & Southern Chief Executive Officer Patrick
Frawley paid a 1 percent premium to acquire Douglasville,
Georgia’s First Commerce Community Bank, and Bank of Ellijay,
based in the Georgia town of the same name, the FDIC said. The
acquirer paid a premium of 1.25 percent for deposits of Winder,
Georgia-based Peoples Bank.  
 Georgia Lender  
 Frawley’s bank, based in Carrollton, Georgia, is the newest
bank in Georgia and had about $1.8 billion in assets and 21
branches in the west and northern parts of the state as of last
month, according to a statement. The lender shared losses with
the FDIC on $602.5 million in assets from the three banks.  
 Regulators have now closed 14 banks in Georgia this year.  
 In other closures, Cincinnati’s Foundation Bank bought
about $41.6 million in deposits of the failed lender Bramble
Savings Bank of Milford, Ohio, the FDIC said. Customers Bank of
Phoenixville, Pennsylvania, acquired ISN Bank of Cherry Hill,
New Jersey, the FDIC said. The FDIC will share losses on about
$64.8 million of ISN’s assets.  
 The Office of Thrift Supervision shuttered Maritime Savings
Bank of West Allis, Wisconsin, and helped arrange its sale to
Brookfield, Wisconsin’s North Shore Bank. North Shore picked up
$248.1 million in deposits and nine branches, the FDIC said.  
 The OTS reported 54 so-called problem thrifts in the second
quarter, up from 50 in the prior quarter, the regulator said
Aug. 25. The OTS, which supervised 753 thrifts at the end of the
second quarter, will merge with the Office of the Comptroller of
the Currency, overseer of national banks, as part of the Dodd-
Frank regulatory overhaul law. The FDIC assumes greater
regulatory responsibility under the legislation.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Dakin Campbell in San Francisco at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        