-- Swedish Government Slips Into Minority as Anti-Immigrants Rise
-- Johan Carlstrom
-- 2010-09-20T10:48:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-18/swedes-start-voting-as-reinfeldt-s-coalition-is-poised-to-win-second-term.html

          
          
             Swedish Prime Minister  Fredrik Reinfeldt  won a second term in office, though his four-party
coalition will rule as a minority after the anti-immigration
Swedish Democrats won seats in parliament for the first time.  
 The government won 49.3 percent of the vote, with more than
99 percent of ballots from Swedish districts counted, the
election authority said. The opposition won 43.6 percent.  
 Reinfeldt’s coalition probably lost six seats since the
2006 election, giving it 172 lawmakers in the 349-seat
parliament, a Sveriges TV estimate showed. The opposition
probably lost 14 seats and will have 157 lawmakers. The Swedish
Democrats, which wants to cut immigration by as much as 90
percent, won 20 seats, SVT estimates. Turnout was 82.1 percent.  
 “I don’t foresee any big volatility on the back of this or
any big policy changes for the Swedish economy,” said  Espen Furnes , a fund manager at Oslo-based Storebrand ASA, which
oversees about $54 billion. Still, “if they’re not successful
in talks with the Green Party and have to seek approval from
case to case, that could have a weakening effect on stocks and
currencies, and perhaps even cause interest rates to rise more
than they otherwise would.”  
 The krona reversed earlier losses against the euro and was
up 0.2 percent at 9.2104 at 11:38 a.m. in Stockholm. The
benchmark OMX Stockholm 30 stock index was up 0.3 percent at
1085.55.  
 ‘Sideways’  
 “The krona will strengthen 3 percent against the euro by
the end of the year, but we will see a period of sideways
trading since we don’t know what will happen, which type of
minority or majority government we will have,” said Carl Hamer,
chief currency strategist at SEB AB in Stockholm.  
 Reinfeldt, who reiterated he won’t work with the Swedish
Democrats, last night said he will talk to the Green Party,
currently part of the opposition bloc, in a bid to secure a more
stable parliament.  
 “We have a responsibility in this uncertain parliamentary
situation to seek a broader support and we have indicated that
it should start with discussions with the Green Party. I hope
for a good response from them,” he said.  
 The premier presided over the biggest economic rebound in
the European Union, cutting taxes and running the EU’s narrowest
budget deficit. Sweden’s $430 billion  economy  will expand 4.5
percent this year, the best performance in the 27-member EU,
recouping most of last year’s 5.1 percent decline, the Finance
Ministry said on Aug. 20.  
 Majority Needed  
 “What the markets need is a majority government, but since
our finances are in such good shape, I don’t think they’ll react
too harshly if there’s not a majority,” said  Bo Lundgren , head
of the National Debt Office, last night.  
 The Swedish Democrats have tried to cast themselves as
kingmakers, though both the major blocs have ruled out any
collaboration. Besides its anti-immigration stance, the party
campaigned on a pledge to raise spending on elderly care,
jobless benefits, longer prison sentences and introduce
compulsory military conscription.  
 “The other parties have warned of this situation and
warned that we will create problems,” Jimmie Aakesson, Swedish
Democrat leader, told party members today. “My promise to the
Swedish people is that we will not create problems, we will take
responsibility for Sweden.”  
 The country’s budget law will probably prevent the Swedish
Democrats from blocking the passage of fiscal bills because a
budget can only be obstructed if a parliamentary majority puts
forward an alternative proposal, said  Tommy Moeller , political
scientist professor at Stockholm University.  
 ‘Never, Ever’  
 The main opposition party, the Social Democrats, who made
its worst election in almost 90 years, lost after it failed to
convince voters it is the sole guardian of the welfare state,
preventing its leader,  Mona Sahlin , from becoming Sweden’s first
female premier. It last night reiterated that it will “never,
ever, not a single time,” work with the Swedish Democrats.  
 “One shouldn’t exaggerate the risks of a political crisis
since the Social Democrats and the Green Party have said they’re
prepared to act responsibly for the sake of the country,”
Moeller said.  
 Sweden has been ruled by minority governments since the
current one-chamber parliamentary system was introduced in 1971,
with the exception of six years of majority coalitions starting
in 1976, and the last four years under Reinfeldt.  
 “It couldn’t have happened to a better country,” said  Par Magnusson , chief Nordic economist at Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc in Stockholm. “This is Sweden, we don’t do turmoil
here.”  
 Sahlin told supporters at a party rally “we lost, we admit
that. Now it’s up to Fredrik Reinfeldt to show how he intends to
rule Sweden with a minority government.”  
 Compromises  
 There will be “negotiations and compromises on issues
outside the budget and there the government may run into
problems,” said Jonas Hinnfors, political science professor at
Gothenburg University. “Reinfeldt will send out feelers about a
semi-permanent cooperation with the Green party, even though I
don’t think he’ll invite them into government.”  
 Should the Green Party refuse to work with the government,
Reinfeldt will rule “with jumping majorities on individual
issues, which is how the Social Democrats ruled the country for
decades,” Hinnfors said.  
 The government, which pushed through 70 billion kronor ($10
billion) in income-tax cuts in its first term, plans to cut
taxes on incomes and pensions by a further 25 billion kronor
through 2014. The last four years of tax cuts for wage earners
were equivalent to 2.3 percent of gross domestic product. The
government says the cuts aren’t at the expense of welfare.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Johan Carlstrom  in Stockholm at 
 jcarlstrom@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Fredrik Reinfeldt, Sweden's Prime Minister  
                       
                         
                           Jock Fistick/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Swedish economic bounce promises to reward Reinfeldt. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Swedish economic bounce promises to reward Reinfeldt. Photographer: Jock Fistick/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
