-- INSTANT VIEW: Bernanke notes worry about inflation expectations
-- 
-- Wed Jun 4, 2008 3:13pm EDT
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2008/06/04/us-usa-economy-bernanke-idUSN0429988220080604

 

 NEW YORK  (Reuters) - U.S. Federal Reserve Chairman 
Ben Bernanke said policy-makers were concerned by signs of 
rising long-term inflation expectations but did not see a 
dangerous wage-price inflation spiral developing.
KEY POINTS: 
* "Some indicators of longer-term inflation expectations have 
risen in recent months, which is a significant concern for the 
Federal Reserve," Bernanke said in remarks prepared for 
delivery at Harvard University. 
* "We will need to monitor that situation closely," he said, 
but added there was little sign a "1970s-style wage-price 
spiral, in which wages and prices chased each other ever 
upward", might be starting. 
COMMENTS: 

 JOHN MCCARTHY, DIRECTOR OF FOREIGN EXCHANGE, ING CAPITAL 
MARKETS, NEW YORK: "Bernanke's comments suggested that he's going to be far 
less accommodative when it comes to interest rates. This is 
dollar-supportive because that means that interest rate 
differentials shouldn't fall as much. I'm not saying that he 
will not lower rates even if the economy falters severely, but 
he's certainly suggesting that inflation is of equal 
importance." CARL LANTZ, U.S. INTEREST RATE STRATEGIST, CREDIT SUISSE, 
NEW YORK: "The bond market is backing off a bit. In general he is 
pointing out the differences between now and the 1970s. 
Importantly he is saying that there is little sign of a 
70s-style wage-price spiral." "The knee jerk reaction in the bond market is that he is 
talking about inflation so they sell off. We knew he was going 
to speak about the lessons of the 70s. Either he is going to 
say this is just like the 70s or he is going to say this is 
different. And he's saying it's different." "There is nothing in here hinting that they are about to 
hike." MARK FREY, HEAD FX TRADER, CUSTOM HOUSE, VICTORIA, BRITISH 
COLUMBIA: "Bernanke's comments definitely reinforce the current 
outlook, which is unquestionably dollar positive. We are 
definitely of the opinion that we'll see a stronger dollar 
going forward, and we could look back six months from now and 
say this was the definitive turn for the dollar. There's still 
uncertainty about how aggressive the Fed can be, because while 
they were very aggressive on the way down, they will probably 
be less so on the way up. Currency trade could remain choppy in the short term, but 
if we get a positive payrolls number on Friday that's anywhere 
near the ADP estimate, the dollar will see a very strong 
bounce. If we get a weak number, we're back to where we were a 
week ago, but the long-term picture is dollar positive. ZACH PANDL, ECONOMIST, LEHMAN BROTHERS, NEW YORK: "These headlines are a bit deceptive. Some of the reason 
he's talking a lot about inflation is the nature of his 
remarks. He's talking about the 1970s. Overall, he sounds 
consistent with the midpoint of the committee, noting that 
inflation expectations are rising but they have not moved 
significantly yet for the Fed to change its course." GARY THAYER, SENIOR ECONOMIST, WACHOVIA SECURIITES, ST. 
LOUIS, MISSOURI: "Bernanke now is talking more about inflation than he may 
have earlier this year, but that's consistent with what we 
already heard from him this week: that he's concerned about 
inflation expectations, but he doesn't think we're in a 
wage-price spiral like we saw in the 1970s. Wage inflation has 
been subsiding so that would support Chairman Bernanke's views. 
His comment that the Fed is responsible for keeping prices 
stable is consistent with what he said on Tuesday. But he 
acknowledges that inflation is higher than the Fed would prefer 
so that indicates that the Fed is likely to hold policy 
steady." 
MARKET REACTION: 
* BONDS: U.S. Treasury debt prices fall 
* CURRENCIES: U.S. dollar gains 
* STOCKS: U.S. equity indexes turn lower 
* RATE FUTURES: U.S. short-term interest rate futures dipped, 
pricing in a 2 percent probability of a 25 basis point rate cut 
at the Fed's June meeting, compared with a 4 percent 
probability late Tuesday.