-- Fed's Bernanke speech at Harvard University
-- 
-- Wed Jun 4, 2008 3:22pm EDT
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2008/06/04/us-usa-fed-bernanke-idUSN0430017520080604

 

 WASHINGTON  (Reuters) - Following is the full text 
of Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke's prepared remarks at 
Class Day 2008 at Harvard University, Cambridge, 
Massachusetts. 
It seems to me, paradoxically, that both long ago and only 
yesterday I attended my own Class Day in 1975. I am pleased and 
honored to be invited back by the students of Harvard. Our 
speaker in 1975 was Dick Gregory, the social critic and 
comedian, who was inclined toward the sharp-edged and satiric. 
Central bankers don't do satire as a rule, so I am going to 
have to strive for "kind of interesting." 
When I attended Class Day as a graduating senior, Gerald Ford 
was President, and an up-and-coming fellow named Alan Greenspan 
was his chief economic adviser. Just weeks earlier, the last 
Americans remaining in Saigon had been evacuated by 
helicopters. On a happier note, the Red Sox were on their way 
to winning the American League pennant. I skipped classes to 
attend a World Series game against the Cincinnati Reds. As was 
their wont in those days, the Sox came agonizingly close to a 
championship but ended up snatching defeat from the jaws of 
victory. On that score, as on others--disco music and Pet Rocks 
come to mind--many things are better today than they were then. 
In fact, that will be a theme of my remarks today. 
Although 1975 was a pretty good year for the Red Sox, it was 
not a good one for the U.S. economy. Then as now, we were 
experiencing a serious oil price shock, sharply rising prices 
for food and other commodities, and subpar economic growth. But 
I see the differences between the economy of 1975 and the 
economy of 2008 as more telling than the similarities. Today's 
situation differs from that of 33 years ago in large part 
because our economy and society have become much more flexible 
and able to adapt to difficult situations and new challenges. 
Economic policymaking has improved as well, I believe, partly 
because we have learned well some of the hard lessons of the 
past. Of course, I do not want to minimize the challenges we 
currently face, and I will come back to a few of these. But I 
do think that our demonstrated ability to respond 
constructively and effectively to past economic problems 
provides a basis for optimism about the future. 
I will focus my remarks today on two economic issues that 
challenged us in the 1970s and that still do so today--energy 
and productivity. These, obviously, are not the kind of topics 
chosen by many recent Class Day speakers--Will Farrell, Ali G, 
or Seth MacFarlane, to name a few. But, then, the Class 
Marshals presumably knew what they were getting when they 
invited an economist. 
Because the members of today's graduating class--and some of 
your professors--were not yet born in 1975, let me begin by 
briefly surveying the economic landscape in the mid-1970s. The 
economy had just gone through a severe recession, during which 
output, income, and employment fell sharply and the 
unemployment rate rose to 9 percent. Meanwhile, consumer price 
inflation, which had been around 3 percent to 4 percent earlier 
in the decade, soared to more than 10 percent during my senior 
year.1 
The oil price shock of the 1970s began in October 1973 when, in 
response to the Yom Kippur War, Arab oil producers imposed an 
embargo on exports. Before the embargo, in 1972, the price of 
imported oil was about $3.20 per barrel; by 1975, the average 
price was nearly $14 per barrel, more than four times greater. 
President Nixon had imposed economy-wide controls on wages and 
prices in 1971, including prices of petroleum products; in 
November 1973, in the wake of the embargo, the President placed 
additional controls on petroleum prices.2 
As basic economics predicts, when a scarce resource cannot be 
allocated by market-determined prices, it will be allocated 
some other way--in this case, in what was to become an iconic 
symbol of the times, by long lines at gasoline stations. In 
1974, in an attempt to overcome the unintended consequences of 
price controls, drivers in many places were permitted to buy 
gasoline only on odd or even days of the month, depending on 
the last digit of their license plate number. Moreover, with 
the controlled price of U.S. crude oil well below world prices, 
growth in domestic exploration slowed and production was 
curtailed--which, of course, only made things worse. 
In addition to creating long lines at gasoline stations, the 
oil price shock exacerbated what was already an intensifying 
buildup of inflation and inflation expectations. In another 
echo of today, the inflationary situation was further worsened 
by rapidly rising prices of agricultural products and other 
commodities. 
Economists generally agree that monetary policy performed 
poorly during this period.  In part, this was because 
policymakers, in choosing what they believed to be the 
appropriate setting for monetary policy, overestimated the 
productive capacity of the economy. I'll have more to say about 
this shortly. Federal Reserve policymakers also underestimated 
both their own contributions to the inflationary problems of 
the time and their ability to curb that inflation. For example, 
on occasion they blamed inflation on so-called cost-push 
factors such as union wage pressures and price increases by 
large, market-dominating firms; however, the abilities of 
unions and firms to push through inflationary wage and price 
increases were symptoms of the problem, not the underlying 
cause.  Several years passed before the Federal Reserve gained 
a new leadership that better understood the central bank's role 
in the inflation process and that sustained anti-inflationary 
monetary policies would actually work. Beginning in 1979, such 
policies were implemented successfully--although not without 
significant cost in terms of lost output and employment--under 
Fed Chairman Paul Volcker.  For the Federal Reserve, two 
crucial lessons from this experience were, first, that high 
inflation can seriously destabilize the economy and, second, 
that the central bank must take responsibility for achieving 
price stability over the medium term. 

