-- WCT May Lose 300 Million Ringgit From Canceled Order
-- Angus Whitley
-- 2009-01-06T11:16:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2009-01-06/wct-may-lose-300-million-ringgit-from-canceled-order-update2-.html

          
          
             WCT Bhd. (WCT) , whose $1.3 billion contract
to build a Dubai racetrack was canceled, may lose as much as 300
million ringgit ($85 million) on the project, more than analysts'
 estimated profit  this year for the company.  
 The Malaysian engineering firm is confident it can reclaim
the money, which includes 178 million ringgit in advance payments
and a so-called performance bond, an unidentified executive told
investors on a conference call today.  
 WCT  slumped  30 percent today on the  Kuala Lumpur  stock
exchange, the steepest decline in almost 14 years, after Meydan
LLC terminated the contract for an alleged missed deadline. WCT
said its other projects in the  Middle East , including a Formula
One circuit, aren't in danger of cancellation.  
 ``Regardless of who is at fault, we see this as posing a
risk to WCT's reputation as its execution capability may be in
question,'' Jeremy Goh, an analyst at OSK in Kuala Lumpur with a
``neutral'' rating on WCT, said in a report. ``It would also
hamper the group's ability to secure more jobs in the Middle East,
on which it relies for projects.''  
 Arabtec Holding PSJC (ARTC) , WCT's partner for the project,  fell  as
much as 10 percent in Dubai. WCT and Arabtec won the 4.6 billion-dirham ($1.3 billion) order in September 2007.  
 Outstanding Work  
 The contract was canceled because WCT ``failed to abide by
the time schedule for the completion,'' Meydan said in an e-mailed statement today. The company took the ``decision to
reassert its resolve to complete the project on time.''  
 Outstanding work on the Nad Al Sheba racetrack contract is
valued at about 1.3 billion ringgit, the WCT executive said. The
company, based in Shah Alam, outside Kuala Lumpur, has no plans
to set aside funds for any loss on the contract, it said.  
 The contract was expected to account for 37 percent of WCT's
profit this year, according to a report by JPMorgan Chase & Co.
Analysts expect WCT to make 236 million ringgit in 2009,
according to  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  
 According to WCT, the company was told last week that Meydan
planned to end the contract, after making changes to the track
design that delayed construction.  
 The possible 178 million-ringgit loss from the performance
bond and the advance payments, which WCT is disputing, would
increase gearing to 0.57 times from 0.42 times, WCT said in a
statement to the Malaysian stock exchange.  
 WCT said the Formula One circuit it is building in the
 United Arab Emirates  should be finished by June.  
 The new horseracing track, built for the sport's richest
event, the 2010 Dubai  World Cup , was designed to be the new home
of the Dubai Racing Club. The Nad Al Sheba racetrack, which WCT
said was structurally almost completed, was to include a luxury
hotel and a 60,000-capacity grandstand.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Angus Whitley in Kuala Lumpur at 
 awhitley1@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Tony Jordan  at 
 tjordan3@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        