-- FOMC minutes from meeting of March 18
-- 
-- Tue Apr 8, 2008 3:37pm EDT
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2008/04/08/us-text-fomc-minutes-idUSN0836697920080408

 

 WASHINGTON  (Reuters) - The following is the text of the minutes 
from the Federal Open Market Committee's meeting of March 18, issued on 
Tuesday: 

 "The Manager of the System Open Market Account reported on recent 
developments in foreign exchange markets. There were no open market operations 
in foreign currencies for the System's account in the period since the previous 
meeting. The Manager also reported on developments in domestic financial 
markets and on System open market operations in government securities and 
federal agency obligations during the period since the previous meeting. By 
unanimous vote, the Committee ratified these transactions. The information reviewed at the March meeting indicated that economic 
activity had continued to decelerate in recent months. The contraction in 
homebuilding intensified, consumer spending appeared to be weakening, and 
survey measures of both consumer and business sentiment were at depressed 
levels. Industrial production fell in February, and private payroll employment 
posted a third consecutive monthly decline. After having increased in recent 
months through January, both headline and core inflation as measured by the 
consumer price index (CPI) dropped noticeably in February. In early March, 
however, prices of oil and other commodities rose sharply. Labor demand softened markedly in recent months. The decline in private 
payroll employment that began last December steepened through February. 
Although employment by firms in the nonbusiness services sector and in state 
and local governments continued to rise, declines elsewhere were widespread. 
Losses were greatest in the manufacturing, construction, and retail trade 
sectors. Aggregate hours of private production or nonsupervisory workers fell 
slightly in the first two months of the year. The unemployment rate edged down 
to 4.8 percent in February, but was still up from the 4.5 percent rate of a 
year earlier. The labor force participation rate declined in February. Industrial production declined in February after edging up slightly in the 
previous two months. The output of utilities dropped back after a 
weather-related surge in January, while mining output fell somewhat in the 
first two months of the year on average. Manufacturing production edged down 
after having flattened out in January. The motor vehicle and 
construction-related industries continued to hold down overall manufacturing 
output even as high-tech production posted moderate increases. The factory 
utilization rate edged down in February to a level noticeably below its recent 
high in the third quarter of 2007. Real consumer spending appeared to have stalled in recent months. Real 
outlays for nondurable and durable consumer goods, including automobiles, were 
estimated to have declined, on average, in January and February. Real 
disposable personal income was unchanged in the fourth quarter, held down by 
higher food and energy prices, and moved up only slightly in January. Further 
declines in house prices led to a noticeable decrease in the ratio of household 
wealth to disposable income in the fourth quarter. The downturn in equity 
prices since December further reduced household wealth in the first quarter. 
Readings on consumer sentiment dropped sharply in February from already low 
levels, and the Reuters/University of Michigan survey remained at a depressed 
level in early March. The contraction in residential construction continued into early 2008. 
Single-family housing starts fell in both January and February. After having 
dropped especially sharply in December, multifamily housing starts rebounded 
somewhat in the first two months of the year. New home sales declined again in 
January, thereby pushing inventories of unsold homes to even higher levels 
relative to sales. Sales of existing homes held roughly steady in January, and 
the index of pending sales agreements in that month was consistent with flat 
sales in February and March. Overall, demand for housing continued to be 
restrained by tight financing conditions for jumbo and nonprime mortgages. Real spending on equipment and software rose at a sluggish rate in the 
fourth quarter. In January, orders and shipments of nondefense capital goods 
excluding aircraft were above their fourth-quarter levels. However, the overall 
outlook for capital spending in the first quarter was weak in light of the 
deterioration in surveys of business conditions and attitudes and the worsening 
situation in markets for business finance. On the heels of robust gains during 
most of last year, nominal spending on nonresidential structures decelerated in 
December and posted an outright decline in January. Although spending in this 
sector is often volatile, the recent deceleration was consistent with mounting 
indications of slowing demand for nonresidential buildings and tightening 
credit conditions. Real investment in nonfarm inventories excluding motor vehicles remained at 
a steady pace in the fourth quarter of 2007, but motor vehicle inventories fell 
sharply. After declining in November, the ratio of manufacturing and trade 
book-value inventories (excluding motor vehicles) to sales ticked up in 
December and held steady in January, but this ratio remained well below its 
average value in 2007. The U.S. international trade deficit narrowed substantially in December and 
was about unchanged in January. Exports rose sharply in both months, while 
imports dipped in December before recovering in January. Increases in exports 
were broadly based except for automotive exports, which dropped sharply in 
December and remained low in January. Imports of services were up moderately. 
Oil imports soared, reflecting increases in both prices and volumes. Most other 
categories of imports dropped in December and January on net, with especially 
large declines in imports of automotive and consumer goods."