-- MGA unwilling to share Bratz revenue with Mattel
-- By  Gina Keating
-- Thu Sep 11, 2008 7:37pm EDT
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2008/09/11/businesspro-mga-bratz-dc-idUSN1132406120080911

 

 LOS ANGELES  (Reuters) - MGA Entertainment Inc will not 
share future revenue from its Bratz doll franchise with Mattel 
Inc MAT.N to settle a copyright infringement lawsuit, MGA 
Chief Executive Isaac Larian told Reuters on Thursday. 

  "It's not true. I never said that," Larian said of a Wall 
Street Journal story, which cited him as saying that MGA would 
be willing to share future revenues from its Bratz doll 
franchise to end the federal court litigation.  "What I said was, that it is in the interest of MGA 
employees and I believe it is in the interest of Mattel 
shareholders and Mattel employees for the two companies to come 
to a settlement and move on," Larian said.  Wall Street Journal spokesman Robert Christie said on 
Thursday the newspaper stands behind its story.  Larian met this week with a mediator for a court-ordered 
settlement conference, but he said a royalty payment on future 
Bratz revenue was not on the table.  "We are never going to give the Bratz brand to Mattel or 
anybody else," Larian said. "A royalty for what? These are 
really speculations that are not realistic."  U.S. District Judge Stephen Larson ordered MGA and Mattel 
into mediation to work out the amount of damages MGA would pay 
Mattel for infringing on the original Bratz drawings and models 
that Mattel won in the court fight, as well as which company 
will control the franchise going forward.  A federal jury in Riverside, California awarded Mattel all 
but four drawings and models upon which the Bratz franchise was 
based, finding that former Barbie designer Carter Bryant had 
made them while under contract to Mattel and illegally sold 
them to MGA.  The jury also awarded Mattel up to $100 million in damages 
and lost profits during the two-phase summer trial, but the 
verdict did not conclude which company had the right to make 
the urban chic competitor to Barbie.  Mattel had argued that MGA owed it all revenues from Bratz 
-- about $2 billion -- plus punitive damages. MGA had contended 
that if the jury found that the dolls infringed at all on the 
drawings, damages should be limited to the first generation of 
dolls because later generations were substantially redesigned.  The jury appeared to side with MGA by awarding only $10 
million on Mattel's copyright infringement claim and by asking 
the judge during deliberations if it could award damages based 
only on profits from the first generation of dolls.  Larian, who intends to appeal the final damages award, 
described his position going into the mediation as: "I want to 
come to a global settlement that each one of us goes our own 
way and competes where it really matters: in the marketplace."  A Mattel spokesperson said the company was continuing to 
take part in the process.  "I don't want to spend another summer in Riverside 
(California). It took a toll on my family," Larian said. "My 
willingness for a settlement doesn't come from my weakness, it 
comes from my strength."  Mattel's shares closed up 8 cents at $19.40 on the New York 
Stock Exchange.  (Additional reporting by  Aarthi Sivaraman  in New York)