-- U.S. pension agency warns of more Delphi claims
-- 
-- Thu Sep 11, 2008 11:36am EDT
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2008/09/11/retire-delphi-dc-idUSN1144410720080911

 

 DETROIT  (Reuters) - The U.S. pension insurance agency could 
file up to $2.5 billion in claims against bankrupt Delphi 
Corp's DPHIQ.PK profitable foreign assets unless the auto 
supplier reaches a deal to resolve pension liabilities with 
former parent General Motors Corp ( GM.N ) this week. 

  The Pension Benefit Guaranty Corp. is urging Delphi's 
former parent, General Motors Corp ( GM.N ), to fulfill a 
commitment to absorb at least $1.5 billion in Delphi pension 
obligations for hourly factory workers before a September 30 
deadline set by the agency.  In a letter to GM and Delphi executives, the agency said it 
has already asserted liens of more than $1.6 billion against 
the assets of Delphi's foreign subsidiaries operating outside 
of bankruptcy protection and was readying another $900 million 
in claims this week.  The letter was sent Tuesday and made available by the PBGC 
on Thursday.  Delphi, which filed for bankruptcy protection for its U.S. 
operations in October 2005, has been trying to negotiate a 
revised reorganization plan for the past four months after 
investors led by Appaloosa Management LP backed out of a $2.55 
billion equity investment.  Delphi, whose debtor-in-possession financing runs through 
the end of 2008, faces potentially billions of dollars of 
claims for salaried and hourly workers' pension obligations 
should it not complete a transfer of liabilities to GM.  The U.S. pension agency said it would hold off on the $900 
million claim if GM and Delphi filed documents with the U.S. 
Bankruptcy Court by Friday agreeing to a deal under which GM's 
pension plan would absorb at least $1.5 billion in Delphi 
pension liabilities.  "The parties must exert all efforts to effect the pension 
transfer -- the only sensible resolution that fairly protects 
the interests of Delphi's pensioners, the pension insurance 
system, and, ultimately, the other creditors and parties in 
interest in Delphi's bankruptcy," PBGC director Charles Millard 
said in the letter to GM and Delphi.  Delphi let funding waivers lapse earlier in 2008 as it was 
preparing to emerge from bankruptcy protection, triggering the 
move by the U.S. pension agency to set the September 30 
deadline.  The pension agency told GM and Delphi in an August 14 
letter that its claims could reach $8 billion if Delphi's 
hourly and salaried plans were to fail, a move that would 
sharply reduce what other creditors recover in the 
reorganization.  The PBGC insures traditional "defined benefit" pensions for 
about 44 million workers and retirees in over 30,000 
private-sector plans. Companies pay premiums to the PBGC, which 
steps in when pension plans become insolvent.  When GM spun off Delphi in 1999, it agreed to assume 
pension and health care obligations for thousands of Delphi 
employees represented by the United Auto Workers union should 
the supplier be unable to do so.  Delphi representatives were not immediately available for 
comment. GM declined to comment.  (Reporting by  Soyoung Kim , editing by Gerald E. McCormick)