-- Citigroup to be charged by Cuomo, faces SEC probe
-- By  Joseph A. Giannone  and Jonathan Stempel
-- Fri Aug 1, 2008 8:27pm EDT
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2008/08/02/businesspro-citigroup-subpoenas-dc-idUSWEN718420080802

 

 NEW YORK  (Reuters) - New York Attorney General Andrew Cuomo 
plans to imminently charge Citigroup Inc ( C.N ), accusing it of 
fraudulently marketing and selling auction-rate securities, and 
destroying documents that had been subpoenaed. 

  In a letter Friday to the bank, David Markowitz, chief of 
the state's investor protection bureau, accused the largest 
U.S. bank by assets of having "repeatedly and persistently 
committed fraud" by falsely representing to customers that 
auction-rate debt was safe, liquid and the equivalent of cash.  He also said Citigroup destroyed audiotapes of phone calls 
on auction-rate debt that were subject to an April 14 subpoena. 
The bank learned in mid-June about the destruction, but failed 
to tell Cuomo's office until June 30, the letter said.  Citi said in an e-mailed statement that recycling tapes is 
generally its practice. It inadvertently recycled a tape 
subject to the subpoena, but as soon as it learned it had, it 
stopped recycling tapes. "We reported this oversight to the 
regulators, and we have fully cooperated with them in all 
aspects of this investigation," the statement said.  Any settlement of the five-month investigation would 
require New York-based Citigroup to buy back the affected debt 
at face value, pay damages to investors, and incur a 
"significant penalty" for its misconduct, the letter said.  Cuomo's office plans to charge Citigroup under the state's 
Martin Act, which allows civil or criminal charges.  Cuomo sued UBS AG ( UBSN.VX ) on July 24 over auction-rate 
securities, accusing the Swiss bank of a "multi-billion dollar 
fraud" in steering customers into the debt.  Auction-rate securities have rates that set periodically. 
The $330 billion market was once considered safe, but part of 
it remains frozen after a February meltdown in which brokerages 
abandoned their role as buyers of last resort.  Citi said in the emailed statement that it has acted in the 
best interests of clients before and since auctions began to 
fail. "...(T)here is simply no basis for claims to the 
contrary.  Regulators nationwide also are examining auction-rate sales 
practices at other financial services companies, including Bank 
of America Corp ( BAC.N ), Merrill Lynch & Co Inc MER.N and 
Wachovia Corp <WB.N.  Earlier on Friday, Citigroup said in its quarterly report 
that the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission has opened a 
formal probe, which gives it subpoena power, into the sale of 
auction-rate securities.  SEC spokesman Kevin Callahan declined to comment. Citigroup 
said it also is responding to subpoenas from Massachusetts and 
Texas over the securities.  Citigroup spokeswoman Christina Pretto said the bank is 
cooperating with the various probes, and has been working with 
issuers, investors and regulators to create liquidity for 
holders of illiquid auction-rate debt.  In the e-mailed statement, Citi said, "In addition to our 
initiatives, we are actively working with regulatory 
authorities, including the New York Attorney General, to secure 
the best and fastest route to providing liquidity."  Separately, Citigroup said it is cooperating with 
government and regulatory requests regarding its Falcon 
fixed-income and its ASTA and MAT municipal arbitrage funds.  Citigroup in February provided a $500 million credit line 
to the Falcon funds, and in March invested $661 million in its 
Municipal Opportunity funds, which accept investments through 
ASTA and MAT. It moved the Falcon and Municipal Opportunity 
funds onto its balance sheet because of these commitments.  The bank's shares closed Friday up 18 cents at $18.87 on 
the New York Stock Exchange. They have fallen 36 percent this 
year.  (Additional reporting by  Kim Dixon ; Editing by Gerald E. 
McCormick and Carol Bishopric)