-- L.A. County May Pay `Punitive Yield' as Bond Issues Rebound: Muni Credit
-- B y   B r e n d a n   A .   M c G r a i l   a n d   A l e x a n d r a   H a r r i s
-- 2010-11-08T05:01:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-08/l-a-county-may-pay-punitive-yield-as-bond-issues-rebound-muni-credit.html
The Los Angeles County Public Works
Financing Authority is selling a combined $700 million in Build
America and Recovery Zone Economic Development Bonds this week,
as  California  issuers offer more than $3.9 billion in debt.  States and municipalities are poised to offer $11.7 billion
in securities this week, the most since the  five-day period 
ended Oct. 8, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. About
$5.2 billion of sales are scheduled as  taxable , an increase of
72 percent from last week, Bloomberg data show.  Recovery zone securities, like Build America Bonds, were
created as part of the economic stimulus package in 2009. More
than $156 billion in Build Americas have been sold to date,
compared with $3.8 billion in so-called RZEDBs, Bloomberg data
show. Los Angeles County will likely pay more yield because of
the infrequent issuance of those bonds, said  Mike Pietronico ,
chief executive officer of New York-based Miller Tabak Asset
Management.  “The punitive yield you’ll see on a deal like that
relative to a BAB is a question about liquidity moving
forward,” said Pietronico, who oversees $330 million in
municipal holdings. While Build Americas are more common, there
are “unknowns around both programs and questions about the
expiration,” he said.  RZEDBs offer a 45 percent federal subsidy on interest
costs, while Build Americas come with 35 percent. Both programs
will expire at year’s end. The county plans to sell $181 million
in recovery-zone debt and the balance in Build Americas, Glenn
Byers, the county’s assistant treasurer, said in an e-mail.  Georgia Sold Both  Georgia , which carries top rankings from the three major
credit-rating companies, sold both types of debt on Oct. 5.
Twenty-year Build Americas were priced to yield 4.57 percent,
compared with a 4.67 percent yield on the same maturity
recovery-zone bond.  The public works agency’s sale will be the second-biggest
taxable offering this week after the University of California’s
$710 million issue. The authority has Moody’s Investors
Service’s fifth-highest investment grade at A1, and the same
from Standard & Poor’s and Fitch Ratings, who rank it A+. The
debt will be backed by lease payments made by the county for use
and occupancy of the  Los Angeles County-University of Southern
California Medical Center , according to Fitch. Some of the $700
million in bonds may be sold as Build Americas, preliminary
offering documents show.  The largest recovery-zone bond offering was $320 million on
Oct. 20 by Alameda County, California, the state’s seventh
largest, according to Moody’s, which rated the debt A1. The
county’s bonds were ranked AA by S&P, third-highest, and AA- by
Fitch, fourth-highest.  Extra Yield  The county’s 34-year bonds were priced to yield 7.05
percent, or 3.15 percentage points above  30-year Treasuries ,
Bloomberg data show. The securities traded Nov. 4 at an average
yield of 6.98 percent, or 2.9 percentage points above federal
debt. Yields on 30-year Treasuries have risen about 0.23
percentage point since the Alameda sale.  Alameda’s pricing may have included extra yield based on
“people’s concerns about California credit, a state with a
political system encumbered by its governance issues,” said
 Evan Rourke , portfolio manager at the New York unit of Eaton
Vance Corp., which has $10 billion in assets under management.
“That concern is causing spreads to widen.”  California is the lowest-rated U.S. state, according to S&P.
Lawmakers agreed on an $87 billion budget last month, 100 days
after the start of the fiscal year, the longest period ever in
which the state operated without a spending plan. S&P ranks the
state A-, two levels below  Illinois , and fourth lowest of 10
investment grades. Both are rated A1, fifth-highest, by Moody’s.  The Los Angeles County agency plans to sell $105 million in
tax-exempt debt as well, according to offering documents.  Yields on top-rated tax-exempts fell for a third straight
day Nov. 5, the longest such streak since Oct. 14, according to
a  Bloomberg Valuation index . The 2.46 percent rate was the
lowest in more than a week.  Following are descriptions of pending sales of U.S.
municipal debt:  HARVARD, the oldest and richest U.S. university, plans to
sell $741 million in tax-exempt bonds tomorrow through the
Massachusetts Development Finance Agency. Harvard will use the
funds to refinance long-term debt and for construction costs
related to the Fogg Art Museum, according to a Moody’s report.
The general-obligation bonds are top-rated by Moody’s and S&P,
and will be marketed by underwriters led by Morgan Stanley.
(Updated Nov. 8)  NEW YORK CITY MUNICIPAL WATER FINANCE AUTHORITY, which
funds the capital needs of the water and sewer system in the
most-populous U.S. city, plans to sell $500 million of Build
America Bonds as soon as this week. The securities are rated
second-highest by S&P and Fitch, AA+, and third-highest by
Moody’s, Aa2. They will be marketed by a group led by Samuel A.
Ramirez & Co. (Updated Nov. 8)  REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT, which manages mass-
transit operations in the Denver region, plans to issue about
$710 million in taxable and tax-exempt debt as soon as tomorrow.
About $267 million will be Build America Bonds issued as
certificates of participation. Another $300 million will be
conventional Build Americas. The RTD is selling $100 million in
traditional tax-exempts and another $43 million in tax-exempt
certificates. Bonds, rated AA, will be backed by sales tax, with
the so-called COPs, rated AA-, backed by system revenue,
according to Fitch. Banks led by Morgan Stanley will market the
COPs, and Goldman Sachs Group Inc. will handle the bonds.
(Updated Nov. 8)  UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA, one of the largest higher-
education systems in the country with more than 220,000
students, tomorrow plans to sell $700 million in taxable Build
Americas, $50 million in tax-exempts and $10 million in
traditional taxables, all backed by revenue from the system’s
five medical centers. The sale will be used for refinancing debt
and funding construction projects. The bonds are rated Aa2 by
Moody’s, third-highest. Banks led by Barclays Plc will market
the issue. (Updated Nov. 8)  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Brendan A. McGrail  in New York at 
 bmcgrail@bloomberg.net ;
 Alexandra Harris  in New York, at 
 aharris48@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Tannenbaum  at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net . 