-- ‘Degenerate’ Art Unearthed From Berlin Bomb Rubble
-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   H i c k l e y
-- 2010-11-08T16:09:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-08/-degenerate-sculptures-unearthed-from-bomb-rubble-put-on-show-in-berlin.html
Eleven sculptures by artists
condemned as “degenerate” by the Nazis were unearthed from World
War II rubble near Berlin’s city hall, where building is about
to start on a new underground train line.  The sculptures, including bronzes by Edwin Scharff, Marg
Moll and Karl Knappe, survived both the vilification of the
Nazis and Allied fire-bombing in the war. The last objects in
the trove were unearthed at the end of last month in excavations
aimed at finding remnants of medieval history. The works will be
exhibited at Berlin’s  Neues Museum  from tomorrow.  “We thought we were digging up a 13th-century medieval
town hall, and instead we found ‘degenerate’ art,” Hermann
Parzinger, the president of the Prussian Cultural Heritage
Foundation, said at a news conference today. “Archaeology is
always good for a surprise.”  In 1937, the Nazis seized more than  20,000 modern works 
that they saw as contrary to Aryan ideals from German museums.
That year, Propaganda Minister  Joseph Goebbels  staged the
exhibition “Degenerate Art,” which first opened in Munich,
where it attracted more than 2 million people before moving on
to other German and Austrian cities.  The Nazis auctioned the seized artworks 1938, mainly abroad
for hard currency. What couldn’t be sold was stored in Berlin by
a department of the Goebbels Propaganda Ministry. It is not yet
known how the sculptures found their way to Koenigstrasse 50,
the house that once stood on the site of the discovery.  Protector of Jews  Matthias Wemhoff, Berlin’s chief archaeologist, said the 11
sculptures may have been preserved for posterity by a German tax
adviser and business manager called Erhard Oewerdieck, who
rented office rooms on the fourth floor of the house. Oewerdieck
and his wife protected Jews from the Nazis, helping many to
emigrate, and even hid a Jewish clerk in their own apartment.  The bronze works are largely undamaged, though coated with
a patina from the fire-bombing and from their lengthy sojourn
underground. Wemhoff said that the individual wooden floors of
the house all burned, with the contents sinking to the cellar.
After the bombing, the houses on Koenigstrasse -- once a busy
shopping street -- were empty shells.  “The only things that survived are non-inflammable objects
like bronze,” Wemhoff told today’s news conference. “It may
well be that there were also wooden sculptures and graphics. We
will try to find out more.”  Nazi Art Show    Among the sculptures are Otto Baum’s 1930 work “Standing
Girl,” Otto Freundlich’s 1925 “Head,” Knappe’s “Hagar,”
Naum Slutzky’s “Female Bust,” Scharff’s “Portrait of the
Actress Anni Mewes,” Gustav Heinrich Wolff’s “Standing
Figure,” Emy Roeder’s terracotta sculpture “Pregnant Woman,”
and Moll’s “Dancer.” Several featured in the Nazis’
“Degenerate Art” exhibition. Three sculptures have yet to be
identified.  Two of the artists were Jewish: Slutzky managed to emigrate
to London in 1933, while Freundlich was murdered at Majdanek
concentration camp near Lublin.  Mayor  Klaus Wowereit  said at today’s news conference that
the artworks are the property of Berlin, as is the case for any
archaeological finds in the city. However, he said, the city is
also talking to the original owners of the works.  To contact the writer on the story:
 Catherine Hickley  in Berlin at 
 chickley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 