-- `Missing' Cricketer Haider to Get Support, Pakistan Diplomat in U.K. Says
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2010-11-08T18:45:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-08/-missing-cricket-haider-to-get-support-pakistan-diplomat-in-u-k-says.html
Pakistan’s most senior diplomat in
the U.K. said his staff is ready to assist the national cricket
team’s wicketkeeper after he fled a one-day series against South
Africa in Dubai amid reports he was approached by match fixers.  The International Cricket Council, the sport’s governing
body, said it had been contacted by officials in Pakistan saying
Zulqarnain Haider was missing from his hotel this morning.
Haider arrived in London later, Geo News reported.  “We will give him any consular assistance that he
requires,” Wajid Shamsul Hasan, High Commissioner of Pakistan
to the U.K., said in an interview.  Haider scored a match-winning 19 not out to help bring
Pakistan level at 2-2 in the five-match series against South
Africa. Media, including the British Broadcasting Corp.,
reported the player as writing on social networking site
Facebook that he’s quitting the national team because he was
approached about fixing the game.  Haider’s Facebook page said he left because of a message
from a “bad man for lose the match in last game,” the BBC
said.  The ICC is trying to reform the Pakistan board after
several investigations into alleged misdeeds by the country’s
team this summer. Pakistan captain  Salman Butt  and fast bowlers
 Mohammad Asif  and Mohammad Amir were charged with anti-
corruption violations by the ICC last month and suspended. The
players have denied the charges.  Security Concerns  Last month, the governing body ended a probe of scoring in
the Sept. 17 one-day cricket match between England and Pakistan,
saying it found “no compelling evidence to suspect individual
players or support staff” of cheating.  Pakistan is meeting South Africa in Dubai because security
concerns mean it’s unable to play matches at home.  Jacques Kallis  scored 83 and took three wickets today as
South Africa beat Pakistan by 57 runs in the fifth and final
match to win the series 3-2.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tariq Panja  in London at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  