-- Abu Dhabi Developer Aldar Names Sami Asad to Replace John Bullough as CEO
-- B y   Z a i n a b   F a t t a h   a n d   P e t e r   W o o d i f i e l d
-- 2010-11-08T16:58:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-08/abu-dhabi-developer-aldar-names-sami-asad-to-replace-john-bullough-as-ceo.html
Aldar Properties PJSC , Abu Dhabi’s
biggest property developer, appointed Chief Operating Officer
 Sami Asad  to become the company’s third chief executive officer
in four years.  “During his tenure as chief operating officer, Sami Asad
has been responsible for the delivery of our major development
profile,” Chairman  Ahmed Ali Al Sayegh  said in an e-mailed
statement today. Asad will replace  John Bullough  who quit last
week.  Aldar, which is building thousands of homes and offices
across Abu Dhabi, has been hurt by slumping sales and about 26
billion dirhams ($7.08 billion) of outstanding debt. The deepest
global financial crisis since the 1930s led property prices in
Abu Dhabi to slump by more than 30 percent from their peak in
mid 2008.  Aldar announced Bullough’s resignation after two years at
the helm. Bank of America Merrill Lynch said on Nov. 4, Aldar
will need 9.8 billion dirhams by 2011 to “survive” as the
U.A.E.’s real-estate market recovers. The company’s shares have
 dropped 55 percent  this year.  Aldar sold assets on Yas Island, an entertainment and
tourism development off Abu Dhabi’s coast, to the emirate’s
government for 9.14 billion dirhams, it said in March. The
company is due to announce third-quarter earnings tomorrow, it
said in the statement. The median estimate of three analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg is for a loss of 215 million dirhams. That
would be Aldar’s  fourth loss in a row .  Asad joined Aldar in 2008, the company said.  Mohammed Khalifa Al Mubarak  will act as deputy chief executive officer
while continuing in his role as chief commercial officer, Aldar
said in the statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Zainab Fattah  in Dubai on 
 zfattah@bloomberg.net 
 Peter Woodifield  in Edinburgh on 
 pwoodifield@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net . 