-- ACS Takeover of German Builder Hochtief Moves Closer After Block Dismissed
-- B y   J a s o n   S c o t t
-- 2010-11-08T05:48:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-08/acs-takeover-of-german-builder-hochtief-moves-closer-after-block-dismissed.html
Actividades de Construccion y
Servicios SA , Spain’s largest builder, moved a step closer to
taking control of  Hochtief AG  after a bid by the German
company’s Australian unit to block the takeover was dismissed.  Australia’s Takeovers Panel said it wouldn’t proceed with
 Leighton Holdings Ltd. ’s application after ACS stated it won’t
change existing governance arrangements now in place between
Hochtief and  Leighton , the Sydney-based unit said in a statement
today. ACS “welcomes” the decision, it said in a separate
statement, adding it is confident the entire offer will be
completed by the end of January.  Leighton, Australia’s biggest construction company, is 54.5
percent owned by the Essen, Germany-based builder. The stake is
valued at almost as much as the whole of Hochtief. Germany’s
biggest builder has been trying to repel a 2.7 billion-euro
($3.8 billion) takeover approach by ACS, its largest shareholder,
and had appealed to the Australian regulator to force the
Spanish company into a cash bid for Leighton.  Hochtief and Leighton had sought to secure a declaration of
unacceptable circumstances from the regulator on the basis that
the purchase of Hochtief shares by ACS contravened the equal
opportunity principle. Leighton said that German takeover law
didn’t give the same level of protection for minority
shareholders that investors expect of companies listed on the
Australian Securities Exchange.  “ACS has contacted Leighton and indicated a willingness to
enter into a written and binding governance agreement,”
Leighton said in today’s statement. “We are encouraged by the
public statements from ACS and their direct contact, and intend
to actively pursue such an agreement to protect the interests of
our minority shareholders.”  Leighton rose 1 percent to A$33.51 in Sydney trading on
the Australian stock exchange today.  ACS already owns close to 30 percent of Hochtief, and aims
to raise its stake to just over 50 percent over time. The
company made a mandatory takeover proposal to all shareholders
in order to push its stake beyond 30 percent, allowing ACS to
then buy shares in the open market and avoiding a premium. ACS
is bidding eight of its shares for five Hochtief shares.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jason Scott  in Perth at 
 jscott14@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net . 