-- Adidas Shares Jump on Company Aim to Increase Sales 50% by 2015
-- B y   H o l g e r   E l f e s
-- 2010-11-08T13:45:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-08/adidas-sees-increase-in-annual-sales-to-23-7-billion-five-years-from-now.html
Adidas AG , the world’s second-largest
sporting-goods maker, rose the most in more than a month in
Frankfurt trading after saying it aims to increase sales as much
as 50 percent in the next five years.  Adidas rose  as much as 3 percent, the steepest intraday
gain since Oct. 7. Revenue will rise to 17 billion euros ($23.7
billion) by 2015 and profit will advance faster than sales,
Chief Executive Officer  Herbert Hainer  said today at an investor
day at the company’s Herzogenaurach, Bavaria headquarters.  Adidas aims to boost revenue by selling more soccer gear
and basketball jerseys in North America, China and Russia. The
company wants to overtake Nike Inc. to become the world’s
largest sporting-goods maker, though it didn’t give a timeframe
for the target in its Route 2015 growth program.  “The targets are ambitious but achievable, as Adidas is
well-positioned with its mix of lifestyle and performance
products,” said  Klaus Kraenzle , a consumer goods analyst at
Silvia Quandt & Cie AG in Frankfurt.  The shares were up 96 cents, or 2.1 percent, at 47.26 euros
at 2:16 p.m., the third-steepest advance in Germany’s benchmark
 DAX  index. The gain extended this year’s rise to 25 percent.  Adidas had sales of 10.4 billion euros last year, or about
24 percent less than the $19 billion in revenue garnered by
market leader  Nike Inc. , based in Beaverton, Oregon. Domestic
rival Puma AG recorded 2.46 billion euros in sales.  Puma Competition  The sporting-goods maker wants to gain market share in the
running and basketball categories and also increase revenue in
the sport-fashion segment that is a focus for Puma. The Reebok
division of Adidas is set to become the world’s leading fitness
and training brand, Hainer said.  “Over the last decade, we have fundamentally redefined the
competitive landscape of our industry, distancing ourselves from
once-close competitors,” the CEO said. It’s now a “two-horse
global race,” he said, referring to his company and  Nike.   Adidas has identified North America, Russia and China as
growth markets where it plans to generate half of the sales
increase by 2015, according to Hainer.  About 2,500 stores will be added in China in five years,
focusing on “lower-tier cities,” Hainer said. Adidas plans to
increase market leadership in Russia by 10 percentage points to
about 70 percent by 2015 and to become the country’s biggest
supplier of outdoor garments, he said.  The company’s  operating margin  will reach 11 percent in
2015 at the latest, the CEO said. The figure was at 5.05 percent
last year and reached a record 10.66 percent in 2005, according
to Bloomberg data.  Puma, which like Adidas is based in the Bavarian town of
Herzogenaurach, said last month that it aims to boost annual
revenue to 4 billion euros by 2015.  “Adidas’s growth plan is more realistic than Puma’s,”
Silvia Quandt’s Kraenzle said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Holger Elfes  in Dusseldorf, Germany, at 
 helfes@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net . 