-- AIG's Rodney Martin Joins MetLife to Assist With Alico Unit's Integration
-- B y   H u g h   S o n
-- 2010-11-08T20:28:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-08/aig-s-rodney-martin-joins-metlife-to-assist-with-alico-unit-s-integration.html
Rodney Martin , who was named last
year to lead non-U.S. life operations at  American International
Group Inc. , has taken a job with MetLife Inc. to assist with the
integration of a division he once oversaw.  Martin, 58, will help with American Life Insurance Co.,
said  John Calagna , a spokesman for New York-based MetLife, in an
interview today.  “He is continuing in an advisory role as we transition
Alico’s business into MetLife,” Calagna said. “It will
last for several months.”  MetLife is eclipsing AIG in  non-U.S.  life insurance after
paying $16.2 billion last week for Alico, which operates in more
than 50 nations. AIG divested a majority stake in its biggest
Asia life insurer,  AIA Group Ltd ., in a $20.5 billion public
offering in October. New York-based AIG also struck a deal to
sell two Japan life insurance units to  Prudential Financial Inc. 
and is seeking a buyer for a Taiwan business.  MetLife plans to cut jobs and increase advertising spending
to bolster Alico. It will cost about $500 million over three
years to integrate Alico, and annual savings will be about $100
million, said  William Toppeta , president of MetLife’s
international business, at a conference in September.  AIG named Martin as chairman of International Life and
Retirement Services in March 2009 with the departure of  Edmund Tse , who the company called the “principal architect” of its
global life business. Tse 72, was appointed a non-executive
director of AIA, the Hong Kong-based business said last month.  ‘Outstanding Leadership’  “We thank Rod Martin for his outstanding leadership and
wish him success in his future endeavors,” AIG Chief Executive
Officer  Robert Benmosche  said in a statement on Nov. 5, without
identifying his new job. Benmosche was previously CEO of
MetLife.  AIG has lost more than 70 managers since its 2008 bailout
as executives retired or left for competitors after the
government limited compensation at the insurer.  Steven Udvar- Hazy , founder of the  International Lease Finance Corp.  plane-
leasing unit, and ex-General Counsel  Anastasia Kelly  are among
those who left.  Benmosche said today that AIG hired  Sid Sankaran  of
consulting firm Oliver Wyman to be the insurer’s chief risk
officer. Sankaran will report to  Peter Hancock , who was hired in
February as executive vice president to oversee finance and
risk.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Hugh Son  in New York at 
 hson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  