-- AIG Names Sid Sankaran Risk Chief as Bailed-Out Insurer Seeks Indpendence
-- B y   H u g h   S o n
-- 2010-11-08T17:24:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-08/aig-is-said-to-appoint-oliver-wyman-s-sid-sankaran-as-chief-risk-officer.html
American International Group Inc.
hired  Sid Sankaran , a partner at consulting firm Oliver Wyman,
as chief risk officer as the bailed-out insurer works to regain
independence from the U.S.  Sankaran headed Oliver Wyman’s Toronto office and 
conducted studies of insurers, banks and securities firms to 
assess risk, New York-based AIG said today in a statement. He 
replaces  Robert Lewis , who said in June that the insurer 
underestimated the danger of subprime loans and is stepping down 
afater about 17 years at AIG.  Chief Executive Officer  Robert Benmosche , 66, is bringing
in new managers as he sells units to help repay the $182.3
billion rescue required after the company miscalculated the risk
of derivatives tied to the housing market. Sankaran will report
to  Peter Hancock , who was hired in February as executive vice
president to oversee finance and risk.  “Sankaran comes to AIG with the broad-ranging risk
management experience that an enterprise of this scope must
have,” Benmosche said in the statement. “Risk management is
crucial.”  Lewis joined AIG in 1993 and was named chief risk officer
in 2004. He was part of a management team that presided over
almost  $100 billion  in net losses in 2008.  “We were wrong about how bad things could get,” Lewis
told the Financial Crisis Inquiry Commission in June. “What
ended up happening was so extreme that it was beyond anything we
had planned for.”  Hancock spent about 20 years at a predecessor to JPMorgan
Chase & Co. Jung Kim, a spokeswoman for Oliver Wyman, declined 
to comment. Oliver Wyman is a unit of New York-based insurance 
 broker  Marsh & McLennan Cos.   To contact the reporters on this story:
 Hugh Son  in New York at   hson1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  