-- Air-Cargo Limits Imposed by Homeland Security After Yemen-Based Bomb Plot
-- B y   J e f f   B l i s s
-- 2010-11-08T21:58:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-08/air-cargo-limits-imposed-by-homeland-security-after-yemen-based-bomb-plot.html
The U.S. adopted new security
measures for cargo on passenger aircraft in response to the bomb
plot last month that originated in Yemen, Homeland Security
Secretary  Janet Napolitano  said.  The new rules will bar “high-risk cargo” -- material the
government declined to describe -- from passenger planes,
Napolitano said in a statement today. Also banned from
commercial and some international air-cargo flights are toner
and ink cartridges weighing more than a pound (.45 kilogram) in
carry-on or checked bags, she said.  The Obama administration and the airline industry also are
working on a plan for handing over cargo manifests quickly so
authorities have more time to look at the contents of shipments
before a plane’s arrival in the U.S., she said.  “These security measures reflect our commitment to using
current intelligence to stay ahead of adversaries,” Napolitano
said.  Representative  Edward Markey , a Massachusetts Democrat who
has said he will introduce a bill requiring screening of all
packages on air-cargo planes, said the new rules don’t go far
enough.  “Today’s announcement of new, additional screening for
both cargo and passenger planes is a constructive step but
points out that our job is not yet done,” he said in a
statement.  A law cosponsored by Markey requires all cargo on passenger
planes to be screened.  Further Investigation  U.S., Yemeni and European investigators are working to
uncover more details of a terrorist plot involving two bombs
concealed in printer cartridges found in packages that
originated in Yemen. U.S. authorities have said they suspect a
master bomb-maker from al-Qaeda made the explosives.  Administration officials, who spoke on condition of
anonymity, said they didn’t want to define high-risk cargo for
fear it would alert terrorists on what would be prohibited.  High-risk packages will either be X-rayed, screened by a
machine that can detect traces of explosives, sniffed by
specially trained dogs or opened and inspected by authorities,
one official said.  Toner cartridges from well-known companies with a good
safety record will be permitted on board, the official said.
Further restrictions will be announced later, including a plan
to receive air-cargo manifests before a plane departs, the
official said.  No Major Changes  The new rules won’t mean major flight changes, said  Tim Smith , spokesman for Fort Worth, Texas-based  American Airlines
Inc.  “We are in full compliance with all directives, and we do
not expect any significant operational issues because of the
changes,” he said in an e-mail.  Continental “is working diligently” to comply with the
new measures, said  Christen David , a spokeswoman for Chicago-
based United Continental Holdings Inc., in an interview.  Susan Elliott, a spokeswoman for Atlanta-based Delta Air
Lines Inc., declined to comment in an e-mail.  Air-cargo companies said they are trying to meet an
undisclosed deadline for implementing all the security changes.  “UPS does not anticipate any difficulties at all in
achieving the goals of compliance by their deadline,” said
 Norman Black , a spokesman for Atlanta-based  UPS , in an
interview.  FedEx Corp.  backs the increased scrutiny of cargo, said
 Sandra Munoz , a spokeswoman for the Memphis-based company. “We
support the agency’s goals to help make cargo transportation
more secure,” she said in an interview.  The U.S. is continuing a ban on any cargo coming from Yemen
and extending it to Somalia, she said.  The ban extension is in response to the continuing threat
from Al-Shabaab, a group based in Somalia with ties to al-Qaeda.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jeff Bliss  in Washington at 
 jbliss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  