-- Airbus Tries to Go Big in Japan With Discount Carrier Skymark
-- B y   A n d r e a   R o t h m a n   a n d   C h r i s   C o o p e r
-- 2010-11-08T11:32:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-08/airbus-targets-skymark-to-break-into-japan-as-domestic-carrier-breaks-out.html
Airbus SAS’s hope of cracking the
Japanese market with its A380 superjumbo lies with a low-cost
carrier that only runs domestic routes with a fleet of short-
distance jets.  Skymark Airlines Inc., which began service in 1998, plans
to buy at least four A380 superjumbos from Airbus next year and
is considering flying the planes to the U.S. and Europe, Kazusa
Naito, a spokeswoman, said by telephone today. The carrier now
operates 15 Boeing 737s that seat about 150 passengers. The A380
typically seats 525, and can carry more than 800 people.  Airbus has sought for years to break Boeing Co.’s hold on
the Japanese market, switching management and dispatching Chief
Executive Officer  Tom Enders  to help along sales. Airbus’s
market share by aircraft-order intake over the last decade is
less than 5 percent in Japan, with no order backlog. So far, the
only carriers flying A380s into Japan are foreign airlines.  “I have a lot of concerns,” said  Ryota Himeno , an analyst
at Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley Securities Co. “How are they
going to cope if fuel prices surge? They need pilots with
completely different licenses. It’ll cost more for maintenance.
Fixed costs per seat are going to increase.”  Final Negotiations  Of 286 large aircraft operating in Japanese fleets today,
265, or about 93 percent, are Boeing models, with the other 21
being Airbus, according to data from Ascend, a London-based
global aerospace and aviation consulting company. Airbus
spokesman  Stefan Schaffrath  said the two companies are entering
into the “final negotiation phase.”  Skymark hasn’t decided how many classes of service will be
in the superjumbo, Naito, the spokeswoman, said. Skymark now
flies only economy class in Japan. Skymark’s President  Shinichi Nishikubo  was the chairman of an Internet service provider
before buying a stake in the carrier and becoming its largest
shareholder in 2003. He owns 49 percent of the airline.  Airbus had predicted that the A380 would be ideal for Japan
given constraints into Tokyo’s Narita airport.  Singapore
Airlines Ltd. , the first customer for the A380, flies the plane
to Narita, as do Air France and Deutsche Lufthansa AG. Airbus
hasn’t picked up a new customer for the A380 since Air Austral
ordered two last year for the maximum seat configuration.  Skymark has been adding routes and hiring pilots as  Japan
Airlines Corp. , which filed for bankruptcy in January, slashes
service and retires its fleet of Boeing Co. 747s. Neither  All
Nippon Airways Co.  nor  Japan Airlines  have bought A380s. All
Nippon said in December 2008 that it had postponed a decision on
whether to buy the A380 or Boeing’s 747 jumbo jet.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrea Rothman  in Toulouse at 
 aerothman@bloomberg.net 
 Chris Cooper  in Tokyo at 
 ccooper1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  