-- Amazon.com Agrees to Buy Diapers.com Owner for $500 Million
-- B y   J o s e p h   G a l a n t e   a n d   S e r e n a   S a i t t o
-- 2010-11-08T21:32:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-08/amazon-com-agrees-to-buy-diapers-com-owner-for-500-million.html
Amazon.com Inc.  agreed to buy  Quidsi
Inc. , the owner of Diapers.com and Soap.com, for $500 million in
cash, expanding in baby-care products and gaining merchandise-
management expertise.  Amazon will assume about $45 million in debt and similar
obligations of closely held Quidsi, the companies said in a
statement today. They expect to close the deal in December.  Quidsi, which expects to ship 500 million diapers this
year, will help Amazon cater to new parents and gain expertise
in warehouse management and low-cost shipping. Amazon Chief
Executive Officer  Jeff Bezos , 46, bought Zappos.com Inc. last
year for $1.2 billion to expand sales of shoes and clothing, and
to gain share against rival online retailers such as EBay Inc.  “It’s a business Amazon was in, but one they weren’t a
leader in,” said  Colin Gillis , an analyst at BGC Partners LP in
New York, who has a “sell” rating on Amazon shares. When they
see a specialty company dominating a category, “they’ll step in
and buy it,” he said.  The purchase removes a competitor for Seattle-based  Amazon ,
which began selling diapers in mid-2006, a year after
Diapers.com made its debut. Amazon offered a three-month trial
of Amazon Prime free of charge to mothers ordering diapers and
other baby products to counter Diapers.com’s free shipping.  Buying Spree  Quidsi has said it expects sales to increase 67 percent to
$300 million in 2010, compared with the 39 percent revenue
growth analysts  forecast  for Amazon. The U.S. e-commerce market
will grow 11 percent to $173 billion this year, according to
Forrester Research. Quidsi’s revenue may rise to $1.3 billion in
2012, Chief Executive Officer Marc Lore said this year.  Amazon rose $1.22, or less than 1 percent, to $171.99 at 4
p.m. New York time in Nasdaq Stock Market trading. It has  added 
28 percent this year.  Amazon, which had $5.9 billion in  cash  and short-term
securities at the end of September, is on an acquisition spree.
In June, it bought Woot.com, a site that offers a daily
discounted item. It also agreed last month to purchase BuyVIP, a
fashion site, for an undisclosed price to broaden its
geographical reach into Spain, Italy and Germany.  Quidsi, whose name is Latin for “What if,” was founded by
Lore and  Vinit Bharara . Backers of the Jersey City, New Jersey-
based company include Accel Partners, Bessemer Venture Partners,
BEV Capital, MentorTech Ventures and New Enterprise Associates.  Keep Coming Back  The company profits from diaper-buying customers who also
purchase higher-margin products such as brand-name baby shampoo,
wipes and formula.  Amazon is seeking products that customers need to replenish
by coming back to the site, said  Josh Goldman , a partner at
Norwest Venture Partners in Palo Alto, California. He oversees
the venture-capital firm’s investments in e-commerce companies.  “When you can get into a replenishment model, it’s very
powerful,” Goldman said. “Amazon hasn’t done much of that on
their own. The Diapers.com guys have done a really good job.”  On Nov. 1, Quidsi opened a third site, BeautyBar.com, which
sells makeup and fragrances. The company plans to open another
one for toys next year, CEO Lore has said.  Lore said in an interview earlier this year there’s room
for one big winner in e-commerce, given the costs required to
build warehouses and shipping systems that deliver products
quickly. Quidsi’s  sites  offer free overnight shipping for about
70 percent of the U.S. on orders of more than $25.  Quidsi also received a purchase offer from Wal-Mart Stores
Inc., according to Fortune, which  reported  the Amazon deal on
Nov. 6.  Morgan Stanley and Debevoise & Plimpton LLP advised
Amazon.com on financial and legal matters, while Fenwick & West
LLP and Dorsey & Whitney LLP acted as legal advisers to Quidsi.
Quidsi didn’t have a financial adviser.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Joseph Galante  in San Francisco at 
 jgalante3@bloomberg.net ;
 Serena Saitto  in New York at 
 ssaitto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles@bloomberg.net ;
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net  