-- Ambac Financial Group Files Bankruptcy to Restructure Bond Debt
-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r   a n d   T i f f a n y   K a r y
-- 2010-11-09T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-08/ambac-financial-group-files-for-chapter-11-bankruptcy.html
  Ambac Financial Group Inc ., a holding
company for the bond insurer being restructured by state
regulators in  Wisconsin , filed for bankruptcy with liabilities
of $1.68 billion as of June 30 on an unconsolidated basis.  Ambac Financial, which filed its petition for Chapter 11
protection yesterday in  U.S. Bankruptcy Court  in  Manhattan ,
seeks to reschedule payments on more than $1 billion in bonds
and other claims. Ambac Financial said this month it was trying
to negotiate terms of a  bankruptcy court  restructuring with
senior lenders.  Ambac Financial is the holding company of Ambac Assurance
Corp., which has about $57.6 billion in policies insuring  credit
derivatives  and other financial products that are being
restructured by Wisconsin regulators, according to the company.
While state regulators handle workouts of U.S. insurance
companies, their holding companies can go through federal
bankruptcy courts.  Senior creditors didn’t agree to a so-called prepackaged
plan for a quick restructuring, and it couldn’t raise capital as
“an alternative,” Ambac Financial said yesterday in a
statement. Still, creditors agreed to a “non-binding term sheet
that will serve as a basis for further negotiations,” Ambac
Financial said.  ‘More Expeditiously’  That agreement may allow the company to emerge from
bankruptcy “more expeditiously,” it said.  “If you don’t have a deal with creditors, it’s hard to
predict who the new management will be on the other side of
bankruptcy, how long the Chapter 11 will take, and how much it
will cost,” said Evan Flaschen, a lawyer at Bracewell &
Giuliani LLP who isn’t involved in the case. “It injects
uncertainty.”  Ambac Financial said it would ask for a court order to
restrict transfers of shares and claims to preserve about
$7 billion in net operating losses.  Those assets would lose their value under U.S. tax law if
investors holding 5 percent or more of Ambac shares began to
sell them, or if claims were sold by investors who might receive
5 percent of the reorganized company’s stock under a bankruptcy
plan, it said in the statement.    Bank of New York Mellon Corp . was listed as the largest
unsecured creditor, with claims totaling about $1.62 billion for
its role as trustee to seven different types of notes. The
Vanguard Group Inc. was listed as the largest shareholder, with
5.46 percent of the company’s stock.  Ambac Assurance, the operating company, was the second-
biggest bond insurer before the credit crisis.  The Ambac companies were founded as a unit of MGIC
Investment Corp., the Milwaukee-based mortgage insurer, and
insured their first municipal bond in 1971.  The holding company case is In re  Ambac Financial Group
Inc ., 10-15973, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of  New
York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Linda Sandler in New York at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net ;
Tiffany Kary in New York at 
 tkary@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 