-- AmeriCredit, Nissan Motor Plan to Sell Bonds in U.S. Tied to Auto Lending
-- B y   S a r a h   M u l h o l l a n d
-- 2010-11-08T15:59:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-08/americredit-to-sell-700-million-of-bonds-backed-by-auto-loans.html
AmeriCredit Financial Services, the
lender to car buyers with poor credit owned by General Motors
Co., plans to sell $700 million of bonds backed by auto loans,
according to a person familiar with the transaction.  Also, Nissan Motor Co. is marketing debt tied to auto
leases, said a person familiar with the offering. Both sales are
slated for this week, the people said.  Asset-backed securities tied to car purchases account for
more than half of the $105 billion of debt linked to consumer
and business lending sold this year, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. Ally Bank, a unit of the lender previously known
as GMAC Inc., sold $1.21 billion of bonds backed by automobile
loans last week. The sale was increased from $970.6 million.  Default rates on auto loans packaged into bonds are running
“well below” the peak levels of 2007 and 2008, according to a
Nov. 4 report from Wells Fargo Securities.  “The auto sector is past its peak in losses resulting from
the credit crunch and recession,” analysts led by  John McElravey  in Charlotte, North Carolina, said.  Also, demand for  used vehicles  is helping prop up prices,
which helps minimize losses on defaulted loans, the analysts
said.  Top-rated securities linked to auto debt yield 57 basis
points more than Treasuries, according to a Bank of America
Merrill Lynch index. At the start of the year, the debt yielded
79 basis points more than Treasuries. Similar debt tied to
credit-card payments yields 71 basis points more than
Treasuries, compared with 87 basis points in early January, the
data show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sarah Mulholland  in New York at 
 smulholland3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net ; 