-- ANA's Ito Sees 5 Billion Yen a Year Sales Boost on United Pact
-- B y   C h a n   S u e   L i n g
-- 2010-11-08T00:50:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-08/ana-s-ito-sees-5-billion-yen-a-year-sales-boost-on-united-pact.html
All Nippon Airways Co.  said it
expects to boost sales by at least 5 billion yen ($62 million) a
year through closer ties with United Continental Holdings Inc.,
the world’s largest carrier by passenger numbers.  The venture will likely start by April once the U.S. joins
Japan in granting antitrust immunity, Chief Executive Officer
 Shinichiro Ito  said in a Nov. 5 interview in Brunei, where he
was attending an airline conference. American Airlines and Japan
Airlines Corp. plan a similar deal.  “The immediate benefit for us is the expansion of our
network,” Ito, 59, said. The pair will be able to offer as many
as 5,400 “flight combinations” and save costs on operating
routes over the Pacific, he said.  The tie-up and the introduction of fuel-efficient  Boeing Co.
787  planes may help ANA boost operating profit 43 percent next
fiscal year, based on Ito’s forecasts. Asia’s largest listed
carrier by sales is also expanding overseas flights 15 percent
in the current fiscal year to meet demand after Tokyo’s Haneda
airport added a new terminal last month.  The carrier’s rival JAL, which is paring international
services as it restructures in bankruptcy protection, expects to
begin its accord with American by April. The Tokyo-based airline
will get a $100 million a year sales boost through the venture,
according to American’s estimate. The carriers are seeking
antitrust immunity, which will enable them to coordinate pricing,
routes and marketing, after Japan and the U.S. agreed to ease
flight restrictions.  Share Performance  ANA  fell 0.7 percent to 302 yen at 9:22 a.m. in Tokyo
trading. The shares have advanced 20 percent this year, compared
with an 8.1 percent decline for the benchmark Nikkei 225 Stock
Average. JAL was delisted in February.  ANA aims to make an operating profit of 100 billion yen in
the year ending March 2012, Ito said. That compares with a 70
billion yen forecast for the current fiscal year and an
operating loss of 54.2 billion yen in the year ended March 2010.  The  airline  expects to make a profit at its cargo unit next
fiscal year after opening a hub on the Pacific island of Okinawa,
taking business from JAL and targeting more “high-yield” cargo
such as express services, Ito said.  Okinawa Role  “The cargo business is improving, but we are still in the
process of recovering the investment in Okinawa,” Ito said.
“If we can get profit from the Okinawa hub, cargo can return to
profit.”  The company made a net income in the three months ended
September after three straight  quarters  of losses. It also
raised its full-year net-income forecast to 6 billion yen from 5
billion yen previously.  The carrier will operate its first Boeing 787, due to
arrive in February, from Tokyo’s downtown Haneda airport, Ito
said. The aircraft will initially serve  domestic routes  so
pilots can gain experience, he said. Delivery of the 787, the
world’s first plastic-composite aircraft, has been postponed six
times as Boeing wrestles with new technologies and different
suppliers.  ANA, which will be the first to fly the 787, will have
three different seating configurations for its Dreamliner fleet.  Dreamliner Test  Dreamliners flying on domestic routes will have more than
300 seats divided between two classes -- coach and premium
economy, Ito said. The configurations for the international and
intra-Asian fleets are still to be decided, he said. The carrier
is the biggest airline  customer  for the Dreamliner with 55 on
order.  Ito flew on a 43-minute test flight aboard a 787 in August.
He was impressed by the plane’s streamlined design and quietness,
he said.  “We are confident Boeing can overcome their problems,” he
said. “Further delays will be surprising and we will seek
compensation from Boeing.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Chan Sue Ling  in Singapore 
 slchan@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  