-- Anti-Nuclear Protests Escalate Over Castor Waste in Challenge to Merkel
-- B y   A l a n   C r a w f o r d
-- 2010-11-08T11:16:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-08/anti-nuclear-protests-escalate-over-castor-waste-in-challenge-to-merkel.html
A shipment of radioactive waste
resumed its journey to a depository in the German town of
Gorleben today after anti-nuclear demonstrators blocked the
railway line overnight.  As many as 50,000 people turned out at the weekend to
demonstrate against the train from France with its cargo of 11
so-called Castor containers of reprocessed waste destined for
Gorleben, in the state of Lower Saxony, the opposition Greens
party said on its  website .  The Greens, riding at all-time highs in opinion polls, are
seeking to capitalize on anti-nuclear sentiment after Chancellor
 Angela Merkel  pushed plans to extend the operating lifespan of
Germany’s 17 nuclear power plants through parliament on Oct. 28.  “We want to disrupt the government in Berlin’s plans,”
Mathias Edler, a Greenpeace activist, told N24 television. “Our
main focus is the nuclear extension,” which would mean an extra
500 Castor trains, he said. “Nobody understands why this should
happen.”  “Castor Madness,” was the front-page headline on the
biggest-selling Bild newspaper today. About 17,000 police were
involved in the security operation costing as much as 50 million
euros ($70 million), it said.  ‘Unbelievably Difficult’  The police feel an “absolute” lack of political support
for their efforts to contain the protests in what is “an
unbelievably difficult task,”  Konrad Freiberg , chief of the
police union, said on ZDF television. Lower Saxony shouldn’t be
left to shoulder the policing costs alone, he said.  The government has “no plans” to contribute to the cost,
 Steffen Seibert , Merkel’s chief spokesman, told reporters at a
regular government press conference in Berlin today. The
government thanks the police for their efforts, he said.  Police, many of them standing on the rails for up to 20
hours, were confronted by violence from “left-wing extremists”
as well as youths trying to halt the train’s progress, Freiberg
said. The majority of the protests were peaceful, he said.  Live television pictures on news channels N24 and N-TV
showed the freight train loaded with cylindrical white
containers arriving at the German town of  Dannenberg , flanked by
police vans. From there, the waste capsules will be loaded on to
trucks and transported about 20 kilometers (12 miles) to
Gorleben by road. 