-- Argentina May Risk Investment as Lawmakers Seek Profit Sharing
-- B y   E l i a n a   R a s z e w s k i
-- 2010-11-08T03:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-08/argentine-profit-sharing-law-threatens-jobs-as-investment-lags-chile-peru.html
Argentina’s government is pushing a
bill that would require  companies  to distribute 10 percent of
profits to employees, a move business leaders say violates
property rights and may undermine investment in South America’s
second-biggest economy.  Hector Recalde, a 72-year-old lawmaker for President
 Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner ’s Victory Front alliance, said
his bill would allow employees to benefit from the surging
profits at banks and other industries. Opponents say it would
dissuade companies from expanding, buying new equipment and
 adding jobs . The Labor Committee in Argentina’s lower house will
take up the legislation this week.  “Argentina urgently needs more investments and this is
going to generate a totally negative effect on jobs,” said
Diego Perez Santisteban, president of Argentina’s  Importers 
Chamber. “It can inhibit those who have plans to invest.”  The proposal, which opposition leaders said they can
support, comes as banks, telecommunications companies and food
producers benefit from the country’s economic  growth .
Argentina’s economy will grow 9 percent this year, the most
since 2005, according to the central bank’s forecast, after 0.9
percent growth last year. The plan may boost trade union support
for Fernandez ahead of presidential elections next October, said
Analia Del Franco, a political analyst who runs pollster
Analogias in Buenos Aires.  Union Support  “In Argentina, the capacity to govern is closely related
to the control and support that the government has from the
unions,” Del Franco said in a telephone interview.  Recalde’s proposal cites similar legislation in countries
such as Mexico, where companies have to share 10 percent of
their profits, as well as laws in Brazil, Chile and Peru.  Nine years after Argentina defaulted on a record $95
billion in debt, foreign direct investment in the country is
among the lowest in South America’s major economies, totaling
$2.2 billion in the first half of 2010 compared with $17.1
billion in Brazil, $8 billion in Chile, $4.1 billion in Colombia
and $3.4 billion in Peru, according to the Santiago-based United
Nations Economic Commission for Latin America.  Companies may be further discouraged from putting more
money into Argentina if this bill passes, said  Bertrand Delgado ,
an economist at Roubini Global Economics LLC in New York.  Property Rights  The bill “clashes with the constitutional principles of
property rights,” the  Argentine Industrial Union , which
represents the country’s biggest companies, said in an Oct. 25
statement. It comes “at a time when the country needs very
strong growth in investments to generate more jobs and
development.”  The backdrop of climbing profits at banks and other
companies makes this an ideal time to pass the bill, Recalde
said in an interview.  “This system will bring more investment,” said Recalde,
who has worked as a lawyer for the country’s biggest labor
union, in an interview in Buenos Aires. “What could be a better
advertisement for our country than showing the high rates of
profitability that companies are having?”  Consumer spending in Argentina rose 8.1 percent in the
second quarter from the same period a year earlier,  auto
production  is heading to an all-time high and farmers have
reaped a record soybean harvest of 55 million tons. The economy
expanded 8.5 percent in August from a year earlier and the
benchmark Merval stock index has climbed 44 percent this year,
compared with 5.9 percent for Brazil’s Bovespa Index and 38
percent for Chile’s Ipsa.  Fernandez said Nov. 5 that unemployment fell to 7.6 percent
in the third quarter from 7.9 percent in the second quarter.  Rising Profits  Profits at Argentine banks rose 43 percent in the first
eight months of the year to 6.68 billion pesos, according to an
Oct. 21 report by the central bank. Last year, banks profits
rose 66 percent to 7.92 billion pesos.  Telecom Argentina SA , the country’s second-largest
telephone company, said profit rose 47 percent in the third
quarter from a year earlier on higher sales of Internet and
wireless services.  Lawmakers from the ruling coalition as well as opposition
leaders such as Margarita Stolbizer and Federico Pinedo said
they are open to changing the percentage of profits that must be
shared and the role of unions in examining company accounts.  “We aim to achieve cooperation between businessmen and
workers to assure productivity, competitiveness, job creation
and good salaries,” Stolbizer said in an e-mail.  Majority Control  Opposition blocs have a majority in the lower house of
congress, while the Senate is closely divided.  Recalde’s measure also aims to give unions and workers the
right to examine their employers’ accounting to ensure that
they’re getting a fair share of profits. That would create an
untenable situation in which workers will try to “co-
administer” companies, said Santisteban, of the importers’
chamber.  Companies don’t “want to have a discussion with unions
about projects where they put capital at risk,” he said.  The Industrial Union wants to modify the bill so that
unions, which represent about 80 percent of Argentina’s
registered workers, can’t view the companies’ books or bring up
the issue of profit sharing during annual wage negotiations.  The profit-sharing requirement would initially apply only
to companies with at least 300 employees. It would eventually be
expanded to all businesses that meet a certain level of
profitability, with the details to be determined by a committee
of government officials, union members and business executives.  ‘Revolutionary Bill’  Hugo Moyano, the leader of the General Labor Confederation,
the country’s biggest union, urged lawmakers to approve what he
called a “revolutionary bill” during an Oct. 15 rally in
Buenos Aires with President Fernandez.  “Companies have never earned so much money as they do
now,” Moyano said.  Eduardo Gutierrez, president of Grupo Farallon, a Buenos
Aires-based construction company that employees 600 workers,
said in an interview that he doesn’t want to be forced to share
his earnings.  “I have thought about this idea for my company many times,
but it should be optional,” Gutierrez said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eliana Raszewski in Buenos Aires at 
 eraszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  