-- Harrison Ford Works to Save the World, Gets Ant Named for Him: Interview
-- B y   Z i n t a   L u n d b o r g
-- 2010-11-08T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-08/harrison-ford-works-to-save-the-world-gets-ant-named-for-him-interview.html
Harrison Ford  is also a star in the
ant kingdom and the spider world.  The actor and environmentalist met the distinguished
Harvard naturalist  E.O. Wilson  when they were both on the board
of  Conservation International . Wilson honored his new friend by
naming a species of ant after him: Pheidole harrisonfordi.  There are also spiders skittering around this planet
bearing the proud moniker “Calponia harrisonfordi.”  Recently, both men were in Silicon Valley to do a little
fundraising for  Wilson’s Biodiversity Foundation  and to announce
a new $10,000 prize: the annual  PEN/E.O. Wilson Award for
Literary Science Writing .  We spoke in a car on the way from the airport to Palo Alto,
California.  Lundborg: Why did you join the board of Ed Wilson’s
Biodiversity Foundation?  Ford: I do everything Ed tells me to do, basically.  Lundborg: I bet you’re the only actor to have both an ant
and a spider species named after him.  Maybe a Mountain?  Ford: Let the record be clear that I’m not in it to have
stuff named after me.  But, actually, I wouldn’t mind mountains, whole continents
named in my honor.  Lundborg: Have you seen your namesake creatures?  Ford: I’ve seen pictures, as they say, but I have not run
across one I recognized crawling on the ground.  Lundborg: How long have you been an environmental activist?  Ford: I’ve been a conservationist all my life, but I’ve
been active for the past 15 years.  The stress on the natural world was already evident 20
years ago, so we need to focus on saving biodiversity, including
the oceans, quickly and efficaciously.  Yet we’re one of three nations that haven’t signed the
 Biodiversity Convention . The other two are the Holy See and
Andorra.  Lundborg: Why is the U.S. so backward?  Ford: We have not done the job we should have done as an
environmental community to get the government to respond on the
level of the civil-rights or women’s movements.  Lundborg: Why is that?  Too Many Cooks  Ford: Because each environmental organization has its own
agenda, its own contributors and its own business to run.  We have to forget about that crap and begin to get the job
done. We have to convince our leadership that we won’t stand for
this any longer.  Lundborg: What are your goals for the Pen/E.O. Wilson
Literary Science Writing Award?  Ford: We have to reform the literature of science by
encouraging more and different ways of presenting information.
Scientists need to communicate better.  Despite the visual support we have now, plus the Internet,
language is still what reaches our soul.  Lundborg: Which science book have you loved the most?  Ford: “Consilience” was the one that made me recognize
Ed’s incredible talent and humanity. There are very few people
who manage to describe science with his grace, style and
clarity.  Scientists are so rarely humanists at heart.  Lundborg: The new book celebrating the 30th Anniversary of
“The Empire Strikes Back” points out that you created a lot of
the good lines that were used in the final cut. How did that
come about?  ‘Star Wars’  Ford: Film is usually collaborative. I don’t believe we
should ever settle for less -- we should be massaging the beast
up until the last possible moment.  Lundborg: But you’ve never been tempted to write?  Ford: I have no talent for writing, though I have some
skill at rewriting, an entirely different discipline.  Lundborg: From “Star Wars” to your latest movie,
“Morning Glory,” which comes out Nov. 10, you’ve been in the
film business a long time. So where is the greatest pleasure for
you these days?  Ford: I like being on a set. I like developing a character,
and working with screenwriters, directors and producers on a
script. I like the actual in-the-trenches process.  It’s my craft. It’s what I do. It’s what I’ve spent 47
years working on.  Lundborg: Are you surprised by your career?  Ford: I was surprised by my career a long time ago, but no
longer. Now it interests me.  ( Zinta Lundborg  is an editor for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are her own.
The interview was adapted from a longer conversation.)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zinta Lundborg at 
 zlundborg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 