-- Ashland Advances on $930 Million Sale of Distribution Unit to TPG Capital
-- B y   J a c k   K a s k e y   a n d   C r i s t i n a   A l e s c i
-- 2010-11-08T21:26:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-08/ashland-advances-on-930-million-sale-of-distribution-unit-to-tpg-capital.html
Ashland Inc. , the maker of Valvoline
motor oil, gained the most in 17 months in New York trading
after the company agreed to sell its low-margin chemical
distribution unit to TPG Capital for $930 million.  Ashland  rose  $4.86, or 9.5 percent, to $55.80 at 4:15 p.m.
in New York Stock Exchange composite trading, the biggest gain
since May 18, 2009. The shares have  increased  41 percent this
year.  Ashland expects $825 million in after-tax proceeds from the
transaction, which should close in February or March, Chief
Executive Officer  James O’Brien  said today on a conference call
with analysts. The business has been a part of Ashland for more
than 40 years and had sales of $3.41 billion in the 12 months
through September, the Covington, Kentucky-based company said.  “The price they got and the amount of cash they were able
to deliver to shareholders are both at the upper end of what
people thought they’d be able to get,”  Dmitry Silversteyn , an
Independence, Ohio-based analyst at Longbow Research, said in a
telephone interview. “Without the distribution unit, the
blended margin looks a lot more impressive.”  O’Brien has been negotiating since last year to sell non-
strategic assets, including the chemical-distribution unit,
after  acquiring  specialty chemicals maker Hercules Inc. for
$2.28 billion. Ashland’s profit margins will rise with the sale
of the distribution business, and the company plans to retain
its remaining units, including Valvoline motor oil, O’Brien
said.  ‘The Future’  “We are going to ride these horses into the future,”
O’Brien said. “These are the four businesses that we are
supporting and growing.”  Ashland will use cash to make bolt-on acquisitions,
probably no larger than $300 million, in its water-technologies
and functional-ingredients  units , although larger purchases are
possible, O’Brien said. Ashland also will consider share
repurchases and a bigger dividend, although not a one-time
payment, he said.  The deal marks the third time in two months that TPG, the
Fort Worth, Texas-based private-equity firm run by  David Bonderman , has purchased assets from a public company shedding
units.  TPG will finance the acquisition with $600 million of debt,
according to a person briefed on the deal who asked not to be
named because the terms are private.  Previous Transactions  Private-equity firms are buying public companies or their
units as depressed stock valuations make boardrooms more
receptive to buyouts. TPG last month teamed up with Washington-
based ACON Investments LLC to acquire most of Marathon Oil
Corp.’s Minnesota refining holdings for about $900 million, the
firm’s largest investment in fuel making and delivery.  Last week, the firm agreed to buy the property-data unit of
MacDonald, Dettwiler & Associates Ltd., the Richmond, British
Columbia-based maker of the robotic arm used on NASA space
shuttles, for about C$850 million ($846 million) after taxes.  “We are very excited to invest in Ashland Distribution,
which Ashland has built into one of the leading global chemical
distribution companies,” TPG partner  Michael MacDougall  said in
a joint statement.  “We look forward to partnering with
management and the talented employees to continue the company’s
growth.”  Bank of America Merrill Lynch advised Ashland on the
transaction and Cravath, Swaine & Moore LLP acted as legal
counsel. Citigroup Inc., Barclays Capital, and Morgan Stanley
were the financial advisers to TPG Capital, and Vinson & Elkins
LLP and Cleary, Gottlieb, Steen & Hamilton LLP acted as legal
advisers.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jack Kaskey  in New York at 
 jkaskey@bloomberg.net ;
 Cristina Alesci  in New York at 
 calesci2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at   scasey4@bloomberg.net ;
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net . 