-- Ashland Agrees to Sell Distribution Unit to TPG for $930 Million
-- B y   C r i s t i n a   A l e s c i
-- 2010-11-08T14:55:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-08/ashland-to-sell-distribution-to-tpg-for-930-million-to-focus-on-chemicals.html
Ashland Inc. , the maker of Valvoline
motor oil, agreed to sell its distribution unit to TPG Capital
for $930 million as it focuses on specialty chemicals. Ashland
rose the month in five months in New York trading.  The transaction is scheduled to close before the end of
March and is subject to regulatory approvals, Ashland said today
in a statement.  “This divestiture reflects Ashland’s strategic direction,
and completes a major step in our multiyear transformation into
a high-performing specialty chemicals company,” Chief Executive
Officer  James O’Brien  said in the statement.  “Our overall goal
remains to return maximum long-term value to our shareholders.”  O’Brien said last year he was negotiating to sell non-
strategic assets, including the chemical-distribution unit,
after  acquiring  specialty chemicals maker Hercules Inc. for
$2.28 billion. The Ashland Distribution business has been a part
of Ashland for more than 40 years and has sales of $3.4 billion,
the Covington, Kentucky-based company said.  Ashland rose $3.67, or 7.2 percent, to $54.61 as of 9:52
a.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares
earlier climbed 8.2 percent, the biggest intraday gain since
Jan. 26.  Ashland  gained 29 percent this year before today.  The deal marks the third time in two months that TPG
Capital, the private-equity firm run by  David Bonderman , has
purchased assets from a public company shedding units.  Previous Transactions  TPG last month said it would partner with Washington-based
ACON Investments LLC to acquire most of Marathon Oil Corp.’s
Minnesota refining holdings for about $900 million, the firm’s
largest investment in fuel making and delivery.  Last week, MacDonald, Dettwiler & Associates Ltd., the
maker of the robotic arm used on NASA space shuttles, agreed to
sell its property-data unit to TPG Capital for about C$850
million ($846 million) after taxes.  “We are very excited to invest in Ashland Distribution,
which Ashland has built into one of the leading global chemical
distribution companies,” said TPG partner  Michael MacDougall  in
the statement.  “We look forward to partnering with management
and the talented employees to continue the company’s growth.”  Bank of America Merrill Lynch advised Ashland on the
transaction and Cravath, Swaine & Moore LLP acted as legal
counsel. Citigroup Inc., Barclays Capital, and Morgan Stanley
were the financial advisers to TPG Capital, and Vinson & Elkins
LLP and Cleary, Gottlieb, Steen & Hamilton LLP acted as legal
advisers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Cristina Alesci  in New York at 
 calesci2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net . 