-- Asia Commodity Day Ahead: Gold Tops $1,400 on Currency Alternative Demand
-- B y   M i l l i e   M u n s h i
-- 2010-11-08T23:54:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-08/asia-commodity-day-ahead-gold-tops-1-400-on-currency-alternative-demand.html
The following are the top stories on
metals, agriculture and shipping.  ECONOMIC EVENTS, AGRICULTURE REPORTS:  
TOP STORY:  Gold Futures Top $1,400 on Demand for Alternative to Currencies  Gold topped $1,400 an ounce, extending a rally to a record,
on investor demand for an alternative to currencies. Silver
reached a 30-year high, and palladium climbed to the highest
price since 2001.  COMMODITY EXCLUSIVES:  De Beers Says Diamond Demand to Rise 20% a Year in India, China  Diamond demand will rise 20 percent annually in India and
China with half of global growth coming from the two nations in
the next few years, De Beers said.  INDUSTRIAL METALS:  Collahuasi Mine Is Running as Strike Enters
4th Day (Update2)  Anglo American Plc and Xstrata Plc kept their Collahuasi
venture operating as usual after a strike by unionized workers
at the world’s fourth-largest copper mine entered a fourth day,
a Collahuasi spokeswoman said.  Copper Rises as Retail Investors Bet Stimulus to Bolster Growth  Copper rose for the third straight day in New York on
demand from investors who bet the additional stimulus money
pledged by the Federal Reserve will bolster the U.S. economy.  MINING:  Chile Rescue Workers Find Two Trapped Miners Dead (Update2)  Chilean rescue workers found the bodies of two miners who
were trapped underground after the Los Reyes copper mine
collapsed today, the South American country’s national emergency
office Onemi said.  African Aura Reaches Decade High; to Split Ore, Gold (Update1)  African Aura Mining Inc., developer of a Liberian iron ore
project with OAO Severstal, rose to the highest level in more
than a decade in London after announcing plans to transfer its
gold assets to a new company.  ArcelorMittal SA Offers $431 Million for Baffinland (Update1)  ArcelorMittal South Africa Ltd., a unit of the world’s
largest steelmaker, agreed to pay about C$433 million ($431
million) for Baffinland Iron Mines Corp. to secure supplies of
the steelmaking raw material iron ore.  PRECIOUS METALS: Commerzbank Says Gold May Average $1,350 in
Fourth Quarter  Commerzbank AG said gold may average $1,350 an ounce in the
fourth quarter and rise to $1,450 by the end of 2011, according
to an e-mail from the company today.  AGRICULTURE:  Monsanto Says SmartStax Yields Trail Cheaper Corn Seed (Update3)  Monsanto Co., the world’s largest seed company, said yields
from its SmartStax corn seed trailed cheaper, lower-technology
varieties by an average of 2.5 bushels per acre, partly because
insect infestations that the new seed combats were low.  Wheat Rises to Four-Week High Before Report on Grain Supplies  Wheat rose to a four-week high on speculation that a U.S.
government report tomorrow will show shrinking domestic and
world grain supplies.  Coffee Rises to 13-Year High on Vietnam Crop; Sugar, Cocoa Gain  Arabica-coffee prices rose to a 13- year high in New York
on speculation that adverse weather will disrupt supplies in
Vietnam, the world’s second-largest grower. Sugar and cocoa
gained, while orange juice fell.  Cotton Surges to Record for Fifth Session on Supply Concerns  Cotton futures advanced to a record for the fifth straight
session on concern that a decline in production in China will
prompt the world’s biggest user to boost imports and drain
global inventories.  SHIPPING:  Middle East Tanker Rates Rise as Ship Supply Stays Constrained  The cost of delivering Middle East crude oil to Asia, the
world’s busiest route for supertankers, climbed for the first
day in three as vessel supply stayed constrained.  ECONOMIES:  Trichet Says Fed Move Wasn’t Aimed at Weaker Dollar (Update1)  European Central Bank President Jean- Claude Trichet,
speaking on behalf of the world’s central bankers, said the
Federal Reserve’s decision to buy more assets was driven by a
desire to anchor inflation expectations, not to weaken the
dollar.  Goldman Defends Bernanke as Fed Ease Sparks China Criticism  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. defended Federal Reserve Chairman
Ben S. Bernanke’s decision to pump money into the U.S. economy
after officials in Germany, China and Brazil criticized the
plan.  OTHER MARKETS:  Euro Falls Amid Concern Some Nations Will Struggle to Pay Debt  The euro fell for a second day versus the dollar as concern
that some governments in the region will struggle to pay their
debt increased, curbing demand for its assets, as a European
Union official looked at Ireland’s books.  U.S. Stocks Fall After Five-Week Rally; Boeing, Anadarko Slip  U.S. stocks fell, dragging benchmark gauges down from two-
year highs, as a five-week rally left the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index at the highest valuation since May and concerns over Irish
debt curbed demand for riskier assets.  SPORTS:  ‘Missing’ Cricketer to Get Support, Pakistan Says (Update1)  Pakistan’s most senior diplomat in the U.K. said his staff
is ready to assist the national cricket team’s wicketkeeper
after he fled a one-day series against South Africa in Dubai
amid reports he was approached by match fixers.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  