-- Asian Stocks Fluctuate as Carmakers Climb While Banks Drop; Resona Plunges
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B u r g o s   a n d   S h a n i   R a j a
-- 2010-11-08T11:04:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-08/asian-stocks-rise-as-u-s-jobs-data-boosts-confidence-honda-samsung-jump.html
Asian stocks  rose, with the regional
benchmark index climbing for a sixth day, as exporters advanced after
the U.S. added more jobs than forecast. Financial companies declined
amid renewed uncertainty about Greece and Ireland’s sovereign debt
problems.  Honda Motor Co. , a Japanese carmaker that gets about 42 percent of
its revenue from North America, climbed 3.3 percent.  SembCorp Marine
Ltd. , the world’s second-biggest builder of oil rigs, increased 4
percent after profit beat analysts’ estimates.  IOI Corp. , Malaysia’s No.
2 listed palm-oil planter, climbed 1.9 percent as the country’s
benchmark stock index headed toward a record.  HSBC Holdings Plc ,
Europe’s biggest lender, fell 1.6 percent in Hong Kong after reporting
profit growth slowed.  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index  rose 0.3 percent to 135.37 as of 7:59
p.m. in Tokyo. About five stocks advanced for every four that declined
on the measure, which is set for its longest winning streak since the
eight days ended June 21.  “It appears the U.S. economy is in better shape than when the Fed
first announced its new quantitative easing measures,” said  Prasad Patkar , who helps manage about $1.8 billion at Platypus Asset Management
Ltd. in Sydney. “The solid payroll numbers may be another indication
that it’s coming out of its soft patch.”  The Asia Pacific gauge advanced 4.2 percent last week, the biggest
weekly gain since December, on optimism the U.S. Federal Reserve will
succeed in stoking growth in the world’s biggest economy.  Japan’s Nikkei 225 Stock Average gained 1.1 percent. China’s
Shanghai Composite Index increased 1 percent. Hong Kong’s Hang Seng
Index rose 0.4 percent. Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 Index dropped 0.5
percent.  ‘Gathering Momentum’  Malaysia’s  FTSE Bursa Malaysia KLCI Index  climbed 0.4 percent to
close at a record. Singapore’s  Straits Times Index  advanced 1.9 percent,
while Indonesia’s  Jakarta Composite Index  gained 1.2 percent, also for a
record close.  Futures on the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  fell 0.5 percent today.
The index climbed 0.4 percent on Nov. 5 after U.S. Labor Department
figures showed payrolls climbed by 151,000, exceeding the median
estimate of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. Private payrolls that
exclude government agencies also gained more than forecast, and the
jobless rate held at 9.6 percent.  ‘Outlook’s Improved’  Gauges of industrial, energy and consumer-discretionary stocks
increased the most among the 10 industry groups in the MSCI Asia Pacific
Index. Honda climbed 3.3 percent to 2,975 yen. Komatsu Ltd., the world’s
second-largest maker of construction machinery, advanced 4.7 percent to
2,275 yen. Sony Corp., the maker of Bravia televisions and PlayStation
game consoles, rose 1.1 percent to 2,741 yen.  “The better-than-expected improvement in non-farm payroll data
increases investor confidence that the U.S. economic recovery is
gathering momentum,” said  Tim Schroeders , who helps manage about $1
billion at Pengana Capital Ltd. in Melbourne. “Investor confidence in
global economic growth has increased and, in turn, the outlook for
economically-sensitive stocks has improved.”  Jiangxi Copper Co., China’s biggest producer of the metal, climbed
1.6 percent to HK$25.50.  Cnooc Ltd. , China’s biggest offshore oil
explorer, rose 1.9 percent to HK$18.02.  PT Adaro Energy , Indonesia’s
second-largest coal producer, advanced 4.4 percent to 2,375 rupiah.
Mitsui & Co., which gets about 19 percent of sales from commodities,
advanced 2.5 percent to 1,352 yen in Tokyo.  Oil, Metals Climb  Crude oil for December delivery rose 0.4 percent in New York on Nov.
5 to $86.85 a barrel, the highest settlement price since Oct. 8, 2008.
The London Metal Exchange Index of prices for six industrial metals
including copper and aluminum gained 0.3 percent, and gold futures
surged to a record.  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index  has increased about 3.3 percent since
the Federal Reserve unveiled on Nov. 3 plans to buy an additional $600
billion of Treasuries to bolster economic growth. Stocks in the gauge
are valued at 14.7 times  estimated earnings  on average, compared with
about 22.7 times at the start of the year, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc., which warned a month ago that the U.S.
economic outlook was “fairly bad” at best, said the Fed’s decision to
increase bond purchases will spur growth.  “Downside risks to the economic outlook have declined
significantly,”  Jan Hatzius , the New York-based chief U.S. economist at
the company, wrote in an e-mail to clients.  JX Holdings Inc., Japan’s biggest oil refiner, surged 6.3 percent
to 527 yen. The company raised its full-year profit forecast by 19
percent to 320 billion yen ($3.9 billion) as margins for selling oil
products improved after the company was formed out of a merger.  SembCorp, Maybank  In Singapore, SembCorp Marine climbed 4 percent to S$4.93. The
company said third-quarter net income more than doubled from a year
earlier to S$296 million ($230 million). That beat the average estimate
of S$199.8 million by four analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Malayan Banking Bhd. gained 1.1 percent to 9.10 ringgit.  IOI 
climbed 1.9 percent to 5.97 ringgit as crude palm-oil futures for
January delivery rose for a second day in Kuala Lumpur.  “The economic fundamentals of the country look good,” said
 Geoffrey Ng , who manages $1 billion as chief executive officer at HLG
Asset Management Sdn. in Kuala Lumpur.  Among stocks that dropped, Resona Holdings Inc., Japan’s No. 4 bank,
plunged 8.6 percent to 468 yen, a record low, after the company
registered to sell shares. The Tokyo-based lender said Nov. 5 it plans
to sell as much as 600 billion yen of common stock over the next year,
using the proceeds and 300 billion yen of reserves to buy back preferred
stock from the government and retire the shares.  Emerging Markets ‘Moderating’  HSBC, the U.K.’s biggest bank, dropped 1.6 percent to HK$86.70 in
Hong Kong after the bank said profit growth in the third quarter slowed
as recovery in emerging markets may be faltering, with economic growth
in China moderating.  “It’s encouraging there is moderation from the exuberance in some
of the economies,” HSBC Finance Director  Douglas Flint  said on a
conference call with reporters on Nov. 5.  A gauge of financial stocks posted the second- biggest drop  among
the 10 industry groups in the MSCI Asia Pacific Index. Banks also fell
as the euro dropped for a second day against the dollar amid concern
about Ireland’s budget deficit and political uncertainty in Greece.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jonathan Burgos  in Singapore at 
 jburgos4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at   ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 