-- Asia Carriers Look to Europe, U.S. to Help Fill Growing Fleets
-- B y   C h a n   S u e   L i n g
-- 2010-11-08T02:03:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-08/asian-carriers-turn-to-europe-u-s-to-fill-fleets-as-capacity-increases.html
Asian airlines’ local demand let them
weather the worst global travel slump since World War II. The
carriers are now looking for growth in Europe and the U.S. to
help fill planes next year.  “If Europe and the U.S. aren’t recovering that may impact
Asia,” Malaysian Airline System Bhd. Chief Executive Officer
 Tengku Azmil Zahruddin  said in an interview last week in Brunei.
The carrier started taking delivery of 35 new Boeing Co. 737s
this month as it modernizes and expands its fleet.  A double-dip recession in the U.S. and Europe could damp
demand for Asia-Pacific carriers that are already expected to
suffer profit declines because of increasing capacity. Profits
at the region’s airlines will likely fall to $3 billion next
year from an expected $5.2 billion this year as new planes enter
service, according to the  International Air Transport
Association .  “We’re going to see more capacity coming into the market
and that usually impacts profitability,” Cathay Pacific Airways
Ltd. Chief Executive Officer  Tony Tyler  said at a two-day
regional airline meeting in Brunei. Up until now, “we’ve been
very lucky in Asia,” he said.  The airline, Hong Kong’s biggest, is returning capacity to
pre-crisis levels after boosting  first-half profit  more than
eightfold on rising passenger numbers and the sale of a stake in
a maintenance provider. The carrier is due to receive nine new
passenger planes next year.  ANA Expansion  All Nippon Airways Co., Asia’s largest listed carrier by
sales, plans to boost overseas flights 15 percent in the year
ending March helped by the opening of a new terminal at Tokyo’s
Haneda airport.  Singapore Airlines Ltd.  has added flights to
cities including Los Angeles, Moscow and Tokyo.  International air travel in the Asia-Pacific region
increased 10 percent in the first nine months, outpacing gains
in Europe and North America, according to IATA. The region’s
cargo traffic jumped 30 percent, as manufacturers shipped more
clothes and consumer electronics to European and U.S. retailers.  Demand may falter amid U.S. unemployment rates of around 10
percent and reduced government spending in Europe. Former
Federal Reserve Chairman  Paul Volcker , an adviser to President
Barack Obama, said on Nov. 5 the revival in developed economies
has been unsatisfactory. Recovery in the U.S., the world’s
largest economy, will be slow and not robust, he said.  “A double-dip or slowdown in any of the major blocks would
clearly undermine the pace of the recovery overall,” said
 Andrew Herdman , director general of the Association of Asia
Pacific Airlines, which hosted the Brunei meeting.  Traffic Growth  Global passenger traffic fell 3.5 percent last year, amid
the economic slump, making it the  worst year  in the airline
industry’s history, according to IATA. In the first nine months
of this year, North American international air travel has risen
6.7 percent, while European demand has gained 4.4 percent, the
slowest increase worldwide.  “One thing we’re hoping for is for the European economy to
pick up a little bit faster,” said Teerapol Chotichanapibal,
acting executive vice president at Thai Airways International
Pcl’s commercial department. The carrier gets about 20 percent
of  sales  from Europe.  Asia-Pacific airlines have so far limited capacity
increases to preserve margins. Passenger numbers jumped 15
percent in the nine months ended in September, while capacity
rose 3.3 percent, according to the Association of Asia Pacific
Airlines, which represents 15 carriers including Cathay Pacific,
Malaysian Air and ANA.  Capacity in the region will grow in the “low single
digits” next year, while traffic will rise between 5 percent
and 7 percent, Herdman said. Global capacity may increase 6
percent next year, as 1,400 new aircraft are delivered,
surpassing a 5 percent rise in demand, according to IATA.  “In Asia, the positive growth will continue into 2011
although at a slower pace,” said  Robert Bailey , president of
Singapore-based Abacus International Pte, Asia’s largest travel
agency. “Still, capacity growth will surpass the increase in
demand if not properly managed.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Chan Sue Ling  in Singapore 
 slchan@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  