-- Atheros Executive Gets 18 Months After Guilty Plea in Galleon Insider Case
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o   a n d   D a v i d   G l o v i n
-- 2010-11-08T17:50:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-08/atheros-executive-gets-18-months-after-guilty-plea-in-galleon-insider-case.html
Former  Atheros Communications Inc. 
Vice President  Ali Hariri  was sentenced to 18 months in prison
in the Galleon Group LLC insider-trading case.  Hariri, who was a manager at Atheros’s broadband networking
unit, is the third person to be sentenced in the Galleon case.
He must also pay a $50,000 fine, U.S. District Judge  Richard Holwell  said today in Manhattan federal court.  “What’s the risk to a fair marketplace because of the
defendant’s behavior?” Holwell asked in court. “The critical
consequence is the harm to the proper operation of an efficient
market.”  Hariri pleaded guilty in March to conspiracy to commit
securities fraud and securities fraud after being arrested last
November. He is among 21 people charged in two overlapping
insider trading cases.  Raj Rajaratnam , Galleon Group’s founder,
faces trial next year for using secret tips to earn millions of
dollars in illegal stock trades. He denies wrongdoing. Twelve
others have pleaded guilty.  Hariri admitted in March that he leaked information on
Atheros’s downward guidance on its financial performance for the
fourth quarter of 2008. After receiving the tip, hedge-fund
manager  Ali Far  bet that Atheros’s stock would fall, using a
short sale, prosecutors said.  After the market closed, Atheros cut its earnings forecast
to less than half of its previous prediction. The shares had
fallen about 7 percent when the market opened the next day. The
hedge fund made a profit of about $480,000, prosecutors said.  ‘Sensitive Information’  “Here you have a defendant tipping very sensitive
information that is market-moving to a hedge-fund manager,”
Assistant U.S. Attorney Andrew Michaelson said in court.  Far and partner C.B. Lee are linked to others in an
insider-trading ring led by Rajaratnam, who got tips from a
network of corporate and financial executives, the government
says.  Far, an analyst and portfolio manager at Galleon and a co-
founder of Spherix Capital LLC, and Lee, a co-founder of
Spherix, have pleaded guilty and are cooperating with
prosecutors.  Atheros, based in Santa Clara, California, sells chips used
in Wi-Fi networks, which provide short-range wireless Internet
connections. It also makes semiconductors for Bluetooth wireless
networks and chips used in global-positioning system, or GPS,
equipment.  ‘Fair’ Sentence  Robert Moffat , a former International Business Machines
Corp. senior vice president, was sentenced in September to six
months in prison for leaking information to  Danielle Chiesi , a
consultant for New Castle Funds LLC. Chiesi denies wrongdoing.  In May, New Castle co-founder  Mark Kurland  was sentenced to
27 months in prison after pleading guilty in the scandal.  Like Moffat and Kurland, Hariri isn’t cooperating with
prosecutors in their probe of insider trading on Wall Street.  Prosecutors sought a sentence of 24 to 30 months in prison
for Hariri. After court, defense attorney  Cristina Arguedas 
called the sentence “fair.” Hariri lives in San Francisco.  The case is U.S. v. Hariri, 09-02436, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
 David Glovin  in New York federal court at 
 dglovin@bloomberg.net ;
 Patricia Hurtado  in New York federal court
at   pathurtado@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 