-- Australia, N.Z. Dollars Fall on Europe Budget Concern, Snap Seven-Day Gain
-- B y   M o n a m i   Y u i   a n d   G a r f i e l d   R e y n o l d s
-- 2010-11-08T17:13:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-08/australia-s-dollar-heads-for-first-drop-in-eight-days-amid-europe-concerns.html
The Australian and New Zealand
dollars dropped for the first time in eight days against the
greenback on speculation European efforts to cut spending will
reduce demand for assets related to economic growth.  “People are a little bit worried about sovereign debt in
Greece, Ireland and Portugal,” said  Derek Mumford , a director
in Sydney at Rochford Capital, a currency and rates risk
management firm. “Certainly there has been some selling off of
the euro and buying of the U.S. dollar,” which is pulling the
Australian currency lower, according to Mumford.  Australia’s dollar fell 0.2 percent to $1.0136 at 12:05
p.m. in New York, from $1.0159 on Nov. 5, when it climbed to
$1.0183, the highest level since exchange controls were scrapped
in 1983. New Zealand’s dollar dropped 0.7 percent to 78.98 U.S.
cents after rising on Nov. 4 to 79.76 cents, the highest level
since April 2008.  European Union Economic and Monetary Affairs Commissioner
 Olli Rehn  arrives in Dublin today for a two-day visit after
Ireland laid out a plan last week to cut spending and raise
taxes by as much as 6 billion euros ($8.4 billion) in 2011.  New Zealand’s dollar also fell from almost the highest
level since April 2008 after a vine infection was discovered at
a kiwifruit orchard and a government report showed the nation’s
budget cash deficit was wider than earlier estimated.  The government said it’s trying to prevent the spread of
the vine infection from a North Island kiwifruit orchard.
Testing is under way to determine whether the infection is a
bacterial vine disease, Biosecurity Minister  David Carter  said
in a statement.  ‘Export Impact’  “The headline about kiwifruit disease may have caused some
selling on concerns about the export impact,” said  Imre Speizer , a market strategist at Westpac Banking Corp. in
Wellington. “Still, the fruit only accounts for about 2.5
percent of merchandise, so the long-term implications are
small.”  New Zealand’s dollar may fall as low as 77.50 cents after
the disease report, though it’s likely to rebound on the
economic outlook if risk appetite remains strong, Speizer said.  The New Zealand currency also dropped after the Treasury
said the budget cash deficit was wider than it forecast last
quarter. The shortfall was NZ$6.45 billion ($5.1 billion) in the
three months ended Sept. 30, or NZ$885 million more than
forecast in May’s budget, the department said in Wellington.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Monami Yui  in Tokyo at 
 myui1@bloomberg.net ;
 Garfield Reynolds  in Sydney at 
 greynolds1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  