-- BAA Heathrow Stake Worth More Than Estimates, Ferrovial Says
-- B y   E s t e b a n   D u a r t e   a n d   S h a r o n   S m y t h
-- 2010-11-08T12:51:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-08/baa-heathrow-stake-worth-more-than-estimates-ferrovial-says.html
Ferrovial SA ’s stake in Heathrow
airport operator BAA Plc is worth more than some analysts who
cover the Spanish builder estimate, said Chief Financial Officer
 Ernesto Lopez Mozo .  The most recent valuations for Ferrovial’s 56 percent stake
in BAA, at about 1.47 billion euros ($2 billion), or 2 euros per
 BAA  share, “still include a discount with respect to the
business plan,” Lopez Mozo said in an interview Nov. 4 at
Ferrovial headquarters in Madrid. Heathrow “has the best
diversification of airlines, is located in the financial capital
of Europe,” he said.  Ferrovial led investors that paid 10 billion pounds ($16
billion) for BAA in 2006 as it expanded beyond construction.
It’s selling a 10 percent stake to cut its net debt of 20.5
billion euros and fund new infrastructure projects. Last month
the company agreed to  sell  10 percent of a Toronto toll road for
C$894 million ($869 million) and this month it agreed to sell
airport ground-services business Swissport International AG for
$909 million.  Analyst valuations for Ferrovial’s full stake in BAA
include Credit Suisse AG’s estimate of 2.3 billion euros, or 3.2
euros a share, along with estimates of zero or a negative equity
value.  Equity Value  Robert Crimes  of Credit Suisse in London said bidders, who
will probably include infrastructure-focused investment funds,
may make offers well below his valuation, closer to 2.4 euros a
share. “Investors need some potential versus fair value,” he
said by e-mail.  Banco BPI SA’s  Daniel Gandoy  assigns a negative equity
value of 628 million euros to Ferrovial’s BAA stake, he said in
an e-mailed response to questions, citing “high leverage and a
conservative valuation hypothesis.”  Passenger numbers at Heathrow rose 7.6 percent to 6.22
million in September, making it the busiest September ever. The
airport ranks No. 2 worldwide, behind only Atlanta Hartsfield.  BAA last year sold London Gatwick airport to New York-based
Global Infrastructure Partners for 1.5 billion pounds under
pressure from the U.K. Competition Commission, which ordered a
breakup of the business. Ferrovial has requested the right to
appeal a ruling by the Commission that stipulates it must sell
London Stansted airport and either Glasgow or Edinburgh, Lopez
Mozo said.  Ferrovial  may consider a debut in bond markets as part of a
strategy to refinance debt and fund investments, he said. So
far, the company has sold  notes  only through its units including
BAA.  Investment Grade  Debt reduction during the past year gave Ferrovial
investment-grade debt ratios at the level of the holding
company, he said. The company had 1.06 billion euros of net debt
on Sept. 30 not linked to its infrastructure projects, compared
with 1.17 billion euros a year earlier.  “We may issue bonds at corporate level on an opportunistic
basis since our net debt, excluding infrastructure project debt
is low,” said Lopez Mozo. “We will end this year with
investment grade ratios at corporate level.”  Ferrovial stock declined 0.4 percent to 7.86 euros as of
1:50 p.m. in Madrid trading.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Sharon Smyth  in Madrid at 
 ssmyth2@bloomberg.net 
 Esteban Duarte  in Madrid at 
 eduarterubia@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Armstrong at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  