-- Bair: Regulators Need More Data to Break Foreclosure Logjam
-- B y   M e e r a   L o u i s   a n d   P h i l   M a t t i n g l y
-- 2010-11-08T19:57:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-08/bair-says-regulators-need-more-data-to-relieve-u-s-foreclosure-bottleneck.html
Federal Deposit Insurance Corp.
Chairman  Sheila Bair  said regulators will need to gather more
information on mortgage documents to relieve a foreclosure
bottleneck that threatens to derail the U.S. economic recovery.  “There is still more important information to be
gathered,” Bair said today at a Securities  Industry and
Financial Markets Association  conference in New York. “I do
have a concern that the problems will slow down even further the
foreclosure process.”  JPMorgan Chase & Co. ,  Bank of America Corp.  and  Ally
Financial Inc. ’s GMAC Mortgage unit are among loan servicers
that temporarily halted home seizures to review paperwork after
court documents showed employees may have submitted affidavits
in foreclosure cases without confirming their accuracy.  “This is a serious problem,” Bair said. “I see some
serious issues with documentation.”  The Dodd-Frank financial regulation law gave the FDIC new
authority to create a mechanism for unwinding failed firms whose
collapse might undermine the economy. President  Barack Obama ,
who signed the measure in July, proposed the rules overhaul
after the 2008 bankruptcy of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.
sparked a credit crisis that led to a U.S. bailout for banks.  The financial system is “so much better off” since the
enactment of Dodd-Frank, Bair said at the Sifma conference,
where she was interviewed by  Charlie Rose , executive editor and
host of “Charlie Rose,” which airs on PBS and Bloomberg
Television. The FDIC is one of several regulators responsible
for implementation of the law over the next few years.  Bair, whose five-year term as FDIC chairman expires next
year, said she doesn’t want to extend her stay.  “I do not want to be reappointed,” she said. “New blood
and fresh thinking is always important for regulators.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Meera  Louis in New York at 
 Mlouis1@bloomberg.net ;
 Phil Mattingly  in New York at 
 pmattingly@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net  