-- BofA May Pay Bonuses in Stock as Deadline Looms
-- B y   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l   a n d   D a v i d   M i l d e n b e r g
-- 2010-11-08T15:42:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-08/bank-of-america-may-pay-bonuses-in-stock-as-deadline-looms-on-capital-gap.html
  Bank of America Corp . is running out
of time to fulfill a promise to raise more capital by year-end
and may be forced to make up the shortfall by paying some
bonuses in stock rather than cash.  The gap of about $1.1 billion at Bank of America, the
largest U.S. lender by assets, stems from its accord last
December to repay $45 billion of federal bailout funds and
escape the Troubled Asset Relief Program. As part of the deal,
the bank agreed to sign contracts by June 30 for asset sales
that would raise capital. The sum, originally $4 billion, was
later reset at $3 billion and the deadline extended to Dec. 31.  With two months left, the  Charlotte , North Carolina-based
company said in a Nov. 5 quarterly report the bank “must raise
a commensurate amount of common equity” if asset sales don’t
bring in the necessary funds. Bank of America raised
$1.9 billion so far to meet the commitment, and the gap may be
closed by issuing stock to some of its approximately 284,000
employees, according to the filing.  “They are going to meet their commitment and if they have
to, they’ll do it through their employees,” said Mark Borges, a
compensation consultant at Compensia Inc. in Corte Madera,  California . “Given the size of the compensation pool, they may
be able to meet the entire requirement by selling stock to
insiders rather than outsiders.”  Liquid Shares  Bank of America set aside $26.3 billion for employee
compensation through the first nine months of the year, compared
with $21.6 billion at JPMorgan Chase & Co. and $18.6 billion at  Citigroup Inc ., both based in New York, according to company
filings. Bank of America hasn’t determined 2010 bonuses and
doesn’t break out what percentage they’re paid in stock versus
cash, said  Jerry Dubrowski , a company spokesman.  Any new shares issued to employees would immediately vest
and could be traded right away, according to the filing. Bank of
America’s stock closed at $12.36 last week, down 18 percent for
2010 under the watch of Chief Executive Officer  Brian T. Moynihan , 51, while the Standard & Poor’s 500 was climbing
9.9 percent to a two-year high.  This wouldn’t be the first time the bank substituted shares
for cash. In December 2009, the company said it would issue
$1.7 billion in shares to employees instead of year-end bonuses.  Asset Sales  “We are actively selling our noncore assets and we are
working hard to get those transactions done by the end of the
year,” Dubrowski said.  Bank of America said Nov. 3 that it plans to sell as many
as 40.8 million shares in  BlackRock Inc ., the world’s largest
money manager. The sale is likely to net an after-tax gain of
more than $300 million, Guggenheim Securities LLC analyst  Marty Mosby  said in a Nov. 4 interview.  “They could raise $1 billion; that is nothing given how
big Bank of America’s capitalization base is,”  Thomas Brown ,
founder of Second Curve Capital LLC, said today in a Bloomberg
Television interview. “They are being smart about it.” His New
York-based investment firm focuses on financial companies.  Paying bonuses in stock is unlikely to anger employees
because price appreciation can boost the value of awards, said
Frank Glassner, chief executive officer of Veritas Executive
Compensation Consultants LLC in  San Francisco .  “Shares are trading at a low,” Glassner said. If
employees hold the stock, “there may be a bit of a wait but the
leverage on the upside is significant.”  Bonus Disputes  Bonuses at Bank of America have triggered disputes before
with regulators and lawmakers. Congress held hearings that
questioned whether the bank should have paid any kind of bonuses
to employees of Merrill Lynch & Co., the brokerage acquired in
2009, even as the firm’s losses triggered a federal bailout for
Bank of America.  The bank’s plan to pay as much as $5.8 billion to Merrill
employees also riled shareholders and led to the departure in
December of then-CEO  Kenneth D. Lewis .  Last February, a federal judge approved a $150 million
settlement with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission that
alleged the bank misled investors about the bonus payments. The
SEC called the accord the largest financial penalty ever
assessed for violating proxy disclosure rules.  Performance Payments  Year-end incentive payments are dependent on the
performance of the company, business units and individuals, the
bank said in a December 2009 filing. The company has said it is
on course through the first nine months of the year to pay
employees an average of $92,723, 10 percent more than 2009.  Receiving a larger percentage of compensation in shares
means employees are more exposed if the bank’s fortunes decline,
particularly with regard to the prospect of faulty foreclosures
and mortgage buybacks, Compensia’s Borges said.    Attorneys general  in 50 states are investigating
foreclosures at the largest lenders. Mortgage-bond investors
including BlackRock and Pacific Investment Management Co. have
said they’re seeking to force Bank of America to repurchase
mortgages packaged into $47 billion of bonds. Pimco is manager
of the world’s largest bond fund.  Bank of America expects costs related to foreclosures to
increase through 2011 as it faces regulatory scrutiny, according
to the filing. Investigations may lead to fines, penalties or
“significant legal costs in responding to governmental
investigations and possible litigation,” the bank said.  Foreclosure Costs  “This whole foreclosure issue will weigh heavily,” Borges
said. “The market will be watching closely to see how many of
the employees convert that stock into cash and investors may use
that as an indicator of whether the company will be able to
weather the storm.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dakin Campbell in  New York  at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net ;
David Mildenberg in Charlotte at 
 dmildenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
Rick Green at   rgreen18@bloomberg.net . 