-- Fed Says Banks Eased Lending Standards in Quarterly Survey
-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 2010-11-08T19:39:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-08/banks-further-eased-lending-standards-in-quarterly-federal-reserve-survey.html
Banks further eased standards and
terms on some types of business and household loans in the past
three months, a  Federal Reserve   survey  showed, while many said
it would take years for standards to return to long-term norms.  Banks were more willing to make consumer installment loans
and eased standards on credit-card loans, the central bank said
in its quarterly survey of senior loan officers through the
middle of October. At the same time, demand for mortgages
remained weak, while demand for business lending fell, after
having been unchanged in the previous survey.  “For the most part banks are no longer contracting
lending,”  Paul Dales , U.S. economist for Capital Economics Ltd.
In Toronto, said before the report. “There is unfortunately
very little evidence that lending is about to take off
substantially.”  At its Nov. 3 meeting, the Federal Open Market Committee
decided to buy $600 billion of Treasuries through June, a pace
of roughly $75 billion a month, to lower unemployment and ward
off deflation. In an Oct. 15 speech in Boston, Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said “banks are no longer tightening lending
standards and terms and are reportedly becoming more proactive
in seeking out creditworthy borrowers.”  For the second consecutive survey, banks eased standards on
commercial and industrial loans. Banks that eased “cited a more
favorable or less uncertain economic outlook and increased
competition from other banks and nonbank lenders as important
reasons for doing so,” the Fed said in its survey.  Business Loans  Since December 2008, loans to businesses have dropped to
$1.22 trillion from $1.62 trillion, while commercial real-estate
loans have declined to $1.51 trillion from $1.73 trillion,
according to a separate statistical release from the Fed for the
week ending Oct. 27.  More banks reported weaker than stronger demand for
business loans. Most banks reported no change in their standards
for commercial and real estate lending.  Bank of America Corp., the largest U.S. bank by assets,
said last month that it would hire 1,000 employees in the next
year to focus on lending to companies with sales of $3 million
or less.  Brian Moynihan , chief executive officer of the
Charlotte, North Carolina-based bank, said last month in a
speech in Boston that bankers will be hired in Baltimore,
Dallas, Los Angeles and Washington beginning this year.  Prime Mortgages  For consumers, slightly more banks reported tightening
standards on prime residential mortgages. In the previous
survey, banks had slightly eased terms on mortgages. The
tightening in standards was largely accounted for by smaller
banks, the survey said.  Sales of existing homes rose in September by the most on
record as cheaper borrowing costs helped stabilize an industry
beset by foreclosures and unemployment near a 26-year high.  Existing home sales climbed 10 percent to an annual pace of
4.53 million from 4.12 million in August. The average rate on a
 30-year mortgage  dropped to 4.24 percent last week from 5.09
percent in January, according to Freddie Mac. In October, the
rate fell to a record 4.19 percent.  In an editorial last week in the Washington Post, Bernanke
said a further round of asset purchases will ease financial
conditions and “easier financial conditions will promote
economic growth.”  Stock Prices  “Lower mortgage rates will make housing more affordable
and allow more homeowners to refinance,” he said. “Lower
corporate bond rates will encourage investment. And higher stock
prices will boost consumer wealth and help increase confidence,
which can also spur spending.”  The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  fell 0.3 percent to
1,222.68 at 2:13 p.m. in New York as a five-week rally left the
index at the highest valuation since May and concerns over Irish
debt curbed demand for riskier assets. The yield on the 10-year
Treasury note rose to 2.56 percent from 2.53 percent late
yesterday.  Banks in the survey said that all types of lending would
not return to normal for years. “For all loan categories,
substantial fractions of respondents thought that their bank’s
lending standards would not return to their long-run norms until
after 2012 or would remain tighter than longer-run averages for
the foreseeable future,” the Fed said.  The survey of loan officers at 57 U.S. banks and 22 U.S.
branches of foreign banks was conducted from Oct. 5 to Oct. 19,
the Fed said. The report doesn’t identify respondents. The panel
of domestic banks had about $7 trillion in  assets , or about two-
thirds of the total assets for all domestically chartered,
federally insured commercial banks.  New York Fed Survey  A separate survey released today by the New York Fed showed
weaker loan demand may result from consumers borrowing less
against homes and closing credit card accounts. Consumer
indebtedness totaled $11.6 trillion at the end of September,
down $110 billion, or 0.9 percent, from the end of June,
according to the New York Fed’s quarterly report on household
debt and credit.  Borrowers are repairing their household balance sheets, the
report showed, with 11.1 percent of outstanding debts in “some
stage of delinquency” compared to 11.6 percent a year earlier,
the New York Fed said.  “Americans are borrowing less and paying off more debt
than in the recent past,” Donghoon Lee, a senior economist at
the New York Fed, said in a statement. Only part of the
reduction can be attributed to defaults and charge-offs, he
said. “This change, which we continue to study carefully, can
be a result of both tightening credit standards and voluntary
changes in saving behavior.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joshua Zumbrun  in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  