-- Barbie, Rambo Share a Roll in Hay at Catskill Animal Sanctuary
-- B y   M i k e   D i   P a o l a
-- 2010-11-08T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-08/barbie-rambo-share-a-roll-in-hay-at-catskill-animal-sanctuary-commentary.html
     Nov. 8 (Bloomberg) -- On a barn floor in Saugerties, New
York, Barbie the hen is nestled against Rambo the ram’s warm
fleecy side. Goats mill about, demanding to be patted and talked
to. Turkeys with less clear intentions crowd around visitors and
babble.  They’re among the ever-shifting population of rescued
beasts at  Catskill Animal Sanctuary , 75-plus acres of brooks,
weeping willows and verdant pastures in the Hudson Valley.  “Right now we have 28 horses, 20 cows, 20 pigs and ... a
hell of a lot of goats,” says  Kathy Stevens , the sanctuary’s
founder and director.  Since she opened the place in 2003, around 2,000 animals
have called this peaceable kingdom home. It serves as a way-
station for animals awaiting adoption or retirement village for
those lucky enough to remain.  Stevens takes me on a much-interrupted tour, as she pauses
to greet every animal we encounter, regardless of species or
personal hygiene, with a hug and kind words, gestures that
elicit licks, wags and other demonstrations of appreciation.  The sanctuary not only gives asylum to cast-off creatures,
it also takes on the trickier task of raising public awareness
about the evils of agribusiness. The farm is a perennial stop on
the elementary-school field-trip circuit, and Stevens herself
speaks at schools and community groups, explaining how factory
 farms  are both cruel and environmentally bankrupt.  This farm, which is powered entirely by solar panels, is as
green as they come. While part of its mission is to be an
environmental education center, its essential purpose is to
bring humans face to face with the living creatures we generally
think of as food, when we think of them at all.  Refugee From Brooklyn  The animals all have names, distinct personalities and
extremely satisfied appetites. Barbie, the hen who sleeps with
Rambo the ram, weighs 17 pounds. Like many of the creatures
here, she’s a refugee from New York City. Barbie was found in
Brooklyn, quivering under a blue Honda.  Every resident has a back story. A tribe of 18 goats was
recently rescued from a Massachusetts woman who had been
accumulating animals on her property at a prodigious pace.  Hailing from Kansas City, Missouri, 42 chickens had been
unwittingly abetting criminals who “were using chicken manure to
disguise the smell of their meth lab,” Stevens says.  Other chickens from Brooklyn narrowly escaped having
leading roles in an orthodox Jewish ritual of  kapparot , in which
they would have been twirled over a rabbi’s head and then
slaughtered. Stevens is of two minds about that particular
rescue.  Slaughtered by Agribusiness  “I’m happy we took these animals out of there, but I found
myself asking, ‘Is this what we really want to be doing?’ she
says. “What one isolated organized religion does pales in
comparison to the 10 billion chickens abused and slaughtered by
agribusiness. I don’t know whether we’ll do that again.”  Stevens says the hardest part of her job is getting people
to own up to the consequences of eating animals.  The way to people’s hearts might be through their stomachs.
This year the sanctuary brought in Kevin Archer, a vegan chef
from Santa Fe, New Mexico, to run a  Compassionate Cuisine 
program, using workshops and cooking classes to promote a
meatless diet.  The director’s heart is so wide open to her animal friends
that she perceives their emotions in human terms: love,
jealousy, sadness, joy and all the rest of it. Just don’t tell
her you think she’s projecting.  “I think that ‘anthropomorphism’ is an excuse people use
to rationalize what they are doing,” Stevens says. “If people
don’t have an emotional connection, they are going to turn a
blind eye to what agribusiness is.”  Stevens’ second book on the sanctuary, “Animal Camp:
Lessons in Love and Hope From Rescued Farm Animals” ( Skyhorse
Publishing , $24.95) came out in September. Donate or adopt a
refugee through the sanctuary’s website, or better yet visit the
place and look a few of its residents in the eye. It is an
enlightening experience.  ( Mike Di Paola  writes on preservation and the
environment for Muse, the arts and leisure section of Bloomberg
News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Mike Di Paola at  mdipaola@nyc.rr.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 