-- Bet Against LBOs as Buyout Concerns ‘Unrealistic,’ Goldman Says
-- B y   B r y a n   K e o g h
-- 2010-11-08T12:32:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-08/bet-against-lbos-as-takeover-concerns-unrealistic-goldman-sachs-says.html
Leveraged buyout speculation is
triggering an “unrealistic” surge in the cost of hedging
against losses on the debt of potential takeover targets,
according to Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  Investors can profit by selling credit-default swaps on a
basket of LBO candidates including Gap Inc., Dell Inc. and 13
other companies, strategists led by  Charles Himmelberg  and
 Alberto Gallo  in New York said in a report. The trade can
withstand two buyouts within the group, they said.  “While a pick-up in LBO deals is definitely likely in
2011, we show that market spreads on many ‘LBO candidates’ are
currently priced for a very sharp increase comparable to 2006
levels,” the strategists wrote. “These expectations are
unrealistic, given the current constraints in leveraged
financing and the lower leverage in current deals, compared to
pre-crisis. We therefore think investors who have been short LBO
candidates should take profits to avoid being hurt by the
upcoming rally in spreads.”  The cost of default swaps has surged on speculation
companies might get taken over by private equity firms, which
typically use debt to finance their transactions, hurting
current bond investors, Goldman said. The market is pricing in
an average 17 percent probability that buyouts of the 15
candidates will succeed, which is “extremely high” by
historical standards, the strategists wrote. That makes the cost
to buyers of credit protection “hefty,” they said.  LBOs Accelerate  LBOs have been accelerating with deal volume reaching $120
billion this year, compared with $135 billion in 2008 and 2009
combined, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. A record $1.3
trillion of deals were done in the so-called buyout boom of 2006
and 2007. Private-equity firms pool money from investors and
obtain debt to finance takeovers with the intention of selling
the companies later for a profit.  Investors should sell five-year credit-default swap
protection on the 15 companies, according to the report. The
other candidates are Seagate Technology Plc, J.C. Penney Co.,
Hasbro Inc., Jones Group Inc., Fortune Brands Inc., Avnet Inc.,
Arrow Electronics Inc., Expedia Inc., Sara Lee Corp.,
AmerisourceBergen Corp., ConAgra Foods Inc., McKesson Corp. and
Cardinal Health Inc.  Credit swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails to
meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bryan Keogh  in London at 
 bkeogh4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Armstrong at 
 Parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  