-- Brasserie Mixes Scottish Beef Tartare, French Rum Baba in London: Review
-- B y   R i c h a r d   V i n e s
-- 2010-11-08T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-08/brasserie-mixes-scottish-beef-tartare-french-rum-baba-in-london-review.html
London possesses five duos that lead
the way in dining. The Hart brothers own Fino, Barrafina and Quo
Vadis; the Galvins their eponymous eateries. Fergus Henderson
and Trevor Gulliver founded the St. John mini-empire, while the
Wolseley was brought to you by  Chris Corbin  and  Jeremy King .  Then there is the team behind Arbutus and Wild Honey. Chef
 Anthony Demetre  helped change the way we eat out, applying his
considerable technical skill to cheaper cuts, producing gourmet
French dishes at English caff prices. Will Smith runs the front
of house, appearing relaxed, yet not missing a trick.  Demetre and Smith last month opened Les Deux Salons, a
third London restaurant based on the same principle of offering
good service and value for money, only this time it’s on a
larger stage: Where Arbutus might almost be described as
intimate, Les Deux salons can seat 160 people on two floors in a
former Pitcher & Piano bar close to Trafalgar Square.  It looks like an old Parisian brasserie, with lots of brass
and dark wood and a tiled floor, the off-white walls possibly
stained with nicotine. (The design is by Martin Brudnizki, the
man behind the Club at the Ivy and Hix, plus Le Caprice in New
York.) The menu is enticing and even the prices are appetizing:
When I scent value, I always want to order more.  Starters include a Herefordshire snail and bacon pie at
7.95 pounds ($12.92), the beautiful pastry giving way to gravy
that is dark and rich.  There’s also hand-chopped Scottish beef tartare, or my
personal favorite, ravioli of rose veal, fresh goat’s curd,
cavolo nero. (The Royal Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to
Animals recommends that diners ask about the origin of veal,
even if they aren’t ordering it. The veal at Les Deux Salons is
from the U.K., where calves are humanely reared.)  Smoky Flavor  Les Deux Salons has a Josper grill, the current kitchen
equipment of choice for London chefs, who value the distinct
smoky flavor imparted by this hot charcoal oven. Bavette of beef
emerges from the Josper remarkably soft for a relatively cheap
cut. My only disappointment was the burger (12 pounds with
chips), which would have benefited from a looser texture and
lighter seasoning.  Elsewhere on the menu, there’s Cornish plaice stuffed with
shrimps and kaffir lime (18.50 pounds), which is light on
everything except flavor, and saddle of rabbit, pumpkin gnocchi
and hazelnuts, a hearty dish for an autumn day.  Desserts include Demetre’s signature floating islands with
pink pralines, a boozy rum baba and scoops of freshly made soft
ice cream. I repeatedly end up ordering those.  Business Buzz  There’s a buzz surrounding Les Deux Salons, and many of the
tables in the opening days were filled by the restaurant
businesses. One lunch, I’d say we were in the majority, if you
include food journalists in such elevated company.  It would be difficult to exaggerate the esteem in which
Demetre is held by fellow chefs.  Pierre Koffmann  says Demetre’s
is fantastic, while  Albert Roux  told me the bouillabaisse is so
good, you would be unlikely to find anything so good in France.  Let’s not get carried away. Les Deux Salons is a brasserie,
not a fancy restaurant. It takes experience, skill, passion and
a lot of hard work to turn a simple formula into something
special while retaining the integrity of the original idea.  Not many partnerships in London could pull this off. To be
precise: five by my count.  Les Deux Salons, 40-42 William IV Street, London, WC2N 4DD.
Information: +44-20-7420-2050 or  http://www.lesdeuxsalons.co.uk/   The Bloomberg Questions  Cost? The set lunch and pre-theater menus are 15.50 pounds.  Sound level? It can be noisy: 80 decibels or so.  Inside tip? Try for a corner table; avoid sitting upstairs.  Special feature? The beautiful floor.  Will I be back? Yes.  Date place? Yes, if I had one.  Rating? ***  ( Richard Vines  is the chief food critic for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
 Richard Vines  in London at 
 rvines@bloomberg.net  or Richardvines on
 http://twitter.com/home .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 