-- Bovespa Gains as Steelmaker Rally Overshadows Inflation Concern
-- B y   A l e x a n d e r   C u a d r o s
-- 2010-11-08T20:58:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-08/brazilian-bovespa-stock-index-futures-fall-as-commodity-prices-decline.html
Brazil’s  Bovespa  stock index gained,
extending the biggest weekly increase in a month, as steelmakers
rallied, overshadowing concern the central bank may fail to
contain inflation next year.  Gerdau SA , Latin America’s largest steelmaker, jumped the
most in a week after Morgan Stanley boosted its rating on the
stock.  Vale SA , the iron-ore producer whose top export market is
China, advanced as investors speculated the Asian country will
boost consumption. Gains were limited as  Gafisa SA , Brazil’s
second-biggest homebuilder, dropped amid concern inflation will
rise if President-elect  Dilma Rousseff  pressures the central
bank to lower borrowing costs next year.  The  Bovespa  index rose 0.1 percent to 72,657.37 at 3 p.m.
New York time after falling as much as 0.4 percent earlier.
Thirty-six stocks gained on the measure while 29 fell. The real
weakened 1.2 percent to 1.7003 per dollar.  “Steelmakers were massacred in the past months,” said
 Felipe Casotti , who helps manage 968 million reais ($570
million) at Maxima Asset Management in Rio de Janeiro. “They’re
highly discounted. Earnings have been good here; Vale had very
strong results.”  Vale , the world’s largest iron-ore producer, gained 0.9
percent to 49.76 reais. The company last month reported third-
quarter profit more than tripled on rising prices and demand for
the steelmaking raw material.  Chinese Consumption  Consumption will become a bigger priority in China, ahead
of investment and exports, in the nation’s next five-year plan,
 Yao Jingyuan , chief economist for the National Bureau of
Statistics, said Nov. 5. China’s worsening income inequality
reduces consumption, and the key to stimulating purchases is to
ensure that urban and rural household incomes grow as fast as
gross domestic product, Yao said at a forum in Beijing.  Brazil’s benchmark equity gauge fell Nov. 5 from a two-year
high, paring the largest weekly advance since Oct. 1, after
Gerdau reported a drop in profit.  Gerdau was raised to “overweight” from “equal-weight”
at Morgan Stanley, which said the stock will rebound “as
fundamentals in North America improve,” according to a note
today by analyst  Carlos De Alba . Gerdau fell 18 percent in the
three months through Nov. 5 on concern steel prices will fail to
keep pace with rising costs.  Gerdau rose 3.2 percent to 22.70 reais while  Usinas
Siderurgicas de Minas Gerais SA , Brazil’s second-biggest
steelmaker, advanced 3 percent to 22.94 reais.  Rate Futures  Rousseff may remove central bank chief  Henrique Meirelles 
after she takes office Jan. 1 and push to lower borrowing costs
at policy makers’ first meeting to review interest rates, O
Estado de S. Paulo reported yesterday, citing a person close to
Rousseff whom it didn’t identify. Investors are speculating that
will fuel inflation, forcing policy makers to raise borrowing
costs in coming years, according to  Luciano Rostagno , chief
strategist at CM Capital Markets Ltd., the third-biggest
currency trader on the Sao Paulo exchange.  The yield on the rate futures contract due January 2012,
the most traded in Sao Paulo, dropped five basis points, or 0.05
percentage point, to 11.42 percent, while the contract due in
January 2017 jumped 14 basis points to 11.86 percent.  An official with Rousseff’s office who isn’t authorized to
speak publicly declined to comment on the report in Estado.  Gafisa fell 2.6 percent to 14.40 reais, helping the
 BM&FBovespa Real Estate Index  decline 1.7 percent, the most
intraday since Oct. 19.  The  Bovespa  trades for 11 times analysts’ 2011 earnings
estimates, compared with a ratio of 11.6 for the MSCI Emerging
Markets Index and 15.4 for Mexico’s IPC, according to weekly
data compiled by Bloomberg. The Bovespa trades at 15.1 times the
reported profits of its companies, down from 25.5 times a year
ago.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alexander Cuadros  in Sao Paulo at 
 acuadros@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  