-- Brazil Interest Rate Yields Fall on Speculation Rousseff to Seek Selic Cut
-- B y   A l e x a n d e r   C u a d r o s   a n d   J o s u e   L e o n e l
-- 2010-11-08T17:38:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-08/brazil-interest-rate-yields-fall-on-speculation-rousseff-to-seek-selic-cut.html
Brazilian short-term interest-rate
yields declined for the first time in a week and the real
weakened on speculation President-elect  Dilma Rousseff  will
pressure the central bank to lower borrowing costs next year.  The yield on the contract due January 2012, the most traded
in Sao Paulo, dropped three basis points, or 0.03 percentage
point, to 11.44 percent at 12:24 p.m. New York time, while
contracts due in 2017 and 2021 jumped on expectations policy
makers will be forced to raise rates later to curb inflation.
The real fell for a second day, losing 1 percent to 1.6975 per
dollar.  Rousseff may remove central bank chief  Henrique Meirelles 
after she takes office Jan. 1 and push to lower borrowing costs
at the first meeting to review interest rates, O Estado de S.
Paulo reported yesterday.  “The market is reflecting the news that Dilma wants to
centralize decisions on economic policy and will cut rates at
the first meeting of the central bank,”  Luciano Rostagno , chief
strategist at CM Capital Markets Ltd., the third-biggest
currency trader on the Sao Paulo exchange, said by phone from
Sao Paulo. “The market is taking this information seriously.”  Veja magazine reported Nov. 6 that state development bank
President  Luciano Coutinho  may be named to lead the central
bank. Rousseff said Nov. 4 she may seek a real interest rate, or
the benchmark interest rate adjusted for inflation, of 2
percent.  Currencies Weaken  An official with Rousseff’s office declined to comment on
the reports in Veja and Estado, saying she’s not authorized to
speak publicly.  The real also declined as concern that Ireland will
struggle to plug its budget deficit curbed demand for assets in
the region and in higher-yielding securities. The real,
Philippine peso and South African rand led declines in all but
one of 25 emerging-market currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  The yield on the interest-rate future contract due January
2017 jumped 18 basis points to 11.90 percent while the contract
due in 2021 rose 19 basis points to 11.92 percent.  “To convince the market that it’s possible to lower rates,
the government will have to make a strong fiscal adjustment,”
Rostagno said.  Meirelles lifted the benchmark  Selic  overnight rate three
times this year to 10.75 percent.  To contact the reporter; on this story:
 Alexander Cuadros  in Sao Paulo at 
 acuadros@bloomberg.net ;
 Josue Leonel  in Sao Paulo at 
 jleonel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos in New York at 
 papadopoulous@bloomberg.net  