-- Brazil Steelmakers Advance as Morgan Stanley Boosts Gerdau on Stock's Fall
-- B y   A l e x a n d e r   C u a d r o s
-- 2010-11-08T20:53:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-08/brazil-steelmakers-advance-as-morgan-stanley-boosts-gerdau-on-stock-s-fall.html
Brazilian steelmakers gained in Sao
Paulo after Morgan Stanley recommended adding to holdings of
 Gerdau SA , saying the stock’s underperformance is excessive
given the company’s growth potential.  Gerdau, Latin America’s largest steelmaker, rose 3.2
percent to 22.70 reais at the 3 p.m. New York time close after
declining 18 percent in the three months through Nov. 5.  Usinas
Siderurgicas de Minas Gerais SA , Brazil’s second-biggest
steelmaker, increased 3 percent to 22.94 reais, paring a three-
month decline of 13 percent. The benchmark  Bovespa  index gained
6.1 percent in that period.  “Gerdau is our preferred name to regain exposure in
Brazilian steel,”  Carlos De Alba , an analyst at Morgan Stanley,
wrote in a note to clients today. “The stock is poised to
outperform as fundamentals in North America improve.”  Shares in the industry have slumped this year on concern
steel prices will fail to keep up with rising costs. Gerdau,
which Morgan Stanley raised to “overweight” from “equal-
weight,” on Nov. 5 reported third-quarter net income that
missed analysts’ estimates after a surge in raw-material costs
pared profit margins in Brazil and North America, the company’s
two biggest markets.  “Steelmakers were massacred in the past months,” said
 Felipe Casotti , who helps manage 968 million reais ($570
million) at Maxima Asset Management in Rio de Janeiro. “They’re
highly discounted.”  Gerdau and Usiminas both trade at about 10.6 times
analysts’ estimated 2011 profit, compared with a ratio of 11 for
the  Bovespa , data compiled by Bloomberg show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alexander Cuadros  in Sao Paulo at 
 acuadros@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos in New York at 
 papadopoulous@bloomberg.net  