-- Britain May Fund World's First Natural Gas Carbon Capture Plant
-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   A i r l i e
-- 2010-11-08T17:40:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-08/britain-may-fund-world-s-first-natural-gas-carbon-capture-plant.html
The U.K. may fund the world’s first
project to capture carbon dioxide from natural-gas-fueled power
stations and pipe it under the seabed for permanent storage.  Projects that demonstrate so-called carbon capture and
storage, or CCS, on gas-fed plants will be able to apply for
government funding, the Department of Energy and Climate Change
said today in a  statement on its website .  We are “opening our funding process to what could be one
of the first ever commercial-scale CCS projects on a gas-fired
plant in the world,” Energy and Climate Change Secretary  Chris Huhne  said in the statement. “We won’t be able to take the
carbon out of all gas plants overnight, but we hope to support
the process by investment in new technology now.”  Britain is seeking to cut government spending while
securing energy supplies and reducing carbon-dioxide emissions.
The nation may host four CCS projects by 2020, Energy Minister
 Charles Hendry  said last month. The government didn’t say
whether the projects must be on newly built power stations or
fitted on existing plants.  Scottish & Southern Energy Plc said in July it was
 preparing plans to capture  some of the CO2 from its 1,800-
megawatt Peterhead natural gas plant in Scotland. Powerfuels
Ltd. won 180 million euros of European funding for CCS at its
proposed coal-plant in Hatfield, Yorkshire, England.  Progressive
Energy Ltd . has CCS plans for an 850-megwatt coal plant in
Teesside, northeast England, and to fit capture kit to a power
station at Lynmouth owned by Rio Tinto Plc’s Alcan unit,
according to its website.  E.ON Pulls Out  As much as 9.5 billion pounds ($15.3 billion) will be
needed over the next 15 years to fund four CCS demonstration
plants, government analysis shows, according to an official at
the  Department of Energy and Climate Change  who declined to be
identified, citing government policy. That would help to cover
capital and operating costs, the official said.  The U.K.’s Conservative-Liberal Democrat government adopted
a former Labour plan to fund the nation’s first CCS
demonstration, committing 1 billion pounds to a project on a
coal-fed plant. Iberdrola SA’s Scottish Power Ltd. is the only
company in the running for this after E.ON AG scrapped plans to
compete for the subsidy for its Kingsnorth plans.  The government has promised subsidies for three more CCS
projects via a levy on electricity bills or through direct
taxation. There will be more details before the end of this
year, and the government will start accepting project proposals
at the beginning of next year, the official said.  Gas on the Rise  Limiting emissions from gas-fueled power plants is vital,
 David Nickols , a London-based managing director at WSP Future
Energy, said in an e-mailed statement. “The country’s use of
electricity from gas-fired plants is expected to increase from
about 40 percent of total electricity supplied in 2009 to more
than 60 percent in 2020.” Coal-use is set to decline, he said.  Britain’s investment in carbon capture and storage may give
the nation skills and technologies that can be exported, Nickols
said. “The use of both coal and gas for electricity generation
is forecast to increase significantly elsewhere in the world,
and if the U.K. can develop a technological lead in CCS, this
will create export jobs for our economy.”  Statoil ASA is  testing CO2 capture  at Mongstad, north of
Bergen in Norway, with funding from the Norwegian government. BP
Plc and Scottish & Southern pulled out of CCS plans at Peterhead
in 2007 because the government said it would only fund the
technology at a coal station.  “We’re always looking for opportunities in the area but we
have no specific plans” David Nicholas, a BP spokesman said by
telephone. BP’s Miller field in the North Sea, which would have
been used to store the CO2, is now being decommissioned, he
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Catherine Airlie  at 
 cairlie@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  