-- Banks Warn of Asian Exodus as Cable Urges Bonus Moderation
-- B y   G o n z a l o   V i n a
-- 2010-11-09T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-08/british-banks-warn-of-asian-exodus-as-cable-urges-moderation-over-bonuses.html
Business Secretary  Vince Cable 
dismissed warnings from U.K. banks of a potential brain drain to
Asia if the government follows through on its pledge to crack
down on bonuses.  Warnings that banks may quit London are “a familiar
negotiating technique and clearly one has to listen to them --
one has to take these things seriously,” Cable said in an
interview with Bloomberg Television in Beijing yesterday. “But
it is clear that you have got to balance that against our
national interest. Banks have to be safe and that means that the
regulations have to take into account the potential problems
created by cash bonuses.”  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc  Chairman  Philip Hampton 
and Standard Chartered Plc Chief Executive Officer  Peter Sands 
said during a trade mission to Beijing with Cable and  Chancellor
of the Exchequer   George Osborne  that tighter bonus rules would
drive bankers and traders away from London.  Financial institutions are considering how much to set
aside for bonuses at a time when politicians are under pressure
to show voters the rich will share the pain as they implement
the biggest government spending cuts since World War II. Osborne
said last month banks will pay the “maximum sustainable”
amount of tax without forcing them to leave the U.K.  “The banks must be moderate in the way they approach their
bonus round,” Cable said. “We expect the banks to behave
responsibly and with moderation and the government will respond
to the situation as it needs to.”  Tax Take  About 4.1 billion pounds ($6.5 billion) of the banks’
estimated 7 billion-pound bonus pot for 2010 will go to the
government in tax, the  Centre for Economics & Business Research
Ltd.  said last month.  “Not every jurisdiction in the world has done much” about
bonuses, Sands said in an interview. “We face an uneven playing
field in attracting talent and these markets are highly
competitive.”  In April, the U.K. introduced a new 50 percent tax band for
those earning more than 150,000 pounds a year. Osborne said last
month he will block the payment of large bonuses unless banks
show they are extending credit to households and companies.  ‘Individuals Do Move’  “These are global markets and both business and to a
lesser extent individuals do move around these markets,”
Hampton said in an interview. “There is absolutely the
possibility that more markets will move outside London and
outside Europe. Being the right place to do business is a whole
pile of things, obviously, but it certainly includes regulation
it includes the ability to employ the right people.”  Bonuses for 2010 will be 4 percent lower than the 7.3
billion pounds paid to staff for 2009 because trading revenue is
declining, the CEBR said.  Hampton said the amount RBS spends on bonuses in 2010 is
likely to be smaller than last year’s 1.3 billion pounds ($2.1
billion) following a weaker performance by its investment
banking division.  “It would be strange if market forces did not play a part
in reducing bonuses because this has been a weaker year for
investment banking markets than last year and so, if the word
bonus means anything, it means payouts should be lower than last
year,” Hampton said.  The government is also still considering implementing a
bank tax proposed by the International Monetary Fund if lending
to businesses doesn’t increase and if banks don’t moderate pay.  Prime Minister  David Cameron  joins the U.K. delegation in
Beijing today. It’s the largest ever British trade mission as
the premier tries to show off his new policy of business-focused
diplomacy.  Cameron will today announce the appointment of 16 new
“business ambassadors” -- senior executives who will advise
the government and lobby overseas for deals when traveling for
their own work. They include  Anthony Bamford  of JC Bamford
Excavators Ltd.,  Brent Hoberman  of Lastminute.com Ltd. and
 Richard Lambert  of the Confederation of British Industry.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Gonzalo Vina  in Beijing on  gvina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net . 