-- Buffett's Buyout Search Aided by Biggest Cash Hoard Since 2008
-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 2010-11-08T05:01:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-08/buffett-s-buyout-search-aided-by-biggest-cash-hoard-since-2008.html
Warren Buffett , who completed his
biggest acquisition in February, is positioned to pursue another
“elephant”-sized deal after cash at his  Berkshire Hathaway
Inc.  climbed to the highest in more than two years.  Berkshire’s cash holdings jumped 23 percent to  $34.5
billion  in the three months ended Sept. 30, the Omaha, Nebraska-
based company said Nov. 5 in its third-quarter report. That
compares with $30.6 billion at the end of 2009, about six weeks
before Berkshire’s $26.5 billion stock-and-cash takeover of
railroad Burlington Northern Santa Fe Corp.  Buffett, 80, has transformed Berkshire from a failing
textile mill to a $200 billion seller of insurance, electrical
 power  and consumer goods through four decades of acquisitions.
The company doesn’t pay a dividend or buy back stock, leaving
its chairman with the task of investing earnings. In 2007,
Buffett likened himself to a hunter who ignores  “the pursuit of
mice”  in favor of the world’s biggest living land mammal.  “The fact that he’s got $34 billion means that he can go
hunting again,” said  Jeff Matthews , author of “Pilgrimage to
Warren Buffett’s Omaha” and founder of hedge fund Ram Partners
LP. “Burlington Northern was the first really big elephant that
came along. And he’s got the cash to do it again.”  Berkshire is benefiting from a  stock market rally  that
boosted the value of its equity portfolio 5.4 percent in three
months to $57.6 billion and an economic recovery that
contributed to a 21 percent increase in third-quarter revenue.
Fort Worth, Texas-based  Burlington Northern  posted $4.39 billion
of revenue in the period, a 22 percent gain from a year earlier,
when it was an independent company.  Buffett ‘Hopeful’  “We are hopeful that recent economic improvements will
continue over the remainder of 2010 and beyond,” Berkshire said
in the report.  Book value, a measure of assets minus liabilities, rose to
a record $149.7 billion at the end of September. Third-quarter
 net income  slipped 7.7 percent to $2.99 billion as the weakness
of the  U.S. dollar  contributed to losses on derivatives tied to
equity markets. Berkshire’s cash was the most since the first
quarter of 2008 when the company disclosed $35.6 billion.  The cash hoard will grow with the termination of financing
deals that Buffett struck during the credit crunch. This month,
 Swiss Reinsurance Co.  agreed to pay Berkshire about 3.7 billion
Swiss francs ($3.85 billion) on Jan. 10 to exit a 2009 deal that
cost Berkshire 3 billion francs and pays annual interest of 12
percent.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  and  General Electric Co.  are
weighing the return of $8 billion that Buffett agreed to inject
in 2008 for securities paying 10 percent.  Investment Income  “Based on current market conditions, reinvestment of any
redemption proceeds would likely generate significantly lower
investment income in the future,” Berkshire said in the report.  Berkshire sold stocks for $1.8 billion in the third quarter
and invested about $600 million on equities in the period.
Buffett said last month that buying bonds after yields fell
would be a mistake.  Buffett is “ready to act” if a $10 billion deal is
offered, he told shareholders at his company’s annual meeting on
May 1. The next day at a press conference, he said he expected
few opportunities because as Berkshire grows, larger
acquisitions are needed to meaningfully add to earnings.  Potential targets may demand higher prices after advances
in the equity and debt markets made assets more expensive and
gave buyers access to cheaper financing.  Stock Market Rally  The  Dow Jones Industrial Average  rose on Nov. 5 to its
highest level since before Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.’s 2008
bankruptcy. The Standard & Poor’s/LSTA US Leveraged Loan 100
Index climbed for a second week,  rising  0.61 to 91.95 cents on
the dollar on Nov. 5, the highest since May 5. Prices on the
index, which tracks the 100 largest dollar-denominated first-
lien leveraged loans, are up from 87.68 cents at the end of
last year.  Berkshire, which ended 2007 with $44.3 billion in cash, may
allow more liquidity to build if it doesn’t find deals at the
right price, said  Glenn Tongue , a partner at Berkshire
shareholder T2 Partners LLC.  “There is no way this is cash burning a hole in their
pocket,” said Tongue. “Berkshire’s acquisition appetite is
voracious, yet disciplined.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew Frye  in New York at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net . 