-- Irish Government Debt Slides on Deficit Woes; Greek Bonds Rally After Poll
-- B y   K e i t h   J e n k i n s
-- 2010-11-08T16:47:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-08/bunds-advance-on-concern-over-deficits-of-peripheral-euro-area-countries.html
Irish bonds tumbled for a 10th
consecutive day and the extra yield investors demand to hold the
debt instead of benchmark German bunds reached a record on
concern the nation is struggling to redress its budget deficit.  German 10-year bunds rose as stocks fell, driving investors
to the euro region’s safest assets as European Union Economic
and Monetary Affairs Commissioner  Olli Rehn  discusses spending
cuts and tax increases with officials in Dublin. Greek bonds
rallied after Prime Minister  George Papandreou  ruled out calling
a snap election after a first-round victory in local polls.
Portuguese bonds weakened, pushing the yield difference over
bunds to a record high, before the nation sells debt this week.  “Irish debt is trading poorly, along with Portugal, and
that lends support to bunds,” said  Peter Schaffrik , head of
European rates strategy at Royal Bank of Canada Europe Ltd. in
London. “There are clearly concerns over the current Irish
budget, the plan and the political support.”  The yield on the Irish 10-year security climbed 21 basis
points to 8.04 percent at 4:32 p.m. in London. The difference in
yield, or  spread , between the debt and bunds widened to a record
550 basis points, or 5.5 percentage points, Bloomberg generic
data shows. The 5 percent bond maturing October 2020 slid 1.21,
or 12.1 euros per 1,000-euro ($1,391) face amount, to 79.74.  The yield on the 10-year bund slipped three basis points to
2.39 percent, while the two-year note yield gained one basis
point to 0.93 percent.  Spending Cuts  The European Central Bank resumed government-bond purchases
last week as concern over Ireland’s finances grew. The
Frankfurt-based central bank said it completed 711 million euros
of purchases after reporting no settled transactions for the
previous three weeks.  The Irish government announced a plan last week to cut
spending and increase taxes by as much as 6 billion euros in
2011. Finance Minister  Brian Lenihan  aims to narrow the budget
gap to 3 percent of gross domestic product, the limit for euro
members, by 2014 from about 12 percent this year. Lenihan told
the Sunday Business Post in an interview published yesterday
that the 2011 budget, scheduled for Dec. 7, will “absolutely”
pass through parliament.  Ireland’s difficulties are being amplified by German
proposals to force bondholders to foot some of the bill in any
future bailout. Lenihan said on Nov. 3 “it’s not helpful to
suggest Europe is going to restructure other countries’ debts.”  The cost of insuring Irish debt rose. Credit-default swaps
on Irish government debt surged 23 basis points to a 601,
according to data provider CMA. It reached a record 606 basis
points earlier today.  ‘Change’ Wanted  Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange
for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a
borrower fail to adhere to its debt agreements. An increase
signals a deterioration in perceptions of credit quality.  Greek Prime Minister  Papandreou  said his government would
continue to press ahead with its task of reducing a crippling
budget deficit and debt burden.  “Change is what the Greek people wanted when we were voted
into power a year ago,” Papandreou said in a statement
yesterday broadcast live on state-run NET TV. “The Greek people
reaffirmed they continue to want this change, to ask for it.”  The yield on the Greek 10-year bond dropped six basis
points to 11.53 percent, with the spread over bunds narrowing to
898 basis points after climbing above 900 basis points on Nov. 5
for the first time since Sept. 21.  “There’s some kind of relief rally after the Greek
election results, but it’s very specific to Greece,” Schaffrik
said. “The broader picture is still dark. As long as Germany
holds quite strong leverage over Europe, markets will be
scared.”  Two-Tier Plan  In an interview with  Der Spiegel  magazine, German Finance
Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said he has a two-tier plan to make
holders of euro-area government bonds liable for potential
losses in a future crisis.  In the first phase, any euro-region country that is
struggling to avoid insolvency would be forced to apply
austerity measures and bonds maturing in this period would be
extended, Schaeuble is cited as saying.  Should the fiscal steps in the first instance fail to
reduce the risk of insolvency, second-phase measures would apply
in which buyers of new bonds would be forced to accept cuts in
redemptions, Der Spiegel cited him as saying.  Portuguese 10-year bonds fell, widening the yield spread to
similar-maturity benchmark German bunds to as much as 444 basis
points, or 4.44 percentage points, according to Bloomberg
generic data.  Portugal plans to sell as much as 1.25 billion euros of
debt maturing in 2016 and 2020 on Nov. 10.  Portuguese Funding  “It looks as though there is some concession building in
Portugal ahead of the auctions,” said  Orlando Green , assistant
director of capital-markets strategy at Credit Agricole
Corporate & Investment Bank in London.  Portugal has completed “more than 93 percent” of this
year’s funding requirements and this week’s auctions will be the
last this year,  Alberto Soares , president of the nation’s debt
agency, said today. “We have been intensifying efforts to
diversify our investor base,” said Soares, speaking from Lisbon
with  Andrea Catherwood  on Bloomberg Television’s “The Pulse.”  German bonds have returned 8.6 percent this year, compared
with an 8.9 percent gain for U.S. Treasuries, according to
indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the European Federation of
Financial Analysts Societies. Greek debt has lost 18 percent,
Irish securities lost 9.9 percent, while Portuguese bonds lost
7.9 percent, the indexes show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Keith Jenkins  in London at 
 Kjenkins3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  