-- Buy ‘Global Growers’ Poised to Gain on Fed Purchases, UBS Says
-- B y   J o a n n a   O s s i n g e r
-- 2010-11-08T20:43:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-08/buy-global-growers-stocks-poised-to-gain-on-fed-easing-program-ubs-say.html
U.S. companies with the most sales in
foreign markets may gain from the Federal Reserve’s asset-
purchase program, according to UBS AG.  BorgWarner Inc. , Corning Inc., Cummins Inc. and 3M Co. will
get the biggest boost from the $600 billion planned quantitative
easing strategy, or QE2, UBS strategists led by  Thomas Doerflinger  said in a research note today.  “QE2 is bullish for global growers,” the report said.
Companies that stand to get the biggest boost include those with
“high and rapidly rising demand in emerging markets,” those
that export much of what they produce and those in industries
that become more competitive when the dollar drops versus the
euro and yen.  The Fed said Nov. 3 it will buy an additional $600 billion
of Treasuries through June, expanding record stimulus in a bid
to reduce unemployment and avert deflation. While near-zero
rates and $1.7 trillion in asset purchases helped end the
recession, the Fed said progress has been “disappointingly
slow” in bringing down joblessness from almost a 26-year high.  “For the U.S., the main economic effects of the Federal
Reserve’s policy of QE2 are to reduce bond yields, reduce the
value of the dollar, raise commodity prices and increase
exports,” the UBS report said. Industrial, materials and
technology companies “are the best sector plays on this
theme.”  Consumer-staple stocks  may lose, UBS said, because they
might be hurt by lower costs for the items they sell and reduced
discretionary spending among lower-income consumers.  Agricultural companies represent “a good derivative play
on QE2,” the report said, “because emerging markets are heavy
buyers of agricultural commodities.” The strategists suggested
“usual suspects” such as  Deere & Co. , Monsanto Co. and DuPont
Co., as well as Midwestern banks like US Bancorp and regional
retailers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joanna Ossinger  in New York at 
 jossinger@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 