-- California Vote Means Less Fiscal Flexibility After Election, Moody's Says
-- B y   A l i s o n   V e k s h i n
-- 2010-11-08T21:20:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-08/california-vote-means-less-fiscal-flexibility-after-election-moody-s-says.html
California  may have a $1 billion
midyear budget gap after voters approved a ballot measure
barring the state from diverting money destined for transport
and local government projects, Moody’s Investors Service said.  California planned to pay debt service with fuel-tax
revenue before voters last week prohibited the practice,
reducing the most populous U.S. state’s financial flexibility,
Moody’s said in a report today.  “It’s about 1 percent of their budget,”  Edith Behr ,
senior credit officer at Moody’s in New York said today in a
telephone interview. “However, the tools in the toolbox are
being reduced, and that does make the budget planning a little
bit more difficult.”  Sixty-one percent of voters approved the measure,
 Proposition 22 , while 39 percent voted against it on Nov. 2.
Moody’s rates California’s general-obligation debt A1, its
fifth-highest grade. The ranking, matched only by Illinois, is
the lowest among U.S. states.  California voters approved another ballot measure to lower
the margin needed for lawmakers to pass a budget from a two-
thirds majority to simple majority, a move Moody’s called “a
positive financial development” since it makes it easier for
the Legislature to reach agreement.  New Jersey  voters approved a ballot measure to ban the
state from diverting money from its unemployment-benefits fund,
a move that will limit the state’s fiscal flexibility since the
money has been used for general-fund budget purposes, Moody’s
said. The restriction will reduce the amount available for
borrowing to offset potential liquidity risk from the state’s
variable-rate debt, Moody’s said.  Losses From Liquor  The decision by Massachusetts voters to eliminate a sales
tax on alcoholic beverages may reduce revenue by about $100
million to $120 million this year, Moody’s said. The drop is
manageable as part of a $28 billion budget and may be less than
estimated because the state constitution gives the Legislature
the final say on implementation, Moody’s said.  Voters in Virginia,  Oklahoma  and South Carolina increased
their rainy-day funds, “enhancing their financial flexibility
in the event of future revenue shortfalls,” Moody’s said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alison Vekshin  in San Francisco at 
 avekshin@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net . 