-- California's Budget Agreement May Hurt School Credit Most, Moody's Says
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s
-- 2010-11-08T20:51:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-08/california-budget-may-hurt-schools-debt-most-as-aid-delayed-moody-s-says.html
The budget agreement  California 
Governor  Arnold Schwarzenegger  and lawmakers reached last month
will have a “negative influence” on the credit of school
districts more than on other parts of local government, Moody’s
Investors Service said.  School districts will face cash-flow problems because the
state delayed or deferred subsidies they are owed, Moody’s
Senior Vice President  Eric Hoffmann  said in a report today.
Counties and cities should be at less risk, he said.  Schwarzenegger signed the $86.6 billion budget Oct. 8 after
lawmakers wrestled over an agreement for 100 days into the
fiscal year, the longest the most populous U.S. state has ever
gone without a spending plan. It eliminated a $19 billion
deficit by cutting spending almost $8 billion, half of that from
health and welfare programs administered by local governments.
It also delayed paying more than $5 billion in subsidies to
schools and community colleges.  “These new cross-fiscal year deferrals could particularly
pose a challenge for school districts with narrow liquidity and
outstanding tax and revenue anticipation notes due on June 30,
the last day of their current fiscal year,” Hoffman said in the
report.  The  budget  included a suspension of the state’s
constitutionally guaranteed minimum funding for education,
meaning schools are getting about $4.3 billion less than they
would have been guaranteed, or what would have been an 8.7
percent increase over last year.  Cities Less Affected  Cities were less affected by the  budget  because only about
10 percent of their revenue comes the state and federal
government, Moody’s said. Counties, which provide most health
and welfare services in the state, will do well as long as they
match state spending reductions dollar for dollar in those
programs.  “The immediate impact of the adopted, fiscal 2011 state
budget on local governments’ credit quality should be modest,
particularly compared to initial proposals, though the state
budget will remain a on-going rating concern,” Hoffman said.
“Since more than two-thirds of the state’s budget ‘solutions’
are of a temporary or optimistic nature, mid-year state budget
adjustments are likely.”  The  extra yield  investors demand to own 10-year California
bonds climbed 2 basis points on Nov. 5 to 125 basis points more
than that provided by AAA rated  municipal securities , according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. That’s down from 150 basis points
in March. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Michael Marois  in Sacramento, California, at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Tannenbaum  at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  