-- Cameron Leads Biggest Ever U.K. Trade Delegation to China Seeking Deals
-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n   a n d   G o n z a l o   V i n a
-- 2010-11-08T10:59:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-08/cameron-leads-biggest-ever-u-k-trade-delegation-to-china-seeking-deals.html
Prime Minister  David Cameron  leaves
for China today at the head of the largest ever U.K. trade
delegation as he tries to show off his new policy of business-
focused diplomacy.  His delegation includes  Paul Walsh  of  Diageo Plc ,  Kevin Smith  of  GKN Plc ,  Marcus Agius  of  Barclays Plc ,  Peter Voser  of
 Royal Dutch Shell Plc ,  Peter Sands  of  Standard Chartered Plc  and
 Philip Hampton  of  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc .  “This is a vitally important trade mission,” Cameron said
in an e-mailed statement. “Our message is simple: Britain is
now open for business, has a very business-friendly government,
and wants to have a much, much stronger relationship with
China.”  Britain is relying on exports and investment to keep the
economy growing as the deepest budget cuts since World War II
dim the prospects for consumer spending. In July, Cameron said
he had summoned every ambassador back to London to tell them
their job was “winning orders for Britain.”  In 2009, Britain had an 18.9 billion-pound ($31 billion)
 trade deficit  with China, with shipments to the third-largest
economy worth less than a quarter of the Chinese goods it
imported, according to U.K. government figures. China ranked
sixth among the most active investors in the U.K. in the 12
months through March, with 74 projects out of a total 1,619.  Obama Visit  Cameron travels to China as President  Barack Obama 
undertakes a 10-day, four-nation Asia trip to push exports as a
way to create jobs at home and warn against protectionism. He
aims to double U.S. exports in five years. Obama held talks with
Indian Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  in New Delhi today.  Cameron may have to mend fences during his visit over his
statement, during the April general election campaign, that
uncertainty over China was one reason for the U.K. to keep its
nuclear weapons.  The prime minister’s previous trips abroad have sparked
diplomatic rows. In July he told Indian businessmen that
Pakistan had been allowed to “look both ways” on terrorism. A
few days earlier, in Turkey, he suggested Israel’s blockade of
the Gaza Strip had turned it into a “prison camp.” He later
defended his comments as “speaking plainly and clearly.”  Also accompanying Cameron will be Business Secretary  Vince Cable , Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne , Education
Secretary  Michael Gove  and Energy Secretary  Chris Huhne .  Diageo Deal  Stephen Doherty , director of communications at Diageo, said
the U.K. will be raising the company’s attempt to acquire a
controlling stake in Sichuan Chengdu Quanxing Group Co.,
currently awaiting regulatory approval.  “We are obviously grateful that the government intends to
make representations in support of our position,” Doherty said.
“That said, the regulatory decision on this acquisition, and
the timing of that decision, are completely a matter for the
Chinese authorities.”  In a boost to the U.K. drinks industry, Cable planned to
sign a deal during the visit that only whisky made in Scotland
will be marketed as “Scotch.”  Under a 45 million-pound agreement signed by Cable today,
Britain will export breeding pigs to China, home to half the
world’s pig population, the Department for Environment, Food and
Rural Affairs said in an e-mailed statement.  Banking Agreements  The bankers will look to sign agreements during the two-day
trip to increase the presence of U.K. institutions, which
already account for a quarter of foreign banks in China. Osborne
was due to attend the opening of Standard Chartered’s new
headquarters in Beijing today.  “The prime minister, I and the whole government are
committed to a close relationship with China,” Osborne said on
his way to China. “We are determined to be the destination of
choice for investors for years to come.”  Osborne is scheduled to meet China’s top economics
official, Vice Premier  Wang Qishan , tomorrow and discuss energy,
trade and investment alongside Cable and Huhne and their Chinese
counterparts. He will hold a private meeting with Vice Premier
 Li Keqiang  today.  Ministers will also hold talks as Group of 20 leaders
prepare to meet in Seoul later this week. They will discuss
global economic imbalances and regulation, including
systemically important financial institutions that are deemed
too big to fail.  Exchange rates won’t be a separate item on the agenda,
although ministers will discuss them when addressing economic
imbalances, a U.K. Treasury official said.  “I certainly haven’t come here to lecture them on
exchange-rate policy,” Cable said in an interview broadcast on
BBC Radio 4’s “Today” program. “There’s a wider issue of
global imbalances. Exchange rates are part of that much bigger
picture.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Robert Hutton  in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net ;
 Gonzalo Vina  in Beijing at  gvina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net . 