-- Capello Considers Carroll for England, Guardian Says: Soccer Roundup
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   E l s e r
-- 2010-11-08T11:18:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-08/capello-considers-carroll-for-england-guardian-says-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers with clickable links to the Web.  Carroll for Capello?  England coach  Fabio Capello  is planning to select Newcastle
striker  Andy Carroll  even after the 21-year-old’s recent legal
problems,  the Guardian said.   The manager watched Carroll score the only goal in
yesterday’s victory at Arsenal and may name the player in the
squad for an exhibition match against France on Nov. 17, the
newspaper said.  Carroll was fined 1,000 pounds ($1,600) last month after a
brawl in a Newcastle nightclub and is on bail after being
charged with assaulting a former girlfriend, the Guardian said.  Manchester Security  Greater Manchester Police are planning an alcohol-free zone
for two miles outside the town center to prevent violence at the
Nov. 10 match between Manchester City and Manchester United, the
Telegraph said.  While golf balls and darts were confiscated before a League
Cup match between the teams in January, police aren’t
anticipating fights between supporters, the newspaper said.  Ramsey Return  Arsenal’s  Aaron Ramsey , who’s been out since February
because of a broken leg suffered in a match with Stoke, is
scheduled to return to action tonight in a reserve team game,
 the Daily Mail said.   The 19-year-old broke his right fibula and tibia and has
been allowed to do light training, the newspaper said.  Ole Gunnar Gone?  Former Manchester United striker  Ole Gunnar Solskjaer , now
coaching the club’s reserves, may leave after 14 years with the
team to take over as manager of Molde in his home country
Norway,  the Guardian said.   The 37-year-old has turned Molde down twice before, but is
flying to Norway to discuss the job, the newspaper said.  Torres is Staying  Liverpool coach  Roy Hodgson  said striker Fernando Torres
isn’t for sale after the player’s two goals helped defeat league
leader Chelsea yesterday,  the Daily Mail said.   Media reports this season have said the Spaniard may want
to leave the club, which was in the relegation zone after the
first nine matches of the season. Liverpool moved to ninth with
yesterday’s win.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Christopher Elser  in London at 
 celser@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net . 