-- CEOs Most Optimistic on U.S. Profits in Bull Signal for S&P 500
-- B y   L y n n   T h o m a s s o n   a n d   W h i t n e y   K i s l i n g
-- 2010-11-08T22:12:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-08/ceos-most-optimistic-on-u-s-profits-since-1999-in-bull-signal-for-s-p-500.html
More U.S. executives than ever are
 increasing  earnings forecasts compared with those lowering them,
helped by almost $2 trillion of Federal Reserve spending and a
recovery in the global economy.  EBay Inc. , United Parcel Service Inc. and 196 other
companies raised profit estimates above analysts’ projections
last month as 130 firms cut them, the biggest gap since
Bloomberg began tracking the data in 1999. Shipping companies
and computer makers boosted forecasts the most, pushing the
 Morgan Stanley Cyclical Index  of businesses most tied to the
economy up 27 percent since July 2. That beat the 20 percent
rally in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  Companies are raising the outlook for U.S. profits at the
same time the Fed is trying to prevent deflation and reduce
unemployment by purchasing an additional $600 billion in
Treasuries. The last time executives were this optimistic,
stocks climbed 39 percent over the next 3 1/2 years, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  “It’s important for the rally and for the general health
of the market that investors continue to anticipate higher
earnings,” said  Dean Gulis , who manages $3 billion for Loomis
Sayles & Co. in Bloomfield Hills, Michigan. “That companies
themselves are expecting better profits is very positive. As we
see rising earnings, we’ll see improving stock prices.”  GDP Growth  About 1.5 U.S. companies  boosted  earnings estimates above
analysts’ forecasts for each that  cut  projections in October.
That’s about three times the average of 0.59 in the past 10
years, data tracked by Bloomberg show. The ratio fell to a
record low of 0.1 in December 2008, three months after New York-
based Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. filed for bankruptcy. When
it reached 1.1 in March 2004, the S&P 500 rose from 1,126.21 to
a record 1,565.15 in October 2007, Bloomberg data show.  The  S&P 500  has gained almost 201 points since falling to a
10-month low on July 2 after companies from Baltimore-based T.
Rowe Price Group Inc. to  Google Inc.  in Mountain View,
California, topped analysts’ estimates and investors speculated
the Fed would act to boost growth. The benchmark measure of U.S.
stocks rose 3.6 percent to 1,225.85 last  week , the fifth-
straight gain. The S&P 500 slipped 0.2 percent to 1,223.25 at 4
p.m. in New York.  Earnings at  EBay , the owner of the second most-visited e-
commerce site, are getting a boost as consumers make more
purchases online and use its PayPal service to handle money
transfers. The San Jose, California-based company forecast more
fourth-quarter sales and earnings than analysts estimated on
Oct. 20, spurring the biggest gain in the shares in nine months.  Credit Expansion  Consumer  borrowing  in the U.S. unexpectedly increased in
September by the most in two years, led by a surge in non-
revolving credit such as college loans and auto financing, the
Federal Reserve said on Nov. 5. The report was released the same
day the Labor Department said employers added 151,000 jobs in
October, more than twice the median economist prediction.  “We have outperformed our expectations through the first
three quarters of the year, and enter the holiday season with
confidence in our payments business,” said  Bob Swan , EBay’s
chief financial officer, on a conference call following the
earnings release. “From a business standpoint, our global
footprint is expanding.”  Rising international demand for everything from
transportation services to tobacco and power tools is helping
drive profits at companies such as UPS, Philip Morris
International Inc. and Danaher Corp. While forecasts for U.S.
gross domestic product in 2011 have fallen to 2.4 percent from
2.9 percent in July, the biggest emerging markets are expected
to expand at least twice as fast, based on economist estimates
and International Monetary Fund forecasts compiled by Bloomberg.  Freight Traffic  UPS , the world’s largest package-delivery company, raised
its estimate for 2010 income on Oct. 21 and projected growth of
51 percent to 53 percent for the year. That would be the biggest
annual  earnings  increase for the Atlanta-based firm since before
2000, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Freight-train  traffic  has risen 16 percent since July 9,
according to the Association of American Railroads. The index of
carloads at the largest U.S. lines plunged 31 percent from its
highest level in 2008 to May 2009, Bloomberg data show.  “Looking towards peak season, customer sentiment is mixed,
but leaning towards cautious optimism,” UPS CFO  Kurt Kuehn  told
investors and analysts on Oct. 21. “We’re expecting a good,
strong fourth quarter, and I’m extremely confident we’re on our
way back to the high levels of profitability that we’ve
demonstrated in the past.”  Overseas Edge  Investors are betting profits at S&P 500 companies with the
most sales outside the U.S. will beat the market. Corporations
getting at least 50 percent of their revenue from foreign
sources rose more than 10 percentage points more than American-
focused stocks since July 2.  Earnings for the 30 companies in the Morgan Stanley index
of economically sensitive shares will grow 25 percent next year,
almost twice the rate of the S&P 500, according to analyst
estimates compiled by Bloomberg. The cyclicals gauge trades for
12.2 times estimated 2011 earnings, or 0.5 point lower than the
S&P 500, Bloomberg data show.  Philip Morris  said on Oct. 21 that currency fluctuations,
lower taxes and rising sales in countries from Algeria to
Indonesia led the New York-based company to increase its 2010
income projection. The biggest publicly traded tobacco maker has
advanced 30 percent since July 2.  ‘Strong’ Momentum  “We have strong business momentum going into the fourth
quarter and will benefit from higher margins in Japan as well as
price increases in Argentina, France, Indonesia, Italy, Poland,
Portugal, Russia and the U.K.,” said  Hermann Waldemer , the CFO,
in a conference call. “We have market leadership and are
growing volume and overall share in emerging markets.”  Danaher  cited faster growth in emerging markets as one of
the reasons for increasing its 2010 profit forecast on Oct. 21
to between $2.25 and $2.30 a share, the highest since at least
1999, up from a range of $2.16 to $2.23. The Washington-based
maker of Craftsman tools said on Nov. 4 that it gets about 20
percent of revenue from developing nations.  Increased regulation of the financial and health-care
industries is leading businesses to outsource computer services,
 Cognizant Technology Solutions Corp.  said on Nov. 1. The
Teaneck, New Jersey-based provider of data systems support
raised its 2010 earnings forecast and beat analysts’ third-
quarter estimates. The shares are up 28 percent since July 2.  Cost Savings  “Clients continue to search for cost savings in order to
fund growth and innovation in other areas,” Chief Executive
Officer  Francisco D’Souza  said on the call after the quarterly
profit report.  Stock prices have already risen to account for higher
corporate earnings and shares will require a strengthening
economy to climb more, said  Trym Riksen , chief investment
officer for the private-banking division of DnB NOR ASA. The
 valuation  for the companies in the S&P 500 has climbed to 15.3
times reported profit from the past year, from a 14-month low of
13.7 in July, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “This huge wave of positive guidance has already been
priced into the market,” said Riksen, whose Oslo-based firm
oversees the equivalent of about $391 billion. “It would be
very surprising if that huge wave were to be prolonged.”  Rising  raw-material prices  are reducing profitability for
Clorox Co., a maker of household-cleaning products, and apparel
company Jones Group Inc. Earnings are being squeezed as
companies struggle to pass costs onto shoppers at a time when
year-over-year gains in the consumer price index have averaged
1.8 percent in 2010, compared with a 10-year average of 2.5
percent, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Record Cotton  Clorox  lowered its annual profit forecast on Nov. 2, citing
weakening U.S. growth and higher commodity costs. Shares of the
Oakland, California-based company fell the most in almost two
years.  Jones Group  cut its 2010 sales projection on Oct. 27 amid
soaring cotton prices, which reached a record $1.446 a pound on
Nov. 5. Shares of the New York-based clothing maker are down 8.3
percent this year.  Gains in U.S. GDP are trailing the average pace following a
contraction, according to data compiled by the National Bureau
of Economic Research and Bloomberg. NBER said the worst
recession since the 1930s ended in June 2009, and Bloomberg data
show GDP growth will average 2.5 percent a quarter through June
2011, or half the average rate in the two years following
contractions since 1949.  Longest Streak  Most companies are earning more than analysts expected.
More than  70 percent  in the S&P 500 beat profit forecasts in the
July-to-September period for the sixth straight quarter, the
longest streak in Bloomberg data going back to 1993. S&P 500
 earnings  since Oct. 7 were 7 percent higher than analysts
predicted, the data show.  Brazil, Russia, India and China, the biggest developing
nations, are forecast to expand more than the U.S. next year.
Their growth will average 6.6 percent, according to the median
economist forecasts in a Bloomberg survey and IMF projections.  “Earnings have been phenomenal out of corporate America,”
 Robert Doll , who oversees $3.45 trillion as chief equity
strategist at New York-based BlackRock Inc., said in a Nov. 3
interview on Bloomberg Television’s “First Up” with  Susan Li .
“They’ve delivered versus expectations, yet again outshining
the tepid economic recovery. I think that’s the real story.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Lynn Thomasson  in Hong Kong at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net ;
 Whitney Kisling  in New York at 
 wkisling@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 