-- Canada Stocks Fall as U.S. Dollar Gains, Gold Drops From Record
-- B y   M a t t   W a l c o f f
-- 2010-11-09T22:12:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-08/cgi-first-quantum-martinrea-whistler-blackcomb-canadian-equity-preview.html
Canadian stocks  fell for the first
time in four days as materials producers dropped the most in
three weeks as the U.S. dollar surged.  Eldorado Gold Corp., the country’s fifth-biggest gold
producer by market value, lost 5.6 percent as the U.S. dollar
gained against 14 of 16 other major currencies. Toronto-Dominion
Bank, Canada’s second-largest lender by assets, declined 1.3
percent after a Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce analyst said
the industry is in a “sluggish operating environment.”
BlackBerry maker Research In Motion Ltd. declined 2.3 percent
after  Shaw Wu , an analyst at Kaufman Bros. LP, cut his rating on
the shares.  The  Standard & Poor’s/TSX Composite Index  slumped 135.85
points, or 1 percent, the most since Aug. 24, to 12,916.63. The
stock benchmark had jumped  3.9 percent  from Oct. 27 to
yesterday, while the Thomson Reuters/Jefferies CRB Commodity
Price Index rose 5.4 percent, as the U.S. Federal Reserve
announced a $600 billion asset-buying program, weakening the
U.S. currency, and U.S. employment increased more than most
economists forecast.  “The market’s had a heck of a run,” said  Irwin Michael , a
money manager at ABC Group of Funds, which oversees C$1 billion
($995 million) in Toronto. “Now we have to see the meat and
potatoes. It can’t only be the Fed. We’d like to see
continuation of good corporate earnings. We’d like to see the
economy pick up. We’d like to see a little better hiring like we
saw last week, such that it’s not a one-month wonder.”  Dollar Gains  The U.S. dollar gained the most in three weeks against a
basket of world currencies today after an auction of 10-year
Treasuries drew the lowest demand since February.  Gold declined after settling at a record high, while silver
plunged 10 percent from the intraday high in less than three
hours in New York.  Eldorado Gold lost 5.6 percent to C$18. Silver reseller
Silver Wheaton Corp. decreased 8.1 percent to C$32.53 after
jumping 19 percent in the previous three days. Silvercorp Metals
Inc., which mines in China, retreated for the first time in  nine
days , tumbling 8.9 percent to C$11.60.  Golden Star Resources Ltd., which produces gold in Africa,
tumbled 18 percent, the most since 2008, to C$4.93 after
announcing a third-quarter loss. All eight analysts in a
Bloomberg survey had forecast a profit.  The S&P/TSX Financials Index fell for the first time in
five days after CIBC analyst  Robert Sedran  told clients “the
near-term upside is limited” among Canadian banks.  Banks Retreat  Toronto-Dominion declined 1.3 percent to C$73.65. CIBC, the
country’s fifth-biggest lender by assets, lost 1.4 percent to
C$77.62. Bank of Montreal, the No. 4 bank, decreased 2.3 percent
to C$59.37 after Sedran cut its  rating  to “sector perform”
from “sector outperform.”  RIM, Canada’s largest technology company, retreated 2.3
percent to C$55.46 after Kaufman’s Wu said Apple Inc.’s iPhone
and Google Inc.’s Android mobile operating system may crowd
BlackBerry out of the smartphone market.  AT&T Inc. has cut the price of the BlackBerry Torch in
half.  Kate Tellier , a spokeswoman for the carrier, said AT&T is
“pleased with the business and consumer response to the
Torch.”  Cameco Corp., the world’s second-largest uranium producer,
climbed 3.2 percent to C$37.13 after RBC’s  Fraser Phillips 
boosted his rating on the shares to “outperform” from “sector
perform.” In a note to clients, Phillips said China’s increased
target for nuclear-power generation has “changed the market
dynamics” for uranium.  Missing Estimates  PetroBakken Energy Ltd. and Jazz Air Income Fund retreated
a day after reporting financial results that trailed the average
analyst estimate.  PetroBakken, which explores for oil and gas in Canada,
decreased 6.9 percent to C$21.93 after missing the average
profit estimate of six analysts by  33 percent , excluding certain
items. Jazz Air, the regional carrier that flies on behalf of
Air Canada, slumped 6 percent to C$5.32 after its earnings came
up 6.3 percent short of the average of five analyst forecasts,
excluding certain items.  CGI Group Inc., Canada’s biggest computer-services
provider, surged 9.9 percent to a 10-year high of C$17.07. The
company reported fourth-quarter profit that, excluding certain
items, beat the average of 13  analyst estimates  by 11 percent.  Quebecor Inc., the owner of the Toronto Sun, rose 4.9
percent to C$37.29. Its third-quarter earnings beat the average
of 11 analyst forecasts by 6.3 percent, excluding certain items.  Equinox Minerals Ltd., which produces copper in Africa,
plunged 9.4 percent to C$5.79 after First Quantum Minerals Ltd.
said it sold its 16 percent stake in the company. First Quantum
said it derived proceeds of about C$653 million from the sale of
114.1 million Equinox shares.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Matt Walcoff  in Toronto at 
 mwalcoff1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 