-- Chilean Rescue Workers Find Two Miners Dead After Collapse of Copper Site
-- B y   R a n d y   W o o d s   a n d   N a t h a n   C r o o k s
-- 2010-11-08T22:23:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-08/chile-police-en-route-to-rescue-pair-of-trapped-miners-in-atacama-desert.html
Chilean rescue workers found the
bodies of two miners who were trapped underground after the Los
Reyes copper mine collapsed today, the South American country’s
national emergency office  Onemi  said.  Five miners managed to escape the cave-in and at least one
is being treated in the hospital for a minor injury, Tatiana
Rayo, shift manager at Onemi, said in a telephone interview from
Santiago, adding that the information is preliminary. Bloomberg
News was unable to confirm the name of the mine’s owner and
Onemi wasn’t able to provide it.  Chile mining regulators hadn’t authorized the Los Reyes
mine’s operations, Chile Mining Minister  Laurence Golborne  said
in a message on his Twitter account, which was verified by his
press office. The mine’s operator wasn’t licensed to use
explosives, Golborne said.  The accident at the small mine may have been caused by
explosives, Francisco Garcia, a spokesman for the regional
government, said today in a telephone interview. Government and
law enforcement authorities are on the scene to extract the
bodies and investigate the cause of the accident, Rayo said.  33 Miners  The Los Reyes mine is in the same region of the Atacama
Desert as the San Jose copper and gold mine where last month’s
rescue of 33 miners was watched by hundreds of millions of
people around the world. The 70-day rescue in Chile beat a
previous record set during a 25-day rescue of three coal workers
in Guizhou, China, in 2009.  Chile’s government is revamping rules to improve the health
and safety standards of small-scale mines like San Jose,
Minister  Laurence Golborne  said in an Oct. 25 interview.  Los Reyes is about 65 kilometers (40 miles) northeast of
Copiapo, while the San Jose mining operation is 45 kilometers
north of Copiapo.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Randy Woods  in Santiago at 
 Rwoods13@bloomberg.net ; or
 Nathan Crooks  in Santiago at 
 ncrooks@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at   dcrofts@bloomberg.net  