-- Chile Consumer Prices Rose Less-Than-Forecast 0.1% in October; Peso Slides
-- B y   R a n d y   W o o d s
-- 2010-11-08T13:57:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-08/chilean-consumer-prices-increased-less-than-forecast-0-1-in-october.html
Chile’s  consumer prices  increased
less than estimated in October, reducing pressure on the central
bank to continue raising interest rates in coming months.  Consumer prices  climbed 0.1 percent in October from
September and 2 percent from a year ago as costs for goods
excluding fuel and produce fell 0.1 percent, the National
Statistics Institute said. The median forecast of 13 economists
 surveyed by Bloomberg  was for monthly inflation of 0.2 percent.
The central bank targets 3 percent annual inflation.  Inflation was “somewhat” lower than expected because of a
decrease in clothing prices and currency appreciation that cut
the cost of electronic goods, said  Jorge Selaive , chief
economist at  Banco de Credito e Inversiones  in Santiago. Chile’s
peso and interest-rate swap yields fell  “This opens space for the central bank to maintain
interest rates and intervene in the currency market if it
chooses to do so,” he said in a telephone interview today.
“When you intervene you can’t increase rates at the same time
because that would reduce the effectiveness of intervention.”  Chile’s peso fell 0.6 percent to 480.35 per U.S. dollar at
8:44 a.m. New York time. The peso has gained 7.1 percent in the
past three months, beating out six other Latin American
currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  Rate Swaps Fall  Chile’s one-year interest-rate swap rate fell 6 basis
points, or 0.06 percentage point, to 3.57 percent. The two-year
rate lost 10 basis points to 4.07 percent.  Policy makers have discussed intervening in the currency
market, bank President  Jose De Gregorio  said Oct. 6 in prepared
remarks. Chile’s central bank last intervened in 2008 by buying
dollars in the spot market in daily tranches.  Policy makers have raised interest rates in their last five
monthly meetings, saying in a statement accompanying the October
decision they would continue to remove the monetary stimulus at
a pace that depends on economic conditions. At 2.75 percent,
Chile has the lowest benchmark interest rates of the major Latin
American economies tracked by Bloomberg.  Chile may experience inflationary pressure in coming months
as the economy expands on surging internal demand and the
unemployment rate falls,  Alejandro Puente , an economist with
 Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA , said in a Nov. 5 interview.  Consumer prices increased 0.4 percent in September from the
previous month after declining 0.1 percent in August. Annual
inflation was 1.9 percent in September and 2.6 percent in
August. Annual inflation will reach 3.3 percent in 12 months,
according to the median estimate of 49 traders and investors in
an October 27 central bank survey.  Unemployment Rate  Economists in an Oct. 13 central bank survey estimated
annual inflation would reach 3.1 percent in December this year
before falling to 3 percent in September 2012.  Chile’s  unemployment rate  declined to 8 percent in the
three months through September after holding steady at 8.3
percent in the three months through both July and August, the
statistics institute said in an Oct. 29 report.  “The falling unemployment rate and very strong demand
could lead to an acceleration of inflation in coming months,”
Puente said.  Chile’s central bank estimates internal demand will grow 16
percent in 2010 after contracting 5.9 percent in 2009, when the
economy shrank 1.5 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Randy Woods  in Santiago at 
 rwoods13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  