-- China Trade Surplus May Jump in Sign Quick 'Fix' to Elude G-20
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-11-09T10:41:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-08/china-s-trade-surplus-likely-swelled-to-25-billion-in-challenge-to-g-20.html
China may report its second-largest
monthly  trade surplus  of the year, indicating little lasting
shift so far in addressing the imbalances in global spending and
capital flows set to dominate a summit of the Group of 20.  The $25 billion  median forecast  of 27 economists for
October compares with a $16.9 billion excess of exports over
imports in September. The yuan rose the most since a peg against
the dollar was scrapped in July 2005 today, on speculation the
central bank will permit faster appreciation before G-20 leaders
meet Nov. 11-12 in Seoul. The trade report is due tomorrow.  The shift in China’s trade balance, which was in deficit as
recently as March, risks amplifying American calls for a
stronger Chinese exchange rate. A failure by China, the No. 1
exporter, to alter its growth model would be a “serious”
medium-term risk to the domestic and global economies, the World
Bank said last week.  “It’s certainly going to be an area where the U.S. and the
developed economies are likely to say ‘this indicates a
misaligned exchange rate,’” said  Glenn Maguire , chief Asia
economist at Societe Generale SA in Hong Kong. At the same time,
“it’s immensely difficult to fix the global imbalance. It will
take multi-years” to shift demand patterns, he said.  The yuan jumped 0.48 percent to 6.6464 per dollar as of
5:18 p.m. in Shanghai, according to the China Foreign Exchange
Trade System. The People’s Bank of China raised the reference
rate for yuan trading by 0.17 percent to 6.6580 per dollar, the
biggest gain in two weeks.  China Versus Congress  The currency has strengthened 2.7 percent since the end of
a two-year dollar peg on June 19. Twelve-month non-deliverable
forwards climbed 0.34 percent to 6.4540 per dollar, reflecting
bets the currency will strengthen 3 percent, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  “Another big trade surplus is only going to cause the U.S.
Congress to intensify calls for the yuan to appreciate,” said
 Tim Condon , ING Groep NV’s head of Asian research, who worked at
the World Bank from 1987 to 1996.  The U.S. is seeking to press China for faster gains without
triggering a descent into a trade war. Companies including
 Caterpillar Inc. , Wal-Mart Stores Inc. and Citigroup Inc. have
warned American lawmakers that legislation aimed at forcing
China to move could lead to retaliation.  ‘Shock Therapy’  Chinese central bank Governor  Zhou Xiaochuan  has said his
nation needs to avoid the “shock therapy” of excessive yuan
appreciation and “very fast” gains probably wouldn’t end
global economic imbalances. Appreciation of 20 percent to 40
percent would exacerbate Chinese unemployment and cause social
upheaval, according to Premier  Wen Jiabao .  “If the yuan rises to 6 to the dollar, we’re doomed,”
Simon Pan, general manager of Zhejiang Huangyan Hongfan Toys
Factory, said last month at China’s biggest trade fair.  China’s  export  growth may have cooled to 23 percent in
October from a year earlier, compared with a 25.1 percent gain
in September, according to the survey. In a note, UBS AG cited a
high year-earlier base for the likely slowdown.  Condon said government measures to cool the property market
may have capped imports, which rose 28.3 percent, according to
the survey. He estimates China’s annual trade surplus may be
more than $200 billion this year, up from $196 billion in 2009.  President  Hu Jintao  and U.S. counterpart  Barack Obama  will
be among leaders wrestling in Seoul with how to counter global
imbalances to reduce the threat of another financial crisis. The
G-20 includes the largest developed and emerging nations, from
the U.S. and Germany to Japan, China, India and Brazil.  ‘Shadow’ Over World  China needs to shift toward services and consumption and
away from dependence on exports, industry and investment,
according to the Washington-based World Bank.  Global imbalances “and the tensions they create cast a
shadow over the global outlook,” the development finance agency
said. “The combination of large current-account surpluses in
some countries, including China, and large current-account
deficits in other countries, notably the U.S., poses financial
and economic risks, including from possible tension and
contentious policy responses to them.”  A slowdown in  imports  as the effects of domestic stimulus
measures fade is a factor in China’s return to a rising trade
surplus, the lender said.  U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  talked last
month of setting a benchmark of 4 percent of gross domestic
product for assessing nations’ current-account surpluses or
deficits. In contrast, speaking Nov. 6 in Kyoto, Japan, he
refrained from pushing for any set target and said that
addressing imbalances will “take some time.”  The U.S. has faced criticism, including from China, that
its printing of money to spur growth may weaken the dollar and
send more capital flowing into emerging markets, worsening their
inflation and asset-bubble risks, after the Federal Reserve last
week announced a decision to purchase $600 billion of Treasuries.  “The U.S. is losing bargaining power as its quantitative
easing poses risks to other countries,” said  Shen Jianguang , a
Hong Kong-based economist at Mizuho Securities Asia Ltd.  -- Chinmei Sung . With assistance from  Jay Wang  in Singapore and
 Li Yanping  in Beijing. Editors:  Paul Panckhurst ,  Stephanie Phang .  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Chinmei Sung  in Taipei at 
 csung4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey in Tokyo at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  