-- China Corn Crop Failing to Keep Up With Projected Demand, SGS Survey Shows
-- B y   J e f f   W i l s o n
-- 2010-11-08T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-08/china-corn-harvest-gains-failing-to-keep-up-with-demand-sgs-survey-shows.html
Corn production in  China  probably
rose 7.3 percent this year, a survey of farmers showed,
signaling output from the world’s second-largest grower failed
to keep pace with projected demand for a second year.  The harvest increased to 154.56 million metric tons (6.085
billion bushels) from 144.374 million last year, after farmers
planted more and favorable weather boosted yields, based on
interviews completed during the harvest in September and October
by Geneva-based  SGS SA  for Bloomberg. The U.S. Department of
Agriculture expects consumption to expand by 2.6 percent in
China to 160 million tons in the year from Oct. 1.  China, which trails only the U.S. in production and use,
became a  net importer  last year for the first time in 14 years
after drought damaged crops. The government has been selling
grain from state-owned inventories to cool the rally in domestic
prices. In Chicago, corn futures jumped 60 percent in the past
year to a 26-month high last week.  “China will not have a surplus of corn to fall back on
this year because demand is growing faster than production,”
said  David Smoldt , a vice president for  FCStone Group Inc. , a
commodity brokerage and consultant in West Des Moines, Iowa.
“Rising demand in China makes them a wild card for prices in
2011.”  Last month, FCStone’s own crop scouts in China forecast a
harvest of 162 million to 163 million tons, and independent
researcher Shanghai JC Intelligence Co. predicted 153.29
million. The USDA, which said on Oct. 8 that it expected a 7.1
percent gain to 166 million tons, is scheduled to update its
estimate tomorrow in Washington.  Food Inflation  “The key fact from this survey is the percentage change in
production, because Cargill, the Chinese government and other
private traders all use their own production figures from last
year,” said Bernardo Nogueira, the director of agricultural
services for SGS North America in Rutherford, New Jersey. “The
crops are getting back to normal and better than last year’s
drought-reduced harvest.”  China, where the  economy  grew 9.6 percent in the third
quarter, may become more reliant on foreign suppliers as rising
domestic food prices pushed inflation to a 23-month high in
September, the USDA’s Foreign Agricultural Service said in a
Nov. 5  report .  “If prices continue to escalate, the U.S. may see greater
opportunities to export key commodities to China,” Ryan Scott
and Catherine Barker wrote in the USDA unit’s report from
Beijing.  Improved Yields  Crop yields rose 6.3 percent after farmers increased the
area planted by 1 percent from a year earlier and the weather
conditions improved, according to SGS.  The northeast region received about 150 percent of normal
rainfall in July and August, aiding crops during the
reproduction stage and helping to fill kernels with sugar and
starch, according to World Weather Inc. in Overland Park,
Kansas.  “China did not have the extremes in weather this year,”
Smoldt said. “Still, they cannot have a blip in production next
year to maintain comfortable reserves,” because demand
continues to rise for corn used mostly in livestock feed and
chemicals, he said.  The survey was compiled using three teams of agronomists
who traveled about 17,000 kilometers (10,566 miles) across the
seven-biggest producing provinces, including Jilin and Shandong.
SGS interviewed 300 farmers face to face in the main growing
regions of central and northeast  China  that accounted for about
69 percent of last year’s harvest.  Top Producers  Yields in Jilin, China’s top-growing region, will increase
11 percent, survey data show. The biggest gain was 21 percent in
Heilongjiang province, the third-largest producer in 2009, the
research showed. The final crop estimate was derived from survey
results and official government forecasts for the rest of China,
which is widely dispersed and more difficult to survey.  The survey’s margin of error was 6.5 percent, with a sample
size determined to obtain a 95 percent confidence level,
according to SGS. The surveyors used their own results to
estimate crops in central and northeast growing areas and data
from China’s National Grain and Oils Information Center for the
southern regions.  Domestic production and government-owned stockpiles of corn
have helped keep the country largely  self-sufficient  for 14
years, with imports below 1 percent of output, USDA data show.  Stockpile Sales  China sold 13.7 million tons from state stockpiles in the
north of the country to slow gains in domestic prices as of the
middle of September. China probably has adequate state reserves
to ensure there is enough corn to meet demand for now, FCStone’s
Smoldt said.  The U.S. Grains Council, a trade group partially funded by
the government, said Oct. 5 that Chinese production would rise
to 158 million tons, after the organization conducted its 15th
annual tour of fields in northeast provinces.  Imports this year may be 2 million to 3 million tons,
jumping to 15 million by 2015, Thomas C. Dorr, the grain
council’s president and chief executive officer, said last
month. Imports of dried distillers grain, a corn-based byproduct
of ethanol production used as animal feed, may rise to 2.5
million to 3 million tons in 2010, Dorr said.  China’s demand for corn will continue to be bolstered by
industrial use of starch and animal feed, Dorr said. Industrial
use, including for adhesives, cleaners and chemicals, may expand
by 15 percent or more next year and animal feed will grow at 3
percent to 5 percent each year, he said.  Food Security  Rising Chinese imports “reflect a recognition by Chinese
government officials that food security does not necessarily
have to be built on food self sufficiency,” Dorr said last
month. “It all adds up to an opportunity for U.S. corn.”  The SGS survey also asked farmers about their planting
plans for next year, farm size and type of ownership.  Farmers surveyed said they expect to reduce corn acreage by
1.8 percent in 2011, SGS said. Only 2 percent of all farms were
more than 8 hectares (19.8 acres), while 58 percent were less
than 1 hectare. On land ownership, 79 percent of farmers
surveyed said they own the land cultivated in 2010 and 21
percent was rented, the survey showed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jeff Wilson  in Chicago at 
 jwilson29@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net . 