-- China Battle With Housing Bubble Sends Buyers to Hong Kong
-- B y   K e l v i n   W o n g
-- 2010-11-09T02:55:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-08/china-housing-curbs-hamper-hong-kong-s-bubble-fight-as-buyers-cross-border.html
Lam Yuet-fung expected 1,000 people a
day to visit his booth at a five-day convention in Shenzhen
starting Oct. 1 to inquire about buying homes in neighboring
Hong Kong. By day four, more than 10,000 had stopped by.  “The reaction has never been as good,” said Lam, who
credits the interest to the Shenzhen government’s Sept. 30
 announcement  that it is restricting home purchases by most local
residents to two units. Lam, the regional project associate
director at Hong Kong-based  Centaline Property Agency Ltd. , said
almost half of the visitors made appointments to look at
properties in Hong Kong, or left contact details.  China’s effort to prevent a  housing bubble  in cities such
as Shenzhen, the country’s first special economic zone, is
hampering Hong Kong’s own battle to curb a 50 percent  surge  in
home prices since early 2009. Chinese buyers accounted for a
third of new luxury home purchases in the first half, up from
about 20 percent in the previous six months, Centaline, the
city’s biggest closely held real-estate agency, said.  “More curbs in the mainland will trigger more funds to
move across the border,” said Eddie Hui, a professor in the
real estate and construction department at the  Hong Kong
Polytechnic University . “All that money needs a way out.
There’s a strong belief among mainland Chinese that investing in
property is the best way to preserve capital value.”  The  Hang Seng Property Index , which tracks the performance
of seven developers in Hong Kong, fell 1.3 percent as of 10:54
a.m. local time. The gauge  is up  18 percent this year.  China Property Tax  China unexpectedly raised borrowing costs on Oct. 19 for
the first time since 2007. Consumer prices jumped 3.6 percent in
September from a year earlier, while  home prices  in 70 cities
rose 9.1 percent in September from a year earlier, even after
officials extended curbs on property purchases.  The country may start levying a property tax on a trial
basis before March, the China Securities Journal  reported  Oct.
25, citing Nie Meisheng, president of the China Real Estate
Chamber of Commerce. The government said in September it will
speed up the introduction of a trial property tax in some cities
and then expand the levy to the whole country.  Hong Kong, a former British colony and special
administrative region returned to Chinese rule in 1997, is a
trade and financial hub for the mainland with its own legal and
currency systems. Its population of 7.1 million is dwarfed by
China’s 1.3 billion people.  Showrooms  Hong Kong developers are increasing efforts to lure
mainland buyers.  Sun Hung Kai Properties Ltd. , Hong Kong’s
biggest developer and the world’s largest by market value, has
sold about 300 houses in a luxury project in Sheung Shui, a
district about 30 minutes drive from the Shenzhen border, since
sales began early October, the company said.  The company, which has set up in Shenzhen a showroom with
agents, models and artists’ impressions of the project,
estimates as many as 60 percent of the buyers were from the
mainland or Hong Kong businessmen who base their businesses
across the border, said Andy Chan, a senior sales and marketing
manager at Sun Hung Kai, in a statement.  Henderson Land Development Co. , the Hong Kong developer
controlled by billionaire  Lee Shau-kee , has also held regular
roadshows in “multiple locations,” including Shenzhen, to
promote its Hong Kong projects, spokeswoman  Bonnie Ngan  said.  “If you can identify where those Chinese investment
dollars are going next, you’ll make a fortune,”  Michael Klibaner , head of China research at Jones Lang Lasalle Inc. in
Hong Kong, told the Hedge Funds Asia Summit hosted by Bloomberg
Link in the city on Oct. 19. “You’re talking about a tremendous
amount of money. Wherever it goes, asset appreciation would
follow.”  Millionaire Ranks  The number of millionaires in China climbed 6.1 percent
from a year earlier to 875,000, the Shanghai-based Hurun Report,
which lists the country’s richest individuals, said in April.
China has the second-most billionaires in the world after the
U.S., according to Forbes magazine.  Hong Kong home prices more than doubled from a trough in
2003 on a recovering economy, low interest rates, and an influx
of mainland Chinese buyers whose travel restrictions to the city
have been gradually relaxed. Prior to 2003, home values went
through a slump that began shortly after the Asian financial
crisis hit in 1997, the height of the previous bubble.  Concerns that housing may become unaffordable for the
majority of Hong Kong’s population have forced Chief Executive
 Donald Tsang ’s government to bring in curbs to rein in prices.
The measures include stopping offering residency to foreigners
who buy property in the city and a plan to build more apartments
for first-time property buyers, both of which Tsang unveiled in
his Oct. 13 policy address.  Halting the residency eligibility won’t do much to cool
Hong Kong prices, said  Cusson Leung , a Hong Kong-based analyst
at Credit Suisse Group AG. “Most mainlanders invest in Hong
Kong through their relatives or their business. I don’t see how
changing that will have any meaningful impact.”  The city’s residential property prices will likely gain 30
percent from now until the end of 2011 because a weaker dollar
will boost asset inflation, Leung and  Joyce Kwock  wrote in a
Credit Suisse note to clients dated today.  Former Fishing Village  In September, China told commercial banks to stop offering
loans to buyers of third homes and extended a 30 percent down-
payment requirement to all first-home buyers.  Shenzhen was the first Chinese city to benefit when the
country under then-leader Deng Xiaoping opened its doors to
foreign investment in the 1970s. Since then it has transformed
itself from a small fishing village into a major manufacturing
and financial centre for China. It also has the country’s
second-busiest container port after Shanghai.  Shenzhen families with residency status in the city are now
limited to the purchase of two homes and those without a permit
are allowed to buy one if they can show they have paid taxes in
the city for at least a year, according to the Sept. 30
government statement.  “The pool of money will always be there and they’re always
looking for speculative opportunities,” said  Eric Wong , a Hong
Kong-based analyst at UBS AG. “If you shut down one possible
destination then, naturally, they’ll have to find somewhere else
to move into, and there’s a chance more of those funds would
flow into Hong Kong.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Kelvin Wong  in Hong Kong at 
 kwong40@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  