-- China Is `Available' to Support Portugal Through Financial Crisis, Hu Says
-- B y   J o a o   L i m a
-- 2010-11-08T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-08/china-is-available-to-support-portugal-through-financial-crisis-hu-says.html
China said it’s “available” to
support Portugal’s efforts to come through the economic crisis
that has prompted its borrowing costs to spiral this year.  “We are available to support, through concrete measures,
Portuguese efforts to face the impacts caused by the
international financial crisis, and deepen and broaden our
economic and commercial cooperation,” Chinese President  Hu Jintao  said in Lisbon yesterday.  He didn’t specify what such measures might be. The Chinese
president yesterday ended a two-day visit to Portugal and did
not mention Portuguese bonds or debt in public comments.  The extra  yield  investors demand to hold Portuguese debt
rather than German bunds widened last week even after the
minority government on Nov. 3 passed a budget plan that features
wage and spending reductions to trim the euro region’s fourth-
largest deficit from 9.3 percent of 2009 gross domestic product.  China “has always given positive and favorable
consideration” to bond purchases when making state visits, Vice
Foreign Minister  Fu Ying  said on Oct. 28.  Portuguese Economy Minister  Jose Vieira da Silva  on Nov. 6
said that the existence of institutions and countries that are
interested in diversifying their portfolio with Portugal’s bonds
is “a positive factor.”  “If we are able to place that debt with a logic of greater
diversification and greater equilibrium among the various
financial agents, that is a factor of greater security not only
for the placement of that debt, but also for its management,”
Vieira da Silva said.  Bond Sales  Portugal plans to sell as much as 1.25 billion euros ($1.75
billion) of bonds due 2016 and 2020 on Nov. 10. The yield at a
Nov. 3 auction of 1.03 billion euros of three- and 12-month
bills climbed and demand declined for the securities. Portugal
paid 3.26 percent for the 12-month debt, up from 2.886 percent
on Oct. 6.  The spread on Portugal’s 10-year bonds over German bunds
was at 410 basis points on Nov. 5. The spread soared to a euro-
era record of 441 basis points on Sept. 28. German calls for
bondholders to share the burden of any future debt restructuring
have also made investors wary of lending to Europe’s most-
indebted nations.  Portugal’s planned spending cuts for next year are set to
be the biggest since at least 1978, according to EU statistics
office Eurostat, as the government tries to convince investors
it can narrow its budget deficit and curb debt. The austerity
measures may hurt Portugal’s  economic growth , which has averaged
less than 1 percent a year in the past decade.  Exports  The government is counting on exports such as paper and
wood products to support growth. The budget forecasts economic
growth of 0.2 percent next year, slower than this year’s
estimated 1.3 percent pace.  “The Chinese government encourages competitive companies
to invest and operate in Portugal, and we welcome Portuguese
companies to participate energetically in the competition in the
Chinese market,” Hu said yesterday. “We will do everything so
that trade between China and Portugal can double by 2015.”  Portugal’s budget gap last year was the highest in the euro
region after Ireland, Greece and Spain. It aims to lower the
 shortfall  to 7.3 percent this year, 4.6 percent in 2011 and meet
the EU’s 3 percent limit in 2012.  The Finance Ministry forecasts Portugal’s public debt as
percentage of GDP will increase to 86.6 percent in 2011 from
about 82.1 percent this year. Finance Minister  Fernando Teixeira 
dos Santos said on Oct. 16 that he expects the ratio to
“stabilize” in 2012 and to start declining in 2013.  Portugal’s budget plan calls for lowering the wage bill 5
percent for public-sector workers earning more than 1,500 euros
a month, freezing public hiring and raising the value-added tax
by 2 percentage points to 23 percent. The governing Socialists
have agreed to reconsider some public-works projects including
public-private partnerships to overcome the opposition of the
Social Democratic Party to the budget.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joao Lima  in Lisbon at 
 jlima1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net . 