-- CIG Insurance Says Hungarian Special Tax on Banks Is `Disproportionate'
-- B y   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 2010-11-08T12:30:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-08/cig-pannonia-insurance-says-hungary-s-financial-tax-is-disproportionate-.html
CIG Pannonia Eletbiztosito Nyrt. , the
life insurer that debuted on the Budapest Stock Exchange today,
sees Hungary’s special tax for financial institutions as a
“disproportionately” large burden, its chairman said.  In 2010, CIG expects to pay 418 million forint ($2.1
million) from the tax, which will be levied for three years,
 Zsigmond Jarai  said.  “We think it is disproportionately large for a new
insurer,” Jarai said in an interview today.  The company received 15 billion forint in fee income in the
first nine months of 2010, 80 percent more than in the first
half of the year. CIG expects to maintain that pace of growth in
the last three months and to keep it above 20 percent “in the
next few years,” said Jarai, a former central bank governor.  CIG, the first insurer to list on the exchange, traded at
881 forint at 12:21 p.m. in Budapest, after opening at 900
forint.  Hungary this year imposed a special levy on the finance
industry to help plug a budget deficit. The tax has drawn
criticism from the European Central Bank and the International
Monetary Fund for its size. The government also introduced new
taxes for energy, telecommunication and retail companies.  Mihaly Varga , chief of staff to Prime Minister  Viktor Orban , acknowledged the tax “significantly” limited CIG’s room
for manoeuvre. He said at a joint press conference with Jarai
that the tax would support Hungarian stocks over the longer term
by helping to clean up public finances and improve the country’s
investor image. He said CIG’s listing would have been “easier”
without the levy being introduced.  Jarai, who served as finance minister during Orban’s
previous term in office, said it typically took six to seven
years for insurers to make a profit because of upfront broker
fees. CIG has been operating for three years.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andras Gergely  at 
 agergely@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  