-- Citigroup Plans to Hire Managers in Europe in `Top Priority' for U.S. Bank
-- B y   G a v i n   F i n c h
-- 2010-11-08T16:03:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-08/citigroup-to-hire-bankers-in-europe-after-talent-flight-to-barclays-bofa.html
Citigroup Inc.  is planning to hire
employees for its European business as the firm rebuilds after a
string of departures.  “Growth is a top priority at Citigroup,” spokesman  Jeff French  said today in a telephone interview in London. “We have
reduced our overall expense base dramatically in recent years
while refocusing the company, and we are now ramping up
investment in our core businesses, including markets and
banking.”  Citigroup is adding senior bankers in Europe, hiring at
least 15 managing directors this year.  Pantelis Lekkas  joined to
run corporate and investment-banking operations in Greece and
Cyprus from Bank of America Corp. and  Gilles Graham  was hired
from Nomura Holdings Inc. to advise clients in the financial-
services Industry.  The hiring follows the departures this year from Citigroup
of at least 12 European managing directors who left the last
partially U.S. government-owned securities firm to join
competitors such as Bank of America and  Barclays Plc ’s
investment-banking unit.  Citigroup is looking to add employees worldwide. The bank
plans to almost triple its workforce in China to as many as
12,000 people in the next three years,  Stephen Bird , Citigroup’s
co-chief executive officer of the Asia-Pacific region, said in
an interview on Aug. 31.  CEO  Vikram Pandit  announced a plan to exit more than two
dozen businesses after the bank received a $45 billion bailout
in late 2008.  Citigroup , which repaid $20 billion of the bailout
money in December, is still 12 percent owned by the U.S.
Treasury Department. The U.S. plans to sell its remaining shares
by the end of 2010.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Gavin Finch  in London at 
 gfinch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  