-- Collahuasi Says Copper Mine Running Normally as Strike Enters Fourth Day
-- B y   M a t t   C r a z e
-- 2010-11-08T20:23:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-08/collahuasi-says-copper-mine-running-normally-as-strike-enters-fourth-day.html
Anglo American Plc  and  Xstrata Plc 
kept their Collahuasi venture operating as usual after a strike
by unionized workers at the world’s fourth-largest copper mine
entered a fourth day, a Collahuasi spokeswoman said.  “Operations are normal,” Bernardita Fernandez said by
telephone today. The company knew “with a lot of anticipation”
when a potential strike would begin, she said.  Trucks travelled from the mine site and the company’s port
without restriction yesterday as workers focused protests 185
kilometers (114 miles) away at a school in the coastal city of
Iquique, waving flags and shouting from the school’s balcony.  Copper rose to a 28-month high last week on concern a
prolonged strike will affect output at Collahuasi. That may
happen if the strike lasts longer than a week,  Hussein Allidina ,
an analyst at Morgan Stanley, said in a report e-mailed today.  The company probably stockpiled ore to be processed at its
concentrator, Macquarie Group Ltd. analysts led by London-based
 Duncan Hobbs  said in a Nov. 5 note to investors. Non-union
employees and contract workers are being used, Fernandez said,
declining to give details of the company’s contingency plan.  Wage Talks  Wage contract talks ended on Nov. 4 after workers rejected
a proposal that included a bonus of 11.5 million pesos ($24,079)
and a further 2 million pesos of loans.  Hundreds of workers wearing black jackets with the
company’s logo emblazoned on them marched through the streets of
Iquique today to demand a bigger share of the mine’s profits. No
talks have occurred with management, union leader Jacqueline
Cerda said during the protest, without elaborating further.  The union hasn’t approached the company for new talks,
Fernandez said. She didn’t say if the company plans to approach
the union.  The mine, about 4,000 meters above sea level in the Chilean
Andes, produced 535,000 metric tons last year, or 3.5 percent of
global output, according to Standard Bank Plc. Anglo American
and Xstrata each own 44 percent and a group led by  Mitsui & Co. 
holds the rest. Its production is only surpassed by  BHP Billiton
Ltd.’s  Escondida, Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc.’s Grasberg
mine in Indonesia and Codelco’s Norte division in Chile.  Collahuasi is unrelated to the San Jose copper mine where
the rescue of 33 miners was watched by millions of people across
the world last month.  Copper futures for delivery in December added 0.8 cent, or
0.2 percent, to close at $3.9565 a pound at 1 p.m. on the Comex
in New York. The metal has advanced 38 percent since July 1 as
the dollar slumped and inventories dropped.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Matt Craze  in Santiago at 
 mcraze@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at   dcrofts@bloomberg.net  