-- Colombian Bond Yields Drop to Record on Unexpected Fall in Consumer Prices
-- B y   A n d r e a   J a r a m i l l o
-- 2010-11-08T19:54:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-08/colombian-bond-yields-drop-to-record-on-unexpected-fall-in-consumer-prices.html
Colombia’s peso bonds rose, pushing
yields to a record low, after an unexpected drop in consumer
prices last month buoyed demand for the fixed-rate securities.  The yield on the nation’s benchmark 11 percent bonds due
2020 fell 2 basis points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 6.97
percent at 2:44 p.m. New York time, according to Colombia’s
stock exchange. That’s its lowest level on a closing basis since
the securities were first issued in July 2005. The bond’s price
climbed 0.130 centavo to 127.704 centavos per peso.  Consumer prices fell 0.09 percent in October from September
led by a decline in food costs, the  national statistics agency 
said late Nov. 5. Economists expected a 0.01 percent increase,
according to the median estimate of 30 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg.  “With these new inflation numbers, we should see further
gains in bonds, especially in the securities due 2020 and
2024,” said  Daniel Lozano , an analyst at Medellin-based
brokerage Serfinco SA. Yields may fall to 6.84 percent by year-
end, he said.  Central bank chief  Jose Dario Uribe  said Nov. 5 at the
presentation of the bank’s quarterly  inflation  report that
consumer prices may climb as little as 2.6 percent this year and
close to 2 percent next year. Banco de la Republica targets
inflation this year between 2 percent and 4 percent.  ‘Preparing Markets’  The unexpected drop in consumer prices may lead investors
to bet on a further cut in the central bank’s  overnight lending
rate , Lozano said. The bank last lowered the key rate in April,
reducing it to a record 3 percent. Policy makers next meet Nov.
19.  “The market might start pricing in a rate cut,” Lozano
said. The central bank will likely wait until the second half of
next year to raise interest rates, he said.  The Colombian peso weakened 0.6 percent to 1,832.03 per
U.S. dollar, from 1,820.70 at the end of last week. The peso has
strengthened 11.6 percent this year, the third-best performance
after the Japanese yen and the Australian dollar among 31 major
currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  Banco de la Republica may be “preparing” markets for a
rate cut amid the strong peso and an “improved” inflation
outlook, Roubini Global Economics LLC economists  Bertrand Delgado  and Juan Lorenzo Maldonado wrote in a report today.  “Such strategy would kill two birds with one stone, as it
would continue to support economic activity while reducing
incentives for capital inflows and releasing tension from the
currency,” they wrote.  In a bid to ease gains in the peso, the central bank said
Sept. 15 it will buy a minimum of $20 million a day through
auctions, later extending the purchases until “at least” March
15. Uribe has also left open the possibility of additional
acquisitions, saying the bank can buy dollars in the market
through a local clearing house “at any time.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrea Jaramillo  in Bogota at 
 ajaramillo1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  