-- Comcast Control of NBC Will Add $2 Billion to Consumers' Bills, Group Says
-- B y   T o d d   S h i e l d s
-- 2010-11-08T21:35:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-08/comcast-control-of-nbc-will-add-2-billion-to-consumers-bills-group-says.html
Comcast Corp. ’s purchase of NBC
Universal would add at least $2.4 billion to consumers’ pay-
television bills over nine years because the combined company
would gain power to raise prices, a cable-industry group said
today.  The enlarged Comcast might demand that customers pay more
for NBC programming, and charge more in markets where it has a
regional sports network, the American Cable Association said in
an e-mailed news release. The Pittsburgh-based group says it
represents almost 900 small- and medium-sized cable companies.  The Federal Communications Commission and Justice
Department are weighing the proposed $28 billion acquisition,
which would give Comcast, the largest U.S. cable company,
control of the NBC television network, broadcast stations, cable
channels such as MSNBC and USA Network and a movie studio.  Comcast disputed the association’s financial projection.
“Once again, ACA has submitted flawed economic analysis,”  Sena Fitzmaurice , a Washington-based spokeswoman for Comcast, said in
an e-mailed statement. “It relies on assumptions and
calculations that are unsupported, directly contradicted by
available data, and contrary to previous FCC rulings.”  Comcast  fell  13 cents to $20.91 at 4:29 p.m. New York time
in Nasdaq Stock Market  trading .  The American Cable Association said control over NBC, a
 General Electric Co.  unit, would let Philadelphia-based Comcast
raise prices “way above levels the two would be able to command
as separate and independent companies.”  Bravo, USA Channels  The group wants regulators to restrict Comcast from selling
NBC TV station signals or its nine regional sports networks in a
bundle with national cable channels it would own such as Bravo
and USA. It also has asked for binding arbitration in fee
disputes.  Bloomberg LP, the parent company of Bloomberg News and
Bloomberg Television, has filed documents opposing the merger as
it is currently proposed.  The cable industry group’s statement relied on a study
conducted by  William Rogerson , a professor of economics at
Northwestern University in Evanston, Illinois. He served as
chief economist at the FCC in 1988 and 1989, according to the
university’s website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Todd Shields  in Washington at 
 tshields3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Allan Holmes at 
 aholmes25@bloomberg.net . 