-- Commerzbank Third-Quarter Profit Misses Estimates
-- B y   J a n n   B e t t i n g a
-- 2010-11-08T11:58:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-08/commerzbank-third-quarter-profit-misses-estimates-shares-fall.html
Commerzbank AG , Germany’s second-
biggest lender, slumped the most since May in Frankfurt trading
after reporting a third-quarter profit that fell short of
analysts’ estimates.  Net income of 113 million euros ($158 million) compared
with a loss of 1.06 billion euros in the year-earlier period,
the Frankfurt-based company said in a statement today. That
missed the 148.4 million-euro average projection of 12 analysts
 surveyed  by Bloomberg.  Commerzbank, which bought unprofitable Dresdner Bank last
year to expand its private-client business, is struggling to
boost earnings at the unit, where operating profit dropped 40
percent in the quarter. The central and eastern European
division posted its first quarterly operating loss in 2010.
Overall earnings were helped by a drop in loan-loss provisions.  “I would have expected Commerzbank to benefit more from
the economic recovery,” said  Konrad Becker , an analyst at Merck
Finck & Co. in Munich who recommends selling the stock. “The
retail bank performed badly.”  Commerzbank dropped as much as 4.3 percent, the biggest
intraday decline since May 25, and traded down 3.9 percent at
6.37 euros as of 12:34 p.m. local time, cutting the company’s
market value to about 7.5 billion euros.  Unit Results  The private-client unit’s operating profit fell to 27
million euros from 45 million euros a year earlier. The central
and eastern European division posted an operating loss of 31
million euros because of problems in Ukraine, where it controls
Bank Forum JSC. The asset-based finance unit, which comprises
mainly property and ship finance, had an operating loss of 404
million euros amid writedowns on commercial real estate.  The lender said today that it expects to achieve net income
of at least 1 billion euros in 2010 under international
financial reporting standards, following a  loss  of about 4.5
billion euros last year. Operating profit in 2011 will probably
be higher than this year’s result, Chief Financial Officer  Eric Strutz  said on a conference call, without providing numbers.  The company had a “good start” to the fourth quarter and
aims to post a profit in the three months ending Dec. 31, though
it can’t rule out a loss for the period, he said. Strutz said
Commerzbank is sticking to its 2012 profit targets, while adding
this doesn’t include future charges from regulatory changes.  Bad-loan provisions in the third quarter dropped to 621
million euros from 1.05 billion euros a year earlier. That was
better than the 669 million-euro average analyst estimate in a
Bloomberg survey. Provisions for 2010 will probably total less
than 2.7 billion euros, the bank said today.  State Aid  Societe Generale SA , France’s second-largest bank, said
last week that third-quarter profit more than doubled after
setting aside less money for bad loans. Frankfurt-based  Deutsche
Bank AG , Germany’s biggest lender, last month reported third-
quarter results that beat estimates after the investment banking
unit posted higher profit.  Commerzbank was forced to tap Germany for 18.2 billion
euros of aid during the global financial crisis. That included a
capital injection of 16.4 billion euros by the country’s Soffin
bank-rescue fund, known as the silent participation. Commerzbank
didn’t pay interest on the government capital for 2009 because
it posted a loss last year.  Commerzbank has to sell its Eurohypo property-finance unit
by the end of 2014 to meet European Union requirements for
approving the state aid. Strutz said the bank expects to book an
impairment charge of about 1 billion euros in 2010 related to
Eurohypo’s value under German accounting rules, while adding
that this won’t impact the lender’s IFRS results.  Interest on Aid  Strutz didn’t say whether Commerzbank expects to post an
overall loss under German accounting. The lender has said it
depends on the full-year result under domestic standards for
whether or not it will pay interest on state aid for 2010.  The Basel Committee on Banking Supervision, which
represents central banks and regulators in 27 nations and sets
capital standards for lenders, announced new rules in September
that aim to head off another global banking crisis. The
measures, known as Basel III, more than double capital
requirements, while giving lenders several years to comply.  Commerzbank’s Tier 1  capital ratio , a measure of financial
strength, was 11.2 percent at the end of September, compared
with 10.8 percent at the end of June, it said today. The so-
called core Tier 1 ratio was 9.9 percent. The company targets a
core Tier 1 ratio of 7 percent to 8 percent and a Tier 1 ratio
of 9 percent to 10 percent under Basel III, Strutz said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jann Bettinga  in Frankfurt at 
 jbettinga@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net . 