-- Commonwealth Bank Plans Inaugural Offering of CommBank Retail Bonds
-- B y   S a r a h   M c D o n a l d   a n d   L i s a   P h a m
-- 2010-11-08T05:34:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-08/commonwealth-bank-plans-inaugural-offering-of-commbank-retail-bonds.html
Commonwealth Bank of Australia  is
planning a retail bond sale to diversify funding a week after
the nation’s treasurer said the lender’s decision to raise
interest rates by more than the central bank was a “cynical
cash grab.”  The country’s biggest home lender may sell five-year debt
paying between 100 basis points and 115 basis points more than
the bank bill swap rate, it said in a statement to the
Australian stock exchange today. The Sydney-based bank is
seeking to raise at least A$500 million ($507 million) through
the sale,  Lyn Cobley , Commonwealth Bank’s treasurer, said in a
phone interview.  “It’s another sign of the Australian banks looking to tap
a more diversified funding base,”  John Manning , Sydney-based
senior credit strategist at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc,
said by phone today. “There is good appetite for Australian
bank paper by retail investors, however there hasn’t been the
product there available for them.”  Australia’s  retail bond market  accounted for less than 1
percent of the debt sold between January and November last year,
according to the Australian Securities & Investments Commission.  Commonwealth Bank, which needs to sell about A$50 billion
of long-term bonds a year to fund lending according to Moody’s
Investors Service, blamed higher funding costs when it raised
its standard mortgage rate by 45 basis points compared with the
central bank’s 25 basis point increase last week.  Treasurer  Wayne Swan  condemned the move as a “cynical cash
grab,” while Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  said the government
is working on reforms to boost competition amongst lenders. A
basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  Diversify Funding  ASIC changed its prospectus requirements for retail bond
offers in May, as part of a push to develop debt markets and
make the securities easier for companies to issue.  The initial interest rate for Commonwealth Bank’s retail
bonds will be at least 6 percent, according to the lender. They
will be tradable on the nation’s stock exchange, according to
the statement.  “It shows us actively trying to diversify our sources of
funding and reduce our reliance on the offshore markets, which
have proven to be very volatile and expensive,” Cobley said in
the interview. “We’re trying to protect customers from further
volatility, to the extent we can.”  The backlash against last week’s rate rise won’t hurt
appetite for the bonds because there’s a lot of demand among
individual investors for listed fixed-income products, Cobley
said.  Deposit Rates  Commonwealth Bank is the largest Australian company to
offer retail bonds, it said in today’s statement.  The lender is currently offering 6 percent interest on a
12-month term deposit, according to its  website . A five-year
deposit is quoted at 6.4 percent.  National Australia Bank Ltd., which holds the same AA debt
rating as Commonwealth Bank, priced A$800 million of five-year
floating-rate notes to yield a 120 basis point spread on Oct. 29,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sarah McDonald  in Sydney at 
 smcdonald23@bloomberg.net ;
 Lisa Pham  in Sydney at 
 lpham14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will McSheehy at 
 wmcsheehy@bloomberg.net . 