-- Copper Extends Rally as Investors Bet Stimulus Will Bolster Metal Demand
-- B y   Y i   T i a n   a n d   M a r i a   K o l e s n i k o v a
-- 2010-11-08T20:03:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-08/copper-may-fall-as-stronger-dollar-erodes-investment-demand.html
Copper rose for the third straight
day in New York on demand from investors who bet the additional
stimulus money pledged by the Federal Reserve will bolster the
U.S. economy.  The Fed said last week it will purchase an additional $600
billion of Treasuries through June. Copper prices jumped 4.3
percent in the previous two days, reaching $3.9955 a pound on
Nov. 5, the highest level in 28 months. The metal also rose on
concern that a strike at the Collahuasi mine in Chile would
worsen supply shortages.  “The retail investors continue to plow money into the
copper market,” said Michael Gross, an analyst at
OptionSellers.com in Tampa, Florida.  “They are buying copper
regardless what the dollar is doing on a daily basis.”  Copper futures for delivery in December added 0.8 cent, or
0.2 percent, to close at $3.9565 a pound at 1 p.m. on the Comex
in New York. The metal has advanced 38 percent since July 1 as
the dollar slumped and inventories dropped.  Copper may reach $4.20 by the end of this year and rise
above its May 2008 record of $4.2605 in the first quarter of
2011, Gross said.  “Market participants are watching developments in Chile,”
said  Andrey Kryuchenkov , an analyst at VTB Capital in London.
Collahuasi is the world’s fourth-biggest copper mine.  The strike, now entering its fourth day, may reduce
production if it were to last more than a week,  Hussein Allidina , a Morgan Stanley analyst, said in a report. The mine
accounts for 3.3 percent of global production, Allidina said.  Copper is “best positioned in the base-metals group given
depleting reserves and supply challenges caused by declining
grades across the industry,” Moody’s analysts including New
York-based Brian Oak wrote in a report dated Nov. 4.  On the London Metal Exchange, copper for delivery in three
months rose $5, or 0.1 percent, to $8,660 a metric ton ($3.93 a
pound).  Tin also gained in London. Nickel, aluminum, lead and zinc
declined.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Yi Tian  in New York at 
 Ytian8@bloomberg.net ;
 Maria Kolesnikova  in Moscow at 
 mkolesnikova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net . 