-- Costco's Swatch Sales May Lead High Court to Limit Gray Market
-- B y   G r e g   S t o h r
-- 2010-11-08T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-08/costco-s-swatch-sales-may-mean-devastating-court-limits-on-gray-market.html
In the early 2000s,  Costco Wholesale
Corp.  worked out a way to sell Seamaster watches made by  Swatch
Group AG’s  Omega unit for a third less than the suggested retail
price.  Costco found a distributor offering watches originally sold
overseas, where Omega charged less than it did in the U.S. for
its goods. The discount let Costco, the largest U.S. warehouse
club, sell the watch for $1,299, compared with the $1,995
suggested retail price.  The purchase was part of the multibillion-dollar “gray
market,” whose future is in the hands of the U.S. Supreme
Court. The court today hears arguments in Washington on Omega’s
bid to use a copyrighted logo on its watches to block Costco’s
sales. Costco’s allies, among them  EBay Inc.  and  Amazon.com
Inc. , say a ruling for Omega would also imperil sales of second-
hand items and even the lending of library books.  “It would have devastating consequences,” said John
Mitchell, a Washington lawyer who filed a brief backing Costco
on behalf of trade groups that represent video-game, home-video
and music retailers.  Whether that claim is hyperbole is one issue the justices
will tackle as they try to determine how much power Congress
intended to give copyright holders. Omega and its backers,
including the Obama administration, say it is Costco’s
interpretation of the law that would mark the major change,
depressing copyright values by forcing holders to level the
prices they charge around the world.  Parallel Sales  “What the case is about is the relentless determination of
Costco and entities like it to keep lowering prices
notwithstanding any other consideration,” said  Charles Sims , a
New York lawyer who filed a brief supporting Omega on behalf of
the Washington-based Association of American Publishers. “The
fact is that Congress in the copyright law imposed some other
considerations.”  The gray market, also known as parallel sales, costs
manufacturers as much as $63 billion in sales a year, according
to a Deloitte LLP analysis conducted for Bloomberg last year. A
manufacturer with $10 billion in sales can lose as much as $450
million, Deloitte found.  The Supreme Court case turns on the scope of the first-sale
doctrine, which says a copyright holder can profit only from the
original sale of a product. In 1998, the Supreme Court
unanimously ruled against copyright holders by saying the
doctrine applies to U.S.-made products sold overseas. The court
said copyright holders can’t block those goods from being
brought back into the U.S. through unauthorized channels.  ‘Anomalous Result’  The question now is whether that same reasoning applies to
goods manufactured abroad. A San Francisco-based federal appeals
court said it doesn’t, ruling that Omega could block importation
of its foreign-made watches.  The administration’s support for Omega likely reflects a
desire to protect U.S. manufacturers who make their goods
abroad, says Nathaniel Edwards, a copyright and trademark lawyer
at Lewis and Roca LLP.  “I think the Obama administration is concerned that the
same thing could happen here to U.S. companies that happened to
Omega,” Edwards said.  Even so, the administration said in a court filing that its
interpretation would create an “anomalous result.” Copyright
holders would be able to bar importation only if they made the
items in a foreign country, acting U.S. Solicitor General  Neal Katyal  said.  EBay and  Google   A ruling favoring Omega “would push even more
manufacturing overseas,” said Scott Schwartz, a Philadelphia
intellectual property attorney with Cozen O’Connor.
“Manufacturers will no doubt revisit their manufacturing
strategies to avail themselves of the benefits of such a
ruling.”  Katyal’s position mirrors that taken by his former boss,
 Elena Kagan , the ex-solicitor general who is now on the Supreme
Court. Kagan isn’t taking part in the court’s consideration of
the case, creating the possibility of a 4-4 split that would
leave intact Omega’s appeals court victory.  EBay, in a brief also signed by  Google Inc. , says a ruling
favoring Omega would “stifle secondary markets” -- those for
previously sold goods. The companies argue that participants
wouldn’t know whether products were foreign-made and still
protected by copyrights.  Costco, based in Issaquah, Washington, also has the support
of  GameStop Corp.  and  Target Corp. , both fellow retail chains;
 Intel Corp. , the world’s biggest chipmaker; Public Citizen, a
consumer-advocacy group; and six library associations.  Library Impact  The libraries say they would risk infringing a copyright
every time they lent a foreign-made book.  “Without a clear exception, libraries may hesitate to lend
materials in their collections,” three groups including the
American Library Association argued.  Sims, the lawyer for the publishing industry, said those
contentions don’t reflect the “real world.”  “There have been exclusive publishing agreements over the
past 100 years and libraries have gotten along very well,” he
said. “School teachers don’t get arrested in the real world.
Libraries don’t get indicted in the real world.”  Omega has support from the film and music industries,
office equipment makers including  Seiko Epson Corp.  and the
Intellectual Property Owners Association, a trade group whose
members include drugmakers, oil companies and computer
companies. Swatch is based in Biel, Switzerland.  The case, which the court will decide by July, is Costco v.
Omega, 08-1423.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Greg Stohr  in Washington at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net . 