-- Costco's Swatch Sales May Lead High Court to Limit Gray Market
-- B y   G r e g   S t o h r
-- 2010-11-08T18:18:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-08/costco-s-swatch-sales-may-lead-high-court-to-limit-gray-market.html
The  U.S. Supreme Court  grappled with
a case that will shape the future of the multibillion-dollar
“gray market,” which retailers including  Costco Wholesale
Corp.  use to sell foreign-made products at a discount in U.S.
stores.  Hearing arguments today in Washington, the justices debated
whether  Swatch Group AG’s  Omega unit can use a copyrighted logo
on its Swiss-made watches to block Costco from selling them in
U.S. stores.  Costco is asking the high court to extend a 1998 ruling
that limited the ability of manufacturers to block the
importation into the U.S. of goods originally sold overseas.
That ruling said that if a copyright owner sells domestically
made products abroad, it can’t bar them from later being
imported back into the U.S.  The question in the latest case is whether U.S. copyright
law imposes a similar rule on goods made overseas. The high
court today didn’t clearly indicate how it would rule, though
some of the justices voiced concern about giving manufacturers
an incentive to make their products overseas.  “What earthly sense would it make to prefer goods that are
manufactured abroad over those manufactured in the United
States?” Justice  Ruth Bader Ginsburg  asked.  The gray market, also known as parallel sales, stems from
efforts by retailers to exploit worldwide price differences on
some products. The gray market costs manufacturers as much as
$63 billion in sales a year, according to a Deloitte LLP
analysis conducted for Bloomberg last year. A manufacturer with
$10 billion in sales can lose as much as $450 million, Deloitte
found.  Discounted Watches  In the case before the justices, Costco, the largest U.S.
warehouse club, worked out a way to sell Omega’s Seamaster
watches for a third less than the suggested retail price. Costco
found a distributor offering watches originally sold overseas,
where Omega charged less than it did in the U.S. for its goods.
The discount let Costco sell the watch for $1,299, compared with
the $1,995 suggested retail price.  The Supreme Court case turns on the scope of the first-sale
doctrine, which says a copyright holder can profit only from the
original sale of a product. In the 1998 case, the Supreme Court
unanimously ruled against copyright holders by saying the
doctrine applies to U.S.-made products sold overseas.  A San Francisco-based federal appeals court said that
reasoning doesn’t apply to goods made abroad, ruling that Omega
could block importation of its foreign-made watches.  Several justices today voiced frustration that federal
copyright law didn’t give a clearer indication about the scope
of the first-sale doctrine.  Viewing the Text  “Like the other side, in order to make your theory of the
text appear reasonable, you have to bring in a skyhook with a
limitation that finds no basis in the text,” Justice  Antonin Scalia  told Omega’s lawyer.  The ramifications could extend beyond the gray market
context. Costco’s allies, including  EBay Inc. ,  Google Inc.  and
 Amazon.com Inc. , say a ruling for Omega might imperil sales of
second-hand items and even the lending of library books. Costco
also has the support of  GameStop Corp.  and  Target Corp. , fellow
retail chains;  Intel Corp. , the world’s biggest chipmaker;
Public Citizen, a consumer-advocacy group; and six library
associations. Costco is based in Issaquah, Washington.  Omega has support from the Obama administration; the
publishing, film and music industries; office equipment makers
including  Seiko Epson Corp. ; and the Intellectual Property
Owners Association, a trade group whose members include
drugmakers, oil companies and computer companies. Swatch is
based in Biel, Switzerland.  The case, which the court will decide by July, is Costco v.
Omega, 08-1423.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Greg Stohr  in Washington at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net . 