-- Cotton Rises to Record for Fifth Straight Session on Global Supply Concern
-- B y   D e b a r a t i   R o y   a n d   L u z i   A n n   J a v i e r
-- 2010-11-08T20:31:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-08/cotton-advances-to-record-in-new-york-zhengzhou-on-china-production-risk.html
Cotton futures advanced to a record
for the fifth straight session on concern that a decline in
production in China will prompt the world’s biggest user to
boost imports and drain global inventories.  China’s harvest may fall 5 percent in the year that began
Sept. 1 because of natural disasters in producing regions such
as Xinjiang and Changjiang, Caijing Online said on Nov. 6,
citing an official with the Rural Economy Department at the
National Development and Reform Commission. Output was 6.4
million metric tons last year, down 15 percent, an industry
group said on Sept. 27.  “It looks like China is going to keep buying,” said  Sid Love , the president of Joe Kropf & Sid Love Consulting Services
LLC in Overland Park, Kansas. “There is an absence of
sellers.”  Cotton for December delivery rose by the exchange limit of
4 cents, or 2.8 percent, to settle at a record $1.4623 a pound
at 2:25 p.m. on ICE Futures U.S. in New York. Last week, the
commodity gained 14 percent, the most since November 2008.  The price has surged 93 percent this year, the most among
19 raw materials in the Thomson Reuters/Jefferies CRB Index.  “It’s not just a story about supply and demand, but
investment demand as well,” said  Ker Chung Yang , an analyst at
Phillip Futures Pte. in Singapore.  Stockpiles in the U.S., the largest exporter, may fall to
2.56 million bales by July 31, from 2.95 million a year earlier,
as exports rise, according to the average estimate of 10
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News last week. On Oct. 8, the
U.S. Department of Agriculture forecast an inventory of f2.7
million bales. The USDA will update its projections for U.S. and
global supplies at 8:30 a.m. tomorrow in Washington.  U.S. exports may reach 15.7 million bales, more than the
15.5 million bales estimated by the USDA last month, the survey
showed. A bale weighs 480 pounds, or 228 kilograms.  “The USDA numbers will be keenly watched,” Love said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Luzi Ann Javier  in Singapore at 
 ljavier@bloomberg.net ;
 Debarati Roy  in New York at 
 droy5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net . 