-- Crude Oil Increases to 25-Month High as Commodities Gain, Gold at a Record
-- B y   M a r g o t   H a b i b y
-- 2010-11-08T21:58:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-08/crude-oil-declines-from-two-year-high-after-dollar-rebounds-against-euro.html
Oil edged up to its highest level
since October 2008, carried by advances in other commodities
including precious metals.  Futures rose for a sixth day as gold prices rallied to a
record and silver reached a 30-year high. Oil and precious
metals strengthened as traders lost confidence in holding
currencies as an investment.  Oil “is getting some inspiration from other markets,”
said  Phil Flynn , a Chicago-based analyst and trader with
investment adviser PFGBest. “Oil is following gold and the
other commodities.”  Crude for December delivery rose 21 cents to $87.06 a
barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange, the highest
settlement price since Oct. 8, 2008. Oil has gained 12 percent
in the past year. Prices jumped 6.7 percent last week, the most
since February.  Brent crude for December settlement rose 35 cents, or 0.4
percent, to $88.46 a barrel on the ICE Futures Europe exchange
in London.  Members of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting
Countries have signaled they may seek a higher price range for
oil as the depreciation of the U.S. currency erodes the
purchasing power of their dollar-denominated exports.  The world will “have to live with current oil prices,”
Qatari Oil Minister  Abdullah al-Attiyah  said today in Doha.
Qatar is OPEC’s second-smallest oil producer after Ecuador.  Ali Al-Naimi , the oil minister from Saudi Arabia, OPEC’s
largest producer, indicated last week that a range of $70 to $90
a barrel is satisfactory. The kingdom had previously said it
preferred a target of $75 a barrel.  Metals  Gold futures for December delivery rose $5.50, or 0.4
percent, to settle at a record $1,403.20 in New York on the
Comex. Gold for immediate delivery jumped as high as $1,410.60,
also a record.  Silver for December delivery rose 68.4 cents, or 2.6
percent, to $27.432 an ounce. Earlier, the price reached $27.64,
the highest level for a most-active contract since March 1980.  The  Dollar Index , which tracks the greenback against six
major currencies, has dropped 13 percent since June, boosting
commodities’ appeal as an alternative investment. The currency
started a decline before the Federal Reserve announced Nov. 2 it
would purchase $600 billion in additional assets to stimulate
the economy, a move known as quantitative easing.  The Dollar Index gained 0.6 percent to 77.025 at 3:27 p.m.
in New York after dropping to an 11-month low last week.  Euro Under Pressure  The euro has similarly come under pressure as concern
mounted that governments in the region will struggle to pay
debt. Ireland is seeking support from the European Union this
week to avoid a Greek-style bailout as investors shunned buying
the country’s bonds. Gold reached a previous record in June when
investors were concerned that Greece would go bankrupt.  The  Thomson Reuters/Jefferies CRB Index  of 19 commodities
increased 0.5 percent to 315.25, the strongest level since Oct.
3, 2008. Twelve of the commodities advanced.  “Hedge funds have been helping to kick the market higher
after last week’s intervention from the Fed and as demand from
China continues to boom,” said  Christopher Bellew , senior
broker at Bache Commodities Ltd. in London.  Hedge funds increased bullish bets on oil to the highest
level since at least June 2006, data from the U.S. Commodity
Futures Trading Commission showed last week.  Bullish Bets  Funds and other large speculators increased wagers on
rising prices by 8.6 percent in the seven days ended Nov. 2, the
CFTC said in its Nov. 5 report. The figures showed bullish bets
increased even before the Federal Reserve said it will boost
debt purchases to revive the economy.  “The CFTC data from Friday shows that there are still
plenty of bulls out there,” said  Tom Bentz , a broker with BNP
Paribas Commodity Futures Inc. in New York.  Oil will fall in coming weeks, with West Texas
Intermediate, the grade deliverable against the New York futures
contract, returning to between $70 and $80 a barrel, according
to Credit Agricole CIB.  “Prices appear to have reacted mainly to increasing
financial investment in the commodity sector, decided after the
QE2 announcement,”  Christophe Barret , a London-based oil
analyst, wrote in a report received today, referring to the
Fed’s stimulus measures. “Prices should return to levels
compatible with fundamentals in the coming weeks.”  U.S. oil supplies probably gained 1.75 million barrels, or
0.5 percent, last week from 368.2 million barrels, the fourth
consecutive increase, according to the median of 10 estimates by
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News. The U.S. Energy Department
will report its weekly inventory figures on Nov. 10 in
Washington.  Stockpiles were 14 percent above the five-year average in
the week ended Oct. 29, the department said last week.  Oil volume in electronic trading on the Nymex was 490,996
contracts as of 3:30 p.m. in New York. Volume totaled 655,239
contracts Nov. 5, 6.8 percent below the average of the past
three months. Open interest was 1.49 million contracts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Margot Habiby  in Dallas at   mhabiby@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at   dstets@bloomberg.net . 