-- Cycling Union Asks Spanish Authorities to Rule on Contador's Doping Case
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2010-11-08T23:33:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-08/cycling-union-asks-spanish-authorities-to-investigate-contador-doping-case.html
Cycling’s governing body asked
Spanish authorities to open disciplinary proceedings against
Tour de France champion  Alberto Contador , who tested positive
for a banned substance in winning this year’s race.  The International Cycling Union, or UCI, suspended Contador
provisionally in September after his July 21 urine sample
contained “very small” traces of clenbuterol. Contador, a
three-time winner of cycling’s biggest event, denies doping and
says the substance came from contaminated meat.  While the Aigle, Switzerland-based UCI tested riders at the
Tour de France, national federations are responsible for
prosecuting doping cases. If found guilty, Contador could be
stripped of his victory and banned for two years.  “The UCI has sent its request to the Spanish federation
that has competence in this regard,” the union said in a
statement late yesterday. “It is now the responsibility of this
federation to determine whether Alberto Contador has breached
the UCI anti-doping rules.”  Contador, a three-time Tour de France champion, could
become the second winner in four years to lose his title.  Floyd Landis  of the U.S. was stripped of the 2006 crown when found to
have elevated levels of synthetic testosterone.  The Spanish rider’s urine sample on the last rest day of
this year’s race showed a trace of clenbuterol that was 1/400th
of what World Anti-Doping Agency laboratories are required to
detect, the UCI said. Contador said Sept. 30 that the positive
test came after he ate beef brought by a friend from Spain.  Oxygen Booster  Clenbuterol treats respiratory disorders such as asthma and
can increase aerobic capacity by increasing the flow of oxygen
in the bloodstream.  Swimmer  Jessica Hardy  left the U.S. Olympic team in 2008
after testing positive for clenbuterol and eventually got a one-
year suspension.  Athletes in tennis, weightlifting and rugby also have
tested positive for the substance. In 1997, Djamolidine
Abdoujaparov of Uzbekistan was expelled from the Tour de France
after testing positive for clenbuterol.  Contador won this year’s race riding for Kazakhstan-backed
Astana, then agreed to join  Bjarne Riis ’s Team Saxo Bank on a
two-year contract from 2011. Saxo Bank A/S, the Danish online
trader and asset manager, said last month it would continue to
back the team whether Contador was on the squad or not.  The Spanish cycling federation said in a  statement  on its
website that it would immediately carry out “all the necessary
actions to investigate and resolve all the issues arising from
the doping control that was carried out on the cyclist.”  “Until the end of the proceedings and despite his
provisional suspension, Alberto Contador still benefits from a
presumption of innocence,” the UCI said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Dan Baynes  in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  