-- Mercedes Shrinks S-Class to Race BMW, Audi in Green Luxury
-- B y   C h r i s   R e i t e r
-- 2010-11-09T09:35:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-08/daimler-ups-ante-in-green-luxury-race-with-smaller-engines-on-s-class-cars.html
Daimler AG ’s Mercedes-Benz is rolling
out an S-Class sedan with a four-cylinder engine, a first in the
model’s 60-year history as it vies with  Bayerische Motoren Werke
AG  and  Volkswagen AG ’s Audi for the “green” luxury driver.  Simon Empson  from Colchester, England, who has owned an
S-Class ever since buying his first in the 1970s, hasn’t touched
his V8-powered S500 for 18 months. Instead of cruising in the
flagship  Mercedes  model, which starts at 60,400 euros ($84,000),
he’s driving a 9,000-euro Rio from  Kia Motors Corp.  because the
Korean compact burns 70 percent less fuel.  “We have to start making some significant changes” in our
driving habits because of the environment, said Empson, 52, who
is managing director of U.K. discount car website
Broadspeed.com. “In the new greener world, we will all have to
learn how to drive fewer, shorter journeys, much more slowly.”  Mercedes is the first of the world’s biggest luxury-car
makers to put such a small engine on its top-of-the-line model.
To meet emissions standards and win back customers like Empson,
the manufacturers are flaunting their environmental credentials.
 BMW  has invested 1.2 billion euros in fuel-saving technology,
while Mercedes nearly doubled its investment on “green”
development to 1 billion euros this year.  Mercedes  aims to maintain S-Class performance even with a
small diesel engine. The S250 CDI, which will arrive at dealers
early next year, uses two-stage turbo-charging to power the 2-
ton sedan to a top speed of 240 kilometers (149 miles) per hour.  ‘Green Luxury’  The model, which Mercedes says emits less carbon-dioxide
than any other car in its class, accelerates to 100 kilometers
per hour in 8.2 seconds. The top-of-the-line S65 AMG hits the
mark in 4.4 seconds, but spews more than twice the emissions,
and, at 192,500 euros, costs more than three times as much.  “Green luxury is feasible,” said  Verena Mueller , a
Mercedes spokeswoman in Stuttgart, Germany. “We expect to
attract environmentally conscious customers who are seeking the
lowest possible CO2 emissions. Besides private customers, that
could of course also be fleet buyers.”  Engine downsizing is also a reaction to the financial
crisis, which sapped demand in the U.S. for high-end cars amid
historic job losses. BMW Chief Executive Officer  Norbert Reithofer  said on Nov. 3 that U.S. luxury car sales will likely
remain below pre-crisis levels until 2013 or 2014.  ‘Extreme Versions’  Smaller engines are cheaper, so therefore offer a financial
incentive to keep customers from trading down to less-expensive
model lines. The S250 CDI, which will be targeted mainly to
European customers, costs 3,700 euros less than the V6 version,
but 27,400 more than entry-level E-Class.  “The business models of Mercedes, BMW, and Audi wouldn’t
support a massive migration of customers to smaller models,”
said  Christoph Stuermer , a Frankfurt-based analyst at IHS
Automotive. “We’re going to start seeing extreme versions of
bigger cars to keep customers from drifting down.”  BMW  this year swapped a six-cylinder engine for an eight-
cylinder in one version of its top-of-the-line 7-Series. Still,
the company, which is building a hybrid supercar and an electric
auto for city driving, isn’t planning to follow Mercedes by
rolling out a four-cylinder version of its flagship line.  “I like selling 7-Series cars with six- and eight-
cylinders,” Reithofer said last month at the Paris Motor Show.
“What we need to offer with these cars in the future is
electrification.”  Vision Efficient Dynamics  BMW is developing a production version of the Vision
Efficient Dynamics concept car for sale in 2013. The four-person
sportscar combines a three-cylinder combustion engine with two
electric motors and can accelerate to 100 kilometers per hour in
4.8 seconds. With CO2 emissions of 99 grams CO2 per kilometer,
it’s equivalent to the most efficient Volkswagen Golf.   Audi  is following a similar approach and plans to couple
smaller engines with electric motors. The Ingolstadt, Germany-
based carmaker is developing a version of the A8 that will
combine a four-cylinder gasoline engine with an electric motor.
The hybrid sedan is slated for 2012, spokesman Eric Felber said,
adding that smaller engines on their own can risk performance.  “Downsizing shouldn’t limit driving characteristics,”
said  Eric Felber , a spokesman for Audi. “It’s important to
offer a certain degree of performance in this segment.” Felber
said.  Auto Taxes  Ahead of the arrival of the hybrid flagship, Audi will
provide more efficiency by introducing a front-wheel-drive
version of the A8 with a six-cylinder diesel engine starting
early next year. The vehicle will get about 39 miles per gallon,
close to the 41 miles per gallon offered by the  Mercedes  S250.  Mercedes’ four-cylinder S-Class is likely to be popular in
countries such as France, the U.K. and the Netherlands, which
are raising auto taxes based on carbon-dioxide emissions.  “They’re going to love this car,” said Stuermer. “It
allows them social prestige and comfort, without punishing them
with costs for performance that they can’t even legally use.”  Aside from an S-Class, Empson also owns a  Ferrari , a
Bentley, a Triumph motorcycle and several French and English
classic cars. But he’s turning sour on these toys.  “I have owned dozens of exotic cars over the years and now
feel that the investment status many now possess will
collapse,” he said. “It’s the end of an era.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Chris Reiter  in Berlin at 
 creiter2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at   kwong11@bloomberg.net . 