-- Cowboys Fire Coach Wade Phillips Following 1-7 Start
-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n   a n d   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2010-11-09T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-08/dallas-cowboys-fire-coach-wade-phillips-following-1-7-start-to-nfl-season.html
Wade Phillips  was fired as coach of
the Dallas Cowboys, who have stumbled to a 1-7 record after
starting the season with aspirations of playing the Super Bowl
in their new $1.2 billion stadium.  Phillips, 63, was replaced by offensive coordinator Jason Garrett  on an interim basis, team owner  Jerry Jones  said.
Defensive line coach  Paul Pasqualoni  was named coordinator of a
unit that’s allowed 232 points through eight games, tied for the
second-most in franchise history.  The Cowboys went 33-15 the previous three years under
Phillips and entered this season as the third-favorite to win
the Super Bowl, according to Las Vegas Sports Consultants, which
helps Nevada sports books set gambling lines. After losing five
straight games, their odds of winning the National Football
League championship are now 1,000-1.  “There was a lot of me in denial for at least the last
couple of ballgames,” Jones said during a news conference
yesterday.  Coming into the season, Jones had said he hoped his team
would be the first to play a Super Bowl at home, as Cowboys
Stadium will host the title game on Feb. 6. The Cowboys lost
quarterback  Tony Romo  to a broken collarbone in a Week 7 defeat
to the New York Giants and have allowed at least 35 points in
their past three games.  “We’re not where we want to be at this time, and that’s an
understatement,” Jones said, one day after the Cowboys were
routed 45-7 by the Green Bay Packers.  Midseason Change  It’s the first time Jones has changed coach in midseason,
and as recently as last week he said Phillips’s job was safe for
the rest of 2010.  “At this time what I believe is in the best interests of
the organization and fans is a coaching change,” Jones said.
“They should not think in any way that this is an admission of
defeat or finality for this season. I told (the team) that we
have eight games remaining and we’ll go into each game with only
one goal: to win.”  Garrett, 44, was hired by the Cowboys for an unspecified
position the month before Phillips joined in 2007. Garrett
became offensive coordinator and in January 2008 was given the
title of assistant head coach after turning down offers from the
Atlanta Falcons and Baltimore Ravens. He also earned a new
contract that paid him around $3 million annually, making him
the highest-paid assistant in the NFL, according to ESPN.  “We have to put the first eight games of the season behind
us and we have to move forward,” said Garrett, a Princeton
University graduate who played seven seasons with the Cowboys as
a backup to quarterback  Troy Aikman .  Garrett’s Future  Jones said that Garrett’s future with the team will depend
on his performance as interim coach.  “My concern that I have this minute is not about the
longer term,” Jones said. “It’s about the next eight games.
Jason certainly has been a part of the long-term thinking for
the Dallas Cowboys and for me. But what we’re addressing on an
interim basis is how we’re playing right now.”  The Cowboys have scored 20.1 points a game on average this
season to rank 19th in the NFL, while their 359.2 offensive
yards a game places them 10th among the NFL’s 32 franchises.
Only the winless Buffalo Bills have allowed more points.  Phillips went 34-22 in four seasons with the Cowboys
following the retirement of  Bill Parcells  and led Dallas to a
13-3 record in his first season before a divisional playoff loss
to the Giants.  Contract Extension  Last season, the Cowboys went 11-5 to again reach the
playoffs. They beat the Philadelphia Eagles Jan. 9 for their
first postseason victory in more than 13 years, before losing to
the Minnesota Vikings 34-3. Four days later, Jones rewarded
Phillips with a two-year contract extension that the Associated
Press said was worth $3 million a year.  “I’m disappointed in the results of this season to this
point, but I’m also very proud of what our team and our players
accomplished in the previous three years,” Phillips said in a
statement released by the Cowboys.  Phillips, the son of former NFL coach  Bum Phillips , also
has coached the New Orleans Saints, Denver Broncos, Buffalo
Bills and Falcons, compiling an 82-61 career record. He’s 1-5 in
playoff games.  The Cowboys are tied with the Carolina Panthers for the
worst record in the National Football Conference. They next
travel to East Rutherford, New Jersey, for a Nov. 14 game
against the division-leading Giants (6-2).  “I do believe that Jason has the temperament, the
disposition, to affect a culture change,” Jones said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Mason Levinson  in New York at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net .
 Erik Matuszewski  in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 