-- Dark Pool U.S. Market Share Rose in September, Rosenblatt Says
-- B y   N i n a   M e h t a
-- 2010-11-08T18:39:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-08/dark-pool-u-s-market-share-advanced-in-september-as-volatility-decreased.html
The proportion of U.S. stocks trading
in dark pools, or private venues that don’t display prices in
advance, rose to a record in September, helped by declining
market volatility, according to Rosenblatt Securities Inc.  Volume reached 12.1 percent of overall trading in
September, up from 11.3 percent in August, an Oct. 22 report
from the New York-based broker said. In Europe, 13 dark pools
Rosenblatt tracks accounted for 2.19 percent of the total value
traded, down from 2.24 percent the prior month,  Justin Schack 
and  Joe Gawronski  wrote in a separate study dated Oct. 28.  “Non-displayed markets clearly benefited from a
significant decline in volatility,” Schack and Gawronski wrote,
as narrowing price swings lowered demand for immediate
executions on public exchanges. The drop spurred market-share
gains in all but 4 of the 16 U.S. venues Rosenblatt tracks,
accounting for 90 percent of volume in the alternative systems.  The gain in the U.S. came as regulators consider changes to
American equity markets including more than 30 dark pools that
don’t display quotations or orders.  NYSE Euronext  and  Nasdaq OMX
Group Inc . executives have argued that unrestricted trading away
from exchanges may hurt the ability of markets to gather enough
buy and sell demand to produce fair prices. Exchanges compete
with broker-operated dark pools, whose executions are based on
prices established by the public markets.  The Chicago Board Options Exchange Volatility Index, or
 VIX , averaged 22.5 in September, down 9 percent from its August
level, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.  Differing Views  Mary Schapiro , chairman of the Securities and Exchange
Commission, said today in New York that exchanges and brokers
operating dark pools are offering different views on how to
change markets. While venues such as the New York Stock Exchange
and Nasdaq favor “pulling liquidity back to the exchanges,”
brokerages that handle trading for clients want to be able to
transact in-house through dark pools, she said at a Securities
Industry and Financial Markets Association conference.  Credit Suisse Group AG’s Crossfinder remained the largest
U.S. dark pool, followed by Sigma X, owned by New York-based
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc ., the report said. Crossfinder and a
venue operated by Chicago-based Getco LLC gained the most.
Crossfinder traded 179 million shares in September, an increase
of 18.6 percent from August, while Getco Execution Services
traded 110 million shares, up 19.5 percent.  Sigma X  Goldman’s Sigma X volume rose 1.8 percent in September.
Knight Link, the fourth-largest venue that executed non-
displayed orders, declined 5.2 percent from the prior month. The
system is operated by  Knight Capital Group Inc. , based in Jersey
City, New Jersey. While dark pools double-count the buy and sell
side of trades when reporting results, Rosenblatt’s data
represents single-counted volume.  In Europe Citi Match, operated by New York-based Citigroup
Inc., was the largest, followed by Zurich-based Credit Suisse’s
Crossfinder. Liquidnet Holdings Inc.’s dark pool, Instinet
BlockMatch and Citi Match rose the most from August to
September. Liquidnet Holdings is based in New York. Instinet
Europe is a subsidiary of New York-based Instinet Inc., which is
owned by Nomura Holdings Inc. in Tokyo.  European dark pools may account for as much as 2.93 percent
of total value traded, Rosenblatt said. The figure comprises
Rosenblatt data and trading information about four broker-
operated systems from London-based Markit Group Ltd. that aren’t
included in the U.S. broker’s figures.  “The broker-operated algorithm-friendly pools still
dominate the dark pool space,” Schack said. Independent pools
such as Liquidnet and New York-based Pipeline Trading Systems
LLC, which focus on larger executions for customers, don’t get
as much volume. “This has moderated somewhat as volatility has
decreased in the U.S., although broker pools remain dominant,”
he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nina Mehta  in New York at 
 nmehta24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 