-- De Beers Says India, China to Make Up Half of World Diamond Demand Growth
-- B y   D e b a r a t i   R o y
-- 2010-11-08T18:34:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-08/de-beers-says-diamond-demand-driven-by-20-annual-gains-in-india-china.html
Diamond demand will rise 20 percent
annually in India and China with half of global growth coming
from the two nations in the next few years,  De Beers  said.  “China and India are the driving force, and China is the
most visible incremental-demand driver,”  Stephen Lussier ,
executive director at Johannesburg-based De Beers, said in an
interview at Bloomberg headquarters in New York. “India has
been the fastest growing jewelry market.”  Economic growth and rising disposable incomes have boosted
demand for diamond jewelry in the two most-populous nations.
India and China together may rival the U.S. as the world’s
biggest gem buyers in the next decade, according to De Beers,
which produces about 40 percent of the world’s diamonds.  China’s share of demand for diamonds in jewelry, measured
in polished wholesale prices, will probably climb to 16 percent
after 2015 from 8 percent this year, RBC Capital Markets said
last year. India’s share may increase to 11 percent after 2015
from 7 percent this year, the report said.  Demand in the U.S. is expected to rise as much as 4 percent
annually, Lussier said.  “Christmas wasn’t bad last year and we realize that there
are buyers if it is made accessible at the right price,” he
said.  De Beers’s sales of unpolished and uncut gems jumped 84
percent in the first half of this year, boosted by demand in
India and China, the company said in a July 23 statement. Output
more than doubled to 15.4 million carats from the year earlier
period when the company shut mines in  Botswana  and Namibia as
gem consumption slumped amid a global recession.  Output Peaked  “We are seeing some high-end consumers return to the
market partly because they have confidence and are seeing
volatility in the market and a potential of inflation,” Lussier
said.  Global industry output peaked at about 160 million carats
in 2007 and may decline to about 120 million carats in the next
10 years or so as “no new material production is expected to
come online in the near future,” De Beers said in April.  “There are supply issues as production is falling as most
of the diamond mines are old,” Lussier said.  De Beers is spending about $60 million a year to look for
mines, he said. The company is searching Africa, Angola and
Canada.  “In Canada there is one opportunity that is at a late
stage of feasibility studies up in the” Northwest Territories,
he said. Prices will continue to rise as output falls and demand
rises, he said.  “Our prices have risen 25 percent and are back at the pre-
Lehman Brothers” levels, Lussier said, referring to the 2008
collapse of the U.S. investment bank that hastened the global
economic crisis. “There is still strong demand so we expect to
finish this year in a very good place.”  De Beers, which traces its history back to 1888, is 45
percent-owned by  Anglo American Plc  and 40 percent by the
Oppenheimer family. Botswana controls the remaining 15 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Debarati Roy  in New York at 
 droy5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net . 