-- Denmark May Be Forced to Raise Rates Further as ECB Exit Threatens Krone
-- B y   G e l u   S u l u g i u c
-- 2010-11-09T13:06:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-08/denmark-may-be-forced-to-increase-interest-rates-further-on-ecb-exit-plan.html
Denmark’s  central bank  may raise
interest rates next month as the European Central Bank’s
liquidity exit threatens to send euro area short-term rates
higher than their Danish counterparts and weaken the krone.  Nationalbanken increased the rate on certificates of
deposit twice last month to 0.7 percent after the spread between
Danish and euro-area interbank rates turned negative. The bank
may have to add as much as 0.2 percentage point by Jan. 1, said
 Jacob Graven , chief economist at Sydbank A/S.  While Danish interbank rates have risen above their euro-
area counterparts since the last increase, the spread continues
to trail levels of a year ago. Euro area rates are likely to
climb further as the ECB signals it is committed to plans to
withdraw emergency funds even as  Ireland ,  Greece  and  Portugal 
rely on the short-term credit.  Denmark “will need to raise rates more as the ECB
withdraws the remainder of its liquidity support and euro area
interbank rates continue to rise,” said Aabenraa, Denmark-based
Graven.  The spread between the  Euro Overnight Index Average  -- an
effective weighted average of overnight lending transactions --
and  Denmark’s overnight interbank deposit rate  widened to 39
basis points yesterday, compared with 7 basis points a week
earlier. The spread was negative in October.  Exchange Rate Significance  “The difference between Danish and European money market
rates is significant for the exchange rate,” Nationalbanken
Governor  Nils Bernstein  said in an e-mailed reply to questions
yesterday. “The central bank continually keeps an eye on these
spreads, but the only thing we target is the exchange rate.”  The bank’s only policy mandate is to defend the krone’s peg
to the euro. Though the bank officially targets a band of 2.25
percent, in practice it only tolerates moves of about 0.01
percent.  The krone traded as low as 7.4553 to the euro today, its
biggest decline since Sept. 21. Denmark’s three-month 
interbank deposit rate soared to 0.8 percent from 0.66 
yesterday, according to data available on Bloomberg.   “If the krone continues to depreciate, interest rates on
certificates of deposit will need to be raised further,” said
 Gizem Kara , an economist at BNP Paribas. “We could see in the
next six months another 20 basis points to 30 basis points of
increases.”  Benchmark Split  The three-month European Interbank Offered Rate rose to the
highest in at least a year yesterday, trading at 1.05 percent.
The Copenhagen Interbank Offered rate traded at 1.245 percent,
by comparison. The  spread  between the two rates narrowed to 19.5
basis points yesterday, compared with 26 basis points at the end
of September and an average of 53 basis points over the past
year, according to data available on Bloomberg.  The central bank on June 4, 2009, split the certificate of
deposit rate from its benchmark lending rate as it tried to
encourage banks to lend to and borrow from each other instead of
relying on the central bank.  “The assumption is that the split the central bank created
between the benchmark lending rate and the rate on certificates
of deposit back during the height of the crisis will disappear,
probably in about a year,” Graven said.  The bank has left its benchmark lending rate at 1.05
percent since January.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
 Gelu Sulugiuc  at 
 gsulugiuc@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor on this story:
Tasneem Brogger in London at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  