-- Deripaska's $212,694 U.S. Visa Quest Gets Russian Foreign Minister Backing
-- B y   I l y a   K h r e n n i k o v   a n d   D e n i s   M a t e r n o v s k y
-- 2010-11-08T11:13:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-08/deripaska-s-212-694-u-s-visa-quest-gets-russian-foreign-minister-backing.html
Russian Foreign Minister  Sergei Lavrov  sent a letter of support for  Oleg Deripaska ’s efforts to
obtain a multiple-entry U.S. visa after the billionaire was
denied direct access to the world’s largest economy.  The “persistent state of limbo” of Deripaska’s legal
status in the U.S. “has become an impediment to the promotion
of mutually advantageous contacts between the business
communities of the two countries,” Lavrov said in a letter to
the  Endeavor Group , the lobbying firm Deripaska hired to help
with his visa, according to according to a  regulatory filing  on
the U.S. Department of Justice’s website.  Deripaska’s Basic Element holding company, the main
shareholder of aluminum producer  United Co. Rusal , paid Endeavor
Group $212,694.10 in the six months through May 2009 to help
with his visa application, according to the filing.  Sergey Babichenko , a spokesman for Basic Element, declined
to comment on Deripaska’s visa status in the U.S., saying by
phone today only that the company purchased some consulting
services from Endeavor. The Vedomosti newspaper cited an
unidentified representative for Deripaska as saying the
billionaire doesn’t plan to visit America anytime soon.  The U.S. revoked the visa without explanation in 2006,
according to an August 2007 filing by Magna International Corp.,
the Canadian auto-parts maker that Deripaska owned a stake in at
the time. The Wall Street Journal last year cited unidentified
people as saying that the visa problem was connected to
allegations that Deripaska had links to organized crime, which
the businessman has repeatedly denied.  “The Russian side has raised this issue with various U.S.
officials on numerous occasions, including in the course of
bilateral discussions with both the White House and the State
Department” without success, Lavrov said in the letter.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ilya Khrennikov  in Moscow at 
 ikhrennikov@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amanda Jordan at 
 ajordan11@bloomberg.net . 