-- Dish Network, Darden Get Health-Law Waivers to Continue Employee Coverage
-- B y   D r e w   A r m s t r o n g
-- 2010-11-08T23:12:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-08/dish-network-darden-get-health-law-waivers-to-continue-employee-coverage.html
Dish Network Corp . and  Darden
Restaurants Inc.  are among dozens of companies and organizations
the Obama administration has exempted from the U.S. health-care
law mandating minimum benefits for workers.  The Health and Human Services Department posted on its
website today a list of the latest businesses that can avoid
raising the minimum amount of insurance coverage to $750,000
starting next year. The requirements apply to so-called mini-med
or limited benefit plans that employers use for low-wage or
part-time workers.  Companies  and unions say plans offer some coverage for
workers whose pay is too low to afford traditional, more
comprehensive health insurance. Regulators under President
 Barack Obama  say the waivers will allow companies to keep
offering plans, minimizing disruptions to the market and letting
workers maintain their coverage.  “What we’re finding is that the regulators are balancing
these points of view in a way that’s resulting in an attempt to
make certain people can keep what they have, but that at the
same time the law is implemented fairly and effectively,”  Aetna
Inc . Chief Executive Officer  Ron Williams  said on a Nov. 3
conference call discussing the health insurer’s earnings.  The waivers let companies avoid choosing among dropping
worker coverage, spending far more on benefits or making
employees pay out of pocket for the more expensive insurance.
While avoiding market disruptions, the exemptions leave workers
with coverage below the minimum standards the law provides.  Second Round  Aetna, based in Hartford, Connecticut, was part of a first
round of waivers in September for 209,423 beneficiaries in plans
that don’t comply with the new requirement. Oak Brook, Illinois-
based  McDonald’s Corp. , the world’s largest restaurant chain,
 Jack in the Box Inc. , based in San Diego, and the United
Federation of Teachers also were among the waiver recipients.  About 200,000 people were included in the new round of
exemptions, bringing the total to almost 1.2 million people, HHS
said on its website. Also on the list for exemptions are Manor
Care Inc., a nursing-home company owned by Washington-based
private equity firm Carlyle Group, and  Universal Forest Products
Inc ., a lumber company based in Grand Rapids, Michigan.
Spokesmen for Manor and Universal Forest didn’t immediately
respond to messages seeking comment.  Workers Covered  Dish Network, the Englewood, Colorado-based No. 2 U.S.
satellite-television provider, will be given a waiver for 3,597
employees, and Orlando, Florida-based Darden Restaurants, owner
of the Olive Garden and Red Lobster chains, will get a waiver
for 34,000 workers, according to the HHS list. Darden spokesman
Rich Jeffers didn’t immediately respond to a request for
comment. Dish Network spokesman  Marc Lumpkin  declined to
comment.  The waivers, which last for a year and can then be renewed,
let workers keep coverage until new options are available in
four years under the law, said Jessica Santillo, a spokeswoman
for the agency.  “This process keeps people covered now as we move to 2014,
where higher-quality coverage will be offered at an affordable
price,” she said in an e-mail. Her department is in charge of
implementing the law, signed in March, and approving
applications for waivers.  -- Alex Nussbaum  in New York contributed to this report. Editors:
 Steve Walsh ,  Andrew Pollack   To contact the reporter on this story:
 Drew Armstrong  in Washington at 
 darmstrong17@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net . 