-- Doctors Take Fewer Handouts From Pharmaceutical, Device Makers
-- B y   P a t   W e c h s l e r
-- 2010-11-08T21:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-08/doctors-take-fewer-handouts-from-pharmaceutical-device-makers-study-says.html
About four-fifths of U.S. doctors in
a survey said they took gifts or money from drug and medical-
device makers last year, a drop from 94 percent in 2004, after
medical schools and hospitals adopted tougher rules.  Almost 84 percent of the 1,891 physicians participating in
the survey told researchers they accepted items such as drug
samples, tickets to cultural or sports events, and food and
beverages in the workplace, according to a report today in the
Archives of Internal Medicine. Doctors also had companies pick
up meeting expenses or provide fees for speaking on behalf of a
product or for consulting.  Policies adopted since 2006 at some medical schools and
teaching hospitals forbid physicians from accepting free drugs
and food and limit company representatives to clinical areas.
The rules represent a lower tolerance for the behavior by the
public and groups such as Institute of Medicine and the American
Association of Medical Colleges, both of which are based in
Washington, said  Eric G. Campbell , the study’s lead author.  “The data clearly show that relationships have dropped
dramatically,” said Campbell, director of research at the
 Mongan Institute for Health Policy , in Boston. “And while the
drug representatives tell the doctors that these gifts mean
nothing, studies show that accepting anything of value, even
things of essentially no value, establishes a reciprocity
between the person who gives the gift and the one who receives
it.”  Drug and device makers spend millions of dollars each year
to develop relationships with doctors who then might decide to
use or recommend their products. Medical professionals “delude
themselves that it doesn’t matter,” Campbell said.  Willing Cardiologists  Private physicians, who don’t have any regulations imposed
on them, are more likely to accept handouts, the researchers
found. More than 90 percent reported taking gifts or money from
industry, compared with 72 percent for doctors working for a
university and 71 percent for hospital physicians, according to
the survey. Among doctors, cardiologists showed the highest
willingness, at 92 percent, to take the handouts.  Doctors with industry relationships tend to prescribe
brand-name drugs at a higher rate than those without these ties,
the study found. The relationships may lead to higher health
costs, Campbell said. Regions in the U.S. with lower medical
costs have a reduced incidence of the gift-giving practices,
according to the study.  Handouts for Rich  Among the most-common practices was accepting drug samples,
at 64 percent, or food and beverages, at 71 percent, said
Campbell, who is also an associate professor of medicine at
Harvard Medical School in Boston. While free samples may provide
access to drugs for poorer patients, studies show that a
majority of the handouts go to people who are richer and have
insurance or to the doctors and their families, Campbell said.  The degree to which doctors take handouts of food and
beverages is “absolutely embarrassing,” Campbell said.  “Physicians and their office staff should essentially feed
themselves and not eat lunch on the backs of the American public
in the form of higher drug prices,” Campbell said in the
interview.  Companies also enrich doctors by paying them to give
scripted speeches on behalf of a product, or by providing
“trips to Florida to play golf for three days under the guise
of a continuing-education meeting,” Campbell said.  About 7 percent of the doctors surveyed said they were paid
to consult on the development of drugs or devices. Campbell said
he isn’t sure those relationships should disappear.  Consulting may be “the only way companies can have the
access to people with the real knowledge,” Campbell said. He
also supports paying doctors for enrolling patients in drug
trials, he said.  The study was funded by the Institute on Medicine as a
Profession in New York.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Pat Wechsler  in New York at 
 pwechsler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Reg Gale in New York at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net ; 