-- Dodd Says Bankruptcy Law Must Help Address `Too Big to Fail'
-- B y   P h i l   M a t t i n g l y
-- 2010-11-08T23:01:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-08/dodd-says-bankruptcy-law-must-help-address-too-big-to-fail-.html
Senator  Christopher Dodd , co-author
of the biggest overhaul of financial regulation since the 1930s,
said he fears bankruptcy courts would be ill-equipped to handle
the collapses of interconnected firms not covered by the law.  The Dodd-Frank Act, crafted in response to the September
2008 failure of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., established a
federal mechanism to wind down systemically important companies.
Dodd, speaking today at a Securities Industry and Financial
Markets Association conference, said firms that don’t trigger
the wind-down mechanism may still roil markets in bankruptcy.  “The bankruptcy code needs to be reformed, in my view, to
accommodate highly interconnected companies if they want to go
through that process,” said Dodd, the Connecticut Democrat who
leads the Senate Banking Committee. “That has to happen.”  Lehman’s collapse sparked a credit crisis that prompted
lawmakers to approve a $700 billion bailout for financial
companies including  Citigroup Inc.  and  Bank of America Corp.  It
also helped inspire the Dodd-Frank law, which creates a council
of regulators, a regulatory apparatus for the derivatives market
and a bureau to oversee consumer lending.  “The process of implementation is moving swiftly and
efficiently,”     said Dodd, referring to the rule-making process
being handled by agencies including the Treasury Department and
the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp.  Cutting the regulators out of the process by having
Congress write the specifics of the rules “would have been a
terrible idea,” he said.  Dodd, who is leaving office at the end of this year, said
lawmakers must resist calls to repeal the new law, even as
Democrats face a slimmer majority in the Senate and a loss of
power in the House.  He said he hopes the Senate Judiciary Committee will change
the bankruptcy law to ally his concerns that some “too big to
fail” firms may not be subject to the new resolution authority.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Phil Mattingly  in New York at 
 pmattingly@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net  