-- Doughty Hanson Agrees to Buy Vue Cinema Chain for $730 Million
-- B y   K r i s t e n   S c h w e i z e r
-- 2010-11-08T10:05:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-08/doughty-hanson-agrees-to-buy-vue-cinema-chain-for-730-million.html
Doughty Hanson & Co., a private
equity firm, agreed to buy the U.K.’s third-largest cinema
operator,  Vue Entertainment Ltd. , from existing managers and an
affiliated investment fund, Och-Ziff Capital Management Group.  Vue’s management team, including founder and Chief
Executive Officer  Tim Richards , will “be reinvesting in the
transaction,” Doughty Hanson said in a statement today. Doughty
Hanson beat out BC Partners Ltd. and the  Ontario Municipal
Employees Retirement System  after agreeing to pay 450 million
pounds ($730 million), a person with direct knowledge of the
deal said.  “The company has achieved consistent financial performance
and has succeeded in growing through the recent recession,”
Julian Huxtable, senior principal a Doughty Hanson, said in the
statement.  Vue Entertainment, which operates 700 cinema screens,
may use the money raised in the sale to buy a competitor such as
Odeon & UCI Cinemas Group, the U.K.’s largest chain, or
 Cineworld Plc , several people familiar with the matter said
previously. Vue may also consider buying an operator in Europe,
the people said.  Leveraged buyouts are rebounding after the supply of loans
they use to finance their acquisitions evaporated in the credit
crisis, almost bringing dealmaking to a halt. The firms have led
$138 billion of transactions in 2010, more than twice the amount
in the year-earlier period, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The cinema chain, based in London, is 52 percent-owned by
its executives, while hedge fund manager  Och-Ziff Capital
Management Group LLC  has a 19 percent stake and Coller Capital
Ltd. holds 29 percent.  Private equity firms pool money from investors to take over
companies, financing the purchases mostly with debt, with the
intention of selling them later for a profit.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kristen Schweizer  in London at 
 kschweizer1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at   vroot@bloomberg.net  