-- Dynegy Reports Loss, Gets Support for Blackstone Bid
-- B y   J i m   P o l s o n
-- 2010-11-08T21:02:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-08/dynegy-takeover-by-blackstone-recommended-by-iss-riskmetrics.html
Shareholders  of Dynegy Inc., the
power producer that reported a quarterly loss of $24 million
today, should vote in favor of a proposed $540 million takeover
by Blackstone Group LP,  a proxy advisory company said.  Blackstone’s offer to buy Dynegy for $4.50 a share is fair
because the stock may be worth as little as $2.66 based on other
independent power producers, earnings forecasts and natural-gas
prices, Institutional Shareholder Services, a unit of New York-
based MSCI Inc.’s RiskMetrics Group, said today in an e-mail to
customers.  Two of Dynegy’s largest  shareholders , Seneca Capital LP and
billionaire investor  Carl Icahn , oppose the Blackstone bid. A
shareholder vote on the Blackstone deal is scheduled Nov. 17 at
Dynegy’s headquarters in Houston.  The proposed Blackstone takeover, valued at $4.7 billion
including the assumption of debt, won’t be the “payday”
shareholders or management hoped for,  ISS  said. “While the deal
may be disappointing, the alternatives are likely worse,” the
company wrote.  Dynegy  rose  2 cents to $4.46 a share at 4 p.m. in New York
Stock Exchange composite trading. It’s risen 60 percent since
the announcement of the Blackstone offer.  Dynegy had a third-quarter loss of 20 cents a share, its
sixth quarterly loss in the past two years, according to a
statement today. The full-year net loss will be as much as $200
million, and Dynegy said it may be out of compliance with some
debt terms by June 30, based on projected earnings.  Report Withdrawal  Seneca Capital said in a Nov. 5 filing it expects to file a
proposal to replace two Dynegy board members.  The first investor research company to endorse the
Blackstone takeover, Egan-Jones Ratings Co., today withdrew its
Nov. 4 report, saying it would issue an update reflecting the
Seneca filing. A third company, Glass Lewis & Co. LLC, on Nov. 4
urged a “no” vote, calling the offer “below average.”  Seneca held a 9.3 percent stake as of Nov. 2. Icahn Capital
LP and Icahn Associates Corp. held a combined 10 percent stake
in Dynegy as of Oct. 8.  “Dynegy continues to face challenges, many of which are
beyond its control, including low and declining commodity prices
and continued economic weakness,” Chief Executive Officer  Bruce Williamson  said in a statement.  The “least unpleasant” alternative to the Blackstone
takeover probably would be a heavily dilutive share sale to
raise cash should power prices fail to rebound by 2015, when
much of Dynegy’s debt comes due, ISS said.  The company said it had $645 million in cash and $1.4
billion in unused credit as of Nov. 1.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jim Polson  in New York at 
 jpolson@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net . 