-- E.ON Said to Consider Sale of U.K. Electricity Network Unit
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   C o m f o r t
-- 2010-11-08T11:49:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-08/e-on-said-to-consider-sale-of-u-k-network-to-group-led-by-canada-pension.html
E.ON AG , Germany’s largest utility, is
considering the sale of its U.K. electricity grid to help pay
for a nuclear tax being introduced next year, according to two
people familiar with the matter.  The company has yet to identify a buyer, said the people,
who declined to be identified because the plans are private.
E.ON is in advanced talks to sell the network for as much as 3.5
billion pounds ($5.7 billion) to a group led by the Abu Dhabi
Investment Authority, Canada Pension Plan Investment Board and
Macquarie Group Ltd. the Sunday Times  reported , without saying
where it got the information.  E.ON Chief Executive Officer  Johannes Teyssen  is battling
the costs of a slump in natural-gas prices and a planned tax on
nuclear power stations in Germany. The Dusseldorf-based company
will sell assets and seek partners to boost  earnings  and invest
in markets outside of Europe, Der Spiegel reported Nov. 6.,
without citing anyone. E.ON is scheduled to hold a strategy day
for investors on Nov. 10.  The potential sale would be the second U.K. distribution
network to change hands this year. In July, a group led by
Cheung Kong Infrastructure Holdings Ltd. agreed to pay 5.8
billion pounds for  Electricite de France SA’s  U.K. power unit.  Abu Dhabi Investment Authority, Canada Pension Plan
Investment Board, E.ON and Macquarie declined to comment.  E.ON  fell  1.9 percent to 22.20 euros as of 12:45 p.m. in
Frankfurt. That extended its decline this year to 24 percent,
the second largest on Germany’s benchmark DAX Index after
smaller rival RWE AG.  The asset sale plan reported by Der Spiegel would be the
second such move by E.ON in two years. Former CEO Wulf Bernotat
concluded a plan to raise more than 10 billion euros with
divestments to pay down debt after agreeing to sell the
company’s U.S. utility business to  PPL Corp.  in April. Teyssen
succeeded Bernotat in May.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nicholas Comfort  in Frankfurt at 
 ncomfort1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at   wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  