-- Kagan, Thomas Take Part as Court Rejects Health-Care Appeal
-- B y   G r e g   S t o h r
-- 2010-11-08T15:01:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-08/health-law-appeal-turned-away-by-u-s-high-court-in-interest-group-s-case.html
The  U.S. Supreme Court  refused to
revive a challenge to President  Barack Obama ’s health-care
overhaul, leaving intact a ruling that said a California man and
interest group filed their lawsuit prematurely.  The case marks the first time the high court has been
called upon to act on the health-care law, which is also being
challenged by 20 states in two lawsuits.  In rejecting the appeal, the justices dropped a hint that
all nine of them will take part if they ultimately consider the
law’s constitutionality. Two justices whose participation has
been the subject of discussion --  Elena Kagan  and  Clarence Thomas  -- both took part in today’s action.  Kagan, who served as Obama’s top courtroom lawyer before he
appointed her to the Supreme Court, was pressed by Republican
senators considering her nomination this year to say whether she
would disqualify herself from disputes over the health-care law.  She said in a written response to questions that she played
no role in formulating the administration’s legal defense,
though the litigation was briefly mentioned at least at one
meeting she attended.  Thomas’s role became an issue because of the work of his
wife, Virginia, a political activist whose name had appeared on
a memo declaring the measure “unconstitutional.” The group she
founded, Liberty Central, last month said her name had been
added to the memo by mistake. Liberty Central also removed a
position paper questioning the measure’s validity from its
website.  State suits filed in Virginia and Florida claim the health-
care measure, which requires all Americans to either get
insurance or pay a penalty, exceeds Congress’s constitutional
authority.  In the appeal rejected today, Steve Baldwin and the
California-based Pacific Justice Institute asked the justices to
take the unusual step of hearing an appeal directly from a
federal trial court, bypassing the appeals court level.  The case is Baldwin v. 10-369.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Greg Stohr  in Washington at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net . 