-- Lebanon Seeks to Amend Shariah Banking Law
-- B y   D a n a   E l   B a l t a j i   a n d   C a m i l l a   H a l l
-- 2010-11-09T11:42:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-08/lebanon-considering-bill-to-amend-shariah-banking-law-islamic-finance.html
Lebanon, where Muslims make up more
than half the population, is considering legislation to boost
Islamic finance after the industry failed to garner 1 percent of
total banking assets.  The  central bank  is working with a group of local lenders
to amend a 2004 law that allowed the establishment of Shariah-
compliant banks,  First Vice-Governor   Raed Charafeddine  said in
an interview Nov. 5 in Beirut. The Bank of Lebanon is also
considering introducing a product in the first quarter that
helps Islamic lenders manage their liquidity, he said. Policy
makers granted a banking license to Baghdad-based Al-Bilad
Islamic Bank earlier this year.  “The Islamic banking law came out as a compromise in
2004,” Charafeddine said. “It didn’t give the industry enough
steam to take off. We are at the preliminary stages of
rectifying the 2004 law.”  Lebanon is seeking to diversify its banking industry and
rebuild the country after the conflict with Israel in 2006 and a
15-year civil war that ended in 1990. Assets held by Islamic
banks shrank to about 0.5 percent of the total $110 billion this
year, Charafeddine said. Muslims make up 60 percent of the
population of 4.1 million, according to the Central Intelligence
Agency  World Factbook .  The Mediterranean country’s economy, helped by tourism and
bank deposits from citizens living abroad, grew 9 percent last
year and is forecast by the International Monetary Fund to
expand another 8 percent this year.  Rising Deposits  Deposits grew about 24 percent last year to $103 billion,
around three times the country’s gross domestic product.
Deposits may rise by more 10 percent this year, central bank
Governor  Riad Salameh  said in September.  The country’s Islamic banking law stipulates product
offerings and allows non-Shariah-compliant lenders to hold
shares in Islamic banks, according to the  central bank’s
website .  On a day-to-day basis, “there are many things that are
hindered by the current laws,” Houssam Tabbara, marketing
manager at Lebanese Islamic Bank, said in a telephone interview
from Beirut yesterday. Ending the double taxation of property,
which reduces the risk and cost for an Islamic bank to lease
real estate, and scrapping requirements for 15 percent down
payments on transactions, would boost business, he said.  Not Enough Time  Beirut-based  Lebanese Islamic Bank  started offering
Shariah-compliant services in 2005 after receiving the first
Islamic banking license from the central bank, according to data
on its website.  Albaraka Banking Group BSC , the biggest publicly
traded Islamic lender in Bahrain, Arab Finance House S.A.L.
(Islamic Bank) and Blom Development Bank S.A.L. are the other
three shariah-compliant banks in the country.  Islamic banks didn’t invest enough time in educating people
and need to be more proactive, the central bank’s Charafeddine
said.  “It’s a lost cause,”  Ahmad Alanani , the Dubai-based
director of fixed-income sales at investment bank Exotix Ltd.,
said in an interview yesterday. “Conventional banks have a very
strong hold on that market that Islamic banks simply cannot
compete.”  The  difference  between the average yield for emerging-
market sukuk and the London interbank offered rate narrowed to
335 basis points, or 3.35 percentage points, yesterday from 338
on Nov. 5. The spread shrank from 373 basis points at the end of
last month, according to the HSBC/NASDAQ Dubai US Dollar Sukuk
Index.  Underperforming  Global sukuk returned 13 percent this year, according to
the  HSBC/NASDAQ Dubai US Dollar Sukuk Index  that compares to a
17 percent gain for bonds in developing markets, the  JPMorgan
Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global Diversified Index  shows.  The yield on Malaysia’s 3.928 percent Islamic note due in
June 2015 gained 1 basis point to 2.395 percent today, according
to prices provided by Royal Bank of Scotland Plc. The extra
yield investors demand to hold Dubai’s government sukuk rather
than Malaysia’s narrowed 20 basis points this month to 374 basis
points today, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “I am not sure that the growth or success of the industry
can be wholly driven by legislation,”  Khalid Howladar , senior
credit officer at Moody’s Investors Service, said in a response
to e-mailed questions on Nov. 8. “As long as they can operate
on reasonably equal terms it’s the customers who will decide the
fate of the industry in Lebanon.”  Shariah forbids gambling, payment of interest and alcohol,
so fund managers have to select investments deemed halal, or
permissible. Islamic bonds are typically backed by assets or
cash flow because of the ban on interest. Investors earn any
profit from the assets instead.  Sales Fall  Global sukuk sales declined 29 percent to $13.7 billion
this year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Lebanon, which is a regular issuer of non-Islamic bonds
doesn’t plan to issue sukuk, especially if the transaction has
to be backed by assets, as it will require a law that allows the
state to pledge public assets, central bank Governor Riad
Salameh told reporters in Beirut on Nov. 4.  “Our interest as a central bank in this industry is simply
to keep Islamic banking at a level playing field with
conventional banking,” Charafeddine said. “This is why we are
keen on giving Islamic banks that opportunity. We don’t want to
favor anyone.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Camilla Hall  in Dubai at 
 chall24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  