-- Ellison Says SAP Licensing Would Have Cost $4 Billion
-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 2010-11-08T18:46:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-08/ellison-takes-stand-at-u-s-trial-over-sap-downloads.html
Oracle Corp. ’s Chief Executive
Officer  Larry Ellison  testified  SAP AG  might have paid $4
billion to license Oracle’s software and taken 30 percent of its
PeopleSoft unit’s customers by having Oracle applications.  Ellison took the stand today in the U.S. trial where Oracle
is seeking at least $2.3 billion in damages for what a former
SAP unit acknowledges were fraudulent downloads that infringed
Oracle  copyrights . Oracle, the  second-largest maker  of software
for business applications behind SAP, sued its competitor in
2007.  “If they could get that software for nothing, we would
have a hard time paying our employees,” Ellison said in Oakland,
California, federal court when asked by his lawyers what would
happen if Oracle couldn’t protect its investments in software
research and development.  Oracle claims SAP downloaded the software to avoid paying
licensing fees and to steal Oracle customers.  On cross examination by SAP’s attorney, Ellison was asked
whether he knew why any customer left Oracle for SAP’s
subsidiary.  No Specifics  “No, I don’t know the specifics of any particular
customer,” Ellison said.  The SAP software maintenance unit that downloaded the
software garnered about 300 customers, Ellison said when asked
by SAP attorney Greg Lanier for the number of customers taken by
the SAP unit.  “That’s nowhere close to 20-30 percent of the PeopleSoft
customer base, is it?’” Lanier said.  “No,” Ellison replied.  He was read an interview that Lanier said Ellison had with
CNN after the PeopleSoft acquisition in which the chief
executive said, “We are after their money.”  “I absolutely deny saying that,” Ellison said.  Last week, former Oracle President  Charles Phillips , who
resigned in September, told a jury the company would have sought
at least $5 billion in licensing fees from SAP AG for access to
its software.  The case is Oracle Corp. v. SAP AG, 07-01658, U.S. District
Court, Northern District of California (Oakland).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Karen Gullo  in San Francisco at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at 
 drovella@bloomberg.net . 