-- Ellison Says SAP Licensing Would Have Cost $4 Billion
-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 2010-11-09T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-08/ellison-testifies-sap-software-licensing-pact-would-have-cost-4-billion.html
Oracle Corp.  might have lost
thousands of clients if  SAP AG  had licensed its software for a
fee and not downloaded it without permission, Oracle Chief
Executive Officer  Larry Ellison  testified.  SAP might have picked up 30 percent of the 13,000 customers
Oracle gained through its  PeopleSoft Inc.  acquisition, Ellison
said yesterday in federal court in Oakland, California. The SAP
software maintenance unit that downloaded the software ended up
gaining about 300 customers, Ellison said under questioning by
SAP attorney Greg Lanier, who said the exact number was 358.  “That’s nowhere close to 20 to 30 percent of the
PeopleSoft customer base, is it?” Lanier said.  “No,” Ellison replied.  Oracle is seeking at least $2.3 billion in damages for what
the former SAP unit called TomorrowNow acknowledges were
fraudulent downloads that infringed Oracle  copyrights .  Lanier asked if Ellison could point to any internal e-mail
or document in which he said he was worried that SAP’s 2005
acquisition of TomorrowNow, which provided discounted
maintenance services for PeopleSoft customers, would cause
thousands of customers to leave Oracle for SAP.  “I had those discussions but I have a tendency not to
write those things down,” replied Ellison, who said it would
have cost SAP $4 billion to license the software downloaded by
its unit.  Unlicensed Downloads  Oracle, the  second-largest  maker of software for business
applications behind SAP, sued its competitor in 2007. Oracle
claims the unit of Walldorf, Germany-based SAP made hundreds of
thousands of downloads and several thousand copies of Oracle’s
software to avoid paying licensing fees and to steal customers.
Redwood City, California-based Oracle wants compensation for
lost customers, copyright infringement and for costs  SAP  avoided
by not having to develop its own software or pay license fees.  SAP , saying Oracle’s damage estimates are grossly
exaggerated, has said it owes about $40 million.  David Boies , a lawyer for Oracle, said that while Ellison
placed the value of a potential license for Oracle’s software at
$4 billion, experts testifying for the company have put damages
at $1.5 billion to $2 billion. It’s up to the jury to decide how
much Oracle should get, Bois said at a press conference after
yesterday’s testimony.  Ellison, the sixth-richest man in the world, according to
Forbes, said he believed in 2005 that if SAP was willing to
spend the money to develop the software to support PeopleSoft
customers, “We are in a lot of trouble.” He said he didn’t
know then that TomorrowNow was downloading the Oracle software,
though he had suspicions.  ‘Lost’ Customers  Lanier showed Ellison a document in which Oracle executive
 Safra Catz  wrote in 2005 that Oracle hadn’t lost any large
customers within a few months after the TomorrowNow acquisition
and if it did, the customers were “lost for other reasons.”  “This was early days,” Ellison said. It takes customers
longer to decide to leave a vendor, he said.  Ellison was read an interview that Lanier said quoted the
CEO as saying the 2005 PeopleSoft acquisition “is not an
integration.” Ellison was asked if he remembered saying, “We
are after their money.”  “I absolutely deny saying that,” Ellison said.  Last week, former Oracle President  Charles Phillips , who
resigned in September, told a jury that the company would have
sought at least $5 billion in licensing fees from SAP for access
to the software. SAP closed the TomorrowNow unit in 2008.  Apotheker Subpoena  Oracle, which previously agreed to have former SAP CEO  Leo Apotheker  testify through a videotaped deposition, this month
tried to serve a subpoena to have him testify in person,
according to  Deborah Hellinger , an Oracle spokeswoman. Asked
whether Oracle had hired private investigators to find
Apotheker, as reported by Reuters, Boies said, “You can assume
we are trying to find him.” He declined to comment further
regarding the reported hiring of an investigator.  Boies said it’s important for the jury to hear Apotheker in
live testimony because even though he wasn’t sole chief
executive at SAP during the TomorrowNow downloading, he was
receiving updates about the unit at the time.  Apotheker took over as Hewlett-Packard Co.’s CEO on Nov. 1,
replacing  Mark Hurd , who resigned and was hired by Oracle. HP
refused to accept the subpoena for Apotheker.  ‘Limited Knowledge’  HP has said Apotheker had “limited knowledge of and role
in the matter” of TomorrowNow’s downloads and Oracle had an
opportunity to question him during his sworn deposition in
October 2008.  Mylene Mangalindan , a spokeswoman for Palo Alto,
California-based HP, has said Oracle’s subpoena of Apotheker was
“no more than an effort to harass him and interfere with his
duties and responsibilities as HP’s CEO.”  Hurd, now Oracle’s president, left HP in August after a
company contractor, Jody Fisher, accused him of harassment.  On the day Hurd left, HP said he had violated its standards
of business conduct by concealing a relationship with a contract
employee. HP also said it found inaccurate expense reports filed
by Hurd or in his name.  The company disclosed that it received a sexual-harassment
complaint, saying it didn’t find that Hurd broke its harassment
policy. Hurd settled with Fisher privately.  The case is Oracle Corp. v. SAP AG, 07-01658, U.S. District
Court, Northern District of California (Oakland).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Karen Gullo  in San Francisco at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 