-- Emarat Will Appeal U.K. Contempt of Court Ruling in Trafigura Oil Dispute
-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 2010-11-08T11:53:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-08/emarat-will-appeal-u-k-contempt-of-court-ruling-in-trafigura-oil-dispute.html
Emarat, the United Arab Emirates’
state-owned fuel retailer, will appeal a U.K. order that its
general manager must spend a year in a jail for ignoring court
rulings in a civil lawsuit filed by Trafigura Beheer BV.  Britain doesn’t have jurisdiction in the dispute and
Trafigura “misled” the court that’s overseeing a parallel case
in the U.A.E. to shift the lawsuit to the U.K., Emarat’s lawyer,
Youssef Moftah, said in an e-mail yesterday.  Judge  Nigel Teare  in London ruled Nov. 4 that Emarat
General Manager  Jamal Al Midfa  was in contempt of court for
failing to supply financial data after Emarat lost a trial in
January over $83 million in unpaid gasoil shipments. Emarat
claims Trafigura inflated invoices by about $24 million and
shipped oil that didn’t meet quality requirements.  “Trafigura is trying by all means to avoid facing the
harsh reality of having fraudulently contracted and invoiced the
off-spec product,” Moftah said in an e-mail yesterday. “There
is no question” Trafigura “has accepted jurisdiction of the
U.A.E. courts.”  Al Midfa isn’t in custody and didn’t attend last week’s
hearing.  Mark Eadie, a spokesman for Trafigura in London, said today
that Emarat’s allegations had been rejected during the U.K.
trial.  Trafigura, an Amsterdam-based commodities trader, sued
Emarat in 2009 after it refused to fully pay for two cargoes of
oil shipped the previous year. Trafigura initially gave Emarat
an extension on the payment while Emarat awaited an infusion of
cash from the government, according to a Jan. 26 ruling in the
case. Emarat eventually challenged the invoice.  U.A.E. Hearing  During an Oct. 26 hearing in the U.A.E., Trafigura’s
lawyers asked the judge for an extension to negotiate a
settlement with Emarat, Moftah said. The company was given four
additional months, he said.  Emarat now owes $90 million including interest, Teare said
at the Nov. 4 U.K. hearing, and a worldwide freezing order was
issued by the U.K. court against the company in February.  “Trafigura has misled the claimant by requesting time
extension before the U.A.E. courts while its real intention is
apparently to gain enough time to seek unlawful legal
proceedings in foreign jurisdictions,” Moftah said.  The case is Trafigura Pte Ltd. v. Emirates General
Petroleum Corp., 2009 Folio 350, High Court of Justice (London).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Erik Larson  in London at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 