-- End, Don't Extend, Bush Tax Cuts for Fresh Start: Kevin Hassett
-- B y   K e v i n   H a s s e t t
-- 2010-11-08T02:00:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-08/end-don-t-extend-bush-tax-cuts-to-start-new-commentary-by-kevin-hassett.html
To predictable cheers for
bipartisanship, President  Barack Obama  said he will work with
Republicans to extend at least a portion of  George W. Bush ’s tax
cuts before they expire at the end of this year.  If he wants to help both his presidency and the country, he
should drop that idea.  Negotiations would likely go down one of two roads in this
lame-duck congressional session. The Democratic president and
resurgent Republicans could agree to extend all of the tax cuts
for two years. Or Obama could stand firm on decoupling tax cuts
for the wealthiest Americans, extending only the middle-class
tax cuts for several years while giving the top rates at most
one more year before allowing them to expire.  Republicans I spoke with last week are bracing for the
latter path and another knock-down, drag-out fight. Obama should
surprise them with another direction entirely: declare Bush tax
cuts, like the Bush administration itself, over.  Obama should announce that he will work early in 2011 with
Republicans, newly empowered in the House, to pass broad tax
legislation retroactive to Jan. 1. He could assure markets that
key issues such as the expiring dividend and capital-gains taxes
will be addressed, and that bipartisan, permanent change would
be for the better -- the kind of policy that eliminates
uncertainty and sets the country on the right path.  Rarely has a new conversation been so needed. Isn’t it time
we stopped fighting over Bush’s tax policy? Wouldn’t it be
refreshing to have a fiscal-policy debate without repeating
Bush’s name?  Black Hole  In the long history of tax policy, there have been few
issues more divisive than the Bush cuts. Since they passed,
Democratic presidential candidates have called for their repeal,
Republican candidates for their extension -- even  John McCain ,
the 2008 nominee, who had voted against them in 2001 and 2003.
The Bush tax cuts are the black hole that swallowed the fiscal-
policy debate.  And they weren’t even worth all the partisan wailing.
Dropping the top marginal rate to 35 percent from 39.6 percent
didn’t destroy civilization, as some Democrats would have you
believe, or constitute real tax reform, as Republicans have
urged for decades.  The fact is, if we extend the Bush tax cuts, it locks in
the status quo. Earth to Washington: The status quo stinks. With
the economy still limping forward, much more significant fiscal-
policy medicine is in order.  Corporate Taxes  The tax overhaul we need would address the fact that after
Japan reduces its corporate tax rate next year, a move that is
almost certain to happen, the U.S. will have the highest
corporate tax rate in the world. Lowering the top federal rate
on corporations to 25 percent, from the current 35 percent,
would largely pay for itself in business activity that’s
stimulated or not lost to Asia.  A proper overhaul also would address the fact that special
giveaways have bloomed like algae in the Mississippi Delta,
narrowing the tax base and driving up marginal rates. A
broadened tax base -- one that caps the deduction for state and
local taxes paid, for instance -- could allow rates to be
reduced, perhaps even with increased revenue.  These and other significant -- not to mention difficult --
tax changes are under consideration by the bipartisan commission
that Obama created eight months ago to recommend ways to reduce
annual budget deficits. Unless the  18-member commission  can
assemble a 14-vote supermajority for a plan to be voted on by
Congress, the best it can do is produce a set of recommendations
to guide policy makers. What better way to start the great tax
rewrite of 2011?  Next Decade  According to a paper by  Vincent  and  Carmen Reinhart ,
countries recovering from a financial crisis typically see
slower growth and higher unemployment for a decade. The right
tax changes could offset our lingering hangover and offer hope
that growth over the next decade will be on par with what
Americans are used to.  If Obama enacts major tax changes with Republicans, he will
have delivered legitimate change and set himself up to be
reelected in 2012. Congressional Republicans can lock in their
political gains by showing voters that they can govern
effectively. They might even produce something we have not seen
in a very long time: a popular speaker of the House of
Representatives.  There’s so much we can accomplish, if only we begin by
forgetting about the Bush tax cuts.  ( Kevin Hassett , director of economic-policy studies at the
American Enterprise Institute, is a Bloomberg News columnist. He
was an adviser to Republican Senator  John McCain  in the 2008
presidential election. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
 Kevin Hassett  at 
 khassett@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at 
 jgreiff@bloomberg.net  