-- Enel Green Third-Quarter Profit Rises 27 Percent on Production, Tax Breaks
-- B y   A l e s s a n d r a   M i g l i a c c i o
-- 2010-11-08T17:02:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-08/enel-green-third-quarter-profit-rises-27-percent-on-production-tax-breaks.html
Enel Green Power SpA , the renewable
energy unit of Italy’s biggest utility, said third-quarter
profit rose 27 percent on increased production and lower taxes.  Net income increased to 99 million euros ($137 million)
from 78 million euros a year earlier on a pro-forma basis, the
Rome-based company which had its trading debut last week, said
in a stock-exchange statement. Revenue rose 28 percent to 542
million euros.  Enel Green which operates wind, solar and thermal and
hydro-electric plants sold 2.26 billion euros of shares, less
than the 3 billion-euro minimum initially set for the sale, in
what was Europe’s largest initial public offering since 2007.
The company is trying to lure investors by offering a 30 percent
dividend payout and a business mix that relies less than its
competitors on government subsidies.  “Our strength rests on a technologically and
geographically diverse generating mix that provides steady and
robust cash flows,” Chief Executive  Francesco Starace  said in
today’s statement.  Unlike Spain’s Iberdrola Renovables SA and other
competitors that rely on wind power, 43 percent of the EGP’s
generation comes from hydroelectric plants across Italy which
are not subsidized. About 42 percent of its capacity comes from
wind and 13 percent from geothermal.  The company said the gains in production were due to
greater installed capacity and the development of its retail
unit Enel.si in Italy.  In the first nine months of the year Enel Green said it
spent 601 million euros on investments. The company said “in
the medium term” it plans to concentrate on developing its
solar and wind production and to focus on its core markets in
Italy, the United States, Spain, Greece and Romania.  Enel Green shares  fell  1.6 percent today in Milan trading
to 1.57 euros giving the company a market value of 7.85 billion
euros. That is below the IPO price of 1.60 euros per share.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Alessandra Migliaccio  in Rome at 
 amigliaccio@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy@bloomberg.net . 