-- Entergy Shuts Indian Point Reactor After Explosion
-- B y   C o l i n   M c C l e l l a n d   a n d   A a r o n   C l a r k
-- 2010-11-08T16:49:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-08/entergy-shuts-indian-point-nuclear-power-plant-in-n-y-after-explosion.html
Entergy Corp.  shut its 1,020-megawatt
Indian Point 2 reactor in New York after a transformer
explosion, according to a report from the U.S. Nuclear
Regulatory Commission.  “We will be investigating the explosion to try to
determine the cause,”  Jim Steets , a spokesman for Entergy, said
in a telephone interview. The incident yesterday at 6:39 p.m.
caused the reactor to automatically shut down.  Jerry Nappi , a spokesman for the plant, said there was a
replacement unit on site, which could lessen downtime for
repairs. The failed unit was installed in 2006, contained PCB-
free oil and was designed to last at least 30 years, Nappi said
in a telephone interview.  “Clearly there is an issue that needs to be looked at with
what happened to this one because obviously it didn’t reach
anywhere near that length,” Nappi said.  Siemens AG , Europe’s largest engineering company, built the
transformers for Unit 2, Nappi said. “It could be something
external to the transformer that caused it to fail,” he said.  The plant is in “cold” shutdown, meaning it will take
longer for the unit to return power to the electricity grid
because it is not at operating pressure and temperature.
Sometimes a reactor can be taken offline to “hot” standby,
where it is quicker to restart power generation.  2007 Explosion  A transformer exploded at the plant’s Unit 3 in 2007, Neil
Sheehan, a spokesman for the NRC, said in a telephone interview.
Each reactor has two main transformers that boost current before
it reaches the electrical grid.  “They monitor these transformers and they can tell when
they’re starting to degrade but sometimes they can fail
suddenly,” Sheehan said.  The plant’s Unit 3 reactor was not affected by yesterday’s
explosion and is operating at full capacity at the plant 24
miles (39 kilometers) north of New York City, Steets said.  The plant’s Unit 1 reactor was shut in 1974 because the
emergency core cooling system did not meet regulatory
requirements, the NRC  said . It began service in 1962.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Colin McClelland  in Toronto at 
 cmcclelland1@bloomberg.net ;
Aaron Clark in New York at 
 aclark27@bloomberg.net  