-- Merkel's Coalition Backs Two-Step EU Crisis Plan, CDU's Dautzenberg Says
-- B y   B r i a n   P a r k i n
-- 2010-11-08T15:49:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-08/merkel-s-coalition-backs-two-step-debt-mechanism-for-any-future-eu-crisis.html
German Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s
coalition backs proposals for a two-step crisis mechanism to
make bondholders pay for any future euro-area crisis, the
parliamentary finance spokesman for her party said.  “We cannot allow ourselves to be forced into any more fly-
by-night actions and rescues made with taxpayers’ money,”  Leo Dautzenberg , a Christian Democratic Union lawmaker, said in an
e-mailed response to questions today. “Banks and other
investors must be made to contribute in the event of a sovereign
default.”  Dautzenberg said he “very much supports” plans by Finance
Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  to extend the maturity period of
government bonds for indebted states that are forced to apply
austerity measures. If necessary, that would then be followed by
a second step involving “a wholesale restructuring of all
outstanding claims,” Dautzenberg said.  Merkel’s coalition, trailing the opposition in polls before
state elections next year involving about 25 percent of Germans,
is ramping up calls for investors to be held accountable to
avert any repeat of the debt crisis that spread from Greece.
That message clashes with European Central Bank President  Jean- Claude Trichet , who says such talk risks exacerbating the
situation for indebted euro-area nations such as Ireland and
Greece as they struggle to reduce their budget deficits.  Listen ‘Carefully’  “France and Germany are saying the opposite of Mr.
Trichet,” Luxembourg Prime Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker , who
heads the panel of euro-area finance ministers, told a European
Parliament committee in Brussels today. “I would like us to
listen to him carefully.” Otherwise, the euro area risks being
isolated in declaring “ex ante that in every instance of crisis
resolution the private sector has to be implicated.”  Schaeuble, who announced his two-tier plan in an interview
with this week’s edition of  Der Spiegel magazine , is working up
the proposals in time for a Nov. 15-16 meeting in Brussels of
European finance ministers, Finance Ministry spokesman Bertrand
Benoit said today by phone.  Schaeuble wants contracts for euro-region bonds “to spell
out in the future exactly what will happen to the demands of the
investor in a crisis situation,” Spiegel cited him as saying.
The International Monetary Fund should manage the process of
applying the crisis mechanism, Schaeuble said.  The European Union is due to draft an outline of its
permanent debt-crisis procedure by mid-December. The permanent
crisis mechanism, which was agreed on in principle by EU leaders
last month, will replace the 750 billion-euro ($1 billion) EU-
IMF rescue fund set up in May once its mandate expires in 2013.  “There’s no way that we in Germany want an extension of
the rescue fund or can sell that to the taxpayer,”  Frank Schaeffler , a lawmaker with Merkel’s Free Democratic Party
coalition partner, said by phone today. “I have serious fears
that there is pressure in the euro region to do just that.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Brian Parkin  in Berlin at  at
 bparkin@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  