-- Herr Muecke Loving Euros Proving Reports of Demise Exaggerated
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B r o w n   a n d   P a u l   D o b s o n
-- 2010-11-08T11:05:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-08/herr-muecke-loving-euros-proving-reports-of-greek-led-demise-exaggerated.html
For Raimund Muecke, the euro’s 17
percent surge against the dollar over the past five months
signals a return to the days when a thriving Germany and an
appreciating deutsche mark meant a robust Europe.  “A strong euro is good for Germany,” said Muecke, 63, who
along with his wife was babysitting his grandson last week at a
farmer’s market on the Konstablerwache in Frankfurt. “If
Germany is doing well, others do well too.”  Foreign-exchange traders agree. The euro rose above $1.42
last week from a four-year low of $1.1877 on June 7 as investors
discounted the chance that fiscal crises from Ireland to Greece
will lead to defaults, fracturing the currency. Like the mark
before it, the euro is reflecting Germany’s export-fueled
growth. Goldman Sachs Group Inc. predicts the euro will
strengthen to $1.55 in a year. The currency was at $1.3912
today.  The appreciation is signaling confidence the $1 trillion
European Union financial backstop created in May will limit
damage from the budget strains roiling nations on the region’s
periphery. The shared currency rose last week even as Irish bond
yields climbed to  records  relative to German bunds.  “Earlier this year, the currency market was worried that
the euro zone would not survive politically, but now if there is
a fire in one of your rooms, it no longer means that the whole
house will go up in flames,” said  Thomas Stolper , an economist
at Goldman Sachs in London.  Default Swaps  While an index of credit-default swaps measuring the cost
of protecting Greek, Irish, Portuguese and Spanish government
bonds from nonpayment more than doubled since May 12, just after
the EU and International Monetary Fund rescue package was
implemented, the euro strengthened 11 percent to the dollar. The
swaps pay buyers face value in exchange for the underlying
securities or the cash equivalent should a borrower fail to
adhere to its debt agreements.  Irish 10-year bond yields  soared  to 7.72 percent on Nov. 5
and reached a record 534 basis points, or 5.34 percentage
points, above benchmark bunds, according to Bloomberg data, on
concern that the cost of bailing out the nation’s banks will
overwhelm government finances.  Should Ireland be unable to sell debt next year, it would
be able to borrow from the European Financial Stability
Facility, or EFSF, to meet payments to bondholders and fund its
deficit.  Yield Spreads  The Greek-German yield difference widened last week to more
than 900 basis points for the first time since Sept. 21. Greek
Prime Minister  George Papandreou  said local elections yesterday
would be a key test of support for his government as it grapples
with a crippling budget deficit. The Portuguese-German spread
also expanded, reaching 400 basis points last week for the first
time since Oct. 13.  “It’s only when the big countries like Spain get involved
that it’s relevant for euro-dollar,” said  Bilal Hafeez , global
head of foreign-exchange strategy at Deutsche Bank AG in London,
who sees the euro rising to as high as $1.50 over the next
three-to-six months. Greece, Ireland and Portugal are less
consequential because “in GDP terms they’re tiny, they’re like
Idaho. Right now it’s the Germanic aspects of the euro area that
are driving” the currency, he said.  Ireland’s gross domestic product accounted for 1.8 percent
of the euro-region’s 9 trillion-euro ($12.6 trillion) economy
last year, with Portugal at 1.9 percent and Greece at about 2.6
percent. Spain represented 12 percent, with German output
amounting to 27 percent.  Export Strength  Germany’s  exports  have rebounded from a four-year low in
May 2009 as a drop in U.S. demand was countered by an increase
from Asia. Sales to Asia this year through August were more than
twice those to America, compared with 1.4 times for all of 2009,
according to the Federal Statistics Office in Wiesbaden.  Munich-based  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG , the world’s top
maker of luxury vehicles, boosted its 2010 profit forecast on
Nov. 3 after posting an 11-fold jump in net income.  BASF SE , the
biggest chemical maker, will generate sales and earnings next
year that surpassed the record levels predicted for 2010, buoyed
by growth in China,  Martin Brudermueller , a board member of the
Ludwigshafen-based company, said Oct. 29.  German  GDP  grew for five consecutive quarters since the
nation emerged from recession in the second quarter of 2009,
including a 2.2 percent jump in the three months through June.
The euro area expanded 1 percent in the period. The U.S. grew at
a 1.7 percent annual rate in the second quarter and a 2 percent
pace in the third quarter.  ‘Massive Impact’  “What strikes me is just how damn strong the data is,”
said  Tim Bond , a strategist in London at Odey Asset Management
LLP, which manages about $6 billion. “If you have strong growth
in Germany, that has a massive impact on places like Greece.”  For Muecke, a pensioner visiting the Frankfurt market from
the suburb of Harheim, the euro today reminds him of the period
before the currency was created in 1999, and the mark was the
proxy for Europe.  “It looks like the economy is booming again, you can see
that in the auto industry,” he said. “Things are looking up.
We’re pulling the others along.”  Signs are emerging the euro may be peaking as traders shift
their focus to the region’s fiscal challenges after pushing down
the dollar in anticipation of last week’s announcement by the
Federal Reserve that it will buy $600 billion of bonds to boost
the economy in a move known as quantitative easing, said  Lee Hardman , a currency strategist at Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ
Ltd. in London.  Dollar Bets  Bets the dollar will weaken against a basket of currencies
including the euro, the yen and the pound held last week at
about the most since at least 2003, according to data from the
Commodity Futures Trading Commission in Washington. The
difference in the number of wagers by hedge funds and other
large speculators on a decline in the dollar compared with bets
on an advance, so-called net shorts, was 288,677, data on Nov. 5
showed, compared with the average of 88,620 since 2003.  The euro hasn’t gained as much against other currencies,
rising 2.1 percent since June 7, as measured by  Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes .  “Tensions in Europe are snowballing and they’re going to
continue to build now that the Fed is out of the way,” Hardman
said. “The Fed-QE story is a factor that will be a weight on
the dollar, but given the scale of the selloff we think a lot of
that bad news is now in the price.”  The median estimate of about 40 strategists surveyed by
Bloomberg is for the euro to weaken to $1.39 by the end of the
year, and to $1.35 by mid-2011.  Deutsche Mark  The euro is almost as strong as the mark was at its peak in
March 1995, when it touched 1.3456 per dollar. A synthetic mark
based on the euro’s value was 1.3939 on Nov. 5. The euro reached
the equivalent of 1.2198 marks per dollar in July 2008, the
strongest since the 16-nation currency was created in 1999.  Diverging monetary policies may also favor Europe’s
currency. While the Fed adds more stimulus to the U.S. economy,
 Jean-Claude Trichet , president of the Frankfurt-based European
Central Bank, signaled on Nov. 4 that policy makers intend to
stick to their plan of removing such measures.  The rate at which banks in Europe say they lend to each
other in euros for 12 months was 78.8 basis points  more  last
week than the equivalent-maturity dollar London interbank
offered rate, or Libor. That’s the most since January 2009 and
up from 3.8 basis points in May.  “For people looking to position for a weak dollar, the
euro is an attractive way to do it because you don’t have a
central bank standing in your way,” said  Ronald Leven , an
executive director and currency strategist at Morgan Stanley in
New York.  Trade Advantage  Goldman Sachs’s Stolper said the euro will climb against
the dollar next year because of the region’s superior terms of
trade relative to the U.S., which has posted a current-account
deficit each year since 1991. Stolper forecasts the euro will
rise to $1.50 in six months and to $1.55 in a year.  The U.S.  current-account deficit , the broadest measure of
trade, widened 13 percent in the second quarter to $123 billion,
and has averaged about $140 billion from 2000, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The euro region posted a deficit of about
24 billion euros in the three months ended June 30.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Matthew Brown  in London at 
 mbrown42@bloomberg.net ;
 Paul Dobson  in London at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net . 