-- ETFs Riskier to Markets Than High-Frequency Trading, Kauffman Study Says
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   C o n d o n
-- 2010-11-08T23:35:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-08/etfs-riskier-to-markets-than-high-frequency-trading-kauffman-study-says.html
Exchange-traded funds, not high-
frequency trading, pose the greatest danger to stock-market
stability and may trigger more disruptions like the May 6
selloff, according to the Kauffman Foundation in Kansas City.  The proliferation of ETFs presents “unquantifiable but
very real systemic risks of the kind manifested very briefly
during the ‘flash crash’” earlier this year,  Harold Bradley  and
 Robert E. Litan  said in a research report published today.
Potentially worse declines are “a virtual certainty” without
ETF reforms, Bradley and Litan said.  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission blamed a mutual
fund’s routine hedge against losses for starting a chain of
events that turned an orderly decline into a crash that erased
$862 billion in equity value in less than 20 minutes. Regulators
also are investigating whether trading formulas, or  algorithms ,
could “cascade,” triggering further action by computerized
trading systems that would exacerbate market disruptions,  Andrei Kirilenko , a senior economist at the Commodity Futures Trading
Commission, said last week.  Unlike mutual funds, whose shares are priced once a day,
ETFs are listed on an exchange where shares are bought and sold
continually like stocks. Because ETFs are so widely traded,
they, rather than the underlying securities they’re designed to
track, “are effectively setting the prices of smaller-
capitalization companies,” Bradley and Litan wrote.  ETFs are “undermining the traditional price discovery role
of exchanges and, in turn, discouraging new companies from
wanting to be listed on U.S. exchanges,” according to the
authors.  The Kauffman Foundation, with about $2 billion in assets,
provides research on entrepreneurship, innovation, education and
public policy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Christopher Condon  in Boston at 
 ccondon4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  