-- Ethiopia's Ruling Party `Heavily Favored' in Election, European Union Says
-- B y   W i l l i a m   D a v i s o n
-- 2010-11-08T16:25:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-08/ethiopia-s-ruling-party-heavily-favored-in-election-european-union-says.html
Ethiopia ’s electoral playing field
was “heavily” balanced in favor of the ruling party in a May
vote in which Prime Minister  Meles Zenawi  and allied parties won
all but two of the 547 seats in parliament, the European Union
said.  Local administrations that are almost entirely controlled
by the Ethiopian Peoples’ Revolutionary Democratic Front should
in future have a reduced role in elections to make the process
fairer, the EU said in its final report on the vote published on
its website today. The EPRDF controls more than 99 percent of
local administrations in the country.  Ethiopia’s government rejected the criticism of a process
it has described as free and fair.  “The report casts doubt not on the standards of the
election, but on the integrity of the observers,” government
spokesman Shimeles Kemal said in a mobile-phone interview today.  The report was presented in Brussels, the Belgian capital,
after observers failed to get permission to deliver the report
in Addis Ababa, said  Thijs Berman , a Dutch member of the
European Parliament who led a team to the Horn of Africa country
in May.  Shimeles said he had “no idea” why the report wasn’t
presented in Ethiopia.  The  EPRDF  used a combination of harassment and arrests and
withholding food aid and jobs to thwart the opposition Medrek
alliance ahead of the election,  Human Rights Watch , a New York-
based advocacy group, said in a March 24 report entitled “ One
Hundred Ways of Putting Pressure .”  ‘Curtail Suspicions’  The EU mission recommended that if the National Electoral
Board relied less on local administrations it could “could
prevent and curtail suspicions of governmental control of the
electoral process.” The ruling party alliance won all but four
of the 1,904 seats for the regional state councils in this
year’s elections.  Changes to the legal framework and the fragmentation,
imprisonment and exile of opposition figures following disputed
elections in 2005 have made it difficult for opponents of the
ruling party to operate in Ethiopia, the EU said.  The mission said the EPRDF used state resources to fund its
campaign and reporting by state media ahead of the vote was
biased in favor the ruling party. Freedom of assembly was
sometimes not respected for opposition parties, and the volume
of complaints of intimidation against the ruling party, local
administrations and police was a “matter of concern,” it said.  Meles is a former Marxist guerrilla leader who has led sub-
Saharan Africa’s second-most populous nation and top coffee
producer since 1991. Under his rule, Ethiopia has pursued an
economic model that mixes a large state role with foreign
investment in roads, agriculture and power. Last year, almost a
sixth of the population relied on food aid.  To contact the reporter on this story
 William Davison  in Addis Ababa via Johannesburg at 
1999 or  pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at   asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 