-- MetLife Defends Retained Asset Accounts at Appeal
-- B y   D a v i d   G l o v i n
-- 2010-11-08T18:35:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-08/metlife-defends-retained-asset-accounts-in-arguments-before-u-s-judges.html
MetLife Inc.  doesn’t owe a fiduciary
duty to the owners of retained asset accounts, a lawyer told an
appeals court as a judge overseeing the case showed support for
the insurer’s claim.  A three-judge panel of the U.S. Court of Appeals in New
York heard arguments today in a case that may decide whether
some insurers can profit by retaining and investing the proceeds
of insurance policies issued under employee-benefit plans. A key
issue is whether New York-based MetLife, the bi ggest U.S. life
i nsurer, owes a fiduciary duty to beneficiaries of the accounts.  U.S. Circuit Court Judge  Richard Wesley  indicated that he
agreed with MetLife that the insurer doesn’t have a fiduciary
duty. Wesley said the relationship between MetLife and the
beneficiary of the retained asset accounts was closer to a
contractual guarantee, rather than a fiduciary one.  “It’s a contract, yes?” Wesley said in court.  Another appeals court judge,  Barrington Parker , suggested
that a fiduciary duty may exist between MetLife and the
beneficiary. U.S. Circuit Court Judge Wilfred Feinberg  was
silent.  “Fiduciaries are required to act solely in the interest of
beneficiaries, and all kind of self-dealing is prohibited,”
Parker said in court.  The panel didn’t issue a ruling.  Investment Income  MetLife  is among more than 100 insurance carriers that earn
investment income on a total $28 billion owed to life insurance
beneficiaries, Bloomberg Markets magazine reported in July. In
these so-called retained asset accounts, insurers keep the money
in their general account, paying only when the beneficiaries
write drafts, or “checks” on the account.  In lawsuits across the country, beneficiaries are arguing
that they are entitled to the full amount that insurers earn by
investing the retained assets. Insurers say beneficiaries are
entitled only to the amount they have been guaranteed under
contracts.  A federal appeals court in Boston ruled last year that Unum
Life Insurance Co. of America, a unit of Chattanooga, Tennessee-
based  Unum Group , owed a fiduciary duty to beneficiaries with
retained-asset accounts created by an employee-benefit plan.  In July, the New York-based appeals court said there was no
fiduciary duty for retained-asset accounts created by the
purchase of insurance directly from an insurer.  Plan Assets  Today’s argument in New York focused on retained asset
accounts created by an employee-benefit plan. The case was
brought by Carol Faber, a beneficiary of a retained-asset Total
Control Account created by MetLife. A lower court judge
previously ruled in MetLife’s favor.  At today’s appeal, John Bell, a lawyer for Faber, argued
that retained asset accounts are assets of employee benefit
plans and that MetLife violated its fiduciary duty to Faber by
retaining profit generated by plan assets.  “One has the right to a fiduciary duty of the plan
administrator,” Bell said, referring to MetLife.  MetLife lawyer Michael Bernstein argued that retained asset
accounts are no longer part of an employee-benefit plan after
the insurer issues the checkbook, giving the beneficiary control
over the funds.  “The fiduciary relationship ends once the Total Control
Account is funded,” Bernstein said.  The case is Faber v. MetLife, 09-4901, 2nd U.S. Circuit
Court of Appeals (New York).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Glovin  in New York State Supreme Court
in Manhattan at   dglovin@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net  