-- Euro Slips on Irish Debt Concerns; Asian Stocks Hit 2-Year High
-- B y   I n y o u n g   H w a n g   a n d   S t e p h e n   V o s s
-- 2010-11-08T21:11:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-08/euro-slips-on-irish-debt-concerns-asian-stocks-hit-2-year-high.html
The euro weakened for a second day as
concern that governments in the region will struggle to pay
their debt increased as Ireland prepared to open its books to
European Union officials. U.S. benchmark stock indexes retreated
from two-year highs and gold and cotton climbed to records.  The euro fell against 11 of its 16 most-traded peers,
weakening 0.8 percent to $1.3919 at 4 p.m. in New York. The
 Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  lost 0.2 percent to 1,223.25 after a
five-week rally pushed it to the highest valuation since May.
Irish bonds slid for the 10th day, the longest drop in almost
two years. Gold topped $1,400 an ounce for the first time.
Cotton rose amid concern over a drop in Chinese production.  European stocks halted two days of gains that drove the
 Stoxx Europe 600 Index  to a six-month high as concern resurfaced
that nations will struggle to cut deficits. Costs to insure
Irish debt and its banks from default surged to a record,
tempering last week’s optimism about global growth spurred by
the U.S. Federal Reserve’s plan to pump cash into the economy.  “There are still some sovereign debt issues unresolved,
and Ireland is the poster child for that,” said  Art Hogan ,
chief market analyst at New York-based Jefferies Group Inc. “As
the dollar firms up, you’re going to have an inverse reaction in
the equity market. You also see that reaction in commodities.”  Dollar Strengthens  The Dollar Index, which tracks the U.S. currency against
those of six trading partners,  rose  0.7 percent to 77.044,
climbing for the second straight day after reaching its 2010 low
last week. The U.S. currency advanced against all 16 major peers
except the yen. New Zealand’s dollar dropped 1 percent to 78.77
U.S. cents after a vine infection was discovered at a kiwifruit
orchard.  Boeing Co., Travelers Cos. and Home Depot Inc. fell at
least 1.4 percent to lead the  Dow Jones Industrial Average  down
from its highest level since before Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc.’s bankruptcy in September 2008. The 30-stock gauge slipped
37.24 points, or 0.3 percent, to 11,406.84. The S&P 500 started
the day trading at 14.4 times estimated earnings over the next
year, its most expensive since Mid-May, after the index rallied
almost 20 percent from its 2010 low in July.  The yield on the 10-year Treasury note increased 2 basis
points to 2.55 percent and the two-year yield climbed three
basis points to 0.40 percent.  The Fed on Nov. 3. unveiled plans to buy $600 billion of
Treasuries through June as part of its quantitative easing
program, a move that has improved the outlook for growth in the
world’s biggest economy, according to Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  ‘Fixation With One Issue’  “Up until last week we had a fixation with one issue and
that was quantitative easing,” said  Jeremy Stretch , executive
director of foreign-exchange strategy in London at Canadian
Imperial Bank of Commerce. “Now that we’ve gone through QE it’s
a case of looking at the broader fundamental factors. The story
that was most important before that was the euro zone negativity
and it’s now back in the forefront.”  The extra yield, or spread, investors demand to hold Irish
10-year bonds instead of similar-maturity benchmark German debt
 increased  as much as 29 basis points to a record 550 basis
points. Credit-default swaps insuring Irish government debt
surged 20 basis points to 598, a record based on closing prices.  EU Economic and Monetary Affairs Commissioner  Olli Rehn  is
in Ireland today to examine government budget plans, while
Portugal yesterday received an offer of help from Chinese
President  Hu Jintao .  Erik Nielsen , chief European economist at Goldman Sachs
Group Inc., said there is a “big” possibility that Ireland and
Portugal will need to seek aid from the European Union.  ‘Clearly Not Sustainable’  “There is a big probability that the Irish and the
Portuguese will end up having to get help from the official
sector” of the European Union “unless the markets suddenly
calm down,” he said on Bloomberg Television today. “These
funding costs you are seeing right now are clearly not
sustainable.”  Greek debt rose as Prime Minister  George Papandreou’s  party
headed toward victory in local elections. Local election returns
showed candidates backed by Papandreou’s Pasok party were ahead
in seven of 13 regions.  The 10-year Greek bond yield fell five basis points to
11.41 percent. The Greek-German spread  narrowed  three basis
points to 898 basis points. The country’s  ASE Index  surged 1.3
percent, the biggest gain in two weeks, as National Bank of
Greece SA climbed 3.5 percent.  ’Want This Change’  “Change is what the Greek people wanted when we were voted
into power a year ago,” Papandreou said in a statement
yesterday on state-run NET TV. “Today the Greek people
reaffirmed they continue to want this change, to ask for it.”  The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index  closed down less than 0.1
percent after rallying 2.3 percent last week. About three stocks
retreated for each that rose in the regional benchmark.
Commerzbank AG, Germany’s second-biggest lender, slid 5.2
percent after third-quarter profit missed analysts’ estimates.
Gartmore Group Ltd. plunged 15 percent after saying  Roger Guy ,
head of the European Large Cap fund management team, will retire
from day-to-day fund management.  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index  advanced 0.3 percent to the
highest level since July 2008 as benchmark equity indexes in
 Malaysia  and  Indonesia  climbed to records. Russia’s  Micex Index 
rose 1.8 percent as the nation’s markets opened for the first
time since the Federal Reserve announced new stimulus measures
last week.  OAO Gazprom , the world’s biggest natural-gas
producer, jumped 2.4 percent on earnings that beat analysts’
estimates.  Gold futures rose to a record $1,409.40 an ounce on the
Comex in New York, before paring gains to 0.4 percent and
settling at $1,403.20, as the euro’s drop spurred investor
demand for an alternative to currencies. Before today, the metal
jumped 28 percent this year, heading for the 10th straight
annual gain.  Cotton extended its gains to a record, rising the exchange
limit of 4 cents to $1.4623 a pound amid concern that a decline
in production in China will prompt the world’s biggest user to
boost imports and drain global inventories.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Inyoung Hwang in New York at 
 ihwang7@bloomberg.net ;
 Stephen Voss  in London at   sev@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 