-- Euro Falls as Concern Over Irish Bond Sales, Greece Damps Investor Demand
-- B y   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a   a n d   R o n   H a r u i
-- 2010-11-08T12:36:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-08/euro-falls-as-concern-over-irish-bond-sales-greece-damps-investor-demand.html
The euro fell for a second day versus
the dollar as concern that Ireland will struggle to plug its
budget deficit curbed demand for the region’s assets.  Europe’s currency weakened the most against the yen among
its most-actively traded peers before European Union Economic
and Monetary Affairs Commissioner  Olli Rehn  arrives in Dublin
today to discuss spending cuts and tax increases. The euro also
fell as  Der Spiegel  magazine said German Finance Minister
 Wolfgang Schaeuble  had a plan to make holders of euro-area
government bonds liable for losses in a future crisis. The Swiss
franc climbed to its strongest in more than a week against the
euro as the nation’s jobless rate fell.  “The EU monetary affairs commissioner going to Ireland is
keeping it very much at the forefront of the market’s thought
process,” said  Jeremy Stretch , executive director of foreign-
exchange strategy in London at Canadian Imperial Bank of
Commerce. “The plan to make bondholders share some of the pain
from future issues is probably making investors a bit wary.”  The euro slid to $1.3927 at 7:32 a.m. in New York from
$1.4032 last week. It reached $1.4282 on Nov. 4, the highest
since Jan. 20. The 16-nation currency fell to 112.88 yen from
114.03. The dollar traded at 81.11 yen from 81.06.  Rehn will be in Dublin for two days after the Irish
government laid out a plan last week to cut spending and raise
taxes by as much as 6 billion euros ($8.4 billion) in 2011.
German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  said last week that European
bondholders should share the cost of any restructuring, rather
than leaving taxpayers “on the hook.”  Irish-German Spread  The  difference  in yield, or spread, between 10-year Irish
bonds and similar-maturity benchmark German bunds widened 12
basis points today to 533 basis points. It was at 534.1 basis
points on Nov. 5.  “There is an element of risk aversion that has kicked in
because of Ireland,” said  Neil Jones , head of European hedge-
fund sales at Mizuho Corporate Bank Ltd. in London. “That’s
causing uncertainty in the market.”  Ireland’s economy will need to be bailed out as a wave of
mortgage losses increase the cost of rescuing the nation’s
lenders, according to  Morgan Kelly , an economics professor
dubbed the country’s “Doctor Doom.”  “From here on, for better or worse, we can only rely on
the kindness of strangers,” Kelly wrote in the  Irish Times 
today. Kelly was given the “Doom” nickname by newspapers
including the New York Times after he forecast in 2006 that
Irish property prices may decline as much as 80 percent.  Crises Concern Abates  The euro had risen above $1.42 last week from a four-year
low of $1.1877 on June 7 as investors discounted the chance that
fiscal crises from Ireland to Greece will lead to defaults,
fracturing the single currency. Goldman Sachs Group Inc. still
predicts the euro will strengthen to $1.55 in a year.  Europe’s common currency stayed weaker after a report
showed  Industrial production  in Germany unexpectedly declined in
September. Output fell 0.8 percent from August, when it rose 1.5
percent, the  Economy Ministry  in Berlin said today. Economists
had forecast a 0.4 percent gain, the median of 35 estimates in a
 Bloomberg News survey  showed.  The franc rose for a fifth day against the euro, gaining
0.3 percent to 1.3455, after earlier advancing to 1.3439, the
strongest level since Oct. 21.  Switzerland’s jobless rate dropped to 3.6 percent from 3.7
percent in September when adjusted for seasonal swings, the
State Secretariat for Economic Affairs in Bern said today in an
e-mailed statement. That’s the lowest since May 2009 and in line
with the median forecast of nine economists in a Bloomberg News
survey. The  unadjusted jobless rate  held at 3.5 percent.  Won Falls  South Korea’s won fell the most in a week as Lee Hoo Myung,
director of the foreign-exchange policy division at the finance
ministry, said on Nov. 5 that “appropriate action” will be
taken if banks violate currency-derivative trade rules, fueling
speculation the nation will act to curb currency volatility.  Leaders of the Group of 20 nations meet in Seoul this week
to discuss last month’s pledge to avoid “competitive
devaluation” of their currencies. Asia-Pacific leaders meet in
Yokohama, Japan on Nov. 13-14.  South Korea announced a cap on foreign and domestic banks’
currency derivatives in June, which will require them to cut
their holdings to a specified amount of equity capital by
October 2012. The finance ministry today denied a report by
Yonhap News that said the government plans to further tighten
limits on the use of currency derivatives by foreign banks
starting in January.  Kiwi Infection  The won slid 0.5 percent to 1,113.22 per dollar, the
currency’s sharpest decline since Oct. 27.  New Zealand’s dollar dropped from near the strongest since
April 2008 after a vine infection was discovered at a kiwifruit
orchard. Testing is under way to determine whether the infection
is a bacterial kiwifruit vine disease, Biosecurity Minister
David Carter said in an e-mailed statement.  “The headline about kiwifruit disease may have caused some
selling on concerns about the export impact,” said  Imre Speizer , a market strategist in Wellington at Westpac Banking
Corp. “Still, the fruit only accounts for about 2.5 percent of
merchandise, so the long-term implications are small.”  New Zealand’s dollar dropped to 78.59 U.S. cents from 79.55
after touching 79.76 on Nov. 4, the strongest since April 2008.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Lukanyo Mnyanda  in London at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net ;  Ron Harui  in Singapore at   rharui@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  