-- Euro Falls Amid Concern Some Nations Will Strain to Pay Debt Obligations
-- B y   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t
-- 2010-11-08T22:04:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-08/euro-drops-for-second-day-amid-concern-ireland-will-struggle-with-deficit.html
The euro fell for a second day versus
the dollar amid concern that some governments in the region will
struggle to pay their debt, curbing demand for its assets, as a
European Union official looked at Ireland’s books.  The shared currency slid the most in a week versus the yen
as the extra yield investors demand to hold Irish debt instead
of German securities surged to a record. The Swiss franc climbed
to its strongest in two weeks against the euro. The yen and
dollar rose against all of their most-traded peers as attention
turned to European sovereign debt from the Federal Reserve’s
plan to buy bonds under quantitative easing.  “What’s happening in Europe and Ireland is leading to some
unsettled market trading,” said  Nick Bennenbroek , head of
currency strategy at Wells Fargo & Co. in New York.
“Quantitative easing was highly anticipated. Maybe you’re
seeing a bit of paring of short-dollar positions.” A short
position is a bet a currency will fall.  The euro fell 0.8 percent to $1.3920 at 5 p.m. in New York,
from $1.4032 on Nov. 5. It reached $1.4282 on Nov. 4, the
highest since Jan. 20. The 16-nation currency dropped as much as
1.2 percent versus Japan’s currency, matching the fall on Oct.
29, before trading at 113.01 yen, down 0.9 percent from 114.03
Nov. 5. The dollar slipped 0.1 percent to 81.18 yen, from 81.26.  The difference in yields, or  spread , between 10-year Irish
bonds and similar-maturity benchmark German bunds widened to a
record 550 basis points, or 5.5 percentage points.  Portuguese Bonds  The spread on the 10-year bonds of Portugal over bunds
widened to as much as 444 basis points, the most since at least
1997, two days before the country plans to sell up to 1.25
billion euros ($1.74 billion) in debt. Portugal is another
country that’s working to reduce its budget deficit.  “This could be just the tip of the iceberg for the euro --
it could head back below $1.35, and maybe even back to $1.30,”
said  Blake Jespersen , director of foreign exchange in Toronto at
Bank of Montreal. “The problems in Europe are a lot bigger than
the market’s priced in just yet.”  The euro has dropped 0.9 percent this month among 10
developed-nation currencies, Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted
Currency Indexes show. The dollar fell 0.8 percent.  EU Economic and Monetary Affairs Commissioner  Olli Rehn  was
in Dublin on a two-day visit to discuss spending cuts and tax
increases. The Irish government laid out a plan last week to cut
spending and raise taxes by as much as 6 billion euros in 2011.
Rehn said at a press conference late today he endorsed the
proposal.  German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  said last week European
bondholders should share the cost of any restructuring by the
region’s financially strapped peripheral countries rather than
leaving taxpayers “on the hook.”  Ireland, Portugal Bailouts  Ireland and Portugal may need bailouts, said  Erik Nielsen ,
chief European economist at Goldman Sachs Group Inc. in a
Bloomberg Television interview on “Surveillance Midday” with
 Tom Keene .  “At the end of the day the peripheral group grew very fast
over the years, and they overextended themselves and the Germans
are rightly frustrated that they need to bail people out,”
Nielsen said.  Leaders of the Group of 20 nations meet in Seoul on Nov.
11-12 to discuss last month’s pledge to avoid “competitive
devaluation” of their currencies.  The franc rose for a fifth day against the euro, gaining
0.4 percent to 1.3448, after earlier reaching 1.3407, the
strongest level since Oct. 21.  Franc ‘Big Winner’  “The franc is a big winner in the safe-haven trade, and
the yen will continue to be and to some degree the dollar as
well,”  Kathy Lien , director of currency research at online
currency trader GFT Forex in New York. “One of the biggest
focuses this week will be on the difficulties in the euro area;
the other will be the G-20.”  U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  told reporters
in Kyoto, Japan, two days ago the U.S. views a “strong dollar”
as in its interest and “will never use our currency as a tool
to gain competitive advantage.”  Policy makers from Asia to South America have warned that
the Fed’s decision last week to pump money into the U.S.
financial system by purchasing $600 billion of Treasuries
through June will debase the dollar and spur flows of capital to
emerging markets that cause asset-price bubbles.  Mexico’s peso dropped for the first time this month as
speculation grew that some European governments will struggle to
pay their debts. The currency declined 0.2 percent to 12.2272
per dollar after rising for seven straight days.  Brazil’s real fell against 15 of 16 major counterparts
before President-elect  Dilma Rousseff ’s office said in an e-mail
today she will keep in place the basis of the current economic
policy and won’t take measures that cause “unease” for markets.
The currency fell earlier amid speculation Rousseff would
pressure the central bank to lower borrowing costs next year.
The real weakened for a second day, losing as much as 1.3
percent to 1.7017 per dollar before trading at 1.7003.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Allison Bennett  in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  