-- Most European Stocks Fall; Commerzbank, Gartmore Shares Slide
-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 2010-11-08T17:12:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-08/european-u-s-stock-index-futures-fall-asian-shares-gain-for-sixth-day.html
Most  European stocks  declined after
the benchmark Stoxx Europe 600 Index climbed to a six-month high
last week.  Commerzbank AG dropped the most in eight months after
profit missed analysts’ estimates. Gartmore Group Ltd. plunged
15 percent after saying fund manager  Roger Guy  will retire.
Greece’s ASE Index rose 1.3 percent as Prime Minister  George Papandreou ’s initial victory in local elections reduced the
chance of an early national poll.  The Stoxx 600 was little changed at 271.91 as of the 4:30
p.m. close of trading in London, as four stocks fell for every
three that gained. The measure surged to the highest level since
April 15 last week after the Federal Reserve announced $600
billion of additional bond purchases to boost growth, a tactic
known as quantitative easing, and U.S. employment increased more
than forecast.  “We are seeing a pause for breath today having rallied
hard on the back of QE2 and non-farm payrolls,” said  Joshua Raymond , a markets strategist at City Index Ltd. in London.
“There is a distinct lack of major economic data today also,
which means that the market may struggle to find direction.”  National benchmark indexes fell in 11 of the 18 western
European markets. The U.K. FTSE 100 lost 0.4 percent, while
France’s CAC 40 and Germany’s DAX were little changed.  Earnings Season  Commerzbank, Germany’s second-biggest bank, slid 5.2
percent to 6.28 euros after reporting third-quarter net income
of 113 million euros ($157 million). That missed the 148.4
million-euro average estimate of analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  About 62 percent of the 215 companies on the  Stoxx 600  that
have announced results since Oct. 7 have beaten analyst
estimates for per-share income, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. In the U.S., 76 percent of  S&P 500  companies have
topped predictions in the period.  Gartmore, the U.K. money manager that began trading its
shares in December, tumbled 15 percent to 107 pence, the biggest
drop since March.  The company said Chief Investment Officer  Dominic Rossi 
resigned to join another fund manager and Guy will retire from
day-to-day fund management at the end of the year. Gartmore said
it will implement a 10 million-pound ($16.1 million) cost-
cutting program and share-based employee incentive plan as part
of a strategic review and hired Goldman Sachs Group Inc. to
advise on a sale or merger.  Irish Economy  Irish Life & Permanent Plc, the country’s biggest mortgage
lender, sank 16 percent to 88 euro cents as investor concern
grew that mortgage impairments are rising and the government
might need a bailout.  Bank of Ireland Plc  declined for a twelfth
day, its longest losing streak on record, sliding 5.7 percent to
40.1 euro cents.  European Union Economic and Monetary Affairs Commissioner
 Olli Rehn  arrived in Dublin today for a two-day visit after the
government laid out a plan last week to cut spending and raise
taxes by as much as 6 billion euros in 2011. Ireland led a surge
in the cost of insuring sovereign debt to a record on Nov. 5 as
the government struggles to convince investors it won’t be the
next Greece, whose economy was rescued by the EU and
International Monetary Fund in May.  Italcementi SpA slid 3.5 percent to 6.03 euros as third-
quarter net profit fell 63 percent to 18 million euros. The
Italian cement company said price erosion will hurt its fourth-
quarter results.  Norsk Hydro ASA sank 2.4 percent to 37.76 kroner as
Citigroup Inc. downgraded shares of Europe’s third-largest
aluminum maker to “sell” from “buy.”  Greek Banks Gain  National Bank of Greece SA  gained 3.5 percent to 7.66
euros, leading Greek shares higher. Papandreou said his
government would continue to press ahead with its task of
reducing a crippling budget deficit and debt burden after an
initial victory in local elections.  EFG Eurobank Ergasias SA, the nation’s second-biggest
lender, rallied 5.8 percent to 4.37 euros for the largest gain
in two months.  Zodiac Aerospace climbed 5.8 percent to 52.65 euros after
La Lettre de L’Expansion reported that Hamilton Sundstrand Corp.
is interested in a possible purchase of the maker of aircraft
equipment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Adam Haigh  in London at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Merritt at   dmerritt1@bloomberg.net . 