-- Leveraged Loan Prices Rise to Three-Year High, Reaping Record Fund Inflows
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   K u o
-- 2010-11-08T13:08:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-08/leveraged-loan-prices-rise-to-three-year-high-reaping-record-fund-inflows.html
Leveraged loans prices climbed to a
three-year high as demand for secured high-yield investments
overshadowed Europe’s deepening sovereign debt crisis.  The average bid price for actively-traded European
leveraged loans rose 52 basis points to 97.23 percent of face
value last week, the highest since Nov. 15, 2007, according to
Standard & Poor’s Leveraged Commentary & Data. Leveraged loans,
typically used to finance acquisitions, returned 1.3 percent in
Europe this quarter, while corporate bonds gained 0.4 percent,
according to LCD and Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes.  European leveraged loan prices are rallying even as margins
for high-grade borrowers rise amid concern over spiraling budget
deficits of Europe’s most indebted nations. The extra yield
investors demand to buy the bonds of investment-grade issuers
rose 4 basis points in the past week to 163, the first increase
in six weeks, Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data show.  “The secondary loan market has experienced a real
liftathon” as funds re-invest cash from retired debt, said
 David Fewtrell , managing director of leveraged credit sales and
trading at HSBC Holdings Plc in London.  Investors have recouped 14.4 billion euros ($20 billion) of
repayments on leveraged loans this year compared with 3.5
billion euros in the same period of last year, LCD data show.
Funds dedicated to investing in loans had a record $7.2 billion
of inflows this year, according to Cambridge, Massachusetts-
based research firm EPFR Global, which started tracking the data
in 2007.  ProSieben, Boots Gain  Senior loans of ProSiebenSat.1 Media AG, Germany’s biggest
private broadcaster, rose to between 92 and 93 cents on the euro
on Nov. 5, compared with 89.5 cents two weeks ago, according to
Commerzbank AG’s prices. The company, based in Unterfoehring
near Munich, said on Nov. 3 third-quarter earnings before
interest, tax, depreciation and amortization rose 64 percent
from a year earlier to 154.9 million euros.  Pound-denominated loans of Alliance Boots Ltd., the owner
of the U.K.’s largest drugstore chain, were quoted at 92 percent
of face value compared with 90.25 on Nov. 1, according to
Commerzbank.  “The secondary loan market looks set to continue to
benefit in the next quarter from the imbalance between supply
and demand,” said  Colin Atkins , head of Carlyle Group’s
European leveraged finance unit in London. “Secondary loan
prices are only going one way.”  ‘Pecking Order’  The sovereign debt crisis may provide an opportunity for
investors to allocate funds to high-yield debt, BNP Paribas SA
credit strategists wrote in a Nov. 4 research note. High-yield
issuers are the best performers in the Markit Itraxx indexes,
bolstered by improving cash flow.  “The latest flare-up in Eurozone sovereign risk has seen
the emergence of a clear pecking order within the credit
universe,” according to BNP Paribas. “Many high-yield
corporates are in balance sheet repair mode, aided by ample
liquidity conditions.”  The Markit iTraxx SovX Western Europe Index of swaps on 15
nations is at 172 basis points today, an increase of 34 basis
points since Oct. 18. Contracts on the Markit iTraxx Crossover
Index of credit-default swaps on 50 companies with mostly high-
yield credit ratings have narrowed 33 basis points since Oct.
18, according to BNP Paribas, indicating a decline in risk.  High-yield debt is rated below Baa3 by Moody’s Investors
Service and BBB- by S&P. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  “Strong market technicals continue to drive secondary
pricing,” HSBC’s Fewtrell said.  Moody’s Investors Service on Oct. 28 upgraded the rating of
Ineos Group Holding Plc Ltd.’s senior secured bank facilities by
one level to B1, pushing up prices to 102.375 percent of face
value from 100.875 on Oct. 25, according to Commerzbank.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Patricia Kuo  in London at 
 pkuo2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net  