-- Ex-Citigroup Brokers Are Said to Testify in SEC's Debt-Fund Investigation
-- B y   J o s h u a   G a l l u   a n d   B r a d l e y   K e o u n
-- 2010-11-08T23:12:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-08/ex-citigroup-brokers-are-said-to-testify-in-sec-s-debt-fund-investigation.html
Former  Citigroup Inc.  brokers
received subpoenas from U.S. regulators as part of an
investigation into whether the bank misled investors about risks
associated with certain debt funds, according to people familiar
with the matter.  At least three California brokers and one from Texas who
worked for Citigroup’s Smith Barney unit testified before the
Securities and Exchange Commission this year in connection with
a probe of the bank’s MAT, ASTA and Falcon debt funds, according
to the people, who spoke on condition of anonymity because the
investigation isn’t public. A federal prosecutor also took part
in some of the questioning, one of the people said.  The Wall Street Journal reported the subpoenas earlier
today.  Regulators began investigating the funds more than two
years ago, according to an August 2008 filing by New York-based
Citigroup, the third-biggest U.S. bank by assets. The Asta and
MAT funds tumbled to values ranging from 10 cents to 60 cents on
the dollar early that year, and Citigroup had to record a cost
of $250 million to help customers exit the Falcon funds. The
bank had to extend a combined $1.5 billion of equity and credit
facilities to keep the funds from collapsing.  The funds, which at one point had at least $25 billion in
combined assets, were largely sold to wealthy individuals. While
some investors accepted buybacks from Citigroup, others filed
lawsuits and sought arbitration through the Financial Industry
Regulatory Authority.  Citigroup spokeswoman  Danielle Romero-Apsilos  declined to
comment on the status of any investigations into the funds. In
past arbitration proceedings Citigroup has denied misleading
investors, claiming that they were warned of the funds’ risks
and that disclosure statements were adequate, Romero-Apsilos
said.  SEC spokesman  John Nester  declined to comment.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Joshua Gallu  in Washington at 
 jgallu@bloomberg.net ;
 Bradley Keoun  in New York at 
 Bkeoun@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at   lroberts13@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 