-- Facebook Accuses Boston Phoenix Owner, WFNX Radio of Breaching Two Patents
-- B y   S u s a n   D e c k e r
-- 2010-11-08T20:20:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-08/facebook-accuses-boston-phoenix-owner-wfnx-radio-of-breaching-two-patents.html
Facebook Inc., the world’s biggest
social-networking website, accused the owner of the Boston
Phoenix newspaper and WFNX radio station of infringing two
patents related to ways to manage information online.  Facebook filed the complaint today in federal court in
Boston against  Phoenix Media/Communications Group Inc.  and its
People2People Group, Tele-Publishing and FNX Broadcasting units.
The allegations were made in response to a patent-infringement
lawsuit Tele-Publishing filed last year against Palo Alto,
California-based Facebook.  Facebook claims features including the “band guide” and
“find restaurants” on the newspaper’s website, as well as the
radio station’s online music player, are infringing the two
patents. It’s seeking cash compensation and an order that would
prevent further use of the inventions.  In the case filed last year, Facebook is challenging the
validity of the Tele-Publishing patent for a computer network
that provides a personal page, and contends it isn’t using the
technology. Facebook initially made the infringement allegations
against Phoenix in July as part of that case. U.S. District
Judge  Douglas Woodlock  in October ordered Facebook to file a
separate lawsuit if it wanted to pursue the claims.  Officials with Phoenix Media didn’t immediately return a
message seeking comment.  The case is Facebook Inc. v. Phoenix Media/Communications
Group Inc., 10cv11917, U.S. District Court for the District of
Massachusetts (Boston). The earlier case is Tele-Publishing Inc.
v. Facebook Inc., 09cv11686, also in Boston.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Susan Decker  in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net . 