-- Bullard Says Stimulus May Have `Maximum Impact' in Six Months
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   S a l a s
-- 2010-11-08T19:04:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-08/fed-s-bullard-says-stimulus-steps-may-have-maximum-impact-in-six-months.html
Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis
President  James Bullard  said the impact from the Fed’s decision
to buy $600 billion of Treasuries through June will probably
stimulate the economy as soon as six months from now.  “Easing of  monetary policy  produces its maximum impact on
real variables in the economy, including output, consumption,
and investment, with a lag of six to 12 months and can be
difficult to disentangle,” Bullard said today in a speech in
New York.  The policy-making Federal Open Market Committee last week
embarked on a second round of unconventional monetary stimulus
after a reduction in its main rate to near zero and purchases of
$1.7 trillion in securities failed to bring down an unemployment
rate that’s stuck near a 26-year high.  The benefits of quantitative easing, or additional bond
purchases, “outweigh the risks” and the impact of the program
has already been seen in the financial markets, Bullard said.
The program has had “fairly substantial effects” and policy
makers aren’t “pushing on a string,” Bullard said in response
to audience questions.  Chinese Vice Finance Minister  Zhu Guangyao  said today the
Fed’s decision last week may “shock” emerging markets by
flooding them with capital.  “Around the world we have $10 trillion of hot money flowing
around, more than the $9 trillion in hot money at the beginning
of the global financial crisis,” Zhu said to reporters. The U.S.
“has not fully taken into consideration the shock of excessive
capital flows to the financial stability of emerging markets.”  Latest Easing  Officials in Brazil and Germany have also criticized the
Fed’s latest easing.  The Fed “has to pursue” its dual mandate of price
stability and full employment, Bullard said. “You can’t have
other people around the world calling the shots on that
mandate.”  While concern that inflation will take off is
“legitimate,” the “disinflationary trend is worrisome” and
the central bank needs to keep inflation near the FOMC’s
“implicit inflation target,” Bullard said, according to the
St. Louis Fed.  Bullard was an early proponent among policy makers of
additional stimulus, saying the central bank should
incrementally buy securities. He opposed starting the program
with big purchases.  ‘Very Keen’  “I was very keen on the sentence” in the FOMC statement
“that says the committee will regularly review the program,”
Bullard said in his speech.  The Fed needed to supplement its near-zero interest rate
policy with quantitative easing because the economic recovery
has faltered, and additional disinflation would mean that real
interest rates would rise, according to Bullard.  “While asset purchases are sometimes viewed as
unconventional, the financial-market effects have been entirely
conventional: real interest rates declined, inflation
expectations rose, the dollar depreciated and equity prices
rose,” according to Bullard.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Caroline Salas  in New York at 
 csalas1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  