-- Fed Club Changed Forever With Carl Turnipseed's Accidental 1969 Interview
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   S a l a s
-- 2010-11-08T15:54:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-08/fed-club-changed-forever-with-carl-turnipseed-s-accidental-1969-interview.html
Carl Turnipseed  owes his 41-year
career at the Federal Reserve Bank of New York to the fact that
no one showed up for a job interview with the bank’s recruiter
one day during his senior year at Morgan State University.  “I happened to be walking through the administration
building on campus, and there’s a guy standing outside the
interviewing office who introduced himself and said ‘Do you know
anything about the Federal Reserve?” Turnipseed, 62, recalled
in an interview. “I said ‘Yeah, I just took a money and banking
class.’ He invited me to sit down.”  That conversation prompted Turnipseed, now executive vice
president and head of financial services, to reconsider his
aspiration to become an Army general. He applied to and received
offers from four banks and took the job at the New York Fed,
despite its offering the lowest pay: $8,500.  “In 1969, it was an interesting time in our nation: You
had the civil-rights movement and you had the hippie movement
and here comes a small-town boy from East Baltimore to New York
City,” said Turnipseed, who became the first black among the
top 10 executives at the bank and now oversees 300 people. “I
have to say, I’ve really come a long way.”  Since joining the New York Fed, Turnipseed has worked for
seven of its 10 presidents and watched yields on the  10-year
Treasury note  climb to 15.8 percent in 1981 and then fall to 2.1
percent at the end of 2008. As chief of the government-bond
department when the bank sold Treasuries to the public, he
remembers buyers lining up around the Manhattan  headquarters  in
the early 1980s holding shopping bags full of cash because rates
were at record highs.  Cash, Currency, Coins  Now Turnipseed is responsible for providing cash, currency
and coin services to depository institutions. His group
authenticates counterfeits and shreds unfit currency. It also
manages the New York Fed’s  gold vault , the largest known
accumulation of monetary gold in the world with about 6,700 tons
of the metal from central banks, governments and international
organizations. He oversees payment systems including Fedwire, a
system the central bank developed to transfer large dollar
payments among reserve banks, depository institutions and
federal agencies. Fedwire processes trillions of dollars a day.  The New York Fed is the most important of the 12 regional
reserve banks because its president has a permanent vote on the
Federal Open Market Committee and monetary policy is conducted
through its trading desk. The FOMC last week directed the New
York Fed’s markets desk to buy $600 billion of Treasuries
through June to help spur growth as the U.S. economic recovery
falters.  Disaster Plans  Before his 65th birthday forces his retirement in December
2012, Turnipseed is seeking to wrap up projects that include
strengthening the New York Fed’s contingency planning for a
disaster and improving the efficiency of its currency-processing
operations. The measures are part of the central bank’s effort
to improve the stability of the financial system, a mission
Turnipseed said the credit crisis has put on par with its
monetary-policy goals.  “We’re constantly striving to be more efficient in our use
of resources,” including cutting the number of offices across
the Federal Reserve System that process checks to one from 45 in
the past several years, he said. The New York Fed also is
operating “much more collaboratively” and working to increase
the effectiveness of technology and shared services internally
and across the Fed system, he said.  William Dudley , the current president, has shown his desire
for greater teamwork by expanding a daily 8:45 a.m. meeting to
include more senior officials, Turnipseed said.  Change and Diversity  As the New York Fed’s longest-serving black executive,
Turnipseed would know something about change. When he was hired,
the bank had no black and a few females among about 80 officers,
he said. Now, Turnipseed and five women are on the bank’s
management committee, and the financial-regulation bill Congress
passed this year requires government agencies including the Fed
to establish an Office of Minority and Women Inclusion.  “The bank has made very good strides in diversity,” said
Turnipseed. He credits  Timothy Geithner , who ran the New York
Fed from 2003 until becoming Treasury secretary in January 2009,
with accelerating the effort.  The bank in 2007 replaced its “Fed Club,” a social
organization that sponsored plays and picnics and charged
participating employees dues, with internal resource networks
including the African American and Latin American Men’s
Alliance, said Turnipseed, who heads that group.  Electronic Payments  One of the most significant changes at the Fed since
Turnipseed joined has been the evolution of payment processing,
or the “plumbing” of the financial system, he said. About 45
percent of the bank’s staff worked in financial services and
support 40 years ago, compared with about 12 percent now thanks
to electronic payments, an automated clearinghouse for credits
and debits among banks, and electronic processing of securities
transactions.  “In 1969, the bank and the industry were awash in paper
and people,” according to Turnipseed, who remembers the
“paymaster wagon” that circulated through the building to
deliver his and other employees’ salaries in cash if they chose.  Turnipseed says he’s dedicated his career to the central
bank in part because its mission resonated with him. His mother,
Alice, opened a small flower shop in 1949, and her career as a
florist taught him the value of credit availability, hard work
and customer service.  ‘Access to Capital’  “There are two things that I believe have led to my
success: I got a very good education and I had access to
capital,” Turnipseed said. “Through my mother’s florist shop
where I worked part time, my parents were able to finance my
education.”  He majored in business at historically black  Morgan State 
in Baltimore, where he has set up the Alice and Willis
Turnipseed Scholarship Endowment, and he holds a master’s degree
in business administration from  New York University . He met his
wife, Joyce, in high school, and they have one daughter,
Danielle, who graduated from law school at the  University of
Maryland  in Baltimore.  “One of the things I always take great pride in is that
I’ve had this love affair of 40 years with my wife and the
bank,” Turnipseed said.  After joining the New York Fed as a bank examiner,
Turnipseed left to enter the U.S. Army as a lieutenant to
fulfill his commitment to the Reserve Officers’ Training Corps,
or ROTC, which helps participants pay for college. He came back
to the bank in 1971 in human resources, going on to serve in
foreign relations, as assistant chief of accounting and as head
of human resources.  Out of the ‘Fortress’  Turnipseed also ran the central bank’s Buffalo branch for
six years as part of former New York Fed President  William McDonough ’s attempt to take the bank “out of the  concrete-
fortress ” headquarters at 33 Liberty Street, Turnipseed said.  McDonough, who ran the bank from 1993 until 2003, said
Turnipseed was “if not the best, certainly one of the very
best,” in terms of his involvement in the broader community.
Turnipseed still serves on a dean’s advisory council at New York
state’s  University at Buffalo  and is a founding board member of
 Classroom Inc. , a program that uses business simulations to
teach secondary-school students critical-thinking skills.  “Carl was very participatory,” getting to know his staff
and “being responsible for their well-being,” McDonough said
in a telephone interview. “People responded to that favorably.
That’s one of the reasons I sent him to Buffalo.” When the
executive vice president job became available in 2000, “I
thought he was the obvious person for it.”  Smelling the Smoke  As Turnipseed nears retirement, a 15-year, $180 million
 renovation project  at the bank also is nearing completion. The
refurbishment, scheduled to be finished this year, has done more
than just rid the headquarters of asbestos and spruce up a
historical landmark, it also demolished a symbol of the bank’s
old culture: the officers’ dining room.  “You were expected to sit” at its two long oval tables
“and share information about what was going on,” Turnipseed
recalled. Former New York Fed Presidents  Paul Volcker  and  E. Gerald Corrigan  would have cigars and cigarettes, and “there
would be plumes of smoke. It was scary; even if they weren’t
there, you smelled the smoke.”  The new dining room is open to all employees, not just
officers.  “That’s a nice culture shift away from this notion of
layers,” Turnipseed said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Caroline Salas  in New York at 
 csalas1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  