-- Fed's Jekyll Island Forum Considers Lessons of History for Monetary Policy
-- B y   S c o t t   L a n m a n
-- 2010-11-08T06:28:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-08/fed-s-jekyll-island-forum-considers-lessons-of-history-for-monetary-policy.html
The coastal Georgia island where a
secret 1910 meeting produced a blueprint for the Federal
Reserve led central bankers 100 years later to consider the
lessons of history as they move into new monetary territory.  Philadelphia Fed President  Charles Plosser , citing
continuing debate about the Fed’s role in the Depression, said
that “humility is in order” for policy makers trying to make
the right decisions today. Former Minneapolis Fed President  Gary Stern  said the 1990-91 recession shows the current recovery may
take “a while” and the housing bubble last decade, fueled by
low  interest rates , suggests officials shouldn’t wait too long
to tighten credit.  Plosser and Stern joined Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  and
other current and former officials Nov. 4-6 in Jekyll Island,
Georgia, to discuss the Fed’s origins and decisions and, at
times, their relevance to the more-recent financial crisis and
last week’s expansion of record monetary stimulus. Bernanke
argued that current Fed policy doesn’t represent as much of a
departure from the past as some critics assert.  “It will be at least 50 years before we really understand
very well what happened in 2008-2009, and we will be
interpreting for another 50 years as to whether the Federal
Reserve undertook the right policies or the wrong policies,”
Plosser, 62, the Philadelphia Fed chief since 2006, said during
an audience discussion at the conference, co-sponsored by the
Atlanta Fed and Rutgers University. “There’s a lot of history
left to be written.”  Securities Purchases  Bernanke used an unscripted appearance at the conference to
expand his defense of the Fed’s Nov. 3 decision to buy $600
billion of Treasuries in a bid to lower  unemployment  after
reducing the benchmark rate almost to zero in 2008 and
purchasing $1.7 trillion of securities through March 2010.  “There is not really in my mind as much discontinuity as
people think” with past policies, Bernanke said in a panel
discussion with his predecessor,  Alan Greenspan , and former New
York Fed President E.  Gerald Corrigan . “The standard
considerations suggest that we should be using expansionary
monetary policy, and that was the purpose of the action. Again,
nothing extraordinary, just a different set of tools to achieve
essentially the same kind of results.”  Still, the specter of runaway inflation in the 1970s,
beaten when former Fed Chairman  Paul Volcker  allowed interest
rates to rise as high as 20 percent, loomed large.  ‘Somewhat Uncomfortable’  Corrigan distributed remarks to attendees saying that
“efforts to achieve an upward nudge in today’s very low
inflation rate make me somewhat uncomfortable,” and he made a
similar point during the panel discussion. At the same time, he
said he has a “very high degree of confidence in the Fed’s
ability to navigate through these uncharted waters.”  Former Cleveland Fed President  Lee Hoskins  said at the
conference that the central bank now is “in a position of
running a policy that has more risks than potential benefits.”  In the early 1970s, there was the idea that “they could
buy a little more employment by running a little higher
inflation rate, and people were really caught up in that idea,
that they could manipulate the unemployment rate through
monetary policy,” Hoskins, who served from 1987 to 1991, said
in an interview. “That turned out to be a grievous error.”  The period following the 1990-91 recession is also relevant
to today’s situation, said Stern, who retired in 2009. “If you
go back to that period, you’d see that there are significant
financial headwinds,” with a collapse in savings-and-loan
institutions and excess capacity in hotels and office buildings,
he said.  Financial Disruption  “It’s not precisely similar to today, but there are a lot
of similar characteristics, and it took a while for employment
to pick up significantly,” Stern said in an interview. “I’m
afraid that one of the lessons of history is it just takes a
while” for the recovery to unfold, “especially when you’ve
been dealt the kind of financial disruption that has occurred.”  Fed Governor  Kevin Warsh , in an opinion piece published
today on the wall Street Journal’s website, said the Fed can
lose its “hard-earned credibility -- and monetary policy can
lose its considerable sway -- if its policies overpromise or
under deliver.” He said the bond purchases must be monitored for
risks posed to market-set prices, as the Fed becomes “more of a
price maker than a price taker.”  ‘Six Men’  On the island, the organizers ensured people were
surrounded by Fed history. Arriving attendees checked in at the
Jekyll Island Club Hotel’s Federal Reserve Room, adorned with
portraits of the “Six Men From the Elite of the Banking and
Financial World” who in November 1910 avoided reporters,
retreated to the isolated resort and devised a plan for a
central bank.  The Jekyll Island talks, prompted by the Panic of 1907,
produced the Aldrich Plan, named for Senator Nelson Aldrich of
Rhode Island. The plan proposed a central bank with regional
reserve banks, forming the core of what would become the Fed.
While the Senate didn’t act on the plan, in 1913 Congress
approved a Fed that ensured federal control of the  system  with
some bank representation.  The latest conference took place in an indoor tennis court
turned into a banquet hall and named after financier  John Pierpont Morgan . Toward the rear of the hall stood an exhibit on
the 1910 expedition, created by the Jekyll Island Museum for the
conference.  Closed Drapes  Corrigan, in the panel discussion, recalled that the
Saturday meeting in 1979, during which Volcker led Fed policy
makers in starting the inflation fight, had secrecy similar to
Jekyll Island in 1910: Participants “were instructed at great
lengths to arrive in Washington in a surreptitious fashion” and
stay at different hotels, and the “heavy drapes” inside were
closed, Corrigan said.  “It was really quite dramatic,” Corrigan said. “Everyone
realized the short-run consequences, which were going to be
quite dire” for the economy, he said.  Volcker, who didn’t attend the conference, delivered a
videotaped message saying “we’re tempted to think that the
Federal Reserve has never been so challenged as in these recent
years.”  “That may be true,” said Volcker, chairman of President
 Barack Obama ’s Economic Recovery Advisory Board. It’s also true
that the Fed has had “a lot of controversies and challenges,”
he said. At the same time, the Fed “has taken heroic action in
recent years. It’s acted fully up to the limits of its
authority.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Scott Lanman  in Washington at 
 slanman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  