-- Fed's Fisher Says Purchases May Be `Wrong Medicine' For The U.S. Economy
-- B y   V i v i e n   L o u   C h e n
-- 2010-11-08T20:22:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-08/fed-s-fisher-says-asset-purchases-may-be-wrong-medicine-for-u-s-economy.html
The Federal Reserve’s decision to
undertake a second round of large-scale Treasury purchases may
be prescribing the “wrong medicine” to the economy’s ailments,
said  Richard Fisher , president of the Fed bank of Dallas.  The 61-year-old regional bank chief, who votes on the rate-
setting Federal Open Market Committee next year, identified a
number of costs to the Nov. 3 decision, including a weaker
dollar and perception the Fed is “monetizing” the government’s
debt by creating money to finance the shortfall.  “I asked that the FOMC consider that we might be
prescribing the wrong medicine for the ailment from which our
economy is suffering,” Fisher said during a speech today in San
Antonio. “The remedy for what ails the economy is, in my view,
in the hands of the fiscal and regulatory authorities, not the
Fed.”  While saying he could not be certain that several billion
dollars of asset purchases would spawn job creation and demand,
Fisher outlined a case against the stimulus.  “I could envision such action would lead to a declining
dollar, encourage further speculation, provoke commodity
hoarding, accelerate the transfer of wealth from the deliberate
saver and the unfortunate, and possibly place at risk the
stature and independence of the Fed,” he said.  “For the next eight months, the nation’s central bank will
be monetizing the federal debt,” Fisher said in his speech
before the Association of Financial Professionals. “This is
risky business.”  Loss Potential  “The more we engage in a policy of asset purchases that
moves us further out the yield curve -- and the more we laden
our balance sheet with price-sensitive assets -- the greater the
likelihood of realizing a loss on our holdings,” said Fisher,
who has been president of the Dallas Fed since 2005.  Even with those arguments, the regional chief said, “I
respect the will of the committee.”  The Fed agreed last week to buy an additional $600 billion
of Treasuries through June to help boost growth. Including
Treasury purchases from reinvesting proceeds of mortgage
payments, the Fed will buy a total of $850 billion to $900
billion of securities through June.  Fisher told reporters after his speech that he isn’t
surprised by short-term currency moves since the Fed’s Nov. 3
decision. The Dallas chief also declined to comment on changes
to the FOMC next year, when he and two other regional Fed
presidents who have questioned the need for new asset purchases
become voting members.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Vivien Lou Chen  in San Francisco at 
 vchen1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  