-- China Says Fed Easing May Flood World With `Hot Money'
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-11-08T10:22:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-08/fed-easing-may-flood-world-economy-with-hot-money-chinese-official-says.html
Chinese Vice Finance Minister  Zhu Guangyao  said the U.S. Federal Reserve’s decision to pump $600
billion into the economy might “shock” emerging markets by
flooding them with capital.  The first round of quantitative easing, as the Fed policy
is termed, in 2009 was justified because the global economy
lacked liquidity, Zhu told reporters in Beijing today. With a
recovery now under way, new purchases of Treasuries to inject
funds into the financial system may be destabilizing, he said.  “Around the world we have $10 trillion of hot money
flowing around, more than the $9 trillion in hot money at the
beginning of the global financial crisis,” Zhu said. The U.S.
“has not fully taken into consideration the shock of excessive
capital flows to the financial stability of emerging markets.”  Zhu’s comments underscore concern around the world that the
Fed’s decision will benefit the U.S. at the cost of stability
and growth elsewhere. Chinese and European leaders have said
they plan to discuss the impact of quantitative easing at the
Group of 20 summit this week in Seoul as well as the dangers of
competitive currency devaluations.  German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  compared the Fed
move to China’s currency policy, which involves hundreds of
billions of dollars in U.S. dollar purchases to prevent rapid
appreciation of the yuan. “The instruments are different but
the goal is the same,” he said in a Nov. 5 speech in Berlin.  “This is a U.S. countermove in the global beggar-thy-
neighbor process,” said  Michael Pettis , a finance professor at
Peking University and a former managing director at Bear Stearns
Cos.  Germany, Brazil  Brazilian Trade Minister  Welber Barral  said Nov. 3 that
Latin America’s biggest economy is “concerned” with the new
quantitative easing, also calling it a  ‘beggar-thy-neighbor
policy,’’ a term used to describe a policy where a country seeks
gains at the expense of others. The U.S. was pursuing a “weak-
dollar policy,” Japan’s Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  said on Nov.
4.  “The international financial markets do not lack capital,
what is lacking now is confidence,” Zhu said.  Yet the Fed’s policy has also brought out competing
viewpoints in the Chinese government, even within single
ministries.  Wang Jun , like Zhu a vice finance minister, said at
a finance ministers meeting in Kyoto Nov. 6 that a
“quantitative easing policy that’s aimed at boosting the U.S.
economy will help the revival of the global economy
tremendously.”  Zhu, speaking today, echoed comments made by Vice Foreign
Minister  Cui Tiankai  on Nov. 5, who said the Fed “owes us some
explanation on their decision on quantitative easing.”  U.S. Responsibility  “At this point we believe the United States has not fully
realized its responsibility to stabilize global financial
markets as a main reserve currency issuing country,” Zhu said.  While Zhu focused his concern on the impact of the Fed’s
easing policy on developing economies, quantitative easing may
also make it harder for some European countries to repay their
debts, Nobel Prize-winning economist  Robert Mundell  said in a
Nov. 3 interview in Beijing.  Quantitative easing is “terrorizing” the world economy
and will lead to depreciation of the U.S. dollar, pushing down
prices in Europe and exacerbating the continent’s sovereign debt
crisis, Mundell said.  The European Central Bank’s mandate to control inflation
would likely hamper it from stemming the euro’s rise, while the
currency’s gains would “likely lead to deflation,” said
Mundell, who received the prize in 1999 and is known as the
intellectual father of the euro. Falling prices would increase
“the real value of indebtedness.”  China, Commodities  China needs to stop hot money from entering the nation to
prevent a “crisis,” independent economist Andy Xie said at a
forum in Beijing today.  Smaller economies have raised concerns about the inflow of
capital driving currencies, stocks and property prices higher.  The Taiwan dollar is close to its strongest since 1997,
capped by suspected government intervention. South Korea’s
government said it would curb volatility in the foreign-exchange
market caused by speculative fund flows. Hong Kong’s Financial
Secretary John Tsang said last week that the government “will
not hesitate” to curb asset price inflation.  Copper on the London Metal Exchange has gained 25 percent
in the past six months, and silver futures traded in New York
are up 44 percent.  -- Michael Forsythe . With assistance from Sachiko Sakamaki in
Tokyo, Rebecca Christie with Secretary Geithner, Brian Parkin in
Berlin and Iuri Dantas in Brasilia. Editors: Ben Richardson,
Bill Austin  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Forsythe  in Beijing at 
 mforsythe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Austin at 
 billaustin@bloomberg.net  