-- Federer Gains Points on Nadal in Rankings; Ivanovic Returns to Top 20 List
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2010-11-08T11:37:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-08/federer-gains-points-on-nadal-in-rankings-ivanovic-returns-to-top-20-list.html
Second-ranked  Roger Federer  gained
points on  Rafael Nadal  in the men’s tennis rankings by winning
his home tournament in Basel. Former French Open champion  Ana Ivanovic  returned to the top 20 for the first time in a year.  Federer narrowed the gap between him and Nadal by 200
points after he beat third-ranked  Novak Djokovic  in yesterday’s
finals of the Swiss Indoors in Basel. Although Nadal, the winner
of the French Open, Wimbledon and the U.S. Open, is 4,115 points
ahead of Federer, the Swiss may narrow the gap further at this
week’s  BNP Paribas Masters  in Paris, where 1,000 points are at
stake.  “It’s obviously a beautiful moment,” Federer said in a
statement on the ATP World Tour website after he clinched his
65th Tour title and moved one ahead of  Pete Sampras . “It’s
always very emotional and just a good feeling. I’m very happy.”  Nadal last week pulled out of Paris, citing tendinitis on
his main playing arm which was caused by “forcing a bit too
much on my practice this week back at home.” The Spaniard will
rest for a week, he said in an e-mailed statement on Nov. 5.  Australian Open finalist  Andy Murray  stayed at No. 4 on the
rankings of the ATP World Tour, with Sweden’s  Robin Soderling  at
No. 5. Former U.S. Open champion  Andy Roddick  remained in
contention for a spot in the season-ending  ATP World Tour finals 
in London on Nov. 21-28 by moving up one place to No. 8. The top
eight qualify for London.  Ana Ivanovic jumped seven spots to finish the year at No.
17 on the WTA Tour rankings after she beat Russia’s  Alisa Kleybanova  in the finals of the Commonwealth Bank Tournament of
Champions in Bali, Indonesia.  Ivanovic struggled with injuries and inconsistent form
after her triumph at Roland Garros pushed her to the top of the
rankings in 2008. The 23-year-old Serbian had slumped to No. 65
in July, her lowest ranking in five years. With the help of
Heinz Gunthardt, the former coach of  Steffi Graf , she has since
regained form, winning the last 13 of 15 matches.  “It’s a big step for me,” Ivanovic said in a statement on
the WTA Tour website. “The last few months have been really
exciting. It’s a great way to go into next season.”  Caroline Wozniacki  of Denmark finished the women’s tennis
season as the top-ranked player in the world, ahead of Russia’s
 Vera Zvonareva . U.S. Open champion  Kim Clijsters  of Belgium is
at No. 3 while Australian Open and Wimbledon winner  Serena
Williams  ended the season at No. 4, one spot ahead of her sister
 Venus .  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Danielle Rossingh  in London at 
 drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  