-- Flaherty Says He's Apprehensive on World Growth, Seeks Policy Coordination
-- B y   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s
-- 2010-11-08T01:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-08/flaherty-says-he-s-apprehensive-on-world-growth-seeks-policy-coordination.html
Canadian Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty  said he’s “apprehensive” about slowing global growth
and urged world leaders meeting this week in South Korea to
coordinate policies.  Flaherty, in prepared remarks of a speech he’s giving today
in Jakarta, Indonesia, said the risk is countries may end up
seeking to cheapen their exchange rates unilaterally to bolster
exports.  “There is a significant risk that countries will
increasingly undertake unilateral and trade-distorting measures
such as currency inflexibility and exchange rate intervention,”
Flaherty said. He said the  Group of 20  nations must implement
its “comprehensive package of global reforms and continue to
demonstrate resolve and cohesion.”  G-20 leaders meet in Seoul Nov. 11-12 to try to find common
ground for sustaining the global recovery. U.S. Treasury
Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  told reporters Nov. 6 in Kyoto,
Japan, that leaders are poised to approve last month’s agreement
among finance ministers to avoid long-term current-account
surpluses or deficits.  Policy makers from Asia to South America have said that the
Federal Reserve’s  decision  to pump liquidity into the U.S.
economy will depress the dollar and spark flows of capital into
emerging markets that threaten to create asset-price bubbles.  Underlying the U.S. push to address imbalances is the
assessment by the Fed that an abundance of Asian savings helped
spark the credit boom earlier this decade, which ended in the
biggest financial crisis since the 1930s.  ‘Significant Challenges’  The G-20 includes the largest developed and emerging
nations, from the U.S. and Germany to Japan, China, India and
Brazil.  Flaherty said “significant challenges” remain to ensure a
sustainable recovery.  “I am pleased to see growth resume, but what we are seeing
is modest, moderate growth,” Flaherty said in his prepared
comments to the Indonesia-Canada  Chamber of Commerce . “As a
trading nation that already endured the wrath of the crisis, we
are apprehensive about the slowing pace of the global recovery
and its unevenness across the world.”  Flaherty said the G-20 needs to continue to undertake
“whatever new measures” are required to strengthen the global
economy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Theophilos Argitis  in Ottawa at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net  