-- French Government Said to Seek Areva Financing Accord This Week
-- B y   F r a n c o i s   d e   B e a u p u y
-- 2010-11-08T23:03:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-08/france-said-to-seek-commitments-from-mitsubishi-qatar-on-areva-this-week.html
The French government is seeking
commitments from  Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Ltd.  and the
sovereign funds of Qatar and Kuwait to buy new shares in nuclear
company  Areva SA  by the time the Areva board meets on Nov. 16,
two people with direct knowledge of the talks said.  The state, owner of 91 percent of Areva, may sell shares in
two stages to avoid a delay into 2011, said one of the people,
who requested anonymity because talks are private. The sale to
sovereign wealth funds may take place this year, while a deal
with industrial partners may not happen until 2011 because talks
about cooperation are more complex, the person said.  Areva Chief Executive Officer  Anne Lauvergeon  has been
pushing for the capital increase to help fund spending on plants
and uranium mines. The company, whose  finances  have been hurt by
construction cost overruns at a reactor in Finland, is seeking
to fend off competition and sell more reactors and fuel in
Europe, China and India.  Failure to seal talks with Kuwait and Qatar by next week
would drag the entire stock sale into 2011, the person said.
About 4 percent of Areva trades on the Paris stock exchange as
non-voting  investment certificates . They are little changed so
far this year, giving the company a market value of 12.4 billion
euros. Holders of the certificates will also be eligible to
participate in the capital increase.  ‘Symbolically Strong’  Areva spokeswoman  Patricia Marie  declined to comment, as
did  Franck Louvrier , the communication adviser for French
President  Nicolas Sarkozy . Nada Al Attal, public relations
manager of the Kuwait Investment Authority, couldn’t be reached
when contacted by telephone after business hours, and the press
department of the Qatar Investment Authority in Doha couldn’t be
reached when called after business hours. Mitsubishi officials
in Paris didn’t respond to messages left on their office phones.  The French government, which has already postponed Paris-
based Areva’s share sale from the first half as it reviewed
company strategy, said on July 27 that it planned to proceed
with a  capital increase  of as much as 15 percent, valued at 1.86
billion euros, by year-end.  Lauvergeon said this month that Tokyo-based Mitsubishi
gaining a stake of about 2 percent in Areva would be
“symbolically strong,” as the two companies cooperate on
selling reactors. Qatar and Kuwait would buy the remainder to
get to 15 percent.  A deal with Mitsubishi wouldn’t prevent Areva and Alstom SA
from selling reactors and turbines together, Lauvergeon said.
She was responding to Alstom CEO  Patrick Kron , who said Nov. 4
that Mitsubishi taking a stake would mark a “major” drawback
as the French and Japanese companies compete on turbines.  EDF’s Stake  The French government would welcome Mitsubishi purchasing a
stake in Areva, Prime Minister  Francois Fillon  said July 16 in
Tokyo. Le Journal des Finances last week said Mitsubishi may be
excluded from the first round of the capital increase because of
its unspecified “hard-to-satisfy demands” by year-end. The
Japanese company may be dissatisfied with Electricite de
France’s potential increased stake in Areva, the newspaper said
on its  website , without saying where it got the information.  EDF, France’s state-controlled power company, owns 2.4
percent of Areva. Lauvergeon is trying to prevent the utility
from raising its stake to a point where it gains a board seat.
Such a move may deter rivals of EDF from doing business with
Areva, according to Lauvergeon.  Standard & Poor’s cut Areva’s  debt  rating on June 28,
saying that its finances were strained by delays and cost
overruns at the facility in Finland and that profit could be
hurt by a dispute with EDF over a nuclear fuel enrichment plant.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Francois de Beaupuy  in Paris at 
 fdebeaupuy@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net . 