-- G-20 to Avoid Specific Surplus Targets, Korean Official Says
-- B y   B o m i   L i m   a n d   B r e t t   M i l l e r
-- 2010-11-09T01:38:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-08/g-20-leaders-to-avoid-specific-surplus-targets-south-korean-official-says.html
Group of 20 leaders will avoid
setting specific targets for current-account surpluses and
deficits when they meet in Seoul this week, an aide to South
Korean President  Lee Myung Bak  said.  Shin Hyun Song , a senior adviser to Lee for international
economy, also said restrictions on trading currency derivatives
in South Korea are “prudential measures” to help stability
rather than a form of intervention to affect exchange rates.  The Korean won fell for a second day amid debt concerns in
Europe and after Financial Supervisory Service Governor  Kim Jong Chang  said the country may seek to tighten rules limiting
currency derivative trading. Meanwhile, U.S. Treasury Secretary
 Timothy F. Geithner  has refrained from pushing for current-
account targets during his current trip in Asia.  “Just a raw current account can be a very misleading
number,” Shin said in an interview in Seoul yesterday. “Being
fixated on a particular number is not desirable.”  President Lee said Nov. 3 that he expected the G-20 leaders
to agree on “guidelines” for current-account positions to ease
global trade imbalances at the Nov. 11-12 summit in Seoul.
Geithner last month suggested capping current-account surpluses
or deficits at 4 percent of  gross domestic product .  He softened his position on Nov. 6 in Japan, saying
current-account deficits or surpluses aren’t “something
amenable to limits or targets.”  Currency Derivatives  In India yesterday, Geithner still called on G-20 nations
to sign on to “indicative guidelines” aimed at identifying
when trade balances present economic risks.  Progress at this week’s summit in Seoul may include
outlining principles for “indicative guidelines” or coming up
with a timeline for when such guidelines can be agreed upon,
Shin said.  The won dropped 0.3 percent to 1,116.05 against the dollar
as of 10:33 a.m. today. It has advanced 8.6 percent since June,
the second-best performance among Asia’s most-actively traded
currencies excluding the Japanese yen.  South Korea’s financial regulators said last week they were
expanding an audit of currency derivatives positions to ensure
banks have complied with limits aimed at reducing volatility.
Kim said yesterday that banks found guilty of inappropriate
trading of currency derivatives would be penalized, repeating
comments made Nov. 5 by finance ministry director  Lee Hoo Myung .  ‘Prudential Measures’  “We should think of these things in terms of prudential
measures that ensure stability of financial markets and
stability of financial institutions in those markets,” Shin
said. “That may have some spillover effects onto exchange rates,
but that’s a collateral effect, rather than the primary intended
effect.”  The won’s gains in the third quarter helped slow economic
growth to 0.7 percent from a 1.4 percent expansion in the
previous three months. Shipments abroad account for about 40
percent of South Korea’s GDP, making it the second-most export-
dependent economy within the G-20 after Saudi Arabia, according
to data from the  International Monetary Fund .  “I think it’s a logical consequence of having more market-
determined exchange rates that you have policies that can
mitigate some of the side effects of excessive capital flows,”
Shin said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bomi Lim  in Seoul at 
 blim30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Austin at 
 billaustin@bloomberg.net  