-- Galaxy Resources Looking to Acquisitions to Expand Production of Lithium
-- B y   J a s o n   S c o t t
-- 2010-11-08T05:54:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-08/galaxy-resources-looking-to-acquisitions-to-expand-production-of-lithium.html
Galaxy Resources Ltd. , aiming to
become the world’s fourth-biggest producer of lithium-carbonate
used in mobile phones, is looking to purchase advanced projects
as demand gains for alternate, cleaner energy sources.  “We are looking at different opportunities around the
world to increase our lithium footprint,”  Iggy Tan , managing
director of the Perth-based minerals explorer, said in an
interview. “If it was a resource project it would be quite well
developed. We’re not interested in early exploration.”  Galaxy is spending a A$145 million ($147 million) to build
a mine in Australia and a plant in China to take advantage of
rising demand for lithium carbonate, also used in batteries,
computers, ceramics and pharmaceuticals. President  Barack Obama ’s bid to push car-makers into building more fuel-efficient
cars and China’s aim to have 10 percent of its autos emission-
free by 2013 are helping producers, Tan said.  “Demand for lithium has picked up dramatically and global
production is close to pre-global financial crisis levels,” Tan
said in the Nov. 5 interview in Perth. “Prices haven’t moved
yet but within 18 months they’ll be back to pre-GFC levels.”  Galaxy’s shares , which more than tripled last year, rose
0.6 percent to A$1.635 at the 4:10 p.m. close of trading on the
Australian stock exchange in Sydney. Galaxy intends to have its
shares traded in Hong Kong from early 2011, Tan said.  The company raised A$91.5 million selling convertible bonds
and equity to investors, including Geely Automobile Holdings Ltd.
and Fengli Group (Hong Kong) Ltd., it said today in a statement.  “Hong Kong has got liquidity in the market, a very
diversified investor base and a much better appreciation of the
lithium story,” Tan said.  Galaxy, 19.9 percent owned by China’s  Creat Resources
Holdings Ltd. , will begin shipments of concentrate from its mine
at Mt. Cattlin in Western Australia by the end of the year, Tan
said. Its lithium carbonate processing plant in the Zhangjiagang
Free Trade Zone in Jiangsu province, which was to have begun
operations in November, is now scheduled to start in the second
quarter of 2011, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jason Scott  in Perth at 
 Jscott14@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@Bloomberg.net . 