-- Garlock, Chem Rx, Brown, Precision Parts: Bankruptcy
-- B y   B i l l   R o c h e l l e
-- 2010-11-08T12:36:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-08/garlock-pharmerica-chem-rx-brown-precision-parts-orleans-bankruptcy.html
George R. Hodges, a U.S. Bankruptcy
Judge in  Charlotte ,  North Carolina , must decide whether to cede
control of part of the reorganization of Garlock Sealing
Technologies LLC to a bankruptcy judge in  Delaware .  Garlock, a subsidiary of  EnPro Industries Inc ., is opposing
a motion made by asbestos trusts created in four other
bankruptcy reorganizations. If granted, the motion in substance
would permit the Delaware bankruptcy court to decide whether and
to what extent Garlock can require the trusts to produce
documents and information about asbestos claims.  Garlock previously filed a motion to be argued Nov. 18 to
authorize taking discovery from the trusts created under the
Chapter 11 plans for other companies. Garlock says it needs the
information to craft its own reorganization.  The trusts, in their Nov. 2 motion, say that Garlock along
with other companies currently reorganizing asbestos debt
“launched a massive and intrusive discovery effort” against
the trusts as “part of an improper and concerted effort to use
the trusts to obtain discovery that no defendant could obtain in
the tort system.” The trusts say Garlock is part of a
“coordinated, nationwide attempt to seek inappropriate
discovery from the trusts.”  The trusts want Hodges to modify the so-called automatic
stay so they can sue Garlock in Delaware. In the Delaware
action, the trusts will seek a ruling that the discovery sought
by Garlock and other companies in Chapter 11 is improper.  Garlock argues that the trusts are trying to pre-empt a
ruling by Judge Hodges at the Nov. 18 hearing on the question of
whether discovery is proper.  Garlock, a Palmyra, New York-based gasket maker, filed
under Chapter 11 in June to deal with the last 100,000 asbestos
claims. Non-bankrupt affiliates are defendants on 30,000 claims.
Garlock has been saying it intends to pay all asbestos claimants
in full while using special provisions in bankruptcy law so
EnPro and all subsidiaries will have releases. There is $194
million of insurance remaining, according to a Garlock court
filing.  EnPro had assets of $1.08 billion and total liabilities of
$634 million on the June 30 balance sheet. EnPro’s $144.2
million in net income for the first half of 2010 included $78.5
million of income from continuing operations. EnPro makes
engineered products, including diesel and natural-gas engines.
It has 44 plants in the U.S. plus operations in 10 other
countries.  The case is In re Garlock Sealing Technologies LLC, 10-
31607,  U.S. Bankruptcy Court , Western District North Carolina
(Charlotte).  Updates  PharMerica Wins Court Authorization to Purchase Chem Rx    PharMerica Corp . was authorized by the bankruptcy court on
Nov. 4 to buy the business of Chem Rx Corp., the third-largest
provider of institutional pharmacy services in the U.S. The
acquisition was already approved by antitrust regulators.  PharMerica, the operator of 90 institutional pharmacies in
41 states, is paying $70.6 million plus the assumption of
specified liabilities. PharMerica was the so-called stalking
horse at auction.  Chem Rx filed under Chapter 11 in May after first-lien
lenders owed $103 million were seizing the Long Beach, New York-
based company’s income. The first-lien debt had been in default
since early 2009.  Other liabilities include $37 million owing on a second-
lien and $8.3 million in subordinated debt owing to affiliates
of insiders. CIBC World Markets Corp. is agent for the lenders
on the first- and second-lien loans. The petition listed assets
of $170 million against debt totaling $178 million.  The case is In re  Chem Rx Corp ., 10-11567, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  Brown Has One Shot at Confirming Liquidating Plan  Brown Publishing Co. , previously the publisher of the
largest-circulation local newspaper on eastern Long Island, has
one shot at confirming a Chapter 11 plan, as the result of
rulings last week by the U.S. Bankruptcy Judge in Central Islip,  New York .  Brown sold the businesses mostly to secured lenders and
sought an extension until Dec. 28 of the exclusive right to file
a Chapter 11 plan. The creditors’ committee objected, and U.S.
Bankruptcy Judge Dorothy Eisenberg extended so-called
exclusivity only until Nov. 12 and said in her order that it
“shall not” be further extended.  Eisenberg set down Dec. 16 as the date for a hearing to
approve a disclosure statement explaining Brown’s forthcoming
plan. She also scheduled a Feb. 3 confirmation hearing for
approval of the plan.  Eisenberg gave Brown the exclusive right to solicit
acceptances until Jan. 26. Although creditors could file a plan
later this month, they can’t solicit acceptances. Therefore,
Brown will have a chance to confirm its plan on Feb. 3 without
competition from a creditors’ plan. If Brown’s plan fails
confirmation, the creditors would be free at that time to move
ahead with a plan of their own.  A group including Roy Brown, the president and chief
executive, defaulted on a court-approved contract to buy most of
the publications for $22.41 million plus $900,000 in assumption
or waiver of debt. The secured lenders were then authorized by
Eisenberg to buy most of the publications in exchange for $21.75
million in secured debt. PNC Bank NA is agent for the lenders.  The primary publications on eastern Long Island,  Dan’s
Papers  and  Montauk Pioneer , were sold to a different buyer for
$1.75 million cash.  Based in Cincinnati, closely held Brown listed assets of
$94 million against debt totaling $104.6 million. First-lien
lenders were owed $70.2 million on a revolving credit and term
loan. Second-lien lenders were owed $24.3 million.  Brown had 15 daily, 32 weekly, 11 business and 41 free
publications. There were also 51 web sites. Seventy-eight of the
publications were in  Ohio . The business publications are in
seven states.  The case is In re Brown Publishing Co., 10-73295, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Eastern District New York (Central Islip).  Precision Parts Committee Aims to Sue for Preferences  Creditors of  Precision Parts International Services Corp. 
are likely to be sued for payments received within 90 days of
the Chapter 11 filing in December 2008. The official creditors’
committee filed a motion last week seeking authority to file
preference suits.  The committee says that PPI, previously an auto parts
maker, consents to allowing the committee to pursue preferences.
The committee says that its constituency is likely to be the
beneficiaries of preference recoveries. The committee’s
constituency will also be the defendants in the preference
suits.  The committee says that immediate action is required
because the two-year deadline for filing preference suits comes
on Dec. 12. The committee wants the motion for authority to sue
to be heard at a hearing on Nov. 12.  A preference is a claim for the return of a payment
received within 90 days of bankruptcy on account of an overdue
unsecured debt.  PPI has a disclosure statement on file telling unsecured
creditors with $103 million in claims that they could recover
0.15 percent under the Chapter 11 plan. PPI filed for
reorganization in December 2008 and sold the assets in March
2009, generating net proceeds of $16 million. Secured lenders
received $9.8 million immediately.  The unsecured creditors’ committee challenged the validity
of the secured lenders’ claim. The challenge resulted in a
settlement where $575,000 was carved out for the company’s
creditors. In addition to $150,000 cash, unsecured creditors are
to receive some recoveries from lawsuits, plus other excess
cash, if any.  The Rochester Hills, Michigan-based company had six plants
in North America making metal formed components for the auto and
aerospace industries. It owed more than $85 million on bank
loans to Golub Capital and Norwest Mezzanine Partners II LP.
Court papers listed other debts as including $184.5 million in
secured and unsecured loan obligations plus $30 million owing to
trade suppliers. The revolving credit and term loans were $89
million while there was an $88.5 million mezzanine loan. First
Atlantic Capital Ltd. acquired control of the company in 2005.  The case is In re PPI Holdings Inc., 08-13289, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  Bonding Companies Object to Orleans Plan Confirmation  Homebuilder  Orleans Homebuilders Inc . attracted several
objections to the reorganization plan scheduled for approval at
a Nov. 16 confirmation hearing.  Providers of surety bonds objected to confirmation, saying
no provision has been made for bonds to cover ongoing
maintenance of improvements such as roads and sewers.  Liberty Mutual Insurance Co. and Travelers Casualty &
Surety Co. of America supplied bonds to insure the construction
of improvements. They say their bonds don’t cover ongoing
maintenance of the improvements. Without proof that Orleans can
obtain bonding for maintenance, the two insurance companies
argue that the plan isn’t feasible and should not be confirmed.  The Internal Revenue Service also filed an objection,
saying that Orleans is yet to file all required tax returns. The
IRS opposes confirmation unless and until all returns are filed.
The IRS says it has a $2 million priority claim and a $4.4
million general unsecured claim.  Orleans builds homes and condominiums in seven states. The
plan will give stock and new secured debt to revolving credit
lenders owed $234 million. Unsecured creditors are to receive
recoveries from lawsuits and a sharing in proceeds from sales of
properties after secured debt is paid.  The disclosure statement estimates that the revolving
credit lenders will recover between 67 percent and 87 percent if
they vote in favor of the plan. Unsecured creditors should see
between 3.4 percent and 5.25 percent if they vote “yes” as a
class.  The plan reduces debt from more than $400 million to less
than $200 million, the company said in a statement. Orleans
negotiated the plan with holders of more than 80 percent of the
secured debt.  The Chapter 11 filing in March by Bensalem, Pennsylvania-
based Orleans followed maturity of the revolving credit the
month before. Approximately $325 million was owing to the banks
at maturity, not including $15 million on letters of credit. The
March 31 balance sheet listed assets of $591 million against
total liabilities of $560 million.  The case is In re Orleans Homebuilders Inc., 10-10684, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  Watch List  Clearwire Says Liquidity Runs Out in Mid-2011    Clearwire Corp ., building what it calls the “first
nationwide 4G mobile broadband network,” said in financial
reports for the September quarter that liquidity will be
depleted by mid-2011 absent additional financing.  Clearwire, which calls its system WiMax, reported a $1.47
billion operating loss for the nine months ended Sept. 30.
Revenue for the period was $347 million.  The company, based in Kirkland,  Washington , said in the
regulatory filing that there’s substantial doubt about its
ability to continue as a going concern.  For Bloomberg coverage, click here.  New Filing  Biggest Hot Dog Cart Maker Files for Reorganization in Miami  The largest manufacturer of hot dog carts in the U.S. filed
for Chapter 11 reorganization last week in Miami.  Louis Di Raimondo Worldwide Investment & Export Corp.  said
sales fell to $91,000 a month this year from $140,000 a month
amid the recession. Assets are $200,000 and debt totals $1.96
million, according to the petition.  The company does business in Miami as All American Hot Dog
Carts and advertises itself as The Hot Dog King.  The case is In re Louis Di Raimondo Worldwide Investment &
Export Corp., 10-43886, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District
of  Florida  (Miami).  Briefly Noted  Vallejo Developing Budget as Prelude to Reorganization Plan  The city council in Vallejo, the  California  municipality
that sought Chapter 9 reorganization in May 2008, is scheduled
to vote at month’s end on a five-year budget that is to be the
basis for filing a reorganization plan.  To read Bloomberg coverage, click here.  Vallejo, with a population of 117,000, is the largest
California city to seek bankruptcy protection. The petition said
assets are more than $500 million while debt is less than $500
million. Orange County, California, filed under Chapter 9 in
1994 after speculation on interest rate futures created losses.  The case is In re City of Vallejo, No. 08-26813, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Eastern District of California (Sacramento).  Boca Bridge Hotel Now in Chapter 11 in Palm Beach  Ten creditors owed $69,400 succeeded with the involuntary
Chapter 11 petition they filed in August in West Palm Beach,
Florida, against the owner of the  Boca Raton Bridge Hotel .  The bankruptcy judge ruled in mid-October that the hotel
isn’t generally paying its debts as they mature. Consequently,
the judge put the hotel into Chapter 11 reorganization. The
judge said the hotel “vigorously contested” the allegation
that it wasn’t generally paying debt.  The case is In re Boca Bridge LLC, 10-34538, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of Florida (West Palm
Beach).  South Bay Expressway’s Exclusivity Pushed to Jan. 18  South Bay Expressway LP , the owner of a nine-mile toll road
near San Diego, had no opposition and was granted an extension
until Jan. 18 of the exclusive right to propose a Chapter 11
plan. The expressway had been saying that it couldn’t craft a
plan until resolution of a lawsuit where mechanics’ lienholders
contended they come ahead of secured lenders.  The mechanics’ lienholders lost in October when the
bankruptcy judge ruled in favor of the lenders. For details on
the ruling, click here for the Nov. 1 Bloomberg bankruptcy
report. Wells Fargo Bank NA is agent for the secured lenders
which include  Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA .  The expressway opened in November 2007. It owes $340
million on a first-lien construction and term loan plus another
$170 million first-lien obligation on a loan provided by the
U.S. Department of Transportation. Ownership of the toll road is
controlled by affiliates of Sydney, Australia-based  Macquarie
Group Ltd .  The case is In re South Bay Expressway LP, 10-04516, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Southern District California (San Diego).  Downgrade  AES Red Oak Generator Lowered to B2 Senior Secured  AES Red Oak LLC, the owner of an 830-megawatt electric
generating plant in Sayerville,  New Jersey , saw the rating on
the $347 million in senior secured bonds lowered one notch to B2
by Moody’s Investors Service.  The action on Nov. 5 was the consequence of what Moody’s
characterized as the “company’s tenuous financial condition”
resulting from “significant penalties assessed on the plant due
to its continuing inability to meet the aggressive heat rate and
dispatchable capacity guarantees in the tolling agreement.”  The plant is owned by  AES Corp .  Bank Failures  Four More Bank Failures Put 2010 Ahead of 2009  Four bank failures on Nov. 5 brought the year’s total to
143, more than the 139 banks taken over by regulators in all of
2009.  The failed banks had combined assets of $906 million and
will cost the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. $254.5 million.  The banks were in California, Washington and  Maryland .  To read Bloomberg coverage, click here.  The 140 bank failures in 2009 were five times more than
2008. The failures in 2009 were the most since 1992, when 179
institutions were taken over by regulators.  Daily Podcast  Icahn-MGM, Las Vegas Strip, Innkeepers, Sentinel: Audio  Whether Carl Icahn can pursue a proxy contest for Metro-
Goldwyn-Mayer Inc. after plan confirmation; a free option for
junior lenders to Las Vegas Strip land owner FX Luxury Las Vegas
I LLC; whether Innkeepers USA Trust can hire Fried Frank Harris
Shriver & Jacobson LLP to represent a special board committee;
and an important decision insulating a bank from claims for
negligence are analyzed in the bankruptcy podcast on the
Bloomberg terminal and Bloomberglaw.com. To listen, click here.  Advance Sheets  Soliciting From Non-Client Brings Disqualification  A bankruptcy lawyer who solicited business from a
prospective member of a creditors’ committee is barred from
representing the committee, U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Mary F. Walrath ruled on Nov. 4 in the reorganization of  Universal
Building Products Inc.   After UBP filed for Chapter 11 reorganization in August,
law firms Arent Fox LLP and Elliott Greenleaf & Siedzikowski PC
contacted a third person, Haishan Liu, with whom they had worked
on creditors’ committees in prior cases. At the firms’ request,
Liu made calls to creditors in  Asia  who might serve on the UBP
creditors’ committee.  Liu ultimately received a proxy from an Asian creditor who
was named to the committee. At the first committee meeting, Liu
recommended AF and EGS to serve as the panel’s counsel. They
were chosen and Liu was named to be the committee’s translator.  Walrath ruled that the two firms violated rules governing
lawyers’ conduct in Delaware. She said the rule is the same in
New York and in model rules for all states. She said that the
two firms and Liu “were acting in concert to cold-call
creditors that Dr. Liu did not represent.”  Walrath said the firms violated ethical rules by making
contacts with creditors who weren’t previously their clients.
She denied the application for the firms’ retention by the
committee.  “We do not believe we did anything unethical,” Rafael X.
Zahralddin-Aravena, a lawyer at Elliott Greenleaf, said in a
phone interview. Schuyler Carroll, an Arent attorney, didn’t
immediately return a call seeking comment.  To read Walrath’s opinion, click here. For other Bloomberg
coverage, click here.  The case is In re Universal Building, 10-12453, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bill Rochelle in New York at 
 wrochelle@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 