-- Gartmore Plunges as Guy Retires, Firm Weighs Sale (Update3)
-- B y   K e v i n   C r o w l e y   a n d   J o n   M e n o n
-- 2010-11-08T16:50:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-08/gartmore-hires-goldman-sachs-to-consider-merger-sale-amid-talent-flight.html
Gartmore Group Ltd., the U.K. money
manager that first sold shares in December, fell the most in
seven months in London after the firm said it’s weighing a sale
or merger, and fund manager Roger Guy said he will retire.  The company hired Goldman Sachs Group Inc. to consider its
options, London-based Gartmore said today in a statement. Guy,
44, who manages 17 percent of Gartmore’s assets, will retire
from “day-to-day” fund management at the end of the year. The
shares dropped 15 percent to 107 pence at the close in London.  Gartmore has declined 51 percent since it first traded on
Dec. 14 after losing key fund managers. In March, the firm
suspended Guillaume Rambourg, who once ran a third of Gartmore’s
assets with Guy, for breaking internal rules, while Gervais
Williams, who ran its growth opportunities fund, stepped down
six months later. Chief Investment Officer Dominic Rossi is
leaving to join Fidelity International Ltd. as global chief
investment officer equities, Fidelity said today.  “They’re obviously not on the strongest of negotiating
terms” in sale or merger talks, said Sarah Ing, a London-based
analyst at Singer Capital Markets Ltd. “They still do have good
quality fund managers so the key thing is to keep them so they
will have a business to sell.”  Skandia Investment Group, the U.K. fund management division
of Old Mutual Plc, said today it is terminating a 38 million-
euro mandate run by Guy “to protect investors.” The firm has a
further 150 million pounds in Gartmore funds.  ‘Appropriate Action’  “We will continue to monitor the situation and will not
hesitate to take appropriate action should we deem it
necessary,” Skandia said in an e-mailed statement.  Gartmore customers pulled 2.8 billion pounds ($4.5 billion)
from the firm’s funds between Rambourg’s suspension and Oct. 31.
31. The company has been notified of a further 500 million
pounds of withdrawals. The money manager had 23.5 billion pounds
under management at March 31.  Guy is Gartmore’s largest individual investor with a 5.4
percent stake, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Rambourg
holds 3.7 percent and Rossi owns 0.3 percent, the data show.  Rambourg left Gartmore after 14 years in July to focus on a
Financial Services Authority investigation into his conduct.
Four months earlier, Gartmore had suspended Rambourg, saying he
may have directed orders to buy and sell shares to favored
brokers. Gartmore spokeswoman Rebecca Grundy today said the FSA
investigation is continuing and does not involve Gartmore.  New Shares  Guy, who joined Gartmore in 1993, said the company’s
“excessive” internal compliance rules were to blame for
Rambourg’s suspension, the Financial Times reported April 1,
citing a private conference call for investors.  Gartmore will implement a 10 million-pound cost-cutting
program and share-based employee incentive plan as part of a
strategic review, it said in the statement.  No “material” discussions have taken place so far, Chief
Executive Officer Jeff Meyer told reporters on a conference call
today. Gartmore plans to issue new shares worth up to 15 percent
of the company’s existing equity to help retain existing
employees, it said in the statement.  “When is the end? Is the end ever bottomless?” said Meyer
when asked whether the share issue will prevent more people from
leaving the company. “I think this is a fair amount. I think
this is a very well balanced amount, a well-judged amount. This
is it and if it doesn’t do it, it doesn’t do it.”  About 78 percent of the new share-based awards will go to
the company’s 20 portfolio managers, Meyer said. The cost
savings will involve job cuts at Gartmore, which employs about
350 people, he said, declining to be specific.  The fund manager said assets under management grew 4
percent to 20.7 billion pounds in the three months ended Sept.
30 as growth in investment markets offset customer withdrawals.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kevin Crowley in London at 
 kcrowley1@bloomberg.net ;
Jon Menon in London at 
 jmenon1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net ; 