-- Gates Says U.S. to Increase Asia Military Presence, Australia Defense Ties
-- B y   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 2010-11-08T04:55:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-08/gates-says-u-s-to-increase-asia-military-presence-australia-defense-ties.html
The U.S. will bolster its military
presence in Asia and increase defense cooperation with
Australia, Secretary of Defense  Robert Gates  said today.  “We are looking for an enhanced presence for the United
States in Asia and not some sort of cutback,” Gates said in
Melbourne. “We are a Pacific power, we have re-engaged in a
major way and now we’re looking at how to do that.”  Gates was speaking after an annual meeting of U.S. and
Australian foreign and defense ministers designed to align
security policies and deepen ties. Participants in the so-called
AUSMIN forum discussed China’s rising military prowess and the
need to use regional organizations to resolve disputes.  “We are committed to developing a strong comprehensive
relationship with the People’s Republic of China,” Australian
Foreign Minister  Kevin Rudd  said. The goal for the region is to
establish a community of nations that follows a “common, rules-
based order and abides by those rules,” he said.  Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  urged China to play a
full part in establishing a code of conduct in a region plagued
by territorial disputes, notably in the South China Sea. Talks
on a binding code of conduct in the sea between China and
Southeast Asia have been stalled since they started in 2002.  “We expect that China will be a responsible player and
will participate in the international framework of rules,”
Clinton said.  Afghanistan, Iran  Australia and the U.S. are aligned through the ANZUS Treaty
signed in 1951 between the two countries and New Zealand.
Australia has 1,550 soldiers in Afghanistan after withdrawing
its troops from Iraq in 2009. The U.S. and Australia also
collaborate on intelligence-gathering and combating sea piracy.  Gates, his Australian counterpart  Stephen Smith , Clinton
and Rudd met for more than five hours before releasing a joint
communique. This year marks the 25th anniversary of AUSMIN and
the 70th year of formal relations between Australia and the U.S.  The U.S. and Australia hope to begin discussions soon on an
Arms Trade Treaty to strengthen barriers to illicit arms trade,
the statement said. The four leaders also reaffirmed their goal
of a world free of nuclear weapons.  In their security-related talks, the officials focused on
Afghanistan and the need to stabilize Pakistan; the peaceful
uses of space and counter-terrorism efforts.  Gates said the U.S. was confident that sanctions against
Iran aimed at thwarting its nuclear program were “biting more
deeply” than its regime had anticipated.  “At this point we cont to believe that the political,
economic approach is in fact having an impact,” Gates said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nicole Gaouette  in Melbourne at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Austin in Tokyo at 
 billaustin@bloomberg.net ; 