-- Gazprom Second-Quarter Profit Declines 12%, Beats Estimates
-- B y   A n n a   S h i r y a e v s k a y a
-- 2010-11-08T17:13:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-08/gazprom-second-quarter-net-falls-12-to-170-billion-rubles.html
OAO Gazprom , the world’s biggest
natural-gas producer, said profit fell less than expected in the
second quarter, as rising Russian prices helped offset a foreign
exchange loss and slower European gas sales.  Net income  declined 12 percent to 170 billion rubles ($5.5
billion) from 193 billion rubles a year earlier, the Moscow-
based company said today on its website. That beat the 160
billion-ruble average estimate of six analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg.  Revenue rose 21 percent to 764 billion rubles driven by
supplies to the domestic market and ex-Soviet republics, as well
as sales of oil and electricity, the company said. Net gas sales
in Europe, traditionally Gazprom’s most profitable market, and
liquefied gas sales to Asia climbed 10 percent compared with a
23 percent rise in domestic sales and a 24 percent increase in
sales to the former Soviet republics.  “Gazprom managed to demonstrate a significant improvement
in cash-flow generation in the first half” even with “uneasy”
European market conditions,  Luis Saenz , a London-based director
at Otkritie Financial Corp., said in an e-mailed note today. The
drop in net income was caused mostly by a large, unrepeated
foreign exchange gain last year, he said.  Gazprom had a foreign exchange loss of 38.4 billion rubles
relating to finance income and expenses compared with a gain of
83.9 billion rubles a year earlier, the company said. Free cash
flow was 56 billion rubles in the second quarter, Gazprom said
in a  presentation  posted on the website.  Debt Burden  Net debt declined 29 percent to 975 billion rubles as of
June 30 from 1.37 trillion rubles as of Dec. 31, Gazprom said.
The net debt-to-Ebitda, or earnings before interest, tax,
depreciation and amortization, fell to 0.8 at the end of June
from 1.3 at the end of 2009, Chief Financial Officer  Andrei Kruglov  said on a conference call today. The Russian gas export
monopoly plans to continue lowering its debt burden this year,
he said in September.  Profit from domestic operations may climb almost 15-fold to
as much as 120 billion rubles this year, Vasily Smirnov, a
pricing official at the gas producer, said on the conference
call.  Gazprom earned its first profit from domestic gas sales of
8.2 billion rubles last year after operating at a loss for
years, Smirnov said.  European Exports  “This year is almost the first when we are working quite
reliably and convincingly as far as profitability of gas sales
in Russia was concerned,” Alexander Mikheev, deputy head of the
marketing department, said on the call. “We expect this figure
will be improving annually.”  The domestic market is becoming the export markets’ main
competitor for Russian gas, Chief Executive Officer  Alexei Miller  said last month. Gazprom’s share of gas exports to Europe
is  shrinking  as suppliers including Norway and Qatar offer more
flexible terms, said  Mikhail Korchemkin , director of East
European Gas Analysis.  The recovery from the global economic crisis that Gazprom
had been seeing since the first half of 2009 stalled in the
second quarter as demand in southern and southeastern Europe
declined, Miller said in June.  Sales volumes to Europe were almost flat compared with the
second quarter of 2009, when exports were affected by the
economic slowdown, according to the presentation.  Gazprom expects average prices under long-term contracts to
rise to $327 per 1,000 cubic meters in the fourth quarter,
Deputy CEO Alexander Medvedev said on the call.  Heating Momentum  The average gas price was $318 in the previous three
months, and the company maintains its forecast of an average
price of $308 for the whole year, Medvedev said. Prices include
the spot factor Gazprom acknowledged for a portion of its sales
to key European consumers, such as  E.On Ruhrgas  AG for three
years starting from 2010, he said.  “The heating season could provide much needed momentum to
Gazprom’s sales, provided the temperature is not hotter than
average,”  Pavel Sorokin  and  Alexander Bespalov , energy analysts
with Alfa Bank, said in a note last week.  Sales of refined products increased by 33 percent to 166
billion rubles, while oil sales rose 13 percent and electricity
and heat sales gained 32 percent, Gazprom said.  “Gazprom is not only about gas these days,”  Alexander Korneev  and  Ildar Khaziev , analysts with Citigroup Inc. in
Moscow, said last week.  Gazprom gained as much as 3 percent in Moscow today and
closed at 174.20 rubles, up 2.4 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Anna Shiryaevskaya  in Moscow at 
 ashiryaevska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at   wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  