-- GE Names Rice to New Post in International Expansion
-- B y   R a c h e l   L a y n e
-- 2010-11-08T21:47:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-08/ge-names-vice-chair-john-rice-to-head-expansion-in-international-markets.html
General Electric Co . named Vice
Chairman  John Rice  to oversee a new international business
structure as Chief Executive Officer  Jeffrey Immelt  signals the
importance of faster-growing overseas markets.  Rice, 53 and a vice chairman since 2005, will move to Hong
Kong and assume the role Jan. 1, GE said in a statement today.
He’ll run a dozen new business groups across regions including
Asia and the Middle East.  The appointment of Rice, a 32-year GE veteran, will help
Immelt accelerate a push to both bolster exports and focus more
on regions that are building out transportation,  energy  and
health-care infrastructure. Overseas sales rose to account for
54 percent of Fairfield, Connecticut-based GE’s total revenue
last year from 45 percent in 2005 as the U.S. grappled with its
worst recession since the 1930s.  “The timing of Rice’s appointment to lead GE’s global
operations underscores GE’s redoubled efforts,” said  Nick Heymann , an analyst with Sterne Agee & Leach Inc. who has a
“neutral” rating on the shares. “If anybody can reignite GE
Industrial’s growth prospects, it would be John.”  Rice has overseen the company’s largest industrial units
and led partnership negotiations in the Middle East, China,
Africa and Brazil. He’s been “a fixture in presidential palaces
and customers’ offices” over decades, Heymann said.  GE fell 2 cents to $16.71 at 4:15 p.m. in New York Stock
Exchange composite trading. The shares dropped 5 percent when GE
reported  third-quarter results  on Oct. 15 because sales of some
large equipment fell short of analysts’ estimates.  Germany, India  Nani Beccalli-Falco , who had led international expansion,
will take a new post to bring all of GE’s businesses in Germany
into one reporting structure, similar to steps Immelt took in
India last year. Germany is home to  Siemens AG , GE’s biggest
rival in many industries, including energy and health care.  The approach will seek to develop products to sell in the
country, as well as some for export. Germany and India are home
to two of GE’s global research and development centers.
Beccalli-Falco, 60, will move to Frankfurt and report to Rice.
He will also oversee efforts in Europe, Japan and Korea.  “We are entering a period of great opportunity in global
markets and, as a result, our teams must be more decentralized,
faster and more local,” Immelt, 54, said in the statement.  U.S. Exports  GE has become one of the biggest U.S. exporters behind
 Boeing Co ., selling more than $18 billion in goods and services
from the U.S. for overseas customers in 2009, up from $7 billion
in 2001, according to the statement.  The company expects about 60 percent of annual sales to
come from outside the U.S. in the coming years, Immelt said in
the statement.  “We are able to take this next step in our growth as a
global company because of the strong foundation that Nani
Beccalli built over the past nine years,” Immelt said in the
statement. “Germany offers significant growth opportunities.”  Immelt has shifted resources to tap international growth
since becoming CEO in 2001, adding resources including the
research and development centers with plans for a new complex in
Brazil, bringing the number of centers to five.  He’s cited Germany as a model the U.S. should emulate for
exports and said that GE sees the region as a target for
expansion.  Units that Rice has overseen as CEO of the GE Technology
Infrastructure group since 2007 include the world’s biggest
maker of jet engines, medical imaging equipment, and
locomotives. That position won’t be filled and each CEO for
health care, transportation and aviation will report directly to
Immelt. The units will each report financial results separately.  Regional Groups  Rice’s career  includes chief executive positions at
progressively larger divisions within GE, including
transportation and energy, the world’s biggest provider of
power-generation equipment. He ran the audit staff in the mid-
1990s. When Rice was named vice chairman five years ago, he was
tasked with a group that included the now divested plastics and
security units, as well as appliances.  He’ll lead a dozen new local groupings that include
business development, commercial teams, finance and
controllership. Regions include China, India, Southeast Asia,
Latin and South America, Russia, Canada, Australia, the Middle
East, Africa, Germany, Japan and Korea and Europe, GE said.  Immelt is among chief executives who met with President
 Barack Obama  in India this month as the U.S. leader seeks to
double exports in the next five years. He sits on Obama’s
Economic Recovery Advisory Board.  GE is adding U.S. jobs in businesses from power generation,
aviation and locomotives to health care and lighting. The
company has announced more than 16,500 new jobs inside the U.S.
in the past two years, most recently at its appliance unit last
month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rachel Layne  in Boston at 
 rlayne@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net  