-- Gedeon Richter Third-Quarter Net Income Almost Doubles as Sales Increase
-- B y   E d i t h   B a l a z s   a n d   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 2010-11-09T09:26:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-08/gedeon-richter-third-quarter-net-income-almost-doubles-as-sales-advance.html
Gedeon Richter Nyrt ., Hungary’s
largest drugmaker, raised its consolidated sales projection for
this year after third-quarter profit almost doubled, boosted by
pre-shipments to Russia.  Richter sees total sales increasing as much as 10 percent
in euro terms provided foreign currency trends “remain
supportive,” Chief Executive Officer  Erik Bogsch  said at a
press conference in Budapest today. Previously, the company
projected total revenue rising 5 percent in 2010.  Richter’s  net income  rose to 19.4 billion forint ($98
million), or 1,041 forint per share in the third quarter, from
9.8 billion forint, or 523 forint per share, the company said.
Analysts forecast on average net income of 12.1 billion forint,
according to a Bloomberg survey of nine analysts.  Richter raised its Russian sales growth estimate to between
25 percent and 30 percent in euro terms from 10 percent in
August. Russia, Richter’s biggest export market, which accounts
for 28 percent of revenue, will perform better due to a
“predictable economic environment,” Bogsch said. Sales to
Ukraine and former Soviet republics are expected to advance
between 25 percent and 30 percent, he said.  Third-quarter revenue rose 26 percent to 78.4 billion
forint, as exports to Russia were augmented by pre-shipments
before a Sept. 1 change in local regulations, the company said.
The value of pre-shipments equaled about two months of average
sales.  “Exceptionally stellar” third-quarter figures, which led
to record-high gross margins, should trigger upgrades even if
results in the last quarter will likely be weaker, Gergely
Palffy, an analyst at KBC Securities in Budapest, said in an e-
mailed note today.  Richter, which gets more than 80 percent of revenue from
exports, didn’t provide a breakdown of third-quarter sales per
region. In Russia, sales in the first nine months rose 41
percent. U.S. sales fell 14 percent in dollar terms because of
increased generic competition for the company’s gynaecological
products.  Richter’s  shares  have gained 8.4 percent this year,
compared with a 9 percent increase in Hungary’s benchmark  BUX
index . The shares rose as much as 2.2 percent by 9:55 a.m. in
Budapest, to 47,500 forint, the highest since Oct. 15.  Richter, which makes the Plan B morning-after contraceptive
pill, acquired Germany-based Grunenthal GmbH’s contraceptive
business and bought Switzerland’s PregLem Holding SA as it seeks
to extend its presence in western Europe. The company expects no
extra costs related to these acquisitions in the last quarter of
the year, Bogsch said.  Richter “would like” to maintain its  dividend  payment
level of 25 percent of profit, Bogsch said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Edith Balazs  in Budapest at 
 ebalazs1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Gomez at   jagomez@bloomberg.net  