-- Geithner Seeks Yuan Gains, Says It's `Overwhelmingly' in China's Interest
-- B y   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e   a n d   U n n i   K r i s h n a n
-- 2010-11-08T12:46:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-08/geithner-seeks-yuan-gains-says-it-s-overwhelmingly-in-china-s-interest.html
U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  said China needs to continue to allow its currency to
gain, adding that the world’s second-largest economy is “very
supportive” of the Group of 20 nations’ framework on reducing
global imbalances.  Speaking at an event in New Delhi today, Geithner said it’s
“overwhelmingly” in China’s interest to allow its currency to
appreciate. At the same time, he acknowledged that China’s
leaders are split on how to proceed.  “They’re in the midst of a constant debate,” Geithner
said. “The balance between the forces in favor of moving more
quickly and moving more slowly are constantly shifting.”  Geithner said China is in the early stages of reforms that
will allow its currency to move in response to market forces and
be more fully convertible. China has curbed the yuan’s rise to
about 2 percent against the dollar since a June pledge to
introduce more flexibility, arguing anything other than a
gradual appreciation could cause social and economic disruption.  Geithner’s comments came as Chinese Vice Finance Minister
 Zhu Guangyao  said the U.S. Federal Reserve’s Nov. 3 decision to
pump $600 billion into the economy might “shock” emerging
markets by flooding them with capital.  The first round of quantitative easing, as the Fed policy
is termed, in 2009 was justified because the global economy
lacked liquidity, Zhu told reporters in Beijing today. With a
recovery now under way, new purchases of Treasuries to inject
funds into the financial system may be destabilizing, he said.  Growth Patterns  Geithner said recent tensions over currency policies stem
from a shift in global growth patterns. Emerging market nations
are growing faster than the U.S., Europe and Japan, attracting
investment and prompting different policy approaches.  Some emerging market countries are “leaning very
aggressively” against market pressure to let their currency
rise. This, in turn, is “unfair” to countries that permit
appreciation, and adds inflation risk in nations that don’t
allow their markets to adapt to economic conditions, he said.  The Treasury chief reiterated his call for the Group of 20
nations to sign on to “indicative guidelines” aimed at
identifying when trade balances are out of whack. Big trade
deficits or surpluses can’t be limited directly, and instead
should be viewed as early warning signs of economic risk, he
said.  India’s Growth  Geithner said India is at the early stage of a period of
prolonged gains in productivity and growth, and he praised the
country’s “very careful, very pragmatic” strategy. He endorsed
efforts to allow foreign investors more access as India develops
its debt markets, such as a proposed infrastructure investment
fund.  In the U.S., the recovery is gradually strengthening as the
U.S. takes on a growth pattern that is “very encouraging” for
the country’s economic future. The U.S. is on track to grow
twice as fast as Europe or Japan, and economic conditions
generally are strengthening, Geithner said.  Also today, a U.S. official told reporters that the
European Union has no alternative to the joint action needed to
solve sovereign debt woes facing some of its member countries.
As a whole, the EU has plenty of financial savings and capacity
to act, the official told reporters, speaking on condition of
anonymity.  The official expressed confidence that the EU would be able
to manage the issue. At the same time, Europe has seen an
erosion of its progress in calming investors about the risks of
investing in debt from cash-strapped countries like Ireland,
Portugal and Spain, the official said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Rebecca Christie  in New Delhi at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net 
 Unni Krishnan  in New Delhi at 
 ukrishnan2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net .
Chris Anstey at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  