-- Sanofi Says Genzyme Should Swear Off Defensive Steps
-- B y   A l b e r t i n a   T o r s o l i
-- 2010-11-08T23:22:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-08/genzyme-should-swear-off-defensive-measures-let-holders-vote-sanofi-says.html
Genzyme Corp.  should forgo defensive
measures such as staggering the terms of its directors to allow
shareholders to decide whether they want to accept an $18.5
billion hostile takeover offer from  Sanofi-Aventis SA , Sanofi
said.  Sanofi is encouraged that Genzyme decided to explore a
possible sale, the Paris-based company said in a statement
today. Still, Sanofi hasn’t been contacted by Cambridge,
Massachusetts-based Genzyme or its bankers, according to the
statement, which included a copy of a letter from Sanofi Chief
Executive Officer  Chris Viehbacher  to his Genzyme counterpart,
 Henri Termeer .  The letter is an attempt by Sanofi to keep pressure on
Genzyme, said  Jerome Forneris , who helps manage $11 billion,
including Sanofi shares, at Banque Martin Maurel in Marseilles.
Genzyme, in an Oct. 7 regulatory filing, raised the prospect of
staggering the board terms, thus preventing shareholders from
voting out all the directors at once, initiating a “poison
pill” that would make a takeover prohibitively expensive or
using Massachusetts law to block the deal, Sanofi said.  “It would be inappropriate for the board to take these
defensive actions,” Viehbacher wrote in the letter. “If we are
unable to have a direct dialog with you, in all fairness you
should allow your shareholders the opportunity to decide for
themselves whether or not to accept our proposal.”  Seeking a Meeting  Sanofi, which took its $69-a-share offer directly to
Genzyme shareholders after Genzyme spurned the bid as too low,
still prefers to negotiate a deal, the French company said.
Sanofi asked for meetings to discuss the takeover offer.  “They are showing their determination in wanting to pull
this deal through,” Forneris, whose firm owns Sanofi shares,
said in a telephone interview today. “They are putting pressure
on Genzyme’s board members and management.”  Genzyme responded in a statement today by again rejecting
the offer as undervaluing the company.  “Our board is unanimous in its view that the $69 offer is
not an appropriate starting point for the discussions Sanofi
seeks, Termeer wrote Viehbacher in a letter released with the
statement. “We are open to a transaction that appropriately
recognizes Genzyme’s intrinsic value and prospects. We will meet
with Sanofi if it makes an offer that gives our board of
directors reason to believe it will lead to that result.”  Available Defenses  Genzyme said in the Oct. 7 filing to the Securities and
Exchange Commission that while it had opted out of several anti-
takeover protections provided by Massachusetts law, it could
reinstate those defenses at any time.  Those include the required approval from a target company’s
board or 90 percent of holders of voting stock for a takeover to
be successful and the staggering of director elections so all
aren’t up for renewed terms simultaneously.  Genzyme also said that while it doesn’t have a shareholder
rights plan, or so-called poison pill, that would allow certain
investors to buy stock at a discounted price and dilute a
potential acquirer’s stake, it could adopt one in the future.  The  board  of Genzyme authorized its bankers and executives
to contact third parties “in order to be fully informed about
the company’s value in comparison with the company’s stand-alone
strategic plan,” according to the filing. That doesn’t mean the
directors have started a process to sell Genzyme, the filing
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Albertina Torsoli  in Paris at 
 atorsoli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  