-- George Bush Picks Up Barney's Poop, Leaves Rest of Us: Review
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C a r l s o n
-- 2010-11-08T02:42:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-08/george-w-bush-picks-up-barney-s-poop-ignores-the-rest-of-us-book-review.html
Presidents get the memoirs they
deserve. In “Decision Points,”  George W. Bush  writes
about his two terms in office much as he lived them --
somewhat offhandedly, almost as if he’s writing about
someone else.  Bush prides himself on making “crisp and quick”
decisions, even if calling himself “the decider” provided
a perpetual laugh line for late-night talk-show hosts. The
book is organized around 14 important decisions, beginning
with the one that made everything else possible -- the
decision to quit drinking.  One day his wife, Laura, “who picks her moments,”
asked him to remember the last day he hadn’t had a drink.
He recites a daily downing of bourbon, beer, B&B’s and
martinis, out on the town or in his house while his family
was sleeping, that would render a man twice his size
blotto.  After a stupefying night of drinking for his 40th
birthday, he vows to stop. No Alcoholics Anonymous for him.
With the help of prayer, jogging and chocolate, he quits
cold turkey. It’s as simple as that.  Bush diminishes how much his East Coast roots gave him
a leg up by dwelling on Midland, Texas, although not with
the poignancy Laura summoned in her memoir, “Spoken from
the Heart.”  If you prefer Texas, Bush seems to think, it doesn’t
count that you went to Andover and Yale, summered in
Kennebunkport, had a grandfather in the Senate and
eventually a father in the White House easing your way up
the ladder. If he weren’t a Bush, he wouldn’t have gotten
the chance to be part-owner of the Texas Rangers, the
prelude to a successful run for governor in 1994.  Charmed Life  A rare glimpse of that charmed life comes when he goes
to visit Gampy (Senator  Prescott Bush  of Connecticut) and
finds his small hand swallowed up in the huge one of Senate
Majority Leader  Lyndon Johnson  at a Georgetown cocktail
party.  Still, Bush tells us things we didn’t know. He was
blindsided when Senator  John McCain  went on TV announcing
that he was suspending his presidential campaign to attend
a White House meeting on rescuing the economy that Bush
hadn’t yet agreed to convene. Bush went along with it,
hoping it might help McCain “mount a comeback.”  Another bit of news -- Bush briefly considered dumping
 Dick Cheney , who cast a dark and heartless Darth Vader pall
over the White House, in favor of Senate Majority Leader
Bill Frist. He had been behind a similar effort in 1992
when he wanted his dad to install Cheney and get rid of Dan
Quayle.  Sept. 11 and War  Much of the book is taken up with Bush’s handling of
the Sept. 11 attacks and the two wars in their aftermath.
He glosses over the August 2001 memo warning that  Osama bin Laden  was poised to strike inside the U.S., saying he
didn’t act because intelligence never found any “concrete
plans.”  Intelligence (not him), he writes, obviously missed
“something big.” He decided against pointing fingers at
the time. If he had, the finger might have settled on him.
Instead, he later awarded his head of intelligence, CIA
Director George Tenet, the Presidential Medal of Freedom.  He’s honest to a fault, not that he’s likely to be
prosecuted, about his response when Tenet asked if the CIA
had permission to waterboard 9/11 mastermind  Khalid Sheikh Mohammed .  “‘Damn right,’” he barked.  He admits to a “sickening feeling” about not finding
weapons of mass destruction in Iraq, but not so much that
he regrets invading the country.  Hurricane Katrina  Because we saw hurricane Katrina with our own eyes,
Bush takes some blame for this “cloud” over his second
term. While Louisiana Governor Kathleen Blanco comes off as
a complete ninny, Bush admits that for a man who prides
himself on decisiveness, he took too long to intervene. He
concedes that he shouldn’t have just flown over the Gulf
and that he could have touched down in Baton Rouge without
disrupting relief efforts to show he cared about the
victims.  And yet he wants us to know he was kinda, sorta right
about Michael Brown, director of the Federal Emergency
Management Agency. He takes a walk down memory lane to
prove that when Brown worked for Florida Governor Jeb Bush
on four hurricanes in that state in 2004, he really did do
a heckuva job.  Most Painful Moment  Bizarrely, Katrina is responsible for Bush’s most
painful moment during his presidency. Some critics traced
his fumbling response to the fact that most of the victims
were not white;  Jesse Jackson  compared the emergency
shelter in the New Orleans Convention Center to the “hull
of a slave ship,” and Kanye West said on an NBC telethon
that Bush “doesn’t care about black people.”  Bush writes that the suggestion he reacted differently
because black people were imperiled “disgusted” him. To
this day, it is “the worst moment” of his presidency.  Really, the worst part is about him being called
names? For so many others, the worst parts of Bush’s
presidency were about the loss of their jobs, houses and
pensions; unending wars in Iraq and Afghanistan; and
deficits as far as the eye can see.  Barney’s Leavings  At the end of the book, after he has moved out of the
White House and back to Texas, Bush recalls taking his dog
for a walk, something he hasn’t done in more than a decade.
Barney does his business on a neighbor’s lawn and, with his
hand sheathed in plastic, the former president picks up
“that which I had been dodging for the past eight years.”  Pure Bush, that scatological frat-boy ending, with no
awareness of the mess he left behind for others to clean
up.  “Decision Points” is published by Crown in the U.S.
and Virgin in the U.K. (497 pages, $35, 25 pounds). To
order this book in North America, click  here .  ( Margaret Carlson , author of “Anyone Can Grow Up: How
George Bush and I Made It to the White House” and former
White House correspondent for Time magazine, is a Bloomberg
News columnist. The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Margaret Carlson in Washington at 
 mcarlson3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for the story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 