-- German Exports Rose in September After Two Months of Decline
-- B y   J a n a   R a n d o w
-- 2010-11-08T07:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-08/german-exports-rebounded-in-september-beating-estimates-after-declines.html
Exports  from Germany, Europe’s
largest economy, rose in September after two months of decline.  Sales abroad , adjusted for working days and seasonal
changes, increased 3 percent from August, when they fell 0.2
percent, the  Federal Statistics Office  in Wiesbaden said today.
Economists had forecast a 1.5 percent gain, according to the
median of 16 estimates in a  Bloomberg News survey .  Imports 
dropped 1.5 percent in September.  Exports to China and other developing markets helped
companies including Bayerische Motorenwerke AG, Daimler AG and
Hugo Boss AG increase profits in the third quarter. At the same
time, the slowing global economic recovery may damp demand,
while a stronger euro is making German goods more expensive
outside the single-currency zone.  “We’ll see a slowing in global momentum,” said Andreas
Scheuerle, an economist at Dekabank in Frankfurt. “That won’t
go unnoticed. We’re switching back a gear, but we’ll be able to
live with it. Growth in 2010 has been extremely strong.”  The Bundesbank expects the economy to expand more than 3
percent this year, largely due to growth of 2.2 percent in the
second quarter. Growth will probably slow to 0.5 percent in the
third and fourth quarters, Bundesbank President  Axel Weber  said
on Oct. 25.  Governments across the euro area, Germany’s biggest export
market, are cutting spending to reduce their budget deficits.
German factory orders unexpectedly dropped 4 percent in
September, led by a slump in euro-area demand for investment
goods, the Economy Ministry said last week.  Outside EU  German exports rose 22.5 percent in September from a year
earlier, today’s report showed. Exports to countries within the
16-member euro area increased 13.6 percent in the year while
sales to countries outside the European Union rose 37.7 percent.  The trade surplus widened to 16.8 billion euros ($23.4
billion) in September from 9 billion euros in August. The
surplus in the current account, a measure of all trade including
services, was 14 billion euros, up from 5 billion euros in
August.  A “persistently strong” euro is hurting manufacturers’
price competitiveness,  Thomas Lindner , president of Germany’s
VDMA machine makers’ association, said last week.  The single currency has appreciated 17 percent against the
dollar since early June to $1.3937 at 7:42 a.m. in Frankfurt.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jana Randow  in Frankfurt at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at   jfraher@bloomberg.net  