-- German Industrial Output Unexpectedly Fell in September as Momentum Lost
-- B y   J a n a   R a n d o w   a n d   G a b i   T h e s i n g
-- 2010-11-08T11:10:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-08/german-industrial-output-unexpectedly-fell-in-september-as-momentum-lost.html
Industrial production  in Germany
unexpectedly declined in September, adding to signs Europe’s
largest economy is losing momentum.  Output fell 0.8 percent from August, when it rose 1.5
percent, the  Economy Ministry  in Berlin said today. Economists
had forecast a 0.4 percent gain, the median of 35 estimates in a
 Bloomberg News survey  showed. From a year earlier, production
increased 7.9 percent when adjusted for the number of work days.  Demand for German manufactured goods may wane as the global
economic recovery stutters and the stronger euro hurts price
competitiveness outside the 16-nation currency bloc. At the same
time, governments in the euro area, Germany’s biggest export
market, are cutting spending as investors grow increasingly
concerned about excessive budget deficits.  “German industry is slowing down,” said  Aline Schuiling ,
an economist at ABN Amro Bank NV in Amsterdam. “European
governments are stepping up the pace of fiscal tightening, while
world trade growth has weakened as well.”  Manufacturing output fell 0.9 percent in September, today’s
report showed. Production of investment goods was unchanged in
the month and consumer goods production fell 0.6 percent. Energy
production increased 1.2 percent and construction output rose
0.4 percent.  The Bundesbank expects German growth to slow to about 0.5
percent in the third and fourth quarters from 2.2 percent in the
second, which was the fastest pace in two decades. The economy
may expand more than 3 percent this year, the central bank
predicts.  Exports  Germany’s  Linde AG , the world’s second-biggest maker of
industrial gases, said last week that third-quarter profit rose
50 percent as the global recovery raised demand from car and
chemical manufacturers.  Continental AG , Europe’s second-biggest
car-parts maker, raised its 2010 forecasts for the second time
this year after sales in China, Brazil and other emerging
markets helped bolster profits.  “The global recovery is expected to proceed, and this
should imply a continued positive impact on the demand for euro-
area exports,” European Central Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet  said last week.  German exports jumped 3 percent in September after two
months of decline, the Federal Statistics Office said today.
Still, factory orders unexpectedly dropped 4 percent in
September, led by a slump in euro-area demand for investment
goods.  Beiersdorf AG , the German maker of Nivea skin creams, last
week cut its full-year margin forecast as third-quarter profit
missed estimates because of falling volumes in Europe.  “Demand for goods made in Germany remains high, but it’s
unlikely to be as dynamic as it was in the first half of the
year,” said  Carsten Brzeski , an economist at ING Group in
Brussels. “We will have growth, but by no means at the same
level.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jana Randow  in Frankfurt at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at   jfraher@bloomberg.net  