-- Ghailani a `Mass Murderer' Who Helped in Embassy Bombings, U.S. Tells Jury
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2010-11-08T23:44:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-08/ghailani-is-a-mass-murderer-who-helped-in-embassy-bombings-u-s-argues.html
Ahmed Khalfan Ghailani , the first
Guantanamo Bay detainee to get a U.S. civilian trial, is a
“mass murderer” from an al-Qaeda cell that carried out the
1998 bombings of two U.S. embassies in Africa, a federal
prosecutor told a jury in closing arguments.  Ghailani, 36, is on trial in New York for the 1998 bombings
of embassies in Dar es Salaam, Tanzania, and Nairobi, Kenya,
which killed 224 people, including 12 U.S. citizens. He is
accused of taking part of a terrorist conspiracy with  Osama bin Laden  to kill U.S. nationals and faces as long as life in prison
if convicted.  Assistant U.S. Attorney  Harry Chernoff  finished his closing
arguments to the jury to a packed courtroom that included about
two dozen victims and their relatives.  “This is Ahmed Ghailani,” Chernoff said, pointing to the
defendant, who was seated at a nearby table, flanked by three of
his four lawyers. “This is al-Qaeda; this is a terrorist; this
is a killer.”  Chernoff said the defense’s claim that Ghailani was a dupe
of al-Qaeda was refuted by witnesses who described him as
helping purchase the truck and the metal tanks used in the
Tanzanian blast.  ‘Mass Murderer’  “Ahmed Khalfan Ghailani, this man, is a mass murderer,”
Chernoff said. “He sat here casually, and he has known what you
know now, that  Ahmed Ghailani  has the blood of hundreds on his
hands.”  He also cited testimony from Tanzanian witnesses who
described Ghailani as taking an active role leading up to the
attacks, repeatedly seeking out sources for the metal tanks,
having them filled with acetylene and oxygen, negotiating the
price and personally paying for them with cash. Metal fragments
from the tanks and the steel used to reinforce the bomb-laden
truck were recovered from the site of the attack, the prosecutor
said.  Chernoff reminded jurors that Ghailani’s former roommate
identified three men who stayed at their home in the months
before the attacks that prosecutors said were members of the
East African al-Qaeda cell.  ‘One of Them’  “These young men wanted to impress their al-Qaeda seniors
by launching their most spectacular attacks upon America up to
that point,” Chernoff said. “He wasn’t just with them. He was
one of them. He wasn’t just along for the ride. He helped build
the bomb.”  Testimony began Oct. 12 and ended Nov. 3 before U.S.
District Judge  Lewis Kaplan . Ghailani’s lawyers are to make
their closing arguments to the jury tomorrow. Kaplan has said
the panel could begin its deliberations in the case as early as
Nov. 10.  Ghailani’s lawyers said in opening statements that he was
duped by more worldly friends who fled Africa after the attacks.
Defense lawyer Steven Zissou argued that Ghailani’s purchases
before the blast, including helping buy the truck and metal
canisters, were part of the “normal, totally benign business”
common in East Africa.  Zissou described his client as “not really a man, but a
boy, more comfortable playing with children and watching
cartoons.”  His lawyers didn’t call any witnesses. Instead, they showed
jurors a series of documents with facts agreed to by both sides,
called stipulations.  One said that during an initial search of Ghailani’s home,
on Aug. 26, 1998, Tanzanian authorities found no explosives.  Blasting Cap  At the trial, an agent of the Federal Bureau of
Investigation testified that, in a second search of Ghailani’s
Dar es Salaam home three days after the first, he found a
blasting cap in an armoire which the defendant kept padlocked.
Blasting caps are used to set off explosives like dynamite, a
prosecution witness said.  FBI agents also found traces of the explosives TNT and PETN
on clothing recovered from the Dar es Salaam residence, Chernoff
said.  The prosecutor also cited travel records found by the FBI
show that on Aug. 6, 1998, a day before the blasts, Ghailani
left Africa for Pakistan on the same flight as two key al-Qaeda
leaders, including one who was a bomb-making expert.  He cited the extreme secrecy under which members of the
terror group operated and how informants were executed,
including the 14-year-old son of an al-Qaeda leader.  “Do you think that al-Qaeda would bring this outsider with
them to Pakistan?” Chernoff said. “Would they allow into their
midst a so-called dupe in the so-called military operation?”  Ghailani, he said “is no innocent.”  ‘Not a Child’  The prosecutor challenged the defense’s claim that
Ghailani, who was 24 at the time of the attacks, was “too
young-looking to be a terrorist.” Chernoff said Ghailani was
older than at least two of the five members of the al-Qaeda cell
that carried out the attacks.  Chernoff said Mohamed Rashed Daoud al-’Owhali, who was
convicted in 2001 of being in the truck that delivered the bomb
to the Nairobi embassy, was only 21, while  Fahid Mohammed Ally Msalam , who the U.S. said helped assemble bomb-making materials
and load the Tanzanian bomb truck, was 22.  “He was not a child, this is not a court of juvenile
justice,” Chernoff said.  The prosecutor said al-Qaeda changed its focus to attack
the U.S. after the first Persian Gulf War when the U.S. military
was stationed in Saudi Arabia. He said that in February 1998,
the group’s leader, bin Laden, issued a “fatwah” giving the
authorization for members to kill both U.S. civilians and
military personnel.  World Trade Center  In one February 1998 statement shown to the jury, bin Laden
praised the actions of  Ramzi Yousef , the convicted mastermind of
the first World Trade Center bombing in 1993.  “America will see many young men that will follow Ramzi
Yousef,” bin Laden said in an interview he gave to a U.S.
television news interview.  “This plan was already in motion and included Ahmed
Ghailani,” Chernoff said. The defendant’s actions are “what
Ghailani did to make bin Laden’s wishes come true.”  The defendant went to Afghanistan and worked for several
top al-Qaeda terrorists, serving as a cook and bodyguard in
Afghanistan for bin Laden, the U.S. said.  The jury hasn’t heard details of what happened to him after
he left Africa.  He was indicted in December 1998. He was captured in
Pakistan in July 2004 and held by the U.S. Central Intelligence
Agency. He was questioned and subjected to “enhanced
interrogation techniques,” the U.S. said in court papers.  In September 2006, he was transferred to the U.S. lockup at
Guantanamo Bay. He was transferred to New York last year for
trial.  The case is U.S. v. Ghailani, 98-cr-01023, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Patricia Hurtado  in New York
at   pathurtado@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 