-- Gold Fields' Chairwoman Ramphele Says South African State Harms Industry
-- B y   A n t o n y   S g u a z z i n
-- 2010-11-08T09:33:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-08/gold-fields-chairwomann-ramphele-says-south-african-state-harms-industry.html
The South African government’s
failure to provide adequate regulation, infrastructure and
services is a “depressant” to the growth of the country’s
mining industry, the chairwoman of  Gold Fields Ltd.  said.  Policy uncertainty, inadequate infrastructure, government
bureaucracy around the award of water licenses, and the
temporary closure of mines for safety concerns are among the
challenges the mining industry faces,  Mamphela Ramphele , the
chairwoman of Gold Fields and a board member of  Anglo American
Plc , said in a  column  published by Johannesburg’s Sunday Times
yesterday. A lack of skills, rising costs and stagnant
productivity are also holding back growth, she said.  “The mining industry in South Africa is undoubtedly at the
crossroads, having faced some severe headwinds over the past
decade -- many of which are showing no signs of easing up,” she
said. “The two major underlying problems are the ‘SA discount’
that has undermined the share price of mining companies and,
secondly, our tendency to fight our past.”  South African gold mines are regularly halted for
government probes of fatal accidents while the expansion of the
country’s ferrochrome industry among others has been held back
by a shortage of power. A dispute over the award of mining
rights at the Sishen iron-ore mine this year has been criticized
by investors and has prompted Anglo’s  Kumba Iron Ore Ltd.  unit
to sue the government.  ‘Uncertainty Among Investors’  “Government is not providing the regulation, public
infrastructure and services that enable business to flourish,”
she said. “The regulatory process in our industry has been far
from smooth of late; it has created uncertainty among
investors.”  Johannesburg-based Gold Fields is South Africa’s second-
biggest gold producer, while London-based Anglo is the biggest
investor in South African mining. The country is the world’s
biggest producer of platinum, manganese, vanadium and chrome and
Africa’s largest producer of gold and coal.  AngloGold Ashanti
Ltd. ,  BHP Billiton ,  Rio Tinto Group ,  Impala Platinum Holdings
Ltd.  and  Lonmin Plc  have assets in the country.  The confrontational approach of labor unions and constant
demands for higher pay are also harming the industry, she said.  “The finger-pointing at the mining industry from
government, trade unions, political parties and the like has to
stop,” she said. “The loss of competitiveness represents a
cost to every citizen who now has to bear the risks of greater
instability due to increased unemployment and a slowing growth
rate.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Antony Sguazzin  in Johannesburg at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Matthew in Dubai at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net . 