-- Goldman Says Bernanke Engineers `Substantial Pickup'
-- B y   W e s   G o o d m a n
-- 2010-11-08T11:55:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-08/goldman-s-hatzius-says-qe2-off-to-a-very-good-start-inflation-unlikely.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. defended
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke ’s decision to pump
money into the U.S. economy after officials in Germany, China
and Brazil criticized the plan.  The move will spur gross domestic product growth and reduce
the risk of deflation,  Jan Hatzius , the New York-based chief
U.S. economist at the company, wrote in an e-mail to clients.
Because the Fed’s target for overnight loans between banks is
near zero, the central bank is doing “the next best thing,”
according to Goldman, one of the 18 primary dealers that are
authorized to trade directly with the central bank.  “The widespread hostility to the Fed’s actions is
misplaced,” Hatzius wrote. “Downside risks to the economic
outlook have declined significantly. U.S. inflation is unlikely
to become a problem for years.”  Bernanke on Nov. 6 defended the central bank’s decision
last week to buy an additional $600 billion of Treasuries and
said he dismissed the idea that it will increase prices to
higher levels than policy makers prefer. German Finance Minister
 Wolfgang Schaeuble  said Nov. 5 in Berlin that the Fed’s move was
“clueless.”  “I have rejected any notion that we are going to raise
inflation to a super-normal level in order to have effects on
the economy,” Bernanke said in a panel discussion at a Fed
conference in Jekyll Island, Georgia. “It’s critical for us to
maintain inflation at an appropriate level.”  ‘Risks for Everyone’  Schaeuble said the Fed’s decision won’t revive growth.  “It’s our problem as well if the U.S. is no longer certain
that the old recipes don’t work anymore,” he said. “We don’t
have the least reason for schadenfreude. We only have reason to
be worried.”  Brazil’s central bank president,  Henrique Meirelles , said
“excess liquidity” in the U.S. economy is creating “risks for
everyone.” In China, Vice Foreign Minister  Cui Tiankai  said
“many countries are worried about the impact of the policy on
their economies.”  Fed Board Governor  Kevin Warsh  today conceded that further
bond purchases risk distorting markets.  “The Fed’s increased presence in the market for long-term
Treasury securities poses nontrivial risks that bear watching,”
said Warsh, who voted for more stimulus last week, in an opinion
piece in the  Wall Street Journal . “As the Fed’s balance sheet
expands, it becomes more of a price maker than a price taker,”
and if investors doubt the values set for the securities, “risk
premiums across asset classes” could shift unexpectedly around
the world.  Inflation Concerns  E. Gerald Corrigan , former Fed Bank of New York president,
said at the Georgia conference that he’s concerned the central
bank’s efforts risks causing price increases that are out of the
Fed’s control.  “Even in the face of substantial margins of
underutilization of human and capital resources, efforts to
achieve an upward nudge in today’s very low inflation rate make
me somewhat uncomfortable,” Corrigan, chairman of Goldman’s
bank subsidiary, said in prepared remarks.  The  difference  between yields on 10-year notes and Treasury
Inflation Protected Securities, a gauge of trader expectations
for consumer prices over the life of the securities, widened to
2.13 percentage points from this year’s low of 1.47 percentage
points set in August. The five-year average is 2.10 percentage
points.  ‘Next Best Thing’  The Fed can’t cut its benchmark interest  rate  any further
after reducing it to a range of zero to 0.25 percent in December
2008, Hatzius wrote in his e-mail, which he distributed
yesterday in New York.  Ten-year yields have declined about 18 basis points since
Sept. 20, the day before the Fed announced it was prepared to
provide additional support to the economy. A basis point is 0.01
percentage point. Two-year yields fell to 0.3118 percent on Nov.
4 and five-year rates declined to 1.0148 percent, both record
lows.  “They are doing the next best thing, aiming to lower the
bond term premium via purchases of longer-term securities,”
Hatzius wrote. The strategy is known as quantitative easing
because it targets the quantity of money in the economy. Traders
have dubbed it “QE2” because the Fed also tried it last year.  “We also disagree with the criticism that the Fed is
‘flooding the world with money,’” Hatzius wrote. One risk of
the decision is that it will boost currencies outside the U.S.,
he said, which makes the goods of exporting nations more
expensive for their customers.  Divergence  “But that is always true when regional cycles diverge, and
it has little to do with QE2 per se.”  The  difference  between two- and 10-year yields was 2.16
percentage points, versus the five-year average of 1.28
percentage points.  Ten-year  yields , a benchmark for consumer and company
borrowing costs, rose one basis point today to 2.538 percent as
of 11:49 a.m. in London, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The yield on the two-year Treasury was unchanged at
0.367 percent.  Michael Burry , the former hedge-fund manager who predicted
the housing market’s plunge, said Bernanke is trying to use
“poison as the cure” by pumping more cash into the economy.  The attempt to bolster growth is reminiscent of  Alan Greenspan ’s actions to revive the economy after 2001, Burry said
in comments published last week from a telephone interview. The
former Fed chairman helped create an unsustainable boom in U.S.
property  prices  with his policies, leading to the worst global
financial crisis since the Great Depression, he said.  Hatzius said the outlook has improved from a month ago,
when he said the U.S. economy faced two main scenarios, neither
of them good:  “A fairly bad one in which the economy grows at a 1 1/2
percent to 2 percent rate through the middle of next year and
the  unemployment  rate rises moderately to 10 percent, and a very
bad one in which the economy returns to an outright recession,”
he wrote to clients on Oct 6.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Wes Goodman  in Singapore at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net . 