-- Morgan Stanley Intends to Buy Smith Barney as First Planned, Gorman Says
-- B y   M i c h a e l   M o o r e
-- 2010-11-08T15:38:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-08/gorman-says-morgan-stanley-intends-to-purchase-smith-barney-on-target-date.html
Morgan Stanley Chief Executive
Officer  James Gorman  said the firm intends to buy the remaining
stake in a brokerage joint venture with Citigroup Inc.’s Smith
Barney on target dates established in the original deal.  “Whenever those first dates trigger, I think May 2012 is
the first one, we expect to move forward on that as soon as it
triggers,” Gorman, 52, said today at the  Securities Industry
and Financial Markets Association  conference in New York. “We
fully intend to buy, as planned, as soon as we possibly can.”  Morgan Stanley has flexibility in how fast it may increase
its 51 percent stake in a joint venture with Citigroup’s Smith
Barney brokerage,  Glenn Schorr , an analyst at Nomura Holdings
Inc. in New York, said in a note to investors last week, based
on a meeting with the company.  The New York-based firm “is less limited than many
believe” on the Smith Barney purchase as it faces increased
capital requirements under new rules proposed by the Basel
Committee on Banking Supervision, Schorr wrote. The Wall Street
Journal reported last week that the firm may delay the full
purchase to preserve capital.  Morgan Stanley has an option to acquire an additional 14
percent in 2012, 15 percent in 2013 and Citigroup’s remaining
stake in 2014, a regulatory filing shows. Citigroup has the
ability to force Morgan Stanley to buy its stake either in 2015
or a year after Morgan Stanley utilizes its second additional
purchase option, the filing shows.  “The deal was structured to purchase the remaining pieces
at fair market value in what’s called an open-ended option,”
Gorman said today. “We deliberately negotiated that option so
that whatever our capital structure might be, whatever we
thought fair market value was at that point, and wherever the
integration was, we would be more aggressive or less aggressive
in pushing the full acquisition.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael J. Moore  in New York at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 