-- Gourmet Master to Challenge Starbucks on China's Street Corners
-- B y   A d e l a   L i n
-- 2010-11-09T06:48:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-08/gourmet-master-plans-1-000-china-stores-after-raising-funds-in-taipei-ipo.html
Gourmet Master Co. , operator of
 Taiwan ’s largest coffee-shop chain, plans to increase its China
outlets more than sixfold to 1,000 to challenge Starbucks Corp.
in the fastest-growing major economy.  The company will use proceeds of a planned initial public
offering in Taipei to open stores in cities such as Shenzhen,
Chengdu and Wuhan, aiming to reach its expansion target by 2015,
Chairman  Wu Cheng-Hsueh  said in a phone interview yesterday.  Gourmet Master, whose 85C outlets sell coffee for about
half the cost of  Starbucks , will seek to gain market share by
targeting “high foot traffic” street corner locations and
continuing to offer cheaper prices than competitors, Wu said.
Starbucks has said it plans to open “thousands” of coffee
shops in China as rising incomes spur demand.  “Gourmet Master has a strong image of a quality Taiwanese
brand and this coupled with its competitive pricing will help
attract Chinese consumers,”  Horatio Lin , an analyst at Grand
Cathay Investment Services Corp., said today. “The growing
incomes of Chinese consumers will help cultivate a coffee
culture and attract more chain operators.”  Coffee chain operators are expanding in  China  to get a
bigger share of the market where per-capita consumption of the
brew is 22 grams per person, compared with an estimated 3.3
kilograms in Japan, according to data from roaster Key Coffee
Inc.   China Resources Enterprise Ltd. , owner of Hong Kong’s
second-biggest coffee chain, last month said it plans to open as
many as 1,000 Pacific Coffee shops in China.  Rising Incomes  China , the world’s most populous nation, has had average
monthly  retail sales growth  of 18.3 percent this year. The
country’s middle-income and affluent consumers will probably
almost triple in 10 years with the bulk of the increase coming
from smaller cities, Boston Consulting Group Inc. said Nov. 8.  Wu said he will “continue the strategy” of offering
coffee and pastries at cheaper prices than his competitors, even
as the world’s fastest-growing economy boosts the wages of
Chinese consumers. About 60 percent of Gourmet Master’s China
stores are on street corners.  Gourmet Master’s 85C outlets offer a 16-ounce serving of
latte at NT$65 ($2.15) compared with NT$110 at Starbucks.
Gourmet Master sells American coffee for NT$50 for a 16-ounce
serving compared with Starbucks’ NT$95 Caffe Americano.  24-Hour Service  “A balance between quality and price attracts average
people to 85C stores,” said Cheng Kong-fah, associate professor
of the Department of Business Administration at  National Chung
Cheng University . The chain can also “differentiate” itself
from competitors with its freshly baked goods and 24-hour
service, he said.  Wu also faces a challenge from convenience-store chains,
 Linda Huang , a Taipei-based analyst at Macquarie Capital
Securities Ltd., said in a note to clients in September.
 President Chain Store Corp.  sells latte for NT$50 at the more
than 4,700  7-Eleven  stores it operates in Taiwan.  Gourmet Master has 325 stores in Taiwan, of which 41 are
wholly owned, compared with 231 directly owned outlets for
closely held President Starbucks Coffee Corp., a joint venture
established in 1998 between the world’s biggest coffee-shop
chain and  Uni-President Enterprises Corp.  and  President Chain
Store Corp.  President Starbucks aims to have 235 stores in
Taiwan by the end of the year, it said in an e-mailed response
to questions.  Overseas Growth  Wu, 43, aims to raise the number of his China stores to 170
by the end of this year from 150 now. The native of southern
Taiwan’s Yunlin county, who left school at 14, opened the first
85C store in 2004 and expanded to Australia in 2006, where he
now has four outlets. He opened his first branch in mainland
China in Shanghai in 2007.  Starbucks  Chief Executive Officer  Howard Schultz  said in
April the Seattle-based company expects to eventually have
“thousands of stores” in mainland China, where it now has
about 380.  Gourmet Master may raise as much as NT$2.57 billion ($85
million) publicly selling shares equal to a stake of about 11
percent and aims to start trading on Taiwan’s stock exchange by
the end of the month.  Wu directly owns about 16 percent of Gourmet Master,
spokeswoman Michelle Hsieh said. About 37 percent is held by
investment companies on behalf of Wu and Gourmet Master
employees and at least 10.8 percent is held by overseas
investors, she said.  Gourmet Master had sales of NT$6.37 billion in the first
nine months of the year and net income of NT$634 million,
according to a statement from underwriter Yuanta Securities Co.
Its overseas revenue surpassed domestic sales in October last
year, the securities firm said.  Profit more than doubled to NT$758 million in 2009 from the
previous year on increased sales from China.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Adela Lin  in Taipei at 
 alin95@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Longid at 
 flongid@bloomberg.net  