-- Groupon Said to Seek Funding That May Value It at $3 Billion
-- B y   J o s e p h   G a l a n t e
-- 2010-11-08T17:48:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-08/groupon-said-to-seek-venture-funding-that-may-value-company-at-3-billion.html
Groupon Inc., owner of a daily coupon
website with 20 million subscribers, is seeking venture funding
that may value the company at about $3 billion, according to
three people familiar with the matter.  The company aims to raise the funding to help it expand
beyond the 230 markets where it now operates, said the people,
who declined to be identified because the fundraising is
private. The company had been discussing funding that would
value it in the range of $2 billion to $3 billion, two of the
people said.  Groupon, which plans to serve  300 cities  by year’s end,
sends daily coupons for one-time sales to a widening list of
users. It could use funding to add sales staff who are needed to
sign up local businesses, including nail salons, restaurants and
coffee shops. An investment group led by Mail.ru Group Ltd. in
April gave Groupon a valuation of about $1.3 billion.  “I wouldn’t be surprised if Groupon raised a large round
of financing or might possibly be acquired in the upcoming
months,”  Nick Beim , general partner at venture capital firm
Matrix Partners, said on Bloomberg TV’s “InsideTrack” with
Deirdre Bolton. Matrix, based in Waltham, Massachusetts, isn’t a
Groupon investor.  Rival Services  The growing popularity of Groupon has spurred sites to
start their own coupon services. Rivals include LivingSocial and
 Groop Swoop . Groupon has raised a total of $170 million from
investors, which include Facebook Inc. backer Accel Partners and
New Enterprise Associates. Founded in  November 2008 , the
Chicago-based company was profitable after about eight months,
 Chief Executive Officer   Andrew Mason  told Bloomberg TV in July.  Groupon offers activate when a certain number of people
sign up, a strategy that encourages subscribers to recommend the
deals to friends. The coupons are for services as varied as
teeth whitening, whale watching and attending sporting events.  Groupon has introduced consulting programs and seminars for
merchants, who sometimes get overwhelmed with the flood of new
business Groupon sends their way. The company is also releasing
a mobile-phone application to help retailers track the thousands
of customers who purchase deals, known as groupons, Vice
President Mihir Shah said in an interview in October.  Julie Mossler, a spokeswoman for Groupon, didn’t respond to
a message seeking comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joseph Galante  in San Francisco at 
 jgalante3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  