-- Grupo Modelo May Export Corona to Brazil, Where AB InBev Rules Beer Market
-- B y   T h o m a s   B l a c k
-- 2010-11-08T15:31:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-08/grupo-modelo-may-export-corona-to-brazil-where-ab-inbev-rules-beer-market.html
Grupo Modelo SAB , Mexico’s largest
beermaker, may begin in about a year exports of Corona to
Brazil, Latin America’s biggest beer market that’s dominated by
Modelo’s partner,  Anheuser-Busch InBev NV .  Modelo is seeking an “established channel” to sell Corona
in Brazil, where there are few imports and the company has tried
three times to penetrate, said  Jose Pares , Modelo’s chief sales
and marketing officer.  “We’re doing the analysis, and the idea is in the short
term to enter Brazil,” Pares said in an interview on Nov. 5.  Brazil is the third-largest beer market behind China and
the U.S., with a growth rate that exceeded both in 2009, Modelo
Chief Executive Officer  Carlos Fernandez  said in a Nov. 5
presentation at the company’s new factory near the border city
of Piedras Negras, Mexico. Brazil’s beer market has the second-
highest operating margin behind the U.S., he said.  In earlier attempts, Modelo grappled with taxes, tariffs
and other obstacles, Pares said. The brand has good acceptance
and is imported informally by consumers, he said.  “Now, we see a more favorable environment for the
possible development of our market there,” he said without
specifying. “That’s why we’re doing an analysis of an
established channel through which to develop the brand.”  InBev became owner of a non-controlling 50 percent stake in
Modelo after the $52 billion purchase of Anheuser-Busch Cos. in
2008. Modelo tried to block AB InBev from becoming its partner
in a failed arbitration proceeding. AB InBev’s local unit, Cia
de Bebidas das Americas, has a 71 percent share of the Brazilian
beer market, the company said in an e-mail.  Modelo, which is based in Mexico City, exports six of its
13 brands, including Modelo Especial, Negra Modelo and Pacifico,
to 167 countries and is the largest importer into the U.S.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Thomas Black  in Monterrey, Mexico, at 
 tblack@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  