-- Gulf Skips Sukuk in Rush to Borrow: Islamic Finance (Correct)
-- B y   H a r i s   A n w a r   a n d   C a m i l l a   H a l l
-- 2010-11-09T10:45:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-08/gulf-issuers-skip-sukuk-to-tap-demand-for-emerging-debt-islamic-finance.html
(Corrects to add Albaraka sale in second paragraph in
story first published yesterday.)  Persian Gulf issuers are choosing to
sell non-Islamic bonds instead of sukuk in the borrowing rush
that has followed Dubai World’s debt restructuring.  Non-Islamic bond sales from the region may almost double to
$15 billion this quarter as companies from Qatar National Bank
SAQ, the country’s largest bank, to Oman-based MB Petroleum
Services LLC tap the market, investment bank Exotix Ltd. in
Dubai estimates. Saudi Aramco and Total SA’s $1 billion sukuk
sale and Bahrain-based Albaraka Banking Group’s $200 million
issuance are the two known deals for the rest of 2010.  The abundance of liquidity in the non-Islamic debt market,
the enforceability of investors’ rights in defaults and the
extra cost associated with Islamic bond documentation are
steering issuers away from sukuk, Unicorn Investment Bank BSC’s
senior vice president of capital markets, Nida Raza, said Nov.
2.  “People are just taking a quicker, faster execution
route,” said Alex von Sponeck, London-based managing director
at Goldman Sachs International’s investment banking division.
“Who knows when liquidity dries up again or economic
instability can cause markets to shut down again.”  Issuance of Islamic bonds from the six-nation Gulf
Cooperation Council dropped 28 percent in 2010 to $4.5 billion
after debt restructuring, defaults and tumbling property prices
hurt investor confidence, data compiled by Bloomberg showed.
That contrasts with a drop of less than 1 percent to $26.8
billion in non-Islamic bond issues this year, with fourth-
quarter sales of $8 billion, the data show.  Planned Sales  Global sukuk sales declined 29 percent to $13.7 billion
this year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg, as four
defaults in the past 18 months prompted investors to demand
higher returns from property-related issuers. Issuance reached a
record $31 billion in 2007.  Improving risk appetite in the Gulf after Dubai World’s
agreement with creditors this year to restructure $24.9 billion
in debt bodes well for sukuk sales in 2011, according to HSBC
Holdings Plc and Moody’s Investors Service.  “We continue to expect more issues to come to the market,
with the likes of Saudi Arabia leading the way,” Shehzad Janab,
head of asset management at Dubai-based Daman Investments PSC,
which has more than 5 billion dirhams ($1.4 billion) under
management, said in an interview on Nov. 2. “Traditionally, the
issue with pricing was due to a thin secondary market with sukuk
priced higher due to the illiquidity; that doesn’t hold as true
anymore.”  Outperforming Islamic Debt  The difference between the average yield for emerging-
market sukuk and the London interbank offered rate narrowed 106
basis points, or 1.06 percentage points, in the second half to
3.38 percent on Nov. 5, according to the HSBC/NASDAQ Dubai US
Dollar Sukuk Index.  Non-shariah-compliant issues are still outperforming
Islamic debt. Bonds in developing markets returned 18 percent
this year, JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global Diversified Index,
while global sukuk gained 13 percent, according to the
HSBC/NASDAQ Dubai US Dollar Index. Islamic bonds in the GCC also
returned 13 percent, the HSBC/NASDAQ Dubai GCC US Dollar Sukuk
Index shows.  The yield on Malaysia’s 3.928 percent Islamic note due in
June 2015 was little changed at 2.35 percent today, according to
prices provided by Royal Bank of Scotland Plc. The extra yield
investors demand to hold Dubai’s government sukuk rather than
Malaysia’s narrowed seven basis points to 387 last week,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  QNB, MB Petroleum  Qatar National Bank confirmed hiring banks to manage the
sale of a dollar-denominated bond on Oct. 28. It did not
disclose the amount it aims to raise through the issue. MB
Petroleum’s $350 million notes, the first high-yielding debt
from the region this quarter, may be priced to yield about 11.25
percent, two people familiar with the sale said Nov.4. Abu
Dhabi-based International Petroleum Investment Co. and First
Gulf Bank PJSC are also planning sales.  Dubai Electricity & Water Authority received orders worth
$13 billion for $2 billion of debt last month in its largest
dollar-denominated bond sale. Thirty-eight percent of the
offering went to European investors, 30 percent to U.S.
investors, and 16 percent each to Asian and Middle Eastern
investors, the company said.  “The demand is coming from out of the region, so it’s not
primarily Islamic in nature, people are looking for yield,”
Douglas Hansen-Luke, chief executive officer at Robeco Middle
East, which manages $200 billion globally, said in a Nov. 3
interview. “Conventional has rebounded so quickly and companies
are taking advantage of that.”  ‘Chasing Yield’  The Jeddah-based Islamic Development Bank and Abu Dhabi
Islamic Bank PJSC, the United Arab Emirates’ second-biggest
shariah-compliant bank, are the only GCC issuers to have raised
Islamic debt this quarter.  “The markets are being heavily driven by opportunistic
borrowing, rather than credit fundamentals,” said John Bates
head of fixed income at Silk Invest Ltd., a London-based fund
that specializes in frontier markets in a phone interview on
Nov. 4. “You’ve got a U.S. dollar investor-base chasing yield
around the planet and they’re always going to go for the
easiest, most-liquid assets. Sukuk issues are not as well
known.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Camilla Hall in Dubai at 
 chall24@bloomberg.net 
Haris Anwar in Dubai on 
 Hanwar2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  