-- Lilly Buys Avid Radiopharmaceuticals for $300 Million, Gaining Compounds
-- B y   M e g   T i r r e l l
-- 2010-11-08T21:09:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-08/lilly-buys-avid-radiopharmaceuticals-for-300-million-gaining-compounds.html
Eli Lilly & Co. , facing generic
competition to its top-selling medicine next year, agreed to buy
Avid Radiopharmaceuticals Inc. for $300 million, gaining
compounds to detect and monitor chronic diseases such as
Alzheimer’s.  All shares of closely held Avid will be acquired, and Avid
stockholders will be eligible for as much as $500 million in
additional payments, Indianapolis-based Lilly said today in a
statement.  Lilly loses patent protection in October on Zyprexa, its
biggest-selling drug last year with revenue of $4.9 billion. The
company sustained a setback in Alzheimer’s disease research in
August when an experimental therapy didn’t work in final
testing, and a new drug for diabetes was delayed at the U.S.
Food and Drug Administration last month while regulators asked
for studies assessing heart risks.  “The acquisition of Avid Radiopharmaceuticals aligns well
with Lilly’s innovation-based strategy, offers a potential near-
term revenue opportunity, leverages our neuroscience expertise
and will immediately bolster our diagnostics capabilities,”
Lilly Chief Executive Officer  John Lechleiter  said in the
statement.  Detecting Plaque  The most-advanced experimental  compound  for Philadelphia-
based Avid aims to detect the presence of amyloid plaque in the
brain, according to the statement.  Beta amyloid  is thought by
scientists to be a main contributor to Alzheimer’s disease, a
therapeutic area in which Lilly is  developing  several drugs.  Avid’s experimental compound, florbetapir, has been
submitted to the FDA for approval. Avid is also developing
diagnostic compounds in Parkinson’s disease and diabetes.  Barclays Capital advised Lilly on the acquisition, and
Morgan Stanley & Co. was the financial adviser for Avid.  Lilly gained 1 cent to $35.73 at 4:01 p.m. in New York
Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares have risen less
than 1 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Meg Tirrell  in New York at 
 mtirrell@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 