-- INA Relies on Its Partnership With Mol for Balkan Expansion, Stern Says
-- B y   J a s m i n a   K u z m a n o v i c
-- 2010-11-08T07:46:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-08/ina-relies-on-its-partnership-with-mol-for-balkan-expansion-stern-says.html
INA Industrija Nafte d.d.,  Croatia’s
largest refiner, needs its partnership with Hungary’s Mol Nyrt.
to expand in the Balkans and take back market share, the
supervisory board’s president-elect said.  Stern’s comments come after the former Yugoslav republic’s
lawmakers opened an inquiry into a January 2009 accord that gave
 Mol  control with a 47.15 percent stake. The Hungarian refiner
brings needed expertise to help INA managers build on its
“well-known brand” name in the region, said  Davor Stern  said
in an interview in Zagreb.  “I see INA and Mol as one strong company that will grow in
distribution and marketing, but will also boost production and
research,” said Stern, who is also a former Moscow-based  TNK-BP 
executive. “With Mol as a partner, INA is set to expand.”  The probe is part of Croatia’s effort to stamp out
corruption and cronyism as the Balkan country works to join the
European Union in 2012. Prime Minister  Jadranka Kosor  has
accused her predecessor  Ivo Sanader  of trying to “undermine”
the government by saying the Mol agreement was a “collective
decision” that included current administration officials.  “In my view, Croatia didn’t draw the short straw in the
2009 contract with Mol,” said Stern. “There is no rule that
says that managing rights should be equal to owners’ rights. The
most important thing is the quality of people who control and
run the company.”  The Croatian government, which owns 44 percent, has the
right to appoint three members, including the president, to
INA’s eight-member supervisory board.  Out of Politics  Once the refiner’s general assembly adopts the nomination,
which must happen by the year’s end, Stern said he will become
INA’s first non-political head of the supervisory board. Stern
was general director for INA between 1997 and 2000 and replaces
Finance Minister  Ivan Suker  on the supervisory board.  “Croatia has reached a decision to pull out politicians
from supervisory boards in state companies and replace them with
experts,” said Stern. “This is a great message to investors
and partners” because Croatian political appointees “simply
cannot have the same level of knowledge in the matter” as
executives from Mol, which is itself 21.2 percent owned by
Russia’s  OAO Surgutneftegaz .  In the past decade, INA has lost more than a third of its
local retail market to companies such as Russia’s OAO Lukoil,
which wants to expand even further in Croatia.  Stern’s goal is to improve “product quality to the highest
standard, satisfy European Union standards” before the country
joins the EU in 2012, “and help restore its retail network.”  Refinery Upgrades  INA is in the final stage of upgrading its two refinery
plants in Rijeka and Sisak, estimated at 1.5 billion euros
($2.13 billion), Stern said.  As managers move ahead with making INA more dominant in the
region, Stern said he is convinced the “unnecessary”
parliamentary inquiry is “over for good.”  Under the 2009 contract, the government is obliged to take
over by Dec. 1 the import business of Prirodni plin d.d., INA’s
gas unit. The price of gas is regulated by the government, and
private consumers pay 0.8 kuna less per cubic meter than the
cost of imported gas, making it a money-losing business for the
company.  Stern said “there is neither time nor the possibility”
for the government to review the Prirodni plin contract.  Gas Costs  Domestic gas, which covers almost two-thirds of local
needs, is produced at a cost of 1 kuna (29 cents) per cubic
meter, while imported gas is purchased at 2.5 kuna per cubic
meter, according to Stern. Both are sold at 1.7 kuna per cubic
meter.  “Mol wants INA to behave according to market principles
and not to sell gas below the market price,” said Stern. Though
INA is not losing money because of the Prirodni plin contract,
“it is missing out on a profit, and for a shareholding company
that is a loss. It is also a loss for the government which is a
major shareholder.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jasmina Kuzmanovic  at 
 jkuzmanovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at   jagomez@bloomberg.net  