-- India Signs Accord With U.S. to Assess Shale-Gas Reserves
-- B y   R a k t e e m   K a t a k e y
-- 2010-11-08T13:05:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-08/india-signs-accord-with-u-s-to-assess-shale-gas-reserves.html
India signed a preliminary shale-gas
accord with the U.S. as the South Asian nation prepares to
auction blocks of the unconventional fuel next year.  The agreement is aimed at determining shale-gas reserves in
India, Oil Minister  Murli Deora  said in New Delhi today. The U.S.
will also help India prepare for its first shale-gas auction,
scheduled to be held by the end of 2011, Oil Secretary  S. Sundareshan  said.  India intends to join a boom in shale-gas exploration that
has fueled more than $39 billion of acquisitions in the U.S. by
companies including  Exxon Mobil Corp. , Royal Dutch Shell Plc and
 Reliance Industries Ltd.  The nation faces an energy shortfall of
55 percent by 2030 as demand more than doubles to the equivalent
of 1.3 billion metric tons of oil, according to the Paris-based
 International Energy Agency .  India, beaten by China in the race for energy assets across
the world, plans to offer shale-gas areas for exploration for
the first time in 2011,  S.K. Srivastava , director general of
hydrocarbons, India’s exploration regulator, said June 30.  Preliminary estimates show India’s shale-gas reserves may
be larger than its proven conventional gas deposits, according
to P.K. Bhowmick, president of the country’s  Association of
Petroleum Geologists .  China will start appraising the size of its shale-gas
reserves in 2011 and the survey will take three years to
complete, the Ministry of Land and Resources said Oct. 27.  India will need to change exploration laws to allow for the
production of shale gas as current licenses don’t include
unconventional sources, Sundareshan, the top bureaucrat in the
oil ministry, said last month.  Gas Demand  Supply of natural gas in India lags behind demand as the
nation seeks to cut air pollution and as power plants and
fertilizer users seek to replace more expensive naphtha and
imported liquefied natural gas with cheaper domestic fuel. Gas
demand may rise to 120 billion cubic meters a year by 2015 from
62 billion currently, according to  B.C. Tripathi , chairman of
GAIL India Ltd., the country’s biggest gas distributor.  The U.S. overtook Russia last year as the world’s largest
gas producer as output from shale rose. Gas trapped in shale
formations will provide 24 percent of all U.S. natural gas
consumption in 2035, according to the Department of Energy.
Shale-gas accounted for about 10 percent of the country’s total
output in 2008.  Reliance Assets  Reliance Industries, India’s  biggest company  by market
value, plans to spend at least $5 billion over the next five
years to develop shale-gas areas in the U.S. The explorer paid
$943 million to buy three shale-gas assets in the U.S. this year
and agreed to spend $2.5 billion in future drilling costs on
behalf of its partners.  State-owned energy companies also have plans to buy shale-
gas assets.  Oil & Natural Gas Corp. , India’s biggest energy
exploration company, and rival Oil India Ltd. are evaluating
offers to buy shale-gas assets in the U.S. Bharat Petroleum
Corp., the second-biggest state refiner, plans to buy stakes in
two shale-gas blocks operated by Norwest Energy NL in Australia.  Companies use hydraulic fracturing, or fracking, to extract
gas from shale, in which water, sand and chemicals are injected
deep underground to break up rock and allow gas to flow. The New
York-based Natural Resources Defense Council says greater
safeguards are needed to ensure that fracking chemicals don’t
contaminate drinking water.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rakteem Katakey  in New Delhi at 
 rkatakey@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at   aprakash1@bloomberg.net . 