-- Industrial Production Data; Obama, Geithner in New Delhi: India Week Ahead
-- B y   R u t h   D a v i d
-- 2010-11-08T03:01:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-08/industrial-production-data-obama-geithner-in-new-delhi-india-week-ahead.html
India will report September
 industrial production  data this week after saying output in the
previous month rose at the slowest pace since May 2009.  Production at factories, utilities and mines increased 5.6
percent in August from a year earlier following a revised 15.2
percent gain in July. The government’s Central Statistical
Organisation will report the latest figures on Nov. 12 at about
11 a.m. in New Delhi.  The Reserve Bank of India ignored the August deceleration
in output growth and raised benchmark interest rates on Nov. 2
for a sixth time this year, saying the data probably doesn’t
reflect consumer demand and curbing prices still remained a
priority. India’s industrial production has fluctuated since May,
when it registered an 11.3 percent expansion and slowed to 5.8
percent in June, according to government statistics.  “ Inflation  and inflationary expectations remain high,”
Governor  Duvvuri Subbarao  said at a press conference on Nov. 2.
He ordered commercial banks the same day to increase risk
provisioning for home loans, flagging concerns that asset prices
have surged too fast, and also signaled a pause in rate
increases for at least three months. The next policy review is
due Dec. 16.  The  Society of Indian Automobile Manufacturers  will
tomorrow report vehicle sales for October, while the Ministry of
Commerce & Industry will report on Nov. 11 weekly food and fuel
inflation data for the seven days ended Oct. 30.  Obama’s Visit  U.S. President  Barack Obama  will address a joint press
conference with Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  in New Delhi today.
As part of his four-nation, 10-day tour of Asia, he met business
leaders on Nov. 6 in Mumbai, including Boeing Co. Chief
Executive Officer  Jim McNerney  and General Electric Co.’s CEO
 Jeff Immelt , saying increased trade between India and the U.S.
is a “win-win” proposition that would create jobs in both the
countries.  Last month, GE won a $750 million turbine order from
 Reliance Power Ltd. , while the White House said Boeing was
negotiating a deal worth $4.1 billion to sell C-17 military
aircraft to the Indian government. SpiceJet Ltd., an Indian
carrier, has ordered 30 commercial Boeing aircraft in a contract
worth $2.7 billion, according to another statement from the U.S.
government.  U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy Geithner , who is also in
New Delhi today, will address a business event at about 3:15 p.m.
local time.  Indian stocks climbed to a record for the second straight
day on Nov. 5 in a truncated trading session on the Hindu
auspicious day of Diwali. The benchmark  Sensitive Index  rose 0.5
percent, extending the weekly gain to 4.9 percent, the best
since the five-day period ended July 17, 2009.  Rupee, Bonds  India’s rupee climbed for a third day on Nov. 4, its longest
winning streak in three weeks as the Federal Reserve’s decision
to buy an additional $600 billion of Treasuries through June
fueled demand for higher-yielding emerging-market assets. The
local currency rose 0.5 percent to 44.20 a dollar on Nov. 4.  India’s most-frequently traded 12-year bonds fell the same
day, snapping a six-day gain, on concern the Fed’s plan to
release cash will boost money supply and fuel inflation.  The yield on the 8.13 percent note due September 2022
climbed three basis points to 8.02 percent on Nov. 4, according
to the central bank’s trading system. Indian government bonds
have returned 4.2 percent this year, the third-worst performance
among 10 markets in Asia after China and Taiwan, according to
indexes compiled by HSBC Holdings Plc.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ruth David  in Mumbai at 
 rdavid9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  