-- Premium Demanded as Kirchner Debt Swap Opens Bond Spigot: Argentine Credit
-- B y   D r e w   B e n s o n
-- 2010-11-08T20:28:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-08/investors-demand-premium-as-debt-swap-opens-bond-spigot-argentina-credit.html
Banco Supervielle SA, the first
Argentine bank to sell debt abroad since 2007, paid a yield of
11.625 percent for its $50 million bond offering as the
government’s debt restructuring allows lower-rated companies to
seek financing.  The yield is 367 basis points, or 3.67 percentage points,
higher than similarly rated Banco Macro SA. Supervielle’s debt
due in 2017 is rated B- by Fitch Ratings Ltd., six levels below
investment grade.  President  Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner ’s revamping of
$12.2 billion of debt left over from Argentina’s record $95
billion default has spurred the most corporate bond sales in
three years. The exchange is allowing companies to tap into
lower borrowing costs and opening global markets for smaller
enterprises such as Buenos Aires-based Supervielle, the nation’s
17th bank by deposits.  The yield on  Supervielle’s  first sale is 650 basis points
above the 5.11 percent average yield for Latin American
financial companies in Credit Suisse Group AG’s LABI index.  Juan Carlos Nougues , president of Supervielle, declined to
comment on the offering before its completion. Bank officials
planned to meet investors last week in Singapore, Hong Kong,
Switzerland, London and Miami on the offering, which is part of
a $200 million debt program, according to a person familiar with
the matter, who declined to be identified because the terms
aren’t set.  Attract Investors  The itinerary suggests the bank is seeking to attract
retail and private banking investors who will also demand a
higher yield due to Supervielle’s small market share, said  Ruth Mazzoni , a corporate bond analyst at Standard Bank New York Inc.  The bank accounted for 1.2 percent of the 324 billion pesos
($81.8 billion) in total deposits in Argentine banks through
June, according to data from the nation’s central bank.  Banco Macro of Buenos Aires, which is also  listed  on the
New York Stock Exchange, is Argentina’s fifth-largest bank in
terms of deposits with 18.9 billion pesos. The company sold
$149.2 million of the 8.5 percent 2017 bonds in August 2007.  Supervielle is raising capital after acquiring a local
lending unit of General Electric Co. this year, said Ana
Gavuzzo, a Fitch analyst in Buenos Aires.  Growth Plans  “Supervielle is buying part of GE Money and its capital
position is relatively tight,” Gavuzzo said in a telephone
interview. “This would improve its position and allow it to
grow.”  The sale also seeks to extend the bank’s maturities, she
said. “It’s not a big amount, but long-term debt isn’t very
common among banks,” Gavuzzo said. “It could be an opening for
other lenders.”  The  cost  of protecting Argentine debt against non-payment
for five years with credit-default swaps fell one basis point on
Nov. 5 to 600, according to data provider CMA. Credit-default
swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for the underlying
securities or the cash equivalent should a government or company
fail to adhere to debt agreements.  The extra yield investors demand to hold Argentine dollar
bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries gained 10 basis points to 511
at 3:22 p.m. New York time, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co. It
fell 27 basis points last week.  Peso Slides  Warrants linked to growth in South America’s second-biggest
economy fell 0.22 cents to 13.88 cents, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The economy may expand as much as 9
percent this year, the fastest pace in five years, the central
bank said last week.  The peso fell 0.1 percent to 3.9595 per U.S. dollar.  Among other debt plans, the board of directors of Repsol
YPF SA’s Argentine unit approved on Nov. 5 the sale of as much
as $600 million of bonds, the first in a dozen years for the
country’s biggest oil producer.  The government doesn’t need to sell bonds and will wait
until at least 2012 to do so, Economy Minister  Amado Boudou  said
in an interview with newspaper Pagina 12 published on Nov. 6.  Moody’s Investors Service rates Supervielle’s bond sale B2,
five notches below investment grade, the same level as Banco
Macro’s bonds due in 2017.  Brazilian lender Banco BVA SA, a Rio de Janeiro-based bank
that specializes in loans to mid-size companies, is seeking to
sell three-year notes overseas that are similarly rated at a
yield of about 7.5 percent, according to two people with
knowledge of the transaction.  Bonds from Supervielle, due four years later, should yield
close to 11 percent, said  Natalia Corfield , an emerging markets
corporate debt strategist with ING Groep NV in New York.  “The rating is low, the maturity is seven years, it’s a
first-time seller and the issuance size is small,” Corfield
said. “For all of those reasons it should pay more than 10
percent for sure.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Drew Benson  in Buenos Aires at 
 abenson9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  