-- Iraq to Sign Natural Gas Contracts Next Week With Companies, Ameedi Says
-- B y   N a y l a   R a z z o u k   a n d   K a d h i m   A j r a s h
-- 2010-11-08T10:33:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-08/iraq-to-sign-natural-gas-contracts-next-week-with-companies-ameedi-says.html
Iraq plans to sign contracts
next week to develop three natural gas fields with foreign
companies that won a licensing auction last month, an oil
ministry official said.  “On November 14 and 15, we will sign initial agreements on
the licenses for Akkas, Mansouriya and Siba gas fields,” said
Abdul Mahdy al-Ameedi, deputy director general at Iraq’s
Petroleum Contracts and Licensing Directorate.  The agreements will be signed by officials from Iraq’s
state-run North Oil Co. and South Oil Co., and representatives
from the winners, he said today by telephone from Baghdad.  The final signature for the contracts will be made after
the approval of the Council of Ministers, he said. “After that,
we will set a time for the final signature,” he said.  Kuwait Energy Co., Turkiye Petrolleri AO and  KazMunaiGaz
National Co. , Kazakhstan’s state fuel producer, won on Oct. 20
rights to develop the three natural-gas areas as the country
seeks supplies for power plants and export.  Akkas, Mansouriya and Siba together hold 11 trillion cubic
feet of the fuel, Oil Minister  Hussain al-Shahristani  said at
the auction on Oct. 20.  Iraq, reliant on oil for most of its income, is seeking
foreign investors after years of conflict and sanctions. The
licensing round is the  third  since the U.S.-led invasion that
toppled President  Saddam Hussein  in 2003. Iraq won pledges from
oil producers including  Exxon Mobil Corp.  and OAO Lukoil to
boost the country’s total crude production to 12 million barrels
a day after two licensing rounds last year.  Akkas Field  KazMunaiGaz and Korea Gas, or Kogas, won rights to develop
Akkas, the largest deposit offered in the third round. The
partners, with equal stakes in the bidding group, agreed to
produce 400 million standard cubic feet of gas a day at a price
of $5.50 per barrel of oil equivalent.  A group including Kuwait Energy, TPAO and Kogas won the
rights to develop the Mansouriya area, pledging to produce 320
million standard cubic feet of gas a day for $7 per barrel of
oil equivalent produced.  Kuwait Energy and TPAO won the bidding for the Siba field,
agreeing to produce 100 million standard cubic feet of gas a day
at a price of $7.50 per barrel of oil equivalent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nayla Razzouk  in Amman at 
 nrazzouk2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maher Chmaytelli at 
 mchmaytelli@bloomberg.net  