-- Iraq Leaders Meet in Erbil in Bid to Break Deadlock Over New Government
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   A l e x a n d e r
-- 2010-11-08T18:41:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-08/iraq-leaders-meet-in-erbil-in-bid-to-break-deadlock-over-new-government.html
Iraqi leaders called for unity as
they met to try to end eight months of political deadlock and
speed up the formation of a new government.  Prime Minister  Nuri al-Maliki  and former Premier  Ayad Allawi , whose blocs are competing to be recognized as the winner
of the March 7 elections, joined Kurdish and Sunni Muslim
leaders in Erbil, capital of the northern semi-autonomous
Kurdistan region. The session was aired live by state-sponsored
al-Iraqiyah television.  Today’s meeting was arranged by  Massoud Barzani , president
of Kurdistan, who called it “a historic moment.” The talks
precede the convening of a new legislature in Baghdad on Nov.
11. A political vacuum caused by the inconclusive poll has
coincided with a rise in violence, prompting world and regional
leaders to call for the rapid creation of an administration able
to unify the country.  “We have to accept the opinions of the others, and
understand each other, and this is the only way” to move
forward, said  Ammar al-Hakim , leader of the Shiite Muslim-led
Supreme Iraqi Islamic Council. Al-Hakim’s party merged with al-
Maliki’s Shiite State of Law alliance after the elections.  Allawi’s al-Iraqiyah bloc, backed by Sunni and secular
voters, won 91 seats in March compared with the 89 secured by
al-Maliki’s alliance. Both have been trying to muster the 163
seats needed for a governing coalition in the 325-member
parliament.  ‘A Real Role’  “The new government has to be a partnership government, all
the political parties have to have a real role in the next
government,” said Ayad al-Samaraie, a Sunni leader.  Adel Abdel Mahdi , one of two vice presidents and a member
of al-Hakim’s party, said the new government must not exclude
anyone. “This meeting is an example of positive things that are
happening in Iraq,” he told the other leaders.  The leaders will resume their meeting tomorrow in Baghdad.  Iraq’s Supreme Court ruled on Oct. 24 that lawmakers must
convene again to elect a speaker and his deputies and formally
close an initial session that was held June 14 and lasted less
than 20 minutes.  Once a speaker and deputies are elected, the constitution
gives lawmakers 30 days to elect a president. The new president
then has 15 days to ask the largest bloc in parliament to choose
a prime minister, who has 30 days to form a Cabinet.  Seven Iranian visitors were killed and 38 people wounded in
a car bombing the southern city of Karbala today, al-Iraqiyah
reported. Also in the south, six people were killed and 25
injured when a car bomb exploded outside a restaurant in the
center of the oil hub of Basra, police said.  On Nov. 2, at least 40 people died when multiple bombs
exploded across Baghdad, and on Oct. 31, a siege by al-Qaeda
gunmen on a church in the city led to the deaths of 58 people.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Caroline Alexander  in London at 
 calexander1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net . 