-- EU's Rehn Endorses Ireland's Budget Strategy Amid Bond `Buyers' Strike'
-- B y   D a r a   D o y l e
-- 2010-11-08T22:14:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-08/ireland-s-budget-plan-endorsed-by-europe-s-rehn-amid-bond-buyers-strike-.html
European Union Economic and Monetary
Affairs Commissioner  Olli Rehn  said today he endorses the Irish
government’s plan to cut spending and raise taxes by as much as
6 billion euros ($8.4 billion) in 2011.  The Irish government hasn’t requested “financial
backstops” and needs to be given space to work out a four-year
budget program, Rehn said at a joint press conference in Dublin
with Irish Finance Minister  Brian Lenihan . Rehn was speaking at
the start of a two-day trip to Ireland to show support for the
government after the nation’s bonds tumbled for a 10th
consecutive day and the extra yield investors demand to hold the
debt reached a record.  Details of a 15 billion-euro austerity package presented
by the government last month haven’t allayed investor concerns
that the country won’t follow Greece in seeking an international
rescue package. The cost of insuring Irish sovereign debt rose
to a record level today, as  Erik Nielsen , chief European
economist at Goldman Sachs Group Inc., said there is a “big
possibility” Ireland and Portugal will need to seek aid from
the European Union and the International Monetary Fund.  While Ireland has the funds to avert the need for an
immediate rescue, its cash may run out in the middle of next
year unless it can raise money from the bond market in 2011.  “It’s close to a buyers’ strike at this point,” said  Jens Peter Soerensen , chief analyst in Copenhagen at Danske Bank A/S,
a primary dealer in Irish government bonds. “Something needs to
happen in the next few weeks to change the dynamic.”  Narrow the Gap  Irish Finance Minister  Brian Lenihan  aims to narrow the
budget gap to 3 percent of gross domestic product, the limit for
euro members, by 2014 from about 12 percent this year. When the
costs of the banking rescue are included, this year’s deficit
jumps to 32 percent of GDP.  Investors remain wary. Credit-default swaps linked to Irish
debt rose as high as 606 basis points today, according to CMA
prices. A basis point on a credit-default swap protecting 10
million euros of debt from default for five years is equivalent
to 1,000 euros a year.  The extra yield that investors demand to hold the country’s
debt rather than benchmark German bunds has more than doubled in
the last three months. The difference in yield, or  spread ,
between Irish bonds and bunds was at 547 basis points, up 185
basis points from last month, according to Bloomberg generic
data.  While Lenihan said on Sept. 30 that the cost of saving the
country’s banks wouldn’t exceed 50 billion euros,  Morgan Kelly, 
an economics professor dubbed the country’s “Doctor Doom,”
said the figure may be 70 billion euros.  “What is the point of rearranging the spending deckchairs,
when the iceberg of bank losses is going to sink us anyway?”
Kelly wrote in the Irish Times newspaper today.  The government will detail how it aims to cut the 6 billion
euros on Dec. 7. Lenihan told the Sunday Business Post in an
interview published yesterday that the 2011 budget will
“absolutely” pass through parliament, even without the support
of the country’s largest opposition party, Fine Gael.  “The clock is ticking between politics and the budget,
with investors sitting in the backseat looking very green,”
said  Scott MacDonald , head of credit and economic research at
Stamford, Connecticut-based Aladdin Capital Management LLC.
“The budget is key to regaining confidence.”  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
 Dara Doyle  at 
 ddoyle1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net  