-- Ireland Will Honor Its Debt Obligations on Time: John Bruton
-- B y   J o h n   B r u t o n
-- 2010-11-08T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-08/ireland-will-honor-its-debt-obligations-on-time-commentary-by-john-bruton.html
The speculators who are betting that
Ireland won’t pay its sovereign debts on time, and who are
thereby driving up the spread on Irish bonds, will be proven
wrong and will lose money.  All political parties have come together to accept that
tough steps must be taken to  bridge the gap  between spending and
revenue and to agree to reach a deficit of 3 percent of gross
domestic product by 2014.  Ireland has the capacity to meet the obligations its
government undertook. The Dublin-based  Economic and Social
Research Institute  says per-capita income in Ireland is now what
it was in 2000. The country certainly wasn’t poor back then.
Whether one uses GDP or gross national product, Ireland still
has one of the highest per-capita incomes in the European Union.  Even if incomes in Ireland were to return to the level they
were at in 1997, when the current government came to power,
people would still be doing well.  All rights have their corresponding obligations. Being a
fiscally sovereign democracy involves responsibilities, as well
as rights. The right to borrow goes with a responsibility to
repay. That is the path Ireland freely chose in 1921.  Irish people know that a renegotiation of its debt would
affect the country’s ability to borrow, and that it will need to
borrow in future. Turning to the EU wouldn’t be attractive, when
so many EU countries are poorer than Ireland, and have bigger
tax burdens.  Debts on Time  The nation’s politicians are also fully aware that there is
limited money available in the world to be lent to sovereign
borrowers. They also know they will be competing with other
countries that pay their debts on time.  The increase in spending, which is part of Ireland’s
present problem, is quite recent. From 2000 to 2006, the number
of people employed in the Irish health sector increased 20
percent, in education by 27 percent, in the justice sector by 22
percent, and in the civil service by 27 percent.  In the past decade, Irish health spending has doubled, in
real terms. In 2000, about 22 million items were prescribed; 10
years later, 52 million items were. People aren’t twice as
healthy as a result.  As far as  taxes on income  are concerned, Irish people now
pay about half as much as an equivalent family does on the same
income in Germany. There is currently no recurring tax on
property, no charge for water supplies, and modest fees for a
college education. Welfare payments compare favorably with those
in Northern Ireland.  Patriotic People  Irish people worked hard to gain economic self-sufficiency,
and aren’t going to give it up easily. Traders in the bond
market may not pay much attention to such things, but a survey
suggests that Irish people are the third-most patriotic in the
world, after citizens of the U.S. and Venezuela. In other words,
they aren’t the sort of people to walk away from sovereign debt.  Ireland can generate income by selling goods and services
that others will want to buy. The country’s relative competitive
position has improved. House and apartment rents, new office
rents, wage costs and prices have fallen more in Ireland in the
last two years than in other European countries. Staff turnover
is less, which makes it more worthwhile to train employees.  Exports are steady, rising faster than in most European
countries, and fell less in the recent economic decline. Ireland
is invested in financial services, pharmaceuticals and software,
for which there is consistent demand, and its grass-based
agriculture will have a lot of potential when it is released
from the EU milk-quota system.  Painful Measures  Irish people have been more sensible in facing up to
painful measures. Major cuts, including wage reductions, have
already been made. Fourteen billion euros ($20 billion) has been
taken out of the economy in the past two years, about the same
amount that will need to be trimmed in the next four years to
meet the targets. The realism of the Irish public debate is in
contrast with the street theater going on in France.  Ireland’s history qualifies it to attract investment from
the emerging economies. The lack of a colonial past, and their
own experience of emigration has made Irish people more
welcoming of strangers. This gives them an understanding of the
way the balance of economic power in the world is changing.  Unlike its European neighbors, Ireland isn’t convulsed by a
backward-looking debate about ethnicity and immigration. Looking
for Islamic finance and making immigrants of Islamic faith feel
uncomfortable don’t sit easily together. Ireland doesn’t have
this problem.  Ireland has the expertise and the education to close the
gap between spending and revenue. Even more importantly, it has
the temperament to admit to, and learn from, its mistakes. It is
getting on with its job. Let the traders get on with theirs.  ( John Bruton  was Ireland’s prime minister from 1994 until
1997 and the European Union’s ambassador to the U.S. from 2004
until 2009. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
John Bruton at  jgbcor@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  