-- Israel's Netanyahu Asks Biden to Pressure Iran Harder Over Nuclear Program
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   F e r z i g e r
-- 2010-11-08T11:36:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-08/israel-s-netanyahu-asks-biden-to-pressure-iran-harder-over-nuclear-program.html
Israeli Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  told U.S. Vice President  Joe Biden  that Iran must face
greater pressure to stop it from developing nuclear arms, his
spokesman said. He also expressed hope that disputes that have
stalled Middle East peace talks will be resolved.  Biden, speaking to a convention of Jewish groups in New
Orleans yesterday after meeting with the Israeli leader, said he
told Netanyahu that President  Barack Obama  won’t allow Iran to
build a nuclear arsenal.  “We continue to seek a peaceful resolution but, let me be
very clear about this, we are absolutely committed to preventing
Iran from acquiring nuclear weapons,” Biden said.  Netanyahu stressed Israel’s concern about Iran during a 90-
minute meeting with Biden after arriving in New Orleans to start
a five-day trip to the U.S. He is scheduled to meet with
Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  Nov. 11 to discuss how to get
the Palestinians back in talks after disputes over West Bank
settlements, Netanyahu spokesman  Mark Regev  said.  Netanyahu is scheduled to speak today to the same audience
Biden addressed at the General Assembly of Jewish Federations of
North America, where he will focus on the threat a nuclear Iran
poses to Israel, Regev said.  “Sanctions are important and they are increasing pressure
on Iran,” Regev said. “But so far there has not been any
change in the behavior of Iran and upgrading of international
pressure is necessary.”  Israeli Settlements  Palestinian Authority President  Mahmoud Abbas  says he won’t
continue talks if Israel keeps building settlements. He is
scheduled to meet leaders of the Arab League tomorrow to explore
the option of seeking recognition for Palestinian statehood from
the United Nations Security Council if Netanyahu doesn’t renew
the limited building freeze he imposed last year.  That meeting may be postponed for a few days, Palestinian
negotiators say. Abbas is willing to give the U.S. another “two
or three weeks” to save the peace talks, chief negotiator  Saeb Erakat  said after meeting Obama’s Middle East envoy,  George Mitchell , in Washington on Nov. 4.  “The government of Israel is committed to achieving an
historic reconciliation with the Palestinians and believes the
way to bring that about is through the immediate resumption of
direct talks,” Regev said. “There is no substitute.”  Foreign Minister  Avigdor Lieberman , whose party is
Netanyahu’s largest coalition partner, said that should talks
resume he would do everything in his power to stop the Israeli
leader from reaching an agreement with the Palestinians on
borders before security arrangements are determined.  “It would be a dramatic mistake, a historic mistake, and a
strategic mistake to decide on borders before security issues
are discussed,” Lieberman said on Israeli  Army Radio  today.  New York Meetings  After leaving New Orleans today, Netanyahu, 61, will spend
the rest of the trip in New York, where he plans to meet with
Clinton and UN Secretary-General  Ban Ki-moon , Regev said. He is
scheduled to fly back to Israel on Nov. 11.  Iranian Foreign Minister  Manouchehr Mottaki  said in Georgia
Nov. 3 that Iran is ready to hold talks on its nuclear program
with the five permanent UN Security Council members plus Germany
in Istanbul or Geneva starting Nov. 10.  Uranium enrichment is the key issue in the international
dispute over Iran’s nuclear program, with Iran maintaining the
right to produce the material and the U.S. leading efforts to
force Iran to abandon the work.  Enriched uranium can fuel a reactor and at higher
concentrations form the core of a bomb. Iran denies claims by
the U.S. and many of its allies that the nuclear program may be
providing cover for the development of weapons.  Clinton, Mitchell  Clinton, traveling in New Zealand last week, said she is
working “nonstop” with Mitchell and other aides to salvage the
latest round of Israeli-Palestinian negotiations. Obama kicked
the talks off with a White House ceremony Sept. 1, only to watch
them stall when the 10-month partial freeze on new West Bank
settlements expired on Sept. 26.  Netanyahu and Abbas, 75, had agreed to try to reach a
framework agreement within 12 months that would cover issues at
the core of the conflict, including the borders of a future
Palestinian state, security arrangements for Israel and the
right of Palestinian refugees to return.  Netanyahu has no meetings scheduled with the likely new
U.S. House speaker,  John Boehner , or other top Republicans, who
won’t assume their leadership positions until the new year. He
may, though, “be in situations where he meets at least part of
the new leadership” on an informal basis during the trip, said
Zalman Shoval, an adviser and former ambassador to the U.S.  About 500,000 Jews have moved to the West Bank and east
Jerusalem since Israel captured the territories in the 1967
Middle East war. The UN says that settlements are illegal.
Israel says the territory isn’t occupied because it wasn’t
recognized as belonging to anyone before the 1967 war.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jonathan Ferziger  in New Orleans via the Jerusalem bureau
at   jferziger@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net . 