-- Israel Planning 1,000 East Jerusalem Homes as Palestinians Seek a Freeze
-- B y   G w e n   A c k e r m a n
-- 2010-11-08T19:25:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-08/israel-planning-1-000-east-jerusalem-homes-as-palestinians-seek-a-freeze.html
Israel has published construction
plans for more than 1,000 new homes for Jews in east Jerusalem,
as Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  visits the U.S. to discuss
reviving peace talks that stalled over Israeli settlements.  “The most significant plan is for 983 new homes in Har
Homa,” said Orly Noy, spokeswoman for  Ir Amim , an Israeli non-
profit group that opposes unilateral moves in Jerusalem. She
added that there were plans for about 70 more homes in other
sections of east Jerusalem. The proposals were published for
public review in Israeli newspapers.  Palestinians seek east Jerusalem as the capital of a future
state, and include it in the area that they say must be subject
to a freeze on new Israeli building as a condition for resuming
the peace negotiations that started on Sept. 2. Israel ended a
partial 10-month moratorium on West Bank construction Sept. 26.  Interior Ministry spokesman Efrat Orbach said a district
planning committee approved the construction plans months ago
and that their recent publication was merely a “technical”
measure.  U.S. Disappointed  In Washington, State Department spokesman  Philip J. Crowley 
said the U.S. is “deeply disappointed” by the plans, which he
told reporters in a briefing are “counterproductive to what
we’re trying to accomplish” in encouraging the resumption of
direct peace talks between Israel and the Palestinians.  The U.S. “will continue to work to resume direct
negotiations” and Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  likely
will discuss the matter when she meets Netanyahu later this week
in New York, Crowley said.  Similar construction plans announced during a March visit
by U.S. Vice President  Joe Biden  strained ties between Israel
and its staunchest ally. Israel captured east Jerusalem from
Jordan in the 1967 Middle East War and later annexed it in a
move never recognized internationally.  The Israeli announcement may “derail the American and
international efforts to resume a peace process,” said  Ghassan Khatib , a spokesman for the Palestinian Authority. “Israel is
determined to demonstrate that settlement expansion is more of a
priority to it than peace talks.”  Netanyahu yesterday met Biden in New Orleans, and is due to
hold talks with Clinton in New York on Nov. 11 on how to resume
direct peace talks.  To contact the reporters responsible for this story:
 Gwen Ackerman  in Jerusalem at 
 gackerman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net . 