-- J&J, Glaxo Actions in Puerto Rico Spark Probe of FDA
-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   L a r k i n
-- 2010-11-08T21:35:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-08/j-j-glaxo-actions-in-puerto-rico-spark-fda-oversight-inquiry.html
Johnson & Johnson ’s and
 GlaxoSmithKline Plc’ s drug-safety missteps sparked a
Congressional investigation of U.S. regulators overseeing
manufacturing in Puerto Rico.  Representatives  Darrell Issa  and  Edolphus Towns  sent a
letter today to Food and Drug Administration Commissioner
 Margaret Hamburg , asking for inspection records and warning
letters from the past decade, “to better understand whether FDA
Puerto Rico is fulfilling its regulatory responsibility.” Issa,
a California Republican, and Towns, a New York Democrat, lead
the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform.  The lawmakers said they have questions on actions by FDA
employees in Puerto Rico during J&J’s “phantom recall” of
Motrin in 2008, when contractors tried to retrieve quantities of
88,000 packages of faulty drugs sent to stores without notifying
the FDA. On Oct. 26, Glaxo agreed to pay $750 million to settle
a government false-claims lawsuit over the sale of defective
drugs made at a plant in Puerto Rico.  “It appears that FDA’s Puerto Rico district office may be
having difficulty exercising oversight on the numerous
pharmaceutical manufacturing facilities on the island,” Issa
and Towns wrote. “We question whether the Puerto Rico district
office is adequately staffed to fulfill the agency’s mission of
securing the nation’s pharmaceutical supply.”  Drug-manufacturing facilities in Puerto Rico failed
inspections 64 percent of the time in 446 visits from regulators
from 1999 to 2010, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
facilities have failed at more than a 70 percent rate since
2007, including a 76 percent rate in 29 inspections this year.  J&J, of New Brunswick, New Jersey, is the world’s largest
maker of health-care products. London-based Glaxo is the U.K.’s
biggest drugmaker.  Dick Thompson, a spokesman for the FDA, said the agency
will respond to the lawmakers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Catherine Larkin  in Washington at 
 clarkin4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 