-- Japan Starts Criminal Investigation of China Boat Video Leaked to YouTube
-- B y   T a k a s h i   H i r o k a w a
-- 2010-11-08T05:01:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-08/japan-starts-criminal-investigation-of-china-boat-video-leaked-to-youtube.html
Japan said its authorities will start
a criminal investigation into how the video of a collision
between Coast Guard vessels and a Chinese fishing trawler that
damaged bilateral relations was leaked to YouTube.  The Coast Guard released a statement today saying the video
was authentic footage from the Sept. 7 incident in the East
China Sea near uninhabited islands administered by Japan and
also claimed by China. The 17-day detention of the fishing boat
captain spurred the Chinese government to suspend ministerial
talks and halt exports of rare earth metals to Japan.  Coast Guard officials “determined from their examinations
that a criminal investigation is warranted,” Chief Cabinet
Secretary  Yoshito Sengoku  told reporters today in Tokyo. “It
was appropriate” for the Coast Guard to file a complaint with
the Tokyo police and prosecutor’s office, he said.  The posting of the video last week came as Prime Minister
 Naoto Kan  works to ease tensions with China before the Nov.
13-14 Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation forum in Yokohama. Kan
hopes to have talks with Chinese President  Hu Jintao  at the
summit, Foreign Minister  Seiji Maehara  said today in parliament.  Hu will attend both the Group of 20 summit in Seoul on Nov.
11-12 as well as the APEC gathering, the Chinese foreign
ministry said today in a statement.  Kan has come under fire for his administration’s handling
of the collision and its aftermath. His popularity dropped to 35
percent from 53 percent a month ago, the Yomiuri newspaper said
today. The paper polled 1,052 people on Nov. 5-7 and provided no
margin of error.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Takashi Hirokawa  in Tokyo at 
 thirokawa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Austin at 
 billaustin@bloomberg.net  