-- Jazeera Air Posts Third-Quarter Net Surge; Chairman Expects More Profit
-- B y   F i o n a   M a c D o n a l d
-- 2010-11-08T13:17:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-08/jazeera-air-posts-third-quarter-net-surge-chairman-expects-more-profit.html
Jazeera Airways KSC , a Kuwaiti low-
cost airline, is confident of sustaining profit into next year
and beyond after reporting an almost sixfold rise in third-
quarter net income, Chairman  Marwan Boodai  said.  “We were expecting to return to profit in the fourth
quarter or early next year,” Boodai said in a phone interview
today, after the results were released. “We can sustain this
into next year, and beyond that.” The company incurred losses
in the previous three quarters.  Net income in the three months to Sept. 30 increased to 4.4
million dinars ($15.7 million), from 762,745 dinars in the year-
earlier period, marking Jazeera’s best quarter in the five years
it’s been operating, the company said in an e-mailed statement.  The improvement stems from boosting revenue by cost-cutting
and the full acquisition of Sahaab Aircraft Leasing in February.
“We do have one more leasing deal, through Sahaab Aircraft, to
be announced early next month, for an international airline,”
Boodai said.  Jazeera has cut a third of its workforce since May as part
of a turnaround plan to reduce costs, optimize the carrier’s
network and achieve the right size fleet for a market that had
excess capacity in 2009 and early this year, according to
Boodai.  “We won’t witness growth next year because there will only
be mild growth in the Kuwaiti market,” Boodai said. The carrier
expects an average capacity of 72 percent in 2011.  Jazeera sees more opportunities coming up in the market and
expects “more people movement” from late 2011, when the
country will start feeling the impact of the Kuwaiti
government’s 30.8 billion-dinar development plan involving huge
infrastructure projects.  The airline operates a fleet of 11 Airbus A320s and flies
to 17 destinations in the Middle East, North Africa and Turkey.
Jazeera will take delivery of four A320s in 2012 and another six
in 2013, Boodai said.  Jazeera shares rose 9.6 percent to 114 fils in Kuwait
trading today. The stock has fallen 40 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Fiona MacDonald  in Kuwait at 
 fmacdonald4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  