-- Juncker Touts Eurobonds, Supports Trichet in Battle Over Euro Region Debt
-- B y   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r   a n d   J o n a t h a n   S t e a r n s
-- 2010-11-08T15:57:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-08/juncker-touts-eurobonds-supports-trichet-in-battle-over-euro-region-debt.html
Luxembourg Prime Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker  called for the sale of Eurobonds to finance bailouts of
deficit-swamped euro-area governments and backed the European
Central Bank in a split over how to quell the debt crisis.  Juncker said he shares ECB President  Jean-Claude Trichet ’s
concerns that a German-French proposal to force investors to
foot part of future rescue bills could dry up demand for bonds
from fiscally troubled countries such as Ireland.  “This could potentially drive investors from the euro
zone, especially from the peripheral countries,” Juncker, who
heads the panel of euro-area finance ministers, told a  European
Parliament  committee in Brussels today. Europe would be isolated
by declaring “ex ante that in every instance of crisis
resolution, the private sector has to be implicated.”  Bonds in Ireland, Portugal and Greece have plummeted since
EU leaders agreed on Oct. 29 to consider German Chancellor
 Angela Merkel ’s proposal for a permanent rescue mechanism as of
2013 that would involve debt restructuring with losses for
private holders of sovereign bonds.  As the biggest contributor to this year’s 860 billion-euro
($1.2 trillion) package of loans and pledges to stem the debt
crisis, Germany is seeking to shift some of the burden away from
its taxpayers. Merkel and German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  have said their proposal isn’t to blame for the drop
in Irish, Portuguese and Greek bonds.  With Spain leading the opposition to a restructuring
mechanism, EU leaders set a December deadline for the  European
Commission  to sketch out how a permanent facility might work, to
study how to treat private bondholders and whether to involve
the International Monetary Fund.  Speaking to the parliament’s economic and monetary
committee, Juncker said some of the money to pay for future
rescues should come from the joint sale of Eurobonds, an idea
discarded in the past under German opposition.  “We should also take a close look at the frequently
criticized Eurobond mechanism,” Juncker said. “It would be an
indication that Germany is not the only one paying out.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 James G. Neuger  in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net ;
 Jonathan Stearns  in Brussels at 
 jstearns2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  