-- K1's Kiener May Be Charged This Week, Prosecutor Says
-- B y   K a r i n   M a t u s s e k
-- 2010-11-08T12:59:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-08/k1-founder-helmut-kiener-may-be-charged-this-week-german-prosecutor-says.html
K1 Group hedge fund founder  Helmut Kiener  may be charged this week over what prosecutors say was a
scheme that led to hundreds of millions in losses at  Barclays
Plc ,  JPMorgan Chase & Co.  and  BNP Paribas SA .  Charges may be filed this week or next after the formal
investigation is completed, said Dietrich Geuder, a spokesman
for prosecutors in Wuerzburg, Germany. Kiener and other suspects
have been investigated for fraud and breach of trust.  “The exact amount of damage the scheme caused will be
disclosed once we file the charges,” Geuder said in an
interview today. “We will also say then whether other suspects
will be indicted.”  Kiener, 51, is the central figure in an international
criminal probe that led to his arrest in October 2009. Dieter
Frerichs, the former managing director of two K1 funds in the
British Virgin Islands, shot himself in July to avoid being
arrested by police on the Spanish island of Mallorca.  Kiener has denied the allegations. Kiener’s lawyer Lutz
Libbertz wouldn’t comment further, said Denise Raming, an
employee at Libbertz’s office in Munich.  Prosecutors said in April they expect the total damages
incurred as a result of the scheme, including harm done to
investors and banks, to be about 300 million euros ($418
million). Kiener may have used his business relationships with
the banks to channel their money to K1 Global and K1 Invest via
a net of funds and sham companies, according to investigators.  Kiener in Custody  Courts have denied Kiener’s requests for bail, saying he is
a flight risk. A year between the arrest and charges being filed
isn’t surprising given the complexity of the case and the amount
at stake, said  Kai Hart-Hoenig , a criminal lawyer based in
Wiesbaden, Germany, who isn’t involved in the case.  “You have to say that generally Germany arrests too many
and keeps people in custody for too long,” Hart-Hoenig said.
“At least compared with the U.S., which allows for a more
flexible use of bail or ankle monitors for suspects awaiting
trial.”  Prosecutors have also been probing David Zuendorf, who
worked with the K1 funds’ Swiss administrator Treukapital
Treuhandverwaltung AG and was arrested in April.  K1 Global and K1 Invest have both filed for liquidation.  Kiener, who helped manage funds of hedge funds, developed
what K1’s website described as a “semi-automatical allocation
system” using statistics to help pick hedge-fund investments.
He called his technique the “K1 Fund Allocation System,” a
term he trademarked in Germany.  Kiener started K1 in 1995 while still working as an
advertising salesman. The firm claimed returns of 825 percent
from 1996 through June 2008, according to its website, which was
taken down after the scandal broke last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Karin Matussek  in Berlin at 
 kmatussek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@Bloomberg.net . 