-- Kazakh Oil Fund May Cut Holdings of U.S. Treasuries, Add Emerging Markets
-- B y   N a r i m a n   G i z i t d i n o v
-- 2010-11-09T15:09:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-08/kazakh-oil-fund-may-cut-holdings-of-u-s-treasuries-add-emerging-markets.html
Kazakhstan’s  National Oil Fund  may
reduce holdings of U.S. Treasuries and invest in Brazilian and
South Korean debt, central bank Chairman  Grigori Marchenko  said.  “There won’t be a radical cut in the share of National Oil
Fund assets invested in U.S. debt,” Marchenko said during a
Nov. 2 interview in the financial capital, Almaty. “In theory,
the share could be cut to 35 percent from 40 percent, but this
must be a considered, step-by-step decision.”  The fund, managed by the  central bank , may gradually reduce
holdings of U.S. and euro-member assets while increasing
emerging-market investments to as much as 10 percent, Marchenko
said. It should explore the possibility of buying the debt of
highly rated countries such as Brazil and South Korea, he said.  Kazakhstan, which holds about 3 percent of the world’s oil
reserves according to BP Plc, created the National Oil Fund in
2000 to guard against declines in the price of crude. Assets
rose about 10 percent to 5 trillion tenge ($33.9 billion) in the
first 10 months of this year as revenue from oil industry taxes
overshadowed investment losses of 161.4 billion tenge, accounts
posted on the Finance Ministry’s  website  show.  Greek, Spanish Debt  Marchenko said the fund holds 80 percent of its assets in
bonds and 20 percent in stocks. Its benchmark portfolio for
bonds comprises 40 percent U.S. Treasuries with maturities of
one to five years, 35 percent Eurozone debt rated AA or AAA with
maturities of one to 10 years, 10 percent each of 1- to 10-year
U.K. gilts and Japanese bonds, and 5 percent 1- to 10-year
Australian bonds, according to the central bank.  The fund sold its positions in Greek, Spanish and
Portuguese sovereign bonds, though it didn’t suffer “particular
losses,” Marchenko said.  “We closed them ourselves and alerted our external
managers, who backed up the decision,” he said. “Certain
managers proposed leaving only German, French and Scandinavian
debt. We adopted an intermediate position and cut off the
extremes.”  Representatives of some European countries contacted Kazakh
government advisers working on the restructuring of commercial
bank debt, Marchenko said without elaborating.  Chinese, Indian Securities  The Kazakh government took control of BTA Bank, the
nation’s largest lender at the time, and acquired stakes in the
three next-largest banks in early 2009 after credit markets
froze and the country’s property bubble burst. Three of four
defaulted Kazakh lenders -- BTA, Temirbank and Alliance Bank --
reached restructuring deals with creditors, allowing them to
write down debt of about $11 billion.  The fund may invest in Chinese and Indian securities, “but
here the question of the convertibility of these currencies
arises,” Marchenko said. “The trend is that we need to look
more at developing markets in countries that aren’t as strongly
tied to commodities production as we are.”  Marchenko said the central bank will look at the fund’s
second-half results before making any strategic investment
decisions after losses in the first half.  “Stock indexes rose 8 percent at best, while income from
sovereign securities is close to zero,” he said. “But this
isn’t a reason to move into new, high-income instruments, since
risks are higher and we could potentially increase our losses.
Our task is not to lose our heads and to make no abrupt moves.”  Norwegian Fund  Kazakhstan’s fund was based on the example of Norway’s
sovereign wealth fund, Marchenko said. At the start, as much of
35 percent of its portfolio could be actively invested in
stocks, he said.  The government decided in 2009 to invest the fund’s
resources only in stock indexes, “since from a long-term
perspective -- more than 10 years -- there’s no big difference
in income from investments in stocks or indexes, but commissions
are 10 times higher” for active investing, he said.  At the start of the global economic crisis, the fund held
75 percent of its investments in bonds and 25 percent in stocks,
Marchenko said. “So when stock indexes fell 40 percent in 2008,
this influenced the income from our portfolio.”  Kazakhstan used $10 billion from the oil fund in October
2008 to support domestic banks and companies after credit
markets froze and the country’s property bubble burst. The
government said in January the fund will spend $8 billion a year
on industrial development.  The government plans to increase the fund’s assets to $90
billion by 2020, according to an  order  signed by President
 Nursultan Nazarbayev  in April.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nariman Gizitdinov  in Almaty at 
 ngizitdinov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  