-- Kazakhstan's Economy Is Heading in `Right Direction', Prime Minister Says
-- B y   H a l i a   P a v l i v a   a n d   A g n e s   L o v a s z
-- 2010-11-08T18:27:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-08/kazakhstan-s-economy-is-heading-in-right-direction-prime-minister-says.html
The economy of Kazakhstan, central
Asia’s biggest energy producer, is heading in the “right
direction,” having grown an annual 8 percent in the first three
quarters of 2010, Prime Minister  Karim Massimov  said.  Industrial production advanced 10 percent from a year
earlier, compared with an annual gain of 10.9 percent in January
through August, Massimov told an investment conference in New
York today via a video link from Astana.  Kazakhstan was forced to take control of several banks
after credit markets froze last year during the worst global
financial crisis since the Great Depression and the country’s
property bubble burst. The government spent $9 billion, or 18
percent of gross domestic product, to restructure lenders and
help small companies sustain growth, Massimov said.  “Our economy is pointing in the right direction,” Massimov
said. Still, “major economic challenges remain” for the world
economy. The impact of the global financial crisis “has been
heavy on our economy. The global economy remains fragile and the
outlook is not certain.”  Massimov spoke for the first time since Nov. 3, when the
U.S. Federal Reserve said it will buy an additional $600 billion
of Treasuries through June, expanding record stimulus to reduce
unemployment and avert deflation.  U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  will probably visit
the Kazakh capital Astana next month, Susan Elliott, the State
Department’s deputy assistant secretary for south and central
Asian affairs, said at the same conference.  ‘Recovery in Manufacturing’  Kazakhstan forecasts industrial production will jump 7.5
percent this year on higher mining output and a “recovery in
manufacturing,” Economic Development and Trade Minister Zhanar
Aitzhanova said on Sept. 8.  The National Wellbeing Fund Samruk-Kazyna, which controls
BTA Bank, the nation’s second-largest lender, and has stakes in
Alliance Bank, Kazkommertsbank and Halyk Savings Bank, will seek
to sell those holdings within three years to international
industry investors, said  Aidan Karibzhanov , managing director of
the state fund.  “We want to sell to international banks with high ratings,”
he said in an interview in New York today. “We don’t want to
sell to any private equity capital or hedge funds, because that
would undermine stability. Stability is the key priority.”  OAO Sberbank , Russia’s biggest lender, is interested in
buying BTA, he said.  Kazakhstan has attracted foreign direct investment of $118
billion since 1993-through the end of June this year, said Timur
Nurashev, deputy chairman of Kaznex Invest, the country’s agency
for export and investment promotion, at the conference. Inflows
in the first half this year, at $9.4 billion, are 17 percent
higher than in the same period of 2009, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Halia Pavliva  in New York at 
 hpavliva@bloomberg.net 
 Agnes Lovasz  in London at 
 alovasz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at   wmorris@bloomberg.net  