-- Korean Won, Philippine Peso Lead Asia Currency Losses on Volatility Curbs
-- B y   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n
-- 2010-11-08T09:21:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-08/korean-won-philippine-peso-lead-asia-currency-losses-on-volatility-curbs.html
The Philippine peso and South Korea’s
won declined on speculation policy makers will implement
measures to curb volatility in their currencies.  The peso fell the most in five months as Finance Secretary
Cesar Purisima said today the Philippines will help “smooth”
foreign-exchange inflows and will look at “other options” to
stem gains in the peso. “Appropriate action” will be taken if
banks violate currency derivative trade rules,  Lee Hoo Myung ,
director of the foreign-exchange policy division at the South
Korean finance ministry, said on Nov. 5.  “The market is mindful of the central bank’s concern with
the appreciating peso and is watchful for any measures,” said
 Roland Avante , treasurer at Sterling Bank of Asia in Manila.
Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas eased rules on foreign-exchange
outflows on Oct. 28 as it joined regional peers that have
signaled they will slow gains in their currencies to protect
exporters.  The peso weakened 1.2 percent to 43.20 per dollar as of the
4 p.m. close in Manila, according to inter-dealer broker Tullett
Prebon Plc. The won slid 0.5 percent to 1,113.22 and the
Malaysian ringgit fell 0.3 percent to 3.0966. China’s yuan
dropped 0.35 percent to 6.6801.  South Korea announced a cap on foreign and domestic banks’
currency derivatives in June, which will require them to cut
their holdings to a specified amount of equity capital by
October 2012. The finance ministry today denied a report by
Yonhap News that said the government plans to further tighten
limits on the use of currency derivatives by foreign banks
starting in January.  Competitive Devaluation  Leaders of the Group of 20 nations meet in Seoul this week
to discuss last month’s pledge to avoid “competitive
devaluation” of their currencies. Asia-Pacific leaders meet
later in Yokohama, Japan on Nov. 13-14.  South Korea’s “government wants to prevent speculative
funds from coming into the country, and that is hurting the
won,” said  Sung Jae Man , a currency analyst at Tong Yang
Securities Inc. in Seoul. “But the market will wait to see what
the G-20 has to say about that. It may be difficult for Korea to
implement the rules if the move is criticized at the summit.”  U.S. Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner refrained from
pushing current-account targets at a meeting of ministers at the
Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation forum in Kyoto, Japan, over
the weekend, saying these aren’t “something that is amenable to
limits or targets.” China’s Vice Foreign Minister Cui Tiankai
on Nov. 5 rejected state-planning style targets for trade
deficits.  “It’ll be hard to see any pronounced trend” among Asian
currencies before the G-20 and the APEC meetings, said  Magnus Prim , chief Asia foreign-exchange strategist at Skandinaviska
Enskilda Banken AB in Singapore. “I think it will be a little
bit hard to set any specific targets since China has indicated
they won’t subscribe to it.”  Elsewhere, Taiwan’s dollar weakened 0.3 percent to
NT$30.636 versus the greenback. The Indonesian rupiah was little
changed at 8,913 from 8,903 on Nov. 5 as was the Thai baht,
which traded at 29.66 from 29.67. The Singapore dollar was
little changed at S$1.2881.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Lilian Karunungan  in Singapore at 
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 