-- Gas Rises to More Than $4 in New York on Colder-Than-Normal Temperatures
-- B y   A s j y l y n   L o d e r
-- 2010-11-08T21:23:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-08/natural-gas-futures-rise-to-more-than-4-on-lower-than-normal-temperature.html
Natural gas futures climbed to more
than $4, the highest in almost three months, on speculation that
lower-than-normal temperatures in the U.S. Northeast will
bolster heating demand.  Gas jumped 3.8 percent as the Commodity Weather Group LLC
in Bethesda, Maryland, forecast temperatures throughout the U.S.
will be lower for the next 15 days, with those in the Northeast
reaching 3 degrees below normal. About 52 percent of U.S.
households use natural gas for heating, according to the Energy
Department.  “The first cold shock is always a little boost for
everybody,” said  Michael Rose , director of energy trading at
Angus Jackson Inc. in Fort Lauderdale, Florida. “A little cold
snap can help, but once it ends, we’re right back where we
started: oversupplied and under-demanded.”  Natural gas for December delivery rose 15.1 cents to settle
at $4.088 per million British thermal units on the New York
Mercantile Exchange, the highest since Aug. 20 when the fuel
closed at $4.117.  The  National Weather Service  forecast a high of 50 degrees
Fahrenheit (10 degrees Celsius) in New York compared with an
average high of 56. Temperatures in Boston may reach 46 degrees,
compared with a normal high of 54.  “It’s the first cold blast of the season, and now I think
there will be a little more heightened anxiety regarding these
forecasts,” said  Tom Saal , senior vice president of energy
trading at INTL Hencorp Futures in Miami.  Cash Prices  Cash prices have been 40 cents to 50 cents cheaper than
futures, causing gas storage operators to hoard the fuel and
leading to a tightening of the cash market, Saal said.  “If they hoard, the price is going up,” he said. “If
prices go up, funds start covering shorts and you’ve got
yourself a rally.”  Wholesale natural gas at the benchmark  Henry Hub  in Erath,
Louisiana, rose 2.64 cents, or 0.8 percent, to $3.4941 per
million Btu on the Intercontinental Exchange.  Natural gas has declined 27 percent this year on
speculation that a slowing economic recovery won’t reduce an
inventory surplus.  Gas supplies  gained 67 billion cubic feet in
the week ended Oct. 29 to 3.821 trillion, the Energy Department
said last week.  A  surplus  to the five-year average rose to 10.2 percent
from 9.1 percent the previous week. Supplies compared with a
year earlier rose to a surplus for the first time since June.  Cold temperatures through the U.S. Thanksgiving holiday on
Nov. 25 may lead traders to shed short bets, said  Teri Viswanath , director of commodities research at Credit Suisse
Securities USA in Houston.  Short Bets  “It’s going to be colder than the 10-year average and
that’s enough to begin to shake out some of those short
investors,” Viswanath said. “You’re going to see this in
earnest as we switch from injection season to withdrawals.”  Hedge funds and other large speculators raised their
bullish bets on four natural gas contracts by 71 percent in the
seven days ended Nov. 2, according to the Commodity Futures
Trading Commission’s weekly Commitments of Traders Report.  The category known as managed money, which includes hedge
funds, commodity trading advisers and commodity pools, increased
 net-long  positions in futures and options combined by 15,232.5
futures equivalents to 36,613.75 in the week ended Nov. 2, the
CFTC report showed.  The measure of natural-gas net longs includes an index of
four contracts adjusted to futures equivalents: Nymex natural
gas futures, Nymex Henry Hub Swaps, Nymex Henry Hub Penultimate
Swaps and ICE Henry Hub Swaps. Henry Hub, in Erath, Louisiana,
is the delivery point for Nymex futures, a benchmark price for
the fuel.  Gas futures volume in electronic trading on the Nymex was
292,505 as of 2:57 p.m., compared with a three-month average of
267,000. Volume was 313,861 on Nov. 5. Open interest was 814,437
contracts, compared with the three-month average of 813,000. The
exchange has a one-business-day delay in reporting open interest
and full volume data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Asjylyn Loder in New York at 
 aloder@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at   dstets@bloomberg.net . 