-- Netanyahu Says U.S. Must Show a Military Strike Against Iran Is Possible
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   F e r z i g e r   a n d   G w e n   A c k e r m a n
-- 2010-11-08T22:23:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-08/netanyahu-says-u-s-must-show-a-military-strike-against-iran-is-possible.html
Israeli Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  said the U.S. and the international community need to
convince Iran that a military strike is possible in order to
prevent the Iranian government from developing nuclear weapons.  “The simple paradox is this,” Netanyahu said in a speech
yesterday to Jewish activists in New Orleans. “If the
international community, led by the U.S., wants to stop Iran
without resorting to military action, it will have to convince
Iran that it is prepared to take such action.”  Netanyahu’s comments came five days after Iranian Foreign
Minister  Manouchehr Mottaki  said his country was ready to hold
talks on its nuclear program with the five permanent United
Nations Security Council members plus Germany. Iran denies
claims by Israel, as well as by the U.S. and many of its allies,
that the country’s nuclear program may be providing cover for
the development of weapons.  “We have yet to see any signs that the tyrants of Tehran
are stopping their pursuit of nuclear plans,” Netanyahu said.  The 61-year-old Israeli leader is on a five-day trip to the
U.S. aimed at rallying support among American Jews and
discussing with U.S. mediators ways to resume stalled peace
talks with the Palestinian Authority. Netanyahu met with Vice
President  Joe Biden  on Nov. 7 and will hold discussions with
Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  before leaving Nov. 11 from
New York.  ‘Biting More Deeply’  Netanyahu’s comment to Biden that international pressure
must be intensified to stop Iran’s nuclear program brought a
response from U.S. Defense Secretary  Robert Gates . While
traveling in Melbourne, Australia, Gates said that sanctions
against the Islamic Republic “are biting more deeply than they
anticipated.”  Biden, speaking to a convention of Jewish groups in New
Orleans on Nov. 7 after meeting with Netanyahu, said he told the
Israeli leader that President  Barack Obama  won’t allow Iran to
build a nuclear arsenal.  “We are absolutely committed to preventing Iran from
acquiring nuclear weapons,” Biden said.  Iran is under a fourth round of UN sanctions because it
refuses to curtail its nuclear program. Clinton, who was
traveling in Asia, said she and her staff are working “non-
stop” to keep the Israeli-Palestinian peace talks from
collapsing. Palestinian Authority President  Mahmoud Abbas  says
he won’t continue talks if Israel continues to build settlements
in the West Bank.  Construction Plans  Israel yesterday published construction plans for more than
1,000 new homes in east Jerusalem, which the Palestinians
consider part of the West Bank and seek for the capital of their
state.  The Israeli announcement may “derail the American and
international efforts to resume a peace process,” said  Ghassan Khatib , a spokesman for the Palestinian Authority. “Israel is
determined to demonstrate that settlement expansion is more of a
priority to it than peace talks.”  Netanyahu’s spokesman  Mark Regev  declined to comment on the
plans. Members of the audience heckled Netanyahu several times
during his New Orleans speech, shouting “Settlements
delegitimize Israel” and “End the occupation.”  State Department spokesman  Philip J. Crowley  called the
plans “counterproductive” and said the U.S. was “deeply
disappointed.”  Peace Talks  The Arab League initially set a Nov. 9 deadline for the
U.S. to come up with a solution. Abbas is now willing to give
the U.S. an additional “two or three weeks” to save the peace
talks, chief negotiator  Saeb Erakat  said after meeting Obama’s
Middle East envoy,  George Mitchell , in Washington on Nov. 4.  Netanyahu and Abbas, 75, had agreed to try to reach, within
12 months, a framework agreement that would cover issues at the
core of the conflict, including the borders of a future
Palestinian state, security arrangements for Israel and the
right of Palestinian refugees to return.  Obama kicked the talks off with a White House ceremony
Sept. 1, only to watch them stall when Israel’s 10-month partial
freeze on new West Bank settlements expired Sept. 26.  About 500,000 Jews have moved to the West Bank and east
Jerusalem since Israel captured the territories in the 1967
Middle East war. The UN says that settlements are illegal.
Israel says the territory isn’t occupied because it wasn’t
recognized as belonging to anyone before the 1967 war.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jonathan Ferziger  in New Orleans via the Jerusalem bureau
at   jferziger@bloomberg.net ;
 Gwen Ackerman  in Jerusalem at 
 gackerman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net . 