-- New Zealand House Prices Rise Is Slowest in 13 Months as Confidence Slumps
-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 2010-12-06T23:48:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-08/new-zealand-s-house-prices-rise-at-slowest-annual-pace-in-11-months.html
New Zealand house  prices  rose last
month at the slowest pace in more than a year as consumer
confidence slumped, according to a report from Quotable Value
New Zealand.  Prices advanced 0.3 percent in November from a year earlier,
after gaining 1.1 percent in October, according to an index
compiled by Quotable Value. The growth of house values has been
falling since March, the Wellington-based government agency said
in an e-mailed statement today.  Weaker demand for property adds to signs that New Zealand’s
recovery won’t accelerate until later next year. All 14
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News expect central bank
Governor  Alan Bollard  to refrain from raising the official cash
rate until at least March after he left the benchmark unchanged
at 3 percent on Oct. 28, citing sluggish spending and a muted
housing market.  “There has been an increase in the number of properties
put on the market. However, with the low level of sales, this is
increasing the stock of unsold property,” said Jonno Ingerson,
research director at Quotable Value. “We now expect that many
buyers will delay any purchase decisions until the New Year.”  The agency doesn’t publish monthly index values and says
its average sale price shouldn’t be used for monthly comparisons.  New Zealand consumer confidence was little changed in
November near a 14-month low, according to an ANZ-Roy Morgan
index published Nov. 18.  Quotable Value said the magnitude 7 earthquake that struck
Canterbury province on Sept. 4 stopped real estate transactions
for some weeks, and while the market is slowly recovering, there
is still insufficient information to create a valid regional
index. Preliminary results show property values have bounced
back, Ingerson said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tracy Withers  in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at   canstey@bloomberg.net  