-- New Zealand Says Kiwifruit Vine Disease Discovered on North Island
-- B y   C h r i s   B o u r k e
-- 2010-11-08T04:38:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-08/new-zealand-says-kiwifruit-vine-disease-discovered-at-north-island-orchard.html
New Zealand, the world’s third-
largest kiwifruit producer, has placed entry restrictions on a
North Island orchard to avoid the spread of a possible vine
infection pending further testing. The local currency fell.  An initial test suggested that a strain of a bacterial
disease, Pseudomonas syringae pv actinidiae, may be present on
some vines,  Biosecurity New Zealand  said today in a statement on
its website. More tests are scheduled to be complete in two days,
the body said. The disease carries no risks to human or animal
health and doesn’t affect plants other than kiwifruit vines.  The New Zealand dollar fell as low as 78.68 U.S. cents
after the statement from 79.55 cents late in New York on Nov. 5.
New Zealand’s kiwifruit industry earned NZ$1.4 billion ($1.1
billion) for the 12 months ended March 31, according to Zespri
Group Ltd, the world’s largest marketer of the fruit.  “This potential risk to our kiwifruit industry is being
taken seriously,” Biosecurity Minister  David Carter  said today
in an e-mailed statement. “It is imperative that a considered
and responsible approach to this potential threat is taken by
all primary sector stakeholders.”  The currency bought 78.96 cents at 5:33 p.m. in Wellington.  Turners & Growers Ltd ., New Zealand’s largest fresh fruit
exporter, said there was no trace of the suspected disease in
its orchards, according to a statement sent to the stock
exchange.  The disease, should it be confirmed, would reduce crop
volumes and cause market restrictions that could affect growers’
returns, kiwifruit company  Satara Co-operative Group Ltd . said
in a statement. Satara and Seeka Kiwifruit Industries Ltd. both
suspended share trading in Wellington prior to the government’s
statement, citing a pending announcement.  To contact the reporter for this story:
 Chris Bourke  at 
 cbourke4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Iain Wilson 
 iwilson2@bloomberg.net  