-- Nigeria Militants Threaten to Attack Oil Installations
-- B y   D u l u e   M b a c h u
-- 2010-11-08T09:34:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-08/nigerian-militants-planning-to-attack-crude-installations-in-coming-days-.html
Nigeria’s main militant group said
they are holding four foreigners hostage and will start attacks
on oil installations in the Niger River delta in “coming days.”  The Movement for the Emancipation of the Niger Delta has
custody of three French nationals and a Thai seized off
Nigeria’s coast on Sept. 21 and will release names and personal
details “very shortly,” Jomo Gbomo, a spokesman for the group,
said in an e-mailed statement today.  Attacks by armed groups in the delta region cut Nigeria’s
oil output by more than 28 percent between 2006 and 2009,
according to Bloomberg data. The attacks reduced after thousands
of fighters accepted a government amnesty last year and
disarmed. MEND refused, saying its demands weren’t met.  The group says it’s fighting for a fairer share of
Nigeria’s oil wealth for people from the southern delta, home to
the country’s oil and gas industry. Royal Dutch Shell Plc, Exxon
Mobil Corp.,  Chevron Corp. , Total SA and Eni SpA operate joint
ventures with the state-owned Nigerian National Petroleum Corp.
that pump most of the country’s oil.  MEND, which claimed responsibility Oct. 1 for twin car
bombs that killed at least 12 people in the Nigerian capital,
Abuja, said today that future warnings will come from a new e-
mail account after problems with the old one. Several people
were arrested for the blasts, including Henry Okah, a former
MEND leader facing charges for the bombing in South Africa.  Sharing Revenue  States in the delta region currently receive 13 percent of
oil revenue with 87 percent going to the federal purse. MEND
wants the states to have all the revenue and pay tax to the
central government.  Bourbon SA , a French oil-service company that provides
supply vessels for the oil industry, said three crew members
were kidnapped during an attack on its Bourbon Alexandre vessel
by gunmen in several speedboats on Sept. 21. The anchor-handling
tug-supply vessel was servicing installations of an offshore oil
field of Addax Petroleum Corporation, according to Bourbon.  Afren Plc said today that five crew members may have been
taken hostage and two were evacuated by helicopters after being
wounded in an attack on the High Island VII jackup rig drilling
in Nigeria’s Okoro field.  Nigeria is Africa’s biggest oil producer and the fifth-
biggest source of U.S. oil imports.  -- Editors: Alex Devine, Raj Rajendran.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dulue Mbachu in Lagos at 
 dmbachu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  