-- Nortel Fights Family of Delaware Chancery Judge in Corporate Fraud Lawsuit
-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 2010-11-08T20:32:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-08/nortel-fights-family-of-delaware-chancery-judge-in-corporate-fraud-lawsuit.html
Nortel Networks Inc. , the telephone
maker being liquidated in bankruptcy, will try next month to
preserve the fraud lawsuit it filed against a company owned by
the family of a Delaware business-court judge.  Nortel is seeking more than $130 million in damages from
Communications Test Design Inc., claiming in a September
complaint that the company stole trade secrets. Communications
Test Design, known as CTDI, was founded by the father and
brothers of  Donald F. Parsons Jr. , a judge with the Delaware
Court of Chancery, which specializes in resolving business
disputes among corporations and investors.  Today, U.S. Bankruptcy Court Judge  Kevin Gross  set a court
hearing for next month to determine whether the fraud
allegations that are part of the lawsuit should be thrown out,
as CTDI has asked.  “We believe the most scandalous allegations will fall
out,” CTDI attorney  Anthony Clark  said in court today. The
family denies any wrongdoing and is eager to fight Nortel’s
claims, either in court or through mediation, Clark said in
court.  The fact that CTDI is owned by the family of a Delaware
judge doesn’t give the company any advantage or present any
danger of a conflict of interest, Clark said today in a phone
interview.  Nortel attorney  David H. Herrington  said the only possible
conflict would arise if Nortel were to seek a jury trial. In
that case, Nortel would need to make sure no jurors held any
biases, he said in an interview.  Possible Jury Trial  Toronto-based Nortel is considering transferring the case
to U.S. District Court in order to have the battle decided by a
jury. In bankruptcy court, where the case is now, Gross, who is
also overseeing Nortel’s U.S. bankruptcy, would decide the
winner.  The lawsuit involves CTDI’s alleged use of trade secrets to
build and sell its own brand of telephones. Nortel shared
technical information with CTDI after CTDI became an authorized
repairer and refurbisher of Nortel’s phones, according to the
lawsuit.  “If they thought they were entitled to make and sell these
phones, then they should have paid a royalty,” Herrington said
in court.  Clark said in court that the dispute is nothing more than a
fight over a contract and that the fraud allegations are
unjustified.  CTDI, which is based in West Chester, Pennsylvania, has
about 5,000 employees worldwide, Clark said.  Nortel filed bankruptcy in January, 2009. The company has
raised about $3 billion to repay creditors by auctioning off its
businesses.  The case is Nortel Networks Limited v. Communications Test
Design Inc., 10-53066. The bankruptcy case is Nortel Networks
Inc., 09-10138. Both cases are in U.S. Bankruptcy Court,
District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Steven Church  in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 