-- Norwegian Salmon Farms Set Up for Takeovers on Higher Prices
-- B y   M e e r a   B h a t i a
-- 2010-11-08T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-08/norwegian-salmon-farms-set-up-for-takeovers-with-prices-at-four-year-highs.html
Leroey Seafood Group ASA  and  SalMar
ASA  may pursue acquisitions next year, while billionaire  John Fredriksen ’s  Marine Harvest ASA , Norway’s largest fish farmer,
is limited in what it can do.  Consolidation is “on the cards,” said  Roar Husby , chief
financial officer of Kverva, Norway-based SalMar, in an
interview. “Smaller salmon farmers will use the opportunity now
to sell some of their licenses to the bigger players.”  There have been $1.1 billion of fish industry deals
announced this year, up from $332 million in 2009, after salmon
prices rose to a four-year high in May, according to Bloomberg
data. Leroey agreed to take control of Sjoetroll Havbruk AS for
$94 million in September, while  Morpol ASA , the world’s largest
salmon processor, made five purchases in the past year,
including buying Norway’s  Marine Farms ASA . Carlyle Group’s $190
million purchase of a 13.6 percent stake in China Fishery Group
Ltd. is this year’s biggest takeover.  Norway, the world’s largest salmon supplier, has more than
100 salmon companies with almost 1,000 licenses, according to
Oslo-based Pareto Securities AS. Marine Harvest, also in Oslo,
has 216 standard permits, or about 22 percent of the total.  Marine Harvest filed a complaint last month to the European
Free Trade Association, a bloc of four non-European Union
countries, over Norwegian rules preventing one company from
holding more than 25 percent of all licenses.  ‘Least Room’  “Marine Harvest is the player with the least room for
acquisitions,” in Norway, Kolbjoern Giskeoedegaard, an analyst
at Nordea Bank AB in Oslo, said in an interview. “Leroey,
SalMar, they still have plenty of room.”  Leroey  has risen 56 percent in Oslo this year, Marine
Harvest 45 percent and  SalMar  26 percent, exceeding the 17
percent gain of the 47-company  MSCI Norway Small Cap Index .
 Grieg Seafood ASA  rose 80 percent, buoyed by a 41 percent
increase in harvested volumes during the first nine months.  “For the larger players, I don’t think they will grow fast
enough by just acquiring a license here and there,” said  Leif Eriksroed , a fund manager at Alfred Berg Kapitalforvaltning in
Oslo, which oversees 3.5 billion kroner in stocks. “I don’t
think we will have four large companies here forever.”  Salmon export prices reached a four-year high of 41.78
kroner ($7.21) a kilo on May 23, according to  Statistics Norway .
The average export price for fresh whole Norwegian salmon
climbed 14 percent to 36.15 kroner a ton in the first half,
according to Norwegian Seafood Export Council. The price was as
low as 23.69 kroner in 2007.  Fish Exchange  Fish Pool ASA, an exchange for fish and seafood derivative
contracts, forecasts salmon prices of 36.80 kroner a kilo next
year and 32.90 kroner for 2012. Pareto Securities estimates
salmon prices of 33 kroner a kilo in 2011 and 29 kroner in 2012.  Marine Harvest Chief Executive Officer Alf-Helge Aarskog
said Nov. 3 the company can expand its existing business in
Norway over the next two years and then it will need to make
acquisitions. The company is concentrating on fish-health issues
in Chile, the second-biggest fish-farming nation, he said.  “In Scotland, the industry is fairly consolidated already,
and in Canada, there are only three players,” he said.  The market will be “good” for the next couple of years,
said  Henning Beltestad , Leroey’s CEO, in a telephone interview.
“The value of farming will stay high.”  Takeover targets include  Grieg Seafood  and  Bakkafrost P/F ,
according to Pareto. SalMar bought 22 percent of Faroe Islands-
based Bakkafrost on Oct. 21.  ‘Bolt-On’ Transactions  “We could see both a lot of bolt-on or add-on
acquisitions, but we also see the potential for several larger
acquisitions,”  Mikael Clement , an analyst at Pareto, said.  Cermaq ASA, outbid by Morpol in September for Marine Farms,
plans to increase its presence in Norway and Chile, said  Tore Valderhaug , CEO of the Oslo-based company, in an Oct. 29
interview.  Bakkafrost CEO Regin Jacobsen said the company is more
interested in making acquisitions than being bought. Grieg
Seafood is “well positioned” for consolidation whether as a
target or a purchaser, said CEO  Morten Vike .  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Meera Bhatia  in Oslo at 
 mbhatia2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amanda Jordan at 
 ajordan11@bloomberg.net  