-- Norway's Treasury Bills, Notes Set to Rise on Early Swap Termination Plan
-- B y   J o s i a n e   K r e m e r
-- 2010-11-08T13:02:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-08/norway-s-treasury-bills-notes-set-to-rise-on-early-swap-termination-plan.html
Norway’s Treasury bills and shorter
dated notes are set to rise as the Finance Ministry considers a
proposal by the central bank to allow lenders to terminate swap
contracts early, taking the government bills out of circulation.  The ministry on Nov. 5 said it may give banks the freedom
to exit contracts swapping mortgage debt for government notes
before they mature to prevent simultaneous redemptions that risk
hampering liquidity flows. That means banks may return Treasury
debt to the government earlier than the five-year program
stipulates.  “These T-bills will now disappear from the market quicker
than previously anticipated so there will be less supply; it
would increase the prices,” said  Snorre Evjen , a senior
economist at Danske Bank A/S in Oslo and former director at
 Norges Bank’s  financial markets department, by phone today.
“Possibly we will also see an increase in demand of the short
end of the government bond market as a substitute.”  The government introduced the swap arrangement at the
height of the financial crisis two years ago, allowing lenders
to bolster their balance sheets with top-rated government notes
as the U.S. sub-prime mortgage crisis undercut confidence in
mortgage debt. From December 2008 to December 2009 banks,
mortgage lenders and the Finance Ministry entered swap
agreements of 230 billion kroner ($40 billion), Danske Bank said
in a note.  Early termination of the swap contracts “could limit
supply in bills and thus trigger stronger performance in bills,
pushing yields down on those,” said  Petter Andreassen , head of
sales at SEB AB in Oslo.  ‘Strengthen Stability’  The yield on Norway’s six-month  government bill  dropped 3
basis points to 2.13 percent on Nov. 5, while the yield on the
three-year bond was little changed today at 2.215 percent.  A total of just over 60 billion kroner in swap arrangements
mature in the third and the fourth quarters next year,  according
to the Finance Ministry . About 35 billion kroner will mature at
the end of 2013 and about 50 billion kroner at the beginning of
2014.  “If participants are allowed to terminate earlier I
believe the termination process will be gradual,” said  Katrine Boye , a senior economist at Nordea Bank AB in Oslo, in an e-
mailed reply to questions.  The measure also means banks will be able to refinance
covered bonds, which are backed by mortgage debt, when market
conditions allow, leaving them with more flexibility and
reducing the refinancing risk, Evjen said. “It seems like a
very sensible suggestion,” he said. “The purpose is to
strengthen financial stability.”  ‘Smoother Transition’  Neighboring Sweden became the first country in the world to
exit its emergency liquidity program last month. The  Riksbank 
withdrew 300 billion kronor ($45 billion) crisis loans,
triggering a surge in short-term interest rates in the largest
Nordic economy.  In Norway, the central bank’s proposal “will probably lead
to a smoother transition away from the swap agreement with
covered bonds being sold in the market and T-bills maturing more
gradually than would have been the case if participants had to
stick to the original contracts,” Boye said.  Norway’s Finance Ministry doesn’t have a “specific
timetable for when it will make the decision,” Anders Lande, a
 ministry  spokesperson said in e-mailed comments.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Josiane Kremer  in Oslo at 
 jkremer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  