-- Obama Returns to Indonesia to Chase Trade, Not Chickens
-- B y   J u l i a n n a   G o l d m a n
-- 2010-11-09T10:01:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-08/obama-returns-to-early-home-indonesia-chasing-trade-rather-than-chickens.html
In President  Barack Obama ’s 2006 book,
“The Audacity of Hope,” the then-freshman senator described
growing up in Indonesia as a “joyous time, full of adventure
and mystery -- days of chasing down chickens and running from
water buffalo.”  He returned there today as leader of the world’s biggest
economy, aiming to solidify a relationship between the U.S. and
the world’s largest Muslim-majority country that his advisers
say is one of the keys to future U.S. growth and security.  Obama’s Indonesia stop was postponed twice earlier this
year and will now be cut short by “several hours” because of
the eruption of Mount Merapi, White House press secretary  Robert Gibbs  told reporters aboard Air Force One. The volcano continues
to spew hot ash into the air, threatening air traffic and
Obama’s ability to depart in time for his next stop, the Group
of 20 nations summit in South Korea.  Ahead of the trip, administration officials said the
Indonesia visit underscores Obama’s goal of boosting U.S.
 exports  to create jobs. Enlarging overseas markets for U.S.
companies is a central theme of Obama’s four-country tour of
Asia that began in India Nov. 6.  “We see in Indonesia the intersection of a lot of key
American interests,”  Ben Rhodes , Obama’s deputy national
security adviser, said. The partnership “is very important to
the future of American interests in Asia and the world.”  ‘Most Important’  As China’s economic and diplomatic clout grows, Obama has
made a priority of engaging other Asian nations, particularly
the 10 countries that make up the  Association of Southeast Asian
Nations . With a population of about 600 million, Southeast Asia
was America’s fifth-largest trading partner and the fourth-
biggest market for U.S. goods last year.  Indonesia, whose trade with the U.S. totaled $18 billion
last year, as a member of the G-20 and the world’s third-largest
democracy, is “the most important country in Asean,” said  Jeff Bader , senior director for Asian Affairs at the National
Security Council.  Indonesia’s benchmark  Jakarta Composite Index  has risen 46
percent this year compared with a 12.1 percent gain for the  MSCI
Asia Pacific Index .  With U.S. investments in Asean countries surpassing those
in China and India, it’s critical that the U.S. transform its
relationship with Indonesia, said  Ernest Bower , director of the
Southeast Asia program at the Center for Strategic and
International Studies, a policy group in Washington.  “It’s not trying to contain China, but it’s trying to
strengthen relationships so that you can handle a rising
China,” Bower said.  ‘Big Player’  “Asia is where the growth will come from in the world
economy over the next decade, we’re crystal clear on that,” he
said. “Indonesia is important because it’s the big player
there.”  Obama ended three days in India, where he endorsed the
country’s bid for a permanent United Nations Security Council
seat in a speech to parliament. The president, who called on
India to take a stand on global human rights issues, also met
with business leaders as he pushed for a strategic partnership.  Obama will spend less than 24 hours in Indonesia before
departing tomorrow for Seoul and then the Asia-Pacific Economic
Cooperation forum in Japan.  Sea Disputes  Obama is set to meet with President  Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono  today to initiate a five-year program to enhance a
partnership on issues including climate change, counterterrorism,
combating Iran’s nuclear program and territorial disputes in the
South China Sea, Bader said.  The visit also planned to give Obama an opportunity to
build on the outreach to the Muslim world he began last year in
Cairo.  Tomorrow, the president is scheduled to visit the Istiqlal
Mosque, Southeast Asia’s largest, and later deliver a speech
highlighting the coexistence of democracy and Islam in Indonesia.  “In a part of the world in which there’s a mix of
democracies and states that have not yet embraced democracy,
Indonesia sets a positive example,” Rhodes said.  Gibbs said it’s “unclear” which events, if any, in
Indonesia the White House would cancel and said he was hopeful
that Obama would give his address at the University of Indonesia.  Obama’s attempts to reset relations with the Muslim world
pose political risks for the president at home and abroad.  Pew Poll  A Pew Research Center poll released in August found that 18
percent of the public incorrectly believes Obama is a Muslim.
Thirty-four percent correctly identified Obama as a Christian
and 43 percent said they didn’t know his faith.  “It’s not an issue where he gains any domestic political
points,” said Stephen Grand, director of the Brookings
Institution’s Project on U.S. Relations with the Islamic World.
“He seems to understand that at the end of the day, we’re not
going to eliminate al-Qaeda until we’re seen as a partner of
Muslims around the world rather than a country that’s at war
with Muslims.”  At the same time, there’s been increased disillusionment in
parts of the Muslim world that Obama’s actions, particularly on
the Middle East peace process, haven’t matched the expectations
he set in his June 2009 speech at Cairo University in Egypt,
Grand said.  The  Pew Research Center’s Global Attitudes Project 
conducted April and May of this year found that the opinion of
the U.S. in Muslim countries has slipped since last year. It’s
still higher than it was under former President  George W. Bush .  President Suharto  The president is scheduled to use the speech to talk about
his impressions growing up there, and why he believes, as he
wrote in 2006, that “Indonesia serves as a useful metaphor for
the world beyond our borders” because of the intersecting
streams of globalization and sectarianism, poverty and wealth,
modernity and antiquity.  Obama first arrived in Indonesia at a turning point for the
nation -- two years after a 1965 coup in which more than 500,000
people were killed, most accused of having ties to communists,
and as President  Suharto  came to power.  The former dictator, who died in 2008, left a legacy of
stability and economic growth. Indonesia’s economy expanded 6.1
percent annually in the 1980s, making it among the 10 fastest
growing, according to the World Bank.  Obama said he was able to see some of the newfound
prosperity firsthand before his mother, Ann Dunham, sent him
back to Hawaii to live with his grandparents when he was 10.  And while Obama periodically returned for short visits, he
wondered four years ago what he would find when he visited
Indonesia again, saying he was worried that “the land of my
childhood will no longer match my memories.”  At least today he’ll have Secret Service agents to protect
him from water buffalo.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Julianna Goldman  in New Delhi at 
 jgoldman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net  