-- Obama Supports India's Attempt for Permanent Seat on UN Security Council
-- B y   J u l i a n n a   G o l d m a n   a n d   J a m e s   R u p e r t
-- 2010-11-08T20:29:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-08/obama-caps-india-visit-by-backing-it-for-seat-on-u-n-security-council.html
U.S. President Barack Obama ends
three days in India today after capping his appeal for a
strategic partnership by endorsing the country’s bid for a
permanent United Nations Security Council seat.  Obama’s backing, in a speech to parliament, came with his
call for more vigorous policies in East Asia and on human rights
that Indian analysts and retired diplomats said might lead their
country to more outspoken criticism of China.  Obama’s statements will ease Indians’ “fears that he was
not committed to the partnership,” said Ashley Tellis, a South
Asia analyst with the Washington-based  Carnegie Endowment for
International Peace . His visit will help establish “that there
is an essential continuity in American policy toward India,”
Tellis said on India’s CNN-IBN television channel.  While the government of Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh 
shouldn’t shy away from a close relationship with the U.S.,
India’s “specific interests will have to be measured” on
individual issues, said former foreign secretary Salman Haider.  Obama is scheduled to fly to Indonesia today after telling
India’s  parliament  that, “in the years ahead, I look forward to
a reformed U.N. Security Council that includes India as a
permanent member.” The lawmakers applauded that idea and
Obama’s reiteration that neighboring Pakistan must shut down
“terrorist safe havens” and bring to justice those who plotted
the 2008 guerrilla attack that killed 166 people in Mumbai.  High-Tech Trade  The president’s speech followed three days of talks with
business leaders and Singh’s government that Obama said had
yielded agreements that will support thousands of U.S. jobs and
spur trade in high-tech goods. He touted his administration’s
decision to relax export controls on space and defense
technology for India as an example of how the U.S. now sees
India as a partner.  Obama linked India’s candidacy for a permanent U.N.
Security Council seat to its policies on global human rights,
saying “if I can be frank, in international fora,  India  has
often avoided these issues. But speaking up for those who cannot
do so for themselves is not interfering in the affairs of other
countries.”  The president criticized human rights violations by India’s
neighbor, Myanmar, also known as Burma, whose ruling general,
 Than Shwe , met Singh in July in a state visit criticized by the
Paris-based  International Federation for Human Rights . Obama
said Myanmar’s army had stolen the Nov. 7 elections there, the
first in 20 years, as fighting broke out yesterday in the
country’s east.  China Policy  While a tougher Indian stance on human rights in East Asia
also might address the Chinese government, India has made clear
that “we have no desire to exclude China” in international
relations, said former ambassador G. Parthasarathy, an Indian
foreign policy analyst.  Obama’s trip to Asia has focused on opening foreign markets
to U.S. goods and his administration is working to complete a
revised free-trade pact with South Korea, which has been stalled
for three years, during his visit to Seoul later this week.  Obama yesterday called for expanded trade and reiterated
his support for the stalled Doha Round of the World Trade
Organization. India and the U.S. should keep striving for an
agreement “that is ambitious and balanced -- with the courage
to make the compromises that are necessary so global trade works
for all economies,” Obama said.  Pakistan Diplomacy  Obama aligned the U.S. with France and the U.K. in backing
India for a permanent place on the Security Council. The move
“will bring a positive, emotional response from Indians,” and
will strengthen Singh in domestically unpopular efforts to
continue diplomacy with Pakistan, said  Sumit Ganguly , an Indian-
American political science professor at Indiana University who
is living in New Delhi.  “Singh has been acting against his entire cabinet, and
against elite and popular opinion, in continuing to reach out to
Pakistan” since the 2008 attack on Mumbai by Pakistani Islamic
militant guerrillas, Ganguly said in a phone interview. Obama’s
support “might help Singh get the support of his cabinet
colleagues for these overtures,” he said.  Pakistan’s foreign ministry said in an e-mailed statement
that the president’s initiative “adds to the complexity” of
restructuring the Security Council. Pakistan has opposed a more
prominent role at the United Nations for the country with which
it has fought three wars since its independence in 1947.  Defense, Space  Details of an enlarged Indian role at the United Nations
will have to be worked out as part of a broad effort to
restructure the Security Council, a debate that’s been under way
for two decades. U.S. Undersecretary of State  William Burns 
declined today to give a timeline for the process and didn’t say
whether the U.S. would push for India to wield the veto power
currently held only by the U.S., France, U.K., China and Russia.  “India is a worthy candidate,” Russian Ambassador  Vitaly Churkin  said in an interview at the United Nations in New York.
Asked whether Obama’s announcement would spur movement in
stalled talks on expanding the Security Council, Churkin said
“there does need to be quite a bit of shaking” up of the
negotiations.  The makeup of the council largely reflects the post-World
War II world order. Along with the five veto-wielding permanent
members, the Security Council includes 10 nations elected to
two-year terms.  Push for Inclusion  Brazil, India, Japan and Germany are pushing for permanent
seats, based on their growing economic power, and African
nations say the need for better geographic representation call
for one or more governments in their region to assume a veto-
wielding seat. Proposals have included as many as 12 new
members.  Brazil and Japan are currently serving as elected members
to the Security Council. Germany and India were elected last
month to two-year terms that begin Jan. 1.  As part of agreements reached during Obama’s stay, the U.S.
will support India’s full membership in multilateral nuclear
non-proliferation regimes and remove India’s defense and space
organizations from the U.S. “entities list,” which restricts
them from doing business with the U.S.  Indian officials had been asking the administration to
remove the country’s companies and organizations from the list,
a designation that punished the South Asian country for
detonating a nuclear device in 1998.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Julianna Goldman  in Mumbai at 
 jgoldman6@bloomberg.net ;
 James Rupert  in New Delhi at 
 jrupert3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Austin at 
 billaustin@bloomberg.net  