-- Tocom Open to Merger as Japan Aims to Integrate Exchanges, President Says
-- B y   A y a   T a k a d a   a n d   Y a s u m a s a   S o n g
-- 2010-11-08T08:29:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-08/tocom-open-to-merger-as-japan-aims-to-integrate-exchanges-president-says.html
Tokyo Commodity Exchange Inc. ,
Japan’s largest raw-material bourse, is open to merger talks
with other exchanges as the government considers creating a one-
stop exchange for financial products, its president said.  The exchange, known as Tocom, once the second-largest
commodities bourse after the New York Mercantile Exchange,
ranked 11th last year and was surpassed by China’s Shanghai and
Dalian exchanges. The government has started discussions on
whether to combine securities, currencies and commodities
bourses by 2013 to boost trade and remain competitive, Tocom
President  Tadashi Ezaki  said in an interview in Tokyo.  “We welcome the government’s move,” Ezaki said. “I think
nobody will oppose the integration if we become confident
through the discussion that it will contribute to revitalizing
trade.”  The value of China’s stock market surged above Japan’s to
become the second-biggest last month, behind the U.S. China now
has a capitalization of about $3.96 trillion compared with
Japan’s $3.65 trillion. Hong Kong surpassed Japan for the first
time as Asia’s most-lucrative market for stock lenders, boosted
by investor demand for Chinese securities in short sales.  Vice ministers for financial services, trade and
agriculture created a team on Oct. 28 to work on exchange-
integration details proposed by Prime Minister  Naoto Kan ’s
cabinet. They plan to compile an interim report by the end of
this year after conducting hearings from related parties.  The ministers will hold the team’s next meeting tomorrow,
according to the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry.  ‘No Other Options’  “As shrinking trade in commodities futures is undermining
earnings of domestic exchanges, and as there are no signs of
recovery in the near future, they may have no other options but
to merge with larger financial bourses,” said  Shuji Sugata ,
research manager at Mitsubishi Corp. Futures Ltd. in Tokyo.  The Financial Services Agency supervises securities and
financial futures bourses including  Tokyo Financial Exchange Inc .
Tocom is under the control of the trade ministry, while
agricultural futures are supervised by the farm ministry.  Consolidation of Japan’s commodity markets is progressing
as the number of raw-material bourses has dropped to four from
seven in 2005, when the government tightened regulations over
sales of riskier financial assets to individuals, leading to a
slump in futures trading by retail investors, Sugata said.  The number will decline further as the  Central Japan
Commodity Exchange , the nation’s third-largest commodities
bourse, will cease operations by the end of January after
handing over energy futures trade to Tocom.  Slumping Volumes  Tocom may agree with the  Tokyo Grain Exchange  to take over
agricultural futures trading next year as the two exchanges plan
to integrate their trading systems in January, Ezaki said. The
grain exchange lost 712 million yen ($8.8 million) last fiscal
year after booking its first loss in 29 years in the year ended
March 31, 2009, because of slumping volumes.  Tocom trades gold, silver, platinum, palladium, rubber,
gasoline, kerosene, gas oil and crude oil. The grain exchange
trades products including corn, soybeans, coffee and raw sugar.
The  Kansai Commodities Exchange , another agricultural commodity
bourse based in the western Japanese city of Osaka, represented
0.2 percent of total volumes of the four exchanges last year.  Tocom had a 1.1 billion-yen loss last fiscal year after
becoming unprofitable in the year ended March 31, 2009, for the
first time since it began operating in 1984. The exchange may
post a loss again this fiscal year, Ezaki said on Nov. 4.  “We are very concerned about the future of the market” as
the government will further tighten regulations over the
industry next year, said  Jitsuo Tatara , the chairman of Tokyo-
based commodity broker Yutaka Shoji Co.  Trading volumes may shrink further as the government will
ban sales by brokers to individuals who have no intention to
invest in commodities futures, he added.  Volumes  at Tocom slumped by 30 percent from a year earlier
to 28.9 million contracts in 2009, the fifth year of decline in
six. From the peak in 2003, volumes tumbled by 67 percent.  In the first nine months of the year, volumes amounted to
20.5 million contracts, down from 21 million in the same period
last year. Overseas participants represented 13.6 percent of
total turnover, according to the exchange.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Aya Takada  in Tokyo at 
 atakada2@bloomberg.net ;
 Yasumasa Song  in Tokyo at 
 ysong9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  