-- Ohio GMAC Foreclosure Case May Set Anti-Wall Street Precedent
-- B y   M i c h a e l   R i l e y
-- 2010-11-08T20:06:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-08/ohio-gmac-foreclosure-case-may-set-a-precedent-for-punishing-wall-street.html
When James Renfro had to stop making
payments on his two-story fixer-upper in Parma, Ohio, a suburb
of Cleveland, he triggered events that were supposed to result
in the forced sale of his home.  That Nov. 15 auction has been canceled because of defects
in documents submitted by his loan servicer,  Ally Financial 
Inc.’s GMAC Mortgage unit. Two affidavits about Renfro’s home
were signed by Jeffrey Stephan, a GMAC employee who said in
sworn depositions in Florida and Maine that he hadn’t read
thousands of affidavits he’d signed.  Renfro’s case has created a showdown between GMAC and
Ohio’s Attorney General  Richard Cordray . Cordray has asked
Cuyahoga County Court of Common Pleas Judge Nancy Russo not to
let GMAC simply submit new documents to cure defects without
consequences. He’s taken the same stand against  Wells Fargo  &
Co., which has said it found defects in 55,000 foreclosures.  “This is just the first,” said Cordray, who filed an
amicus, or friend-of-the-court, brief in the Renfro case. He
argued that Russo should punish GMAC, the fourth-largest U.S.
mortgage lender, for its conduct.  The judge today in Cleveland set an accelerated schedule
for evidence-gathering in the case, leading up to a Feb. 17
hearing on the integrity of the loan documents. Cordray’s office
plans to file a motion tomorrow asking to take part in the case
and participate in so-called discovery.  Allegations of Fraud  The precedent set by the case might hasten a settlement
between home lenders and the attorneys general of the 50 U.S.
states, who are investigating allegations of fraud in
foreclosure filings. Those being probed include San-Francisco-
based Wells Fargo, which has said it will re-file foreclosure
affidavits involving statements that “did not strictly adhere
to the required procedures.”  In potentially thousands of cases across the U.S., judges
have the power to impose “sanctions, penalties, fines and even
default,” as the banks try to submit substitute paperwork to
proceed with flawed foreclosures, Cordray said.  “The banks want to wish this away and pretend like it
doesn’t exist,” he said.  In September, Detroit-based Ally briefly suspended
foreclosures in 23 states where there is judicial review and
later announced an independent survey of foreclosure proceedings
that would extend nationwide. After a review, the company began
reinstating proceedings in cases it said didn’t involve errors.  ‘Facts of Default’  “The underlying facts of default in this case are not in
dispute,”  Jim Olecki , a spokesman for Ally, said of the
foreclosure of Renfro’s home. “We only pursued foreclosure
after all other home preservation options had been exhausted.”  Ally disputes assertions Cordray made in his amicus brief
in the Renfro case.  “To date, we have found no evidence of any inappropriate
foreclosures,” Olecki said.  Tom Goyda, a spokesman for Wells Fargo, said the lender
would go ahead with plans to re-submit thousands of affidavits
in cases nationwide, including Ohio. When judges seek
information on documents already filed, “we will work with them
to meet their concerns,” Goyda said.  The 50-state investigation is focused on uncovering the
scope of tainted foreclosures, including how many so-called
robo-signers processed documents they didn’t review, Cordray
said. So far, investigators have identified “double figures of
robo-signers” working on behalf of lenders such as  JPMorgan
Chase & Co.  and  Bank of America Corp. , he said.  Suspended Foreclosures  Such banks are conducting their own reviews to spot errors
and determine how many cases with defects are involved. GMAC’s
Stephan testified to signing as many as 10,000 documents a
month. New York-based JPMorgan initially suspended foreclosures
in 23 states affecting 56,000 cases to review potentially faulty
documents.  Among the least appealing scenarios for the lenders is that
affected cases will have to be examined, like the Renfro case,
in individual courtrooms across the country, with the
possibility of thousands of judges questioning robo-signers and
other loan processing officials.  Renfro’s lawyer, Harold Williams, said he will ask to
depose GMAC’s Stephan, among others. GMAC said in a filing
withdrawing the sale of Renfro’s four-bedroom home from auction
that “verification irregularities may have occurred.”  Judge Russo said in an interview that until hearing the
evidence, she has no way of telling whether the documents
represent an error, negligence, or fraud, and that other judges
will have to make the same time-consuming inquiries.  ‘10,000 Hearings’  “If Ohio has 10,000 of these cases, there should be 10,000
hearings,” Russo said. “I’m sympathetic to the fact that it’s
onerous for the lenders, but I still have to do my job.”  The judge said she will hear arguments related to the
integrity of the documents, how GMAC identified specific cases
in which documents may be flawed, and what remediation steps the
loan servicer and lender are taking. If she determines the
circumstances rise to the level of fraud, GMAC could be found in
contempt of court, Russo said.  “You’ll probably have different resolutions in different
cases from different judges,” she said. “This is not going to
be solved in a couple of months. The long-term effects are
phenomenal.”  Russo’s court on the 18th floor of Cleveland’s sprawling
Justice Center has been inundated with foreclosures as the
city’s declining economy was exacerbated by the subprime
mortgage crisis. A projected 12,553 foreclosures will be filed
in surrounding Cuyahoga County in 2010, the most of any county
in Ohio.  Renfro’s House  One of those cases already filed involved Renfro’s house on
Klusner Avenue, which he purchased in 2005 for $114,900. An
affidavit in support of a summary judgment motion to authorize
foreclosure was done by Stephan, who is identified as a limited
signing officer for GMAC Mortgage LLC.  Renfro had fallen five months behind in his payments by the
time GMAC, the loan servicer for U.S. Bancorp, moved for
foreclosure early this year, he said. An effort to reach a
settlement with the lender failed because of Renfro’s high
credit-card and other debt, and his $22,000-a-year salary as an
auto mechanic, according to Williams, the Renfro lawyer who is
with the Legal Aid Society of Cleveland.  “Once you get so far down, it’s such a struggle to get
back up,” said Renfro, 36, who lives in the house with his
girlfriend, stepson and 7-year-old daughter, who is deaf.  The nearby school is one of only two in the metro area that
can provide Renfro’s daughter with a sign-language translator
during the school day, he said.  Deaf Daughter  “It’s quiet,” said Renfro, who is following the GMAC-
Cordray battle in Russo’s court. “If something finally goes my
way, it will be such a relief. There’s a park at the end of the
street. I wanted a safe sidewalk so she could ride her bike.
Normal, typical things, I guess. I’m just trying to get back on
track.”  Judges in Russo’s jurisdiction last week drafted new
guidelines for dealing with robo-signers, following similar
efforts in states such as New York. Under the new rules,
attorneys for lenders would have to sign an affidavit swearing
that they have communicated with a representative of the party
seeking foreclosure and have been informed that an official
“has personally reviewed the documents and records relating to
this case,” according to a draft copy.  The policy will apply to pending cases, and an affidavit
will have to be signed before a judgment is entered, said
Stephen M. Bucha, the chief magistrate.  “The hope is that will preclude any robo-signing in the
future, so that we don’t see a repeat of the problem,” Bucha
said.  Future Sales  Bucha and other Cuyahoga County judges said they fear
document foreclosure defects may give former homeowners a claim
on the title that will affect future sales. That scenario fuels
Judge Russo’s sense of urgency to sort out problems now, she
said.  “If courts around the country do not handle this on an
individual case basis and there are later problems with the
title, the courts will have participated with the clouding of
the title,” Russo said. “The potential for harm is so immense
at so many levels.”  The case is U.S. Bank National Association v. Renfro, 10-
716322, Ohio Court of Common Pleas for Cuyahoga County
(Cleveland).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Riley  in Cleveland at   michaelriley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 