-- Oil Drops From Two-Year High Amid Forecasts U.S. Stockpiles of Crude Rose
-- B y   Y e e   K a i   P i n   a n d   A n n   K o h
-- 2010-11-09T07:49:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-08/oil-drops-from-two-year-high-amid-forecasts-u-s-stockpiles-of-crude-rose.html
Oil declined in New York for the
first time in seven days as analysts forecast U.S. crude
inventories climbed to the highest in 18 months and a
strengthening dollar curbed the appeal of commodities.  Futures dropped before an Energy Department report tomorrow
that may show crude stockpiles in the U.S., the world’s largest
oil user,  increased  1.75 million barrels last week from 368.2
million, according to a Bloomberg News survey of analysts. That
would take them to the highest level since May 2009. The dollar
climbed to a one-week high against the euro.  “The last couple of days have shown that maybe the rally
is running out of steam,” said  Victor Shum , a senior principal
at U.S. energy consultants Purvin & Gertz Inc. in Singapore.
“The fundamentals have been weak in the U.S.”  Crude for December delivery fell as much as 62 cents, or
0.7 percent, to $86.44 a barrel in electronic trading on the New
York Mercantile Exchange. It was at $86.84 at 3:45 p.m.
Singapore time. Yesterday, the contract rose 21 cents to $87.06,
the highest settlement since Oct. 8, 2008.  Futures, which surged 78 percent in 2009, have gained 9.4
percent this year. Prices rallied in the past six days, matching
the longest rising streak since April.  The dollar increased for a third day versus the euro as
speculation that European nations will struggle to raise funds
reduced demand for the region’s assets.  Inverse Correlation  Oil has increasingly moved in the opposite direction to the
dollar. New York crude futures showed a correlation of minus
0.79 with the currency today, dropping from 0.54 on May 4,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. A correlation of minus
1 means the two moved in opposite directions and 1 signals they
moved in tandem.  “There continues to be the inverse correlation between the
U.S. dollar movements and the oil price,” said  Ben Westmore , a
minerals and energy economist at National Australia Bank Ltd. in
Melbourne. “Crude stocks are still relatively high.”  U.S.  crude stockpiles  have increased for three weeks to 14
percent above the five-year average level, as refiners cut
processing to the lowest rate since March, the Energy Department
said last week.  Gasoline  inventories probably decreased 1 million barrels
in the week ended Nov. 5 from 212.3 million, according to the
Bloomberg News survey.  Distillate fuel  stockpiles, including
heating oil and diesel, are expected to have fallen 2.1 million
barrels from 164.9 million, the survey showed.  The Energy Department will release its Weekly Petroleum
Status Report at 10:30 a.m. tomorrow in Washington. The
industry-funded American Petroleum Institute will publish its
own data today.  Relative Strength  Oil declined as a technical indicator used by traders
signaled a change in price direction. The December contract’s
14-day relative strength index is above 67 today, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. A reading near 70 indicates a price
is set to retreat, while 30 suggests it may recover.  Brent crude for December delivery declined as much as 46
cents, or 0.5 percent, to $88 a barrel on the London-based ICE
Futures exchange. Yesterday, the contract rose 35 cents, or 0.4
percent, to settle at $88.46.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ann Koh  in Singapore at 
 akoh15@bloomberg.net ;
 Yee Kai Pin  in Singapore at 
 kyee13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jane Lee in Kuala Lumpur at 
 jalee@bloomberg.net . 