-- Spill Panel Found No Evidence BP Put Cost Over Safety
-- B y   J i m   E f s t a t h i o u   J r .   a n d   J o e   C a r r o l l
-- 2010-11-08T21:14:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-08/oil-spill-commission-so-far-finds-no-evidence-bp-hurried-work-to-save-cash.html
The U.S. panel investigating the  BP
Plc  oil spill found no evidence decisions were made to put
profit ahead of safety on the drilling rig, its co-chairman
said.  Environmental groups and lawmakers have said BP cut corners
to reduce costs as the company sought to complete the doomed
well that was $58.4 million over budget and move the Deepwater
Horizon  rig  leased from Transocean Ltd. to another project. The
U.S. House in July passed legislation that would bar BP from
offshore drilling leases based on safety lapses.  “We certainly found no evidence that anyone had scrimped
on safety, for example, to save money,”  William Reilly , co-
chairman of the  National Commission on the BP Deepwater Horizon
Oil Spill , told reporters at a break in the commission’s meeting
in Washington. He later said, “What we have really heard today
is a story of what appears to be several very human decisions
made by competent professionals who missed signals.”  The panel released preliminary findings today on causes of
the blowout, which killed 11 workers, spewed crude into the Gulf
for 87 days and shut thousands of square miles to fishing. Last
month, the commission appointed by President Barack Obama said
cement recommended by  Halliburton Co ., the world’s second-
largest oilfield-services provider, to seal the well in April
was unstable and may have led to the largest U.S. offshore oil
spill.  “There were a series of challenges that had to be
addressed,” said Reilly, a former head of the Environmental
Protection Agency. “It looks as though, by and large, almost
every one of the responses to those challenges was justifiable
and professional.”  ‘Plus’ For BP  “It’s a plus for BP,” said  Philip Weiss , an analyst at
Argus Research Corp. in New York who owns BP shares and has a
hold rating on the stock. Cost-cutting is “certainly an
accusation a lot of people have made in the aftermath of this
disaster,” Weiss said.  Stuart Smith, a New Orleans lawyer for clients claiming
economic damages from the spill, said the panel’s report is
“not going to change anything because the presidential
commission’s findings are not going to be admissable at any
trial. From our engineers’ reviews of the documents so far, it
is clear that profit motives played a part in every aspect of
this well.”  Representative Edward Markey, a Massachusetts Democrat,
said in a statement that BP’s culture “favors risk-taking and
cutting corners above other concerns” and failures such as the
Gulf blowout “result without direct decisions being made or
tradeoffs being considered.”  BP Shares Fall  BP’s American depositary shares, each representing six
ordinary shares, fell 56 cents, or 1.3 percent, to $43.23 at 4
p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite  trading . Halliburton
rose 4.7 percent to $33.43 and Transocean rose 4.9 percent to
$67, the biggest advance for both companies in two months.  Panel Chief Counsel Fred Bartlit, who presented the
preliminary findings, touched on the role of BP’s wells-team
leader,  John Guide , who vetoed a proposal to install equipment
that may have kept explosive natural gas from seeping into the
well and jetting up to the floating rig.  Guide discounted results of computer-generated modeling
that showed a potential defect with cement used to keep natural
gas from seeping into the well, Bartlit said.  “From time to time, cement jobs are not perfect,” Bartlit
said. “They were running these cement models and the BP man in
charge didn’t think they were worth much. We’re not saying that
it was right or wrong or that that caused any problem.”  Engineers Faulted  London-based BP faulted its own engineers for the fatal
drilling-rig blast in an internal investigation of the April 20
explosion, and said contractors Transocean and Halliburton share
the blame.  Bartlit  said today the panel agrees with “about 90
percent” of BP’s findings.  “We have not seen a single instance where a human being
made a conscious decision to favor dollars to safety,” Bartlit
said.  BP’s report was compiled by a team of investigators who
reported to  Mark Bly , the company’s chief of safety, who
appeared before the commission. Bartlit said the choice of well
design didn’t contribute to the blowout, a finding that
corroborates BP’s internal inquiry.  Many disagreements between BP and contractors such as
Halliburton and Transocean over how to proceed in the days and
hours before the catastrophe probably were driven by differences
of engineering judgment rather than cost concerns, said Weiss,
the Argus analyst.  Companies’ Role  “Based upon what we know, and these are preliminary
findings, there are three companies that had some part in the
decisions that contributed to what happened that evening on the
rig,” Reilly said, referring to BP, Halliburton and Transocean.  Investors and oil-industry analysts are watching the
inquiry panel, which is due to submit its final report in
January, and a Coast Guard-Interior Department board scheduled
to complete a separate probe by late March for signs of who may
bear liability for the disaster, Weiss said. Beyond the
government panels, state and federal courts probably will take
years to resolve the issue, he said.  Bartlit’s investigators have had to seek cooperation from
witnesses without being able to issue subpoenas to compel
testimony. Co-Chairman Bob Graham, a Democrat and former U.S.
senator from Florida, said the panel will ask Congress this
month to approve subpoena power.  Halliburton was ordered by a federal judge in New Orleans
to turn over cement used on the Deepwater Horizon to
investigators from the U.S. Chemical Safety and Hazard
Investigation Board.  Chevron Tests  Preliminary findings from the spill commission’s staff show
Halliburton conducted at least three tests of similar mixtures,
in February and April, showing the recipe wasn’t stable.
Separate tests by  Chevron Corp ., using material supplied by
Houston-based Halliburton, couldn’t generate a stable mixture in
a laboratory, according to an Oct. 28 staff letter.  Halliburton said in a statement that differences between
internal cement tests and the commission’s test results “may be
due to differences in the cement materials tested.”  Richard Vargo, Halliburton’s Gulf of Mexico regional
manager, said today that explosive gas seeped up around the
outside of the steel pipe lining the well, rather than through
gaps in cement at the bottom of the hole and through the center.
BP has said gas seeped up the middle of the pipe  “I disagree with that,” Vargo said at the hearing.  Well Declared Shut  The Bureau of Ocean Energy Management, the agency that
oversees offshore drilling, said today the plugging of the
Macondo well was complete. The well was declared dead on Sept.
19, and pressure tests have verified the integrity of the nine
plugs used to kill the well, the agency said.  Also today, BP named Frank L. “Skip” Bowman and Brendan
Nelson as non-executive directors as the company seeks to
restore its reputation following the spill.  Bowman rose to the rank of admiral during 38 years in the
U.S. Navy during which he specialized in nuclear reactors.
Nelson is a non-executive director of Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jim Efstathiou Jr . in New York at 
 jefstathiou@bloomberg.net ;
 Joe Carroll  in Chicago at 
 jcarroll8@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at   lliebert@bloomberg.net . 