-- Olympics Construction Bet Sparks Surge in Odebrecht Bonds: Brazil Credit
-- B y   G a b r i e l l e   C o p p o l a   a n d   F e l i p e   F r i s c h
-- 2010-11-08T22:37:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-08/olympics-construction-bet-sparks-surge-in-odebrecht-bonds-brazil-credit.html
Bonds sold by  Odebrecht SA , the
construction company planning Brazil’s biggest overseas debt
sale this year, are outperforming the country’s corporate notes
on bets it will benefit from government infrastructure projects.  The yield on Odebrecht’s bonds due in 2020 sank 40 basis
points, or 0.40 percentage point, in the past month, outpacing a
decline of 17 for Brazilian corporate debt tracked by JPMorgan
Chase & Co. The company’s planned $1.5 billion offering will be
the single-biggest issue since a $2.5 billion sale by state-run
oil producer Petroleo Brasileiro SA in October 2009, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Odebrecht, Latin America’s largest engineering and
construction company by sales, is seeking to tap into Brazil’s
plan to invest  955 billion reais  ($570 billion) on urban
transport, sewage, homebuilding and electricity and water
distribution as it prepares to host the World Cup in 2014 and
Olympic games in 2016. President-elect  Dilma Rousseff  has also
pledged to rebuild roads, ports, railways, power plants and
electricity distribution lines to bolster growth in Latin
America’s biggest economy.  “Odebrecht is one of the largest construction companies in
the country and is well positioned to take advantage of all
that’s going to happen,” said  Natalia Corfield , a corporate
debt analyst at ING Groep INV in New York.  Odebrecht’s 7 percent bonds are also beating emerging-
market corporate debt, which posted a yield decline of 9 basis
points in the past month, according to JPMorgan. The yield on
high-yield and investment-grade corporate bonds in the U.S.
dropped 13 basis points during the same period, Bank of America
Merrill Lynch indexes show.  Ratings Increase  The prospect of a ratings increase and debt yields that are
higher than peers suggest Odebrecht’s bonds have more room to
rally, Corfield, who recommends investors buy the securities,
said. Standard & Poor’s may boost the Salvador-based company’s
rating one level to BB+ before the end of the year, she said.  Reginaldo Takara , an analyst at S&P in Sao Paulo, didn’t
respond to a request for comment.  At 5.54 percent, Odebrecht’s notes yield 37 basis points
more than 10-year bonds issued by  Cia Siderurgica Nacional SA ,
Brazil’s third-biggest steelmaker. The companies are both rated
BBB-, the lowest investment grade, by Fitch Ratings.  “These guys will have a lot of business going forward,”
said  Edgardo Sternberg , an emerging-market debt strategist at
Boston-based Loomis Sayles & Co., which manages about $140
billion in assets. “You buy all these construction companies,
cement companies and steelmaking companies, and you’ve bought
growth. It’s a growth story.”  Economic Growth  Brazil’s economy may expand 7.6 percent this year, the
fastest pace since 1985, according to a central bank survey of
about 100 economists published Nov. 1.  Odebrecht’s construction projects in Venezuela and Africa
are also helping lure investors to its bonds, according to Jayme
Fonseca, director of finance of the company’s engineering and
construction unit. Odebrecht has contracts to build an
electricity grid in Venezuela and service mining exploration by
Vale SA, the world’s biggest iron ore producer, and steel
producer ArcelorMittal in Africa, he said.  “Since we have an important position in infrastructure in
Latin America and Africa, we are seen as an alternative
investment that allows investors to capture this positive cycle
in the sector in these countries,” Fonseca said in a telephone
interview from Sao Paulo.  Odebrecht Oleo e Gas, the company’s oil and gas unit, will
issue the new 10-year bonds and use proceeds of the sale to
refinance debt related to the construction and operation of two
deepwater drill ships that have been chartered by Petrobras,
said Marco Rabello, the unit’s head of structured finance. Banco
do Brasil SA, Banco Santander SA, Deutsche Bank AG and HSBC
Holdings Plc are arranging the sale, he said.  Riskier  Investors will be paid with future revenue from the
deepwater drilling project and will have claims on the ships as
security, according to Fitch.  The bonds may be riskier than conventional notes because
payments are contingent upon the completion of the ships and
their value as assets, as well as Odebrecht remaining the
operator of the drill ships, according to Barclays Plc.  “When you’re talking about a project that’s not even on
the ground yet, everything is a projection,” said  Juan Cruz , a
corporate bond analyst with Barclays in New York. “The value is
going to be in the asset itself but the asset is only valuable
if you can monetize it.”  The extra yield investors demand to hold Brazilian
government dollar bonds instead of U.S. securities rose five
basis points to 179 at 5:13 p.m. in New York, according to
JPMorgan.  Default Swaps  Yields on Brazil’s interest-rate futures contract due in
January 2013 rose four basis points to 11.92 percent. The real
fell 1.2 percent to 1.7003 per dollar.  The cost of protecting Brazilian debt against non-payment
for five years with credit-default swaps jumped three basis
points to 97, the biggest daily increase in nearly three weeks,
according to data compiled by CMA DataVision. Credit-default
swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for the underlying
securities or the cash equivalent should a government or company
fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  Odebrecht is considering forming partnerships and selling
shares in initial public offerings, finance director Fonseca
said Sept. 3. Potential public offerings also include stadiums
for the World Cup and Olympics, in which the group will act as
an investor with the right to operate projects after their
construction, he said.  “The sector itself is going to go through a big expansion
in the next years,” ING’s Corfield said. “Odebrecht is an
excellent company.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Gabrielle Coppola  in New York at 
 gcoppola@bloomberg.net ;
 Felipe Frisch  in Sao Paulo at 
 ffrisch1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  