-- OMV Said to Prefer Bond Over Share Sale for Turkey Bid
-- B y   B o r i s   G r o e n d a h l   a n d   Z o e   S c h n e e w e i s s
-- 2010-11-08T17:54:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-08/omv-said-to-prefer-bonds-over-share-sale-to-finance-buying-petrol-ofisi.html
OMV AG  prefers the sale of hybrid or
convertible bonds over a share issue to fund its 1 billion-euro
($1.4 billion) purchase of Turkey’s biggest fuel retailer  Petrol
Ofisi AS , two people with knowledge of the matter said.  Central Europe’s largest oil company will decide on one of
the options within the next two weeks, said one of the people,
who like the other asked not to be identified because the talks
are private. A bond sale is preferred because it will allow the
Austrian government to keep its 31.5 percent holding without
committing more cash, the people said.  OMV is expanding in emerging markets where demand is
growing faster than in Europe. The company on Oct. 22 agreed to
take over Petrol Ofisi by buying a 54 percent stake from  Dogan
Sirketler Grubu Holding AS  for 1 billion euros, taking its
holding to 96 percent. The company has said that it wants to
fund the acquisition in a way that keeps its “strong investment
grade”  credit rating  intact.  Moody’s Investors Services said on Oct. 26 that OMV’s A3
rating may be at risk if the purchase is funded entirely with
debt. Fitch Ratings placed its A- rating on Watch Negative on
Oct. 25 and said it may downgrade OMV one step if the
acquisition is largely debt-funded.  The shares  rose  1.2 percent to 27.33 euros at the 5.30 p.m.
close of trading in Vienna, valuing OMV at 8.2 billion euros.  Capital Discipline  “OMV is committed to strict capital discipline and intends
to fund this acquisition by accessing the most appropriate
sources of long-term capital,”  Michaela Huber , a spokeswoman
for OMV in Vienna, said in an e-mailed statement today.  The option to sell new shares is limited by OMV’s
shareholder structure, the people said. OMV is  controlled  by the
Austrian government, which owns 31.5 percent, and International
Petroleum Investment Co. of Abu Dhabi, which has 20 percent. The
two have pooled their voting rights in a syndicate. A
convertible or hybrid bond would allow the government, which is
cutting spending to reduce its budget deficit, to maintain its
stake without investing in a share issue, the people said.  OMV Chief Executive  Wolfgang Ruttenstorfer  said in a
conference call on Oct. 25 that OMV was still determining
whether to sell shares or hybrid or convertible bonds to finance
the deal. The company has shareholder permission to sell as many
as 77.9 million new shares, or 26 percent of the outstanding, or
to issue bonds convertible into the same amount of shares.  Hybrids  Hybrid bonds are treated partly as equity because they
typically have no set redemption date and are repaid after
senior creditors. They allow companies to raise capital without
hurting credit ratings and diluting the shares. Investors, who
had shunned them during the credit crisis, began to snap them up
again this year, when sales jumped to a five-year high of at
least 5.2 billion euros in Europe.  Convertible bonds are also often subordinated to senior
debt and can be redeemed with shares rather than cash under
certain conditions. They potentially cause dilution for existing
shareholders at a later date.  Petrol Ofisi  had net income of 287 million Turkish Lira
($203 million) last year with its network of about 2,500 filling
stations. OMV expects oil consumption in Turkey to rise by 14
percent by 2015, compared with a 2 percent decline in central
Europe. OMV has been a shareholder in Petrol Ofisi since 2006,
when it bought a 34 percent stake for $1.1 billion.  Last month’s acquisition announcement was the second time
OMV tried to take over Petrol Ofisi. An initial attempt last
year was ended because of a tax dispute between Dogan and the
Turkish government. At the time OMV was said to have hired
JPMorgan Chase & Co., Barclays Bank Plc and UniCredit SpA to
manage an 800 million-euro share sale.  The company has said that it is also pursuing acquisitions
to boost its oil production, without revealing what targets it
is considering. Ruttenstorfer has also said OMV may buy a stake
in Turkey’s planned $4.9 billion Ceyhan oil refinery project.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Boris Groendahl  in Vienna at 
 bgroendahl@bloomberg.net ;
 Zoe Schneeweiss  in Vienna at 
 zschneeweiss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at   acullen8@bloomberg.net  