-- Monsanto Says SmartStax Yields Trail Cheaper Corn Seed
-- B y   J a c k   K a s k e y
-- 2010-11-08T21:29:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-08/monsanto-says-smartstax-yields-trail-cheaper-corn-seed-update1-.html
Monsanto Co.,  the world’s largest
seed company, said yields from its SmartStax corn seed trailed
cheaper, lower-technology varieties by an average of 2.5 bushels
per acre, partly because insect infestations that the new seed
combats were low.  SmartStax, which has eight added genes for killing bugs and
resisting herbicide, produced 196.9 bushels of corn per acre in
all U.S. geographies, compared with 199.4 bushels for so-called
triple-stack corn, which has three added genes, St. Louis-based
Monsanto said today in a  presentation  on its website. SmartStax
had a 3.6-bushel advantage in northern regions, Monsanto said.  “We expect that performance will continue to strengthen
and widen as we launch new hybrids,” Chief Technology Officer
 Robert Fraley  said in the Web presentation. The underperformance
was mostly due to low bug damage and problems with one of the 30
hybrids in which the technology debuted, he said.  Chief Executive Officer  Hugh Grant  is betting SmartStax,
developed with Dow Chemical Co., and a new version of its
Roundup-resistant soybeans can boost earnings 13 percent to 17
percent a year and stop market-share losses to  DuPont Co.’s 
Pioneer unit. Grant plans to incorporate more genes into
SmartStax seed to make corn drought-resistant.  “SmartStax, despite a rocky start with a couple of early
hybrids, it delivered,” Grant said in the presentation. “So we
are encouraged.”  Monsanto rose 3 cents to $62.30 at 4:15 p.m. in New York
Stock Exchange  composite trading . The shares have fallen 24
percent this year.  DuPont’s Pioneer  DuPont’s Pioneer unit this year grabbed 35 percent of the
North American corn-seed market, a 3-point gain, to tie
Monsanto,  Don Carson , a New York-based analyst at Susquehanna
Financial Group, said in an Oct. 25 report. DuPont gained 5
points in the domestic soybean markets for 31 percent of the
soybean market, surpassing Monsanto, whose share dropped 3
points to 25.5 percent of the market, Carson said.  More than 15,700 comparisons show SmartStax yields trailing
Monsanto’s triple-stack corn seed, according to today’s
presentation. About 5,600 of those comparisons were planted in
the northern Corn Belt, where SmartStax topped triple-stacks,
Monsanto said. SmartStax seed next year will sell for about $8
per acre more than triple-stack seed, a smaller premium than in
2010, Monsanto said.  Infestations  Average SmartStax yields versus other technologies should
improve in years with greater infestations of insects such as
rootworm and as Monsanto increases the number of hybrids in
which SmartStax is available, Fraley said in the presentation.  SmartStax growers may gain an additional 1.5 bushels to 3
bushels of yield because the seeds can be planted with a smaller
refuge of conventional corn, Monsanto said. Regulators require
conventional corn to be sown near insect-killing corn to prevent
bugs from developing insecticide resistance.  In 2012, Monsanto plans to begin selling so-called refuge-
in-a-bag, a mixture of SmartStax seeds and conventional seeds
that eliminates the need for farmers to plant a separate refuge,
Grant said.  Monsanto said its triple-stack seed yielded 8.8 bushels per
acre more than rivals’ comparable products, and its double-stack
corn had a 7.9-bushel advantage.  Corn seed  generated $2.46
billion of gross profit in fiscal 2010, or 54 percent of the
company’s total.  Soybean Seeds  Roundup Ready 2 Yield soybean seeds, which are replacing
the original Roundup Ready soybeans introduced in 1996, produced
an average of 54 bushels per acre, or 7.6 percent more than the
older product, Monsanto said. Roundup Ready 2 soybeans struggled
to meet a forecasted yield advantage of 7 percent to 11 percent
when the seeds first became available last year.  Monsanto is trying to shift customers to the new technology
before the original beans lose patent protection in 2014.  The company said adjusted earnings in the year begun Sept.
1 will be $2.72 to $2.82 a share, repeating an Oct. 6 forecast.
The average  estimate  of 20 analysts was $2.78.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jack Kaskey  in New York at 
 jkaskey@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at   scasey@bloomberg.net . 