-- Monte Paschi Bonds to Package Amortizing Commercial Loans in Market First
-- B y   S o n i a   S i r l e t t i   a n d   E s t e b a n   D u a r t e
-- 2010-11-08T16:53:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-08/monte-paschi-bonds-to-package-amortizing-commercial-loans-in-market-first.html
Banca Monte dei Paschi di Siena SpA ,
the world’s oldest bank, is selling about 1.5 billion euros
($2.1 billion) of bonds bundling a loan on office properties.  Monte dei Paschi will offer the 20-year securities to its
retail clients over the next six weeks, said a spokeswoman at
the Siena-based lender, who declined to be identified under
company policy. It plans to offer 130 million euros of mezzanine
bonds to institutional investors, she said.  The transaction through Casaforte S.r.l. is backed by a
commercial mortgage used by investors including Axa Assicurazion
to buy 683 properties from Monte dei Paschi, Fitch Ratings said
in a Nov. 5 report. The mortgage holder has agreed to pay
interest and principal twice a year until 2030, Fitch said.  The notes are backed by a stream of interest and principal
from the property loan throughout their life, instead of the
standard structure where payment on the property loans is
collected in a lump sum at maturity, said  Giovanni Pini,  a
London-based analyst at BNP Paribas SA in London.  “The transaction is indicative of future possible deals,”
Pini said. “Refinancing, which is the main issue of existing
CMBS transactions, shouldn’t be a problem in this case.”  Just 10 of 48 European commercial mortgages maturing during
the first eight months of the year were fully repaid at their
due date, according to Standard & Poor’s data. Twenty-seven
loans are in default or standstill, and nine have been extended.  The notes will pay a half-yearly coupon of 3 percent until
2012 and a floating rate of 1.05 percent more than the six-month
 euro interbank offered rate , or euribor, thereafter, according
to a statement distributed by the Italian stock exchange.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sonia Sirletti  in Milan at 
 ssirletti@bloomberg.net 
 Esteban Duarte  in Madrid at 
 eduarterubia@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Armstrong at 
 Parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  