-- Montenegro Won't Rule Out Eurobond, Sees Renewed Growth, Vice Premier Says
-- B y   D o u g l a s   L y t l e
-- 2010-11-08T14:43:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-08/montenegro-won-t-rule-out-eurobond-sees-renewed-growth-vice-premier-says.html
Montenegro’s “fantastic” response to
its first-ever Eurobond this year means the country may return
to the markets in 2011, deputy Prime Minister Vujica Lazovic
said.  The country doesn’t need help from the International
Monetary Fund as it expects its budget deficit to narrow from
“about” 3 percent of gross domestic product in 2010 to 2.6
percent next year, Lazovic said in an interview today at a
conference in Vienna.  A decision about international bond offerings will depend
on how the economy performs, he said. The economic crisis is
“leaving” and the country is anticipating GDP growth to
accelerate to 2.5 percent next year from an estimated 0.5
percent in 2010, he said.  Montenegro, which split from Serbia in 2006, unilaterally
adopted the euro as its currency in 2002. Revenue in tourism,
which accounts for 25 percent of GDP, rose an annual 5 percent
in the first nine months of the year, a sign that the economic
crisis is easing, Lazovic said.  The government’s growth forecast trails an IMF projection
of 3.5 percent for next year, because the Cabinet wants to have
room to maneuver on fiscal policy should growth underperform or
exceed expectations, Lazovic said.  “Most certainly,” growth “will be 2.5 percent, although we
are counting on more than that,” Lazovic said, adding that for
the first time there is widespread political stability in the
region.  The Montenegrin government will focus on completing tenders
through the first half of next year to build a highway linking
the Adriatic coastline with the Serbian border and construct new
hydro-electric plants, Lazovic said.  The government will look to encourage public-private
partnerships across the economy, including the health-care
industry, port upgrades and the development of state-owned
companies.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
 Douglas Lytle  at   dlytle@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Gomez at   jagomez@bloomberg.net  