-- OptionsXpress May Pay Special Dividend by Year-End
-- B y   J e f f   K e a r n s   a n d   W h i t n e y   K i s l i n g
-- 2010-11-08T22:51:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-08/optionsxpress-may-pay-special-dividend-amid-record-cash-balance-ceo-says.html
OptionsXpress Holdings Inc., the
online broker with a  record  amount of cash, is likely to pay a
special dividend by year-end as it seeks ways to use its money
best in a “depressed” economy, Chief Executive Officer  David Fisher  said.  “This year would be an opportune time to do a special
dividend given the likely higher dividend tax rates,” Fisher,
41, said in an interview at the company’s Chicago headquarters.  Lower tax rates for capital gains and dividends enacted
under President  George W. Bush  in 2003 will expire in January
unless President  Barack Obama  and Congress extend them. The law
reduced the tax on many dividends to 15 percent from ordinary
income tax rates up to 35 percent.  The firm’s  board  of directors is considering a special
payout after its cash and near-cash assets rose to a record
$230.5 million and because of the rise in dividend taxes at the
start of next year, according to its latest quarterly release.
The company’s cash holdings have almost doubled since it stopped
its 8 cent per-share dividend in April 2009, saying it made more
sense to repurchase shares after the financial crisis drove
prices down 56 percent from the peak in December 2007.  “We estimate OptionsXpress has enough cash to fund a $2.50
per share special dividend,”  Chris Ross , a New York-based
analyst with Macquarie Group Ltd., wrote in an Oct. 26 note.  The firm is considering a special payout even as fewer new
individual investors create accounts and existing customers make
fewer trades following the May 6 stock-market crash and jobless
rates remaining near 26-year highs. There were 5,600 new
accounts created in the third quarter, the lowest in more than
seven years, according to Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  Acquisitions and Buybacks  As for cash, “historically we’ve liked to use that for
acquisitions and we’ve also liked to do buybacks,” Fisher said.
“There are some challenges with each of those given where we
are in the financial cycle. Sellers aren’t willing to sell at
the prices we want to pay. We think that the economy is
depressed and is likely to stay that way for a while.”  OptionsXpress bought Redwood City, California-based
Optionetics Inc., a provider of options trading education and
software, in May 2009 for $20 million in cash. The company paid
$18 million in July 2008 for Open E Cry LLC, a Powell, Ohio-
based futures broker and maker of trading software. The company
spent $105.4 million on buybacks in 2008 and 2009, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Earnings  OptionsXpress posted third-quarter  earnings  of 17 cents per
share, missing the average analyst estimate by 1 cent on lower
commissions, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
shares, which underperformed the S&P 500 in 2008 and 2009, have
risen 11 percent this year and now trade at 18.6 times reported
earnings. Since the 2005 initial public offering, the shares
have had an average price-to-earnings ratio of 18.3.  “We need probably between $90 million and $100 million to
comfortably run the business with a little bit of room,” Chief
Financial Officer  Adam DeWitt  said on the firm’s earnings
conference call on Oct. 27.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jeff Kearns  in New York at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net ;
 Whitney Kisling  in New York at 
 wkisling@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 