-- Morgan Stanley's Gorman Says `Hero' Culture Needs to Change
-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e
-- 2010-11-08T17:19:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-08/morgan-stanley-s-gorman-says-hero-culture-needs-to-change-to-limit-risks.html
Morgan Stanley  Chief Executive
Officer  James Gorman  said Wall Street must fix a culture that
contributed to the financial crisis by idolizing individuals as
“heroes” and giving employees incentives to take outsized risks.  “There are a fair number of the senior folks who actually
believe they are uniquely qualified on all issues relating to
finance,” Gorman said today at a conference in New York. “As we
saw, it’s just not true.”  Gorman, speaking at the  Securities Industry and Financial
Markets Association  conference, said some individuals “who in
many cases were frankly pretty average” made as much as 10
times that of people in other industries during the financial
crisis. Lawmakers and regulators, including Treasury Secretary
Timothy F. Geithner, have blamed excessive pay packages in the
finance industry for encouraging risk-taking that contributed to
the global credit contraction.  Fixing the culture will require “creating a compensation
system that better aligns or balances shareholders’ interests
and the broader society’s interests with the individual’s
interests, and changing the perception that it’s the individual
that’s the hero,” Gorman, 52, said. “As an industry, we can
have larger-than-life personalities, but individuals don’t make
institutions.”  Morgan Stanley last year instituted clawbacks that allow
the New York-based bank to take back compensation if an employee
engages in conduct that hurts the firm in the years after it was
paid. The company also paid a greater portion of year-end
bonuses in stock to tie individual pay to the company’s
performance.  ‘Hero’ Status  “The more you have this hero individual status, and lots
of things written about them by journalist friends in the paper,
the more likely that they are going to act out, because they
start to believe it,” Gorman said.  “You can put on a large trade, and if it works, you make
out like a bandit, and if it doesn’t, you might get fired, but
you’re not paying back,” he said. “So you have asymmetric
risk, you either come out zero or you come out positive. That’s
imbalance.”  Gorman, who became CEO this year after leading the firm’s
wealth-management unit, was paid $15.1 million in salary and
bonus for 2009. About $8.6 million of the pay can be clawed back
or is dependent on the company meeting performance measures.
Gorman declined a bonus in 2008.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael J. Moore  in New York at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net . 