-- Morgan Stanley Topped $100 Million on One Trading Day in Quarter
-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e
-- 2010-11-08T23:15:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-08/morgan-stanley-had-fewest-100-million-trading-days-in-quarter-since-2006.html
Morgan Stanley , the sixth-largest
U.S. bank by assets, made more than $100 million in trading
 revenue  on one day in the third quarter, the lowest number of
days since 2006.  The firm’s trading division lost money on 10 days during
the quarter, compared with five days a year earlier, according
to a filing yesterday with the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission. The New York-based firm made more than $100 million
in trading revenue on 18 days in last year’s third quarter.  Trading revenue at eight of the biggest Wall Street firms
declined an average 12 percent through September from the same
period a year earlier, according to a Bloomberg analysis of
company filings. Morgan Stanley saw a bigger year-over-year
decline in the third quarter than its four biggest U.S. rivals,
as trading revenue fell to less than half that of  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. ,  Bank of America Corp.  and  JPMorgan Chase & Co.   “Fixed-income is really the area that underperformed and
our view is that the results don’t reflect the true potential of
our franchise,” Morgan Stanley Chief Financial Officer  Ruth Porat  said in an interview last month. “There was no big bet,
it’s not that we lost a lot on anything. We didn’t lose a lot,
we didn’t make a lot, there just wasn’t much trading there.”  Morgan Stanley had $1.43 billion in total sales and trading
 revenue  for the third quarter, the lowest since the first
quarter of 2009. Excluding losses and gains tied to its own
credit spreads, Morgan Stanley generated $1.31 billion from
trading fixed-income products, down 24 percent from the second
quarter.  Morgan Stanley, which has hired about 400 new employees for
the sales and trading unit over the past 15 months, suffered
from a drop in client activity, Chief Executive Officer  James Gorman  said last month. Morgan Stanley made money in trading on
54 of the 64 trading days in the third quarter, or 84 percent of
the time.  Morgan Stanley’s trading value-at-risk, or VaR, the amount
the firm estimates it could lose from trading on any given day,
climbed to an average of $142 million for the third quarter.
That was up from $137 million for the year-earlier period.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael J. Moore  in New York at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 