-- Morgan Stanley Expects $70 Million Loss on FrontPoint
-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e
-- 2010-11-08T23:29:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-08/morgan-stanley-expects-to-lose-70-million-on-frontpoint-sale.html
Morgan Stanley , the sixth-largest
U.S. bank by assets, said it expects a pretax loss of $70
million on the sale of its controlling interest in FrontPoint
Partners LLC.  Morgan Stanley expects the deal to close by the end of the
year, the New York-based firm said today in a regulatory filing.
Morgan Stanley paid about $400 million for FrontPoint when it
purchased the unit in 2006, people familiar with the terms said
at the time.  Morgan Stanley said last month that it’s giving up control
of FrontPoint to the fund unit’s managers and will retain a
minority stake. Chief Financial Officer  Ruth Porat  said on a
conference call last month that the firm may sell additional
hedge-fund stakes to free up capital.  FrontPoint’s managers, led by co-Chief Executive Officers
 Daniel Waters  and  Michael Kelly , are gaining a majority stake in
the asset manager and will replace Morgan Stanley affiliates as
the unit’s investment adviser and general partner, Morgan
Stanley said last month. Terms of the agreement weren’t
disclosed.  Morgan Stanley had slightly more than $300 million of seed
capital in FrontPoint and plans to “repatriate” that in the
near future, CEO  James Gorman  said in October. Morgan Stanley
still holds minority stakes in Avenue Capital Group and
Lansdowne Partners, which it also bought in 2006.  ‘Cooperating Fully’  FrontPoint is the hedge fund whose employees allegedly
received nonpublic information regarding Human Genome Sciences
Inc.’s hepatitis-C Albuferon drug from Dr.  Yves Benhamou , who
was charged this month with insider trading, according to a
person familiar with the matter. Benhamou, 50, of France, was
arrested this month in Boston on suspicion he tipped off a hedge
fund about negative results of Albuferon drug trials.  “We are cooperating fully with this investigation,” the
Greenwich, Connecticut-based firm said in an e-mailed statement
last week. Dr.  Chip Skowron , a co-portfolio manager of
FrontPoint’s health-care funds, was placed on leave pending the
outcome of the investigation, the company said.  Morgan Stanley said it may also book $274 million in
writedowns on receivables related to a Tourmaline collateralized
debt obligation. The CDO’s trustee has halted distribution of
Tourmaline’s funds pending resolution of a lawsuit, in which
Morgan Stanley was accused of failing to post collateral or take
other action as required by credit-default swaps with the CDO.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Michael J. Moore  in New York at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 