-- Conoco, Origin Win Queensland Approval for LNG Plans
-- B y   J a m e s   P a t o n
-- 2010-11-09T07:31:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-08/origin-conoco-lng-venture-wins-queensland-government-approval.html
ConocoPhillips  and Origin Energy Ltd.
won approval from Australia’s Queensland state for a proposed
$35 billion liquefied natural gas project, bringing the
development a step closer to a final investment decision.  The Australia Pacific LNG venture must now gain
environmental clearance from the federal government after
Queensland imposed “strict conditions,” Sydney-based Origin
said today.  BG Group Plc  and Santos Ltd. received the go-ahead
from Australia’s Environment Minister  Tony Burke  last month.  The Origin and ConocoPhillips development is one of four
Gladstone projects planning to liquefy gas extracted from coal
deposits for shipment to Asian markets. BG, the U.K.’s third-
largest oil and gas producer, will invest $15 billion to build
its Queensland LNG venture, becoming the first of the group to
make a decision to proceed, the company said Oct. 31.  The APLNG venture is talking with “several potential LNG
buyers” and plans to make an announcement on an accord before
the end of 2010, Conoco said in October. The project aims to be
“ready” for a final decision at the end of 2010.  A separate LNG project proposed by Arrow Energy Ltd.,
acquired by Royal Dutch Shell Plc and PetroChina Co. this year,
intends to reach a final investment decision in late 2012 or
early 2013. The plan has yet to get environmental clearance from
both Queensland and the federal government.  Consolidation between Origin and Shell is a “logical
move,” and it could take “a number of different forms,”
including a merger of their projects,  Sandra McCullagh , a
Sydney-based analyst at Credit Suisse, wrote in a Nov. 2 report.  Environmental Concerns  Origin  declined 1.4 percent to A$16.34 at the 4:10 p.m.
close in Sydney trading, compared with a loss of 0.8 percent for
the benchmark  S&P/ASX 200 Index .  The APLNG project found traces of contaminants in eight
exploration wells in Queensland’s Surat Basin, said Origin last
month. The amount of benzene, toluene, ethylbenzene and xylene -
- together known as BTEX -- was equivalent to a half-cup full in
an Olympic-sized swimming pool, according to Origin.  The venture must provide details of its plans to manage the
water produced in the gas extraction process and to monitor the
environmental impact, the Queensland government said in a
statement today. The project may create as many as 5,000 jobs at
the peak of construction and may begin exports in 2014, it said.  Environmental groups have said they are concerned about the
impact of the coal-bed methane projects on water supplies. The
gas, mostly methane, is trapped within the coal seams by water
pressure. The water pumped out to release the gas contains
varying amounts of salt, which must be managed to protect the
environment, according to the Queensland government.  Arrow and AGL Energy Ltd., Australia’s largest electricity
and gas retailer, said yesterday that “minute traces” of
benzene were detected at the Moranbah gas project in Queensland.  BG’s  Queensland Curtis LNG project faces 1,500 conditions
imposed by state and federal government to protect the
environment and underground water supplies, the U.K. producer
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 James Paton  in Sydney 
 jpaton4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net . 