-- Majority of Property Investors Plan Purchases as Prospects Rise
-- B y   S i m o n   P a c k a r d
-- 2010-11-08T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-08/most-real-estate-investors-plan-acquisitions-on-rising-rents-survey-says.html
A majority of real-estate investors
plan acquisitions in the next 12 months as they expect lower
vacancies and increased tenant demand to lift rents, according
to a global survey compiled by  Colliers International .  Sixty percent of respondents said they plan to make
commercial property purchases in the next year, mainly in their
home markets, according to the report released by the Seattle-
based adviser. Those looking abroad favor Hong Kong, Singapore,
Sydney, London, New York, Washington, Chicago and San Francisco,
the survey showed.  “Investors have considerably more confidence than just six
months ago,”  Jamie Horne , chairman of Colliers Asia, said in
the report. “Many still feel real-estate markets are unusually
uncertain and will remain that way for some time.”  Most investors said rents for offices, stores and
warehouses had already rebounded from the bottom, supporting
prospects for property income growth and higher prices. In
Colliers’s previous survey in the first quarter, most said the
market was either at or near a trough. Rising confidence lifted
global real estate sales by 56 percent to $379 billion in the
first nine months from a year earlier, according to data
compiled by New York-based  Real Capital Analytics Inc.   The survey showed that about three-quarters of respondents
said economies are unlikely to experience a “double dip”
recession, and 79 percent expected the availability of debt
finance to stay the same or increase in the next year.  Colliers International, the world’s third-largest real-
estate adviser and part of  FirstService Corp. , surveyed more
than 200 investors that own or manage $710 billion of real
estate across the globe from Aug. 15 to Sept. 7.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Simon Packard  in London at 
 packard@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at   ablackman@bloomberg.net  