-- Goldman, BofA, Berger, Deutsche Bank in Court News
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2010-11-08T11:24:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-08/louis-berger-deutsche-bank-trafigura-oracle-lions-gate-in-court-news.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  settled a
lawsuit by a former vice president who claimed she was pushed
onto the “mommy-track” and eventually fired after she chose to
work part-time following her pregnancy.  The lawsuit, filed in March by Charlotte Hanna, claimed
violations of the U.S. Family Medical Leave Act, and gender and
pregnancy discrimination. The terms of the settlement are
confidential, said Douglas Wigdor, Hanna’s attorney.  In her complaint, Hanna said she joined Goldman as an
associate in 1998 and two years later was promoted to vice
president for Goldman Sachs University, an in-house training
program. She claimed her opportunities for advancement at
Goldman Sachs disappeared when she took maternity leave with her
first child in February 2005.  “When Ms. Hanna decided to take the ‘off-ramp’ provided by
the firm to devote time to her children, there was no ‘on-ramp’
that enabled her to return to full-time employment,” her lawyer
wrote in the complaint. “The ‘off-ramp’ was a direct path to a
mommy-track that ultimately derailed Ms. Hanna’s career.”  Hanna claimed that once she began working part time for the
firm, she was channeled into lower positions that made it more
difficult for her to earn more money and advance to better
positions. She claimed she was demoted, lost her office and then
was fired in 2008, before she returned from a second maternity
leave.  Goldman Sachs spokesman David Wells had no comment.  The case is Hanna v. Goldman Sachs Group Inc., 10-cv-02637,
U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  BofA Wins Dismissal of Mortgage Securities Lawsuit  Bank of America Corp.  won dismissal of a lawsuit claiming
its  Countrywide Financial Corp.  unit made false statements about
loan origination practices in selling mortgage-backed
securities.  U.S. District Judge Mariana Pfaelzer in Los Angeles gave
investors who brought the complaint 30 days to revise it. After
they refile the complaint, the court “will consider further the
other grounds” in the bank’s motion to dismiss it, Pfaelzer
wrote in the Nov. 5 ruling.  Pfaelzer said in her ruling that investors didn’t
sufficiently demonstrate they suffered an injury for the
securities they bought, and that the statute of limitations had
expired for some claims. Those failings must be addressed in the
new complaint, she said.  Bank of America said that, because the judge’s ruling
narrows the scope of claims that would be allowed to proceed in
a revised complaint, it expects the securities at issue in the
case would decline from 427 offerings with a face value of about
$352 billion to about 22 offerings valued at about $31 billion,
according to an e-mailed statement.  The suit claimed documents for mortgages originated by
Countrywide and later securitized contained misrepresentations
and omissions, and didn’t follow the lender’s own guidelines.  “The court’s ruling demonstrates the strict legal hurdles
plaintiffs face in bringing these sorts of claims,” said Brian
E. Pastuzinski, an attorney at Goodwin Procter LLP in Boston
representing Bank of America.  Christina Royce, a lawyer representing the investors,
declined to comment.  The case is Maine State Retirement System v. Countrywide
Financial Corp., 10-cv-00302, U.S. District Court, Central
District of California (Los Angeles).  Berger Group Pays $69.3 Million for Iraq Overbilling  Louis Berger Group Inc., a New Jersey engineering
consulting firm, agreed to pay $69.3 million to resolve criminal
and civil probes related to overbilling for reconstruction
contracts in Iraq and Afghanistan and other work.  The U.S. Justice Department agreed to defer prosecution of
the case against the company, which pledged to reform its
practices under a monitor. Prosecutors, who filed criminal
charges Nov. 5 of overbilling from 1999 to 2007, will dismiss
the case in two years if the company tightens internal controls
and fulfills other promises. Two former executives pleaded
guilty in federal court in Newark, New Jersey.  “This fraud is about more than playing with the numbers to
rip off the government,” Paul Fishman, the U.S. attorney in New
Jersey, said in a phone interview. “Funds that could have
raised hope from the rubble instead padded the bottom line.”  As part of its settlement, the company, based in
Morristown, New Jersey, admitted submitting claims for more than
$10 million in inflated overhead rates to the U.S. Agency for
International Development. The company will pay an $18.7 million
criminal penalty and $50.6 million to resolve civil claims,
including allegations it violated the False Claims Act. The U.S.
examined billings over a 17-year period.  USAID agreed not to bar the company from future contracts
based on its remedial efforts, Fishman said.  Salvatore Pepe, 58, LBG’s former chief financial officer
and Precy Pellettieri, 54, the former controller, pleaded guilty
to conspiring to defraud USAID by inflating overhead rates. They
admitted that they classified non-federal work overhead as
federal overhead.  “LBG is a stronger company today as a result of this
settlement as well as the company’s corporate improvement
program,” Larry D. Walker, president of LBG, said in a
statement. “The improvements made to our systems, policies and
structures over the past four years have paved the way for a
sustainable future.”  The case is U.S. v. The Louis Berger Group Inc., 10-mj-
3198, U.S. District Court, District of New Jersey (Newark). The
whistleblower case is United States ex. rel. Harold Salomon v.
The Louis Berger Group Inc., 06-cv-1970, U.S. District Court,
District of Maryland (Baltimore).  For more, click here.  Hank Morris Reaches Plea Deal in N.Y. Pension Probe  Henry “Hank” Morris, the former political consultant who
is at the center of New York Attorney General Andrew Cuomo’s
probe of corruption at the state’s pension fund, reached a plea
deal with prosecutors.  The deal follows news last month that Quadrangle Group LLC
co-founder Steven Rattner, the subject of state and federal
investigations of corruption at the fund, is near a settlement
with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, according to a
person familiar with the matter.  Under the agreement, Morris would plead guilty to “a minor
charge” that carries a maximum sentence of 1 1/3 to 4 years,
New York State Supreme Court Justice Lewis Stone said at a
hearing yesterday, according to a transcript of the proceeding.  Morris was facing more than 70 charges related to Cuomo’s
probe of the retirement fund. On the top charge, he was facing
as many as 25 years in prison. Ellen Biben, a prosecutor with
Cuomo’s office, told Stone the proposal is for a plea to a
securities fraud charge.  The proposed plea deal also calls for “certain
restitution,” the judge said, according to the transcript.
Morris reaped $19 million in fees for himself through 23 state
pension-fund investments for which he acted as an undisclosed
placement agent, or middleman, according to Cuomo.  Stone declined to consider the agreement at the Nov. 5
hearing, saying he wanted more time to review the proposal. The
deal, he said, is up to the court’s discretion.  Richard Bamberger, a spokesman for Cuomo, declined to
comment. Laura Birger, a lawyer for Morris, declined comment.
Stone set another court date for Nov. 22.  The case is People v. Morris, 0025/2009, New York State
Supreme Court, New York County (Manhattan)  For more, click here.  Trafigura Wins Ruling Threatening Emarat Manager With Jail  The general manager of Emarat, the United Arab Emirates’
state-owned fuel retailer, was ordered by a U.K. judge to spend
a year in a jail for breaching court orders in a civil lawsuit
filed by Trafigura Beheer BV.  Jamal Al Midfa, who isn’t in custody, failed to supply data
about Emarat’s assets after the Dubai-based company lost a trial
in January over $83 million in unpaid gasoil shipments, Judge
Nigel Teare ruled in London Nov. 4. Emarat has challenged the
court’s jurisdiction in the case and lawyers for the company and
Al Midfa weren’t at the hearing.  Al Midfa “has been fully aware of the orders which have
been made,” Teare said at yesterday’s hearing. The judge also
ordered the seizure of Emarat assets.  Trafigura, an Amsterdam-based commodities trader, sued
Emarat in 2009 after it refused to fully pay for two cargoes of
oil shipped the previous year. Trafigura had given Emarat an
extension on the payment because the company needed an infusion
of cash from the government, according to a Jan. 26 ruling in
the case.  Emarat didn’t respond to e-mails seeking comment, and calls
to the company’s switchboard went unanswered. Trafigura
spokesman Mark Eadie declined to comment as did the company’s
lawyer, Kyri Evagora at the firm Reed Smith LLP in London.  Emarat now owes $90 million including interest, Teare said
at the hearing Nov. 4, and a worldwide freezing order was issued
by the U.K. court against the company in February.  Emarat argued the contract was invalid because it was
signed improperly or contained forged signatures, according to
the January ruling. The company also claimed the oil didn’t meet
certain quality requirements, exempting it from full payment.  For the latest verdict and settlement news, click here.  Lawsuits  HP Investors’ Lawyer Seeks to Disclose Letter About Hurd  A San Diego law firm representing Hewlett-Packard Co.
shareholders said it is seeking to disclose to investors an ex-
contractor’s letter to the HP board accusing former Chief
Executive Officer Mark Hurd of sexual harassment.  Robbins Umeda LLP obtained the letter from the company
through a shareholder books and records inspection request, said
Davia Hayward, a spokeswoman for partner Marc Umeda. Hurd’s
attorneys have said the letter is confidential and lawyers from
the firm are in discussions with Hurd’s counsel, Hayward said in
a telephone interview Nov. 5.  The harassment allegations made in the letter by company
contractor Jody Fisher kicked off a probe of Hurd that
ultimately led the board to ask for his resignation. He left the
company in August, then joined  Oracle Corp.  as its president a
month later. Palo Alto, California-based HP named Leo Apotheker
as its new CEO on Sept. 30.  Gina Tyler, an HP spokeswoman, and Glen Bunting, a
spokesman for Hurd, declined to comment. The law firm’s plans
were reported earlier by Fortune.  On the day Hurd left, HP said he had violated its standards
of business conduct by concealing a relationship with a contract
employee. HP also said it found inaccurate expense reports filed
by Hurd or in his name.  The company disclosed that it received a sexual-harassment
complaint, saying it didn’t find that Hurd broke its harassment
policy. Hurd settled with Fisher privately.  Hayward declined to say which shareholders Robbins Umeda
represents. She also declined to comment on the contents of the
letter. The Wall Street Journal reported yesterday that the
letter claimed Hurd leaked acquisition plans.  For the latest lawsuits news, click here.  New Suits  Travelport Sues to Stop American From Dropping Orbitz  Travelport LP, the travel-reservation systems provider,
sued to block  American Airlines Inc.  from terminating online
travel agency  Orbitz Worldwide Inc.’s  ability to sell tickets on
American’s flights.  Travelport, whose affiliate owns 48 percent of Orbitz’s
stock, would suffer substantial harm if American stops providing
fare data to Orbitz, a possibility that Orbitz disclosed in a
regulatory filing Nov. 4, according to the complaint filed in
chancery court in Chicago Nov. 5. The termination would be a
breach of American’s contract with Travelport, the company said
in its complaint.  Orbitz stock fell Nov. 4 the most since March 2009 after
American, the third-biggest U.S. airline, said it would stop
providing fare data. American is pushing online travel agencies
to obtain flight and fare information directly from it instead
of through global distribution systems such as Travelport’s
Galileo and Worldspan, Orbitz Chief Executive Officer Barney
Harford said Nov. 4 in a conference call with analysts.  Travelport said in the complaint that it lost $50 million
in share value when Orbitz fell. The company has a 2006
agreement with American Airlines to obtain “full and complete”
access to information about its flights, air fares and other
information. The airline hasn’t honored Travelport’s request to
withdraw its termination notice, according to the complaint.  Travelport is seeking a court order stopping American from
terminating Orbitz ticket sales until the case can be decided by
a judge.  “We received a letter threatening various claims, which
are groundless in our view, over the contract action we had
taken and we are seeking a declaratory judgment to protect our
existing rights,” Mary Sanderson, a spokeswoman for Fort Worth,
Texas-based American, said in an e-mail.  The case is Travelport v. American Airlines, 10CH4808,
Circuit Court of Cook County, Chancery Division (Chicago).  Deutsche Bank Sued Over Postbank Takeover-Offer Share Price  Deutsche Bank AG , Germany’s biggest lender, was sued by an
investor who said the share price the bank set in a mandatory
takeover offer for Postbank AG was too low.  Effecten-Spiegel AG filed a lawsuit in Frankfurt Regional
Court seeking 3.6 million euros ($5.1 million) in compensation
over the price offered for the stock, the company said in a
 statement  Nov. 5. Deutsche Bank should pay 49.52 euros a share
instead of the 25 euros it offered, Effecten-Spiegel said.
Meinrad Woesthoff, a spokesman for the Frankfurt court, said he
couldn’t immediately confirm the suit.  “Deutsche Bank deliberately circumvented the mandatory
takeover rules and so deprived Postbank shareholders of 1.6
billion euros,” Effecten-Spiegel said.  Deutsche Bank on Oct. 7 made the mandatory takeover offer
required under German law if an investor acquires 30 percent in
a company. The Frankfurt-based lender agreed to buy a stake in
Postbank in September 2008 from Deutsche Post AG and
renegotiated the transaction in January 2009 after the collapse
of  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.  roiled financial markets.  Effecten-Spiegel claims the bank should have made the offer
in the first half of 2009 and paid the higher price. Deutsche
Bank used “a complex construction” including derivatives and
convertible bonds to evade applicable rules, according to
Effecten-Spiegel.  Deutsche Bank spokesman Ronald Weichert declined to comment
on the case.  Art Technology Sued Over $1 Billion Oracle Takeover  Art Technology Group Inc. , a maker of software for online
marketing, was sued by a shareholder who claims the company is
worth more than Oracle Corp.’s $1 billion takeover offer.  Oracle  said Nov. 2 that it would pay $6 a share for
Cambridge, Massachusetts-based Art Technology, 46 percent more
than the Nov. 1  closing price  on the Nasdaq Stock Market. Terms
of the agreement, including a no-solicitation provision, may
dissuade other potential suitors, Art Technology shareholder
Gary Cronenwett said in his complaint, filed yesterday in
Delaware Chancery Court in Wilmington.  Art Technology’s  directors  also amended the company’s
“poison-pill” takeover defense to exclude Oracle and the
proposed transaction, Cronenwett said. Any potential acquirer
would remain subject to the poison pill.  “The proposed transaction does not adequately value ATG
shares,” Cronenwett said in the complaint. “Instead, as a
direct result of the board’s breach of duty, the proposed
transaction will benefit Oracle at the expense of ATG’s public
shareholders.”  Kim Maxwell, a spokeswoman for Art Technology, declined to
comment.  The case is Cronenwett v. Art Technology Group Inc.,
CA5955, Delaware Court of Chancery (Wilmington).  Man Charged in Philadelphia With $17 Million Fraud  U.S. prosecutors in Philadelphia charged Robert Stinson
Jr., who allegedly posed as a graduate of the Massachusetts
Institute of Technology, with running a $17 million Ponzi scheme
tied to real estate hedge funds.  Stinson is accused of cheating more than 260 investors by
promising returns of 10 percent to 16 percent from real estate
funds, U.S. Attorney Zane David Memeger said Nov. 5 in an e-
mailed statement. Stinson is charged with 26 counts of wire
fraud, mail fraud, money laundering, bank fraud, obstruction of
justice, filing false tax returns and making false statements.
He was arrested this morning, according to the statement.  Stinson, 55, formed Life’s Good Inc. and Keystone State
Corp. to operate the funds, according to a 21-page indictment.
He allegedly told investors the funds made short-term commercial
mortgage loans, prosecutors said.  The lawsuit is SEC v. Stinson, 2:10-cv-3130, U.S. District
Court, Eastern District of Pennsylvania (Philadelphia).  For more, click here.  For the latest new suits news, click here. For copies of recent
civil complaints, click here.  Trials/Appeals  U.S., States Clash Over Obama Health-Care Overhaul Law  Both sides in a constitutional challenge to President
Barack Obama’s health-care overhaul asked a federal judge to
rule in their favor.  Twenty states, led by Florida, claimed Nov. 4 in court
papers that the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, or
ACA, is unconstitutional because it forces individuals to buy
health insurance and forces states to participate in a “greatly
expanded and fundamentally transformed Medicaid program.”  The states are asking U.S. District Judge Roger Vinson in
Pensacola, Florida, to strike down the law.  “The ACA constitutes an unprecedented intrusion on the
sovereignty of the states and the freedom of their citizens,”
the states argued in their filing.  The federal government asked Vinson to reject the states’
arguments and rule that the law is consistent with the
Constitution. The individual mandates are justified by the
Commerce Clause, which permits Congress to regulate interstate
trade, the government said. No court has invalidated a federal
spending program on the ground that it is too coercive, it said.  “Plaintiffs bear the heavy burden of showing that there
are no possible circumstances in which the challenged provisions
could be constitutionally applied,” the U.S. said in its brief.
“They cannot meet this burden.”  Vinson has scheduled oral arguments for Dec. 16.  Joining Florida in the suit are Alabama, Alaska, Arizona,
Colorado, Georgia, Idaho, Indiana, Louisiana, Michigan,
Mississippi, Nebraska, Nevada, North Dakota, Pennsylvania, South
Carolina, South Dakota, Texas, Utah and Washington. The National
Federation of Independent Business, a small-business lobbying
group, also joined.  The case is State of Florida v. U.S. Department of Health
and Human Services, 3:10-cv-00091, U.S. District Court, Northern
District of Florida (Pensacola).  For the latest trial and appeals news, click here.  Litigation Departments  Stern Cuts Staff After Losing Fannie, Freddie Work  David Stern, the Florida foreclosure lawyer who is under
investigation by the state’s attorney general, made “a
substantial layoff” after Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac cut ties
with his firm.  The layoffs occurred Nov. 4, Jeffrey Tew, Stern’s lawyer,
said in an interview. Stern’s law firm and the foreclosure-
processing business he runs, DJSP Enterprises Inc., have cut
about half their staff during the past two weeks, Tew said.  “It’s the cumulative effects of clients not referring
business,” Tew said. He said he couldn’t comment on whether
there would be further staff reductions.  Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae, the mortgage-finance companies
operating under U.S. conservatorship, said this week they ended
ties with Stern. Florida Attorney General Bill McCollum said he
is investigating Stern’s law firm because it appears to be
submitting “false and misleading” documents in foreclosure
cases.  Stern’s businesses continue to operate and have a total of
between 400 to 500 employees, Tew said. DJSP, whose chief
executive officer is Stern, said in an Oct. 22 statement that it
was cutting 198 employees, bringing total layoffs at the time to
about 300.  For the latest litigation department news, click here.  Court Filings  Lions Gate Suit Against Icahn Most Popular Docket on Bloomberg  A lawsuit against billionaire Carl Icahn over the Metro-
Goldwyn-Mayer Inc. studio deal by  Lions Gate Entertainment
Corp. , which alleged the financier is “secretly plotting” to
merge the studios, was the most-read litigation docket on the
Bloomberg Law system last week.  In the Oct. 29 lawsuit, Vancouver-based Lions Gate alleged
that Icahn realized by June that Lions Gate was in advanced
negotiations with two unidentified studios. Aware that the deals
might dilute his stake in Lions Gate, Icahn “took drastic and
improper action,” the studio said.  MGM filed for bankruptcy on Nov. 3 in Manhattan after
rejecting the takeover bid by Lions Gate and Icahn.  The case is Lions Gate Entertainment Corp., v. Carl Icahn,
10-CV-8169, filed in the Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  For more, click here.  Court News  German Lawmakers Pick Three Candidates for Top Court  German Lawmakers agreed on three candidates for the
country’s top constitutional court, Sueddeutsche Zeitung
reported without saying where it got the information.  Berlin law professor Susanne Baer will replace Brun-Otto
Bryde at the Karlsruhe-based court, according to the newspaper.
Peter Michael Huber, now interior minister in the state of
Thuringia, will take Siegfried Bross’s seat and Monika Hermanns,
currently at the Federal Court of Justice, will replace Lerke
Osterloh.  The three will be formally nominated on Nov. 11 by the
parliamentary committee that elects federal judges, the
newspaper said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Elizabeth Amon  in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 