-- U.S. Household Debt Shrank 0.9% in Third Quarter, Fed Says
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   S a l a s
-- 2010-11-08T16:28:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-08/household-debt-in-u-s-declined-0-9-in-third-quarter-new-york-fed-says.html
U.S. households cut their debt last
quarter, borrowing less against homes and closing credit card
accounts, according to a survey by the Federal Reserve Bank of
New York.  Consumer indebtedness totaled $11.6 trillion at the end of
September, down $110 billion, or 0.9 percent from the end of
June, according to the  New York Fed’s  quarterly report on
household debt and credit. Households have slashed about $1
trillion from outstanding consumer debts since the peak in the
third quarter of 2008, the New York Fed said.  U.S. households, facing a jobless rate that’s persisted
near a 26-year high, have slashed debt and increased savings
following the worst financial crisis since the Great Depression.
That’s pared consumer spending and slowed the economic recovery,
helping to prompt the Fed’s decision last week to start another
round of unconventional monetary stimulus.  “Consumer debt is declining but only part of the reduction
is attributable to defaults or charge-offs,” Donghoon Lee, a
senior economist at the New York Fed, said in a statement.
“Americans are borrowing less and paying off more debt than in
the recent past. This change, which we continue to study
carefully, can be a result of both tightening credit standards
and voluntary changes in saving behavior.”  Individuals paying off their debt crimped their cash flow
by about $150 billion in 2009, the New York Fed said. Between
2000 and 2007 borrowing increased consumers’ cash flow by $300
billion a year, according to the district bank.  Household Finances  Consumers are succeeding in improving their household
finances, the report showed. Delinquency rates continued to
decline, with 11.1 percent of outstanding debt in “some stage
of delinquency,” down from 11.4 percent at the end of June and
11.6 percent a year earlier, according to the New York Fed.
Household delinquent debt fell 8.2 percent from the previous
year to $1.3 trillion, the survey said.  Arizona, California, Florida and Nevada continued to have
higher-than-average delinquency and foreclosure rates, according
to the New York Fed.  Bank of America Corp., the largest U.S. lender by assets,
earmarked $5.6 billion for credit losses in the third quarter,
compared with $8.1 billion in the second quarter and $11.7
billion a year earlier. Net write-offs of uncollectible loans
declined 25 percent.  “We can see the American consumer healing,” Bank of
America Chief Executive Officer  Brian T. Moynihan  said in a
Bloomberg Television interview last month. “We see
delinquencies coming down in all our portfolios.” Bank of
America is based in Charlotte, North Carolina.  New Bankruptcies  The amount of new bankruptcies fell 16 percent from the
second quarter to 522,000, which is 1 percent higher than a year
earlier, according to the New York Fed.  Mortgage originations rose 4.3 percent to $380 billion in
the third quarter and are 26 percent higher than their low in
the fourth quarter of 2008, the New York Fed said. They are
about half their average levels from 2003 to 2007.  The report is based on data compiled by the New York Fed’s
Consumer Credit Panel, the statement said. When the district
bank released its second quarter report in August, it said the
survey drew from a “nationally representative” 5 percent
random survey of Equifax Inc. credit-report data, which
encompass people with a Social Security number and a credit
report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Caroline Salas  in New York at 
 csalas1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  