-- Papandreou to Push to Reduce Debt After Local Election Win
-- B y   M a r i a   P e t r a k i s   a n d   N a t a l i e   W e e k s
-- 2010-11-08T09:12:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-08/papandreou-to-push-for-reducing-greece-s-debt-after-local-election-victory.html
Greek Prime Minister  George Papandreou  thanked Greeks for an initial victory in local
elections, saying his government would continue to press ahead
with its task of reducing a crippling budget deficit and debt
burden.  “Change is what the Greek people wanted when we were voted
into power a year ago,” Papandreou said in a statement
yesterday televised live on state-run NET TV. “Today the Greek
people reaffirmed they continue to want this change, to ask for
it. From tomorrow we continue our work, while remaining
absolutely committed to our great and common goals.”  Candidates backed by the socialist Pasok party were ahead
in seven of 13 regions, according to official results on the
 ministry’s website , with two candidates winning outright and 96
percent of the vote counted. Papandreou had called the vote a
test of support for his 13-month-old government after it cut
wages and pensions to secure a 110 billion-euro ($154.3 billion)
rescue package from the European Union and International
Monetary Fund. He’d said he might call an early national
election unless voters endorsed him in the ballot.  Greek 10-year bonds rose, reversing earlier losses and
snapping a 10-day decline. The prospect of political upheaval
had unnerved investors, just after Greece’s cost of borrowing
had started to recede. The  spread  against yields on German bunds
of the same maturity widened more than 200 basis points since
Papandreou raised the possibility of early elections on Oct. 25.
It had narrowed to 649 basis points on Oct. 18 from a record 965
on May 7, five days after the EU and IMF approved the bailout.  Bonds, Stocks Rally  Yields on 10-year Greek bonds dropped 36 basis points to
11.23 percent after climbing above 11 percent last week from a
low of 8.77 percent on Oct. 13.  The benchmark Athens general index advanced 2.8 percent to
1,550.01 at 10:45 a.m., the biggest one-day gain since Oct. 6,
led by a 4.9 percent rally in National Bank of Greece SA and a
6.5 percent gain in  EFG Eurobank Ergasias SA , the country’s two
biggest banks.  The New Democracy party is ahead in the other six regions
in the first round of elections. Socialists were ahead in three
of the country’s five biggest municipalities as well, according
to projections. A run-off election between candidates who don’t
win a majority will be held Nov. 14.  40% Don’t Vote  Almost 10 million people were entitled to cast ballots to
elect officials for 325 Greek municipalities and 13 regions.
About 40 percent of the electorate abstained, according to
official results.  “All of them are mocking us, telling lies,” Spyros
Varkatzoulis, 27, a construction worker in Athens, said on Nov.
6. “There’s no reason to vote for any of them.”  Most polls showed before yesterday’s countdown that Greeks
would vote against Pasok-backed candidates and the government’s
wage and pension cuts, designed to narrow a budget deficit equal
to almost 13.6 percent of gross domestic product. The size of
the shortfall was revealed after Papandreou won elections in
October 2009 on a promise of higher wages and increased state
spending.  Eight in 10 Greeks don’t want early elections, according to
a poll of 1,027 voters conducted by Public Issue from Nov. 4 to
Nov. 6 for Skai television and released yesterday.  The poll showed the same number of voters rejected
Papandreou’s appeal for support and that 65 percent considered
there were alternatives to the rescue package, compared with 59
percent in May when it was drafted. No exit polls were conducted
for the elections.  Budget Plan  Elections would have derailed planning for a final budget
for 2011, which Papandreou said would mark the last year of
recession for Greece. EU and IMF officials are due in Athens
this month to review progress in cutting the deficit, the EU’s
second-largest as a percentage of gross domestic product, as a
prerequisite to releasing another installment of funds to the
country.  EU officials may revise the 2009 deficit and debt higher
after a review with the results to be announced this month.  “We have basic priorities ahead of us: to continue to put
public finances in order,” Papandreou said. “To reduce the
deficits drastically, cut debt while lowering spending and
changing the core of the public sector and public agencies. We
must stabilize our economy, which is a prerequisite for
returning to growth.”  Maverick Lawmaker  Yiannis Dimaras, one of three lawmakers expelled from Pasok
after defying Papandreou in the May vote on terms of the
bailout, conceded defeat as he came in third in the race to head
a new regional authority for the greater Athens area, the
biggest in Greece.  Dimaras, 66, has campaigned under the slogan: “Memorandum
for the people,” a reference to the May agreement with the EU
and IMF. He said he will resign from parliament on Jan. 1,
allowing Papandreou to name a socialist party member in his
place and boosting the socialists’ majority in parliament to 158
in the 300-seat chamber.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Maria Petrakis  at 
 mpetrakis@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tim Quinson at   tquinson@bloomberg.net  