-- PetroChina, Sinopec Boost Diesel Supply Amid Shortages
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-11-08T08:22:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-08/petrochina-boosts-diesel-production-as-nation-fights-shortages.html
PetroChina Co . and  China Petroleum &
Chemical Corp. , the country’s biggest refiners, are bolstering
diesel output as the country battles shortages that have left
gas stations dry in the south and east.  PetroChina’s western plants produced 20 percent more
winter-grade diesel last month than originally planned, parent
company China National Petroleum Corp. said in a  statement  on
its website today. China Petroleum & Chemical, or Sinopec, has
delayed plant maintenance and increased imports to meet the fuel
demand, it said last week. Both companies said they will process
record amounts of crude this month.  Chinese factories are buying up diesel, depleting supplies
for trucks, as government-mandated electricity restrictions
force them to use the transport fuel to power their generators.
The shortages may push up Asian diesel prices, boosting profits
for the region’s refiners, according to  Victor Shum , a senior
principal at Purvin & Gertz Inc. in Singapore.  “The diesel demand increase from China will certainly
tighten up the regional gasoil market,” Shum said in a
telephone interview today. “This is definitely good news for
regional export refiners in Singapore, Korea and Taiwan.”  China is curbing industrial electricity use in a last-ditch
effort to meet Premier  Wen Jiabao’s  goal of cutting energy
consumption per unit of gross domestic product by 20 percent in
the five years ending 2010. That’s prompting some manufacturers
to turn to their own diesel generators at the same time as use
of fuel climbs during the autumn harvest, Qiu Xiaofeng, an oil
analyst at China Merchants Securities Ltd., said Nov. 5.  Crack Widens  The gasoil, or diesel,  premium  to Dubai crude oil widened
for a fifth day in Singapore to the highest since Oct. 26,
according to data from PVM Oil Associates Ltd., a brokerage. The
crack spread, a measure of the profit from producing diesel in
Singapore, was at $12.92 a barrel at 2:21 p.m. local time. It
has averaged $11.12 this year.  More than 2,000 private gas stations in southern China
closed after running out of the transport fuel, Xinhua news
agency reported yesterday, citing data from the China Chamber of
Commerce for the Petroleum Industry.  Truck drivers are waiting for as much as three hours to get
their vehicles filled at a gas station owned by Sinopec, in
Ningbo city in Zhejiang province,  Shanghai Securities News  said
today. Most gas stations in Ningbo and Hangzhou, also in
Zhejiang, and Nanjing, the capital city of Jiansu province, are
limiting diesel sales to 400 yuan ($60) a truck, according to
the report.  Work Delayed  Sinopec will raise daily crude consumption by 10 percent
this month compared with a year earlier to a record of 583,000
tons, its parent company China Petrochemical Corp. said on Nov.
4.  Work is postponed at facilities including Gaoqiao in
Shanghai and plants in Guangzhou and maintenance won’t be
carried out at refineries in major centers, the Beijing-based
company said. It has arranged for imports of 200,000 tons of
diesel to ease tight supplies in Zhejiang, Gansu and Jiangxi.  PetroChina will also process crude at record levels to help
meet demand, it said on Nov. 5. The Beijing-based company will
raise crude volumes by 8.5 percent this month from a year
earlier and boost output of fuel including diesel and gasoline
by 11 percent, according to the company.  CNPC  plans to expand its daily diesel supply in November by
7 percent from the previous month. The company’s refineries in
the west of the country had produced 56 percent more low
freezing-point diesel by the end of October compared with a year
ago. Stockpiles almost doubled last month, according to today’s
statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Winnie Zhu in Shanghai at 
 wzhu4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Clyde Russell at 
 crussell7@bloomberg.net  